
     _Anne succeeds to the Throne..... She resolves to fulfil the
     Engagements of her Predecessor with his Allies..... A French
     Memorial presented to the States-general..... The Queen's
     Inclination to the Tories..... War declared against
     France..... The Parliament prorogued..... Warm Opposition to
     the Ministry in the Scottish Parliament..... They recognize
     her Majesty's Authority..... The Queen appoints
     Commissioners to treat of an Union between England and
     Scotland..... State of Affairs on the Continent.....
     Keiserswaert and Landau taken by the Allies..... Progress of
     the Earl of Marlborough in Flanders..... He narrowly escapes
     being taken by a French Partisan..... The Imperialists are
     worsted at Fridlinguen..... Battle of Luzzara in Italy.....
     The King of Sweden defeats Augustus at Lissou in Poland.....
     Fruitless expedition to Cadiz by the Duke of Ormond and Sir
     George Booke..... They take and destroy the Spanish Galleons
     at Vigo..... Admiral Benbow's Engagement with Ducasse in the
     West Indies..... The Queen assembles a new Parliament.....
     Disputes between the two Houses..... The Lords inquire into
     the Conduct of Sir George Rooke..... The Parliament make a
     Settlement on Prince George of Denmark..... The Earl of
     Marlborough created a Duke..... All Commerce and
     Correspondence prohibited between Holland and the two Crowns
     of France and Spain..... A Bill for preventing occasional
     Conformity..... It miscarries..... Violent Animosity
     between the two Houses produced by the Inquiry into the
     Public Accounts..... Disputes between the two Houses of
     Convocation..... Account of the Parties in Scotland.....
     Dangerous Heats in the Parliament of that Kingdom..... The
     Commissioner is abandoned by the Cavaliers..... He is in
     Danger of his Life, and suddenly prorogues the
     Parliament..... Proceedings of the Irish Parliament.....
     They pass a severe Act against Papists..... The Elector of
     Bavaria defeats the Imperialists at Scardingen, and takes
     Possession of Ratisbon..... The Allies reduce Bonne.....
     Battle of Eckeren..... The Prince of Hesse is defeated by
     the French at Spirebath..... Treaty between the Emperor and
     the Duke of Savoy..... The King of Portugal accedes to the
     Grand Alliance..... Sir Cloudesley Shovel sails with a Fleet
     to the Mediterranean..... Admiral Graydon's bootless
     Expedition to the West Indies..... Charles King of Spain
     arrives in England._

{ANNE, 1701--1714}


ANNE SUCCEEDS TO THE THRONE.

William was succeeded as sovereign of England by Anne princess of
Denmark, who ascended the throne in the thirty-eighth year of her age,
to the general satisfaction of all parties. Even the Jacobites
seemed pleased with her elevation, on the supposition that as in all
probability she would leave no heirs of her own body, the dictates of
natural affection would induce her to alter the succession in favour of
her own brother. She had been taught to cherish warm sentiments of the
tories, whom she considered as the friends of monarchy, and the
true sons of the church; and they had always professed an inviolable
attachment to her person and interest; but her conduct was wholly
influenced by the countess of Marlborough, a woman of an imperious
temper and intriguing genius, who had been intimate with the princess
from her tender years, and gained a surprising ascendancy over her. Anne
had undergone some strange vicissitudes of fortune in consequence of
her father's expulsion, and sustained a variety of mortifications in the
late reign, during which she conducted herself with such discretion
as left little or no pretence for censure or resentment. Such conduct
indeed was in a great measure owing to a natural temperance of
disposition not easily ruffled or inflamed. She was zealously devoted to
the church of England, from which her father had used some endeavours
to detach her before the Revolution; and she lived in great harmony with
her husband, to whom she bore six children, all of whom she had
already survived. William had no sooner yielded up his breath, than the
privy-council in a body waited on the new queen, who, in a short but
sensible speech, assured them that no pains nor diligence should be
wanting on her part to preserve and support the religion, laws, and
liberties of her country, to maintain the succession in the protestant
line, and the government in church and state, as by law established. She
declared her resolution to carry on the preparations for opposing the
exorbitant power of France, and to assure the allies that she would
pursue the true interest of England, together with theirs, for the
support of the common cause. The members of the privy-council having
taken the oaths, she ordered a proclamation to be published, signifying
her pleasure that all persons in office of authority or government
at the decease of the late king, should so continue till further
directions. By virtue of an act passed in the late reign, the parliament
continued sitting even after the king's death. Both houses met
immediately, and unanimously voted an address of condolence and
congratulation; and in the afternoon the queen was proclaimed. Next
day the lords and commons severally attended her with an address,
congratulating her majesty's accession to the throne; and assuring
her of their firm resolution to support her against all her enemies
whatsoever. The lords acknowledged that their great loss was no
otherwise to be repaired but by a vigorous adherence to her majesty and
her allies, in the prosecution of those measures already concerted to
reduce the exorbitant power of France. The commons declared they
would maintain the succession of the crown in the protestant line, and
effectually provide for the public credit of the nation. These addresses
were graciously received by the queen, who, on the eleventh day of
March, went to the house of peers with the usual solemnity, where, in a
speech to both houses, she expressed her satisfaction at their unanimous
concurrence with her opinion, that too much could not be done for the
encouragement of their allies in humbling the power of France; and
desired they would consider of proper methods towards obtaining an
union between England and Scotland. She observed to the commons that the
revenue for defraying the expenses of civil government was expired; and
that she relied entirely on their affection for its being supplied in
such a manner as should be most suitable to the honour and dignity of
the crown. She declared it should be her constant endeavour to make them
the best return for their duty and affection, by a careful and diligent
administration for the good of all her subjects. "And as I know my own
heart to be entirely English (continued she) I can very sincerely assure
you, there is not any thing you can expect or desire from me which I
shall not be ready to do for the happiness and prosperity of England;
and you shall always find me a strict and religious observer of my
word." These assurances were extremely agreeable to the parliament; and
she received the thanks of both houses. Addresses of congratulation were
presented by the bishop and clergy of London; by the dissenters in
and about that city; and by all the counties, cities, towns, and
corporations of England. She declared her attachment to the church; she
promised her protection to the dissenters; and received the compliments
of all her subjects with such affability as ensured their affection.


THE ENGAGEMENTS OF HER PREDECESSOR WITH HIS ALLIES FULFILLED.

William's death was no sooner known at the Hague, than all Holland was
filled with consternation. The states immediately assembled, and for
some time gazed at each other in silent fear and astonishment. They
sighed, wept, and interchanged embraces and vows that they would act
with unanimity, and expend their clearest blood in defence of their
country. Then they despatched letters to the cities and provinces,
informing them of this unfortunate event, and exhorting them to union
and perseverance. The express from England having brought the queen's
speech to her privy-council, it was translated and published to revive
the drooping spirits of the people. Next day pensionary Fagel imparted
to the states of Holland a letter which he had received from the earl
of Marlborough, containing assurances, in the queen's name, of union
and assistance. In a few days, the queen wrote a letter in the French
language to the States, confirming these assurances; it was delivered
by Mr. Stanhope, whom she had furnished with fresh credentials as envoy
from England. Thus animated, the states resolved to prosecute vigorous
measures; their resolutions were still more inspirited by the arrival of
the earl of Marlborough, whom the queen honoured with the order of the
garter, and invested with the character of ambassador-extraordinary and
plenipotentiary to the states-general; he was likewise declared captain
general of her forces both at home and abroad. He assured the states
that her Britannic majesty would maintain the alliances which had been
concluded by the late king, and do every thing that the common concerns
of Europe required. The speech was answered by Dickvelt, president of
the week, who, in the name of the states, expressed their hearty thanks
to her majesty, and their resolutions of concurring with her in a
vigorous prosecution of the common interest.


A FRENCH MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

The importance of William's life was evinced by the joy that diffused
itself through the kingdom of France at the news of his decease. The
person who first brought the tidings to Calais, was imprisoned by the
governor until his information was confirmed. The court of Versailles
could hardly restrain their transports so as to preserve common decorum;
the people of Paris openly rejoiced at the event; all decency was laid
aside at Rome, where this incident produced such indecent raptures, that
cardinal Grimani, the imperial minister, complained of them to the
pope, as an insult on his master the emperor, who was William's friend,
confederate, and ally. The French king despatched credentials to Barré,
whom the count D'Avaux had left at the Hague to manage the affairs of
France, together with instructions to renew the negotiation with the
states, in hope of detaching them from the alliance. This minister
presented a memorial implying severe reflections on king William,
and the past conduct of the Dutch; and insinuating that now they had
recovered their liberty, the court of France hoped they would consult
their true interest. The count de Goes, envoy from the emperor,
animadverted on these expressions in another memorial, which was
likewise published; the states produced in public an answer to the
same remonstrance, expressing their resentment at the insolence of
such insinuations, and their veneration for the memory of their late
stadtholder. The earl of Marlborough succeeded in every part of his
negotiation. He animated the Dutch to a full exertion of their vigour;
he concerted the operations of the campaign; he agreed with the
states-general and the imperial minister, that war should be declared
against France on the same day at Vienna, London, and the Hague; and
on the third of April embarked for England, after having acquired the
entire confidence of those who governed the United Provinces.


QUEEN'S INCLINATION TO THE TORIES.

By this time the house of commons in England had settled the civil list
upon the queen for her life. When the bill received the royal assent,
she assured them that one hundred thousand pounds of this revenue should
be applied to the public service of the current year; at the same time
she passed another bill for receiving and examining the public accounts.
A commission for this purpose was granted in the preceding reign,
but had been for some years discontinued; and indeed always proved
ineffectual to detect and punish those individuals who shamefully
pillaged their country. The villany was so complicated, the vice so
general, and the delinquents so powerfully screened by artifice and
interest, as to elude all inquiry. On the twenty-fourth day of March the
oath of abjuration was taken by the speaker and members, according to an
act for the further security of her majesty's person, and the succession
of the crown in the protestant line, and for extinguishing the hopes
of the pretended prince of Wales. The queen's inclination to the
tories plainly appeared in her choice of ministers. Doctor John Sharp,
archbishop of York, became her ghostly director and counsellor in
all ecclesiastical affairs; the earl of Rochester was continued
lord-lieutenant of Ireland, and enjoyed a great share of her majesty's
confidence; the privy-seal was intrusted to the marquis of Normandy; the
earl of Nottingham and sir Charles Hedges were appointed secretaries
of state; the earl of Abingdon, viscount Weymouth, lord Dartmouth,
sir Christopher Musgrave, Grenville, Howe, Gower, and Harcourt, were
admitted as members of the privy-council, together with sir Edward
Seymour, now declared comptroller of the household. The lord Godolphin
declined accepting the office of lord high-treasurer, until he was
over-ruled by the persuasions of Marlborough, to whose eldest daughter
his son was married. This nobleman refused to command the forces abroad,
unless the treasury should be put into the hands of Godolphin, on whose
punctuality in point of remittances he knew he could depend. George,
prince of Denmark, was invested with the title of generalissimo of all
the queen's forces by sea and land; and afterwards created lord high
admiral, the earl of Pembroke having been dismissed from this office
with the offer of a large pension, which he generously refused. Prince
George, as admiral, was assisted by a council, consisting of sir George
Rooke, sir David Mitch el, George Churchill, and Richard Hill. Though
the legality of this board was doubted, the parliament had such respect
and veneration for the queen, that it was suffered to act without
question.


WAR DECLARED AGAINST FRANCE.

A rivalship for the queen's favour already appeared between the earls of
Rochester and Marlborough. The former, as first cousin to the queen,
and chief of the tory faction, maintained considerable influence in
the council; but even there the interest of his rival predominated.
Marlborough was not only the better courtier, but by the canal of his
countess, actually directed the queen in all her resolutions. Rochester
proposed in council, that the English should avoid a declaration of war
with France, and act as auxiliaries only. He was seconded by some other
members; but the opinion of Marlborough preponderated. He observed,
that the honour of the nation was concerned to fulfil the late king's
engagements; and affirmed that France could never be reduced within due
bounds, unless the English would enter as principals in the quarrel.
This allegation was supported by the dukes of Somerset and Devonshire,
the earl of Pembroke, and the majority of the council. The queen being
resolved to declare war, communicated her intention to the house of
commons, by whom it was approved; and on the fourth day of May the
declaration was solemnly proclaimed. The king of France was, in this
proclamation, taxed with having taken possession of great part of the
Spanish dominions; with designing to invade the liberties of Europe; and
obstruct the freedom of navigation and commerce; with having offered an
unpardonable insult to the queen and her throne, by taking upon him to
declare the pretended prince of Wales king of England, Scotland,
and Ireland. The three declarations of the emperor, England, and
the states-general, which were published in one day, did not fail to
disconcert, as well as to provoke the French monarch. When his minister
De Torcy recited them in his hearing, he spoke of the queen with some
acrimony; but with respect to the states-general, he declared with great
emotion, that "Messieurs the Dutch merchants should one day repent of
their insolence and presumption, in declaring war against so powerful
a monarch;" he did not, however, produce his declaration till the third
day of July.


THE PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

The house of commons, in compliance with the queen's desire, brought in
a bill empowering her majesty to name commissioners to treat with the
Scots for an union of the two kingdoms. It met with warm opposition from
sir Edward Seymour and other tory members, who discharged abundance of
satire and ridicule upon the Scottish nation; but the measure seemed so
necessary at that juncture, to secure the protestant succession against
the practices of France and the claims of the pretender, that the
majority espoused the bill, which passed through both houses, and on the
sixth day of May received the royal assent, together with some bills of
less importance. The enemies of the late king continued to revile his
memory. [107] _[See note P, at the end of this Vol.]_ They even charged
him with having formed a design of excluding the princess Anne from the
throne, and of introducing the elector of Hanover as his own immediate
successor. This report had been so industriously circulated, that it
began to gain credit all over the kingdom. Several peers interested
themselves in William's character, and a motion was made in the upper
house that the truth of this report should be inquired into. The house
immediately desired that those lords who had visited the late king's
papers, would intimate whether or not they had found any among them
relating to the queen's succession, or to the succession of the house
of Hanover. They forthwith declared that nothing of that sort appeared.
Then the house resolved, That the report was groundless, false,
villanous, and scandalous, to the dishonour of the late king's memory,
and highly tending to the disservice of her present majesty, whom
they besought to give orders that the authors or publishers of such
scandalous reports should be prosecuted by the attorney-general. The
same censure was passed upon some libels and pamphlets tending to
inflame the factions of the kingdom, and to propagate a spirit of
irreligion. [108] _[See note Q, at the end of this Vol.]_ On the
twenty-first day of May, the commons in an address advised her majesty
to engage the emperor, the states-general, and her other allies, to join
with her in prohibiting all intercourse with France and Spain; and to
concert such methods with the states-general as might most effectually
secure the trade of her subjects and allies. The lords presented another
address, desiring the queen would encourage her subjects to equip
privateers, as the preparations of the enemy seemed to be made for a
piratical war, to the interruption of commerce; they likewise exhorted
her majesty to grant commissions or charters to all persons who should
make such acquisitions in the Indies, as she in her great wisdom should
judge most expedient for the good of her kingdoms. On the twenty-fifth
day of May the queen having passed several public and private bills,
[109] _[See note R, at the end of this Vol.]_ dismissed the parliament
by prorogation, after having in a short speech thanked them for their
zeal, recommended unanimity, and declared she would carefully preserve
and maintain the act of toleration.


WARM OPPOSITION TO THE MINISTRY IN THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

In Scotland a warm contest arose between the revolutioners and those in
the opposition, concerning the existence of the present parliament.
The queen had signified her accession to the throne in a letter to her
privy-council for Scotland, desiring they would continue to act in that
office until she should send a new commission. Meanwhile she authorized
them to publish a proclamation ordaining all officers of state,
counsellors, and magistrates, to act in all things conformably to the
commissions and instructions of his late majesty until new commissions
should be prepared. She likewise assured them of her firm resolution
to protect them in their religion, laws, and liberties, and in the
established government of the church. She had already, in presence of
twelve Scottish counsellors, taken the coronation-oath for that kingdom;
but those who wanted to embroil the affairs of their country, affirmed
that this was an irregular way of proceeding, and that the oath ought
to have been tendered by persons deputed for that purpose either by the
parliament or the privy council of the kingdom. The present ministry,
consisting of the duke of Queensberry, the earls of Marchmont, Melvil,
Seafield, Hyndford, and Selkirk, were devoted to revolution principles,
and desirous that the parliament should continue, in pursuance of a
late act for continuing the parliament that should be then in being,
six months after the death of the king, and that it should assemble in
twenty days after that event. The queen had, by several adjournments,
deferred the meeting almost three months after the king's decease; and
therefore the anti-revolutioners affirmed that it was dissolved. The
duke of Hamilton was at the head of this party which clamoured loudly
for a new parliament. This nobleman, together with the marquis of
Tweedale, the carls Marshal and Kothes, and many other noblemen,
repaired to London in order to make the queen acquainted with their
objections to the continuance of the present parliament. She admitted
them to her presence and calmly heard their allegations; but she was
determined by the advice of her privy-council for that kingdom, who
were of opinion that the nation was in too great a ferment to hazard
the convocation of a new parliament. According to the queen's last
adjournment, the parliament met at Edinburgh on the ninth day of June,
the duke of Queensberry having been appointed high commissioner. Before
the queen's commission was read, the duke of Hamilton for himself and
his adherents, declared their satisfaction at her majesty's accession to
the throne, not only on account of her undoubted right by descent, but
likewise because of her many personal virtues and royal qualities. He
said they were resolved to sacrifice their lives and fortunes in defence
of her majesty's right against all her enemies whatever; but, at the
same time, they thought themselves bound in duty to give their opinion
that they were not warranted by law to sit and act as a parliament. He
then read a paper to the following effect:--That forasmuch as, by the
fundamental laws and constitution of this kingdom, all parliaments do
dissolve on the death of their sovereign, except in so far as innovated
by an act in the preceding reign, that the parliament in being at his
majesty's decease should meet and act what might be needful for the
defence of the true protestant religion as by law established, and for
the maintenance of the succession to the crown as settled by the claim
of right, and for the preservation and security of the public peace; and
seeing these ends are fully answered by her majesty's succession to the
throne, we conceive ourselves not now warranted by law to meet, sit, or
act; and therefore do dissent from anything that shall be done or acted.
The duke having recited this paper, and formally protested against the
proceedings of the parliament, withdrew with seventy-nine members amidst
the acclamations of the people.


THEY RECOGNISE HER MAJESTY'S AUTHORITY.

Notwithstanding their secession, the commissioner, who retained a much
greater number, produced the queen's letter signifying her resolution
to maintain and protect her subjects in the full possession of their
religion, laws, liberties, and the presbyterian discipline. She informed
them of her having declared war against France; she exhorted them to
provide competent supplies for maintaining such a number of forces as
might be necessary for disappointing the enemy's designs, and preserving
the present happy settlement; and she earnestly recommended to their
consideration an union of the two kingdoms. The duke of Queensberry and
the carl of Marchmont having enforced the different articles of this
letter, committees were appointed for the security of the kingdom,
for controverted elections, for drawing up an answer to her majesty's
letter, and for revising the minutes. Meanwhile the duke of Hamilton and
his adherents sent the lord Blantyre to London with an address to
the queen, who refused to receive it, but wrote another letter to the
parliament expressing her resolution to maintain their dignity and
authority against all opposers. They, in answer to the former, had
assured her that the groundless secession of some members should
increase and strengthen their care and zeal for her majesty's service.
They expelled sir Alexander Bruce for having given vent to some
reflections against presbytery. The lord advocate prosecuted the faculty
of advocates before the parliament for having passed a vote among
themselves in favour of the protestation and address of the dissenting
members. The faculty was severely reprimanded; but the whole nation
seemed to resent the prosecution. The parliament passed an act for
recognising her majesty's royal authority; another for adjourning the
court of judicature called the session; a third declaring this meeting
of parliament legal, and forbidding any person to disown, quarrel with,
or impugn the dignity and authority thereof, under the penalty of
high treason; a fourth for securing the true protestant religion and
presbyterian church government; a fifth for a land tax; and a sixth,
enabling her majesty to appoint commissioners for an union between the
two kingdoms.


THE QUEEN APPOINTS COMMISSIONERS TO TREAT OF AN UNION.

