But as man rises in the scale of consciousness he is able to disentangle
his "Me" from his idea of body, and is able to think of his body as
"belonging to" the mental part of him. But even then he is very apt to
identify the "Me" entirely with the mental states, feelings, etc., which
he feels to exist within him. He is very apt to consider these internal
states as identical with himself, instead of their being simply "things"
produced by some part of his mentality, and existing within him--of him,
and in him, but still not "himself." He sees that he may change these
internal states of feelings by all effort of will, and that he may
produce a feeling or state of an exactly opposite nature, in the same
way, and yet the same "Me" exists. And so after a while he is able to
set aside these various mental states, emotions, feelings, habits,
qualities, characteristics, and other personal mental belongings--he is
able to set them aside in the "not-me" collection of curiosities and
encumbrances, as well as valuable possessions. This requires much mental
concentration and power of mental analysis on the part of the student.
But still the task is possible for the advanced student, and even those
not so far advanced are able to see, in the imagination, how the process
may be performed.

After this laying-aside process has been performed, the student will
find himself in conscious possession of a "Self" which may be considered
in its "I" and "Me" dual aspects. The "Me" will be felt to be a
Something mental in which thoughts, ideas, emotions, feelings, and other
mental states may be produced. So immense that even one-tenth of
them would more than swallow ten times my income. A convulsion of the
state will give me breath; and if it do not cancel all my debts, at least
'twill stop the mouths of bawling creditors.

CALCAGNO. I understand thee; and if then, perchance, Genoa should be
freed, Sacco will be hailed his country's savior. Let no one trick
out to me the threadbare tale of honesty, if the fate of empires
hang on the bankruptcy of a prodigal and the lust of a debauchee.This consciousness brings with it a
realization of an enormous capacity for mental work and creative
ability.

But the student soon finds that this is not all that he finds within his
inner consciousness. He finds that there exists a mental Something which
is able to Will that the "Me" act along certain creative lines, and
which is also able to stand aside and witness the mental creation. This
part of himself he is taught to call his "I." He is able to rest in its
consciousness at will. He finds there not a consciousness of an ability
to generate and actively create, in the sense of the gradual process
attendant upon mental operations, but rather a sense and consciousness
of an ability to project an energy from the "I" to the "Me"--a process
of "willing" that the mental creation begin and proceed. He also finds
that the "I" is able to stand aside and witness the operations of the
"Me's" mental creation and generation. There is this dual aspect in the
mind of every person. The "I" represents the Masculine Principle of
Mental Gender-the "Me" represents the Female Principle. The "I"
represents the Aspect of Being; the "Me" the Aspect of Becoming. You
will notice that the Principle of Correspondence operates on this plane
just as it does upon the great plane upon which the creation of
Universes is performed. The two are similar in kind, although
vastly different in degree. "As above, so below; as below, so above."

These aspects of mind-the Masculine and Feminine Principles-the "I" and
the "Me"-considered in connection with the well-known mental and psychic
phenomena, give the master-key to these dimly known regions of mental
operation and manifestation. The principle of Mental Gender gives the
truth underlying the whole field of the phenomena of mental influence,
etc.

The tendency of the Feminine Principle is always in the direction of
receiving impressions, while the tendency of the Masculine Principle is
always in the direction of giving, out or expressing. The Feminine
Principle has much more varied field of operation than has the Masculine
Principle. The Feminine Principle conducts the work of generating new
thoughts, concepts, ideas, including the work of the imagination. The
Masculine Principle contents itself with the work of the "Will" in its
varied phases. .

* * * * *

HOW TO ROAST AN ACTOR.

If he is tall, you may discover that his person is ungraceful, and
that he wants the dapper-size of Garrick. If short, he is much under
the proper size, and can never play the character of a hero, which is
always fixed at five feet ten inches. If his features are small, you
can find out that they want expression; if large, his face is vulgar,
and his nose too much beyond the dramatic size.

If his face be unexceptionable, you may with some pains discover a
_something_ in his eye. If his eyes are piercing and intelligent,
perhaps his features are stiff and unmanageable. His shoulders
may be broad; and, if not, it is a thousand to one but he stoops; and
if he stoops, and does not turn out his toes, it is impossible he can
understand his author. If he is a scholar and a critic, and repeats
a line as you never heard it repeated before, he must be a word-catcher.
If his manner is graceful, he has studied dancing too much; but if his
manner is not graceful, be sure to tell him he must go to the
dancing-school. If you can discover no fault, you must prove how
much better Garrick, Powel, Holland, or Barry, performed the
character; and as nine-tenths of your readers cannot remember those
performers, you may easily persuade them that the object of your
censure is a blockhead. If he has the art of rapid elocution, tell
him he speaks too fast; and if he speaks slowly, and with discrimination,
say that he only waits to catch applause.In the phenomena of Telepathy it is seen how the Vibratory Energy of the
Masculine Principle is projected toward the Feminine Principle of
another person, and the latter takes the seed-thought and allows it to
develop into maturity. In the same way Suggestion and Hypnotism
operates. The Masculine Principle of the person giving the suggestions
directs a stream of Vibratory Energy or Will-Power toward the Feminine
Principle of the other person, and the latter accepting it makes it its
own and acts and thinks accordingly. An idea thus lodged in the mind of
another person grows and develops, and in time is regarded as the
rightful mental offspring of the individual, whereas it is in reality
like the cuckoo egg placed in the sparrows nest, where it destroys the
rightful offspring and makes itself at home. The normal method is for
the Masculine and Feminine Principles in a person's mind to co-ordinate
and act harmoniously in conjunction with each other, but, unfortunately,
the Masculine Principle in the average person is too lazy to act-the
display of Will-Power is too slight-and the consequence is that such
persons are ruled almost entirely by the minds and wills of other
persons, whom they allow to do their thinking and willing for them.
How few original thoughts or original actions are performed by the
average person? Are not the majority of persons mere shadows and echoes
of others having stronger wills or minds than themselves? The trouble is
that the average person dwells almost altogether in his "Me"
consciousness and does not realize that he has such a thing as an "I."
He is polarized in his Feminine Principle of Mind, and the Masculine
Principle, in which is lodged the Will, is allowed to remain inactive
and not employed.

The strong men and women of the world invariably manifest the Masculine
Principle of Will, and their strength depends materially upon this fact.
Instead of living upon the impressions made upon their minds by others,
they dominate their own minds by their Will, obtaining the kind of
mental images desired, and moreover dominate the minds of others
likewise, in the same manner. Look at the strong people, how they manage
to implant their seed-thoughts in the minds of the masses of the people,
thus causing the latter to think thoughts in accordance with the desires
and wills of the strong individuals. This is why the masses of people
are such sheeplike creatures, never originating an idea of their own,
nor using their own powers of mental activity.

The manifestation of Mental Gender may be noticed all around us in
everyday life. The magnetic persons are those who are able to use the
Masculine Principle in the way of impressing their ideas upon others.
The actor who makes people weep or cry as he wills, is employing this
principle. And so is the successful orator, statesman, preacher, writer
or other people who are before the public attention. The peculiar
influence exerted by some people over others is due to the manifestation
of Mental Gender, along the Vibrational lines above indicated. In this
principle lies the secret of personal magnetism, personal influence,
fascination, etc., as well as the phenomena generally grouped under the
name of Hypnotism.

The student who has familiarized himself with the phenomena generally
spoken of as "psychic" will have discovered the important part played in
the said phenomena by that force which science has styled "Suggestion,"
by which term is meant the process or method whereby an idea is
transferred to, or "impressed upon" the mind of another, causing the
second mind to act in accordance therewith. A correct understanding of
Suggestion is necessary in order to intelligently comprehend the varied
psychical phenomena which Suggestion underlies. But, still more is a
knowledge of Vibration and Mental Gender necessary for the student of
Suggestion. For the whole principle of Suggestion depends upon the
principle of Mental Gender and Vibration.

It is customary for the writers and teachers of Suggestion to explain
that it is the "objective or voluntary" mind which make the mental
impression, or suggestion, upon the "subjective or involuntary" mind.
But they do not describe the process or give us any analogy in nature
whereby we may more readily comprehend the idea. But if you will think
of the matter in the light of the Hermetic Teachings you will be able to
see that the energizing of the Feminine Principle by the Vibratory
Energy of the Masculine Principle Is in accordance to the universal laws
of nature, and that the natural world affords countless analogies
whereby the principle may be understood. In fact, the Hermetic Teachings
show that the very creation of the Universe follows the same law, and
that in all creative manifestations, upon the planes of the spiritual,
the mental, and the physical, there is always in operation this
principle of Gender-this manifestation of the Masculine and the Feminine
Principles. "As above, so below; as below, so above." And more than
this, when the principle of Mental Gender is once grasped and
understood, the varied phenomena of psychology at once becomes capable
of intelligent classification and study, instead of being very much in
the dark. The principle "works out" in practice, because it is based
upon the immutable universal laws of life.

