But the favourite type of Australian house is laid, out in an oblong
block bisected by a three to eight foot passage. The first door on one
side as you go in is the drawing-room, on the other the dining-room. Then
follow the bedrooms, etc., with the kitchen and scullery at the end of
the passage, or sometimes in a lean-to at right angles to the hinder part
of the house proper. This kind of cottage is almost universal in Adelaide
amongst the middle and upper middle classes, and invariable in the
working-class throughout Australia. In the other colonies the upper
middle classes often live in two-storied houses; i.e., ground-floor and
one floor above. Their construction is almost as simple as the cottage,
the only difference being that the bedrooms are on the upper story, and
that a pair of narrow stairs face the front-door and take up half the
passage-way, directly you get past the drawing and dining-room doom
doors. The cottage is not high enough to strike the eye, but the
squareness, or more properly the cubeness, of these two-storied houses is
appalling. They look for all the world like houses built of cards, except
that the cards are uncommonly solid. For my own part, I should never care
to live in a two-storied house again, after experiencing the comfort of
never having to go upstairs, and having all the rooms on the same floor.
At first one is prejudiced against it. I was so, until during my second
year in Australia I had to live on the third floor in Sydney. It was only
then that I realized the advantages of the simpler plan.

The strong light and heat of the sun has the effect of a window-tax in
limiting the size and number of the windows. A few French windows are to
be found in Adelaide, but the old sashes are almost universal. Of, late a
fashion has sprung up for bow-windows, which, however pretty, have here
the great disadvantage of attracting the sun unpleasantly. Shutters are
not much used. Venetian blinds are more common. But therein lies a great
mystery.
These words are significant of much. We behold all round about us one
vast union, in which no man can labor for himself without laboring
at the same time for all others; a glimpse of truth, which by the
universal harmony of things becomes an inward benediction, and lifts
the soul mightily upward.

Still more so, when a man regards himself as a necessary member of
this union. The feeling of our dignity and our power grows strong, when
we say to ourselves; My being is not objectless and in vain; I am a
necessary link in the great chain, which, from the full development
of consciousness in the first man, reaches forward into eternity.
All the great, and wise, and good among mankind, all the benefactors
of the human race, whose names I read in the world's history, and the
still greater number of those, whose good deeds have outlived their
names,--all those have labored for me. I have entered into their
harvest. I walk the green earth, which they inhabited. I tread in their
footsteps, from which blessings grow. I can undertake the sublime task,
which they once undertook, the task of making our common brotherhood wiser
and happier. I can build forward, where they were forced to leave off; and
bring nearer to perfection the great edifice which they left
uncompleted. And at length I, too, must leave it, and go hence.
O, this is the sublimest thought of all! I can never finish the
noble task; therefore, so sure as this task is my destiny, I can never
cease to work, and consequently never cease to be. What men call death
cannot break off this task, which is never-ending; consequently no
periodis set to my being, and I am eternal. I lift my head boldly to the
threatening mountain peaks, and to the roaring cataract, and to the
storm-clouds swimming in the fire-sea overhead and say; I am
eternal, and defy your power!

Break, break over me!
and thou Earth, and thou Heaven, mingle in the wild tumult! and ye Elements
foam and rage, and destroy this atom of dust,--this body, which I
call mine! My will alone, with its fixed purpose, shall hover brave
and triumphant over the ruins of the universe; for I have comprehended
my destiny; and it is more durable than ye! It is eternal; and I, who
recognise it, I likewise am eternal!

Tell me, my friend, have you no faith in this?"
"I have;" answered Flemming, and there was another pause. He then said;

"I have listened to you patiently and without interruption. Now listen
to me. You complain of the skepticism of the age. This is one form in
which the philosophic spirit of the age presents itself. Let me tell
you, that another form, whichit assumes, is that of poetic reverie.I should even say that during the first year or two after his arrival
there is little improvement in his habitation; but before long he
acquires a small freehold, and with the aid of a building society becomes
his own landlord. Directly he has reached this stage, an improvement is
visible in his condition. It is difficult to over-estimate the social
value of the work that has been done by building societies. In the
suburbs of the large towns you see whole townships built entirely by
these societies; every inhabitant of these townships in the course of a
few years becomes a proprietor, and the society further aids him by
making loans to him on mortgage of his property. It is the defect of
these townships that the houses are all as like one another as peas in a
pod--four-roomed squares or six-roomed oblongs built of red brick, and
with every detail exactly the same; but their plainness and similarity
does not detract from their manifest virtues.

Terraces and attached houses are universally disliked, and almost every
class of suburban house is detached and stands in its own garden. These
gardens are laid out much in the English fashion; but there is little
need of greenhouses, and unless you have water laid on to your lawn, it
is difficult to keep it green in summer. In Adelaide but few people try
to keep lawns; the summer sun is too scorching, and towards February and
March the gardens look dreadfully dried up. But on the other hand,
flowers of all kinds grow in abundance, and to a size which they rarely
attain in colder climates. The garden needs little attention beyond the
summer watering and you can get flowers all the year round. Fruit-trees
grow with wonderful rapidity and bear most abundantly.

With the aid of the hills you get several climates within a small area,
and in Adelaide especially the abundance of flowers and fruit is all that
can be desired. There is naturally some tendency to coarseness,
especially in the fruit. The price of labour makes it difficult to keep
large gardens in good order. For this reason few people keep large
gardens. Another thing that accounts for the smallness of the gardens
attached to middle and working-class houses, which are often no more than
patches, is the speculation in land. The smaller the portions into which
the speculator cuts up his building sections, the more he gets for them.
I myself on one occasion bought an eight-acre section of land in one
block for £1,100, cut it up into blocks of an eighth of an acre each, and
resold it within six weeks for a little over £2,000. This
land-speculation is quite a feature of Australian life, and at certain
periods it is difficult to lose money by it. Large gardens are generally
long leaseholds or freeholds belonging to rich people, who will not sell
during their lifetime. At their death their gardens are cut up into small
blocks and yield large profits. Nor do I think that the love of gardening
is at all common here; it is not a sufficiently exciting occupation.

FURNITURE.

I closed my last letter with an account of the way in which houses are
built here. I am now going to try to describe their contents. And perhaps
the best way to do this will be to describe a type of each class of
house, omitting all exceptions, which are necessarily numerous where so
large a field has to be covered.

We will begin at the top of the tree. Whilst the ambition of the wealthy
colonist not unfrequently finds vent in building a large house, he has
generally been brought up in too rough a school to care to furnish it
even decently. His notion of furniture begins and ends with upholstery,
and I doubt whether he ever comes to look upon this as more than things
to sit on, stand on, lie on, eat off and drink off The idea of deriving
any pleasure from the beauty of his surroundings rarely enters into his
head, and it is not uncommon to find a man who is making £5,000 a year
amply satisfied with what an Englishman with one-tenth of his income
would deem the barest necessaries. The Australian Croesus is generally
very little of a snob, though often his 'lady' has a taste for display.
When this desire for grandeur has led them to furnish expensively, they
are unable to furnish prettily, and usually feel much less comfortable in
their drawing-room, in which they never set foot except when there is
company--than when their chairs and tables were made by a working
carpenter or with their own hands out of a few deal boards.

One or two millionaires have had upholsterers out from Gillow's and
Jackson and Graham's to furnish their houses in the latest and most
correct fashion, and many colonists who go on a trip to England bring
back with them drawing and dining room suites; but even then there is an
entire want of individuality about the Australian's house--which is the
more remarkable seeing how much his individuality has been brought out by
his career, and shows itself in his general actions and opinions. He may
know how to dogmatize on theology and politics, but when he gets down to
furniture he confesses that his eye is out of focus. The furniture
imported or (in Melbourne) made by the large upholsterers is, with few
exceptions, more gorgeous than pretty; whence one may reasonably infer
that the taste of their customers--when they have any--is better suited
by the grandiose than the artistic. But most of the expensively furnished
houses show plainly that the upholsterer has been given _carte blanche_
to do what he will. Look at his shop-window, and you may make a shrewd
guess at his customer's drawing-room.

Nor is the furniture universal in Australia, as one would naturally
suppose, after the style of that in Italy and the South of France. The
frowsy carpets and heavy solid chairs of England's cold and foggy climate
reign supreme beneath the Austral sun. The Exhibitions have done
something towards reforming our domestic interiors, but it will be a long
time before the renaissance of art as applied to households, which
appears to be taking place in England, makes its way here in any
considerable force.

But instead of generalizing, it is time we should go through Muttonwool's
house room by room. On entering the drawing-room the first thing that
strikes the eye is the carpet, with a stiff set pattern large enough to
knock you down, and of a rich gaudy colour. You raise your eyes--find
opposite them the regulation white marble mantelpiece, more or less
carved, and a gilt mirror, which we will hope is not protected from the
flies by green netting. Having made a grimace, you sit down upon one of
the chairs. There are nine in the room besides the sofa--perhaps an
ottoman--and you can take your choice between the 'gent's' armchair, the
lady's low-chair, and the six high ones. If they are not in their
night-shirts you can examine the covering--usually satin or perhaps
cretonne. The pattern is unique, being, I should think, specially
manufactured for the colonial market. Bright hues prevail. Occasional
chairs have only lately been introduced, and the whole suite is in
unison, though harmony with the carpet has been overlooked, or rather
never thought of, the two things having been chosen separately, and
without any idea that it would be an improvement if they were to match.

As for the make of the chairs, they are to be found in plenty of English
middle-class drawing-rooms even now. The shape may be named the
'deformed.' The back is carved out into various contortions of a
horse-shoe, with a bar across the middle which just catches you in the
small of the back, and is a continual reproach if you venture to lean
against it. The wood of which the chairs are made is mahogany, walnut, or
cedar. The large round or oval table which stands in the middle of the
room is of the same wood, and so are the card-table, the Davenport, the
chiffonier, and that Jacob's-ladder-like what-not in the corner. In some
houses the upholsterer has stuffed the room with useless tables. Of
course there is a fender and fire-irons, and probably a black
doleful-looking grate, which during two-thirds of the year is stuffed
with paper shavings of all the colours of the rainbow and several others
which good Mother Nature forgot to put into it. On the chimney-piece is a
Louis XVI. clock and a pair of ornaments to match. A piano, tune
immaterial, is a _sine quâ non_ even in a middle-class house, but when
Muttonwool has got all these things--in short, paid his upholsterer's
bill--he thinks a ten-pound note should cover the rest of his
drawing-room furniture. Household gods are terribly deficient, and it
would not be difficult to fancy yourself in a lodging-house. There may be
a few odds and ends picked up on the overland route, and a set of
stereotyped ornaments bought at an auction sale or sent out as 'sundries'
in a general cargo; but of _bric-à-brac_, in the usual acceptation of
the term, there is little or none.

As for the pictures, they are altogether abominable. Can you imagine a
man with £5,000 a year (or £500, for that matter) covering his walls with
chromos? The inferior kinds of these 'popularizers of art,' as the papers
call them, have an immense sale here. Even when a wealthy man has been
told that it is his duty to buy pictures, the chances are that he will
attend an auction and pick up rubbish at low prices, rubbing his hands
over what he considers a good bargain; or if he wants to tell his
visitors how much he gave for his pictures he gets mediocre work with a
name on it. But her mother sat up.

"What is it?" she asked eagerly. "What is it?"
"Dear mother, do not fret! It must be----"
"Go and see, child! Go to the window in the passage, and see!" Madame
Royaume persisted.

Anne had no wish to go, no wish to see. She pictured her lover in the
_mêlée_ whence rose those appalling cries; and gladly would she have
hidden her head in the bedclothes and poured out her heart in prayer for
him. But Madame persisted, and she yielded, went into the passage and
opened the small window. With the cold air entered a fresh volume of sound.
On the walls and timbered gables opposite her--and so near that
she could well-nigh touch them with her extended arm--strange lights
played luridly; and here and there, at dormers on a level with her, pale
faces showed and vanished by turns.

She looked down. For a moment, in the confusion, in the medley of moving
forms, she could discern little or nothing. Then, as her eyes became
more accustomed to the sight, she made out that the tide of conflict was
running inward into the town, a sign that the invaders were gaining
the mastery.

"Well?" Madame Royaume asked, her voice querulous.

Anne strove to say something that would soothe her mother. But a sob choked
her, and when she regained her speech she felt herself impelled, she knew
not why, to tell the truth. "I fear our people are falling back," she
murmured, trembling so violently that she could barely stand.

"How far? Where are they, child?" Her mother's voice was eager.
"Where are they?"
"They are almost under the window!" And then withdrawing her head with
a shudder, while she clung for support to the frame of the window:
"They are fighting underneath me now," she said. "God pity them!"
"And who is--are we still getting the worst of it?"
Forced by a kind of fascination, Anne looked out again. "Yes, there
is one man, a big man, leads them on," she said, in the voice of one
who, painfully absorbed in a sight, reports it involuntarily. "He is
driving our people before him.

Ah! he has struck one down this moment. He is almost underneath us now.
But his people will not follow him! They are standing. He--he waves them
on!"
"He is beneath us?" Madame's voice sounded strangely near, strangely
insistent. But Anne, wrapt in what she saw, did not heed it.

"Yes! He is a dozen paces in front of his men. He is underneath us now.
He urges them to follow him! He towers above them! He is----"
She broke off; close to her sounded a heavy breathing, that even above the
babel of the street caught her ear. She drew in her head, looked, and,
overwrought by that which she had been witnessing, she shrieked
aloud.

Beside her, bending under the weight of the great steaming pot, stood
her mother! Her mother, who had scarcely left her bedroom twice in a
twelvemonth, nor crossed it as many times in a week. But it was
her mother; endowed at this pass, and for the instant, with
supernatural strength.

For even as Anne recoiled thunderstruck, the old woman lifted the huge
_marmite_, half-full and steaming as it was, to the ledge of the window,
steadied it there an instant, and then, with the gleaming eyes and set
pale face of an avenging prophetess, thrust it forth.

A second they gazed at one another with suspended breath. Then from the
street below rose a wild shriek, a crash, and lo, the huge pot lay
shattered in the kennel beside the man whom, Heaven directed, it had
slain. As if the shock of its fall stayed for an instant even the
movement of the world, a silence fell on all: then, as the roar of
conflict rose again, louder, more vengeful, with a new note in it,
she caught her mother in her arms.
"Mother! Mother!" she cried. "Mother!"
The elder woman was white to the lips. "Get me to bed!" she
muttered.
"Get me to bed!" She had lost the power even to stand. That she had
ever borne, even for a yard, the great pot which it taxed Anne's
utmost strength to carry upstairs was a miracle. But a miracle were
all the circumstances connected with the act.
Anne carried her back and laid her on the bed, greatly fearing for
her.
And thenceforth for a while the girl's horizon, so wide and stormy
an instant before, was narrowed to the bed beside which she stood,
narrowed to the dear face on which the lamplight fell, disclosing
its death-like pallor. For the time Anne forgot even her lover, was
deaf to the struggle outside, was unmindful of the flight of the
hours. For her, Geneva might have lain at peace, the night been as
other nights, the house below been heavy with the breathing of tired
sleepers. She looked neither to the right nor the left, until under
her loving hands Madame Royaume revived, opened her eyes and
smiled--the smile she had for one face only in the world.The gasalier is bronze instead of glass.
The real living-room of the house is the dining-room, which is therefore
the best furnished, and on a tapestry carpet are a leather couch, six
balloon-back carved chairs, two easy-chairs, a chiffonier, a side-table,
and a cheap chimney-glass. In the best bedroom the bedstead is a tubular
half-tester, the toilet-ware gold and white, the carpet again tapestry.
Throughout the house the furniture is made of cedar. The kitchen is
summarily disposed of; Biddy has to content herself with d table,
dresser, safe, pasteboard and rolling-pin, and a couple of chairs. Her
bedroom furniture is even more scanty--a paillasse on trestles, a chair,
a half-crown looking-glass, an old jug and a basin on a wooden table.
Even in the houses of the wealthy poor Biddy is very badly treated in
this respect. In Muttonwool's house, if he keeps two servants, they both
sleep in one room, and not improbably share the same basin. Servants are
undoubtedly troublesome to a degree in Australia, but it is not
altogether a satisfactory feature in colonial life that the provision
made for their comfort is literally nil.

Having seen the £600 a year cottage it is almost needless to visit the
£300 and £400, belonging to clerks and the smaller shopkeepers. The style
is the same, but the quantity and quality inferior. For instance, the
drawing-room carpet is tapestry instead of Brussels; the dining-room
furniture is covered with horse-hair instead of leather, and so on. We
will go into the next cottage--less pretentious-looking and a little
smaller. The rent is twelve shillings a week, and it belongs to a
carpenter in good employ. Here there is no drawing-room, but the parlour
aspires to comfort quite undreamt of by an English tradesman. Our old
friends the horse-hair cedar couch, the gent's and lady's chairs together
with four balloon high chairs, turn up again. There is a four-foot
chiffonier, a tapestry carpet, a gilt chimney-glass, a hearthrug, a
bronze fender and fire-irons, and a round table with turned pillar and
carved claws. In the parents' bedroom are a half-tester bedstead with
coir-fibre or woollen flock mattress, two cane chairs, washstand,
toilet-table, glass and ware, towel-horse, chest of drawers, and a couple
of yards of bedside carpet. The two youngest children sleep in this room,
and three or four others in the second bedroom, where the bedsteads are
less showy and the ware very inferior. The carpet is replaced by china
matting. The chest of drawers does duty as a toilet-table, and there are
of course no such luxuries as towel-horses. Yet, take it all in all,
Chips has much to be thankful for.

With labour so dear as it is here, it is wonderful to think that a
working-man can furnish, and furnish comfortably, a four-roomed cottage
for £27; and yet this is what has recently been done in Melbourne by my
friend Hornyhand, who is a common labourer, earning only eight to nine
shillings a day, and paying about as much a week for rent. He is really
uncommonly well off, everything in his house being brand-new; and yet, as
he tells me, he is absolutely at the root of the honest social tree--the
worst paid of the working-classes. I think it worth while to subjoin his
bill. He certainly has not gone in for luxuries, but then he is of a
frugal mind. If he wanted it, his house could be as well furnished as
Chips'; but he doesn't see any object in wasting money on that kind of
thing, and is content with little:

Parlour.                                         £ s. d.

Cedar polished couch, covered with horse-hair    2 10 0
Four cane-seat chairs, each 7s. 6d.              1 10 0
Cedar polished table, 3 ft. 6 in., on claws      1 10 0
Maple rocking-chair, with elbows                 0 17 6
Carpet                                           1  5 0
Hearthrug, 8s. 6d. fender, 9s. irons, 6s. 6d.    1  4 0

Bedroom.

French bedstead, 4 ft. 6 in. by 6 ft. 6 in.      1 15 0
Pair paillasses                                    12 6
Woollen flock mattrass                           1  0 0
Woollen flock bolster and 2 pillows                 8 0
Washstand, and rail attached                       10 6
Toilet table, to match                             10 6
Toilet glass, 14 in. by 10 in.                      8 6
2 cane-scat chairs (Albert), 6s. each              12 0
4 yards matting at 9d.                              3 0
Toilet-ware, six pieces                            12 6

Second Bedroom.

2 French bedsteads, 3 ft. by 6 ft. 6 in. at 30s. 3  0 0
4 paillasses, at 10s. per pair 1 0 0
2 woollen flock mattrasses, at 16. 3d. each      1 12 6
2 bolsters, flock, at 4s. 6d. each                  9 0
2 pillows, flock, at 3s. each                       6 0
Toilet chest of drawers
(to serve for toilet table), cedar               2  5 0
Toilet glass, 14 in. by 10 in.                      7 0
Washstand, 2 ft. 6 in.                             12 0
Wash, etc., 6 pieces                               12 6

Kitchen.

Deal table, turned legs, varnished                10 6
2 wood chairs, each 4s. 6d.                        9 0
Safe in Kauri pine                                10 6
Pasteboard and rolling-pin                         4 0

                                              £27  7 0

Note.--That if he had not had two children to provide for in a second
bedroom, nor indulged in the luxury of a chest of drawers, the whole of
his furnishing would only have cost him £17 3s.

Before closing this letter, a word as to what may be called the
accessories of the household. But few families have any large quantity of
plate, and electro has almost entirely superseded silver; metal is not
common for dishes, and is quite unknown for plates. Nor is the crockery
at all a strong point even in the wealthiest houses. In the shops it is
almost impossible to get anything satisfactory in this line; and until
the exhibitions, nine Australians out of ten had no idea what was meant
by hand-painted china. The difference between china and earthenware is,
it goes almost without saying, little if at all appreciated, much less
that between hand-painted and stamped ware. The display of cut-glass at
the exhibitions was almost as great a revelation to colonists as that of
porcelain; hitherto all middle-class and most wealthy households have
been contented with the commonest stuff. Table-cloths and napkins are
also very second-rate, and sheets are almost invariably of calico.

SERVANTS.

That servants are the plague of life seems to be an accepted axiom
amongst English ladies of the upper middle class. When I hear them
discussing their grievances over their afternoon tea, I wish them no
worse fate than to have the management of an Australian household for a
week. It is not every Englishwoman whose peace of mind would survive the
trial. Many a young English wife have I seen unhappy in her married life
in the colonies, mainly on account of her domestics. And yet I doubt
whether the colonial mistress makes as much fuss about her real wrongs as
the English one about her imaginary grievances. Of course she can, if
drawn out, tell you enough ridiculous stories about her servants to fill
a number of _Punch_; but if they are only fools she is well content, and
it is only when she is left servantless for two or three days that she
waxes wroth.

Where mistresses are many and servants are few, it goes almost without
saying that large establishments are out of the question. Given equal
incomes, and the English mistress has twice as many servants as the
Australian, and what is more, twice as competent ones. Even our friend
Muttonwool only has six coachman, boy, cook, housemaid, nurse, and
parlourmaid. I don't suppose there are a hundred households in all
Australia which keep a butler pure and simple, though there must be
several thousand with what is generically known as a man-servant, who
gets twenty-five shillings a week, all found. A coachman's wages are on
the average about the same. The 'boy' gets ten shillings. Man-cooks are
rare. A decent female cook, who ranks out here as first-class, earns from
fifteen shillings to a pound a week. For this sum she is supposed to know
something about cooking; yet I have known one in receipt of a weekly
guinea look with astonishment at a hare which had been sent to her master
as a present, and declare that it was 'impossible to make soup out of
that thing.' After a little persuasion she was induced to try to make
hare-soup after Mrs. Beeton's recipe, but the result was such as to try
the politeness of her master's visitors. This lack of decent cooks is
principally due to the lack of establishments large enough to keep
kitchenmaids. Would-be cooks have no opportunity of acquiring their art
by training from their superiors; they gain their knowledge by
experiments on their employers' digestions; never staying long in one
place, they learn to make some new dishes at each house they go to, and
gradually rise in the wages-scale.

Directly you come to incomes below a thousand a year, the number of
servants is often reduced to a maid-of-all-work, more or less competent
according to her wages, which run from seven to fifteen shillings a week.
At the former price she knows absolutely nothing; at the latter something
of everything. She cooks, washes, sweeps, dusts, makes the beds, clears
the baths, and answers the, door. All is grist that comes to her mill;
and if she is Jill-of-all-trades and mistress of none, one must admit
that an English-bred servant would not be one quarter so suitable to
colonial requirements. Of course she is independent, often even cheeky,
but a mistress learns to put up with occasional tantrums, provided the
general behaviour and character are good. When we were first out here we
used to run a-muck with our servants about once a week; but now we find
it better to bear the ills we have than fly to others which we know not
of. Our present Lizzie is impertinent to a degree when reproved; but then
she can cook decently, and she is the first decent cook we have had since
we have been out here. When you have lived on colonial fare for a few
months, a good plain dinner covers a multitude of sins.

Unfortunately, four-fifths of our servants are Irish--liars and dirty.
These Irish are less impertinent than the colonials; but if you do get
hold of a well trained colonial, she is worth her weight in gold on
account of her heterogeneity. Your Irish immigrant at eight and ten
shillings a week has as often as not never been inside any other
household than her native hovel, and stares in astonishment to find that
you don't keep a pig on your drawing-room sofa. On entering your house,
she gapes in awe of what she considers the grandeur around her, and the
whole of her first day's work consists of ejaculating 'Lor' and
'Goodness!' We once had a hopeful of this kind who, after she had been
given full instructions as to how a rice-pudding was to be made, sat down
and wept bitterly for half an hour, till--her mistress having told her to
'bake'--the happy thought struck her to put a dish full of rice in the
oven, _sans_ milk _sans_ eggs, _sans_ everything. Another Biddy, engaged
by a friend of ours, having to make a yeast-cake, put it under her
bed-clothes 'just to plump it a bit.' A third, having been given a
bill-of-fare for the day, put soup, meat, and pudding all into one pot,
and served them up _au pot-pourri_.

But if Biddy is trying to the patience, her stupidity is to a mistress
accustomed to English ways almost more bearable than the
'go-as-you-please'--if I may borrow a phrase from the new American
athletic contests--of the colonial young lady, who comes to be engaged in
the most elegant of dresses, bows as she enters the room, seats herself,
and smilingly remarks, that she has heard that Mrs. So-and-So is wanting
a 'girl.' After a little discussion about the work, privileges, etc., and
upon the production of some written certificates--it is almost impossible
to obtain personal references, and if it were possible you could not rely
upon them--the engagement is made. The mistress requires a solemn promise
that the servant will come on a certain day, and as often as not the day
arrives without her. Our young lady has been round to a number of
mistresses and 'priced' their places; she will not wilfully put you in a
quandary, but if, after having engaged herself to you, she hears of
another situation where there is less work or more wages, she takes it in
preference, and leaves you to manage as best you can. Even when you have
got her and found her suitable, you can never tell at what moment she
will be pleased to be off 'Tuppence more and up goes the donkey!'--an
inconvenience which is felt much more here, where there is probably only
one servant in the house, than it would be in England.

But if it were only higher wages which tempted servants away the remedy
would be easy; a few pounds more a year would be cheerfully paid for the
convenience of a continuity of one's household arrangements. In one year
we have had ten servants. As there were no children, the place was an
easy one; but that seemed to make little difference. At first we kept
two, but they did nothing but quarrel; the cook left us on this account.
We took our new cook simply because she happened to be a friend of the
housemaid; but before long we found that it was out of the frying-pan
into the fire: the first two had quarrelled 'because there wasn't
sufficient work for two to do;' the second pair played together so much
that they never did any work. We banished them both, and tried keeping
only one servant, which many people had assured us would prove more
comfortable. So far they were right. Hitherto my wife's time had chiefly
been taken up with looking after the servants, to see that they did their
work; now peace reigned in the house. We gave our maid-of-all-work
fifteen shillings a week; we thought we had found a real treasure, and
for a month everything went on wheels. But at the end of that time, just
when she was getting accustomed to our ways and we to hers, Sarah gives a
week's notice; she had no fault to find with her mistress, but the place
was too dull. We offered two shillings a week extra but in vain. Our next
stayed six weeks; her reason for leaving was that she did not approve of
the back-yard. Number six stayed for three months; she was very nearly
leaving at the end of the first fortnight, but we won her heart by giving
her young man free access to the kitchen from 9 o'clock to 10.30 every
evening. Even then, however, she found the place too dull. Number eight
stayed two months; she left avowedly because she did not care to stop too
long in one place. The ninth remained only a fortnight. She left because
we objected to her staying out after eleven o'clock at night, although we
gave her three nights out a week after half-past eight.

When there are children in a middle-class family, a nurse-girl is
generally, but by, no means always, kept. Hers is the lowest of all the
branches of service, and is only taken by a young girl just going out
into the world. Trained nurses, such as are common at home, are in great
demand, and almost unobtainable. They can earn a pound a week easily, and
at such wages a man whose income only runs into three figures is forced
to put up with a nurse-girl. She undertakes no responsibility, her duties
being confined to carrying the baby and screaming at the other children
if they attempt to do themselves any bodily harm. If you wish to
understand what the average nurse-girl is like, you have but to walk
through any of the public gardens; you will see babies without number
left in the blazing sun, some hanging half-way out of their
perambulators, others sucking large, painted 'lollies' or green apples.
The elder children, if they are unruly, are slapped and sent off to play
by themselves, while the nurse-girls hold a confab on a neighbouring
bench. Not that these girls are necessarily bad, but they lack the
supervision and training of a head-nurse; they have been taught to look
upon nursing as derogatory, and never stay long enough as nurses to get
an experience in handling children. A few months of this, the lowest
stage of servant-galdom, and then they pass up into the maid-of-all-work
class. Thus it is that many mothers prefer undertaking the duties of
nurse themselves, and devote themselves to their children often at the
expense of their husbands, and certainly of all social relations.

Colonial servants are much too fond of change for change's sake ever to
stay long in one situation. A month's character is a sure guarantee for
another place, and only a week's notice is required on either side before
leaving. Hence servants are engaged and paid by the week; they do not
expect any presents or perquisites, and it is not the custom to make them
any allowance for beer. On the other hand, they will not stand being
allowanced for tea, sugar, butter, or anything of the kind, and as a rule
they fare in exactly the same style as their masters. Every other Sunday
afternoon and evening, one evening every week, and occasional public
holidays, are the customary outings, though we found it expedient to
allow a good many more.

The great redeeming-point about the servant-girl is the power she
acquires, of getting through a large and multifarious quantity of work.
She has frequently to do the whole house-work, cooking, washing, and
ironing for a family of six or seven, and unless the mistress or her
daughters are particularly helpful, it is out of all reason to expect
that any of these things can be well done. Of course there are some good
servants, but, unfortunately for their employers, the butchers and bakers
generally have a keen eye for such, arguing with great justice that a
good servant is likely to make a good wife.

The greater part of the high wages which servants get is spent on dress.
If ever they condescend to wear their mistress's left-off clothes, it is
only for work in the house; but the trouble they take to copy the exact
fashion and cut of their mistress's clothes is very amusing. One girl we
had frankly asked my wife to allow her to take a dress she admired to her
dressmaker, in order that she might have one made up like it. Whilst
girls in the upper and middle classes are very handy with their fingers,
and often make up their own hats and dresses, the servant-class despise
to do this, and almost invariably employ milliners, who often cheat them
dreadfully, knowing that they appreciate a hat or a dress much according
to the price they have paid for it, and the amount of show it makes. In
hats and bonnets this is specially noticeable; I have often seen our
servants with hats or bonnets on, which cannot have cost them less than
three or four pounds.

The shortest and upon the whole the best way to get a servant is by going
to one of the numerous registry offices. Some of these exist merely to
palm off bad servants upon you; but there are always offices of good
reputation, which will not recommend a girl they know absolutely nothing
about.

The needlewoman is little in vogue here; but as nearly everyone washes at
home, washerwomen are plentiful; their wages run from four to five
shillings a day, according to their capabilities, food being of course
included.

In spite of constant shipments from England, servants are always at a
premium, and I need scarcely point out what an excellent opening these
colonies afford for women-servants. Unfortunately, but a very small
proportion of the daughters of the poorer colonial working-class will go
into service. For some inexplicable reason, they turn up their noses at
the high wages and comparatively light work offered, and prefer to
undertake the veriest drudgery in factories for a miserable pittance. At
a recent strike in a large shirt-making factory in Melbourne, it came out
that a competent needlewoman could not make more than eighteen shillings
a week even by working overtime, and that the general average earnings of
a factory girl were only eleven to thirteen shillings a week. But so
great is the love of independence in the colonial girl, that she prefers
hard work and low wages in order to be able to enjoy freedom of an
evening. It is in vain that the press points out that girls whose parents
do not keep servants are accustomed to perform the same household duties
in their own homes that are required of them in service; that work which
is not degrading at home cannot be degrading in service; and that they
will be the better wives for the knowledge of household work which they
acquire in service. They might as well preach to the winds; and there are
more applications for employment in shops and factories than there is
work for, whilst mistresses go begging for lady-helps. There is a sad
side to this picture as regards the social condition of the colonies, in
addition to the inconvenience to people who keep servants. The girls who
go into shops and factories, and have their evenings to themselves,
necessarily undergo a great deal of temptation, and it is undeniable that
they are not at all delivered from evil. The subject is out of keeping
with these letters, but unless some means can be found to reconcile
colonial girls to service, I fear an evil is growing up in our midst
which is likely to be even more baneful in its effects upon the community
than the corresponding tendency to 'larrikinism' amongst colonial youths.

Since writing the above, an article on the subject has appeared in the
Melbourne _Argus_ which is worth quoting in _extenso_:

'We have undertaken to consider whether anything can be done to overcome
the unwillingness which nearly all Australian girls exhibit to enter
domestic service. There is an abundant supply of female labour in the
colony, but unfortunately it is not distributed in the way that would be
most advantageous to the community and beneficial to the women
themselves. While household servants can scarcely be had for love or
money, the clothing factories are crowded with seamstresses, who are
content to work long hours at what are very much like starvation wages.
How is this? We have shown that there is nothing in domestic work which
any true woman need consider degrading; that the most refined and highly
educated ladies have in all ages considered themselves properly employed
when busy about household affairs; that servants have quite as many
opportunities of forming matrimonial connections as factory girls, and
that their training fits them to become much better, and therefore far
happier wives. We have no doubt that all this, or at least the greater
part, would be admitted by the seamstresses themselves: but nevertheless
the fact remains that to domestic service they will not go. There is a
feeling in existence amongst them that in some way or other household
labour is menial occupation, and that to undertake it is to lose caste in
the class to which they belong. We may call this fantastic idea "vanity"
or "false pride," or what we will; but that does not do anything to
banish it, or to render it less potent for mischief. Seeing that so much
is at stake--that employers are clamouring for servants, and that women
are sadly in want of some occupation which would lessen competition and
raise wages in the sewing business--it is evident that society is deeply
interested in getting rid of the ridiculous notion. As a first step
towards that desirable consummation, let us endeavour to analyse the
impression which exists in the minds of those who turn their backs upon
household duties, and with their eyes open devote themselves to a
laborious and underpaid occupation.

'A correspondent ( _The Argus_, December 16) informs us that observation
and the remarks he has heard made by factory girls have led him to think
that there are three serious objections which the seamstresses have to
domestic service. One of these is--"The idea of degradation, attached to
the position of a 'slavey' in the minds of the lower classes themselves."
Here?" she exclaimed. "The enemy?"
He nodded.

"Here? In Geneva?" she repeated. She could not have heard aright.

"Yes."
But she still looked at him; she could not reconcile his words with his
manner. This, the greatest calamity that could happen, this which she
had been brought up to fear as the worst and most awful of catastrophes--could
he talk of it, could he announce it after this fashion? With a smile, in
a tone of pleasantry? He must be playing with her. She passed her hand
over her eyes, and tried to be calm. "But all is quiet?" she said.

"All is quiet now," he answered. "After midnight the trouble will begin."

Still she could not understand him. His face said one thing, his voice
another. Besides, the town was quiet: no sound of riot or disturbance,
no clash of steel, no tramp of feet penetrated the walls. And the house
stood on the ramparts where the first alarm must be given. "Do you mean,"
she asked at last, her eyes fixed steadfastly on him, "that they are
going to attack the town after midnight?"
"They are here now," he replied, shrugging his shoulders. "They scaled the
wall after the guard had gone round at eleven, and they are lying by tens
and twenties along the outer side of the Corraterie, waiting for the
hour and the signal."
She passed her hand across her closed eyes, and looked again, perplexedly.
"And you," she said, "you? I do not understand. If this be so, what are
you doing here?"
"Here?"
"Ay, here! Why have you not given the alarm in the town?"
"Why should I give the alarm?" he retorted coolly. "To save those who
hounded you through the streets two days ago? To save those who to-morrow
may put you to the torture and burn you like the vilest of creatures?

Save them?" with a grim smile. "No, let them save themselves!"
"But----"
"I would save you! not them! I would save your mother! not them! And it is
done. Let the Grand Duke triumph to-night, let Savoy take Geneva, and our
good townsfolk will have other matters to occupy their thoughts to-morrow!
Ay, and through many and many a morrow to come! Save them?" with a grim
note in his voice; "no, I save you. Let them save themselves! It is God's
mercy on us, and His judgment on them! Or why happens it to-night? To-night
of all nights in the year?"
She was very pale, and for a moment remained silent: whether she felt
the temptation to which he had succumbed, or was seeking what she
should say to move him, is uncertain. At last, "It is impossible,"
she murmured, in a low voice. "You have not thought of the women
and children, of the fathers and mothers who will suffer."
"And your mother!"
"Is one. God forbid that I should save her at the expense of all! God
forbid!" she wailed, as if she feared her own strength, as if the temptation
almost overcame her. And then laying her hand on his arm and looking
up to him--his face was set so hard--"You will not do this!" she said.
"You will not do this! Could we be happy after? Could we be happy with
blood on our heads, and on our hands, and on our hearts! Happy, oh no!
Claude, dear heart, dear husband, we cannot buy happiness so, or life
so, or love so! We cannot save ourselves--so! We cannot play God's part--so!"

"It is not we who do it," he answered stubbornly.

"It is we who may prevent it!" she answered, leaning more heavily on his
arm, looking up to him more earnestly; with pleading eyes which it was
hard to refuse. "Would you, to save us, have betrayed Geneva?"
He groaned--she had moved him. "God knows!" he answered. "To save you--I
think I would!"
"You would not! You would not!" she repeated. "Neither must you do
this!
Honour, faith, duty, all forbid it!"

"And love?"

he cried.

"And love!" she answered. "For who would love dishonoured? Who would
love in shame? No; go as you have come, and give the alarm! And do, and
help! Go, as you have come! But how"--with a startled look as she thought
of the trap-door--"did you come?"
"By the Tertasse Gate," he explained. "There were but two men on
guard, and they were asleep. I passed them unseen, climbed the stairs to
the leads--I have been up twice before--and crossed the roofs. I knew I
could come this way unseen, and if I had come by the door----"
She understood and cut him short. "Then go as you came and rouse the watch
in the gate!" she cried feverishly. "Rouse them and all, and Heaven grant
you be not too late! Go, Claude, for the love of me, for the love
of God, go quickly!" Her hands on his arm shook with eagerness.
"So that, if there be treachery here----"
"There is treachery!" he said darkly. "Grio----"
"We at least shall have no part in it! You will go? You will go?" she
repeated, clinging to his arm, trembling against him, looking up
to him with eyes which he could not resist.

Love wrestled here, on the higher, the nobler, the unselfish side, and
came the stronger out of the contest. There were tears in his eyes as
he answered.

"I will go. You are right, Anne. But you will be alone."
"I run no greater risk than others," she answered. He held her to him,
and their lips met once. And in that instant, her heart beating against
his, she comprehended to what she was sending him, into what peril of
life, into what a dark hell of force and fire and blood; and her arms
clung to him as if she could not let him go. Then, "Go, and God keep
you!" she murmured in a choked voice. And she thrust him from
her.

A moment later he was on the roof, and she was kneeling where he had
left her, bowed down, with her face on the bare stairs in an
agony of prayer for him. But not for long; she had her part to do. She
hurried down to the living-room and made sure that the strong
shutters were secured; then up to Basterga's room and to Grio's, and as
far as her strength went she piled the furniture against the
iron-barred casements that looked on to the ramparts.

While she worked her ears listened for the alarm, but, until she had
finished and was ascending with the light to her mother's room she
heard nothing. Then a distant cry, a faint challenge, the drum-drum
of running feet, a second cry--and silence. It might be his death-cry she
had heard; and she stood with a white face, shivering, waiting, bearing
the woman's burden of suspense. To lie down by her mother was impossible;
rapine, murder, fire, all the horrors, all the perils of a city taken by
surprise, crowded into her mind. Yet they moved her not so much as the
dangers he ran, whom she had sent forth to confront them, whom she had
plucked from her own breast that he might face them!

Meanwhile, Claude, after gaining the tiles, paused a moment to consider his
next step. Far below him, on the narrow, black triangle of the Corraterie,
lay the Savoyards, some three hundred in number, who had scaled the
wall.

Out of the darkness of the plain, beyond and below them, rose the faint,
distant quacking of alarmed ducks, proving that others of the enemy moved
there. Even as he listened, the whirr of a wild goose winging its flight
over the city came to his ear. On his left, with a dim oil lamp marking,
here or there, the meeting of four ways, the town slept unsuspicious,
recking nothing of the fate prepared for it.

It was a solemn moment, and Claude on the roof under the night sky, felt
it to be so. Restored to his higher self, he breathed a prayer for guidance
and for her, and was as eager now as he had before been cold.
But not the less for that did he ply the wits that, working freely in this
hour of peril, proved him one of those whom battle owns for master.
He had gathered enough, lying on his face in the bastion, to feel sure
that the forlorn hope which had gained a footing on the wall would not
move until the arrival of the main body whom it was its plan to admit by
the Porte Neuve. To carry the alarm to the Porte Neuve, therefore,
and secure that gate, seemed to be the first and most urgent step; since
to secure the Tertasse and the other inner gates would be of
little avail, if the main body of the enemy were once in possession
of the ramparts.
The course that at first sight seemed the most obvious--to enter the
town, give the alarm at the town hall, and set the tocsin ringing--he
rejected; for while the town was arming, the three hundred who had
entered might seize the Porte Neuve, and so secure the entrance of
the main body.

These calculations occupied no more than a few seconds: then,
his mind made up to the course he must pursue, he crawled as quickly,
but also as quietly, as he could along the dark parapets until he
gained the leads of the Tertasse.

Safe so far, he proceeded, with equal or greater caution, to descend the
narrow cork-screw staircase, that led to the guard-room on the ground
floor.

He forgot that it is more easy to ascend without noise than to descend.

With all his care he stumbled when he was within three steps of the
bottom.

He tried to save himself, but fell against the half-open door, flung it
wide, and, barely keeping his feet, found himself face to face with the
two watchmen, who, startled by the noise, had sprung to their feet,
thinking the devil was upon them. One, with an oath upon his lips,
reached for his half-pike; his fellow, less sober, steadied himself by
resting a hand on the table.

If they gave the alarm, his plan was gone. The enemy, finding themselves
discovered, would seize the Porte Neuve. "One minute!" he cried
breathlessly. "Let me explain!"
"You!" the more sober retorted, glaring fiercely at him. "Who the devil
are you? And where have you been?"
"Quiet, man, quiet!"

"What is it?"
"Treason!" Claude answered, imploring silence by a gesture. "Treason!
That is what it is! But for God's sake, no noise! No noise, man, or our
throats are as good as cut! Savoy has the wall!"
The man stared, and no wonder. "You are mad," he said, "or drunk!
Savoy----"
"Fool, it is so!" Claude cried, beside himself with impatience.

"Savoy?"
"They are under the trees on the ramparts within a few yards of us now!
Three hundred of them! A word and you will feel their pikes in your
breast! Listen to me!"
But with a laugh of derision the drunken man cut him short. "Savoy here--on
the wall!" he hiccoughed. "And we on guard!"
"It is so!" Claude urged. "Believe me, it is so!

And we must be wary."
"You lie, young man! And I'll--hic--I'll prove it! See here! Savoy on
the wall, indeed! Savoy? And we on guard?"
He lurched in two strides to the outer door, seized it, and supported
himself by it. Claude leant forward to stop him, but could not reach,
being on the other side of the table. He called to the other to do so.
"Stop him!" he said. "Stop him!"
The man might have done so, but he did not stir; and "Stop him?" the sot
answered, his hand on the door. "Not--two of you--will stop him! Now, then!
Savoy, indeed! On the wall? I'll show you!"
He let the door go, and reeled three paces into the darkness outside,
waving his hands as if he drove chickens. "Savoy! Savoy!" he cried; but
whether in drunken bravado, in derision, or in pure disbelief, God
only knows! For the word had barely passed his lips the second time
before a gurgling scream followed, freezing the hearts of the two
listeners; and, before the second guard could close the door or move from
his place on the hearth, four men sprang in out of the darkness, and
bore him back.
Before he had struck a blow they had pinned him against the wall.

Claude owed his escape to his position behind the door. They did
not see him as they sprang in, intent on the one they did see. He knew
resistance to be futile, and a bound carried him into the darkness
of the cork-screw staircase.

Once there, he dared not move. Thence he saw and heard what followed.

The man pinned against the wall, with the point of a knife flickering
before his eyes, begged piteously for his life.

"Then silence!" Basterga answered--for the foremost who had entered was
he. "A word and you die!"
"Better let me finish him at once!" Grio growled. The prisoner's face was
ashen, his eyes were starting from his head. "Dead men give no alarms."

"Mercy!

Mercy!" the man gasped.

"Ay, ay, let him live," Basterga said good-naturedly. "But he must be
gagged. Turn your face to the wall, my man!"
The poor wretch complied with gratitude. In a twinkling
the Paduan's huge fingers closed round his neck, and over his wind-pipe.
"Now strike," the big man hissed. "He will make no noise!"
With a sickening thud Grio's knife sank between the shoulders, a moment the
body writhed in Basterga's herculean grip, then it sank lifeless to the
floor. "Had you struck him, fool," Basterga muttered wrathfully, wiping
a little blood from his sleeve, "as you wanted to strike him, he had
squealed like a pig! Now 'tis the same, and no noise. Ha! Seize him!"

He spoke too late. Claude had seen his opportunity, and as the treacherous
blow was struck had crept forth. At the moment the other saw him he
bounded over the threshold. Even as his feet touched the ground a
man who stood outside lunged at him with a pike but missed him--a
chance, for Claude had not seen the striker. The next moment the young man
had launched himself into the darkness and was running for his life
across the Corraterie in the direction of the Porte Neuve.

He knew that his foes were lying on every side of him, and the cry of
"Seize him! Seize him!" went with him, making every step a separate
peril. He could not see a yard, but he was young and fleet and active;
and the darkness covering him, the men were confused. Over more than one
black object he bounded like a deer. Once a man rising in front of him
brought him heavily to the ground, but by good fortune it was his
foot struck the man, and on the head, and the fellow lay still and let him
rise. A moment later another gripped him, but Claude and he fell together,
and the younger man, rolling nimbly sideways, got clear and to his
feet again, made for the wall on his right, turned left again, and already
thought himself over the threshold of the Porte Neuve. The cry "Aux
Armes! Aux Armes!" was already on his lips, he thought he had
succeeded, when between his eyes and the faintly lighted gateway a dozen
forms rose as by magic and poured in before him--so near to him that,
unable to check himself, he jostled the hindmost.

He might have entered with them, so near was he. But he saw that he was too
late; he guessed that the outcry behind him had precipitated the attack,
and, arresting himself outside the ring of light, but within a few
paces of the gateway, he threw himself on the ground and awaited
the event. It was not long in declaring itself. For a few seconds
a dull roar of shots and shouts and curses filled the gate. Then
out again, helter-skelter, with a flash of exploding powder and a
whirl of steel and blows, came defenders and assailants in a crowd,
the former bent on escaping, the latter on cutting them off from
the Porte Tertasse and the town. For an instant after they had
poured out the gate seemed quiet, and with his eyes upon it, Claude
rose, first to his knees and then to his feet, paused a moment in
doubt, then darted in and entered the guard-room.
The firelight--the other lights in the small, dingy chamber had
been trampled under foot--showed him two wounded men groaning on
the floor, and the body of a third who lay apparently dead. Claude
bent over one, found what he wanted--a half-pike--and glided to the
door of the stairs that led to the roof. It was in the same position
as in the Tertasse. He opened it, passed through it, mounted two
steps, and in the darkness came plump against some one who seized
him by the throat.
The man had no weapon--at any rate he did not strike; and Claude,
taken by surprise, could not level his pike in the narrow stairway.
For a moment they wrestled, Claude striving to bring his weapon to
bear on his foe, the latter trying to strangle him. But the advantage
of the stairs lay with the first comer, who was the uppermost, and
gradually he bore Claude back and back. The young man, however,
would not let go such hold as he had, and both were on the point
of falling out on the floor of the guard-room when the light disclosed
Claude's face.
"You are of us!" his opponent panted. And abruptly he released his
grip.

"Geneva!"
"I know you!" The man was one of the guard who, in the alarm, had
escaped into the stairway. "I know you! You live in the Corraterie!"

Claude wasted not a second. "Up!" he cried. "We can hold the roof!
Up, man, for your life! For your life! It is our only chance!"
With the fear of death upon him, the other needed no second telling.
He turned, and groped upwards in haste; and Claude followed, treading
on his heels; nor a moment too soon. While they were still within
the staircase, which their elbows rubbed on either side, they heard
the enemy swarm into the room below. Cries of triumph, of "Savoy!
Savoy!" of "Ville gagnée! gagnée!" hummed dully up to them, and
proclaimed the narrowness of their escape. Then the night air met
their faces, they bent their heads and passed out upon the leads;
they had above them the stars, and below them all the world of
night, with its tramp of hidden feet, its swaying lights so tiny
and distant, and here and there its cry of "Savoy! Savoy!" that
showed that the enemy, relying on their capture of the Porte Neuve,
were casting off disguise.
Claude heard and saw all, but lost not a moment. He had not made
this haste for his life only: before he had risen to his knees or
set foot in the gate, he had formed his plan. "The Portcullis!" he
cried. "The Portcullis! Where are the chains? On this side?" Less
than a week before he had stood and watched the guard as they
released it and raised it again for practice.
The soldier, familiar with the tower, should have been able to go
to the chains at once. But though he had struggled for his life and
was ready to struggle for it again, he had not recovered his nerve,
and he shrank from leaving the stairs, in holding which their one
chance consisted.I have already made allusion to that peculiar phase of Australian
life--nobblerising; but, if I am not mistaken, the impression left on
your mind will be that the nobbler is either of aristocratic champagne or
plebeian beer. But there are two other liquids--whisky and brandy--which
play an important part in nobblerising. The quantity of spirits drunk in
Australia is appalling. Whisky is the favourite spirit, then brandy, and
rarely Schiedam, schnapps, or gin. And what about drunkenness?
Statistically it is not very much worse than in England, but the
difference lies in the class who get drunk. Here it is not merely the
lower classes, but everybody that drinks. Not a few of the wealthiest and
most leading citizens are well-known to be frequently drunk, though their
names do not, of course, appear in the papers or in the police reports.
The state of public feeling on the subject, though improving, is much as
it was in England twenty or thirty years ago. Society says, 'Capital
fellow, Jones; pity he drinks!' but no social reprobation attaches to
Jones. He may be known to be carried to bed every night, for all it
affects his reputation as a respectable and respected citizen. But with
the advance of civilization better times are coming in these matters. It
is no more so absolute a necessity to take a nobbler as it was ten years
ago. Drunkenness, if not reprobated, is no longer considered a
'gentlemanly vice.' A man who drinks is pitied. This is the first step.
Before long blame will tread in the steps of pity.

But enough of drinking. It is not a pleasant subject. Besides, I have not
yet described the food of any but the working-class. And if they live ten
times better than their fellows at home, it is equally true that the
middle, and especially the upper, class live ten times worse. It requires
the tongue and the pen of a Brillat-Savarin to give flavour to a
Barmecide's feast; but as victualling is as necessary a condition of
existence here as anywhere else, I must do my best to enlighten you as to
our situation in this respect. May you never have practical experience
thereof! If it be true that, while the French eat, the English only feed,
we may fairly add that the Australians 'grub'. Nor could it well be
otherwise under the circumstances. It is not merely because it is
difficult to entice a good cook to come out here. If he really wants a
thing, the wealthy colonist will not spare money to get it; but how can
you expect a man who--for the greater part of his life--has been eating
mutton and damper, and drinking parboiled tea three times a day, to
understand the art of good living? Even if he does, he finds it
unappreciated by those around him; and there are few men fond enough of
the luxuries of life to be singular in their enjoyment. It takes a lot of
trouble to get and keep a good cook, and there is nothing the Australian
abhors like trouble. Consequently--I am now speaking only of the
wealthy--he adopts one of two courses.

Either he gives occasional grand dinners, in which case he imagines he
has got a good cook because he is paying £60 or £70 a year for him--no
very large salary even in England for a _chef_; or he is contented to
live anyhow. In the latter case he dines at his club (where, by the way,
he gets a very fair meal) in the middle of the day, and has meat-tea in
the evening. In both cases the family dinner is much the same. No. 1
cannot see the use of having what he would call a 'spread' for his own
selfish benefit, and leaves his grand cook unemployed the greater part of
the week. The dinner consists of beef or mutton, roast or boiled,
potatoes and greens, bread-and-butter pudding, and cheese. The details
change, but the type is always the same--what his wife calls 'a good
plain English dinner, none of your unwholesome French kickshaws,' which
are reserved for company. Fortunately his cook, if not very expert in the
'foreign' dishes required to be concocted for company, has generally
pretty correct notions within the limits of the family dinner.

But it is not so with No. 2, and with the large middle class who all live
in the same way. The usual female cook at 12s. a week is not even capable
of sending up a plain meal properly. Her meat is tough, and her potatoes
are watery. Her pudding-range extends from rice to sago, and from sago to
rice, and in many middle-class households pudding is reserved for Sundays
and visitors. A favourite summer dish is stewed fruit, and, as it is not
easy to make it badly, there is a great deal to commend in it. At the
worst, it is infinitely preferable to fruit tart with an indigestible
crust.

Ye gentlemen of England, who sit at home at ease, how astonished you
would be to see your daughter Maud, whose husband is a well-to-do lawyer
in considerable practice, setting the table herself because she cannot
rely upon her servant doing it properly! And then she goes into the
kitchen, and teaches cook how to make pie-crust. If children are
numerous, or her husband is not getting on quite so well as could be
wished, she will not be able to have a servant to wait at table. What
wonder, then, if she gives up late dinner and has a meat-tea, at which
everything can be put on the table at once. A colonial-bred lady has
generally learnt something of good plain cooking, but the English
mistress often breaks down before the serious and multifarious nature of
her duties. It is by no means uncommon for her to be suddenly left
servantless for two or three days; and if she does not possess great
adaptability of disposition, the whole house is bound to be at
sixes-and-sevens, and all its occupants, including herself, in anything
but a pleasant state of mind. If a woman is worth her salt, she will not
mind these things, or rather she will make the best of them; but it is
not every English young lady whose love for her husband, present or
future, will carry her through these domestic hurricanes; and, if not,
she had better not come out here, although husbands are plentiful. Except
amongst a very small class who can afford luxuries, the
girl-of-the-period is out of place in Australia.

DRESS.

I doubt whether in my preceding letters I have made the distinction
between Melbourne and its sister capitals sufficiently plain. I shall
perhaps best convey it by saying that Melbourne is quasi-metropolitan,
while both Sydney and Adelaide are alike provincial in their mode of
life. In the matters of which I have been writing, the difference has
hardly been sufficient to warrant a separate treatment; but with regard
to dress, it becomes so noticeable, that not to treat of Melbourne
separately would convey a false idea. For in dress it is not too much to
say that the ladies of Melbourne are luxurious-a charge which could
scarcely be brought against Australians in any other particular that I
can think of. And take them all-in-all, they do not dress badly; indeed,
if one considers the distance from Paris, and the total want of a
competent leader of fashion, they may be said to dress well, especially
of late years. The highly fantastic and gorgeous costumes for which
Melbourne used to be notorious are fast disappearing. Successful diggers
no longer take their wives into a shop, and ask how much colour and stuff
can be put into a dress for fifty pounds. Already outrageousness is
confined to a few, and when I say that it is generally agreed to be 'bad
form,' you will understand that its death-blow has been struck and the
hearse ordered. Bright colours are still in vogue, but they are not
necessarily loud or unpleasant beneath the austral sun, and the act of
combining them is beginning to be understood. When one remembers how
their houses are furnished, and what their general style of living is it
is astonishing to find Melbourne ladies dressing so brilliantly and yet
with so little vulgarity.

But it is not among the _grand monde_--if the term be not ridiculous as
applied to Victoria--that you must go to discover taste. I am not sure
that, class for class, the rich do not show the least taste in their
apparel. Many of them send to Paris for their dresses, and pay sums,
which make one's mouth water, to be dressed in the latest fashion; but I
fancy that the French _modistes_ manufacture a certain style of attire
for the Australian taste, just as the French merchants manufacture
clarets for the Australian market. It is a compound of the _cocotte_
and the American. Nor when she has got a handsome dress does the
Melbourne _grande dame_ know how to wear it; she merely succeeds in
looking what a Brighton lodging-house keeper once defined to me as a
'carriage-lady.' A lady of the English upper middle-class dressed by a
London milliner looks infinitely better.

There are some costumes worn by Victorian ladies which you will never see
worn by any other ladies; but for all that, the middle and even the lower
class am by no means destitute of ideas about dress. Compare the
Melbourne with the Birmingham or Manchester factory girl, or the young
lady in a Collins Street retail establishment with the shop-girl in any
but the most aristocratic part of London; the old country will come out
second-best. And why is it? It is no easy question to answer; at the
bottom is undoubtedly that general love of display, which is almost as
characteristic of Melbourne as it is of Paris. But then what is the cause
of that? And a love of display, though it may be and is amongst the
wealthy productive of grand dresses, as it is of grand dinners and grand
furniture, does not make taste--e.g., the Second Empire; and though it
would be going too far to say that the ladies of Melbourne dress
tastefully, it is within the truth to give them credit for a tendency
towards taste. Throughout England the middle and lower classes dress
hideously. Why should the first generation of Victorians show a
disposition to abandon the ugly? I leave it to some aesthetic philosopher
to find out the reason, and content myself with noting the fact. If I
wanted to moralize, I have little doubt that the drapers' and milliners'
accounts of these 'young ladies' would furnish a redundant text, and
that, although a large number of them make up their dresses themselves
from paper patterns or illustrations in _Myra's Journal_. How they can
afford to dress as well as they do, they and their mothers best know; but
the bow here and the flower there are not costly things, and the mere
fact of being able to cut out a dress so as not to look dowdy shows
natural taste. It is the rarest of sights to see a real Melbourne girl
look dowdy. Her taste sometimes runs riot: it is exuberant, and becomes
vulgar and flash; but even then the vulgarity and flashness are of a
superior type to those of her equals across the ocean.

Sydney and Adelaide are distinctly superior to English towns of the same
size in the matter of apparel; but they will not bear comparison with
Melbourne. On the other hand, gorgeous and flash dresses are very rare in
the smaller cities. If they have not the talent of Melbourne, neither do
they share its blots. They go along at a steady jog-trot, and are content
to take their fashions second-hand from Melbourne, but with
modifications. Their more correct and sober taste will not tolerate even
many of the extravagances of which London is guilty--such extravagances,
for instance, as the Tam O'Shanter cap, which was warmly taken up in
Melbourne. But with all this good sense, they remain dowdy.

I have said nothing hitherto of married ladies' dress. When a colonial
girl marries, she considers herself, except in rare instances, on the
shelf, and troubles herself very little about what she wears. As a rule,
she has probably too many other things to take up her time. She has got a
husband, and what more can she want? He rarely cares what she has on, as
soon as the honeymoon is over. There is no one else to please, and I fear
that colonial girls are not of those who dress merely for themselves;
they like to be admired, and they appreciate the value of dress from a
flirtation point of view. Their taste is rather the outcome of a desire
to please others than of a sense of aesthetics. It is relative, and not
absolute. When once the finery has served its purpose, they are ready to
renounce all the pomps and vanities of this wicked world. And if the
moralist says that this argues some laxness of ideas before marriage, let
him remember that it is equally indicative of connubial bliss. Once
married, her flirtations are at an end--'played out,' if I may use the
term.

In another respect the Victorian is the direct opposite of the
_Parisienne_. If you leave general effects, and come to pull her dress
to pieces, you find that the metal is only electro, to whatever rank of
life she may belong. The general appearance may be pleasing, but in
detail she is execrable. Not but that the materials of her dress are rich
enough, so that my electro simile will hardly hold water; but money does
not make the artist. Let us begin with the bonnet. Walk down Collins
Street at the time of the block on Saturday, and I doubt whether you can
count half a dozen bonnets which are both pretty and suitable to the face
and head of the wearer. _Bien chaussée et bien gantée_ might be Greek
as far as Australia is concerned, and if by chance you see a stocking or
any portion of the under-clothing, you will have your eyes opened.
Whatever does not meet the eye is generally of the commonest. It would be
thought a sinful waste of money to have anything particularly good or
expensive which other people could not see. The light of Melbourne is
never likely to hide itself under a bushel; external adornment is the
_mot d'ordre_. Ribbons and laces, or anything that helps to improve the
look of a dress, the colonial lady will indulge in freely and even
extravagantly; but you must not penetrate her tinsel armour.

Owing to the climate, hats are much more frequently in use than bonnets,
and if the merit of subdued tints is unappreciated, it is not often that
the eye is shocked by the glaring discords to which Englishwomen are so
prone. Fringes are much worn, and the hair is often parted on the side.
In spite of the heat, _gants de suède_ find very little favour; they
look dirty, and with a 25 per cent. duty cannot be renewed every day. The
usual English fashions find their way to Melbourne in about eight months,
and this is the more convenient, because your summer is our winter, and
_vice versa_. Spring and autumn we agree to forget; this is rather a
pity, because practically nine-twelfths of our year are spring and
autumn, and on a bright July or August day the dress which is appropriate
to a London fog in December looks singularly out of place. Sealskins and
furs are worn till you almost imagine it must be cold, which during
daylight it hardly ever is in this country. In summer, suitable
concessions become obligatory, and dresses are made of the thinnest and
lightest materials. Pompadour prints and white calicoes reign supreme,
and look better than anything else. It is then that the poorer classes
are able to dress best, the material being cheap. Winter stuffs are
expensive, and to a great degree their effectiveness is in direct ratio
to their cost; but during quite half of the Australian year the poor meet
the rich, if not on an equality, at any rate on much fairer terms than at
home with regard to dress.

Servants, of course, ape their mistresses' dresses as in England, and
generally manage to produce a delightful sense of incongruity in their
attire; but for all that, they are much less dowdy than English servants.

So much for ladies' dress. Change the sexes, and the picture is by no
means so pleasing; for thorough untidiness of person, there can surely be
no one to beat the Australian. Above all must one beware of judging a
man's position by his coat. It is impossible to tell whether the dirty
old man who slouches along the street is a millionaire or a beggar. The
older his coat, and the dirtier his shirt, the more the probabilities are
in favour of the millionaire. Perhaps he thinks he can afford to dress as
he pleases. The city men are more careful of their personal appearance,
and have kept up the shadow and image of London. They wear shiny
frock-coats and the worst-brushed and most odd-shaped of top-hats, and
imagine they are well-dressed; at least I suppose they do, for they seem
to have a sort of contempt for the spruce tweed suits and round hats of
'new chums,' and such of the rising generation as have followed their
example and adopted that fashion. Can you imagine yourself wearing a
black coat and high hat with the thermometer jogging about from 70º to
110º in the shade? If the coat were decently cut, and of good cloth and
well-brushed, and the silk hat well-shapen and neat, I might put you down
a fool, but would admit your claims to be a dandy. But as it is, most of
our city men are both uncomfortable and untidy. Their clothes look as if
they had been bought ready-made at a slop-shop. The tie they prefer is a
black bootlace; if not, it is bound to be of the most tasteless colour
and pattern you can think of. A heavy gold watch-chain and diamond ring
is _de rigueur_, but otherwise they do not wear much jewellery. Their
hair, like their clothes, generally wants brushing, and hands and nails
are not always so clean as they might be; but one knows that for the most
part they tub every morning: this is a consolation.

The bushman, at least, dresses sensibly. Wen he comes into town, he puts
on a slop-coat, but retains, if not a cabbage-tree, at any rate a
wide-brimmed, soft felt hat. Sacrificing comfort to ceremony, he
generally puts on a collar, but he often kicks at a tie: he finds he must
draw a line somewhere. But there is something so redolent of the bush
about him, that one would not have him otherwise; the slop clothes even
become picturesque from the cavalier fashion in which he wears them. Note
that his pipe never leaves his mouth, while the city man does not venture
to smoke in any of the main streets. He is a regular Jack ashore, this
bushman. A bull would not be more out of place in a china-shop, though
probably less amusing and more destructive. The poor fellow meets so many
friends in town, that by the end of the day he has probably had more
nobblers than are altogether good for him. It is a very hard life that he
leads, and he takes his pleasure, like his work, hardly.

If the Adelaidians are perhaps the least got-up, they are certainly the
most suitably dressed of the inhabitants of Australian towns. With them
the top hat is comparatively of recent introduction. Silk coats and
helmets are numerous still, though becoming more rare every day.
Melbourne and Sydney think it _infra dig._ to allow themselves these
little comforts, and Adelaide is gradually becoming corrupted. It must,
however, be added that the Adelaide folk are the most untidy, as the
Melbourne are the least untidy of Australians. Comfort and elegance do
not always go hand in hand. Tweeds are beginning to come into use amongst
the upper middle, as they long have in the lower middle and lower
classes. Capital stuffs are made at Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, and
Geelong; but the patterns are very common. In a dusty place like this it
is impossible to keep black clothes clean, and tweeds give far the best
wear and appearance of any stuff. For my own part, I wear them winter and
summer.

The working-classes can, of course, afford to be, and are, better dressed
than at home; for though clothes are in reality much dearer, they are
much cheaper in proportion to wages. They do not often wear black coats
in the week, but keep them for Sundays and grand occasions. Directly an
immigrant has landed, he feels that his first earnings must be devoted to
a Sunday go-to-meeting suit. His fellow-men all have one, and he does not
like to feel himself their inferior, even with regard to a coat.

YOUNG AUSTRALIA.

Hitherto I have been writing of the properties and adjuncts of Australian
life. It is high time to say something of the colonists themselves. And,
here I shall describe the types which the colony has produced and is
producing, rather than such modifications as colonists born and bred in
England have undergone during their subsequent residence in
Australia--colonials as distinct from colonists.

Perhaps of their first stage of existence the less said the better. I
have a holy horror of babies, to whatever nationality they may belong;
but for general objectionableness I believe there are none to compare
with the Australian baby. It is not only that the summer heat and sudden
changes of climate make him worse-behaved than his _confrères_ over
the ocean, but the little brute is omnipresent, and I might almost add
omnipotent. Nurses are more expensive and mothers less fastidious than in
England. Consequently, baby lives in the family circle almost from the
time of its birth. Nurseries are few and far between. He is lashed into a
chair by his mother's side at meals; he accompanies her when she is
attending to her household duties, and often even when she is receiving
her visitors. But if this were all I would say nothing. French children
are brought up in a similar way; and in their case it certainly has its
advantages as far as the child is concerned, whatever may be the
inconvenience to the adults amongst whom it is brought. It is easy to
avoid families whose children make themselves nuisances to visitors. But
the middle and lower classes of Australians are not content with the
baby's supremacy in the household. Wherever his mother goes, baby is also
taken. He fills railway carriages and omnibuses, obstructs the pavement
in perambulators, and is suckled _coram populo_ in the Exhibition.
There is no getting away from him, unless you shut yourself up
altogether. He squalls at concerts; you have to hold him while his mother
gets out of the omnibus, and to kiss him if you are visiting her house.

It is little better when he gets old enough to walk and talk. Having once
made the household bow down before him, he is slow to relinquish the
reins of office. Possession is nine points of the law. It requires a
stern parent to make good the tenth. If the child no longer cries or has
to be kissed, he makes up for it in other ways. He has breathed the free
air of Australian independence too early to have much regard for the
fifth commandment. To make himself a nuisance till he gets what he wants
is the art he first learns and to this end he considers all means
legitimate. Strict and _a fortiori_ severe measures towards children
are at a discount in Australia, and, considering the surrounding
circumstances, by no other means can they be rendered tractable. The
child has no restrictions put on his superabundant animal spirits, and he
runs wild in the most extraordinary, and often to elders, unpleasant
freaks. Certes the second stage is but little less unpleasant than the
first,

When it gets into petticoats or breeches, the child must be treated of
according to sex. And here _place aux demoiselles_, for from this time
upwards they are a decided improvement upon their brothers. The
Australian schoolgirl, with all her free-and-easy manner, and what the
Misses Prunes and Prisms would call want of maidenly reserve, could teach
your bread-and-butter miss a good many things which would be to her
advantage. It is true that neither schoolmistresses nor governesses could
often pass a Cambridge examination, nor have they any very great desire
for intellectual improvement. But the colonial girl is sharper at picking
up what her mistress does know than the English one, and she has more of
the boy's emulation. Whatever her station in life, she is bound to strum
the piano; but in no country is a good pianoforte player more rare, or do
you hear greater trash strummed in a drawing-room. Languages and the
other accomplishments are either neglected or slurred over; but, on the
other hand, nearly every colonial girl learns something of household
work, and can cook some sort of a dinner, yea, and often cut out and make
herself a dress. She is handy with her fingers, frank, but by no means
necessarily fast in manner, good-natured and fond of every species of
fun. If her accomplishments are not many, she sets little value on those
she possesses, and never feels the want of, or wastes a regret, on any
others.

Almost all girls go to school, but the home-training leads to little
obedience or respect for their teachers, and the parental authority is
constantly interposed to prevent well-deserved punishments. Accustomed to
form judgments early and fearlessly, each girl measures her mistress by
her own standard; and if she comes up to that standard, an _entente
cordiale_ is established, the basis whereof is the equality which each
feels to subsist independent of their temporary relations.

At seventeen my lady comes out, though for the last two, if not three or
four, years she has been attending grown-up dances at the houses of
friends, so that the edge of her pleasure has long been dulled. School
once left behind, she looks upon marriage as the end and object of life;
but it must not be supposed from this that she makes any attempt to catch
a husband. Young men are plentiful enough, and she does not care when her
turn comes. That it is bound to come she takes for granted, and
accordingly is always on the look-out for it. The camaraderie which
exists between her and some half-a-dozen men may lead to something with
one of them; and meanwhile she has time to ascertain their dispositions
and turn their qualities over and over in her mind till some one's
attentions become marked, and she makes up her mind that she is suited or
the reverse. She has danced too much before she came out to care much for
it now; but in a warm climate, where verandas and gardens lend themselves
so readily to flirtation, she retains a due appreciation of balls and
parties, and gets a far larger number of them than an English girl of the
middle class.

On the average, colonial girls possess more than their share of good
looks; but 'beauties' are rare, and the sun plays the deuce with
complexions. The commonest type is the jolly girl who, though she has
large hands and feet, no features and no figure, yet has a taking little
face, which makes you say: 'By Jove, she is not half bad-looking!'
Brunettes are, of course, in the majority; and every third or fourth girl
has beautiful brown eyes and an abundance of coarsish hair--which, by the
way, she probably dresses in an untidy knob, all corners and no
rotundity.

Silently they walked homeward through the green meadow. The very sunshine
was sad; and the rising wind, through the old ruin above them,
sounded in his ears like a hollow laugh!

Flemming went straight to his chamber. On the way, he passed the walnut
trees under which he had first seen the face of Mary Ashburton. Involuntarily
he closed his eyes. They were full of tears. O, there are places
in this fair world, which we never wish to see again, however dear
they may be to us! The towers of the old Franciscan convent never
looked so gloomily as then, though the bright summer sun was shining
full upon them.

In his chamber he found Berkley. He was looking out of the window,
whistling.

"This evening I leave Interlachen forever," said Flemming, rather
abruptly. Berkley stared.

"Indeed! Pray what is the matter? You look as pale as a ghost!"
"And have good reason to look pale," replied Flemming bitterly.
"Hoffmann says, in one of his note-books, that, on the eleventh of
March, at half past eight o'clock, precisely, he was an ass.

That is what I was this morning at half past ten o'clock, precisely, and
am now, and I suppose always shall be."
He tried to laugh, but could not. He then related to Berkley the whole
story, from beginning to end.

"This is a miserable piece of business!" exclaimed Berkley, when he had
finished. "Strange enough! And yet I have long ceased to marvel at the
caprices of women. Did not Pan captivate the chaste Diana? Did not Titania
love Nick Bottom, with his ass's head? Do you think that maidens' eyes
are no longer touched with the juice of love-in-idleness! Take my word
for it, she is in love with somebody else. There must be some reason
for this. No; women never have any reasons, except their will. But never
mind. Keep a stout heart. Care killed a cat. After all,--what is she?
Who is she? Only a--"
"Hush! hush," exclaimed Flemming, in great excitement.

"Not one word more, I beseech you. Do not think to console me, by
depreciating her. She is very dear to me still; a beautiful, high-minded,
noble woman."
"Yes," answered Berkley; "that is the waywith you all, you young men. You
see a sweet face, or a something, you know not what, and flickering
reason says, Good night; amen to common sense. The imagination invests
the beloved object with a thousand superlative charms; furnishes her
with all the purple and fine linen, all the rich apparel and furniture,
of human nature. I did the same when I was young. I was once as desperately
in love as you are now; and went through all the
'Delicious deaths, soft exhalations
Of soul; dear and divine annihilations,
A thousand unknown rites
Of joys, and rarified delights.'

I adored and was rejected. 'You are in love with certain attributes,'
said the lady. 'Damn your attributes, Madam,' said I; 'I know nothing of
attributes.' 'Sir,' said she, with dignity, 'you have been drinking.'
So we parted. She was married afterwards to another, who knew something
about attributes, I suppose. I have seen her once since, and only once.
She had a baby in a yellow gown. I hate a baby in a yellow gown. How
glad I am she did not marry me.
One of these days, you will be glad you have been rejected. Take my word
for it."
"All that does not prevent my lot from being a very melancholy one!" said
Flemming sadly.

"O, never mind the lot," cried Berkley laughing, "so long as you don't get
Lot's wife. If the cucumber is bitter, throw it away, as the philosopher
Marcus Antoninus says, in his Meditations. Forget her, and all will be
as if you had not known her."
"I shall never forget her," replied Flemming, rather solemnly.
"Not my pride, but my affections, are wounded; and the wound is too deep
ever to heal. I shall carry it with me always. I enter no more into
the world, but will dwell only in the world of my own thoughts.

All great and unusual occurrences, whether of joy or sorrow, lift
us above this earth; and we should do well always to preserve this
elevation. Hitherto I have not done so. But now I will no more descend;
I will sit apart and above the world, with my mournful, yet holy thoughts."

"Whew! You had better go into society; the whirl and delirium will cure
you in a week. If you find a lady, who pleases you very much, and you wish
to marry her, and she will not listen to such a horrid thing, I see
but one remedy, which is to find another, who pleases you more, and who
will listen to it."

"No, my friend; you do not understand my character," said Flemming,
shaking his head. "I love this woman with a deep, and lasting affection.
I shall never cease to love her. This may be madness in me; but
so it is. Alas and alas! Paracelsus of old wasted life in trying to
discover its elixir, which after all turned out to be alcohol;
and instead of being made immortal upon earth, he died drunk on the floor
of a tavern. The like happens to many of us.

We waste our best years in distilling the sweetest flowers of life into
love-potions, which after all do not immortalize, butonly intoxicate
us. By Heaven! we are all of us mad."
"But are you sure the case is utterly hopeless?"
"Utterly! utterly!"
"And yet I perceive you have not laid aside all hope. You still
flatter yourself, that the lady's heart may change. The great secret of
happiness consists not in enjoying, but in renouncing. But it is hard,
very hard. Hope has as many lives as a cat or a king. I dare say you
have heard the old Italian proverb, 'The King never dies.' But perhaps you
have never heard, that, at the court of Naples, where the dead body
of a monarch lies in state, his dinner is carried up to him as usual,
and the court physician tastes it, to see that it be not poisoned, and
then the servants bear it out again, saying 'The King does not
dine to-day.'

Hope in our souls is King; and we also say, 'The King never dies.' Even
when in reality he lies dead within us, in a kind of solemn mockery we
offer him his accustomed food, but are constrainedto say, 'The King
does not dine to-day.' It must be an evil day, indeed, when a king of
Naples has no heart for his dinner! but you yourself are a proof, that
the King never dies. You are feeding your King, although you say he is
dead."
"To show you, that I do not wish to cherish hope," replied Flemming, I
shall leave Interlachen to-morrow morning. I am going to the Tyrol."
"You are right," said Berkley; "there is nothing so good for sorrow as
rapid motion in the open air. I shall go with you; though probably your
conversation will not be very various; nothing but Edward and
Kunigunde."
"What do you mean by that?"
"Go to Berlin, and you will find out. However, jesting apart, I will do
all I can to cheer you, and make you forget the Dark Ladie, and
this untoward accident."

"Accident!" said Flemming. "This is no accident, but God's Providence,
which brought us together, to punish me for my sins."
"O, my friend," interrupted Berkley, "if you see the finger of Providence
so distinctly in every act of your life, you will end by thinking
yourself an Apostle and Envoy Extraordinary. I see nothing so very uncommon
in what has happened to you."
"What! not when our souls are so akin to each other! When we seemed so
formed to be together,--to be one!"

"I have often observed," replied Berkley coldly, "that those who are of
kindred souls, rarely wed together; almost as rarely as those who are akin
by blood. There seems, indeed, to be such a thing as spiritual incest.
Therefore, mad lover, do not think to persuade thyself and thy scornful
lady, that you have kindred souls; but rather the contrary; that you are
much unlike; and each wanting in those qualities which most mark and
distinguish the other. Trust me, thy courtship will then be more
prosperous. But good morning. I must prepare for this sudden journey."
On the following morning, Flemming and Berkleystarted on their way to
Innsbruck, like Huon of Bordeaux and Scherasmin on their way to Babylon.
Berkley's self-assumed duty was to console his companion; a duty which
he performed like an old Spanish Matadora, a woman whose business was
to attend the sick, and put her elbow into the stomach of the dying to
shorten their agony.

BOOK IV.

Epigraph
"Mortal, they softly say,
Peace to thy heart!

We too, yes, mortal,
Have been as thou art;
Hope-lifted, doubt-depressed,
Seeing in part,
Tried, troubled, tempted,--
Sustained,--as thou art."

CHAPTER I. A MISERERE.

In the Orlando Innamorato, Malagigi, the necromancer, puts all the company
to sleep by reading to them from a book. Some books have this power of
themselves and need no necromancer. Fearing, gentle reader, that
mine may be of this kind, I have provided these introductory
chapters, from time to time, like stalls or Misereres in a church,
with flowery canopies and poppy-heads over them, where thou mayest
sit down and sleep.

No,--the figure is not a bad one. This book does somewhat resemble a
minster, in the Romanesque style, with pinnacles, and flying buttresses,
and roofs,
"Gargoyled with greyhounds, and with many lions
Made of fine gold, with divers sundry dragons."
You step into its shade and coolness out of the hot streets of life; a
mysterious light streams through the painted glass of the marigold
windows, staining the cusps and crumpled leaves of the window-shafts,
and the cherubs and holy-water-stoups below.

Here and there is an image of the Virgin Mary; and other images, "in
divers vestures, called weepers, stand in housings made about the tomb";
and, above all, swells the vast dome of heaven, with its star-mouldings,
and the flaming constellations, like the mosaics in the dome of St. Peter's.
Have you not heard funeral psalms from the chauntry? Have you not
heard the sound of church-bells, as I promised; mysterious sounds from
the Past and Future, as from the belfries outside the cathedral; even
such a mournful, mellow, watery peal of bells, as is heard sometimes at
sea, from cities afar off below the horizon?

I know not how this Romanesque, and at times flamboyant, style of architecture
may please thecritics. They may wish, perhaps, that I had omitted some
of my many ornaments, my arabesques, and roses, and fantastic spouts, and
Holy-Roods and Gallilee-steeples. But would it then have been Romanesque?

But perhaps, gentle reader, thou art one of those, who think the days of
Romance gone forever. Believe it not! O, believe it not!
Thou hast at this moment in thy heart as sweet a romance as was
ever written.

Thou art not less a woman, because thou dost not sit aloft in a tower,
with a tassel-gentle on thy wrist! Thou art not less a man, because thou
wearest no hauberk, nor mail-sark, and goest not on horseback after foolish
adventures! Nay, nay! Every one has a Romance in his own heart. All that
has blessed or awed the world lies there; and
"The oracle within him, that which lives,
He must invoke and question,--not dead books,
Not ordinances, not mould-rotten papers."
Sooner or later some passages of every one's romance must be written,
either in words or actions. They will proclaim the truth; for Truth is
thought, which has assumed its appropriate garments, either of words
or actions; while Falsehood is thought, which, disguised in words
or actions not its own, comes before the blind old world, as Jacob
came before the patriarch Isaac, clothed in the goodly raiment of
his brother Esau.

And the world, like the patriarch, is often deceived; for,
though the voice is Jacob's voice, yet the hands are the hands of Esau,
and the False takes away the birth-right and the blessing from the True.
Hence it is, that the world so often lifts up its voice and weeps.

That very pleasing and fanciful Chinese Romance, the Shadow in the Water,
ends with the hero's marrying both the heroines. I hope my gentle reader
feels curious to know the end of this Romance, which is a shadow upon the
earth; and see whether there be any marriage at all in it.

That is the very point I am now thinking of, as I sit here at my pleasant
chamber window, and enjoy the balmy air of a bright summer morning, and
watch the motions of the golden robin, that sits on its swinging
nest on the outermost, pendulous branch of yonder elm.

The broad meadows and the steel-blue river remind me of the meadows of
Unterseen, and the river Aar; and beyond them rise magnificent snow-white
clouds, piled up like Alps. Thus the shades of Washington and William
 Tell seem to walk together on these Elysian Fields; for it was here,
that in days long gone, our great Patriot dwelt; and yonder clouds
so much resemble the snowy Alps, that they remind me irresistibly of the
Swiss. Noble examples of a high purpose and a fixed will! Do they not
move, Hyperion-like on high? Were they not, likewise, sons of Heaven and
Earth?

Nothing can be more lovely than these summer mornings; nor than the
southern window at which I sit and write, in this old mansion, which
is like an Italian Villa. But O, this lassitude,--thisweariness,--when
all around me is so bright! I have this morning a singular longing for
flowers; a wish to stroll among the roses and carnations, and inhale their
breath, as if it would revive me. I wish I knew the man, who called
flowers "the fugitive poetry of Nature." From this distance,
from these scholastic shades,--from this leafy, blossoming, and beautiful
Cambridge, I stretch forth my hand to grasp his, as the hand of
a poet!--Yes; this morning I would rather stroll with him among the gay
flowers, than sit here and write. I feel so weary!

Old men with their staves, says the Spanish poet, are ever knocking
at the door of the grave.

But I am not old. The Spanish poet might have included the young also.--No
matter! Courage, and forward! The Romance must be finished; and finished
soon.

O thou poor authorling! Reach a little deeper into the human heart! Touch
those strings,--touch those deeper strings, and more boldly, or
the notes will die away like whispers, and no earshall hear them, save
thine own! And, to cheer thy solitary labor, remember, that the secret
studies of an author are the sunken piers upon which is to rest the
bridge of his fame, spanning the dark waters of Oblivion. They are out
of sight; but without them no superstructure can stand secure!

And now, Reader, since the sermon is over, and we are still sitting
here in this Miserere, let us read aloud a page from the old
parchment manuscript on the lettern before us; let us sing it through
these dusky aisles, like a Gregorian Chant, and startle the
sleeping congregation!

"I have read of the great river Euripus, which ebbeth and floweth seven
times a day, and with such violence, that it carrieth ships upon it with
full sail, directly against the wind. Seven times in an hour ebbeth and
floweth rash opinion, in the torrent of indiscreet and troublesome
apprehensions; carrying critic calumny and squint-eyed detraction
mainly against the wind of wisdom and judgment."
In secula seculorum! Amen!

CHAPTER II. CURFEW BELLS.

Welcome Disappointment! Thy hand is cold and hard, but it is the
hand of a friend! Thy voice is stern and harsh, but it is the voice
of a friend! O, there is something sublime in calm endurance, something
sublime in the resolute, fixed purpose of suffering without complaining,
which makes disappointment oftentimes better than success!

The emperor Isaac Angelus made a treaty with Saladin, and tried to purchase
the Holy Sepulchre with gold. Richard Lion-heart scorned such alliance,
and sought to recover it by battle. Thus do weak minds make treaties with
the passions they cannot overcome, and try to purchase happiness
at the expense of principle. But the resolute will of a strong man scorns
such means; and struggles nobly with his foe, to achieve great deeds.
Therefore, whosoever thou art that sufferest, try not to dissipate thy
sorrow by the breath of the world, nor drown its voice in thoughtless
merriment.

It is a treacherous peace that is purchased by indulgence. Rather take
this sorrow to thy heart, and make it a part of thee, and it shall nourish
thee till thou art strong again.
The shadows of the mind are like those of the body. In the morning
of life they all lie behind us; at noon, we trample them under foot;
and in the evening they stretch long, broad, and deepening before
us. Are not, then, the sorrows of childhood as dark as those of
age? Are not the morning shadows of life as deep and broad as those
of its evening? Yes; but morning shadows soon fade away, while those
of evening reach forward into the night and mingle with the coming
darkness. Man is begotten in delight and born in pain; and in these
are the rapture and labor of his life fore-shadowed from the
beginning. But thelife of man upon this fair earth is made up for
the most part of little pains and little pleasures. The great
wonder-flowers bloom but once in a lifetime.
A week had already elapsed since the events recorded in the last
chapter. Paul Flemming went his way, a melancholy man, "drinking
the sweet wormwood of his sorrow." He did not rail at Providence
and call it fate, but suffered and was silent. It is a beautiful
trait in the lover's character, that he thinks no evil of the object
loved. What he suffered was no swift storm of feeling, that passes
away with a noise, and leaves the heart clearer; but a dark phantom
had risen up in the clear night, and, like that of Adamastor, hid
the stars; and if it ever vanished away for a season, still the
deep sound of the moaning main would be heard afar, through many a
dark and lonely hour. And thus he journeyed on, wrapped in desponding
gloom, and mainly heedless of all things around him. His mind was
distempered. That one face was always before him; that one voice
forever saying; 
"You are not the Magician."
Painful, indeed, it is to be misunderstood and undervalued by those
we love. But this, too, in our life, must we learn to bear without
a murmur; for it is a tale often repeated.
There are persons in this world to whom all local associations are
naught. The genius of the place speaks not to them. Even on
battle-fields, where the voice of this genius is wont to be loudest,
they hear only the sound of their own voices; they meet there only
their own dull and pedantic thoughts, as the old grammarian Brunetto
Latini met on the plain of Roncesvalles a poor student riding on a
bay mule. This was not always the case with Paul Flemming, but it
had become so now. He felt no interest in the scenery around him.
He hardly looked at it. Even the difficult mountain-passes, where,
from his rocky eyrie the eagle-eyed Tyrolese peasant had watched
his foe, and the roaring, turbid torrent underneath, which had
swallowed up the bloody corse, that fell from the rocks like a
crushed worm, awakened no lively emotion in his breast. All around
him seemed dreamy and vague; all within dim, as in a sun's eclipse.
As the moon, whether visible or invisible, has power over the tides
of the ocean, so the face of that lady, whether present or absent,
had power over the tides of his soul; both by day and night, both
waking and sleeping. In every pale face and dark eye he saw a
resemblance to her; and what the day denied him in reality, the
night gave him in dreams.
"This is a strange, fantastic world," said Berkley, after a very
long silence, during which the two travellers had been sitting each
in his corner of the travelling carriage, wrapped in his own
reflections. "A very strange, fantastic world; where each one pursues
his own golden bubble, and laughs at his neighbour for doing the
same.For the most part they began life with a superabundance of animal
spirits, and a love of adventure, which have been toned down by a
practical experience of the hardships they dreamed of. They certainly
drink most and swear most of the three sections, but with all their
failings there are few men who can do a harder day's work than they.
Barring pure misfortune, there is always some good reason for their still
remaining in the class they sprang from. Though this is not always
strictly true, since a good many of them began life higher up in the
world than they are now. Still I prefer them to the pepper-and-salt
mixture which has been sent out under that happy-go-lucky process--free
immigration. When the colonies were so badly in want of population, they
could not stop to pick and choose. Hence a large influx of loafers, men
who, without any positive vice, will do anything rather than a hard day's
work, and who come out under the impression that gold is to be picked up
in the streets of Melbourne. Under the name of 'the unemployed' they are
a constant source of worry to the Government, whom they consider bound to
give them something light and easy, with 7s. 6d. or 8s. a day, and give
rise abroad to the utterly false impression that there am times when it
is hard for an industrious man to get work in Australia. Of course many
of our immigrants have become first-rate workmen, but such men soon rise
in the social scale.

The best workman when he chooses, and the most difficult to get hold of,
is the thoroughbred colonial. Being able to read and write does not,
however, keep him from being as brutal as Coupeau, and, except from a
muscular point of view, he is often by no means a promising specimen of
colonization. It is from this section of the community that the
'larrikins,' as they are called, are recruited, roughs of the worst
description, insulting and often robbing people in Melbourne itself, and
moving about in gangs with whose united force the police is powerless to
cope. Sometimes they break into hotels and have 'free drinks' all round,
maltreating the landlord if he protests. In a younger stage they content
themselves with frightening helpless women, and kicking every Chinaman
they meet. On all sides it is acknowledged that the larrikin element is
daily increasing, and has already reached, especially in Melbourne,
proportions which make it threaten to amount to a social clanger within a
few years. Of late their outbreaks have not been confined to night-work,
but take place in open daylight, _coram populo et_ police. No one
exactly knows how to meet the difficulty, and What shall we do with our
larrikins?' is likely to replace the former popular cry of 'What shall
we do with our boys?' to which some ingenious person furnished the
obvious answer, 'Marry them to our girls.' Corporal punishment for
corporal offences is in my opinion and that of most of the serious
portion of the community, the only remedy which is likely also to act as
a preventive; but however desirable it may be acknowledged to be, there
is a difficulty in bringing it into use in communities whose sympathies
are so essentially democratic as those of Victoria and New South
Wales--for in Adelaide the police has still the upper hand. The votes of
these very larrikins turn the scale at elections. Their kith and kin form
a majority of the population, and therefore of the electorate. However
much a member of Parliament or a Minister may recognise the necessity of
meeting a social danger, he can hardly afford to do it at the expense of
his seat.

At the time of the Kelly trial practical demonstration of the latent
sympathy with crime in Melbourne was afforded. Thousands of persons,
headed by the Chairman of Committees of the House of Assembly, actually
agitated for the reprieve of the most notorious, if not the greatest,
criminal in the annals of Australia, a man whose murders were not to be
counted on the fingers; and all this because for over two years he had
set the police at defiance, and after a life of murder and rapine had,
shown the courage of despair when his only choice was between being shot
by a policeman or hung on the gallows. In many respects, as, I have
elsewhere intimated, our free political system makes the social outlook
here far more promising than in Europe; but larrikinism is a peculiar
danger already well above the horizon, against which we seem powerless to
deal. Some set it down to the absence of religious teaching in the State
schools, but its real point and origin seems rather to lie in the absence
of parental authority at home and the unpopularity of the old proverb:
'Spare the rod and spoil the child.'

SOCIAL RELATIONS.

My last letter was necessarily, from the nature of its subject, a little
flaky--a charge to which all these notes must more or less plead guilty.
Though the heading of this one differs slightly, it must practically be a
continuation of the same subject.

The first social relation, like charity, begins in the family circle, and
was incidentally touched upon in my last. Between husband and wife the
relations in Australia are, on the whole, probably as satisfactory as in
any other part of the world. Both generally marry from love, and whatever
may be the general effect of love-matches, it cannot be denied that more
than any others they tend to promote pleasant relations between the 'two
contracting parties,' as the French would call them. Amongst the wealthy,
as everywhere else, there cannot of course be the close marital intimacy
of the middle classes; but not only is infidelity less common than in
London, but moreover, the proportion of the wealthy who keep up the style
which produces the quasi-separation of domestic life is far smaller.
Husband and wife have grown rich together; they have taken counsel
together, and lived an open life, as far as each other are concerned,
ever since they were married. Against this the usages of society,
dressing-rooms and lady's-maids are of little avail. You may chase the
second nature out by the door, but it jumps in again at the window.

In the middle and lower class the comparatively cribbed, cabined, and
confined existence is also of the greatest service to that community of
thought and action upon which conjugal happiness to so large an extent
depends. Domestic occupations also occupy the thoughts of the wives, and
business those of the husbands, so continually, as to leave few moments
of mental vacuity for Satan to introduce mischief into. Of an evening the
clubs are almost deserted, and their few occupants are nearly all
bachelors, or married men who have left their wives in the country,
having come down to town themselves on business. Drink must be recognised
as a factor on the opposite side, and a by no means unimportant one; but
there are many women who have no objection to their husbands drinking, so
long as they either drink at home or come straight thither from the
public-house.

I wish I could give as favourable a view of the parental relations. They
are undeniably the weak point of family life in the colonies. During
childhood a certain obedience is of course enforced; but public feeling
is strong in favour of the naughty boy and wilful girl, looking as it
does upon these qualities as prophetic of future enterprise. So many of
our best colonists, it must be remembered, were eminently wild in their
younger days, that it is no wonder they think 'there is something' in the
self-willed child. Their own life has been too much of a struggle for
them to be able to appreciate at their true value the gentler qualities
which in themselves would have been of little worth, the victory in their
earlier days having been to the physical rather than to the intellectual.
The child is naturally--for surely disobedience is an 'original sin' with
nine children out of ten--only too disposed to take advantage of the
views held by its parents, and gradually as it grows older, disobedience
passes into disrespect and want of respect into want of affection. Such a
thing as perfect confidence, in the French sense of the word, between a
parent and his or her grown-up child is most rare. 'Everyone for himself,
and devil take the hindmost, is the motto of the young Australian. He
cares for nobody, and nobody need care for him, so far as his thoughts on
the subject are concerned. Maternal affection cannot, however, be easily
quenched, and consequently the child gets all the best of the bargain.

Social relations are wider, therefore less easy to speak about decidedly,
than family relations. In the early days there were but few social
distinctions. Everyone was hail-fellow-well-met with everyone else, and
the common struggle merged all differences of birth, wealth, and
education. In a charming little work called 'Some Social Aspects of South
Australian Life,' which was published in Adelaide about two years ago', a
most realistic description is given of the sympathetic mode of living of
the first settlers; and as it has never been reprinted in England, I
extract a few sentences here and there, which may give some idea of the
primitive existence there described:

'The necessaries of life were produced in abundance, the comforts were
slowly reached, and the luxuries had to be done without. There was very
little difference in the actual circumstances of different classes--some
had property and some had none' (this was before the gold-fever); 'but
property was unsaleable for money, and barter only exchanged one
unsaleable article for another' (and yet these are the people who
nowadays groan about _money_ going out of the colony, and would measure
its prosperity by the excess of exports over imports).* [* The
parentheses are my own.] 'Nobody employed hired labour who could possibly
do the work himself, and everyone had to turn his or her hand to a great
deal of miscellaneous work, most of which would be called menial and
degrading in an old community. . . Thus gradually the financial position
of the colony improved by means of the well-directed industry of the
settlers, and they owed much to the helpfulness and good management of
the wives, sisters, and daughters of each household. . . Perhaps, never
in any human society did circumstances realize the ideas of the community
of labour and the equality of the sexes, so fully as in South Australia
in its early days.' Youth and love, hope and trust, were the only stock
in marriage of young couples, so that a new-comer is said to have
remarked, 'Why, it is nothing to get married here! A few mats, and
cane-bottomed chairs, and the house is furnished.'  A wife was not looked
on as a hindrance or an expense, but as a help and a comfort,' says Miss
Spence. 'Girls did not look for establishments; parents did not press for
settlements . . . There was only one carriage in the colony for many
years, which though belonging to a private person, was hired for such as
wanted to do the thing genteelly . . . .' Social position depended on
character, and not on income.

The same writer lays herself fairly open to the charge of being
_laudator temporis acti_ in her description of the present as compared
with the past social life of the colonies, though I am quite prepared to
agree with her remark, that 'in proportion as the conditions of life
become more complex, they should be met by more ingenuity, more culture,
and a deeper sense of duty;' and that 'the suddenness of our accumulation
of wealth has scarcely prepared our little community for some necessary
modifications of our social arrangements.' Therein lies the whole source
of both what is best and what is worst in the present social life of
Australia. Marriage, though still almost entirely an affair of love, has
yet learnt to take £. s. d. into consideration, and none but the lowest
class would be satisfied with the kind of furniture described above.
Education has improved and is improving still more, far as it yet is from
being up even to the English standard. More leisure has also produced
novel reading with its consequent affectation of aristocratic ideas and
prejudices and disproportionate estimate of essentials and superficials.

Already each Australian capital has its 'society,' distinguished from the
[Greek characters] almost as clearly as in London or Paris. In its own
way, indeed, these societies are more exclusive than those of the older
metropolises, which from their very size obtain a certain breadth of
view. For obvious reasons the component parts are not altogether similar,
but their governing idea is as much the same as the difference of
circumstances will permit. It would be difficult to define exactly what
opens the doors of Australian society, but is the shibboleth any more
definite in London? Distinction of some kind or other must be
presupposed. If that of birth, it must either be allied to rank or have
strong local connections. Is it not the same in London, though, of
course, on an infinitely larger and grander scale? If that of wealth, it
must storm the entrance by social expenditure and pachydermatousness to
rebuff. Wealth is, of course, the predominating factor here, as rank in
London; because while in the latter case birth calls in wealth to furnish
it with the sinews of war, in the former wealth calls in birth to teach
it how to behave itself. Position is of small account, though the line is
always drawn at shopkeepers _in esse_. Provided the candidate has cut
the shop and opened an office, he can be admitted on payment of the
social fees, but only gradually and laboriously unless his wealth is
beyond criticism. The man who sells you a dozen of wine in the morning
sits by your side at Government House or Bishop's Court in the evening,
and the highest officials are not unfrequently the least esteemed
socially. A happy consequence of this social jumble is, that with certain
exceptions, which are, of course, getting more numerous as we advance in
civilization, a gentleman can do anything here and still be considered a
gentleman, provided he behaves himself as such; and the semi-menial
employments of distressed gentlewomen do not bring with them one half the
loss of social position that they generally entail in England. The
smaller community is more narrow-minded than the large, but its sight is
keener and more accurate in details. It is true that art, science, and
literature are entirely without status in Australia, but then personal
distinction of whatever kind is far more get-at-able than at home.

If it strikes a visitor as utterly ridiculous that a society, the greater
part of whose members are essentially _parvenus_, should assume the
tone and mode of thought of an old-world aristocracy, we must yet
acknowledge that that society keeps up a great many traditions of
refinement which are in great danger of being lost sight of in colonial
life. The outward and visible sign may be absurd, but the inward and
spiritual grace is none the less concealed within it. That Australian
society keeps up a number of social superstitions which might with
advantage have died out during the journey across the ocean is
undeniable, but it is also true that it preserves at least an affectation
of higher civilization. It contains the majority of the gentlemen and
ladies by birth and education in each city, and they go far to leaven the
whole lump. The _parvenu_ has the merit of seeking after better things,
and his imitation of aristocracy, if it necessarily falls far short of
the mark, at least removes him a step or two above the way of thinking
common to the class he sprang from. His daughters, with that superior
adaptability inherent in women, are quick to catch the manners of the
gentlewomen who move in their circle, and become infinitely superior to
their brothers, even when the latter have been sent to finish their
education at Oxford, or Cambridge. It is wonderful how much more easily a
lady can be manufactured than a gentleman.

Of the hospitality of 'society' in all the towns it is impossible to
speak in too high terms. The stranger has but to bring a couple of good
introductions to people who are in society, and provided he be at all
presentable, the doors of the most exclusive houses will be opened to
him. Young men of education and manners are everywhere at a premium, and
the colonies are still small enough for it to be a distinction to have
just come out from England. Unless you know your company it is always
wise to avoid asking questions about or making reference to the earlier
days of the people you meet. For all that, you will hear everybody's
history, often, I suspect, with additions and exaggerations. In such
small communities everybody knows everything about everybody else, and
the man who has gone down in the world naturally delights in telling you
of the time when he bought half a pound of sugar at Jones's shop, or when
Brown worked in his garden while Mrs. Brown was his scullery-maid,
Jones and Brown being now two social leaders.

Amongst men social distinctions are very slight. It is lawful to be
friendly with everybody and anybody in town, so long as you do not visit
at his private house. And yet for very obvious reasons gentlemen
are--except amongst the rising generation--much more common than ladies.
A number of wild young men of good family and education have been poured
out of England into Australia ever since 1852, and many of them have
become amongst the most useful and respected colonists. But until
recently there was a paucity of ladies, and the majority of gentlemen had
but the choice between marrying beneath them or not at all. Hence
frequent _mésalliances_. You meet a man at the club, and are delighted
with him in every way. He asks you to his house, and you find that his
wife drops her h's, eats peas with her knife, and errs in various little
ways. I am purposely thinking of no one in particular, but fear at least
a dozen of my acquaintances will think I am writing of them in making
this remark. And it is a sad sight to see a man dragged down in this way,
for very few men who marry beneath them can keep up the manner and mode
of living to which they were born and educated, while those who do
generally retain them at the expense of their own married happiness.
Nowadays there are certainly plenty of young ladies in the towns, but for
all that one constantly hears of the sons of clergymen and army officers
marrying the daughters of grocers and farmers who were quite recently
day-labourers. With every freedom from caste prejudice, I am yet unable
to see anything but harm to the persons directly concerned in these
ill-assorted matches, whatever the good result to the community may be.

The centre round which society revolves is naturally Government House,
but a great many people go to Government House who cannot be considered
to be in society. To have been to a Government House ball is no more,
_mutandis mutatis_, than to go to a Court ball at home. Neither will
give you admission into the inner circle; and though that circle may not
offer any but specious advantages and have but little to recommend it in
preference to three or four other societies in the town, admission into
it is coveted, and inclusion within its boundaries is as much a reality
as if its walls were of stone. In Melbourne the scattered position of the
suburbs and the extent of the population splits up the _élite_ into
several local societies, but there is yet one _crême de la crême_. In
Sydney the same thing takes place, though the local societies are less
numerous; but in Adelaide there is practically only one 'society', the
local aggregations of individuals not being deserving of any more
dignified name than 'cliques.' Of the three societies, that of Sydney is
on the whole, I think, the best. At Melbourne there are probably a larger
number of cultivated persons, but the distance between the suburbs and
the more extravavagant mode of living limits their sphere. The
Adelaidians are perhaps the most English of all in their way of thinking,
but they are also by far the most narrow-minded. For pure Philistinism I
don't think I know any town that equals it. Shut up in their own little
corner, they imagine themselves more select than Sydney and Melbourne
circles, because they are necessarily smaller. And yet for
kind-heartedness these gossip-loving Philistines are not easily to be
surpassed. As long as things go well with you they will talk against you;
but no set of people are less open to the charge of neglecting friends in
misfortune.

Class relations are, on the whole, excellent; and this is the more to the
credit of the lower classes, because the plutocracy is utterly selfish in
character, and does not interest itself in those social duties, which are
proving so effectual a prop to the nobility and landed gentry of England.
A certain animosity subsists between the squatters or pastoral lessees
and the selectors who purchase on credit from Government blocks of land,
which were formerly let to squatters. At times this breaks out in Parliament
or at elections, but in spite of a determined attempt by a section of the
Victorian press to pit the 'wealthy lower orders' against the
horny-handed sons of the soil, class feeling rarely runs high for any
length of time. The reason is, that the working-class are too well off
for the occasional high-handed proceedings of the rich to affect them
sensibly. For an agitation to be maintained there must be a real
grievance at the bottom of it; and the only grievance that the Australian
democrat can bring forward is, that having obtained the necessaries, he
cannot without extra labour obtain also the luxuries of life.

From figures I have already given as to rents, wages, and prices in
general, you will have gathered that the cost of living is, broadly
speaking, cheaper than in England as regards the necessities of
existence, but dearer in proportion to the complexity of the article.
Anything that requires much labour, or that cannot readily be produced in
the colony, is, dearer; but, on the other hand, it should be remembered
that money is more easily obtainable. Protectionist duties and heavy
freights form an effectual sumptuary tax; and as most of the duties are
_ad valorem_, first-class articles are heavily handicapped, and a
premium put upon the importation of shoddy. The wine-drinker finds that
he has to pay ten shillings a gallon on all he drinks, which should
certainly entice him to drink good wine; but the only practical result
discoverable is the small quantity of wine drunk as compared with beer
and spirits. If few people keep carriages, there are buggies innumerable
in every town; and for every man who keeps a horse in England, there are,
proportionately to the population, ten in Australia.

But perhaps the greatest element in the cheapness of colonial life is its
comparative want of 'gentility.' The necessity to keep up appearances is
not one-sixth as strong as in England. The earthen pot cannot altogether
flow down stream in company with the tin kettle, but it can more safely
get within a shorter distance of its metallic rival. Rich men live in
miserable houses and wear coats which their valets would have nothing to
do with at home; struggling men are less ashamed of struggling, and are
not made to feel the defects of their condition so keenly. In a society,
the position of whose members is constantly changing, the style of life
is of less importance. The millionaire of to-day hadn't a sixpence
yesterday, and may not have one again to-morrow. His brothers, sifters
and cousins are impecunious, and in small communities poor relations are
not easily got rid of. Constant intercommunication is thus kept up
between class and class, rich and poor; they learn better to understand
each other's position, and a clearer understanding generally leads to
mutual respect.

Again, the distribution of wealth is far more equal. To begin with, there
is no poor class in the colonies. Comfortable incomes are in the
majority, millionaires few and far between. This is especially the case
in Adelaide, where the condition of the poorer class is better, and that
of the richer worse than in any of the other colonies. In Melbourne the
masses seem worst off, and the display of riches, if not the actuality
thereof, is most noticeable. In Sydney the signs of wealth are not
wanting to an examiner, but a superficial observer would say that there
were not half as many wealthy men as in Melbourne. Few South Australians
get beyond the comfortable stage, and, on the other hand, a greater
number reach it. 'Squatting,' of course, supplies the largest section of
the wealthy class; but, especially in Melbourne, gold-mining and commerce
have contributed a large quota.

RELIGION AND MORALS.

In no country in the world is the legal freedom of conscience more firmly
established than in Australia. All Churches and sects are absolutely
equal in the eyes of the State; and any attempt to upset this equality
would be resented, not only by the united forces of all the other
denominations, but even by a majority of the only two Churches--the Roman
and Anglican--who would ever dream of aiming at supremacy. But thorough
as is the repudiation by the great majority of the community of the
principles of State aid or control of religion, the two Churches which I
have just mentioned occasionally raise their voices against secular
education by the State, and make spasmodic appeals for State
contributions to their denominational schools, which, however little
likely to succeed, are not altogether without a rational foundation. But
this is the utmost limit which State recognition, or rather the cry for
it, is ever likely to reach.

In times past the Church of England has struggled to regain the position
she formerly held in the older colonies; but now whatever efforts she
makes in that direction are confined to the ambition of being _prima
inter pares_--a position which is vigorously and even bitterly attacked
by the other Protestant sects whenever she either tries to assert it or
has it thrust upon her. These ex-Dissenters have a lively remembrance of
the yoke they endured in the old country, and even now that the spirit of
supremacy has so completely died out, they spring up to do battle against
any formality that recalls it to them. Thus, a few years ago the whole
colony of South Australia was convulsed on the question of the Bishop's
right to follow the Governor and precede the Chief Justice at official
ceremonies, and peace amongst the devout was only restored by the
Bishop's graceful relinquishment of a position to which his legal right
was undeniable. Even now the title 'My Lord' as applied to Bishops acts
as a red rag on many ex-Dissenting bulls, and they are as jealous of the
slightest official preference of the Church of England as if their
dearest religious liberties were therein involved.

Legal and even official equality do not, however, always mean social
equality; and the Church still retains a superior social position, a
shadow of her departed State authority, which to some of her old
competitors--especially the Congregationalists, Baptists, and
Wesleyans--is the more galling because they are totally destitute of the
means of assailing it. Happily, through the wise conduct of the Bishops
of Adelaide and Melbourne in meeting ministers of other denominations on
a common platform, whenever the cause of Christianity or of good and
right in any way can be served thereby, and in showing sympathy with them
in a multitude of ways, this unreasonable jealousy is losing ground and a
better feeling springing up; but there are yet too many colonists that
have felt the disabilities of Dissent in the old country who are unable
to put on the armour of forgiveness, or rather of forgetfulness in the
new. The enemy has lost his sting, but they will not allow him to live on
the remembrance of his past greatness without a reminder of his present
impotence.

This impotence is in all ways, except socially, a certain reality; for
while the ex-Dissenting bodies have thriven and waxed numerous and
powerful upon the bread of independence, the Church has languished for
want of her accustomed prop. Accustomed, not only to support their own
ministers, but also to pay tithes and Church-rates for the benefit of
their rival, the ex-Dissenters have simultaneously had their burden
lightened and, for the most part, their incomes increased by the change
of country. Besides this, they have to a certain extent felt themselves
put upon their mettle to show their superiority to their old master, and
thus they have put their best foot foremost, with the good result which
always attends such efforts. Their ministers, better paid, and holding a
higher social position than in England, have naturally become a superior
class of men as a whole to those in the old country. Every day they are
advancing, towards a higher standard of education and manners. Nor has
the gain in education and position been accompanied by, as far as I can
see, any loss in earnestness or deterioration in work. No one sect is
sufficiently preponderant to admit of that.

The friendly competition between them has been beneficial to them all;
and, in spite of rivalry, the spirit of toleration between Protestant
sects is thoroughly observed. Unfortunately, this toleration is not
extended to the Roman Catholics. Their doctrines are so directly in
opposition to the prevailing democratic and Protestant spirit of the
community, that they have come to be regarded as Ishmaelites, if not as
Amalekites, occupying ground which ought to belong to the faithful. An
Anti-Popery cry would at any time command success; and numerous and
influential as the Catholics are, directly they begin to assert their
influence all the other religious bodies unite to counteract, and end by
suppressing it. For a spice of intolerance in this respect, and for a
general Philistinism in its views on all subjects, Australia is indebted
to the middle-class Protestant sects, who form the most important element
in the community; but to them also, in a large measure, it owes its
political and social stability, and all those standard moral qualities
which are the only safe foundation for a superstructure of intellect.

Because I have spoken so warmly of the good influence which the
ex-Dissenting or Protestant sects have exercised in Australia, it must
not be supposed that the Church has been altogether a laggard. Probably
no section of the English clergy has worked harder and more manfully than
that which has been stationed in Australia. It is no fault of theirs if
their sphere has been limited and their good influence less effective
than that of their rivals. But they have been labouring under the
misfortune of being unsuited to the people and circumstances amongst whom
and which they live and work. Their sphere has lain almost entirely
amongst the upper and lower classes, and it is neither of these that
governs Australia. Where they came into contact with the middle class,
the power in the land, they have been placed in the position of the round
man in the square hole. The men of the middle class have asserted their
social equality to, if not their superiority over, their clergy; and this
an English gentleman finds difficulty in admitting, still more one who
considers himself the minister of God to the people, rather than of the
people to God. The Thirty-nine Articles do not admit of his recognising
the orders of his nonconformist brethren as equal to his own, and this
has been set down to pride. Altogether, the Anglican clergyman has been
put in a false position, to extricate him from which is taxing all the
tact of so politic a prelate as Bishop Moorhouse.

The habit of paying no direct stipend to their clergymen in England has
led to a reluctance to contribute good salaries for their support out
here, where they must rely solely upon such support; and the lowness of
salaries, if not the hardness of the work, has made the Anglican clergy
in Australia as a class inferior to their English brethren. Of course the
clergy still contains a large proportion of gentlemen within its ranks,
but on the score of ability I fancy the ex-Dissenters have the advantage.
Recognising this, Bishop Moorhouse is endeavouring both to shame
Churchmen into raising the stipend of their clergy, and to procure for
the congregations not only English gentlemen, but as far as possible
hard-working, practical, broad-minded men. He has a difficult task before
him, for already there are plenty of colonial clergymen who are either
inferior to nonconformist ministers in cultivation, or stubborn adherents
to a _régime_ which is impossible in Australia. These weeds must be
pulled out before you can sow fresh seed; and yet it is hard to call men
weeds who are serving the Church according to the best of their lights,
faithful, hard-working men, or conservative old gentlemen, who are doing
or have done a great deal of good work, and whose failings cannot be
attributed to any fault for which you can morally reproach them.

The Church is slow to adapt itself to colonial life. Amongst a
preponderating lower middle-class element Nonconformity, or rather what
is better known as Protestantism, is very popular. Low Churchmen find
they can get a better sermon at the chapel, and can be hail-fellow-well-met
with their pastor in these extraneous denominations. Thus the Church
loses many of its former adherents, and while Anglicanism still remains
the religion of the upper class, it can in no way pretend to be that of
even a majority of the community.

The Roman Catholics are on a different footing. For them no compromise is
possible, and they cannot as Roman Catholics but be a state within a
state. From time to time the priesthood incites them to aspire to
political power, but hitherto none of these aspirations have borne
practical effect, except in strengthening the hands of their adversaries.
At present they are agitating more or less vehemently in each colony for
State support to be given to their schools, declaring that it is
monstrous that they should be made to pay for a secular education of
which their religion prevents them from taking advantage.

At first a section of the Anglican party, comprising nearly all the
clergy, joined in this cry, but it became so evident that the bulk of the
population was determined not to return to the old system, that they are
beginning to desert the Catholics, and are now more wisely and with
better chance of success attempting to amalgamate with the other
Protestant bodies to obtain the admission into the State schools of
religious teaching on a broad Protestant basis; i.e., of all the
doctrines which are held in common by all Protestant denominations
(except the Unitarians), to the exclusion of all doctrines on which the
different sects differ. The bulk of the Dissenters are, I fancy,
indifferent to any junction with the Church of England, and would just as
soon have no religious teaching as what they call a 'pithless jelly-fish'
religious teaching. But on this point I think public opinion is
undergoing a change, and the formation of a Protestant party probable.
The Catholics would consider such a concession as infinitely worse than
the existing purely secular system. The omission of true doctrine would,
as regards them, amount to an assertion of false; and on their side in
opposing the Protestant party will be the Jews, the Freethinkers, and a
large number who would rather have no religious teaching than any quarrel
over it, and who are fairly satisfied with the existing state of things.
If the Protestants ever become strong enough to win the day, it can only
be at the expense of establishing a Catholic grievance so strong as to be
exceedingly dangerous. The fact that all parties are now out in the cold,
satisfies a rough-and-ready conception of justice with which the
politician has always to reckon, but that all the Protestants should get
a concession, of which it is impossible for the Catholics to avail
themselves, would be manifestly unfair. Political expediency and justice
seem to be alike against the claims of the Protestant party, unless it be
resolved to grant aid to Roman Catholics and Jews only, which is a
possible, though not very consistent, solution of the question.

Ritualism is unknown, though the word is often applied to the one or two
High-Church services in the capitals where the choirs wear surplices, or,
worse still, where there are candles on the altar--a word which is almost
as much objected to as priest. Broad and Low are decidedly the prevailing
phases of Churchmanship, and every year the Broad is gaining upon the
Low; the Low element consisting of those who were brought up in England,
the Broad of the generation which has been born in the country. As this
begins to predominate, the barriers between the Anglican Church and the
other Protestant denominations will be lowered, and in course of time the
differences between them will be reduced to preference in the mode of
conducting service. The first step towards this was taken by the Bishop
of Melbourne some two years ago in forming the Pastoral Aid Society, the
object of which is to provide religious services in outlying districts in
the bush, where there are not sufficient settlers of either the
Episcopalian or Presbyterian Churches to make it possible to supply a
minister of either. The Society arranges that services should be held in
these districts alternately, according to the rites of each Church, and
that they should be visited alternately by ministers of each.

This system has proved of enormous value in keeping religion alive in the
bush, and paved the way for an experiment not long ago in Melbourne
itself, which has met with such general approval, that it may be said to
mark the commencement of a new era in the Church of England, and even in
ecclesiastical history. With the consent of the Bishop and of his
church-wardens, Canon Bromby invited a Presbyterian minister--Rev. Chaos.
Strong-to read the service and preach in St. Paul's Church, he himself
taking Mr. Strong's pulpit. This precedent is certain to be largely
followed; and it is easy to see that the courtesy which is extended to
Presbyterian ministers will before long be extended to those of the other
Protestant denominations, and that exchanges of pulpits between them all
will become frequent.

Churches abound in every Australian city, especially in Adelaide, where
they are so numerous as to excite the ridicule of the less devout
Victorians. I forget how many there are; but, at any rate, they bear a
very small proportion to the public-houses, against which I think they
may fairly be pitted. Still, there are plenty of them; and no sinner will
easily be able to find an excuse for not going to church in the
non-representation of his particular sect. When I say 'churches,' I am
using the term in the official and colonial sense, for the word 'chapel'
stinks in the nostrils of a Dissenting community, and many of these
churches are not much bigger than an ordinary dining-room, and, having
been built for profane purposes, have no external odour of sanctity
beyond a black board, whereon you are informed, in gilt letters, that the
building belongs to whatever sect it does belong, and that Divine Service
is held there by the Rev. So-and-So at certain hours on the Sabbath. But
from this you must not suppose that the two older churches have a
monopoly of the religious buildings which can properly aspire to that
name.

For the most part, ecclesiastical architecture is rather a weak point
with these newly-confirmed religions; but in Melbourne, with the
exception of the Roman Catholic Cathedral, they possess far the finest
churches, and in Adelaide and Sydney their edifices are at least
imposing. The Roman Catholics., however, carry off the palm. In both
Melbourne and Sydney their cathedrals are of grand proportions. In all
three cities their other churches are large and lofty. The Anglicans have
small cathedrals at Sydney and Adelaide; but, in spite of their including
a majority of the wealthiest individuals in the colonies, they find a
great difficulty in raising money for building purposes.

As far as my experience goes--and I have 'sat under' the principal
ministers of each denomination in each town at least once--the preaching
is, for the most part, very poor. There are certainly two or three
exceptions; but 'what are they,' one is irreverently apt to exclaim,
'among so many?' The shallowness and often halting pace of these
discourses is doubtless due, in large measure, to the colonial love of
_extempore_ preaching. For sermons read out of a book public opinion of
all denominations in Australia has the greatest contempt. Like English
lower middle-class communities, again, they like a good pronounced type
of doctrine from the pulpit. The lower regions are popular; but most
successful is the denunciation of the people over the way who bow down to
wood and stone, and commit sundry other iniquities for which Protestants
are in no fear of being indicted.

As you notice a man's general appearance and manner before you can form
any idea of his character, so I have described churches and denominations
before entering seriously into the question of religion. If
Churchmen--who will probably form the majority of my readers--cannot but
be grieved at the picture I have drawn, of the condition of the
Australian Church, they may at least take comfort when I state that the
preponderating feeling of Australian cities is essentially Christian,
according to the received meaning of the word. The citizens are, for the
most part, of a distinctly religious turn of mind. They may not be,
and--except in Adelaide--are not, such good church-goers as at home; but
they have not drunk of the poison of infidelity, nor eaten of the sweets
of indifference. Amidst the distractions of colonial life this could
hardly have been the case, but for the Puritan origin of so many of the
more influential among them, and the healthy competition between the
various sects, as well as the freedom from State control and interference
already alluded to.

As in social matters Melbourne may be regarded as the extreme type of
Australia, so in religious matters Adelaide affords the easiest text to
preach upon. Essentially lower middle-class, Nonconformist and Radical in
its origin, South Australia might well claim the title of the New England
of the Antipodes. Even to the present day, it preserves signs and tokens
of the Principles on which it was founded: its progress having been the
gradual and healthy growth of a Pastoral and agricultural colony,
undisturbed by the forced marches of gold-mining. In Adelaide
middle-class respectability is too strong for larrikinism, and imparts a
far healthier social and moral tone than obtains in either Melbourne or
Sydney; but for these advantages the little town pays the small but
disagreeable price of Philistinism. Want of culture, Pharisees, and
narrow-mindedness find a more congenial home there than anywhere else in
Australia; but, to my mind, these are a cheap price to pay for the piety
and real goodness which they cloak.

The Adelaidian may be unpleasantly conceited and self-satisfied in
religious matters, but then he is kind and hospitable, religious and
moral, and not so sophisticated as the Victorian, who is probably a more
agreeable person superficially. Yet in neither Melbourne nor Sydney can
religion be said to be wanting. It is kept more in the background than in
Adelaide, and there is not so much of it as in the smaller town; but the
religious character of all three, taken either singly or together, will,
I think, compare favourably with that of any other modern city or cities.

Sabbatarianism is fast on the decline. The Sabbatarians are still noisy
and determined enough to keep the majority of our public libraries,
picture galleries, etc., closed on Sunday, but this is more from public
indifference on the subject than from any general feeling that they ought
to be shut. This becomes evident from a visit to the suburbs on a fine
Sunday. All the world and his wife in private carriages and buggies,
carts and omnibuses, even on Shanks's pony, come away for an airing; and
if the weather only allows of it, there are many of these holiday-makers
who make a day of it, leaving their homes early in the morning, with but
a few who return to evening service.

On the other hand, the Sunday is soberly kept. In the less strict
families music is allowed, but never cards or games of any kind. The man
who proposed such a thing in Adelaide would be _anathema maranatha_.
The general feeling, is, that the Sunday was made too wearisome in
England to be supportable in a common-sense community; and Sabbatarianism
is gradually losing ground day by day, as fast as the keeping up of
appearances will allow. There was a great outcry on one occasion because
the Governor of Victoria travelled on a Sunday; but this was rather
because there is a general feeling that unnecessary labour should as far
as possible be avoided on a Sunday, than from Sabbatarianism in the
ordinary sense of the word.

Morality has so long been connected with religion that it is difficult to
treat of the one without more or less trenching upon the province of the
other. But there still remains something to be said on this score. The
commandments which are most freely broken in Australia, are _par
excellence_ the third, and then the sixth, in its minor sense of crimes
of violence in general. Young Australia makes a specialty of swearing.
High and low, rich and poor, indulge themselves in bad language
luxuriantly; but it is amongst the rising generation that it reaches its
acme. The lower-class colonial swears as naturally as he talks. He
doesn't mean anything by it in particular; nor is it really an evil
outward and visible sign of the spiritual grace within him. On the
prevalence of larrikinism I wrote at length in a former epistle.

Drunkenness comes next on our list of vices. That Australians as a nation
are more drunken than Englishmen, I do not believe to be the fact; but
what is undeniable is, that there is a great deal of drunkenness amongst
those who may claim to be considered the upper classes here. "There take
thy stand, my spirit;--spread
The world of shadows at thy feet;
And mark how calmly overhead,
The stars, like saints in glory, meet.

While, hid in solitude sublime,
Methinks I muse on Nature's tomb,
And hear the passing foot of Time
Step through the silent gloom.

"All in a moment, crash on crash,

From precipice to precipice,
An avalanche's ruins dash
Down to the nethermost abyss,
Invisible; the ear alone
Pursues the uproar till it dies;
Echo to Echo, groan for groan,
From deep to deep, replies.

"Silence again the darkness seals,
Darkness that may be felt;--but soon
The silver-clouded east reveals
The midnight spectre of the moon;
In half-eclipse she lifts her horn,
Yet, o'er the host of heaven supreme,
Brings the faint semblance of a morn, 
With her awakening beam.

"Ah! at her touch, these Alpine heights
Unreal mockeries appear;
With blacker shadows, ghastlier lights,
Emerging as she climbs the sphere;
A crowd of apparitions pale!

I hold my breath in chill suspense,
They seem so exquisitely frail,
Lest they should vanish hence.

"I breathe again, I freely breathe;
Thee, Leman's Lake, once more I trace,
Like Dian's crescent far beneath,
As beautiful as Dian's face:

Pride of the land that gave me birth!

All that thy waves reflect I love,
Where heaven itself, brought down to earth,
Looks fairer than above.

"Safe on thy banks again I stray;
The trance of poesy is o'er,
And I am here at dawn of day,
Gazing on mountains as before,
Where all the strange mutations wrought,
Were magic feats of my own mind;
For, in that fairy land of thought,
Whate'er I seek, I find."

CHAPTER II. FOOT-TRAVELLING.

Tell me, my soul, why art thou restless? Why dost thou look forward to the
future with such strong desire? The present is thine,--and the past;--and
the future shall be!

O that thou didst look forward to the great hereafter with half the longing
wherewith thou longest for an earthly future,--which a few days at most
will bring thee! to the meeting of the dead, as to the meeting of the
absent! Thou glorious spirit-land! O, that I could behold thee as thou
art,--the region of life, and light, and love, and the dwelling-place
of those beloved ones, whose being has flowed onward like a silver-clear
stream into the solemn-sounding main, into the ocean of Eternity.

Such were the thoughts that passed through thesoul of Flemming, as he lay
in utter solitude and silence on the rounded summit of one of
the mountains of the Furca Pass, and gazed, with tears in his eyes,
and ardent longing in his heart, up into the blue-swimming heaven overhead,
and at the glaciers and snowy mountain-peaks around him. Highest
and whitest of all, stood the peak of the Jungfrau, which seemed near
him, though it rose afar off from the bosom of the Lauterbrunner Thal.
There it stood, holy and high and pure, the bride of heaven, all veiled
and clothed in white, and lifted the thoughts of the beholder heavenward.
O, he little thought then, as he gazed at it with longing and
delight, how soon a form was to arise in his own soul, as holy, and high,
and pure as this, and like this point heavenward.

Thus lay the traveller on the mountain summit, reposing his weary limbs
on the short, brown grass, which more resembled moss than grass. He
had sent his guide forward, that he might be alone. His soul within him
was wild with a fierce and painful delight. The mountain air excited
him; the mountain solitudes enticed, yet maddened him.

Every peak, every sharp, jagged iceberg, seemed to pierce him. The
silence was awful and sublime. It was like that in the soul of a
dying man, when he hears no more the sounds of earth.
He seemed to be laying aside his earthly garments. The heavens were near
unto him; but between him and heaven every evil deed he had done arose
gigantic, like those mountain-peaks, and breathed an icy breath upon
him. O, let not the soul that suffers, dare to look Nature in the face,
where she sits majestically aloft in the solitude of the mountains;
for her face is hard and stern, and looks not in compassion upon
her weak and erring child.

It is the countenance of an accusing archangel, who summons us to judgment.
In the valley she wears the countenance of a Virgin Mother, looking at us
with tearful eyes, and a face of pity and love!

But yesterday Flemming had come up the valley of the Saint Gothard
Pass, through Amsteg, where the Kerstelenbach comes dashing down the
Maderaner Thal, from its snowy cradle overhead. The road is steep,
and runs on zigzag terraces. The sides of the mountains are barren
cliffs; and from their cloud-capped summits, unheard amid the roar of the
great torrent below, come streams of snowwhite foam, leaping from rock
to rock, like the mountain chamois. As you advance, the scene grows
wilder and more desolate. There is not a tree in sight,--not a human
habitation. Clouds, black as midnight, lower upon you from the ravines
overhead; and the mountain torrent beneath is but a sheet of
foam, and sends up an incessant roar. A sudden turn in the road brings
you in sight of a lofty bridge, stepping from cliff to cliff with a
single stride. A fearful cataract howls beneath it, like an evil spirit,
and fills the air with mist; and the mountain wind claps its hands and
shrieks through the narrow pass, Ha! ha!--This is the Devil's Bridge.
It leads the traveller across the fearful chasm, and through a mountain
gallery into the broad, green, silent meadow of Andermath.

Even the sunny morning, which followed thisgloomy day, had not chased the
desolate impression from the soul of Flemming. His excitement increased
as he lost himself more and more among the mountains; and now, as he
lay all alone on the summit of the sunny hill, with only glaciers
and snowy peaks about him, his soul, as I have said, was wild with
a fierce and painful delight.

A human voice broke his reverie. He looked, and beheld at a short
distance from him, the athletic form of a mountain herdsman, who was
approaching the spot where he lay. He was a young man, clothed in a
rustic garb, and holding a long staff in his hand. When Flemming rose, he
stood still, and gazed at him, as if he loved the face of man, even in a
stranger, and longed to hear a human voice, though it might speak in an
unknown tongue. He answered Flemming's salutation in a rude mountain
dialect, and in reply to his questions said;
"I, with two others, have charge of two hundred head of cattle on these
mountains. Throughthe two summer months we remain here night and
day; for which we receive each a Napoleon."
Flemming gave him half his summer wages. He was glad to do a good deed
in secret, and yet so near heaven.

The man received it as his due, like a toll-keeper; and soon after departed,
leaving the traveller alone. And the traveller went his way down the
mountain, as one distraught. He stopped only to pluck one bright blue
flower, which bloomed all alone in the vast desert, and looked up at
him, as if to say; "O take me with you! leave me not here
companionless!"
Ere long he reached the magnificent glacier of the Rhone; a frozen cataract,
more than two thousand feet in height, and many miles broad at its base.
It fills the whole valley between two mountains, running back to their
summits. At the base it is arched, like a dome; and above, jagged and
rough, and resembles a mass of gigantic crystals, of a pale emerald
tint, mingled with white. A snowy crust covers its surface; but at every
rent and crevice the pale green ice shines clear in thesun. Its shape is
that of a glove, lying with the palm downwards, and the fingers crooked
and close together. It is a gauntlet of ice, which, centuries ago,
Winter, the King of these mountains, threw down in defiance to the Sun;
and year by year the Sun strives in vain to lift it from the ground on
the point of his glittering spear. A feeling of wonder and delight
came over the soul of Flemming when he beheld it, and he shouted and cried
aloud;
"How wonderful! how glorious!"
After lingering a few hours in the cold, desolate valley, he climbed in
the afternoon the steep Mayen-Wand, on the Grimsel, passed the Lake
of the Dead, with its ink-black waters; and through the melting snow, and
over slippery stepping-stones in the beds of numberless shallow brooks,
descended to the Grimsel Hospital, where he passed the night, and thought
it the most lone and desolate spot, that man ever slept in.

On the morrow, he rose with the day; and the rising sun found him already
standing on the rusticbridge, which hangs over the verge of the Falls of
the Aar at Handeck, where the river pitches down a precipice into a
narrow and fearful abyss, shut in by perpendicular cliffs. At right angles
with it comes the beautiful Aerlenbach; and halfway down the double
cascade mingles into one. Thus he pursued his way down the Hasli Thal
into the Bernese Oberland, restless, impatient, he knew not why, stopping
seldom, and never long, and then rushing forward again, like the
rushing river whose steps he followed, and in whose ice-cold waters
ever and anon he bathed his wrists, to cool the fever in his blood;
for the noonday sun was hot.

His heart dilated in the dilating valley, that grew broader and greener
at every step. The sight of human faces and human dwellings soothed
him; and through the fields of summer grain, in the broad meadows
of Imgrund, he walked with a heart that ached no more, but trembled
only, as our eyelids when we have done weeping. As he climbed the opposite
hill, which hems in this romanticvalley, and, like a heavy yoke, chafes
the neck of the Aar, he believed the ancient tradition, which says, that
once the valley was a lake. From the summit of the hill he looked southward
upon a beautiful landscape of gardens, and fields of grain, and
woodlands, and meadows, and the ancient castle of Resti, looking
down upon Meyringen. And now all around him were the singing of birds,
and grateful shadows of the leafy trees; and sheeted waterfalls dropping
from the woodland cliffs, seen only, but unheard, the fluted columns
breaking into mist, and fretted with frequent spires and ornaments of
foam, and not unlike the towers of a Gothic church inverted.
There, in one white sheet of foam, the Riechenbach pours down into
its deep beaker, into which the sun never shines. Face to face it
beholds the Alpbach falling from the opposite hill, "like a downward smoke."
When Flemming saw the innumerable runnels, sliding down the mountain-side,
and leaping, all life and gladness, he would fain have clasped them in
his arms and been their playmate, and revelled withthem in their
freedom and delight.

Yet he was weary with the day's journey, and entered the village of
Meyringen, embowered in cherry-trees, which were then laden with fruit,
more like a way-worn traveller than an enthusiastic poet. As he went up
the tavern steps he said in his heart, with the Italian Aretino; "He
who has not been at a tavern, knows not what a paradise it is. O holy
tavern! O miraculous tavern! holy, because no carking cares are there,
nor weariness, nor pain; and miraculous, because of the spits, which
of themselves turn round and round! Of a truth all courtesy and good
manners come from taverns, so full of bows, and Signor, sì! and Signor,
nò!"
But even in the tavern he could not rest long. The same evening at sunset
he was floating on the lake of Brienz, in an open boat, close under the
cascade of the Giessbach, hearing the peasants sing the Ranz des Vaches.
He slept that night at the other extremity of the lake, in a large house,
which, like Saint Peter's at Joppa, stood by the water's side. The
next day he wasted inwriting letters, musing in this green nest, and
paddling about the lake again; and in the evening went across the beautiful
meadows to Interlachen, where many things happened to him, and detained
him long.

CHAPTER III. INTERLACHEN.

Interlachen! How peacefully, by the margin of the swift-rushing
Aar, thou liest, on the broad lap of those romantic meadows,
all overshadowed by the wide arms of giant trees! Only the round towers
of thine ancient cloister rise above their summits; the round
towers themselves, but a child's playthings under the great church-towers
of the mountains. Close beside thee are lakes, which the flowing
band of the river ties together. Before thee opens the magnificent valley
of Lauterbrunn, where the cloud-hooded Monk and pale Virgin stand
like Saint Francis and his Bride of Snow; and all around thee are fields,
and orchards, and hamlets green, from which the church-bells answer
each other at evening! The eveningsun was setting when I first beheld
thee! The sun of life will set ere I forget thee! Surely it was a scene
like this, that inspired the soul of the Swiss poet, in his Song of
the Bell!

"Bell! thou soundest merrily,
When the bridal party
To the church doth hie!

Bell! thou soundest solemnly,
When, on Sabbath morning,
Fields deserted lie!

"Bell! thou soundest merrily;
Tellest thou at evening,
Bed-time draweth nigh!
Bell! thou soundest mournfully; 
Tellest thou the bitter
Parting hath gone by!

"Say! how canst thou mourn?
How canst thou rejoice?

Art but metal dull!
And yet all our sorrowings, 
And all our rejoicings,
Thou dost feel them all!

"God hath wonders many,
Which we cannot fathom, 
Placed within thy form!
When the heart is sinking, 
Thou alone canst raise it,
Trembling in the storm!"
Paul Flemming alighted at one of the principal hotels. The landlord
came out to meet him. He had great eyes and a green coat; and
reminded Flemming of the innkeeper mentioned in the Golden Ass, who
had been changed by magic into a frog, and croaked to his customers
from the lees of a wine-cask. His house, he said, was full; and so
was every house in Interlachen; but, if the gentleman would walk
into the parlour, he would procure a chamber for him, in the
neighbourhood.
On the sofa sat a gentleman, reading; a stout gentleman of perhaps
forty-five, round, ruddy, and with a head, which, being a little
bald on the top, looked not unlike a crow's nest, with one egg in
it. A good-humored face turned from the book as Flemming entered;
and a good-humored voice exclaimed;
"Ha! ha! Mr. Flemming! Is it you, or your apparition! I told you
we should meet again! though you were for taking an eternal farewell
of your fellow-traveller."
Saying these words, the stout gentleman rose and shook Flemming
heartily by the hand. And Flemming returned the shake as heartily,
recognising in this ruddy personage, a former travelling companion,
Mr. Berkley, whom he had left, a week or two previous, toiling up
the Righi. Mr. Berkley was an Englishman of fortune; a good-humored,
humane old bachelor; remarkable alike for his common sense and his
eccentricity. That is to say, the basis of his character was good,
sound common sense, trodden down and smoothed by education; but
this level groundwork his strange and whimsical fancy used as a
dancing-floor, whereon to exhibit her eccentric tricks. His ruling
passion was cold-bathing; and he usually ate his breakfast sitting
in a tub of cold water, and reading a newspaper. He kissed every
child he met; and to every old man, said in passing, "God bless
you!" with such an expression of voice and countenance, that no one
could doubt his sincerity. He reminded one of Roger Bontemps, or
the Little Man in Gray; though with a difference.
"The last time I had the pleasure of seeing you, Mr. Berkley," said
Flemming, "was at Goldau, just as you were going up the Righi.
I hope you were gratified with a fine sunrise on the mountain top."

"No, Sir, I was not!" replied Mr. Berkley. "It is all a humbug! a
confounded humbug! They made such a noise about their sunrise, that
I determined I would not see it. So I lay snug in bed; and only
peeped through the window curtain. That was enough. Just above the
house, on the top of the hill, stood some fifty half-dressed,
romantic individuals, shivering in the wet grass; and, a short
distance from them, a miserable wretch, blowing a long, wooden
horn.
That's your sunrise on the Righi, is it? said I; and went to sleep
again. The best thing I saw at the Culm, was the advertisement on
the bed-room doors, saying, that, if the ladies would wear the
quilts and blankets for shawls, when they went out to see the
sunrise, they must pay for the washing. Take my word for it, the
Righi is a great humbug!" 
"Where have you been since?"
"At Zurich and Schaffhausen. If you go to Zurich, beware how you
stop at the Raven. They will cheat you. They cheated me; but I had
my revenge, for, when we reached Schaffhausen, I wrote in the
Traveller's Book; 
Beware of the Raven of Zurich!
'T is a bird of omen ill; 
With a noisy and an unclean nest,
And a very, very long bill.
If you go to the Golden Falken you will find it there. I am the
author of those lines!" 
"Bitter as Juvenal!" exclaimed Flemming.
"Not in the least bitter," said Mr. Berkley.Looking at the last report of the Melbourne
Grammar School, I find the average age of the upper sixth to be 17 1/2 of
the first form 13 1/3; but I fancy that at the majority of schools the
averages would be quite a year younger in both forms.

At schools, as at home, more liberty has to be conceded to Australian
than to English boys, and the circumstances of their life make them more
fitted for it. But masters complain that parents of day-boarders do not
take enough trouble to see that their boys work, and leave them too much
choice of studies. This latter defect results from the strong feeling in
favour of individuality amongst colonists, which leads them to favour the
idea of each boy from the first striking out a line for himself, without
considering how far he is a competent authority as to his own
capabilities. Where parents do not interfere, obedience to rules is
generally well enforced and that, although punishments are much lighter
than in England, and the cane is only brought into use for extreme
offences. The staff of masters is usually fairly strong as regards
ability and attainments, but, as is too often the case in England, the
majority of them are neither trained teachers, nor even with an aptitude
for teaching; they have simply taken to this particular profession
because they could get more immediate return from it than from any other.
The head-masters, or rather those of recent appointment, are, as a rule,
well chosen. Their salaries run from £800 to £1,200 a year; and you can
get either a first-class man, whose health prevents him from remaining in
England, or a good second-rater for that sum. In some schools the council
or permanent board of governors work excellently with the headmasters;
but too often the Australian dislike to absolute authority in whatever
shape or form is so great as to induce the council to become meddlesome;
and unduly interfere with the master.

So much for the constitution of the school. The work though also modelled
after the English system, diverges from it considerably to suit local
requirements. English public-school training is directed to lead up to
University teaching; thereby losing in amplitude and finish, but gaining
in density and stability of groundwork. But here, although the majority
of boys matriculate, they do not go to the University; and, to suit them,
the University has itself been forced to widen its basis. It has become,
to a large extent, an examining body for a kind of _Abenturienten_
certificate, and of necessity the matriculation examination which serves
this purpose has had to extend over a wider area. These two
circumstances, reacting the one upon the other, have kept the
school-teaching wide, whereby, of course, it loses something in depth.
Thus the master of a leading school complains of the little time that is
given to classics--only less than a quarter of the total school-hours to
Latin, and no more to Greek, which is, moreover, an optional subject.

But before you begin to blame our system--which, I may prophesy, will
soon have to be adopted in England--you must remember the central fact
that nine Australian boys out of ten finish their education when they
leave school, i.e. at sixteen or seventeen. Four of the nine go into
business, three into the bush, and the other two directly into
professions. Obviously the interests of the nine are of far more
importance than those of the one, and it is for their benefit that the
system of education must be arranged. As the country advances in
civilization, we may reduce the proportion of those who have to face the
world directly they leave school to 80 or even to 75 per cent.; but even
then it is only possible to consider the interests of the minority to a
certain extent. I will grant that that extent should be greater than the
numerical proportion, because the aim of a school must keep a certain
elevation if it intends to keep above the average of schools; but it is
impossible to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear, and the _main_
bearings of the school must reflect the purpose for which the majority of
boys come there, if it is to be of any service, or to achieve any
legitimate success.

For my own part, I am not altogether inclined to regret the little
attention that is paid to Latin and Greek. Mr. Matthew Arnold's complaint
of half-culture has always seemed to me to savour of the pedagogue, and
his school of the prig--though I use these words in the better shade of
their meaning. It would, I believe, be a gain if the splitting of the
educational system into denominational schools had not taken place. A
school with 200 boys--the usual size of our largest--cannot give the
twofold training, classical and modern, side by side, as most of your
public schools are doing now; but I am not sure that what the classical
side gains by such a division, is not lost by the modern side as compared
with the homogeneous system.

School-work nowadays cannot be mere training and foundation-laying. It
would be absurd to expect it to cover every department of the higher
education, but there is a happy mean discoverable between the two. A
compromise can be established by which, while a preference is given to
such studies as science and mathematics, which may be held to represent
the inductive and deductive training, boys may yet carry away from school
a reasonable amount of practical knowledge, which, if they do not allow
it to get altogether rusty, can be of use to them in its direct
application to their after-life, as well as in its indirect influence. To
meet some such views as these, the heads of our best schools are allowing
considerable latitude of subjects in their upper classes; but in most
cases it would probably be better for the man if the boy's future career,
being once settled, and his own and his parents' tastes consulted, the
decision as to what optional subjects he should pursue were left with the
head-master, the parent, of course, retaining a right of veto.

But I am lapsing into an educational dissertation, and must hasten back
to colonial school-work. Leaving out of consideration exceptionally
clever boys, the average of learning at our better grammar schools is
higher than in middle-class ones, which form the fairest standard of
comparison obtainable, but lower than at public schools. The four or five
top boys in the upper sixth would invariably be in the sixth at Harrow or
Rugby: at times eight or ten would. The rest of the upper sixth would
probably be well up in the upper fifth, or in what at Rugby is called the
'Twenty,' while the lower sixth would compare with the lower half of the
upper fifth, and higher half of the middle fifth. Here I am taking as our
standard our three or four best schools, all of which, except the Sydney
Grammar School, are Victorian. The two South Australian colleges and
other leading New South Wales establishments fall far below this
standard.

I think I alluded before to the want of preparation for secondary
education, and the interruption of the age-equality of the schools by the
advent of boys of fifteen and sixteen, who have to be put in the first or
second form Between them, these two causes lower the age-standard so much
that one must, on the average, estimate that a colonial boy is two years
behind an English one in point of education. This is most visible at the
beginning of school-life, where, as you will have noted, the first form
averages over thirteen years old, but is partially made up by the
superior rate of progress if the boy remains long enough. At seventeen he
should not be more than a year behind his English contemporary.

The setting up of the matriculation examination as a standard up to which
the average boy strives to make his way, has undoubtedly had a beneficial
effect. Being a reachable proximate ideal, it works strongly upon every
boy's _amour propre_, egging on the average and lazy to work, and by a
system of honours holding out hopes of distinction to the able. The
practice of giving text-books for it encourages cram, and its width
allows of shallowness; but, to counteract this, distinction in any
particular subject is very highly marked.

That there should be a disposition here to look coldly upon the
old-fashioned classical education is not wonderful. You are beginning to
have your doubts about its superiority even in England. Here the majority
of parents would just as soon bury the past, and everyone who becomes a
_bonâ fide_ Australian must feel that the history of his country is yet
only in embryo. Besides this, the tendency of a new country is towards
practical knowledge--small profits, and quick returns; and in classics
the outlay of time is considerable, the returns slow, and the profit not
always very perceptible. "Into the Silent Land!

To you, ye boundless regions
Of all perfection! Tender morning-visions
Of beauteous souls! Eternity's own band!

Who in Life's battle firm doth stand,
Shall bear Hope's tender blossoms
Into the Silent Land!

"O Land! O Land!

For all the broken-hearted
The mildest herald by our fate allotted,
Beckons, and with inverted torch doth stand
To lead us with a gentle hand
Into the land of the great departed, 
Into the Silent Land!

Is not that a beautiful poem?"
Mary Ashburton made no answer. She had turned away to hide her tears.
Flemming wondered, that Berkley could say she was not beautiful. Still
he was rather pleased than offended at it. He felt at that moment how sweet
a thing it would be to possess one, who should seem beautiful
to him alone, and yet to him be more beautiful than all the world
beside! How bright the world became to him at that thought! It was like
one of those paintings in which all the light streams from the face
of the Virgin. O, there is nothing holier in this life of ours, than the
first consciousness of love,--the first fluttering of its silken
wings; the first rising sound and breath of thatwind, which is so
soon to sweep through the soul, to purify or to destroy!

Old histories tell us, that the great Emperor Charlemagne stamped his
edicts with the hilt of his sword. The greater Emperor, Death, stamps
his with the blade; and they are signed and executed with the same
stroke. Flemming received that night a letter from Heidelberg, which
told him, that Emma of Ilmenau was dead. The fate of this poor girl
affected him deeply; and he said in his heart;
"Father in Heaven! Why was the lot of this weak and erring child
so hard!

What had she done, to be so tempted in her weakness, and perish? Why
didst thou suffer her gentle affections to lead her thus astray?"
And, through the silence of the awful midnight, the voice of an avalanche
answered from the distant mountains, and seemed to say;
"Peace! peace! Why dost thou question God's providence!"

CHAPTER VII. TAKE CARE!

Fair is the valley of Lauterbrunnen with its green meadows and overhanging
cliffs. The ruined castle of Unspunnen stands like an armed warder
at the gate of the enchanted land. In calm serenity the snowy
mountains rise beyond. Fairer than the Rock of Balmarusa, you
frowning precipice looks down upon us; and, from the topmost cliff,
the white pennon of the Brook of Dust shimmers and waves in the
sunny air!
It was a bright, beautiful morning after nightrain. Every dewdrop
and raindrop had a whole heaven within it; and so had the heart of
Paul Flemming, as, with Mrs. Ashburton and her dark-eyed daughter,
he drove up the Valley of Lauter-brunnen,--the Valley of
Fountains-Only.
"How beautiful the Jungfrau looks this morning!" exclaimed he,
looking at Mary Ashburton.
She thought he meant the mountain, and assented. But he meant her
likewise.At the Melbourne Grammar School the boys have
studies which they in a certain way appreciate; but they are quite
content with the bare floor and walls, and would despise the little
attempts at comfort and prettiness which an English boy makes. The
latter's pride in his study would be quite incomprehensible to the
colonial, who not unnaturally imbibes his ideas from the rough-and-ready
mode of living in his home. As for uniformity in dress, he would be a
bold master who would even attempt to carry it out.

What I have written of the grammar-schools and denominational colleges of
course applies more or less to all secondary schools. There is at this
moment near Melbourne a private-venture college, which, owing to the
great ability and reputation of its head, ranks with the best Victorian
grammar schools. I should doubt whether the tone that is possible in a
non-proprietary school can easily be brought about in a private one, but
in teaching power it is certainly not inferior. With this one exception,
the private-venture colleges established in each suburb of the different
capitals are little better than the commercial academies of England.
There is the same bad tone, want of sufficient numbers of boys of equal
standing in the school-work, and other disadvantages, which make the very
name of a private school malodorous. The boys are rough and unmannerly,
the discipline slack, the teaching staff inferior in ability and social
position. The public schools of Australia may not be all that could be
wished, but [Greek characters] that a boy of mine should ever go to a
colonial private school, unless it were a preparatory school--a class of
institution greatly needed and not yet provided, because parents do not
appreciate the need.

The existence of three universities in a country with less than two
million inhabitants speaks well for the colonists' appreciation of the
higher instruction, which they themselves have rarely had the opportunity
of enjoying. The Sydney University, founded in 1851, was the first in the
field, but in spite of fine buildings, affiliated colleges, able
professors, and a very fair supply of funds, it has never succeeded in
attracting any considerable number of students, and can hardly be said to
have won even a _succès d'estime_. No little of its failure is
attributable to the success which has attended its Melbourne rival,
founded in 1855, at the height of the gold-fever, and which may be said
to have been floated on gold directly, and kept in deep water by it
indirectly. Before Sydney could recover the effects of the emigration of
those years, Melbourne was well under way, and the size and central
situation of the latter city contributed no little to the success of its
young university, which, under unusually politic as well as able
management, increased annually in size and usefulness, until now no less
than 1,500 students have graduated in its halls, and the number of
undergraduates attending its lectures exceeds 280. It confers degrees in
arts, laws, science, medicine, surgery, and engineering--the standard for
which is above that of Oxford and Cambridge, and in medicine is higher
than that of London itself. All the professors are men of first-rate
ability. Amongst them are an F.R.S. (M. McCoy, Professor of
Palaeontology), and Dr. Hearn, the well-known authority on jurisprudence
and constitutional law. By acting as an examining body for the secondary
schools, the university has not only widened its sphere of usefulness and
materially raised the general educational standard of the colony, but has
gained influence in circles, into which not even its name would probably
otherwise have entered. Already a certain healthy tone and _esprit de
corps_ obtains amongst the students, and _ceteris paribus_ a Melbourne
graduate is professionally to be preferred to an Oxonian or Cantab., at
any rate for colonial work. Thanks in no small degree to its educating
and civilizing influence on the community, an anti-materialistic voice is
beginning to make itself heard in Victoria, and if it does not occupy
itself too much with politics, it promises to become an intellectual
centre. It would not be difficult to find faults in either its
constitution or its teaching, but it has the great merit of taking the
trouble to understand and keep abreast of the times. All things
considered, the Melbourne University may claim to have deserved the
success it has commanded, and to be one of the greatest achievements of
Victoria.

The present prosperity and bright prospects of New South Wales, together
with the educational influence of the late exhibition, and an opportune
bequest of £180,000 by a wealthy colonist, have lately stirred up the
authorities of the Sydney University to make a grand effort to justify
its existence. A medical school--_the_ most successful side of the
Melbourne 'varsity is to be established, and other improvements
introduced. But although the principal, Dr. Badham, is a better classic
than any that the Melbourne University possesses, there is an indolence
and _laissez-faire_ about the Sydney University which must long keep it
in the background. Not until there is a thorough reformation in the whole
style, tone, and management of the university will there be any real
progress, and the centripetal influence of successful Melbourne is so
strong, that I do not believe Sydney will ever be able to catch up lost
ground, or even to considerably decrease the interval between itself and
its rival, advance though it may, and undoubtedly will, when the present
governing body has died out, and the public insists upon an entirely new
regime. As for the Adelaide University, it is bound either to federate
with Melbourne on the best terms it can obtain, or to drag on in
extravagant grandeur. In five years of existence it has conferred five
degrees at a cost of £50,000, and the professors threaten to outnumber
the students. The vaulting ambition of the little colony has somewhat
o'erleaped itself; but by a federation with Melbourne there would
undoubtedly be practical benefit gained, and little but sham glory lost.
If Sydney would also forego its jealousy, and acknowledge the success of
its rival by federating on a basis which should allow the Melbourne
University the position of _prima inter pares_, all colonies would
profit; but even if Sydney would federate--which I do not think in the
least probable--it could hardly expect its successful _confrère_ to
meet it on terms of perfect equality, especially as, comparatively
speaking, Melbourne has little to gain by federation.

As regards the cost of secondary and higher education, it must be
considered exceedingly small, remembering that the value of money is less
here than at home; and that the salaries paid to masters are from £50 to
£200 a year higher than the same men would obtain in England. The highest
terms for boarders at any secondary school are £80 per annum, and from
£50 to £60 is the usual charge. Day-boys pay from £12 to £24, according
to the school. The University fees are very light, amounting to not more
than £20 to £30 a year, including all charges.

As the Universities are purely teaching and examining bodies, with but
little control outside their walls, the religious denominations are
beginning to supply the want of a college system such as obtains at
Oxford and Cambridge, by founding affiliated colleges in which the regime
approximates as closely to that of the English Universities as the
circumstances of the case allow. At Melbourne there are two of these
colleges--Trinity College, belonging to the Church of England, and Ormond
College, erected at the cost of some £70,000, and richly endowed by a
wealthy colonist, Mr. Ormond, belonging to the Presbyterians. At Sydney,
the Roman Catholics, the Church of England, and the Presbyterians, have
all three erected affiliated colleges, but they are smaller and less
successful than those at Melbourne, and in a large measure serve merely
as theological colleges for training young men for the ministry. The
Church of England in Adelaide has also founded St. Barnabas College,
where, however, the relative importance of the two duties is
reversed--the college being more especially a theological college. The
Sydney colleges have not at all fulfilled the expectations which had been
formed about them, largely owing to the want of success of the
university; but the Melbourne colleges, and especially Trinity College,
which is the least richly endowed, and has the smallest buildings, are
doing excellent work. The atmosphere which the students breathe in them
is conducive to greater steadiness of work and exertion to achieve
university honours than is generally found in the unattached student;
besides, they offer some social advantages, and are also morally tonic.
In founding Trinity College, which was the first of these institutions in
Victoria, four years ago, the Bishop of Melbourne may be said to have
conferred an educational boon upon the colony only second to that which
it owes to Sir Redmond Barry. Every year it is increasing in usefulness,
and I can well understand that many parents who before preferred the
expense of sending their sons to Oxford or Cambridge, will now see their
way to allowing them to complete their education at the Melbourne
University.

The provision for the secondary education of girls in Australia is
miserably poor. The only school that really combines the social and
intellectual qualifications requisite is to be found at Perth, in Western
Australia. At that school the teaching is admirable and the social tone
excellent. It is like a rusty helmet cleft in twain, but still crested
with towering plumes!"
"And what a motley crowd in the garden! Philisters and Sons of the Muses!
And there goes the venerable Thibaut, taking his evening stroll. Do you
see him there, with his silver hair flowing over his shoulders, and
that friendly face, which has for so many years pored over the Pandects.
I assure you, he inspires me with awe. And yet he is a merry old man, and
loves his joke, particularly at the expense of Moses and other ancient
lawgivers."
Here their attention was diverted by a wild-looking person, who passed
with long strides under the archway in the fosse, right beneath
them, and disappeared among the bushes.

He was ill-dressed,--his hair flying in the wind,--his movements
hurried and nervous, and the expression of his broad countenance
wild, strange, and earnest.

"Who can that be!" asked Flemming. "He strides away indignantly, like one
of Ossian's ghosts?"
"A great philosopher, whose name I have forgotten. Truly a strange owl!"

"He looks like a lion with a hat on."
"He is a mystic, who reads Schubert's History of the Soul, and
lives, for the most part, in the clouds of the Middle Ages. To him
the spirit-world is still open. He believes in the transmigration of
souls; and I dare say is now followingthe spirit of some departed
friend, who has taken the form of yonder pigeon."
"What a strange hallucination! He lives, I suppose, in the land of
cloud-shadows. And, as St. Thomas Aquinas was said to be lifted up from
the ground by the fervor of his prayers, so, no doubt, is he by the
fervor of his visions."
"He certainly appears to neglect all sublunary things; and, to judge
from certain appearances, since you seem fond of holy similitudes, one
would say, that, like St. Serapion the Sindonite, he had but one shirt.
Yet what cares he? he lives in that poetic dream-land of his
thoughts, and clothes his dream-children in poetry."
"He is a poet, then, as well as a philosopher?"
"Yes; but a poet who never writes a line. There is nothing in nature
to which his imagination does not give a poetic hue.

But the power to make others see these objects in the same poetic light,
is wanting. Still he is a man of fine powers and feelings; for, next to
being a greatpoet, is the power of understanding one,--of finding
one's-self in him, as we Germans say."
Three figures, dressed in black, now came from one of the green alleys,
and stopped on the brink of a little fountain, that was playing
among the gay flowers in the garden. The eldest of the three was a lady
in that season of life, when the early autumn gives to the summer leaves
a warmer glow, yet fades them not. Though the mother of many children,
she was still beautiful;--resembling those trees, which blossom in October,
when the leaves are changing, and whose fruit and blossom are on the
branch at once. At her side was a girl of some sixteen years, who
seemed to lean upon her arm for support. Her figure was slight; her
countenance beautiful, though deadly white; and her meek eyes like the
flower of the night-shade, pale and blue, but sending forth golden rays.
They were attended by a tall youth of foreign aspect, who seemed a
young Antinous, with a mustache and a nose à la Kosciusko. In other
respects a perfect hero of romance.

"Unless mine eyes deceive me," said the Baron, "there is the Frau von
Ilmenau, with her pale daughter Emma, and that eternal Polish Count.
He is always hovering about them, playing the unhappy exile, merely
to excite that poor girl's sympathies; and as wretched as genius and
wantonness can make him."
"Why, he is already married, you know," replied Flemming. "And his wife
is young and beautiful."
"That does not prevent him from being in love with some one else.
That question was decided in the Courts of Love in the Middle Ages.
Accordingly he has sent his fair wife to Warsaw. But how pale the poor
child looks."
"She has just recovered from severe illness. In the winter, you
know, it was thought she would not live from hour to hour."
"And she has hardly recovered from that disease, before she seems
threatened with a worse one; namely, a hopeless passion. However,
people do not die of love now-a-days."
"Seldom, perhaps," said Flemming. "And yet it is folly to pretend
that one ever wholly recovers from a disappointed passion. Such
wounds always leave a scar. There are faces I can never look upon
without emotion. There are names I can never hear spoken without
almost starting!"Even the
relative idea of imposing duties temporarily for the sake of giving new
industries a start, which marked the second stage of public opinion, is
giving way to the absolute one that Protection means more work and higher
wages whenever and wherever introduced. It may in course of time be
possible gradually to take 5 per cent off the duties at a time. But any
reduction of the tariff would instantly put hundreds of electors--and
very noisy hundreds too--out of employment, and reduce the earnings of
thousands, while the general effect upon prices would take a long time to
become perceptible. At the present time, come Conservative, come Liberal
into office, neither's tenure would be worth twenty-four hours' purchase
if he made any attempt in that direction. The whole subject of Free Trade
and Protection has for the present completely passed out of the region of
practical politics.

A distinguishing feature of Victorian public life is the existence of an
approach to definite political parties bearing the same names and
starting originally from the same bases as in England, though their
principles by no means correspond to those of English Liberals and
Conservatives. The main factor which led up to these divisions was class
dislike, embittered by the remembrance that both plutocracy and democracy
started in life on an equal footing. The diggings caused a general
shaking up of the social bag, and the people who came out uppermost were
mostly those who had been lowest before. In matters political they
grabbed the public lands wholesale; socially they flaunted their wealth
more openly than was wise. _Du haut en bas_ came badly from those who
had only a few years ago been hail-fellows-well-met. On the other side
was jealousy, embittered often by a feeling that it was a man's own fault
that he had not got on better in the world. The change had been brought
about too suddenly to allow of people shaking down into their new
positions. In this state of public feeling demagogues were not slow to
see their advantage. They fanned the flames of discontent and jealousy
till they broke out in Mr. Berry's 'platform,' the bursting-up of the
landed estates, reform amounting to revolution, protection _ad absurdum_,
and so forth.

For a short time feeling ran so high over the Reform Bill, as almost to
threaten civil war. One minister talked of settling the question with
'broken heads and flaming houses.' Another boasted at a public meeting
that he had 'got his hand upon the throat of capital'--all bombast, of
course, but dangerous bombast at a time of great public excitement.
Happily a vent was found for these angry passions in the ridiculous
incident of Mr. Berry's 'embassy' to the Colonial Office, which set both
parties laughing, and after three years of turmoil which had led to
considerable commercial distress, everybody got tired of agitation.

The Berry Ministry died of ridicule. A Conservative Government then
enjoyed a short tenure of office, but committed suicide by bringing in an
impracticable Reform Bill. A second Berry Ministry came into office, but
not into power. It also lived a few months, but with its dying kick it
passed a measure which, though it placed the Upper Chamber on a more
liberal basis than any other in Australia, and effected most important
changes in its constitution, was conservative in comparison with Mr.
Berry's first proposals. Hitherto members of the Upper House had been
elected for ten years, the qualification for the electorate being the
possession of property of the rateable value of £50 a year. Now the
electoral qualification has been reduced to £10 house and £20
leaseholders, and the tenure is for six years. The Lower House, or
Assembly, has for years been elected by manhood suffrage throughout
Victoria, New South Wales, and South Australia.

Land reform has not yet advanced equally far, and will probably be
reserved for the next burst of democratic energy. The view of 'the party'
is that land should be made to pay a tax proportionate to the increase
which the State has, directly and indirectly, effected in its value by
railways and otherwise. The more advanced section point out that the
greater part of the land was sold at ridiculously and dishonestly low
prices to friends of the powers that were. For this reason, and because
the wealth of the colony would, they contend, be increased in the gross,
as well as more equally distributed by the partition of the large
freeholds, the tax should be progressive, i.e. increasing in percentage
according to the value of the property, so as to compel the large owners
to sell, and establish something answering to a peasant proprietary, or,
more strictly speaking, a yeomanry tilling its own soil. The
Conservatives look upon such a tax as nothing better than legalized
robbery, and hold the most pronounced views on the sacred rights of
property. A _juste milieu_ will probably be found between the two
courses, and the existing land-tax be increased; but unless recent
legislation for Ireland inspire new views of property, I do not think a
progressive tax is to be feared. As regards the existing land laws, I
shall say something further on upon this point in connection with those
of New South Wales.

After a bout of rabid Radicalism, Victoria now owns, or is owned by, a
half-and-half Ministry made up of the weakest members of both parties.
Its views are Liberal-Conservative, and wishy-washy; its principal
concern to remain in office. It serves as a sort of Aunt Sally for both
parties to shy at. But there is no coalition strong enough to replace it.
For nearly two years now it has pursued the even tenour of its way,
harmless and unharmed, confessing where it has blundered, and dancing a
sword-dance among small matters of administration. So long as it occupies
itself with nothing of importance, it seems likely to remain in office
till the next General Election. In view of this event, Sir Bryan
O'Loghlen has introduced a four-million loan to provide fifty-nine
railways, which should conciliate the hardest hearts of his opponents in
every district; for these railways are to be distributed most
impartially, and if any districts have more than a fair share, it is
those where opposition is most likely to be met. Unfortunately for the
Government, a series of accidents on the suburban railway lines have
recently called public attention to the fact that political influence is
more useful than competence in the obtaining of employment in the railway
department. The O'Loghlen Government have not been greater sinners than
their neighbours in this respect; but unless they take the bull by the
horns, and speedily bring in a measure to hand over the management of the
railways to a non-political board, they are likely to be sacrificed to
public indignation. The failure of the loan will also be laid to their
door and if either Liberals or Conservatives can only organize themselves
sufficiently, the General Election will probably prove fatal to them.

Of all the Australian provinces, there is none with the immediate
resources and future prospects of the Mother Colony. On her varied soils
and amidst her different climates, wool, wheat, wine, and sugar all find
a roomy and congenial home. Gold, copper, and tin are not wanting; and
close to the seaboard she has an unbounded supply of coal, which must
eventually be of more service in raising up manufacturing industries than
all the protective tariffs of Victoria. The early circumstances of New
South Wales were against its rapid growth. Founded as a receptacle for
convicts, a system akin to slavery soon took root. Such of the early
settlers as were neither gentlemen nor convicts belonged to the lowest
class, or joined it soon after they landed. The colony was more than half
a century old before it got any backbone; and although the descendants of
convicts have in most cases proved excellent colonists, it took some time
before 'trust in the people' could get the upper hand of fear. Even now,
when but few of the last convicts remain above ground, and the masses of
the population consist of immigrants in every way equal to the other
colonies, the spirit of Conservatism is still ingrained in New South
Wales. He struck down, almost with the same movement, the man in front.
He rushed on Fabri, who in the middle of the first line was supporting,
though far from young, a single combat with one of the Savoyard leaders.
On him Basterga's coward weapon alighted without warning, and laid him
low. To strike down another, and turning, range himself in the van of
the foreigners with a mighty "Savoy! Savoy!"

was Basterga's next action; and it sufficed. The panic-stricken burghers,
apprised of treason in their ranks, gave back every way. The Savoyards saw
their advantage, rallied, and pressed them.
Speedily the Italians regained the ground they had lost, and with the
tall form of their champion fighting in the van, began to sweep the
towns-folk back into the Rue de la Cité.

But arrived at the meeting of the ways, Basterga's followers paused,
hesitating to expose their flank by entering this second street. The
Genevese saw this, rallied in their turn, and for a moment seemed to be
holding their own. But three or four of their doughtiest fighters lay
stark in the kennel, they had no longer a leader, they were poorly armed
and hastily collected; and devoted as they were, it needed little to renew
the panic and start them in utter rout. Basterga saw this, and when his
men still hung back, neglecting the golden opportunity, he rushed forward,
almost alone, until he stood conspicuous between the two bands--the one
hesitating to come on, the other hesitating to fly.

"Savoy!" he thundered, "Ville gagnée! The city is ours! Cowards, come on!"
And waving his halberd above his head, he beckoned to his followers to
advance.

Had they done so, had they charged on the instant, they had changed
all for him, and perhaps all for Geneva. But they hung a moment, and the
next, as in shame they drew themselves together for the charge, their
champion stooped forward with a shrill scream. The next instant he
received full on his nape a heavy iron pot, that descending with
tremendous force from a window above him, rolled from him broken into
three pieces.

He went down under the blow as if a sledge-hammer had struck him; and
so sudden, so dramatic was the fall--his armour clanging about
him--that for an instant the two bands held their hands and stood staring,
as indifferent crowds stand and gaze in the street. A dozen on the
patriots' side knew the house from which the _marmite_ fell, and
marked it; and half as many saw at the small window whence it came
the grey locks and stern wrinkled face of an aged woman.

The effect on the burghers was magical. As if the act symbolised not only
the loved ones for whom they fought, but the dire distress to which
they were come, they rushed on the foreign men-at-arms with a spirit and
a fury hitherto unknown. With a ringing shout of "Mère Royaume! Mère
Royaume!"--raised by those who knew the old woman, and taken up by
many who did not--they swept the foe, shaken by the fall of their leader,
along the narrow Tertasse, pressed on them, and, still shouting the new
war-cry, entered the gateway along with them.

"Mère Royaume! Mère Royaume!" The name rang savagely in the groining of the
arch, echoed dully in the obscurity in which the fierce struggle went
on. And men struck to its rhythm, and men died to it. And men who heard
it thus and lived never forgot it, nor ever went back in their
minds to that night without recalling it.

To one man, flurried already, and a coward at heart, the name
carried a paralysing assurance of doom. He had seen Basterga fall--by
this woman's hand of all hands in the world--and he had been the
first to flee. But in the lane he tripped over Fabri, he fell headlong,
and only raised himself in time to gain the gateway a few feet in front
of the avenging pikes. Still, he might escape, he hoped to escape, through
the gate and into the open Corraterie. But the first to reach the gates
had taken in hand to shut them, and so to prevent the townsfolk
reaching the Corraterie.

One of the great doors, half-closed, blocked his way, and
instinctively--ignorant how far behind him the pike-points
were--he sprang aside into the guard-room.

His one chance now--for he was cut off, and knew it--lay in reaching the
staircase and mounting to the roof. A bound carried him to the door, he
grasped the handle. But a fugitive who had only a second before saved
himself that way, took him for a pursuer, dragged the door close
and held it--held it in spite of his efforts and his imprecations.
Five seconds, ten, perhaps, Grio--for he it was--wasted in struggling
vainly with the door. The man on the other side clung to it with a
despair equal to his own. Five seconds, ten, perhaps; but in that
space of time, short as it was, the man paid smartly for the sins
of his life.The General Elections have resulted in an enormous majority for the
Opposition, and Sir Henry has resigned with the worst possible grace,
having forfeited any regret that might have been felt for his overthrow
by the abuse which he lavished on his opponents when he saw that the
elections were going against him, and the ridiculous pomposity with which
he has told the electors that they were not educated up to appreciating
him. As to the cause of his fall, it may partly be attributed to the
opposition of the Roman Catholics or denominational-education party, and
of the publicans; but it is chiefly due to a strong feeling throughout
the colony, that the land policy inaugurated by Sir John Robertson, just
twenty-one years ago, has proved a failure, and that it has raised up a
warfare between the pastoral tenants and the agriculturists, without any
adequate advantage to the latter.

It is passing strange that the colony, which was the first to introduce
the democratic land system of 'free selection before survey' into
Australia, should be the first to abandon it; and that the same Minister,
Sir John Robertson, who came into note through its introduction, should
practically end his political career with its downfall. The faults of
selection before survey were obvious from the first. The 'selector,'
being allowed to purchase in any part of the colony, used often to pick
out the heart of the squatter's leasehold run. It became, of course, the
squatter's interest to starve him out, and the selections, being isolated
instead of contiguous, were ill able to battle against this opposition.

The Bill on which the Coalition Ministry was defeated was merely a digest
of preceding Acts on the subject; and what contributed no little to the
fate of the Ministry, both in the House and in the country, was the
circumstance that not one of them, except Sir John Robertson, took any
interest in the Land Reform question, and that, until his recent
coalition with Sir John, Sir Henry Parkes had been one of the most bitter
opponents of the measures, on the consolidation of which he staked the
life of his Government. Sir John had undoubtedly taken a back seat in the
Coalition Government, and it was partly to revive his failing prestige
that Sir Henry Parkes brought in a measure which was notoriously
indifferent to himself. His brilliant reception in Europe and on his
return to Australia had turned his head, and he believed he could make
the House and country swallow whatever he chose. But his vaulting
ambition o'erleaped itself, and in his chagrin and mortification he has
unveiled the mask of respectability which he has worn for the last few
years, and given vent to language and sentiments which have seriously
injured the position he was achieving and the prospects of a return to
office. These should have been excellent, since the new Ministry is weak
in _personnel_, and has before it the duty of framing a new land
policy, which is much more difficult than that of picking holes in the
existing system. For the present they have shelved the question by
appointing a Royal Commission to inquire into the working of the land
laws. The programme for the session, revealed in the Speech from the
Throne, contains nothing more startling than amendments of the Licensing
Act and Criminal Laws, and measures for the establishment of secondary
schools throughout the colony, and to abate the rabbit pest.

The leading measures introduced by the Coalition Ministry during their
four years' tenure of office were, if we except a Licensed Victuallers'
Amendment Act, an Educational Act on the basis of that existing in the
other colonies, which served as a trump-card at the 1881 general
elections, and a measure for constitutional reform, in which they were
checked by the Upper House in 1879. Sir Henry's object, like Mr. Berry's,
was to strengthen the hands of the Assembly, but unfortunately for his
scheme he had a very different class of electors at his back. As happened
over the Land Act, his weathercock failed to point in the right
direction. When the Council rejected his Bill, he indulged in threats and
fulminations which would have done credit to a Berryite of the Berryites.
But the country utterly refused to back him up. It would not be roused
into indignation on one side or the other, and was utterly indifferent as
to whether the Council was reformed or continued as of old.. So after a
few days fuming and fretting, Sir Henry thought it wiser to let the
matter drop. The Legislative Council still remains nominated by the
Crown, the tenure of office being for life. RUODI.
How now?
Why all this haste?

BAUMGARTEN.
Cast off!

My life's at stake!
Set me across!

KUONI.
Why, what's the matter, friend?

WERNI.
Who are pursuing you? First tell us that.

BAUMGARTEN (to the fisherman).
Quick, quick, even now they're close upon my heels!

The viceroy's horsemen are in hot pursuit!
I'm a lost man should they lay hands upon me.

RUODI.
Why are the troopers in pursuit of you?

BAUMGARTEN.
First save my life and then I'll tell you all.

WERNI.
There's blood upon your garments--how is this?

BAUMGARTEN.
The imperial seneschal, who dwelt at Rossberg.

KUONI.
How! What! The Wolfshot? [3] Is it he pursues you?

BAUMGARTEN.
He'll ne'er hunt man again; I've settled him.

ALL (starting back).
Now, God forgive you, what is this you've done!

BAUMGARTEN.
What every free man in my place had done.
I have but used mine own good household right 'Gainst him that would
have wronged my wife--my honor.

KUONI.
And has he wronged you in your honor, then?

BAUMGARTEN.
That he did not fulfil his foul desire Is due to God and to my
trusty axe.

WERNI.
You've cleft his skull, then, have you, with your axe?

KUONI.
Oh, tell us all! You've time enough, before The boat can be unfastened
from its moorings.

BAUMGARTEN.
When I was in the forest, felling timber, My wife came running out
in mortal fear:
"The seneschal," she said, "was in my house, Had ordered her to get
a bath prepared, And thereupon had taken unseemly freedoms, From
which she rid herself and flew to me." Armed as I was I sought him,
and my axe Has given his bath a bloody benediction.

WERNI.
And you did well; no man can blame the deed.

KUONI.
The tyrant! Now he has his just reward!
We men of Unterwald have owed it long.

BAUMGARTEN.
The deed got wind, and now they're in pursuit.
Heavens! whilst we speak, the time is flying fast.
[It begins to thunder.

KUONI.
Quick, ferrymen, and set the good man over.

RUODI.
Impossible! a storm is close at hand, Wait till it pass! You
must.

BAUMGARTEN.
Almighty heavens!
I cannot wait; the least delay is death.

KUONI (to the fisherman).
Push out. God with you! We should help our neighbors; The like
misfortune may betide us all.
[Thunder and the roaring of the wind.

RUODI.
The south wind's up! [4] See how the lake is rising!
I cannot steer against both storm and wave.
BAUMGARTEN (clasping him by the knees).
God so help you, as now you pity me!

WERNI.
His life's at stake. Have pity on him, man!

KUONI.
He is a father: has a wife and children.
[Repeated peals of thunder.

RUODI.
What! and have I not, then, a life to lose, A wife and child at
home as well as he?
See, how the breakers foam, and toss, and whirl, And the lake eddies
up from all its depths!
Right gladly would I save the worthy man, But 'tis impossible, as
you must see.

BAUMGARTEN (still kneeling).
Then must I fall into the tyrant's hands, And with the port of
safety close in sight!
Yonder it lies! My eyes can measure it, My very voice can echo to
its shores.
There is the boat to carry me across, Yet must I lie here helpless
and forlorn.

KUONI.
Look! who comes here?

RUODI.
'Tis Tell, brave Tell, of Buerglen. [5]
[Enter TELL, with a crossbow.In most important reforms--such as the withdrawal of
State aid to religion; the registration of landed property; the acquiring
of Constitutional Government, and the placing of the Constitution on a
liberal basis; the introduction of the credit system for the purchase of
small farms, and refusal to sell large tracts of country; and the
adoption of State Education--South Australia has either led the way or
been amongst the first. Thanks to the more advanced views of the earliest
settlers, the abuses to be done away with have never been so flagrant as
in the other provinces. Hence the work of reform has in every case been
carried out in a more just and moderate spirit. The chief fault to be
found in the political temper of the people lies in their apathy. When
they do go to the poll, not a few of the electors prefer to vote for the
candidate whom they believe to have the most honesty and public spirit,
even if they do not happen to agree altogether with his political views.
But the preference of men to measures is by no means an unmixed evil
under the circumstances. A new country not only offers great facilities
for political adventure, but rarely sins by going too slow, and when any
policy of real import comes to the front, the evil corrects itself in
proportion to the importance of the occasion. To this preference, also,
it is due that, although South Australian politics are for the most part
personal, yet the evils of personality are less prominent than in the
sister colonies. Political consistency is rated higher, and the tone of
the debates is infinitely better, than in New South Wales, where there is
the same absence of important questions. Indeed, the Legislature is famed
throughout Australia as being the most hard-working and best behaved.

With regard to Free Trade, a compromise has been adopted, and there are
not wanting signs of a disposition to follow the example of New South
Wales; but I fear this is rather out of dislike to Victoria than from any
abstract recognition of the advantages of a Free Trade policy.

Warned by the troubles to which the question of Upper House reform gave
rise in Victoria, the South Australians tackled it last session, when
both Chambers were on the best of terms with each other, and an Act was
passed by which the franchise was reduced from £50 freeholders and £20
leaseholders, to £20 leaseholders and £10 freeholders; the tenure of a
seat shortened from twelve to nine years; the colony divided into
electoral districts instead of voting in block; and a scheme introduced
for finally dissolving the Council in the event of the occurrence of
certain circumstances tending to produce a deadlock. All parties were
agreed as to the general principles of the Act, and beyond a little
skirmishing over matters of detail, it passed through both Houses with as
little excitement as any petty measure. Public opinion has also declared
itself in favour of imposing a tax either on income or on property, which
is felt not to be paying its fair share towards the Government of the
country. A land-tax was talked of, but in view of the re-action on the
land question, which has extended in a modified shape from New South
Wales, and of the present distress of the landed interest, such a tax is
not likely to be imposed. Certain it is that additional revenue to meet
the interest on the money borrowed for public works must be raised from
some source. The land revenue, which had been used for ordinary revenue
purposes, is now beginning to drop; and since the colony is but slightly
taxed, in comparison with its neighbours, it has no reason to grumble at
an increase of taxation. Amongst the more important measures passed last
session, was one for providing compensation for improvements to selectors
surrendering their agreements, and for remission of interest to those who
have reaped under a specified average during the last three seasons.
Another sets apart a million of money for making a railway to the
Victorian border to place Adelaide in communication with Melbourne. The
distressed condition of the selectors, who have taken up land in country
which all experts pronounced unfit for agricultural purposes, except in
exceptional seasons, will necessitate a measure next session to give
special advantages for improved cultivation. Here also, as in New South
Wales, the antagonism between the squatter and the selector, though less
pronounced, is beginning to be found artificial. Owing to the clause in
nearly all pastoral leases which provides for the resumption of all lands
leased for pastoral purposes at three years' notice, and the want of
inducements to capitalists to open up the interior, local capital is
travelling over to Queensland. He pushes off. God help thee now, brave
sailor!
Look how his bark is reeling on the waves!

KUONI (on the shore).
The surge has swept clean over it. And now 'Tis out of sight. Yet stay,
there 'tis again Stoutly he stems the breakers, noble fellow!
SEPPI.
Here come the troopers hard as they can ride!

KUONI.
Heavens! so they do! Why, that was help, indeed.
[Enter a troop of horsemen.

FIRST HORSEMAN.
Give up the murderer! You have him here!

SECOND HORSEMAN.
This way he came!The present Ministry, like its predecessor, which lasted four years, is
eminently respectable. The Premier, Mr. Bray, has shown himself to be one
of the best leaders of the House ever known in Adelaide. The Minister of
Education, Mr. Parsons, is distinctly able. The Treasurer, Mr. Glyde,
represents caution, and the Minister of Public works, Mr. Ramsay,
shrewdness and enterprise. Altogether it is a strong combination of
administrative ability, and in Messrs. Bray and Parsons it has two good
speakers. "Let him understand, then," Blondel replied firmly, "let all
understand, that while I will do my duty I am no longer in the position
to guard against sudden strokes, in which I should have been, had
I been allowed to go my own way.It will probably make use of the
recess to find out what proposals are likely to meet with least
opposition, and the Opposition will pronounce no definite opinions till
the Ministry have made up their minds. And this is the chronic state of
affairs. On minor differences Governments go in and out, but the broad
lines of policy are laid down by the country, and remain the same whoever
may be at the head of affairs. Nowhere is the theory of government by the
people more fully and fairly illustrated.

