Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


PHILOSOPHER JACK, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.


CHAPTER ONE.

TREATS OF OUR HERO AND OTHERS.

If the entire circuit of a friend's conversation were comprised in the
words "Don't" and "Do,"--it might perhaps be taken for granted that his
advice was not of much value; nevertheless, it is a fact that
Philosopher Jack's most intimate and valuable--if not valued--friend
never said anything to him beyond these two words.  Nor did he ever
condescend to reason.  He listened, however, with unwearied patience to
reasoning, but when Jack had finished reasoning and had stated his
proposed course of action, he merely said to him, "Don't," or "Do."

"For what end was I created?" said the philosopher, gloomily.

Wise and momentous question when seriously put, but foolish remark, if
not worse, when flung out in bitterness of soul!

Jack, whose other name was Edwin, and his age nineteen, was a student.
Being of an argumentative turn of mind, his college companions had
dubbed him Philosopher.  Tall, strong, active, kindly, hilarious,
earnest, reckless, and impulsive, he was a strange compound, with a
handsome face, a brown fluff on either cheek, and a moustache like a
lady's eyebrow.  Moreover, he was a general favourite, yet this favoured
youth, sitting at his table in his own room, sternly repeated the
question--in varied form and with increased bitterness--"Why was I born
at all?"

Deep wrinkles of perplexity sat on his youthful brow.  Evidently he
could not answer his own question, though in early life his father had
carefully taught him the "Shorter Catechism with proofs," while his good
old mother had enforced and exemplified the same.  His taciturn friend
was equally unable, or unwilling, to give a reply.

After prolonged meditation, Jack relieved his breast of a deep sigh and
re-read a letter which lay open on his desk.  Having read it a third
time with knitted brows, he rose, went to the window, and gazed
pathetically on the cat's parade, as he styled his prospect of slates
and chimney cans.

"So," said he at last, "my dreams are over; prospects gone; hopes
collapsed--all vanished like the baseless fabric of a vision."

He turned from the cat's parade, on which the shades of evening were
descending, to the less romantic contemplation of his empty fire-grate.

"Now," said he, re-seating himself at his table and stretching his long
legs under it, "the question is, What am I to do? shall I kick at fate,
throw care, like physic, to the dogs, cut the whole concern, and go to
sea?"

"Don't," said his taciturn friend, speaking distinctly for the first
time.

"Or," continued Jack, "shall I meekly bow to circumstances, and struggle
with my difficulties as best I may?"

"Do," replied his friend, whose name, by the way, was Conscience.

For a long time the student sat gazing at the open letter in silence.
It was from his father, and ran thus:--

  "Dear Teddie,--It's a long time now that I've been thinkin' to write
  you, and couldn't a-bear to give you such a heavy disappointment but
  can't putt it off no longer, and, as your mother, poor soul, says,
  it's the Lord's will and can't be helped--which, of course, it
  shouldn't be helped if that's true--but--well, howsomever, it's of no
  use beatin' about the bush no longer.  The seasons have been bad for
  some years past, and it's all I've been able to do to make the two
  ends meet, with your mother slavin' like a nigger patchin' up the
  child'n's old rags till they're like Joseph's coat after the wild
  beast had done its worst on it--though we _are_ given to understand
  that the only wild beasts as had to do with that coat was Joseph's own
  brothers.  Almost since ever I left the North of England--a small
  boy--and began to herd cattle on the Border hills, I've had a strange
  wish to be a learned man, and ever since I took to small farmin', and
  perceived that such was not to be my lot in life, I've had a powerful
  desire to see my eldest son--that's you, dear boy--trained in
  scientific pursoots, all the more that you seemed to have a natural
  thirst that way yourself.  Your mother, good soul, in her own broad
  tongue--which I've picked up somethin' of myself through livin' twenty
  year with her--was used to say she `wad raither see her laddie trained
  in ways o' wisdom than o' book-learnin',' which I'm agreed to myself,
  though it seems to me the two are more or less mixed up.  Howsomever,
  it's all up now, my boy; you'll have to fight your own battle and pay
  your own way, for I've not got one shillin' to rub on another, except
  what'll pay the rent; and, what with the grey mare breakin' her leg
  an' the turnips failin', the look-out ahead is darkish at the best."

The letter finished with some good advice and a blessing.

To be left thus without resources, just when the golden gates of
knowledge were opening, and a few dazzling gleams of the glory had
pierced his soul, was a crushing blow to the poor student.  If he had
been a true philosopher, he would have sought counsel on his knees, but
his philosophy was limited; he only took counsel with himself and the
immediate results were disastrous.

"Yes," said he, with an impulsive gush, "I'll go to sea."

"Don't," said his quiet friend.

But, regardless of this advice, Edwin Jack smote the table with his
clenched fist so violently that his pen leapt out of its ink-bottle and
wrote its own signature on one of his books.  He rose in haste and rang
the bell.

"Mrs Niven," he said to his landlady, "let me know how much I owe you.
I'm about to leave town--and--and won't return."

"Ech!  Maister Jack; what for?" exclaimed the astonished landlady.

"Because I'm a beggar," replied the youth, with a bitter smile, "and I
mean to go to sea."

"Hoots!  Maister Jack, ye're jokin'."

"Indeed I am very far from joking, Mrs Niven; I have no money, and no
source of income.  As I don't suppose you would give me board and
lodging for nothing, I mean to leave."

"Toots! ye're haverin'," persisted Mrs Niven, who was wont to treat her
"young men" with motherly familiarity.  "Tak' time to think o't, an'
ye'll be in anither mind the morn's mornin'.  Nae doot ye're--"

"Now, my good woman," interrupted Jack, firmly but kindly, "don't bother
me with objections or advice, but do what I bid you--there's a good
soul; be off."

Mrs Niven saw that she had no chance of impressing her lodger in his
present mood; she therefore retired, while Jack put on a rough
pilot-cloth coat and round straw hat in which he was wont at times to go
boating.  Thus clad, he went off to the docks of the city in which he
dwelt; the name of which city it is not important that the reader should
know.

In a humble abode near the said docks a bulky sea-captain lay stretched
in his hammock, growling.  The prevailing odours of the neighbourhood
were tar, oil, fish, and marine-stores.  The sea-captain's room partook
largely of the same odours, and was crowded with more than an average
share of the stores.  It was a particularly small room, with charts,
telescopes, speaking-trumpets, log-lines, sextants, portraits of ships,
sou'-westers, oil-cloth coats and leggings on the walls; model ships
suspended from the beams overhead; sea-boots, coils of rope, kegs, and
handspikes on the floor; and great shells, earthenware ornaments,
pagodas, and Chinese idols on the mantel-piece.  He had a severe and
remarkable face, a coppery complexion, and silver-gray hair, in
which, however, some few locks, black as his heavy eyebrows, made him
appear harsh at first; but a gentle countenance softened this first
impression. At present his voice was loud. He busied himself much that
day in hastening the dinner, and ordered about all the servants,
who were in mourning like himself.

"Come," said he, "make haste to serve the dinner, while Germain,
Louis, and Etienne saddle their horses; Monsieur Henri and I must be
far away by eight o'clock this evening. And you, gentlemen, Italians,
have you warned your young Princess? I wager that she is gone to read
with her ladies at the end of the park, or on the banks of the lake. She
always comes in after the first course, and makes every one rise from the
table."
"Ah, my good Grandchamp," said in a low voice a young maid servant who
was passing, "do not speak of the Duchess; she is very sorrowful, and I
believe that she will remain in her apartment. Santa Maria! what a
shame to travel to-day!

to depart on a Friday, the thirteenth of the month, and the day of
Saint Gervais and of Saint-Protais--the day of two martyrs!

I have been telling my beads all the morning for Monsieur de Cinq-Mars;
and I could not help thinking of these things. And my mistress
thinks of them too, although she is a great lady; so you need not
laugh!"

With these words the young Italian glided like a bird across the large
dining-room, and disappeared down a corridor, startled at seeing the
great doors of the salon opened.

Grandchamp had hardly heard what she had said, and seemed to have been
occupied only with the preparations for dinner; he fulfilled the
important duties of major-domo, and cast severe looks at the domestics
to see whether they were all at their posts, placing himself behind
the chair of the eldest son of the house.

Then all the inhabitants of the mansion entered the salon. Eleven
persons seated themselves at table.

The Marechale came in last, giving her arm to a handsome old man,
magnificently dressed, whom she placed upon her left hand. She seated
herself in a large gilded arm-chair at the middle of one side of
the table, which was oblong in form.

Another seat, rather more ornamented, was at her right, but it
remained empty.

The young Marquis d'Effiat, seated in front of his mother, was to assist
her in doing the honors of the table. He was not more than twenty years
old, and his countenance was insignificant; much gravity and
distinguished manners proclaimed, however, a social nature, but
nothing more.

His young sister of fourteen, two gentlemen of the province, three young
Italian noblemen of the suite of Marie de Gonzaga (Duchesse de
Mantua), a lady-in-waiting, the governess of the young daughter of
the Marechale, and an abbe of the neighborhood, old and very deaf,
composed the assembly.

A seat at the right of the elder son still remained vacant.

The Marechale, before seating herself, made the sign of the cross,
and repeated the Benedicite aloud; every one responded by making the
complete sign, or upon the breast alone. This custom was preserved in
many families in France up to the Revolution of 1789; some still
practise it, but more in the provinces than in Paris, and not without
some hesitation and some preliminary words upon the weather,
accompanied by a deprecatory smile when a stranger is present--for
it is too true that virtue also has its blush.

The Marechale possessed an imposing figure, and her large blue eyes were
remarkably beautiful.

She did not appear to have yet attained her forty- fifth year;
but, oppressed with sorrow, she walked slowly and spoke with
difficulty, closing her eyes, and allowing her head to droop for a
moment upon her breast, after she had been obliged to raise her
voice.

At such efforts her hand pressed to her bosom showed that she experienced
sharp pain.

She saw therefore with satisfaction that the person who was seated at her
left, having at the beginning engrossed the conversation, without having
been requested by any one to talk, persisted with an imperturbable
coolness in engrossing it to the end of the dinner.

This was the old Marechal de Bassompierre; he had preserved with his
white locks an air of youth and vivacity curious to see. His noble
and polished manners showed a certain gallantry, antiquated like his
costume--for he wore a ruff in the fashion of Henri IV, and the
slashed sleeves fashionable in the former reign, an absurdity which
was unpardonable in the eyes of the beaux of the court.

This would not have appeared more singular than anything else at present;
but it is admitted that in every age we laugh at the costume of our
fathers, and, except the Orientals, I know of no people who have
not this fault.

One of the Italian gentlemen had hardly finished asking the Marechal
what he thought of the way in which the Cardinal treated the daughter
of the Duc de Mantua, when he exclaimed, in his familiar
language:

"Heavens, man!

what are you talking about?

what do I comprehend of this new system under which France is living? We
old companions-in-arms of his late Majesty can ill understand the
language spoken by the new court, and that in its turn does not
comprehend ours.

But what do I say?

We speak no language in this sad country, for all the world is
silent before the Cardinal; this haughty little, vassal looks upon
us as merely old family portraits, which occasionally he shortens
by the head; but happily the motto always remains.

Is it not true, my dear Puy-Laurens?"
This guest was about the same age as the Marechal, but, being more
grave and cautious, he answered in vague and few words, and made a
sign to his contemporary in order to induce him to observe the
unpleasant emotions which he had caused the mistress of the house
by reminding her of the recent death of her husband and in speaking
thus of the minister, his friend.

But it was in vain, for Bassompierre, pleased with the sign of
half-approval, emptied at one draught a great goblet of wine--a
remedy which he lauds in his Memoirs as infallible against the
plague and against reserve; and leaning back to receive another
glass from his esquire, he settled himself more firmly than ever
upon his chair, and in his favorite ideas.

"Yes, we are in the way here; I said so the other day to my dear Duc de
Guise, whom they have ruined. They count the minutes that we have to
live, and shake the hour-glass to hasten the descent of its sands. When
Monsieur le Cardinal-Duc observes in a corner three or four of our
tall figures, who never quitted the side of the late King, he feels
that he is unable to move those statues of iron, and that to do it
would require the hand of a great man; he passes quickly by, and
dares not meddle with us, who fear him not.

He believes that we are always conspiring; and they say at this very
moment that there is talk of putting me in the Bastille."

"Eh! Monsieur le Marechal, why do you delay your departure?" said the
Italian. "I know of no place, except Flanders, where you can find shelter."

"Ah, Monsieur! you do not know me. So far from flying, I sought out the
King before his departure, and told him that I did so in order to
save people the trouble of looking for me; and that if I knew when
he wished to send me, I would go myself without being taken.

He was as kind as I expected him to be, and said to me, 'What, my old
friend, could you have thought that I desired to send you there? You
know well that I love you.'"
"Ah, my dear Marechal, let me compliment you," said Madame d'Effiat,
in a soft voice.

"I recognize the benevolence of the King in these words; he remembers
the affection which the King, his father, had toward you.

It appears to me that he always accorded to you all that you desired
for your friends," she added, with animation, in order to put him into
the track of praise, and to beguile him from the discontent which he had
so loudly declared.

"Assuredly, Madame," answered he; "no one is more willing to
recognize his virtues than Francois de Bassompierre.

I shall be faithful to him to the end, because I gave myself, body and
fortune, to his father at a ball; and I swear that, with my consent at
least, none of my family shall ever fail in their duties toward
the King of France.

Although the Besteins are foreigners and Lorrains, a shake of the hand
from Henri IV gained us forever. My greatest grief has been to see my
brother die in the service of Spain; and I have just written to my nephew
to say that I shall disinherit him if he has passed over to the
Emperor, as report says he has."

One of the gentlemen guests who had as yet been silent, and who was
remarkable for the profusion of knots, ribbons, and tags which covered
his dress, and for the black cordon of the Order of St.

Michael which decorated his neck, bowed, observing that it was thus
all faithful subjects ought to speak.

"I' faith, Monsieur de Launay, you deceive yourself very much,"
said the Marechal, to whom the recollection of his ancestors now
occurred; "persons of our blood are subjects only at our own pleasure,
for God has caused us to be born as much lords of our lands as the
King is of his.

When I came to France, I came at my ease, accompanied by my gentlemen and
pages.

I perceive, however, that the farther we go, the more we lose sight
of this idea, especially at the court. But here is a young man who arrives
very opportunely to hear me."
The door indeed opened, and a young man of fine form entered. He was pale;
his hair was brown, his eyes were black, his expression was sad and
reckless. This was Henri d'Effiat, Marquis de Cinq-Mars (a name
taken from an estate of his family).

His dress and his short cloak were black; a collar of lace fell from his
neck halfway down his breast; his stout, small, and very wide-spurred
boots made so much noise upon the flags of the salon that his
approach was heard at a distance.

He walked directly toward the Marechale, bowed low, and kissed her
hand.

"Well, Henri," she said, "are your horses ready? At what hour do you
depart?"
"Immediately after dinner, Madame, if you will allow me," said he to his
mother, with the ceremonious respect of the times; and passing
behind her, he saluted M. de Bassompierre before seating himself
at the left of his eldest brother.

"Well," said the Marechal, continuing to eat with an excellent
appetite, "you are about to depart, my son; you are going to the
court--a slippery place nowadays.

I am sorry for your sake that it is not now what it used to be. In former
times, the court was simply the drawing-room of the King, in which he
received his natural friends: nobles of great family, his peers,
who visited him to show their devotion and their friendship, lost
their money with him, and accompanied him in his pleasure parties,
but never received anything from him, except permission to bring
their vassals with them, to break their heads in his service.

The honors a man of quality received did not enrich him, for he paid
for them out of his purse.

I sold an estate for every grade I received; the title of colonel-general
of the Swiss cost me four hundred thousand crowns, and at the baptism
of the present King I had to buy a costume that cost me a hundred
thousand francs."

"Ah!" said the mistress of the house, smiling, "you must acknowledge for
once that you were not obliged to do that. We have all heard of
your splendid dress of pearls; but I should be much vexed were it
still the custom to wear such."

"Oh, Madame la Marquise, do not fear, those times of magnificence
never will return.

We committed follies, no doubt, but they proved our independence;
it is clear that it would then have been hard to convert from their
allegiance to the King adherents who were attached to him by love
alone, and whose coronets contained as many diamonds as his own
locked-up crown.

It is also certain that ambition could not then attack all classes,
since such expenses could come only from rich hands, and since gold comes
only from mines. Those great houses, which are being so furiously
assailed, were not ambitious, and frequently, desiring no employment
from the Government, maintained their places at court by their own weight,
existed upon their own foundation, and might say, as one of them did
say, 'The Prince condescends not; I am Rohan.'

It was the same with every noble family, to which its own nobility sufficed;
the King himself expressed it in writing to one of my friends:
'Money is not a common thing between gentlemen like you and me.'"
"But, Monsieur le Marechal," coldly, and with extreme politeness,
interrupted M. de Launay, who perhaps intended to anger him, "this
independence has produced as many civil wars and revolts as those of
Monsieur de Montmorency."

"Monsieur!

I can not consent to hear these things spoken," said the fiery Marechal,
leaping up in his armchair. "Those revolts and wars had nothing to
do with the fundamental laws of the State, and could no more have
overturned the throne than a duel could have done so. Of all the great
party-chiefs, there was not one who would not have laid his victory
at the feet of the King, had he succeeded, knowing well that all
the other lords who were as great as himself would have abandoned
the enemy of the legitimate sovereign.

Arms were taken against a faction, and not against the sovereign
authority; and, this destroyed, everything went on again in the old
way. But what have you done in crushing us?

You have crushed the arm of the throne, and have not put anything in its
place.
Yes, I no longer doubt that the Cardinal-Duke will wholly accomplish
his design; the great nobility will leave and lose their lands,
and, ceasing to be great proprietors, they will cease to be a great
power.

The court is already no more than a palace where people beg; by and by
it will become an antechamber, when it will be composed only of those who
constitute the suite of the King. Great names will begin by
ennobling vile offices; but, by a terrible reaction, those offices will
end by rendering great names vile. Estranged from their homes, the
nobility will be dependent upon the employments which they shall have
received; and if the people, over whom they will no longer have any
influence, choose to revolt--"
"How gloomy you are to-day, Marechal!"

interrupted the Marquise; "I hope that neither I nor my children will
ever see that time. I no longer perceive your cheerful disposition, now
that you talk like a politician.
I expected to hear you give advice to my son. Henri, what troubles you?

You seem very absent."
Cinq-Mars, with eyes fixed upon the, great bay window of the dining-room,
looked sorrowfully upon the magnificent landscape. The sun shone
in full splendor, and colored the sands of the Loire, the trees,
and the lawns with gold and emerald. The sky was azure, the waves
were of a transparent yellow, the islets of a vivid green; behind their
rounded outlines rose the great sails of the merchant-vessels, like
a fleet in ambuscade.

"O Nature, Nature!" he mused; "beautiful Nature, farewell! Soon will my
heart cease to be of simplicity enough to feel your charm, soon you wall
no longer please my eyes. This heart is already burned by a deep passion;
and the mention of the interests of men stirs it with hitherto
unknown agitation.

I must, however, enter this labyrinth; I may, perchance, lose myself
there, but for Marie--"
At this moment, aroused by the words of his mother, and fearing to exhibit
a childish regret at leaving his beautiful country and his family, he
said:

"I am thinking, Madame, of the road which I shall take to Perpignan, and
also of that which shall bring me back to you."
"Do not forget to take that of Poitiers, and to go to Loudun to see
your old tutor, our good Abbe Quillet; he will give you useful
advice about the court.

He is on very good terms with the Duc de Bouillon; and besides, though he
may not be very necessary to you, it is a mark of deference which you owe
him."
"Is it, then, to the siege of Perpignan that you are going, my boy?"
asked the old Marechal, who began to think that he had been silent
a long time.

"Ah!

it is well for you. Plague upon it! a siege!

'tis an excellent opening. I would have given much had I been able
to assist the late King at a siege, upon my arrival in his court; it would
have been better to be disembowelled then than at a tourney, as I was.
But we were at peace; and I was compelled to go and shoot the Turks
with the Rosworm of the Hungarians, in order that I might not afflict
my family by my idleness. For the rest, may his Majesty receive you
as kindly as his father received me! It is true that the King is good
and brave; but they have unfortunately taught him that cold Spanish
etiquette which arrests all the impulses of the heart.

He restrains himself and others by an immovable presence and an icy look;
as for me, I confess that I am always waiting for the moment of thaw,
but in vain.

We were accustomed to other manners from the witty and simple-hearted
Henri; and we were at least free to tell him that we loved him."
Cinq-Mars, with eyes fixed upon those of Bassompierre, as if to
force himself to attend to his discourse, asked him what was the
manner of the late king in conversation.

"Lively and frank," said he. "Some time after my arrival in France,
I played with him and with the Duchesse de Beaufort at Fontainebleau;
for he wished, he said, to win my gold-pieces, my fine Portugal money.
He asked me the reason why I came into this country. 'Truly, Sire,' said
I, frankly, 'I came with no intention of enlisting myself in your
service, but only to pass some time at your court, and afterward at that
of Spain; but you have charmed me so much that, instead of going
farther, if you desire my service, I will devote myself to you till
death.'

Our philosopher therefore amused himself and Polly with
commentaries on the ghost-subject which Burr had raised.

Late that night, when the stars were shining in a cloudless sky, and
winking at their reflections in the glassy ocean, the ghost appeared to
Edwin Jack.  It was on this wise:

Jack, being one of the watch on deck, went to the port bulwarks near the
foremast shrouds, leant over, and, gazing down into the reflected sky,
thought sadly of past, present, and future.  Tiring at last of his
meditations, he went towards a man who appeared to be skulking under the
shadow of the long-boat and remarked that it was a fine night, but the
man made no reply.

"A most enjoyable night, shipmate," he said, going closer.

"I'm glad you think so," said the ghost, "it's anything but enjoyable to
_me_.  The state of the weather hasn't much effect, either one way or
another, on a fellow who is half-dead with hunger, half-choked with a
cold caught among the rats and stores, and half-killed by a tumble down
the fore-scuttle, or whatever may be the name of that vile ladder that
leads to the regions below."

"Surely," exclaimed Jack in surprise, seizing the ghost by the shoulders
and looking close into its face, "I have heard your voice before now,
and, eh?--no, I don't know you."

"Yes, Philosopher Jack, you do know me," returned the ghost; "I've had
the honour of playing cricket with you on the green, though you've
forgotten me, and no wonder, for I've suffered much from bad air and
sea-sickness of late.  My name is Walter, more familiarly Watty
Wilkins."

"Little Wilkins!" exclaimed Jack, in surprise, "well, you _are_ changed;
you don't mean to say that you've run away from home?"

"That's just what I've done," said the poor lad in a tone of
despondency; "but you've no occasion to shake your head at me so
solemnly, for, to all appearance, you have run away too."

"No, Wilkins, you are wrong, I have walked away, being my own master,
and I have done it openly, though I admit somewhat hastily--"

Jack was interrupted at that moment by Ben Trench laying a hand on his
shoulder.

"It strikes me," he said, in some surprise, "that I recognise the voice
of a townsman--Mister Jack, if I mistake not?"

"No, sir," replied the philosopher, "not _Mister_, only Edwin Jack,
seaman aboard the _Lively Poll_.  You are right, however, in styling me
townsman.  Allow me to introduce you to another townsman, Mr Watty
Wilkins, stowaway on board of the same vessel!"

Trench had not, in the darkness, recognised his friend.  He now seized
him by both shoulders, and peering into his face, said--

"O Watty, Watty, have you really done it?  I had thought better of you."

"I _said_ I would do it, and I've _done_ it," returned the little youth
somewhat testily; "and now I want to know what is to be done next."

"Report yourself and take the consequences," said Jack, promptly.

This advice being seconded by Ben Trench, Watty Wilkins went aft to the
captain, who had just come on deck, touched his cap, and confessed
himself.

For some moments the captain spoke not a word, but looked at the young
culprit with a portentous frown.  Then, uttering something like a deep
bass growl, he ordered the lad to follow him into his private cabin.
When there, Captain Samson seated himself on a locker, and with a hand
on each knee, glared at his prisoner so long and so fiercely from under
his shaggy brows, that Watty, in spite of his recklessness, began to
feel uneasy.

"So, youngster, you've run away?" he said at length, in deep solemnity.

"Yes, sir," replied Wilkins.

"And you think yourself a fine clever fellow, no doubt?"

"No, sir, I don't," said Watty, with much humility.

"I knew your father, boy," continued the captain, assuming a softer and
more serious tone, "and I think he is a good man."

"He is, sir," returned the boy promptly.

"Ay, and he is a kind man; he has been kind to _you_, I think."

Watty hung his head.

"He has fed you, clothed you, educated you since you was a babby; nursed
you, maybe, in sickness, and prayed for you, no doubt that God would
make you a good, obedient and loving son."

The boy's head drooped still lower.

"And for all this," continued the captain, "you have repaid him by
running away.  Now, my lad, as you have made your bed you shall lie on
it.  I'll clap your nose to the grindstone, and keep it there.
Steward!"

A smart little man answered to the call.

"Take this boy for'ed, and teach him to clean up.  Don't spare him."

In obedience to this order the steward took little Wilkins forward and
introduced him to the cook, who introduced him to the coppers and
scrubbing brushes.  From that day forward Master Watty became deeply
versed in the dirty work and hard work of the ship, so that all the
romance of a sea life was driven out of him, and its stern realities
were implanted.  In less than three weeks there was not a cup, saucer,
or plate in the ship that Watty had not washed; not a "brass" that he
had not polished and re-polished; not a copper that he had not scraped;
not an inch of the deck that he had not swabbed.  But it must not be
supposed that he groaned under this labour.  Although reckless, hasty,
and inconsiderate, he was not mean-spirited.  Making up his mind to do
his best in the circumstances, he went cheerfully to his dirty work, and
did it well.

"You see," said he to Philosopher Jack, as they chanced one dark night
to have a few minutes' talk together near the weather gangway, where
Watty paused on his way to the caboose with a soup-tureen, "as the
captain says, I've made the bed myself, so I must lie on it and I'm
resolved to lie straight, and not kick."

"Right, Watty, right," said Jack, with a sigh; "we have both been fools,
so must grin and bear it."

Watty greeted this remark, to Jack's surprise, with a sudden and
unexpected yell, as he received a cut from a rope's-end over the back.

"What, idling, eh?" cried the steward, flourishing the rope's-end again.

In a burst of rage the poor boy raised the soup-tureen, and would
infallibly have shattered it on the man's head if Jack had not caught
his arm.

"Come, Wilkins, mind what you're about," he said, pushing him towards
the forepart of the ship to prevent a scuffle.

A moment's reflection sufficed to convince Wilkins of the folly, as well
as uselessness, of rebellion.  Pocketing his pride and burning with
indignation, he walked forward, while the tyrannical steward went
grumbling to his own private den.

It chanced that night that the captain, ignorant of what had occurred,
sent for the unfortunate stowaway, for the mitigation of whose sorrows
his friend Ben Trench had, more than once, pleaded earnestly, but in
vain.  The captain invariably replied that Watty had acted ungratefully
and rebelliously to a kind father, and it was his duty to let him bear
the full punishment of his conduct.

Watty was still smarting from the rope's-end when he entered the cabin.

"Youngster," said the captain, sternly, "I sent for you to tell you of a
fact that came to my knowledge just before we left port.  Your father
told me that, being unwilling to disappoint you in your desires, he had
managed to get a situation of some sort for you on board a well-known
line of ocean steamers, and he only waited to get the thing fairly
settled before letting you know about it.  There, you may go for'ed and
think what you have lost by running away."

Without a word of reply Watty left the cabin.  His day's work had just
been completed.  He turned into his hammock, and, laying his head on his
pillow, quietly wept himself to sleep.

"Ain't you rather hard on the poor boy, father?" said Polly, who had
witnessed the interview.

"Not so hard as you think, little woman," answered the captain, stroking
the child's head with his great hand; "that little rascal has committed
a great sin.  He has set out on the tracks of the prodigal son you've
often read about, an' he's not sufficiently impressed with his guilt.
When I get him into a proper frame o' mind I'll not be so hard on him.
Now, Polly, go putt your doll to bed, and don't criticise your father."

Polly seized the huge whiskers of her sire, and giving him an
unsolicited "nor'-wester," which was duly returned, went off to her
little cot.

We do not mean to trouble the reader with all the incidents of a
prolonged voyage to southern latitudes, during which Philosopher Jack
formed a strong friendship with Ben Trench and Watty Wilkins; continued
his instruction of the amiable and unfathomable Baldwin Burr, and became
a general favourite with the crew of the _Lively Poll_.  Suffice it to
say that all went well, and the good ship sailed along under favouring
breezes without mishap of any kind until she reached that great ocean
whose unknown waters circle round the Southern Pole.

Here, however, good fortune forsook them, and contrary-gales baffling
the _Lively Poll_ drove her out of her course, while tumbling billows
buffeted her severely.

One night a dead calm prevailed.  The air became hot, clouds rose
rapidly over the sky, and the barometer--that faithful friend of the
mariner--fell unusually low.

"How dreadfully dark it is getting," said Polly, in a low,
half-frightened tone to Baldwin Burr, who was at the wheel.

"We're going to have a night of it, my dear," replied the seaman.

If he had said that the winds and waves were going to "have a night of
it" Baldwin Burr would have been more strictly correct.  He had scarcely
uttered the words when the captain gave orders to close-reef the
top-sails.  Our philosopher, springing aloft with his comrades, was out
on the top-sail yard in a few seconds.  Scarcely had the sails been
reefed when the gale burst upon the ship, and almost laid her flat upon
the foaming sea.  At first the very violence of the wind kept the waves
down, but they gradually rose until the ship was tossed on their crests
and engulfed in their hollows like a cork.  As the force of the gale
increased sail was further reduced, until nothing but a mere rag was
left and even this at last was split and blown to ribbons.  Inky clouds
soon obscured the sky, and, as night descended on the wild scene, the
darkness became so intense that nothing could be seen except the pale
gleam of foaming billows as they flashed past over the bulwarks.  In the
midst of the turmoil there came a blinding flash of lightning, followed
instantly by a terrible crash of thunder.  This was succeeded by a sound
of rending which was not the result of elemental strife.

"Foremast gone, sir," cried one of the men, staggering aft.

Seizing an axe, the captain sprang forward.  Edwin Jack followed.  They
found the ship's-carpenter already at work cutting the shrouds and other
ropes that held the wreck of the mast.  As flashes of lightning followed
in quick succession they revealed a scene of ruin on the forepart of the
vessel, with the tall figure of Edwin as he stood on the bulwarks
wielding an axe.  At last the wreck was cleared, but the seas were now
bursting over the decks and sweeping away everything not made fast.
Among other things the long-boat was carried away, and ere long all the
other boats were torn from their fastenings or destroyed.  It was a
fearful night.  Even the most reckless among the sailors were overawed
by such a display of the terrors of God.  At such times scoffers are
wont to become tremblers, and those who "trust in God" find Him "a very
present help in trouble."

The gale was as short-lived as it was fierce.  By the dawn of the
following day it had abated considerably, and it was found that less
damage had been done to the ship than might have been expected.

"We're all right, Polly, thank God!" said the captain, earnestly, when
he ventured to open the companion hatch and go below.  "You prayed for
us, dear, didn't you?"

"Yes, father, I did; I prayed that our lives might be spared, if He
pleased."

"Well, Polly, our prayers have been answered," said the captain; "our
lives are spared and the ship is safe, though we've lost the foremast
and the boats.  However, that can be putt to rights; we'll rig up a
jury-mast and get on famously, so keep up your heart, old girl, and give
us a nor'--.  There, you'd better stay below yet awhile; it's dirty on
deck."

The weather was not long of improving.  A profound calm followed the
storm.  Bright sunshine banished the thunder-clouds.  The contrast
between the dangers just past and the peaceful condition that prevailed
had the effect of raising the spirits of all on board the _Lively Poll_
to an unusual height, so that snatches of song, whistling, and cheery
remarks, were heard on all sides among the busy crew as they rigged up a
new mast, bent on new sails, and repaired the various damages.  When
night put a stop to their labours, and every one sought repose, except
the watch and the captain and the man at the wheel, the same peaceful
calm continued.  Only the long undulating swell of ocean remained to
tell of the recent storm, while the glassy surface reflected a universe
of stars.

It was at this time of profound repose and fancied security that the
death-knell of the _Lively Poll_ was sounded.  In the southern seas
there is a little creature, named the coral insect (of which we shall
have more to say hereafter), which is ever at work building walls and
ramparts on the bottom of the sea.  These rise by degrees to the
surface,--rise above it--and finally become some of the fairest isles of
the Pacific.  Charts tell of the isles, but no charts can tell the
locality of coral reefs which have just, or barely, reached the surface.
The _Lively Poll_ was forging slowly ahead under a puff of air that
only bulged her top-sails as she rose and sank on the majestic swell.
Presently she rose high, and was then let down on a coral reef with such
violence that the jury-mast with the main-topmast and all the connected
rigging, went over the side.  Another swell lifted her off, and flung
her on the ocean's breast a total wreck.

The scene that followed may be imagined.  Whatever could be done by an
able and active seaman in such an emergency was done by Captain Samson.
Water was rushing in through the shattered hull.  To pass a sail under
the ship's bottom and check this was the first act.  Then the pumps were
rigged and worked by all on board.  Besides Ben Trench there were three
gentlemen passengers.  These took their turn with the rest, but all was
of no avail.  The ship was sinking.  The utmost efforts of those whose
lives seemed dependent on her only delayed the final catastrophe.

"There is no hope," said the captain in a low tone to his chief mate, to
whom he gave some rapid orders, and went below.

It was daybreak, and the first gleam of light that leaped over the
glassy sea tinged the golden curls of Polly Samson as she lay sleeping
on one of the cabin sofas.  She awoke and started up.

"Lie still, darling, and rest as long as you may," said the captain in a
low tender voice, "and pray, Polly, pray for us again.  God is able to
save to the uttermost, my pet."

He said this without pausing, as he went to his berth and brought out a
sextant, with which he returned on deck.

Standing near the foot of the companion-ladder, Watty Wilkins had heard
the words, "There is no hope," and the few sentences addressed to the
child.  His impressionable spirit leapt to the conclusion that the fate
of all on board was sealed.  He knew that the boats had all been swept
away, and a feeling of profound despair seized him.  This was quickly
followed by contrition for his past conduct and pity for his father,
under the impulse of which he sat down in a corner of the steward's
pantry and groaned aloud.  Then he wrote a few lines in pencil on a
piece of paper, bidding farewell to his father.  Often had he read of
such messages from the sea being wafted ashore in bottles, but little
did he expect ever to have occasion to write one.  He had just put the
paper in a bottle, corked it up, and dropped it out of one of the cabin
windows, when he was summoned on deck, and found that a raft was being
hastily prepared alongside.  Already some casks of biscuits and water
had been lowered on it, while the carpenter and several men were busily
at work increasing its size and binding it together with iron clamps,
hawsers, and chains.

There was urgent need for haste, as the ship was fast settling down.

"Now then, my lads, look alive!" cried the captain, as he lifted his
little daughter over the side.  "The ship can't float much longer.
Here, Jack, catch hold."

Edwin sprang to the side of the raft, and, standing up, received Polly
in his arms.

"Take care of her!  Hold her tight!" cried the anxious father.

"Trust me," said Philosopher Jack.

The child was placed on the highest part of the raft with the
passengers, and partially covered with a shawl.  The crew were then
ordered to leave the ship.  Having seen every one out of it Captain
Samson descended and gave the order to shove off.  This was quickly
done, and the distance was slowly increased by means of two large oars.
The huge mass of spars and planks moved gradually away from the doomed
vessel, whose deck was by that time little above the level of the sea.
They had not got more than a few hundred yards off, when Baldwin Burr,
who pulled one of the oars, uttered an exclamation.  Edwin Jack and Ben
Trench, who knelt close to him fastening a rope, looked up and saw the
captain standing on the high part of the raft near Polly and little
Wilkins, waving his right hand.  He was bidding farewell to the old
ship, which suddenly went down with a heavy roll.  Another moment, and
only a few ripples remained to mark the spot where the _Lively Poll_ had
found an ocean tomb.


CHAPTER THREE.

ADRIFT ON THE GREAT OCEAN.

He dashed his hand at her and she vanished.
He sprang up. This was too bad. He must not let these fancies get hold
of him. He went into the hall.

He called out loudly, his voice echoing through the house, "Joan! Joan!"

Almost at once she came. Strange the relief that he felt! But he
wouldn't show it. She must notice nothing at all out of the ordinary.

She sat close to him at their evening meal and talked to him about everything
that came into her young head. Sometimes he wished that she
wouldn't talk so much; she hadn't talked so much in earlier days, had
she?

But he couldn't remember what she had done in earlier days.

He was very particular now about his food. Always he had eaten whatever
was put in front of him with hearty and eager appreciation; now he
seemed to have very little appetite. He was always complaining about the
cooking.

The potatoes were hard, the beef was underdone, the pastry was heavy.
And sometimes he would forget altogether that he was eating, and would
sit staring in front of him, his food neglected on his plate.

It was not easy for Joan. Not easy to choose topics that were not dangerous.
And so often he was not listening to her at all. Perhaps at no other
time did she pity him so much, and love him so much, as when she saw him
staring in front of him, his eyes puzzled, bewildered, piteous, like those
of an animal caught in a trap. All her old fear of him was gone, but a
new fear had come in its place. Sometimes, in quite the old way,
he would rap out suddenly, "Nonsense--stuff and nonsense!...As though
_he_ knew anything about it!" or would once again take the whole place,
town and Cathedral and all of them, into his charge with something like,
"I knew how to manage the thing. What they would have done without--
" But these defiances never lasted.

They would fade away into bewilderment and silence.

He would complain continually of his head, putting his hand suddenly
up to it, and saying, like a little child:

"My head's so bad.

Such a headache!" But he would refuse to see Puddifoot; had seen him
once, and had immediately quarrelled with him, and told him that he was
a silly old fool and knew nothing about anything, and this when Puddifoot
had come with the noblest motives, intending to patronise and condole.

After dinner to-night Joan and he went into the drawing-room. Often, after
dinner, he vanished into the study "to work"--but to-night he was
"tired, very tired--my dear. So much effort in connection with this
Pybus business.

What'a come to the town I don't know. A year ago the matter would
have been simple enough...anything so obvious...."

He sat in his old arm-chair, whence for so many years he had delivered
his decisive judgments. No decisive judgments tonight!

He was really tired, lying back, his eyes closed, his hands twitching
ever so slightly on his knees.

Joan sat near to him, struggling to overcome her fear.

She felt that if only she could grasp that fear, like a nettle, and hold
it tightly in her hand it would seem so slight and unimportant.

But she could not grasp it.
It was compounded of so many things, of the silence and the dulness,
of the Precincts and the Cathedral, of whispering trees and steps
on the stairs, of her father and something strange that now inhabited
him like a new guest in their house, of her loneliness and of her
longing for some friend with whom she could talk, of her ache for
Johnny and his comforting, loving smile, but most of all, strangely,
of her own love for her father, and her desire, her poignant desire,
that he should be happy again.

She scarcely missed her mother, she did not want her to come back; but she
ached and ached to see once again that happy flush return to her
father's cheek, that determined ring to his voice, that buoyant
confident movement to his walk.

To-night she could not be sure whether he slept or no. She watched him,
and the whole world seemed to hold its breath. Suddenly an absurd
fancy seized her. She fought against it for a time, sitting there,
her hands tightly clenched.

Then suddenly it overcame her. Some one was listening outside the window;
she fancied that she could see him--tall, dark, lean, his face pressed
against the pane.

She rose very softly and stole across the floor, very gently drew
back one of the curtains and looked out. It was dark and she could
see nothing-- only the Cathedral like a grey web against a sky black
as ink. A lamp, across the Green, threw a splash of orange in the
middle distance--no other light. The Cathedral seemed to be very close
to the house.

She closed the curtain and then heard her father call her.

"Joan! Joan! Where are you?"
She came back and stood by his chair. "I was only looking out to see
what sort of a night it was, father dear," she said.

He suddenly smiled. "I had a pleasant little nap then," he said; "my
head's better. There. Sit down close to me. Bring your chair nearer. We're
all alone here now, you and I. We must make a lot of one another."
He had paid so little attention to her hitherto that she suddenly realised
now that her loneliness had, during these last weeks, been the hardest
thing of all to bear.

She drew her chair close to his and he took her hand.

"Yes, yes, it's quite true. I don't know what I should have done without
you during these last weeks.

You've been very good to your poor, stupid, old father!"

She murmured something, and he burst out, "Oh, yes, they do! That's
what they say! I know how they talk. They want to get me out of
the way and change the place--put in unbelievers and atheists. But they
shan't--not while I have any breath in my body--" He went on more gently,
"Why just think, my dear, they actually want to have that man Wistons
here. An atheist! A denier of Christ's divinity! Here worshipping in the
Cathedral!
And when I try to stop it they say I'm mad. Oh, yes!

They do! I've heard them. Mad. Out-of-date. They've laughed at me--ever
since--ever since...
that elephant, you know, dear...that began it...the Circus...."
She leaned over him.

"Father dear, you mustn't pay so much attention to what they say. You
imagine so much just because you aren't very well and have those
headaches--and--and--because of other things. You imagine things
that aren't true. So many people here love you----"
"Love me!" he burst out suddenly, starting up in his chair. "When they
set upon me, five of them, from behind and beat me! There in public
with the lights and the singing." He caught her hand, gripping it.
"There's a conspiracy, Joan.

I know it. I've seen it a long time. And I know who started it and
who paid them to follow me. Everywhere I go, there they are, following
me.

"That old woman with her silly hat, she followed me into my own
house.
Yes, she did! 'I'll read you a letter,' she said. 'I hate you, and I'll
make you cry out over this.' They're all in it. He's setting them on.
But he shan't have his way. I'll fight him yet.

Even my own son----" His voice broke.

Joan knelt at his feet, looking up into his face. "Father! Falk wants
to come and see you! I've had a letter from him. He wants to come and
ask your forgiveness--he loves you so much."
He got up from his chair, almost pushing her away from him.

"Falk! Falk! I don't know any one called that. I haven't got a son----"

He turned, looking at her. Then suddenly put his arms around her
and kissed her, holding her tight to his breast.

"You're a good girl," he said.

"Dear Joan! I'm glad you've not left me too. I love you, Joan, and I've
not been good enough to you. Oh, no, I haven't! Many things I might
have done, and now it's too late...too late..."

He kissed her again and again, stroking her hair, then he said that he
was tired, very tired--he'd sleep to-night.

He went slowly upstairs.

He undressed rapidly, flinging off his clothes as though they hurt him.
As though some one else had unexpectedly come into the room, he saw
himself standing before the long glass in the dressing-room, naked
save for his vest. He looked at himself and laughed.

How funny he looked only in his vest--how funny were he to walk down
the High Street like that! They would say he was mad. And yet he wouldn't
be mad. He would be just as he was now. He pulled the vest off over
his head and continued to stare at himself. It was as though he were
looking at some one else's body. The long toes, the strong legs, the
thick thighs, the broad hairless chest, the stout red neck--and then
those eyes, surely not his, those strange ironical eyes!

He passed his hand down his side and felt the cool strong marble of his
flesh.

Then suddenly he was cold and he hurried into his night-shirt and
his dressing-gown.

He sat on his bed. Something deep down in him was struggling to
come up.

Some thought...some feeling...some name. Falk! It was as though a bell
were ringing, at a great distance, in the sleeping town--but ringing
only for him. Falk! The pain, the urgent pain, crept closer. Falk!
He got up from his bed, opened his door, looked out into the dark and
silent house, stepped forward, carefully, softly, his old red dressing-gown
close about him, stumbling a little on the stairs, feeling the way to
his study door.

He sat in his arm-chair huddled up. "Falk! Falk! Oh, my boy, my boy,
come back, come back!

I want you, I want to be with you, to see you, to touch you, to hear
your voice! I want to love you!

"Love--Love! I never wanted love before, but now I want it, desperately,
desperately, some one to love me, some one for me to love, some one
to be kind to. Falk, my boy. I'm so lonely. It's so dark. I can't see
things as I did. It's getting darker.

"Falk, come back and help me...."

Chapter III
Prelude to Battle

That night he slept well and soundly, and in the morning woke tranquil
and refreshed. His life seemed suddenly to have taken a new turn. As
he lay there and watched the sunlight run through the lattices
like strands of pale-coloured silk, it seemed to him that he was
through the worst.

He did what he had not done for many days, allowed the thought
of his wife to come and dwell with him.

He went over many of their past years together, and, nodding his
head, decided that he had been often to blame.

Then the further thought of what she had done, of her adultery, of her
last letter, these like foul black water came sweeping up and darkened
his mind.... No more. No more. He must do as he had done. Think only of
Pybus. Fight that, win his victory, and then turn to what lay
behind.

But the sunlight no longer danced for him, he closed his eyes, turned on
his side, and prayed to God out of his bewilderment.

After breakfast he started out. A restless urgency drove him forth. The
Chapter Meeting at which the new incumbent of Pybus was to be chosen
was now only three days distant, and all the work in connection
with that was completed--but Brandon could not be still.

Some members of the Chapter he had seen over and over again during the
last months, and had pressed Rex Forsyth's claims upon them without
ceasing, but this thing had become a symbol to him now--a symbol of
his fight with Ronder, of his battle for the Cathedral, of his
championship, behind that, of the whole cause of Christ's Church.

It seemed to him that if he were defeated now in this thing it would mean
that God Himself had deserted him. At the mere thought of defeat his
heart began to leap in his breast and the flags of the pavement to
run before his eyes. But it could not be.

He had been tested; like Job, every plague had been given to him to
prove him true, but this last would shout to the world that his power
was gone and that the Cathedral that he loved had no longer a place
for him. And then--and then-----
He would not, he must not, look. At the top of the High Street he met
Ryle the Precentor.

There had been a time when Ryle was terrified by the Archdeacon; that
time was not far distant, but it was gone. Nevertheless, even though the
Archdeacon were suddenly old and sick and unimportant, you never could
tell but that he might say something to somebody that it would be
unpleasant to have said.

"Politeness all the way round" was Ryle's motto, and a very safe one too.
Moreover, Ryle, when he could rise above his alarm for the safety
of his own position, was a kindly man, and it really _was_ sad to see
the poor Archdeacon so pale and tired, the scratch on his cheek, even
now not healed, giving him a strangely battered appearance.

And how would Ryle have liked Mrs. Ryle to leave him? And how would he
feel if his son, Anthony (aged at present five), ran away with the
daughter of a publican?

And how, above all, would he feel did he know that the whole town was
talking about him and saying "Poor Precentor!"?

But perhaps the Archdeacon did _not_ know. Strange the things that people
did not know about themselves!--and at that thought the Precentor went
goose-fleshy all over, because of the things that at that very moment
people might be saying about _him_ and he knowing none of them!

All this passed very swiftly through Ryle's mind, and was quickly
strangled by hearing Brandon utter in quite his old knock-you-down-if-you-
don't-get-out-of-my-way voice, "Ha! Ryle! Out early this morning!

I hope you're not planning any more new-fangled musical schemes for
us!"
Oh, well! if the Archdeacon were going to take that sort of tone
with him, Ryle simply wasn't going to stand it! Why should he? To-day
isn't six months ago.

"That's all right, Archdeacon," he said stiffly.

"Ronder and I go through a good deal of the music together now. He's
very musical, you know. Every one seems quite satisfied." _That_
ought to get him--my mention of Ronder's name.... At the same time
Ryle didn't wish to seem to have gone over to the other camp altogether,
and he was just about to say something gently deprecatory of Ronder
when, to his astonishment, he perceived that Brandon simply hadn't
heard him at all!

And then the Archdeacon took his arm and marched with him down the
High Street.

"With regard to this Pybus business, Precentor," he was saying, "the matter
now will be settled in another three days. I hope every one realises the
extreme seriousness of this audacious plot to push a heretic like this
man Wistons into the place. I'm sure that every one _does_ realise
it. There can be no two opinions about it, of course. At the same
time----"

How very uncomfortable!

There had been a time when the Precentor would have been proud indeed to
walk down the High Street arm-in-arm with the Archdeacon. But that
time was past. The High Street was crowded.

Any one might see them. They would take it for granted that the Precentor
was of the Archdeacon's party. And to be seen thus affectionately
linked with the Archdeacon just now, when his family affairs were
in so strange a disorder, when he himself was behaving so oddly,
when, as it was whispered, at the Jubilee Fair he had engaged in a
scuffle of a most disreputable kind.

The word "Drink" was mentioned.

Ryle tried, every so gently, to disengage his arm. Brandon's hand was of
steel.

"This seems to me," the Archdeacon was continuing, "a most critical
moment in our Cathedral's history.

If we don't stand together now we--we--"
The Archdeacon's hand relaxed. His eyes wandered. Ryle detached his
arm.

How strange the man was! Why, there was Samuel Hogg on the other side of
the street!

He had taken his hat off and was smiling. How uncomfortable! How unpleasant
to be mixed in this kind of encounter! How Mrs. Ryle, would dislike
it if she knew!

But his mind was speedily taken off his own affairs.

He was conscious of the Archdeacon, standing at his full height, his eyes,
as he afterwards described it a thousand times, "bursting from his
head." Then, "before you could count two," the Archdeacon was striding
across the street.

It was a sunny morning, people going about their ordinary business, every
one smiling and happy. Suddenly Ryle saw the Archdeacon stop in front
of Hogg; himself started across the street, urged he knew not by what
impulse, saw Hogg's ugly sneering face, saw the Archdeacon's arm
shoot out, catch Hogg one, two terrific blows in the face, saw Hogg
topple over like a heap of clothes falling from their peg, was in
time to hear the Archdeacon crying out, "You dirty spy!

You'd set upon me from behind, would you? Afraid to meet me face to face,
are you? Take that, then, and that!" And then shout, "It's daylight!
It's daylight now! Stand up and face me, you coward!"

The next thing of which the terrified Ryle was conscious was that people
were running up from all sides.

They seemed to spring from nowhere.

He saw, too, how Hogg, the blood streaming from his face, lay there
on his back, not attempting to move.

Some were bending down behind him, holding his head, others had their hands
about Brandon, holding him back. Errand- boys were running, people were
hurrying from the shops, voices raised on every side--a Constable slowly
crossed the street--Ryle slipped away--

Joan had gone out at once after breakfast that morning to the little
shop, Miss Milligan's, in the little street behind the Precincts,
to see whether she could not get some of that really fresh fruit
that only Miss Milligan seemed able to obtain.

She was for some little time in the shop, because Miss Milligan always
had a great deal to say about her little nephew Benjie, who was at the
School as a day-boy and was likely to get a scholarship, and was
just now suffering from boils.

Joan was a good listener and a patient, so that it was quite late--after
ten o'clock--as she hurried back.

Just by the Arden Gate Ellen Stiles met her.

"Oh, you poor child!" she cried; "aren't you at home? I was just hurrying
up to see whether I could be of any sort of help to you!"

"Any help?" echoed Joan, seeing at once, in the nodding blue plume
in Ellen's hat, forebodings of horrible disaster.

"What, haven't you heard?" cried Ellen, pitying from the bottom of her
heart the child's white face and terrified eyes.
"No! What? Oh, tell me quickly! What has happened? To father--"
"I don't know exactly myself," said Ellen. "That's what I was
hurrying up to find out.... Your father...he's had some sort of
fight with that horrible man Hogg in the High Street.... No, I don't
know...But wait a minute...."
Joan was gone, scurrying through the Precincts, the paper bag with
the fruit clutched tightly to her.
Ellen Stiles stared after her; her eyes were dim with kindness.
There was nothing now that she would not do for that girl and her
poor father!
Knocked down to the ground they were, and Ellen championed them
wherever she went. And now this! Drink or madness--perhaps both!
Poor man! Poor man! And that child, scarcely out of the cradle,
with all this on her shoulders! Ellen would do anything for them!
She would go round later in the day and see how she could be
useful.
She turned away. It was Ronder now who was "up"...and a little
pulling- down would do him no sort of harm. There were a few little
things she was longing, herself, to tell him. A few home-truths.
Then, half-way down the High Street, she met Julia Preston, and
didn't they have a lot to say about it all!
Meanwhile Joan, in another moment, was at her door. What had happened?
Oh, what had happened? Had he been brought back dying and bleeding?
Had that horrible man set upon him, there in the High Street, while
every one was about? Was the doctor there, Mr. Puddifoot? Would
there perhaps have to be an operation? This would kill her father.
The disgrace.... She let herself in with her latch-key and stood
in the familiar hall. Everything was just as it had always been,
the clocks ticking. She could hear the Cathedral organ faintly
through the wall.Like Robinson Crusoe.  Oh! how I wish
that sister Susan was here!  She would enjoy it so much.  It's an
island, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Edwin Jack, coming forward at the moment, "a coral island,
with plenty of vegetation on it.  So cheer up, Ben, we shall soon be
ashore."

Not so soon, however, as they expected, for the wind was light, although
favourable, the raft was heavy, and the two oars had but little
influence on it.  The sun sank and rose again before they drew near to
the reef.  Inside the reef, between it and the island-shore, there was a
lake or lagoon of calm water, but outside, on the reef itself, a heavy
swell broke with continuous roar.  To get involved in those giant
breakers would have been destruction to the raft, and probably death to
most of those on board.  One narrow opening, marked by a few shrubs and
palms on either side, formed the only portal to the calm lagoon.  The
captain himself took the steering oar, and summoned our philosopher to
his assistance.

"Give way now, lads, with a will."

As many men as could grasp the two oars laid hold of them, and bent
their backs till the strong wood cracked again.  Gradually the raft
neared the opening.  As it did so the ground-swell began to act on it.
By degrees the towering billows--which seemed to rise out of a calm sea
and rush to their destruction like walls of liquid glass--caught it,
dragged it on a little, and then let it slip.  At last one great wave
began to curl in hissing foam underneath, caught the raft fairly,
carried it forward on its boiling crest, and launched it with lightning
speed into the opening.  The space was too narrow!  One of the
projecting spars touched the reef.  Instantly the fastenings were rent
like pack-thread, and the raft was hurled forward in disconnected
fragments.  One of these turned completely over with several men on it.
Another portion passed through the opening and swung round inside.  The
steering oar was wrenched from Jack's hands, and struck the captain into
the water.  As if by instinct, Jack sprang to the "bower," caught Polly
in his arms, and leaped into the sea.  At the same moment Wilkins ran to
the rescue of his friend Ben.  These two were on the part that had swung
round to the calm side of the reef, and Watty waded to it with Ben on
his back.  The captain and all the rest were washed in a cataract of
foam and wreckage through the opening into the lagoon, and pitched by
curling eddies on the shore.  In a few minutes they all stood in safety,
panting, but uninjured, on the white sands of the coral reef.


CHAPTER FOUR.

THE CORAL ISLAND--PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.

The island on which the raft with its occupants had been cast was of
small size, not more than six miles in extent, and lay low in the water.
Nevertheless it was covered with luxuriant vegetation, among which were
several groves of cocoa-nut palms, the long feathery branches of which
waved gracefully in a gentle breeze, as if beckoning an invitation to
the castaways on the reef to cross the lagoon and find shelter there.
But crossing the lagoon was not an easy matter.

"Shure it's a mile wide if it's a futt," said one of the men as they
stood in a group on the reef, dripping and gazing at the isle.

"No, Simon O'Rook," said Bob Corkey, in that flat contradictions way to
which some men are prone; "no, it's only half a mile if it's an inch."

"You're wrong, both of you," said Baldwin Burr, "it ain't more than
quarter of a mile.  Quite an easy swim for any of us."

"Except my Polly," observed the captain quietly.

"Ay, and those who are too weak to swim," said Watty Wilkins, with a
glance at his friend Ben, who had lain down on the sand and listened
with a calm untroubled look to the conversation.

"You don't seem at all anxious," whispered Polly to Ben.

"No, Polly, I'm not.  I have lately been taught how to trust in God by
your example."

"By mine!" exclaimed the child in extreme surprise.

Before Ben could reply the captain turned and called to Polly.

"Come here, my duckey; Edwin Jack offers to swim over the lagoon to the
island with you on his back.  Will you trust yourself to him?"

"Yes, father," answered the child promptly.

"But maybe there are sharks," suggested O'Rook.

There was a momentary silence.  In the excitement of the occasion every
one had forgotten sharks.  What was to be done?  The raft was utterly
destroyed.  Only a few of the logs which had formed it lay on the reef;
the rest were floating on the lagoon at various distances, none nearer
than fifty yards.

"There's nothing for it, then, but to reconstruct our raft," said the
captain, throwing off his coat and shoes; "so these logs must be
secured."

He had only taken two steps towards the water when Philosopher Jack
grasped his arm.

"Stop, sir, it is your duty to look after Polly.  Now lads, those who
can swim come along!"

Another instant and he was in the sea, regardless of sharks, and
striking out for the floating wreckage, closely followed by O'Rook,
Corkey, Burr, and Watty Wilkins.  Strange to say, eight other men of the
crew could not swim, although they had managed somehow to scramble on
the reef.  Whether it was that the sharks were not there at the time, or
that the number and energy of the swimmers frightened them, we cannot
tell, but each man reached a log or plank in safety, and began pushing
it towards the reef.  It was when they drew near to this that the trial
of their courage was most severe.  The excitement and gush of daring
with which they had plunged in was by that time expended, and the slow
motion of the logs gave them time for reflection.  O'Rook's lively fancy
troubled him much.

"If the baists would only attack a man in front," he muttered, "it's
little I'd mind 'em, but to come up behind, sneakin' like--hooroo!"

At that moment a branch of coral, which projected rather far from the
bottom, touched O'Rook's toe and drew from him an uncontrollable yell of
alarm.  Baldwin Burr, who swam close behind, was humorously inclined as
well as cool.  He pushed the plank he was guiding close to his comrade's
back, dipped the end of it, and thrust it down on O'Rook's legs.

The effect was even more powerful than he had hoped for.

"A shark!--a sha-a-a-rk!" howled O'Rook, and dived under the broken
main-yard, which he was piloting ashore.  Coming up on the other side,
he tried to clamber on it, but it rolled round and dropped him.  He went
down with a gurgling cry.  Again he rose, grasped the spar with his left
arm, glared wildly round, and clenched his right hand as if ready to hit
on the nose any creature--fish, flesh, or fowl--that should assail him.

"Take it easy, messmate," said Burr in a quiet tone; "sorry I touched
you.  Hope it didn't hurt much."

"Och! it was you, was it?  Sure, I thought it was a shark; well, well,
it's plaised I am to be let off so aisy."

With this philosophic reflection O'Rook landed with his piece of timber.
Enough of material was soon collected to form a raft sufficiently large
to ferry half of the party across the lagoon, and in two trips the whole
were landed in safety on the island.

"You don't mean to tell me, Jack," said Baldwin Burr, "that this island
was made by coral insects?"

"Yes, I do!" said Jack.

"From the top to the bottom?" asked Burr.

"From the bottom to the top," said Edwin.

Baldwin asked this question of the philosopher during a pause in their
labours.  They were, at the time, engaged in constructing a new bower
for Polly among the flowering shrubs under the cocoa-nut palms.  Polly
herself was aiding them, and the rest of the party were scattered among
the bushes, variously employed in breaking down branches, tearing up
long grass, and otherwise clearing ground for an encampment.

"How could insects make an island?" asked Polly, sitting down on a bank
to rest.

"Don't you know, Poll?" said Edwin; "why, I thought your father taught
you about almost everything."

"Oh no," replied Polly, with an innocent smile, "not everything yet, you
know, but I daresay he will in the course of time.  Tell me about the
insects."

"Well, let me see, how shall I begin?" said Jack, leaning against the
bank, and crossing his arms on his breast.  "The coral insects, Polly,
are very small, some of them not larger than a pin's head.  They are
great builders.  There is lime in sea-water.  The insects, which are
called corallines, have the power of attracting this lime to them;
drawing it away from the water, so to speak, and fixing it round their
own bodies, which is called secreting the lime.  Thus they form shells,
or houses, to themselves, which they fix at the bottom of the sea.
Having laid the basements of their houses close together, they proceed
to add upper storeys, and thus they add storey to storey, until they
reach the surface of the sea.  They work in such innumerable millions
that, in course of time, they form reefs and islands, as you see."

"But I _don't_ see!" said Polly, looking round; "at least, I don't see
corallines working."

"Ah, good," said Baldwin, with a nod of approval to the child, as if to
say, "You have him there!"

"True," returned the philosopher, "because the corallines can only work
under water.  The moment they reach the surface they die; but those that
remain continue their labours on the sides of the reef or island, and
thus widen it.  Then the waves break off masses of coral, and cast them,
with drifting sea-weed and other things, up on the reef, which makes it
higher; then sea-birds come to rest on it.  The winds carry seeds of
various plants to it, which take root, grow up, die; and thus thicken
the soil by slow degrees, till at last, after a long, long time, the
island becomes a pretty large and fertile one like this."

"Wonderful!" exclaimed Polly; "what a clever insect!"

"Clever indeed," returned Edwin; "especially when we consider that it
has got no brains."

"No brains!" echoed Baldwin.

"No, it has little more than a stomach."

"Oh! come now," remonstrated Baldwin; "we can't believe that, can we,
Miss Polly?  Even a house-builder must think, much more an
island-builder; and no fellow can think with his stomach, you know."

"Nevertheless, it is as I tell you," continued Jack, "and these little
creatures manage to create hundreds of islands in the Southern Seas, by
their perseverance, energy, and united action.  Quite an example to
man--eh, Baldwin?"

"Ha! just so--a long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull all together.
I think we'd better act on the principles of these corry-lines, else
Miss Polly's bower won't be ready afore dark."

So saying, the seaman and our philosopher resumed their work with such
united energy--aided by Polly herself--that a very comfortable
habitation of boughs and large leaves was finished before the day
closed.  It resembled a large beehive, was overshadowed by dense foliage
of a tropical kind, and carpeted with a species of fern.

Polly was profuse in her thanks, and when it was finished, called to her
father to come and admire it.  The stout mariner at once obeyed the
summons.  He quitted the pile of firewood on which he had been
labouring, and with a violently red face and perspiring brow, appeared
on the scene, bearing a mighty axe on his shoulder.

"Splendid!" he exclaimed, with beaming admiration.  "It's fit for the
queen of the coral isles."

"For whom it is intended!" said Philosopher Jack, quickly.

Polly laughed, for she understood the compliment, but suddenly became
grave, as she remembered Ben Trench, and said, "No, no; it must be used
as a shelter for Ben."

"That's kind of you, Polly," said Watty coming up with a huge bundle of
grass and foliage for bedding at the moment; "but Ben has got friends to
remember him as well as you.  Bob Corkey and I have made him a hut on
the other side of the bushes--there, you may see the top of it through
the leaves."

"Does any one know where Mr Luke is?" asked the captain.

None of those assembled at the bower had seen him for some hours, and
Captain Samson was on the point of organising a party to go in search of
him, when one of the crew came in from the bush and said he had gone off
with Simon O'Rook to the highest point of the low islet, to ascertain if
possible its extent.

"He's all right if O'Rook is with him," said the captain to Polly, in
confidence, when they went into the bower together; "but he's not to be
trusted away by himself.  I never saw a man more unfit to look after
himself."

"And yet he is a good, kind man, father," said Polly.

"True, quite true, Poll," replied the captain, musingly.  "I wonder why
it is that some men seem as if they had been meant for women; maybe it
is by way of balancing those women who seem to have been meant for men!"

Polly listened to this with a look of grave consideration, but not
having formed an opinion on the subject, wisely held her tongue.

Meanwhile O'Rook led his companion towards the highest part of the
islet, which, being clear of trees, seemed likely to afford them a good
outlook.  The sailor was a man of inquiring disposition, and, being of a
free-and-easy nature, did not hesitate to speak out his mind on all
occasions.  After walking beside his tall companion and eyeing his thin
figure and sad countenance in silence for some time, he said--

"You're a cadaverous sort o' man, Mr Luke."

"Think so?" said Mr Luke, gently.

"Of course; I can't help thinkin' so, because I see it," returned
O'Rook.  "Was it a fall, now, w'en you was a babby, that did it, or
measles?"

"Neither, that I am aware of," replied Mr Luke, with a good-natured
smile; "my father before me was cadaverous."

"Ah!" said O'Rook, with a look of sympathy, as he touched the region of
his heart with his left thumb, "p'r'aps it was somethin' o' this sort,
eh?  I've bin through that myself in the ould country, where as purty
a--well, well, it's all over now, but I've a fellow-feelin' for--"

"No," interrupted Mr Luke, with a sigh, "it wasn't a disappointment, it
was--oh! what a splendid view!"

They had reached the top of the ridge at the moment, and the view of the
verdant islet that burst upon them might well have called forth
admiration from men of coarser mould than they.

O'Rook forgot for a few minutes the subject of his curiosity, and
compared the prospect to some of the beautiful scenery of Ireland,
though there was no resemblance whatever between the two.  He soon
returned, however, to the previous subject of conversation, but Mr Luke
had ceased to be communicative.

"What is that lying on the beach there?" he said, pointing in the
direction referred to.

"It's more than I can tell," answered O'Rook; "looks like a boat, don't
it?"

"Very," said Mr Luke, "and there is something lying beside it like a
man.  Come, let's go see."

The two explorers went rapidly down the gentle slope that led to the
beach, and soon found that the object in question was indeed a boat,
old, rotten, and blistered with the sun.  Beside it lay the skeleton of
a man, with a few rags of the garments that had once formed its clothing
still clinging to it here and there.  It was a pitiful sight.  Evidently
the unfortunate man had been cast away in an open boat, and had been
thrown on that beach when too much exhausted to make a last struggle for
life, for there was no sign of his having wandered from the boat or cut
down bushes, or attempted to make a fire.  His strength had apparently
enabled him to get out of the boat, that was all, and there he had lain
down to die.

For some time the two wanderers stood contemplating the sight in
silence, and when at length they spoke it was in low, sad tones.

"Poor, poor fellow," said Mr Luke, "he must have been shipwrecked, like
ourselves, and cast adrift in the boat.  But I wonder that he is alone;
one would expect that some of his comrades must have got into the boat
along with him."

"No doubt," said O'Rook, "they was all starved at sea and throw'd
overboard.  Come, Mr Luke, let's bury him; it's all we can do for him
now."

Saying this, O'Rook threw off his jacket and, with his companion's
assistance, soon scraped a hole in the sand.  Into this they were about
to lift the skeleton, when they observed that its right hand covered a
decayed remnant of rag, under which was seen a glittering substance.  It
turned out to be the clasp of a notebook, which, however, was so decayed
and glued together that it could not be opened.  O'Rook therefore
wrapped it in his handkerchief and put it in his pocket.  Then they
buried the skeleton, and rolled a large mass of coral rock upon the
grave to mark the spot.

A careful examination was next made of the old boat and the locality
around it, but nothing whatever was found to throw light on the fate of
the vessel to which the man had belonged.

Returning to the encampment, O'Rook and his companion found their
friends busy preparing supper, which consisted of some provisions saved
from the raft, and cocoa-nuts.

In a few seconds the whole party was assembled in front of Polly's
bower, listening attentively, while O'Rook described the discovery of
the skeleton to the captain, and produced the old notebook.  Deep was
the interest of every member of that little community as the captain
attempted to open the book, and intense was the expression of
disappointment on each countenance--especially on that of Polly--when,
after a prolonged trial, he utterly failed.

"Let Philosopher Jack try it," exclaimed Watty Wilkins eagerly.

The captain at once handed the book to Jack with a smile.

"To be sure," said he, "a philosopher ought to understand the management
of books better than a skipper; but when a book is glued hard and fast
like that, it may puzzle even a philosopher to master its contents."

Jack made the attempt, however.  He went to work with the calm
deliberation of a thorough workman.  By the aid of heat and gentle
friction and a little moisture, and the judicious use of a penknife, he
succeeded at last in opening the book in one or two places.  While he
was thus engaged, the rest of the party supped and speculated on the
probable contents of the book.

"Here is a legible bit at last," said Jack, "but the writing is very
faint.  Let me see.  It refers to the state of the weather and the wind.
The poor man evidently kept a private journal.  Ah! here, in the middle
of the book, the damp has not had so much effect."

As he turned and separated the leaves with great care, Jack's audience
gazed at him intently and forgot supper.  At last he began to read:--

  "`_Saturday, 4th_.--Have been three weeks now on short allowance.  We
  are all getting perceptibly weaker.  The captain, who is not a strong
  man, is sinking.  The boat is overcrowded.  If a gale should spring up
  we shall all perish.  I don't like the looks of two of the men.  They
  are powerful fellows, and the captain and I believe them to be quite
  capable of murdering the most of us, and throwing us overboard to save
  their own lives.'

"Here there is a blank," said Jack, "and the next date is the 8th, but
there is no month or year given.  The writing continues:--

  "`I scarce know what has passed during the last few days.  It is like
  a horrible dream.  The two men made the attempt, and killed big
  George, whom they feared most, because of his courage and known
  fidelity to the captain; but, before they could do further mischief,
  the second mate shot them both.  The boat floats lighter now, and,
  through God's mercy, the weather continues fine.  Our last ration was
  served out this morning--two ounces of biscuit each, and a wine-glass
  of water.  _Sunday, 11th_.--Two days without food.  The captain read
  to us to-day some chapters out of the Bible, those describing the
  crucifixion of Jesus.  Williams and Ranger were deeply impressed, and
  for the first time seemed to lament their sins, and to speak of
  themselves as crucifiers of Jesus.  The captain's voice very weak, but
  he is cheerful and resigned.  It is evident that _his_ trust is in the
  Lord.  He exhorts us frequently.  We feel the want of water more than
  food.  _Wednesday_.--The captain and Williams died yesterday.  Ranger
  drank sea water in desperation.  He went mad soon after, and jumped
  overboard.  We tried to save him, but failed.  Only three of us are
  left.  If we don't meet with a ship, or sight an island, it will soon
  be all over with us.  _Thursday_.--I am alone now.  An island is in
  sight, but I can scarcely raise myself to look at it.  I will bind
  this book to my hand.  If any one finds me, let him send it to my
  beloved wife, Lucy.  It will comfort her to know that my last thoughts
  on earth were of her dear self, and that my soul is resting on my
  Redeemer.  I grow very cold and faint.  May God's best blessing
  rest--'"

The voice of the reader stopped suddenly, and for some moments there was
a solemn silence, broken only by a sob from Polly Samson.

"Why don't you go on?" asked the captain.

"There is nothing more," said Jack sadly.  "His strength must have
failed him suddenly.  It is unfortunate, for, as he has neither signed
his name nor given the address of his wife, it will not be possible to
fulfil his wishes."

"Maybe," suggested O'Rook, "if you open some more o' the pages you'll
find a name somewheres."

Jack searched as well as the condition of the book would admit of and
found at last the name of David Ban--, the latter part of the surname
being illegible.  He also discovered a lump in one place, which, on
being cut into, proved to be a lock of golden hair, in perfect
preservation.  It was evidently that of a young person.

"That's Lucy's hair," said O'Rook promptly.  "Blessin's on her poor
heart!  Give it me, Philosopher Jack, as well as the book.  They both
belong to me by rights, 'cause I found 'em; an' if ever I set futt in
old England again, I'll hunt her up and give 'em to her."

As no one disputed O'Rook's claim, the book and lock of hair were handed
to him.

Soon afterwards Polly lay down to rest in her new bower, and her father,
with his men, made to themselves comfortable couches around her, under
the canopy of the luxuriant shrubs.

A week passed.  During that period Captain Samson, with Polly, Jack, and
Wilkins, walked over the island in all directions to ascertain its size
and productions, while the crew of the _Lively Poll_ found full
employment in erecting huts of boughs and broad leaves, and in
collecting cocoa-nuts and a few other wild fruits and roots.

Meanwhile the bottle thrown overboard by Watty Wilkins, with its
"message from the sea," began a long and slow but steady voyage.

It may not, perhaps, be known to the reader that there are two mighty
currents in the ocean, which never cease to flow.  The heated waters of
the Equator flow north and south to get cooled at the Poles, and then
flow back again from the Poles to get reheated at the Equator.

The form of continents, the effect of winds, the motion of the earth,
and other influences, modify the flow of this great oceanic current and
produce a variety of streams.  One of these streams, a warm one, passing
up the coast of Africa, is driven into the Gulf of Mexico, from which it
crosses the Atlantic to the west coast of Britain, and is familiarly
known as the Gulf Stream.  If Watty Wilkins's bottle had been caught by
this stream, it would, perhaps, in the course of many months, have been
landed on the west of Ireland.  If it had been caught by any of the
other streams, it might have ended its career on the coasts of Japan,
Australia, or any of the many "ends of the earth."  But the bottle came
under a more active influence than that of the ocean streams.  It was
picked up, one calm day, by a British ship, and carried straight to
England, where its contents were immediately put into the newspapers,
and circulated throughout the land.

The effect of little Wilkins's message from the sea on different minds
was various.  By some it was read with interest and pathos, while others
glanced it over with total indifference.  But there were a few on whom
the message fell like a thunderbolt, as we shall now proceed to show.


CHAPTER FIVE.

TELLS OF PLOTTINGS AND TRIALS AT HOME, WITH DOINGS AND DANGERS ABROAD.

In a dingy office, in a back street in one of the darkest quarters of
the city, whose name we refrain from mentioning, an elderly man sat down
one foggy morning, poked the fire, blew his nose, opened his newspaper,
and began to read.  This man was a part-owner of the _Lively Poll_.  His
name was Black.  Black is a good wearing colour, and not a bad name, but
it is not so suitable a term when applied to a man's character and
surroundings.  We cannot indeed, say positively that Mr Black's
character was as black as his name, but we are safe in asserting that it
was very dirty grey in tone.  Mr Black was essentially a dirty little
man.  His hands and face were dirty, so dirty that his only clerk (a
dirty little boy) held the firm belief that the famous soap which is
said to wash black men white, could not cleanse his master.  His office
was dirty, so were his garments, and so was his mean little spirit,
which occupied itself exclusively in scraping together a paltry little
income, by means of little ways known only to its owner.  Mr Black had
a soul, he admitted that; but he had no regard for it, and paid no
attention to it whatever.  Into whatever corner of his being it had been
thrust, he had so covered it over and buried it under heaps of rubbish
that it was quite lost to sight and almost to memory.  He had a
conscience also, but had managed to sear it to such an extent that
although still alive, it had almost ceased to feel.

Turning to the shipping news, Mr Black's eye was arrested by a message
from the sea.  He read it, and, as he did so, his hands closed on the
newspaper convulsively; his eyes opened, so did his mouth, and his face
grew deadly pale--that is to say, it became a light greenish grey.

"Anything wrong, sir?" asked the dirty clerk.

"The _Lively Poll_," gasped Mr Black, "is at the bottom of the sea!"

"She's in a lively position, then," thought the dirty clerk, who cared
no more for the _Lively Poll_ than he did for her part-owner; but he
only replied, "O dear!" with a solemn look of hypocritical sympathy.

Mr Black seized his hat, rushed out of his office, and paid a sudden
visit to his neighbour, Mr Walter Wilkins, senior.  That gentleman was
in the act of running his eye over his newspaper.  He was a wealthy
merchant.  Turning on his visitor a bland, kindly countenance, he bade
him good-morning.

"I do hope--excuse me, my dear sir," said Mr Black excitedly, "I do
hope you will see your way to grant me the accommodation I ventured to
ask for yesterday.  My business is in such a state that this disaster to
the _Lively Poll_--"

"The _Lively Poll_!" exclaimed Mr Wilkins, with a start.

"Oh, I beg pardon," said Mr Black, with a confused look, for his seared
conscience became slightly sensitive at that moment.  "I suppose you
have not yet seen it (he pointed to the paragraph); but, excuse me, I
cannot understand how you came to know that your son was on board--
pardon me--"

Mr Wilkins had laid his face in his hands, and groaned aloud, then
looking up suddenly, said, "I did not certainly know that my dear boy
was on board, but I had too good reason to suspect it, for he had been
talking much of the vessel, and disappeared on the day she sailed, and
now this message from--"

He rose hastily and put on his greatcoat.

"Excuse me, my dear sir," urged Mr Black; "at such a time it may seem
selfish to press you on business affairs, but this is a matter of life
and death to me--"

"It is a matter of death to _me_," interrupted the other in a low tone,
"but I grant your request.  My clerk will arrange it with you."

He left the office abruptly, with a bowed head, and Mr Black having
arranged matters to his satisfaction with the clerk, left it soon after,
with a sigh of relief.  He cared no more for Mr Wilkins's grief than
did the dirty clerk for his master's troubles.

Returning to his dirty office, Mr Black then proceeded to do a stroke
of very dingy business.

That morning, through some mysterious agency, he had learned that there
were rumours of an unfavourable kind in reference to a certain bank in
the city, which, for convenience, we shall name the Blankow Bank.  Now,
it so happened that Mr Black was intimately acquainted with one of the
directors of that bank, in whom, as well as in the bank itself, he had
the most implicit confidence.  The clothes were first sulphurized
to kill the lice, and then, until Dr.
Boyle's disinfector appeared, boiled. This was important, as typhus is
propagated by infected lice. Even forty-eight hours of sulphur did not
destroy the nits. One day the sulphur-room was opened after twenty-four
hours. Live lice were discovered congregated round the tops of the
bags.
Jan put some in a bottle. They immediately fought each other, tooth and
nail, rolling and scrambling in a mass just like a rugby-football
scrum, and continued the fight for twelve hours at least, thus proving
that the scientific writer who says that the louse is a delicate creature
and only lives a few hours off the body can know little of the Serbian
breed.

The town, when we arrived, was a bouquet of assorted and nasty
smells, of which the authorities seemed proud.

We cleaned up the streets by running a little artificial
river down the gutter. Mr. Berry had the chief of the police sacked and
instituted a sort of sanitary vigilance committee. We took over the local
but very primitive sewage works--a field into which all the filth of the
town was drained.

The slaughter-house was discovered. It was an old wooden shed built
over the lower end of the stream which washed the village from end
to end, draining successively the typhus barracks, the baths, and all
the hospitals. The shed itself was old and worm-eaten. The walls were
caked with the blood of years, yet the meat was always hung against
them after having been well soused in the filthy water.

Mr. Berry decided to build a new one: some of the money was subscribed
through Mr. Blease by the Liverpool Liberal Club; the rest Mr. Berry paid
himself. At once the state began to quarrel with the commune as to
the ownership of the proposed treasure. So the smells disappeared
and the town engineer was furious, saying he would "Put all right" when
we left.

Luckily one of the chief men in the town had lived in America and
knew the value of cleanliness.

Mr. Berry was offered an honorary Colonelcy; but he refused, saying he
would prefer to be made sanitary officer for the town.

[Illustration: IN-PATIENTS.]
The spring came, bringing with it no fighting. A great offensive was
expected, had been ordered, in fact, but we heard later that the army
refused to advance. The work was very much lighter. Very few men were
entirely helpless.

The hospitals, which were still emptying themselves and whose men were
coming to us, sent the survival of the fittest. Most of the beds were
carried out under the trees after the morning dressings were done, and
the men lay gossiping and smoking when they could get tobacco. Outside
visitors were rare. The Serbian ladies do not go round the hospitals
with cigarettes and sweets, and to find a Serbian woman nursing is an
anomaly.

Report says that many flung themselves into it with energy during the first
Balkan War, but that four years of it, ending with typhus, had
dulled their enthusiasm.

It is not fair to blame them. To nurse from morning till night in a putrid
Serbian hospital with all windows closed requires more than devotion
and complete indifference to life.

Three Serbian ladies came to sew pillow cases and sheets every afternoon,
and one of them gave up still more time to teach the patients
reading and writing.

But the town was full, in the summer, of smartly dressed women, and
the village priest never once visited our hospitals.

Hearing of the English missions and their work, peasants began to
come from the mountains around, and the out-patient department became,
under Dr.

Helen Boyle, a matter for strenuous mornings.

Many of these poor things had never seen a doctor in their lives.

Serbia even in peace-time had not produced many medical men, and those
who existed had no time to attend the poor gratis.

The percentage of consumptives was enormous. Every family shuts its windows
and doors for the winter and proceeds industriously to spit, and
so the disease spreads.

Diphtheria patients rode and walked often for ten hours and waited in
the courtyard, and people far gone with typhus staggered along in
the blazing spring sun.

One jolly old ragatops with typhus arrived in the afternoon with a
violent temperature, and Jo settled him comfortably in the courtyard
with his head on a sink until Mrs.

Berry should come in to see about taking him into the barracks. He seemed
quite happy about himself, but very worried about his blind beggar
brother and his two half-blind children, whose sight had been
ruined by smallpox.

For the latter nothing could be done.

Another time she kept two boys waiting to see if Mrs. Berry could take
them into her typhus barracks. One had scarlet fever, and the other
was a young starving clerk in a galloping consumption, thirty-six hours
from his home.

Afraid to raise their hopes, and not knowing if there would be room for
them, Jo told them that they were to have some very strong medicine
that could only be administered two hours after a dose of hot milk
and biscuit (the medicine was only bovril).

By this time Mrs. Berry arrived and managed to squeeze the boys in.

However, we were told to clear the hospitals, for the wounded were
expected.

"What could be done with the scarlet fever boy?" At last an idea came:
"The Mortuary," built by the Horse Show Judge with such joy. The mortuary
that we had all gone to admire as a work of art.

But the scarlet fever boy did not seem to see it that way, for in the
night he escaped, and we have never seen him since.

Diphtheria was so prevalent that the Red Cross on receiving a
patient, gathered in the whole family for a few days, inoculated,
washed, and gargled it.

They also toured the villages around, digging out typhus and other
infectious cases, thus stopping the spread of infection.

They had a most energetic matron, Miss Caldwell, who had already nursed
in Cettinje during the Balkan Wars, and we have already told how she
managed the Montenegrins.

Often the patients came in ox-carts. Too ill to be lifted out, they had
to be examined and treated in the carts. Dr. Boyle acquired a special
nimbleness in jumping in and out of these contrivances armed with
stethescope, spoons, bowls, and dressings.

We accumulated a congregation of "regulars," who came to be dressed every
day--gathered feet, suppurating glands, eczema, etc.

One old mother with a bad leg was bandaged up with boracic
ointment and told to come back in two days.

She came. Jo undid the bandage. All the old lady's fleas had swarmed to
the boracic till it looked like a fly-paper.

After which we used Vermigeli.

All wore brightly woven belts, sometimes two or three, each a yard
and a half long, tightly wound round their bodies, thus making their
waists wider than their hips.

One girl was black and blue with the pattern showing on her skin,
and many men were suffering from the evils of tight lacing.

The village priest received belts as fees from the peasants when he
married them. He sent us a message to say he had some for sale, so we
went in a body to his house, were received by his daughter, who looked
like a cow-girl, turned over a basketful of belts, and bought largely.
After which he put up the price.

Jo went on night duty for the first time.

A queer experience this, starting the day's work at half-past seven in
the evening and finishing at seven in the morning--breakfasting when
other people are dining; hearing their contented laughter as they
go off to bed; and then a queer loneliness and the ugly ticking of
a clock.

One creeps round the big ward. What a noisy thing breathing is. Some one
groans, "Sestra, I cannot sleep." This man has not been ordered
morphia.
Silence once more broken only by the sound of the breathing, distant
howling of dogs from the darkness or the hoot of an owl. The old
frostbite man coughs; he coughs again insistently. Both say "Yes"
to hot milk. So down to the big kitchen, some mice scatter by, the
puppy wakes up and thinks it is time for a game. A woman's voice calls
loudly, "Sestra." Taking the milk off, Sestra hurries across the courtyard
and along the corridor to the little rooms with the puppy tugging at her
skirt. The woman wants water; she has wakened the other women--they want
water. When silence again comes back into the ward, one notes instinctively
the vivid colouring of the two big blue windows at the far end, the
long lines of beds disappearing into the darkness, the dim light of
the lantern on the table showing up the cheap clock and a few flowers.
The intensity of light upon this clock is only equalled by the intensity
of one's thoughts upon the clock. The minute-hand drags on as though it
were weary with the day's work. A groan ticks off the quarters and cries
for water or milk the half-hours.

At last one o'clock. Time for a midnight meal. Eggs and cocoa hurriedly
eaten without appetite in the kitchen, but breaking the monotony. Back
to the ward again, one of the patients very restless, in great pain.
Poor fellow, he has had a long and hard time of it, fifteen months in
bed and all due to early neglect.

"Sestra," he says, "sestra," and holds out a handkerchief heavy
with coin.

"Tell the doctor to take me down to the operating-room and cure me or not
let me wake up."
Between four and five there is more movement in the ward. Groans give
way to yawns. In the windows the blue is paling to grey. Cocks are crowing
now quite close, now faintly, like an echo. Suddenly the world
is filled with work, "washings, brushings, combings, cleanings,
temperatures, breakfasts, medicines, some beds to make, reports, all
fitted together like a jigsaw puzzle, until at last the day-sisters
come and relieve, and yawning at the daylight one eats warmed-up dinner
while the others are having breakfast."
After a seven weeks' absence one was bound to miss many old friends in the
ward. Some had gone home, others were back in the army. Old Number
13, the king of the ward, was still there.

He had a dark brown face and white hair, and was furious if any dared
to call him a gipsy.

"I am a respectable farmer," he said, "and I own seventeen pigs, a
horse, and five sheep, a wife, and two children."

He loved to tell of his wedding. It was done in the correct old Serbian
style. He went with his mother and a gun to the chosen one's house,
where she was waiting alone, her parents tactfully keeping out of
the way.

They abducted the lady, who was treated with great honour as a visitor
in her future father-in-law's house.

"Father" turned up next morning.

Rakia was served, and father divulged ceremoniously how many pigs he
could spare to them for keeping his daughter.

Number 13 wanted to know everything: how old was Jo, how much she was
paid?

"What, you are not paid?" he said in amazement. "Then the English are
wonderful! In Serbia our women would not do that."
Poor little John Willie still left a blank, though he had died long
before. His name was not John Willie, but it sounded rather like it, so
we just turned it into John Willie. He loved the name, and told his
father about it.

They sat all afternoon hand-in-hand, saying at intervals, "Dgonn Oolie,"
and chuckling.

Jan once had brought back from a spring visit to Kragujevatz some horrible
sun hats.

They were the cast-off eccentricities of the fashions of six years
ago, and had drifted from the Rue de la Paix to this obscure Serbian
shop which was selling them as serious articles of clothing.

Jo tried them on, and one of the nurses became so weak with laughter that
she tumbled all the way downstairs.

Finding them quite impossible, Jo bequeathed them to the ward, where
they were snapped up enthusiastically.

The ugliest was an immense sailor hat, the crown nearly as wide as
the brim, but the head hole would have fitted a doll.

However, John Willie fancied that hat and was always to be seen,
a tiny, round-backed figure, wandering slowly in a long blue
dressing-gown, blue woolly boots, and the enormous hat perched on the top
of his pathetically drooping head.

One day poor little John Willie became fearfully ill. His parents arrived
and sat dumbly gazing at him for two nights, while he panted
his poor little life away. His friend the Velika Dete (big child), once
a fierce comitaj, was moved away from the "Malo Dete," to make
more room, and he sulked, while the Austrian prisoner orderlies ran
to and fro with water for his head, milk, all the things that a
poor little dying boy might need; and old Number 13 passed to and
fro shaking his head, for he had been long in hospital and had seen
many people die.

A man with knees bent (he said with scroogling them up all winter in the
cold) was put in John Willie's place. The Velika Dete came back,
but he would not speak to "Bent Knees" for weeks.

By this time the Austrian prisoners were very well trained and made
excellent orderlies in the ward.

An ex-Carlton waiter was very dexterous in sidling down the ward: on
his five fingers a tray perched high, containing dressing-bowls and
pots bristling with forceps, scissors, and various other instruments.

His chief talent lay in peppering frostbitten toes with iodoform
powder--a reminiscence of the sugar castor.

Our housemaid was a leather tanner, whom Jo's baby magpie mistook for its
parent, as he fed it at intervals every morning.

A Czech in typhus cloths spent his days down in the disinfecting,
operating and bathrooms.
He had been an overseer in a factory and had added to his income
by writing love-stories for the papers.

A butcher was installed in the kitchens. Once a week he became an
artist, killing a sheep according to the best Prague ideals.

All our prisoners, about forty in number, clung to the English hospitals
as their only chance of life, for in other places sixty per cent. had
died of typhus.

The Serbs, though bearing no animosity, could do little for them. We saw
the quarters of some men working on the road.

These were show quarters and supposed to be clean. Each room had an
outside door. On the floor was room for six men and hay enough to
stuff one pillow.

They had no rugs, and the Serbs could give them none. The cold in the
winter must have been intense.

We had come back to this little world after seven weeks' wandering, and
almost immediately Jan had gone off to Kragujevatz with a broken
motor.

While he was away Jo got letters from England and Paris, which made
her realize that things were rather in a mess, and we should have to go
home. We had left England intending to stay in Serbia three months, and
had been then nearly nine.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XV
SOME PAGES FROM MR. GORDON'S DIARY

OCTOBER 2ND. Got a wire from Kragujevatz to say that the motor
hood is ready and that we must go over to get it fitted. We cleaned and
oiled the car, and at two ran it down the hill, but it would not
start.
Found two sparking plugs cracked and the magneto very weak. When we had
fixed it up it was too late. Four a.m. to-morrow morning.

OCTOBER 3RD. Started in the dark, Mr. Berry, Sister Hammond, Sava, I,
and a female relation of some minister or other who wanted to go to
Kralievo. The motor working badly, as it is impossible to get the
proper spare parts. Three young owls were sitting in the middle of the
road scared by our headlights; we hit one, the other two flew away.
Sava and I stopped and tinkered at the old machine for about an
hour, changed all the sparking plugs again, after which she went
better.

We reached Kralievo without incident, where we cast loose the female
relation. From Kralievo passed over the Morava, which was pretty
floody and had knocked the road about a bit. The road led right through
the Shumadia country, where the first revolts of the Serbian nation
against their Turkish oppressors were engendered. We passed the old
Serbian churchyard. I never passed by without going in. These queer old
tombstones all painted in days when pure decoration had a religious
appeal, these tattered red and white and black banners lend such a gay
air to death; these swords and pistols and medals carved into the stone
seem almost carrying a bombast to heaven. On one side of each tombstone
is the name of its owner, preceded by the legend, "Here lies the slave
of God."

Do slaves love their masters?

When we passed this road in the winter, black funeral flags hung from
almost every hut, and even now the rags still flap in the breeze. A
Serbian boy, clad in dirty cottons, shouted to us, making gesticulations.
We slowed down and stopped.

"Bombe," he cried.

"Aeropla-ane.

Pet," he held up five fingers, "y jedan je bili slomile. Vidite
shrapnel."

He pointed. We saw a quiet, early autumn landscape, the blue sky slightly
flecked with thin horizontal streaks of cloud.

Any scene less warlike could not have been imagined.

"Vidite tamo," he cried once more.

Straining our eyes one could just see, between the lowest strata of
cloud, a series of small white round clouds floating.
"Shrapnel," said Sava, pointing.

"They hit one," said Mr. Berry.
I let in the clutch, we sped on once more. Bang! a tire burst.
Motor driving in Serbia is not a profession, it is an art. We were
on another of these first-class Serbian roads. Presently we came
to a long downhill.
"That is the place," said Mr. Berry to Sister Hammond, "where we
spent the night last winter when the motor stuck in the mud. There,
beneath that tree."
We shrugged our way down the hill, and presently came into the gipsy
environments of Kragujevatz.
A man stopped us, holding up a hand.

"Bombe," he said.
We got out. In the soft earth at the side of the road was a neat
hole, four inches in diameter. Peering down we could see the steel
handle of the unburst bomb. We next passed a smashed paling, in the
garden behind a crowd were searching for relics. An old woman had
been killed, they said. We turned into the main street and plunged
into a large crowd. The pavement had been torn up, and people were
grubbing in the mud; pieces of charred wood were passed from hand
to hand.
"That's a bit of propeller," said one. "No; it's a bit of the frame,"
said another. A girl proudly held up a large piece of map scorched
all round the edges.

"And the men?" we asked.
"Nemachke (Germans)," answered the crowd; "both dead; one here, one
over there," pointing to the middle of the road.
We came into the Stobarts' camp, pitched up on the hill behind the
Kragujevatz pleasure ground.
"Did you see the aeroplanes?" they cried, running towards us.
"No," we answered; "but we saw the shrapnel."
"One was hit--it was wonderful. They were flying just over here,
and a shrapnel burst quite close; and then one saw a thin stream
of smoke come from the plane; then a little flicker. It seemed to
fall so slowly. Then it burst into flames and came down like a great
comet."
"D----n!" we said: "if only that machine had been working right
yesterday."
We took our car down to the arsenal, and I left Sava to take it to
bits and get it opened out, for there had been a bit of a knock in
the crank case. The remains of the smashed aeroplane were piled in
the yard, and from the way it had twisted up without breaking one
could see from what beautiful metal the machinery was made. Some
of the French experts denied that the guns had hit it--giving as
their reason that one of its own bombs had exploded. But one of the
engineers put his hand into a big hole which was beneath the crank
case and drew out a shrapnel ball. I thought that would settle it,
but the Frenchmen were not convinced. The shells were bursting fifty
metres too low, they said. Fifteen bombs had fallen about the
arsenal, and one man, a non-commissioned officer, had been killed.
Met Hardinge and Mawson: they both saw the aeroplane fall, and were
not fifty yards from the place where it struck.What was to be done?  An unspoken prayer ascended from his heart to God,
as he rose and seized the oars.  A belief that it was needful to act
vigorously and at once was strong upon him.  For several minutes he
relieved his feelings by rowing with all his might.  Then he stopped
abruptly, and his spirit sank almost in despair as he exclaimed aloud--

"What's the use?  I don't know where the island is.  I may only be
pulling farther away from it.  Oh! what shall I do?"

At that moment of extreme depression, the value of having had a
God-fearing father who had taught him the Bible was unexpectedly
realised, for there flashed into his mind, as if in reply to his
question, the words, "Call upon me in the time of trouble; I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."

He pulled in the oars at once, fell on his knees, and, clasping his
hands, prayed fervently.  Watty had been taught a form of prayer in
childhood, and had often used it with little or no regard to its
meaning.  Now, in his distress, he prayed in earnest.  He meant what he
said.  It followed, also, that he said what he meant.  The old form,
being quite unsuitable to the occasion, was forgotten, and very homely
language indeed was used, but it was sufficient for the purpose.  The
substance of it was a cry for pardon and deliverance.  That which winged
it to the Throne of Grace was the name of Jesus Christ.

Resuming the oars, he rowed gently; not for the sake of directing the
boat, but because a state of inaction was disagreeable, and as he rowed
he thought of the promise that had been sent to him.  Strange to say,
the latter part of it, "Thou shalt glorify me," seemed to take a
stronger hold of his mind than the first.  "Yes," he thought, "the whole
promise is true.  He will deliver me and make me to glorify Himself in
some way or other.  Perhaps He will let me live to return home, and be a
comfort to my father."

The thought of the sorrow he had caused his father weighed heavier than
ever in the poor boy's mind, and the desire to express his repentance,
and, if possible, make his father glad again, became very intense.  It
seemed to him that a millstone would be removed from his heart if he
could be allowed, even for one minute, to hold his father's hand and
say, "Oh, I am so sorry, sorry, sorry that I ran away!"  The millstone
was not removed at that time, however; but in answer to prayer it was
unquestionably lightened.

The exercise of rowing and the fresh morning air produced their natural
effect ere long on the little castaway.  He became ravenously hungry,
and turned his eyes inquiringly on the few fish which surged about in
the pool of dirty water that had gathered in the bottom of the boat.  It
was not an inviting breakfast.  Watty turned his eyes away from it,
looked up into the fair blue sky, and tried to think of other things!
But the calls of nature were not to be silenced.  Instead of thinking of
other things, he somehow thought of bread and butter.  He even fell into
a species of argument with himself as to whether it would not be
uncommonly pleasant in various supposable circumstances, to eat bread
without butter.  Then he found himself meditating on the delights of
butter and jam together, which somehow suggested the scriptural figure
of a land flowing with milk and honey.

"Oh!" he sighed at this point, "if the sea was only milk and honey--milk
even without honey!--what a glorious prospect!"

He looked at it as if he half thought it would be transformed under the
power of his intense wish.  Then he looked again at the floating fish
and shuddered.  Well might he shudder, for they were contemptible little
fish, most of them, with unnaturally large heads, and great staring
eyes, as if they had failed, even in death, to get rid of their surprise
at being caught.  With their mouths opened to the uttermost, they seemed
to wish to shout, but couldn't.

"I may as well take them out of the dirty water anyhow," he muttered,
suiting the action to the word, and spreading the fish on the thwart in
front of him.  Liking their appearance still less in that position, he
put them on the thwart behind him, and tried to forget them.
Impossible!  He might as well have tried to forget his own existence.
At last, after holding out as long as possible, the poor boy made up his
mind to eat a little.  Then he thought, "If I could only cook them; oh!
for only one small lump of live coal from the camp fire on--"

The thought was checked abruptly, for he suddenly remembered that he had
a burning-glass in his trousers pocket.  He might perhaps be able to
roast them with that--in a somewhat underdone fashion, no doubt--still,
any sort of cooking would be better than none!

It need scarcely be said that the attempt failed.  The only results were
a burnt spot or two and a faint odour that served to intensify his
hunger.  At last he bit a mouthful out of the back of one of the fish,
chewed it viciously, swallowed it in a hurry, and felt very sick.  The
ice was broken, however, and he got on better than he had expected.  But
when hunger was appeased, there came gradually upon him the far less
endurable condition of thirst.  He really felt as if he should choke,
and once or twice he dipped his baling-dish over the side, but
restrained himself on remembering the journal of the skeleton, wherein
it was recorded that one of the men had gone mad after drinking salt
water.

Towards the afternoon hope was revived in his breast by the appearance
of clouds indicating rain.  It came at last, in a soft gentle shower--
far too gentle, indeed, for it could not be collected.  What dropped
upon the wooden baling-dish seemed to sink into or evaporate off it.
The few drops that fell upon his patiently protruded tongue served only
to tantalise him.  But Watty was not prone to give way to despair; at
least, not to remain in that condition.  He took off his jacket, spread
it out so as to form a basin, and eagerly watched the result.  Alas! the
cloth was too soft.  It acted like a sponge, into which the rain-drops
disappeared.

When it became evident that the coat was a failure--refusing even to
part with a single drop when wrung,--Watty chanced to cast down his
eyes, and they naturally fell on his trousers.  They were stiff canvas
trousers, and very greasy from much service among the dishes.  Instantly
he had them off, and spread out as the coat had been.  Joy
inexpressible--they held water!  To convert the body of them into a lake
and the legs into two water-courses was not difficult for one whose
ingenuity was beyond the average.  But oh! the lake basin was slow to
gather the precious drops!  He caused the two legs to debouch into the
baling-dish, and watched eagerly for half an hour, at the end of which
period about a wineglassful was collected.  He sucked it in, to the last
drop, and waited for more.  It seemed as if the very sky sympathised
with the boy's distress, for soon afterwards the rain increased, then it
poured, and finally, Watty Wilkins was more than satisfied, he was
drenched.  Fortunately the downpour was short-lived.  It ceased
suddenly; the clouds broke up, and the evening sun came out in full
splendour, enabling him to partially dry his garments.

In the Southern Seas at that time, the weather was particularly warm, so
that our castaway felt no inconvenience from his ducking, and spent the
second night in comparative comfort, his dreams--if he had any--being
untroubled with visions of food or drink.  Once, indeed, he awoke, and,
looking up, recalled so vividly the fate of the man who had been cast
alone and dying on the Coral Island, that he became deeply depressed by
the thought of meeting a similar fate; but the text of the previous day
again recurred to him.  Clinging to it, he again fell asleep, and did
not wake till morning.

Looking over the side, he saw what sent a gush of hope and joy to his
heart.  A ship, under full sail, not half a mile off!  He rubbed his
eyes and looked again.  Was he dreaming?  Could it be?

He sprang up with a cry of delight and gave vent to a long, loud cheer,
as much to relieve his feelings as to attract attention.  It was almost
too good to be true, he thought.  Then a voice within whispered, "Did
you not ask for deliverance?" and the boy mentally responded, "Yes,
thank God, I did."

While he was thinking, his hands were busy refastening his jacket (which
he had taken down to sleep in) by a sleeve to its former place at the
end of an oar.  But there was no occasion to signal.  The vessel, a
barque, was running straight towards him before a light breeze under
full sail--as Baldwin Burr would have said, with "stuns'ls slow and
aloft."  Believing that he had been observed, he ceased waving his flag
of distress.

But soon a new idea sent a thrill through his heart.  No sign of
recognition was made to him as the ship drew near.  Evidently the
look-out was careless.

Leaping up, Watty seized the oar, waved his flag frantically, and yelled
out his alarm.  Still the ship bore majestically down on him, her huge
bow bulking larger and higher as she drew near.  Again Watty yelled,
loud and long, and waved his flag furiously.  The ship was close upon
him--seemed almost towering over him.  He saw a sailor appear lazily at
the bow with his hands in his pockets.  He saw the eyes of that seaman
suddenly display their whites, and his hands, with the ten fingers
extended, fly upwards.  He heard a tremendous "Starboard ha-a-a-rd!"
followed by a terrific "Starboard it is!"  Then there was a crashing of
rotten wood, a fearful rushing of water in his ears, a bursting desire
to breathe, and a dreadful thrusting downwards into a dark abyss.  Even
in that moment of extremity the text of the morning flashed through his
whirling brain--then all was still.

When Watty's mind resumed its office, its owner found himself in a
comfortable berth between warm blankets with a hot bottle at his feet,
and the taste of hot brandy-and-water in his mouth.  A man with a rough
hairy visage was gazing earnestly into his face.

"Wall, youngster, I guess," said the man, "that you'd pretty nigh
slipped your cable."

Watty felt thankful that he had not quite slipped his cable, and said
so.

"You went over me, I think," he added.

"Over you!  Yes, I just think we did.  You went down at the bows--I
see'd you myself--and came up at the starn.  The cap'n, he see'd you
come up, an' said you bounced out o' the water like the cork of a
soda-water bottle.  But here he comes himself.  He told me I wasn't to
speak much to you."

The captain, who was an American, with a sharp-featured and firm but
kindly countenance, entered the berth at the moment.

"Well, my boy, glad to see you revived.  You had a narrow escape.
Wouldn't have been so if it hadn't chanced that one of our worst men was
the look-out--or rather wasn't the look-out.  However, you're all right
now.  Your ship went down, I expect, not long since?"

"About three or four months ago," answered Watty.

"Come, boy, your mind hasn't got quite on the balance yet.  It ain't
possible that you could be as fat as a young pig after bein' three or
four months at sea in an open boat.  What was the name of your ship?"

"The _Lively Poll_."

"What! a Scotch ship?"

"Yes; part owned and commanded by Captain Samson."

"_I_ know him; met him once in Glasgow.  A big, rough-bearded, hearty
fellow--six foot two or thereabouts.  Didn't go down with his ship, did
he?" asked the captain with a look of anxiety.

"No," replied Watty with increasing interest in the American; "we
escaped on a raft to an island, off which I was blown, while alone in my
boat only two days ago."

"Only two days ago, boy!" echoed the captain, starting up; "d'you happen
to know the direction of that island?"

Watty did not know, of course, having had no compass in his boat; but he
fortunately remembered what Captain Samson had said when he had
ascertained the latitude and longitude of it.

"Mr Barnes," shouted the captain to the first mate, who stood on deck
near the open skylight, "how's her head?"

"Sou'-sou'-west, sir."

"Put her about and lay your course west and by north.  Now," said the
captain, turning again to Watty, with a look of satisfaction, "we'll
soon rescue Captain Samson and his crew.  I'm sorry I won't be able to
take you all back to England, because we are bound for San Francisco,
but a trip to California is preferable to life on a coral island.  Now,
boy, I've talked enough to you.  The steward will bring you some dinner.
If you feel disposed, you may get up after that.  Here are dry clothes
for you.  We ripped up your own to save time after hauling you out of
the sea."

It was not usual for the gentle Polly Samson to alarm the camp with a
shriek that would have done credit to a mad cockatoo, nevertheless, she
did commit this outrage on the feelings of her companions on the
afternoon of the day on which Watty was run down and rescued.

Her father and all the others were seated around the camp fire among the
bushes at the time.  Polly had left them, intending to pay a visit to
one of her beautiful water-gardens on the beach, and had just emerged
from the bushes and cast her eyes upon the sea, when she beheld the
sight that drew from her the shriek referred to.  She gave it forth in
an ascending scale.

"Oh!  Oh!!  Oh!!! father! come here! quick! quick! oh!"

Never since he was a boy had the captain jumped so sharply from a
sitting posture to his legs.  Every man followed suit like a
Jack-in-the-box.  There was a rush as if of a tempest through the
bushes, and next moment the whole party burst upon the scene, to find
Polly--not as they had feared in some deadly peril, but--with flashing
eyes and glowing cheeks waving her arms like a windmill, and shrieking
with joy at a ship which was making straight for the island under full
sail.

The captain greeted the sight with a bass roar, Philosopher Jack with a
stentorian shout.  Ben Trench did his best to follow Jack's example.
Simon O'Rook uttered an Irish howl, threw his cap into the air, and
forthwith began an impromptu hornpipe, in which he was joined by Bob
Corkey.  Baldwin Burr and his comrades vented their feelings in
prolonged British cheers, and Mr Luke, uttering a squeak like a wounded
rabbit, went about wanting to embrace everybody, but nobody would let
him.  In short every one went more or less mad with joy at this sudden
realisation of "hope long deferred."  Only then did they become fully
aware of the depth of anxiety which had oppressed them at the thought of
being left, perhaps for years, it might be to the end of their days, on
that unknown island.

As the vessel approached, it became apparent that there was some one on
board whose temporary insanity was as demonstrative as their own, so
wild were his gesticulations.

"It's too fur off," said Baldwin, "to make out the crittur's phisog; but
if it warn't for his size, I'd say he was a monkey."

"P'r'aps it's an ourang-outang," suggested Corkey.

"Or a gorilla," said O'Rook.

"Oh!" exclaimed Polly, in a low, eager voice of surprise, "I do believe
it is Watty Wilkins!"

"Polly is right," said Philosopher Jack; "I'd know Watty's action among
a thousand."

As he spoke, the vessel rounded-to outside the reef, backed her
top-sails, and lowered a boat.  At the same time the excited figure
disappeared from her bow, and reappeared, wilder than ever, in the stern
of the boat.  As it crossed the lagoon, the voice of Watty became
audible, and was responded to by a succession of hearty cheers, in the
midst of which the boat was run ashore.  The excited lad sprang on the
beach, and was almost annihilated by the species of miscellaneous
embracing that he immediately underwent.

Need we say that Captain Samson and his men were only too thankful to
have such an opportunity of deliverance?  They at once accepted the
offer of the American captain, embarked in his ship the following
morning, passed Cape Horn not long after, sailed up the coast of South
America, and, in course of time, cast anchor in the renowned harbour of
San Francisco.

At the time of which we write, the excitement about the gold-fields of
California was at its highest pitch.  Men were flocking to that region
from all parts of the earth.  Fortunes were being made by some in a few
months, and lost by others, at the gaming-tables, in a few days, or even
hours.  While a few gained a competence, many gained only a bare
subsistence; thousands lost their health, and not a few their lives.  It
was a strange play that men enacted there, embracing all the confusion,
glitter, rapid change of scene, burlesque, and comedy of a pantomime,
with many a dash of darkest tragedy intermingled.  Tents were pitched in
all directions, houses were hastily run up, restaurants of all kinds
were opened, boats were turned keel up and converted into cottages,
while ships were stranded or lying idle at their anchors for want of
crews, who had made off to that mighty centre of attraction, the
diggings.

Arrived at San Francisco, Captain Samson and his crew were landed one
fine morning at an early hour, and went up to a modest-looking hotel,
without any definite idea as to what was best to be done in their
peculiar circumstances.  Feeling a strange sensation of helplessness in
the midst of so much turmoil and human energy, after their quiet sojourn
on the Coral Island, they kept together like a flock of sheep, and
wandered about the town.  Then they returned to their hotel and had
luncheon, for which so large a sum was demanded, that they resolved to
return on board at once, and ask the American captain's advice.

They found their deliverer pacing his quarterdeck, with his hands in his
pockets, and a stern frown on his countenance.  He was quite alone, and
the vessel wore an unusually quiet air.

"Nothing wrong, I hope," said Captain Samson, as he stepped over the
gangway.

"Everything wrong," replied the American; "crew skedaddled."

"What! bolted?"

"Ay, every man, to the diggin's."

"What will you do?" asked Captain Samson, in a sympathetic tone.

"Sell off the ship and cargo for what they'll fetch, and go to the
diggin's too," replied the other.  "Moreover, I'd strongly recommend you
to do the same."

"What say you to that advice, Philosopher Jack?" asked Captain Samson,
turning to our hero, with a peculiar smile.

"I say," answered the philosopher, returning the smile, "that the advice
requires consideration."

"Cautiously replied; and what says my Polly?" continued the captain.

"I say whatever you say, father."

"Ah!  Poll, Poll, that sort of answer don't help one much.  However,
we'll call a council of war, and discuss the matter seriously; but,
first of all, let's see how the wind blows.  How do _you_ feel inclined,
Ben Trench?  Bein' the invalid of our party, so to speak, you're
entitled, I think, to speak first."

"I say, Go," replied Ben.

"And I say ditto," burst from Watty Wilkins with powerful emphasis.

"You wasn't axed yet," observed Bob Corkey.  "Besides, stowaways have no
right to speak at all."

"What says Mr Luke!" continued the captain.

"Don't go," answered Mr Luke feebly.

"Now, lads," said the captain, after putting the question to the others,
"we'll go in for the pros and cons."

They went in for the pros and cons accordingly, and after an animated
debate, resolved that the path of duty, as well as that of interest and
propriety, lay in the direction of the diggings.

Having settled the matter, and gathered together into a common fund the
small amount of cash and property which each had saved from the wreck,
they went ashore, purchased the articles necessary for their expedition,
and followed the great stream of Californian gold-diggers.

We shall join them, but let not the reader suppose that we intend to
bore him or her with the statistics and details of Californian
gold-digging.  It is our purpose only to touch lightly on those salient
points in the adventures of our wanderers which had a more or less
direct bearing on the great issues of their lives.


CHAPTER SEVEN.

FAILURE.

There are times, probably, in the life of all when everything seems to
go against one,--when plans and efforts turn out ill, or go wrong, and
prospects look utterly black and hopeless.  Such a time fell upon
Philosopher Jack and his friends some months after their arrival at the
gold-diggings.

At first they were moderately successful, and at that time what
amazingly golden visions they did indulge!

"A carriage and pair," soliloquised Watty Wilkins, one evening at
supper, while his eyes rested complacently on the proceeds of the day's
labour--a little heap of nuggets and gold-dust, which lay on a sheet of
paper beside him; "a carriage and pair, a town house in London, a
country house near Bath or Tunbridge Wells, and a shooting-box in the
Scotch Highlands.  Such is my reasonable ambition."

"Not bad," said Philosopher Jack, "if you throw in a salmon river near
the shooting-box, and the right to wear the bonnet, plaid, and kilt at
pleasure."

"Not to mention bare legs an' rheumatiz," remarked Simon O'Rook, who was
busy with the frying-pan.  "Sure, if the good Queen herself was to order
me to putt on such things, I'd take off me bonnet an' plaid in excuse
that I'd be kilt entirely if she held me to it.  All the same I'd obey
her, for I'm a loyal subject."

"You're a bad cook, anyhow," said Baldwin Burr, "to burn the bacon like
that."

"Burn it!" retorted O'Rook with an air of annoyance, "man alive, how can
I help it?  It hasn't fat enough to slide in, much less to swim.  It's
my belief that the pig as owned it was fed on mahogany-sawdust and steel
filin's.  There, ait it, an' howld yer tongue.  It's good enough for a
goold-digger, anyhow."

"In regard to that little bit of ambition o' your'n," said Bob Corkey,
as the party continued their meal, "seems to me, Watty, that you might
go in for a carriage an' four, or six, when you're at it."

"No, Corkey, no," returned the other, "that would be imitating the
foibles of the great, which I scorn.  What is _your_ particular
ambition, now, Mr Luke?  What will you buy when you've dug up your
fortune?"

The cadaverous individual addressed, who had become thinner and more
cadaverous than ever, looked up from his pewter plate, and, with a
sickly smile, replied that he would give all the gold in the mines to
purchase peace of mind.

This was received with a look of surprise, which was followed by a burst
of laughter.

"Why, you ain't an escaped convict, are you?" exclaimed Baldwin Burr.

"No, I'm only an escaped man of business, escaped from the toils, and
worries, and confinements of city life," returned Mr Luke, with another
sickly smile, as he returned to his tough bacon.

"Well, Mr Luke, if contrast brings any blessing with it," said Edwin
Jack, "you ought to revive here, for you have splendid fresh country
air--by night as well as by day--a fine laborious occupation with pick
and shovel, a healthy appetite, wet feet continually, mud up to the
eyes, and gold to your heart's content.  What more can you desire?"

"Nothing," replied the cadaverous man with a sigh.

The state of prosperity to which Jack referred did not last.  Their
first "claim," though rich, was soon worked out, and they were obliged
to seek another.  This turned out to be a poor one, yielding barely
enough of the precious metal to enable them to pay their way, every
article of clothing, tools, and food being excessively dear at the
mines.  Nevertheless, they worked on in hope, but what was termed their
"luck" became worse and worse every day, so that at last they were
obliged to run into debt.

This was not difficult to do, for the principal store-keeper, Higgins by
name, saw that they were respectable, trustworthy men, and felt pretty
safe in giving them supplies on credit.  One bad result of the debt thus
incurred was that the whole tone and spirit of the party was lowered.

"It's too bad," growled Philosopher Jack one evening, as he strode into
the tent and flung down his tools; "got barely enough to keep the pot
boiling."

"Better that than nothing," remarked Watty Wilkins, who was in the act
of taking off his wet boots.  "_I_ haven't got as much dust as would
gild the end of a bumbee's nose.  Hope some of the others have been more
successful.  None of them have come in yet except O'Rook, who is as
unlucky as myself.  He's off to the store for something for supper."

Watty sat down before the fire which burned in front of the tent, and
sadly toasted his toes.

"I'll tell you what," said Jack, sitting down beside him, "I fear we
were fools to come here."

"Not so sure of that" returned Wilkins, with a dubious shake of the
head.  "Every one, you know, cannot be lucky.  Some succeed and some
don't.  We are down just now, that's all.  The wheel of fortune is going
round, and something will be sure to turn up soon."

"Nothing will turn up unless we turn it up for ourselves, you may depend
upon that" said Philosopher Jack.

"The captain seemed to preach a different doctrine from that last
Sunday, didn't he, when he remarked that God sometimes sends prosperity
and riches to those who neither ask, work for, nor deserve them?"

"True, Watty, but these, he told us, were exceptional cases; the rule
being, that those who labour with body or mind acquire possessions,
while those who don't labour fall into poverty.  The simple truth of
that rule is partially veiled by the fact that thousands of laborious
men labour unwisely, on the one hand, while, on the other hand,
thousands of idle men live on the product of their forefathers' labours.
Besides, didn't the captain also impress upon us that success is not
success when it leads to evil, and failure is not failure when it
results in good?"

"From all which," retorted Watty, "you bring forward strong proof that
your present growling at bad luck is most unphilosophic, you
cross-grained philosopher."

"Not at all," returned Jack.  "The captain's principles may, or may not
be correct.  The mere statement of them does not prove that my ill luck
just now is going to result in good.  But the worst of it is, that
during the time of our good fortune, I had been hoarding up in order to
be able to send money to my poor father, and now it has all melted
away."

"I'm sorry for you, Jack," said Watty, "but that is not the worst of it
to my mind, bad though it be.  What grieves me most is, that my dear
friend and chum, Ben Trench, is surely losing his health under the
strain of anxiety and hard work.  You see, he is not gifted with the
gutta-percha feelings and cast-iron frame of Philosopher Jack, neither
has he the happy-go-lucky spirit and tough little corpus of Watty
Wilkins, so that it tells on him heavily--very heavily."

Poor Watty said this half jestingly, yet with such a look of genuine
feeling that Jack forgot his own troubles for the moment.

"Something _must_ be done," he said, gazing with a concerned look at the
fire.  "Did you observe that man Conway last night up at the store?"

"Yes; what of him?"

"He staked largely at the gaming-table last night--and won."

Little Wilkins glanced quickly in his friend's face.  "Jack," he said,
with a look and tone of earnestness quite unusual to him, "we must not
think of _that_.  Whatever straits we are reduced to, we must not
gamble--I repeat, we _must_ not!"

"Why not, little man?" asked Jack, with an amused smile at what he
considered an uncalled-for burst of seriousness.

"Because it is dishonourable," said Wilkins, promptly.

"I don't see it to be so," returned Jack.  "If I am willing to stake my
money on a chance of black or red turning up, and the banker is willing
to take his chance, why should we not do it? the chances are equal; both
willing to win or to lose, nothing dishonourable in that!  Or, if I bet
with you and you bet with me, we both agree to accept the consequences,
having a right, of course, to do what we please with our own."

"Now, Jack," said Wilkins, "I'm not going to set up for a little
preacher, or attempt to argue with a big philosopher, but I'll tell you
what my father has impressed on me about this matter.  One day, when we
were passing some ragged boys playing pitch-and-toss on the street, he
said to me, `Watty, my boy, no man should gamble, because it is
dishonourable.  To want money that does not belong to you is greedy.  To
try to get it from your neighbour without working for it is mean.  To
risk your money in the hope of increasing it by trade, or other fair
means, and so benefit yourself and others, is right; but to risk it for
nothing, with the certainty of impoverishing some one else if you win,
or injuring yourself if you lose, is foolish and unfeeling.  The fact
that some one else is willing to bet with you, only proves that you have
met with one as foolish and unfeeling as yourself, and the agreement of
two unfeeling fools does not result in wisdom.  You will hear it said,
my boy, that a man has a right to do what he will with his own.  That is
not true.  As far as the world at large is concerned, it is, indeed,
partially true, but a man may only do what God allows with what He has
lent him.  He is strictly accountable to God for the spending of every
penny.  He is accountable, also, to his wife and his children, in a
certain degree, ay, and to his tradesmen, if he owes them anything.
Yes, Watty, gambling for money is dishonourable, believe me!'  Now,
Jack, I did, and I do believe him, from the bottom of my heart."

What Jack would have replied we cannot tell, for the conversation was
interrupted at that moment by the abrupt appearance of Captain Samson.
He led Polly by the hand.  The child had an unwonted expression of
sadness on her face.

"Come into the tent.  Now then, darling," said the captain; "sit on my
knee, and tell me all about it.  Polly has seen something in her rambles
that has made her cry," he explained to Jack, Wilkins, and the rest of
the party who chanced to come in while he was speaking.  "Let us hear
about it."

"Oh! it is _so_ sad," said Polly, whimpering.  "You know that good kind
man Jacob Buckley, who lives up in Redman's Gap with his sick brother
Daniel, who is so fond of me; well, I went up to the Gap this afternoon,
when I had done cleaning up, to sit with the sick brother for a little.
I found him in great anxiety and very ill.  He told me that Jacob, who
had always been such a good nurse to him, is much cast down by his bad
luck, and has taken to drink, and that he has lost or spent all his
money, and can't get credit at the store.  He went out quite drunk last
night, and has not returned since.  Of course poor Daniel has had
nothing to eat, for he can't leave his bed without help, and even if he
could, there isn't a morsel of food in the house."

This story created much sympathy in the hearts of Polly's hearers.

"Well now, messmates, what's to be done in this case?" asked Captain
Samson, looking round.

"Make a c'lection," said O'Rook.

"Here you are," said Watty, taking up his cap and dropping several small
nuggets into it as he handed it to Jack.

The philosopher contributed a pretty large nugget, which, in his heart,
he had intended to stake at the gaming-table.  "Well," said he, "we are
reduced to low enough circumstances just now, but we are rich compared
with poor Buckley."

The entire party at that time numbered only nine, including Polly,
Bounce, and Badger, the other members of the crew of the _Lively Poll_
having separated soon after leaving San Francisco.  But as all of them
were men of generous spirit, Watty's cap soon contained a very
creditable "c'lection," which was made up forthwith into a bag, and
carried with some cooked provisions by Polly to Redman's Gap, under the
safe escort of her father and Baldwin Burr.

The following evening, after supper, Philosopher Jack quietly put his
last bag of gold into his pocket and went off with it to Higgins' store.
On the way up he entered into a debate with himself as to the rectitude
of gambling.  He seemed to himself to be composed of two persons, one of
whom condemned, while the other defended gambling.  But Jack had a
strong will of his own.  He was not to be lightly turned from a purpose,
either by the disputants within him or by the arguments of his friend
Wilkins.  Being a good reasoner, our philosopher found that the
condemner of gambling within him was rapidly getting the best of the
argument; he therefore brought the matter to a point by suddenly
exclaiming aloud, "Now, the question is, shall I do it?"

"Don't?" said his old, brusque, but faithful friend Conscience, with a
promptitude that made him quite uncomfortable.

"Or," continued Jack slowly, "shall I go back and wait to see whether
things will turn and mend?"

"Do!" answered his friend at once.

If Jack had put more questions, he would have received clear and
emphatic replies, but he merely said, "Pooh!" and when a man says
"pooh!" to conscience, he is in a very bad way indeed.

At Higgins' store gold-miners assembled to buy and sell, to talk and
drink and gamble.  The sun grew red till all Salonika lay at our
feet a maze of magenta shadow. We sat down in an old Turkish cemetery,
where we could watch the old wall sliding down to plains of gold, where,
falling into ruins, it lent its degraded stones for the construction
of Turkish hovels.

A kitten with paralysed hind legs crawled up to us and accepted a
little rubbing. When dusk came we moved on, marvelling at the inexhaustible
picturesqueness of Salonika.

As we clambered down the breakneck paths, the priests were illuminating
the minarets with hundreds of twinkling lights.

The next day was the Feast.

Mahommedans were everywhere. By the women's trousers, which twinkled
beneath the shrouding veils, one could see that they were gorgeously
dressed.

Befezzed men were lounging and smoking in all the café's.

In the evening once more we wandered up through the old Turkish quarter.

We heard a curious noise like a hymn played by bagpipes, rhythmically
accompanied in syncopation by a very flabby drum.

Round the corner came four jolly niggers blowing pipes, and the drummer
behind them.

Very slim young men with bright sashes and light trousers were
twisting, posturing, and dancing joyfully. One of them threw to Jo
the most graceful kiss she had ever seen.

We left Salonika in the morning, having been wakened by new
sounds.

Thousands of marching feet, songs. This was puzzling.

In the train a young Greek told us that his nation had mobilized against
the Bulgars, but that it was not very serious. He said that there had
been very friendly feeling in Greece for England, but that we had
done our best to kill it.

"You see, monsieur," he explained, "your offer to give away our land.
It is not yours to give.

You say that does not matter, but that colonies, great colonies in Africa
will replace the small part of land that we may surrender.

Kavalla is more valuable to Grecian hearts than all Africa, for how
could we desert our Grecian brothers and place them beneath the
rule of the Turk or Bulgar?"

On the train were more American doctors. One had just arrived, and
was still full of enthusiasm for scenery and sanitation. Also there was
Princess ---- surrounded by packing cases.

Some months earlier she had visited our hospitals in Vrntze and she had
asked if one of our V.A.D.'s could be sent to her as housemaid. Seeing
her in the station, Jo involuntarily ran over in her mind, was she
"sober, honest and obliging?"
The American doctors and we picnicked together.

We ate bully beef and a huge water melon. The heat was awful. The
velvet seats seemed to invade one's body and come through at the other
side. One of the doctors sat on the step of the train, and Jo found
him nodding and smiling as he dreamt.

She rescued him before he fell off.

After twelve hours they left us. Uskub once more and an hour to wait. We
sat behind trees in boxes on the platform and ate omelet with a nice
old Jew and his ten-year-old daughter, who already spoke five languages.

Then to sleep.

We found our half coupé contained a second seat which could be
pulled down, so we each had a bed.

At four in the morning we were awakened by the most awful imitation of a
German band.

What had happened? We looked out. It was barely dawn, and a wretched
little orchestra was grouped at the edge of the tiny station.

Every instrument was cracked and was tuned one-sixteenth tone different
from its companions. What it lacked in musical ability it made up in
energy.

Why, oh, _why_ at that hour, we never found out. Perhaps it was in honour
of the Princess, poor lady!

[Illustration]

CHAPTER III
OFF TO MONTENEGRO

Back to Nish in the rain, and Jo was wearing a cotton frock.

There may be more dismal towns than this Nish, but I have yet to see
them, and this, although the great squares were packed with gaily
coloured peasants--some feast, we imagined--carts full of melons,
melons on the ground, melons framing the faces of the greedy--cerise
green-rind moons projecting from either cheek.

The Montenegrin consul was not at home, so off we went to the
Foreign Office to give a letter to Mr. Grouitch, who sent us to the
Sanitary Department of the War Office (henceforth known as S.D.W.O.).

S.D.W.O. wouldn't move without a letter from "Sir Paget." We got the
letter from "Sir Paget" and back to the S.D.W.O., to find it shut in our
faces, and to learn that it did not reopen till four.

Then came the matter of Jo's tooth. This abscess had been nagging all
the time, it had vigorously tried to get between Jo and the scenery. We
had sought dentists in Salonika, rejecting one because his hall was
too dirty, a second because she (yes, a she) was practising on her
father's certificates, the third, a little Spaniard, had red-hot
pokered the gums thereof and only annoyed it.

But we had heard there was a Russian dentist in Nish, a very good one.
The Russian dentist turned out to be a girl, and tiny--she spoke no Serb,
but Jo managed, by means of the second cousinship of the language,
to make out what she said in Russian.

[Illustration: PEASANT WOMEN IN GALA COSTUME--NISH.]
"The tooth must come out," squeaked the small dentist.

"Can't you save it?" prayed Jo; "it's the best one I've got, and
the one to which I send all the Serbian meat."

"It must come out," squeaked the Russ.

"Can't you save it?" prayed Jo.

"It must come out," reiterated the Russ.

"You're very small," said Jo, doubtfully.

This annoyed the dentist. She pushed unwilling Jo into a chair, produced
a pair of pincers, and, oh, woe!

she wrenched to the north, she wrenched to the south, she wrenched to
the east, and there was the tooth, nearly as big as the dentist herself.

"I never can eat Serbian meat again," murmured Jo as she mopped her
mouth.

After tea we returned to the S.D.W.O., and by means of our letter
and our Englishness we got in front of all the unfortunate people
who had been waiting for hours, and received our passes, etc.,
immediately.

Sir Ralph Paget's storekeeper wouldn't work on Sunday, so we had also to
rest, and we celebrated by staying in bed late and going for a walk in
the afternoon with an Englishman who was _en route_ for Sofia. We came
to a little village where every house was surrounded by high walls
made of wattle.

The women soon crowded round, imagining Mr. B---- a doctor. Jo pretended
to translate, and gave advice for a girl with consumption, and
an old woman whose hand was stiff from typhus, and we had to give the
money for the latter's unguent.

For the consumptive she said, "Open the windows, rest, and don't spit";
but that isn't a peasant's idea of doctoring: they want medicine
or magic, one or the other, which doesn't matter.

The train started "after eight" on Monday evening. The English boys at
the Rest house were very good to us, adding to our small stock of necessities
a "Tommy's treasure," two mackintosh capes, and some oxo cubes. One youth
said, "You won't want to travel a second time on a Serbian luggage
train"; then ruefully, "I've done it!

The shunting, phew!"
A Serbian railway station is a public meeting-place; along the platform,
but railed off from the train, is a restaurant which is one of the
favourite cafés of the town.

It is such fun to the still childish Serbian mind to sit sipping
beer or wine and watch the trains run about, and hear the whistles.

We had our supper amongst the gay crowd, and then pushed out into
the darkened goods station to find our travelling bedroom, for we
were to sleep in the waggons--beds and mattresses having been
provided--and we had borrowed blankets from the Rest house.

We found our truck and climbed in. There were certainly beds enough,
for there were thirty light iron folding bedsteads piled up at one
end. We chose two, and, not satisfied with the stacking of the others,
Jan repiled them, with an eye on what our friend had said about
Serbian shunting.

Even then Jo was not happy about them.

We sat on our beds, reading or staring out of our open door at the
twinkle of the station lights, the moving flares of the engines, and the
fountains of sparks which rushed from their chimneys; listening to the
chains of bumps which denoted a shunting train. We heard another
chain of bumps, which rattled rapidly towards us and suddenly--a
most awful CRASH.

The candle went out, and we were flung from bed on to the floor.
Our truck hurtled down the line at about thirty miles an hour, and
suddenly struck some solid object. Another wild crash, and the whole
twenty-eight beds flung themselves upon the place where we had been,
and smashed our couches to the ground.

We have read stories of the Spanish Inquisition about rooms which grow
smaller, and at last crush the unfortunate victim to a jelly: we can
now appreciate the feeling of the unfortunate victim aforesaid. There
were piles of packing-cases at either end of the van, and for the next
hour, as we were hurtled up and down by the Serbian engine-driver,
at each crash these packing-cases crept nearer and nearer.

The beds had fallen across the door, so it was impossible to escape.
When the lower cases had reached the beds they halted, but the
upper ones still crept on towards us. In the short, wild intervals of
peace Jan tried to push the cases back and restore momentary stability.
In addition to diminishing room, we were flung about with every crash,
landing on the corner of a packing-case, on the edge of an iron
bedstead, and with each crash the light went out.

We will give not one jot of advantage to your prisoner in the Spanish
Inquisition, save that we escaped whereas he did not.

The engine-driver tired of the sport just in time to save our limbs,
if not lives, and he dragged the train out of the station into the
dark.

At Krusevatch we halted for the next day. After a discussion with
the station-master, who asked us to come down first at six p.m., then
at four, then at one, and lastly in two hours, at nine a.m. we
strolled up towards the town.

There was an old beggar on the road, and he was cuddling a "goosla,"
or Serbian one-stringed fiddle, which sounds not unlike a hive of bees
in summer-time, and is played not with the tips of the fingers, as a
violin, but with the fat part of the first phalanx. As soon as he heard
our footsteps he began to howl, and to saw at his miserable
instrument; and as soon as he had received our contribution he stopped
suddenly. We were worth no more effort; but we admired his frankness.

Krusevatz market-place is like the setting of a Serbian opera. The houses
are the kind of houses that occupy the back scenery of opera, and in
the middle is an abominable statue commemorating something, which
is just in the bad taste which would mar an opera setting. There was
an old man wandering about with two knapsacks, one on his back and one
on his chest, and from the orifice of each peered out innumerable ducks'
heads.
We returned to the station at nine, but were told that nothing could
be done till one. So we went up to the churchyard, spread our mackintoshes,
and got a much-needed sleep.

The church is very old, but isn't much to look at, and we, being
no archæologists, would sooner look at that of Trsternick, though it is
modern.

We returned to the station to unload our trucks, for at this point the
broad-gauge line ceases, and there is but a narrow-gauge into the
mountains. A band of Austrian prisoners were detailed to help us, and
they at once recognized us, and knew that we came from Vrntze. They were
in a wretched condition: their clothes were torn, they said that they
had no change of underclothes, and were swarming with vermin, nor
could they be cleaned, for they worked even on Sundays, and had no
time to wash their clothes.

They begged us for soap, and asked us to send them a change of raiment
from Vrntze. We explained sadly that we were not going back just
yet, but we could oblige them with the soap, for a case had been
broken open, and the waggon was strewn with bars. We also gave some to
the engine-driver, as a bribe to shunt us gently.

We imagined that the soap had burst because of the shunting, but in our
second truck discovered that this same shunting had been strangely
selective.

It had, for instance, opened a case of brandy, it had burst a box of
tinned tongue, and even opened some of the tins which were strewn
in the truck.

And yet the truck had been sealed, both doors.

Several cases of biscuits, too, had been abstracted, and all this
must have happened under the very noses of the Englishmen who had
supervised the loading. Some of the prisoners said that they were starving,
so we distributed our spare crusts amongst them, and they ate them greedily
enough.

In the fields by the railway were queer pallid green plants which puzzled
us. They were like tall cabbages, and shone with a curious ghostly
intensity in the gloaming.

We dangled our feet over the side of our waggon watching the flitting
scenery. At one point we passed a train in which were other English people,
who stared amazed at us and waved their hands as we disappeared.

Dusk was down when we passed Vrntze, and we reached the gorges of Ovchar
in the dark. We thundered through tunnels and out over hanging
precipices, the river beneath us a faint band of greyish light in the
blackness of the mountains.

Uzhitze in the morning at 4.30; it was cold and wet. Jan wanted to hurry
off to the hotel, but Jo sensibly refused, and we settled down
till a decent hour.

The hotel was a huge room with a smaller yard; on the one side of the
yard were the kitchens, etc., and on the other a string of bedrooms. We
then crossed the big square to the Nachanlik's (or mayor's) office.

Outside the mayor's office we found an old friend. He had been a patient
in our hospital, and gangrene, following typhus, had so poisoned
his legs that both were amputated.

He had been discharged the day before, and had travelled up from
Vrntze, some eight hours, in an open truck.
The Serbian authorities had brought him from the station and had
propped him on a wooden bench outside the mayor's office, where he
had remained all night, and where we found him.

He was a charming fellow, though very silent. Once when Jo had remarked
upon this silence he had answered, "When a man has no longer any legs
it is fitting that he should be silent."

He was waiting for his father, who lived twelve hours away in the mountains.
The old man came with a donkey, and there was a most affecting meeting
between the old father and his poor mutilated son.
Tears flowed freely on either side, for Serbs are still simple enough
to be unashamed of emotion.

The donkey had an ordinary saddle, on to which our friend was hoisted.
He balanced tentatively for a moment, then shook his head. A pack-saddle
was substituted.

"It is hard," he said, "young enough, and yet like a useless bale of
goods."
Twenty hours he had endured, and yet had twelve to go--thirty-two hours
for a man without legs. This will show of what some Serbs are made.

Within the office we found a professor whom we had met before, and
who was acting as assistant mayor.

We took him to the station and estimated that thirty-two waggons would
deal with our stuff.

[Illustration: SERB CONVALESCENTS AT UZHITZE.]
Jo and Jan went for a stroll, Uzhitze, especially in the back streets,
is like a Dürer etching--that one of the Prodigal Son, for instance,
all tiny, peaky-roofed houses.

We took a siesta in the afternoon, but Jan was dragged out to talk
to our professor, who explained that it was impossible for the
Serbian Government to find thirty-two ox-carts at once, so the
convoy must make two journeys.

He also said that horses would be provided for us, and that we
would take two or three days to do the trip, but that the ox-waggons
would be at least seven, which was death to our romantic dream of
toiling laboriously up almost inaccessible mountains at the head
of straining ox-carts, sleeping by the roadside, brigands, and all
that.

We went down to the station, unloaded the truck and checked the numbers.

A few were missing, but not so many as we had expected.

A regiment of soldiers were called up; at a word of command they pounced
upon our packing-cases and hurried them off to a storehouse. The smaller
cases were left to go on donkeys, two on either side.

The professor dined with us. He is an Anglophile, and was determined
after the war to go to England in order to discover the secret of her
greatness. He had a theory that it lay in our educational laws, which
he wanted to transplant into Serbia wholesale.

Jan thought not, and suggested that it might lie even deeper than
that.

Next day was a Prazhnik, or feast day, and the great square was crowded
with peasantry in their beautiful hand-woven clothes. There were
soldiers straight back from the lines chaffing and flirting with
the pretty girls, and presently a group began to dance the "Kola" about
a man who played a pipe. It is not difficult to dance the Kola. You
join hands till a ring is formed, and then shuffle round and round. If
you have aspirations to style you fling your legs about as much
as space will allow, and we noticed how much better the men danced
than the girls, who were almost all very clumsy.

We were to be called at six, so went to bed early, and in spite of the
odours from the yard slept soundly.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV
ACROSS THE FRONTIER
We got up in good time, breakfasted, but there was no sign of horses.

After waiting two hours a square man was brought up to us by the waiter
and introduced as our guide.

The professor, who had promised to see us off, was apparently clinging
to his bed, for he did not come.

Our guide was a taciturn, loose-limbed fellow, but had nice eyes and
a charming manner; he helped us on to our horses, and off we went.

Jan was rather anxious at the start, for he had done very little riding
since childhood; but his horse was quiet, and soon he had persuaded himself
that he was a cavalier from birth. Jo was riding astride for the second
time in her life.

We took the road to Zlatibor (golden hill). There was a heavy mist,
the hills were just outlined in faint washes on the fog, and as we
mounted the zig-zag path, higher and higher, the town became small
and fairylike beneath us; and a soldiers' camp made a queer
chessboard on the green of the valley.

Jo's horse cast a shoe almost at the start, but the guide said that it
did not matter. We went on and ever up, our horses clambering like
goats. The scenery was on the whole very English, and not unlike the
Devonshire side of Dartmoor.

Our guide took us a two mile detour to show us his house. Later we
reached a tiny village with a queer church. We off-saddled for a moment,
and were welcomed by the inhabitants, who gave us Turkish coffee
and plum brandy (rakia), while in exchange we made them cigarettes
of English tobacco.

At sixteen kilometres we reached a larger village, where we decided to
lunch. We were astonished by the sudden appearance of a French doctor.
He was delighted to see us, more so when he found that we both spoke
French, and invited us to coffee. We lunched with our guide at the local
inn. We ordered pig; indeed there was nothing else to order.

"How much?" said mine host.

"For three," answered we.

"But how much is that?"

replied mine host. "You see, each man eats differently."

So we ordered one kilo to go on with.

Half a pig was wrenched from a spit in front of the big fire, carried
sizzling outside to the wood block, where the waiter hewed it apart
with the axe.

We had discovered peculiarities in our horses. They had conscientious
objections to going abreast, and always walked single file; this was
owing to the narrowness of the mountain paths. Jo's horse, which somehow
looked like Monkey Brand, insisted on taking the second place, and
would by no means go third.

At last we reached the top of Zlatibor--which gets its name from
a peculiar golden cheese which it produces.

The view is like that from the Cat and Fiddle in Derbyshire, only bigger
in scale, and from thence the ride began to be interminable. It grew
darker, we walked down the hills to ease our aching knees, and Jan
decided that horse riding was no go.

Finally the guide decided that it was too late to reach Novi Varosh
that night, and so the direction was altered.

The road grew stony and more stony. A bitter breeze came up with the
evening. We came to a green valley, at the end of which was a rocky gorge,
down which ran the twistiest stream: it seemed as though it had been
designed by a lump of mercury on a wobbling plate.

We turned from the gorge on to a hill so rocky that the path was only
visible where former horse-hoofs had stained the stones with red
earth.

The village consisted of an enormous school, a little church, soldiers
encamped round fires in the churchyard, and seven or eight wooden hovels.
Our guide stopped at the door of the dirtiest and rapped. A furtive
woman's face peered out into the gloom. We climbed painfully from
our saddles, for we had been thirteen hours on the road.

"Beds?" said the guide to the woman.

"Good Lord!" thought we.

She shook her head dolefully and said, "Ima," which means "there is."
Serbians nod for no.

The woman slid out into the night and passed to another building,
climbed the stairs to a veranda and disappeared.

It grew colder, the guide was busy unharnessing the horses, so shivering
we sought refuge in the dirty house, which was not quite so bad within
as we had feared. It was furnished with a long table and two
benches only, and was lighted by a small fire which was burning on a
huge open hearth, and which gave no heat at all. The woman came back
and led us to the other house for supper, which was boiled eggs,
and the guide generously shared his own bread with us, as we had
none.

There was no water to drink, and Jo tried, not very successfully, to quench
her thirst with rakia.

There were but two beds, and on inquiry finding that there was no
place for the guide, we allotted one bed to him.

On our own bed the sheets had evidently not been changed since it was
first made, and the pillow which once had been white was a dark ironclad
grey. We undid our mackintoshes and spread them over both counterpane
and pillow.

We lay down clothed as we were, and by the time we had finished our
preparations the guide was already snoring.

As soon as the light was turned out the whole room began to tick
like ten agitated clocks, and all about us in the darkness began
strange noises of life: rats scampered in all directions and were
finally hurdling over our heads.

We had taken some aspirin to ward off the stiffness of unaccustomed
exercise, but we were sore, and the narrowness of the bed forced us to
lie on our backs; exhaustion, however, conquered all discomforts,
and we slept.

Jo awoke in the night and yelped to find that the mackintosh had slipped
and that her head was resting on the pillow.

We were up again at 5.30, and Vladimir, the guide, suggested that we
should breakfast at Novi Varosh, four hours on; but our stomachs
were not of cast iron, and we clamoured for eggs. We got them, left
Negbina--that was the name of the village--about seven, and once
more adventured on the road.

By eight we had passed the old Serbian frontier: the country was
growing more interesting, like the foothills of the Tyrol; on the
streams were inefficient-looking old wooden mills, the water rushing
madly down a slope and hitting a futile little wheel which turned
laboriously.

Novi Varosh, with roofs of weathered wood gleaming purplish amongst the
trees, was a wonderful little town, and quite unlike any other we had
seen; clean without, and if the energy of its citizens at the village
pump is a good sample, clean within also, for Serbia. Here are
Turks too: ladies in veil and trousers, and trousered kiddies with
clothes of orange, yellow and purple. Twice in the streets we were
stopped by authority. Our lunch was well cooked, one can clearly
see this has not been Serbia for long, for the Serbs are the worst
eaters in the world.
Jo gave medical advice to a Serb, and on once more.
On the road were travellers never ending in their variety, and one
father was mounted with a pack behind him, and on the top of the
pack his little daughter clad in many coloured cottons, clasping
him tight round the neck and peering inquisitively from behind his
ear.
About three p.m. we reached the Lim. The road climbs to a great
height, and the peasants in their gay costumes were reaping, some
of the fields so steep that we wondered how they stood upon them;
on the opposite cliff was an old robber castle like a Rhine fortress.
Not that you need it.  You're rich
enough as it is, but this will show you, perhaps, that my first thoughts
after my first luck were of you."

A long sigh followed the remark.  Looking up soon afterwards, Jack saw
that Watty was sound asleep, with the point of his nose reposing on the
big nugget.

The poor lad's idea of a sprain was not quite correct.  Instead of being
"all right" next day, he found himself to be hopelessly lame, and was
unable to move from the camp for a couple of weeks.  During that period
Jack and Buckley went forth to the new diggings every morning, and
returned at night laden with gold, so that in a short time they had
gathered as much as they could conveniently carry.  Then they resolved
to go for their comrades and return with them to continue their labours
at what they named Grizzly Bear Gulch.  As Watty was still unable to
walk without great pain, they made a sort of litter of a blanket between
two poles.  In this contrivance they carried him, with their gold and
their other belongings, back to the old diggings.

But here, on arrival, they found a wonderfully altered state of affairs.

"Immediately after you left," said Captain Samson, over a cup of tea,
while Polly, who presided, listened with sympathetic delight, "we bought
a new claim or two, without much hope, however, of bettering our
circumstances.  One of these claims we bought for you, Jack, with part
of the money you left in our charge, one for Buckley, and another for
Wilkins.  Well, these claims all turned out splendidly, and we've been
makin' our fortunes ever since!  As you were off prospecting, as much
for our benefit as your own, we agreed that it was the least we could do
to work a little for you, so we gave your claims a rummage day about,
and thus we've made your fortunes too, or part of 'em anyhow.  We've bin
sendin' home bills of exchange too, and knowin' your wish to help your
father, Jack, I took upon me to send a small sum to him with your love.
I did right didn't I?"

"Right!" exclaimed Jack, seizing the captain's hand and squeezing it;
"need you ask?  I'm only sorry I didn't dig the gold out with my own
hand, and enclose the bill in my own letter.  How much did you send?"

"Only 1000 pounds," replied the captain.

"Come, don't joke.  I'm anxious to know, because he was very hard up
when I left."

"More shame to you for leaving him, my young Philosopher," returned the
captain, "but I tell you the truth; I sent him 1000 pounds sterling, and
I believe there's as much lyin' here in gold-dust and nuggets that
belongs to you.  We've all done equally well, I'm thankful to say, and,
better than that, good fortune seems to have brought us good health.
Even Ben Trench there is able to dig like the rest of us."

"Not exactly," said Ben with a pleasant smile at his old friend Wilkins,
"but I'm very well, thank God, and able to do a little.  I wouldn't have
been what I am now but for the care of this dear little nurse."

Polly was quite pleased with the compliment, and made a liberal offer to
supply more tea to any of the company who might want it.

All this, and a great deal more, was corroborated by every one present;
moreover, it was told them that there were many other claims which had
suddenly turned out well, and that the whole aspect of these diggings
had changed for the better.

"And what of Mr Luke?" asked Jack, glancing round the circle.

"Gone," said the captain, "nobody knows where.  He became gloomier and
stranger than ever after you went away, and one morning announced his
intention to leave us and return to San Francisco.  He left, and has not
been heard of since.  Bob Corkey, too, is off.  He got restless and
disappointed at our bad luck, said he'd go away prospectin' on his own
hook, and went."

"Good luck go with him!  He was altogether too fond of argifying," said
Simon O'Rook.

"He's not the only one," remarked Baldwin Burr, with a grin.

After much consideration and consultation, it was agreed that, in the
meantime, the party should remain where they were, and, when their
claims began to fail, go off to Grizzly Bear Gulch.

This being decided, Jacob Buckley rose, saying that he was going to
visit his friends at Higgins' store.  Jack followed him.  When they were
alone he said--

"Now, Jacob, don't go, there's a good fellow.  You saved my life, I may
say, and that gives me a claim on you."  Buckley frowned, but said
nothing.  "If you get among your old mates," continued Jack, "and begin
to _taste_, you're a gone man.  God has been very good to us.  He has
made us rich.  We may live to be useful, Jacob.  Think of it."

A half sarcastic smile flitted over Buckley's face as he said, "You
didn't use to be a preacher, Jack; what makes you now so keen to save
me, as you call it?"

"I'm not sure what it is that makes me anxious now," replied Jack, "but
I know what made me anxious at first.  It was your poor brother Daniel.
That night he died, when he whispered in my ear, it was to make me
promise to save you from drink and gambling if I could."

"Did he?" exclaimed the miner vehemently, as he clenched his hands.  "O
Dan! dear Dan, did you say that at such an hour?  Look you, Jack," he
added, turning sharply round, "I'll not go near the store, and if I _am_
saved it is Dan who has done it, mind that--not you."

And Buckley held to his word.  For months after that he worked with the
Samson party--as it was styled--and never once tasted a drop of anything
stronger than tea.

During all that time success continued, but Philosopher Jack felt in his
heart that no success in digging up gold was at all comparable to that
of working with the Lord in helping a brother-sinner to turn from the
error of his ways.

As their wealth accumulated, the different members of the party
converted it into cash, sent some of it home to the assistance of
friends or relatives, and the rest for safe and remunerative investment.
For the latter purpose they committed it to the care of Mr Wilkins
senior, who, being a trusty and well-known man of business, was left to
his own discretion in the selection of investments.  Simon O'Rook,
however, did not follow the example of his friends.  He preferred to
keep his gold in his own hands, and, as its bulk increased, stowed it
away in a small chest, which, for further security, he buried in a hole
in the tent directly under his own sleeping corner.

In addition to his remittances to Mr Wilkins for investment, Edwin Jack
sent large sums regularly to his father, for the purpose not only of
getting him out of his difficulties, but of enabling him to extend his
farming operations.  The wheel of fortune, however, had turned upwards
with Jack senior, and he did not require these sums, as we shall see.

While things were going on thus prosperously at the other side of the
world, a wonderful change--intimately connected with gold--took place in
the "Old Country", which materially altered the circumstances of some of
those personages whose names have figured in our tale.


CHAPTER NINE.

TREATS OF A CATASTROPHE AND RUIN.

We return once again to the cottage on the Scottish Border.  It is not
quite so lowly as it was when first introduced to our readers.  Although
not extensively changed, there is a certain air of comfort and
prosperity about it which gives it much the appearance of a dirty boy
who has had his face washed and a suit of new clothes put on.  It has
been whitewashed and partially re-roofed.  A trellis-work porch with
creepers has been added.  The garden bears marks of improvement, and in
one part there are four little plots of flower-beds, so conspicuously
different in culture and general treatment as to suggest the idea of
four different gardens.  Inside of Mr Jack's abode there are also many
changes for the better.  The rooms are better furnished than they used
to be.  Several cheap oleograph copies of beautiful pictures adorn the
walls, and the best parlour, which used to be kept in a condition of
deadly propriety for state occasions only, is evidently used in the
course of daily life.  A brand-new piano, with a pretty little girl
seated before it, suggests advancing refinement, and the expression of
the child's face, while she attempts the impossible task of stretching
an octave, indicates despair.  There is another little girl seated at a
table darning with all the energy of a Martha-like character.  She is
engaged upon a pair of juvenile socks, which have apparently been worn
last by a cart-horse.  Books and drawing materials and mathematical
instruments on the table betoken progressive education, and, in short,
everything without and within the cottage tells, as we have said, of
prosperity.

It must not be supposed, however, that all this is due to Philosopher
Jack's good fortune and liberality.  When the first letter came from
California, telling of the safety of our hero and his friends, Mr Jack
was indeed in great material distress, but there was no money in that
letter.  It was despatched from San Francisco at the time of the arrival
of the party, along with letters from the other members, informing their
various relations of their deliverance.  But if the letter had contained
tons of the finest gold it could not have added a feather's weight to
the joy of the old couple, who, like the widow of Nain or the sisters of
Bethany, had received their dear lost one direct from the Lord, and, as
it were, back from the dead.  Then, after an interval, came Captain
Samson's letter enclosing the bill for 1000 pounds, and explaining why
Philosopher Jack himself did not write with it.  Mr Jack senior
thankfully used two hundred of the amount, which was quite sufficient to
extricate him from all his difficulties.  The balance he put into the
nearest bank, to be kept for "the dear boy" on his return.

From that date God sent prosperity to the cottage on the Border.  Flocks
increased, seasons were no longer bad, grey mares no longer broke their
legs, turnips throve, and, in short, everything went well, so that,
instead of using the large sums of money which his son frequently sent
him, Mr Jack placed them all to "dear Teddie's" credit in the bank.

In one of these letters, his son mentioned that he had sent still larger
sums to the care of Mr Wilkins senior, to be invested for himself.  Mr
Jack, having consulted with his faithful spouse, drew his son's gifts
from the local bank, went to the city of Blankow, called on Mr Wilkins,
and desired him to invest the money in the same concern with the rest.
Mr Wilkins purchased shares with it in the Blankow Bank, telling Mr
Jack that he considered it one of the best and safest investments in
Scotland, that he had invested in it all the funds sent home by his own
son and his comrades, and that he himself was a large shareholder.  Thus
did Mr Jack senior act with all the gifts that Jack junior sent him,
saying to Mr Wilkins on each occasion, that, though the dear boy meant
him to use the money, he had no occasion to do so, as the Lord had
prospered him of late, and given him enough and to spare.

We re-introduce the Jack family to the reader at breakfast-time, not
because that was the only noteworthy period of their day, but because it
was the time when the parents of the family were wont to talk over the
daily plans.

Mr Jack went to the door and shouted, "Breakfast!" in a sonorous tone.
Instantly the octave was abandoned and the socks were dropped.  Next
moment there was a sound like the charge of a squadron of cavalry.  It
was the boys coming from the farm-yard.  The extreme noise of the
family's entry was rendered fully apparent by the appalling calm which
ensued when Mr Jack opened the family Bible, and cleared his throat to
begin worship.  At breakfast the noise began again, but it was more
subdued, appetite being too strong for it.  In five minutes Dobbin was
up to the eyes in a treacle-piece.  This was a good opportunity for
conversation.

"Maggie," said Mr Jack, looking up from his plate, "the last bill sent
us from the diggin's by the dear boy makes the sum in my hands up to two
thousand pounds.  I'll go to town to-day and give it to Mr Wilkins to
invest as usual."

"Very weel, John," replied Mrs Jack, "but it's been runnin' in my mind
that it's no that safe to pit a' yer eggs in the same basket.  Maybe ye
might invest it in somethin' else."

"That's true, Maggie, we shall see," said Mr Jack, who was at all times
a man of few words.  As Dobbin became at the moment clamorous for more
food, nothing further was said on the subject.

Arrived in the city, John Jack made his way to the office of Mr
Wilkins.  He found that gentleman with an expression of unwonted
resignation on his countenance.

"I've brought you more money to invest, Mr Wilkins," said John Jack,
sitting down after wiping his forehead, and producing a fat pocketbook;
"I thought of doin' it in the old way, but my wife and I have been
thinkin' that perhaps it might be wise to put some of the eggs in
another basket."

A very sad and peculiar smile flitted for a moment across Mr Wilkins's
face.  "It is plain that you have not heard of the disastrous failure,"
he said.  "Only last week the Blankow Bank suspended payment, and if the
reports as to its liabilities be true, the result will be widespread
ruin throughout the country."

"Do you mean to say that the Bank has failed?" asked Mr Jack,
anxiously.

"Yes, and it is feared that most of the shareholders will be ruined.  I
am one, you know."

"Will _you_ be ruined, Mr Wilkins?"

"I fear that the first call will be more than I can meet.  I trust that
you are not personally involved."

"No, thank God, I'm not," said Mr Jack, with an increasingly anxious
look.  "But tell me, Mr Wilkins--for I don't understand banking matters
very well--is my son's money all gone?"

"All," returned Mr Wilkins sadly, "and all that my own son has
invested, as well as that of his friends!"

"How was it, sir," asked Mr Jack, in a reproachful tone, "that you were
so confident in recommending the investment?"

"Because I thoroughly believed in the soundness of the bank and in the
character of its directors.  Investing my own funds so largely in its
stock proves how I trusted it.  But I was mistaken.  It is a mystery
which I cannot solve.  Perhaps, when the examination of its affairs is
completed, light may be thrown on the subject.  I hope that no more of
your relations or friends have stock in it?"

"None that I know of, except indeed my poor friend Mrs Niven, who was
my son's landlady when he was at college.  I'll go and inquire about
her."

Mr Jack thrust the fat pocket-book into a breast pocket, and buttoned
up his coat with the determined air of a man who means to keep hold of
what he has got.

Bidding Mr Wilkins good-bye, he walked rapidly to Mrs Niven's house
and pulled the bell rather violently.  The summons was promptly answered
by Peggy, who ushered him into a little parlour, where he was quickly
joined by Mrs Niven.

"I'm very sorry to hear the bad news," said Mr Jack, pressing the good
woman's hand in sympathy.

"What bad news?" asked Mrs Niven, in alarm.

"The bank, you know," said Mr Jack.  "It's very hard, and to think that
you're in the same boat with my dear boy, whose fortune is wrecked--"

A little scream stopped him, for the word "wrecked" struck a chill to
the poor woman's heart.

"Impossible," said he; "bridges are broken between Rashka and Novi Bazar,
and there is no route through the mountains from there."

We remembered that the country had been under Turkish rule there
years before, and guessed that probably the Serbs had not yet been
able to exploit new and lonely routes. At every side in the streets
were faces we knew, the head medical this and the chief military
that.

Our personal carts went off in charge of the corporal, who was looking
for bread from the Government, for of course all bread shops were
shut permanently.

The Scottish sisters had not found a refuge, and messengers kept
on coming back saying this place was full and that place had no
room.

Colonel G---- became even less likable. It seemed as though there were
no organisation of any kind in the town. At last, when dark had well
fallen, a man said a room had been cleared for them in the hospital.
The motor cars moved slowly off and we told the rest of our carts to
follow, as Colonel G----said we might get bread at the same place. We
stumbled after them through pitch black streets, so uneven that
one did not know if one were in the ditch or on the road itself;
one lost all sense of direction and only tried not to lose sight
of the flickering lights of the carts.

Jo at last climbed into one, and the carts rumbled over a wooden
bridge and began to go up a steep hill. We came suddenly to a rambling
wooden house and our carts dived into a deep ditch.

Jo leapt off just in time to save hers from turning right over. Crowds
of wounded Serbians were standing at the foot of a rickety outside
staircase.

Above was a dressing-station, and a dark smelly room with no beds,
which was to be the sisters' home.

We could get no bread and so went out once more into the dark. We did not
know where our carts had gone, but some one said if we went in "that"
direction we should find them.

On we went uphill, losing our way in a maize field. In front of us were
hundreds of camp fires. At the first we asked if they had seen the
English. They shrugged their shoulders in negative.

We asked at the next; same result.
We had the awful thought that we should have to search every camp fire
before we found our people, but luckily almost fell over Mawson,
who had been fetching water.

We were going in quite the wrong direction and but for this lucky meeting
might have wandered for hours.

A good fire was blazing in front of the tents.

An Austrian prisoner cut wood for us in exchange for a meal. He came from
a large encampment whose fires were blazing near by. Dr. Holmes and a
sister emerged through the smoke; they had at last got a cart and
horse. With them was an Austrian subject flying for his life. He
had lived for years in Serbia, his sympathies and ancestry were Serbian,
but if the Austrians got him he would be hanged. We wondered if it
was the husband of the frantic woman at Kralievo, but did not ask.

One went early to bed these nights.
Meanwhile Mr Jack cashed his last bill of exchange, returned home, and
presented his wife with a bag of gold, which she deposited in the
darkest recesses of the great family chest.

"That bank gives no interest," said John Jack, with a quiet chuckle, as
he superintended the deposit, "but we shall always have the interest of
knowing that it is there."

Long afterwards Mr Wilkins sought to combat Mr Jack's objection to
invest in another Scotch bank.  "This disaster," he said, "ought not to
be called a bank _failure_; it is a bank _robbery_ committed by its own
directors, as has been clearly proved, and no more touches the credit of
Scotch banks in general than the failure of a commercial house, through
the dishonesty of its principals, affects the other commercial houses of
the kingdom."

"It may be as you say, sir," replied John Jack, gravely, "an' if it was
my own money I might act on your advice.  But I intend to take care of
what's left of the dear boy's money myself."

So saying, the stout farmer threw his shepherd's plaid over his
shoulder, and went off to his cottage on the Border.

But we must pass from this subject.  Space forbids our going deeper into
it, or touching on the terrible consequences of dishonesty coupled with
unlimited liability.  Fortunes were wrecked; the rich and the poor, the
innocent and guilty, the confiding and the ignorant as well as the
knowing and wise, fell in the general crash.  Many homes were desolated,
and many hearts were broken.  May we not believe, also, that many hearts
were purified in passing through the furnace of affliction!

"All is not evil that brings sorrow," may be quite as true as the
proverb, "All is not gold that glitters."  Some have been glad to say
with the Psalmist, "It was good for me that I was afflicted."  This
truth, however, while it might strengthen some hearts to bear, did not
lighten the load to be borne.  The great Bank failure produced
heart-rending and widespread distress.  It also called forth deep and
general sympathy.

Out among the mountain gorges of California the gold-hunters knew
nothing of all this for many a day, and our adventurers continued to
dig, and wash, and pile up the superstructure of their fortunes, all
ignorant of the event which had crumbled away the entire foundations.

At last there came a day when these fortunate gold-miners cried, "Hold!
enough!" an unwonted cry--not often uttered by human beings.

Standing beside the camp fire one evening, while some of the party were
cooking and others were arranging things inside the tent Captain Samson
looked around him with an unusually heavy sigh.

"It's a grand country, and I'll be sorry to leave it," he said.

"Troth, and so will meself," responded O'Rook.

It was indeed a grand country.  They had lately changed the position of
their tent to an elevated plateau near a huge mass of rock where a
little mountain stream fell conveniently into a small basin.  From this
spot they could see the valley where it widened into a plain, and again
narrowed as it entered the gloomy defile of the mountains, whose tops
mingled magnificently with the clouds.

"You see, my lads," continued the captain, "it's of no use goin' on
wastin' our lives here, diggin' away like navvies, when we've got more
gold than we know what to do with.  Besides, I'm not sure that we ain't
gettin' into a covetous frame of mind, and if we go on devotin' our
lives to the gettin' of gold that we don't need, it's not unlikely that
it may be taken away from us.  Moreover, many a man has dug his grave in
California and bin buried, so to speak, in gold-dust, which is a fate
that no sensible man ought to court--a fate, let me add, that seems to
await Ben Trench if he continues at this sort o' thing much longer.
And, lastly, it's not fair that my Polly should spend her prime in
acting the part of cook and mender of old clothes to a set of rough
miners.  For all of which reasons I vote that we now break up our
partnership, pack up the gold-dust that we've got, and return home."

To this speech Polly Samson replied, promptly, that nothing pleased her
more than to be a cook and mender of old clothes to rough miners, and
that she was willing to continue in that capacity as long as her father
chose.  Philosopher Jack also declared himself willing to remain, but
added that he was equally willing to leave if the rest of the firm
should decide to do so, as he was quite content with the fortune that
had been sent him.  Simon O'Rook, however, did not at first agree to the
proposal.

"It's rich enough that I am already, no doubt," he said, "but sure,
there's no harm in bein' richer.  I may be able to kape me carriage an'
pair at present, but why shudn't I kape me town house an' country house
an' me carriage an four, if I can?"

"Because we won't stay to keep you company," answered Watty Wilkins,
"and surely you wouldn't have the heart to remain here digging holes by
yourself?  Besides, my friend Ben is bound to go home.  The work is
evidently too hard for him, and he's so fond of gold that he won't give
up digging."

"Ah!  Watty," returned Ben with a sad smile, "you know it is not my
fondness for gold that makes me dig.  But I can't bear to be a burden on
you, and you know well enough that what I do accomplish does little more
than enable me to pay my expenses.  Besides, a little digging does me
good.  It occupies my mind and exercises my muscles, an' prevents
moping.  Doesn't it, Polly?"

In this estimate of his case Ben Trench was wrong.  Stajitch fled and
camped outside in one of the carriages, despite the rain.

[Illustration: ALBANIAN MULE DRIVERS CAMPING.]
We started as early as possible--dawn.

Whatmough, Cutting, Jo and Jan lost the road, but were eventually
rescued by a policeman. About eleven one of the carriages broke down,
and we had to repair it with tree and wire. Here the houses were again
like fortresses, and everybody stared at us as though we came from
the moon.

We reached the bank opposite Alessio--a small Turkish-looking village
divided between a mud-bank and a hillside. We were about to turn over
the bridge when news was brought that a motor-boat belonging to Essad was
in San Giovanni harbour.

We sent a policeman galloping on to stop it, and followed as fast as our
meagre horses would allow. We also heard that a submarine had been
in the port the day before and had tried to torpedo the ships lying
there--but had missed.

We cantered on, pressing along a stony road which was almost level with
the salt marshes on either side. San Giovanni appeared after about an
hour and a half. We rode down on to the beach. The motor-boat was getting
up anchor. We yelled to the skipper, but he understood no Serb; so we
translated through a Turk who was lounging about. The skipper
said that he could not embark us there as it was Montenegrin territory,
but that if we would go back to Alessio he would wait for us at the
mouth of the river and take us down that very night.

This seemed too good to be true and we hurried back, passing an
Austrian torpedo which had run up on the brown sand--a present from
yesterday's raid.

We turned the others and cantered ahead to get a boat; reached the bridge
once more and crossed into Albania.

Officials ran from all sides to stop us, but we ignored them, dismounted,
and ran to the side of the river where boats were loading, overloading
with passengers. The boatmen refused to take us if we had no passes from
the governor.

We hunted the governor's office up the hillside, panting in our haste.

We burst in upon him.

He was a dirty man in an unclean shirt and unkempt trousers.

"We want to go by the motor-boat," we explained.

"Who are you?" he asked, picking his teeth.

"We are the English about whom the governor of Scutari has telegraphed."

"I don't know anything about you," he said.

His manner was ungracious.

"But," we said, "they assured us that they had telegraphed from Scutari."

The telegraph clerk was brought, and denied that any message had
come.

"Anyhow," said the governor, "the motor-boat is for Albanian soldiers
only, and has gone twenty minutes ago. I can do nothing for you without
authority from Durazzo."
We wandered dismally back through the town and were immediately
arrested by the bridge officials because we had not paid the toll
rates.

We paid double to get rid of them.

We found an inn. It was the usual sort of building only of stone, and so
dirtier than the others. Some travelling show seemed to have left its
scenery in lieu of its bill, for bits of painted canvas did duty
as partitions.

There was a room with six beds, but one was reserved for an Albanian
officer. We took the rest.

We loitered about all the afternoon, and in the evening the Albanian
officer came in. He was a beaky-faced, unpleasant-looking man, but
he procured us some bread, which we sorely lacked. The hotel had little
food, so we gave them our rice.

By this time fleas had got into it, and seeming to like it had bred
in quantities.

Still as we had nothing else it had to be cooked, and we picked out the
boiled fleas as well as we were able. The Serbian captain started drinking
with the Albanian, and soon both were well over the edge of
sobriety.

They came up long after we had turned in, fell over Cutting, who
cursed them without stint, and tumbled on to the beds which we had
left for them.

The Albanian made some remarks about the ladies, which from the tone
were insults; but we were unable to chastize him, or we should all
have been put into prison.

They snored and coughed all night, and spat about in the dark. Those
who were sleeping near cowered beneath the mackintosh sheets and
prayed for luck. But in the morning we found that they had been
spitting on the wall.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXIV
"ONE MORE RIBBER TO CROSS"

The Mayor of Alessio had said that there were lots of horses, if
we had Essad's permission; but the Turkish captain said that there
were none, only at San Giovanni were they to be found.

It was pelting with rain, but Blease and we decided to walk over
to explore for ourselves. Jan first wrote a very stiff letter
to the Governor of Scutari about the non-arrival of the telegram, and
off we went, having borrowed oilskins and sou'westers. The Serb captain
insisted on coming with us.

In half an hour the storm had made the stony road into a series of deep
ponds which nearly joined each other, so Jo tucked her now ragged skirt
into a bright woven Serbian belt and walked along with the water
streaming from coat to boots.

It became rather a pleasure to splash through ten-inch deep puddles,
knowing that one could not possibly get any wetter, and this joy
was intensified by the knowledge that the Serbian captain was being
soaked and didn't like it.

San Giovanni consists of a series of huts, each like Burns' birthplace,
grouped on the shelving side of a stony cliff.

The bay itself is semi-circular, with a long cape jutting out to the
south, the extremity of which almost always is floating in the air,
owing to the mirage. In the bay were two rusty steamers--one the
_Benedetto_, which had been promised to us by the Italian governor--several
old wooden sailers, and a lot of smallish fishing smacks very
brightly painted and with raised poop and prow.

A group of Albanians were toiling at sacks which cumbered the little wooden
jetty.

We immediately hunted out Captain Fabiano, the Italian commander of
the wireless telegraph, and found him in a little house at the
northern horn of the bay.

He received us gaily. He spoke an excellent French, so that the Serbian
captain could not butt in and interfere, as was his habit.
Fabiano said that it would take a long time to get a wire to Brindisi,
where we had heard were several ships of the English fleet, very
bored and craving for something to do; we had hoped to get into
communication with them.

Then Jan had a brain wave.

"Is not the wind good for Durazzo?" asked he.

"Splendid," said Fabiano, "and no submarines to-day."
"Could we not get a fishing boat?"
"I will send and see."

While we were waiting he told us that he was sheltering the crew
of the ship which had been transporting the English mission's kit.

The captain of the little transport had set fire to the benzine
which his boat was carrying, which act so enraged the submarine
captain that he fired three torpedoes into her, and afterwards
mounted his conning tower and fired ten full clips from his revolver
at the swimming men.

Luckily revolver shooting requires much practice.

The men had clung to an overturned boat and had all eventually reached
shore, after which they had to march a day and a half without boots
or food, often fording rivers which came to their waists.

Fabiano said that he was going to send them home on the _Benedetto_.

The captain of the port sent back word that we could have a boat
immediately--much to Fabiano's surprise. But most of the party were at
Alessio.

We hurried off to see the captain of the port. Explanations, certainly
when the luggage came; and off went Jan with a guide to get pack
ponies.

Halfway back to Alessio was the stable, but the steeds were not
ready, so Jan was ushered up into a top room where was a huge fire,
over which an Albanian was stewing a cormorant with all its feathers
on.

There were other Albanians and a very old Montenegrin soldier. He admired
everything English, even Jan's tobacco which he had bought in Pod.

We got to Alessio and packed everything hurriedly, paid the bill,
tipped an old soldier two dinars, and off.

As we passed over the bridge the clerk came running behind us. We had not
paid the bridge fees, he said.

"How much?" asked Jan.

He hesitated.

"Two dinars," said he. He had been talking to the soldier.

Meanwhile Jo and Blease had found refuge in the house of the military
commandant. It was a hovel like all the houses, but they were given a
huge log fire which was built on the mud floor.

Their stockings were soon hanging on a line above the blaze, and
their shins were scorching, while they drank wonderful liqueur
which was hospitably poured out by the beautiful old host.

Turkish coffee was prepared for them by a soldier in a bursting French
fireman's uniform.

The captain's fire was the rendezvous of the village. Amiable and
picturesque people came in and talked about the unhealthiness of the
place, the relative bravery of nations with a special reference to the
courage of Montenegrins, and about the submarine raid and of how the
Austrian captain had repeatedly fired his revolver at the sailors of
the boat he had sunk while they were swimming in the water. Their
eyes were streaming, not with emotion, but because in Montenegro one has
no chimneys.

At dusk the rest of us arrived. The port captain said "To-morrow," so we
climbed up to the inn, examined the stores, a few tins of tunny, mackerel,
and milk, and the thirteen made the best of the bar-room floor for the
night, booted and ready in case a transport for the _Benedetto_
should arrive.

In the morning the captain said we could have the boat that night, and
in the evening he said we could have it in the morning. His excuse
was that the Borra was blowing its hardest, and no sailor could be found
to venture out; but Fabiano said that this was not true.

The real reason was the sleek Austrian torpedo lying on the beach, for
the Dulcinos are famed on the Adriatic coast because of their timidity.

Time passed drearily. The only amusement we had was to go and annoy the
captain of the port by asking when we could have a boat. The wind was too
cold for constitutionals, and we piled on all our clothes and sat on our
knapsacks in the bar-room--for there was no fire--and talked wistfully
of sausages, Yorkshire Relish and underdone beefsteaks.

We had much time for meditation, and pondered over the downfall of Serbia.
Why had the Serbian Government so resolutely refused to make any
territorial concessions to Bulgaria, when it was obvious that the
entry of Bulgaria into the conflict meant the ruin of Serbia? Why had
they permitted the Austrians to build their big gun emplacements on the
Danube without interruption? Why had they not withdrawn to the hills and
then built proper defences with barbed wire entanglements and labyrinths?
for properly entrenched they might have defied the Austro-German forces
for months. Some day, perhaps, these questions may have to be answered.

One day a party came in. They had passed through Vrntze much later than
we, and we heard that Dr.

Berry and an assistant had been seen hurriedly nailing boards on to the
slaughter-house roof. They, too, had come by the Novi Bazar route.

They said that the other routes were deep in snow and that the sufferings
of the army were terrible. That a great portion had been hemmed in at
Prizren, and that the Bulgars had shelled the passes so that they could
not escape. They themselves had escaped the advancing Austrians
by the skin of their teeth owing to good horses.

[Illustration: UNLOADING THE "BENEDETTO," SAN GIOVANNI DI MEDUA.]
The snow came down, driving along the valleys and whitening all the
hills; the cold grew more intense, and the desire for English
beefsteaks became an obsession: one talked of little else--or of
Christmas.

Food was becoming scarce. The tinned mackerel was diminishing; some days
we had no bread. We walked once as far as Fabiano's wireless. The men
were living in a shed made of wattle, and the Borra whistled through
the cracks.

There was a stove round which we sat while the men gave us tea; but
the warmth it induced in one's face only intensified the feeling of cold
on the back.

Outside in the snow was a long-distance telescope, and peering through
one could see the conning tower of the Austrian submarine, a faint
hump on the sea by the southernmost point.

As we returned to the cold hotel we passed the Montenegrin batteries:
cannon too small to be of any use and the gunners of which were
all so ill that they could not handle them.

Two Frenchmen had been in San Giovanni for ten days, and their anxiety
to go was up to fever point. They took it in turns to stand "pour
observer," wrapped up to their noses, in a doorway, watching the
_Benedetto_ in case she should give them the slip. We called them
Tweedledum and Tweedledee.

One night somebody rushed up to their room. Booted, they jumped out of
bed, and ran about overhead.

We thirteen scrambled up and intercepted them between the stairs
and the door.

"Pour observer, steam-funnel," they shouted, and disappeared into the
night, followed by their valet with two hold-alls. They soon came back,
very cold, and announced that steam had been seen issuing from the
_Benedetto's_ funnel.

They had rushed to it in an open boat, and had learnt that the _Benedetto_
was ordered to be in readiness. She fumed quietly for three days,
and then was commandeered by the Serbian Government.

One day we saw a French aeroplane, an old friend of ours. Immediately every
one working in the port tore up hill, men jumped off the big boats
into little ones and rowed like a cinematograph turned double speed.

The commandant roared reassuringly from his attic window, and an officer
tried to beat the men back. Seeing us convulsed with laughter, they
turned sheepishly; but the little boats wagged on, people jumping
into the water as they neared shore.

"Come and sit round my fire," said the commandant. So we again imbibed
coffee and discussed courage. It was explained to us that none of the
men in the boats were Montenegrins, and we politely agreed.

Hearing that a Red Cross party was in the village people came and asked
for medical aid. We explained that we had no doctors, but they
begged us to come and see the invalids.

Doctors and chemists were unobtainable, and soldiers were dying every
day.

We had no hesitation in tackling the Montenegrin soldiers, for at least
we could do no harm, considering that our whole pharmacopoeia
was a little boracic, some bismuth capsules, Epsom salts, quinine,
iodine, and one of the party owned a bottle of some patent unknown
stuff, against fever and many other ailments.

We were first taken to the barracks in the evening, scrambling up
a stony hill. The building looked like the disreputable ruins of somebody's
"Folly." Half the roof was off, and the walls were full of holes. We
stumbled up some black steps and entered a huge dark barn with four log
fires down the centre of the room.

Round these were huddled crowds of men. They pulled some rough planks
out of a hole in the wall to let in the sunset light, and the icy
Borra rushed in, playing with the smoke and setting the men to coughing.
Here and there on the ground were long mounds, covered completely
with rough hand-woven rugs. These were the invalids, who moaned
as the rugs were pulled off their faces.

A great many had malaria; others had, as far as we could see, very bad
pleurisy; and one old Albanian with rattling breath was huddled
up in a far corner, too miserable to speak.

Whatmough sent for a dribble of camphorated oil he had stored in his
knapsack, "to cheer them up," said he, and rubbed everybody who had
pain and a cough.

"Give them hot drinks," said Jo, in a large way. "Milk or--"
"Milk! There is no milk in Medua," said the sergeant.

"No tinned milk--eggs to be bought?"
"Nothing, no meat; we have not even enough bread, and that is all we get."

Very depressed, we sent them the remains of our Bovril and some tins
of milk from the tiny hotel store, and bought the last three eggs
in the place.

"Can't you send for more?" we asked.

"The hens are five hours away," said the proprietor, and didn't see why
he should send for eggs even if we paid heavily for them.

He had malaria--and nothing mattered.

We saw our patients daily, and the ones who weren't going to die got a
little better, so this made our reputation. People poured in from the
hills around, and we were much embarrassed. Our white-lipped waiter
confided to each member of the party that he had a lump on his
knee.
Every one became very busy and put off looking at it. We discussed
it.
What could a lump on the knee be which did not make a busy waiter
limp?
And what on earth could we do for him when he wouldn't rest, and
we were reduced to boracic powder and bismuth capsules? We gave him
a tube of quinine, though, for his next attack of malaria.
The longer we rested in San Giovanni the more hopeless seemed the
chance of getting away from it. The Serbian Government was close
on our heels, and once they caught us up, there would be little
left for us. That evening we were sitting with the Frenchmen, it
was Monday. They, too, were depressed, and at last Tweedledum said--

"We shall never reach Paris, we shall be here for ever and ever."

"Oh," said Jan, rashly, "I think we ought to be home in a week."

Dum put on the superior French air, which is aggravating even in a
nice man.

"Vous croyez?" he said.

"I'll bet on it," said Jan.
"A dinner," answered Dum.

"Good," said Jan.
This lent a new interest to life.
The very next day the Frenchmen told us that the Serb Government
had arrived at Scutari; the Montenegrin Governor had telegraphed
to commandeer and keep back the _Benedetto_. We had been forgotten,
and the French boat was to leave at dawn under escort.
She had been strictly forbidden by her owners to take passengers,
but the Frenchmen had arranged through their minister to go by that
boat if she left the first.
Telegraphic communication with the English minister at Cettinje was
practically impossible; the only thing was to appeal to the
captain.
First we rushed up the hill, and interviewed Captain Fabiano, who
had already made various efforts to get us off. He promised to try
and influence the French captain.
Then we flung ourselves into a boat and made for the little
steamer.
People were looking at something with opera glasses, and our boatmen
took fright and wanted to row straight for land. Jan cursed them
so much, however, that they began to fear us more than imaginary
submarines or aeroplanes, and brought us alongside the vessel."Can you play the fiddle?" asked one of the men of O'Rook, when the song
was finished.

"Sure it's myself can do that same," he replied, with a modest air,
which drew forth a peal of laughter.  When the fiddle was produced and
O'Rook struck up reels, and strathspeys, and hornpipes, with a precision
of touch and time and perfection of tune that was far above the average
of amateurs, the joy of the party could no longer find vent through eye
and mouth.  They were forced to open the safety-valves of heel and toe.
For this purpose the quarter-deck was cleared, and flags were festooned
round it; the officers joined, and Polly Samson was placed on the
capstan, like the presiding angel of the scene.

Ah! reader, if you have not been for many months on the ocean, or in the
lone wilderness, without seeing a new face, or hearing a sweet sound, or
feeling the power of female influence, you cannot fully appreciate what
we describe.  There was no drink save coffee and tea at that feast.  The
_Rainbow_ was a temperance ship.  But the men required no spirits.  Each
one had more than sufficient within himself.  The presence of Polly,
too, had a powerful effect.  Every man there saw his own particular
Polly or Susan or Nancy in her pretty laughing face and sparkling eyes.

"Your men are powerful fellows," said the captain of the _Rainbow_ to
the captain of the whaler; "I've no doubt they'll be quite game for work
to-morrow, though they should keep it up all night."

"They certainly would," replied the latter, "if called on to do duty;
but they won't be required to work to-morrow, for we keep the Sabbath on
board of our ship as a duty we owe to God, and we find that we are great
gainers in health and strength, while we are no losers of fish by doing
so."

"Ha! the great Captain Scoresby tried that before you, and said that he
found keeping the Sabbath to be good both for body and soul," said the
captain of the _Rainbow_.

"I know he did," replied the other, "and I am trying to follow in
Scoresby's wake."

It was pretty late in the evening before the whalers could tear
themselves away, and when at last they did so, they expressed a
unanimous opinion that it had been the most successful gam they had ever
had in their lives.

Not long after parting company from the whale-ship the _Rainbow_ sailed
into the cold and variable regions south of Cape Horn.  Here they
experienced what the men styled "very dirty weather."  The skies were
seldom blue, and the decks were never dry, while it became necessary to
keep the stove burning constantly in the cabin, and the berth-ports
almost always shut.

The effect of all this on poor Ben Trench was to injure his health
severely.  His cough increased, and it soon became evident that his
complaint, which at first had only threatened to grow worse, had now
become chronic and serious.

"Watty," he said one day, while his friend sat beside his cot reading to
him, "it's of no use shutting one's eyes to facts.  I fear that I am now
hopelessly ill, and that I shall never see father or mother or Susan
again in this world."

"O Ben! don't speak like that," said Watty, laying down the book, and
gently taking his friend's thin hand in both of his.  "You mustn't do
it.  It will only make you worse.  When we get out of this horrible
region into the trade winds and the sunshine near the Line, you'll be a
new man.  Come now, cheer up, Ben, and don't let your good little nurse
see you with such a sad face."

Polly's step was heard at the moment.  She entered with a bowl of soup.

"Here, Ben, this will do you good," she said, handing him the bowl.
"The cook says it's the stuff to stick to your ribs.  There now, I can't
stop to give it you, for father wants me, but you're all right when
Watty's by.  Are you better?"

"Well, not much," replied Ben with a smile; "but I'm always the better
of seeing your little face.  Don't be long of returning, Poll."

When she had left, Ben drank the soup, and then lay down with a sigh.

"It may be that the warm latitudes will do me good, Watty," he said,
"but I don't feel as if they would.  Still I'm resigned to God's will,
though it seems sad to die so young, and just when I've come to know my
dear Redeemer, and might, perhaps, have done some little work for Him.
It seems so strange to be saved and not allowed time to _do_ anything."

"You _have_ done something," returned his friend with an earnest look;
"if I have really turned to Jesus at all, it has been through your
influence, Ben, and I'm sure that Jack would say the same of himself;
and if he and I are spared to do any good work for our Lord, it will be
all owing to you."

"Not to me, Watty, not to me," rejoined Ben, with a glad look; "but if
God's holy Spirit has used me as an instrument in this, I shall have
cause to praise Him for it throughout eternity.  Oh! is it not strange
that in a region where there is so little godliness, and while we were
in the eager pursuit of gold, our eyes should have been opened to see
and appreciate the true gold?  But now, Watty," he added in a lower
tone, "I want to ask you to do me a favour.  I want you to go yourself
to our house, without delay, and break it to mother."

He paused.  Watty laid his face in the bedclothes, and wept silently.

"They are very fond of you," continued Ben, "and I should not like them
to hear of it from any one but you.  Be very tender to Susan, Watty.
Poor Susan, she will need comfort, and you know how to direct her."

For some time Ben Trench continued talking, and then fell into a quiet
slumber, in which his friend left him, while Polly watched by his side.

The warm latitudes did no good to the invalid.  On the contrary, he
suffered much from the heat, and became visibly weaker.

At last the shores of Old England drew nigh.  A few days more and they
should sight land.  They sought to cheer him with this, but there was no
answering sparkle in Ben's eyes.

"Yes," he said, faintly, "I shall see them all again, but not _here_."

Ben was dying when the _Rainbow_ approached the British Channel.  The
whole of the previous day a stiff gale had blown, and this had not much
abated when night drew on.  Liverpool was their port, and the captain
carried on full sail--more than the good ship could well bear.  It is
not known whether he felt so sure of his course that he did not think it
necessary to shorten sail on nearing the Land's End, or that he was
anxious, at all hazards, to reach port before Ben Trench should die, but
he held on recklessly, and, in the dead of night, ran the _Rainbow_
straight against the high cliffs not far from the Cornish town of Saint
Just.

The wreck of the ship was complete in a few seconds.  All her masts went
over the side, and the waves overwhelmed her.  She would have gone down
in deep water if she had not been dashed between two rocks and held
there.  Time was thus given for one of the boats to be got out, but
utter confusion reigned, for the captain had disappeared.  No wonder
that several of the men leaped into her, crying, "Every man for
himself," and endeavoured to cast off.

"Have you got Polly?" cried Jack, as he dimly saw a figure staggering
through the turmoil of wind and whirling spray.

"All safe!" gasped Captain Samson.

Jack instantly jumped into the boat and found O'Rook struggling to
prevent one of the men from cutting the hawser.  Jack knocked the man
down, and, hauling the boat close alongside, shouted, "Jump, Captain,
jump!"  The captain did so at the right moment, and alighted safely,
though with great violence.  Just then Watty Wilkins was seen striving
to lift Ben Trench over the bulwark of the ship.  It was impossible to
render him assistance, though Jack tried to do so, for at the moment a
towering billow fell on the deck and tore the invalid from his grasp.
With a shriek of despair Watty fell back into the sea, but was caught by
one of the men and hauled into the boat which was then cut adrift.  It
was not a moment too soon, for the next wave dashed their ship to
pieces.

As it was impossible to effect a landing among perpendicular cliffs
which were lashed by roaring breakers, they were obliged to push out to
sea, where they rowed till daylight, and succeeded in reaching Penzance
harbour.

Leaving the others to report the news, Jack and Wilkins started off
along the coast to the scene of the wreck.  They found the spot, but not
a vestige was to be seen of what had so long been their home, save a few
broken spars, here and there far down in the clefts of inaccessible
rocks.  A fisherman, however, told them that several bodies had been
thrown into a little bay, and were then lying in a shed near the spot.
Hastening thither, they found five lying side by side.  Among them were
those of poor Ben Trench and the captain of the ship--the one strong,
stalwart and still ruddy in the face, the other attenuated and ghastly,
as might have been expected of one who had, as it were, died a double
death.

We will not dwell on the terrible scene.  While Jack and Captain Samson
remained to attend to the dead, Wilkins set off, without delay, to be
first, if possible, in breaking the sad news to his friend's family,
according to promise.

In regard to the wreck, it is sufficient to say that she, with all her
precious freight was scattered on the rugged coasts of Cornwall, and our
adventurers stood once more on their native shores without even the
means of paying their travelling expenses home.  They did not like to
speak of their invested wealth, fearing that their statements might be
disbelieved.  They therefore stood literally in the position of beggars.

In this extremity they found the hospitable men of Cornwall to be
friends indeed and full of sympathy.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

RETURN OF THE WANDERER.

Great was the anxiety of Edwin Jack as he walked, with light foot and
fluttering heart, over the Border hills and drew near to the old home.
He had not heard from his father for nearly a year.  Were they all well?
had they struggled out of their difficulties with the funds he had sent
them.  Was there no empty chair?  Such and similar thoughts hurried
through his mind as he went along, until he was forced to run for
relief.  There was a rocky ridge of land in front of him.  From the top
of this he knew the cottage could be seen.  Panting with exertion when
he gained the top, he sat down on a mass of rock and gazed at the old
place till tears disturbed his vision.  There it stood as of yore--no
change in the general aspect of things, though there did seem one or two
improvements about the cottage.  But he did not gaze long.  Starting up
again he hurried on.

At last he stood in the midst of the old home-circle--all well, and,
thank God, not one absent!

Philosopher though he was, he could not reason down the tears of joy
that blinded, and the lump in his throat that well-nigh choked him.
After the first wild miscellaneous embrace all round was over, Jack (or
Teddie, as the home-circle called him) found relief by catching up
Dobbin and burying his face in his neck and curls, regardless of the
treacle with which that gentleman was plentifully besmeared.

"I've got bad news for you, Teddie, my boy," said his father, after they
had moderated a little.

"Nobody ill or--dead?" asked Jack, with a look of anxiety.

"No, nobody."

"Then I'm prepared for any other kind of bad news," said our philosopher
with a quiet smile.

"The Blankow Bank," said his father, laying a hand impressively on his
shoulder, "has failed, and every penny of your gold is gone!"

The family had become very grave.  Jack looked from one to the other
with a bewildered air.

"You are jesting, father."

"No, my boy; I would that it were not true.  The distress that is abroad
in the land because of this calamity is very great.  Not only is all
your fortune gone, Ted, but anything that you may have brought home with
you will be taken to pay the creditors of the bank; and they require so
much money that it would ruin you, though you had thousands upon
thousands of pounds."

A strange smile flitted across the youth's face as he replied--

"What I brought home with me won't benefit them much, for it lies with
the wreck of the _Rainbow_ at the bottom of the sea."

This was indeed a surprise to the old couple, who now learned, for the
first time, that the wrecked ship, about which a rumour had just reached
them, was that in which their son had come home.

"But, father," continued Jack, with a look of deepening anxiety, "if
this be as you say, then my comrades must also be ruined, for their gold
was all invested by Mr Wilkins in the same bank."

"All ruined," replied the old man in a sad tone.  "Mr Wilkins himself
is bankrupt--the first call brought him and many others down."

"And yourself father; I hope you had no shares in it."

"None, my boy, thank God.  Prosperity has attended me ever since I got
the first money you sent home.  _That_ saved me, Teddie."

A gleam of joy overspread Philosopher Jack's countenance as he started
to his feet.

"Then am I well and undeservedly rewarded, daddy," he exclaimed; "but
all this news is pretty tough.  I must go out to tackle it.  I'll be
back in a few minutes."

He sprang through the cottage door and sped away over the moor like a
greyhound.  Reaching the top of a rising ground--from which he could see
a boundless stretch of border-land, with the sea in the far distance and
the sun setting in a flood of golden light--he drew himself up, and
pushing back the hair from his temples with both hands, stood gazing
wistfully into the radiant glory.

"So like a dream--so like a dream!" he murmured.  "It was God who gave;
surely it is He who has taken away.  Can there be anything but good in
all this?"

His hands dropped to his side as he spoke, and he sauntered slowly down
the slope on which he stood.  Entering a small plantation of fir-trees
at the foot of it, he disappeared.

When he returned to the cottage all trace of strong feeling was gone.
"We won't talk of the bank to-night," he said, "let's be jolly," and
jolly he was accordingly.  Not only so, but he made Dobbin jolly too, by
supplying him with such a number of treacle-pieces that the child could
hardly gasp his refusal of the last slice offered, and was made sticky
from the ends of his filthy fingers to the crown of his curly head.

It is not necessary, nor would it be pleasant to describe minutely the
effect of the "bad news" on the other members of our gold-digging party.
Captain Samson and Watty Wilkins took it well, but Polly and Simon
O'Rook could not easily reconcile themselves to their fate.  The former,
it is true, sorrowed not for herself, but for her father.  O'Rook,
however, was more selfish, and came down very heavily on what he called
his "luck."

"Sure it's a misfortunate pig I've been iver since I left Owld Ireland,"
he remarked to his pipe one day after dinner, being alone with that
implement at the time; "an no sooner does the first stroke of good luck
befall me, an me fortune's made intirely, than whoop! down goes the
whole consarn to the bottom of the say.  It's well, hows'ever, that ye
didn't go down yerself along with it, Simon.  Ye've raison to be
thankful for that, anyhow."

If O'Rook's pipe did not offer him a comforting reply it appeared to
console him with its fumes, for after a pause, during which the smoke
played voluminously about his nose, he wrinkled his visage into a smile
of good humour.

"Now, Simon," he said, rising and putting the black little implement in
his pocket, "you're in a fit state to go an' comfort the widdy."

Saying which he went out of the cheap refreshment room in which he had
dined, and betook himself to the principal street of the city, whose
name we have already declined to mention.

To explain his remark, we may state here that after the most diligent
inquiry without success, the Irishman had, by the merest chance,
discovered the widow of David Ban--in this very city, to which he had
accompanied Philosopher Jack and Captain Samson, after clearly
ascertaining that every vestige of the wreck of the _Rainbow_ had
disappeared, and that all his gold was irrevocably gone.  Walking along
the principal street one day, he had been attracted by a temperance
eating-house named the "Holly Tree."  Entering it for the purpose of, as
he said, "revictualling the ship," he was rooted to the spot by hearing
a customer call out, "Another cup of coffee, please, Mrs Bancroft,"
while at the same moment an assistant at the counter addressed the
comely woman, who replied, "Yes, sir," by the name of "Lucy."  Could
proof be more conclusive?  Upon inquiry "Lucy" turned out in very truth
to be the widow of David Bancroft, and the lock of hair corresponded.
Of course O'Rook revealed to her the sad circumstances connected with
her husband's end.  To say that Mrs Bancroft was overwhelmed with grief
would not be true.  She had long mourned him as dead, and although the
information, corroborated as it afterwards was by Edwin Jack and Captain
Samson, did re-open the old wound to some extent, she nevertheless bore
it heroically, and took Simon O'Rook's comforting observations in good
part.  But we must not anticipate.  Let us return to Watty Wilkins.

Having broken the news of Ben Trench's death to the Bailie and his
family--and a terrible duty he found it to be,--Watty went straight to
his father's house.  We drop the curtain on the meeting.  The joy of the
elder Wilkins can only be fully understood by those who can say of an
only son, "He was lost and is found."

"Now, Watty, dear boy," said Mr Wilkins when they came to talk of
ordinary matters, "God has mingled mercy with my sorrows.  My business
has indeed been ruined, and I have passed through the bankruptcy court;
but I am by no means so unfortunate as hundreds of people who have been
reduced to absolute poverty by this crash.  You remember my brother
James--Uncle Jimmy? well, he has got a flourishing business in the West
Indies.  For some years past he had been meditating the establishment of
an agency in connection with it in this city.  The moment he heard of my
failure he offered to make me his agent here, with a good salary.  Of
course I was only too glad and thankful to accept the offer, and after
my affairs were wound up, entered upon the office.  So now, you see,
here I am, through God's goodness, still inhabiting the old house, which
I now rent from the person who purchased it.  Of course I can no longer
keep a carriage, and it will cost me some calculation and economy to
make the two ends meet, but these are small matters."

"Oh, father, I'm so glad and thankful!" said Watty with sparkling eyes.

"But," continued Mr Wilkins, with a look of profound gravity, "at
present I happen to be troubled with a great difficulty."

"What's that?" asked his little son, with a ready sympathy that was
natural to him, and which his recent experiences had rendered much more
powerful.

"I find the nature of my duties too much for me," replied Mr Wilkins
with a peculiar smile, "and it is almost impossible that I can get along
without a clever, honest, intelligent clerk, or, shall we say,
secretary--a character that is not easily found in these degenerate
days.  So oft 'tis said in Lapland's chill domain, Where dreary winter
holds a lengthen'd reign, What time the Runic drum and magic spell
Evoke the rapt soul from its fragile cell, Attendant spirits, won
by charms and prayer, In gliding motion float upon the air.

Being a
tender-hearted man, Mr Wilkins could not help joining him, but in a
moderate degree.  We will leave them thus engaged, merely remarking that
if the act was a weakness, it nevertheless seemed to do them a world of
good.

After a considerable time had elapsed, Philosopher Jack left the Border
cottage one day, went up to town, and presented himself at his old
lodgings to Mrs Niven.  That lady's feelings, under the influence of
surprise, had a tendency, as we have shown, to lay her flat on the
floor.  But the faithful Peggy had come to understand her tendencies,
and was usually too much for her.  When her old lodger made his
appearance in her parlour, Mrs Niven exhibited symptoms which caused
Peggy to glide swiftly forward and receive her in her arms, whence she
was transferred to an easy-chair.

Recovering, she gave Jack what, in the circumstances, was a hearty
welcome.

"Losh me, laddie, ye'll be the death o' me!"

"I hope not, Mrs Niven," said Jack, laughing, as he shook her hand
heartily and sat down, "for my own sake as well as yours; because I have
come to take my old room if it is vacant."

"Yer auld room, Maister Jack!" exclaimed the bewildered woman.

"Yes, if it is not already occupied."

"The yin wi' the reeky lum and the view o' chimbley-pots frae the
wundy?"

"The same.  I hope I can have it, for I'm going to college again, and
I've an affection for the old place, despite the smoky chimney and the
cans on the cats' parade."

"Yer jokin', Maister Jack."

"Indeed I am not, Mrs Niven."

"They telt me ye was in Callyforny, an had made 'eer fortin there by
howkin' gold."

"Well, they told the truth, my good woman, but I happened to invest all
in Blankow Bank shares, and--"

"Wow! wow!" exclaimed Mrs Niven, whimpering, for she understood full
well the meaning of that, "an' 'ee've been ruined!  Oh dear!  Weel,
weel, ay, ay, an it's come to that.  Jist like my kind freen' Maister
Black.  Losh me! man," she added in a sudden burst of indignation, "what
for disna the Government order a penny subscription ower the hail
kingdom to git the puir guiltless shareholders oot o' their
diffeeculties?"

Philosopher Jack declined to enter upon so subtle a question, but after
finding that his old room was vacant, retook it, and then went out to
the region of the docks to pay a visit to Captain Samson.  He found that
old salt in possession of his old lodging, but it was wonderfully
changed, and, perhaps, not for the better.  Polly was there, however,
and her presence would have made any place charming.

"Sit down.  There is an empty keg to offer a friend," said the captain,
looking round the almost empty room.  "You see they've cleared me out.
Had to sell everything a'most."

This was true.  The marine stores, coils of rope, kegs, charts,
telescopes, log-lines, sextants, foreign shells, model ships, Chinese
idols--all were gone, excepting a table, a chair, a child's crib in a
corner, and the hammock, which latter looked more like an overwhelmingly
heavy cloud than ever, as it hung over the clean but desolate scene.

"But we're going to have _such_ a nice tea," said Polly, "and you shall
stay and have some."

She bustled about the fire, but it had so little heart that even her
coaxing nearly failed to make it burn.  Jack offered to assist.

"Take care," said Polly with some anxiety; "if you cough or sneeze
you'll put it out."

The rain was tearing down as if the heavens were filled with
fire-engines.

But they didn't want us there. We beheld a dirty low-ceiled room filled
with filthy people and a smell of wet unwashed clothes.

The owner and his wife received us roughly. "We have no room, we
have nothing," they said.

We stood our ground. "We _must_ have a roof to-night."
Outside the road had become a river, our men were nearly dropping
with fatigue.

"You can't come here," said the innkeeper, looking at us with great
distrust.

The major, whom Jo had "bothered," came in. "You must take these people,"
he said, and asked various searching questions about the rooms.

Reluctantly the truth came out that if the whole family slept in
one room there would be one for us. The major ordered them to do it.
Jo wished she hadn't "bothered" him quite so gruffly.

The daughters stamped about, furiously pulling all the blankets off
the two beds, while one of them stood in the doorway watching us
to see that we did not secrete the greasy counterpanes.

Several of the party sat, hair on end, with staring eyes, too tired to
shut them.

"Food?"
"Nema Nishta," was the response.

"Can we boil water?"
"No."
"Where can we boil it?"
"Nowhere."
"But there is a fire in the kitchen," we said, pointing to a hooded
fireplace where a few sticks were burning.

"Why shouldn't they boil water?" said a kindly looking man.

"Well, I suppose they can," said the old woman, who became almost
pleasant over the kitchen fire--telling Jo she was sixty and only
a stara Baba (old granny).

Miss Brindley made tea. We cheered as she brought it in. Tea, bully beef,
and our last biscuits comprised our dinner, which we ate in
big gulps, after which we sang "Three blind mice" as a digestive.

The half-open door was full of peering faces, so somewhat encouraged we
gave them a selection of rounds.

We left next morning early in a heavy downpour, after being exorbitantly
charged, glad to leave Jabooka for ever.

The professor was before us, an aged red Riding Hood, clad in his
scarlet blanket. The day was long and uneventful. Trudge,
trudge, splash, splash.

The dividing line between snow and rain still was heavily marked, but it
sleeted and our hands were quite numbed. We crossed an angry stream on
a greasy pole and most of us splashed in.

Whatmough stood in the water, remarking, "I'm wet and I'll get no
wetter," and helped people across. Again after dark we arrived at Liéva
Riéka, to find our dirty old inn again; but it had a real iron stove
which gave out a glorious heat, and we crowded around in the ill-lit
room, clouds of steam arising from us. We tried to dry our
stockings against the stove pipe, but the old mother did not approve.
She was afraid of fire. When she ran out of the room, socks were
pressed surreptitiously against the pipe with a "sizz," and when she
returned, innocent looking people were standing against the wall,
no socks to be seen.

The eldest daughter settled down with her head in Jo's hip, having
failed to get Miss Brindley alongside. She gazed longingly at Miss Brindley
from Jo's lap, and asking for all the data possible as to her life.

"A devoika (girl), free, travelling from a country so far away that
it would take three months in an oxcart to get there."
"Oh, how wonderful!"
They gave us a tiny room and two benches--much too small for the
whole company; so some slept outside on the balcony.

The professor was in the adjoining inn, so we guessed it must be the best;
but a young French sailor, from the wireless in Podgoritza, who
came to gossip with us, said there was nothing to choose.

He was champing, as the Government were commandeering the wireless
company's motor cars right and left using them to cart benzine; and
now they were going to send a refugee Serb officer's family to
Podgoritza in his motor, leaving him sitting.

We spent the next morning waiting for the motor, not knowing if it would
arrive or no. The professor sailed away in the French one, being
one up on us again. It still rained, so we sat contemplating the
possibilities of lunch. No sooner was it on the boil than the biggest
automobile in Montenegro, a covered lorry, turned up.
We persuaded the driver to lunch with us, and packed ourselves and
our dingy packages on to the wet floor. The motor buzzed up and
downhill, incessantly twisting and turning: what we could see of
the view from the back waved to and fro like Alpine scenery seen
in the cinematograph.he added with a sigh, "it's a rich man I'd have been this day
if that ship had only kep' afloat a few hours longer.  Well, well, I
needn't grumble, when me own comrades, that thought it so safe in the
Blankow Bank, are about as badly off as me.  When was it they began to
suspec' the bank was shaky?"

"Oh, long ago," said Mrs Bancroft, "soon after the disappearance of Mr
Luke, the cashier--"

"Mr who?" demanded O'Rook with a start.

"Mr Luke.  Did you know him?"

"I've heard of such a man," replied O'Rook with assumed carelessness;
"what about _him_?"

"Well, it was supposed that he was goin' deranged, poor fellow, and at
last he suddenly disappeared, no one could tell why; but it's clear
enough now, for he was made to put the accounts all wrong, and I suppose
the struggle in his mind drove him to suicide, for he was a long, thin,
weakly sort of man, without much brains except for figures."

Hereupon O'Rook told the widow all he knew about the strange passenger
of that name with whom he had sailed to the Southern Seas and worked at
the gold fields.  The conclusion which they came to was that the
gold-digging passenger was the absconded cashier.  Having settled this,
O'Rook renewed the siege on the widow's heart but without success,
though she did not cast him off altogether.  The poor man, however, lost
patience, and, finally, giving it up in despair, went off to sea.

"I've been too hard on him," remarked the widow, sadly, to her sister
Flo, after he was gone.

"You have," was Flo's comforting reply, as she rose to serve a clamorous
customer of the Holly Tree.

Philosopher Jack from that time forth devoted himself heartily to study,
and gradually ceased to think of the golden dreams which had for so long
a time beset him by night and by day.  He had now found the gold which
cannot perish, and while he studied medicine and surgery to enable him
to cure the bodies of men, he devoted much of his time to the study of
the Book which would enable him to cure their souls.

The captain came and went across the seas in the course of his rough
calling, and he never came without a heart full of love and hands full
of foreign nick-nacks, which he conveyed to Polly in London, and never
went away without a rousing nor'-wester.

Watty and his father worked on together in vigorous contentment and many
a visit did the former pay to Bailie Trench, attracted by the strong
resemblance in Susan to the bosom friend who had reached the "Better
Land" before him.

Thus time rolled quietly on, until an event occurred which modified the
career of more than one of those whose fortunes we have followed so
long.


CHAPTER TWELVE.

CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER.

If it be true that there is "many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip"--
which we have no reason to doubt--it is not less true that many a cup of
good fortune is, unexpectedly and unsought, raised to the lips of
thankless man.

I have found it so. And for my part, I sacrificed everything to him,
even my love; and I would have done more, had it been possible to do
more than renounce Mademoiselle de Montmorency."
The good Marechal had tears in his eyes; but the young Marquis d'Effiat
and the Italians, looking at one another, could not help smiling to think
that at present the Princesse de Conde was far from young and
pretty.

Cinq-Mars noticed this interchange of glances, and smiled also, but
bitterly.

"Is it true then," he thought, "that the affections meet the same fate
as the fashions, and that the lapse of a few years can throw the same
ridicule upon a costume and upon love? Happy is he who does not outlive
his youth and his illusions, and who carries his treasures with him to
the grave!"
But--again, with effort breaking the melancholy course of his thoughts,
and wishing that the good Marechal should read nothing unpleasant upon
the countenances of his hosts, he said:

"People spoke, then, with much freedom to King Henri? Possibly, however,
he found it necessary to assume that tone at the beginning of his reign;
but when he was master did he change it?"
"Never! no, never, to his last day, did our great King cease to be the
same.

  He did not blush to be a man, and he spoke to men with force and
  sensibility. Ah! I fancy I see him now, embracing the Duc de Guise
  in his carriage, on the very day of his death; he had just made one
  of his lively pleasantries to me, and the Duke said to him, 'You
  are, in my opinion, one of the most agreeable men in the world, and
  destiny ordained us for each other. For, had you been but an ordinary
  man, I should have taken you into my service at whatever price; but
  since heaven ordained that you should be born a great King, it is
  inevitable that I belong to you.' Oh, great man!" cried
  Bassompierre, with tears in his eyes, and perhaps a little excited
by the frequent bumpers he had drunk, "you said well, 'When you
have lost me you will learn my value.'"

  During this interlude, the guests at the table had assumed various
  attitudes, according to their position in public affairs.

One of the Italians pretended to chat and laugh in a subdued manner with
the young daughter of the Marechale; the other talked to the deaf old
Abbe, who, with one hand behind his ear that he might hear, was
the only one who appeared attentive.

Cinq-Mars had sunk back into his melancholy abstraction, after throwing
a glance at the Marechal, as one looks aside after throwing a tennis-ball
until its return; his elder brother did the honors of the table
with the same calm.

Puy-Laurens observed the mistress of the house with attention; he was
devoted to the Duc d'Orleans, and feared the Cardinal.

As for the Marechale, she had an anxious and afflicted air.

Careless words had often recalled the death of her husband or the departure
of her son; and, oftener still, she had feared lest Bassompierre
should compromise himself.

"It can only be one," replied the captain, "that box of mine in which
you asked me to stuff the remnant of the gold-dust that you hadn't room
for in your own boxes.  It was the strongest box o' the lot, which
accounts for its not breakin' up like the others."

"It must be that.  I rowled it up in an owld leather coat bought from an
Injin the day before we left the diggin's.  It's but a small remainder
o' me fortune--a thousand pounds, more or less,--but sure, it's found
money an comes handy this good day, which reminds me I've got some noose
for 'ee.  What d'ee think, cap'n?" continued O'Rook, with a very
conscious look.

"How can I think if ye don't give me somethin' to think about?"

"The widdy's tuk me after all!" said O'Rook.

"What! widow Bancroft?"

O'Rook nodded impressively.  "Moreover," he said, "she's tuk me as a
poor beggar with nothin' but his pay, for better and for worse, an',
sure now, it's better I'll be than she tuk me for."

The captain was interrupted in his congratulations of the mate by
another knock at the door.  He opened it, and next moment was seized
round the neck by a tall, graceful, beautiful, exquisite--oh! reader,
you know who we mean.

"Why didn't you come up to time, old girl?" demanded the captain, while
O'Rook looked on in admiration.

"Oh, father," gasped Polly, "don't crush me so and I'll tell you."

When she had explained that delay in the train had caused her want of
punctuality, she shook hands with O'Rook, with whom she had renewed
acquaintance at the time of his being appointed first mate to her
father's ship.  Then she was bid stand up in a corner to be
"overhauled."  The captain retired to an opposite corner, and gazed at
his daughter critically, as though she had been a fine portrait.

"Yes, Polly, you'll do," he said, while an approving smile wrinkled his
vast countenance.  "Fit for a queen any day.  A _lady_--ha! ha!  Have
you done your duty to Aunt Maria, Polly, eh?  Have you made a lady of
her, eh?  Have you infused into her something allied to the angelic, eh?
Come, now, a rousing nor'-wester!"

With a laugh worthy of her girlhood, Polly ran out of her corner and
obeyed orders.

"Now, my pet" said the captain, seating her on his knee, "here are some
kickshaws from foreign parts for you; but before letting you look at
'em, I must explain why I asked you to meet me here instead of going to
see you as usual in London.  The fact is, I had bin longing to take you
with me my next voyage, and it would have been handier to have you by me
here when we're getting ready for sea, but--but, the fact is, things
have taken a sudden turn, and--and--in short, circumstances have come
about that I can't speak of just now; only I'm not quite so sure about
going to sea as I was an hour ago.  But you don't seem to jump at the
notion, Polly.  Surely you'd have liked to go--wouldn't you?"

"Liked, father, of _course_.  I should have been overjoyed to have gone
with you, but--but--the truth is," she said, with a little laugh and a
glance at O'Rook, "circumstances have come about that _I_ can't speak of
just now."

"Well, my pet," rejoined the captain, with a puzzled, anxious look,
"we'll _not_ talk about 'em.  Now, you must know that I've got up a
small party to meet you here to-night, and expect you to do me credit.
The pastry-cook next door has undertaken to send in cakes, and tea, and
hot sausages, and buns, at a moment's notice.  I expect his man here
every minute to lay out the spread.  Now, who d'ee think are coming?
You'll never guess.  There's Mr and Mrs John Jack, the father and
mother of Edwin Jack--you remember him, Polly?  Philosopher Jack we used
to call him."

"Yes," replied Polly, in a low tone.

"Well, they happen to be in town just now with their family, and they're
all coming.  Then there's my first mate, Simon O'Rook; he would be
coming, only he's come already, a full hour before his time!  Then
there's a Mr Burr and a Mr Buckley, both returned from California with
fortunes--"

"A-rowlin' in gold," muttered O'Rook, in a low tone.

"You don't _really_ mean, father, that--"

"Yes I do, Polly.  I mean that Baldwin Burr and Jacob Buckley are
coming.  I met 'em only two days ago in the streets, going about in
chimney-pot hats and broadcloth like gentlemen--which they are, every
inch of 'em, if worth and well-doing and wisdom make the gentleman.  So,
knowing you were to be here, I made 'em promise to come.  Well, then,
there's your old friend Watty Wilkins, who, by the way, is engaged to be
married to Susan Trench.  I tried to get Susan to come too, but she's
shy, and won't.  The "Mount" is likewise one of the most stupendous
of Nature's _curiosities_, it being _one mass of granite_, and referred
to by geologists as a fine specimen of that primary or primitive
rock; or, to speak untechnically, of that rock "which is most widely
spread over the globe in the lowest relative situation," and which
contains no remains of a former world.[1] St.

Michael's therefore stands pre-eminently in the sublime philosophy of
Nature.

It figures also in the page of man's history: its early celebrity
is recognised in the chronicles of olden France and England; and
it promises note in the history of our own times; since to this
monastic spot will the political balance of France, in all probability,
exile the person of the ambitious Polignac, ex-minister of France.

The reader will perhaps suspect the political concatenation of Lulworth
Castle, the Hotel de Ville, and the Palais Royal in our last volume;
and the Prison of Vincennes and Mount St.

Michael in the present. Instead of catching "the manners living as they
_rise_," we appear to be looking out for crowns and ministers headlong
as they _fall_.

St. Michael's is in that portion of Normandy which is not often visited
by English tourists. One of its recent visitors was Mrs. Charles Stothard,
wife of the distinguished artist, who, in 1820, published a narrative
of her journey in, the autumn of 1818. Mrs.

Stothard's description of the "Mount" is dated from Avranches, a coast
town of some consequence, not far from Caen.

Speaking of the delightfully situated town of Avranches, the fair correspondent
says,
"Beyond, in the midst of the sea, arises 400 feet above the surface of
the water, the majestic rock of Mount St. Michael, and near it another,
but smaller rock, called the Tombalaine. In the distant and blue horizon
appears the long and extending land of Britanny, mingling with the
surrounding atmosphere, from which it is alone distinguished by a
faint and uncertain line, that, like the prospect of our future
years, impresses the mind with a deeper interest from its distant
and impenetrable form.

Mount St. Michael is a league in circumference; in some parts of the
rock is perpendicular; it is flooded entirely at high water, but when
the tide is out, the rock may be approached by the sands; some danger,
however, attends the passage to those who are not perfectly well
acquainted with the track, as many quicksands intercept, where
travellers have frequently been lost.

"There is a small town on Mount St. Michael. The castle, which stands
at the top, is accessible by steps cut in the solid rock. In the year
708, St.

Aubert, Bishop of Avranches, here first created the chapel dedicated to
St.

Michael; in 966, Richard the first Duke of Normandy, established a
convent of monks of the order of St.

Benoit, and in 1024, Richard the second Duke of Normandy, built the
church, which still exists. The provisions that supply the fortress,
are sent up in a basket drawn by a machine.

Tradition says, that there was in this castle an obligatory, or
concealed trap-door, where, in feudal times, persons were taken, whom
the state directed should be secretly put out of the way. Under pretext,
of showing them the castle, they were conducted into a remote chamber,
there they soon met their destined fate, for chancing to step upon
the concealed door, they were precipitated into the abyss, many hundred
feet below. They still exhibit at this fortress the sword and shield of
St.
Michael, and some cannon left by the English, when they made a fruitless
attempt to take possession of the rock.

Here it was that in former times, the Kings of France and the Dukes of
Britanny made frequent pilgrimages, and performed penance at the shrine
of St. Michael."
The lofty situation of the church appears to be peculiar to the churches
dedicated to St. Michael. In many parts of the world they are built on
very lofty eminences, in allusion, it is said, to St. Michael's
having been the highest of the heavenly host. St. Michael's, in
Cornwall, is another confirmation of this remark.

We have the pleasure of acknowledging the original of our Engraving from
an elegant Print Scrap Book, now in course of publication by Mr.
H. Dawe.
But we must not prolong the scene.  It is sufficient to say that they
had a glorious night of it, on strictly temperance principles, which
culminated and drew to a close when Captain Samson, opening his Bible,
and reading therefrom many precious promises, drew his friends' minds
from things seen and temporal to things unseen and eternal.  Thereafter
he prayed that neither he nor they should be permitted to forget that a
loving Father holds the helm and guides the souls of his people, whether
in joy or in sorrow, success or failure, through time into eternity.

And now it is incumbent on us to draw our story to a close.

On the day following the feast Captain Samson called with his chief mate
on the writer of the important letter, and found that his principal
chest of gold had indeed been fished up from the deep.  He and O'Rook
were able to give so correct an account of its contents that their claim
was at once admitted, and thus the captain became possessor of gold to
the value of about four thousand pounds sterling, while O'Rook recovered
upwards of one thousand.  This was only a fraction of their original
fortune, but the interest of it was sufficient to supply their moderate
wants.

Going straight off to the Holly Tree, of which a healthy shoot had been
planted in the suburbs, O'Rook proceeded, according to use and wont, to
"comfort the widdy."

"It's a rich man I am, darlin', after all," he said, on sitting down
beside her.

"How so, Simon?"

Simon explained.

"An' would you consider yourself a poor man if you had only me?" asked
the widow, with a hurt air.

"Ah! then, it's the women can twist their tongues, anyhow," cried
O'Rook.  "Sure it's about dirty goold I'm spakin', isn't it?  I made no
reference to the love of purty woman--did I, now?  In regard of that I
wouldn't change places with the Shah of Pershy."

"Well now, Simon, if it's the women that can twist their tongues, it's
the Irishmen that can twist their consciences, so you an' I will be well
matched."

"That's well said, anyhow," rejoined O'Rook.  "An' now, darlin', will ye
name the day?"

"No, Simon, I won't; but I'll think about it.  There, now.  Go home,
it's gettin' late, and if ye happen to be passing this way to-morrow you
may give us a call."

Thus Simon O'Rook prosecuted his courtship.  In process of time he
married the widow, and was finally installed as master of the juvenile
Holly Tree in the suburbs, while his wife conducted the parent stem in
town.  Vegetables and other country produce had to be conveyed to the
town Tree regularly.  For this purpose a pony-cart was set up, which
travelled daily between it and the country branch.  Thus it came to pass
that O'Rook's Californian dreams were realised, for "sure," he was wont
to say, "haven't I got a house in the country an' a mansion in the town,
an' if I don't drive my carriage and four, I can always drive me cart
an' wan, anyhow, with a swate little widdy into the bargain."

It is, we suppose, almost superfluous to say that Doctor Jack and Polly
Samson were united in due course, but it is necessary to record that, by
special arrangement, Walter Wilkins, Esquire, and Susan Trench were
married on the same day.  More than that, the Doctor and Watty so
contrived matters that they rented a double villa in the suburbs of the
nameless city, one-half of which was occupied by Dr Jack's family, the
other by that of Wilkins.  Still further, it was so contrived by
Philosopher Jack that a small cottage was built on an eminence in his
garden, in which there was a room, precisely similar in all respects to
that in which he had first met his father-in-law.  There was a hammock
in this room, slung as the original hammock had been, and although the
old telescopes and sou'-westers and marine stores and charts had been
sold and lost past redemption, a good many new things, bearing a strong
resemblance to such articles, were purchased and placed on the walls and
in the corners, so that almost the only difference between it and the
old room was the absence of fishy smells.  There was an improvement,
also, in the view; for whereas, in the old room, the window commanded a
prospect of about ten yards in extent, comprising a brick wall, a
lamp-post, and a broken pump, the windows of the new room overlooked
miles and miles of landscape, embracing villages, hamlets, fields, and
forests, away to the horizon.

Then, putting his head out at the door, he saw that they were in a
little wood, and that the road was too narrow to allow the, horses to
pass to either the right or the left of the carriage--a great advantage
for the aggressors, since the musketeers could not advance. He tried
to see what was going on when a cavalier, having in his hand a long
sword, with which he parried the strokes of the guard, approached the
door, crying:

"Come, come, Monsieur le Marechal!"

"What! is that you, you madcap, Henri, who are playing these pranks?
Gentlemen, let him alone; he is a mere boy."
And, as De Launay called to the musketeers to cease, Bassompierre
recognized the cavalier.

"And how the devil came you here?" cried Bassompierre.
In this room, also, every Sunday morning early, the
captain was to be found with a large, eager, attentive class of little
boys and girls, to whom he expounded the Word of God, with many an
illustrative anecdote, while he sought to lead them to that dear Lord
who had saved his soul, and whose Holy Spirit had enabled him to face
the battles of life, in prosperity and adversity, and had made him "more
than conqueror."  Here, also, in the evenings of the same holy day, he
was wont to gather a meeting of old people, to whom he discanted on the
same "old, old story."  from her cheek the rosy lustre flies; How dim
the beams that sparkled in her eyes.

No more so softly heaves the throbbing breast; The purple currents in
their channels rest;-- No more the Zephyr's balmy breath can wave The
graceful locks which laughing Hebe gave;-- And fade those lips
where fresh vermilion shone, Cold as the clay, or monumental stone;--
O'er all her limbs an icy numbness spreads, And marble death eternal
quiet sheds

.

[2]Great sculptor hail! whom Nature's self design'd To trace the labyrinths
of the human mind-- To read the heart, and give with strong control,
To stone the silent workings of the soul:
Thine all-creative hand, thy matchless skill Could what unbounded genius
plann'd, fulfil.
These visits were regularly returned, chiefly in the summer-time, by the
captain and the families of the double house, on which occasions the
cottage on the Border was taxed to such an extent that Philosopher Jack
was obliged to purchase a neighbouring barn, which he had fitted up as a
dormitory that could accommodate almost a battalion of infantry.  During
these visits the trouting streams of the neighbourhood were so severely
whipped that the fish knew the difference between a real and an
artificial fly as well as their tormentors, but they were captured for
all that.

Baldwin Burr and Jacob Buckley were also among the occasional visitors
at the Hall; but their visits were few and far between, because of their
having taken up their permanent abode in California.  Only when they
came home on business, once in the two years, had they an opportunity of
seeing their old comrade, but they never failed to take advantage of
such opportunities.  These men were not prone to speak about themselves,
but from various remarks they made, and from their general appearance,
it was easy to see that they were substantial and influential members of
society in foreign parts.

From Baldwin the captain heard that Bob Corkey had, during his
wanderings, fallen in with Bounce and Badger, and that these three had
formed a partnership, in which they tried their luck at gold-digging,
farming, fur-trading, and many other sources of livelihood, but, up to
the last news of them, without success.  There was hope of them yet,
however, so thought Baldwin Burr, because of the latest remarks made by
them in the hearing of credible witnesses.  Bob Corkey, having attained
to the lowest depths of destitution and despair, had, it was said, made
to his comrades the following observation: "Mates, it strikes me that we
are three great fools;" whereupon Bounce had replied, "We're more than
that Bob, we're three great sinners;" to which Badger had added, with
considerable emphasis, "That's a fact," and when men come to this, there
is hope for them.

The only personage of our tale who now remains to be mentioned is Mrs
Niven.

That steady-going female continued her vocation of ministering to the
wants of young students, some of whom treated her well, while others--to
their shame, be it said--took advantage of her amiability.  In regard to
this latter fact, however, it may be recorded that Peggy proved a
sharp-witted, tight-handed, and zealous defender of her mistress.  Amongst
other pretty and choice _morceaux_, is a poem under the name of
"_L'Envoy_," which may probably interest yourself and the readers
of the _Mirror_.

In perusing the enclosed, you will observe the infancy, manhood, and old
age of "Father Rhine," as he is called, are all brought in succession
before our eyes, which happy and ingenious idea is taken from a
highly descriptive French publication, and perhaps having named the
work, you will pardon my having extracted that portion which refers
more particularly to the subject before us.

The author says, "Dans son enfance le Rhin joue entre les fleurs des
Alpes de la Suisse, il se berce dans le lac de Constance, il en
sort avec des forces nouvelles, il devient un adolescent bouillant,
fait une chute a Schaffhouse, s'avance vers l'age mur, se plait a
remplir sa coupe de vin, court chercher les dangers et les affronte
contre les écueils et les rochers: puis parvenu a un age plus avancée
il abandonne les illusions, les sites romanesques, et cherche
l'útile.

Dans sa caducité
il desserit et disparait enfin on ne sait trop comment!"

L'ENVOY.

Cologne! Cologne! Thy walls are won, Farewell my bark--be hush'd my
song; My voyage is o'er--my task is done-- Too pleasant both to
last me long.

Adieu, thou noble Rhine, adieu, Thy scenes for ever rich and new, Thy
cheerful towns, thy Gothic piles, Thy rude ravines, thy verdant
isles; Thy golden hills with garlands bound, Thy giant crags with
castles crown'd!

I have seen thee by morning's early light, I have seen thee by evening
gray; With the crimson blush of sun-set bright, And lit by the
moon's pale ray;
Shrouded in mist and darken'd by storm, With the countless tints
of autumn warm:
In ev'ry hue that can o'er thee fall; And lovely, lovely thou art
in all.

The Rhine!--That little word will be For aye a spell of power to me, And
conjure up, in care's despite, A thousand visions of delight.

The Rhine! O where beneath the sun Doth that fair river's rival run?
Where dawns the day upon a stream, Can in such changeful beauty shine,
Outstripping Fancy's wildest dream, Like yon green, glancing,
glorious Rhine.

Born where blooms the Alpine rose, Cradled in the Boden--see,[3] Forth
the infant river flows, Leaping on in childish glee.
Coming to a riper age, He crowns his rocky cup with wine, And makes a
gallant pilgrimage To many a ruin'd tower and shrine.
Strong and swift, and wild and brave, On he speeds with crested wave;
And spurning aught like check or stay, Fights and foams along his way,
O'er crag and shoal, until his flood Boils like manhood's hasty
blood!

Older, broader, deeper grown, All romantic follies flown, Now the laden
Beurtschiff sails Slowly o'er his sober tide, Which wanders on
through fertile vales, And looks like Peace by Plenty's side.

Joy and strife, and labour past, In his grave he sinks at last!
Thus did Mr Black become a pensioner and a free boarder.  There is no
sinner on this side [of] the grave who is beyond redemption.  That which
prosperity and adversity had equally failed to accomplish, was finally
brought about by unmerited kindness,--Mr Black's spirit was quietly and
gradually, but surely, broken.  The generous forbearance of Edwin Jack,
and the loving Christian sympathy of his intended victim, proved too
much for him.  He confessed his sin to Jack, and offered to resign his
pension; but Jack would not hear of it, as the pensioner was by that
time too old and feeble to work.  He also confessed to Mrs Niven, but
that unsuspecting woman refused to believe that he ever did or could
harbour so vile a design towards her, and she continued in that mind to
her dying day.

Peggy, however, was made of sterner stuff.  She not only believed his
confession, but she refused to believe in his repentance, and continued
to treat him with marked disrespect until her mistress died.  After that
however, she relented, and retired with him to a poorer residence, in
the capacity of his servant.  Peggy was eccentric in her behaviour.
While she nursed him with the assiduous care and kindness of a rough but
honest nature, she continued to call him a "dirty auld blagyird" to the
last.  The expression of this sentiment did not, however, prevent her
from holding more polite intercourse.  When his eyes grew dim, she read
to him not only from the Bible, but from the Pilgrim's Progress and
Robinson Crusoe, which were their favourites among the books of the
little library furnished to them by Christian friends.  Parental feelings
thrill her tortur'd breast, And all the frantic mother stands
confest-- A very Niobe--sad, hapless name!
In figure, features, and in all the same:
The same in all as Vengeance fierce pursued Far to a wild and
cheerless solitude.The
topics of conversation which she broached with Mr Black from time to
time were numerous, as a matter of course, for Peggy was loquacious; but
that to which she most frequently recurred was the wonderful career of
Philosopher Jack, for Peggy liked to sing his praises, and never tired
of treating the old man to long-winded accounts of that hero's ever
memorable voyage to the Southern Seas.

THE END.