Thwaite Hall was not a place of much pretension.  It was a moderate-
sized house, surrounded by pretty gardens and shrubberies, close
down upon the river Eamont, on the Westmoreland side of the river,
looking over to a lovely wooded bank in Cumberland.  All the world
knows that the Eamont runs out of Ulleswater, dividing the two
counties, passing under Penrith Bridge and by the old ruins of
Brougham Castle, below which it joins the Eden.  Thwaite Hall
nestled down close upon the clear rocky stream about half way
between Ulleswater and Penrith, and had been built just at a bend of
the river.  The windows of the dining-parlour and of the drawing-
room stood at right angles to each other, and yet each commanded a
reach of the stream.  Immediately from a side of the house steps
were cut down through the red rock to the water's edge, and here a
small boat was always moored to a chain.  The chain was stretched
across the river, fixed to the staples driven into the rock on
either side, and the boat was pulled backwards and forwards over the
stream without aid from oars or paddles.  From the opposite side a
path led through the woods and across the fields to Penrith, and
this was the route commonly used between Thwaite Hall and the town.

Major Garrow was a retired officer of Engineers, who had seen
service in all parts of the world, and who was now spending the
evening of his days on a small property which had come to him from
his father.  He held in his own hands about twenty acres of land,
and he was the owner of one small farm close by, which was let to a
tenant.  That, together with his half-pay, and the interest of his
wife's thousand pounds, sufficed to educate his children and keep
the wolf at a comfortable distance from his door.  He himself was a
spare thin man, with quiet, lazy, literary habits.  He had done the
work of life, but had so done it as to permit of his enjoying that
which was left to him.  His sole remaining care was the
establishment of his children; and, as far as he could see, he had
no ground for anticipating disappointment.  They were clever, good-
looking, well-disposed young people, and upon the whole it may be
said that the sun shone brightly on Thwaite Hall.  Of Mrs. Garrow it
may suffice to say that she always deserved such sunshine.

For years past it had been the practice of the family to have some
sort of gathering at Thwaite Hall during Christmas.  Godfrey Holmes
had been left under the guardianship of Major Garrow, and, as he had
always spent his Christmas holidays with his guardian, this,
perhaps, had given rise to the practice.  Then the Coverdales were
cousins of the Garrows, and they had usually been there as children.
At the Christmas last past the custom had been broken, for young
Holmes had been abroad.  Previous to that, they had all been
children, excepting him.  But now that they were to meet again, they
were no longer children.  Elizabeth, at any rate, was not so, for
she had already counted nineteen winters.  And Isabella Holmes was
coming.  Now Isabella was two years older than Elizabeth, and had
been educated in Brussels; moreover she was comparatively a stranger
at Thwaite Hall, never having been at those early Christmas
meetings.

And now I must take permission to begin my story by telling a lady's
secret.  Elizabeth Garrow had already been in love with Godfrey
Holmes, or perhaps it might be more becoming to say that Godfrey
Holmes had already been in love with her.  They had already been
engaged; and, alas! they had already agreed that that engagement
should be broken off!

Young Holmes was now twenty-seven years of age, and was employed in
a bank at Liverpool, not as a clerk, but as assistant-manager, with
a large salary.  He was a man well to do in the world, who had money
also of his own, and who might well afford to marry.  Some two years
since, on the eve of leaving Thwaite Hall, he had with low doubting
whisper told Elizabeth that he loved her, and she had flown
trembling to her mother.  "Godfrey, my boy," the father said to him,
as he parted with him the next morning, "Bessy is only a child, and
too young to think of this yet."  At the next Christmas Godfrey was
in Italy, and the thing was gone by,--so at least the father and
mother said to each other.  But the young people had met in the
summer, and one joyful letter had come from the girl home to her
mother.  "I have accepted him.  Dearest, dearest mamma, I do love
him.  But don't tell papa yet, for I have not quite accepted him.  I
think I am sure, but I am not quite sure.  I am not quite sure about
him."

And then, two days after that, there had come a letter that was not
at all joyful.  "Dearest Mamma,--It is not to be.  It is not written
in the book.  We have both agreed that it will not do.  I am so glad
that you have not told dear papa, for I could never make him
understand.  You will understand, for I shall tell you everything,
down to his very words.  But we have agreed that there shall be no
quarrel.  It shall be exactly as it was, and he will come at
Christmas all the same.  It would never do that he and papa should
be separated, nor could we now put off Isabella.  It is better so in
every way, for there is and need be no quarrel.  We still like each
other.  I am sure I like him, but I know that I should not make him
happy as his wife.  He says it is my fault.  I, at any rate, have
never told him that I thought it his."  From all which it will be
seen that the confidence between the mother and daughter was very
close.

Elizabeth Garrow was a very good girl, but it might almost be a
question whether she was not too good.  She had learned, or thought
that she had learned, that most girls are vapid, silly, and
useless,--given chiefly to pleasure-seeking and a hankering after
lovers; and she had resolved that she would not be such a one.

Industry, self-denial, and a religious purpose in life, were the
tasks which she set herself; and she went about the performance of
them with much courage.  But such tasks, though they are excellently
well adapted to fit a young lady for the work of living, may also be
carried too far, and thus have the effect of unfitting her for that
work.  When Elizabeth Garrow made up her mind that the finding of a
husband was not the only purpose of life, she did very well.  It is
very well that a young lady should feel herself capable of going
through the world happily without one.  But in teaching herself this
she also taught herself to think that there was a certain merit in
refusing herself the natural delight of a lover, even though the
possession of the lover were compatible with all her duties to
herself, her father and mother, and the world at large.  It was not
that she had determined to have no lover.  She made no such resolve,
and when the proper lover came he was admitted to her heart.  But
she declared to herself unconsciously that she must put a guard upon
herself, lest she should be betrayed into weakness by her own
happiness.  She had resolved that in loving her lord she would not
worship him, and that in giving her heart she would only so give it
as it should be given to a human creature like herself.  She had
acted on these high resolves, and hence it had come to pass,--not
unnaturally,--that Mr. Godfrey Holmes had told her that it was "her
fault."

She was a pretty, fair girl, with soft dark-brown hair, and soft
long dark eyelashes.  Her grey eyes, though quiet in their tone,
were tender and lustrous.  Her face was oval, and the lines of her
cheek and chin perfect in their symmetry.  She was generally quiet
in her demeanour, but when moved she could rouse herself to great
energy, and speak with feeling and almost with fire.  Her fault was
a reverence for martyrdom in general, and a feeling, of which she
was unconscious, that it became a young woman to be unhappy in
secret;--that it became a young woman, I might rather say, to have a
source of unhappiness hidden from the world in general, and endured
without any detriment to her outward cheerfulness.  We know the
story of the Spartan boy who held the fox under his tunic.  I raised
my finger and counted.

"One! Two! Three!"
Both together we uttered:

"Opsitius Tanno!"

There was no variation in the Nubian's non-committal grin.
We went up the steps and stood by the balustrade of the terrace,
where it commanded a good view of the valley.

We could see a party approaching, a mounted intendant in advance,
a litter, extra bearers and runners and several baggage mules.
"Nobody but Tanno would send me such a message," I said to Agathemer.
"I should never think well of
myself again."

Her mother had changed her own mind more than once as to the conduct
in this matter which might be best for her to follow, thinking
solely of her daughter's welfare.  "If he comes they will be
reconciled, and she will be happy," had been her first idea.  But
then there was a stern fixedness of purpose in Bessy's words when
she spoke of Mr. Holmes, which had expelled this hope, and Mrs.
Garrow had for a while thought it better that the young man should
not come.  But Bessy would not permit this.  It would vex her
father, put out of course the arrangements of other people, and
display weakness on her own part.  He should come, and she would
endure without flinching while the fox gnawed at her.

That battle of the mistletoe had been fought on the morning before
Christmas-day, and the Holmeses came on Christmas-eve.  Isabella was
comparatively a stranger, and therefore received at first the
greater share of attention.  She and Elizabeth had once seen each
other, and for the last year or two had corresponded, but personally
they had never been intimate.  Unfortunately for the latter, that
story of Godfrey's offer and acceptance had been communicated to
Isabella, as had of course the immediately subsequent story of their
separation.  But now it would be almost impossible to avoid the
subject in conversation.  "Dearest Isabella, let it be as though it
had never been," she had said in one of her letters.  But sometimes
it is very difficult to let things be as though they had never been.

The first evening passed over very well.  The two Coverdale girls
were there, and there had been much talking and merry laughter,
rather juvenile in its nature, but on the whole none the worse for
that.  Isabella Holmes was a fine, tall, handsome girl; good-
humoured, and well disposed to be pleased; rather Frenchified in her
manners, and quite able to take care of herself.  But she was not
above round games, and did not turn up her nose at the boys.
Godfrey behaved himself excellently, talking much to the Major, but
by no means avoiding Miss Garrow.  Mrs. Garrow, though she had known
him since he was a boy, had taken an aversion to him since he had
quarrelled with her daughter; but there was no room on this first
night for showing such aversion, and everything went off well.

"Godfrey is very much improved," the Major said to his wife that
night.

"Do you think so?"

"Indeed I do.  He has filled out and become a fine man."

"In personal appearance, you mean.  Yes, he is well-looking enough."

"And in his manner, too.  He is doing uncommonly well in Liverpool,
I can tell you; and if he should think of Bessy--"

"There is nothing of that sort," said Mrs. Garrow.

"He did speak to me, you know,--two years ago.  Bessy was too young
then, and so indeed was he.  But if she likes him--"

"I don't think she does."

"Then there's an end of it."  And so they went to bed.

