"Ha, ha, my Mirepoix! And what is better, one evening I am oblige'
to fight some frien's of M. de Winterset there, and some ladies and
cavaliers look on, and they still think me a servant. Oh, I am a great
actor! 'Tis true there is not a peasant in France who would not have
then known one 'born'; but they are wonderful, this English people,
holding by an idea once it is in their heads--a mos' worthy quality. But
my good Molyneux here, he had speak to me with courtesy, jus' because
I am a man an' jus' because he is always kind. (I have learn' that
his great-grandfather was a Frenchman.) So I sen' to him and tell him
ev'rything, and he gain admittance for me here to-night to await my
frien's.

"I was speaking to messieurs about my cousin, who will meddle in the
affair' of his relatives. Well, that gentleman, he make a marriage for
me with a good and accomplish' lady, very noble and very beautiful--and
amiable." (The young count at his elbow started slightly at this, but
immediately appeared to wrap himself in a mantle of solemn thought.)
"Unfortunately, when my cousin arrange' so, I was a dolt, a little
blockhead; I swear to marry for myself and when I please, or never if
I like. That lady is all things charming and gentle, and, in truth, she
is--very much attach' to me--why should I not say it? I am so proud of
it. She is very faithful and forgiving and sweet; she would be the
same, I think, if I--were even--a lackey. But I? I was a dolt, a little
unsensible brute; I did not value such thing' then; I was too yo'ng,
las' June. So I say to my cousin, 'No, I make my own choosing!' 'Little
fool,' he answer, 'she is the one for you. Am I not wiser than you?' And
he was very angry, and, as he has influence in France, word come' that
he will get me put in Vincennes, so I mus' run away quick till his anger
is gone. My good frien' Mirepoix is jus' leaving for London; he take'
many risk' for my sake; his hairdresser die before he start', so I
travel as that poor barber. But my cousin is a man to be afraid of when
he is angry, even in England, and I mus' not get my Mirepoix in trouble.
I mus' not be discover' till my cousin is ready to laugh about it all
and make it a joke. And there may be spies; so I change my name again,
and come to Bath to amuse my retreat with a little gaming--I am always
fond of that. But three day' ago M. le Marquis send me a courier to say
that my brother, who know where I had run away, is come from France to
say that my cousin is appease'; he need me for his little theatre, the
play cannot go on. I do not need to espouse mademoiselle. All shall be
forgiven if I return, and my brother and M. de Mirepoix will meet me in
Bath to felicitate.

"There is one more thing to say, that is all. I have said I learn' a
secret, and use it to make a man introduce me if I will not tell. He has
absolve' me of that promise. My frien's, I had not the wish to ruin that
man. I was not receive'; Meestaire Nash had reboff me; I had no other
way excep' to use this fellow. So I say, 'Take me to Lady Malbourne's
ball as "Chateaurien."' I throw off my wig, and shave, and behol', I am
M. le Duc de Castle Nowhere. Ha, ha! You see?"

The young man's manner suddenly changed. He became haughty, menacing.
He stretched out his arm, and pointed at Winterset. "Now I am no
'Beaucaire,' messieurs. I am a French gentleman. The man who introduce'
me at the price of his honor, and then betray' me to redeem it, is that
coward, that card-cheat there!"

Winterset made a horrible effort to laugh. The gentlemen who surrounded
him fell away as from pestilence. "A French gentleman!" he sneered
savagely, and yet fearfully. "I don't know who you are. Hide behind as
many toys and ribbons as you like; I'll know the name of the man who
dares bring such a charge!"

"Sir!" cried de Mirepoix sharply, advancing a step towards him; but he
checked himself at once. He made a low bow of state, first to the young
Frenchman, then to Lady Mary and the company. "Permit me, Lady Mary
and gentlemen," he said, "to assume the honor of presenting you to His
Highness, Prince Louis-Philippe de Valois, Duke of Orleans, Duke of
Chartres, Duke of Nemours, Duke of Montpeti'sier, First Prince of
the Blood Royal, First Peer of France, Lieutenant-General of French
Infantry, Governor of Dauphine, Knight of the Golden Fleece, Grand
Master of the Order of Notre Dame, of Mount Carmel, and of St. Lazarus
in Jerusalem; and cousin to His most Christian Majesty, Louis the
Fifteenth, King of France."

"Those are a few of my brother's names," whispered Henri of Beaujolais
to Molyneux. "Old Mirepoix has the long breath, but it take' a strong
man two day' to say all of them. I can suppose this Winterset know' now
who bring the charge!"

"Castle Nowhere!" gasped Beau Nash, falling back upon the burly prop of
Mr. Bantison's shoulder.

"The Duke of Orleans will receive a message from me within the hour!"
said Winterset, as he made his way to the door. His face was black with
rage and shame.

"I tol' you that I would not soil my hand with you," answered the young
man. "If you send a message no gentleman will bring it. Whoever shall
bear it will receive a little beating from Francois."

He stepped to Lady Mary's side. Her head was bent low, her face averted.
She seemed to breathe with difficulty, and leaned heavily upon a chair.
"Monseigneur," she faltered in a half whisper, "can you--forgive me? It
is a bitter--mistake-I have made. Forgive."

"Forgive?" he answered, and his voice was as broken as hers; but he went
on, more firmly: "It is--nothing--less than nothing. There is--only jus'
one--in the--whole worl' who would not have treat' me the way that you
treat' me. It is to her that I am goin' to make reparation. You know
something, Henri? I am not goin' back only because the king forgive'
me. I am goin' to please him; I am goin' to espouse mademoiselle, our
cousin. My frien's, I ask your felicitations."

"And the king does not compel him!" exclaimed young Henri.

"Henri, you want to fight me?" cried his brother sharply. "Don' you
think the King of France is a wiser man than me?"

He offered his hand to Lady Mary. "Mademoiselle is fatigue'. Will she
honor me?"

He walked with her to the door. Her hand fluttering faintly in his.
From somewhere about the garments of one of them a little cloud of faded
rose-leaves fell, and lay strewn on the floor behind them. He opened the
door, and the lights shone on a multitude of eager faces turned toward
it. There was a great hum of voices, and, over all, the fiddles wove a
wandering air, a sweet French song of the voyageur.

He bowed very low, as, with fixed and glistening eyes, Lady Mary
Carlisle, the Beauty of Bath, passed slowly by him and went out of the
room.