"My pretty brat," were the words that brought her startled eyes back to
her father. Her throat filling with heavy sobs, she went over and kissed
him stormily. The horny, stiff fingers gathered a few of her red curls
and drew them slowly upward until parched lips touched them, while tears
stole from under withered lids, and Tess cried out in sharp anguish.

"Daddy Skinner, I can't live without ye!" she moaned, cupping his face
with her hands. "Take Tessibel with ye; take 'er, please!"

She cuddled at his side, lifted one of his heavy arms and put it around
her in pleading anguish. Just then it seemed as if it would put off the
approach of death if she insisted on staying within the broad grasp of
Daddy Skinner's arms.

She was wiping away his tears, tenderly touching the dying face with
faltering fingers.

"I saw yer ma," choked Skinner thickly, and he smiled again.

Tess turned her head, a dreadful sinking in her soul. Her mother's face,
then, was what Daddy had seen away off up there among the rafters. The
mother who had died so long ago had come after her dear one. Drawing one
tense set of fingers backward across her cheek, Tess stood up quickly.
Perhaps--perhaps--

She threw a glance at the ceiling. Daddy Skinner had seen her mother.
They were going away together. If they would but take her with them!
She turned unsteadily to go she knew not where, but the sound of her
father's voice brought her quickly back.

"Brat," he faltered, "lean down--I want to tell ye somethin'."

Tess bent her ear close to the thick blue lips.

"I air here, Daddy! Tess air here," she mourned.

Long, laboring breaths moved the red curls hanging about the girl's
rigid face.

"I said as how I air here, Daddy," she murmured again, touching him.

But Daddy Skinner was once more gazing into the dark rafters, his jaws
apart, the greyness of death settling about his mouth.

"Daddy! Daddy!" screamed Tess. "Don't look like that! Don't go away--oh,
Daddy, please!... Andy! Andy!"

The dwarf slipped down the ladder, and dropped at the side of the bed.
The dog roused from his nap by the stove was already there, nuzzling his
tawny head against his distressed friend, while he made inarticulate
sounds of sympathy in his deep throat.

"Pal Skinner!" Andy cried, white with apprehension. "Give us a word, old
horse."

Placing his hand upon Pete's collar, the dwarf drew him, with a word of
command, to the floor beside him.

The dying fisherman looked from his prison friend to his daughter. He
lifted a limp hand, and it rested upon the girl's bowed head. The other
he dropped heavily on Andy Bishop's shoulder. It was as if he were
giving to them both his parting benediction. In mechanical sequence the
dwarf counted the dying man's mouth open and shut five times before the
struggling voice came forth.

"I were goin' to say somethin' to ye, Tess," he then gasped, moistening
his lips. "Gimme a--drink--of water."

Andy held the cup while Orn drank. He struggled to swallow, belching
forth hot breath.

"When I air gone, brat dear," he articulated huskily, "stay in the
shanty an' take care of Andy till there ain't no more danger fer 'im.
Ye'll promise me, Tess?"

She enclosed his hand in hers and held it to her lips.

"I were a wantin' to go with you and Mummy, Daddy," she sobbed. "I air
always lonely in the shanty without ye--but if ye say, 'Stay with Andy,'
then I stays."

"That air what I says, brat, darlin'," panted Skinner.

Then for many minutes he was lost in the terrible struggle of strong
life against the grip of death. Tess wound her arms about his neck and
lifted the great head to her breast. She stared at his changing face as
at an advancing ghost.

He seemed to be slipping slowly into the great beyond, and she was
powerless to hold him back.

How many times had Daddy Skinner spoken of dying! How many times had she
heard him agree with Andy that death was better than life any day! But
at those times she had beaten back the muttered words of her father and
the dwarf. Ownership of major industrial and mining facilities is
divided among private interests--including several multinationals--and
the government.

Most large agricultural holdings are private, with the government channeling
financing to this sector.
The heart of the tortured, sobbing girl seemed to be bursting from its
pain and suspense. Her beloved father wanted to go away--to follow the
wraith mother beckoning from the rafters. How could she open her arms
and allow him to leave her alone in the shanty!

"Help me, brat-love," sighed Daddy Skinner once more. "Help yer old sick
daddy!"

Help him! How could she? Hitherto Tessibel's faith had loyally responded
to every demand upon her. But she couldn't help her daddy die! She knew
not how! Then, as if drawn by some invisible power, her eyes lifted,
piercing the shadows among the time-dried nets. And there, for one small
moment, she saw--she saw a face, a young, girlish face, infinitely
sweet, smiling down upon her.

"It air the Mummy!" she cried, her voice vibrant with love. "I air goin'
to help 'im, darlin'."

Buoyantly her mind gripped the old-time faith, the redoubtable faith
that had opened wide Auburn Prison, that had restored to her arms this
same adored father. She had helped him then--and oh, to help him now!
His great cry, "God, Tessibel, let me be goin'!" rang in her ears. Her
gaze was glued to his face. Terror and pain were strangling his throat
until his eyes grew death-dark in the struggle. Tessibel lifted her
ashen face, wildly working in entreaty. Oh, for a little faith! Faith
the size of a grain of mustard seed! And Daddy Skinner would be gone to
that place beyond the clouds and the blue, where suffering is not. Did
he, could he, believe? Did she, could she, believe, too? Then in a
blinding flash, she remembered the mysterious dawning of her own faith.
Enduring sublime suffering, she bent once more and drew her father's
heavy head to her breast.

"Daddy! Darlin' old, good Daddy, look at yer dear brat, an' listen to
'er."

"I air a listenin', my girl," he said between set teeth. She put her
head directly in line with her father's vision.

"Look at me, Daddy," she craved tremulously, "an' listen to me. Can't ye
remember how ye came back from Auburn like the innercent man ye were?"

"Yep," whispered Skinner.

"'Twere the Christ on the cross helped ye, Daddy. Ye air wishin' to go
away now with my mummy, huh?"

"Yep," groaned Skinner. "God, aw kind, merciful God, let me go!"

Tess laid him gently back on the pillow. A bright light flashed into her
soul. The red in her eyes turning almost to black.

"Then go, my darlin'! Go, Daddy," she moaned, rising and looking upward.
"Take 'im, Mummy, little love-mummy, take 'im back to Heaven with ye."

Inspired by that smiling face in the rafters, Tessibel opened her lips
and began to sing,

    "Rescue the Perishin';
    Care for the Dyin'."

It was a glorious strain that echoed and reechoed around and around the
shanty kitchen. It gathered within its heavenly power the moaning of the
wind and the haunting noises of the tin-rusted roof. Even the weeping
willows, bowing their mournful heads in sympathy, could no longer be
heard in their endless chant.

Strangely stirred, Pete struggled up, disregarding the dwarf's desire to
detain him. He placed his forefeet on the edge of the bed, lifting his
head to the girl's shoulder. Responsive to the pressure of his body, she
threw her arm around him. Gravely the golden eyes of the great dog
regarded his suffering master on the cot as the tender melody of the
song continued to fill the shanty.

Tessibel ever afterwards remembered Daddy Skinner's eyes as for those
last few moments he lay looking at her. They were kindly, tender,
smiling, as he watched her lips moving in the song he'd always loved to
hear her sing.

He seemed to realize that she was singing him into the very presence of
the Savior of the world--into the presence of Him who was leading
Tessibel Skinner and her squatter father through their garden of
Gethsemane.

    "Rescue the Perishin';
    Care for the Dyin'."

On and on she sang, and on and on the dying man gropingly felt his way
to Eternity. Sometimes he smiled at her; sometimes at the wraith in the
rafters. But not for one moment did the voice of the little singer cease
its insistent cry for a complete rescue.

The dwarf was silent, his shining face reflecting the peace and security
of which the squatter girl sang.

    "Rescue the Perishin';
    Care for the Dyin'."

The beautiful voice did not falter. The economy has stagnated since 1985
under policies that have deemphasized material incentives in the
workplace, abolished farmers' informal produce markets, and raised
prices of government-supplied goods and services.

In 1990 the economy probably fell 3%, largely as a result of declining
trade with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Recently the government
has been trying to increase trade with Latin America and China. Cuba
has had difficulty servicing its foreign debt since 1982.Silence succeeded silence. Even the storm seemed for an instant to still
its raging roar, then Pete threw back his head and howled his grief. As
his resonant cries filled the shack and mingled with the turmoil of the
elements, Tess clung to the dog, staring with horrified eyes at the huge
beloved form crushed and crumpled upon the cot. Death had come and gone.
The mystery in the shadowy rafters had taken Daddy Skinner away.

The dwarf raised his head and looked at Tess. Slowly he leaned over and
pressed his lips to Orn Skinner's brow, and as he rose, he lifted the
girl's rigid arm from the tawny back and seized the dog by the collar to
quiet him.

Then came one of those unthinkable, weird cries, a nightmarish cry from
the girl's throat, and--as God tempereth the wind to the shorn lamb, so
in Divine pity he covered Tess of the Storm Country with mental
oblivion.


CHAPTER XXVIII

YOUNG DISCOVERS ANDY


During the minutes Daddy Skinner lay grappling with death, Ebenezer
Waldstricker sat in his handsome drawing room with an open Bible on his
knee, talking to his wife.

"I've explained to you time and time again, Helen," said he impatiently,
"why I struck her and I'm not sorry I did it."

"It seems awful, though," replied his wife, reflectively.

Waldstricker frowned into the wistful face.

"Why awful when the Bible ordered me to do it? I've given you the
Master's own words to verify it. Didn't he say, 'Let the man without sin
first cast a stone?'"

Mrs. Waldstricker raised her eyes to her husband's face.

"But Ebenezer--"

"There's no argument, my dear," the man interrupted. "I tell you I know
whereof I speak. It came to me like a flash on Wednesday in the
church ... I had to show the world a man--a man without sin."

Helen stared back at him in amazement. Her husband had never before
expressed himself in quite such bombastic terms, and, oh, dear, she knew
he was good; but for any human being to claim to be without sin! She'd
never heard of such a thing.

"But, dearest," she argued pleadingly and partly rising, "are you sure?"

"I have no doubt about it," interpolated Ebenezer, striking his chest
emphatically. "As I said, I know whereof I speak."

Helen sank down again.

"I'm glad you can explain it, dear," she murmured dubiously. "It'll be
easier for you to make Deforrest understand about it when he comes. He's
so wrapped up in that girl.... He'll be here in a few minutes, I think,
if the train's on time."

"I'll make him understand all right," answered Ebenezer.

The words had scarcely left his lips before both husband and wife heard
the approach of sleigh-bells.

"He's coming now," said Mrs. Waldstricker, and she rose and started to
the window.

"Sit down and don't look as if you were going to die," her husband
commanded. "But perhaps you'd better go to your room while I'm
explaining the thing to him."

When Deforrest Young opened the door and walked in, his face was
wreathed in smiles.

"Well, hello, everybody," he cried heartily. "It's an awful night."

Ebenezer rose and extended his hand.

"So 'tis," he agreed.

Helen went forward quickly and helped slip the snow-covered coat from
Deforrest's shoulders. At the same time she lifted her lips for a kiss.
How she adored this brother of hers, and how anxiously she desired he
should be satisfied with Ebenezer's account of the church proceedings.

"I'm lucky to be home for Sunday," remarked Deforrest. "I was afraid the
case wouldn't close before day after tomorrow. But the jury came in last
night, and everything was quickly closed up."

"We read about it in the paper," said his sister sympathetically. "It
must have been a harrowing thing to go through."

"It certainly was! But the acquittal helped. The woman is very young and
without friends, and I was glad to get it for her."

"But she's bad!" cut in Waldstricker. "Every paper said she was guilty."

"But the jury pronounced her innocent," exclaimed the lawyer, "so that
puts an end to the argument!"

Ebenezer fingered the leaves of the book he held.

"I've the happenings of a week to tell you, Deforrest," he stated
deliberately, as if dismissing the former subject.

Professor Young bent down and slipped off his overshoes.

"I'm awfully tired, old chap," said he. "Won't they keep till morning?
I'd like a bite to eat, and then--then bed." He smiled at his sister.
"How about something to eat, sis, dear?"

"Helen, go see about supper for your brother," ordered Ebenezer.

Mrs. Waldstricker, seemingly glad to escape, left the room quickly.

"Fire ahead, Eb," said Young. "I suppose I might as well hear it now as
any time."

"You sent Parson Griggs a letter for me to vote in your name?"

"Of course," responded Young. "I knew Helen was interested in the
Christmas festival, and I thought you'd do as well as I."

"And so I did, brother," replied Ebenezer, pompously, "and your vote
turned the tide into the channel God wanted it. Some members allowed
their human feelings to run away with 'em."

Ebenezer's mysterious words suddenly awakened Deforrest's interest.

"Has something out of the ordinary occurred?" he queried.

"Yes," assured Eb, "but I've attended to it all right!"

Professor Young sighed.

"That's good! There, now, I'll sit by the grate and warm up while you
tell me about it."

He dropped into a large chair, and extended his feet to the cheerful
blaze. Waldstricker paused before making his explanation. At length:

"We put a member out of the church last Wednesday," said he, steadily.

Deforrest Young turned completely around and stared at his
brother-in-law.

"Put a member out of the church!" he repeated, thunder-struck. "Why
church a member?... That _is_ out of the ordinary, I should say. What'd
he do?"

"It wasn't a man, 'twas a woman."

"Well, for God's sake!" Deforrest's voice was low, deep, and filled
with disgust. "I hope you men didn't make a mess of yourselves.... What
happened?... Some girl kissed her sweetheart under the pine trees?"

The elder glanced over the top of his brother-in-law's head.

"Worse than that!" said he. "Much worse than that!... We churched a
Magdalene!"

It took an appreciable length of time for Young's tall figure to rise
from the chair. He turned around and stood with his back to the fire.

"I didn't know we had a Magdalene in the church," he commented drily,
and then more impetuously, "Oh, Lord, why don't you spit it out and not
beat all around the bush telling me?"

