Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Suzanne Shell, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: Bela (Colleen Moore) says to Gladding (Lloyd Hughes):
"Fine surprise um white man."

_Fash_. To be sure; bid them give you a crown.

                             _Lory_.

                          Yes, yes--my master doesn't care what you charge them--so get along,
you-- _Post_.

                              And there's the ostler, your honour.

         _Lory_. Psha! damn the ostler!--would you impose upon
              the gentleman's generosity?--[_Pushes him
                         out_.]

                          A rascal, to be so cursed ready with his change!
_Fash_. Why, faith, Lory, he had nearly posed me.
_Lory_. Well, sir, we are arrived at Scarborough, not worth a guinea!
I hope you'll own yourself a happy man--you have outlived all your
cares.L. BURT COMPANY

                         Publishers New York

      Published by arrangement with The James A. McCann Company

                         Printed in U. S. A.


                          Copyright 1922, by

                     THE JAMES A. McCANN COMPANY

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                        PAGE

    I. THE FISH-EATERS' VILLAGE          1

   II. MUSQ'OOSIS ADVISES               11

  III. AT NINE-MILE POINT               21

   IV. THE VISITOR                      36

    V. THE DICE DECIDE                  46

   VI. A FRESH SURPRISE                 57

  VII. THE SUITORS                      70

 VIII. THE LITTLE MEADOW                85

   IX. BELA'S ANSWER                    98

    X. ON THE LAKE                     107

   XI. THE ISLAND                      120

  XII. THE NEXT DAY                    136

 XIII. ON THE RIVER                    149

  XIV. AT JOHNNY GAGNON'S              164

   XV. THE NORTH SHORE                 177

  XVI. AT THE SETTLEMENT               193

 XVII. AN APPARITION                   207

XVIII. THE "RESTERAW"                  222

  XIX. THE NEW BOARDER                 234

   XX. MALICIOUS ACTIVITY              246

  XXI. SAM IS LATE                     258

 XXII. MUSCLE AND NERVE                267

XXIII. MAHOOLEY'S INNINGS              278

 XXIV. ON THE SPIRIT RIVER             290

  XXV. CONCLUSION                      304

       *       *       *       *       *


THE HUNTRESS

CHAPTER I

THE FISH-EATERS' VILLAGE


From within the teepee of Charley Whitefish issued the sounds of a
family brawl. It was of frequent occurrence in this teepee. Men at the
doors of other lodges, engaged in cleaning their guns, or in other
light occupations suitable to the manly dignity, shrugged with strong
scorn for the man who could not keep his women in order. With the
shrugs went warning glances toward their own laborious spouses.

Each man's scorn might well have been mitigated with thankfulness that
he was not cursed with a daughter like Charley's Bela. Bela was a
firebrand in the village, a scandal to the whole tribe. Some said she
was possessed of a devil; according to others she was a girl born with
the heart of a man.

This phenomenon was unique in their experience, and being a simple
folk they resented it. Bela refused to accept the common lot of women.
It was not enough for her that such and such a thing had always been
so in the tribe.

She would not do a woman's tasks (unless she happened to feel like
it); she would not hold her tongue in the presence of men. Indeed, she
had been known to talk back to the head man himself, and she had had
the last word into the bargain.

Not content with her own misbehaviour, Bela lost no opportunity of
gibing at the other women, the hard-working girls, the silent, patient
squaws, for submitting to their fathers, brothers, and husbands. This
naturally enraged all the men.

Charley Whitefish was violently objurgated on the subject, but he was
a poor-spirited creature who dared not take a stick to Bela. It must
be said that Bela did not get much sympathy from the women. Most of
them hated her with an astonishing bitterness.

As Neenah, Hooliam's wife, explained it to Eelip Moosa, a visitor in
camp: "That girl Bela, she is _weh-ti-go_, crazy, I think. She got a
bad eye. Her eye dry you up when she look. You can't say nothing at
all. Her tongue is like a dog-whip. I hate her. I scare for my
children when she come around. I think maybe she steal my baby.
Because they say _weh-ti-gos_ got drink a baby's blood to melt the ice
in their brains. I wish she go way. We have no peace here till she
go."

"Down the river they say Bela a very pretty girl," remarked Eelip.

"Yah! What good is pretty if you crazy in the head!" retorted Neenah.
"She twenty years old and got no husband. Now she never get no
husband, because everybody on the lake know she crazy. Two, three
years ago many young men come after her. They like her because she
light-coloured, and got red in her cheeks. Me, I think she ugly like
the grass that grows under a log. Many young men come, I tell you, but
Bela spit on them and call fools. She think she better than anybody.

"Last fall Charley go up to the head of the lake and say all around
what a fine girl he got. There was a young man from the Spirit River
country, he say he take her. He come so far he not hear she crazy.
Give Charley a horse to bind the bargain. So they come back together.
It was a strong young man, and the son of a chief. He wear gold
embroidered vest, and doeskin moccasins worked with red and blue silk.
He is call Beavertail.

"He glad when he see Bela's pale forehead and red cheeks. Men are like
that. Nobody here tell him she crazy, because all want him take her
away. So he speak very nice to her. She show him her teeth back and
speak ugly. She got no shame at all for a woman. She say: 'You think
you're a man, eh? I can run faster than you. I can paddle a canoe
faster than you. I can shoot straighter than you!' Did you ever hear
anything like that?

"By and by Beavertail is mad, and he say he race her with canoes.
Everybody go to the lake to see. They want Beavertail to beat her
good. The men make bets. They start up by Big Stone Point and paddle
to the river. It was like queen's birthday at the settlement. They
come down side by side till almost there. Then Bela push ahead. Wa!
she beat him easy. She got no sense.

"After, when he come along, she push him canoe with her paddle and
turn him in the water. She laugh and paddle away. The men got go pull
Beavertail out. That night he is steal his horse back from Charley and
ride home.

"Everybody tell the story round the lake. She not get a husband now I
think. We never get rid of her, maybe. She is proud, too. She wash
herself and comb her hair all the time. Foolishness. Treat us like
dirt. She is crazy. We hate her."

Such was the conventional estimate of Bela. In the whole camp this
morning, at the sounds of strife issuing from her father's teepee, the
only head that was turned with a look of compassion for her was that
of old Musq'oosis the hunchback.

His teepee was beside the river, a little removed from the others. He
sat at the door, sunning himself, smoking, meditating, looking for all
the world like a little old wrinkled muskrat squatting on his
haunches.

If it had not been for Musq'oosis, Bela's lot in the tribe would long
ago have become unbearable. Musq'oosis was her friend, and he was a
person of consequence. The position of his teepee suggested his social
status. He was with them, but not of them. He was so old all his
relations were dead. He remained with the Fish-Eaters because he loved
the lake, and could not be happy away from it. For their part they
were glad to have him stay; he brought credit to the tribe.

As one marked by God and gifted with superior wisdom, the people were
inclined to venerate Musq'oosis even to the point of according him
supernatural attributes. Musq'oosis laughed at their superstitions,
and refused to profit by them. This they were unable to understand;
was it not bad for business?

But while they resented his laughter, they did not cease to be
secretly in awe of him, and all were ready enough to seek his advice.
When they came to him Musq'oosis offered them sound sense without any
supernatural admixture.

In earlier days Musq'oosis had sojourned for a while in Prince George,
the town of the white man, and there he had picked up much of the
white man's strange lore. This he had imparted to Bela--that was why
she was crazy, they said.

He had taught Bela to speak English. Bela's first-hand observations of
the great white race had been limited to half a score of
individuals--priests, policemen, and traders.

The row in Charley's teepee had started early that morning. Charley,
bringing in a couple of skunks from his traps, had ordered Bela to
skin them and stretch the pelts. She had refused point blank, giving
as her reasons in the first place that she wanted to go fishing; in
the second place, that she didn't like the smell.

Both reasons seemed preposterous to Charley. It was for men to fish
while women worked on shore. As for a smell, whoever heard of anybody
objecting to such a thing. Wasn't the village full of smells?

Nevertheless, Bela had gone fishing. Bela was a duck for water. Since
no one would give her a boat, she had travelled twenty miles on her
own account to find a suitable cottonwood tree, and had then cut it
down unaided, hollowed, shaped, and scraped it, and finally brought it
home as good a boat as any in the camp.

Since that time, early and late, the lake had been her favourite
haunt. Caribou Lake enjoys an unenviable reputation for weather; Bela
thought nothing of crossing the ten miles in any stress.

When she returned from fishing, the skunks were still there, and the
quarrel had recommenced. The result was no different. Charley finally
issued out of the teepee beaten, and the little carcasses flew out of
the door after him, propelled by a vigorous foot. Charley, swaggering
abroad as a man does who has just been worsted at home, sought his
mates for sympathy.

He took his way to the river bank in the middle of camp, where a
number of the young men were making or repairing boats for the summer
fishing just now beginning. They had heard all that had passed in the
teepee, and, while affecting to pay no attention to Charley, were
primed for him--showing that men in a crowd are much the same white or
red.

Charley was a skinny, anxious-looking little man, withered and
blackened as last year's leaves, ugly as a spider. His self-conscious
braggadocio invited derision.

"Huh!" cried one. "Here come woman-Charley. Driven out by the man of
the teepee!"

A great laugh greeted this sally. The soul of the little man writhed
inside him.

"Did she lay a stick to your back, Charley?"

"She give him no breakfast till he bring wood."

"Hey, Charley, get a petticoat to cover your legs. My woman maybe give
you her old one."

He sat down among them, grinning as a man might grin on the rack. He
filled his pipe with a nonchalant air belied by his shaking hand, and
sought to brave it out. They had no mercy on him. They out vied each
other in outrageous chaffing.

Suddenly he turned on them shrilly. "Coyotes! Grave-robbers! May you
be cursed with a woman-devil like I am. Then we'll see!"

This was what they desired. They stopped work and rolled on the ground
in their laughter. They were stimulated to the highest flights of wit.

Charley walked away up the river-bank and hid himself in the bush.
There he sat brooding and brooding on his wrongs until all the world
turned red before his eyes. For years that fiend of a girl had made
him a laughing-stock. She was none of his blood. He would stand it no
longer.

The upshot of all his brooding was that he cut himself a staff of
willow two fingers thick, and carrying it as inconspicuously as
possible, crept back to the village.

At the door of his teepee he picked up the two little carcasses and
entered. He had avoided the river-bank, but they saw him, and saw the
stick, and drew near to witness the fun.

Within the circle of the teepee Charley's wife, Loseis, was mixing
dough in a pan. Opposite her Bela, the cause of all the trouble, knelt
on the ground carefully filing the points of her fish-hooks.
Fish-hooks were hard to come by.

Charley stopped within the entrance, glaring at her. Bela, looking up,
instantly divined from his bloodshot eyes and from the hand he kept
behind him what was in store. Coolly putting her tackle behind her,
she rose.

She was taller than her supposed father, full-bosomed and round-limbed
as a sculptor's ideal. In a community of waist less, neckless women
she was as slender as a young tree, and held her head like a swan.

She kept her mouth close shut like a hardy boy, and her eyes gleamed
with a fire of resolution which no other pair of eyes in the camp
could match. 'BOATS.-About one-fourth of our cure last year was from
open boats-six-oared boats at far haaf, and four-oared boats at home
haaf. About 63 tons of these are from crews who cure their own
fish, and deliver at one time, at the end of the curing season.

The remaining 71 tons are delivered fresh every day, as landed at
our stations.

Those who cure their own fish, whether they have advances of salt,
meal, etc., from us or not, are at perfect liberty to treat with
and sell to any merchant they can get the best price from when their
fish are ready.

Their boats and gear are all their own.

The understanding about those delivered fresh is, that we pay not less
than the current rate of the country. These men, as well as the
others, own their boats and gear.

The peculiarities of their situation make this mode of delivering in
a fresh state a necessity.
At two of the stations we receive from in that way; and we prefer
it, although the fish should [Page 303] cost us higher than those
cured by the men themselves, as we can make a much better article,
having skilled men and better appliances.

To show that our boat fishers do see more than a pound at settlement, I
take the liberty to hand you herewith an abstract of my settlement
last and previous month with the men at two stations in Walls, by
which it appears that 36 men employed at far haaf, and 34 men at home
haaf, had value in fish, £829, 19s. 1d.

Our supplies in boats, lines, salt, meal, and other goods, was £29, 0s.
81/2d.; and I paid them in cash £600, 18s. 41/2d. I have not access
to some of the station books; but, from an abstract of my last
year's settlement at one of these stations, there was placed to
credit of the men for fish, work, curing, etc., £655, 0s. 6d., which
was thus disposed of:
'1st.

To account of arrears of advances 	of meal, etc., from previous
years,		£71 12 7 	'2d.

Fishing material, meal, goods, and 	cash from storekeeper during
year,		270 7 2 	'3d.

Cash at settlement,				313 0 9
'It is not always so; this same island for three years, 1867-69,
suffered severely from the crops being blasted, and the fishing
of 1868 proving a failure (each fisherman's earnings for the whole
year only amounting to about £3).

We supplied them with meal during these years, at the end of which they
were due us £228, 19s.
9d., besides some arrears of rent to Dr. Scott. All this is now cleared
off, unless some three or four individuals; and the more provident
have a good few pounds saved.

'In settling with our men, the whole crew, both as respects smacks and
boats, are brought in together, and the statement of the division is
gone over carefully.

Afterwards each man comes separately, and every item of his account
read over, or if a pass-book is kept (which is very common) it is
made up.

Copies of the account are given in every case when desired.

I think our men are perfectly satisfied with the present system.

'The tenants on the Melby estate are perfectly free to earn their
living as they choose; and it is the same as regards Mr.

Umphray's tenants (who number 75) and my own. On going over the
roll of Mr.

Umphray's tenants, I observe there are only 17 fishing to my firm (some
of them only part of the season), and of my tenants only 4.

'It is the exception, not the rule, for our fishermen to be in debt
to us.

Of the 70 men representing the sixteen crews of which I have given
particulars, all had money to get, with the exception of six, who
are due us balances to the amount of £33, 2s.

'We employed last year 40 beach boys, from 13 to 17 years of age. All
had cash to get at settlement, and none are in advance on the
coming season.

'HOSIERY.

-We take hosiery in barter for any sort of goods required, including
meal and provisions.

We have found this branch of trade uniformly a losing one but it is
convenient for our customers-families who occupy their spare time
from farm work in knitting plain articles-to get such exchanged;
and it would put them much about if we were to give it up, being
so far from Lerwick, and the neighbouring country shops only taking
such things as they have an outlet for.

A good many of the girls go to town, perhaps once in the year, with
their hosiery.

'EGGS.-We take in eggs in the same way, but pay cash readily when
asked.

'We have only one price in our stores for goods, whether sold for
cash or barter.

'My firm has no separate account for the wife, and with other members
of the family, unless when such are working or fishing for themselves.'
12,296.

You say in your statement that Mr. Umphray and yourself are proprietors
of land: is that in the district in which your business is carried
on?-Mr. Umphray is a proprietor of land there.

His rental is somewhere between £300 and £400, and the number of
his tenants is between 70 and 80.

12,297.

What is the rental and the number of tenants on the Melby estate?-The
rental is about £1200, and there are nearly 300 tenants; but I
cannot give the exact number.

12,298.

Do most of the tenants on these estates fish for you in summer?

-There are more of them who fish for us than for any other.

12,299.

Do you think all who are engaged in the ling fishing fish for you?

-By no means; but I should say that fully three-fourths of them do.

12,300.

You say in your statement that you are trustee for the proprietors
of the Burra Isles: are they the Misses Scott of Scalloway?

-Yes. Mrs. Spence and Miss Scott.

12,301. Are you aware that some complaints were made by the inhabitants
of the Burra Isles, a few years ago, to the agent for the proprietors
in Edinburgh?

-Yes, there was a letter sent to him.

12,302. In consequence of these complaints, did you make an investigation
and report?-Yes; I went to the island to inquire into the matter. The
prayer of the petition was, that the proprietors should be more
careful, when another lease was given, not to allow certain things
which the tenants complained of to be inserted in it.

12,303.

At that time was a new lease in contemplation?

-No; there were two or three years to run of the old lease.

12,304. Was the lease of Burra, under which the islands were then
held by Messrs. Hay, granted during your management?

-No; it had been granted some years before.

12,305.

A copy of the letter to Mr. Mack which occasioned the inquiry, was
sent to you at the time?-Yes.

12,306. The first complaint in that letter was, 'That every householder
is bound to pay £1 sterling annually for every son who, being a common
fisherman, ships in any Faroe-going fishing smack, not belonging to
the lessees or the agent of the North Sea Co.; otherwise he must
remove from the island, or expel any such son from his home.'

I have not seen the lease in question, but did you find that that was
a well-founded complaint?-There was nothing of the kind stated in
the lease. My understanding of the complaint is, that when the lease
was taken by Messrs. Hay, they entered into an arrangement with the
tenants with regard to the terms on which they were to occupy under
them.

12,307.

Did you ascertain whether any such stipulation had been entered into
between Messrs. Hay and the tenants?-I investigated the matter upon the
spot, but I could not find any case where the money had been
paid.

12,308. In what year did you make the investigation?-In 1869.

12,309. Did you find any case in which the money had been demanded?-I
did not find any; but I understand that Messrs.

Hay had sent round or had handed to each of the tenants the terms of the
engagement under which they were to occupy, and that there was
something about it in that.

I did not see it myself; but I understood they were either to
fish to Messrs.

Hay, or to have liberty to fish elsewhere if they chose on payment
of £1.

That was the rule that had been laid down by Messrs.

Hay; but I could not trace any case in which the money had been
paid.

12,310. Have you any objection to state the name of the party who
wrote the letter to Mr.

Mack which you now hold in your hand?

-I believe it was a private communication, and I would rather not
mention the name.

The writer says, 'Having fulfilled my promise to write you, I have
to express the hope that this confidential communication may receive
your kind consideration.'

I don't know that it is of much importance who wrote the letter; but I
may mention that he was a minister who was in the habit of visiting
the island, and to whom some of the people had made complaints.

It became very clear to me, from my investigation, that the case had
been very much overstated. I got particulars of the prices paid
to the men for several years, and I made inquiry at other places
in the neighbourhood about the prices, and I could not find that
they had any cause of complaint about the prices paid to them for
their fish.

[Page 304]

12,311.

Did you find the statement to be correct which is contained in the
third head of the letter: 'The price given is never less than 1s.
per cwt. below the average paid for green fish in the islands; and
in the case of herring, not less than 5s. per cran below the market
price is a common thing'?

-There was no foundation for that statement whatever.

I found the Burra people were getting fully as much as any other
fishermen.

12,312. Did you ascertain that from an examination of the books of
Messrs. Hay & Co, or from statements made by the people themselves?-I
ascertained the prices paid to the men from Messrs. Hay & Co.'s
books, and on comparing it with the prices paid in other localities, I
found that that was an unfounded statement altogether.

12,313.

Did you find that the fourth complaint, about oysters being underpaid,
was correct?

-I found that in that very season the men were selling their
oysters where they liked. There was no restriction at all at that
time.

There had been before. I believe Messrs. Hay had endeavoured to prevent
anybody from coming in and dredging upon the oyster beds that lay
between the islands, and to get the people to deliver the oysters
to them; but they had given up that before that time and allowed
them to sell them where they chose.

12,314.

I suppose the result of there being no restriction is that the
oyster beds are nearly exhausted?-They are almost entirely
exhausted. In the course of two seasons they were all taken up.

12,315. Did you ascertain whether a regular system of deception had
been practised in order to evade the obligation to deliver to
Messrs.

Hay, while the restriction existed about the oysters?-I did not find
that there was a regular system of deception, because, at the time
when I made my inquiry, any oysters which the men dredged were sold
where they pleased. Messrs. Hay found out, that unless they had an Act
of Parliament, they did not have the power of hindering the men
from selling where they chose.

That oyster bed had been held by the proprietor almost exclusively
as his own property, and for generations it was dealt with as such.

Messrs. Hay & Co. came into the proprietor's place and I daresay they
very naturally supposed that they had the same right; but on the
men insisting on selling where they chose, they found they could not
prevent them.

12,316. Did you find that at the time when it was supposed Messrs.
Hay had that power, a system of deception had prevailed, as is
alleged in this letter, in order to evade the supposed obligation?

- That is one way of putting it; but I should suppose that before
the matter was determined as to the right of the people to sell
oysters where they chose, they had been in the habit of quietly
going to other parties with the oysters, that Messrs.

Hay should not know.

12,317.

Then I suppose that, so far as it went, that complaint was not very
far from the truth?

-It was perfectly untrue. The statement made in the complaint was
that Messrs. Hay only gave 1s. per 100, and that that was paid in goods,
while the men could get 2s. 6d. elsewhere. I found that to be utterly
untrue.

12,318. Was it the case that Messrs. Hay paid a larger price than was
stated, or that the higher price could not be obtained
elsewhere?-Oysters had been selling years before as low as 1s.
per 100; but Messrs.

Hay were paying the same price as other people at that time. I think
2s. 6d. was the price in 1869.

12,319. Were Messrs. Hay paying that price then?-They were paying the
same as Mr. Harcus who is still a buyer.

12,320. Was he the only other buyer?-No. I believe Mr.
Nicholson and Mr. Tait also purchased about that time.

12,321. But the previous time, when the oysters were selling for 1s. per
100, was before the date of your inquiry?

-Yes, it must have been some time before.

12,322. Could a larger price have been got elsewhere than from Messrs.
Hay & Co.?-I don't know.

I know that oysters were not so dear at that time as they became
afterwards; but at the time when Messrs.

Hay & Co. were the only parties buying oysters, they got very few.
They were not fished to any great extent.

12,323.

Did you find that the fifth complaint, that every person on the
island selling any article to a neighbour was liable to expulsion,
had any foundation?

-It had a foundation to this extent, that Messrs. Hay did not allow
anybody to set up a shop in the island; but it was nonsense to say
that people were not allowed to sell any article to a neighbour,
such as fish or any of their produce.

12,324.

A resident clergyman or schoolmaster might have got fish for his table
if he wanted them?

-Yes, or any article of produce that the people had.

The complaint was only true so far that the people were not allowed
to set up retail shops in the island.

12,325.

Was there any prohibition on selling tea?

-That is what I refer to.

12,326.

Even if they had no shop, was not one neighbour prevented from
selling a 1/2 lb. or 1/4 lb. of tea to another?

-I am not aware that Messrs. Hay ever looked into the matter so
closely as that.

12,327.

But was not that the substance of their complaint?

-Of course, if anybody had set up a tea-shop, that would have been
objected to. But this complaint refers to the practice of getting tea
and other goods from merchants in exchange for hosiery; and it
goes on to say, that if a woman exchanged that for anything she
wanted, she exposed her family to the loss of house and land, and
expulsion from the island, if she was known to sell any of the goods
she had received in return for her handiwork to any neighbour.
12,328.

Did you hear of any person being expelled for that?

-No, nor threatened. They told me that several of them would have
had tea and various other things in the island for selling to their
neighbours, if they had been allowed, but that they were prevented
from doing so, and I approved of that.

12,329. Did you find that the people were in a state of nervous apprehension
about expulsion?

-Not in the least.

12,330. Then how do you account for this letter, and for these charges
being made, if they were not in a state of anxiety and nervousness
about the matter?

-I think the case was put much more strongly in the letter than it
had been put to the writer of the letter by the people themselves.

12,331.

You don't think that the people of Shetland or the inhabitants of
Burra are liable to panics of that kind?

-There was no panic that I was aware of at that time.

Some of the people, when I read over the letter to them, were very
much amused to hear what had been said, and they attributed the
statements to two or three persons who were usually dissatisfied
with their condition.

12,332.

Is it within your knowledge whether the Burra people were in the
habit for a series of years of carrying over their oysters to Lerwick,
and retailing them there openly?-Yes. I have often met them carrying
oysters to Lerwick in kishies for the purpose of selling them there.

12,333. You are acquainted with that from the fact that you then
resided in Scalloway?

-Yes, and from coming and going and meeting the people.

12,334. Did you find existing in Burra, at that time, feeling
of bondage most unfavourable in its influence towards the lessees
themselves, and most pernicious in its influence over the tenants
under them?-I could not say that there was anything of that sort.

I found that the people would much rather not have been under a lessee
at all, but have been allowed each to fish for himself.

12,335. Did they wish to fish and cure for themselves?-Some of them
would have liked that, but I found from the best fishermen that they
would not have considered that to be any advantage for the island
on the whole.

12,336.

What reason did they assign for their objection to being under a
lessee?

-Just that they were under certain restrictions as to the ling
fishing; and naturally a man would prefer to be altogether free,
and to be able to deal as he chose.

[Page 305]

12,337.

Did you think these restrictions were such that the people might
reasonably complain of them?

-I thought they had not much to complain of.

12,338. At that time the lease of Messrs. Hay & Co. was
within a year or two of its termination?

-Yes. I think it was the last year of it.

12,339.

The letter was dated 5th April 1869, and think the lease expired in
November following. Has it been renewed since?-No.
The tack has been continued on the old plan for two years, as a
sort of intermediate arrangement.

There is just a missive which expires in November next.

Indeed I had some difficulty in getting Messrs. Hay to renew the
arrangement, even for two years.

12,340. Were they unwilling to resume their liability for the rents upon
the same terms?-Yes. The reason they gave to me was, that the
great bulk of the people were fishing where they chose, and that they
did not have much profit by the island.

12,341.

Do you mean in the ling fishing, or in the Faroe fishing?

- I mean in the fishings generally.

There were only a few old men remaining at home for the fishings,
and it was not a great deal of the produce of the island that they
had anything to do with.

I lak marry by Bishop Lajeunesse."

"Foolish woman!" repeated Musq'oosis. "How do I know? A great work
takes time!"

Bela pouted.

Musq'oosis rose stiffly to his feet. "I give you somesing," he said.

Shuffling inside the teepee, he presently reappeared with a little
bundle wrapped in folds of dressed moose hide. Sitting calm he undid
it deliberately. A pearl-handled revolver was revealed to Bela's eager
eyes.

"The white man's short gun," he said. "Your fat'er gave it long tam
ago. I keep her ver' careful. Still shoot straight. Here are shells,
too. Tak' it, and keep her clean. Keep it inside your dress. Good
thing for girl to have."

Bela's instinct was to run away to examine her prize in secret. As she
rose the old man pointed a portentous finger.

"Remember what I tell you! You got mak' yourself hard to get."

During the rest of the day Bela was unobtrusively busy with her
preparations for the journey. Like any girl, red or white, she had her
little store of finery to draw on. Charley did not show himself in the
tepee.

Her mother, seeing what she was about, watched her with tragic eyes
and closed mouth. At evening, without a word, she handed her a little
bag of bread and meat. Bela took it in an embarrassed silence. The
whole blood of the two women cried for endearments that their red
training forbade them.

More than once during the night Bela arose to look at the weather. It
was with satisfaction that she heard the pine-trees complaining. In
the morning the white horses would be leaping on the lake outside.

She had no intention of taking Musq'oosis with her. She respected the
old man's advice, and meant to apply it, but an imperious instinct
told her this was her own affair that she could best manage for
herself. In such weather the old man would never follow her. For
herself, she feared no wind that blew.

At dawn she stole out of the teepee without arousing anybody, and set
forth down the river in her dugout alone.


CHAPTER III

AT NINE-MILE POINT


The camp at Nine-Mile Point was suffering from an attack of nerves. A
party of strong men, suddenly condemned in the heat of their labours
to complete inaction, had become a burden to themselves and to each
other.

Being new to the silent North, they had yet to learn the virtue of
filling the long days with small, self-imposed tasks. They had no
resources, excepting a couple of dog-eared magazines--of which they
knew every word by heart, even to the advertisements--and a pack of
cards. There was no zest in the cards, because all their cash had been
put into a common fund at the start of the expedition, and they had
nothing to wager.

It was ten o'clock at night, and they were loafing indoors. Above the
high tops of the pines the sky was still bright, but it was night in
the cabin. They were lighted by the fire and by a stable lamp on the
table. They had gradually fallen into the habit of lying abed late,
and consequently they could not sleep before midnight. These evening
hours were the hardest of all to put in.

Big Jack Skinner, the oldest and most philosophic of the party--a
lean, sandy-haired giant--sat in a rocking chair he had contrived from
a barrel and stared into the fire with a sullen composure.

Husky Marr and Black Shand Fraser were playing pinocle at the table,
bickering over the game like a pair of ill-conditioned schoolboys.

On the bed sprawled young Joe Hagland, listlessly turning the pages of
the exhausted magazine. The only contented figure was that of Sam
Gladding, the cook, a boyish figure sleeping peacefully on the floor
in the corner. He had to get up early.

It was a typical Northern interior: log walls with caked mud in the
interstices, a floor of split poles, and roof of poles thatched with
sods. Extensive repairs had been required to make it habitable.

The door was in the south wall, and you had to walk around the house
to reach the lake shore. There was a little crooked window beside it,
and another in the easterly wall. Opposite the door was a great
fire-place made out of the round stones from the lake shore.

Of furniture, besides Jack's chair, there was only what they had found
in the shack, a rough, home-made bed and a table. Two shared the bed,
and the rest lay on the floor. They had some boxes for seats.

Something more than discontent ailed the four waking men. Deep in each
pair of guarded eyes lurked a strange uneasiness. They were prone to
start at mournful, unexpected sounds from the pine-tops, and to glance
apprehensively toward the darker corners. Each man was carefully
hiding these evidences of perturbation from his mates.

The game of pinocle was frequently halted for recriminations.

"You never give me credit for my royal," said Shand.

"I did."

"You didn't."

Husky snatched up the pencil in a passion. "Hell, I'll give it to you
again!" he cried.

"That's a poor bluff!" sneered Shand.

Big Jack suddenly bestirred himself. "For God's sake, cut it out!" he
snarled. "You hurt my ears! What in Sam Hill's the use of scrapping
over a game for fun?"

"That's what I say," said Shand. "A man that'll cheat for nothing
ain't worth the powder and shot to blow him to hell!"

"Ah-h! What's the matter with you?" retorted Husky. "I only made a
mistake scoring. Anybody's liable to make a mistake. If it was a real
game I'd be more careful like."

"You're dead right you would," said Black Shand grimly. "You'd get
daylight let through you for less."

"Well, you wouldn't do it!" snarled Husky.

Shand rose. "Go on and play by yourself," he snarled disgustedly.
"Solitaire is more your style. Idiot's delight. If you catch yourself
cheating yourself, you can shoot yourself for what I care!"

"Well, I can have a peaceful game, anyhow," Husky called after him,
smiling complacently at getting the last word.

He forthwith dealt the cards for solitaire. Husky was a burly,
red-faced, red-haired ex-brakeman, of a simple and conceited
character. He was much given to childish stratagems, and was subject
to fits of childish passion. He possessed enormous physical strength
without much staying power.

Black Shand carried his box to the fire and sat scowling into the
flames. He was of a saturnine nature, in whom anger burned slow and
deep. He was a man of few words. Half a head shorter than big Jack, he
showed a greater breadth of shoulders. His arms hung down like an
ape's.

"How far did you walk up the shore to-day?" big Jack asked.

"Matter of two miles."

"How's the ice melting?"

"Slow. It'll be a week before we can move on." Jack swore under his
breath. "And this the 22nd of May!" he cried. "We ought to have been
on our land by now and ploughing. We're like to lose the whole season.

"Ill luck has dogged us from the start," Jack went on. "Our
calculations were all right. We started the right time. Any ordinary
year we could have gone right through on the ice. But from the very
day we left the landing we were in trouble. When we wasn't broke down
we was looking for lost horses. When we wasn't held up by a blizzard
we was half drowned in a thaw!

"To cap all, the ice went out two weeks ahead, and we had to change to
wheels, and sink to the hubs in the land trails. Now, by gad, before
the ice on the shore is melted, it'll be time for the lake to freeze
over again!"

"No use grousing about it," muttered Shand.

Big Jack clamped his teeth on his pipe and fell silent. For a while
there was no sound in the shack but Husky muttering over his game, the
licking of the wood fire, and faint, mournful intimations down the
chimney from the pines. The man on the bed shuddered involuntarily,
and glanced at his mates to see if they had noticed it.

This one, Joe Hagland, was considerably younger than the other three.
He was a heavy, muscular youth with curling black hair and comely
features, albeit somewhat marked by wilfulness and self-indulgence.

Back in the world outside he had made a brief essay in the prize-ring,
not without some success. He had been driven out, however, by an
epithet spontaneously applied by the fraternity: "Crying Joe
Hagland."

The trouble was, he could not control his emotions.

"For God's sake, say something!" he cried at the end of a long
silence. "This is as cheerful as a funeral!"

"Speak a piece yourself if you feel the want of entertainment,"
retorted Jack, without looking around.

"I wish to God I'd never come up to this forsaken country!" muttered
Joe. "I wish I was back this minute in a man's town, with lights
shining and glasses banging on the bar!"

This came too close to their own thoughts. They angrily silenced him.
Joe buried his face in his arms, and another silence succeeded.

It was broken by a new sound, a soft sound between a whisper and a
hum. It might have come from the pine-trees, which had many strange
voices, but it seemed to be right there in the room with them. It held
a dreadful suggestion of a human voice.

It had an electrical effect on the four men. Each made believe he had
heard nothing. Big Jack and Shand stared self-consciously into the
fire. Husky's hands holding the cards shook, and his face changed
colour. Joe lifted a livid white face, and his eyes rolled wildly. He
clutched the blankets and bit his lip to keep from crying out.

They moved their seats and shuffled their feet to break their hideous
silence. Joe began to chatter irrelevantly.

"A funeral, that's what it is! You're like a lot of damn mutes. Who's
dead, anyhow? The Irish do it better. Whoop things up! For God's sake,
Jack, dig up a bottle, and let's have one good hour!"

The other three turned to him, oddly grateful for the interruption.
Big Jack made no move to get the suggested bottle, nor had Joe
expected him to. The liquor was stored with the rest of the outfit in
the stable. None desired to have the door opened at that moment.

Young Joe's shaking voice rattled on: "I could drink a quart myself
without taking breath. Lord, this is enough to give a man a thirst!
What would you give for an old-fashioned skate, boys? I'd welcome a
few pink elephants, myself, after seeing nothing for days. What's the
matter with you all? Are you hypnotized? For the love of Mike, start
something!"

The pressure of dread was too great. The hurrying voice petered out,
and the shack was silent again. Husky made a bluff of continuing his
game. Jack and Shand stared into the fire. Joe lay listening, every
muscle tense.

It came again, a sibilant sound, as if out of a throat through
clenched teeth. It had a mocking ring. It was impossible to say whence
it came. It filled the room.

Young Joe's nerves snapped. He leaped up with a shriek, and, springing
across the room, fell beside Shand and clung to him.

"Did you hear it?" he cried. "It's out there! It's been following me!
It's not human! Don't let it in!"

They were too much shaken themselves to laugh at his panic terror.
Both men by the fire jumped up and turned around. Husky knocked over
his box, and the cards scattered broadcast. He sidled towards the
others, keeping his eyes on the door.

"Stop your yelling!" Shand hoarsely commanded.

"Did you hear it? Did you hear it?" Joe continued to cry.

"Yes, I heard it," growled Shand.

"Me, too," added the others.

Joe's rigid figure relaxed. "Thank God!" he moaned. "I thought it was
inside my head."

"Listen!" commanded Jack.

They stood close together, all their late animosities forgotten in a
common fear. There was nothing to be heard but the wind in the
tree-tops.

"Maybe it was a beast or a bird--some kind of an owl," suggested Husky
shakily.

"No; like a voice laughing," stammered Joe.

"Right at the door like--trying to get in," added Shand.

"Open the door!" said big Jack.

No one made a move, nor did he offer to himself.

As they listened they heard another sound, like a stick rattling
against the logs outside.

"Oh, my God!" muttered Joe.

The others made no sound, but the colour slowly left their faces. They
were strong men and stout-hearted in the presence of any visible
danger. It was the supernatural element that turned their breasts to
water.

Big Jack finally crept toward the door.

"Don't open it!" shrieked Joe.

"Shut up!" growled Jack.

They perceived that it was not his intention to open it. He dropped
the bar in place. They breathed easier.

"Put out the light!" said Husky.

"Don't you do it!" cried Shand. "It's nothing that can shoot in!"

Their flesh crawled at the unholy suggestion his words conveyed.

They stood elbow to elbow, backs to the fire, waiting for more. For a
long time all was quiet except the trees outside. They began to feel
easier. Suddenly something dropped down the chimney behind them and
smashed on the hearth, scattering the embers.

The four men leaped forward as one, with a common grunt of terror.
Facing around, they saw that it was only a round stone such as the
chimney was built of. But that it might have fallen naturally did not
lessen the fresh shock to their demoralized nerves. Their teeth
chattered. They stuck close together, with terrified and sheepish
glances at each other.

"By God!" muttered Big Jack. "Ice or no ice, to-morrow we move on from
here!"

"I never believed in--in nothing of the kind," growled Shand. "But
this beats all!"

"We never should have stopped here," said Husky. "It looked bad--a
deserted shack, with the roof in and all. Maybe the last man who lived
here was mur--done away with!"

Young Joe was beyond speech. White-faced and trembling violently, the
big fellow clung to Shand like a child.

"Oh, hell!" said Big Jack. "Nothing can happen to us if we stick
together and keep the fire up!" His tone was less confident than the
words.

"All the wood's outside," stammered Husky.

"Burn the furniture," suggested Big Jack.

Suiting the action to the words, he put his barrel-stave rocker on the
embers. It blazed up generously, filling every corner of the shack
with light, and giving them more confidence. There were no further
untoward sounds.

Meanwhile the fifth man had been sleeping quietly in the corner. The
one who goes to bed early in camp must needs learn to sleep through
anything. The other men disregarded him.

The table and the boxes followed the chair on the fire. The four
discussed what had happened in low tones.

"I noticed it first yesterday," said Big Jack.

"Me, too," added Husky. "What did you see?"

"Didn't see nothing." Jack glanced about him uneasily. "Don't know as
it does any good to talk about it," he muttered.

"We got to know what to do," said Shand.

"Well, it was in the daytime, at that," Jack resumed. "I set a trap
for skunks beside the trail over across the creek, and I went to see
if I got anything. I was walkin' along not two hundred yards beyond
the stable when something soft hit me on the back of the head. I was
mad. I spun around to see who had done it. There wasn't nobody. I
searched that piece of woods good. I'm sure there wasn't anybody
there. At last I thought it was a trick of the senses like. Thought I
was bilious maybe. Until I got the trap."

"What was it hit you?" asked Husky.

"I don't know. A lump of sod it felt like. I was too busy looking for
who threw it to see."

"What about the trap?" asked Shand.

"I'm comin' to that. It was sprung, and there was a goose's quill
stickin' in it. Now, I leave it to you if a wild goose ain't too smart
to go in a trap. And if he did, he couldn't get a feather caught by
the butt end, could he?"

They murmured in astonishment.

"Me," began Husky; "yesterday I was cuttin' wood for the fire a little
way back in the bush, and I got het up and took off my sweater, the
red one, and laid it on a log. I loaded up with an armful of wood and
carried it to the pile outside the door here. I wasn't away two
minutes, but when I went back to my axe the sweater was gone.

"I thought one of you fellows took it. Remember, I asked you? I looked
for it near an hour. Then I came in to my dinner. We was all here
together, and I was the first to get up from the table. Well, sir,
when I went back to my axe, there was the sweater where I first left
it. Can you beat it? It was so damn queer I didn't like to say
nothing."

"What about you?" Jack asked of Shand.

Shand nodded. "To-day when I walked up the shore there was something
funny. I had a notion I was followed all the way. Couldn't shake it.
Half a dozen times I turned short and ran into the bush to look.
Couldn't see nothing. Just the same I was sure. No noise, you
understand, just pad, pad on the ground that stopped when I stopped."

"What do you know?" Jack asked in turn of Joe.

"W--wait till I tell you," stammered Joe. "It's been with me two days.
I couldn't bring myself to speak of it--thought you'd only laugh. I
saw it a couple of times, flitting through the bush like. Once it
laughed----"

"What did it look like?" demanded Jack.

"Couldn't tell you; just a shadow. This morning I was shaving outside.
Had my mirror hanging from a branch around by the shore. I was nervous
account of this, and I cut myself. See, there's the mark. I come to
the house to get a rag.

"You was all in plain sight--cookee inside, Jack and Husky sittin' at
the door waitin' for breakfast, Shand in the stable. I could see him
through the open door. He couldn't have got to the tree and back
while I was in the house. When I got back my little mirror was hangin'
there, but----"

"Well?" demanded big Jack.

"It was cracked clear across."

"Oh, my God, a broken mirror!" murmured Husky.

"I--I left it hanging," added Joe.

Meanwhile the chair, the table, and the boxes were quickly consumed,
and the fire threatened to die down, leaving them in partial
obscurity--an alarming prospect. The only other movable was the bed.

"What'll we do?" said Joe nervously. "We can't break it up without the
axe, and that's outside."

Husky's eye, vainly searching the cabin, was caught by the sleeping
figure in the corner.

"Send cookee out for wood," he said. "He hasn't heard nothing."

"Sure," cried Joe, brightening, "and if there's anything out there
we'll find out on him."

"He'll see we've burned the stuff up," objected Shand, frowning.

"What of it?" asked Big Jack. "He's got to see when he wakes. 'Tain't
none of his business, anyhow."

"Ho, Sam!" cried Husky.

The recumbent figure finally stirred and sat up, blinking. "What do
you want?" Sam demanded crossly.

As soon as this young man opened his eyes it became evident that a new
element had entered the situation. There was a subtle difference
between the cook and his masters, easier to see than to define. There
was no love lost on either side.

Clearly he was not one of them, nor had he any wish to be. Sam's eyes,
full of sleep though they were, were yet guarded and wary. There was a
suggestion of scorn behind the guard. He looked very much alone in
the cabin--and unafraid.

He was as young as Joe, but lacked perhaps thirty pounds of the other
youth's brawn. Yet Sam was no weakling either, but his slenderness was
accentuated in that burly company.

His eyes were his outstanding feature. They were of a deep, bright
blue. They were both resolute and prone to twinkle. His mouth, that
unerring index, matched the eyes in suggesting a combination of
cheerfulness and firmness. It was the kind of mouth able to remain
closed at need. He had thick, light-brown hair, just escaping the
stigma of red.

There was something about him--fair-haired, slender, and
resolute--that excited kindness. There lay the difference between him
and the other men.

"We want wood," said Husky arrogantly. "Go out and get it."

An honest indignation made the sleepy eyes strike fire. "Wood!" he
cried. "What's the matter with you? It's just outside the door. What
do you want to wake me for?"

"Ah!" snarled Husky. "You're the cook, ain't you? What do we hire you
for?"

"You'd think you paid me wages to hear you," retorted Sam. "I get my
grub, and I earn it."

"You do what you're told with less lip," said Husky threateningly.

At this point Big Jack, more diplomatic, considering that a quarrel
might result in awkward disclosures, intervened. "Shut up!" he growled
to Husky. To Sam he said conciliatingly: "You're right. Husky hadn't
ought to have waked you. It was a bit of thoughtlessness. But now
you're awake you might as well get the wood."

"Oh, all right," said Sam indifferently.

He threw off his blanket. As they all did, he slept in most of his
clothes. He pulled on his moccasins. The other four watched him with
ill-concealed excitement. The contrast between his sleepy indifference
and their parted lips and anxious eyes was striking.

Sam was too sleepy and too irritated to observe at once that the table
and chair were missing. He went to the door rubbing his eyes. He
rattled the latch impatiently and swore under his breath. Perceiving
the bar at last, he flung it back.

"Were you afraid of robbers up here?" he muttered scornfully.

"Close the door after you," commanded Jack.

Sam did so, and simultaneously the mask dropped from the faces of the
men inside. They listened in strained attitudes with bated breath.
They heard Sam go to the wood-pile, and counted each piece of wood as
he dropped it with a click in his arm. When he returned they hastily
resumed their careless expressions. Sam dropped the wood on the
hearth.

"Better get another while you're at it," suggested Jack.

Sam, without comment, went back outdoors.

"Well," said Jack with a foolish look, "nothing doing, I guess."

"I thought there was nothing," boasted Husky.

"You----" began Jack indignantly. He was arrested by a gasp from Joe.

"My God! Listen!"

They heard a sharp, low cry of astonishment from Sam, and the armful
of wood came clattering to the ground. They heard Sam run, but away
from the cabin, not toward the door. Each caught his breath in
suspense. They heard a thud on the ground, and a confused, scrambling
sound. Then Sam's voice rose quick and clear.

"Boys, bring a light! Quick! Jack! Shand! Quick!"

The four wavered in horrible indecision. Each looked at the other,
waiting for him to make a move. There was no terror in the cries, only
a wild excitement.

Finally Big Jack, with an oath, snatched up the lantern and threw open
the door. The others followed in the order of their courage. Joe
bringing up the rear.

A hundred yards from the door the light revealed Sam struggling with
something on the ground. What it was they could not see--something
that panted and made sounds of rage.

"Boys! Here! Quick!" cried Sam.

To their amazement his voice was full of laughter. They hung back.

"What have you got?" cried Jack.

The answer was as startling as an explosion: "A girl!"

A swift reaction passed over the four. They sprang to his aid.

"Hold the light up!" Sam cried breathlessly. "Shand, grab her feet.
I've got her arms locked. God! Bites like a cat! Carry her in." This
ended in a peal of laughter.

Between them Shand and Sam carried her toward the door, staggering and
laughing wildly. Their burden wriggled and plunged like a fish. They
had all they could do, for she was both slippery and strong. They got
her inside at last. The others crowded after, and they closed the door
and barred it.

Sam, usually so quiet and wary in this company, was transformed by
excitement. "Now, let's see what we've got!" he cried. "Put her feet
down. Look out or she'll claw you!"

They set her on her feet and stood back on guard. But as soon as she
was set free her resistance came to an end. She did not fly at either,
but coolly turned her back and shook herself and smoothed her plumage
like a ruffled bird. This unexpected docility surprised them afresh.
They watched her warily.

"A woman!" they cried in amazed tones. "Where did she drop from?"

They instantly ascribed all the supernatural manifestations to this
human cause. Everything was made clear, and a load of terror lifted
from their breasts.

The suddenness of the reaction dizzied them a little. Each man blushed
and frowned, remembering his late unmanly terrors. They were amazed,
chagrined and tickled all at once.

Big Jack strode to her and held the lantern up to her face. "She's a
beauty!" he cried.

A silence succeeded that word. Four of the five men present measured
his mates with sidelong looks. Sam shrugged and, resuming his ordinary
circumspect air, turned away.


CHAPTER IV

THE VISITOR


The girl turned an indifferent, walled face toward the fire, refusing
to look at any of the men. Her beauty grew upon them momentarily.
Their amazement knew no bounds that one like this should have been led
to their door out of the night.

"Well," said Big Jack, breaking the silence at last. "It was a rough
welcome we give you, miss. We thought you was a spook or something
like that. But we're glad to see you."

She gave no sign of having heard him.

"Was it you whistled through the keyhole and tossed a stone down the
chimney?" demanded Husky.

No answer was forthcoming.

"I'm sorry if we hurt you," added Jack.

He might as well have been addressing a wooden woman.

"I say, I'm sorry if we hurt you," he repeated louder.

"Maybe she can't understand English," suggested Sam.

"What'll I do then?" asked Jack hopelessly.

"Try her with sign language."

"Sure," said Jack. He looked around for the table. "Oh, hell, it's
burnt up! We'll have to eat on the floor. Hey, look, sister!" He went
through the motions of spreading a table and eating. The others
watched interestedly. "Will you?" he asked.

She gravely nodded her head. A cheer went up from the circle.

"Hey, cookee!" cried Big Jack. "Toss up a bag of biscuits and put your
coffee-pot on. You, Joe, chase out to the stable and fetch a box for
her to sit on."

For the next few minutes the cabin presented a scene of great
activity. Every man, with the tail of an eye on the guest, was anxious
to contribute a share to the preparations. Husky went to the lake for
water; Shand cut bacon and ground coffee for the cook; Big Jack
produced a clean, or fairly clean, white blanket to serve for a
tablecloth, and set the table.

More recently, many of these troops have been redeployed back to
Burundi to deal with periodic upsurges in rebel activity. A new
transitional government, inaugurated on 1 November 2001, was to be the
first step towards holding national elections in three years. However,
the unwillingness of the Hutu rebels to enact a cease fire with
Bujumbura continues to obstruct prospects for a sustainable peace.

Geography Burundi
Location: Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Geographic coordinates: 3 30 S, 30 00 E
Map references: Africa

Area: total: 27,830 sq km water: 2,180 sq km land: 25,650 sq km
Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland
Land boundaries: total: 974 km border countries: Democratic Republic
of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda 290 km, Tanzania 451 km
Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)
Maritime claims: none (landlocked)
Climate: equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude variation
(772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual temperature
varies with altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade but is generally
moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m; average annual
rainfall is about 150 cm; wet seasons from February to May and
September to November, and dry seasons from June to August and
December to January
Terrain: hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some
plains
Elevation extremes: lowest point: Lake Tanganyika 772 m highest
point:
Mount Heha 2,670 m
Natural resources: nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt,
copper, platinum (not yet exploited), vanadium, arable land,
hydropower
Land use: arable land: 30% permanent crops: 13% other: 57% (1998
est.)

Irrigated land: 740 sq km (1998 est.)
Natural hazards: flooding, landslides, drought
Environment - current issues: soil erosion as a result of overgrazing
and the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation
(little forested land remains because of uncontrolled cutting of
trees for fuel); habitat loss threatens wildlife populations

Environment - international agreements: party to: Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection signed,
but not ratified: Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban
Geography - note: landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo
watershed; the Kagera, which drains into Lake Victoria, is the most
remote headstream of the White Nile 
People Burundi
Population: 6,373,002 note: estimates for this country explicitly
take into account the effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this
can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant mortality and
death rates, lower population and growth rates, and changes in the
distribution of population by age and sex than would otherwise be
expected (July 2002 est.)

This air of indifference at once provoked
and baffled them. They could not reconcile it with the impish tricks
she had played.

They could not understand a girl alone in a crowd of men betraying no
self-consciousness. "Touch me at your peril," she seemed to say; but
if that was the way she felt, what had she come for?

Sam brought his basin of flour to the hearth and, kneeling in the
firelight, proceeded to mix the dough. After the manner of amateur
cooks, he liberally plastered his hands and arms with the sticky mess.

The girl watched him with a scornful lip. Suddenly she dropped to her
knees beside him, and without so much as "By your leave," took the
basin out of his hands. She showed him how it ought to be done,
flouring her hands so the batter would not stick, and tossing up the
mess with the light, deft touch of long experience. At the sight of
Sam's discomfiture a roar of laughter went up from the others.

"Guess you're out of a job now, cookee," said Shand.

"Now we'll have something to eat besides lead sinkers," added Joe.

Sam laughed with the others, and, retiring a little, watched how she
did it. The girl affected him differently from the rest. Diffidence
overcame him. He scarcely ever raised his eyes to her face.

_Enter_ COLONEL TOWNLY.
My dear Colonel, I am rejoiced to meet you here.
_Col. Town_. Dear Tom, this is an unexpected pleasure!

What, are you come to Scarborough to be present at your brother's
wedding?
_Lory_. Ah, sir, if it had been his funeral, we should have
come with pleasure.

_Col. Town_. What, honest Lory, are you with your master still?
_Lory_. Yes, sir; I have been starving with him ever since I saw
your honour last.

_Fash_. Why, Lory is an attached rogue; there's no getting rid of
him.
_Lory_. True, sir, as my master says, there's no seducing me from
his service.--[_Aside_.] Till he's able to pay me my wages.

_Fash_. Go, go, sir, and take care of the baggage.
_Lory_. Yes, sir, the baggage!--O Lord! [_Takes up the portmanteau_.]
I suppose, sir, I must charge the landlord to be very particular
where he stows this?

_Fash_. Get along, you rascal.--[_Exit_ LORY _with the portmanteau_.]
But, Colonel, are you acquainted with my proposed sister-in-law?

_Col. Town_. Only by character. Her father, Sir Tunbelly Clumsy, lives
within a quarter of a mile of this place, in a lonely old house, which
nobody comes near. She never goes abroad, nor sees company at home;
to prevent all misfortunes, she has her breeding within doors; the
parson of the parish teaches her to play upon the dulcimer, the
clerk to sing, her nurse to dress, and her father to dance;--in
short, nobody has free admission there but our old acquaintance,
Mother Coupler, who has procured your brother this match, and is,
I believe, a distant relation of Sir Tunbelly's.

_Fash_. But is her fortune so considerable?
_Col. Town_. Three thousand a year, and a good sum of money, independent
of her father, beside.
_Fash_. 'Sdeath! that my old acquaintance, Dame Coupler, could not
have thought of me, as well as my brother, for such a prize.
_Col. Town_.

Egad, I wouldn't swear that you are too late-- his lordship, I know,
hasn't yet seen the lady--and, I believe, has quarrelled with
his patroness.

_Fash_. My dear Colonel, what an idea have you started!
_Col. Town_. Pursue it, if you can, and I promise you shall have my
assistance; for, besides my natural contempt for his lordship, I have
at present the enmity of a rival towards him.
_Fash_.

What, has he been addressing your old flame, the widow Berinthia?
_Col.

Town_.

Faith, Tom, I am at present most whimsically circumstanced. I came
here a month ago to meet the lady you mention; but she failing in her
promise, I, partly from pique and partly from idleness, have been
diverting my chagrin by offering up incense to the beauties of
Amanda, our friend Loveless's wife.

_Fash_. I never have seen her, but have heard her spoken of as a
youthful wonder of beauty and prudence.
_Col. Town_.

She is so indeed; and, Loveless being too careless and insensible
of the treasure he possesses, my lodging in the same house has
given me a thousand opportunities of making my assiduities acceptable;
so that, in less than a fortnight, I began to bear my disappointment
from the widow with the most Christian resignation.

_Fash_. And Berinthia has never appeared?
_Col. Town_. Oh, there's the perplexity! for, just as I began not to
care whether I ever saw her again or not, last night she arrived.
_Fash_. And instantly resumed her empire.

_Col. Town_. No, faith--we met--but, the lady not condescending to
give me any serious reasons for having fooled me for a month, I
left her in a huff.
_Fash_. Well, well, I'll answer for it she'll soon resume her power,
especially as friendship will prevent your pursuing the other too far.Loud laughter
filled the cabin. The potentialities for trouble were not, however,
lessened. On the contrary, a look or a word was enough at any moment
to bring a snarling pair face to face. Presently the inevitable
suggestion was brought forth.

"This is goin' to be a regular party," cried Joe. "Jack, be a sport;
get out a bottle, and let's do it in style!"

To save himself, Sam could not keep back the protest that sprang to
his lips. "For God's sake!" he cried.

"What the hell is it to you, cook?" cried Joe furiously.

There was old bad blood between these two. Perhaps because they were
of the same age.

Big Jack was bursar and commissary of the expedition. He smiled and
gave his mouth a preliminary wipe. "Well, I think we might stand one
bottle," he said.

Sam shrugged and held his tongue.

Jack returned with one of the precious bottles they had contrived to
smuggle past the police at the Landing. He opened it with loving care,
and the four partners had an appetizer.

When the food was ready, the always unexpected girl refused to sit
with them around the blanket. No amount of urging could move her. She
retired with her own plate to a place beside the fire.

Though she was the guest, she assumed the duty of hostess, watching
their plates and keeping them filled. This was the first amenity she
had shown them. They were perplexed to reconcile it with her scornful
air.

Only once did she relax. Big Jack, jumping up to put a stick on the
fire, did not mark where he set his plate. On his return he stepped in
it. The others saw what was coming, and their laughter was ready.

Above the masculine guffaws rang a girlish peal like shaken bells.
They looked at her, surprised and delighted. More than anything, the
laughter humanized her. She hastily drew the mask over her face again,
but they did not soon forget the sound of her laughter.

Big Jack kept control of the bottle, and doled it out with strict
impartiality. Under the spur of the fiery spirit, their ardour and
their joviality mounted together.

Sam was not offered the bottle. Sam was likewise tacitly excluded from
the contest for the girl's favour. It did not occur to any of the four
to be jealous of little Sam. He accepted the situation with
equanimity. He had no desire to rival them. His feeling was that if
that was the kind she wanted, there was nothing in it for him.

Like all primitive meals, it was over in a few minutes. Sam gathered
up the dishes, while the other men filled their pipes and befogged the
atmosphere with a fragrant cloud of smoke. Like all adventurers, they
insisted on good tobacco.

The rapidly diminishing bottle was circulated from hand to hand, the
hilarity sensibly increasing with each passage. Their enforced
abstention of late made them more than usually susceptible. Their
faces were flushed, and their eyes began to be a little bloodshot.
They continually forgot that the girl could not speak English, and
their facetious remarks to each other were in reality for her benefit.
A rough respect for her still kept them within bounds.

Bela, as a matter of course, set to work on the hearth to help Sam
clean up. This displeased Joe.

"Ah, let him do his work!" he cried. "You come here, and I'll sing to
you."

His partners howled in derision. "Sing!" cried Husky. "You ain't got
no more voice than a bull-bat!"

Joe turned on him furiously. "Well, at that, I ain't no fat,
red-headed lobster!" he cried.

A violent wrangle resulted, into which Shand was presently drawn,
making it a three-cornered affair. Big Jack, commanding them to be
silent, made more noise than any. Pandemonium filled the shack. The
instinctive knowledge that the first man to strike a blow would have
to fight all three kept them apart. No man may keep any dignity in a
tongue-lashing bout. Their flushed faces and rolling eyes were hideous
in anger.

Through it all the amazing girl quietly went on washing dishes with
Sam. He stole a glance of compassion at her.

Big Jack, having the loudest roar, battered the ears of the disputants
until they were silenced. "You fools!" he cried. "Are you going to
waste the night chewing the rag like a parcel of women?"

They looked at him sullenly. "Well, what _are_ we going to do? That's
what I'd like to know," said Shand.

A significant silence filled the cabin. The men scowled and looked on
the floor. The same thought was in every mind. An impossible situation
confronted them. How could any one hope to prevail against the other
three.

"Look here, you men," said Jack at last. "I've got a scheme. I'm a
good sport. Have you got the nerve to match me?"

"What are you getting at?" demanded Husky.

Jack put his hand in his pocket. "I'm gettin' at a weddin'. Why not?
Here's as pretty a piece of goods, as I, for one, ever see or ever ask
to. Handy, too, and the finest sort of prime A1 cook. Bride O.K. Four
lovin', noble bachelors to choose the bridegroom out of. Bishop
Lajeunesse'll be along to-morrow or the next day, or mighty soon. He's
due to pass any minute. Priest all ready. Husband ready--leastwise I
am for one. Bride all ready----"

"Damned if she is," contradicted Sam.

"Give her a chance and see," snarled Jack truculently. "She don't look
no manner of a fool. It'll be a mighty fine thing for a girl of this
blasted country to get a downright white husband, and I'll bet my
bottom dollar this here girl's cute enough to see it--or--what the
hell did she come to our shack for? And, if no such notion ever
crossed her prutty head, I'll explain it to her clear enough--give me
five minutes' chin with her----You all been complainin' it was so gol
darn dull. Well, here's some excitement: a weddin' on the spry." He
pulled his hand from his pocket and showed the dice in its palm. "This
shack ain't big enough to hold the four of us men, not just at
present," he said meaningly. "Three has got to get out for a bit, and
leave one to do his courtin'--and do it quick. I've got a pair of dice
here. Three rounds, see? The low man to drop out on each round. The
winner to keep the shack, and to pop the question--while the other
three camp on the shore. What do you say to it?"


CHAPTER V

THE DICE DECIDE


The three stared at Big Jack in a dead silence while the underlying
significance of his words sunk in. They began to breathe quickly. Sam,
hearing the proposal, flushed with indignation. His heart swelled in
his throat with apprehension for the girl. How could he make her
understand what was going on? How could he help her? Would she thank
him for helping her?

Shand was the first to speak. "Say, you fellows, it's some idea--what?
And it'll be cheerfuller than a funeral. Yes," he muttered. "I'm on!"

"How about the cook?" demanded Husky thickly.

"Hell, he ain't in this game!" said Jack indifferently. "He goes
outside with the losers."

"I'm damned if I'll stand for it!" cried Joe excitedly. "It's only a
chance! It doesn't settle anything. The best man's got to win!"

"You fools!" growled Shand. "How will you settle it--with guns? Is it
worth a triple killing?"

"With my bare fists!" said Joe boastfully.

"Are you man enough to take on the three of us, one after the other?"
demanded Shand. "You've got to play fair in this. You take an equal
chance with the rest of us, or we'll all jump on you."

Jack and Husky supported him in no uncertain terms. Joe subsided.

"It's agreed, then," said Jack.

Shand and Husky nodded.

"Let him come in, then, if he wants his chance," said Jack
indifferently. "The losers will take care of him."

Joe made haste to join them. They squatted in a circle around the
blanket. Under the strong excitement of the game, each nature revealed
itself. Black Shand became as pale as paper, while Husky's face turned
purple.

Young Joe's face was drawn by the strain, and his hand and tongue
showed a disposition to tremble. Only Big Jack exhibited the perfect
control of the born gambler. His steely blue eyes sparkled with a
strange pleasure.

"Let me see them?" demanded Husky, reaching for the dice.

Jack laughed scornfully. "What's the matter with you? 'Tain't the
first time you've played with them. There's only the one pair. We've
all got to use them alike."

"Let me see them!" persisted Husky, showing his teeth. "It's my
right!"

Jack shrugged, and the bone cubes were solemnly passed from hand to
hand.

"You can't shoot on a mat," said Joe. Jerking the blanket from the
floor, he tossed it behind him.

"Get something to shake them in," said Shand. "No palming wanted."

Husky reached behind him and took a cup from Sam.

A long wrangle followed as to who should throw first. They finally
left it to the dice, and the choice fell on Joe. Shand was at his left
hand; Husky faced him; Jack was at his right. They held their breath
while the bones rattled in the cup. When they rolled out, their eyes
burned holes in the floor.

"Ten!" cried Joe joyfully. "I'm all right! Beat that if you can!"

Sam, obliged to await the result without participating, was
suffocating with suspense. When the cup passed to Shand he touched the
girl. She looked at him inquiringly. None of the other four were
paying the least attention to them then. Sam asked her with a sign if
she understood the game. He had heard that the natives were inveterate
gamblers.

She nodded. He then, by an unmistakable gesture, let her know that the
stake they played for was--herself. Again she nodded coolly. Sam
stared at her dumbfounded.

In her turn, she asked him with a glance of scorn why he was not in
the game. Young Sam blushed and looked away. He was both abashed and
angry. It was impossible for him to convey his feeling by signs.

Meanwhile Shand threw seven, and Joe rejoiced again. But when Husky,
opposite him, got a beggarly three, the young man's triumph was
outrageous. The evening had left an unsettled score between these two.

"You're done for, lobster!" he cried with intolerable laughter. "Take
your blankets and go outside!"

A vein on Husky's forehead swelled. "You keep a civil tongue in your
head, or I'll smash your face, anyhow," he muttered.

"You're not man enough, Braky!" taunted Joe.

"Well, I'll help him," said Shand suddenly.

"Me, too," added Jack. "Play the game like a man and keep your mouth
shut!"

When the cup went to Jack, Sam caught the girl's eye again. He could
not help trying once more. He looked significantly toward the door.
While the four heads were bent over the floor she could easily have
gained it. She slightly shook her head.

Sam ground his teeth and doggedly attended to the dishes. A surprising
angry pain transfixed his breast. What did he care? he asked himself.
Let her go! But the pain would not be assuaged by the anger. She was
so beautiful!

While rage gnawed at Husky's vitals, and he tried not to show it, Big
Jack shook the cup with cool confidence and tossed the dice on the
floor. Strange if he could not beat three! The little cubes rolled,
staggered, and came to a stop. For a second the four stared
incredulously. A pair of ones!

An extraordinary change took place in Husky. He grunted and blinked.
Suddenly he threw back his head and roared with laughter. Big Jack
steeled himself, shrugged, and rose. Going to the fire-place, he
tapped the ashes out of his pipe and prepared to fill it again.

"'Tain't for me to kick," he said coolly; "since I got it up!" Jack
deserved better at the hands of fortune.

The cup passed to Joe again. He shook it interminably.

"Ah, shoot!" growled Shand.

Whereupon Joe put down the cup and prepared to engage in another
snarling argument. Only a combined threat from the three to put him
out of the game forced him to play. He got five, and suddenly became
quiet and anxious.

Shand threw four, whereupon Joe's little soul rebounded in the air
again. Husky got eight. Shand rose without a word and crossed the room
to the door.

"Wait till the game is over," said Big Jack quietly. "We'll all go out
together and save trouble."

Young Joe, once more in possession of the cup, was unable to get up
sufficient nerve to make the fateful cast. He shook it as if he meant
to wear a hole in the tin. He offered to let Husky shoot first, and
when he refused tried to pick a quarrel with him.

Finally Big Jack drew out his watch. "Ten seconds," he said, "or you
forfeit. Are you with me, Shand?"

"Sure!" muttered the other.

Joe, with a groan of nervous apprehension, made his cast. He got a
ten. Another reaction took place in him.

"Let me see you beat that!" he cried offensively. "I'm all right!" He
smirked at the girl.

Husky picked up the dice and with one hasty shake tossed them out. By
this time he had had as much suspense as he could stand. His nervous
cast sent the cubes flying wide. One turned up a five between them.
The other rolled beyond Joe. They had to crawl on hands and knees to
see it. Six black spots were revealed.

"Eleven!" roared Husky. "I win!"

Joe's self-control gave way altogether. Tears were in his voice. "Do
it over!" he cried. "You got to do it over! It wasn't on the table!
You never shook the cup! I won't stand for it!"

Husky, having won, blissfully calmed down. "Ah, you short sport," he
contemptuously retorted, "you deserve to lose!"

Joe sprang up with a tearful oath. "I won't stand for it!" he cried.
"I said I wouldn't stand by a throw of the dice. You've got to fight
me!"

Big Jack, expecting something of the kind, intervened from one side,
Shand from the other. Joe's arms were promptly pinned behind him. He
struggled impotently, tears of rage coursing down his cheeks.

"You fool!" said Jack. "We told you we'd see fair play done. What can
you do against the three of us? If he had lost we would have done the
same for you. Go outside, or we'll drag you."

Joe finally submitted. They released him. Still muttering, he went out
without looking back.

"Come on!" said Big Jack brusquely to Sam. "You are the contract."

Another and an unexpected mutiny awaited them here. Sam very promptly
arose from among his tins and turned on Big Jack. He had become as
pale as Shand, but his eyes were hot enough. His lips were compressed
to a thin line.

"Yes, I heard it!" he cried. "And a rotten, cowardly frame-up I call
it! We never lacked for hospitality from her people. And this is the
way you repay it. With your mouth full of talk about fair play, too.
You make me sick!"

For an instant they stared at him flabbergasted. For the masters to be
bearded by a humble grub-rider was incredible. Husky, the one most
concerned, was the first to recover himself. Flushing darkly, he took
a step toward Sam with clenched fists.

"Shut up, you cook!" he harshly cried. "It's none of your put! You
stick to dish-washing and let your betters alone, if you know what's
good for you!"

Sam's pale cheeks flamed and paled again. Instead of falling back, he
took another step toward Husky.

"You can't shout me down, you bully," he said quietly in his face.
"You know I'm right. And you all know it."

Husky towered over the slight figure.

"Get out," he roared, "before I smash you!"

"Go ahead!" said Sam, without budging. "I'm not afraid of you!"

For the first time, the girl seemed really interested. Her nostrils
were slightly distended. Her glance flew from face to face. There was
a pregnant pause. Husky's great fist was raised. But not having struck
on the instant, he could not strike at all. Under the blaze of the
smaller man's eyes, his own glance finally bolted. He turned away with
an assumption of facetiousness.

"Take him away," he said to his mates, "before I kill him."

An audible breath escaped the girl. She turned back to the fire.

Jack and Shand looked disconcerted by Sam's accusation; nevertheless,
obsessed by their fetish of fair play, they had to see the thing
through. Jack in particular, having proposed the game and having lost,
was bound by his code to assist Husky.

They seized Sam between them and started to drag him toward the door.
Sam struggled desperately and vainly in their grasp. Joe, attracted by
the raised voices, had run in again. He, for his own ends, showed a
disposition to help Sam. Jack overawed him with a look.

"Come along," he commanded.

The girl showed no further concern in the matter. Sam, observing her,
suddenly ceased to struggle.

Outside the door they released him. When the four of them were joined
together, they paused for a moment to decide which direction they
should take.

"That sand-bank at the mouth of the creek," suggested Jack.

The sound of a shot rang muffled in the cabin behind them.

For an instant they were stupefied. A strange joy lightened Sam's
breast. Dropping their bundles, they ran back, and, flinging the door
open, stood back warily, half expecting to be received with a
fusillade.

The smell of gunpowder assailed their nostrils. The light of the fire
revealed Husky's burly figure sprawling on his back, with his feet
among the tin dishes on the hearth. The girl was not to be seen.

They cautiously ventured in. She was not behind the door. She could
not have gone out by the door without their knowing it, for they had
been within ten paces. Both windows were intact. The only possible
place of concealment within the shack was the bed. A swift
investigation proved that there was nothing in it or under it.

The old feeling of awe of the supernatural returned. They avoided each
other's eyes. The figure on the floor stirred a little and groaned. A
dark, wet stain was spreading on his shirt. Jack dropped to his knees
beside him.

"Through the shoulder," he said to the others. "No vital organ."

"Can you hear me?" he asked of the wounded man.

"A she-devil!" muttered Husky. "A devil!"

"Where did she go?"

"I don't know. Everything turned black. A devil--had a gun in her
dress! Speaks English, too. Understood every word!"

None of Husky's mates had any skill in surgery. Like men in the flush
of their strength, they refused to harbour the thought of injury or
disease, and had come to the wilderness ill provided.

Jack, lacking antiseptics or healing medicaments, bound up the
shoulder roughly. They laid Husky on the bed and endeavoured to forget
him. Jack, Shand, and Joe elected to sleep in the stable to escape the
injured man's stertorous breathing and his groans. They took care to
bar themselves in against the terrors of the night.

Sam was glad to see them go. Their endless and futile discussion of
what had happened tried his temper.

In the morning Husky was feverish. His mates shrugged and left him to
Sam. Their attitude toward the injured one was as naive as that of
children or animals.

Sam had no love for the gross figure on the bed, who, he felt, had
earned what he got. Nevertheless, he did what offices humanity
suggested; washing the wound and redressing it; bringing ice from the
lake shore to mitigate his fever. He had to smile at Husky's changed
tone in his lucid moments.

"Do you think this will croak me?" he continually asked. "Lord, I
ain't ready to die! I leave it to you, cook; shouldn't a man have some
warning of his end? Lord, if I get over this I'll lead a different
life! I swear I will! Lord, think of dying in a God-forsaken place
like this without a parson to clear the track for you! It ain't fair
to catch you like this. Not even a Bible in the outfit!"

"I have a Bible," said Sam grimly.

"Get it for me; there's a good fellow," begged Husky.

Sam did so. "Do you want me to read it to you?" he asked.

"No use," said Husky. "Couldn't never get the hang of it. But let me
have it here in bed with me. That's something."

As the day wore on the patient grew worse, and the other men became
more and more chary of approaching him. However, toward the end of the
afternoon, a cold squall of rain drove them indoors in spite of
themselves.

They squatted on the floor at the farthest possible distance from the
bed and half-heartedly dealt the cards for euchre. Meanwhile Sam
busied himself baking bread, trying to remember what he could of the
girl's deft technique. He could think of her now with a pleasant
warmth about the heart. She had redeemed her sex in his eyes.

Careless of whether he heard them, the men joked outrageously about
Husky's condition. It was their way of hiding their helpless terror.

"Well, old Husk is bound for the heavenly shore, I guess," said Jack.

"We'll give him a bang-up funeral," suggested Joe. "Spill a little
booze and carve a board to put at his head. It's the least we can do
for a pal."

"When Husk gets to the golden gates," Jack went on, "if Peter tries to
hold him up, he'll say, 'What is it worth to you, old man?'"

This well-known saying of their partner produced a subdued laugh all
around.

Black Shand remarked in his curt way: "Husky wouldn't get along in
heaven. Ain't got no ear for music."

"He'd be in trouble down below, too," said Jack. "He'd undertake to
show the Old Boy himself how to build a fire."

Outside the pine branches thrashed wildly, and gusts of rain were
flung against the panes of the little window above the players' heads.
Water found its way through more than one place in the sod roof and
dripped sullenly on the floor. From time to time the game shifted,
seeking a dry spot.

On such a day the pioneers were keenly conscious of their isolation.
The emptiness of the land seemed to press upon their breasts,
hindering free breathing. Moreover, their nerves were still jangling
as a result of the night's events.

Such was their situation when, without warning, the latch of the door
clicked.

They froze in their card-playing attitudes, turning horrified eyes in
the direction of the sound. The door opened inward, and a ghastly
moment passed before they could see what was behind it. Then each
man's breath escaped with a little sound of amazement and awe.

It was Bela.


CHAPTER VI

A FRESH SURPRISE


Raindrops sparkled like diamonds in Bela's dark hair and upon her
glowing cheeks. She was, as ever, composed and inscrutable. In one
swift glance around she took in the whole scene--the cardplayers under
the window, Sam arrested at his pan of dough, and the injured man
breathing hard upon the bed.

She went toward the latter with a noiseless, gliding motion.

"Mak' water hot," she said coolly over her shoulder to Sam. "Get clean
rags for bandage."

Jack and his mates, hearing the English speech, glanced at each other
meaningly. Nevertheless, speech humanized her, and they relaxed.

There was no leaping up of the unholy fires of the night before. They
regarded her with great, new respect. They remained sitting
motionless, absorbed in her every move, like the spectators of a play.

At the sound of her voice the injured man opened his eyes with a
grunt. Seeing her, he rolled away as far as he could get on the bed,
crying out in mingled pain and terror:

"Keep her away! Keep her away! Don't let her get me!"

Bela fell back with a scornful smile.

"Tell him I not hurt him," she said to Sam, who had gone to her. "Tell
him I come to mak' him well."

Sam sought in vain to reassure Husky.

"I won't let her touch me!" the injured man cried. "She's a witch!"

"Let be," she said to Sam, shrugging. "I tell you w'at to do."

Under her direction Sam cut away his own rude bandage from Husky's
shoulder and washed the wound. The bullet had gone cleanly through.
Meanwhile Bela was macerating some leaves she had brought. She showed
Sam how to apply the mass to the wound before rebandaging it. Husky
strained away.

"Poison! Poison!" he cried. "Keep her away from me!"

"You crazy!" said Bela impatiently. "Look at me!"

She chewed some of the poultice and swallowed it before Husky's eyes.

"Are you afraid, too?" she asked Sam.

He shook his head, smiling, and ate one of the leaves.

But Husky, notwithstanding the evidence of his eyes, continued to cry
out and to resist their ministrations.

"All right," said Bela at last. "I can't do not'ing. He got die, I
guess." She started for the door.

A swift reaction passed over Husky. All in the same breath with his
protests he began to beg her not to desert him. She came back, and he
made no further objections to having her dress and bind his wound.

When it was all done, she made for the door again as coolly as she had
come. Sam experienced a sudden sinking of the heart.

"Are you going?" he cried involuntarily.

Big Jack jumped up at the same moment. "Don't go yet," he begged.

Jack and the others had recovered sufficiently from the shock of their
surprise to discuss in whispers what they should say to her.

"I come back to-morrow," said Bela. "I go home now to get medicine."

"Where do you live?" asked Jack.

"I not tell you," she answered coolly.

The sound of a snicker behind him brought a scowl to Jack's face. "I
could easily find out," he muttered.

"If you follow me, I not come back," she announced.

"No offence," said Jack hastily. "But--it's darned funny. I leave it
to you. Your coming and going like this. How did you get out last
night?"

"I not tell you," she said again.

"'Tain't no wonder Husky's a bit leary of you. We all think----"

"What you think?" she asked mockingly.

"Well, we think it's funny," Jack repeated lamely.

"I don't care what you think," she retorted.

"Tell me one thing," said Jack. "What did you come here for first
off?"

But there are a number of men at the haaf in your district, are there
not?-No, not in my district. There is scarcely a boat in my parish.
The boats which go to that fishing are farther north-at Northmaven
and Sandness.

11,720.

Then the Faroe fishermen in your parish are only home twice in the
summer?

-Yes; they generally come home twice, once in June, and then about the
beginning of harvest but some do not return until September.

11,721.

Therefore they could not, in that case, be paid at the delivery of
their fish, so as to have cash to deal with a merchant who is not
employing them?

-They could not.

       

11,722. Do you think you would have a better chance of business if
they were settled with when they came home from Faroe, instead of
having to wait for a good many months for a settlement?-I don't know.
It takes so long a time to get the fish dried, that I don't think
they could very well be settled with when they came home.

11,723.

They might be settled with then if they were paid according to the
weight of the fish when they were landed?- Yes; but I could not say
whether I would do any better business in that case or not.

11,724.

Do you think you would do a better business if you had some boats
of your own?-Yes.

11,725. Why?-Because I would be getting more fish.

11,726. But would you do a better business in your provisions and
goods?

-Yes, I might be a small bit better.

11,727. Would that be because the men would come to you for supplies?-Yes;
and then I would have more fish too.

11,728. Are the men at liberty to sell as many fish as they please to
you in winter and spring?

-Yes, at any time of the year.

11,729.

Then you could engage a boat's crew in your district without any
restriction?-Yes; there are no bound men there.

11,730. Are there many merchants in the parish of Sandsting who do
about the same extent of business as you?-I think most of them do more
business than me, because it is longer since they commenced, and they
are better in the way of it.

11,731.

Do you mean that they have got a larger connection?- Yes; and a better
locality.

11,732. Are most of them engaged in buying fish?

-No; there are scarcely any of them about me who are in the fishing
trade, except Messrs.

Garriock & Co.

They have almost all the fishing business in that part of the
country.

11,733.

Have they the largest shop business too?

-Yes.

11,734. Whom do you sell your fish to?

-To Mr. Harrison generally.

We sell them to him as soon as they are dried at the end of the
year.

11,735. Are you paid for them in cash?

-Yes, if we want cash.

11,736. If you don't want cash, do you take goods for your shop?

-Yes, if we want them; but if we want cash he gives it at any time
either in advance or at settling time.

11,737.

But he does supply goods in a wholesale way to merchants?

-Yes; he sometimes supplies me with little meal and tea, and general
groceries.

11,738.

Do you not get all your supplies from him?-No, not the whole of them.
I think I get as much from Glasgow as from him; generally from two
houses there.

11,739. What do you get from Glasgow?

-Tea and sugar and coffee, and general groceries.

11,740. Do you also get the same articles from Harrison & Sons?

-Yes.

11,741. Do you pay the same price to both?-They are nearly all about
the same price, except that the goods from Glasgow may be about a
halfpenny per pound less.

11,742.

Is that after allowing for freight?-No; it is taking them at cost
price.

11,743. Do you write for these things to Glasgow direct?-Yes,
when I get them from there.

11,744. When do you order them from there?

-My [Page 288] dealings in that way are not always at the one time.

Sometimes in the spring I order them fortnightly, and sometimes
monthly, and sometimes at longer intervals.

They are sent to Lerwick in the steamboat, and brought across to Scalloway
by carts, and I come here with a boat for them.

I think it is about six weeks since I got any tea from Glasgow, and it
is a month since I got some other stuff.

11,745.

Did you come from Sandsound to Scalloway for the tea?- No; I took it
out the north road Weisdale and all overland.

11,746. Did you come to Scalloway on purpose for that?-No; the north
carts took it out.

11,747.

       Do you think the tea which you got in that way cost you more when
it was delivered than the tea you got from Harrison & Sons?

-No. I think that, taking it on the whole, and after paying the freight
it would come to just about the same.

11,748. Were the qualities the same?-Yes, as near as I could
judge.

11,749. Do you sell both kinds of tea at the same price?-Yes, at 8d.

11,750.

How much of your fish that you sell to Harrison & Sons will be paid for
in goods?

-About one half as near as I can judge.

11,751. Do you receive the other half in cash?-Yes.

11,752. Was that the case last year?

-Yes.

11,753. When do you settle with Harrison & Sons?-I settled with them
last year on 1st October for the fish which I had got in the
previous winter and spring.

11,754.

Do many of the shops in your parish deal with Harrison & Sons in the
same way?-I think none of them do.

None of the other merchants there sell fish to them, so far as I am
aware.

Scalloway, January 22, 1872, AGNES TAIT, examined.

11,755.

You live in Scalloway?-Yes.

11,756. Do you live alone?-Yes.

11,757. Do you support yourself entirely by knitting?

-Yes; I cannot work at anything else. I knit fine shawls and veils. I
have knitted for the last six months to Mr.

Moncrieff with his worsted, and I have been paid in goods. Before that
I knitted with my own worsted, and I sold my work to any merchant
in Lerwick, generally to Mr. Sinclair.

I never asked any money from him, because we knew that it was the rule
that we would not get it. I wanted it for many purposes; but I would
not have got it even though I had asked it.

11,758. But you could not get on without some money, I suppose?- No. I
sent some shawls and veils south for money with which to pay my
rent.

11,759.

Did you get enough money from them for all that you wanted?

-I was often at a loss for money, and then I had to sell tea and other
things which I had got in Lerwick for my hosiery. I sold tea and
soft goods to any neighbour who was kind enough to take them.
11,760.

Such as Mrs. Tait?-No, I never sold any to Mrs. Tait.

11,761. Did you sell your things often in that way?

-Yes, very often.

11,762. Every month?-I don't think I did it every month.

11,763.

Did you do it two or three times every year?

-Yes; oftener than that.

11,764. How much goods did you sell in that way?-If I sold a shawl
for about 18s.

I would get 18s. worth of goods, and of that a good deal was
tea-perhaps one pound or a pound and a half.

11,765.

Would you sell all that tea?-Yes.

11,766. And something else besides?-I don't recollect of selling anything
else except the tea.

11,767.

Did you always bring home some tea from Lerwick in order to sell
it?-Yes.

11,768. And did you always find some of your neighbours ready to buy
it?-Yes; there were always some of them kind enough to buy it from
me.

11,769. Did you sell it at the full price that it had cost you?-Yes.

11,770. You did not sell it under its value?-No.

11,771.

You did that very often, because you had no other way of getting
money?

-Yes.

11,772. Do you ever get any lines from the merchants in Lerwick?

-No.

11,773. Do you always settle for your hosiery articles at once?

- Yes.

11,774.

Would you rather have money than be paid for your work in the way
you have mentioned?

-Yes, I would rather have money; but we knew that we would not get
it, and therefore we never asked it.

11,775.

Do you think you could make a better use of the money than you do of
the goods?-Yes, a great deal better.

11,776. You think you could turn it to better account?

-Yes.

11,777. Do you think you take more out in soft goods than you require?

-We often take out things which we are not requiring.

We cannot get anything else and therefore we have just to take out
the goods.

11,778.

Can you mention anything which you have taken out when you were not
requiring it?-No. I afterwards sold it; I did not keep it.

11,779. What are the goods you have sold?-Cottons.

11,780. Anything else?

-No; but I have not sold any cotton for the last twelve months.
11,781.

Did you ever sell cotton or any other goods under the price you
paid for them?

-No, I generally got the value. I did not sell these things about
Scalloway; I went up occasionally to see some friends of mine in
the west side of Sandsting, and I took the goods with me.

Scalloway, January 22, 1872, WILLIAM HARCUS, examined.

11,782. You are a merchant in Scalloway?-Yes; I have a small business
here.

I have carried on business as a merchant here for between four and
five years.

11,783.

Have you many transactions with the fishermen here?

-I have, in buying and selling groceries and general goods, but
not in curing fish.

11,784.

Do you run any accounts with fishermen?

-No; unless perhaps for a few days, until they come back again to
settle. It could not be said that I do credit trade.

It is professedly a cash trade.

11,785.

Have you any disadvantages in carrying on your trade from the system
of barter which prevails in Shetland?

-Perhaps if the whole trade were done in cash, there might be some
advantages in some respects-that is to say, if there was money
always coming to the fishermen at the end of the season, or when the
settlement takes place.

11,786.

If that were so, you think a merchant carrying on a cash business
would be able to increase his receipts?-I think so.

11,787. Is it your opinion, from your own experience, that a ready-money
business is limited by the want of money in the hands of the fishermen
and tenants in the district?

-I think it is.
I think if there was money there would be more trade done in a
ready-money way than there is.

11,788. Are you aware that very little money, compared with the
amount of their earnings, passes into the hands of the fishermen?

       -I have no means of knowing that exactly; but I don't see much
money, among the fishermen.

What money we get is principally from sailors returning from the
south, and, of course, a little from the fishermen after settling
time.

11,789.

Do you find that your business is larger after settling time than at
other times?

-Last year it was larger, because there was a good Faroe fishing.
This year I don't think there has been any difference.

11,790. Do your books show that there is a larger [Page 289] cash
business done after settling time?

-No, my books don't show that.
I don't enter cash transactions in them.

11,791.

How do you know that the business was larger at that time?

-Just by noticing the daily or weekly drawings.

11,792. Did you keep notes of your weekly drawings?-I did at one
time, but I have been so busy lately, and so much away from home,
that I have not got that attended to.

11,793.

How long is it since you kept notes of your weekly drawings which would
show whether your business increased or not in the spring?-I think
it was only in the first year that I was in business that I did so;
but I can recollect pretty well about the average amount of my
weekly drawings.

In a small business like mine we can depend a good deal upon the memory
for that.

11,794.

And so far as your recollection serves you, you think your weekly
drawings were larger at that period?

-Yes.

When there has been a good fishing, and the men have something to
get at the settlement our drawings are usually larger after
that.

11,795.

Do you think that shows that the men prefer, when they have money in
their hands, to deal with you rather than to deal with the fish
merchant who employs them?

-I don't think it does; at least I could not say that it does,
because the fish merchant who employs them might be having a larger
cash return at that time too.

11,796.

At all events you may fairly entertain the opinion that you would have
a better chance among the fishermen if a cash system were general?

-I think so.

11,797.

If, for example, the fishermen were paid by weekly, or fortnightly,
or monthly payments, for their fish delivered during the summer,
do you think you would be more likely to obtain an additional share
of their custom?

-If that were possible, I might; but I don't think it would be possible
to pay them at such short periods, because it would occupy so
much time. The fishermen would have to come in and wait perhaps
whole days before they could be settled with, and I don't think
that would be a good plan for them at all.

11,798.

If a note of the fish is taken at the time when they are delivered,
would there be any difficulty in settling at the same time?-I never
considered that; but I think there would be a difficulty in settling
with the fishermen every day when they landed their fish.

11,799. In winter and spring they are settled with every time they deliver
fish?-Yes; but the quantity delivered then is comparatively
small.

Sometimes in summer the fishermen are working ten or twelve miles away
from where the curer is, and of course, to come in and be settled
with every week, or even every month, would be a great hardship.

They might lose very good days when they could be more profitably
employed at the fishing. I think quarterly or half-yearly settlements
would be as much as could be managed.
11,800. You have not had any experience yourself in settling with
fishermen, either before you began business here or since?-No. I
have a few men fishing lobsters, but they are not worth speaking
about. I think there are only three crews' of them, and I settle
always with them when they bring up their fish; but the trade is
so small that there is no difficulty in settling with them
then.
11,801. How long does that fishing last?-It is only carried on
during the winter; and it was arranged that they should come
fortnightly with the lobsters, and settle fortnightly, when the
weather would permit them.
11,802. Do you do anything in the oyster fishery?-I did at one time,
and I still do a little, but there are very few to be had.
11,803. How are they paid for?-In cash when I buy them.
11,804. Do you know what is the practice of other buyers-I would
rather that they should state that themselves. I think Mr.
Nicholson buys for cash, but I am not certain. He is present.
11,805. When you settle for your lobsters, where is the payment
made?-In my shop.
11,806. In that case do the men generally spend part of the cash
there and then?-They sometimes spend part of it.
11,807. Do they not spend part of it generally?-Yes; but I lay down
the money on the counter, and they take it up. They have the choice
either of spending it or taking it away.
11,808. Are accounts kept with any of these men?-With one of them
who superintends the bringing home of the oysters, there is an
account kept.
11,809. How often is that account settled?-Just whenever he wants
a settlement. He always gets money with him to disburse for current
expenses, and he is permitted to take from that whatever he wants
for his own use; and if he requires more money, then there is a
settlement.
11,810. Do you mean that you settle with him whenever he wants a
new advance?-No. He always has some money of mine in his hands, and
he has authority to use that both in paying the men who are fishing
for me, and for his own use.
11,811. But when that money is exhausted he comes and gets a new
supply?-He settles for that money, and what he has taken for his
own use is put to his own account, and his own account is settled
whenever he wishes to see how we stand.
That is done frequently; and I have the book here which is kept
with him. [Produces pass-book.] This [showing] is the cash he gets
for the general account, £7, 13s. 4d., and then £10, and then £3,
17s. 2d.Bela, perceiving her power, and being only a human woman, naturally
abused it a little. Thus to see white men, whom all her life she had
revered, cringing for her favour, went to her head a little.

She made them fetch and carry for her like women, she would have said.
Thus the situation was reversed from that of her first appearance in
the shack.

"Bring me sewing," she said. "I not lak do not'ing."

A variety of damaged garments was pressed upon her.

"I sew one for each man," she said.

Having made Husky comfortable, she took her work out into the
sunshine. Jack, Shand, and Joe lounged in front of her smoking,
watching her covertly; each privately making up his mind to secure
that charming sewing-machine for his own household, whatever the cost.

"Ain't you got not'ing to do?" asked Bela coolly.

"This is a holiday," replied Jack.

"The stable is dirty," she persisted.

"That's Shand's job," said Joe.

"Well, I ain't goin' to leave you two here," growled Shand. "There's
plenty of other work, if it comes to that."

"All go clean the stable," commanded Bela. "I lak a clean stable."

"Now go cut plenty wood, so I can cook good," she ordered when they
came back. "I want pine or birch. No poplar."

With Sam the case was a little different. When Bela addressed him it
was with perhaps a heightened arrogance, but for the most part he
managed to keep out of her way.

Not that he was indifferent; far from it. This new aspect of her
exasperated him mightily. "She needs a master," he thought. The idea
of taming her was delicious, seductive. "I could do it," he told
himself, sneering at the obsequiousness of Big Jack _et al._

Meanwhile he attended strictly to his own duties.

Sam, when he chose, had command of a face as wooden as Bela's. More
than once Bela, when she was unobserved, flashed a hurt and angry look
at his indifferent back in the distance. For several hours during the
afternoon Sam disappeared altogether. During his absence the other men
had an uneasy time at Bela's hands.

With all her haughty airs she did not relax any of her care of Husky.
The others envied him his wound. Hour by hour he was visibly growing
better. The fever had left him. He had got over his fear of Bela.

Now, by a twisted course of reasoning, characteristic of him, he
adopted a proprietary air toward her. She was his, he seemed to say,
because forsooth, he had been shot by her. This, it need not be said,
was highly offensive to the other men.

In the middle of the afternoon, Bela desiring a pail of water, Jack
and Shand fell into a wrangle over who should get it. The fact that
each felt he was making a fool of himself did not lessen the
bitterness of the dispute.

Joe attempted to take advantage of it by sneaking out of the door with
another pail. He was intercepted, and the argument took on a
three-cornered aspect. Another endless, futile jawing-match resulted.
Each was restrained from striking a blow by the knowledge that the
other two would instantly combine against him.

Bela finally got the water herself, and ordering the three of them
outside, bolted the door after them. The last sound they heard was
Husky's triumphant laugh from the bed, whereupon they patched up their
differences, and joined in cursing him, and expressing the hope he
might yet die of his wound.

They were not allowed inside again until Sam returned and the supper
was started. Their tempers had not improved any, and the situation
grew steadily worse. Throughout the meal a sullen silence prevailed.

Bela maintained the air of a haughty mistress of an unruly school.
They all deferred to her uneasily, except Sam, who kept himself
strictly to himself. His face was as blank of expression as a
wax-work.

As soon as Bela finished eating she rose.

"I go now," she said coolly. "Come back to-morrow."

Three of the faces fell absurdly. Sam did not look up. A tiny flash in
Bela's dark eyes showed that she observed the difference. She moved
toward the door. Involuntarily Young Joe started to rise.

"Sit down," snarled Jack and Shand simultaneously.

Bela went.

Left to themselves, none of the men were disposed to talk except
Husky. Like sick men generally, his fibres were relaxed, and his
tongue loosened.

"I feel fine to-night," he announced at large.

"A hell of a lot we care!" muttered Joe.

"It's great to feel your strength coming back," Husky went on,
unabashed. "She's a wonderful fine nurse. Takes care of me like a
baby. I'd trust myself to her sooner than the highest-priced doctor in
the city."

"You sung a different tune yesterday morning," sneered Joe.

"Lord! you're a fool, Husky!" added Shand.

"Ah! you're only jealous!" returned Husky. "You wish you was me, I
bet. She's got rare good sense, too. You fellows with your quarrelling
and all, you don't know her. This afternoon when she put you out we
had a real good talk. You ought to heard the questions she asked.
About the city and everything. Like a child, but better sense like.
She thinks things out for herself all right. Me and her's gettin' real
good friends."

"Ah! shut your silly head!" snarled Joe. "Be thankful you're laid out
on your back or you'd get it busted in for less than that. To hear you
talk, one would think you had a mortgage on the girl just because she
plugged you! You fool! You got no chance at all. You've already got
your turn-down good and proper!"

"You're jealous!" retorted Husky. "Wouldn't you give something to know
what passed between us when you was locked out? You wait and see."

Husky was in no condition to keep up his end with a well man. His
voice trailed off into a whine and ceased.

Sam unconcernedly rolled up and went to sleep. The other three smoked
and glowered into the fire. No sleep for them. No telling how near she
might be. The heart of each man was outside the shack. Each knew that
any attempt to follow it would only result in a fresh wrangle.

Finally Big Jack remarked very casually: "Let's go outside for a bit."

The other two arose with alacrity and they issued out in a body. The
sky was still bright. They covertly looked about, hoping to discover a
sign of her presence, or some indication of the way she had gone.

Together they loafed down to the creek, and, crossing by the
stepping-stones, walked out on the point beyond, whence they could see
a long way down the shore. Toward the east the lake was like a sheet
of armour-plate. Behind them the sky was paling from amber to clear
jade.

Without confessing what was in his mind, each man searched the shore
for a tell-tale wisp of smoke. Nothing was to be seen. Each wondered
if she were watching him from concealment, laughing in her sleeve.

Returning at last, unsatisfied and irritable, a senseless dispute
arose at the door over who should be the last to enter. Shand,
suddenly losing his temper, gave Joe a push that sent the youth
sprawling inside on his hands and knees. He sprang up livid and insane
with rage.

Jack and Shand instinctively drew together. Joe, seeing the odds
against him, leaped without a word toward the corner of the shack
where the guns were kept. The other two paling, measured the distance
back to the door. But Joe was held up in mid career.

"They're gone!" he cried blankly.

Following his eyes, they saw that the corner was empty. Their thoughts
took a sharp turn. They glanced at each other suspiciously.

Joe's anger blazed up afresh.

"You did it, you traitor!" he cried, whirling around on Shand.

"You made way with the guns so you could pick us off one by one! You
keep quiet, don't you, and work behind our backs! Jack, are you going
to stand for it? He'll get you, too!"

Jack moved a little away from Shand, grim and suspicious.

"What grounds have you?" he demanded of Joe.

Joe had no grounds--except his anger. "I see it in his face!" he
cried.

"It's a damned lie!" said the dark man thickly. "I play fair."

Joe renewed and enlarged his accusations. Husky, from the bed, merely
to be on the stronger side, added his voice. Big Jack's silent anger
was more dangerous than either. Once more the little shack was like a
cauldron boiling over with the poisonous broth of hate.

Sam sat up in his bed, blinking--and angry, too. He felt he had been
wakened once too often by their imbecile quarrelling.

"For Heaven's sake, what's the matter now?" he demanded.

"Shand stole the guns!" cried Joe.

"He didn't," said Sam. "I hid them."

All four turned on him in astonishment. "What did you do that for?"
demanded Joe, open-mouthed.

"I hid them to keep you from blowing the tops of each other's heads
off before morning," said Sam coolly. "Turn in and forget it."

Joe took a step toward him. "By George, we don't need no cook to tell
us what to do!" he cried. "I'll teach you----"

"You fool!" said Sam scornfully. "It's nothing to me if you want to
shoot each other. I'll tell you where they are. Only I'll move on by
your leave. I don't want to be mixed up in any wholesale murders. The
guns are altogether--they're----"

"Stop!" cried Jack in a great voice. "He's right," he said, turning to
the others. "Let the guns be till morning. Let every man turn in. Are
you with me, Shand?"

"Sure!" he muttered.

"Me, too," added Husky from the bed, somewhat unnecessarily. "I need
sleep."

The storm blew over. Joe went to his corner, muttering. Jack and Shand
lay down between him and Sam. Sam fell asleep calmly. By and by Husky
began to snore. The others lay feigning sleep, each ready to spring up
at the slightest move from one of his fellows.

Shortly after dawn they arose simultaneously from their wretched beds
with muttered curses. They looked at each other blackly. In the
uncompromising light of morning all were alike weary, sore, and
dispirited.

"Hell!" muttered Big Jack, the wisest and the most outspoken of the
three. "This can't go on. Inside a week we'll all be loony or under
the ground!"

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" snarled Joe.

"It's no good our fighting over her," said Big Jack. "She'll take the
one she wants, anyway. You never can tell about women. Soon as she
comes to-day I'll offer myself to her straight out and stand by her
answer."

"Do you think you'll be let do all the talking?" asked Joe. "Eh,
Shand?"

"Every man is at liberty to speak for himself," replied Jack. "Every
man here is welcome to hear what I say to her."

"Jack is right," growled Shand. "I agree."

"Well, how about the order?" demanded Joe. "Who'll speak first?"

"Last word is supposed to be best," said Jack. "We'll give that to
you," he added scornfully. "If she's got the sense I credit her with
I'm not afraid of you."

"Fat chance you have! Twice her age!" snarled Joe.

"I take my chance," returned Big Jack calmly. "Already I feel better
since I thought of putting it up to her. Whichever man she chooses can
draw his share out of the concern, and go on with her. Husky speaks
first, me second, Shand third, and Joe last--or we can match for
chances."

"I'm satisfied," said Shand with a sidelong look at Jack. It appeared
as if these two felt that the other was the only one to be feared.

Joe, suspicious of both, refused to commit himself.

"He's got to be satisfied," declared Big Jack indifferently.

Bela arrived with the sun and peeped in the window. Seeing them up and
dressed, she came around to the door. In the meantime Husky had
awakened, and Jack had told him what was planned.

It was almost too much for Husky. His objections and entreaties were
unnoticed. Fully dressed but somewhat shaky, he was now sitting on the
edge of his bed. Sam still slept in the corner.

From the character of the silence that greeted her, Bela instantly
apprehended that something was in the wind.

"What for you get up so early?" she demanded.

"Bela, we got something to say to you," Big Jack began portentously.

"More talk?" asked Bela.

"This is serious."

"Well, say it."

"Let's go outside," said Joe nervously. "It's suffocating in here."

Filing out of the shack, they stood against the wall in a row--Big
Jack, Black Shand, Husky, and Young Joe. Bela stood off a little way,
watching them warily.

It had a good deal the look of a spelling-bee with a teacher who meant
to stand no nonsense. But each of the men was taking it very
seriously. Each was pale, tight-lipped, and bright-eyed with
excitement, excepting poor Husky, whose eyes were harassed, and whose
mouth kept opening and shutting.

"'Tain't fair! 'Tain't fair!" he kept muttering. "Look at me, the
state I'm in, and all!"

"Well, what you want say?" demanded Bela.

Big Jack stood up straight and brought his heels together. He had been
a soldier in his time. He felt that it was a great moment. An honest
bluntness gave him dignity.

"I got to open this matter," he said, "before each man speaks for
himself." He glanced at his companions. "If any man here thinks he can
explain it better, let him speak out."

"Ah, go ahead, and cut it short!" muttered Shand.

"Yesterday," Jack resumed, "it may have seemed as if we acted like a
parcel of unlicked schoolboys. I own I am sorry for my part in it. But
I don't see how I could have done different. male: Total fertility
rate: 2.03 children born/woman (2002 est.)
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%
HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun: Caymanian(s) adjective: Caymanian
Ethnic groups: mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of
various ethnic groups 20%
Religions: United Church (Presbyterian and Congregational), Anglican,
Baptist, Church of God, other Protestant, Roman Catholic
Languages: English
Literacy: age 15 and over has ever attended school total
population:
Government Cayman Islands
Country name: conventional long form: none conventional short
form:
Cayman Islands
Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK
Government type: British crown colony
Capital: George Town
Administrative divisions: 8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland,
South Town, Spot Bay, Stake Bay, West End, Western
Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)
National holiday: Constitution Day, first Monday in July
Constitution: 1959, revised 1972 and 1992
Legal system: British common law and local statutes
Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal
Executive branch: chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); Governor Bruce DINWIDDY (since 29 May 2002) elections:
none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor is appointed by the
monarch head of government: (three members appointed by the governor,
four members elected by the Legislative Assembly)
Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly (18 seats, three
appointed members from the Executive Council and 15 elected by
popular vote; members serve four-year terms) elections: last held
8 November 2000 (next to be held NA November 2004) election results:
percent of vote - NA%; seats - NA
Judicial branch: Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court
of Appeal
Political parties and leaders: there are no formal political parties
but the following loose groupings act as political organizations;
National Team [leader NA]; Democratic Alliance [leader NA]; Team
Cayman [leader NA]; United Democratic Party [leader NA]
Political pressure groups and leaders: NA
International organization participation: Caricom (observer), CDB,
Interpol (subbureau), IOC, UNESCO (associate)
Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)
Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)
Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms on a white disk
centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms includes
a pineapple and turtle above a shield with three stars (representing
the three islands) and a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto HE
HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS 
Economy Cayman Islands
Economy - overview: With no direct taxation, the islands are a
thriving offshore financial center.

More than 40,000 companies were registered in the Cayman Islands as of
1998, including almost 600 banks and trust companies; banking
assets exceed $500 billion.

A stock exchange was opened in 1997. Tourism is also a mainstay,
accounting for about 70% of GDP and 75% of foreign currency earnings.

The tourist industry is aimed at the luxury market and caters mainly
to visitors from North America.

He spoke in
an oddly, curt, dry voice, which, however did not hide the feeling
that made his breast tight.

"I am no talker," he said. "I'm at a disadvantage. But I got to do the
best I can. I want you as much as him, though I can't tell you so
good. I'm five years younger. That's something. I'm the strongest man
here. That's something, too, in a land where you get right down to
tacks. But that ain't what I want to say. If you come to me, you'll be
the biggest thing in my life. I ain't had much. I'll work for you as
long as I draw breath. All that a man can do for a woman I will do for
you!"

The three others scowled at Shand, astonished and a little dismayed
that the dumb one should prove so eloquent.

Young Joe plunged into the silence. A particular confidence animated
him. With his curly hair, his smooth face, and his herculean young
body, he had a kind of reason for it.

He showed off his charms before her as naively as a cock-grouse. But
somehow the fire of his eyes and voice was a lighter, flashier blaze
than that of the men who had last spoken.

"Sure, they'd be lucky to get you!" he said. "Any of them. Jack is
twenty years older than you. Shand and Husky fifteen, anyhow. I guess
you want a young husband, don't you? How about me? I'm twenty-four.
We're young together. They've had their day. Girls have their own way
of picking out what they want. Jack says look us over. I stand by
that. Look us over good, and say which one you want."

She deliberately did as he bid her. The suspense was unbearable to
them.

"You've heard us all now?" said Jack. "What do you say?"

Bela was the picture of indifference.

"There's anot'er man here," she said.

Jack stared. "Another? Who? Oh, the cook! He ain't one of us. He ain't
got nothing but the shirt on his back!"

Bela shrugged. "You say you want mak' all fair. Let me hear what he
got say."

Here was an unexpected turn to the situation. They glowered at her
with increasing suspicion and anger. Was it possible there was a dark
horse in the race?

"If you want him, I guess you can say so right out, can't you?"
growled Jack.

Bela tossed her head. "I not want him," she said quickly. "I jus' want
hear what he got say."

It was difficult for them to think of the despised grub-rider in the
light of a rival, so they decided it was just a freak of
coquettishness in Bela.

"All right," said Jack. "Anything to oblige." Turning, he opened the
door and shouted for Sam.

Sam presently appeared, tousled and flushed with sleep, his blue eyes
scornfully resentful.

"What do you want now?" he demanded. "You made me lose sleep last
night."

"Well," said Jack, "all that is over. We're askin' Bela here to choose
between us and settle the thing for good. We've all said our say, but
she allowed she wanted to hear what the cook had to offer before she
closed. Speak up."

Sam was efficaciously startled into wakefulness. He became very pale,
and fixed Bela with a kind of angry glare. It seemed to him like a
horrible burlesque of something sacred. He hated her for allowing it.
He did not reflect that she might not have been able to prevent it.
She did not look at him.

"Do I understand right?" he said stiffly. "You're all proposing to her
in a body?"

"That's right," said Jack. "And out of goodness of heart she gives you
a chance, too."

Sam's jaw snapped together, and his mouth became a hard line.

"Much obliged," he said. "I resign my chance. I'm not looking for a
wife." He went back into the house.

It was not what the other men expected to hear. Suspecting an insult
to the object of their own desires, they turned on him angrily. The
fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited.
Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit, financed by foreign
aid and remittances from emigrants; remittances supplement GDP by
more than 20%.

Economic reforms, launched by the new democratic government in 1991,
are aimed at developing the private sector and attracting foreign
investment to diversify the economy.

Prospects for 2002 depend heavily on the maintenance of aid flows,
remittances, and the momentum of the government's development
program.

"Oh, never mind him!" said Big Jack. "He doesn't count! What is your
answer?"

Bela stopped laughing. "Well, I got think about it," she said. "I tell
you to-morrow."


CHAPTER VIII

THE LITTLE MEADOW


The situation at Nine-Mile Point was not improved by the wholesale
proposal for Bela's hand. The twenty-four hours she required for her
answer promised to be hard to get through.

The interim of waiting for a lady to make up her mind is sufficiently
trying on a man's nerves under the most favourable circumstances; but
to be obliged to endure the company of all his rivals meanwhile was
almost too much.

Breakfast was eaten in a dangerous electrical silence. No man dared to
speak of what was in every man's mind, and to make trivial
conversation was impossible under that atmospheric pressure.

Afterward, when Bela announced her intention of going away for a
while, every man, much as he desired her company, felt relieved, and
no word was spoken to stay her departure.

They let her go without so much as looking out to see which way she
went. As a matter of fact, nobody was willing to let anybody else
look; therefore, he could not look himself.

Thereafter they breathed more freely. At least, they were all in the
same boat. They were not under the intolerable strain of watching
every look of her eyes and interpreting every word she spoke for a
sign.

The worst they had to look forward to was one more day of unutterable
boredom. Each man was buoyed up by the hope that it might be the last
of such days for him.

Sam went about his work with a wooden face and a sore and angry heart.
He was not much of a self-analyst. He called Bela all manner of hard
names to himself, without stopping to ask why, if she were such a
worthless creature, he should feel so concerned about her.

A woman who took her pleasure in provoking four men to the point of
murder was not worth bothering about, he told himself a hundred times;
but he continued to be very much bothered.

"I'll never let her get me on her hook!" he cried inwardly--meanwhile
the hook was in his gills!

After he had given the men their dinner he, too, went away from camp,
bent upon his own devices. No one paid any attention to him.

A couple of hundred yards east of the shack a good-sized creek emptied
into the lake. The stones of the shore offered a barrier to its path,
over which it tumbled musically. Farther inland it pursued a slower,
deeper course.

Ascending its bank, in about a quarter of a mile one found it issuing
out of a lovely little meadow, through which it meandered crookedly,
its course marked out by willow bushes.

The meadow was Sam's objective. He had often been there before. It was
about a quarter of a mile long, and no more than a good stone's throw
across from pines to pines. Though the level of the ground was several
feet above the creek, the ground, like the creek bottoms generally,
was spongy and damp, with dry islands here and there.

The grass was amazingly luxuriant. Drenched in the strong sunlight,
and hemmed all around by the secretive pines, the place was the very
picture of a cheerful retreat. Silent, strong-winged water-fowl
frequented it, and more than once Sam had caught a glimpse of a noble
figure of a moose stepping out from among the trees.

Sam, ever anxious to learn the lore of the country, was experimenting
in trapping muskrats. Finding a couple of the little beasts snared and
drowned at the doors of their own dwellings, he set to work to skin
them. His inexperienced fingers made a mess of the job.

He was sitting thus occupied on the edge of a little cut-bank, with
his feet hanging over. A clump of willows flanked him on either side.
The clear waters of the brook eddied sluggishly a few inches under his
feet.

In the middle of his bloody task, something caused him to look over
his shoulder, and there, not twenty feet from him, peering through the
willows, he saw Bela.

From a variety of causes, he blushed to the roots of his hair. For one
thing, he was thinking bitterly of her at that very moment; for
another, he saw, or imagined he saw, scorn in her eyes for his clumsy
handiwork upon the muskrat.

He hastily tossed the little carcass into the water, and then
regretted having done so.

"What are you spying on me for?" he demanded hotly.

The word was strange to Bela, but the tone conveyed its sense. She
promptly took fire from his heat.

Showing herself proudly, she said: "I not know spyin'."

"Following me around," said Sam. "Watching what I do without my
knowing."

"I follow you for cause I want talk," said Bela indignantly. "I think
maybe you got sense. If you not want talk to me, all right; I go away
again. You ain't got sense, I think. Get mad for not'ing."

Sam was a little ashamed.

"Well--I'm sorry," he muttered. "What did you want to talk about?"

She did not immediately answer. Coming closer, she dropped to her
knees on the little hummock of dry earth.

"I show you how to skin him, if you want," she suggested, pointing to
the other muskrat.

Sam swallowed his pride. "All right, go head," he replied.

Cutting off the paws of the little animal and making an incision over
his broadest end, she deftly rolled back the skin, and drew it off
inside out over his head like a glove.

Then cutting a willow stem beside her, she transformed it with two
half cuts into a little spring-frame, over which she drew the late
muskrat's over-coat. The whole operation did not consume five minutes.

"Easy enough when you know how," admitted Sam sheepishly.

"Hang it up to dry," she said, handing it over.

They stretched in the grass side by side, and, hanging over the edge,
washed their hands in the creek. A silence fell upon them. Each was
waiting for the other to speak. Sam was trying to resist a great
tenderness that threatened to undermine all his fortifications.

Finally he asked again: "What was it you wanted to talk about?"

[Illustration: Bela (Colleen Moore) announces to Gladding (Lloyd
Hughes): "Me want you husband."

_(Photoplay Edition--"The Huntress") (A First National Picture)_]

Bela was not yet ready to answer. She threw up little cascades of
water with her hands. Sam, watching, was suddenly struck by the fact
that they were not at all like ordinary hands.

This was the first pair of hands he had ever distinguished in his
life. They were most beautiful objects, the backs ivory coloured, the
palms and finger-tips a lovely dusky pink. They were useful hands,
too--thin, strong, nervous. Watching them play in the water, he forgot
the argument going on inside him.

"You not mad wit' me now?" murmured Bela softly.

This reminded him that he had every reason to be angry with
her--though he had temporarily forgotten the reasons. He turned his
face away, frowning, blushing again, the picture of anger. It was
partly directed against himself, that he should have so little
self-command.

"No!" he replied stiffly.

"Then why you mak' wrinkles in your face to me?" asked Bela.

"Ah, cut it out!" he said, exasperated. "Never mind my face! What did
you want to say?"

"I can't say it when I think you mad," murmured Bela.

"I'm not," said Sam. "I want to be your friend," he added. "You can't
always regulate your face."

There was another silence. Bela studied his averted face with a
curious wistfulness. He was very difficult to handle.

"You want to see my cache?" she asked abruptly, at last. "Where I
stay?"

Sam's heart leaped up. Old Prudence shook his staff in vain. "Yes, if
you like," he said breathlessly, scowling harder than ever.

She scrambled to her feet. "Stay here," she said. "I come back soon."

She disappeared around the willows without vouchsafing any further
explanation. Sam lay as she left him, scowling at the water, very much
confused as to his internal sensations.

As it happened before, no sooner was the intoxication of her presence
removed than he began to berate himself for his weakness.

"Weak as water!" he mentally scolded himself. "Just because she's
pretty, you forget every blame thing! There's a whole lot of funny
business about her that needs explaining. But you swallow it whole.
What business have you got fooling with any girl, anyhow? You've got
other problems to solve. For God's sake, take a brace!"

As he was communing with himself in this fashion, the graceful prow of
a dugout poked itself around a bend of the little grass-fringed canal
below. Presently followed, kneeling in the stern, Bela with her quiet
face and glowing eyes, wielding a paddle with inimitable grace.

She floated toward him noiselessly, bringing the boat's nose this way
and that with deft turns of the wrist. She was as harmonious against
the background of brown water and green grass as a wild duck.

It was such an intimate, cosy little stream; the grassy banks seemed
to embrace the canoe as they let it pass. So charming was the sight
that Sam forgot his prudence and broke into a beaming smile.

She brought her little craft to a stop before him.

"Get in," she said, pointing to the bow. "Tak' care!"

It was Sam's first experience with a native craft. It looked cranky.
He let himself carefully over the bank on his stomach. Finding the
floor of the dugout with his feet, he gingerly stood up. It staggered
alarmingly under him, and he hastily embraced the bank again,
unhappily conscious of a lack of dignity.

A great piece of the sod came away in his hands. He lost his balance
and was catapulted overboard. He landed in the water in a sitting
position, wearing an absurd expression of surprise. Bela, seeing what
was coming, saved herself from a like fate by throwing herself forward
in the canoe.

Sam's streaming head emerged from the creek with the same look of
surprise on his face. The water reached to his waist. Bela looked at
him, and went off into a rippling peal of laughter.

Sam blinked and scowled and dashed the water out of his eyes. His face
offered a study in varying expressions. At first he tried to laugh
with her, but her laughter was intolerable. Suddenly he exploded:

"Ah, cut it out! Sounds like a chicken!"

The angrier he got the harder Bela was obliged to laugh. It had an
apologetic ring, but the tears rolled down her cheeks.

Sam began to think she had done it on purpose, and said so.

"No! No!" gasped Bela. She pointed across the creek. "Shallow there.
You can step in easy."

Sam, full of dignity, waded out and started home.

Bela was suddenly sobered. "Wait!" she cried. "Ain't you comin' wit'
me?"

He affected not to hear her.

"I sorry I laugh," she said, genuinely distressed. "But--but you look
so fonny!" The unruly laughter threatened to escape her again. "Please
come back, Sam."

"I can't come like this, can I?" he said scornfully.

"Sure!" she said. "I mak' good fire. You soon dry off."

He gradually allowed himself to be persuaded. Finally, with dignity
somewhat marred by his bedraggled appearance, he took his place very
gingerly in the bow. Bela bit her lips to keep the laughter in.

"I not want to laugh," she said naively. "Somesing inside mak' me.
Your face look so fonny when you sit down in the water! Laka bear when
him hear a noise--oh!"

Sam glowered in silence.

She exerted herself to charm away the black looks. "See papa mus'rat,"
she said, pointing. "Sit so stiff under the leaves, think we see
not'ing. Sit up wit' hands on his stomach lak little ol' man and look
mad. Look lak Musq'oosis."

Meanwhile she was nosing the dugout cleverly around the grassy bends
of the tiny stream and under the willows. It was like a toy boat on a
fairy river. Sometimes the willows interlaced overhead, making a
romantic green tunnel to be explored.

Finally, as they drew near the woods at the head of the meadow, she
turned her boat into a narrow backwater starred with little lilies,
and drove it forward till it grounded as snugly as a ship in its
berth.

Leading the way up the grassy bank, she pushed under the willows and
introduced Sam into a veritable _Titania's_ bower, completely
encircled by the springing bushes. This was her cache.

Her blankets lay neatly rolled within a tarpaulin. There was her
grub-box with stones upon the cover to keep out four-footed prowlers.
Her spare moccasins were hanging from the branches to dry.

She made Sam sit down, in a patch of goodly sunshine, and in a jiffy
had a crackling fire of dry willow blazing before him. He took off
his coat and hung it to dry.

"Tak' off your shirt, too," she said. "Dry quicker."

Sam shook his head, blushing.

"Go on," she said coolly. "I guess you got ot'er shirt on, too."

The blue flannel shirt joined the coat beside the fire.

She handed him a towel to dry his hair with. Afterward she produced a
comb.

"I comb your hair nice," she said.

Sam started away in a panic and held out his hand for the comb. Bela
let him have it with a regretful look at the thick, bright hair. She
started to brew tea.

"Don't be mad wit' me for 'cause I laugh," she said cajolingly. "Some
tam, maybe, I fall in water. I let you laugh all you want."

He looked at her startled. He dared not glance forward at any future
with her. Nevertheless, in spite of himself, he was relenting. He
would have relented quicker had she not continually put him out of
conceit with himself by making him blush. Naturally, he blamed her for
that.

Meanwhile there was delicious bodily comfort in sitting under shelter
of the willows, warmed on the outside by the generous sunshine and the
crackling fire, and made all mellow within by hot tea. The corners of
his mouth began to turn up.

His curiosity concerning her was still active. Remembering something
she had said before, he asked: "Who is Musgooses?"

She smiled at his pronunciation.

"Musq'oosis," she corrected. "That name mean little bear. He is my
friend. He friend to my fat'er, too. He is little. Got crooked back.
Know everything."

"Where do you live, Bela?" he asked.

"Over the lake by Hah-wah-sepi," she answered readily. On second
thought, she corrected the statement. "No; before I am live there. My
mot'er live there. Now I live where I am. Got no home. Got no people."

"But if your mother lives there, that's your home, isn't it?" said Sam
the respectable.

Bela shrugged. "She got stay wit' her 'osban'," she replied. "He no
good. He w'at you call 'obo!"

"What did you leave for?" asked Sam.

She frowned at the difficulty of explaining this in English. "Those
people are poor an' foolish, an' dirty people," she said. "They not
lak me ver' moch. I not lak them ver' moch. Only my mot'er. But I am
live there before for 'cause I not know not'ing. Well, one day I hit
my fat'er wit' a stick--no, hit my mot'er's 'osban' wit' a stick. So
my mot'er tell me my fat'er a white man. Her fat'er white man, too. So
I mos' white. So I go 'way from those people."

"But you've got to have some home--somebody to live with!" said Sam
anxiously.

She glanced at him through her lashes. She shrugged. "Musq'oosis tell
me what to do," she said simply. "He is my friend."

Sam in his concern for her situation forgot himself.

"I--I'd like to be your friend, too," he stammered.

Bela smiled at him dazzlingly. "I lak hear you say that," she returned
simply.

They fell silent, mutually embarrassed, but not unhappy. There was
something both delightful and dangerous in their proximity within that
secret circle. The eyes of both confessed it.

"Will you eat?" asked Bela, "I have bread and fish."

He shook his head. "I have to go soon," he replied with a glance at
the sun.

Her face fell. "I lak feed anybody come to my place," she said
wistfully.

"Oh, well, go ahead," assented Sam, smiling.

She hastened to prepare a simple meal. Self-consciousness did not
trouble her if she might be busy. Sam loved to follow her graceful
movements by the fire. What harm? he asked the watch-dog within. -Yes.
They are factors for the estate of Dr.

Scott of Melby.

12,060. Do the men look upon themselves as being bound?

-They are not really bound. They have a little liberty.

12,061. But they think they ought to sell their fish to Garriock &
Co. rather than to another?

-Yes, that is what is understood, but they are not really bound.

12,062. In what way have you observed that feeling among the men, that
they ought to sell to Garriock & Co.?

Do they sometimes speak of it to you?

-If Garriock & Co. offered them the same price as other merchants,
they consider they ought to give them the preference; that is the
only way in which I have seen it.

12,063.

Would they sell to Garriock & Co. if they were offered a less price?

-I don't think they would.

12,064. They would be independent enough not to agree to that?- I
think so.

But there is a confusion there.

I could not enter into explanations upon that point fully.

12,065.

Why?-Because I don't think it is necessary.

12,066.

But that is just the very point I want to know about.

What have you to say with regard to it?-I know that sometimes, if I
were offering the same price as Garriock & Co., I would not get
the fish from the men.

12,067.

Have you tried that recently?-I have.

12,068. Were you willing to resume the business of buying fish?

- Certainly.

12,069. But the competition of Garriock & Co. was too much for you?-Not
the competition, because I offered the same price, and perhaps
even more, and could not get them.

12,070.

Do you mean that Garriock & Co. had such an advantage over you,
from their position as factors and proprietors in the district,
that you could not venture to compete with them?

-Yes, I ventured, and I could not get the fish.

12,071. Was that the reason why you gave up the fish-buying originally?-No,
that was not the reason.

I had some small vessels, and they were unsuccessful, and I just dropped
out from the business.

12,072.

But you think that the buying of the fish from the fishermen might be
more remunerative lately than it was before?-I could not say about
that; but the fishermen had the liberty to cure their own fish if they
had liked, and then they sold them dry.

12,073.

Was it dry fish that you proposed to purchase?-Yes. It was dry fish
that I made the offer to buy, but we would not get them even if we
had given the same price as Garriock & Co., or more.

12,074.

How long is it since you offered to buy the dry fish?

- Perhaps 4 or 5 years ago.

12,075. In what way did you make your intention known: did you offer
to certain fishermen at that time [Page 297] to take their fish?-Yes.
I have sometimes offered them to buy their fish, but I never could
get them to sell them to me.

12,075.

[sic] Do you remember any particular men to whom you made that offer?-I
could not mention any particular man; but I have offered to several
crews to buy their fish, and they would not sell them.

12,076. Do you remember what skippers you offered to?

-If it is necessary to give names, I would rather do so in private.

[Hands in the name of one skipper and crew.]
12,077. Do you remember any others?-I might mention several, but
I don't think it is necessary.

12,078. What answers did they give to your offer?-I sometimes offered
the currency, or above the currency, but that did not matter: I
could not get their fish.

12,079.

Did they decline to entertain your offer?

-Yes.

12,080. What did they say was their reason?-They considered
themselves as a sort of tied down to sell to one; but I know they
were not tied down, and that they could have sold their fish to any
one they chose.

12,081.

But they did say to you that they were tied down?

-They did.

12,082.

Was it through a fear of disobliging the factor that they refused
to sell their fish?

-I suppose so. Perhaps they thought that if they required a favour
again, they might not get it so easily if they made a change.

12,083. If the favour they expected was in the way of an advance, would
they not have got that from you?-Yes, at any time, either in money
or in goods.

12,084. What other favour could they expect from the factor?

- From the fact of Messrs.

Garriock & Co. being factors, they had more power than I had with
regard to the men.

12,085.

Did the men express any fear of being turned out of their holdings?

-They did not.

12,086. But that may have been in their minds?-Perhaps it might.

12,087. Did you ever hear of any influence being used by Garriock & Co.
to secure the fish of these men or of other men?

-I cannot say that they used any undue influence; but, of course,
it was an understood thing that they had the first chance, and the
only chance of them.

Where Messrs. Garriock cure the fish, of course they have the fish
to themselves; but where they do not cure them, it is considered
that they shall have the first chance of buying the fish.

12,088.

Where they cure, of course, there is an engagement with the men at
the beginning of the season?-No. That was the case about 30 years ago
but it is not so now.

12,089. But in the ling fishing the crews are all engaged in the
beginning of the season?

-Yes; but there is no price fixed at the beginning of the season. About
30 years ago that was the case and there was some more competition.

12,090. Was it the case 30 years ago that the price was fixed at the
beginning of the season?

-Yes, there was a price fixed, and sometimes agreements were written
on paper for the ling fishing, but that practice fell away.

Sometimes the fishermen got above the real value of the fish under
that system.

12,091.

Do you know whether that system existed only in your part of the
island?

-No, it existed all over Shetland more or less unless where the factors
had control over the fishermen.

At that time every man who had his freedom could sell his fish to
the best bidder.

12,092.

But he can do so still, only the price is now fixed according to
the current rate at the end of the season?

-He cannot do so exactly in every place in Shetland. The price is not
understood to be known until the fish are sold, which, I think,
makes the fishermen scarcely so persevering in fishing as they were
when they did know the price.

I think when the price was fixed at the beginning of the season, they
persevered even more than they do now.

12,093. Was that system given up before you ceased to be in the
business?-No, it continued after that.

The thing which made the price to be fixed at the beginning was,
that other buyers than the native buyers came into the market, and there
was more competition.

12,094.

Was there much more competition at that time than there is now?

-In buying fish green there was more competition, but now the
competition is very little.

12,095.

How do you account for that?-Where factors have the power, it is
understood that the men must fish either to the factor or the
proprietor.

12,096.

Do you think the factors have more power now than they had in those
times?

-I rather think they have in some cases.

12,097.

In those times was it not the rule that the fishermen were always
bound to deliver the fish to the proprietor, or to some one appointed
by him?-It was.

12,098. So that, in that case, there could not be competition?- There
were several people who had the chance of buying the fish at that
time; but, of course, they could not get their summer fish.

They might get fish during the spring season in small quantities, but
that was all.

12,099.

I thought you were speaking with reference to the summer fishing,
when you said that in those times there was a great deal of competition,
and that the price was fixed at the beginning of the season?

-Yes; that was the case about thirty years ago but within the last twenty
years it has fallen away.

12,100. But even at the time you speak of, were not the fishermen very
frequently bound to deliver their fish to the proprietors or their
factors, or tacksmen?

-They were bound in some places, but not so much in our part of the
country as elsewhere.

12,101.

The men were not so much bound in the district that you speak of
when the price was fixed at the beginning of the season?-The price
was fixed in many cases, but not in all.

12,102. Then the fish in those times were bought from the fishermen
green?-Yes.

12,103.

And it was the price for green fish that was so fixed?- Yes. The
proprietor never fixed the price. It would only be fixed by a buyer
or it merchant.

12,104.

Do you think it would be advantageous to return to that practice of
fixing the price at the beginning of the season for green fish?-Where
fish are bought green, I think it would.

12,105. Would it not be better for all parties if the fish were always
bought green, and cured by a professional curer?-I don't think it
would. There are some of the fishermen who can cure the fish as
well as any professional curer.

12,106.

Are the fishermen in your neighbourhood generally supplied with vats and
other implements for curing fish?-Most of them who cure for themselves
have implements of their own.

They only require their supplies, such as lines, and salt, and
food from the merchant.

12,107. I suppose these independent fishermen who cure their own fish,
frequently take their lines and salt and materials for curing from
you?

-They get them anywhere they choose.

They have much more liberty in that way in our parish than, I think,
they have in any part of Shetland.

12,108.

Would you say that curing by the men themselves is practised to it
greater extent in your parish than anywhere else in Shetland?

-Much more. Since the men began to cure their own fish they have got
on well, and they have got much out of debt, and become more
independent.

12,109.

When did they begin to cure their fish?-It is about fifteen or sixteen
years since it came to be practised to any extent; but there are
it good many of them who do not cure their own fish yet.

I should say there are about one half of them who sell their fish
green.

12,110. Do those who sell their fish green engage at the beginning of
the season with Garriock & Co.?-They sell their fish to them.

They do not have any price stated at the beginning, but are settled
with according to the current price at the end of the season.
12,111.

Do you find that the men who are so engaged to sell their fish
according to the current price at the end of the season, are less
frequent customers at your [Page 298] shop than those who cure their
own fish?

-Yes; that must be a consequence.

12,112.

Why?-Because it is understood that their supplies must come from
the place where their goods are going.

They are a sort of bound; they are not independent; but if they
were curing for themselves, then they would have their freedom to
go anywhere they chose.

12,113.

Do you mean that the men who are paid according to the current price
at the end of the season want to get their supplies on credit?

-Of course they must get their supplies on credit at the place where
they are giving the proceeds of their work.

12,114.

Is there any other reason why they deal with the fish-curer for
their supplies?

Does a man who has money in his hand go to the fish-curer by preference
for his supplies, as well as a man who has not?

-Some men would go there even although they had the money, and get an
advance on credit.

12,115. Do the men think it an advantage to get their supplies on
credit?

-Some men do, even although they paid a higher price for them.

12,116. And they might at the same time have money in the bank?

-Yes.

12,117.

Do you think that is a common notion among the men?

- No, I don't think it is a common notion.

12,118. Are the men who act in that way men to whom you would yourself
give credit?-Yes. I have sometimes given them credit for their
supplies, such as salt and lines, and anything they wanted.

12,119. Would you consider yourself safe in giving them credit, even if
they were engaged to deliver their green fish to Messrs.

Garriock & Co.?-No.

I would not like to deal with the men who sell their green fish,
because I would run the risk of not getting my money from
them.

12,120.

But you say the men will take advances from the curer during the
summer, even although they are quite able to pay for what they are
getting?

       -Some men will do so from their natural disposition; but, as a rule,
if the skipper goes to a certain place for his supplies, it is
considered that his men must go there too.

12,121.

How is that?-The skipper, of course, has some control over his crew on
shore as well as at sea.

12,122.

Do you think the skipper sometimes advises or persuades his men to
go to a particular shop?

-He might; I cannot say that he would not, but that is not known
to me.

12,123. Do you suppose there is any understanding that it is
part of the skipper's duty to guide his men to the right shop?-I don't
think the skipper is tempted in any way to do that.

I don't know that he derives any benefit from it.

There may be a premium given to a skipper for being the best fisher; but
I don't think the skippers are tampered with to control their crews
as to the shops where they are to deal.

12,124.

Who has the appointment of the skipper?-The crew may choose a man for
themselves.

12,125.

Have you noticed, as a rule, that the skippers deal at the fish
merchant's shop more commonly than the men?

-No. I think there is no difference in that way, so far as I have
seen.

12,126.

Then the only reason you can suggest for men who sell their green
fish dealing at the shop of the curer, is because there is a sort
of understanding among them that they shall take their supplies there?

-Yes.

In fact, they would not get them anywhere else because they could
not get the money to pay for them.

       The man who buys the fish has the first chance of the men's money;
while we who don't buy the fish have only a second or a third chance
of being paid.

We would not care to supply men in that way, because we don't consider
ourselves safe.

12,127. But in giving supplies to the men who cure their own fish, you
think you have some security?

-Certainly.

12,128. What is that security?-The men are more independent, and
if they sell their fish south, they are sure to get their money
at the time.

12,129.

But you told me that these men are under some kind of obligation to
sell their fish to Garriock & Co.?-There is some understanding of
that kind, but they are not bound.

12,130.

They always give them the preference?-Yes.

12,131. And you have been unable to buy their fish from them?- Yes.
Even if I were to offer a somewhat higher price, I know that I
would not get them.

12,132.

If that is the state of matters with them, then you have not much more
security for your advances in their case than in the case of the other
men?

-I have security. There is no fear for them.

12,133. May they not be taking supplies all the season from the
merchant's shop?

-We have a good chance of knowing where they get their supplies; and
men like that, who are independent, are not likely to run away with the
money when they get paid for their fish. They are safe enough to pay
their accounts.

12,134. Then your reliance is very much on the character of the
men themselves?-Certainly.

12,135.

Do you find that the men who cure their own fish are of a more reliable
character, and more to be depended upon, than the others?-Generally
they are, and they are more persevering.

12,136. I suppose Messrs. Garriock & Co. know pretty well what men
deal at your shop, and what men deal at their own?

-I think they do.

12,137. Have you ever obtained from them, or through them, payment
of any accounts that have been run up by men at your shop?-No. I
would not like to apply to them for that. I think they would rather
pay the money to the men themselves.
12,138. Do the men who deal with you upon accounts generally keep
pass-books?-Some of them do.
12,139. Do you find any irregularity or difficulty in settling their
accounts, in consequence of the want of pass-books?-I find none;
but, of course, if a man understands accounts, and keeps a pass-book,
I find it more agreeable to settle with him. The more ignorant a
man is, the more trouble you have in settling with him.
12,140. Are there any other buyers of dried fish in that district
than Garriock & Co.?By and by the coquettish moon peeped between the tree-trunks
across the creek and touched his face and his fair hair with a silvery
wand. Whereupon it was no longer a mere man; it was young Hermes
sleeping beside the water. The shadow stole from among the trees above
the sand-bank and crept down to his side. It knelt there with clasped
hands. It showed a white face in the moonlight, on which glistened two
diamonds.

By and by it rose with energetic action, and still moving noiselessly
as a ghost, turned toward the lake, and clambering around the barrier
of ice, dropped to the edge of the water on the other side.

Here a dugout was drawn up on the stones, well hidden from the view of
any one on shore. She got in and, paddling around the ice, entered the
mouth of the creek. Grounding her craft with infinite care on the
sand, she groped for a moment in her baggage, then arose and stepped
ashore, carrying several long, thin strips of moose-hide.


CHAPTER X

ON THE LAKE


The three men sleeping on the floor of the shack suddenly started up
in their blankets.

"What was that?" they asked each other.

"A shout for help," said Jack.

Joe sprang up and opened the door. Some confused sounds from the
direction of the creek reached his ears, but he had not enough
woodcraft to distinguish them from the legitimate sounds of the night.

The fire was black now. Big Jack struck a match.

"Sam's gone!" he cried suddenly.

Shand felt around the floor with his hands. "His blankets, too!" he
added.

"Treachery!" cried Joe with an oath. "You wouldn't believe me before.
That's why he hid the guns. Come on, I heard something from the
creek."

They pulled on their moccasins and, snatching coats, ran out. Husky
remained on the bed, cursing. At the creek-mouth the sand-bank was
empty. The last pallid rays of the moon revealed nothing.

They were accustomed to come there many times a day to wash or to draw
water, and the welter of foot-prints in the sand gave no clue. Finally
Joe, with a cry, pounced on a dark object at the water's edge and held
it up. It was Sam's neck handkerchief.

"Here's the mark of a boat, too, in the sand," he cried. "I knew it!
Gone together in her boat!"

"It was a man's voice I heard," objected Jack. "What for would he want
to cry out?"

"Wanted to give us the laugh when he saw his get-a-way clear," said
Joe bitterly. "Oh, damn him!"

"As soon as it's light----" muttered Shand, grinding his teeth.

"What'll you do then?" demanded Joe.

"I'll get him!" said the quiet man.

"We have no boat."

"Boat or no boat."

"Oh, you're going to do great things. He belongs to me."

Shand sneered. "Take it out on him with your tongue."

Joe replied with a torrent of abuse.

Big Jack laughed a harsh note.

"You fools!" he said. "Both of you. What do you think you're going to
do so big? She's given us an answer sooner than we expected, that's
all. If she prefers a cook to a man, that's her affair. All we got to
do is shut up. I'm going back to the shack."

They would not confess the reasonableness of Jack's words. "Go where
you like," muttered Shand. "I'll stick by myself."

Jack strode back along the path. Joe followed him, merely because he
was one of those natures who will choose an enemy's company sooner
than face the prospect of being left with his own.

They left Shand to his own devices. Husky greeted them with eager
questions. Joe cursed him, and Jack clenched his teeth upon the stem
of his pipe in grim silence.

They revived the fire and sat in front of it. Each man was jealous of
his own rage and pain and refused to share it. Joe and Husky bickered
in a futile way. Big Jack, in spite of his philosophic protestations,
kept the tail of an eye on the whitening window-pane. In the end he
rose abruptly. Joe followed suit as a matter of course.

Jack turned on him, snarling. "Have I got to be followed by you like a
dog everywhere I go?"

"What's the matter with you?" retorted Joe. "Do you own the whole out
of doors?"

Jack halted outside the door. "You take one way; I'll go the other,"
he said grimly.

Jack returned to the creek, and crossing on the stepping-stones walked
out on the point beyond and sat down on a boulder. From here he could
see a long way down the lake shore.

At this season in the latitude of Caribou night is brief. The sun
sinks but a little way below the horizon, and a faint glow hovers over
his head all night, travelling around the northern horizon to the
east, where it heralds his reappearance.

It was light in the east now and the lake was stepping into view. Big
Jack searched its misty expanse with his keen little eyes.

By and by as the light strengthened, looking down-shore he saw a tiny,
dark object steal beyond the next point and become silhouetted against
the grey. There could be no doubt of what it was. The lust of pursuit
flamed up in the man's heart. He forgot his prudent advice to his
mates.

"Making for the foot of the lake," he thought. "And the wind's against
them. It's rising. I could easy ride around the shore and cut them
off."

He got up and made his way with energetic action back to the stable.

He had no sooner picked up a saddle than Joe came in. They looked each
other over without speaking. Joe made for another saddle.

"You're free to go where you want," said Jack grimly. "I've only got
to say I choose to ride alone."

"I don't care how you ride," retorted Joe. "Keep out of my business,
that's all."

They saddled their horses in silence.

Joe said at last with a sneer: "Thought you told us to sit down and
shut up."

Jack's face flamed suddenly.

"I promised him a beating if he interfered and, by God, I mean to give
it to him before her eyes. That's what she's got to take if she picks
a cook!"

He fixed Joe with blazing eyes. "And if any man comes between me and
my promise, I'll take him first! As for the girl, she can go her way.
I wouldn't take her for a gift!"

Joe laughed unpleasantly.

As Jack started to lead his horse out of the stable, he saw what he
had not before noticed--several guns leaning in a corner of the
stable. His eyes lighted up.

"Where did they come from?" he demanded, choosing his own.

"Shand found them under the sods of the stable roof," said Joe.

"Where is Shand?"

"He has already taken a horse and gone."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam was awakened by being violently rolled over on the sand. He felt
human hands upon him, but he could not see his enemy. He struggled
with a will, but his limbs were confined by the blanket. A heavy body
knelt upon his back, and fetters were pulled around him, binding his
arms and his legs inside the blanket.

It was then that he shouted lustily. It was cut short by a cotton gag
in his mouth. He was ignominiously rolled down the sand to the water's
edge. What with the darkness and the confusion of his faculties still,
he could not see who had attacked him.

Inert as a log, he was lifted up, dragged away, and finally dropped in
a boat. His captor stood away from him, panting. Sam rolled over on
his back and saw--Bela.

For a moment he was paralyzed by astonishment--a woman to dare so!
Without looking at him she quickly took her place in the stern and
pushed off. Suffocating rage quickly succeeded his first blankness.
Unable to move or to utter a sound, his heart nearly broke with it.

The black traitress! After all her professions of friendliness! After
making her eyes so soft and her voice so sweet! She was worse than his
ugliest suspicions had painted! He did not stop to guess why he had
been attacked. She was his enemy. That was enough.

Sounds reached them from the direction of the shack, and Bela,
lowering her head, paddled swiftly and silently for the point. Her
face showed only a dim oval in the failing light. But there was grim
resolution in its lines.

Only once did she open her lips. Sam was frantically twisting in his
bonds, though owing to his position on the keel of the dugout he did
not much threaten her stability.

Bela whispered: "If you turn us over you drown quick."

Angry as he was, the suggestion of being plunged into the lake bound
hand and foot reached him with no little force. Thereafter he lay
still, glaring at her.

They had no more than rounded the point when they heard the men come
running down to the creek. Bela continued to hug the shore. They were
soon swallowed in the murk. The moon went down.

By and by the first rays of light began to spread up the sky from the
eastern horizon, and the earth seemed to wake very softly and look in
that direction.

With the light came a breath from the east, cool as a hand on the brow
of fever. Twittering of sleepy chickadees were heard among the pines,
and out in the lake a loon laughed.

Day came with a swoop up the lake. The zephyr became a breeze, the
breeze half a gale. The leaden sheet of water was torn into white
tatters, and the waves began to crash on the ice-rimmed shore, sending
sheets of spray into the trees, and making it impossible for Bela to
land had she wished to.

This was a hard stroke of luck against her. She would have been out of
sight of the point by the time it was fully light, had it not been for
the head wind.

The dugout leaped and rolled like an insane thing. Having a
well-turned hull, she kept on top, and only spray came over the bow.
To Sam, who could see only the sky, the mad motion was inexplicable.

His anger gave place to an honest terror. If anything happened, what
chance did he stand? Bela's set, sullen face told him nothing. Her
eyes were undeviatingly fixed on a point a few feet ahead and to the
right of the bow. Twisting her paddle this way and that, she snaked
the dugout over the crests.

Though she seemed to pay no attention to him, she must have guessed
what was passing in Sam's mind. Without taking her eyes from that
point ahead where the waves came from, she felt in a bundle before her
and drew out a knife. Watching her chance, she swiftly leaned forward
and cut the bonds around his legs. When another lull came she cut his
arms free.

"Move careful," she said, without looking at him.

Sam did not need the warning. The icy quality of the spray in his face
filled him with a wholesome respect for the lake. He cautiously worked
his arms free of the blanket, and, raising himself on his elbows,
looked over the gunwale. He saw the waves come tumbling clumsily
toward them and gasped.

It seemed like a miracle the little craft had survived so long. One
glance at the shore showed him why they could not land. He fell back,
and his hands flew to the knot behind his head. He tore off the gag
and threw it overboard. Bela looked at him for the fraction of a
second.

"Well, what's your game?" he bitterly demanded. "It's pretty near
ended for both of us. I hope you're satisfied. You savage!"

Bela's eyes did not swerve again from that point ahead. In one respect
she was a savage; that was the extraordinary stolidity she could
assume. For all the attention she gave him he might have been the wind
whistling.

At first it fanned his anger outrageously. He searched his mind for
cruel taunts to move her. It was all wasted. She paddled ahead like a
piece of the boat itself, now pausing a second, now driving hard, as
those fixed, wary eyes telegraphed automatically to her arms.

One cannot continue to rail at a wooden woman. Her impassivity finally
wore him out. He fell silent, and covered his face with an arm that he
might not have to look at her. Besides, he felt seasick.

East of Nine-Mile Point the lake shore makes in sharply, forming the
wide, deep bay which stretches all the way to the foot of the lake
where Musquasepi, the little river, takes its rise. The stony,
ice-clad shores, backed by pines, continued for a mile or so, then
gave place to wide, bare mud-flats reaching far inland.

On the flats the ice did not pile up, but lay in great cakes where the
receding waters stranded it. This ice was practically all melted now,
and the view across the flats was unimpeded. It was nine miles from
the point to the intake of the river by water and fifteen miles by
land. The trail skirted inside the flats.

Bela kept to the shore until the increasing light made further
concealment useless. She then headed boldly across for the river. It
was at this time that the wind began to blow its hardest.

She could not tell, of course, if she had yet been discovered from the
point. Not knowing the ways of white men, she could not guess if they
were likely to pursue.

Under ordinary circumstances with a little start, she could easily
have beaten a horse to the river, but the head wind reversed the
chances. She might have landed on the flats, but there was not a
particle of cover there, and they would have offered a fair mark to
any one following by the trail. Moreover, Sam would have run away.

It was too rough for her to hope to escape across the lake in the
trough of the sea. So there was nothing for her but to continue to
struggle toward the river. A bank of heavy clouds was rising in the
east. It was to be a grey day.

After a while Sam looked over the edge again. The dugout seemed
scarcely to have moved. They were still but half-way across the wide
bay. On the lake side they were passing a wooded island out in the
middle. The wind was still increasing. It came roaring up the lake in
successive gusts. It was like a giant playing with them in cruel glee
before administering the _coup de grâce_. Bela could no longer keep
the crests of the waves out. Sam was drenched and chilled.

He stole another look in her face. The imminence of the danger
threatening both forced his anger into the background for the moment.
She never changed her attitude except occasionally to swing the paddle
to the other side of the boat.

At the impact of each gust she lowered her head a little and set her
teeth. Her face had become a little haggard and grey under the long
continued strain. Sam chafed under his enforced inaction.

"You have another paddle," he said. "Let me help."

"Lie down," she muttered without looking at him. "You don' know how.
You turn us over."

He lay in water impotently grinding his teeth. He could not but admire
her indomitable courage, and he hated her for being forced to admire
her. To be obliged to lie still and let a woman command was a bitter
draft to his pride.

A wave leaped over the bow, falling in the dugout like a barrowful of
stones. Sam sprang to a sitting position. He thought the end had come.
The dugout staggered drunkenly under the additional load. But Bela's
face was still unmoved.

"Lean over," she commanded, nodding toward the little pile of baggage
between them. "Under the blankets, in the top of the grub-box, my
tea-pail."

He found it, and set to work with a will to bail. As fast as he
emptied the water, more came in over the bow. The foot of the lake and
safety seemed to recede before them. Surely it was not possible a
woman could hold out long enough to reach it, he thought, glancing at
her.

"Why don't you turn about and run before the wind?" he asked.

"Can't turn now," she muttered. "Wave hit her side, turn over quick."

Sam looked ashore again. For upwards of a furlong off the edge of the
flats the breakers were ruling their parallel lines of white. Above
all the other noises of the storm the continuous roaring of these
waters reached their ears.

"You could land there," he suggested. "What if we did get turned out?
It's shallow."

She was not going to tell him the real reason she could not land. "I
lose my boat," she muttered.

"Better lose the boat than lose yourself," he muttered sullenly.

Bela did not answer this. She paddled doggedly, and Sam bailed. He saw
her glance from time to time toward a certain point inland. Seeing her
face change, he followed the direction of her eyes, and presently
distinguished, far across the flats, three tiny horses with riders
appearing from among the trees.

They were proceeding in single file around the bay. Even at the
distance one could guess they were galloping. So that was why she
would not land!

Sam did not need to be told who the three riders were. His sensations
on perceiving them were mixed. It was not difficult for him to figure
what had happened when his absence had been discovered, and he was not
at all sure that he wished to escape from his mysterious captor only
to fall into those hands.

This line of thought suddenly suggested a possible reason why he had
been carried off--but it was too humiliating to credit. He looked at
her with a kind of shamed horror. Her face gave nothing away.

By and by Sam realized with a blessed lightening of the heart that the
storm had reached its maximum. The gusts were no longer increasing in
strength; less water was coming over the bow. Not until he felt the
relief was he aware of how frightened he had been.

Bela's face lightened, too. Progress under the cruel handicap was
still painfully slow. The wind was like a hand thrusting them back;
but every gain brought them a little more under the lee of the land.
If Bela's arms held out! He looked at her wonderingly. There was no
sign of any slackening yet.

"We not sink now," she said coolly.

"Good!" cried Sam.

In their mutual relief they could almost be friendly.

Bela was heading for the intake of the river. Along the tortuous
course of that stream she knew a hundred hiding-places. The land trail
followed the general direction of the river, but touched it only at
one or two places.

The question was, could she reach the river before the horsemen? Sam
watched them, trying to gauge their rate of progress. The horses had
at least four miles to cover, while the dugout was now within a
mile--but the horses were running.

Sam knew that the trail crossed the river by a ford near the intake
from the lake, because he had come that way. If the horsemen cut off
Bela at the ford what would she do? he wondered. The outlook was bad
for him in either event. He must escape from both parties.

The horsemen passing around the bay became mere specks in the
distance. Reaching the foot of the lake they had to cover a straight
stretch of a mile and a half to the river. The trail lay behind
willows here, and they disappeared from view. It was anybody's race.

Bela, the extraordinary girl, still had a reserve of strength to draw
on. As they gradually came under the influence of the windward shore
the water calmed down and the dugout leaped ahead.

Sam watched her with a cold admiration, speculating endlessly on what
might be going on behind her mask-like face. With all her pluck, what
could she hope to gain? Obviously it would be easier to escape from
her than from three men, and he began to hope she would win.

They caught no further glimpses of the horsemen, and as they drew
closer and closer to the river the tension became acute. Suppose they
arrived simultaneously, thought Sam, would the men shoot?

Not Big Jack nor Shand, perhaps, but Joe was not to be trusted. But
surely they would see he was a prisoner. Something of the kind must
have been passing through Bela's mind. Putting down her paddle for a
moment, she threw back the blankets and drew out her gun. It had been
carefully protected from the water. She laid it on top convenient to
her hand and resumed.

"She's a good plucky one," thought Sam grimly. "As for me, I play a
pretty poor part in this affair, whichever way you look at it. A kind
of dummy figure, it seems."

So low were its shores that the intake of the river was hidden from
them until they were almost in it. Finally it opened up before them,
with its wide reaches of sand stretching away on either hand, willows
backing the sand, and a pine ridge rising behind the willows.

Here the wind whistled harmlessly over their heads, and the surface of
the water was quiet except for the catspaws darting hither and
thither. Before entering the river, Bela paused again, and bent her
head to listen.

"Too late!" she said. "We can't pass!"

At the same moment the horses burst from behind the willows a quarter
of a mile across the sand. They had the ford!

"We can't pass," Bela repeated, and then with a gasp, in which was
more of anger than fear, she added: "An' they got guns, too!"


CHAPTER XI

THE ISLAND


Seeing the dugout, the men raised a shout and bore down upon them
across the sand. Bela was not yet in the river. She swiftly brought
the dugout around and paddled down the lake shore across the river
from the men.

They, suspecting her of a design to land on this side, pulled up their
horses, and returning to the ford, plunged across. Whereupon Bela
coolly paddled out into the lake. By this manoeuvre she was enabled
to get out of range of their guns before they got to the water's edge.

Holding her paddle, she turned to watch them. The sounds of their
curses came down the wind. They were directed against Sam, not Bela.

Sam smiled bitterly. "I catch it both ways," he muttered.

"You want them catch you?" asked Bela, with an odd look.

Sam scowled at her helplessly.

She rested on her paddle, looking up and down the shore and out on the
lake, manifestly debating with herself what to do. To Sam their
situation seemed hopeless. Finally Bela took up the paddle with an air
of resolution.

"Well, what the devil are you goin' to do?" demanded Sam.

"We go to the island," she answered coolly.

An island! Sam's heart sank. He saw his escape indefinitely postponed.
To be kept prisoner on an island by a girl! Intolerably humiliating
prospect! How would he ever be able to hold up his head among men
afterward?

"What the devil are you up to, anyhow?" he broke out angrily again.
"Do you think this will do you any good? What do you expect to gain by
it?"

"What you want me do?" asked Bela sullenly, without looking at him.

"Land, and tell them the truth about what happened!"

"They too mad," said Bela. "Shoot you before they listen. Not believe,
anyway."

Sam could not deny the reasonableness of this.

"Oh, damn!" he cried impotently. "You've got me into a nice mess! Are
you crazy, or just bad? Is it your whole idea to make trouble between
men? I've heard of women like that. One would think you wanted ----
Say! I'll be likely to thank you for this, won't I? The sight of you
is hateful to me!"

Bela made her face like a wall, and looked steadily over his head at
her course. There is no satisfaction in flinging words against a wall.
Sam's angry voice dwindled to a mutter, then fell silent.

The island lay about a mile offshore. In a chaos of lowering grey sky
and torn white water, it seemed to hang like a serene and lovely
little world of itself.

The distant shores of the lake were spectral in the whirl of the
elements, and the island was the one fixed spot. It was as brilliant
as an emerald in a setting of lead. A beach of yellow sand encircled
it, with a border of willows, and taller trees sticking up in the
middle.

Borne on the shoulders of the great wind, they reached it in a few
minutes. Bela paddled under the lee side and landed in quiet water.
Sam rose on his chilled and stiffened limbs, and stepping ashore,
stood off, scowling at her blackly.

-I don't know about that. For instance, instead of getting money from
the seaman, he might get an order on the agent, the same as he might
get an order on the bank.

10,998.

But the other agent who was the creditor of the seaman does not
know necessarily that you have money belonging to the man in your
hands as agent?

-Not unless the man tells him.

10,999.

Do you not still pass lists each year from one agent to another, stating
the sums which are due to you by the men?-No.

11,000. I do not speak merely of seamen indebted to you; but do you
not pass lists of all seamen whom you engage for the whaling?-Not at
all.

We have no occasion to do that, because it could serve no purpose
whatever.

11,001.

Why?-Because an agent who had a seaman in his books as a debtor would
know at once whether that man was engaged by another agent in a
particular year.

11,002.

Is it the practice for one agent to be allowed to inspect the lists
or books of another, in order to ascertain what seamen have been
engaged?-I never did that or saw it done.

11,003. I suppose there are means of finding out in a small place
like Lerwick what seamen in a particular year have been engaged?

-We sometimes found it out in the Shipping Office.
Whenever we wanted to see where a man was, we went there.

11,004.

Can you state distinctly that in every case where such an order is
presented for payment of a seaman's debt, it is presented without
any previous communication between the agents?

-I suppose it always is, but I don't know.

The one agent has no interest whatever in recovering debts for the other;
he gets no
remuneration for it.

11,005. If that is the case, why does he not refuse to honour the
order?-I would not dishonour the order if the man had funds in our
hands.

11,006.

But the Merchant Shipping Act requires that all wages shall be
paid, not in that way, not in obedience to any order, but in the
presence of the shipping master in hard cash?

-That is true; but it still allows a man to pay his debts.

11,007.

Should not the agent leave him to pay his debts himself, and so obey the
law?-It is merely as an accommodation to the seaman that we pay his
debt for him, and we trust to his honesty that he will repay it
to us.

11,008.

But still, on the part both of the agent and of the seaman, is not
that an infringement of the law?-No, it is not an infringement.

11,009.

Does not the law require the whole wages, without any deductions
other than those specified in the Act to be paid over in presence of
the shipping master?-Yes, and that is always done.

11,010.

If that is so, how is it possible, for you in obedience to such an
order to retain the man's wages?-I do not retain them.
The man comes back and repays his debt.

11,011. Then that is not retention in obedience to an order?

-It is not retention: there has been no retention since 1867. Every
man, since then has got his money in the Shipping Office, and those
who had accounts in the shop came back and paid them.

11,012.

Then how did it happen that you spoke of these orders being implemented?-I
was referring to the period before 1867.

11,013. Your statement now is, that no such orders have been given,
or acted upon since 1867?

-They may have been given, but there have been no deductions from
the seaman's wages since then, except the captain's account, the
first month's advance, and the allotments.

With these exceptions, the whole money was paid down to the seaman
in the Shipping Office, and when he had an account in the shop he
came and paid it.

11,014.

Will your books show that?-Yes.

11,015.

In what way do, your books prove it?-I request that the shipping
master be called upon to prove it.

11,016. To prove what?

-To prove that the men get their wages in money in the Shipping
Office.

11,017. I intend to call Mr. Gatherer to prove that but you have come
forward in order to contradict Mr.

       Hamilton's report, and the question I asked is, in what way do your
books prove that no such orders have been honoured since 1867?

-Mr. Gatherer will prove that since 1867 the men have got their wages
paid down to them in money.

11,018. Am I to record that your books do not prove that?-They do not
prove that. I want the shipping master to prove it.

11,019 Then your books will not prove that all the wages have been paid
to the men in cash, and that no sum has been retained in obedience
to a seaman's order?

-That can be proved by the shipping master.

11,020. But your books do not prove it?-We have accounts with the
seamen, and when they get their wages, they invariably come back
and settle these accounts.

We do not retain anything; we invariably pay them the whole money that
is due to them, and they can either come back or not as they
choose.

11,021. Who is it that hands over the money to the men on behalf of Mr.
Leask in presence of the shipping master?-It is generally Mr.
Andrew Jamieson, and sometimes myself. One of us attends at the
Shipping Office along with the men, and hands over their cash to
them in presence of the shipping master.

11,022.

Do you generally find that a seaman comes down to your office immediately
after he has been paid, and settles any account that he is due?

-We generally find that that is the case; in fact, always when they
have accounts they come down and settle them.

11,023. Have you known any exceptions to that rule?-I have only known
one man who tried not to come down and settle his account.

11,024. Who was he?-He was a lad belonging to Lunnasting, named
Robert Grains.

He declined to come down and settle his account but he afterwards
came on the same day. I think that occurred two years ago.

11,025. When was he asked to come?-I suppose he never was asked particularly;
but it is understood that every man has to pay his debt when he
is able.

11,026.

But you say that he declined?-I believe he declined on the ground that
he required the money. I don't know whether he was asked to come or
whether he merely said of his own accord that he would not be able to
pay his account just now, as he required the money.

11,027. Was that done in your presence?-No; it was in Mr.
Jamieson's.

11,028. Did you see the man when he came back to the office?-I don't
remember seeing him. It was Mr. Jamieson who told me of the
circumstance.

11,029.

When a man comes down to settle after receiving [Page 270] his money
at the Shipping Office does he hand over the whole money into your
hands, or does he merely settle the amount of his account?-He
sometimes does the one way and sometimes the other.

11,030. Sometimes he may hand over the whole money for you to settle
with him?-Yes; and at other times he asks what he is due.

11,031. When he hands over the whole money to you, does it ever
happen that the accounts of another shipping agent are settled at the
same time in your office-It has not happened since 1867.

11,032.

Is there anything in the state of the law to prevent that from being
done if the man has got his cash at the Shipping Office?

-I don't think there is.

11,033. Then why has it never been done since 1867?

-I don't know; it has just happened so.

11,034. Was that done regularly previous to 1867?-A few instances might
have occurred, but it was not very general practice at all.

11,035.

       In what way before that time did you know that a man was owing
another agent unless you had the sum intimated to you by that agent,
or had lists exchanged?

-The agent very likely ascertained when the man was to settle and
came along.

11,036.

He had ascertained where the man was employed?-Yes, in what ship.

11,037. Did he do that by means of information obtained at the Custom
House?

-Possibly he might.

11,038.

Was it not by information obtained from the agent who employed the
man?-It was possibly from the Custom House, or from some other
party.

11,039. But it might have been from the agent who engaged the man?-It
is quite possible.

11,040. Was it not a regular practice to give information of that
sort?-No.

11,041.

Was such an arrangement made more commonly when the man was pretty
deep in debt?-Yes.

11,042. The agent in whose books he had run up a considerable debt
would look sharper after him, and would make inquiries at the other
agent by whom he was employed?-Yes.

11,043. So that at least to that extent there was regular system of
communication between the agents?

-It was not done to any great extent; it was merely trifling. There
were not so many men in debt as to make it a common practice.

11,044. It might come to something considerable where several hundreds
of men were engaged in the whale fishing?-Yes; but when they were
divided among four agents there would not be many.

11,045. But last year you engaged 280 men yourselves?-Yes.

11,046. And in some years the number of men employed in the sealing
and whaling would be greater?-Yes. I think we employed about 500 in
1853.

11,047. So that among 500 men employed by you it was very probable
that a considerable number should be in your debt?-I don't think there
were many of them indebted at all.

Last year there were very few indeed.

11,048. But in past years there may have been a very considerable
number when you had 500 or 600 men engaged?-When the fishing
proved a failure the debts would be very considerable.

11,049.

In going through Mr. Hamilton's Report, you have omitted a sentence
in which he says: 'It is quite common for allotments of wages to be
made out in favour of the agents, or, in other words, for the agent
to undertake to pay to himself part of the seaman's wages.' Is it quite
common for the allotment notes to be made out in favour of the
agents?

-Yes, it was quite common.

11,050. Is it sometimes done still?-We have never done it in
Mr.

Leask's office but I believe it has been done elsewhere.

11,051. Why was it never done in Mr.

Leask's office?-We just trusted to the men's honesty.

11,052.

Have you never taken an allotment note, in which the party to whom
it was payable was, not Mr.

Leask, but some one in his office?-We never took out allotment notes
at all.

11,053.

When you engage a man, does he not generally take an allotment note?-Not
generally.

11,054. Does he do it at all?-Not at all.

11,055. He gets his supplies from you without any allotment note?-Yes;
without us having any guarantee at all.

We have advanced both goods and money, to great extent, without any
allotment note.

11,056. But in these cases you were aware that he had no allotment
note?

-We have never issued any allotment notes for the last six years,
except, perhaps, in a very rare case. We may have given one or so.

11,057.

Of course, you would not have advanced him the money had there been an
allotment note left in the hands of his with or other relations, which
they were entitled to draw from you?-We would have advanced money
to parties whom we knew.

11,058. Have you frequently given money to a seaman's family during
his absence?

-Yes.

11,059. But more frequently supplies?-Not more frequently.

It was just as they wished it. If they wished supplies they got them,
but we did not wish them to take them.

11,060.

What further observation have you to make on Mr.
Hamilton's Report?-Towards the end he says that the men employed are
not free agents. I deny that. I say they are free agents, and that they
are at perfect liberty, so far as my experience goes. They can engage
with whoever they please, and take their supplies anywhere they
please.

11,061. In denying that statement, do you intend your denial to be
applicable both to the men who are in your debt and to those who
are clear?-Decidedly. The debt constitutes no hold whatever over the
men.

11,062. Even where the man has a family, and is resident in Shetland?-Yes,
even then.

11,063. And even where he is a tenant of Mr. Leask, if that happens to
be the case?-Yes. Even in that case he may go where he pleases. I
never yet saw Mr. Leask compel a man in any way. Then Mr. Hamilton
says: 'While the men employed are not free agents, however fair an
employer may desire to be, he cannot treat them as if they were;
and if, on the other hand, the employer wishes to make all he can
out of those he employs, and to take every advantage of their
dependent position, he has unlimited opportunity of appropriating
to himself all the results of their labour.'

That also I deny.

There is an insinuation there that the employers do not do what is
right; and I think the word 'appropriating' does not look very well;
but it is not correct.

The Shetland people, in general, are pretty well able to take care of
themselves, and they are sharp enough in settling, to look out that
they have got fair play.

11,064.

And even to take care that the prices charged for goods are not
unreasonably high?

-Yes; they take very good care of that.

11,065.

Have you many disputes as to the prices of goods at settling time?-Very
few indeed.

11,066.

Does that arise from the fact that your charges are very moderate,
or from the fact that the Shetlanders don't pay much attention to
that matter?

-They pay great attention to it, and an article is always priced
before they buy it.

I am quite sure that our prices are not higher than those of others;
at least so far as my experience goes.

11,067.

There is another statement in Mr.

Hamilton's Report, to which you have not referred,-that there is
no time fixed for settlement with the men who go to the seal and
whale fishing?

- That is quite correct; but it is our interest to get the
work of settlement done as speedily as possible.

11,068.

In what way is it your interest?-To get the work off our hands.

We could settle with a dozen men nearly in the same time that we can
with two or three; and if they would all come and get settled with in
one or two days, that would be so much less trouble to us.
11,069. Is it the case that the men, after being discharged from
the ship and before settlement, continue to run accounts with you
to any extent?-Very seldom.
11,070. Does it happen to some extent?-Only to a very small extent.
They seldom buy anything after they have landed. Here [showing] is
a crew of 27 men [Page 271] landed from the 'Esquimaux' on 28th
April 1870, and they were all paid off by 14th May, or in about two
weeks.
11,071. That was for a sealing voyage. Did these men engage again
for the whaling?-I believe some of them did.
11,072. Were others going south?-Some of them went south, I daresay,
and a good number of them went to the home fishing.
11,073. Have you had any case of as early a discharge in the case
of a whaling voyage?-Here [showing] is the crew of the 'Polynia'
last year. Nineteen men were landed on 26th October, and they were
all paid off and discharged by 29th November, or in about a month.
When the men don't come to be discharged, it is entirely their own
fault, not ours. We can't compel them to come. We wish them to come
as soon as possible and to settle; but sometimes they don't find
it convenient. Some of them may live 20 or 30 miles from Lerwick,
and they don't care about coming until they have to come deal about
some other business.
11,074. Is it not often more than a month before they are
discharged?-Perhaps it is. Two or three of them may stay away till
the end of the year, but that is the men's fault, not the agent's.
Mr. Hamilton says in the same paragraph: 'When he (the agent) does
pay to the man the balance of wages due to him before the superintendent,
the man has no option but to hand it all back to the agent at once,
to whom he is indebted in an equal or greater amount.' I deny that.
The man he may hand it back or not, as he chooses, but if he is an
honest man he will pay his debt.
11,075. But you don't deny that in most cases there is a debt due
to the shop?-In most cases they have an account with the shop, but
in some cases it is very small.
11,076. Can you give me an idea from your books what is the average
amount of the debts due by the men engaged in the Greenland fishing?-I
could not do that just now; but I can state that, in 1865,-which
was before we were compelled to settle with them in the Custom
House, we paid to the men of the 'Camperdown'-42 men-£1120, 12s.
3d. in cash; and out of that number Mr. Leask had only one
tenant.
11,077. That would be about £25 apiece?-Yes, on an average; but
some of these men had upwards of £50 to get. One of them had £54,
18s. 5d. to get, and he got it in cash.
11,078. Was that a very successful year?-Yes; and the following
year was somewhat similar to it.
11,079. What would be the amount of goods supplied to these men at
starting, or to their families during their absence?-About £400 for
the whole crew.
11,080. That would be about £9 apiece for the 42 men?-Yes, about
that.
11,081. Would that be the average amount of a Greenlandman's account
for the season?-No; it would be much more than the average. Less
than the half of that would be nearer the average.
11,082. But the amount of receipts due upon that voyage was
considerably above the average?-Yes; it was it very exceptional
voyage.
11,083. Was it twice as much as usual?-Yes; perhaps about that.
11,084. Do you mean that £4 or £5 is the average amount of the
account due by a seaman engaged in the whaling?-I never made any
calculation about it but I should think it would be somewhere about
that.
11,085. In what way are your accounts with these men kept? Is there
an account kept in the name of each man?-Yes. [Produces book.] There
[showing] is the account I have been referring to of the 'Camperdown.'
11,086.Must she always get the best of him? If there had only
been a man of her people there that he could take it out on! He broke
into passionate denunciations of her. It was a weird enough scene,
there on the shore in the dim dusk.

"What are you keeping me here for, anyway?" was the burden of his cry.
"What do you expect to gain by it?"

"You safe here," Bela muttered. "If we go to the shore those men kill
you, I think."

This did not help soothe him.

"I'll take my chance of that!" he cried. "I know how to deal with men.
I don't need a woman to look after me! Do you think you're going to
keep me here all summer?"

"No," she returned. "The bishop and the police comin' pretty soon.
Then you safe."

"It's all your fault anyhow!" cried Sam. "Why couldn't you let me
alone in the first place? What's your game anyhow?"

Bela was silent.

"Give me a plain answer!" he cried. "What was your idea in carrying me
off?" He blushed as he said it. "O Lord!" he added helplessly.

"I hear those men talk," Bela said sullenly. "Say they goin' kill you
in the morning. I think if I tell you, you jus' laugh. So I tak' you
away quiet."

It had not the ring of truth. "Rot!" exclaimed Sam. "Why should they
want to kill me?"

Having no answer ready, she remained silent.

"You're lying now!" cried Sam. "The truth is, you were sore because I
wasn't after you like the rest. I know women!"

Bela made an angry movement.

"What's the matter wit' you?" she said defiantly. "You t'ink you so
big and clever! W'at you know about me? If you stop cursing me all the
tam maybe you see w'at I am! If you act good to me I good to you!"

"Do you expect me to take off my hat and thank you for the privilege
of being tied up and carried off?" demanded Sam.

She hung her head. "I sorry for that," she muttered sullenly.

"Huh! Sorry won't mend anything," said Sam.

"I want be friends," she murmured.

"If you're honest you'll get the paddles and put me ashore."

She shook her head. "Not let you go till you friends wit' me."

Sam laughed harshly. "That's good! You'll wait a long time. Hope
you've got grub enough. Friendship! Rubbish! You let me go and we'll
talk."

She stood in sullen silence. Sam abruptly picked up his blankets and
turned to go.

At his move a different sound escaped her. Her hands went to her
breast. "Sam--please----"

He paused. "What do you want?"

"Sam--I say I sorry. I say I a fool."

He stood in uncomfortable silence.

"I say I fool," she repeated. "That not easy to say."

Still he had no answer.

"Why you so hard to me?" she demanded rebelliously. "Can't you see in
my heart? There is nothing but good in there for you. I want you be
good to me. I want you come wit' me so bad. So I act foolish."

Her simplicity surprised and suddenly softened him. Alone with her,
and in the all-concealing dusk, his queasy pride was not obliged to
take up arms. In return he was as simple and direct as she.

"Oh! I'm sorry, too," he said in an uncertain voice--and regretfully.
"If you're like that--if you're on the square. Something might have
come of it. But you've spoiled it. You've put me on my guard against
you for ever. A man has his pride. A man has to choose. He can't
submit to a woman. You wouldn't want a tame man. I'm sorry!"

They stood looking at each other with an odd wistfulness.

"Go back to your own fire," Bela said in a muffled voice.


CHAPTER XII

THE NEXT DAY


Sam was awakened by the rising sun. He arose sore in spirit and
unrefreshed. It promised to be a brilliant day, with a gentle breeze
from the west. Such a wind would blow him to the foot of the lake, the
nearest shore, and, observing it, he immediately started to drag the
logs he had collected down to the water's edge, careless now if Bela
discovered what he was about. Let her try to stop him if she dared!

Building a raft promised to be no easy task. He was without hammer and
nails, and he had not been long enough in the country to learn how it
might be done without. His only tool was a pocket knife.

After several fruitless experiments, he hit upon the scheme of lashing
the logs together with withes of willow. It promised to be an all-day
job, and a clumsy one at the best. Still, if the wind held fair and
light, it might serve. Raising a mast presented another problem. He
deferred consideration of that until he got the raft built.

After a while Bela appeared around the shore, bringing his breakfast.
Sam essayed taking a leaf out of her book by making believe to be
oblivious of her. She put the plate down and watched him for a while.
Sam, under her gaze, became horribly conscious of the crudeness of his
handiwork, but he worked ahead, whistling.

Finally she said scornfully: "You can't get to shore on that."

No answer from Sam.

"When you sit down, her bend in the middle. Water come over you. Raft
got be hard lak a floor."

Another silence.

"W'en wind blow she all bus' up."

No answer being forthcoming, Bela shrugged and sat down in the sand as
if she meant to spend the morning there. She gazed across the lake.
Sam scowled and fidgeted. Something told him that when it came to
holding one's tongue, Bela could beat him hollow. He worked doggedly
on, careful never to look in her direction.

After a while the astonishing girl rose and said calmly: "I tak you to
shore in my canoe now."

Sam dropped his willow strips and stared. "Eh?"

"I say I ready tak you to shore now," she repeated.

"What does this mean?" Sam demanded.

She shrugged slightly. "Ask no question. Come, if you want."

"To what shore?" he demanded suspiciously.

"Anywhere. Better go to little river, I guess. Wind blow us there
to-day. Maybe blow hard after."

"What are you up to now?" he muttered.

She had already turned up the beach. "I go get ready," she said over
her shoulder. "Better come quick."

She disappeared around the shore, leaving him much perturbed in mind.
In a minute or two he stole after to see if she were indeed getting
ready. It was true. Watching from behind the willows, he saw her tie a
poplar pole in the bow of the dugout and stay it with a rope.

Upon this rude mast she bound a yard, from which hung one of her
blankets with a rope tied to each of the lower corners. Afterward she
stowed her baggage in the boat. She worked with a determined swiftness
that suggested some particular urgency.

Finally she started back along the beach, whereupon Sam turned and,
hastening ahead of her, resumed operations on the raft as if he had
never dropped them.

"Now I guess you know why we goin' to the shore," she stated abruptly.

"I'm hanged if I do!" returned Sam.

"You got strong eyes and not see not'ing?" she asked scornfully.
"Look!"

Following the direction of her pointing finger across the lake, he
made out a black spot on the water, between them and the head of the
river.

"Those men comin' here," she said. "I am think before maybe come
to-day. Yesterday I guess they ride down the river and get Johnny
Gagnon's boat."

When she pointed it out, the object was clear enough. The rise and
fall of oars was suggested. Sam watched it doubtfully. He was ready to
welcome relief in any form from his hateful situation, but was this
relief?

"How do you expect to sail to the river when they're coming from
there?" he asked.

"I wait till come close," she replied eagerly. "Then go round ot'er
side of island. They never catch me wit' my sail. Johnny Gagnon's boat
got no sail."

Her eagerness made him suspicious. What had she up her sleeve now? he
wondered. While he could scarcely regard Jack, Shand, and Joe in the
light of deliverers, his galled pride forbade him to put himself in
her hands again. He suddenly made up his mind.

"Go ahead!" he said harshly. "Go anywhere you like! I stay here!"

Bela changed colour, and a real fear showed in her eyes. She moved
toward him involuntarily.

"They kill you if they find you here," she said.

"Not if they don't find you here, too."

"They kill you!" she insisted. "Two days they are after us. All tam
talk together what they goin' do when they catch us, and get more mad.
If they find me gone away, they get more mad again. W'en they catch
you, they got kill you for 'cause they say so many times. You are on
this little island. Nobody know. Nobody see. They are safe to kill
you. You don' go wit' me, you never leave here."

Sam, knowing the men, could not but be shaken by her words. He paled a
little, but, having announced his decision to her, pride would not
allow him to take it back.

"Go on," he said. "I stay."

The old walled look came back over Bela's face. She sat down in the
sand, clasping her knees.

"I not go wit'out you," she announced.

Sam affected to shrug.

"Just as you like. You won't help my chances any by staying here."

"They kill you, anyhow," she said in a level voice. "After they kill
you they get me. They not kill me."

Sam started and looked at her aghast. A surprising pain stabbed him.
He remembered the looks of the men upon Bela's first appearance in the
cabin. Now, after two days' pursuit they would scarcely be more humane
than then. The thought of that beautiful creature being delivered over
to them was more than he could bear.

"Bela--for God's sake--don't be a fool!" he faltered.

A subtle smile appeared on her lips. She was silent.

His pride made another effort. "Ah, you're only bluffing!" he said
harshly. "You can't get me going that way."

She looked at him with a strange, fiery intensity. "I not bluffin',"
she replied quietly. "I do w'at I say. If I want say I put my hand in
the fire, I hold it there till it burn off. You know that."

In his heart he did know it, however he might rage at being forced to
do what she wanted him to do.

"I don't care!" he cried. "You can't lead me by the nose! I'm my own
master. I didn't get you into this. You'll have to take your chance as
I take mine."

Bela said nothing.

Out of sheer bravado Sam set to work again to bind his logs together.
His hand shook. There was little likelihood now that he would need a
raft.

The approaching boat had already covered half the distance to the
island. They could now make out three figures in it, one steering,
each of the other two wielding an oar. The lake was glorious in the
strong sunshine. All the little ripples to the east were tipped with
gold.

Five minutes passed, while obstinacy contended silently with
obstinacy. Bela sat looking at nothing with all the stoicism of her
red ancestors; Sam maintained his futile pretence of business.
Occasionally he glanced at her full of uncertainty and unwilling
admiration. Bela never looked at him.

At the end of that time the boat was less than a quarter of a mile
offshore. They saw the steersman point, and the two oarsmen stop and
look over their shoulders. Evidently they had discovered the two
figures on the beach, and wondered at their supineness. They came on
with increased energy.

Bela held the best cards. Sam finally threw down his work with an
oath.

"I can't stand it!" he cried shakily. "I don't care about myself, but
I can't see a woman sacrificed--even if it's your own mulishness! I
don't care about you, either--but you're a woman. You needn't think
you're getting the best of me. I'll hate you for this--but I can't
stand it!"

Bela sprang up swiftly and resolutely.

"Come!" she exclaimed. "I don' care what mak' you come, if you come!"

She pointed to the longest way round the shore. "This way," she
directed. "I want them follow this way so I sail back ot'er side."

As they ran around the beach, a faint shout reached them from the
water. As soon as they had passed out of sight of the boat, Bela
pulled Sam into the bushes, and they worked back under cover to a
point whence they could watch their pursuers in comparative safety.

"Maybe they goin' land this side," she suggested. "If they land, run
lak hell and jomp in my boat."

Sam never thought of smiling.

Five minutes of breathless suspense succeeded. Suppose the men landed
and, dividing, went both ways around the beach, what would they do?
However, it appeared that they intended to row around the island and,
as they thought, cut off Bela's escape by water. But the watchers
could not be sure of this until the boat was almost upon them. Finally
Bela looked at Sam, and they dashed together for the dugout.

All was ready for the start, the boat pointing, bow first, into the
lake. In the excitement of the last few minutes they had forgotten
Sam's blankets. It was too late to think of them now.

Sam got in first and, obeying Bela's instructions, braced his feet
against the bottom of the mast. She pushed off and paddled like a
wild woman until she could weather the island under her square sail.
They succeeded in making the point before the rowboat appeared from
around the other side of the island. Finally the white blanket, with
its wide black bars, caught the wind, and Bela ceased paddling.

To Sam it seemed as if they stopped moving upon the stilling of that
vigorous arm. He looked anxiously over his shoulder. She was watching
their progress through the water with an experienced eye.

"Never catch us if the wind hold," she said calmly. "Johnny Gagnon's
boat ver' heavy boat."

They had a start of upward of a quarter of a mile when their perplexed
pursuers, having almost completed a circuit of the island, finally
caught sight of them sailing blithely down the lake. A great roar of
anger came down the wind to them.

"Let them curse," said Bela. "Cursin' won't catch us. Already they
rowin' half an hour. Get tire' soon."

"They've got a spare man to change to," Sam reminded her. He was now
as keen to give them the slip as Bela. The mainland ahead promised
freedom; not only freedom from his late masters, but freedom from her,
too.

Looking over their shoulders, they saw the steersman change to one of
the oars. Thereafter the rowboat came on with renewed speed, but the
dugout seemed to draw steadily ahead.

Sam's heart rose. Bela, however, searching the wide sky and the water
for weather signs, began to look anxious.

"What is it?" asked Sam.

"Wind goin' down," she replied grimly.

Sure enough, presently the heavy sail began to sag, and they could
feel the dugout lose way under them. They groaned involuntarily. At
the same moment their pursuers perceived the slackening of the wind
and shouted in a different key.

The wind freshened again, and once more died away. Now the dugout
forged ahead; now the rowboat began to overhaul them. It was nip and
tuck down the lake between sail and oars.

The shore they were making for began to loom nearer, but the puffs of
wind were coming at longer and longer intervals, and finally they ran
into a glassy calm, though they could see slants of wind all about
them, a situation to drive pursued sailors frantic.

Bela paddled manfully, but her single blade was no match for two long
oars. The sail was a handicap now. Bela had staked everything on it,
and they could not take it down without capsizing the dugout. The
oarsmen came rapidly, with derisive shouts in anticipation of a speedy
triumph.

"You've got your gun," muttered Sam. "You're a better shot than any of
them. Use it while you have the advantage."

She shook her head. "No shoot. Too moch trouble mak' already."

"Plug their boat, then," said Sam.

She still refused. "They die in cold water if boat sink."

"We might as well jump overboard, then," he said bitterly.

"Look!" she cried suddenly. "Wind comin', too!"

Behind the rowboat a dark-blue streak was creeping over the surface of
the lake.

"Ah, wind, come quick! Come quick!" Bela murmured involuntarily. "A
candle for the altar! My rabbit-skin robe to Père Lacombe!"

At the same time she did not cease paddling.

The rowers saw the breeze coming, too, and, bending their backs, sent
the water flying from their oars. They managed to keep ahead of it.
Both boats were now within a furlong of the river-head. The race
seemed over. The rowboat drew even with the dugout, and they looked
into their pursuers' faces, red with exertion and distorted in cruel
triumph.

The steersman was Joe. "Don't stop," he yelled to the heaving oarsmen,
"or she'll give us the slip yet! Get ahead and cut her off! You damned
dish-washer, we've got you now!" he added for Sam's benefit.

With a sharp crack, Big Jack's oar broke off short. He capsized
backward into Shand, knocking him off his seat as well. At the same
instant the whispering breeze came up and the blanket bellied out.

Shand and Jack were for the moment inextricably entangled in the
bottom of the boat. Emotional Joe cursed and stamped and tore at his
hair like a lunatic. Loud laughter broke from Sam and Bela as they
sailed away.

Joe beside himself, snatched up his gun and opened fire. A bullet went
through the blanket. Bela and Sam instinctively ducked. Perhaps they
prayed; more likely they did not realize their danger until it was
over. Other shots followed, but Joe was shooting wild. He could not
aim directly at Sam, because Bela was between. He emptied his magazine
without doing any damage.

In the reaction that followed Bela and Sam laughed. In that moment
they were one.

"Feels funny to have a fellow slinging lead at you, eh?" said Sam.

"Musq'oosis say after a man hear bullet whistle he is grown," answered
Bela.

A few minutes later the river received them. There was a straight
reach of a third of a mile, followed by innumerable, bewildering
corkscrew bends all the way to the head of the rapids, thirty miles or
more. Out in the lake behind them their pursuers were struggling
forward, sculling with the remaining oar.

Bela watched anxiously to see what they would do when they got in the
river. If they knew enough to go ashore and take to the land trail, it
was possible that even on foot they might cut her off at a point below
where the trail touched the river.

Apparently, however, they meant to follow by water. At the last sight
she had of them before rounding the first bend they were still
sculling.

The river pursued its incredibly circuitous course between cut banks
fringed with willows. All the country above, invisible to them in the
dugout, was a vast meadow. A steady, smooth current carried them on.

On the outside of each bend the bank was steep to the point of
overhanging; on the inside there was invariably a mud flat made gay
with water flowers. So crooked was the river that Jack-Knife Mountain,
the only object they could see above the willows, was now on their
right hand, now on their left.

On the turns they sometimes got a current of wind in their faces and
came to a dead stop. Now that they no longer required it, the wind was
momentarily strengthening.

"Wouldn't it be better to take the sail down?" Sam suggested.

"Can't tak' it down wi'out land on shore," Bela answered sullenly.

Sam comprehending what was the matter, chuckled inwardly. On the next
bend, seeing her struggles with the baffling air-currents, he asked
teasingly:

"Well, why don't you go ashore and take it down?"

"If I land, you promise not run away?" she said.

Sam laughed from a light heart. "Not on your life!" he said. "I'm my
own master now."

Bela had no more to say.

"Where are you bound for?" Sam presently asked.

"Down river," she answered.

"I'll have to be leaving you," said Sam mockingly. "I'm going the
other way. To the head of the lake."

"If you go back they catch you."

"I'll lie low till they're thrown off the scent. I'll walk around the
north shore."

"If you stay with me little while, pretty soon we meet police comin'
up," she suggested. "Then they can't touch you."

"Much obliged," replied Sam. "I've no fancy to be jumped on at night
again and tied up like a roasting fowl."

"I promise I not do that again," said Bela.

"Sure!" retorted Sam. "No doubt you've got plenty other tricks just as
good."

"If you look at me you see I speak truth," she murmured. "I your
friend, Sam."

The threatened break in her voice brought all his old disquiet surging
up again. As he put it, he suspected her of "trying to put one over on
him again." "I don't want to look at you!" he returned with a harsh
laugh.

An adverse puff of wind blew them into an overhanging willow-bush,
which became entangled with the sail and the stay-rope. Sam saw his
chance. Seizing the branches, he pulled himself to his feet and
managed to swing ashore at the cost only of wet ankles.

A sharp cry was wrung from Bela. "Sam, don't go!"

Gaining a sure footing on the bank, he faced her, laughing. "Well, how
about it now?"

There was nothing inscrutable about her face then. It worked with
emotion like any woman's.

"Don't go by yourself!" she pleaded. "You not know this country. You
got not'ing. No grub! No gun! No blanket!"

"I can walk it in two days or three," he said. "I'll build a fire to
sleep by. You can give me a little grub if you want. I'll trade my
pocket-knife for it. It's all I've got. You got me into this, anyhow."

"No sell grub," she answered sullenly. "Give all you want if you come
with me."

"Very well, keep it then," he snapped, turning away.

Her face broke up again. "No, no! I not mad at you!" she cried
hurriedly. "I give you food. But wait; we got talk." She drove the
canoe on a mud-bank beyond the willows and scrambled out.

Sam, scowling and hardening at her approach, was careful to keep his
distance. He suspected her of a design to detain him by force.

"There's been too much talk," he growled. "You'd better hustle on
down. They'll be here soon."

"Sam, don' go!" she begged. "W'at you do at head of lake? Not get no
job but cook. Stay wit' me. We got boat and gun and blankets. We need
no more. I show you all w'at to do. I show you fishin' and huntin'.
When winter come I show you how to trap good fur. You will be rich
with me. I not bot'er you no more. I do everything you want."

In her distress Sam's angry eyes chose to see only chagrin at the
prospect of his escaping her. At the same time her beseeching face
filled him with a wild commotion that he would not recognize. His only
recourse lay in instant flight.

"Cut it out! What good does it do?" he cried harshly. "I tell you I'm
going to the head of the lake."

"All right, I tak' you there," she said eagerly. "More quick as you
can walk, too. Half a mile down the river there is a little backwater
to hide. We let those men go by and then come back. I do w'at you
want, Sam."

"Will you give me a little grub, or won't you?" he insisted. "I'd
rather starve than go with you!"

She burst into tears. "All right, I give you food," she said. She
turned back to the dugout, and, throwing back the cover of the
grub-box, put what bread and smoked fish she had left into a cotton
bag.

Sam awaited her, raging with that intolerable bitterness that a tender
and obstinate man feels at the sight of a woman's tears.

She offered him the little package of food, and a blanket as well.
"Tak' my ot'er blanket," she said humbly. "I can get more."

He impatiently shook his head, refusing to meet the lovely, imploring
eyes. "Here," he said, offering the pocket-knife. "For the food."

With a fresh burst of weeping she knocked it out of his hand, and
covered her face with her arm. Sam strode away, blinded and deafened
by the confusion of his feelings. His face was as stubborn as stone.


CHAPTER XIII

ON THE RIVER


When Sam had passed out of sight around the willows, Bela, still
shaken by sobs, went down on her hands and knees to search for the
penknife she had spurned. Finding it, she kissed it and thrust it
inside her dress.

Going to the dugout, she stretched out in it, and gave herself up to
grief. Not for very long, however. Gradually the sobs stilled, and
finally she sat up with the look of one who has something to do. For a
long time thereafter she sat, chin in hand, thinking hard with tight
lips and inward-looking eyes.

Sounds from around the bend above aroused her. She heard the working
of an oar in its socket and the cautious voices of men. An alert look
came into her face.

She glanced over the gunwale at her face in the water and disarranged
her hair a little. Flinging herself down, she commenced to weep again,
but with an altered note; this was self-conscious grief addressed to
the ears of others.

The three men, finding her thus, gaped in boundless astonishment. It
was anything but what they expected to find. They peered into the
bushes for a sign of Sam.

"What the devil is the matter?" demanded Big Jack.

"Where is Sam?" cried Joe.

Bela answered both questions at once. "He leave me," she sobbed with
heart-breaking effect.

"Left you?" they echoed stupidly.

"Gone away," wailed Bela. "Say he done with me for good!"

Black Shand and Jack were genuinely discomposed at the sight of her
tears. Joe with more hardihood laughed.

"Serve you well right!" said he.

Big Jack had the oar. He drove the boat on the bank alongside the
dugout, and they climbed out. Jack and Shand went up the bank.

"He can't have got far," said the former.

A wide sea of grass was revealed to them, stretching to pine ridges on
the horizon. In all the expanse there was no sign of any figure, but
the dense willows marking the tortuous course of the river provided
plenty of cover both up and down stream.

"Which way did he go?" Jack called down.

"I don't know," said Bela. "Down river, I think."

Below, Joe, full of bitter jealousy, was still upbraiding Bela. Jack
returned, scowling.

"Cut it out!" he said peremptorily. "I will get to the bottom of
this." To Bela he said harshly: "What do you expect us to do for you,
girl? You promised us a fair answer yesterday morning, and in the
night you skipped with the cook."

Bela raised an innocent-seeming face.

"What you mean, skip?" she asked.

"Lit out, eloped, ran away," said Jack grimly.

"I never did!" she cried indignantly. "He carry me off."

They stared at her open-mouthed again.

"What I want wit' a cook?" she went on quickly. "I want marry a man
wit' something. He is a bad man. He tak' me away. Now he say he done
wit' me!" Tears threatened again.

They were only half convinced.

"How did it happen?" Jack demanded.

"In the afternoon he find my cache where I stay by the little creek,"
she said. "Talk to me lak a friend. I think all right. But in the
night he come back when I sleepin' and tie my hands and my feet and my
mouth, and throw me in my boat and tak' away! I hate him!"

"Then it was you we heard cry out?" exclaimed Joe.

"Sure!" she assented readily. "The handkerchief come loose. But soon
he stop me."

"He did it just to spite us!" cried Joe furiously. "He didn't want her
himself! I always said he had too proud a stomach for a cook. Worked
against us at night like a rat! I warned you often enough!"

"Hold on!" said Big Jack, scowling. "There's more to this." He turned
to Bela accusingly. "You were paddling the dugout when you came to the
river yesterday. I saw you plain."

"Soon as the wind begin to blow he cut me loose," she said. "He can't
mak' the boat go. He tak' my gun and point to me and mak' me paddle."

"The damned blackguard!" muttered Shand.

Jack was still unconvinced. "But to-day," he said, "when my oar busted
you laughed. I was lookin' at you."

Bela hung her head. "He tak' me away," she murmured. "I t'ink he marry
me then. I good girl. I think got marry him."

This convinced them all. They burst out in angry exclamations. It was
not, however, for what they thought Bela had suffered. Each man was
thinking of the wrong Sam had done him. Toward Bela their attitude
had subtly changed. She was now a damaged article, though still
desirable. Their awe of her was gone.

"I'll grind my heel in his face for this," snarled Joe. "I'll kill him
slow!"

"Come on!" cried Shand. "We're losing time. He can't have got far."

Bela scrambled out of the dugout. "I tak' you where he is," she said
eagerly. "I can track him in the grass. I can't catch him myself. But
you got give him to me for punish."

"We'll attend to that for you, my girl," said Jack grimly.

"No blood!" she cried. "If he is kill for cause of me I get a bad name
around. A girl can't have no bad name."

They laughed with light scorn. "You're done for already," Joe said.

"Nobody knows him," said Jack. "He'll never be missed. We'll take good
care he ain't found, neither."

"The police will know," insisted Bela. "They can smell blood. Bam-by
maybe you mad at each ot'er. One will tell."

This was a shrewd shot. The three scowled at each other furtively.
There was no confidence between them.

"Well--what do you want to do?" asked Jack uneasily.

"I give him to the police," stated Bela eagerly. "They comin' up the
river now. Come every year this tam. Then all will be known. It is not
my fault he tak' me away. I good girl."

"Maybe she wants to get him to marry her," suggested Joe.

[Illustration: Bela (Colleen Moore) overhears the brave bargaining for
her.

(_Photoplay Edition--"The Huntress"_) (_A First National Picture_)]

"No marry!" cried Bela with a fine assumption of anger. "He throw
me down! Speak bad to me! I hate him! I want punish!"

"Sounds fishy somehow," muttered Jack, hesitating.

"You come wit' me," she said, shrugging. "See all I do."

"Maybe the idea is to get us away from the boat so he can sneak back
and swipe it," suggested Joe.

"You foolish!" said Bela, with a glance of scorn. "You can walk to
Johnny Gagnon's and get your horses. Let one man stay here to watch
the boats."

"Come on!" cried Shand from the top of the bank. "Catch him first and
decide what we'll do to him after."

"Go on," said Bela sullenly. "I not track him wit'out you give him me
for punish."

"You swear you'll hand him over to the police," demanded Jack sternly.

"I swear it!" she replied instantly, looking him in the eye and
holding up her hand.

"All right. Come on. I'm satisfied," assented Jack.

"Wait!" she said. "You promise to me you not hurt him. Give me your
hand."

She forced all three to shake hands on it, Joe submitting with an ill
grace.

"Now come on," said Shand impatiently.

"Leave your guns," commanded Bela. "Maybe he run. You get mad and
shoot. I want no blood."

Jack scowled at her with reawakened suspicions. "I keep my gun by me,"
he growled.

"He got no gun," sneered Bela scornfully. "You 'fraid catch him wit'
hands?"

"You said he had your gun," said Big Jack.

"He give it back," said Bela. "He is bad man; but no steal. My big
gun, my little gun--see?" She exhibited them.

Jack knew that Sam owned no gun; still he was suspicious. "If you had
your gun why didn't you plug him when he left you?" he demanded.

Bela paused for an instant. This was a poser, because in her heart she
knew, supposing her story to be true, that she would have shot Sam.
She had to think quickly. "I not want no blood," she murmured. "I
'fraid Père Lacombe."

It was well done. Big Jack nodded. "You leave your guns, too," he
stipulated.

"Sure!" she said, willingly putting them in the dugout. "Leave one man
to watch the boats and the guns. Two men and a woman enough to catch a
cook, I guess."

They laughed.

Bela was playing for high stakes, and her faculties were sharpened to
a sword-edge. Every look suggested the wronged woman thirsting for
justice. She ostentatiously searched in her baggage, and drawing out a
piece of moose-hide, cut it into thongs for bonds. Cleverer men than
Big Jack and his pals might have been taken in.

"Boys, she's right!" cried Jack. "We don't want no blood on our hands
to start off with, if we can see him punished proper. Shand, you stay
here. Lead off, girl!"

Shand shrugged with a sour look, and came down the bank. It was always
tacitly understood between him and Jack that young Joe was not to be
trusted alone, so he submitted.

The other three started. Bela, making believe to be baffled for a
moment, finally led the way up-stream. She went first at the rolling
gait the Indians affect. The men were hard put to it to keep up with
her over the uneven ground, for the grassy plain, which looked like a
billiard-table, was full of bumps.

She kept her eyes on the ground. It was a simple matter for her to
follow Sam's tracks in the grass, but the men, though they could see
the faint depressions when she pointed them out, could never have
found them unaided.

The tracks led them parallel to the general direction of the river,
cutting across from point to point of the willows on the outside of
each bend. On the horizon ahead was the pine-clad ridge that bounded
the lower end of the lake. Jack-Knife Mountain rose over it. The sea
of grass was dazzling in the sunlight.

Half an hour's swift walking gave them no glimpse ahead of their
quarry.

"Waste too much time talking," said Bela.

"Well, you did the most of it," retorted Joe.

It was evident from the direction of the tracks that Sam was taking
care to keep under cover of each point of the willows until he gained
the next one. Each point afforded his pursuers a new survey ahead. Not
until they had walked another half-hour at that gruelling pace were
they in time to see a black spot just about to disappear ahead.

"Down!" cried Bela, and they dropped full length in the grass until it
had gone.

Bela, springing up, led the way at a run across the intervening grass.
She had to hold herself back for the men. Joe was too heavy to be a
runner, and Jack was beginning to feel the handicap of his years.

Nearing the willows, she held up her hand for caution. They ran
lightly in the grass. Neither man could see or hear anything;
nevertheless Bela indicated by signs that the one they sought was
just around the bushes. At the last moment she held back and let them
go first.

Sam, having decided that the danger of immediate pursuit was over, was
sitting on the ground eating his lunch when, without warning, Jack and
Joe fell on him, bowling him over on his back. He struggled
desperately, but was helpless under their combined weight. Joe, with a
snarl, lifted his clenched hand over Sam's face. Big Jack held it.

"Not while he's down," he muttered.

Bela, following close, drew Sam's hands together and bound his wrists
with her strips of hide.

Sam, seeing her, cried out: "You've sold me out again! I might have
known it!"

Bela, fearing his words might start Jack thinking things over, cried
out hysterically: "I got you now! You think you run away, eh? You done
wit' me! You laugh w'en I cry. I fix you for that! I put you where you
can't hurt no more girls!"

To Jack and Joe it seemed natural under the circumstances. Sam glared
at her in angry amazement, and opened his mouth to reply. But thinking
better of it, he set his jaw and kept quiet.

He submitted to superior force, and they immediately started back on
the long walk to the boats. There was little said _en route_. Only
Joe, unable to contain his rancour, occasionally burst out in brutal
reviling. Sam smiled at him. More than once Big Jack was called on to
restrain Joe's fist.

"A bargain is a bargain," he reminded him.

Bela, bringing up the rear, glared at the back of Joe's head with pure
savage hatred. When any of them chanced to look at her, her face was
wholly stolid.

Black Shand's face lightened as they brought Sam over the bank.

"So it was on the level," he remarked.

It was now some time past noon, and the word was given to eat before
embarking. Sam, with his bound hands in his lap, sat on a great sod
which had fallen from the bank above, and watched the others curiously
and warily.

He had cooled down. So many things had happened to him during the past
two days that his capacity for anger and astonishment was pretty well
used up. He now felt more like a spectator than the leading man in the
drama.

Finally, Bela, with a highly indifferent air, came to him with a plate
of food which she put on his knees. Evidently he was expected to feed
himself as best he could with his hands tied. Bela, avoiding his eyes,
whispered swiftly:

"I your friend, Sam. Jus' foolin' them. Wait and see."

Sam laughed scornfully. The other men looked over, and Bela had to go
back.

Sam had no compunction against eating their food. Scorning them all,
he fully intended to get the better of them yet. Meanwhile he was
wondering what had taken place between them. He could not interpret
the relations between Bela and the three men. They were apparently
neither friendly nor inimical.

Afterward a discussion arose as to their disposition between the two
boats. The rowboat was not big enough to carry them all.

"Lay him in the dugout," Bela said indifferently. "I paddle him."

"No you don't," said Joe quickly. "He goes with the men."

"All right," said Bela, shrugging. "You come wit' me."

This arrangement pleased Joe very well, and by it Bela succeeded in
parting him from Sam.

The two boats proceeded together down the smoothly flowing,
willow-bordered stream. Shand and Jack took turns at sculling the
larger craft, and Bela loafed on her paddle that they might keep up
with her.

The view was as confined and unvarying as the banks of a canal, except
that canals commonly are straight, while this watercourse twisted like
Archimedes's screw. The only breaks in the endless panorama of
cut-banks, mud-flats, willows, and grass were the occasional little
inlets, gay with aquatic flowers.

Bela was most at home kneeling in the stern of her dugout. Joe,
sitting opposite, watched her graceful action with a kindling eye.

"Drop behind a bit," he whispered. "I want to talk to you. Are you
listening?"

She seemed not to have heard. Nevertheless the other boat drew away a
little.

"Look here," Joe began with what he intended to be an ingratiating
air, "this is a bad business for you. I'm not saying I blame you. Just
the same your price has gone down, see? Do you get me?"

Bela lowered her eyes and watched the little whirl-pools in the train
of her paddle. "I un'erstan'," she murmured.

"After an affair like this men look on a girl as fair game. I ain't
saying it's right, but it's so. You want to look out for those other
fellows now."

"I look out," said Bela.

"Come with me and I'll keep you from them," Joe went on, trying to
speak carelessly; meanwhile his eyes were burning. "Of course, you
can't expect me to marry you now, but I'll keep you in better style
than you've ever known. There's nothing mean about me."

Bela raised her eyes and dropped them quickly. There was a spark in
their depths that would have warned a man less vain than Joe. She said
nothing.

"Well, is it a go?" he breathlessly demanded.

"I don't know," said Bela slowly. Her voice gave nothing away. "I got
get married if I can."

"Who would marry you now?" cried Joe.

"I don't know. Somebody, I guess. Pretty near every man I see want
marry me."

Joe sneered. "Not now! Not when this gets about."

"Maybe the big man want marry me," she suggested. "Or the black one."

Joe laughed scornfully. At the same time a horrible anxiety attacked
him. Those two were old; they couldn't afford to be so particular as
he. One of them might----

"Any'ow I not go wit' you now," said Bela. "Plenty time."

"You'd better look out for yourself," Joe burst out, "or you'll get in
worse than you are already. You'll be sorry then."

"All right," she returned calmly.

Joe sat fuming. Anger and balked desire made his comely, brutal face
look absurd and piteous. It was like a wilful child denied the moon.
Joe could never resist his emotions. Whether or not Bela had guessed
it, it was bound to come.

"Oh, hell!" he cried. "Look here, if Jack or Shand offer to marry you,
I'll match them, see? Is that a go? You'd sooner have me, wouldn't
you? I'm young."

Bela neither smiled nor frowned. "I think about it," she said.

"No you don't!" he cried. "You've got to promise now or I'll withdraw
it!"

"I tell you somesing," said Bela, concealing the wicked sparkle in her
eye. "I not want the big man. Not want the black man either. I tell
you, if I marry any of the three, I tak' you."

Conceited Joe swallowed it whole. "I'm satisfied," he cried. "By
George, I'd like to bind it with a kiss!"

"Look out, you turn us over," said Bela coolly. "The water moch cold."

Joe was quite carried away. "You beauty!" he cried. "Your skin is like
cream. Your hair is like black velvet. You sit there as proud as a
leading lady. I can't wait for you!"

"I ain't promise not'ing yet," said Bela warningly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnny Gagnon's place was at the strategic point on Musquasepi where
the forest ended and the meadows began. In the winter-time the
freighters left the ice here, and headed straight across the bottom
lands for the lake.

Gagnon kept a stopping-house for the freighters. It was the last house
on the route to the head of the lake seventy-five miles away,
excepting the shack at Nine-Mile Point, which had never been occupied
until Big Jack and his party camped there.

Besides being a strategic point, it was one of those natural sites for
a homestead that men pick out when there is a whole land to choose
from. The bank rolled up gradually from the water's edge, and Gagnon's
whole establishment was revealed from the river--dwelling, bunk-house,
stable--all built of logs and crouching low on the ground as if for
warmth.

The buildings had been there so long they had become a part of the
landscape. The log walls were weathered to a silvery grey, and the
vigorously sprouting sod roofs repeated the note of the surrounding
grass.

On this particular afternoon there was something afoot at Johnny
Gagnon's. The different members of the large family were running about
like ants in a disturbed hill. A cloud of dust was issuing from the
house door, propelled by a resolute broom.

Innumerable pails of water were being carried up from the river, and
windows and children washed impartially. One of the big boys was
burning rubbish; another was making a landing-stage of logs on the
muddy shore.

In any other place such a spasm of house-cleaning need excite no
remark, but among the happy-go-lucky natives of the north it is
portentous. Clearly a festival was imminent.

Such was the sight that met the eyes of those in the rowboat and the
dugout as they came around the bend above. Johnny Gagnon himself came
running down to meet them. He was a little man, purely Indian in
feature and colouring, but betraying a vivacity which suggested the
French ancestor who had provided him with a surname.

The surname lasts longer than most white characteristics. It is a
prized possession up north. If a man has a surname he votes.

Johnny was a vivacious Indian. Such anomalies are not uncommon on the
border of the wilderness. His sloe-black eyes were prone to snap and
twinkle, and his lips to part over dazzling teeth.

His hands helped out his tongue in the immemorial Latin style. Though
he was the father of four strapping sons and several marriageable
girls, not to speak of the smaller fry, time had left surprisingly few
marks on him.

Johnny held up his hands at the sight of Sam, bound. He was delighted
to have this additional excitement added to his brimming store.

"Wa! a prisoner!" he cried. "Good! we will have a trial. You must tell
me all. You come back just right. Big tam! Big tam! Never was so much
fun in my house before!"

"What's up?" asked Jack.

"Big crowd comin' to-morrow!" replied the excited Johnny Gagnon.
"Trackin' up rapids to-day. Send a fellow up ahead ask my wife bake
plenty bread."

"Who all is it?"

Johnny counted them off on his fingers: "Bishop Lajeunesse and two
priests. Every year come to marry and baptize. That's three. Four,
Indian agent. Him come pay Indians gov'ment money by the treaty. Got
big bag money. Five, gov'ment doctor. He look at him for sick. It is
in the treaty. Six, seven, Sergeant Coulson and 'not'er policeman.
They go round wit' agent and ask all if any man do wrong to him. That
is seven white men comin'! But wait! But wait! There is something else
beside!"

"What?" asked Jack.

"A white woman!" announced Johnny triumphantly.

Bela frowned and stole a side glance at Sam. The men having lately
come from the land of white women were not especially impressed.

"Only one white woman here before," Johnny went on. "Her comp'ny
trader's wife. This her sister. Call Mees Mackall. Her old, but got no
'osban' at all. That is fonny thing I t'ink. Boys say all tam talk,
laugh, nod head. Call her chicadee-woman."

Bela looked relieved at this description.

Sam, hearing of the expected company, smiled. Surely, with the law and
the church at hand, an honest man had nothing to fear. He glanced at
Bela a little triumphantly, but she made her face inscrutable to him.

Somewhat to his surprise he perceived that Jack and the other men were
also pleased at the news. There was something here he did not
understand.


CHAPTER XIV

AT JOHNNY GAGNON'S


Sam, tied hand and foot, was confined in the bunk-house at Gagnon's.
All the heavy hours of his imprisonment were charged up against Bela,
and by morning the score was a heavy one.

Big Jack, or one of the other men, was always in the room or at the
door, and Bela had no opportunity to approach the prisoner.

Bela slept in the main house with the Gagnon girls. Before the general
turning in that night Big Jack and Black Shand each contrived to
separate her from the others long enough to make a proposal similar to
Joe's. In each case Bela returned the same answer.

Next morning they were all early astir. The Gagnon boys put on clean
blue-gingham shirts and red woollen sashes, and the girls tied their
sable locks with orange and cerise ribbons. The cheeks of both boys
and girls bore a high polish.

Squaw Gagnon tacked up lace window curtains for a final touch and
brought out a square of carpet for the bishop to rest his reverend
feet upon. To this household it was the greatest day in the year, and
the sun was shining like the shiniest-cheeked Gagnon of them all. The
younger children kept careful watch on Sam. He was an attraction
fortuitously added to the big show.

Johnny Gagnon himself was the most excited of the family.

"You come jus' right!" he was continually exclaiming to Jack. "They
stop all day now. Have trial in my house. Maybe stay to-night, too. I
wish we had a fiddle. We could dance. But we can slap and sing
any'ow."

The girls giggled delightedly at this suggestion.

Each one of the white men thought: "Dance at my wedding, maybe!" and
glanced covertly at Bela. Bela looked out of the window.

"What! dance with the bishop here?" said Jack, affecting to be
scandalized.

"Sure!" cried Johnny. "Bishop Lajeunesse no long-chin _religieux_.
Bishop say let yo'ng folks have a good time. Laugh and mak' fun
wherever he go. He is a man!"

Early as they were they no sooner finished breakfast than they heard a
shrill hail from down river. Every soul about the place excepting Sam
dropped what he was about and scampered down to the water's edge.

- Yes, it is paid right off there and then. The articles are offered
to us, and if we are satisfied with the quality and the price we take
them, the same as in any other money transaction.

12,161.

Do the accounts which you settle at November or December generally
amount to some pounds apiece?-Yes; with those fishermen to whom
we have advanced.

12,162.

Are these accounts generally paid in cash which the men have got from
Messrs. Garriock & Co. for the sale of their fish to them?-Yes.

12,163. I suppose you take good care to bring as many of your accounts
as possible to settlement immediately after the settling time with
Garriock & Co.?

-Yes; that is our usual practice.

Lerwick, January 24, 1872, JOHN TWATT, examined.

12,164.

You are a merchant at Voe, in the parish of Walls?-I am.

12,165. How far is that from Bayhall?-About five minutes' walk.
12,166.

Have you heard the evidence of Mr. Georgeson?-I have.

12,167. Is your business much of the same description as his?

- It is exactly the same. There is no difference between them
whatever.

12,168.

It is conducted with the same class of customers?- Exactly.

12,169. Are your settlements made at the same season?-Yes.

12,170.

Have you ever been in the fish-curing business yourself?- Yes. For the
last two years I have done little in the winter season.
I get no fish in summer.

12,171. Do you buy the fish green?-Yes; in winter.

12,172. Are you ready to buy them cured if you could get them?- Yes.
I have often offered for fish, but I never could get them. I
have made the offer publicly to all the boats.

12,173. In what way did you intimate that offer publicly?-I just said
to the men that I would buy their fish, and give as high a price
for them as another.

I have said that if I did not give them 10s.
more, I would not give them 10s. less; but I could not get
them.

12,174.

What did they say?-They said nothing, but they never gave me the
fish.

12,175. Did you mean by the offer you made to them that you would give
them a price fixed at the beginning of the season?

- No; I could not fix a price then. I meant that I would give them as
much as any other fish-buyer who was in the trade.

12,176.

Did you mean that you would give them that price at the end of the
season when they delivered their cured fish?-yes.

12,177.

Did you make a special offer to any particular crews?-I have said
to some of the men to tell their skippers what I had offered. The
skipper was not in at the time, but I told one of the men that I would
give him 10s. more than any other one if he would give me his
fish.

12,178.

Have you reason to believe that the man carried your message to the
skipper?

-Yes; I know he did carry it.

12,179.

Did you get any answer to it?

-No.

12,180. Then how did you know that the man had carried your message
to the skipper?

-Because I asked the skipper afterwards about it; and he said he
had been engaged at the beginning of the season to deliver his fish
to another party.

12,181.

Were these fish to be cured by himself?-Yes.

12,182. Are contracts made so early as that with men who cure their
own fish?

-In some cases they are.

12,183. Was the other party in this case Messrs.

Garriock & Co.?-I don't think it was. I would rather mention the name
privately. [Hands in the name of a fish-curing firm.]

12,184. Are these gentlemen you have named extensive purchasers of
cured fish in your district?-I believe they would buy all they
could get.

12,185. Perhaps they have the same difficulty which you experience in
buying fish?-I suppose they have.

12,186.

Do you carry on any business with men who are engaged to fish in
the ling fishing for Messrs. Garriock & Co.?-Yes. I supply the
crews with what they require for the fishing, such as lines, and hooks,
and tar.

12,187. Are they not expected to take their supplies from the shop
of the merchant with whom they engage?

-Sometimes it is much handier for them to get them from me than to
go to Reawick for them; and when I know the crew will pay me, I
supply them to them.

12,188. Your shop is at a great distance from Reawick, or any of the
larger fishing stations?-Yes.

12,189. Do you make these supplies to the men to a large extent?-No,
not to a large extent; only to a few boats. It is only to the crews
that I make these supplies, because the company accounts are paid
first at the time of settlement, and I look to the skipper to see that
I am paid.

12,190. Then a company account of that kind is a safer thing than an
account with one of the men?-Yes.

12,191. Do the fishermen themselves, as individuals, get supplies from
you on credit while they are engaged in the ling fishing?- Yes.

12,192. Do they not go more frequently to Reawick, or to Messrs.
Garriock & Co.'

s other stores, for supplies?-Yes. There are certain parties that I
won't give them to.

12,193.

Do you furnish the principal part of the supplies to those men in
your neighbourhood who fish for Garriock & Co.?

-No.

Garriock & Co. do that themselves.

It is only when they cannot get over to Garriock a Co.'

s stores, or when Garriock & Co. might be out of any article they
want, or something like that, that they come to me.

They only come to me for what they want when they cannot do
better.

12,194.

Is it the case that some of them come to you for supplies because
Reawick is so far away?

-Sometimes that is the case in the busy season.

When the fishing is going on they are glad to go to the nearest
place, and get a few lines or hooks, or what they want but when
they do go to Reawick they take as much from there as possible.
12,195.

Are they expected to do so?

-I rather think they are.

12,196.

Do you understand that from the men themselves, or is it
merely your own inference from the way in which they act?-It is
my own opinion.

[Page 300]
12,197. Have you heard anything from the men which has confirmed that
opinion?-No, I could not say that I have.

12,198.

Do you find that the connection of the fishermen with a large company
of that kind, which buys their fish, and which acts as factor upon
the estates where the fishermen live, interferes with the extension
of your own business?

-I cannot say that it does.

12,199. Have you not told me already that you have not been able to buy
fish from the men, although you wanted to do so?

-Yes; it interferes with me in that way, so that I cannot get the
fish.

12,200.

But you don't suppose the men would deal at your shop, in preference
to the shop of the merchant who employs them, even although they
could do so?

-If they were fishing to me, I believe they would deal with me the
same as with any other one.

I cannot quite agree with what Mr.

Georgeson said about that.

I think there is a little bribe which the skippers get for seeing
that the men go to the shop.

I think it is an understood thing between the skipper and the
fishbuyer, that he (the skipper) is to get something extra.

12,201.

Does not the skipper usually get a fee?

-No; he is generally supposed to get the same as the men, but I
rather think he gets a little more.

12,202.

You say that that serves as a bribe: for what purpose?-I leave that
to you.

12,203. Do you suppose it has the effect of making him influence the
men to take their supplies from the merchant's shop?

-I leave that to you to judge.

12,204. Do you suppose that the skipper, in general, does guide his
men in that direction?-I rather think he does in some cases.

12,205.

Have you known any special instance that you could point to, where
that was done?

-There was one boat's crew with whom I was settling for a small company
account.

I asked them why they did not give me their fish as we were next-door
neighbours, or something like that; and the men all got up against
the skipper, and said they were quite willing to give me their
fish, only that the skipper had gone away and made an agreement for
them before.

12,206.

That was for the sale of their fish?-Yes, for the sale of the dry fish.
I would have bought them at the same price as Garriock & Co, or any
other one.

12,207. But that was not a case in which the men were induced to go
for supplies to the fish-curer?

-They did not require to go there for their supplies unless they had
liked, because they could have got their supplies from me if they had
said they would give me their fish at the end of the season. If they
had done that I was willing to supply them with money, or meal, or
anything they wanted.

12,208.

These were men who were curing their own fish?

-Yes.

12,209.

But have you known any cases in which men who were engaged to fish
during the whole season, and to deliver their fish green to
Garriock & Co., were induced by the skipper to go to Reawick for
their supplies?-I cannot say that I have.

12,210.

Is it not the fact that men who live near you do go to Reawick for
supplies although it is much farther away?

-Yes.

12,211. And although it is inconvenient?-Yes, it is inconvenient.

They could do much better by coming to my shop, which is next door to
them, and they could get as good articles at the same price as
they can at Reawick.

12,212.

How far is it from your place to Reawick?-I think it is about 10
or 12 miles.

12,213. When the men go there for meal or other supplies, are these
supplies brought across the country?

-Sometimes they are brought by boats and sometimes round by the
rocks.

12,214.

When a crew cure their own fish, is it the rule that the sale must
be of the whole catch of the boat, or can each man sell his fish
separately?

-No, they must all be sold together; and they generally go to the
place where the skipper or the majority of the men want them to
go.

12,215.

Do you think the skipper has a considerable influence in that
matter?-I think he has.

12,216.

Of course, where the men are fishing independently, and curing their own
fish, there is no arrangement with the merchant for the skipper's
fee?-No; that is an understood thing between the skipper and the
fish-buyer, and I don't think the men know anything at all about it.

There is no fee at the ling fishing, and the men can go to whom they
please. They are different there from what they are in the Faroe
fishing.

12,217.

Do you buy any hosiery?

-I buy it little, and I pay for it in the same way which Mr.

Georgeson explained. It is all done by barter.

12,218. Do you also pay for eggs and butter by goods?-Yes.

Lerwick, January 24, 1872, JOHN JOHNSTON, examined.

12,219.

You are a merchant at Bridge of Walls, in Sandsting?

-I am.

12,220. You are a son of Mr.

George Johnston, merchant at Tresta?-Yes.

12,221. Is that in the same parish, but at some distance from your
place?

-Yes; I think it is about eight miles away.

12,222. Your father is in delicate health, and has not been able
to come to-day?

-Yes. He has not been able to come in consequence of the rough day.

12,223. Were you concerned in his business before you set up business
on your own account?-Yes.

12,224. You are acquainted with his business at Tresta as well as with
your own?

-Yes.

12,225. Have you heard the evidence which has been given by Mr.
Georgeson to-day?-Yes.

12,226.

Is your business and that of your father similar in character to Mr.
Georgeson's?

-Yes, it is just the same only we have a spirit licence in addition. My
father has a public-house licence, and I have a grocer's licence.

12,227. Then you supply what spirits may be wanted in the parishes of
Walls and Sandsting?-Yes.

I suppose we supply the principal part of them; but the people may
go to Lerwick or any other place for them if they choose.

12,228.

Your dealings in that way, I suppose, are always settled for in cash?-Yes,
always in cash.

12,229.

Is the bulk of your other transactions paid for in cash too?-No;
there is a good deal of credit given.

12,230. To what class of customers do you give credit?-To the
fishermen.

12,231. Have you any fishermen who are employed in your own boats?-We
have no boats fishing to us.

12,232. Do you buy cured fish or green fish from the fishermen?

- No, we don't buy any. My father has one vessel of his own that goes
to the Faroe fishing. He had three about five or six years
ago.

12,233.

Where do you get the men for these Faroe vessels?

-They are very much scattered. Sometimes, we get part from Walls, and
sometimes part from Sandsting.

12,234. Do these men take supplies for themselves and their families
during the summer from your father's shops?-Yes.

12,235. And they have an account which is settled at the end of the
fishing season?

-Yes.

12,236.

Do you buy no fish at all?

-No. My father has an interest in two boats that fish on the home banks
off Shetland. That is the cod fishing; they don't go to the Faroe
fishing. They are smacks, but they are small.

12,237. That bank is between Shetland and Orkney?-Yes.

12,238.

Exclusive of the men who are engaged in the Faroe fishing, have you
or your father many accounts with fishermen living in the district?-Not
very [Page 301] many. We have some, but they are principally with men
who go south, and we supply their families during the time they
are away.

They go principally to Liverpool, and sometimes to Greenock, and enter
the merchant service. They remain away for a year or two, and then
come home for a winter.

12,239. Do these men send allotment notes home to their wives?- Not
often. They generally remit money home at the end of the voyage.

12,240. Then you have no security at all for your advances, except
the personal credit of the men?

-None at all.

12,241. There may be some stock on their farms occasionally?

- Of course they have a little.

12,242. Have you any accounts with fishermen on the ling fishing
at home?-Not many.

There is no ling fishing carried on close to where I live.

12,243. But a few of your neighbours are engaged in it?

-No. I think there are none of them engaged in it.

12,244. Is it the same with your father's place?-Yes; there is no ling
fishing there at all.

12,245. Have you any accounts with fishermen engaged in the Faroe
fishing for other merchants than yourselves?-We have some, but not
many.
12,246. I suppose these Faroe men generally open accounts with the
merchants in whose smacks they are engaged?-Yes, generally.
12,247. Have you anything to say in addition to what was stated by
Mr. Georgeson and Mr. Twatt in their evidence?-The only thing I
would like to say is, that I think all the men have complete liberty
to engage anywhere they choose, or to go to the fishing or south
as they like. I don't think any compulsion is used.
12,248. I don't think any of the previous witnesses said there was
any compulsion in that way. Have you ever endeavoured to purchase
cured fish?-No.

12,249. Why? Did you never think of it?-No.
12,250. Was that because you considered you would have no chance
of getting the fish to buy?-I could hardly say that; but I never
thought much about it.
Lerwick, January 24, 1872, ARCHIBALD ABERNETHY, examined.
12,251. Are you a shopkeeper at Whiteness, in the parish of Tingwall?-I
am.
12,252. In what goods do you deal?-Principally in eggs and
butter.
12,253. Do you deal in groceries and a little in soft goods?-Yes.
12,254. Do you pay for eggs and butter generally in goods?-Yes,
generally; but I very often pay money for eggs too.
12,255. Do you make a difference on the price, according as they
are paid for in money or in goods?-Yes; there is a difference of
1/2d. per dozen, as a general rule.
12,256. Have you ever bought fish?-Yes, a little.
12,257. Do you buy them dry or green?-I buy them green, and cure
them myself.
12,258. Do you own any boats?-No. Occasionally I may hire a boat
and a crew for a month or two about this season of the year for the
spring fishing, before they go to Faroe.
12,259. Do you fix the price of your fish at the time they are
delivered, or do you settle with the men for them according to the
price at the end of the season?-They will scarcely agree to fix a
price at the time they are delivered, in case the price of fish may
rise during the year, and then they expect to get a better price
for them. They prefer to wait until the fish go to the market, and
then they know what the price is.
12,260. Is that what is done when you buy the fish green?-Yes.
12,261. In that case, you settle with them according to the current
price at the end of the year?-Yes. I generally guarantee to give
them that price.
12,262. I thought you said you had only one boat for a short time
at this season?-I sometimes have one or two boats for a short time
at this season, and that is generally the agreement I make with
them.
12,263. Don't you buy the fish promiscuously, as it were, from any
man who comes and offers them to you?-Yes.
12,264. Do you do that only in the winter and spring, or also in
the summer?-It is only in the winter and spring that I have the
chance of doing it. There are scarcely any fish got in our quarter
in the summer time, because the fishermen are generally engaged in
the Faroe fishing then.
12,265. Are none of them engaged in the ling fishing?-None at
all.
12,266. Do you keep accounts for supplies that you make to
fishermen?-Yes, a few.
12,267. Are these men engaged in the Faroe or the ling fishing?-
Principally in the Faroe fishing.
12,268. Do any of these men get their whole supplies from you?-
None of them. I think they are generally supplied from the shops
of the owners of the vessels they are in.
12,269. Do they get the most of their supplies from there?-I think
so.
12,270. Do these men live near your shop, or are they living at a
distance from you?-They live pretty near me. Some of them are near
neighbours, and others live about three or four miles away.
12,271. How many men of that kind may there be who deal occasionally
with you, but who get the bulk of their supplies from the parties
for whom they are fishing?-I should fancy there may be about forty
or fifty of them.
12,272. Have most of these men got accounts?-Generally they have,
but not to a great extent; perhaps for a few shillings.

12,273.Sam appeared trudging through the sand, bare-headed, coatless,
tight-lipped. His eyes likewise were fastened eagerly on the dead
goose. Reaching it, he stirred it with his foot. Dropping to his
knees, he smelled of it. So far so good. Presently he discovered the
cause of its death, a wing shattered by a bullet.

Seeing no tracks anywhere near, he concluded that it had fallen
wounded from the sky. As such it was treasure trove. He set to work to
gather bits of driftwood, and started a fire. His bright eyes and the
celerity of his movements testified to his hunger.

From her hiding-place Bela watched him with avid eyes. No mask on her
face now. The eyes brooded over him, over the fair hair, the bare
throat, the pale, hard young face, that showed the lassitude following
on violent anger.

Her whole spirit visibly yearned toward him--but she was learning
self-control in a hard school. When he began to pluck the goose she
set her teeth hard and stole silently away up-stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Indian village beside Hah-wah-sepi, little, crooked Musq'oosis
was squatting at the door of his teepee, making a fish net. This was
work his nimble fingers could still perform better than any in the
tribe. Meanwhile, he smoked and dwelt on the serene reminiscences of a
well-spent life.

While he worked and meditated nothing in the surrounding scene escaped
the glances of his keen, old eyes. For some time he had been aware of
a woman's figure hiding behind the willows across the stream, and he
knew it must be Bela, for there was no canoe on that side, but he
would not give her any sign.

In Musq'oosis, as in all his race, there was a coy streak. Let the
other person make the first move was his guiding maxim.

Finally the mournful, idiotic cry of a loon was raised across the
stream. This was a signal they had used before. Musq'oosis started
with well-simulated surprise, in case she should be watching him, and,
rising, waddled soberly to his dugout. Nobody in the village above
paid any particular attention to him. He crossed the stream.

Bela stepped into the bow of his boat. No greeting was exchanged. Each
had the air of having parted but a few minutes before. Bela had
learned Musq'oosis's own manner from him. If he wouldn't ask
questions, neither would she volunteer information. Thus the two
friends played the little comedy out.

Sitting at the door of his teepee, Bela said: "Let me eat. I have
nothing since I get up to-day."

He put bread and smoked moose meat before her, and went on knotting
his cords with an unconcerned air.

By and by Bela began to tell her story with the sullen, self-conscious
air of a child expecting a scolding. But as she went on she was
carried away by it, and her voice became warm and broken with emotion.
Musq'oosis, working away, gave no sign, but the still turn of his head
persuaded her he was not missing anything.

When she came to tell how she had fallen upon Sam while he slept the
old man was betrayed into a sharp movement.

"What for you do that?" he demanded.

Bela came to a pause and hung her head. Tears dropped on her hands. "I
don' know," she murmured. "He look so pretty sleepin' on the sand--so
pretty! Moon shine in his face. I am pain in my heart. Don' know w'at
to do, want him so bad. I t'ink I die if I got go 'way wit'out him. I
t'ink--I don' know w'at I t'ink. Want him, that's all!"

"Tcha! White woman!" said Musq'oosis disgustedly.

During the rest of the tale he muttered and frowned and wagged his
head impatiently. When she came to the scene of the hearing in
Gagnon's shack he could no longer contain himself.

"Fool!" he cried. "I tell you all w'at to do. Many times I tell you
not let a man see you want him. But you go ask him marry you before
all the people! What you come to me for now?"

Bela hung her head in silence.

"You got white woman's sickness!" cried the old man with quaint scorn.
"Tcha! _Love!_"

"Well, I am 'mos' white," muttered Bela sullenly. "Why you not tell
me 'bout this sickness? Then I look out."

"There is no cure for a fool," growled Musq'oosis.

Bela finally raised her head.

"I am cure of my sickness now," she said, scowling. "I hate him!"

"Hate!" said the old man scornfully. "Your face is wet."

She dashed the tears from her cheeks. "When he ran out of Johnny
Gagnon's," she went on, "I run after. I hold on him. He curse me. He
throw me down. Since then I hate him. I lak make him hurt lak me. I
want see him hurt bad!"

The old man looked incredulous. Questioning her sharply, he drew out
the incident of the dead goose. He laughed scornfully.

"You hate him, but you got put food in his trail."

Bela hung her head. "I hate him!" she repeated doggedly.

Musq'oosis filled his pipe, and puffed at it meditatively for a while.

"You could get him," he said at last.

Bela looked at him with a new hope.

"But you got do w'at I tell you. Crying' won't get him. A man hates a
cryin' woman. Mak' a dry face and let on you don' care 'bout him at
all. All tam laugh at him. You can't do that, I guess. Too moch fool!"

Bela frowned resentfully. "I can do it," she declared.

"All right," said Musq'oosis, "Let him go now. Keep away from him a
while. Let him forget his mad."

"All right," agreed Bela.

"Now go see your mot'er," commanded Musq'oosis. "She sicken for you.
She is white, too."

Bela, however, made no move to go. She was painstakingly plucking
blades of grass.

"Well, wa't you waitin' for?" demanded Musq'oosis.

"Sam walkin' this way," she said with an inscrutable face. "Got no
blanket. Be cold to-night, I think."

"Wa! More foolishness!" he cried. "Let him shake a little. Cure his
hot mad maybe."

"White man get sick with cold," persisted Bela. "Not lak us. What good
my waitin', if he get sick?"

Musq'oosis held up both his hands. "There is not'ing lak a woman!" he
cried. "Go to your mot'er. I will paddle by the lake and give him a
rabbit robe."

Bela's eyes flashed a warm look on him. She got up without speaking,
and hastened away.

       *       *       *       *       *

About half-past nine, while it was still light, Sam found himself
walked out. He built a fire on the pine needles above the stony beach
and sat down with his back against a tree. The goose provided him with
another meal. He was two hours' journey beyond the mouth of
Hah-wah-sepi.

Wading across the bar of that stream, he had guessed his proximity to
the Indian village as described by Bela, but his pride would not allow
him to apply there for shelter.

He had no reason to suppose that Bela had already got home, but he
feared she might arrive before he could get away. Anyhow, he had
plenty to eat, he told himself; it would be strange if he couldn't
last a night or two without a covering.

He lay down by his fire, but, tired as he was, he could get no rest.
Whichever way he lay, a cold chill from the earth struck to his
marrow. He fell into a wretched, half-waking condition, tormented by
images he could not control.

When he edged close enough to the fire to feel its warmth it was only
to be brought leaping to his feet by sparks burning through his
clothes. He finally gave it up and sat against the tree, hardening
himself like an Indian to wait for dawn. His fagged nerves cried for
tobacco. He had lost his pipe with his coat.

The lake stretched before him still and steely in the twilight.
To-night the sun had withdrawn himself modestly and expeditiously, and
the clear, cold face of the sky had an ominous look. The world was
terribly empty. Sam received a new conception of solitude, and a heavy
hand of discouragement was laid on his heart.

Suddenly he perceived that he was not alone. Close under the
pine-walled shore a dugout was swimming toward him with infinite grace
and smoothness. At the first sight his breast contracted, for it
seemed to have sprung out of nothingness--then his heart joyfully
leaped up. At such a moment anything human was welcome. A squat little
figure was huddled amidships, swinging a paddle from side to side with
long, stringy arms.

Sam perceived that the paddler was the aged hunchback who had once
visited the camp at Nine-Mile Point across the lake. "Old Man of the
Lake" they had called him. They had not learned his name.

A certain air of mystery enveloped him. When he stepped out on the
stones with his long hair, his bent back, and his dingy blanket capote
he looked like a mediæval grotesque--yet he had a dignity of his own,
too.

"How?" he said, extending his hand.

Sam, dreading the inevitable questions, received him a little
nervously.

"Glad to see you. Sit down by the fire. You travel late."

"I old," observed Musq'oosis calmly. "I go when men sleep."

He made himself comfortable by the fire. To Sam's thankfulness he did
not appear to notice the white man's impoverished condition. He had
excellent manners.

"Are you going far?" asked Sam.

The old man shrugged. "Jus' up and down," he replied. "I lak look
about."

He drew out his pipe. To save himself Sam could not help glancing
enviously toward it.

"You got no pipe?" asked the Indian.

"Lost it," admitted Sam ruefully.

"I got 'not'er pipe," said Musq'oosis. From the "fire-bag" hanging
from his waist he produced a red-clay bowl such as the natives use,
and a bundle of new reed stems. He fitted a reed to the bowl, and
passed it to Sam. A bag of tobacco followed.

"A gift," he stated courteously.

"I say," objected Sam, blushing, "I haven't anything to give in
return."

The old man waved his hand. "Plaintee tam mak' Musq'oosis a gift some
day," he said.

Sam looked up at the name. "So you're Musq'oosis?" he asked, hardening
a little.

"W'at you know about me?" queried the other mildly.

"Oh, nothing!" returned Sam. "Somebody told me about you."

"I guess it was Bela," said Musq'oosis. With kindly guile he added:
"Where is she?"

"You can search me!" muttered Sam.

The tobacco was unexpectedly fragrant. "Ah, good!" exclaimed Sam with
a glance of surprise.

"'Imperial Mixture,'" said Musq'oosis complacently. "I old. Not want
moch. So I buy the best tobacco."

They settled down for a good talk by the fire. Musq'oosis continued to
surprise Sam. On his visit to Nine-Mile Point the old man had been
received with good-natured banter, which he returned in kind. Alone
with Sam, he came out in quite a different character.

Sam made the discovery that a man may have dark skin yet be a
philosopher and a gentleman. Musq'oosis talked of all things from
tobacco to the differences in men.

"White man lak beaver. All tam work don' give a damn!" he observed.
"Red man lak bear. Him lazy. Fat in summer, starve in winter. Got no
sense at all."

Sam laughed. "You've got sense," he said.

Musq'oosis shrugged philosophically. "I not the same lak ot'er men. I
got crooked back, weak legs. I got work sittin' down. So my head is
busy."

He smoked with a reminiscent look.

"When I yo'ng I feel moch bad for cause I got crooked back. But when I
old I think there is good in it. A strong man is lak a moose. Wa! So
big and swift and 'an'some. All tam so busy, got no tam t'ink wit' his
head inside. So w'en he get old his son put him down. He is poor then.
But a weak man he got notin' to do but look lak eagle at ev'ryt'ing
and remember what he see. So w'en he is old he rich inside. W'en a man
get old bad turn to good. Me, w'en I was yo'ng I sore for cause no
woman want me. Now I glad I got no old wife beat a drum wit' her
tongue in my teepee."

"Women! You're right there!" cried Sam explosively. "They're no good.
They're savages! Women confuse and weaken a man; spoil him for a man's
work. I'm done with them!"

A slow smile lighted Musq'oosis ugly old face. "W'en a man talk lak
that," he remarked, "I t'ink pretty soon some woman goin' get him
sure."

"Never!" cried Sam. "Not me!"

"I t'ink so," persisted Musq'oosis. "Man say woman bad, all bad. Come
a woman smile so sweet, he surprise; he say this one different from
the ot'ers."

"Oh, I know how it is with most fellows!" admitted Sam. "Not with me.
I've had my lesson."

"Maybe," agreed Musq'oosis, politely allowing the matter to drop.

By and by the old man yawned. "I t'ink I sleep little while," he said.
"Can I sleep by your fire?"

"Sure!" returned Sam. "Make yourself at home."

Musq'oosis brought his blanket from the dugout. "You goin' sleep,
too?" he asked.

"In a bit," replied Sam uneasily.

"Where your blanket?"

"Oh, I lost that, too," confessed Sam, blushing.

"I got a rabbit-skin robe," said Musq'oosis.

Returning to his boat, he brought Sam one of the soft, light coverings
peculiar to the country. The foundation was a wide-meshed net of cord,
to which had been tied hundreds of the fragile, downy pelts. Sam could
stick his finger anywhere through the interstices, yet it was warmer
than a blanket, double its weight.

"But this is valuable," protested Sam. "I can't take it."

"You goin' to the head of the lake," said Musq'oosis. "I want trade it
at French outfit store. Tak' it to Mahwoolee, the trader. Say to him
Musq'oosis send it for trade."

"Aren't you afraid I might steal it?" asked Sam curiously.

"Steal?" said the old man, surprised. "Nobody steal here. What's the
use? Everything is known. If a man steal everybody know it. Where he
goin' to go then?"

Sam continued to protest against using the robe, but Musq'oosis,
waving his objections aside, calmly lay down in his blanket and closed
his eyes. Sam presently followed suit. The rabbit-skin robe acted like
a charm. A delicious warmth crept into his weary bones, and sleep
overmastered his senses like a delicious perfume.

When he awoke the sun was high over the lake, and Musq'oosis had gone.
A bag of tobacco was lying in his place.

       *       *       *       *       *

At this era the "settlement" at the head of Caribou Lake consisted of
the "French outfit," the "company post," the French Mission, the
English Mission, and the police barracks, which last housed as many as
three troopers.

These various establishments were strung around the shore of Beaver
Bay for a distance of several miles. A few native shacks were attached
to each. The principal group of buildings was comprised in the company
post, which stood on a hill overlooking the bay, and still wore a
military air, though the palisades had been torn down these many
years.

The French outfit, the rival concern, was a much humbler affair. It
stood half-way on the short stream which connects Beaver Bay with the
lake proper, and was the first establishment reached by the traveller
from outside. It consisted of two little houses built of lumber from
the mission sawmill; the first house contained the store, the other
across the road was known as the "Kitchen."

Mahooley pointed to them with pride as the only houses north of the
landing built of boards, but they had a sad and awkward look there in
the wilderness, notwithstanding.

Within the store of the French outfit, Stiffy, the trader, was audibly
totting up his accounts in his little box at the rear, while Mahooley,
his associate, sat with his chair tipped back and his heels on the
cold stove. Their proper names were Henry Stiff and John Mahool, but
as Stiffy and Mahooley they were known from Miwasa Landing to Fort
Ochre.

The shelves of the store were sadly depleted; never was a store open
for business with so little in it. A few canned goods of ancient
vintages and a bolt or two of coloured cotton were all that could be
seen. Nevertheless, the French outfit was a factor to be reckoned
with.

There was no fur going now, and the astute Stiffy and Mahooley were
content to let custom pass their door. Later on they would reach out
for it.

Mahooley was bored and querulous. This was the dullest of dull
seasons, for the natives were off pitching on their summer grounds,
and travel from the outside world had not yet started.

Stiffy and Mahooley were a pair of "good hard guys," but here the
resemblance ended. Stiffy was dry, scanty-haired, mercantile; Mahooley
was noisy, red-faced, of a fleshly temperament, and a wag, according
to his lights.

"I'd give a dollar for a new newspaper," growled Mahooley.

"That's you, always grousin' for nothin' to do!" said his partner.
"Why don't you keep busy like me?"

"Say, if I was like you I'd walk down to the river here and I'd get in
the scow and I'd push off, and when I got in the middle I'd say,
'Lord, crack this nut if you can! It's too much for me!' and I'd step
off."

"Ah, shut up! You've made me lose a whole column!"

"Go to hell!"

Thus they bickered endlessly to pass the time.

Suddenly the door opened and a stranger entered, a white man.

As a rule, the slightest disturbance of their routine was heralded in
advance by "moccasin telegraph," and this was like a bolt from the
blue. Mahooley's chair came to the floor with a thump.

"Well, I'm damned!" he said, staring.

Stiffy came quickly out of his little box to see what was up.

"How are you?" began the stranger youth diffidently.

"Who the hell are you?" asked Mahooley.

"Sam Gladding."

"Is the York boat in? Nobody told me."

"No, I walked around the lake."

Mahooley looked him over from his worn-out moccasins to his bare head.
"Well, you didn't bring much with you," he observed.

Sam frowned to hide his rising blushes. He offered the rabbit-skin
robe to create a diversion.

"Musq'oosis sent it, eh?" said Mahooley. "Put it on the counter."

Sam came back to the red-faced man. "Can you give me a job?" he asked
firmly.

"Hey, Stiffy," growled Mahooley. "Look what's askin' for a job!"

Stiffy laughed heartily. Thus he propitiated his irritable partner. It
didn't cost anything. Sam, blushing, set his jaw and stood it out.

"What can you do?" Mahooley demanded.

"Any hard work."

"You don't look like one of these here Hercules."

"Try me."

"Lord, man!" said Mahooley. "Don't you see me here twiddling my
thumbs. What for should I hire anybody? To twiddle 'em for me, maybe."

"You'll have a crowd here soon," persisted Sam. "Four men on their way
in to take up land, and others following. There's a surveying gang
coming up the river, too."

"Moreover, you ain't got good sense," Mahooley went on. "Comin' to a
country like this without an outfit. Not so much as a chaw of bacon,
or a blanket to lay over you nights. There ain't no free lunch up
north, kid. What'll you do if I don't give you a job?"

"Go to the company," returned Sam.

"Go to the company?" cried Mahooley. "Go to hell, you mean. The
company don't hire no tramps. That's a military organization, that is.
Their men are hired and broke in outside. So what'll you do now?"

"I'll make out somehow," said Sam.

"There ain't no make out to it!" cried Mahooley, exasperated. "You
ain't even got an axe to swing. There ain't nothin' for you but
starve."

"Well, then, I'll bid you good day," said Sam stiffly.

"Hold on!" shouted the trader. "I ain't done with you yet. Is that
manners, when you're askin' for a job?"

"You said you didn't have anything," muttered Sam.

"Never mind what I said. I ast you what you were goin' to do."

The badgered one began to bristle a little. "What's that to you?" he
asked, scowling.

"A whole lot!" cried Mahooley. "You fellows have no consideration.
You're always comin' up here and starvin' on us. Do you think that's
nice for me? Why, the last fellow left a little pile of white bones
beside the trail on the way to my girl's house, after the coyotes
picked him clean. Every time I go up there I got to turn my head the
other way."

Sam smiled stiffly at Mahooley's humour.

"Can you cook?" the trader asked.

Sam's heart sank. "So-so," he said.

"Well, I suppose I've got to let you cook for us and for the gang
that's comin'. You'll find everything in the kitchen across the road.
Go and get acquainted with it. By Gad! you can be thankful you run up
against a soft-hearted man like me."

Sam murmured an inquiry concerning wages.

"Wages!" roared Mahooley with an outraged air. "Stiffy, would you look
at what's askin' for wages! Go on, man! You're damned lucky if you get
a skinful of grub every day. Grub comes high up here!"

Sam reflected that it would be well to submit until he learned the
real situation in the settlement. "All right," he said, and turned to
go.

"Hold on," cried Mahooley. "You ain't ast what we'll have for dinner."

Sam waited for instructions.

"Well, let me see," said Mahooley. He tipped a wink in his partner's
direction. "What's your fancy, Stiffy."

"Oh, I leave the mean-you to you, Mahooley."

"Well, I guess you can give us some patty de foy grass, and squab on
toast, and angel cake."

"Sure," said Sam. "How about a _biscuit Tortoni_ for dessert?"

"Don't you give me no lip!" cried Mahooley.


CHAPTER XVI

AT THE SETTLEMENT


On the fourth day thereafter the long tedium of existence in the
settlement began to be broken in earnest. Before they could digest the
flavour of one event, something else happened. In the afternoon word
came down to Stiffy and Mahooley that the bishop had arrived at the
French Mission, bringing the sister of the company trader's wife under
his care.

Likewise the Indian agent and the doctor had come to the police post.
The whole party had arrived on horseback from the Tepiskow Lake
district, where they had visited the Indians. Their boat was held up
down the lake by adverse winds.

Before Stiffy and Mahooley had a chance to see any of these arrivals
or hear their news, quite an imposing caravan hove in view across the
river from the store, and shouted lustily for the ferry.

There were four wagons, each drawn by a good team, beside half a dozen
loose horses. The horses were in condition, the wagons well laden. The
entire outfit had a well-to-do air that earned the traders' respect
even from across the river. Of the four men, one carried his arm in a
sling.

Stiffy and Mahooley ferried them across team by team in the scow they
kept for the purpose. The four hardy and muscular travellers were men
according to the traders' understanding. They used the same scornful,
jocular, profane tongue. Their very names were a recommendation: Big
Jack Skinner, Black Shand Fraser, Husky Marr, and Young Joe Hagland,
the ex-pugilist.

After the horses had been turned out to graze, they all gathered in
the store for a gossip. The newcomers talked freely about their
journey in, and its difficulties, avoiding only a certain period of
their stay at Nine-Mile Point, and touching very briefly on their
meeting with the Bishop. Something sore was hidden here.

When the bell rang for supper they trooped across the road. The
kitchen in reality consisted of a mess-room downstairs with a
dormitory overhead; the actual kitchen was in a lean-to behind. When
the six men had seated themselves at the long trestle covered with
oilcloth, the cook entered with a steaming bowl of rice.

Now, the cook had observed the new arrivals from the kitchen window,
and had hardened himself for the meeting, but the travellers were
unprepared. They stared at him, scowling. An odd silence fell on the
table.

Mahooley looked curiously from one to another. "Do you know him?" he
demanded.

Big Jack quickly recovered himself. He banged the table, and bared his
big yellow teeth in a grin.

"On my soul, it's Sammy!" he cried. "How the hell did he get here?
Here's Sammy, boys! What do you know about that! Sammy, the White
Slave!"

A huge laugh greeted this sally. Sam set his jaw and doggedly went on
bringing in the food.

"How are you, Sam?" asked Jack with mock solicitude. "Have you
recovered from your terrible experience, poor fellow? My! My! That was
an awful thing to happen to a good boy!"

Mahooley, laughing and highly mystified, demanded: "What's the con,
boys?"

"Ain't you heard the story?" asked Jack with feigned surprise. "How
that poor young boy was carried off by a brutal girl and kep' prisoner
on an island?"

"Go 'way!" cried Mahooley, delighted.

"Honest to God he was!" affirmed Jack.

Joe and Husky not being able to think of any original contributions of
wit, rang all the changes on "Sammy, the White Slave!" with fresh
bursts of laughter. Shand said nothing. He laughed harshly.

"Who was the girl?" asked Mahooley.

They told him.

"Bela Charley!" he exclaimed. "The best looker on the lake! She has
the name of a man-hater."

"I dare say," said Jack with a serious air. "But his fatal beauty was
too much for her. You got to hand it to him for his looks, boys," he
added, calling general attention to the tight-lipped Sam in his apron.
"This here guy, Apollo, didn't have much on our Sam."

A highly coloured version of the story followed. In it Big Jack and
his mates figured merely as disinterested onlookers. The teller,
stimulated by applause, surpassed himself. They could not contain
their mirth.

"Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!" cried Mahooley. "This is the richest I ever
heard! It will never be forgotten!"

Sam went through with the meal, gritting his teeth, and crushing down
the rage that bade fair to suffocate him. He disdained to challenge
Jack's equivocal tale. The laughter of one's friends is hard enough to
bear sometimes, still, it may be borne with a grin; but when it rings
with scarcely concealed hate it stings like whips.

Sam was supposed to sit down at the table with them, but he would
sooner have starved. The effort of holding himself in almost finished
him.

When finally he cleared away, Mahooley said: "Come on and tell us your
side now."

"Go to hell!" muttered Sam, and walked out of the back door.

He strode up the road without knowing or caring where he was going. He
was moved merely by the impulse to put distance between him and his
tormentors.

Completely and terribly possessed by his rage, as youths are, he felt
that it would kill him if he could not do something to fight his way
out of the hateful position he was in. But what could he do? He
couldn't even sleep out of doors because he lacked a blanket. His
poverty had him by the heels.

He came to himself to find that he was staring at the buildings of the
company establishment mounted on a little hill. This was a mile from
the French outfit. The sight suggested a possible way out of his
difficulties. With an effort he collected his faculties and turned in.

The buildings formed three sides of a square open to a view across the
bay. On Sam's left was the big warehouse; on the other side the store
faced it, and the trader's house, behind a row of neat palings, closed
the top. All the buildings were constructed of squared logs
whitewashed. A lofty flagpole rose from the centre of the little
square, with a tiny brass cannon at its base.

Sam saw the trader taking the air on his veranda with two ladies. The
neat fence, the gravel path, the flower-beds, had a strange look in
that country. A keen feeling of homesickness attacked the unhappy Sam.
As he approached the veranda one of the ladies seemed vaguely
familiar. She glided toward him with extended hand.

"Mr. Gladding!" she exclaimed. "So you got here before us. Glad to see
you!" In a lower voice she added: "I wanted to tell you how much I
sympathized with you the other day, but I had no chance. So glad you
got out of it all right. I knew from the first that you were not to
blame."

Sam was much taken aback. He bowed awkwardly. What did the woman want
of him? Her over-impressive voice simply confused him. While she
detained him, his eyes were seeking the trader.

"Can I speak to you?" he asked.

The other man rose. "Sure!" he said. "Come into the house."

He led the way into an office, and, turning, looked Sam over with a
quizzical smile. His name was Gilbert Beattie, and he was a tall,
lean, black Scotchman, in equal parts good-natured and grim.

"What can I do for you?" he asked.

"Give me a job," replied Sam abruptly. "Anything."

"Aren't you working for the French outfit?"

"For my keep. That will never get me anywhere. I might as well be in
slavery."

"Sorry," said Beattie. "This place is run in a different way. 'The
Service,' we call it. The young fellows are indentured by the head
office and sent to school, so to speak. Leask's objection to allow him
to remain?

-He required the premises as a dwellinghouse for the incoming man,
William Hughson; and of course it would not do to have opposition.
10,888.

But he had made no arrangements for that at the time when Williamson
was requested to prepare for removal?-He had not.

10,889. Then when was the correspondence?

Was it when Williamson first got the notice or afterwards?-It was not
until long afterwards.

I think Williamson was of opinion that Mr.
Leask would not remove him, and he trusted to that until the very
last. I think he had some idea of getting the new premises,
notwithstanding what had passed.

10,890.

Were new premises built?-Yes, they were built last year.
They were begun in June and only completed in December 1871.

10,891.

Was Williamson still carrying on the fishing in 1871 while these
new premises were being built?

-Yes. He was fishing and carrying on the business the same as
before.

10,892.

How many men had he fishing for him last year at Ulsta?-I think he had
about the same number of boats that he had formerly.

10,893. And he still had the same premises?-He occupied the same
premises all along. The premises which Mr. Leask is occupying now for
business purposes are altogether new.

Williamson continued to occupy the old premises until November 1871,
when he had to leave.

10,894.

Where did he manage to get fishermen when Mr. Leask had put on three
new boats?-I think he got some from Mr.
M'Queen's estate, and also some of Mr. Leask's own tenants.

10,895. Does Mr.

Leask intend to put on a larger number of boats this year?-I think
he intends to put on one or two more.

10,896. But the boats' crews that he employed last year had formerly
been in the employment of Williamson and Johnston?

- Yes.

10,897. Is Johnston still carrying on business?

-Yes, he is carrying on business at Sound, in West Yell, where he
has a small property.

       10,898. Do you know how many boats he has?

-I think he has two but I am not sure. Some of Mr. Leask's tenants
fished for Johnston last year also.

10,899. Will Mr. Leask's tenants be allowed to fish for Johnston and
Williamson in future?

-I don't think they would do so if Mr.
Leask would give them employment.

10,900. But will they be allowed to fish for any other than Mr.

Leask?-I don't think Mr. Leask would force any one to fish for
him.

10,901. The tenants have received no intimation to the contrary?-
No.

10,902. And no hint?-No hint whatever. In fact, there were tenants
applying in November last for new boats, and requesting Mr. Leask to
build new boats for them, because there are a good many men who would
like to be employed by him, in preference to being employed by
Johnston or any other body.

10,903.

Do you know whether many of the men were in debt to Williamson when
he left Ulsta?-I don't know.

10,904. Was that one of the reasons why Williamson was anxious not to
quit in a hurry?-He alleged that reason; but I am of opinion that
there were not many of them in debt.

10,905. Did he ask you to relieve him of any of these debts?

- Never.

10,906.

Do you suppose he has any chance of recovering any debts that may exist
now?-Certainly he has. The men have all got effects of some kind
or another, so that he may easily take them into court and recover
what they are due him.

They are all in very good circumstances; there are none of them who
could not pay their debts.

10,907.

Has Mr. Leask any property in Sandsting?

-Yes; he has the property of Sand and Inner Sand.

There are between 40 and 50 tenants upon it.

10,908.

Are most of them engaged in the summer fishing?

-A good many of them are.

Some of them fish for Garriock & Co., and some for Mr.

Leask, and I think some for Charles Nicholson.

10,909. Is that property in the south side of the parish?-Yes; it is
near Reawick.

10,910. Has Mr. Leask any station in that district?-No.

10,911. Then where do they fish for him?

-They go in some of his vessels to the Faroe fishing.

He has no home-fishing station in Sandsting.

10,912.

Are they at liberty to go to the home fishing or to the Faroe fishing
for anybody they like?

-Yes. They are under no obligation to fish for Mr.

Leask.

They can go where they like, and they have always done so.

10,913. Do they hold their land as yearly tenants?-Yes.

10,912. What other property has Mr. Leask?

-South Whiteness, to the north-west of Scalloway, in the parish of
Tingwall.

I think there are about seventeen or eighteen tenants on that
property.

They fish principally for Mr.

Leask in the Faroe fishing, and in the spring fishing, which occupies
about a month or a little more.

10,915. Then they are not generally engaged in the home fishing?-No;
they are generally engaged in the Faroe fishing.

10,916.

How many of them may have gone to that fishing last year?-There may have
been above a dozen.

10,917. These men, I presume, have accounts at Mr. Leask's shop
at Lerwick?-Yes.

10,918.

     Is there any stipulation made with them that they shall man
     his Faroe smacks?-None. They are not bound at all. They may
     go where they please and engage themselves with whoever
     they please.

                                    

                                          10,919. Has Mr.

Leask any other properties in Shetland?-He has some small properties in
other places-in Quarff, North Roe, and Aithsting.

He has two tenants in Quarff, three in Aithsting, and one in North
Roe.

These tenants do not fish for Mr. Leask at all, and never have done
so, or been asked to do so.

10,920. Then Mr.

Leask's business consists in sending smacks to the Faroe fishing?

-Yes.

10,921. And in sending boats to the summer fishing?-Now it does,
but not formerly. It was only last year that he commenced the home
fishing at Ulsta.

10,922.

Has he commenced that business anywhere else?-No.

Ulsta is the only summer-fishing station that he has.

10,923.

Mr. Leask is also engaged in the whale fishing, both as an owner
of ships and as an agent?

-Yes.

10,924.

I believe it is specially with regard to the agency business that you
wish to make some statement?-Yes. I wish to make a statement with
regard to Mr. Hamilton's Report to the Board of Trade in November
1870.

Some of it is so utterly absurd that I should like to have it
contradicted.

He says, 'I ought to mention that the truck system, in an open or
disguised form, prevails in Shetland to an extent which, I believe,
is unknown in any other part of the United Kingdom.'

Now, that I deny <in toto>; and I think I will be able to prove
before I am done that it is not correct.

'And makes its depressing influence felt in all the ramifications
of the industrial and social life of the natives.' 
10,925.

He says, 'Almost every fisherman in the islands is in debt to some
shopkeeper; and not only is [Page 267] the head of the family in
debt, but frequently his wife also, and other members of his family,
down to children of twelve or fourteen years of age, for whom the
shopkeeper opens separate accounts in his books.'

Is that the case?

-There may be some cases of that, but it is not general. I deny that
almost every fisherman in the islands is in debt.

Then he says, 'These fishermen, for the most part, also rent small farms
of from three to four acres.'

That also I deny Mr.

Leask has about 120 tenants, and I think the average quantity of land
they hold is about twelve acres of enclosed ground, besides
common.

10,926.

What is the amount of their rent?

     -The rent is something less than 10s. an acre, on the
     average.

                                        Some have as much as twenty-three acres, and in some cases they
have about seven.

The rental I have given is for the enclosed ground within the
township; and in addition to that, the people have extensive
commons.

10,927.

On Mr. Leask's estates are the scattalds still left to the people
without any payment?

-Yes, except in Yell, where they have to pay 6d. per annum for every
sheep.

They also pay something for ponies, but nothing for cattle.

10,928. I omitted to ask whether Mr.

Leask has the management of any properties except his own?-No.

10,929.

He is not tacksman of any property, and he holds no property in lease?

-No. I may mention that he has an assignation of the rents of a small
property in Mid Yell, in security for debt.

The rents are paid regularly, and he has nothing to do with the
tenants except to draw their rent at the term.

10,930.

Then what you deny in that sentence of Mr. Hamilton's Report is merely
his statement as to the extent of the holdings of the men?-Yes. I
hold they are three or four times larger than he says.

10,931.

In the same sentence he adds, 'And it is from them (that is, the
fishermen) and from their sons that the crews of the whaling vessels
are mainly drawn.'

Is that the case?

-I don't deny that at all. It is quite true.

10,932.

Is it also true that there are no whaling vessels belonging to Lerwick-that
they belong principally to Dundee, Peterhead, and Hull, and that
the owners of these vessels engage large portions of their crews at
Lerwick through agents?-Yes.

       10,933.

Is it also true that these agents get little direct profit from their
agency?-They get 21/2 per cent. commission on the gross wages paid
through them.

10,934.

Do you consider that an adequate remuneration?-It is not nearly an
adequate remuneration for the amount of trouble they have; but it
has been the practice to pay that, and there is so much competition
amongst the agents that it has brought it down. I believe it was
formerly 5 per cent.

10,935. I believe there are only three or four agents in Lerwick, and
that the commission is fixed by mutual agreement between them and the
shipowners?-Yes. It has always been 21/2 per cent.
within my recollection.

10,936. Is it the competition that prevents the commission from being
raised to such a figure as would be a sufficient remuneration in
itself?

-Yes.

10,937. The agents are engaged in business as shopkeepers and
outfitters?-Yes.

10,938. Then it is the case that they have little direct profit
from their agency; and Mr.

Hamilton goes on to say, 'Their chief profit arises from what they
can make out of the earnings of the men.' Is that statement correct?-I
think some of them make very little profit indeed from the men.
They sell their goods as cheap, if not cheaper, than other shopkeepers
do; they give credit to the men, and sometimes they lose a good
deal of it through bad debts when there is a bad voyage.

10,939.

Is a bad voyage in the whaling a thing of frequent occurrence?-It is
very frequent, especially in the seal fishing.

10,940. Then Mr.

Hamilton says, 'Many of the men engaged are utterly unable, without
the assistance of the agents, to provide themselves with the clothing
necessary for the voyage?'

-That is often the case with young hands. They come here without
any clothing, and require perhaps from £5 to £6 worth in order to fit
them out for the Greenland voyage. The wages for young hands are about
£1 a month, and 1s. per tun of oil. When they have no success, they
are back in about a month and a half; that is only 30s.
they have to get, and that is all the agent has for his advance.
10,941.

You are speaking now of the sealing voyage?

-Yes. It only occupies about five or six weeks with the steamers.

10,942.

But when a man goes on a sealing voyage of that kind, is he taken for
the whaling voyage afterwards?-Sometimes, but sometimes not.

10,943. Do many of them only go to the sealing voyage?-Yes.
Last year the majority bargained for the sealing voyage only, and
did not go on the whaling voyage.

Some of them re-engaged again, but many of them did not.

10,944. But, as a rule, do one-half of them engage for a second
voyage after the sealing voyage was over?

-I should say they do.

10,945. And many of them, I suppose, engage for a whaling voyage,
who have not been at the sealing voyage at the commencement of the
season?-That is sometimes the case.

10,946.

How many men have you engaged for the last four or five years for
the sealing voyages?-I could not say exactly for the last four or five
years, but last year we engaged 207 for the sealing voyage, and 80
for the whaling, or 287 altogether.

10,947. Is not that an unusual proportion between the sealing and
whaling voyages?-Yes. In former years we used to engage more for
the whaling, and fewer for the sealing; but last year the owners
took it into their heads to engage the men only for the sealing,
and discharge them at the end of that voyage; and then, when the
vessels were going to the whaling, they re-engaged only such men
as they wanted.

10,948.

What was their reason for that?-I suppose they were trying to economize.
I don't know whether they economized or not, but it must have been
with that view they tried it.

10,949 Are the crews larger in the sealing voyages than in the whaling?-They
are.

I should say that ten men fewer per ship are required for the whaling
than for the sealing 
10,950.

How many ships would these represent?-Seven for the sealing, and four
for the whaling.

10,951. So that you had three ships fewer under your care for the
whaling than for the sealing last year?

-Yes.

10,952 How did that happen? Did the ships not go to the whaling?-The
'Esquimaux' did not call here for men last year.
The 'Victor' did not go at all to the whaling, and the third one
remained at the sealing the whole season.

10,953.

Then, in one ship the men you engaged would be employed through the
whole season for the sealing?

-Yes.

That vessel tried whaling for a short time but I suppose it did not
succeed.

10,954.

You say that when a young man goes to the sealing at first, he
incurs a larger debt for outfit than the whole amount of his wages?

-Very often he does.

10,955.

So that the merchant who engages him is often a serious loser, having
no security in the shape of wages?

-He risks his goods on the success of the voyage, and when the
voyage is unsuccessful, he comes out a very serious loser
occasionally.

10,956.

But the man remains in his debt and may pay it up in a subsequent
year?-Very often he does not. When a man gets into debt, we generally
lose him. He goes to some other agent, or he goes south.

10,957.

Is he more likely to go to another agent when he is in debt?-Yes. We
very seldom get a man back again who is in debt to us.

10,958. How does that affect Mr. Hamilton's statement?-He says, 'The
agents are, of course, interested in getting employment for those
who are in their debt.'

Now we very seldom or never get them employed again when they once
get into debt, and therefore it is our interest not to allow them
to get into debt, if possible.

10,959.

But you would be very glad to get employment for such a man
if you could?-If we could get him employment we would be very glad;
but they take [Page 268] very good care not to allow us to catch
them.

Of course, there are some of them who pay their debts, but that is the
exception. I am now referring to the young hands-those who get into
debt on their first voyage.

10,960. When a man of older standing gets into debt, is he more likely
to pay up in a subsequent year?-Yes. A man whose family is
settled here is more likely to pay up.

10,961.

Of course, in his case, you are not only interested in getting
employment for him, but he also is anxious to get employment through
you?

-Yes, it is a mutual accommodation; but there are very few of the
old hands in debt.

It is principally among the young men who make unsuccessful voyages that
anything of that kind happens.

Then we come to a very serious mistake which Mr.

Hamilton makes. He says, 'Even those men who are able to pay for their
own outfit, and who might be able to obtain it at a cheaper rate
from some other shopkeepers, are practically debarred from doing
so; for any man who carried his custom to any other shop than to
that of the agent employing him, would run the risk of being a
marked man, not only with that particular agent, but also with all
the others, among whom the news of his contumacy would soon spread;
and as there are more men than there are berths, he would probably
never get any employment again.'

Now, it is nonsense to say, that there are often more men than
berths.

We have often had to go and search for men, and ships have frequently
had to go on their voyages short of men.

That has often occurred within the last nineteen years to my
knowledge.

I have seen vessels lying here for day after day, when we were searching
for hands and could not get them, and after all they had to leave
short-handed.

10,962.

Did that occur last year or the year before?

-No; it has not occurred for it year or two, but five years ago it
occurred in the case of the 'Jan Mayen.' The first year she was a
steamer, which was five years ago, she had to go short-handed, because
the men were so scarce.

10,963. Do you know of any other ships which have had to go to the
fishing short-handed?-They have gone short-handed, although I could
not just remember them. I know that in 1854 or 1855 a number of
them were short-handed.

10,964.

Was there any particular reason why that was the case in 1854 and
1855?-There were more ships than men.

I believe the Russian war was the principal cause of it.

10,965.

Had a number of Shetland men gone into the navy at that time?

-They had gone south, not perhaps into the navy; but there was it great
demand for men in the merchant trade. For the last two or three
years, also, the men have not been in excess.

When the ships were done, the men were generally done too, so that
they were about equally matched.

10,966.

You refer to the statement in the Report: 'Any man who carried his custom
to any other shop than to that of the agent employing him, would run
the risk of being a marked man?'

- Yes; I deny that most emphatically.

10,967.

Is it the case that the men generally get what outfit they require
at the shop of the merchant engaging them?

-It is generally the case, but we engage plenty of men who go elsewhere
to buy their goods.

They are good men, and we are glad to get them back again.

We never care a straw about whether they buy goods from us or not.

10,968.

Are these men who have money of their own?-Yes. We give them their
first month's advance in money, and they can go where they like.

10,969. What proportion of the men spend their month's advance
elsewhere?

-I don't think there is large proportion of them who do that. We
generally find that we get on pretty well with the men, and that
they prefer buying their goods from us.

They tell us, but I don't know for the truth of it, that they get
better value in our place than they get elsewhere.

10,970.

       Suppose a man gets his outfit from another agent, or from another
shop, and comes back to you next year, is there any note kept of
him having done so?

-Never. There are several men who do that regularly, and we never
quarrel them for it. They are good men and we don't like to lose sight
of them for the sake of their custom. We always like to get hold a good
man whether we get his custom or not and therefore we never quarrel
with them on that account.
10,971. Suppose a man is in your debt at the beginning of the year,
is he likely to go and get his supplies from another shop?-I could
not say about that; but debt does not constitute any hold over him
at all.
10,972. Do you know any case of a man in your debt at the beginning
of the year having gone and got his supplies from another merchant?-I
believe he would take part from us and part from others.
10,973. But do you know any case of that kind where the man went
to another merchant for his supplies?-I could not point to any
case.
10,974. Does any communication take place between different shipping
agents with regard to the men who are in debt?-Not now. Formerly
we used to hand our accounts from one to the other.
10,975. Did you exchange lists of the indebted men?-There were lists
given for the other agents to try to recover the debts for us if
possible.
10,976. Was that done with the view of obtaining payment from the
agent by whom the men were engaged of a debt due to another merchant
incurred in previous years?-Yes; but it was only done with the man's
consent. Sometimes we recovered it, and sometimes not.

10,977.Mrs. Beattie was a quiet, wise, mellow kind of woman. "He's so young,"
she suggested.

Her sister cheerfully agreed. "Of course, a mere baby! That's why I
can be friends with him. He's so utterly friendless. He needs a kind
word from somebody."

"But don't you rather go out of your way to give it to him?" asked
Mrs. Beattie very softly.

"Sister! How can you say such a thing?" said Miss Mackall in shocked
tones. "A mere child like that--one would think---- Oh, how can you?"

Mrs. Beattie let the matter drop with a little sigh. She had not been
home in fifteen years, and she found her elder sister much changed and
difficult to understand. Somehow their positions had been reversed.

Later, at the table, Miss Mackall suggested with an off-hand air that
the friendless young teamster might be asked to supper. Gilbert
Beattie looked up quickly.

"This is the company house," he said in his grim way, "and we are, so
to speak, public people. We must not give any occasion for silly
gossip."

"Gossip?" echoed Miss Mackall, raising her eyebrows. "I don't
understand you."

"Pardon me," said Beattie. "I think you do. Remember," he added with a
grim twinkle, "the trader's sister must be like Cæsar's wife, above
suspicion."

Miss Mackall tossed her head and finished her meal in silence. Persons
of a romantic temperament really enjoy a little tyranny. It made her
seem young and interesting to herself.

That afternoon she walked up the road a way and met Sam safely out of
view of the house. Sam greeted her with a beaming smile.

It seemed to him that this was his one friend--the only soul he had to
talk to. He was little disposed to find flaws in her. As for her age,
he had never thought about it. Pressed for an answer, he would
probably have said: "Oh, about thirty!"

"Hello!" he cried. "Climb in and drive back with me."

"I can't," she replied with a mysterious air.

"Why not?"

"I mustn't be seen with you so much."

"Why?"

"It seems people are beginning to talk about us. Isn't it too silly?"

Sam laughed harshly. "I'm used to it," he said. "Of course, it's a
different thing for you."

"I don't care for myself," she returned. "But my brother-in-law----"

"He's been warning you against me, eh?" asked Sam bitterly.
"Naturally, you have to attend to what he says. It's all right." He
made as if to drive on.

Miss Mackall seemed to be about to throw herself in front of the
horses.

"How can you?" she cried reproachfully. "You know I don't care what
anybody says. But while I'm living in his house I have to----"

"Sure!" replied Sam sorely. "I won't trouble you----"

"If we could write to each other," she suggested, "and leave the
letters in a safe place."

Sam shook his head. "Never was any hand at writing letters," he said
deprecatingly. "I run dry when I take a pen. Besides, I have no place
to write, nor anything to write with."

"There is another way," she murmured, "but I suppose I shouldn't speak
of it."

"What way?" asked Sam.

"There's a trail from the back of our house direct to Grier's Point.
It is never used except when they bring supplies to the store in the
summer. We keep very early hours. Everything is quiet by nine. I could
slip out of the house and walk down the trail to meet you. We could
talk a while, and I could be in again before dark."

Sam felt a little dubious, but how can a young man hold back in a
matter of this kind? "All right, if you wish it," he agreed.

"I am only thinking of you," she said.

"I'll be there."

       *       *       *       *       *

No better place for a tryst could have been found. No one ever had any
occasion to use the back trail, and it was invisible for its whole
length to travellers on the main road. After issuing from the woods of
Grier's Point it crossed a wide flat among clumps of willows, and,
climbing over the spur of a wooded hill, dropped in Beattie's back
yard.

They met half-way across the flat in the tender dusk. The fairy light
took away ten years of her age, and Sam experienced almost a _bona
fide_ thrill of romance at the sight of her slender figure swaying
over the meadow toward him.

In his gratitude for her kindness he really desired to feel more
warmly toward her, which is a perilous state of mind for a young man
to be in. He spread his coat for her to sit on, and dropped beside her
in the grass.

"Smoke your pipe," she said. "It's more cosy."

He obeyed.

"I wish I had a cigarette myself," she added with a giggle.

"Do you smoke?" asked Sam, surprised.

"No," she confessed; "but all the girls do, nowadays."

"I don't like it," said Sam bluntly.

"Of course I was only joking," she returned hastily.

Their conversation was not very romantic. Sam, with the best
intentions in the world, somehow frustrated her attempts in this
direction. He was propped up on one elbow beside her.

"How thick and bright your hair is!" she murmured.

"You've got some hair yourself," returned Sam politely.

She quickly put both hands up. "Ah! don't look at it. A hair-dresser
spoiled it. As a child it hung below my waist."

Sam not knowing exactly what to say to this, blew a cloud of smoke.

"What a perfect night!" she breathed.

"Great!" said Sam. "That near-horse of mine, Sambo, picked up a stone
on the beach this morning. I didn't discover what was making him lame
until we were half-way round the bay. I wish I knew more about horses.
I pick up all I can, but you never can tell when these fellows are
giving it to you straight."

"It's a shame the way they plague you!" she exclaimed warmly.

"Oh, it's nothing, now," replied Sam. "I can stand anything now that
I've got a man's job. I'll make good yet. I think I can see a
difference already. I think about it day and night. It's my dream. I
mean, making good with these fellows. It isn't that I care so much
about them either. But after what's happened. I've got to make them
respect me!"

And so on, in entire innocence. Sam was aware of no feelings toward
her save gratitude and friendliness. Nevertheless, it would not have
been the first time it happened, if these safe and simple feelings had
suddenly landed him in an inextricable coil. Men are babies in such
matters.

But nothing happened this night. Sam walked back with her to the foot
of the hill, and they parted without touching hands.

"Shan't I see you through the wood?" he asked.

She shook her head. "Some one might see from the house. There's plenty
of light yet. To-morrow night at the same time?"

"All right," said Sam.

She stood watching until he disappeared among the willows, then turned
to mount the shallow hill. Down among the trunks of the big pines it
was gloomier than she had expected. The patches of bright sky seemed
immeasurably far overhead. The wood was full of whispers. She began to
be sorry that she had let him go so soon, and hastened her steps.

Suddenly, as she neared the top of the hill, a human figure
materialized in the trail before her. She was too much startled to
scream. She stopped, petrified with terror, struggling to draw her
breath. Its shadowy face was turned toward her. It was a very creature
of night, still and voiceless. It blocked the way she had to pass. Her
limbs shook under her, and a low moan of terror escaped her breast.

Finding a little strength at last, she made to dart among the trees so
that she could encircle the apparition.

"Stop!" It commanded.

Miss Mackall fell half fainting against a tree.

The figure came closer to her, and she saw that it was a woman. A
horrible prescience of what was coming still further demoralized her.
Women do not require explanations in words. Miss Mackall recognized
the adventuress of Musquasepi, and knew what she had come for. She
sought to temporize.

"What do you want?" she faltered.

"I want kill you," said Bela softly. "My finger is hungry for the
trigger."

She moved slightly, and a spot of light caught the barrel of the rifle
over her arm. Miss Mackall moaned again.

"What did I ever do to you?" she wailed.

"You know," replied Bela grimly. "You tried tak' my man."

"How r-ridiculous!" stuttered Miss Mackall. "He isn't yours."

"Maybe," returned Bela. "Not yet. But no ot'er woman goin' get him
from me."

"It isn't my fault if he wants me."

"Want you!" cried Bela scornfully. "An old woman! You try catch him
lak he a fish!"

Miss Mackall broke into a low, hysterical weeping.

"Shut up!" said Bela. "Listen to w'at I say."

"Let me go! Let me go!" wept the other woman. "I'll scream!"

"No, you won't," said Bela coolly. "You not want Gilbert Beattie know
you run out at night."

"I won't be murdered in cold blood! I won't! I won't!"

"Shut up!" said Bela. "I not goin' kill you jus' yet. Not if you do
what I want."

Miss Mackall stopped weeping. "What do you want?" she asked eagerly.

"You got go 'way from here," said Bela coolly.

"What do you mean?"

"Bishop Lajeunesse goin' back down lake day after to-morrow. If you
here after he gone I kill you."

A little assurance began to return to Miss Mackall. After all, it was
not a supernatural, but a very human enemy with whom she had to deal.

"Are you crazy?" she demanded with quavering dignity.

"Yes," replied Bela calmly. "So they say."

"Oh!" sneered Miss Mackall. "Do you think I shall pay any attention to
your threats? I have only to speak a word to my brother-in-law and you
will be arrested."

"They got catch me first," said Bela. "No white man can follow me in
the bush. I go where I want. Always I will follow you--wit' my gun."

The white woman's voice broke again. "If anything happened to me,
you'd be tried and hung for murder!"

"What do a crazy woman care for that?" asked Bela.

Miss Mackall commenced to weep again.

Bela suddenly stepped aside. "Run home!" she said contemptuously.
"Better pack your trunk."

Miss Mackall's legs suddenly recovered their function, and she sped up
the trail like a released arrow. Never in her life had she run so
fast. She fell into her room panting and trembling, and offered up a
little prayer of thankfulness for the security of four walls and a
locked door.

Next morning she was unable to get up in time to see Sam pass. She
appeared at the dinner table pale and shaky, and pleaded a headache in
explanation. During the meal she led the conversation by a round-about
course to the subject of Indians.

"Do they ever go crazy?" she asked Gilbert Beattie, with an off-hand
air.

"Yes, indeed," he answered. "It's one of the commonest troubles we
have to deal with. They're fanatics by nature, anyway, and it doesn't
take much to turn the scale. _Weh-ti-go_ is their word for insanity.
Among the people around the lake there is an extraordinary
superstition, which the priests have not been able to eradicate in two
hundred years. The Indians say of an insane man that his brain is
frozen. And they believe in their hearts that the only way to melt it
is by drinking human blood--a woman's or a child's by preference. That
is the real explanation of many an obscure tragedy up here."

Miss Mackall shuddered and ate no more.

Late that afternoon she managed to drag herself down to the road. She
waited for Sam at the entrance to a patch of woods a little way toward
the French outfit.

"What's the matter?" he exclaimed at the sight of her.

"Ah, don't look at me!" she said unhappily. "I've had an awful night.
Sick headache. I just wanted to tell you not to come to-night."

"All right," said Sam. "To-morrow night?"

She shook her head. "I--I don't think I'll come any more. I don't
think it's right."

"Just as you say," said Sam. "If you feel all right to-morrow
afternoon, you might get a horse and ride around the bay."

"I--I'm afraid to ride alone," she faltered.

"Well," said Sam, ever quick to take offence, "if you don't want to
see me again, of course----"

"I do! I do!" she cried. "I've got to have a talk with you. I don't
know what to do!"

"Very well," he said stoutly. "I'll come up to the house to-morrow
night. I guess there's no reason why I shouldn't."

"Yes, that is best," she agreed. "Drive on now."

Sam clucked to his team, and they started briskly down the trail.
"Lord, she looks about seventy!" he was thinking. Miss Mackall stood
watching until they rounded the first bend. When she turned around,
there stood Bela beside a big tree, a few feet to the side of the
road. Evidently she had been hidden in the underbrush behind. Miss
Mackall gasped in piteous terror and stood rooted to the spot.

Bela's face was as relentless as a high priestess's. "I listen if you
goin' tell him 'bout me," she said. "If you tell him, I ready to
shoot."

The other woman was speechless.

"You not goin' be here to-morrow night," Bela went on quietly. "Bishop
Lajeunesse leave to-morrow morning."

Miss Mackall turned and flew up the trail.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trader's house was built bungalow style, all the rooms on a floor.
Miss Mackall's room was at the back of the house, her window facing
the end of the back trail, where it issued from the woods. The nights
were now mild and fragrant, and doors and windows stood wide. Locks
are never used north of the landing. Or if they are, the key hangs
hospitably within reach.

Miss Mackall, however, insisted on locking the doors and securing her
window. There were no blinds, and she hung a petticoat inside the
glass. Laughing at her old-maidish precautions, they let her have her
way. As a further safeguard against nervousness during the night, she
had one of her nieces to bed with her.

There was no sleep for her. In every little stir and breath she heard
the footfall of her enemy. She was tormented by the suspicion that
there was something lurking outside her window. She regretted leaving
the petticoat up, for it prevented her seeing outside. She brooded on
it until she felt as if she would go out of her mind, if she were not
reassured.

Finally she mustered up sufficient courage to get out of bed and creep
to the window. Holding her breath, she gathered the petticoat in her
hand and smartly jerked it down. She found herself looking into the
face of the native girl, who was peering through the glass. There was
a little light in the sky behind her.

Bela sprang back, and Miss Mackall saw the gun-barrel. She uttered a
piercing scream and fell fainting to the floor. The whole family
rushed to her door. Hysterics succeeded. They could make nothing of
her wild cries. When she recovered she was mum.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning Gilbert Beattie and his wife discussed it soberly.
"Nerves," said the man. "We'd best let her go out with the bishop, as
she wants. This is no country for her. We might not get another chance
this year to send her out with a proper escort."

"It's too bad!" sighed his wife. "I thought she would make such a good
wife for one of the new men that are coming in now. They need wives so
badly!"

"H-m!" said Gilbert.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE "RESTERAW"


Gilbert Beattie, driving home by way of the French outfit, after
having seen his sister-in-law embark, found that another party of
settlers had arrived. Many of the natives, attracted by news of these
events, had also come in, and the settlement presented a scene of
activity such as it had never known.

It gave the trader much food for thought. Clearly the old order was
passing fast, and it behooved an enterprising merchant to adjust
himself to the new. Beattie was no longer a young man, and he felt an
honest anxiety for the future. Would he be able to maintain his
supremacy?

When he reached his own store he found a handsome native girl waiting
to see him. He had seen her before, but could not place her. He asked
her name.

"Bela Charley," she answered.

"O-ho!" he said, looking at her with a fresh curiosity. "You are she,
eh?" Whatever they might be saying about this girl, he commended the
calm, self-respecting air with which she bore his scrutiny. "Do you
want to trade?" he asked. "One of the clerks will wait on you."

She shook her head. "Want see you."

"What can I do for you?"

"Company got little house beside the road down there. Nobody livin'
there."

"Well, what of it?"

"You let me live there?" she asked.

"You'd better go home to your people, my girl," he said grimly.

"I have left them," she returned coolly.

"What would you think of doing?" he asked curiously. "How could you
make your living?"

"Plenty people here now," she said. "More comin'. I goin' keep
stoppin'-house for meals."

"Alone?" he asked, frowning.

"Sure!" said Bela.

He shook his head. "It wouldn't do."

"Why?"

"You're too good-looking," he replied bluntly. "It wouldn't be
respectable."

"I tak' care of myself," averred Bela. "Anybody say so."

"How about that story that's going the rounds now?"

"Moch lies, I guess."

"Very like; but it can't be done," he said firmly. "I can't have a
scandal right in front of my wife's door."

"Good for trade," suggested Bela insinuatingly. "Mak' the new people
come up here. Now they always hangin' round Stiffy and Mahooley's."

This argument was not without weight; nevertheless, Beattie continued
to shake his head. "Can't do it unless you get a chaperon."

"Chaperon?" repeated Bela, puzzled.

"Get a respectable woman to come live with you, and I'll say all
right."

Bela nodded and marched out of the store without wasting any further
words.

In an hour she was back, bringing Mary, Bateese Otter's widow. Mary,
according to the standards of the settlement, was a paragon of
virtue. Gilbert Beattie grinned.

"Here is Mary Otter," said Bela calmly. "She poor. She goin' live with
me. I guess she is respectable. She live in the mission before, and
scrub the floors. Père Lacombe tell her come live wit' me. Is that all
right?"

Since Bela had secured the sanction of the Church upon her enterprise,
Beattie felt that the responsibility was no longer his. He gladly gave
her her way.

The astonishing news spread up and down the road like lightning. Bela
Charley was going to open a "resteraw." Here was a new and fascinating
subject for gossip.

Nobody knew that Bela was in the settlement. Nobody had seen her come.
Exactly like her, said those who were familiar with her exploits in
the past. What would happen when Bela and Sam met again? others asked.

While everybody had helped this story on its rounds, no man believed
that Bela had really carried off Sam. Funny that this girl should turn
up almost at the moment of the other girl's departure! Nobody,
however, suspected as yet that there was anything more than
coincidence in this.

The main thing was Bela was known to be an A1 cook, and the grub at
the French outfit was rotten. Mahooley himself confessed it.

Within two hours six men, including Big Jack and his pals, arrived for
dinner. Bela was not at all discomposed. She had already laid in
supplies from the company. Dinner would be ready for all who came, she
said, six bits per man. Breakfast and supper, four bits.

To-day they would have to sit on the floor, but by to-morrow proper
arrangements would be completed. No, there would be no accommodations
for sleeping. Everybody must go home at ten o'clock. While they waited
they could cut some good sods to mend the roof, if they wanted.

Some of the guests, thinking of the past, approached her somewhat
diffidently; but if Bela harboured any resentment, she hid it well.
She was the same to all, a wary, calm, efficient hostess.

Naturally the men were delighted to be given an opportunity to start
fresh. Three of them laboured at the roof with a will. Husky, who only
had one good arm, cleaned fish for her. The dinner, when it came on,
was no disappointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam, rattling back over the rough trail that afternoon, stamped in his
empty wagon-box and whistled cheerfully. Things were going well with
him. The long, hard-working days in the open air were good for both
health and spirits. He liked his job, and he was making money. He had
conceived a great affection for his lively little team, and, lacking
other companions, confided his hopes and fears in them.

Not that he had yet succeeded in winning from under the load of
derision that had almost crushed him; the men still greeted him with
their tongues in their cheeks. But now that he had a man's job, it was
easier to bear.

He believed, too, that he was making progress with them. The hated
gibe "white slave" was less frequently heard. Sam, passionately bent
on making good in the community, weighed every shade of the men's
manner toward him, like a lover his mistress's.

He met Big Jack and his pals driving back around the bay in Jack's
wagon. They had staked out their land across the bay, but still spent
most of their time in the settlement. Both drivers pulled up their
horses.

The men hailed Sam with at least the appearance of good nature. As for
Sam himself, he had made up his mind that since he was going to live
among them, he would only make himself ridiculous by maintaining a
sore and distant air. He was learning to give as good as he got.

"Heard the news?" asked Big Jack, glancing around at his companions,
promising them a bit of sport.

"What news?" asked Sam warily.

"Your new girl has flew the coop."

"What do you mean?" demanded Sam, scowling.

"Wafted. Vamosed. Fluffed out. Beat it for the outside."

"Who are you talking about?"

"Beattie's wife's sister."

"Miss Mackall?"

"Went back with the bishop this morning."

Sam's face was a study in blank incredulity.

"Didn't you know she was goin'?" asked Jack with pretended concern. He
turned to his mates. "Boys, this here's a serious matter. Looks like a
regular lovers' quarrel. We ought to have broke it to him more
gentle!"

"I don't believe it!" said Sam. "But if it is true, she's got a right
to go when she likes without asking me." He made a move to drive on.

"Hold on!" cried Big Jack. "I've got another piece of news for you."

"Spit it out," snapped Sam, scornful and unconcerned.

"Your old girl's come to town. Ring out the new, ring in the old, as
the song says. Lucky for you they didn't happen simultaneous."

This affected Sam more than the first item. In spite of him, a red
tide surged up from his neck. He scowled angrily at having to betray
himself before them. They laughed derisively.

"I suppose you mean Bela," he said stiffly. "The settlement is free to
her, I guess. She's no more mine than the other."

"Opened a resteraw in the shack below the company store," Big Jack
went on. "We had our dinner there. Six bits a man. Better drop in to
supper."

"Not by a damn sight!" muttered Sam.

He shook his reins, and drove on to the tune of their laughter.

His feelings were much mixed. He felt that he ought in decency to be
chiefly concerned on Jennie Mackall's account, but he could not drive
Bela out of his head. He was both angry and terrified at her coming.
Just when he was beginning to feel free and easy she had to come and
start up the old trouble in his breast. Just when men were beginning
to forget the story which humiliated him, she came along and gave it
new point!

Sam had to get mad at something, and, like young persons generally, he
concentrated on a side issue. By the time he got into the settlement
he had succeeded in working himself up to a great pitch of indignation
against the Beatties, who, he told himself, had sent Jennie Mackall
home to part her from him.

Reaching the company reservation, he drove boldly up the hill to ask
for an explanation. Mrs. Beattie was on the porch sewing, as ever her
bland, capable self.

"They tell me Miss Mackall has gone away," said Sam stiffly.

"She was taken sick last night," replied Mrs. Beattie. "We all thought
it best for her to go when she had a good chance."

Sam stood undecided.

Mrs. Beattie arose.

"She left a note to bid you good-bye. I'll get it."

This was what Sam read, written in a well nigh illegible scrawl:

     DEAR BOY,

    I cannot stay here. I am sick. I can't explain further. Can
    scarcely hold a pen. It's dreadful to have to go without
    seeing you. But don't try to follow me. I will write you from
    outside, when I can think more calmly. Oh, it's horrible! Oh,
    be careful of yourself! Don't let yourself be deceived. I
    would say more if I dared. Tear this up instantly. Don't
    forget me.

                             Ever thine,

                                     JENNIE.

Sam bowed stiffly to Mrs. Beattie, and turned away. The letter
mystified and exasperated him. The emotion it breathed found no
response in his own breast. The phrasing sounded exaggerated and
silly. Why on earth should he follow? He understood the veiled
reference to Bela. Little need for Jennie to warn him against her!

At the same time Sam felt mean because he experienced no greater
distress at Jennie's going. Finally, manlike, he swore under his
breath, and resolved again to have no more to do with women. No
suspicion of the real state of affairs crossed his mind.

Returning down hill in his wagon, he had to pass the little house
where they had told him Bela was. _Lord Fop_. Now, by all that's good
and powerful, thou art an incomprehensive coxcomb!--but thou makest
good shoes, and so I'll bear with thee.
_Shoe_. My lord, I have worked for half the people of quality in this
town these twenty years, and 'tis very hard I shouldn't know when a
shoe hurts, and when it don't.

_Lord Fop_. Well, pr'ythee be gone about thy business.-- [_Exit_
SHOEMAKER.] Mr. Mendlegs, a word with you.--The calves of these stockings
are thickened a little too much; they make my legs look like a
porter's.
_Mend_.

       My lord, methinks they look mighty well.

_Lord Fop_. Ay, but you are not so good a judge of those things as I
am--I have studied them all my life--therefore pray let the next
be the thickness of a crown-piece less.

_Mend_. Indeed, my lord, they are the same kind I had the honour to
furnish your lordship with in town.
_Lord Fop_. Very possibly, Mr.

Mendlegs; but that was in the beginning of the winter, and you should
always remember, Mr.
Hosier, that if you make a nobleman's spring legs as robust as his
autumnal calves, you commit a monstrous impropriety, and make no
allowance Tor the fatigues of the winter.

[_Exit--_ MENDLEGS.] _Jewel_. I hope, my lord, these buckles have had
the unspeakable satisfaction of being honoured with your lordship's
approbation?
_Lord Fop_.

Why, they are of a pretty fancy; but don't you think them rather
of the smallest?
_Jewel_. My lord, they could not well be larger, to keep on your
lordship's shoe.
_Lord Fop_.

My good sir, you forget that these matters are not as they used to be;
formerly, indeed, the buckle was a sort of machine, intended to keep
on the shoe; but the case is now quite reversed, and the shoe is
of no earthly use, but to keep on the buckle.

--Now give me my watches [SERVANT _fetches the watches_,] my chapeau,
[SERVANT _brings a dress hat_,] my handkerchief, [SERVANT _pours some
scented liquor on a handkerchief and brings it_,] my snuff-box [SERVANT
_brings snuff-box_.]

There, now the business of the morning is pretty well over. [_Exit_
JEWELLER.] _Fash_. [_Aside to_ LORY.] Well, Lory, what dost think
on't?--a very friendly reception from a brother, after three
years' absence!
_Lory_. [_Aside to_ TOM FASHION.] Why, sir, 'tis your own fault--here
you have stood ever since you came in, and have not commended any
one thing that belongs to him.

[SERVANTS _all go off._] _Fash_. [_Aside to_ LORY.] Nor ever shall,
while they belong to a coxcomb.--[_To_ LORD FOPPINGTON.] Now your
people of business are gone, brother, I hope I may obtain a quarter
of an hour's audience of you?

_Lord Fop_. Faith, Tam, I must beg you'll excuse me at this time, for
I have an engagement which I would not break for the salvation of
mankind.--Hey!--there!--is my carriage at the door?
--You'll excuse me, brother.

[_Going_.] _Fash_. Shall you be back to dinner?
_Lord Fop_. As Gad shall jedge me, I can't tell; for it is passible I
may dine with some friends at Donner's.
_Fash_. Shall I meet you there? For I must needs talk with you.

_Lord Fop_. That I'm afraid mayn't be quite so praper; for
those I commonly eat with are people of nice conversation; and you
know, Tam, your education has been a little at large.--But there are
other ordinaries in town--very good beef ordinaries--I suppose, Tam,
you can eat beef?--However, dear Tam, I'm glad to see thee in England,
stap my vitals!

[_Exit_, LA VAROLE _following_.] _Fash_. Hell and furies! is this to
be borne?
_Lory_. Faith, sir, I could almost have given him a knock o' the pate
myself.

_Fash_. 'Tis enough; I will now show you the excess of my passion, by
being very calm.--Come, Lory, lay your loggerhead to mine, and, in cold
blood, let us contrive his destruction.
_Lory_.

Here comes a head, sir, would contrive it better than both our
loggerheads, if she would but join in the confederacy.
_Fash_. By this light, Madam Coupler! she seems dissatisfied at
something: let us observe her.
_Enter_ MRS. COUPLER.
_Mrs. Coup_.

So! I am likely to be well rewarded for my services, truly; my
suspicions, I find, were but too just.-- What! refuse to advance
me a petty sum, when I am upon the point of making him master of a
galleon! but let him look to the consequences; an ungrateful,
narrow-minded coxcomb.

_Fash_.

So he is, upon my soul, old lady; it must be my brother you speak
of.
_Mrs. Coup_. Ha! stripling, how came you here? What, hast spent
all, eh? And art thou come to dun his lordship for assistance?
_Fash_. No, I want somebody's assistance to cut his lordship's
throat, without the risk of being hanged for him.
_Mrs. Coup_. Egad, sirrah, I could help thee to do him almost as
good a turn, without the danger of being burned in the hand
for't.
_Fash_. How--how, old Mischief?
_Mrs. Coup_.He found himself
gaping clownishly at her. For something had leaped out of her eyes
into his, something sweet and terrible and strange that threw him into
a hopeless confusion.

He whipped up his horses and banged down the trail. All night he
tossed in his blankets, hungry and exasperated beyond bearing. Cursing
her brought him no satisfaction at all. It rang hollowly.

As the days passed, stories of another kind reached Sam's ears. It
appeared that many of Bela's boarders desired to marry her,
particularly the four settlers who had first arrived. They had offered
themselves in due form, it was said, and, much to the satisfaction of
the company in general, had been turned down in positive terms.

Whether or not this was precisely true, Husky Marr suddenly sold out
his outfit and went out on a York boat, while Black Shand Fraser
packed up his and trekked over to the Spirit River. Later word came
back that he had built himself a raft, and had gone down to Fort
Ochre, the farthest point that white men had reached.

The other two stuck it out. Big Jack Skinner philosophically abandoned
his pretensions, but Joe Hagland would not take his answer. He
continued to besiege Bela, and the general opinion was that he would
wear her out in the end. All of which did not help smooth Sam's
pillow.

Another piece of news was that old Musq'oosis had come to live with
Bela and help her run her place. That night on his way back Sam saw
that a teepee had been pitched beside the road near the
stopping-house. In the end, as was inevitable, Sam began to argue with
himself as to the wisdom of his course in staying away from Bela's.

"Every time they see me drive past it revives the story in their
minds," he told himself. "They'll think I'm afraid of her. She'll
think I'm afraid of her. I've got to show them all. I'm just making a
fool of myself staying away. It's only a public eating-house. My
money's as good as anybody else's, I guess. I'll never make good with
the gang until I can mix with them there as if nothing had happened."

[Illustration: Bela's hands toiled with chores while her eyes dreamed
of love. (Colleen Moore as Bela).

(_Photoplay Edition--"The Huntress"_) (_A First National Picture_)]

Thus do a young man's secret desires beguile him. But even when he had
persuaded himself that it would be the part of wisdom to eat at
Bela's, Sam did not immediately act on it. A kind of nervous dread
restrained him.

One afternoon he was delayed across the bay, and as he approached the
"resteraw" the fellows were already gathering for supper. Sam listened
to the jovial talk and laughter coming through the door with a sore
and desirous heart.

"Why can't I have a good time, too?" he asked himself rebelliously.
But he did not pull up. A few yards beyond the shack he met Stiffy and
Mahooley riding to supper.

"Hey, Sam!" cried the latter teasingly. "Come on in to supper. I'll
blow!"

"Much obliged," said Sam good-naturedly. "My horses' feed is down at
the Point. I have to be getting on."

"There's plenty feed here," said Mahooley.

Sam shook his head.

"I believe you're afraid of the girl."

The shaft went home. Sam laughed scornfully and pulled his horses'
heads around. "Oh, well, since you put it that way I guess I will eat
a meal off you."


CHAPTER XIX

THE NEW BOARDER


Sam tied his team to a tree and walked to the door of the shack.
Within those twenty paces he experienced a complete revulsion of
feeling. Having cast the die, he enjoyed that wonderful lightness of
heart that follows on a period of painful indecision.

"What the deuce!" he thought. "What a simpleton I am to worry myself
blind! Whatever there is about Bela she doesn't exactly hate me. Why
shouldn't I jolly her along? That's the best way to get square. Lord!
I'm young. Why shouldn't I have my bit of fun?"

It was in this gay humour that he crossed the threshold. Within he saw
a long oilcloth-covered table reaching across the room, with half a
score of men sitting about it on boxes.

"Hey, fellows! Look who's here!" cried Mahooley.

A chorus of derisive welcome, more or less good-natured, greeted the
new-comer.

"Why, if it ain't Sammy the stolen kid!"

"Can I believe my eyes!"

"There's pluck for you, boys!"

"You bet! Talk about walking up to the cannon's mouth!"

"Look out, Sam! The rope and the gag are ready!"

"Don't be askeared, kid, I'll pertect you from violence!"

Sam's new-found assurance was proof against their laughter.

"You fellows think you're funny, don't you?" he returned, grinning.
"Believe me, your wit is second-hand!"

Mahooley stuck his head out of the back door. "Hey, Bela!" he cried.
"Come look at the new boarder I brought you!"

The crowd fell silent, and every pair of eyes turned toward the door,
filled with strong curiosity to see the meeting between these two. Sam
felt the tension and his heart began to beat, but he stiffened his
back and kept on smiling. Bela came in wearing her most unconcerned
air. They were not going to get any change out of her!

"Hello, Bela!" cried Sam. "Can I have some supper?"

She looked him over coolly. "Sure," she said. "Sit down by Stiffy."

They roared with laughter at her manner. Sam laughed, too, to hide the
discomfiture he privately felt. Sam took his allotted place. The
laughter of the crowd was perfectly good-natured, except in the case
of one man whom Sam marked.

Opposite him sat Joe Hagland. Joe stared at Sam offensively, and
continued to laugh after the others had done. Sam affected not to
notice him. To himself he said:

"I've got to fight Joe, big as he is. He stands in my way."

Outside in the canvas kitchen a little comedy was in progress all
unknown to the boarders. Bela came back breathing quickly, and showing
a red spot in either ivory cheek. Forgetting the supper, she began to
dig in her dunnage bag.

Getting out a lace collar, she flew to the mirror to put it on. Her
hair dissatisfied her, and she made it fluff out a little under the
rich braid which crowned her brow. Finally, she ruthlessly tore a rose
from her new hat and pinned it to her girdle as she had seen Jennie
Mackall do.

She turned around to find old Mary Otter staring at her open-mouthed
while the turnovers in the frying-pan sent up a cloud of blue smoke.

"The cakes are burning!" stormed Bela. "What's the matter with you?
All that good grease! Do I pay you to spoil good food? You gone crazy,
I think!"

"Somebody else crazy I think me," muttered the old woman, rescuing the
frying-pan.

Bela's boarders were not a very perspicacious lot, but when she came
in again to serve the dinner the dullest among them became aware of
the change in her. The lace collar and the rose in her belt were
significant enough, but there was more than that.

Before she had been merely the efficient hostess, friendly to all--but
sexless. Now she was woman clear through; her eyes flashed with the
consciousness of it, there was coquetry in every turn of her head, and
a new grace in every movement of her body.

The effect on the company was not a happy one. The men lowered
jealousy on Sam. The atmosphere became highly charged. Only Sam's eyes
lighted with pleasure.

Sam, Bela pointedly ignored. It was on Joe that she bestowed all her
smiles. No one present was deceived by her ruse excepting Joe himself,
whose vanity was enormously inflated thereby. Sam's instinct told him
that it was to himself her coquetry was addressed.

After the humiliations she had put upon him, it was deliciously
flattering thus to see her in her own way suing for his favour. This
made him feel like a man again. He was disposed to tease her.

"Hey, Bela!" he cried. "What kind of soup is this?"

"No kind," she retorted. "Jus' soup."

"The reason I asked, a fellow told me you made your soup out of
muskrat-tails and goose-grass."

"I put the goose-grass in for you," said Bela.

Shouts of laughter here.

Bela lowered her head and whispered in Joe's ear. Joe guffawed with an
insolent stare across at Sam. Sam smiled undisturbed, for the
provoking glance which had accompanied the whisper had been for him.
Joe had not seen that.

"What's next?" demanded Sam.

"Wait and see," said Bela.

"They say your toasted bull-bats are out o' sight."

"I save them for my regular boarders."

Government Northern Mariana Islands
Country name: conventional long form: Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands conventional short form: Northern Mariana Islands
former:
Mariana Islands District (Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands)

Dependency status: commonwealth in political union with the US;
federal funds to the Commonwealth administered by the US Department
of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs
Government type: commonwealth; self-governing with locally elected
governor, lieutenant governor, and legislature
Capital: Saipan
Administrative divisions: none (commonwealth in political union
with the US); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
defined by the US Government, but there are four municipalities at
the second order; Northern Islands, Rota, Saipan, Tinian
Independence: none (commonwealth in political union with the US)
National holiday: Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)
Constitution: Covenant Agreement effective 4 November 1986 and the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
effective 1 January 1978
Legal system: based on US system, except for customs, wages,
immigration laws, and taxation
Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are
US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections
Executive branch: chief of state: President George W.

BUSH of the US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY
(since 20 January 2001) head of government: Governor Juan N. BABOUTA
(since NA January 2002) and Lieutenant Governor Diego T. BENEVENTE
(since NA January 2002) cabinet: for four-year terms; governor and
lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for
four-year terms; election last held NA November 2001 (next to be
held NA November 2005) election results: Juan N.

BABOUTA (Republican Party) 49%
Legislative branch: + bicameral Legislature consists of the Senate
(9 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year
staggered terms) and the House of Representatives (18 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms) election
results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Republican Party 4, Democratic Party 3, Reform Party 1, independent
1; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
by party - Republican Party 16, Democratic Party 1, Covenant Party
1 note: the Northern Mariana Islands does not have a nonvoting
delegate in the US Congress; instead, it has an elected official
or "resident representative" located in Washington, DC; seats by
party - Republican Party 1 (Pedro A.

Miss Dinah, she heard him all right, but she just
stayed behind the willows laughing.

"After a time she came walking back real slow, and looking somewhere
else. Say, he nearly ate her up. All the way around the bay he was
promising he'd never steal another oat, so help me Bob! but she was
cool toward him."

Bela laughed demurely. She loved stories about animals.

While he talked on in his light style Sam was warily measuring his
rival.

"It'll be the biggest job I ever tackled," he thought. "He's got
thirty pounds on me, and ring training. But he's out of condition and
I'm fit. He loses his head easily. I'll try to get him going. Maybe I
can turn the trick. I've _got_ to do it to make good up here. That
would establish me for ever."

At the end of one of Sam's stories Bela stood up. "Time for go. Both!"
she said succinctly.

Sam got up laughing. "Nothing uncertain about that," he said. He
waited for Joe by the door.

Joe was sunk in a sullen rage. "Go ahead," he said, sneering.

"After you," Sam retorted with a smile.

Joe approached him threateningly, and they stood one on each side of
the door, sizing each other up with hard eyes. The smallest move from
either side would have precipitated the conflict then. Bela slipped
through the other door and came around the house.

"Joe!" she called from in front.

He drove through the door, followed by Sam.

"Anyhow he didn't make me go first," thought the latter.

Bela faced them with her most scornful air. "You are foolish! Both
foolish! Lak dogs that growl. Go home!"

Somewhat sheepishly they went to their respective teams. Bela turned
back into the house. As they drove out side by side they looked at
each other again. Sam laughed suddenly at Joe's melodramatic scowl.

"Well, ta-ta, old scout!" he said mockingly.

"Damn you!" said Joe thickly. "Keep away from me! If you tread on my
toes you're going to get hurt! I've a hard fist for them I don't
like!"

Sam jeered. "Keep your toes out of my path if you don't want them
trodden on. As for fists, I'll match you any time you want."

Joe drove off around the bay, and Sam headed for Grier's Point,
whistling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning he awoke smiling at the sun. Somehow since yesterday the
world was made over. As usual he had Grier's Point to himself. His bed
was upon spruce-boughs at the edge of the stony beach. Stripping, he
plunged into the icy lake, and emerged pink and gasping.

After dressing and feeding his horses, upon surveying his own
grub-box--salt pork and cold bannock!--it took him about five seconds
to decide to breakfast at Bela's. This meant the hard work of loading
his wagon on an empty stomach. Unlocking the little warehouse, he set
to work with a will.

Three hours later he drove in before the stopping-house, and, hitching
his team to the tree, left them a little hay to while the time. The
"resteraw" was empty. Other breakfast guests had come and gone.

"Oh, Bela!" he cried.

She stuck her head in the other door. Her expression was severely
non-committal.

"Bela, my stomach's as empty as a stocking on the floor! I feel like a
drawn chicken. For the love of mercy fill me up!"

"It's half-past eight," she said coldly.

"I know, but I had to load up before I could come. A couple of slices
of breakfast bacon and a cup of coffee! Haven't tasted coffee in
months. They say your coffee is a necktie for the gods!"

"I can't be cooking all day!" said Bela, flouncing out.

Nevertheless he heard the stove-lids clatter outside, and the sound of
the kettle drawn forward. He was going to get fresh coffee at that!

In a few minutes it was set before him; not only the coffee with
condensed milk, a luxury north of fifty-four, but fried fish as well,
and a plate of steaming cakes. Sam fell to with a groan of ecstasy.
Bela stood for a moment watching him with her inscrutable, detached
air, then turned to go out.

"I say," called Sam with his mouth full, "pour yourself a cup of
coffee, and come and drink it with me."

"I never eat with the boarders," she stated.

"Oh, hang it!" said Sam like a lord, "you give yourself too many airs!
Go and do what you're told."

He found a delicious, subtle pleasure in ordering her about. As for
Bela, she gasped a little and stared, then her eyes fell--perhaps she
liked it too. Anyhow, she shrugged indifferently, cast a look out of
the window to see if anyone was coming up the road, and disappeared in
the kitchen. Presently she returned with a steaming cup, and, sitting
opposite Sam, stirred it slowly without looking up.

Sam's eyes twinkled wickedly. "That's better. You know with all these
fellows coming around and praising up your grub and everything, you're
beginning to think you're the regular queen of Beaver Bay. You need
to be taken down a peg!"

"What do you care?" she asked.

"Bless you, I don't care," replied Sam. "I'm only telling you for your
own good. I don't like to see a nice girl get her head turned."

"What's the matter wit' you so quick?" retorted Bela. "You're talkin'
pretty big since yesterday."

Sam laughed delightedly. His soul was not deceived by her scornful
airs, nor was hers by his pretended hectoring. While they abused each
other, each was thrilled by the sense of the other's nearness.
Moreover, each knew how it was with the other.

Sam, having eaten his fill, planted his elbows, and leaned nearer to
her across the narrow board. She did not draw back. Under the table
their moccasined feet touched by accident, and each breast was shaken.
Bela slowly drew her foot away. Their heads involuntarily came closer.
The sweetness that emanated from her almost overpowered him.

His breath came quicker; his eyes were languorous and teasing. Bela
gave him her eyes and he saw into them a thousand fathoms deep. It was
that exquisite moment when the heart sees what the tongue will not yet
acknowledge, when nearness is sweeter than touch. Yet he said with
curling lip:

"You need a master!"

And she answered scornfully: "You couldn't do it."

There was a sound of wheels outside. They sprang up. Sam swore under
his breath. Bela looked out of the door.

"It's Joe," she said.

Sam hardened.

"You've got to go," she said swiftly and peremptorily. "You've
finished eating. I won't have no trouble here."

Sam scowled. "Well--I'll go after he comes in," he returned doggedly.
"I won't run away at the sight of him."

Joe entered with a sullen air. He had already seen Sam's team outside.

"Morning," said Sam. His was the temper that is scrupulously polite to
an enemy.

Joe muttered in his throat.

"Well, I'm just off," observed Sam. "How's the mud?"

Joe sneered. "No worse than usual," he replied.

It was hard for Sam to go after the sneer. He hesitated. But he had
promised. He looked at Bela, but she would not meet his eye. Finally
he shrugged and went out. They heard him talking to his horses
outside. Joe, scowling and avoiding Bela's eye, dropped into the seat
the other man had vacated.

"Breakfast," he muttered.

Bela knew very well that it was his custom to eat before he started
out in the morning. She said nothing, but glanced at the clock on the
dresser.

"Ah, you'll feed him any time he wants!" snarled Joe.

"I treat everybody the same," she answered coolly. "You can have
breakfast if you want."

"Well, I do," he muttered.

She went into the kitchen and started her preparations. Returning, she
cleared away the dirty dishes, not, however, before Joe had marked the
second cup on the table.

When she put his food before him he said: "Get yourself a cup of
coffee and sit down with me." He was really trying to be agreeable,
not, however, with much success.

"I got work to do," Bela mildly objected.

He instantly flared up again. "Ah! I thought you treated everybody the
same!"

Bela shrugged, and, bringing coffee, sat down opposite him.

There was a silence. Joe, merely playing with the food on his plate,
watched her with sullen, pained eyes, trying to solve the riddle of
her. One could almost see the simple mental operations. Sam got along
with her by jollying her. Very well, he would do the same.

"I ain't such a bad sort when I'm took right," he began, with a
ghastly attempt to be facetious.

"No?"

"I like my joke as well as another."

"Yes?"

"You're a deep one!" he said with a leer, "but you can't fool me."

"Eat your breakfast," said Bela.

"This mysteriousness is a bluff!"

"Maybe."

Lacking encouragement, he couldn't keep this up long. He fell silent
again, staring at her hungrily. Suddenly, with a sound between an oath
and a groan, he swept the dishes aside. Bela sprang up warily, but he
was too quick for her. Flinging an arm across, he seized her wrist.

"By George! I can't stand it any longer!" he cried. "What's behind
that smooth face of yours? Ain't you got no heart making a man burn in
hell like me?"

"Let go my arm!" said Bela.

"You're mine!" he cried. "You've got to be! I've said it, and I stick
to it. If any man tries to come between us I'll kill him!"

"Let go my arm!" she repeated.

"Not without a kiss!"

Instantly Bela was galvanized into action. Some men are foredoomed to
choose the wrong moment. Joe was hopelessly handicapped by the table
between them. He could not use his strength. As he sought to draw her
toward him Bela, with her free hand, dealt him a stinging buffet on
the ear.

They fell among the dishes. The coffee scalded him, and he momentarily
relaxed his hold. Bela wriggled clear, unkissed. Joe capsized of his
own weight, and, slipping off the end of the table, found himself on
his back among broken dishes on the floor.

He picked himself up, scarcely improved in temper. Bela had
disappeared. He sat down to wait for her, dogged, sheepish, a little
inclined to weep out of self-pity.

Even now he would not admit the fact that she might like another
man--a small, insignificant man--better than himself. Joe was the kind
of man who will not take a refusal.

In a few minutes, getting no sign of her, he got up and looked into
the tent kitchen. Old Mary Otter was there, alone, washing dishes with
a perfectly bland face.

"Where's Bela?" he demanded, scowling.

"Her gone to company house for see Beattie's wife mak' jam puddin',"
answered Mary.

Joe strode out of the door scowling and drove away. His horses
suffered for his anger.


CHAPTER XX

MALICIOUS ACTIVITY


Joe found the usual group of gossipers in the store of the French
outfit. Beside the two traders, there were two of the latest arrivals
from the outside, a policeman off duty, and young Mattison, of the
surveying party, who had ridden in on a message from Graves, and was
taking his time about starting back.

Up north it is unfashionable to be in a hurry. Of them all only
Stiffy, in his little compartment at the back, was busy. He was
totting up his beloved figures.

Joe found them talking about the night before, with references to Sam
in no friendly strain. Joe had the wit to conceal from them a part of
the rage that was consuming him, though it was not easy to do so. He
sat down in the background, and for the most part kept his mouth shut.
Anything that anybody could say against Sam was meat and drink to him.

"Blest if I can see what the girl sees in him," said Mahooley. "There
are better men for her to pick from."

"He's spoiled our fun, damn him!" said another. "The place won't be
the same again."

"Who is this fellow Sam?" asked one of the newcomers.

"A damn ornery little cook who's got his head swole," muttered Joe.

"He kept his place till he got a team to drive," said Mattison.

"We kep' him in it, you mean."

"What for did you want to give him the job of teaming, Mahooley?"
asked Mattison.

"Matter of business," replied the trader carelessly. "He was on the
spot."

"Well, you can get plenty more now. Why not fire him?"

Mahooley looked a little embarrassed.

"Business is business," he said. "I don't fancy him myself, but he's
working all right."

Joe's perceptions were sharpened by hate. He saw Mahooley's
hesitation, and began speculating on what reason the trader could have
for not wanting to discharge Sam. He scented a mystery. Casting back
in his mind, he began to fit a number of little things together.

Once, he remembered, somebody had told Mahooley one of the black
horses had gone lame, and Mahooley had replied unthinkingly that it
was not his concern. Why had he said that? Was somebody besides
Mahooley backing Sam? If he could explode the mystery, maybe it would
give him a handle against his rival.

"Well, I shouldn't think you'd let an ex-cook put it all over you,"
remarked the stranger.

This was too much for Joe's self-control. A dull, bricky flush crept
under his skin.

"Put it over nothing!" he growled. "You come over to Bela's to-night
if you want to see how I handle a cook!"

"Who is the old guy camped beside Bela's shack?" asked the stranger.

"Musq'oosis, a kind of medicine man of her tribe," answered Mahooley.

"Is he her father?"

"No; her father was a white man."

"Who was he?" Joe asked.

Mahooley shrugged. "Search me! Long before my time."

"If old Musq'oosis is no relation, what does he hang around for?"
asked the first questioner.

"Oh, he's always kind of looked after her," said Mahooley. "The other
Indians hate her. They think she's too uppish."

"She feeds him; I guess that's reason enough for him to stick around,"
remarked Mattison.

Here Stiffy spoke up from his cubby-hole: "Hell! Musq'oosis don't need
anybody to feed him. He's well fixed. Got a first-class credit
balance."

Joe, ever on the watch, saw Mahooley turn his head abruptly and scowl
at his partner. Stiffy closed his mouth suddenly. Joe, possessed by a
single idea, jumped to the conclusion that Musq'oosis had something to
do with the mystery he was on the track of. Anyhow, he determined to
find out.

"A good balance?" he asked carelessly.

"I mean for an Indian," returned Stiffy quickly. "Nothing to speak
of."

Joe was unconvinced. He bided his time.

The talk drifted on to other matters. Joe sat thrashing his brain for
an expedient whereby he might get a sight of Musq'oosis's account on
Stiffy's ledger.

By and by a breed came in with the news that a York boat was visible,
approaching Grier's Point. This provided a welcome diversion for the
company. A discussion arose as to whether it would be Stiffy and
Mahooley's first boat of the season, or additional supplies for
Graves. Finally they decided to ride down to the Point and see.

"Come on, Joe," said one.

Joe assumed an air of laziness. "What's the use?" he said. "I'll stay
here and talk to Stiffy."

When they had gone Joe still sat cudgelling his brain. He was not
fertile in expedients. He was afraid to speak even indirectly of the
matter on his breast for fear of alarming Stiffy by betraying too much
eagerness. Finally an idea occurred to him.

"I say, Stiffy, how does my account stand?"

The trader told him his balance.

"What!" cried Joe, affecting indignation. "I know it's more than that.
You've made a mistake somewhere."

This touched Stiffy at his weakest. "I never make a mistake!" he
returned with heat. "You fellows go along ordering stuff, and expect
your balance to stay the same, like the widow's cruse. Come and look
for yourself!"

This was what Joe desired. He slouched over, grumbling. Stiffy
explained how the debits were on one side, the credits on the other.
Each customer had a page to himself. Joe observed that before turning
up his account Stiffy had consulted an index in a separate folder.

Joe allowed himself to be reluctantly satisfied, and returned to his
seat by the stove. He was advanced by learning how the book was kept,
but the grand difficulty remained to be solved; how to get a look at
it without Stiffy's knowledge.

Here fortune unexpectedly favoured him. When he was not adding up his
columns, Stiffy was for ever taking stock. By rights, he should have
been the chief clerk of a great city emporium. Before the others
returned he began to count the articles on the shelves.

He struck a difficulty in the cans of condensed milk. Repeated
countings gave the same total. "By Gad, we've been robbed!" he cried.
"Unless there's still a case in the loft."

He hastened to the stairs. The instant his weight creaked on the
boards overhead the burly, lounging figure by the stove sprang into
activity. Joe darted on moccasined feet to Stiffy's little sanctum,
and with swift fingers turned up M in the index.

"Musq'oosis; page 452." Silently opening the big book, he thumbed the
pages. The noises from upstairs kept him exactly informed of what
Stiffy was doing.

Joe found the place, and there, in Stiffy's neat copper plate, was
spread out all that he wished to know. It took him but a moment to get
the hang of it. On the debit side: "To team, Sambo and Dinah, with
wagon and harness, $578.00." Under this were entered various advances
to Sam. On the other side Joe read: "By order on Gilbert Beattie,
$578.00." Below were the different amounts paid by Graves for hauling.

Joe softly closed the book. So it was Musq'oosis who employed Sam! And
Musq'oosis was a kind of guardian of Bela! It did not require much
effort of the imagination to see a connection here. Joe's triumph in
his discovery was mixed with a bitter jealousy.

However, he was pretty sure that Sam was ignorant of who owned the
team he drove, and he saw an opportunity to work a pretty piece of
mischief. But first he must make still more sure.

When Stiffy, having found the missing case, came downstairs again, Joe
apparently had not moved.

       *       *       *       *       *

A while later Joe entered the company store, and addressed himself to
Gilbert Beattie concerning a plough he said he was thinking of
importing. Beattie, seeing a disposition in the other man to linger
and talk, encouraged it. This was new business. In any case, up north
no man declines the offer of a gossip. Strolling outside, they sat on
a bench at the door in the grateful sunshine.

From where they were they could see Bela's shack below, with smoke
rising from the cook tent and the old man's tepee alongside.
Musq'oosis himself was squatting at the door, engaged upon some task
with his nimble fingers. Consequently, no management on Joe's part was
required to bring the conversation around to him. Seeing the trader's
eye fall there, he had only to say:

"Great old boy, isn't he?"

"One of the best," said Beattie warmly. "The present generation
doesn't produce 'em! He's as honest as he is intelligent, too. Any
trader in the country would let him have anything he wanted to take.
His word is as good as his bond."

"Too bad he's up against it in his old age," suggested Joe.

"Up against it, what do you mean?" asked Beattie.

"Well, he can't do much any more. And he doesn't seem to have any
folks."

"Oh, Musq'oosis has something put by for a rainy day!" said Beattie.
"For years he carried a nice little balance on my books."

"What did he do with it, then?" asked Joe carelessly.

In some years the numbers differed.

11,910. Were these boats generally manned from Scalloway and the district
round about?-No, there were very few of them from Scalloway.

There were some from Maywick, parish of Bigton, about twelve miles
south, and some from the island of Havera.

11,911.

Had you a fishing station there?-The fish could not be cured there,
as there was not a beach for that purpose, and they had all to be
brought to Burra to be cured. For the last two or three years they have
been brought to Scalloway, and cured on beaches here.

11,912.

Were you tacksman of any properties in that district?- No, I never
was tacksman; but the proprietor, Mr. Bruce of Simbister, held me
accountable for the rents of the fishermen employed by me.

He holds us accountable for them yet. It is in Messrs.

Hay's hands just now, because Mr. Bruce does not act for himself.
11,913.

In what way do you arrange about the rents of the fishermen whom
you employ?

       -I have seen that when a fisherman was £10 or £20 in my debt I still
considered that I had to pay his rent for him to the proprietor.

I have paid the proprietor from £60 to £80 a year when the fishermen
were perhaps due me £100 or £200.

11,914.

Was that done under an obligation which had been undertaken by you
to the proprietor?-No; I never undertook the thing, but I always did
it for the poor men.

11,915.

Was there a kind of understanding between you and the fishermen
that you should advance the money for their rent?- There was not much
understanding about it, but I always did it, and it is done at
the present time.

11,916. Is that done for the accommodation of the proprietor, or
for the accommodation of the men?

-It accommodates both parties.

Many of the men could not pay their rent themselves, and what were they
to do if it was not paid for them?

-Their corn and crop would have to be taken from them, and they
would have had to come to me for more meal next summer.

Therefore it was better for me to allow them to keep their crops
and to pay their rents for them.

11,917.

In what way is the payment made?

Is it done by you handing the money to the men with which to go and
pay their rent themselves, or do you put it down against them in
their account, and send the proprietor a cheque for the sum?

-Often before the time when it should be settled I pay it to Mr.
Bruce or to Messrs.
Hay.

11,918. Do you often pay the whole rent of the men in your
employment, to Mr.

Bruce, in one sum?-Yes, or rather to Mr.

Bruce's factor. When the men had anything particular to say to their
proprietor they would come along to me for the cash, and take it to
him; but with regard to the body of the men, I never put them to
that trouble.

It was some trouble for them to go from Scalloway to Lerwick, and
then to travel home age in.

11,919.

Do you get separate receipts for all the men, and give them to them
at settlement?

-Yes.

11,920. Is the rent generally paid on their account before settlement?-Very
often it is, or about that time.

The term for the payment of their rent is at Martinmas, upon 11th
November, and it is generally same time after that before we commence
to settle with the fishermen.

We must know what price we are to get in the market for the fish
before we know what we are to give them, or how we are to settle
with them.

11,921.

What sum did you pay to the proprietor in that way during the last
two or three years you were in business?

-I should say that about £60, or from £60 to £70, would be about
the usual thing.

11,922.

Would the amount of each man's rent be about £4 or £5?-Yes, perhaps
some higher, and some a little lower.

11,923. Then perhaps twelve or fifteen men would have their rents
paid in that way?

-Yes.

11,924.

But that would only be a portion of the men you were employing?

-Yes.

11,925.

If you had ten or twelve boats, you would have fifty or sixty men
employed in them?

-No. Some of them are small boats that fish close to the shore, with
perhaps three men in them, or two men and two boys.

11,926.

Then you might employ perhaps thirty men and boys altogether?

-Yes.

11,927. Would one half of these men not be tenants at all?-Most of
them were tenants of Mr. Bruce.

11,928. Were they under any obligation to fish for you?-No.

11,929. Could they have engaged with any other person if they had
liked?-Yes.

11,930.

Have you objected to pay the rent for any one of these men when he
was considerably in your debt?

-No. If I paid for one, I paid for all. I have paid rent for a man who
was between £20 and £30 in my debt.

11,931. Does the landlord give you any return for these advances
which you make to him?

-No.

11,932.

Is it not a considerable advantage to him to have his rent made
secure in that way?

-There is no doubt about it.

11,933. But don't you get anything from him even in the shape of a
favour?-No; I never asked it, and never got it.

11,934. Have you any fishing station on Mr. Bruce's property?- No.

       The fishermen on the island of Havera cure their fish in the island,
and that is on his property, but I have no concern with anything
else.

11,935.

Do they cure their fish themselves, and sell them to you?-They cure them
on the island, and send them to Scalloway, and I sell them for
them.

11,936. Have they an arrangement peculiar to themselves about their
fish?

-No, there is no peculiar arrangement. Their fish have always been under
their own command, and I could not sell them without their consent,
and I have lost considerably by that.

11,937.

In selling their fish do you act as their agent?

-Yes.

11,938. Do you charge a commission for that?

-I never had so much good sense as to ask a commission; I did it
for nothing.

11,939.

You sold them for them, and I suppose they took a quantity of goods
from you when they wanted them?

-Yes.
They took lines and hooks, and bread and clothes, and such things
as they required.

11,940.

Did they get all their supplies from you?-I think they got the most
part of them from me.

11,941.

How many people live at Havera?

-I think there are four families, but I am not sure.

11,942. Do the other people on Mr.

Bruce's estate who fish for you, and whose rent you pay, deal
entirely in your shop for their supplies?

-I think the most part of them do.

11,943. Is that one reason why you pay their rents for them?-I suppose
so.

11,944. Do you find that these men are generally in your debt at
settlement?

-Only some of them. There are some of the men who have always
plenty of money to get, but there are others who have commonly
been behind.

11,945.

Are more than one half of them commonly behind?-No.
There are more than one half of them who always have money to get.

11,946. Still there are some of them who are usually a good bit
behind?-Yes; but I hope they will get and be able to pay it off.
Some of them are men whose [Page 294] sons are willing now to pay
for their fathers, and it is a great matter to see that.

11,947.

The debts you refer to have been incurred for supplies of hooks and
lines, and meal and other things required for the family?-Yes; chiefly
for meal.

Of course, they get hooks and lines also but they require a great deal
of bread and meal.

11,948. Do those men who fish for you own their own boats, or do the
boats belong to you?-The boats are all their own.

11,949. Are you not a boat-owner?

-Not with these men.

11,950. Have you some boats here?-Yes; I had too many, and got very
little profit from them.

11,951.

The boats you had at Scalloway were hired out by you?

- Yes; it got the name of hire, but I never received it. The nominal
hire is 5s. per man. If it carries three men it is 15s. and if four
men, £1.

That is for three or four months in the year.

11,952.

These are small boats?-Yes.

11,953.

Is that the kind of boat that is commonly in use in Scalloway?-Yes.

11,954. Are there none of the six-oared boats in use here?

-There are none in use here just now. Even in summer it is the small
boats that are used here. They fish near the shore and the small
boats are more handy than the big ones.

11,955. Then there is no haaf fishing from Scalloway?-No.

11,956. Are all the fish that you cure, the produce of that inshore
fishing?-No; I have vessels that go to Faroe.

11,957. But you have no deep-sea fishing for ling?

-No. I should not say that I never get the hire, because in some
few cases I have got a little for it.

11,958.

Then is it the case that you must look to the profit you make from
the fish for the only remuneration you get for the use of these boats?

-It would have been better for me if I had bought few or no fish in
Scalloway, because the people here cannot get so much as will keep
them alive.

As has already been stated, the men in Scalloway are old men, who are
not able to fish much.

11,959.

How many tons of fish did you sell from that part of your fishing
last year?

-I am not able to answer that exactly just now, but there are
commonly from 20 to 25 tons that come from Dunrossness.

11,960.

And as much from Scalloway?-No; all that are got here is a mere
trifle, and then we buy some in winter and spring from different
quarters.

11,961. Do you also buy some in summer from other places too?

- A few lots, not much.

11,962.

Do the Burra men come and sell you a few lots in summer?-As little
as possible.

11,963.

Do you not like to buy from them?

-I don't like to see men leaving their masters.

My men might do the same.

11,964.

I suppose your men do sell to other people's factors occasionally?-I
don't think there are many men among them who don't do that.
11,965.

Is it when they want a little ready money that they do that?

-They can get it from me when they ask for it.

11,966. Perhaps, if a man is a little in your debt, he will not
care to come and ask you for ready money?

-There are men who are due me £5 and £10 and £15, and I just pay him
for his fish over the counter when he brings them.

11,967. That is for the winter and spring fishing?

-Yes.

I would be happy if he could make as much from his fish as would
keep him alive, but the worst of it is that these men cannot do
that.

11,968.

When you pay them money over the counter for their fish, do they
generally pay some of it over the counter for supplies?- Yes; if they
can buy articles as cheap from me as from another, they always do
that.

I have seldom seen them do anything else; but if they want a little
money for any particular purpose, they can get it for that
purpose.

11,969.

They may need it for rent, and they will perhaps take it away to pay to
their landlord?-That is not very often the case. If they have a house
from another proprietor I very often have to pay the rent for
them.

11,970.

Do you lay out a good deal of money in that way?-Rather too much.

11,971. Do you sometimes pay other debts that are due by the men as
well as their rent?-I suppose most of their debts are with me, except
their rents.

11,972. Therefore most of their money matters are transacted through
you?-I think so.

11,973.

In fact, you are a sort of banker for the place?-I don't know that; it
is very little that I get to bank.

11,974.

When a man is well to do and has a balance to receive, does he sometimes
leave it in your hands?

-If they thought I was ill off for money they would do that.

One year I lost about £200 on the price of ling, and rather than see
me ill off for money one and another of them who had money came and
offered it to me.

11,975. Do you mean that they left what was due to them on their fishing
in your hands?

-Yes; and they offered me besides money which they had laid
up in former years, if it could do me any good and keep me going
on.

11,976.

Do you not think the men would be much wiser to take their own money
and spend it as they wanted?

Would they not understand the value of the money better in that
way, and take better care of it?

       -They take their money at the end of every season.

11,977.

But in the meantime they have spent perhaps three-fourths or four-fifths
of all their earnings?-Of course they have been lifting their
lines and hooks and everything of that sort, but they have never
wanted money when they asked for it, even although they had nothing in
my hands.

Sometimes they asked for it to buy a cow or some particular thing,
and they sometimes got as much from me as £4 or £5.

11,978.

But you don't give it to them unless they want something particular,
and mention to you what it is?-No.

11,979. Do you think it is a good system for men to leave all their
affairs in your hands?

-I don't know; I did not want them to do so unless they liked.

11,980. Would not the merchant require to be a very honest man when
he is so much trusted?

-He would indeed.

11,981. And a man who was disposed to deceive the fishermen who trusted
him would have very ample opportunities to do so?

- He would.

11,982. I suppose that has been done in a few exceptional cases in
Shetland?-No doubt it has.

11,983. Do you think a fisherman who lives under that system is an
independent person?-A man who has plenty of money to serve his purpose
is as independent a man, or he should be, as any.

11,984. Do you think the fishermen have plenty of money to serve
their purposes?

-Not in general; but there are a few who have it.

11,985.

Do you think they might all have it?-I don't think so.

11,986. Is that owing to bad seasons, or owing to a bad system, or
what?-It is sometimes owing to all these things together.

11,987. I suppose all the men you employ, and some others besides,
keep accounts in your books for the supplies which they require for
their families and for the fishing?-Yes.
11,988. Each man has a ledger account?-Yes.
11,989. And although you are out of the business, you are still
intimately acquainted with the way in which it is conducted?-
Yes.
11,990. Do you think that one half of the men at this settlement
have a balance to get in money?-I think most of the ling fishermen
had, but the cod fishermen were much more in debt.
11,991. You had not many ling fishermen?-No, only a few boats.
11,992. It is the Dunrossness men you speak of as the ling
fishermen?-Yes.
11,993. The Scalloway men are not ling fishermen?-No. I think there
was only one boat that went from Scalloway.

[Page 295]
11,994. Is the business still carried on in your name?-No; it is
carried on in the name of Nicholson & Co.
11,995. Have you any interest in it at all?-No.
11,996. It is practically the same business, however, which you
carried on?-Yes.
11,997. When you carried on business, were you in the practice of
buying hosiery?-Very little. I never took it at all, except when
the poor people were starving and in want of bread. They sometimes
came to me and said they wanted bread, and could not get it in
Lerwick, and I gave it to them.
11,998. Have you taken the goods they have got for their hosiery
in Lerwick and given them provisions instead?-Not very often, but
I have done that out of compassion.
11,999. Have you sometimes given them money in that way?-I would
not have seen them at a loss for a shilling if they wanted it for
any particular purpose.
12,000. Have you sometimes taken their lines from them which they
got from the Lerwick merchants?-No; I don't remember doing
that.

12,001. Have you been asked to do that sometimes?"I never sit," she said quietly.

"Time that rule was broken!" cried Joe.

"I busy."

"Hang it, let the old woman serve! Every man has had one plateful.
Come and talk to me."

All eyes were on Bela. She hesitated, then went and sat as Joe
commanded. The other men could scarcely believe their eyes. Bela to
take orders in public like this! Her inscrutable exterior gave no
indication of what was passing within.

There was, perhaps, a hint of pain, anger in her eyes, but hidden so
deep they could not see it. The obvious inference was that Joe had won
her at last. She went down in their estimation. Every man shrugged, so
to speak, and let Joe have his way.

That youth swelled with gratified vanity. He heightened his jocular
air; his gallantry had an insolent ring. "Say, we'll pay double if you
let us look at you while we eat. You'll save money, too; we won't eat
so much. We'll take you for dessert!"

The other men were uneasy. If this was Joe's and Bela's way of making
love they wished they would do it in private. They were slow-thinking
men, accustomed to taking things at face value. Like all men, they
were shy of inquiring too far into an emotional situation.

Bela did not eat, but sat still, silent and walled-up. At such moments
she was pure Indian. Long afterward the men recollected the picture
she made that night, still and dignified as a death mask.

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe could not leave Sam alone. "I wonder where our friend the ex-cook
is to-night?" he inquired facetiously of the company. "Boiling his own
pot at the Point, I suppose. He don't seem to hanker much for the
society of men. That's as it should be. Men and cooks don't gee."

Anyone looking closely would have seen Bela's breast rise and fall
ominously, but no one looked closely. Her face gave no sign.

"Sam was a little too big for his shoes last night," Joe went on.
"To-day I guess he thinks better----"

"Hello! Somebody talking about me?" cried a cheerful voice from the
door.

Sixteen men turned their heads as one. They saw Sam by the door
smiling. Bela involuntarily jumped up, and the box she was sitting on
fell over. Joe, caught up in the middle of a sentence, stared with his
mouth open, a comic expression of dismay fixed on his features.

Sam came in. His eyes were shining with excitement.

"What's the matter?" he asked, laughing. "You all look as if you saw a
ghost!" To Bela he said: "Don't disturb yourself. I've had my supper.
I just walked up for a bit of sociability before turning in, if you've
no objection."

He waited with a significant air for her to speak. There was nothing
naive about Sam's light manner; he was on the _qui vive_ for whatever
might come.

Bela tried to answer him, and could not. Her iron will was no longer
able to hide the evidences of agitation. Her lips were parted and her
breath was coming fast. She kept her eyes down.

There was a highly charged silence in the shack. All knew that the
turn of the drama depended on the next word to be spoken. They watched
Bela, bright-eyed.

By this time Joe had partly recovered his self-possession. "Let him
go!" he said roughly. "We don't want no cooks around!"

Sam ignored him. "Can I stay?" he asked Bela, smiling with a peculiar
hardness. "If you don't want me, all right. But it must come from
you."

Bela raised her eyes imploringly to him and let them fall again.

Sam refused to take it for an answer.

"Can I stay?" he asked again.

"Ah, tell him to go before he's thrown out!" cried Joe.

That settled it. Bela's head went up with a jerk, and her eyes flashed
savagely at Joe. To Sam she said clearly: "Come in, my house is open
to all."

"Thanks," said Sam.

Bela glared at Joe, defying him to do his worst. Joe refused her
challenge. His eyes bolted. He scowled and muttered under his breath.

Sam, taking in the situation, walked quickly to Bela's place, and
picking up the box sat on it, and smiled directly into Joe's
discomfited face.

That move won him more than one friend in the shack. Young Coulson's
eyes sparkled with admiration. Big Jack frowned at Sam, divided
between old resentment and new respect.

Sam quickly followed up his advantage.

"Seems you weren't expecting me this evening," he said quietly. "I
wouldn't have missed it for a lot. Heard there was going to be
something special doing. How about it, Joe?"

Joe was no match for him at this kind of game. He looked away,
muttering.

"What's on, boys?" asked Sam. "Vaudeville or parlour charades?"

He won a hearty laugh by it, and once more Joe felt the situation
slipping away from him. Finally he thought of a way of getting back at
Sam.

"Bela!" he cried roughly. "You bring another box and sit down here."

Sam stared, genuinely amazed at his tone.

"There is no room," said Bela in a wooden voice.

"You bring over a box!" cried Joe peremptorily.

Sam's face was grim. "My friend, that's no way to speak to a lady," he
said softly.

This was the kind of opening Joe wanted. "What the hell is it to you?"
he shouted.

"And that's no way to speak to a man!"

"A man, no; but plenty good enough for a--cook!"

At Sam's elbow was a cup with tea-dregs in the bottom. He picked it up
with a casual air and tossed the contents into Joe's face.


CHAPTER XXII

MUSCLE AND NERVE


A gasp went around the table. Joe sprang up with a bellow of rage. Sam
was already up. He kicked the impeding box away. When Joe rushed him
he ran around the other side of the table.

Sam had planned everything out. Above all he wished to avoid a rough
and tumble, in which he would stand no chance at all. He had speed,
wind, and nerve to pit against a young mountain of muscle.

"Will you see fair play, boys?" he cried.

"Sure!" answered half a dozen voices.

Big Jack stopped Joe in mid-career. "Let's do everything proper," he
said grimly.

By this time all were up. Of one accord they shoved the trestles back
against the wall and kicked the boxes underneath. Every breast
responded to the thrill of the keenest excitement known to man--a
fight with fists.

Sam and Joe, obeying a clothed creature's first impulse, wriggled out
of their coats and flung them on the ground. Joe took off his boots.
Sam was wearing moccasins.

Young Coulson came to Sam with tears of vexation actually standing in
his eyes. He gripped Sam's hand.

"I can't be present at a thing like this," he said. "Oh, damn the
luck! I'd lose my stripes if it came out. But I'm with you. I hope
you'll lick the tar out of him! I'll be watching through the window,"
he added in a whisper. He ran out.

Big Jack took the centre of the floor. "I'll referee this affair if
agreeable to both," he said.

"Suits me," replied Sam briefly.

Jack pointed out their respective corners and called for a second for
each. Several volunteered to help Joe. He chose young Mattison.

Sam remained alone in his corner. While his pluck had won him friends,
there was no man who wished to embrace a cause which all thought was
hopeless. Young Joe was a formidable figure. He had calmed down now.

From behind the tall white men a little bent figure appeared and went
to Sam.

"I be your man," he whispered; "if you not ashame' for a red man."

Sam smiled swiftly in his white, set face, and gripped the old man's
hand hard. "Good man!" he said. "You're the best!"

Mahooley, Birley, and another, abashed by this little scene, now
stepped forward. Sam waved them back.

"Musq'oosis is my second," he said.

"Straight Marquis of Queensberry rules," said Big Jack. "No hitting in
the break-away."

This was an advantage to Sam.

"Time!" cried Big Jack.

The adversaries stepped out of their corners.

All this while Bela had been standing by the kitchen door with her
hands pressed tight to her breast and her agonized eyes following all
that went on. She did not clearly understand. But when they advanced
toward each other she knew. She ran into the middle of the room
between them.

"Stop!" she cried. "This is my house. I won't have no fightin' here!"
She paused, shielding Sam and glaring defiantly around her. "You
cowards, mak' them fight! This is no fair fight. One is too big!"

All the men became horribly uneasy. In this man's affair they had
completely overlooked the woman. After all, it was her house. And it
was too dark now to pull it off outside.

The silence was broken by a sneering laugh from Joe. He made a move as
if to get his boots again. The sound was like a whiplash on Sam. He
turned to Bela, white with anger.

"Go to the kitchen!" he commanded. "Shut the door behind you. I
started this, and I'm going to see it through. Do you want to shame me
again?"

Bela collapsed under his bitter, angry words. Her head fell forward,
and she retreated to the kitchen door like a blind woman. She did not
go out. She stayed there through the terrible moments that followed,
making no sound, and missing no move with those tragic, wide eyes.

The adversaries advanced once more, Big Jack stepping back. The two
circled warily, looking for an opening. They made a striking contrast.
"David and Goliath," somebody whispered.

Joe's head was thrust forward between his burly shoulders and his face
lowered like a thundercloud. Sam, silent and tense, smiled and paraded
on his toes.

"Why don't you start something, Jeffries?" asked Sam.

Joe, with a grunt of rage, leaped at him with a sledge-hammer swing
that would have ended the fight had it landed. Sam ducked and came up
on the other side. Joe's momentum carried him clear across the room.

Sam laughed. "Missed that one, Jumbo," he taunted. "Try another."

Joe rushed back and swung again. Once more Sam ducked, this time as he
went under Joe's arm, contriving to land an upper-cut, not of
sufficient force to really shake the mountain, but driving him mad
with rage.

Joe wheeled about, both arms going like flails. This was what Sam
desired. He kept out of reach. He kept Joe running from one side of
the room to the other. Joe was not built for running. At the end of
the round, the big man was heaving for breath like a foundered horse.

Such was the general style of the battle. The spectators, pressed
against the wall to give them plenty of room, roared with excitement.

In the beginning the cries were all for Joe. Then Sam's clever
evasions began to arouse laughter. Finally a voice or two was heard on
Sam's side. This was greatly stimulating to Sam, who had steeled
himself to expect no favour, and correspondingly depressing to Joe.

For three rounds Sam maintained his tactics without receiving a
serious blow. He was trying to break the big man's wind--not good at
the best--and to wear him out in a vain chase. He aimed to make him so
blind with rage he could not see to land his blows. To this end he
kept up a running fire of taunts.

"I shan't have to knock you out, Blow-Hard. You're doing for yourself
nicely. Come on over here. Pretty slow! Pretty slow! Who was your
dancing teacher, Joe? You're getting white around the lips now. Bum
heart. You won't last long!"

Between rounds little Musq'oosis, watching all that Mattison did, did
likewise for his principal.

Finally the spectators began to grow impatient with too much footwork.
They required a little blood to keep up their zest. Sam was blamed.

"Collide! Collide!" they yelled. "Is this a marathon or hare and
hounds? Corner him, Joe! Smash him! Stand, you cook, and take your
punishment!"

Big Jack fixed the last speaker with a scowl.

"What do you want--a murder?" he growled.

The referee's sympathies were clearly veering to Sam's corner. Big
Jack, whatever his shortcomings, was a good sport, and Joe was showing
a disposition to fight foul. Jack watched him closely in the clinches.
Joe was beginning to seek clinches to save his wind. Jack, in parting
them, received a sly blow meant for Sam.

Like a flash, Jack's own experienced right jabbed Joe's stomach,
sending him reeling back into his corner. The spectators howled in
divided feelings. Jack, however, controlled the situation with a look.

In the fourth round Joe turned sullen and refused to force the
fighting any longer. He stood in front of his corner, stooping his
shoulders and swinging his head like a gorilla. Such blows as Sam had
been able to land had all been addressed to Joe's right eye. His
beauty was not thereby improved.

Now he stood, deaf alike to Sam's taunts and to the urgings of his own
supporters. Sam, dancing in front of him, feinting and retreating,
could not draw a blow. Strategy was working in Joe's dull brain. He
dropped his arms.

Instantly Sam ran in with another blow on the damaged eye.
Over-confidence betrayed him. Joe's right was waiting. The slender
figure was lifted clean from the floor by the impact. He crashed down
in a heap and, rolling over, lay on his face, twitching.

A roar broke from the spectators. That was what they wanted.

Bela ran out from her corner, distracted. Musq'oosis intercepted her.

"No place for girl," he said sternly. "Go back."

"He's dead! He's dead!" she cried wildly.

"Fool! Only got wind knocked out!" He thrust her back to her place by
the door.

Big Jack was stooping over the prostrate figure, counting with
semaphore strokes of his arm: "One! Two! Three!"

The spectators began to think it was all over, and the tension let
down. Joe grinned, albeit wearily. There was not much left in him.

Meanwhile Sam's brain was working with perfect clearness. He stirred
cautiously.

"Nothing broken," he thought. "Take nine seconds for wind enough to
keep away till the end of the round. Then you have him!"

At the count of nine he sprang up, and the spectators roared afresh.
Joe, surprised, went after him without overmuch heart. Sam managed to
escape further punishment.

A growing weariness now made Joe's attacks spasmodic and wild. He was
working his arms as if his hands had leaden weights attached to them.
A harrowing anxiety appeared in his eyes. At the sight of it a little
spring of joy welled up in Sam's breast.

"Pretty near all in, eh?" he said. "You're going to get licked, and
you know it! There's fear in your eye. You always had a yellow streak.
Crying Joe Hagland!"

Joe, missing a wild swing, fell of his own momentum amid general
laughter. Derision ate the heart out of him. He rose with a hunted
look in his eyes. Sam suddenly took the offensive, and rained a
fusillade of blows on the damaged eye, the heart, the kidneys. Joe,
taken by surprise, put up a feeble defence.

The next round was the last. Around Caribou Lake they still talk about
it. A miracle took place before their eyes. David overcame Goliath at
his own game. Jack beat down the giant. At the referee's word, Sam
sprang from his corner like a whirlwind, landing right and left before
Joe's guard was up.

The weary big man was beaten to his knees. Struggling up, he tried to
clinch, only to be met by another smashing blow in the face. He turned
to escape, but the dancing figure with the battering fists was ever in
front of him.

He went down again, and, stretching out on the floor, began to blubber
aloud in his confusion and distress.

"He's had enough," said Sam grimly.

The result was received in the silence of surprise. A few laughed at
the spectacle Joe made. Others merely shrugged. The victory was not a
popular one.

Big Jack went through the formality of counting, though it was patent
to all that the fighting was done. Afterward he turned to Sam and
shook his hand.

"I didn't think you had it in you," he said.

This was sweet to Sam.

Joe raised himself, snivelling, and commenced to revile Sam.

"Aw, shut up!" cried Big Jack, with strong disgust. "You're licked!"

Joe got to his feet. "Only by trickery!" he cried. "He wouldn't stand
up to me! I could have knocked him out any time. Everybody was against
me! It takes the heart out of a man." Tears threatened again.

General laughter greeted this.

"That's all right!" cried Joe furiously from the door. "I'll get you
yet!" He went out.

The others now began to crowd around Sam, congratulating him a little
sheepishly, slapping his back. A great, sweet calm filled Sam. This
was the moment he had dreamed of during his long days on the trail and
his lonely nights at Grier's Point.

He had made good. He was a man among men. They acknowledged it. It was
like a song inside him. The hideous wound that Bela had dealt him was
healed.

He glanced over his shoulder at her. From her corner she was gazing at
him as at a young god. Calm filled her breast, too. Joe was gone, and
her secret still safe. Surely after to-night, she thought, there would
be no need of keeping it.

They heard Joe climb into his wagon outside and curse at his horses.
Instead of turning into the road, he drove back to the door and pulled
up. Bela turned pale again.

Joe shouted through the doorway: "Anyhow, no woman keeps me!"

"Damn you! What do you mean?" cried Sam.

"You owe the clothes you wear to her, and the gun you carry! The
horses you drive are hers!"

"You lie!" cried Sam, springing toward the door.

Joe whipped up his horses. "Ask her!" he shouted back.

Sam whirled about and, seizing the wrist of the shrinking Bela,
dragged her out of her corner.

"Is it true," he demanded--"the horses? Answer me before them all!"

She fought for breath enough to lie.

He saw it. "If you lie to me again I'll kill you!" he cried. "Answer
me! Is it your team that I drive?"

His violence overbore her defences. "Yes," she said tremulously. "What
difference does it make?"

The men looked on, full of shamefaced curiosity at this unexpected
turn. One or two, more delicate-minded, went outside.

Sam's ghastly wound was torn wide open again. "What difference?" he
cried, white and blazing. "Oh, my God, it means you've made a fool of
me a second time! It means I've nerved myself and trained myself to
fight this brute only to find he's able to give me the laugh after
all!"

"Sam--you so poor, then," she murmured.

It was like oil on the flames. He flung off her beseeching hand. "I
didn't ask your help!" he cried passionately. "I told you to leave me
alone! You can't understand a man has his pride. You're loathsome to
me now!"

Mahooley interfered with good intent. "Sam, you're foolish. What
difference does it make? Nobody blames you!"

"Keep your mouth out of this!" cried Sam, whirling on him.

To Bela he went on blindly: "The team is at the Point. I'll have it
here in an hour! My credit at the store is yours! You hear that,
Mahooley? Turn over what's coming to me to her. The gun, the axe, the
blankets I'll keep. I'll pay you for them when I earn it. I'll make
you a present of my labour, driving for you. And I hope to God I'll
never see you again!" He ran out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bela stood in an oddly arrested attitude, as if an icy blast had
congealed her in full motion. There was no sense in her eyes. In acute
discomfort, the men stood on one foot, then the other.

Mahooley, as the leader, felt that it was incumbent on him to make the
first move.

"Look here, Bela," he began. "Don't you take on----"

The sound of his voice brought her to life. She threw back her head
with a laugh. It had a wretched, mirthless sound; but a laugh is a
laugh. They were glad to be deceived. They laughed with her.

"Tak' on?" cried Bela recklessly. Her voice had a tinny ring. "W'at do
I care? I glad he gone. I glad both gone. I never let them come here
again. Maybe we have some peace now."

Naturally the other men were delighted.

"Good for you, Bela!" they cried. "You're a game sport, all right!
You're right; they're not worth bothering about. We'll stand by you!"

She seemed unimpressed by their enthusiasm.

"Time to go," she said, shepherding them toward the door. "Come
to-morrow. I have ver' good dinner to-morrow."

"You bet I'll be here!" "Count on me!" "Me, too!" "You're all right,
Bela!" "Good night!" "Good night!"

They filed out.

Only Musq'oosis was left sitting on the floor, staring into the fire.
He did not turn around as Bela came back from the door.

"Why don't you go, too?" she demanded in a harsh, tremulous voice.

"T'ink maybe you want talk to me."

"Talk!" she cried. "Too moch talk! I sick of talkin'!" Her voice was
breaking. "Go 'way! Let me be!"

He got up. He had dropped his innocent affectations. "My girl----" he
began simply.

"Go 'way!" cried Bela desperately. "Go quick, or I hit you!"

He shrugged and went out. Bela slammed the door after him and dropped
the bar in place. She barred the other door.

She looked despairingly around the disordered cabin, and moving
uncertainly to the nearest box, dropped upon it, and spreading her
arms on the table, let her head fall between them and wept like a
white woman.


CHAPTER XXIII

MAHOOLEY'S INNINGS


The next day, as far as the settlement was concerned, Sam Gladding had
ceased to be. Bringing the team to Bela's as he had promised, he left
it tied outside, and the night had swallowed him.

At first it was supposed he had started to walk out around the north
shore, the way he had come; but Indians from below Grier's Point
reported that no white man had passed that way. They found likewise
that he had not gone toward Tepiskow. He could not have crossed the
river, save by swimming, an impossible feat burdened with a rifle and
an axe.

Those who came in from around the bay said he had not been seen over
there, though Joe Hagland had barricaded himself in his shack in the
expectation of a visit.

It was finally decided that Sam must be hiding in the bush somewhere
near, and that he would come in with his tail between his legs when he
got hungry.

There was not much concern one way or the other. Most of the men
indulged in the secret hope that Sam would stay away. He was a game
kid, they were now ready to confess, but altogether too touchy; there
was no getting along comfortably with him. Had he not almost put the
resteraw out of business? It was as Bela said--if both the hotheads
kept out of the way, they might have some peace and comfort there.

Sergeant Coulson had compunctions. He proposed getting up a
search-party for Sam. The idea was laughed down. Nice fools they'd
make of themselves, opined Mahooley, setting out to look for a man in
good health and in the full possession of his faculties who hadn't
committed any crime.

There was a good attendance at Bela's dinner, and a full house at
night. To their undiscerning eyes Bela seemed to be her old self. That
is to say, she was not moping over what had happened. A wise man would
have guessed that she was taking it much too quietly; he would have
seen the danger signals in that unnaturally quick eye. Bela had
dropped her usual air of reserve. To-night she seemed anxious to
please. She smiled on each man in a way that bade him hope. She
laughed oftener and louder. It had a conscious, provocative ring that
the wise man would have grieved to hear. Competition became keen for
her smiles.

When they finished their supper there were loud calls for her to come
in and sit among them. Bela shrugged and, picking up a box, stood
looking over them. They fell suddenly silent, wondering which she
would choose. She laughed mockingly and, turning, carried her box in
front of the fire.

From this point Mahooley, in the midst of the general chaffing,
unexpectedly received a narrow-eyed look over her shoulder that went
to his head a little. He promptly arose and carried his box to her
side. Mahooley was the greatest man present, and none presumed to
challenge him.

Bela bridled and smiled. "What for you come over here?" she demanded.
"I not tell you to."

"Oh, I took a chance," said the trader coolly. At the same time his
wicked, dancing little eyes informed her that he knew very well she
had asked him over. The sanguine Mahooley was no celibate, and he
cared not who knew it.

"You think 'cause you the trader you do w'at you like," said Bela
mockingly.

"Any man can do pretty near what he wants if he has the will."

"What is will?"

"Oh--determination."

"You got plenty 'termination, I suppose." This with a teasing smile.

Mahooley looked at her sharply. "Look here, what are you getting at?"
he demanded.

"Not'ing."

"I'm no hand to bandy words. I'm plain spoken. I go direct to a
thing."

Bela shrugged.

"You can't play with me, you know. Is there anything you want?"

"No," said Bela with a provoking smile.

As Mahooley studied her, looking into the fire, a novel softness
confused him. His astuteness was slipping from him, even while he
bragged of it. "Damned if you're not the handsomest thing in this part
of the world!" he said suddenly. It was surprised out of him. His
first maxim was: "A man must never let anything on with these girls."

"Pooh! W'at you care about 'an'some?" jeered Bela. "Girls all the same
to you."

This flecked Mahooley on the raw. A deep flush crept into his face.
"Ah, a man leads a man's life," he growled. "That ain't to say he
don't appreciate something good if it comes his way."

"They say you treat girls pretty bad," said Bela.

"I treat 'em as they deserve," replied Mahooley sullenly. "If a girl
don't get any of the good out of me, that's up to her."

It was the first time one of these girls had been able to put him out
of countenance.

"Poor girls!" murmured Bela.

He looked at her sharply again. The idea that a native girl might
laugh at him, the trader, was a disconcerting one. "Some time when the
gang ain't around I'll show you I ain't all bad," he said ardently.

Bela shrugged.

Musq'oosis was in the shack again to-night. He sat on the floor in the
corner beyond the fire-place. Neither Bela nor Mahooley paid any
attention to him, but he missed nothing of their talk.

By and by the group around the table moved to break up.

"I'll go with them and come back after," whispered Mahooley.

"No you don't," said Bela quickly. "W'en they go I lock the door. Both
door."

"Sure! But it could be unlocked for a friend."

"Not for no man!" said Bela. "Not to-night any'ow," she added with a
sidelong look.

"You devil!" he growled. "Don't you fool yourself you can play with a
man like me. A door has got to be either open or shut."

"Well, it will be shut--to-night," she said, with a smile dangerous
and alluring.

When they had gone she sent Musq'oosis also.

"Not want talk?" he asked wistfully.

She laughed painfully and harshly.

"I your good friend," he said.

"Go to bed," she returned.

-It is 141/2d. per peck.

11,847. And of flour?

       -There are two kinds, one at 1s. and on at 13d.

Meal is always 1/2d. peck dearer in Scalloway than in Lerwick, on account
of the cartage.

11,848. Is there no meal brought here by sea?-Very little.

11,849. Have you many business transactions with the inhabitants
of Burra?-Yes, some.

11,850.

Do some of the men purchase at your shop the supplies they require
for their families?

-Yes, occasionally.

11,851. Do they do so for ready money, or upon credit?

-Either for ready money or for eggs.

11,852. Do they sell all their eggs to you?

-I don't know. I think they sell to all the grocers in the village.

11,853. In what way are their eggs paid for?

-The eggs are generally paid for in barter at one price, and [Page
291] in cash at another price; but, for the last three months, I have
bought them at the barter price for cash.

The present price is 9d. per dozen, whether paid for in goods or
cash, but they are very seldom sold for cash.

11,854.

What is the kind of goods generally taken in exchange for eggs?-Everything
we sell-tea, sugar, meal, bread, and soft goods.

11,855. Do you export a number of the eggs you buy?

-Yes. They are sent south by the steamer.

11,856. Have there been any whales driven in here, while you have
been resident in Scalloway?

-There was one shoal of whales driven into the bay below this place
since I came here.

They were sold by auction. Mr.

Garriock, of Reawick, managed the sale.

The parties concerned in the capture got two-thirds of the proceeds
of the oil as their share.

11,857.

Are you aware that complaints are made with regard to the landlord's
claim to have one-third of the oil?-Yes; there have been complaints
made. I had a share in the whales that were driven ashore, and I
wrote to the Board of Trade about it, but it seemed they could do
nothing; at least they did not choose to do anything in the
matter.

11,858.

Were the whales of the bottle-nosed kind?-No. They are known by the
name of caain, or driving whales.

11,859.

Did the Board of Trade decline to interfere on the ground that the
Crown had no interest in the kind of whale that was driven ashore?

-Yes; they said the Crown had no interest in that kind of whales.

We thought, as the Government claim the foreshores and beaches, the
proprietors had no right to claim any share of the oil, because the
blubber is never taken above high-water mark Most of the whales
were killed at sea, and dragged ashore, and we thought the fishermen
should have the same right to beach whales as to beach cod or ling,
or anything else under the Act regulating the fishings.

11,860.

Did you obtain any information at that time, as to the grounds upon
which the landlords' claim for one-third of the whales was based?

-I did not ascertain that they had any claim for it, other than the
custom of the country, in the same way as they claim right to bind
the fishermen to fish for them, and to no other.

The Board of Trade did not say that the landlords had any right to
claim the whales; they advised me to go to law and see; but I did
not think it advisable to incur the expense of raising an action
on my own account.

11,861.

Have you found your trade hampered in any degree by the fishermen feeling
under an obligation to deal for their supplies with the merchants
by whom they are employed?

-I have said already, that if the fishermen were paid oftener, more
money would be circulated, and trade would be more divided; but it
would all depend upon whether the fishermen were in debt or not,
because we could not expect the fish-curers to pay those men who
were in debt to them.

11,862.

Have you found fishermen representing to you that they would purchase
goods at your shop if they were not obliged to go where they could
get credit?

-I have occasionally heard such things here, but not very often.

11,863. Perhaps you have suspected that oftener than it has been
expressed to you?

-Yes.

11,864.

A man does not always speak about his reasons for dealing with a
particular merchant?

-I don't think he does; but I don't think it fair if I pay ready money
for such things as I buy, such as oysters and winkles, that others
should not do the same to a greater extent than they do.

I don't mean to say that they should cash for everything, but I
think they should settle oftener.

11,865.

You think the fishermen should be able to have a little money in
their hands at times, instead of having it only once a year, in
January?

-I think so.

11,866. And even then, I suppose, they don't always have to get money?

-I don't think they have.

11,867. Do you think that, upon the whole, your payments to fishermen
are repaid to you?

-Not at once. They may take the money home and come with it again,
but it is not handed over to me at the time when the men get it. I
have paid £40 in one week for shell-fish, without drawing more than
£10.

11,868. Do your books show that?-No.

11,869. These were all cash transactions?

-Yes.

11,870.

But I suppose you may sometimes have paid £40 out in a week and drawn
£30 of it back?-No. I never drew £30.

* Mr.

Harcus afterwards sent a letter in which he said-
'Finding that exception has been taken by certain of my neighbours to
a part of my evidence before the Truck Commission, I wish to say
in explanation, that when the question was put whether I would
approve in all cases of daily or weekly settlements, several
difficulties occurred to my mind, and the want of proficiency in
arithmetic among the fishermen was one of them, and not the only
one, as is being attempted to be made to appear.

I hope my words will bear out this idea. If my memory serves me
right I gave as one difficulty the great distance between the
fishing-ground and curer's headquarters; and I was having in
consideration the extra expense that would be incurred if provision
were made at out-stations for daily or weekly settlements, and the
probability of an extra hand being required whose wages would have
to come off the fisherman.

'With regard to my statements as to the proportion of Shetland fishermen
who would be able to settle quickly by having pass-books, I was
considering that it would be the duty of the men to divide their
own shares, and to make all calculations ready for entering in their
several pass-books, and that where there were boys forming part of
a crew, and having fractional shares, very few indeed of the men
could divide such shares.

I think I also stated that I was speaking of those I had dealt
with; but, of course, I could not be understood to speak of anything
further than my experience went.

'I was also having in view that should a crew only require a few minutes
to settle, yet if many crews came up at one time, as the tides and
nature of the fishing would necessitate, some of them would have
to wait several hours, which time could not possibly be spared, as
during the busy part of the season the men can only allow themselves
from four to five hours out of the twenty-four for sleep.

Neither do I think that pass-books can expedite settlement much as
some say.

       They can do little more than save the time required to head a printed
form of account, say three or four minutes for each crew; but of
course, are indispensable for other purposes.

'It will be seen from my evidence that the oftener curers settle
with their men the better for my trade; and therefore, wishing to
guard against having my mind influenced by selfish motive, I stated
honestly what objections to daily or weekly settlements occurred
to my mind at the moment.

'I trust it will be seen from my evidence as to my own practice
that I approve of making settlements as often as practicable, in
order to teach the people self-reliance and provident habits, and
also to give them a chance to lay out their earnings to the best
advantage

.

' I have no wish to disparage this people. On the contrary, I think
they deserve very great praise for being what they are under very
unfavourable circumstances, and if this were the proper place I
would have great pleasure in saying a good deal on this point; but
though their general intelligence is perhaps superior to that of
the same class in any other part of the country, I have not met
with much proficiency in arithmetic among old and middle-aged men
especially; and it is not difficult to see from the evidence the
small amount of their experience in handling accounts, and the want
of inducements to cultivate the art of book-keeping.'

Scalloway, January 22, 1872, Rev. NICOL NICOLSON, examined.

11,871. You are a clergyman of the Independent Church in Scalloway?

-I am. I have been twenty-two years here, first as missionary, and
afterwards as pastor of a church.

11,872.

Are your people mostly engaged in fishing?

-Some of them are.

11,873. I suppose you are intimately acquainted with the condition of
the fishing population of this district?

-It appears to me by this time that I am not so well acquainted
with it as I thought, because I have been hearing things coming out
that I did not understand to be the case before the evidence was
given.

11,874.

Were you aware of the fact that very few fishermen received a large part
of their earnings in money?-I understood that all of them who were
out of debt got money from the merchants when they wanted it. I was
once a fisherman myself, and that was the way in which I was dealt
with. I did not think that in any of the shops here the men who had
cash in the merchant's hands, and who were in necessity for it
would not have got it.

11,875.

Do you not think it would be better for the fishermen to be paid for
their fish more frequently than once a year?-There are certain boats
that deliver their fish weekly, and certainly it would be better
for the men in them to be paid weekly; but there are a great many
of the fishermen employed in smacks, from which they do not come
ashore weekly, nor monthly.

11,876.

Do you mean that the Faroe fishermen cannot be paid at short
intervals?

-I mean that those who fit out smacks and agree with men to fish on
board of them for the season, cannot bring about a settlement with
them until the end of the season.

11,877.

But would it not be expedient for a man who is engaged in the home
fishing, and who comes ashore every two or three days, to have his
money paid to him at shorter intervals than those at which he now
gets it, so that he might use it at his own discretion?

-It has come under my observation that many crews who were ready to
fish had no boat nor lines until they went to a merchant who would
supply them with them, and then they made an agreement with that
merchant to fish for him.

They are in debt before they begin, and how can they be paid until
the merchant sees his boat and lines clear?

-Until they are cleared, he cannot afford to pay the men.

11,878. But in other trades, merchants frequently have to pay weekly
wages to the men they employ, and take their risk of the market?-They
take their risk of the market as it is; but if a merchant has due to
him the whole value of the boat and lines, he cannot pay money
down to the men and allow them to go away with it.

He must keep it until he gets paid, or else he will be a poor man.

11,879.

Would it not be within the power of the fishermen to purchase their
own boats and lines?

-They should do that, but I don't find them doing it.

I know of only one man here who has done it.

11,880. Do you think it is impossible for the ordinary run of
fishermen to make as much money as would pay for their boat and lines?

-Most of the fishermen hereabout can never do it, owing to the way
they live and the small fishings they make.

They are not very fit to go out except in fine weather; and then
they have to maintain themselves on shore in coarse weather.

11,881.

How does the way in which they live prevent [Page 292] them from
being able to purchase boats and lines?

-They are poor men; they have no capital; and they are neither fed
nor clothed in such a way as to enable them to carry on the fishing
properly.

If any man will give them credit for a boat and lines they just
hang on with him, and never make money, or catch fish from which
money can be made.

I know a number of boats that seem to do very little all the year
round.

The crews are mostly old, worn-out men, and some of them are perhaps
not very provident at home.

I never saw them fed and clothed like regular fishermen; and you
cannot expect them to go to sea properly.

11,882.

What do you mean when you say that they are not fed and clothed
like regular fishermen?

-I mean like fishermen on the coast of Scotland, or in any other
place.

11,883.

Have you had some experience among fishermen on the coast of Scotland
or elsewhere than here?

-Not on the coast of Scotland, further than that I have gone among
them, and spoken with them, and seen how they get on.

I have seen them go off almost every day in winter, unless when
there was a very extra breeze of wind.

11,884.

Have they better boats in these places?-Yes; they have good
boats, and they are well-clad, well-fed, healthy men; while there are
men going on board the boats here who I believe, these other men
would not take on board with them, owing to their want of
strength.

11,885.

You are not speaking of the ordinary run of Shetland fishermen just
now?-I am speaking of the Scalloway men. I understand that in some
of the islands, such as Burra, there are a class of very good men;
but here there are no men staying ashore, except young boys and old
men.

All the rest go into the merchant service.

A few go to Faroe, but only a few.

11,886.

It is among these people who live in Scalloway that your experience
chiefly lies?

-Yes; it is to them I refer when I speak of the people about
here.

11,887.

So that when you are speaking about the advantages or disadvantages
of a change, your remarks rather apply to the people of Scalloway
than to the Shetland fishermen in general?

-I say that most of the fishermen with whom I am acquainted in
Scalloway, except one boat's crew, are such men as never do make
earnings.

They cannot get their boat and lines except on credit, and the merchants
who give them out on credit require to keep what little fish they
catch until these are paid, while the poor men are always asking
for further advances on which to live.

Therefore the men cannot have any money; and I don't blame the
merchants, because the men still continue indebted to them.

11,888.

Do you entertain that opinion with regard to other fishermen, strong
young men, who are able to make better fishings than those you are
now speaking of?

-I believe there are such men in Burra, and perhaps even in Trondra,
but I don't know any such men in Scalloway who are inclined to go
to the fishing.

Strong young men there go elsewhere.

11,889.

Could these strong young men in Burra and Trondra purchase their own
boats?-I think they could.

11,890. And that you consider would be an advantage to any
fisherman?

-Yes, it would be an advantage but I question whether many of the
young men in Burra would confine themselves to boat fishing.

11,891. Do you think the system of being paid only once a year has
the effect of producing improvident habits among the men?-I don't
know. I was once a fisherman myself, and paid once a year, and I liked
it well enough, for if I wanted money sooner I got it; but if I
could do without it, I was pleased to get a larger sum at one time,
and have it in reserve.

11,892.

There is no doubt that, to many men, it may be an advantage to get a
large sum paid at once; but, looking at the generality of the people
that you live among, do you not think it would be better for them to
have their money in their hand, paid to them every fortnight or
every month?

May they not, under the present system, run up larger accounts with the
merchant who supplies them than they can afford to pay?-I am not aware
that money is forthcoming at all from the fishing carried on in these
boats.

Sixty years had in nowise
impaired his vigour. He was an incorrigible optimist and a dreamer.

His long-pent tongue ran like a mechanical toy when the spring is
released. He had a thousand schemes for the future, into all of which,
as a matter of course, he immediately incorporated Sam. Sam had come
to be his partner. That was settled without discussion. Sam, weary in
body and mind, was content to let somebody run him.

"West of me, on the other side of the gully yonder, there's another
handsome piece of land. Slopes down from the hills to the river-bank
smooth as a lady's bosom! Not a stick on it, either; all ready to turn
over. Now you take that and put up a shack on it, and we'll work the
two pieces together with my tools.

"In the meantime, till you get a little ahead, you work for me for
wages, see? I've got my crop in, all right--potatoes and barley; now
I've got to build me a house. I need help with it. I'll pay you in
grub."

"That certainly is decent of you," murmured Sam.

"Cut it out!" cried Ed. "A man has got to have a partner. Say, in a
month already I'm near gibbering with the lonesomeness. It was a lucky
stroke for both of us that brought you to my door."

They talked until late--that is to say, Ed talked. Sam warmed
gratefully to his friendliness--it was genuine friendliness, that
demanded nothing in return; but in the end the uninterrupted stream of
talk confused his dulled faculties.

He could neither take it in properly nor answer intelligently. When Ed
suggested turning in, therefore, he declined to share the tent.

"I like to lie by myself," he said.

"That's all right!" cried Ed. "Many is like that. Maybe you wouldn't
get much sleep with me anyhow. I ain't half talked out yet."

"I'll go lie in my own field," said Sam with a wry smile.

So he had made the little shelter of leaves, facing the river, and
built a fire in front. But to-night he could not win forgetfulness.

In three days he had walked close on a hundred miles, and the last
long day had overtaxed his strength. He was in that most wretched of
states, too fatigued to sleep. His body ached all over, and his mind
was filled with black hopelessness.

As long as he had been on the road he had been buoyed up by movement,
by the passing scene. To youth a journey always suggests escape from
oneself. Now that he had arrived he found that he had brought his
burden along with him.

There was no more fight left in him. He was conscious only of an
immense desire for something he would not acknowledge to himself.

When at last he did fall asleep it was only to dream of Bela. By the
irony of fate he saw Bela as she might have been, wistful, honest, and
tender; anything but the sullen, designing liar his anger had built up
in the daytime. In dreams she smiled on him, and soothed his weariness
with an angel's touch.

He awoke with all his defences undermined and fallen. He could have
wept with vexation at the scurvy tricks sleep played him. Then he
would drop off and dream of her again; combing her hair in the
firelight; leading him by the hand through forests; paddling him down
rivers; but always transfigured with tenderness.

That was why he found no zest in the morning sunshine.

Ed Chaney, casting a glance at him, said: "You've overdone it. Better
lay off for a couple of days."

"I'm able to work," replied Sam. "I want to work."

"All right!" agreed Ed cheerfully. "You can hoe the garden. I'll go to
the piny ridge and chop."

All day Sam kept himself doggedly at work, though as soon as Ed
disappeared he had to fight the impulse to drop everything and fly
farther. It did not matter where he went, so he kept moving. It seemed
to him that only in movement was any escape to be had from the weight
pressing on his brain. He wanted to be alone. In his disorganized
state of nerves even Ed's friendliness was a kind of torture.

Nevertheless, when night came, another reaction set in, and he elected
to sleep with Ed because he could not face such another night alone.
They lay down side by side in their blankets. Ed babbled on as
inconsequentially as a child. He required no answers.

"We'll build a two-room house so's you can be by yourself when you
want. Two men living together get on each other's nerves sometimes,
though both are good fellows, and friends, too. Begin to grouse and
snarl like man and wife. Why, up here they tell of a man who up and
murdered his partner for no reason but he was tired looking at him.

"Afterward we will build you a house of your own, so you can hold your
land proper. Expect there'll be quite a rush next spring. This year
most of them is stopping by Caribou Lake. But I want a river. I love a
flowing river at my door; it seems to bring you new thoughts. This
river is navigable for six hundred miles up and down. Some day we'll
see the steamboats puffing in front here. I'll put out a wharf for
them to land at.

"And you and me's got the best piece of land the whole way! Eighteen
inches of black loam! We'll be rich men before we die. Wheat ought to
be the best. When others come around us we will put in a little mill
to grind the crop. The company would buy all our flour. What do you
think of that for a scheme, eh?... Bless my soul, he's dropped off!"

In the middle of the night Sam awoke to find the moon shining in his
face through the open door of the tent. He had had a real sleep. He
felt better. He was irresistibly drawn to look outside.

In the pale sky the great, full moon shone with an extraordinary
transparency. The field sloping down to the water was powdered with
silver dust. The river was like a steel shield with a bar of shining
gold athwart it.

On the other side the heights crouched like black beasts at the feet
of the moon. The night seemed to be holding its breath under the spell
of beauty. Only a subtle murmur arose from the moving river.

So much loveliness was like a knife in Sam's breast. The pain
surprised him. It was as if nature had rested him with sleep only to
enable him to suffer more keenly.

"What's the use of it if a man must be alone!" his heart cried. "No
beauty, no happiness, no peace ever for me! I want her! I want her! I
want her!"

Terrified by the trend of his own thoughts, he turned inside and shook
Ed Chaney by the shoulder. Ed, with many a snort and grunt, slowly
came back to consciousness.

"What's the matter?" he demanded. "The horses--wolves?"

"No, everything is all right," said Sam.

"What's the matter, then?"

"Would you mind staying awake a little?" begged Sam. "I--I can't
sleep. Got the horrors, I guess."

"Sure thing!" said Ed. He took "horrors" quite as a matter of course.
He was a comfortable soul. He crept to the door and looked out,
gradually yawning himself into complete wakefulness.

"God! what a night!" he said simply. "The moon is like a lady coming
down to bathe!"

"I hate it!" cried Sam shakily. "Close the flaps."

Ed did so, and returned to his blankets. "Let's have a smoke," he
suggested cosily.

They lit up. Sam's pipe, however, went out immediately.

"I suppose you think I'm crazy," he said deprecatingly.

"Oh, I've been young myself," replied Ed.

"If you don't mind I want to talk about it," said Sam. "It's driving
me crazy!"

"Fire away," assented Ed. "Is it a woman?"

"Yes," replied Sam. "How did you know?"

Ed smiled to himself.

"She's no good!" went on Sam bitterly. "That's what hurts. She's just
a scheming, lying savage! She's only working to get me in her power. I
can't trust her. I've got good reason to know that, and yet--oh God!
she's right in my blood! I can't stop thinking about her a minute.

"Sometimes I think she's a good woman, you know, the real thing,
gentle and true! It's my imagination makes me think that. I _know_
she's no good--but it's driving me crazy. I want her so bad, it seems
as if I'd die if I didn't go back to her. That's what she wants, to
get me under her thumb. I'm a fool! I've got no strength to resist
her!"

"Well, now," said Ed comfortably, "you're all excited. Maybe she ain't
as bad as all that."

"She is! She is!" cried Sam. "I've got good reason to know it."

"'Tain't the thing itself that drives you crazy," Ed went on
philosophically. "It's thinking about it too much. Your brain goes
round like a squirrel in his little cage, and you don't know where you
are. Now, if you could put the whole business out of your mind a
little while, shut a door on it, so to speak, by and by, when you open
it again, there's the right answer standing there plain as a
pike-staff!"

"Forget it!" cried Sam. "It's with me night and day! If I let go, I'll
cave in. I'll go running back! God help me, if she ever gets hold of
me. I'd be the laughing-stock of the whole country! I couldn't look a
child in the face! No! No! If you're my friend, keep me from going
back! Have you got a Bible?"

"Sure," said Ed. "There in the top of that dunnage bag at your hand.
What do you want it for?"

"I'll settle it," Sam muttered, searching for the book. He found it.

"I'll take an oath on it," he said to Ed. "I want you to hear it.
Because a man can find a way to get out of an oath he swears to
himself. Listen!"

A faint effulgence filtering through the canvas revealed him kneeling
on his blankets, with the book in his hands.

He said solemnly: "I swear on this holy book and on my honour that I
will never go back to this woman. And if I break this oath may all men
despise me! So help me God. Amen!"

"That's a good strong one," remarked Ed cheerfully.

"Yes, a man could hardly break that," murmured Sam, oddly calmed.

"Light up," said Ed.

"No, I think I can sleep now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam did sleep until morning. He arose, not exactly in a jovial mood,
nevertheless calm. He might have a dull ache in the bottom of his
breast, but the wild struggle was over. The matter was disposed of for
good.

After breakfast he and Ed hitched up the team and went to the pine
ridge to haul the logs Ed had cut the day before. They had returned
with a load, and were throwing them off at the site of the proposed
house, when Ed suddenly cocked his head to listen.

"Horses," he said, "and wheels."

"Some of the natives," suggested Sam.

Ed shook his head. "No occasion for them to bring a wagon. They come
horseback."

Sam scowled; dreading, hoping--what he knew not.

By and by the team and wagon clattered into view from among the trees
along the river.

"My horses!" cried Sam involuntarily. Filled with a kind of panic, his
eyes sought the hills.

A second glance showed him both the figures visible in the wagon-box
were of men. He calmed down. Whether his principal feeling was of
relief or disappointment, he could not have said. Ed was looking at
him curiously.

"Not mine," said Sam, blushing. "I mean the team I used to drive."

As the horses mounted the rise, Sam called in a softened voice:
"Sambo! Dinah!"

The little black pair pricked up their ears and whinnied. Sam went to
meet them. The two men he dimly remembered as breed-boys around the
settlement. Scarcely regarding them, he pulled the horses' ears and
rubbed their noses, while they nozzled him capriciously with delicate
whickerings.

"Old boy! Old girl!" whispered Sam. "You haven't forgotten me, eh?
Maybe you miss me just the same as I miss you!"

"How did you come by this team?" he demanded of the driver.

As he looked up he saw that a third head and shoulders had risen above
the edge of the box. He saw a face incredibly wrinkled, framed in
long, straggling grey hair. The bright eyes twinkled merrily.

"Hello, Sam!"

"Musq'oosis!" cried Sam, recoiling. Fearful of other surprises, he
hastened to look in the wagon-box. There was nothing more in it save
their bedding and grub.

Musq'oosis clambered down and shook hands with Sam and Ed.

"Tell them to unhitch," said Sam, mindful of the duties of
hospitality.

Musq'oosis shook his head. "Got go back," he said. "Got sleep to-night
on Little Prairie. Home to-morrow night."

Sam felt relieved. His ordeal was not to be long continued then.
Whatever colour might be given it, he knew what Musq'oosis had really
come for.

Ed, out of a sentiment of delicacy, retired to finish unloading his
wagon. Musq'oosis sent the two breed-boys to help him. Musq'oosis
himself squatted in the grass, while Sam stood caressing the horses.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Then you not comin'," said Musq'oosis, a quarter of an hour later. He
had spent his best efforts in vain.

Sam gloomily shook his head.

"I moch sorry," said the old man.

"Did she send you after me?" demanded Sam abruptly.

"No."

"What made you come, then?"

"I t'ink she look too moch at Mahooley. He bad man to woman. Bela, she
mos' lak my daughter. I feel bad."

A horrible pain went through Sam's breast. He laughed as he thought
blithely. "If she wants Mahooley she'll marry him. You and I have got
nothing to do with it."

"You could come and tak' her 'way from him maybe."

"Nothing doing," said Sam grimly.

"Mahooley maybe not marry her honest," suggested Musq'oosis.

A spasm passed over Sam's face. The horses strained back, startled,
from his hand. "Oh, for God's sake, I've told you a dozen times it is
nothing to me!" he cried. "Nobody can make Bela do what she doesn't
want to do. If she goes with Mahooley, that's her look out!"

Fearing that his self-control was about to escape him altogether, Sam
walked away a few steps. When he came back his face was set.

Musq'oosis saw no hope there. He shrugged. "Well--got no more to say.
I moch sorry!"

Sam wished with all his heart that he would go and be done with it.

"You say goin' tak' up land here," said Musq'oosis politely. "Let me
see your land."

Sam, calling to one of the boys to watch the horses, led the way
across the planted ground and over the gully to his own fair field.

Musq'oosis surveyed it with bright eyes. "Ah, _miwasan_!" he cried.
"Beautiful! There is no better land!"

"Good enough," said Sam indifferently.

"There on that little hill. You will build good house there."

"I suppose so."

"You will have porch lak Gilbert Beattie got for sittin' on. You sit
in chair, and look up and down river every night. You build big barn.
Have moch horse and cattle, I guess. You will be rich, all right."

Sam laughed mirthlessly. "You're as bad as Ed."

"What good your richness do you if you all alone," asked Musq'oosis
slyly. "You want a wife to mak' your heart glad. A handsome wife and
many fat babies. There is only one girl for you. Good face to see;
good hands to work; good heart to love. I know her, and I say so.
There was never any girl so fine as her in this country. Will you let
ot'er man get her?"

Sam turned on him with extraordinary violence. "I told you to cut it
out!" he cried. "By God, if you say another word----You make me mad!
Once I thought you were my friend. Get out of here before I forget
you're old and helpless! For the last time, I tell you I will not go!
I have sworn an oath. It is ended!"

Musq'oosis shrugged. "All right! I go back!" he said dully.


CHAPTER XXV

CONCLUSION


On the second morning after, as the walls of Ed Chaney's house were
beginning to rise from the ground, the partners were astonished to see
a little black horse appear loping along the river-bank, bearing a
rider.

It proved to be the elder of the Indian boys who had accompanied
Musq'oosis. His name was St. Paul. His smooth, brown face and bright,
flat eyes gave no hint of the nature of his errand. The horse had been
ridden hard.

"What's the matter?" demanded Sam, frowning.

"Musq'oosis sick," returned the boy, without a flicker of expression.
He spoke good English.

"Where?"

"Jus' 'cross Little Prairie, I guess twenty miles from river."

"What did you come to me for?" said Sam. "There were white men nearer.
I don't know anything about doctoring."

"Musq'oosis say want nobody come but Sam," answered the boy. "Him say
doctor got not'ing for him. Him say time has come. Him say want friend
to close his eyes. Him say mak' Sam mad before. Him sorry. Want Sam
tak' his hand before he go."

"Better go right back," suggested Ed with quick sympathy. "The poor
old guy!"

Sam debated the matter scowling. Musq'oosis had made him angry, and he
distrusted him. Yet he could not but be drawn to the quaint little
philosopher, too. He could not but remember that Musq'oosis had been
kind to him at a time when he most needed it.

"How did it happen?" he asked, partly softened.

The boy illustrated his story with the graphic gesticulation of his
race.

"Yes'day Musq'oosis not wake up at all. I got shake him in his
blanket. Wake moch slow. Say feel moch bad. All tam sleepy. Can't
stan' up. Can't eat not'ing. So we put him in the wagon and go.

"Bam-by say stop! Say can't go no furder. Wagon too moch shake. So we
lay him on the ground in his blankets. We wait a while. T'ink maybe
get better. Afternoon spell no better. He say no goin' get better. Say
to me go get Sam. Ot'er boy Jack stay by him. So I come. Sleep las'
night at the crossing."

The story was detailed and convincing, and Sam's suspicions were
partly lulled.

"You and the boy take my team," said Ed gravely. "Leave the black
horse here to rest up."

A few minutes later they were on the way.

Agriculture and industry have posted major gains, especially in coastal
areas near Hong Kong and opposite Taiwan, where foreign investment
has helped spur output of both domestic and export goods. On
the darker side, the leadership has often experienced in its hybrid
system the worst results of socialism (bureaucracy and lassitude)
and of capitalism (windfall gains and growing income disparities).

Beijing thus has periodically backtracked, retightening central
controls at intervals.

The government has struggled to (a) collect revenues due from
provinces, businesses, and individuals; (b) reduce corruption and
other economic crimes; and (c) keep afloat the large state-owned
enterprises many of which had been shielded from competition by
subsidies and had been losing the ability to pay full wages and
pensions.

From 80 to 120 million surplus rural workers are adrift between the
villages and the cities, many subsisting through part-time low-paying
jobs.

Popular resistance, changes in central policy, and loss of authority by
rural cadres have weakened China's population control program, which
is essential to maintaining long-term growth in living standards.
Another long-term threat to continued rapid economic growth is the
deterioration in the environment, notably air pollution, soil
erosion, and the steady fall of the water table especially in the
north.

China continues to lose arable land because of erosion and economic
development.

Beijing will intensify efforts to stimulate growth through spending on
infrastructure - such as water control and power grids - and poverty
relief and through rural tax reform aimed at eliminating arbitrary
local levies on farmers.

Access to the World Trade Organization strengthens China's ability
to maintain sturdy growth rates, and at the same time puts additional
pressure on the hybrid system of strong political controls and
growing market influences.

Although Beijing has claimed 7%-8% annual growth in recent years,
many observers believe the rate, while strong, is more like 5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.56 trillion (2001 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.3% (official estimate) (2001 est.)
GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,300 (2001 est.)
The other boy and the other horse were not visible.

It was Musq'oosis. The bush protected him from the sun. With the first
glimpse Sam had of his face, remorse attacked him for his suspicions.
In truth the old man was far gone. His skin had taken on a waxy,
yellow consistency. He looked as serene and unearthly as if he had
already passed away. His eyes were closed. Sam spoke his name in
alarm.

He opened his eyes and smiled, and feebly moved his hand toward Sam's.
"I glad you come," he murmured. "Wait long."

Sam gripped his hand. He forgot all his anger. It seemed shocking to
him to find the old man untended in his extremity. He had heard tales
of Indian callousness.

"Where's the other boy?" he demanded. "Has he run away?"

Musq'oosis shook his head. "Jack good boy," he said. "I send him look
for ot'er horse. I 'fraid horse run home."

Sam ordered St. Paul to unsaddle the horses, to make a fire, and put
on water.

"How do you feel?" he asked Musq'oosis solicitously.

"Pretty good," the old man answered, smiling. "I not feel bad no more
I guess."

When you gave that advance, it was given directly to the fisherman?-Yes,
and voluntarily.

12,155.

Do you ever make money advances now for that purpose, or for any other
purpose, to your customers who have accounts with you?

-I have not done so within the last two or three years; in fact,
most of the men don't need it; they can get on without it.

12,156.

The accounts incurred to you, and which are settled for at the end of
the year, are paid in cash, I suppose, for the most part?-Yes, in
cash.

12,157.

"I
lak live ver' well. I lak the summer an' the winter. Mos' of all I lak
my big lak. I lak smooth and rough. I lak the green shore and the
round bays and the little rivers that come down. It is a good worl'.
But I lak leave it now. I lak go to bed after big hunt."

"You shouldn't talk so much," said Sam. "It tires you."

"Let me talk," returned Musq'oosis, smiling still. "I soon done
talkin'. I lak tell yo'ng man all an old man know. But not moch good,
I guess. Yo'ng man got learn same lak his fat'er."

The old man murmured on out of his store of wisdom. Sometimes he
appeared to doze, but always he kept hold of Sam's hand. It was a
tremendous and arresting experience for young Sam. He was profoundly
affected.

From time to time he endeavoured to get the old man to take a little
stimulant. Tea was all he had to offer him. Musq'oosis refused it.

"I don't see why Sollers doesn't come!" said Sam.

"He not comin'," replied Musq'oosis. "I tell St. Paul tell him not
come. I only want my friend."

"Why do you like me?" asked Sam.

"I don't know," answered Musq'oosis, smiling. "Got good heart, I
guess."

At last Sam did hear horses' hoofs in the distance. "Here he is now,"
he said, only to realize presently that the sound was from the other
direction. "It's Jack," he added.

Soon he could make out that there were two horses coming from the
east. He frowned uneasily, and would have risen, but Musq'oosis had
his hand. The old man appeared to be sleeping.

Sam had to kneel there while the horses came closer and closer,
galloping at top speed. His beating heart warned him of what was in
store. Was it possible the old man had lied to him at death's door?
There was no shadow on that peaceful face.

The two horses dashed into sight around the bushes, and were sharply
pulled up on their haunches. They were ridden by Bela and Jack. At the
sight of her the old wild commotion was resumed in Sam's breast.
Forgetting all else, he jumped up, snatching his hand out of
Musq'oosis's.

"You tricked me!" he cried furiously to him.

The motionless figure gave no sign.

Bela turned on the native boy. "You lie to me!" she cried, raising the
switch she carried.

He put heels to his horse and evaded her.

Bela turned on Sam. "You t'ink I come here see you," she cried
furiously. "It's not true. I hate you!"

"God knows I didn't come to see you!" retorted Sam bitterly.

"I'll go back," she said, instantly turning her horse.

"Wait!" cried Sam. "Look after Musq'oosis. He's really sick. I'll go."

Bela looked at the little figure lying so still, and her anger failed
her. Her face broke up. Slipping out of her saddle, she went to him,
keeping her back turned toward Sam. Sam picked up his bridle and went
to catch his horse.

He had to lead it back close to where she was in order to get his
saddle. He could not help looking at her once. She was kneeling on the
other side of Musq'oosis, bending over him, and clasping both his
hands to her breast as if to warm them. She had forgotten Sam. Her
lovely face was soft and haggard with grief. Thou sayest true. But
now for my reception.

_Lord Fop_. [_To_ TAILOR.] Death and eternal tortures!
Sir--I say the coat is too wide here by a foot.

_Tai_. My lord, if it had been tighter, 'twould neither have hooked nor
buttoned.
_Lord Fop_. Rat the hooks and buttons, sir! Can any thing be worse than
this? As Gad shall jedge me, it hangs on my shoulders like a
chairman's surtout.

_Tai_. 'Tis not for me to dispute your lordship's fancy.
_Lory_. There, sir, observe what respect does.
_Fash_. Respect! damn him for a coxcomb!--But let's accost him.--[_Coming
forward_.]

Brother, I'm your humble servant.

_Lord Fop_. O Lard, Tam! I did not expect you in England.
--Brother, I'm glad to see you.--But what has brought you to Scarborough,
Tam!--[_To the_ TAILOR.] Look you, sir, I shall never be reconciled
to this nauseous wrapping-gown, therefore pray get me another suit
with all possible expedition; for this is my eternal aversion.

--[_Exit_ TAILOR.]

Well but, Tam, you don't tell me what has driven you to Scarborough.--
Mrs. Calico, are not you of my mind?

_Semp_. Directly, my lord.--I hope your lordship is pleased with
your ruffles?

_Lord Fop_. In love with them, stap my vitals!

--Bring my bill, you shall be paid to-morrow.
_Semp_. I humbly thank your worship. [Exit.] _Lord Fop_. Hark thee,
shoemaker, these shoes aren't ugly, but they don't fit
me.
_Shoe_.

My lord, I think they fit you very well.
_Lord Fop_. They hurt me just below the instep.
_Shoe_.

[_Feels his foot_.]

No, my lord, they don't hurt you there.
_Lord Fop_. I tell thee they pinch me execrably.
_Shoe_. Why then, my lord, if those shoes pinch you, I'll be
damned.
_Lord Fop_. Why, will thou undertake to persuade me I cannot
feel?
_Shoe_."Look at each ot'er," he whispered.

But it was at him they looked. Still smiling, a dread change came over
his face. His body quivered slightly, there was a strange sound in his
throat. His jaw dropped.

"Oh, he's gone!" whispered Bela.

Then they looked at each other, looked straight into each other's
souls. She swayed toward him, and his arms went around her swiftly.
The still figure was between them on the ground.

"My love! My love!" he murmured. "I have been a fool! I didn't know
you. I was full of false pride. I ask your pardon."

"I love you!" she breathed. "I think I die when you leave me!"

Their lips met.

Bela struggled to free herself. "This no tam be happy," she whispered.

They looked down at Musq'oosis again. His eyes were wide open, and he
was smiling at them in a different way.

"I feel better," he said slyly.

Bela and Sam sprang up in terror and retreated a little way, staring
at him, staring at each other with wild eyes. SCENE I.--_The Hall of
an Inn_.
_Enter TOM FASHION and LORY, POSTILION following with a portmanteau_.

_Fash_. Lory, pay the postboy, and take the portmanteau.

_Lory. [Aside to TOM FASHION_.] Faith, sir, we had better let the postboy
take the portmanteau and pay himself.Let's have
supper. I will wash the clay off my face."

Sam suddenly straightened his back. "I don't care!" he cried. "Do you,
Bela?"

"No!" she answered, flying to his open arms.

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *