XII
THE AGONY OF PASSION--A Roman Gala--The Buongiovannis--The Grey
World--The Triumph of Benedetta--King Humbert and Queen Margherita--The
Fig-tree of Judas

XIII
DESTINY!When, in the name of goodness, is the heart of the philanthropist
to be gladdened with the desire of peace fulfilled over the earth?

When are paltry family intrigues to cease, causing the blood of
innocent thousands to be shed?

When
will the aristocracy of genius in France give over jingling, like
castanets, their trashy rhymes "_gloire_" and "_victoire_," and apply
themselves to objects worthy of creatures endowed with the faculty
of reason?

Or,
if they must have fighting, if it is their nature, if the prime
instinct with them is the thirst of human blood, how cowardly, how
paltry, is it to hound on their fellow-countrymen to war with
England, to war with Spain, to war with every body, while snug in
their offices, doing their little best to bleed nations with their
pen!

Why
does not the foolscap aristocracy rush forth, inkhorn in hand, and
restore the glories (as they call them) of the Empire, nor
pause till they mend their pens victorious upon the brink of the
Rhine.

To resume: the aristocracies of our provincial capitals are those
of literature in the one, and lickspittling in the other: mercantile
towns have their aristocracies of money, or muckworm aristocracies:
Rome has an ecclesiastical--Prussia, Russia, military aristocracies:
Germany, an aristocracy of functionaries: France has two, or even
three, great aristocracies--the military, place-hunting, and
foolscap.

                                Now, then, attend to what we are going to say: London is cursed
with no predominating, no overwhelming, no _characteristic_
aristocracy.

                               

He had brought only a valise with him, and,
springing hastily out of the railway carriage amidst the scramble of the
arrival, he brushed the eager porters aside, intent on carrying his
trifling luggage himself, so anxious was he to reach his destination, to
be alone, and look around him. Time, that exact observer, applies his
micrometer to every one of us, determining our rank among celestial bodies
without appeal and from time to time enrolling in his _ephemeris_ such new
luminaries as may be vouchsafed to the long succession of ages.

If there is one thing that endears London to men of superior order--to
true aristocrats, no matter of what species, it is that universal
equality of outward condition, that republicanism of everyday life,
which pervades the vast multitudes who hum, and who drone, who
gather honey, and who, without gathering, consume the products of
this gigantic hive.

  Here you can never be extinguished or put out by any overwhelming
interest.

Neither are we in London pushed to the wall by the two or three hundred
great men of every little place. We are not invited to a main of small
talk with the cock of his own dung-hill; we are never told, as a great
favour, that Mr Alexander Scaldhead, the phrenologist, is to be there,
and that we can have our "bumps" felt for nothing; or that the Chevalier
Doembrownski (a London pickpocket in disguise) is expected to recite a
Polish ode, accompanying himself on the Jew's harp; we are not bored
with the misconduct of the librarian, who _never_ has the first
volume of the last new novel, or invited to determine whether Louisa
Fitzsmythe or Angelina Stubbsville deserves to be considered the
heroine; we are not required to be in raptures because Mrs Alfred
Shaw or Clara Novello are expected, or to break our hearts with
disappointment because they didn't come: the arrival, performances,
and departure, of Ducrow's horses, or Wombwell's wild beasts, affect
us with no extraordinary emotion; even Assizes time concerns most
of us nothing.

Then, again, how vulgar, how commonplace in London is the aristocracy
of wealth; of Mrs Grub, who, in a provincial town, keeps her carriage,
and is at once the envy and the scandal of all the Ladies who have
to proceed upon their ten toes, we wot not the existence.

Mr Bill Wright, the banker, the respected, respectable, influential,
twenty per cent Wright, in London is merely a licensed dealer in money;
he visits at Camberwell Hill, or Hampstead Heath, or wherever other
tradesmen of his class delight to dwell; his wife and daughters patronize
the Polish balls, and Mr Bill Wright, jun., sports a stall at the
(English) opera; we are not overdone by Mr Bill Wright, overcome by Mrs
Bill Wright, or the Misses Bill Wright, nor overcrowed by Mr Bill Wright
the younger: in a word, we don't care a crossed cheque for the whole Bill
Wrightish connexion.

  
    What are carriages, or carriage-keeping people in London? It
    is not here, as in the provinces, by their carriages shall
    you know them; on the contrary, the carriage of a duchess is only
distinguishable from that of a _parvenu_, by the superior expensiveness
and vulgarity of the latter.

The vulgarity of ostentatious wealth with us, defeats the end it
aims at.

That expense which is lavished to impress us with awe and admiration,
serves only as a provocative to laughter, and inducement to contempt; where
great wealth and good taste go together, we at once recognize the
harmonious adaptation of means and ends; where they do not, all
extrinsic and adventitious expenditure availeth its disbursers nothing.

What animal on earth was ever so inhumanly preposterous as a lord mayor's
footman, and yet it takes sixty guineas, at the least, to make that poor
lick-plate a common laughing-stock?

And Pierre was surprised when the cabman told him the name of the
column, for in his mind he had never pictured it soaring aloft in such a
dazzling cavity with shadows all around. It was the column of Trajan.

The Via Nazionale turned for the last time at the foot of the slope. And
then other names fell hastily from the driver's lips as his horse went on
at a fast trot. There was the Palazzo Colonna, with its garden edged by
meagre cypresses; the Palazzo Torlonia, almost ripped open by recent
"improvements"; the Palazzo di Venezia, bare and fearsome, with its
crenelated walls, its stern and tragic appearance, that of some fortress
of the middle ages, forgotten there amidst the commonplace life of
nowadays. Pierre's surprise increased at the unexpected aspect which
certain buildings and streets presented; and the keenest blow of all was
dealt him when the cabman with his whip triumphantly called his attention
to the Corso, a long narrow thoroughfare, about as broad as Fleet
Street,* white with sunshine on the left, and black with shadows on the
right, whilst at the far end the Piazza del Popolo (the Square of the
People) showed like a bright star. Was this, then, the heart of the city,
the vaunted promenade, the street brimful of life, whither flowed all the
blood of Rome?

  * M. Zola likens the Corso to the Rue St. Honore in Paris, but
    I have thought that an English comparison would be preferable
    in the present version.--Trans.

However, the cab was already entering the Corso Vittorio Emanuele, which
follows the Via Nazionale, these being the two piercings effected right
across the olden city from the railway station to the bridge of St.
Angelo. On the left-hand the rounded apsis of the Gesu church looked
quite golden in the morning brightness. Then, between the church and the
heavy Altieri palace which the "improvers" had not dared to demolish, the
street became narrower, and one entered into cold, damp shade. But a
moment afterwards, before the facade of the Gesu, when the square was
reached, the sun again appeared, dazzling, throwing golden sheets of
light around; whilst afar off at the end of the Via di Ara Coeli, steeped
in shadow, a glimpse could be caught of some sunlit palm-trees.

"That's the Capitol yonder," said the cabman.

The priest hastily leant to the left, but only espied the patch of
greenery at the end of the dim corridor-like street. The sudden
alternations of warm light and cold shade made him shiver. In front of
the Palazzo di Venezia, and in front of the Gesu, it had seemed to him as
if all the night of ancient times were falling icily upon his shoulders;
but at each fresh square, each broadening of the new thoroughfares, there
came a return to light, to the pleasant warmth and gaiety of life. The
yellow sunflashes, in falling from the house fronts, sharply outlined the
violescent shadows. Strips of sky, very blue and very benign, could be
perceived between the roofs. And it seemed to Pierre that the air he
breathed had a particular savour, which he could not yet quite define,
but it was like that of fruit, and increased the feverishness which had
possessed him ever since his arrival.

The Corso Vittorio Emanuele is, in spite of its irregularity, a very fine
modern thoroughfare; and for a time Pierre might have fancied himself in
any great city full of huge houses let out in flats. But when he passed
before the Cancelleria,* Bramante's masterpiece, the typical monument of
the Roman Renascence, his astonishment came back to him and his mind
returned to the mansions which he had previously espied, those bare,
huge, heavy edifices, those vast cubes of stone-work resembling hospitals
or prisons. Never would he have imagined that the famous Roman "palaces"
were like that, destitute of all grace and fancy and external
magnificence. However, they were considered very fine and must be so; he
would doubtless end by understanding things, but for that he would
require reflection.**

  * Formerly the residence of the Papal Vice-Chancellors.

  ** It is as well to point out at once that a palazzo is not a
     palace as we understand the term, but rather a mansion.--Trans.

All at once the cab turned out of the populous Corso Vittorio Emanuele
into a succession of winding alleys, through which it had difficulty in
making its way. Quietude and solitude now came back again; the olden
city, cold and somniferous, followed the new city with its bright
sunshine and its crowds. Pierre remembered the maps which he had
consulted, and realised that he was drawing near to the Via Giulia, and
thereupon his curiosity, which had been steadily increasing, augmented to
such a point that he suffered from it, full of despair at not seeing more
and learning more at once. In the feverish state in which he had found
himself ever since leaving the station, his astonishment at not finding
things such as he had expected, the many shocks that his imagination had
received, aggravated his passion beyond endurance, and brought him an
acute desire to satisfy himself immediately. Nine o'clock had struck but
a few minutes previously, he had the whole morning before him to repair
to the Boccanera palace, so why should he not at once drive to the
classic spot, the summit whence one perceives the whole of Rome spread
out upon her seven hills? And when once this thought had entered into his
mind it tortured him until he was at last compelled to yield to it.

The driver no longer turned his head, so that Pierre rose up to give him
this new address: "To San Pietro in Montorio!"

On hearing him the man at first looked astonished, unable to understand.
He indicated with his whip that San Pietro was yonder, far away. However,
as the priest insisted, he again smiled complacently, with a friendly nod
of his head. All right! For his own part he was quite willing.

The horse then went on at a more rapid pace through the maze of narrow
streets. One of these was pent between high walls, and the daylight
descended into it as into a deep trench. But at the end came a sudden
return to light, and the Tiber was crossed by the antique bridge of
Sixtus IV, right and left of which stretched the new quays, amidst the
ravages and fresh plaster-work of recent erections. On the other side of
the river the Trastevere district also was ripped open, and the vehicle
ascended the slope of the Janiculum by a broad thoroughfare where large
slabs bore the name of Garibaldi. For the last time the driver made a
gesture of good-natured pride as he named this triumphal route.

"Via Garibaldi!"

The horse had been obliged to slacken its pace, and Pierre, mastered by
childish impatience, turned round to look at the city as by degrees it
spread out and revealed itself behind him. A good man, elsewhere a
relative term, is _there_ a man good for _so_ much; hats are elevated
and bodies depressed upon a scale of ten thousand pounds to an inch;
"I hope you are well," from one of the aristocracy of these places is
always translated to mean, "I hope you are solvent," and "how d'ye do?"
from another, is equivalent to "doing a bill."
Go abroad, to Rome for example--You are smothered beneath the petticoats
of an ecclesiastical aristocracy. Go to the northern courts of
Europe--You are ill-received, or perhaps not received at all, save in
military uniform; the aristocracy of the epaulet meets you at every
turn, and if you are not at least an ensign of militia, you are
nothing.

Make your way into Germany--What do you find there? an aristocracy of
functionaries, mobs of nobodies living upon everybodies; from Herr Von,
Aulic councillor, and Frau Von, Aulic councilloress, down to Herr
Von, crossing-sweeper, and Frau Von, crossing-sweeperess--for the women
there must be _better_-half even in their titles--you find society
led, or, to speak more correctly, society _consisting_ of functionaries,
and they, every office son of them, and their wives--nay, their very
curs--alike insolent and dependent. "Tray, Blanche, and Sweetheart, see
they bark at _me_!" There, to get into society, you must first get
into a place: you must contrive to be the _servant_ of the public
before you are permitted to be the _master_: you must be paid by,
before you are in a condition to despise, the _canaille_.

Passing Holland and Belgium as more akin to the genius of the English
people, as respects the supremacy of honest industry, its independent
exercise, and the comparative insignificance of aristocracies, conventionally
so called, we come to FRANCE: there we find a provincial and a Parisian
aristocracy--the former a servile mob of placemen, one in fifty,
at least, of the whole population; and the latter--oh!

my poor head, what a _clanjaffrey_ of _journalistes, feuilletonistes,
artistes_, dramatists, novelists, _vaudivellistes_, poets, literary
ladies, lovers of literary ladies, _hommes de lettres, claqueurs,
littérateurs, gérants, censeurs, rapporteurs_, and _le diable
boiteux_ verily knows what else!

These people, with whom, or at least with a great majority of whom,
common sense, sobriety of thought, consistency of purpose, steady
determination in action, and sound reasoning, are so sadly eclipsed by
their vivacity, _empressement_, prejudice, and party zeal, form a
prominent, indeed, _the_ prominent aristocracy of the _salons_: and only
conceive what must be the state of things in France, when we know that
Paris acts upon the provinces, and that Paris is acted upon by this
foolscap aristocracy, without station, or, what is perhaps worse, enjoying
station without property; abounding in maddening and exciting influences,
but lamentably deficient in those hard-headed, _ungenius-like_
qualities of patience, prudence, charity, forbearance, and peace-lovings,
of which their war-worn nation, more than any other in Europe, stands
in need.


