  And hither does one Poet sometimes row
  His pinnace, a small vagrant barge, up-piled
  With plenteous store of heath and wither'd fern,
  A lading which he with his sickle cuts
  Among the mountains, and beneath this roof
  He makes his summer couch, and here at noon
  Spreads out his limbs, while, yet unborn, the sheep
  Panting beneath the burthen of their wool
  Lie round him, even as if they were a part
  Of his own household: nor, while from his bed
  He through that door-place looks toward the lake
  And to the stirring breezes, does he want
  Creations lovely as the work of sleep,
  Fair sights, and visions of romantic joy.


_To a SEXTON_.


  Let thy wheel-barrow alone.
  Wherefore, Sexton, piling still
  In thy bone-house bone on bone?
  Tis already like a hill
  In a field of battle made,
  Where three thousand skulls are laid.
  --These died in peace each with the other,
  Father, Sister, Friend, and Brother.

  Mark the spot to which I point!
  From this platform eight feet square
  Take not even a finger-joint:
  Andrew's whole fire-side is there.

  Here, alone, before thine eyes,
  Simon's sickly Daughter lies
  From weakness, now, and pain defended,
  Whom he twenty winters tended.

  Look but at the gardener's pride,
  How he glories, when he sees
  Roses, lilies, side by side,
  Violets in families.

  By the heart of Man, his tears,
  By his hopes and by his fears,
  Thou, old Grey-beard! art the Warden
  Of a far superior garden.

  Thus then, each to other dear,
  Let them all in quiet lie,
  Andrew there and Susan here,
  Neighbours in mortality.

  And should I live through sun and rain
  Seven widow'd years without my Jane,
  O Sexton, do not then remove her,
  Let one grave hold the Lov'd and Lover!


  ANDREW JONES.


  I hate that Andrew Jones: he'll breed
  His children up to waste and pillage.
  I wish the press-gang or the drum
  With its tantara sound would come,
  And sweep him from the village!

  I said not this, because he loves
  Through the long day to swear and tipple;
  But for the poor dear sake of one
  To whom a foul deed he had done,
  A friendless Man, a travelling Cripple!

  For this poor crawling helpless wretch
  Some Horseman who was passing by,
  A penny on the ground had thrown;
  But the poor Cripple was alone
  And could not stoop--no help was nigh.

  Inch-thick the dust lay on the ground
  For it had long been droughty weather:
  So with his staff the Cripple wrought
  Among the dust till he had brought
  The halfpennies together.

  It chanc'd that Andrew pass'd that way
  Just at the time; and there he found
  The Cripple in the mid-day heat
  Standing alone, and at his feet
  He saw the penny on the ground.

  He stopp'd and took the penny up.
  And when the Cripple nearer drew,
  Quoth Andrew, "Under half-a-crown.
  What a man finds is all his own,
  And so, my Friend, good day to you."

  And _hence_ I said, that Andrew's boys
  Will all be train'd to waste and pillage;
  And wish'd the press-gang, or the drum
  With its tantara sound, would come
  And sweep him from the village!


_The TWO THIEVES,
   Or the last Stage of AVARICE_.


  Oh now that the genius of Bewick were mine
  And the skill which He learn'd on the Banks of the Tyne;
  When the Muses might deal with me just as they chose
  For I'd take my last leave both of verse and of prose.

  What feats would I work with my magical hand!
  Book-learning and books should be banish'd the land
  And for hunger and thirst and such troublesome calls
  Every ale-house should then have a feast on its walls.

  The Traveller would hang his wet clothes on a chair
  Let them smoke, let them burn, not a straw would he care.
  For the Prodigal Son, Joseph's Dream and his Sheaves,
  Oh what would they be to my tale of two Thieves!

