A simple design for a hall or window seat is shown in the accompanying
sketch and detail drawing. Anyone who has a few sharp tools, and is at
all handy with them, can make this useful and attractive piece of
furniture in a few spare hours. Quarter-sawed oak is the best wood to
use in its construction, as it looks best when finished and is easy to
procure. If the stock is ordered from the mill ready cut to length,
squared and sanded, much of the labor will be saved. It will be observed
that we have, in a measure, quit the beaten track of copying from
engravings, as most of our plates are from original designs, prepared
expressly for the "Book," by
CROOME, ROTHERMEL, TUCKER, PEASE, DALLAS, PETERS, & GILBERT.

  
  S-4-S.
  1 seat, 1 by 16 by 35-3/4 in., S-4-S.
  2 top end braces, 3/4 by 2 by 14-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  6 slats, 3/4 by 2 by 6-1/2 in., S-4-S.

Square up the four posts and lay out the mortises according to the
drawing. To do this, lay them on a flat surface with the ends square and
mark them with a try-square. The tenons on the end and side rails are
laid out in the same manner as the posts. The end rails should be marked
and mortises cut for the upright slats as shown in the detail drawing.
Fit the end and side braces with mortise and tenon joints.

The two end frames can now be glued and clamped together and set away to
dry. Put all the parts together before gluing to see that they fit
square and tight.

The seat should be made of one piece if possible, otherwise two or more
boards will have to be glued together. The corners should be cut out to
fit around the posts. It rests on the side rails and cleats fastened to
the inner side of the end rails.

When the window seat is complete go over it carefully and scrape all the
surplus glue from about the joints, as the finish will not take where
there is any glue. Remove all rough spots with fine sandpaper, then
apply the stain best liked, which may be any one of the many mission
stains supplied by the trade for this purpose. If this window seat is
well made and finished, it will be an ornament to any home.

[Illustration: Detail of the Hall or Window Seat]


A MISSION PLANT STAND


For the mission plant stand shown in the illustration secure the
following list of quarter-sawed white-oak stock, cut and finished to
size:

  1 top, 3/4 by 15-1/2 by 15-1/2 in., S-2-S.
  4 posts, 1-1/4 by 1-1/4 by 20 in., S-4-S.
  4 rails, 3/4 by 3 by 11 in., S-2-S.
  2 rails, 3/4 by 2 by 11 in., S-2-S.
  1 shelf, 3/4 by 6 by 10 in., S-2-S.
  4 slats, 1/4 by 2 by 12-1/4 in., S-2-S.
  2 slats, 1/4 by 2 by 12-3/4 in., S-2-S.

Test all surfaces of the posts with a try-square to see that they are
square with each other. Lay out the tenons on the ends of the rails as
shown in the sketch and cut with a tenon saw and chisel. Arrange the
posts and rails as they are to stand and number each tenon and mortise.
Lay out the mortises in the legs, taking the measurements directly from
the tenon which is to fit that mortise. Cut the mortises, first having
bored to the depth with a 1/4-in. bit.

[Illustration: Detail of the Plant Stand]

The slats should now be made and mortised into the top rail 1/4 in. They
come outside of the lower rail and are held to it with two small brads,
fancy-headed tacks, or round-head screws.

In laying out the mortises for the lower rails, care must be taken to
have them set 1/8 in. farther in than the upper rails so the slats may
come outside.

Set up the stand without glue or screws to see that all pieces fit
accurately. Then glue up the sides with the slats first. After these
have set for 24 hours, fit in the other two rails and the shelf. Three
flat-head screws should be used to hold the shelf in place. These must
be placed so the slats will cover them when they are attached.

[Illustration: Complete Plant Stand]

When this work is completed it is ready for the top. A good method of
attaching the top is shown in the sketch. Hiram Ellis, the brother of
Mrs. Darlington, to whom brief allusion has been made, was not a great
favorite in the family--although Mr. Darlington understood his good
qualities, and very highly respected him--because he had not much that
was prepossessing in his external appearance, and was thought to
be a little eccentric.

Moreover, he was not rich--merely holding the place of book-keeper
in an insurance office, at a moderate salary. But, as he had never
married, and had only himself to support, his income supplied amply
all his wants, and left him a small annual surplus.

After the death of Mr.

Darlington, he visited his sister much more frequently than before. Of
the exact condition of her affairs, he was much better acquainted
than she supposed. The anxiety which she felt, some months after
her husband's death, when the result of the settlement of his estate
became known, led her to be rather more communicative. After
determining to open a boarding-house, she said to him, on the
occasion of his visiting her one evening--
"As it is necessary for me to do something, Hiram, I have concluded
to move to a better location, and take a few boarders."

  "Don't do any such thing, Margaret," her
  brother made answer. "Taking boarders!
  It's the last thing of which a woman should think."
  "Why do you say that, Hiram?" asked Mrs.
  Darlington, evincing no little surprise at this
  unexpected reply.
  
  "Because I think that a woman who has a living to
  make can hardly try a more doubtful
  experiment.
  [Illustration: Medicine Stand in Quarter-Sawed Oak]

Start work on the four posts by rounding the top corners and shaping the
feet as shown. The four posts are identical and the mortises should be
laid out on all four at once so as to get them all alike. These should
be carefully cut with a sharp chisel. On the inner surface of each leg
cut a groove to hold the side boards of the lower compartment. Next
prepare the two wide and the four narrow crosspieces, tenoning them to
fit the mortises already cut in the legs. The lower crosspieces should
also have grooves cut in them to hold the side boards of the
compartment. The two complete sides can now be glued and clamped
together and set away to dry. While they are drying the remaining parts
of the stand can be made. The three horizontal boards are now made by
notching out the corners to fit around the legs. They are supported by
fastening small cleats to the inner surface of each crosspiece.

[Illustration: Detail of the Medicine Stand]

The two ends can now be set up and connected. Notch out the corners of
the top board and fit it in place. The top is fastened down by means of
screws set in at an angle from below. The back boards can be of soft
wood and are fastened in place in the usual manner. The door should be
of one piece if possible and should have suitable hinges and a catch.

Make and fit the drawer in place, and the stand is ready for the finish.
First scrape all the surplus glue from about the points so the stain
will not be kept from the wood. Finish smooth with fine sandpaper, then
apply stain of the color desired.




A MISSION HALL CHAIR


This hall chair is designed to take up as little room as possible. For
its construction the following stock will be needed:

  1 back, 7/8 by 14 by 44 in., S-2-S.
  2 sides, 7/8 by 14 by 17 in., S-2-S.
  1 seat, 7/8 by 14 by 14 in., S-2-S.
  1 stretcher, 7/8 by 6 by 16 in., S-2-S.
  1 brace, 7/8 by 5 by 11 in., S-2-S.
  1 piece, 7/8 by 7/8 by 44 in., for cleats.

These dimensions are for finished pieces, therefore 1/4 in. should be
allowed for planing if the stock cannot be secured finished.

Lay out and cut the design on the back, sides, and brace. To cut the
openings, first bore a hole near one corner to get the blade of a coping
saw through and proceed to saw to the lines. Smooth the edges after
sawing by taking a thin shaving with a sharp chisel. A file will not
leave a good surface.

Mark the tenons on the ends of the stretcher and cut them with a backsaw
and make smooth with a chisel. From the tenons mark the mortises in the
sides through which they are to pass.

[Illustration: Detail of the Hall Chair]

[Illustration: Complete Hall Chair in Plain Oak]

To cut these mortises, first bore a row of holes with a 5/8 in. bit,
boring halfway from each side so as not to split off any pieces. Now
make of scrap material the two keys and from them mark the small
mortises in the tenons.

Before putting the chair together, the cleats for holding the seat
should be fastened to the sides, back and brace. Use flat-head screws
for this purpose. Then put the sides and stretcher together, and fasten
the back to the sides with flat-head screws.

The brace should be put in next, using three round-head screws in each
end. There only remains the top, which is held by screws through the
cleats from the under side.

Stain with two coats of weathered or mission-oak stain, and then apply a
thin coat of "under-lac" or shellac and two coats of wax.

[Illustration]






       *     *     *     *     *

Transcriber's Notes:

Table of Contents was moved to the front of the doument
Bold text in the original manuscript is indicated with "$...$"
Folio 84: "Chipppendale" changed to "Chippendale".
Folio 90: "2 drawer ends 7/8 x ? x 7-1/2" was changed to an assumed
  5-1/2 from context of the illustration.
A table of contents was added to the front of the text.
A list of illustrations was added to the front of the text.