I expect to leave here in two weeks to go to an Ambulance at the front.
It is somewhere in the north in Belgium. I think Dr. R---- is sorry to
have me leave, but it will be a much larger field and the kind of a
place where there will be much to do. They have all been so nice to me
here about helping me get my papers ready to send to the Minister of
War, so I do not think there will be any difficulty of my getting
through. I go to Paris first, then to Dunkirk, where Mrs. T---- will
meet me, after that my destination is uncertain. Do not worry if you do
not hear from me regularly, for it may be difficult to get mail
through. I will write as usual.

I cannot tell you how glad I am to be able to go to the front, for it
means a chance to do good work and I shall be so glad to be in the north
when B---- comes over and nearer the Canadian boys. Even if I cannot
see them I shall not feel so far away.

One of my men to-day got word that his baby, seven months old, had just
died and the little girl of two is very ill. He expected to go next week
and has been counting the days till he could see them. He has never seen
the baby as it was born after the war began--another one of the sad
things of this awful war.

Good-night; I am so glad of the chance of active service.


                                                     September 16, 1915.

It was awfully good of Miss W---- to send the money to me, it is so
much needed here. I expect to get off Monday or Tuesday of next week.


                                                     September 19, 1915.

My orders came to-day, and I leave on Tuesday for Paris and on Friday
for Dunkirk. I am up to my eyes in work, for there is so much to be done
before leaving and new people to break in. Three military nurses arrived
yesterday, but it is rather difficult to manage for they know nothing at
all about taking care of sick people. They have all been at the front,
and wounded too badly to return and sent into an auxiliary service. One
is a priest, one a hair dresser and the third a horse dealer; however,
they are nice men and are willing to learn, which is a great thing in
their favor.

If they are able to raise any money for me I will see that it is wisely
spent. There is great need everywhere, and I am proud of the people of
St. John, they have done so much.

There is a poor woman who lives in a little village near here. She had
two sons--one has been killed in the war, the other a helpless cripple
for eighteen years and is not able to move out of his chair. He makes
baskets sometimes, but now there is no one to buy the baskets. The
mother goes out by the day but can earn so little. I gave him five
francs, one of the De Monts dressing gowns and some warm underclothes.
He was so grateful, poor boy, and says he will not feel the cold now.
His mother is away nearly all day and he sits by the window all alone
and depends upon the neighbours coming in to help him from time to time;
he is always cheerful and never complains.

The W----s have such a hard time--they get so little of their income
since the war began. It has gradually gone down from $3,000.00 per year
to $500.00; four of them to live on that amount. So many people are in
just the same condition, there is no end to the misery.

I do not know whether it is the French or the English army we are to
follow at my new post.


                                               PARIS September 23, 1915.

I am off to-morrow at 7.30 a.m., to Boulogne, then Calais and reach
Dunkirk at 9.30 p.m.

I have had two very strenuous days and will be glad to rest in the train
to-morrow. It took such a time to get my papers in order. The
thermometer for the last two days has been about 100.


                                             MOBILE NO. 1, France, 1915.

I am really not in France but Belgium. I cannot tell you just where, but
it is within ten miles of the firing line, and not far from the place
where so many of our boys from home have been sent. I thought when I
came here that it would be entirely English, as the lady who gave the
hospital is an American married to an Englishman. The English are not
far away but they are taken to their own hospitals.

We belong to a little wedge of the French that is in between the
English and Belgians. It is a regular field hospital and is composed of
a great many portable huts or sheds; some are fitted up as wards,
another the operating room, another the pharmacy, another supply room,
laundry, nurses' quarters, doctors' quarters, etc. It is a little colony
set down in the fields and the streets are wooden sidewalks.

The first night I arrived I did not sleep, for the guns roared all night
long, and we could see the flashes from the shells quite plainly; the
whole sky was aglow. The French and English guns sounded like a
continuous roar of thunder; but when the shells from the German guns
landed on this side we could feel a distinct shock, and everything in
our little shanty rattled.

Yesterday I saw my first battle in the air between German and French
aeroplanes. We could scarcely see the machines, they were so high up in
the air, but we could see the flashes from their guns quite distinctly
and hear the explosion of the shells. To-day a whole fleet of aeroplanes
passed over our heads; it was a wonderful sight.

There are about one hundred and fifty beds in all here.

I have been inspected by doctors, captains, generals, and all kinds of
people till I am weary. I hope they are satisfied at last, but I cannot
go off the hospital grounds until I have two different kinds of passes
given to me,--one is a permission to go on the roads about here and the
other is good as far as Dunkirk.

We have a man in our ward who had a piece of shrapnel the size of an egg
in his abdomen; they had to take out about half a yard of intestines,
which had been torn to pieces. He was also shot through the shoulder, in
the arm and leg. As we got him within two hours after he was wounded
there was no infection, and having a clever surgeon he is getting along
famously. Another poor chap has lost his right arm and shot through the
liver as well as being cut up by piece of shrapnel--he is getting well
also. Two have died, and it is a blessing; for to live in darkness the
rest of one's life is worse than death. The Germans are using a new kind
of gas bomb that blinds the men.

It is pouring rain to-night and cheerless enough here, but I can only
think of the poor men in the trenches.

I got a joyful surprise to-day--a letter from Mr. Bell enclosing post
office order from Mr. Calhoun, of Philadelphia. Nothing gives me so much
pleasure as to help these poor people.

It is beginning to get cold. I shall get bed socks for the men, for they
have not enough hot water bags to go round and all suffer from cold
feet.

I passed Colonel MacLaren's hospital in the train--it is very
impressive to see the rows and rows of white tents. I also saw some
Canadian nurses in the distance, and did so want to get out and speak to
them.

I must go to bed now to get warm. As long as one keeps going the cold is
not so apparent but when one sits still it is not pleasant.

There are four English, three American and three French nurses here.


                                                        October 3, 1915.

My fund is like the widow's cruse,--it never gives out. Somebody is
always sending me something. I do hope they all realize how grateful I
am and how much good I have been able to do. I have been very careful
how I spent it.

