and David Widger  <widger@cecomet.net>


THE ORDEAL OF RICHARD FEVEREL

By George Meredith

1905


BOOK 3.

XXI.      RICHARD IS SUMMONED TO TOWN TO HEAR A SERMON
XXII.     INDICATES THE APPROACHES OF FEVER
XXIII.    CRISIS IN THE APPLE-DISEASE
XXIV.     OF THE SPRING PRIMROSE AND THE AUTUMNAL
XXV.      IN WHICH THE HERO TAKES A STEP
XXVI.     RECORDS THE RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF THE HERO
XXVII.    CONTAINS AN INTERCESSION FOR THE HEROINE


CHAPTER XXI

By twelve o'clock at noon next day the inhabitants of Raynham Abbey knew
that Berry, the baronet's man, had arrived post-haste from town, with
orders to conduct Mr. Richard thither, and that Mr. Richard had refused
to go, had sworn he would not, defied his father, and despatched Berry to
the Shades.  Berry was all that Benson was not.  Whereas Benson hated
woman, Berry admired her warmly.  Second to his own stately person, woman
occupied his reflections, and commanded his homage.  Berry was of
majestic port, and used dictionary words.  Among the maids of Raynham his
conscious calves produced all the discord and the frenzy those adornments
seem destined to create in tender bosoms.  He had, moreover, the
reputation of having suffered for the sex; which assisted his object in
inducing the sex to suffer for him.  What with his calves, and his
dictionary words, and the attractive halo of the mysterious
vindictiveness of Venus surrounding him, this Adonis of the lower
household was a mighty man below, and he moved as one.

On hearing the tumult that followed Berry's arrival, Adrian sent for him,
and was informed of the nature of his mission, and its result.

"You should come to me first," said Adrian.  "I should have imagined you
were shrewd enough for that, Berry?"

"Pardon me, Mr. Adrian," Berry doubled his elbow to explain.  "Pardon me,
sir.  Acting recipient of special injunctions I was not a free agent."

"Go to Mr. Richard again, Berry.  There will be a little confusion if he
holds back.  Perhaps you had better throw out a hint or so of apoplexy.
A slight hint will do.  And here--Berry!  when you return to town, you
had better not mention anything--to quote Johnson--of Benson's
spiflication."

"Certainly not, sir."

The wise youth's hint had the desired effect on Richard.

He dashed off a hasty letter by Tom to Belthorpe, and, mounting his
horse, galloped to the Bellingham station.

Sir Austin was sitting down to a quiet early dinner at his hotel, when
the Hope of Raynham burst into his room.

The baronet was not angry with his son.  On the contrary, for he was
singularly just and self-accusing while pride was not up in arms, he had
been thinking all day after the receipt of Benson's letter that he was
deficient in cordiality, and did not, by reason of his excessive anxiety,
make himself sufficiently his son's companion: was not enough, as he
strove to be, mother and father to him.; preceptor and friend; previsor
and associate.  He had not to ask his conscience where he had lately been
to blame towards the System.  He had slunk away from Raynham in the very
crisis of the Magnetic Age, and this young woman of the parish (as Benson
had termed sweet Lucy in his letter) was the  consequence.

Yes! pride and sensitiveness were his chief foes, and he would trample on
them.  To begin, he embraced his son: hard upon an Englishman at any
time--doubly so to one so shamefaced at emotion in cool blood, as it
were.  It gave him a strange pleasure, nevertheless.  And the youth
seemed to answer to it; he was excited.  Was his love, then, beginning to
correspond with his father's as in those intimate days before the
Blossoming Season?

But when Richard, inarticulate at first in his haste, cried out,
"My dear, dear father!  You are safe!  I feared--You are better, sir?
Thank God!"  Sir Austin stood away from him.

"Safe?" he said.  "What has alarmed you?"

Instead of replying, Richard dropped into a chair, and seized his hand
and kissed it.

Sir Austin took a seat, and waited for his son to explain.

"Those doctors are such fools!" Richard broke out.  "I was sure they were
wrong.  They don't know headache from apoplexy.  It's worth the ride,
sir, to see you.  You left Raynham so suddenly.--But you are well!
It was not an attack of real apoplexy?"

His father's brows contorted, and he said, No, it was not.  Richard
pursued:

"If you were ill, I couldn't come too soon, though, if coroners' inquests
sat on horses, those doctors would be found guilty of mare-slaughter.
Cassandra'll be knocked up.  I was too early for the train at Bellingham,
and I wouldn't wait.  She did the distance in four hours and three-
quarters.  Pretty good, sir, wasn't it?"

"It has given you appetite for dinner, I hope," said the baronet, not so
well pleased to find that it was not simple obedience that had brought
the youth to him in such haste.

"I'm ready," replied Richard.  "I shall be in time to return by the last
train to-night.  I will leave Cassandra in your charge for a rest."

His father quietly helped him to soup, which he commenced gobbling with
an eagerness that might pass for appetite.

"All well at Raynham?" said the baronet.

"Quite, sir."

"Nothing new?"

"Nothing, sir."

"The same as when I left?"

"No change whatever!"

"I shall be glad to get back to the old place," said the baronet.  "My
stay in town has certainly been profitable.  I have made some pleasant
acquaintances who may probably favour us with a visit there in the late
autumn--people you may be pleased to know.  They are very anxious to see
Raynham."

"I love the old place," cried Richard.  "I never wish to leave it."

"Why, boy, before I left you were constantly begging to see town."

"Was I, sir?  How odd!  Well! I don't want to remain here.  I've seen
enough of it."

"How did you find your way to me?"

Richard laughed, and related his bewilderment at the miles of brick, and
the noise, and the troops of people, concluding, "There's no place like
home!"

The baronet watched his symptomatic brilliant eyes, and favoured him with
a double-dealing sentence--

"To anchor the heart by any object ere we have half traversed the world,
is youth's foolishness, my son.  Reverence time!  A better maxim that
than your Horatian."

"He knows all!" thought Richard, and instantly drew away leagues from his
father, and threw up fortifications round his love and himself.

Dinner over, Richard looked hurriedly at his watch, and said, with much
briskness, "I shall just be in time, sir, if we walk.  Will you come with
me to the station?"

The baronet did not answer.

Richard was going to repeat the question, but found his father's eyes
fixed on him so meaningly that he wavered, and played with his empty
glass.

"I think we will have a little more claret," said the baronet.

_Jean._ What it does? It is common to get drunk.

What do you want me say? _Julie._ We will flee!

But first we want to talk, that is to say, I will talk about, because
so far you have just spoken. You have told your life, now I will tell
mine, then we know each other thoroughly before we hike the Community
applies. _Jean._ A moment! Forgive! Remember to make sure you do
not regret it afterwards, if you give me the secrets of your life have
given! _Julie._ If you are not my friend?

_Jean._ Yes, sometimes! But I do not trust you! _Julie._ The only
tell you so. And by the way: everybody knows my secrets. You see, my
mother was not noble, but from very simple origins. She was in her time
the teachings of equality and liberty of woman and all of 'the educated,
and they had a strong aversion to the marriage. So when my father courted
to it, she replied that she would never want to be his wife, but -
when it was it. I came to the world - against the wishes of my
mother, as far as I could understand.

Now should I expect from my mother to a natural child to be educated
and also should I learn everything, what a boy gets to learn so
that I could provide an example that the woman would be as good as
the man I could go in boys clothes , learned horses wait, but could
not go into the dairy, I had to curry horses and anschirren and on
the hunt, so every now and then I could even try to field work to
learn.

And on the court the men were working women, the women and men working
on - with the result that the estate started down, and we laugh at the
whole area was. Finally, my father awakened from his enchantment and
revolts, because it everything has been renovated according to his
wishes. My mother was ill - an illness for which I do not know - but
they often suffered cramps, hid on the ground and in the garden
and stayed the whole night outdoors. Then came the great fire of which
you probably have heard speak. House, farm buildings and stables burned
and under circumstances in which a suspect could be arson, because
the accident happened on the day after the end of the quarter, and
the premium, which my father einsandte was through the negligence
of the delayed delivery, so they do not currently hingelangte.

(You fill the glass and drink.)

_Jean._ You do not drink anymore! _Julie._ Oh, what does that! We were
homeless and had to sleep in the car. My father did not know where he was
to rebuild the house should hernehmen money. Since his mother giebt
the Council, one of their young friends, a brick factory near here,
a loan to tackle.

Father received the loans, but should not pay interest, which staggered
him in amazement. And then the Court was set up! (She drinks again.) Do
you know who the court had infected?

_Jean._ Your mother. _Julie._ Do you know what the brick manufacturer was?
_Jean._ The lover of your mother.

_Julie._ Do you know who the money belonged?

_Jean._ Wait a little - no, I do not know. _Julie._ my mother. _Jean._ The
counts, therefore, if they have not lived in separate goods? The
_Julie._ that they do not! My mother had a small fortune, which they are
not covered by my father wanted to manage, and that they deposited it
in - the fans. _Jean._ The embezzled it! _Julie._ That's right!
He kept it! This is all my father's ears, he could not litigate, the
lover of his wife do not pay, do not prove that the money his wife was.
That was the revenge of my mother that the violence in the home
to be snatched.

At that time, he had the intention to shoot! It was the rumor
that he had thun want, and that it would have failed!

He stayed alive, and my mother had her Thater charges! That was a bad time
for me, you may think. I sympathized with my father, but I took the party
but my mother, because I do not know the circumstances. From her I had
the suspicion and hatred against the men learned - because she
hated men, so far I have heard - and I swore her, never the slave
of a man to be.

_Jean._ And then you are engaged with the Kronvogt .

_Julie._ Precisely for this reason that he should be my slave. _Jean._ And
he not?

_Julie._ He probably wanted, but it did not! I was weary of his. _Jean._
I saw it - in the shed.

_Julie._ What you saw? _Jean._ I saw how he picked up the engagement.
_Julie._ That is a lie!

I was there, picked up the engagement.

Did he say that he is that, the villain? _Jean._ He was probably not a
villain! They hate men, Miss? _Julie._ Yes!

- Mostly! But sometimes, if the weakness is coming - o ugh!

_Jean._ So you hate me? _Julie._ Boundless!

I could let you kill them like an animal - _Jean._ The Übelthäter
is sentenced to criminal work, but the animal is killed!

_Julie._ Quite! _Jean._ But now is not an animal - and not a prosecutor.
What we want now thun? _Julie._ Travels! _Jean._ Around each other to death
to torture? _Julie._ No - for two, three years or as long as you can enjoy
- and then to die. _Jean. _ Death? So stupid! Because I think it is better
to build a hotel! _Julie_ (Without having to listen to Jean). On Lake
Como, where the sun shines forever, where the laurel trees at Christmas
time, the green and orange glow. _Jean._ The lake is a hole rain, and I
never saw there oranges, as in the fruit dealers, but it is a good
Fremdenort, because it giebt there a lot of villas, to love couples
rented out, and this is a very lucrative industry, you know why? you
do contract on half a year - and stay within three weeks.

_Julie_ (naive). Why, after three weeks? _Jean._ Your anger, of course!
But the rent must still be paid! And then let you back.

And so it once after another, because love giebt it for all eternity - if
they are not so long. _Julie._ You do not want to die with me? _Jean._ I
will not ever have to die! Once, because I still like the life, and then,
because I am the suicide of a crime against Providence look to us the gift
of life. _Julie._ You believe in God - _Sie_? _Jean._ Yes, I certainly
Thue that? And I go every other Sunday in the church. Frankly
speaking, I'm tired of this now and go to bed now. _Julie._ So yes,
and you believe that I meet so let? Do you know what a man a woman is
guilty, he has dishonored? _Jean_ (Takes out his wallet and throws a silver
coin on the table). Be so good! I will not be guilty! _Julie_ (Does,
as if they swear its not noticed). Do you know what the law intended?
_Jean._ Unfortunately, the law knows no punishment for the woman
to seduce a man. _Julie_ (As before). Is there a way other than that we
travel, we trust and then divorced?

_Jean._ And if I refuse to misalliance address? _Julie._ Misalliance?
_Jean._ Yes, for me! You see, I have ancestors finer than you, because
I do not have murder in my burner sex! _Julie._ Can you know? _Jean._
Any case you can not prove the contrary, because we have no other
master panels - than in the police !

But from your family tree I have in a book on the coffee table read. Do
you know what your father was? A miller, his wife of the king during
the Danish War, spent a night. These ancestors, I have not! I have no
ancestors, but I can be a self.

_Julie._ I believe that my heart opened an undignified that I honor
my family had divulged - _Jean._ Familienschande want to tell you!

Yes, you will see that I told you so! one should not drink, because then
you are talking! And you do not _soll_ gossip! _Julie._ Oh, how I regret
it, as I regret it! And if you loved me at least! _Jean._ At last - what
do you want? Should I cry, should I jump on the horsewhip, should I kiss
you, to three weeks at the lake lure, and then - what should I do?
What do you want? It starts to be embarrassing.

But that comes from when its nose into matters hineinsteckt wenches!

Miss Julie! I see that you are unhappy, I know that you suffer, but
I can not understand. We do not make such stories, we know of no
hatred against each other!

We operate the love as a game, if the work is about time, but we do not
have all day and all night to buy it.

I see you, you are sick. You are certainly ill.

_Julie._ They must be well against me, and now you talk like a man. Help
me, help me, tell me just what I thun - which way should I turn? _Jean._
In Jesus' name, if I even knew it.

_Julie._ I'm livid, I'm crazy, but it should give no escape?

_Jean._ Stay and be quiet! Nobody knows anything. _Julie._ Impossible!

People know it and Christine knows it. _Jean._ They do not know, and they
will never be the like of which believe. _Julie_ (Zaudernd). But it can
happen again. _Jean._ That is true.

_Julie._ And the consequences? _Jean_ (Frightened).

The consequences! Where I had my head, it is not to think? Yes, then giebt
only one - away from here! Immediately!

I accompany you, because then everything is lost, but you must travel alone
- continue - no matter much where. _Julie._ Alone? Where? I can not. _Jean._
You need! And before the count is returned. Stay, you know what it is!
If you missed only once, this is continuing, because the damage already
done. Then you bolder and bolder - Lastly, we discovered. So you travel!
Letter later to the Count, and confess everything, except that I was there!
And he will never guess! Nor do I believe that it will be due, to experience
it! _Julie._ I'll stay if you come! _Jean._ Are you a rabid, young
lady? You want to blow your servant? Tomorrow it stands in the newspapers,
and that never survived the count. _Julie._ I can not stay! I can not
stay! Help me I'm so tired, so tired limitless. - Commanding me! Bring
life back into me into it, because I can not think and not act. _Jean._
See now what a miserable creature are you? Why blow up and cover your
nose in the air, as if the Lord of Creation would be? Well, then I
commend you! Go and pull up, provide you with travel money and then
come back down! _Julie_ (Halblaut). Come up with! _Jean._ In your
room?

Now you're mad. (He hesitates for a moment.) No! Go! Immediately! (He
holds her by the hand and led them through the Glasthür out.)

_Julie_ (The departure). Say it easy with me, Jean.

_Jean._ A command always sounds unkind! Can you feel it even now, feel
it! (Both) President.

_Jean_ Comes back, sighs of relief, is right at the table and pulls
out his notebook, he expects loud here and there; Miene dumb game.

_Christine_ Comes from the right for the church dressed
in a white Vorhemd and-white scarf in his hand. _Christine._ Lord
Jesus, how it looks from here!

What is happening here? _Jean._ Ah, the lady has the people
hineingerufen.

Hast thou slept so tight that you have not heard? _Christine._ I
slept like a stone!

_Jean._ And already dressed for church? _Christine._ Yes!

You've promised me today to accompany the Lord! _Jean._ Yes, that's true!
And since you have already been my state.

Well, come here. (He is right.) _Christine_ (Giebt him Vorhemd and the
white scarf and is helping him Umnehmen). (Pause.) _Jean_ (sleepy). What
is the Gospel today? _Christine._ It probably Köpfung of John the
Baptist, I think.

_Jean._ This is probably terribly long time!

Au, you scratch me, O I'm so sleepy, so sleepy! _Christine._ Yes, what hast
thou done all night, you're very green in the face? _Jean._ I've sat
here and chat with Miss Julie. The _Christine._ knows but God is not what
sends. (Pause.) You _Jean._, Christine, stop 'n times! _Christine._ Na?
_Jean._ It's still weird when you think about it! _Christine . _ What
happened to her so oddly? _Jean._ Everything. (Pause.) _Christine_ (sees
the glass, which is half-empty on the table). Do you have drunk together?
_Jean._ Yes. _Christine._ Pfui! Look into my eyes! _Jean._ Yes! _Christine._
Is it possible? _Ist_ It possible? _Jean_ (After recent concerns). Yes it
is! _Christine._ Gitsch! That I would have never believed. No, ugh! Pfui!
_Jean._ You're surely not jealous of them? _Christine._ No, not at
them! If it Clare or Sophie would have been, yes! The poor girl! No,
you know what, I do not want to stay longer in the home when not in front
of his reign may have more respect. _Jean._ Why should we have
respect from them? _Christine._ Yes, and you ask, you shall 're clever?
But wilt thou serve people who are so rude to perform? What? Man schändet
himself in the process seems to me. _Jean._ Yes, but it is a consolation
for us that the others are not better, than we do. _Christine._ No, I
do not, because if they are not better, so yes it has no value
afterwards to seek how to become better people. And think of the
Count! Think of him, his life has had so much grief! No, I will no longer
remain in this house! And with such a, like you! If it still Kronvogt
would have been if there is a better man would have been. _Jean._
What does this mean? _Christine._ Yes, yes! You're also a very brave
guy, but it's still a difference between people and people. - No, I can
never forget - the lady that was so proud, so harsh against men,
so that we could not think, she would devote one man - and then one!

They, like the poor Diana totschießen wanted to, because in due to the dog!
Well, I must say! But here I will not stay longer, and the fourth
in October, I go my way. _Jean._ And then? _Christine._ Yes, since we are
talking like this, it is time that you umsiehst for something else,
because we want to marry us. _Jean._ Yes, what should I scout? A good
place so I can not get when I'm married. _Christine._ Of course
not!

And you must have a doorman to accept office, or see, as a servant in a
public institution to obtain employment.

The crown cake is almost, but surely, and then get there wife and kids
Pension - _Jean_ (with a grimace).

That is very nice, but it does not fit with my style, right in the
beginning to remember, for his wife and child to die.

I must confess that I actually had somewhat higher prospects. _Christine._
Your prospects, yes! You also have obligations! Think only of them! _Jean._
Thou shalt not annoy me that you talk of obligations. I know what I've
thun. (He listens to the outside.) Thinking about it we still have a
good time. Now go inside and make yourself ready, then we go to church.
_Christine._ Who wanders around up there? _Jean._ I do not know if
it is not Klara. _Christine_ (Goes). That can not be around even the count,
who came home, without him that someone has heard. _Jean_ (Timidly). The
Count? No, I do not think so, because then he would have been rung.
_Christine._ Yes, God knows!

Never have I experienced such a thing! (From right). The sun has risen
and lighted outdoors gradually the treetops of the park, the slip moves
gradually deeper, until it diagonally into the window hineinfällt. _Jean_
(Goes to Glasthür and makes one character). _Julie_ (comes in a travel
suit and with a small bird farm, which is covered with a towel and
presents it on a chair). Now I'm ready. _Jean._ Still! Christine is
awake! _Julie_ (Extremely agitated during the following scene). They knew
something? _Jean._ She knows nothing! But, my God, how do you like? _Julie._
How? How I look? _Jean._ You are pale as a corpse, and - forgive, but you
are dirty on the face. _Julie._ So give me wash water! - So! (She
goes to the sink and wash the face and hands.) Give me a towel! Ah -
the sun has risen! _Jean._ And then flees the goblin magic. _Julie._ Yes,
tonight is really a goblin in Thätigkeit been! But Jean, listen to me!
Come with me, because now I have the means. _Jean_ (Tentatively). Enough?
_Julie._ Enough to get started! Come with me, because I can not
travel alone.

Think on locust days in a humid train, in a mass of people
hineingepfropft, a goggle, the stations wait, if you would like to
fly.

No, I can not, I can not! And then come the memories, the childhood memories
of the days with the locust laubgeschmückten Church - Birkenlaub and lilac,
with a splendid dinner table, the relatives and friends, and the afternoon
in the park, dancing, Music, flowers and games. Oh, man escapes and flees,
but in the baggage car, follow the memories, the remorse and anguish
after the conscience! _Jean._ I will accompany you! But then continued
before it is too late. Play on the spot! _Julie._ So get ready! (She
takes the bird farm.) _Jean._ But no luggage!
I want to know what he illustrates.  And Don Quixote--what end can be
served in making a noble mind ridiculous?--I hear you say--practical.  So
it is.  We are very narrow, I know.  But we like wit--practical again!
Or in your words (when I really think they generally come to my aid--
perhaps it is that it is often all your thought); we 'prefer the rapier
thrust, to the broad embrace, of Intelligence.'"

He trifled with the letter for some time, re-reading chosen passages as
he walked about the room, and considering he scarce knew what.  There are
ideas language is too gross for, and shape too arbitrary, which come to
us and have a definite influence upon us, and yet we cannot fasten on the
filmy things and make them visible and distinct to ourselves, much less
to others.  Why did he twice throw a look into the glass in the act of
passing it?  He stood for a moment with head erect facing it.  His eyes
for the nonce seemed little to peruse his outer features; the grey
gathered brows, and the wrinkles much action of them had traced over the
circles half up his high straight forehead; the iron-grey hair that rose
over his forehead and fell away in the fashion of Richard's plume.  His
general appearance showed the tints of years; but none of their weight,
and nothing of the dignity of his youth, was gone.  It was so far
satisfactory, but his eyes were wide, as one who looks at his essential
self through the mask we wear.

Perhaps he was speculating as he looked on the sort of aspect he
presented to the lady's discriminative regard.  Of her feelings he had
not a suspicion.  But he knew with what extraordinary lucidity women can,
when it pleases them, and when their feelings are not quite boiling under
the noonday sun, seize all the sides of a character, and put their
fingers on its weak point.  He was cognizant of the total absence of the
humorous in himself (the want that most shut him out from his fellows),
and perhaps the clear-thoughted, intensely self-examining gentleman
filmily conceived, Me also, in common with the poet, she gazes on as one
of the superior--grey beasts!

He may have so conceived the case; he was capable of that great-
mindedness, and could snatch at times very luminous glances at the broad
reflector which the world of fact lying outside our narrow compass holds
up for us to see ourselves in when we will.  Unhappily, the faculty of
laughter, which is due to this gift, was denied him; and having seen, he,
like the companion of friend Balsam, could go no farther.  For a good
wind of laughter had relieved him of much of the blight of self-
deception, and oddness, and extravagance; had given a healthier view of
our atmosphere of life; but he had it not.

Journeying back to Bellingham in the train, with the heated brain and
brilliant eye of his son beside him, Sir Austin tried hard to feel
infallible, as a man with a System should feel; and because he could not
do so, after much mental conflict, he descended to entertain a personal
antagonism to the young woman who had stepped in between his experiment
and success.  He did not think kindly of her.  Lady Blandish's encomiums
of her behaviour and her beauty annoyed him.  Forgetful that he had in a
measure forfeited his rights to it, he took the common ground of fathers,
and demanded, "Why he was not justified in doing all that lay in his
power to prevent his son from casting himself away upon the first
creature with a pretty face he encountered?"  Deliberating thus, he lost
the tenderness he should have had for his experiment--the living, burning
youth at his elbow, and his excessive love for him took a rigorous tone.
It appeared to him politic, reasonable, and just, that the uncle of this
young woman, who had so long nursed the prudent scheme of marrying her to
his son, should not only not be thwarted in his object but encouraged and
even assisted.  At least, not thwarted.  Sir Austin had no glass before
him while these ideas hardened in his mind, and he had rather forgotten
the letter of Lady Blandish.

Father and son were alone in the railway carriage.  Both were too
preoccupied to speak.  As they neared Bellingham the dark was filling the
hollows of the country.  Over the pine-hills beyond the station a last
rosy streak lingered across a green sky.  Richard eyed it while they flew
along.  It caught him forward: it seemed full of the spirit of his love,
and brought tears of mournful longing to his eyelids.  The sad beauty of
that one spot in the heavens seemed to call out to his soul to swear to
his Lucy's truth to him: was like the sorrowful visage of his fleur-de-
luce as he called her, appealing to him for faith.  That tremulous tender
way she had of half-closing and catching light on the nether-lids, when
sometimes she looked up in her lover's face--as look so mystic-sweet that
it had grown to be the fountain of his dreams: he saw it yonder, and his
blood thrilled.

Know you those wand-like touches of I know not what, before which our
grosser being melts; and we, much as we hope to be in the Awaking, stand
etherealized, trembling with new joy?  They come but rarely; rarely even
in love, when we fondly think them revelations.  Mere sensations they
are, doubtless: and we rank for them no higher in the spiritual scale
than so many translucent glorious polypi that quiver on the shores, the
hues of heaven running through them.  Yet in the harvest of our days it
is something for the animal to have had such mere fleshly polypian
experiences to look back upon, and they give him an horizon--pale seas of
luring splendour.   One who has had them (when they do not bound him) may
find the Isles of Bliss sooner than another.  Sensual faith in the upper
glories is something.  "Let us remember," says The Pilgrim's Scrip, "that
Nature, though heathenish, reaches at her best to the footstool of the
Highest.  She is not all dust, but a living portion of the spheres.  In
aspiration it is our error to despise her, forgetting that through Nature
only can we ascend.  Cherished, trained, and purified, she is then partly
worthy the divine mate who is to make her wholly so.  St. Simeon saw the
Hog in Nature, and took Nature for the Hog."

It was one of these strange bodily exaltations which thrilled the young
man, he knew not how it was, for sadness and his forebodings vanished.
The soft wand touched him.  At that moment, had Sir Austin spoken openly,
Richard might have fallen upon his heart.  He could not.

He chose to feel injured on the common ground of fathers, and to pursue
his System by plotting.  Lady Blandish had revived his jealousy of the
creature who menaced it, and jealousy of a System is unreflecting and
vindictive as jealousy of woman.

Heath-roots and pines breathed sharp in the cool autumn evening about the
Bellingham station.  Richard stood a moment as he stepped from the train,
and drew the country air into his lungs with large heaves of the chest.
Leaving his father to the felicitations of the station-master, he went
into the Lobourne road to look for his faithful Tom, who had received
private orders through Berry to be in attendance with his young master's
mare, Cassandra, and was lurking in a plantation of firs unenclosed on
the borders of the road, where Richard, knowing his retainer's zest for
conspiracy too well to seek him anywhere but in the part most favoured
with shelter and concealment, found him furtively whiffing tobacco.

"What news, Tom?  Is there an illness?"

Tom sent his undress cap on one side to scratch at dilemma, an old
agricultural habit to which he was still a slave in moments of abstract
thought or sudden difficulty.

"No, I don't want the rake, Mr. Richard," he whinnied with a false grin,
as he beheld his master's eye vacantly following the action.

"Speak out!" he was commanded.  "I haven't had a letter for a week!"

Richard learnt the news.  He took it with surprising outward calm, only
getting a little closer to Cassandra's neck, and looking very hard at Tom
without seeing a speck of him, which had the effect on Tom of making him
sincerely wish his master would punch his head at once rather than fix
him in that owl-like way.

"Go on!" said Richard, huskily.  "Yes?  She's gone!  Well?"

Tom was brought to understand he must make the most of trifles, and
recited how he had heard from a female domestic at Belthorpe of the name
of Davenport, formerly known to him, that the young lady never slept a
wink from the hour she knew she was going, but sat up in her bed till
morning crying most pitifully, though she never complained.  Hereat the
tears unconsciously streamed down Richard's cheeks.  Tom said he had
tried to see her, but Mr. Adrian kept him at work, ciphering at a
terrible sum--that and nothing else all day! saying, it was to please his
young master on his return.  "Likewise something in Lat'n," added Tom.
"Nom'tive Mouser!--'nough to make ye mad, sir!" he exclaimed with pathos.
The wretch had been put to acquire a Latin declension.

Tom saw her on the morning she went away, he said: she was very
sorrowful-looking, and nodded kindly to him as she passed in the fly
along with young Tom Blaize.  "She have got uncommon kind eyes, sir,"
said Tom, "and cryin' don't spoil them."  For which his hand was
wrenched.

Tom had no more to tell, save that, in rounding the road, the young lady
had hung out her hand, and seemed to move it forward and back, as much as
to sap, Good-bye, Tom!  "And though she couldn't see me," said Tom, "I
took off my hat.  I did take it so kind of her to think of a chap like
me."  He was at high-pressure sentiment--what with his education for a
hero and his master's love-stricken state.

"You saw no more of her, Tom?"

"No, sir.  That was the last!"

"That was the last you saw of her, Tom?"

"Well, sir, I saw nothin' more."

"And so she went out of sight!"

"Clean gone, that she were, sir."

"Why did they take her away? what have they done with her? where have
they taken her to?"

These red-hot questionings were addressed to the universal heaven rather
than to Tom.

"Why didn't she write?" they were resumed.  "Why did she leave?  She's
mine.  She belongs to me!  Who dared take her away?  Why did she leave
without writing?--Tom!"

"Yes, sir," said the well-drilled recruit, dressing himself up to the
word of command.  He expected a variation of the theme from the change of
tone with which his name had been pronounced, but it was again, "Where
have they taken her to?" and this was even more perplexing to Tom than
his hard sum in arithmetic had been.  He could only draw down the corners
of his mouth hard, and glance up queerly.

"She had been crying--you saw that, Tom?"

"No mistake about that, Mr. Richard.  Cryin' all night and all day, I
sh'd say."

"And she was crying when you saw her?"

"She look'd as if she'd just done for a moment, sir."

"But her face was white?"

"White as a sheet."

Richard paused to discover whether his instinct had caught a new view
from these facts.  He was in a cage, always knocking against the same
bars, fly as he might.  Her tears were the stars in his black night.  He
clung to them as golden orbs.  Inexplicable as they were, they were at
least pledges of love.

The hues of sunset had left the West.  No light was there but the
steadfast pale eye of twilight.  Thither he was drawn.  He mounted
Cassandra, saying: "Tell them something, Tom.  I shan't be home to
dinner," and rode off toward the forsaken home of light over Belthorpe,
whereat he saw the wan hand of his Lucy, waving farewell, receding as he
advanced.  His jewel was stolen,--he must gaze upon the empty box.


CHAPTER XXIII

Night had come on as Richard entered the old elm-shaded, grass-bordered
lane leading down from Raynham to Belthorpe.  The pale eye of twilight
was shut.  The wind had tossed up the bank of Western cloud, which was
now flying broad and unlighted across the sky, broad and balmy--the
charioted South-west at full charge behind his panting coursers.  As he
neared the farm his heart fluttered and leapt up.  He was sure she must
be there.  She must have returned.  Why should she have left for good
without writing?  He caught suspicion by the throat, making it voiceless,
if it lived: he silenced reason.  Her not writing was now a proof that
she had returned.  He listened to nothing but his imperious passion, and
murmured sweet words for her, as if she were by: tender cherishing
epithet's of love in the nest.  She was there--she moved somewhere about
like a silver flame in the dear old house, doing her sweet household
duties.  His blood began to sing: O happy those within, to see her, and
be about her!  By some extraordinary process he contrived to cast a sort
of glory round the burly person of Farmer Blaize himself.  And oh! to
have companionship with a seraph one must know a seraph's bliss, and was
not young Tom to be envied?  The smell of late clematis brought on the
wind enwrapped him, and went to his brain, and threw a light over the old
red-brick house, for he remembered where it grew, and the winter rose-
tree, and the jessamine, and the passion-flower: the garden in front with
the standard roses tended by her hands; the long wall to the left striped
by the branches of the cherry, the peep of a further garden through the
wall, and then the orchard, and the fields beyond--the happy circle of
her dwelling! it flashed before his eyes while he looked on the darkness.
And yet it was the reverse of hope which kindled this light and inspired
the momentary calm he experienced: it was despair exaggerating delusion,
wilfully building up on a groundless basis.  "For the tenacity of true
passion is terrible," says The Pilgrim's Scrip: "it will stand against
the hosts of heaven, God's great array of Facts, rather than surrender
its aim, and must be crushed before it will succumb--sent to the lowest
pit!"  He knew she was not there; she was gone.  But the power of a will
strained to madness fought at it, kept it down, conjured forth her ghost,
and would have it as he dictated.  Poor youth! the great array of facts
was in due order of march.

He had breathed her name many times, and once over-loud; almost a cry for
her escaped him.  He had not noticed the opening of a door and the noise
of a foot along the gravel walk.  He was leaning over Cassandra's uneasy
neck watching the one window intently, when a voice addressed him out of
the darkness.

"Be that you, young gentleman?--Mr. Fev'rel?"

Richard's trance was broken.  "Mr. Blaize!" he said; recognizing the
farmer's voice.

"Good even'n t' you, sir," returned the farmer.  "I knew the mare though
I didn't know you.  Rather bluff to-night it be.  Will ye step in, Mr.
Fev'rel? it's beginning' to spit,--going to be a wildish night, I
reckon."

Richard dismounted.  The farmer called one of his men to hold the mare,
and ushered the young man in.  Once there, Richard's conjurations ceased.
There was a deadness about the rooms and passages that told of her
absence.  The walls he touched--these were the vacant shells of her.  He
had never been in the house since he knew her, and now what strange
sweetness, and what pangs!

Young Tom Blaize was in the parlour, squared over the table in open-
mouthed examination of an ancient book of the fashions for a summer month
which had elapsed during his mother's minority.  Young Tom was
respectfully studying the aspects of the radiant beauties of the polite
work.  He also was a thrall of woman, newly enrolled, and full of wonder.

"What, Tom!" the farmer sang out as soon as he had opened the door;
"there ye be! at yer Folly agin, are ye?  What good'll them fashens do to
you, I'd like t'know?  Come, shut up, and go and see to Mr. Fev'rel's
mare.  He's al'ays at that ther' Folly now.  I say there never were a
better name for a book than that ther' Folly!  Talk about attitudes!"

The farmer laughed his fat sides into a chair, and motioned his visitor
to do likewise.

"It's a comfort they're most on 'em females," he pursued, sounding a
thwack on his knee as he settled himself agreeably in his seat.  "It
don't matter much what they does, except pinchin' in--waspin' it at the
waist.  Give me nature, I say--woman as she's made! eh, young gentleman?"

"You seem very lonely here," said Richard, glancing round, and at the
ceiling.

"Lonely?" quoth the farmer.  "Well, for the matter o' that, we be!--jest
now, so't happens; I've got my pipe, and Tom've got his Folly.  He's on
one side the table, and I'm on t'other.  He gapes, and I gazes.  We are a
bit lonesome.  But there--it's for the best!"

Richard resumed, "I hardly expected to see you to-night, Mr. Blaize."

"Y'acted like a man in coming, young gentleman, and I does ye honour for
it!" said Farmer Blaize with sudden energy and directness.

The thing implied by the farmer's words caused Richard to take a quick
breath.  They looked at each other, and looked away, the farmer thrumming
on the arm of his chair.

Above the mantel-piece, surrounded by tarnished indifferent miniatures of
high-collared, well-to-do yeomen of the anterior generation, trying their
best not to grin, and high-waisted old ladies smiling an encouraging
smile through plentiful cap-puckers, there hung a passably executed half-
figure of a naval officer in uniform, grasping a telescope under his left
arm, who stood forth clearly as not of their kith and kin.  His eyes were
blue, his hair light, his bearing that of a man who knows how to carry
his head and shoulders.  The artist, while giving him an epaulette to
indicate his rank, had also recorded the juvenility which a lieutenant in
the naval service can retain after arriving at that position, by painting
him with smooth cheeks and fresh ruddy lips.  To this portrait Richard's
eyes were directed.  Farmer Blaize observed it, and said--

"Her father, sir!"

Richard moderated his voice to praise the likeness.

"Yes," said the farmer, "pretty well.  Next best to havin' her, though
it's a long way off that!"

"An old family, Mr. Blaize--is it not?" Richard asked in as careless a
tone as he could assume.

"Gentlefolks--what's left of 'em," replied the farmer with an equally
affected indifference.

"And that's her father?" said Richard, growing bolder to speak of her.

"That's her father, young gentleman!"

"Mr. Blaize," Richard turned to face him, and burst out, "where is she?"

"Gone, sir! packed off!--Can't have her here now."  The farmer thrummed a
step brisker, and eyed the young man's wild face resolutely.

"Mr. Blaize," Richard leaned forward to get closer to him.  He was
stunned, and hardly aware of what he was saying or doing: "Where has she
gone?  Why did she leave?"

"You needn't to ask, sir--ye know," said the farmer, with a side shot of
his head.

"But she did not--it was not her wish to go?"

"No!  I think she likes the place.  Mayhap she likes't too well!"

"Why did you send her away to make her unhappy, Mr. Blaize?"

The farmer bluntly denied it was he was the party who made her unhappy.
"Nobody can't accuse me.  Tell ye what, sir.  I wunt have the busybodies
set to work about her, and there's all the matter.  So let you and I come
to an understandin'."

A blind inclination to take offence made Richard sit upright.  He forgot
it the next minute, and said humbly: "Am I the cause of her going?"

"Well!" returned the farmer, "to speak straight--ye be!"

"What can I do, Mr. Blaize, that she may come back again" the young
hypocrite asked.

"Now," said the farmer, "you're coming to business.  Glad to hear ye talk
in that sensible way, Mr. Feverel.  You may guess I wants her bad enough.
The house ain't itself now she's away, and I ain't myself.  Well, sir!
This ye can do.  If you gives me your promise not to meddle with her at
all--I can't mak' out how you come to be acquainted; not to try to get
her to be meetin' you--and if you'd 'a seen her when she left, you would
--when did ye meet?--last grass, wasn't it?--your word as a gentleman not
to be writing letters, and spyin' after her--I'll have her back at once.
Back she shall come!"

"Give her up!" cried Richard.

"Ay, that's it!" said the farmer.  "Give her up."

The young man checked the annihilation of time that was on his mouth.

"You sent her away to protect her from me, then?" he said savagely.

"That's not quite it, but that'll do," rejoined the farmer.

"Do you think I shall harm her, sir?"

"People seem to think she'll harm you, young gentleman," the farmer said
with some irony.

"Harm me--she?  What people?"

"People pretty intimate with you, sir."

"What people?  Who spoke of us?"  Richard began to scent a plot, and
would not be balked.

"Well, sir, look here," said the farmer.  "It ain't no secret, and if it
be, I don't see why I'm to keep it.  It appears your education's
peculiar!"  The farmer drawled out the word as if he were describing the
figure of a snake.  "You ain't to be as other young gentlemen.  All the
better!  You're a fine bold young gentleman, and your father's a right to
be proud of ye.  Well, sir--I'm sure I thank him for't he comes to hear
of you and Luce, and of course he don't want nothin' o' that--more do I.
I meets him there!  What's more I won't have nothin' of it.  She be my
gal.  She were left to my protection.  And she's a lady, sir. Let me tell
ye, ye won't find many on 'em so well looked to as she be--my Luce!
Well, Mr. Fev'rel, it's you, or it's her--one of ye must be out o' the
way.  So we're told.  And Luce--I do believe she's just as anxious about
yer education as yer father she says she'll go, and wouldn't write, and'd
break it off for the sake o' your education.  And she've kep' her word,
haven't she?--She's a true'n.  What she says she'll do!--True blue she
be, my Luce!  So now, sir, you do the same, and I'll thank ye."

Any one who has tossed a sheet of paper into the fire, and seen it
gradually brown with heat, and strike to flame, may conceive the mind of
the lover as he listened to this speech.

His anger did not evaporate in words, but condensed and sank deep.  "Mr.
Blaize," he said, "this is very kind of the people you allude to, but I
am of an age now to think and act for myself--I love her, sir!"  His
whole countenance changed, and the muscles of his face quivered.

"Well!" said the farmer, appeasingly, "we all do at your age--somebody or
other.  It's natural!"

"I love her!" the young man thundered afresh, too much possessed by his
passion to have a sense of shame in the confession.  "Farmer!" his voice
fell to supplication, "will you bring her back?"

Farmer Blaize made a queer face.  He asked--what for? and where was the
promise required?--But was not the lover's argument conclusive?  He said
he loved her! and he could not see why her uncle should not in
consequence immediately send for her, that they might be together.  All
very well, quoth the farmer, but what's to come of it?--What was to come
of it?  Why, love, and more love!  And a bit too much! the farmer added
grimly.

"Then you refuse me, farmer," said Richard.  "I must look to you for
keeping her away from me, not to--to--these people.  You will not have
her back, though I tell you I love her better than my life?"

Farmer Blaize now had to answer him plainly, he had a reason and an
objection of his own.  But do not think its much loved Gypsy caves. If
the night forced into them decisively, leaving the deserted during the
day. These sons of India, which the Egyptians believed, love the sun with
delight. So when it does not rain, they were seen in large groups or by
_calles_ in the midst of their melancholy gardens or orchards,
junk mending, sewing, warming up in idleness and dance by open sky.

Yes, the breed of the prohibition is the passionate dancing race par
excellence. It was impossible to obtain a formal dance that we promised
the captain, but in the forests of the Alhambra and the streets
we could see some of the Albaicin _muestras_.

What agitation, delirium artificial, of strange contortions of madness
reflective of lubricity in an apparent race essentially caste! What
a hit sound, harsh and savage melancholy! Passing through those alleys
in snail, gangs of young women and girls around us, shouting, and
women with a provocative kindly offered to dance - so they earn
their living many of them - and asked the boys in a chorus _chavito_,
such as in Toledo.

To judge the women by their appearances are completely wrong.

Spicy and provocative dance to offer, attracting overseas, are elusive and
tough, almost insolent, when they are made to understand that your
kindness has been misinterpreted. The Gypsy is a faithful married by
religion and tradition of race, caste is the single by reflection
on personal interest and also to race and education. Gypsies are never
mixed with the Spaniards, but to speculate, his home is purely gypsy and
has never known a child of that race among women lost to Granada. Although
all the Spanish speaking, very wrong in general, do not use in their
exclusive relationships but their own language, corrupted in every
country, it is true, the influence of the languages of Europe that
the necessarily dominate. impressed by the spectacle of the population
within which everything is exceptional - human type , clothing,
language, customs, cultures and rooms - climbed to the height where
it holds the large building of the Seminary, a little below the
chapel _Monte-Santo_.

San Blas is the character of this historic site, where you can see very
strange underground chapels and the days of the holy mass pilgrimages
are very busy.

They say that there were found the bodies of Saint Cecilia and eleven
companions martyrs burned at time of Nero. It seems he was looking for
metal mines that were to happen that _tesoro_ basis and the chance
to make a curious epigram.

Indeed, San Cecilio and his companions were on a mine, because his remains
are no longer burned, through faith, very good profits ... to
chaplains of Monte Santo. * * * * * CHAPTER III. * * * * * the
slopes of the Sierra Nevada.

Santafé .-- A travel agent in Loja .-- .-- .-- The Sierra-Nevada .-- The
valley of Malaga city and its sights - Some impressions. After five
days of residence in that city as historic as highly unusual, it was
necessary to leave. We had seen the most interesting of Granada (for which
I am forced to omit many details) and alejábamos us with a feeling
of sadness, because that country captivates the heart and spirit.

It is a treasure of memories and poetry for every traveler, but for
me it was also an object of deep emotional intimacy.

From the heights of the Alhambra I lived with my five days, evoking
all the epics in their history since the days of Columbus, Balboa
and Jimenez de Quesada.

Unfortunately, the measure would lead to Malaga, for Santa and Loja,
crossing the Sierra Nevada, starting almost at midnight, and the
shadows were so thick in those nights of spring rains, the countryside
that we had to be veiled by the darkness.

So we crossed the entire length of the "Vega" does not enjoy its wonderful
landscape around, or even look to the overall structure of the historic
Santafé, villa figures that only about 4000 inhabitants today, sitting
among the orchards and farmhouses á margin Jenil left, like an old midwife
who works quietly with his spinning wheel, in the shade of a patio of
orange trees in bloom. A lack of sleep and the interior landscape of the
measure gave us a bizarre distraction.

We went with a German Jew, young, robust, regular tea, petulant, talkative
and a singular voraciousness, who had been staying in Granada in the
same background as us.

Complained bitterly famines had happened, the poor quality of food (and
what our background was the most famous of Granada), and no good reason,
because it is against all humanity that hotelkeepers Spaniards kept
to the passenger their abominable dishes cooked chickpeas. German had the
curious all pockets full of oranges and biscuits, and three hours until
he surrendered the dream, not suspended its gastronomic exercises.
His hobby was to want to go through a _turista_ English original, which
was known throughout the world ( with the exception of some continents)
who loved the pretty girls had made great strides French, Italian,
Circassian, Spanish, etc.., and was preparing to embark on a
trip to Australia _recreo_ no doubt to continue his life in Polynesia
Caesar of the daughters of Eve. But that is the case by requesting
information on the regions he had visited had no reason at all,
explaining his ignorance thousand subterfuges.

Although he spoke English well, his way of speaking in Spanish and French
showed the southern German accent, as his face revealed to the Israelite.
We had our reasons for believing that the race belonged to another
industrial partner diligence, talking to _comisionista_ hordelés
until the pockets, without prejudice to the elbows. Among the many benefits
that go with the railways and telegraph should be counted as first-order
quasi-voyageur_ Abolition of _commis or commissions, the most detestable
scourge that can give a traveler.

The telegraph and part steam-wagon, in fact, make it almost unnecessary
to send these lobsters to seek placement in other markets for products
manufacturing.

In Italy, in Spain and other countries in Europe, where the railways
are still in their beginning, the emissary _Comisionista_ France,
England, Belgium or Germany is firm or with any consistency.

So in Barcelona, Valencia and the Andalusian cities I had found this pest
in all the hotels or inns. The agent (especially as neither the French)
is able to discredit his country, anywhere, using their own resources.
ignorant, fatuous, vulgar, kitschy often cause headaches to charlatan,
he is everywhere in defeating those who have candidly admitted his company.
An exception to this rule is a prodigy. Among more than forty met
at a bearable Spain. Our German Jews began as soon succumbed to his
nationality, since, for fun, we did many charges to the United Kingdom,
German and was declared not to accept responsibility. I pretended that
I had very recalcitrant views and told that it was a horror to admit the
Jewish Rothschild in the British Parliament, because that race did not
deserve any fucking consideration. Then jumped as a rough spring,
angry and terrible, as if the whole race had to speak by the mouth
of him, and confessed to a Jewish evangelism we all started an explosion
of laughter. I had no difficulty in convincing that I had no concern
for race or religion, and that his estimated as one of the most
beautiful, energetic and tenacious of the world, and one that
contributed more for the power work and the feeling of brotherhood, to
the progress of civilization. Corrido and the Azores _turista_ former
English is arrellanó in their corner and manducó three oranges and six
biscuits, through compensation, the largest gathering. The next day,
in Malaga, _infraganti_ caught him at the hotel, presented to a merchant
all his collection of boxes with samples of goods, and although it
was held on the achievements of women, confessed that their journeys had
been made cosmopolitan rather than a English _turista_ but by a strong
German Jew, the home agent HB & C ª e Manchester. It was six o'clock
when we reached Loja, after the first cut throats or soft inflections
of the Sierra-Nevada.

Except in Switzerland I have not seen anything but quaint, small class
enchanting landscapes of freshness, the box around Loja. It is a city
quite considerable, since it has more than 17,000 inhabitants, about
45 km far from Granada and 56 from Malaga. Its agricultural
products are generally of Andalusia, but is notable for its manufacture
of cloth and paper. It is the country par excellence of the water,
delicious and enormous. Not only have more than two hundred public
and private, but to arrive at centuries now, at its end, more than
5000-fold. The population, ugly, uneven, graceless, sad and rather
dirty, makes a strange contrast to alderredores. Located on two hills
separated by Jenil, with most of its mass on the left bank, is
dominated almost everywhere by the foothills of the Sierra, and
offers a delightful view towards a large portion of the Vega of
Granada.

The sun just beginning to produce snow on its peaks primarily reverbs, a
wide swath of mist fall under the neighboring hills in half, leaving the
outstanding overdraft with its huge granite boulders, and low hills, the
city and the deep and tortuous Vallecitos Jenil of fresh, green, flowery,
crammed with factories and mills, orchards and primary groups and rows
of poplar trees and white enhiestos. The earth seemed to rejoice, greeting
the sun and his admirable Andalusian sky with a concert of harmonies and
a delicate aromas of voluptuous evaporation. After Loja, the road
continues to climb by between snails and well-cultivated beautiful hills
toward the heart of the Sierra.

The Colombian traveler that travels the roads that cut the Spanish Sierras,
could only smile with contempt, to remember that there are lazy
fatalistic in Colombia believe that the Andes have condemned the
isolation of many inhabitants of mountainous regions of the New World.
Seeing what has been achieved in terms of railways and highways in regions
of the Alps and the Pyrenees Mountains of Spain, I said: 'No, the Andes,
far from being obstacles, they are the most prodigious gift God has given
to the New World, and people who can be the most successful use of the
land. With the will and money _todas_ regions of the Andes are likely to
admit as many roads and railways may need social movement. "In the midst
of this ocean of naked mountains, hills capricious, high plains and
small cliffs and huge, without moving any risk of prosecution by
an excellent road. It seems at every moment, just around a sharp bend,
you will care to save a cliff jumping off a hill to another, as is the
rugged terrain.

This is going to surprise surprise.

I have not seen anything so _romántico, _ so harshly beautiful and
sad as those low plains of the Sierra-Nevada, which seem desiccated
lake beds of many centuries ago.

Upon entering the _recinto_ one of these flats, rooms vastísimos
emerald pavement between colossal walls of iron and tin, it is
believed that there is no way out ahead.

The vegetation is a poetic sadness, because the whole floor is
covered with plantations of wheat and other cereals or legumes, on
whose carpet is out of step in stretch, big, bleak and majestic,
these oaks green life in Spain calls _alcornoques_ whose branches
produce cork.

These trees are very numerous there, as in all alti-Spanish plains
of the Sierras, and are subject to a relatively large trade.

Nature, which man anticipating inventory as a second bottle _vientre_
to save the wine, the village has _alcornoques_ land on the plains
above the slopes where it grows the generous vine.

If all that _alcornoques_ vegetating in the world to produce even
_corchos !

_...

At these round tables simple vegetable stand in complete moles great
circle of granite and ink look more unique, all rugged, rough,
with wrinkles and huge cracks - Cinderellas and some opaque, some
color with a bright tin sad, others black or brown - presents the
most unusual lighting and shadows, as the inclination of the sun,
and rounded at the tops and already extravagant peaks in truncated
cones or needles, or in circular rows and Dentelles imitate that
great iron crowns.

And on top of these bare-headed and surprisingly these moles without any
visible stratification, descuellan perpendicular to the distance, like
lamps of silver and diamond slopes of the sky, soaring domes and
ridges interspersed by glaciers in the Sierra. That is one of supreme
beauty, which the artist invites contemplation and defy description
.... The _ventas_ had happened (and certainly that I would not mind "of
some tortilla made with rancid oil, as used in Spain, which took me from
the jaws and palate over a week), had left the center of the Sierra,
and beginning to descend from a huge hill and hills Seedling
prodigiously complicated and intertwined.

The region of the oaks was over, and crossed the foot of the inclined
planes and where a very broad culture of the vineyard. Amounts
to saying that bajábamos the neck of the bottle (the _corcho_) your
belly drunk (the _uvas_) We understand how great is the production of
vineyards in the province of Malaga, a spot almost any given arrugadísimo
by bare mountains, just to see that even in the most outstanding
ridges and deep slopes and more rugged the land is covered with
vineyards.

Suddenly, a return to the top bend, the horizon was opened to our view,
without any eminence to stop the immense panorama . Amazement beauty that
awaits us! Basically the valley and the coastal city of Malaga; later
glowing deserts of the Mediterranean closer to two continents in the
distance, visible only with the aid of glasses, the blue mountains of
Africa, vague, choppy and confusing, towards the coast of Tetuan, and all
covered by a beautiful clear blue sky and illuminated by an almost tropical
sun, the magnificent African sun! That is, is admired in supreme rapture
and then with great rapture, but does not describe .... I felt that my
heart beats on an eminence of the Andes, in the presence of an ocean-pampa
.... * * * * * Under the artistic point of view and the intellectual,
Malaga is a city of little interest.

There does not reign but industry and commerce, and historical memories
are revealed only in relation to the time of the Arabs or Moors, in the
general structure of the city, some traditional arts, but many curious
features of little importance and especially in the sea and sky. Indeed,
the sea and sky from Malaga to believe every moment in Africa, the
atmosphere, bathing with hot flashes the Spanish coast, is a link between
these two half-continents greet from the top of their Rocky Mountains
above the Mediterranean.

The valley that lies in Malaga, framed between the sea and the last spurs
of the Sierra, is very small.

Spread on the coast in a circumference of 20 kilometers, extends to the
west by the hills between cords in a very narrow valley that ply the
_Gundalhorce_ small river that crosses the plain a short distance
from the city, and _Guadalmedina_, that divides, working on running
a bed of sand, and that variable is given to the excessive flooding
of depression or their banks anchas beaches.

The plain is a beautiful garden view from the mountains that dominate
Malaga.

They not only grow thousand fruit trees, vines and all the opulent productions
of the fertile Andalusia, but the cotton is harvested, the lot of
snuff and cochineal, thrives and grows sugar cane, and could believe
that is planted on a piece of the African soil.

On the side of the east coast extends in a straight and narrow lines curve
and capricious, in the direction of Velez-Malaga and Motril. North and
follow the complicated buttresses dominate the Sierra-Nevada, and west
are thousand eminent hedgehog all land in the direction of Cadiz, on the
line of the Sierra de Ronda, where the most amazing geological formations
as well as considerable social curiosities. Ronda has a reputation as
a very strange little town in the province of Malaga. If this has a
population of 451,406 inhabitants (the seventh in Spain in that order),
its active capital is 94,289, including their Egido. Malaga is one of the
great centers of liberalism in Spain, including Madrid, Barcelona,
Seville, Cadiz and all the cities social movement active.

Whenever you trade, industry or political action leading to a strong social
vitality, the popular sentiment is tilted towards freedom and
progress.

Conservatism does not have its strengths in Spain but in cities
where there is immobility and silence.

Alderredores of Malaga The gardens contain many beautiful and valuable
estates, where houses are a remarkable elegance and artistic wealth
of some .

In Guadalhorce valley there are beautiful sea of orange and lemon
plantations that recall the primordial de la Huerta de Valencia.

It is incredible that the consumption of fruit and Europe acidic
and aromatic essences of those forests of lemon trees.

At around the orchards, gardens and farms and factories in the
valley, there are amphitheaters cut into the hills full of vineyards.

The richness and variety of these vineyards is amazing (compared
to the difficult terrain), because not only is a huge production
of white wines, reds and oranges, more or less aromatic and pleasant,
whose fame is universal, but is get plenty of those famous special
grapes to prepare exquisite _pasas_.

I have to say, gift of the popular adage that job cost me to drink
good wine and get good at Malaga raisins.

Almost one third of the city consists of new construction, in
generally excellent, very attractive for its many balconies and lattice
or flown cabinets, green or blue, its marble floor, big iron trellis, its
cheerful and its rooftop lookouts oriental style. In the new streets are
clean and spacious, many large hotels and cafes, one can see the comfort
and pleasure, and it is not true in cities like material inside
Spain.

         The famous _Alameda_ is a wonderful
          street-walking, where there is an abundance of giant trees,
fountains, statues and canapés granite between two rows of elegant
buildings.

Similarly, buildings that dominate the docks or the upcoming port,
relay the progress of good taste and vitality of the maritime cities.

But the bulk of the city, old, is an incomprehensible maze of streets
in the first time, dark, very narrow, often dirty, some reaching
an incredible degree of filth.

There constructions capricious, extravagant, barbarian on any weight,
half-Moorish, half-Spanish, whose moles stirring constantly, to the
narrowness and crushed without pity, a large and active population of
the most heterogeneous. The elegant and beautiful Malaga (women are
very nice there in large numbers) walks visiting the rich stores and
shops of fashion and curios, shaking with a grace inimitable choice of
ebony, sandalwood or nacre with graceful ornaments and rich landscape,
and seduced by the grace of her walk, but got rid decent. And no less
striking for its picaresque _dejos_ and the air ... Malaga minor -
between the guy who _manola_ and _griseta_ -- dressed in brightly colored
fabrics, with heads uncovered, lively and provocative, winking eye to
dangerous skill, pink and brown, round and tempting as a ripe bunches
of grapes that produce pink to the country. At the same time, tingling
in Streets swarming with coarse and brutal workers, dressed in abandonment
of seafarers of all nations in the bustle does not die commission
á hunting customers, dealers worried delivered exclusively to the
fever of speculation, of soldiers of yellow, somewhat idle, to
vivanderas highway and making a racket all the devils, some semi-majos
style and toreros matamoros, and crooks of all ages always abounding
in the market towns, with its accompanying large ragged beggars
that are inevitable in almost all Spanish cities.

The great movement of Malaga does not stem solely from their strong wine
and other articles of its agriculture, for significant values.

Malaga is by its position and nature of the terrain throughout the
province and the neighboring port bound for Granada, Jaen, and parts
of the districts of Cordova, and people who take the side of the Round
as of Velez-Malaga . Apart from these reasons to centralize a large trade,
Malaga is an industrial or manufacturing production rather important and
well mixed. There are many manufactured silk and red, some sugar, various
fabrics, hats, machines and objects casting, soaps, pickles, pottery,
etc..
"Sentimentalists," says The Pilgrim's Scrip, "are they who seek to enjoy
without incurring the Immense Debtorship for a thing done."

"It is," the writer says of Sentimentalism elsewhere, "a happy pastime
and an important science to the timid, the idle, and the heartless; but a
damning one to them who have anything to forfeit."

However, one who could set down the dying for love, as a sentimentalism,
can hardly be accepted as a clear authority.  Assuredly he was not one to
avoid the incurring of the immense debtorship in any way: but he was a
bondsman still to the woman who had forsaken him, and a spoken word would
have made it seem his duty to face that public scandal which was the last
evil to him.  What had so horrified the virtuous Benson, Richard had
already beheld in Daphne's Bower; a simple kissing of the fair white
hand!  Doubtless the keyhole somehow added to Benson's horror.  The two
similar performances, so very innocent, had wondrous opposite
consequences.  The first kindled Richard to adore Woman; the second
destroyed Benson's faith in Man.  But Lady Blandish knew the difference
between the two.  She understood why the baronet did not speak; excused,
and respected him for it.  She was content, since she must love, to love
humbly, and she had, besides, her pity for his sorrows to comfort her.  A
hundred fresh reasons for loving him arose and multiplied every day.  He
read to her the secret book in his own handwriting, composed for
Richard's Marriage Guide: containing Advice and Directions to a Young
Husband, full of the most tender wisdom and delicacy; so she thought;
nay, not wanting in poetry, though neither rhymed nor measured.  He
expounded to her the distinctive character of the divers ages of love,
giving the palm to the flower she put forth, over that of Spring, or the
Summer rose.  And while they sat and talked; "My wound has healed," he
said.  "How?" she asked.  "At the fountain of your eyes," he replied, and
drew the joy of new life from her blushes, without incurring further
debtor ship for a thing done.


CHAPTER XXV

Let it be some apology for the damage caused by the careering hero, and a
consolation to the quiet wretches, dragged along with him at his chariot-
wheels, that he is generally the last to know when he has made an actual
start; such a mere creature is he, like the rest of us, albeit the head
of our fates.  By this you perceive the true hero, whether he be a prince
or a pot-boy, that he does not plot; Fortune does all for him.  He may be
compared to one to whom, in an electric circle, it is given to carry the
battery.

We caper and grimace at his will; yet not his the will, not his the
power.  'Tis all Fortune's, whose puppet he is.  She deals her
dispensations through him.  Yea, though our capers be never so comical,
he laughs not.  Intent upon his own business, the true hero asks little
services of us here and there; thinks it quite natural that they should
be acceded to, and sees nothing ridiculous in the lamentable contortions
we must go through to fulfil them.  Probably he is the elect of Fortune,
because of that notable faculty of being intent upon his own business:
"Which is," says The Pilgrim's Scrip, "with men to be valued equal to
that force which in water makes a stream."  This prelude was necessary to
the present chapter of Richard's history.

It happened that in the turn of the year, and while old earth was busy
with her flowers, the fresh wind blew, the little bird sang, and Hippias
Feverel, the Dyspepsy, amazed, felt the Spring move within him.  He
communicated his delightful new sensations to the baronet, his brother,
whose constant exclamation with regard to him, was: "Poor Hippias!  All
his machinery is bare!" and had no hope that he would ever be in a
condition to defend it from view.  Nevertheless Hippias had that hope,
and so he told his brother, making great exposure of his machinery to
effect the explanation.  He spoke of all his physical experiences
exultingly, and with wonder.  The achievement of common efforts, not
usually blazoned, he celebrated as triumphs, and, of course, had Adrian
on his back very quickly.  But he could bear him, or anything, now.  It
was such ineffable relief to find himself looking out upon the world of
mortals instead of into the black phantasmal abysses of his own
complicated frightful structure.   "My mind doesn't so much seem to haunt
itself, now," said Hippias, nodding shortly and peering out of intense
puckers to convey a glimpse of what hellish sufferings his had been: "I
feel as if I had come aboveground."

A poor Dyspepsy may talk as he will, but he is the one who never gets
sympathy, or experiences compassion: and it is he whose groaning
petitions for charity do at last rout that Christian virtue.  Lady
Blandish, a charitable soul, could not listen to Hippias, though she had
a heart for little mice and flies, and Sir Austin had also small patience
with his brother's gleam of health, which was just enough to make his
disease visible.  He remembered his early follies and excesses, and bent
his ear to him as one man does to another who complains of having to pay
a debt legally incurred.

"I think," said Adrian, seeing how the communications of Hippias were
received, "that when our Nemesis takes lodgings in the stomach, it's best
to act the Spartan, smile hard, and be silent."

Richard alone was decently kind to Hippias; whether from opposition, or
real affection, could not be said, as the young man was mysterious.  He
advised his uncle to take exercise, walked with him, cultivated cheerful
impressions in him, and pointed out innocent pursuits.  He made Hippias
visit with him some of the poor old folk of the village, who bewailed the
loss of his cousin Austin Wentworth, and did his best to waken him up,
and give the outer world a stronger hold on him.  He succeeded in nothing
but in winning his uncle's gratitude.  The season bloomed scarce longer
than a week for Hippias, and then began to languish.  The poor Dyspepsy's
eager grasp at beatification relaxed: he went underground again.  He
announced that he felt  "spongy things"--one of the more constant throes
of his malady.  His bitter face recurred: he chewed the cud of horrid
hallucinations.  He told Richard he must give up going about with him:
people telling of their ailments made him so uncomfortable--the birds
were so noisy, pairing--the rude bare soil sickened him.

Richard treated him with a gravity equal to his father's.  He asked what
the doctors said.

"Oh! the doctors!" cried Hippias with vehement scepticism.  "No man of
sense believes in medicine for chronic disorder.  Do you happen to have
heard of any new remedy then, Richard?  No?  They advertise a great many
cures for indigestion, I assure you, my dear boy.  I wonder whether one
can rely upon the authenticity of those signatures?  I see no reason why
there should be no cure for such a disease?--Eh?  And it's just one of
the things a quack, as they call them, would hit upon sooner than one who
is in the beaten track.  Do you know, Richard, my dear boy, I've often
thought that if we could by any means appropriate to our use some of the
extraordinary digestive power that a boa constrictor has in his gastric
juices, there is really no manner of reason why we should not comfortably
dispose of as much of an ox as our stomachs will hold, and one might eat
French dishes without the wretchedness of thinking what's to follow.  And
this makes me think that those fellows may, after all, have got some
truth in them: some secret that, of course, they require to be paid for.
We distrust each other in this world too much, Richard.  I've felt
inclined once or twice--but it's absurd!--If it only alleviated a few of
my sufferings I should be satisfied.  I've no hesitation in saying that I
should be quite satisfied if it only did away with one or two, and left
me free to eat and drink as other people do.  Not that I mean to try
them.  It's only a fancy--Eh?  What a thing health is, my dear boy!  Ah!
if I were like you!  I was in love once!"

"Were you!" said Richard, coolly regarding him.

"I've forgotten what I felt!" Hippias sighed.  "You've very much
improved, my dear boy."

"So people say," quoth Richard.

Hippias looked at him anxiously: "If I go to town and get the doctor's
opinion about trying a new course--Eh, Richard? will you come with me?  I
should like your company.  We could see London together, you know.  Enjoy
ourselves," and Hippias rubbed his hands.

Richard smiled at the feeble glimmer of enjoyment promised by his uncle's
eyes, and said he thought it better they should stay where they were--an
answer that might mean anything.  Hippias immediately became possessed by
the beguiling project.  He went to the baronet, and put the matter before
him, instancing doctors as the object of his journey, not quacks, of
course; and requesting leave to take Richard.  Sir Austin was getting
uneasy about his son's manner.  It was not natural.  His heart seemed to
be frozen: he had no confidences: he appeared to have no ambition--to
have lost the virtues of youth with the poison that had passed out of
him.  He was disposed to try what effect a little travelling might have
on him, and had himself once or twice hinted to Richard that it would be
good for him to move about, the young man quietly replying that he did
not wish to quit Raynham at all, which was too strict a fulfilment of his
father's original views in educating him there entirely.  On the day that
Hippias made his proposal, Adrian, seconded by Lady Blandish, also made
one.  The sweet Spring season stirred in Adrian as well as in others: not
to pastoral measures: to the joys of the operatic world and bravura
glories.  He also suggested that it would be advisable to carry Richard
to town for a term, and let him know his position, and some freedom.  Sir
Austin weighed the two proposals.  He was pretty certain that Richard's
passion was consumed, and that the youth was now only under the burden of
its ashes.  He had found against his heart, at the Bellingham inn: a
great lock of golden hair.  He had taken it, and the lover, after feeling
about for it with faint hands, never asked for it.  This precious lock
(Miss Davenport had thrust it into his hand at Belthorpe as Lucy's last
gift), what sighs and tears it had weathered!  The baronet laid it in
Richard's sight one day, and beheld him take it up, turn it over, and
drop it down again calmly, as if he were handling any common curiosity.
It pacified him on that score.  The young man's love was dead.  Dr.
Clifford said rightly: he wanted distractions.  The baronet determined
that Richard should go.  Hippias and Adrian then pressed their several
suits as to which should have him.  Hippias, when he could forget
himself, did not lack sense.  He observed that Adrian was not at present
a proper companion for Richard, and would teach him to look on life from
the false point.

"You don't understand a young philosopher," said the baronet.

"A young philosopher's an old fool!" returned Hippias, not thinking that
his growl had begotten a phrase.

His brother smiled with gratification, and applauded him loudly:
"Excellent! worthy of your best days!  You're wrong, though, in applying
it to Adrian.  He has never been precocious.  All he has done has been to
bring sound common sense to bear upon what he hears and sees.  I think,
however," the baronet added, "he may want faith in the better qualities
of men."  And this reflection inclined him not to let his son be alone
with Adrian.  He gave Richard his choice, who saw which way his father's
wishes tended, and decided so to please him.  Naturally it annoyed Adrian
extremely.  He said to his chief:

"I suppose you know what you are doing, sir.  I don't see that we derive
any advantage from the family name being made notorious for twenty years
of obscene suffering, and becoming a byword for our constitutional
tendency to stomachic distension before we fortunately encountered
Quackem's Pill.  My uncle's tortures have been huge, but I would rather
society were not intimate with them under their several headings."
Adrian enumerated some of the most abhorrent.  "You know him, sir.  If he
conceives a duty, he will do it in the face of every decency--all the
more obstinate because the conception is rare.  If he feels a little
brisk the morning after the pill, he sends the letter that makes us
famous!  We go down to posterity with heightened characteristics, to say
nothing of a contemporary celebrity nothing less than our being turned
inside-out to the rabble.  I confess I don't desire to have my machinery
made bare to them."

Sir Austin assured the wise youth that Hippias had arranged to go to Dr.
Bairam.  He softened Adrian's chagrin by telling him that in about two
weeks they would follow to London: hinting also at a prospective Summer
campaign.  The day was fixed for Richard to depart, and the day came.
Madame the Eighteenth Century called him to her chamber and put into his
hand a fifty-pound note, as her contribution toward his pocket-expenses.
He did not want it, he said, but she told him he was a young man, and
would soon make that fly when he stood on his own feet.  The old lady did
not at all approve of the System in her heart, and she gave her
grandnephew to understand that, should he require more, he knew where to
apply, and secrets would be kept.  His father presented him with a
hundred pounds--which also Richard said he did not want--he did not care
for money.  "Spend it or not," said the baronet, perfectly secure in him.

Hippias had few injunctions to observe.  They were to take up quarters at
the hotel, Algernon's general run of company at the house not being
altogether wholesome.  The baronet particularly forewarned Hippias of the
imprudence of attempting to restrict the young man's movements, and
letting him imagine he was under surveillance.  Richard having been, as
it were, pollarded by despotism, was now to grow up straight, and bloom
again, in complete independence, as far as he could feel.  So did the
sage decree; and we may pause a moment to reflect how wise were his
previsions, and how successful they must have been, had not Fortune, the
great foe to human cleverness, turned against him, or he against himself.

The departure took place on a fine March morning.  The bird of Winter
sang from the budding tree; in the blue sky sang the bird of Summer.
Adrian rode between Richard and Hippias to the Bellingham station, and
vented his disgust on them after his own humorous fashion, because it did
not rain and damp their ardour.  In the rear came Lady Blandish and the
baronet, conversing on the calm summit of success.

"You have shaped him exactly to resemble yourself," she said, pointing
with her riding-whip to the grave stately figure of the young man.

"Outwardly, perhaps," he answered, and led to a discussion on Purity and
Strength, the lady saying that she preferred Purity.

"But you do not," said the baronet.  "And there I admire the always true
instinct of women, that they all worship Strength in whatever form, and
seem to know it to be the child of heaven; whereas Purity is but a
characteristic, a garment, and can be spotted--how soon!  For there are
questions in this life with which we must grapple or be lost, and when,
hunted by that cold eye of intense inner-consciousness, the clearest soul
becomes a cunning fox, if it have not courage to stand and do battle.
Strength indicates a boundless nature--like the Maker.  Strength is a God
to you--Purity a toy.  A pretty one, and you seem to be fond of playing
with it," he added, with unaccustomed slyness.

The lady listened, pleased at the sportive malice which showed that the
constraint on his mind had left him.  It was for women to fight their
fight now; she only took part in it for amusement.  This is how the ranks
of our enemies are thinned; no sooner do poor women put up a champion in
their midst than she betrays them.

"I see," she said archly, "we are the lovelier vessels; you claim the
more direct descent.  Men are seedlings: Women--slips!  Nay, you have
said so," she cried out at his gestured protestation, laughing.

"But I never printed it."

"Oh! what you speak answers for print with me."

Exquisite Blandish!  He could not choose but love her.

"Tell me what are your plans?" she asked.  "May a woman know?"

He replied, "I have none or you would share them.  I shall study him in
the world.  This indifference must wear off.  I shall mark his
inclinations now, and he shall be what he inclines to.  Occupation will
be his prime safety.  His cousin Austin's plan of life appears most to
his taste, and he can serve the people that way as well as in Parliament,
should he have no stronger ambition.  The clear duty of a man of any
wealth is to serve the people as he best can.  He shall go among Austin's
set, if he wishes it, though personally I find no pleasure in rash
imaginations, and undigested schemes built upon the mere instinct of
principles."

"Look at him now," said the lady.  "He seems to care for nothing; not
even for the beauty of the day."

"Or Adrian's jokes," added the baronet.

Adrian could be seen to be trying zealously to torment a laugh, or a
confession of irritation, out of his hearers, stretching out his chin to
one, and to the other, with audible asides.  Richard he treated as a new
instrument of destruction about to be let loose on the slumbering
metropolis; Hippias as one in an interesting condition; and he got so
much fun out of the notion of these two journeying together, and the
mishaps that might occur to them, that he esteemed it almost a personal
insult for his hearers not to laugh.  The wise youth's dull life at
Raynham had afflicted him with many peculiarities of the professional
joker.

"Oh! the Spring! the Spring!" he cried, as in scorn of his sallies they
exchanged their unmeaning remarks on the sweet weather across him.  "You
seem both to be uncommonly excited by the operations of turtles, rooks,
and daws.  Why can't you let them alone?"

                   'Wind bloweth,
                    Cock croweth,
                         Doodle-doo;
                    Hippy verteth,
                    Ricky sterteth,
                         Sing Cuckoo!'

There's an old native pastoral!--Why don't you write a Spring sonnet,
Ricky?  The asparagus-beds are full of promise, I hear, and eke the
strawberry.  Berries I fancy your Pegasus has a taste for.  What kind of
berry was that I saw some verses of yours about once?--amatory verses to
some kind of berry--yewberry, blueberry, glueberry!  Pretty verses,
decidedly warm.  Lips, eyes, bosom, legs--legs?  I don't think you gave
her any legs.  No legs and no nose.  That appears to be the poetic taste
of the day.  It shall be admitted that you create the very beauties for a
chaste people.

          'O might I lie where leans her lute!'

and offend no moral community.  That's not a bad image of yours, my dear
boy:

              'Her shape is like an antelope
               Upon the Eastern hills.'

But as a candid critic, I would ask you if the likeness can be considered
correct when you give her no legs?  You will see at the ballet that you
are in error about women at present, Richard.  That admirable institution
which our venerable elders have imported from Gallia for the instruction
of our gaping youth, will edify and astonish you.  I assure you I used,
from reading The Pilgrim's Scrip, to imagine all sorts of things about
them, till I was taken there, and learnt that they are very like us after
all, and then they ceased to trouble me.  Mystery is the great danger to
youth, my son!  Mystery is woman's redoubtable weapon, O Richard of the
Ordeal!  I'm aware that you've had your lessons in anatomy, but nothing
will persuade you that an anatomical figure means flesh and blood.  You
can't realize the fact.  Do you intend to publish when you're in town?
It'll be better not to put your name.  Having one's name to a volume of
poems is as bad as to an advertising pill."

"I will send you an early copy, Adrian, when I publish," quoth Richard.
"Hark at that old blackbird, uncle."

"Yes!" Hippias quavered; looking up from the usual subject of his
contemplation, and trying to take an interest in him, "fine old fellow!"

"What a chuckle he gives out before he flies!  Not unlike July
nightingales.  You know that bird I told you of--the blackbird that had
its mate shot, and used to come to sing to old Dame Bakewell's bird from
the tree opposite.  A rascal knocked it over the day before yesterday,
and the dame says her bird hasn't sung a note since."

"Extraordinary!" Hippias muttered abstractedly.  "I remember the verses."

"But where's your moral?" interposed the wrathful Adrian. "Where's
constancy rewarded?

              'The ouzel-cock so black of hue,
               With orange-tawny bill;
               The rascal with his aim so true;
               The Poet's little quill!'

"Where's the moral of that? except that all's game to the poet!
Certainly we have a noble example of the devotedness of the female, who
for three entire days refuses to make herself heard, on account of a
defunct male.  I suppose that's what Ricky dwells on."

"As you please, my dear Adrian," says Richard, and points out larch-buds
to his uncle, as they ride by the young green wood.

The wise youth was driven to extremity.  Such a lapse from his pupil's
heroics to this last verge of Arcadian coolness, Adrian could not believe
in.  "Hark at this old blackbird!" he cried, in his turn, and pretending
to interpret his fits of song:

"Oh, what a pretty comedy!--Don't we wear the mask well, my Fiesco?--
Genoa will be our own to-morrow!--Only wait until the train has started--
jolly! jolly! jolly!  We'll be winners yet!

"Not a bad verse--eh, Ricky? my Lucius Junius!"

"You do the blackbird well," said Richard, and looked at him in a manner
mildly affable.

Adrian shrugged.  "You're a young man of wonderful powers," he
emphatically observed; meaning to say that Richard quite beat him; for
which opinion Richard gravely thanked him, and with this they rode into
Bellingham.

There was young Tom Blaize at the station, in his Sunday beaver and gala
waistcoat and neckcloth, coming the lord over Tom Bakewell, who had
preceded his master in charge of the baggage.  He likewise was bound for
London.  Richard, as he was dismounting, heard Adrian say to the baronet:
"The Beast, sir, appears to be going to fetch Beauty;" but he paid no
heed to the words.  Whether young Tom heard them or not, Adrian's look
took the lord out of him, and he shrunk away into obscurity, where the
nearest approach to the fashions which the tailors of Bellingham could
supply to him, sat upon him more easily, and he was not stiffened by the
eyes of the superiors whom he sought to rival.  The baronet, Lady
Blandish, and Adrian remained on horseback, and received Richard's adieux
across the palings.  He shook hands with each of them in the same kindly
cold way, elicitating from Adrian a marked encomium on his style of doing
it.  The train came up, and Richard stepped after his uncle into one of
the carriages.

Now surely there will come an age when the presentation of science at war
with Fortune and the Fates, will be deemed the true epic of modern life;
and the aspect of a scientific humanist who, by dint of incessant
watchfulness, has maintained a System against those active forties,
cannot be reckoned less than sublime, even though at the moment he but
sit upon his horse, on a fine March morning such as this, and smile
wistfully to behold the son of his heart, his System incarnate, wave a
serene adieu to tutelage, neither too eager nor morbidly unwilling to try
his luck alone for a term of two weeks.  At present, I am aware, an
audience impatient for blood and glory scorns the stress I am putting on
incidents so minute, a picture so little imposing.  An audience will come
to whom it will be given to see the elementary machinery at work: who, as
it were, from some slight hint of the straws, will feel the winds of
March when they do not blow.  To them will nothing be trivial, seeing
that they will have in their eyes the invisible conflict going on around
us, whose features a nod, a smile, a laugh of ours perpetually changes.
And they will perceive, moreover, that in real life all hangs together:
the train is laid in the lifting of an eyebrow, that bursts upon the
field of thousands.  They will see the links of things as they pass, and
wonder not, as foolish people now do, that this great matter came out of
that small one.

Such an audience, then, will participate in the baronet's gratification
at his son's demeanour, wherein he noted the calm bearing of experience
not gained in the usual wanton way: and will not be without some excited
apprehension at his twinge of astonishment, when, just as the train went
sliding into swiftness, he beheld the grave, cold, self-possessed young
man throw himself back in the carriage violently laughing.  Science was
at a loss to account for that.  Sir Austin checked his mind from
inquiring, that he might keep suspicion at a distance, but he thought it
odd, and the jarring sensation that ran along his nerves at the sight,
remained with him as he rode home.

Lady Blandish's tender womanly intuition bade her say: "You see it was
the very thing he wanted.  He has got his natural spirits already."

"It was," Adrian put in his word, "the exact thing he wanted.  His
spirits have returned miraculously."

The life, the people, everything is an ice floe, which on the water
is then driven until it is falling, falling.

I have a dream that sometimes comes back and now I must think. I sit on a
high pillar and see no way down; schwindelt me if I hinuntersehe,
and yet I must down, but I have not the courage hinabzustürzen me,
I can not hold on and I long to fall afterwards, but I fell not.

And yet I have no rest before I'm down, no peace, before I arrived on
earth am. And I come down to earth, I will set down _in_ the earth. Have
you ever felt such a thing. _Jean._ No! I often dream that I would be
under a high tree in a dark forest. I want to climb, up to the treetop,
and myself in the sparse landscape scout, where the sun is shining and
the birds up there to loot, in which the eggs are golden. And I climb
and climb, but the trunk is so thick and so smooth, and it is so
far up to the first branch.

                   But I know if I
                    just reached the first branch, I could go to the treetops, as on
a ladder, climb up.

I still have not met him, but I have to reach him, and it would also
be only a dream!

                    _Julie._ Here I and gossip with you!

Come now! Only out in the park (offering his arm and they go.) _Jean._ We
should tonight at nine herbs locust night sleep, then go in
fulfilling our dreams, Miss!

_Beide_ (Thür make the returns). _Jean_ (Stops the hand before one eye).
_Julie._ Let me see what you come into the eye. _Jean._ O nothing!

Only a mote - that is again good.

_Julie._ It was the sleeve of my dress, you scratched, you are now,
then I will help you.

(She takes him by the arm and sets him down at the table, then holds
his head and places it back on, with a corner of the handkerchief
she looks out the mote.)

Sit now quiet, very quiet. (She proposes to him on the hand.) So! He
wants to obey! I think the big, strong man trembles! (You touched his
arm.) With such poor! _Jean_ (Warningly). Miss Julie! _Julie._ Yes,
Monsieur Jean. _Jean._ Attention! Je ne suis qu'un homme! _Julie._ Will
he sit still! - Look here! Now it is gone! Küss' He's my hand and thanks'
He me. _Jean_ (Stands up). Miss Julie! Listen to me! Now Christine
fortgegangen and has evolved into bed! Would you listen to me? _Julie._
First kiss the hand! _Jean._ Listen to me. _Julie._ First kiss the
hand! _Jean._ Yes, but you must take responsibility.

_Julie._ What? What _Jean._ ? Are you with twenty-five years is still a
child?

Do you not know that it is dangerous with fire to play? _Julie._ Not for
me, I'm assekuriert! _Jean_ (Bold). No, you are not! And if you are, then
it giebt flammable devices in the neighborhood! _Julie._ Should you be?
_Jean._ Yes, not because I am, but because I am a young man -
_Julie._ - from favorable Comment - what incredible vanity!

a Don Juan, perhaps! Or a Joseph! I think my faith, he is a Joseph! _Jean._
Believe? _Julie._ I almost fear. _Jean_ (Goes to brash and wants to hug
them, kiss them).

_Julie_ (Giebt him a slap). Fort! _Jean._ Is this a joke or serious?

_Julie._ Kidding! _Jean._ Then was also the previously kidding!

They play too seriously and this is dangerous! Now I'm tired of the game
and apologize again that I do my work. (He goes back to the boots.) The
count must betimes his boots, and midnight is long gone.

(He takes the boots on.) _Julie._ Suppose He continued the boots!

_Jean._ No! This is my service, I am guilty of thun. I have never accepted,
your game to his comrade, and it can never be, because I consider
myself to be good.

_Julie._ You are proud! _Jean._ In some cases, in others not. _Julie._
Have you ever loved?

_Jean._ We do not use the word, but I have had many girls happy,
and once I become sick of it that I could not get that I wanted to
have, ill, you can see how the prince » A Thousand and One Nights,
"which does not love to eat and drink can not.

(He makes the boots out again.) _Julie._ Who was it? _Jean_ (Silent).
_Julie._ Who was it? _Jean._ You can not force me to say it. _Julie._
When I see how their peers please, how - is a friend?

Who was it? _Jean._ You! _Julie_ (Is). How funny! _Jean._ Yes, if you want
to hear it! It was ridiculous! You see, this is the story that I do
not want to tell, but now I will tell them! Do you know how the
world looks like from below?

No, you do not know! DC hawks and falcons, whose back is rarely seen,
because they tend to float up there.

I grew up in Insthause with seven sisters and - a pig, together, out on the
bare, gray boxes up, where not a tree grew. But from the window I could
the wall of the Count's park with apple trees to behold. That was the
garden of paradise, and there were many angels with fiery swords
and guarded him.

But nonetheless, I found other boys and the way to the tree of life
- now you despise me? _Julie._ Oh!

              Apples steal the thun all boys! The
               _Jean._ tell now, but you despise me!

Well, like a lot! Once I arrived with my mother in the garden inside,
to the onion beds clean of weeds!

Close to the garden wall stood a Turkish pavilion in the shade of
the jasmine and entwined by Kaprifolien.

I did not know what it was, but I had never seen such beautiful buildings.
People went there, and one and one day the door was open. I slipped there
and saw the walls with pictures of kings and emperors overcast,
and before the windows were red curtains with Franzen out - now you
know what I mean.

I - (he adopts a lilac branch and holds it to the lady at the nose)
- I had never been in the castle, never had anything other than the
Church of view - but this was much nicer here, and where my thoughts
also hineilten, they always went back there.

              And then gradually rose up in me
               the desire, once the full glory
               of getting to know - enfin, I
               slipped myself into it, saw and admired.

But then someone came! For the dominion, there was only one output, but I
found yet another, and I had no more choice!

               _Julie_ (Which the elder branch had
               made, lets him fall to the table).
               _Jean._ So I jumped and fell through because
               a raspberry hedge, slipped through a Gartenbeet across and came
to the Rose Terrace.

There I saw a bright dress and a pair of white stockings - that you
were.

              I lay down under a pile of weeds,
               - _darunter_, you may think that? -
               Among thistles, which stung me,
               and wet soil, which stank.

               And I looked after you while you
               are among the roses then exceeded, and I thought: if it is true
that a murderer can come into the kingdom of heaven and the angels
will remain, it is odd that a Kätnersjunge here on earth God is not
in and a castle with the earl's daughter to play.

_Julie_ (elegiac). Do you think that all poor children in this case had the
same idea. _Jean_ (Only hesitantly, and then in convincing tone). Whether
all poor - yes - of course! Certainly! _Julie._ There must be a boundless
misfortune to be poor. _Jean_ (With deep anguish, strong order). Oh, Miss
Julie! Oh! A dog may be on the sofa noble lie, a horse, a women's
hand on the muzzle knocked, but a boy - (altered in tone.) Yes, yes,
when an individual is probably enough material available to the
emporzukommen world, but how often is the case!

However, you know what I am that? I jumped into the clothes in Mühlbach
down, but was pulled out and got beatings.

On next Sunday, when father and all the grandmother drove home, I knew it
so that I stayed at home.

         And then I washed with soap and warm water,
          put my best clothes and went
          to church, where I could get to
          see!

I saw you and went home, determined to die, but I wanted to die
beautifully and comfortably, without pain.

And then I bethought me that it would be dangerous under a lilac
bush to sleep. We had a such, just what was in bloom. I plucked all
the flowers, which he possessed, and then embedded in me Oats box. Have
you noticed how smooth is the oats?

soft for the hands, such as human skin. Then I closed the lid, druselte
that finally fell asleep and woke up really sick. But I died but not
how you see. What I wanted to - I do not know!

         You win, no way was there - but they were
            for me a proof of how hopeless
          it was for me, from among emporzukommen where
            I was born. _Julie._ Tell you charming, you know!

         Are you in school? _Jean._ A little, but
            I have a lot of novels and I read a
          lot in the theater was. I also hear
            people talk fine, and from them I learned the most.

         _Julie._ Because you listen to what we say? _Jean._
            Yes, certainly! And I've heard a lot
          when I buck on the coachman sat or have rowed the boat.
            Once I heard Miss Julie and a friend - _Julie._ So?

What you heard that? _Jean._ Yes, now I can not say so, but I was a little
surprised and did not understand how you all ', the words learned.

         Perhaps this is in fact not such a
            big difference between people
          and people like you who believe!
            _Julie._ Oh, shame on you!

We live not, like you, if we have loved. _Jean_ (Fixed it). Is it
safe?

Yes, my need is the lady not to be so innocent - _Julie._ It was a scoundrel,
whom I gave my love. _Jean._ The girls always say - behind. _Julie._
Always? _Jean._ I always think because I have repeatedly been expressed
earlier in such cases heard.

_Julie._ What cases? _Jean._ As just mentioned. The last time - _Julie._
Still, I want to hear nothing more - The _Jean._ wanted _sie_ not
- it is strange.

               Well, then I would go to bed to be.

_Julie_ (Spicy). In the Midsummer Night sleep. _Jean._ Yes! with
the pack out there to dance, which amused me, not really. _Julie._
Take the keys to the boat and row me to the lake, and I want to see the
sunrise. _Jean._ Is that reasonable? _Julie._ It has seems as if you were
worried for your reputation! _Jean._ Why not? I would not like to be
ridiculous, I would not like to be away without a recommendation, if I
want to establish. And it seems to me I have some obligations against
Christine. _Julie._ So yes, now it's Christine again - _Jean._ Yes, but
also for them. Listen to my advice and go up and put you to bed.
_Julie._ Should I obey you around? _Jean._ This one time, to your own
sake! I beg you! It's late at night, sleep is drunk, and the head is
hot! Go to sleep!

BTW - if I hear right - the people here come to me looking for! And you can
find us here, then you are lost! _Chor_ (Which is heard from far and
near). You like me from the mass, the beautiful Fräuelein, I can not
refrain, I must be their servant, because she enjoys my heart ! Tiritidi
- Ralla, Tiritidi - ra!

And now I managed to What I've getracht.

All 'are verdrungen Free, Have they brought Lieb, The beautiful
Fräuelein Tiritidi - Ralla - la - la!

_Julie._ I know our people and I love it, just like they love me. Only
let her come, then you will see!

_Jean._ No, Miss Julie, the people you love not.

You eat your bread, but they mock you behind.

Believe me! Listen, you hear only what they sing! - Or no, you do not hear
that! _Julie_ (Listening). What they sing? _Jean._ It is a satirical
poem! From you and me _Julie._ Horrible! O shame! And so deceitful -
_Jean._ The Pack is always FEIG! And in _dem_ battle you can not thun than
flee! _Julie._ Flee? But where? We can not. And Christine go, we
can not! _Jean._ So, because in my room inside! Not, no bid, and you can
trust me because I am your true, honest and reverently friend! _Julie._
But remember! - If you are looking there now? _Jean._ I verriegle the
door, and wants to break into it, so shoot me! - Come! (Knieend.) Come!
_Julie_ (Significant). Promise me - _Jean._ I swear!

_Julie_ (Hurriedly left). _Jean_ (Follows her excitement).

Stumme Scene. _Brautleute_ In holiday clothes, with flowers on the hats, a
_Violinspieler_ at the top, come through the Glasthüre.

A barrel Dünnbier and a keg of brandy, with foliage umwunden are
right on the table laid; take glasses out.

Then drink. Then a ring is formed and the dance game sung and danced.

Hereafter pull them back by singing from Glasthür.

_Julie_ (Coming from the left alone, sees the mess in the kitchen and
the hands together, then take a powder puff and powdered her face).
_Jean_ (Which comes from left to Miss , eccentric). As you can see!
Now you have even heard! Do you think it is possible to stay here?
_Julie._ No! The Thue I do not anymore! But what should we do? _Jean._
Fleeing, traveling far from here to continue! _Julie._ Travel? Yes, but
where? _Jean._ After Switzerland, according to the Italian lakes, where
you never been? _Julie._ No! Is it nice there? _Jean._ O eternal summer,
oranges, laurels! Oh! _Julie._ But what should we start there because
afterwards? _Jean._ Here we build a hotel with first class passengers
first order. _Julie._ A hotel? _Jean._ This is a life, you can believe me,
constantly new perspectives, new languages, not a minute to brooding or
dreams, no searching for employment, because the work itself comes from:
Day and night ringing the bell, the whistle train that comes and goes
to the bus, while the gold pieces in Kontorhaus roll!
Beazley to inform his father that he
had business of pressing importance in the West, and should meet him at
the station.  Mr. Beazley zealously waited upon the paternal Thompson
without delay, and together making their observations from the window,
they beheld a cab of many boxes, into which Ripton darted and was
followed by one in groom's dress.  It was Saturday, the day when Ripton
gave up his law-readings, magnanimously to bestow himself upon his
family, and Mr. Thompson liked to have his son's arm as he walked down to
the station; but that third glass of Port which always stood for his
second, and the groom's suggestion of aristocratic acquaintances,
prevented Mr. Thompson from interfering: so Ripton was permitted to
depart.

In the cab Ripton made a study of the letter he held.  It had the
preciseness of an imperial mandate.

Dear Ripton,--You are to get lodgings for a lady immediately.  Not a word
to a soul.  Then come along with Tom.  R.D.F."

"Lodgings for a lady!" Ripton meditated aloud: "What sort of lodgings?
Where am I to get lodgings?  Who's the lady?--I say!" he addressed the
mysterious messenger.  "So you're Tom Bakewell, are you, Tom?"

Tom grinned his identity.

"Do you remember the rick, Tom?  Ha! ha!  We got out of that neatly.  We
might all have been transported, though.  I could have convicted you,
Tom, safe!  It's no use coming across a practised lawyer.  Now tell me."
Christine can hear us! _Julie._ No, I do not let him back in foreign
hands!

Kill him then dear! _Jean._ To enter the little thing as her, I will
turn it's neck!

_Julie._ Yes, but he does not thun woe!

Not - no, I can not!

_Jean._ Her so, I can do it!

_Julie_ (Takes the bird from the farm and kissed him).

O my Sennchen, thou by thy own mistress dying? _Jean._ Be so good now
and make no Scenes, yes it is your life, your welfare!

So, quick!

(He pulls the bird from her hand, it contributes to Hackblock and
took the kitchen knife.)

_Julie_ (Turns off). _Jean._ They had slaughtered chicken to learn, instead
of the turret to shoot, (the skin to) then you would not before a
drop of blood will be powerless.

_Julie_ (screams). Kill me too! Kill me! If you kill an innocent animal can
without having your hand trembles! O, I hate and abhor you.

Between us, the blood. I swear an hour since I saw thee, I swear the hour,
since I was born!

_Jean._ Yes, what is it that you swear! Let's go! _Julie_ (Approaching the
Hackblock, almost against their wills drawn). No, I do not want to go, I
can not - I must see - still! drives a car outside. (You listening, while
her eyes fixed on the Hackblock and stapled holds the knife.)

Do you think I can see no blood? Do you think I'm so weak - o - I would
like to see your blood and your brain on the wood block.

I wish your whole sex in a lake, as there are swim. I think I could drink
your brain pan, I could my feet swim in your chest and your heart to
eat fried! You think I'm weak, you think I love you, you think I want your
brood under my heart and my blood nourish - give birth to your
child and take thy name!

Hear you how hot you are? I've never heard your last name - you probably
do not, I think. I wanted woman "Hofwächter," or "Madame Feger sweepings"
are - you dog, my necklace, thou servant of my buttons on the coat of
arms bears -- - I should share with my cook, my maid rival.

O! o! o! You believe that I was a coward, and wanted to flee! No, now
I stay - and then let the storm looming! My father comes home - he finds
his secretary affixed, his money stolen! Then he rings - with the bell
- twice after the servants - and then he sends after Schulze - and
then I will tell everything. Everything! O it is beautiful, an end to
it - if it only wanted an end!

- And then he gets the Schlagfluß and dies. - - And then the whole story
to an end - and it is a quiet and peace! - Eternal peace! - - And then the
coat of arms on the shattered coffin - the Graf sex are extinct - and
the Dienersprößling grows up in an orphanage - winning his laurels
in the gutter and ends in a prison! _Christine_ (Dressed for church,
the hymn in hand, comes from the right). _Julie_ (rushes towards her and
falls into her arms, as she wanted to protect her from looking).
Help me Christine! Help me against this man! _Christine_ (Immobile and
cold). What is this spectacle now for holiday mornings. (It looks
like the Hackblock.) Schmutzerei And what you have done here! - What
does this mean anything? And as you scream and skandalieren! _Julie._
Christine! You're a woman and my girlfriend! Beware of this scoundrel!
_Jean_ (A little shy and embarrassed). If the ladies räsonnieren, I go
out and shave me. (He sneaks across to the right.) _Julie._ You
will understand me, and thou shalt hear me! _Christine._ No, I really do
not see myself in such Wippchen! Where do you want to travel in your
suit there? - And he also has his hat on? - What? What? _Julie._ Hear me,
Christine; hear me, then I will tell you everything. _Christine._ I
want to know nothing! _Julie._ You must hear me! _Christine._ What then?
Of the stupidities with Jean! Yes, you see, so I'm absolutely not,
because I do not mix into it. But do you think him to be burning through
bait, then we will have the road block! _Julie_ (Very excited). Try to
be calm, Christine! and listen to me! I can not stay here, and Jean
can not stay here - so we have to stay! _Christine._ Hm, hm! - _Julie_
(With sudden incursion). But you see, now I get an idea - if we all
traveled - abroad - to Switzerland, and together built a hotel.
The hush that came with
her, and her soft manner of moving, stirred the silly youth to some of
those ardours that awaken the Knight of Dames in our bosoms.  He felt
that he would have given considerable sums for her to lift her veil.  He
could see that she was trembling--perhaps weeping.  It was the master of
her fate she clung to.  They passed him without speaking.  As she went
by, her head passively bent, Ripton had a glimpse of noble tresses and a
lovely neck; great golden curls hung loosely behind, pouring from under
her bonnet.  She looked a captive borne to the sacrifice.  What Ripton,
after a sight of those curls, would have given for her just to lift her
veil an instant and strike him blind with beauty, was, fortunately for
his exchequer, never demanded of him.  And he had absolutely been
composing speeches as he came along in the cab! gallant speeches for the
lady, and sly congratulatory ones for his friend, to be delivered as
occasion should serve, that both might know him a man of the world, and
be at their ease.  He forgot the smirking immoralities he had revelled
in.  This was clearly serious.  Ripton did not require to be told that
his friend was in love, and meant that life and death business called
marriage, parents and guardians consenting or not.

Presently Richard returned to him, and said hurriedly, "I want you now to
go to my uncle at our hotel.  Keep him quiet till I come.  Say I had to
see you--say anything.  I shall be there by the dinner hour.  Rip! I must
talk to you alone after dinner."

Ripton feebly attempted to reply that he was due at home.  He was very
curious to hear the plot of the New Comedy; and besides, there was
Richard's face questioning him sternly and confidently for signs of
unhesitating obedience.  He finished his grimaces by asking the name and
direction of the hotel.  Richard pressed his hand.  It is much to obtain
even that recognition of our devotion from the hero.

Tom Bakewell also received his priming, and, to judge by his chuckles and
grins, rather appeared to enjoy the work cut out for him.  In a few
minutes they had driven to their separate destinations; Ripton was left
to the unusual exercise of his fancy.  Such is the nature of youth and
its thirst for romance, that only to act as a subordinate is pleasant.
When one unfurls the standard of defiance to parents and guardians, he
may be sure of raising a lawless troop of adolescent ruffians, born
rebels, to any amount.  The beardless crew know that they have not a
chance of pay; but what of that when the rosy prospect of thwarting their
elders is in view?  Though it is to see another eat the Forbidden Fruit,
they will run all his risks with him.  Gaily Ripton took rank as
lieutenant in the enterprise, and the moment his heart had sworn the
oaths, he was rewarded by an exquisite sense of the charms of existence.
London streets wore a sly laugh to him.  He walked with a dandified heel.
The generous youth ogled aristocratic carriages, and glanced intimately
at the ladies, overflowingly happy.  The crossing-sweepers blessed him.
He hummed lively tunes, he turned over old jokes in his mouth unctuously,
he hugged himself, he had a mind to dance down Piccadilly, and all
because a friend of his was running away with a pretty girl, and he was
in the secret.

It was only when he stood on the doorstep of Richard's hotel, that his
jocund mood was a little dashed by remembering that he had then to
commence the duties of his office, and must fabricate a plausible story
to account for what he knew nothing about--a part that the greatest of
sages would find it difficult to perform.  The young, however, whom sages
well may envy, seldom fail in lifting their inventive faculties to the
level of their spirits, and two minutes of Hippias's angry complaints
against the friend he serenely inquired for, gave Ripton his cue.

"We're in the very street--within a stone's-throw of the house, and he
jumps like a harlequin out of my cab into another; he must be mad--that
boy's got madness in him!--and carries off all the boxes--my dinner-
pills, too! and keeps away the whole of the day, though he promised to go
to the doctor, and had a dozen engagements with me," said Hippias,
venting an enraged snarl to sum up his grievances.

The rain poured down and Rosaurus was on an open field, - he felt
very unhappy.

What was out of his dream of freedom now?

it, which is a king of the animals had to be, what was he now? A
gedemüthigtes wet kitten, without shelter, without food, which is no
longer at home could find.

Oh, he probably liked very far from home, away, as he was tired! He
stretched himself in the wet grass and be miserable all the mice had Miau
away when the rain that had not already done. - Last silent this Miau;
Rosaurus was stiff and powerless and everything was aware of him
waned.

Poor Rosaurus! That was a terrible end of his ambitious quest.

Algernon Feverel and Richard came in while he was hammering at the
alphabet to recollect the first letter of the doctor's name.  They had
met in the hall below, and were laughing heartily as they entered the
room.  Ripton jumped up to get the initiative.

"Have you seen the doctor?" he asked, significantly plucking at Richard's
fingers.

Richard was all abroad at the question.

Algernon clapped him on the back.  "What the deuce do you want with
doctor, boy?"

The solid thump awakened him to see matters as they were.  "Oh, ay! the
doctor!" he said, smiling frankly at his lieutenant." Why, he tells me
he'd back me to do Milo's trick in a week from the present day.--Uncle,"
he came forward to Hippias, "I hope you'll excuse me for running off as I
did.  I was in a hurry.  I left something at the railway.  This stupid
Rip thinks I went to the doctor about myself.  The fact was, I wanted to
fetch the doctor to see you here--so that you might have no trouble, you
know.  You can't bear the sight of his instruments and skeletons--I've
heard you say so.  You said it set all your marrow in revolt--'fried your
marrow,' I think were the words, and made you see twenty thousand
different ways of sliding down to the chambers of the Grim King.  Don't
you remember?"

Hippias emphatically did not remember, and he did not believe the story.
Irritation at the mad ravishment of his pill-box rendered him
incredulous.  Malaga, so rich in industries, trade and so strong in the
production of wine [4], is a poor city of monuments. The only one that
deserves attention, and still end up surrounded by sad and diminished
streets, is the cathedral. Belongs to the Renaissance style,
comprising of the order, and though its facade is a very remarkable,
its magnificent tower and good taste is itself a monument. Inside the
temple, made up of three beautiful buildings, it is really great
for their general forms, but no details of their artistic value,
on what makes paintings and sculptures, and there is no nobility
in architectural terms.

Ceilings should be exempted from the ships that are very beautiful, entirely
of stone and with great relief, and the vast central choir, which has
seating in rich wood carvings, and two whose bodies are colossal much
merit. The view offered by the Overview of Malaga is superb, when viewed
from the heights where they are contiguous to the fort _Alcazaba_, kept
half ruined, and the ruins of the ancient castle of _Gibralfaro_, Moruna
work that was located at higher elevation and communicated with
that strong.

From there you can admire a picture of beauty and majestic sad if it is the
view over the Mediterranean, the distant African coast and the
mountains in Spain, but smiling and happy, if only the city and its
port and the neighboring valley.

The sea, so majestically around without contrast monotonous when one of
these floating cities, admirable forms of civilization, which is
called a ship, is a treasure trove of primary and surprises when
it serves as a framework for a coast.

But nowhere has as much beauty and such sublime poetry in the English
Channel and the Straits of Gibraltar, where the waves with his
incessant movement, their glares vague and elusive, the floating
population and its eloquent rumors appear to be in some sense more
either to interrupt the spectacle of vitality that is manifested
in the earth.

This great drama of the sea, standing in his _espíritu_, but variable
in its forms to the infinite, is a supreme mystery that captivates,
fascinates, seizes the senses and binds to meditate.

But in that narrow the seduction of the Mediterranean is more
powerful than in elsewhere, the contrast of races and civilizations
that are facing the swinging through the valley, nearly always
haunted by terrible storms.

Seeing a movement is imagined that each wave brings in its folds any
disclosure, any complaints of that mysterious world, exuberant
warmth, strength, life and barbarism is called Africa .... Strange
phenomenon!!

Just a wide ditch separating the two continents, at sea (or
semi-continent) and yet their moral distance is huge!

The New World, so far from Europe and so colossal, it has infinitely more
advanced in civilization and freedom, ie in possession of the
consciousness or the personality and the notion of justice that
this great peninsula of the Old World in whose breast vegeta in the
barbarous race of great Cham.

Why this contrast? Is it because of the mainly black or nomas? ¡Triste is
the truth! White is that mankind has worked for many centuries, the
exploitation of slavery, in keeping humanity in barbarism black! The port
of Malaga, while small, warm and very little flawed by sandbars
that shed their Within the storms of the Mediterranean is always
populated by numerous ships of all nations, and they play all the
fumes that make use of the Spanish and African coasts, and rotating
between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.

The movement of ships, sailors, workers and goods to the port gives an
air of joy and interest that are pleasing to the traveler, and yet
does not feel the desire to remain there for many days, as in Granada
or Seville.

It understands and acknowledges the merit of commercial and industrial
Malaga, but the general population and the mass of its people do not
inspire sympathy. When we get to Malaga had seen the tiny luggage, however
we had been inside the country and made us speak display passports!

Sententious, but true.  I gave him the idea, though!  Take
care of your stomachs, boys! and if ever you hear of a monument proposed
to a scientific cook or gastronomic doctor, send in your subscriptions.
Or say to him while he lives, Go forth, and be a Knight!  Ha!  They have
a good cook at this house.  He suits me better than ours at Raynham.  I
almost wish I had brought my manuscript to town, I feel so much better.
Aha! I didn't expect to digest at all without my regular incentive.  I
think I shall give it up.--What do you say to the theatre to-night,
boys!"

Richard shouted, "Bravo, uncle!"

"Let Mr. Thompson finish first," said Algernon.  "I want to hear the
conclusion of the story.  The old girl has a wig and a daughter.  I'll
swear somebody runs away with one of the two!  Fill your glass,
Mr. Thompson, and forward!"

"So somebody does," Ripton received his impetus.  "And they're found in
town together," he made a fresh jerk.  "She--a--that is, the old lady--
found them in company."

"She finds him with her wig on in company!" said Algernon.  "Capital!
Here's matter for the lawyers!"

"And you advise her not to proceed, under such circumstances of
aggravation?" Hippias observed, humorously twinkling with his stomachic
contentment.

"It's the daughter," Ripton sighed, and surrendering to pressure, hurried
on recklessly, "A runaway match--beautiful girl!--the only son of a
baronet--married by special licence.  A--the point is," he now brightened
and spoke from his own element, "the point is whether the marriage can be
annulled, as she's of the Catholic persuasion and he's a Protestant, and
they're both married under age.  That's the point."

Having come to the point he breathed extreme relief, and saw things more
distinctly; not a little amazed at his leader's horrified face.

The two elders were making various absurd inquiries, when Richard sent
his chair to the floor, crying, "What a muddle you're in, Rip!  You're
mixing half-a-dozen stories together.  The old lady I told you about was
old Dame Bakewell, and the dispute was concerning a neighbour of hers who
encroached on her garden, and I said I'd pay the money to see her
righted!"

"Ah," said Ripton, humbly, "I was thinking of the other.  Her garden!
Cabbages don't interest me"--

"Here, come along," Richard beckoned to him savagely.  "I'll be back in
five minutes, uncle," he nodded coolly to either.

The young men left the room.  In the hall-passage they met Berry, dressed
to return to Raynham.  Richard dropped a helper to the intelligence into
his hand, and warned him not to gossip much of London.  Berry bowed
perfect discreetness.

"What on earth induced you to talk about Protestants and Catholics
marrying, Rip?" said Richard, as soon as they were in the street.

"Why," Ripton answered, "I was so hard pushed for it, 'pon my honour, I
didn't know what to say.  I ain't an author, you know; I can't make a
story.  I was trying to invent a point, and I couldn't think of any
other, and I thought that was just the point likely to make a jolly good
dispute.  Capital dinners they give at those crack hotels.  Why did you
throw it all upon me?  I didn't begin on the old lady."

The hero mused, "It's odd!  It's impossible you could have known!  I'll
tell you why, Rip!  I wanted to try you.  You fib well at long range, but
you don't do at close quarters and single combat.  You're good behind
walls, but not worth a shot in the open.  I just see what you're fit for.
You're staunch--that I am certain of.  You always were.  One or more beds
in the bedroom, in a sad kitchen furniture, a very limited supply
of beans, chickpeas or beans in the pantry and lounge in the two
old wooden stools, a table, take, and some small tools to junk
outstanding work of the walls between colorful prints, and religious
and profane, this is the underground society of that household.

But what I admire most is the relative robustness of these people, and
the admirable cleanliness of their rooms. Although almost all the walls
are smoked, everything is clean and in place, and not note any moisture
even in the most remote parts. However, the heart was depressed in
the presence of such a spectacle.
It's not only her beauty--I don't care so
much about that!--but when you've once seen her, she seems to draw music
from all the nerves of your body; but she's such an angel.  I worship
her.  And her mind's like her face.  She's pure gold.  There, you'll see
her to-night.

"Well," he pursued, after inflating Ripton with this rapturous prospect,
"they got her away, and I recovered.  It was Mister Adrian's work.
What's my father's objection to her?  Because of her birth?  She's
educated; her manners are beautiful--full of refinement--quick and soft!
Can they show me one of their ladies like her?--she's the daughter of a
naval lieutenant!  Because she's a Catholic?  What has religion to do
with"--he pronounced "Love!" a little modestly--as it were a blush in his
voice.

"Well, when I recovered I thought I did not care for her.  It shows how
we know ourselves!  And I cared for nothing.  I felt as if I had no
blood.  I tried to imitate my dear Austin.  I wish to God he were here.
I love Austin.  He would understand her.  He's coming back this year, and
then--but it'll be too late then.--Well, my father's always scheming to
make me perfect--he has never spoken to me a word about her, but I can
see her in his eyes--he wanted to give me a change, he said, and asked me
to come to town with my uncle Hippy, and I consented.  It was another
plot to get me out of the way!  As I live, I had no more idea of meeting
her than of flying to heaven!"

He lifted his face.  "hook at those old elm branches!  How they seem to
mix among the stars!_Jean._ I will say a thousand times - later!

Just not here! And above all, no sensibility, if not everything will be
lost! We must perceive the matter calmly, as a wise man.

(He takes a cigar before, cut the top and ignite it.) Put yourself out there
now. Then I am here, and then we chat as if nothing had happened. _Julie._
O my God! Do you have no feeling? _Jean._ I! It giebt no sentimental
people, like me, but I can dominate. _Julie._ Recently, you could kiss
my shoe - and now? _Jean_ (Hard). Yes, before! Now we have to think
otherwise. _Julie._ Speak not hard to me _Jean._ No, but wisely! A Thorheit
is committed, we do not celebrate more! The count may be here any moment,
and our fate must be decided beforehand. What do you think of my plans for
the future? Say it with you? _Julie._ It seems to me quite acceptable,
but one question: to such a large company is part of a big capital have
you? _Jean_ (Smokes). I! Yes certainly! I've lost my expertise, my rare
experience, my language skills! This is a capital which is worth
something, seems to me that _Julie._ But we can not even buy a railway
ticket. _Jean._ This is probably true, but why do I search for a human
being, the funds can stretch. _Julie._ Where can you find out in the
hurry? _Jean._ The _Sie_ be found if you are my Compagnon.
I think I
said shameful things.  Oh what noble creatures women are!  She hardly had
strength to move.  I took her to that place where you found us, Rip! she
went down on her knees to me, I never dreamed of anything in life so
lovely as she looked then. Her eyes were thrown up, bright with a crowd
of tears--her dark brows bent together, like Pain and Beauty meeting in
one; and her glorious golden hair swept off her shoulders as she hung
forward to my hands.--Could I lose such a prize.--If anything could have
persuaded me, would not that?--I thought of Dante's Madonna--Guido's
Magdalen.--Is there sin in it?  I see none!  And if there is, it's all
mine!  I swear she's spotless of a thought of sin.  I see her very soul?
Cease to love her?  Who dares ask me?  Cease to love her?  Why, I live on
her!--To see her little chin straining up from her throat, as she knelt
to me!--there was one curl that fell across her throat"....

Ripton listened for more.  Richard had gone off in a muse at the picture.

"Well?" said Ripton, "and how about that young farmer fellow?"

The hero's head was again contemplating the starry branches.  His
lieutenant's question came to him after an interval.

"Young Tom?  Why, it's young Torn Blaize--son of our old enemy, Rip!  I
like the old man now.  Oh! I saw nothing of the fellow."

"Lord!" cried Ripton, "are we going to get into a mess with Blaizes
again?  I don't like that!"

His commander quietly passed his likes or dislikes.

"But when he goes to the train, and finds she's not there?"  Ripton
suggested.

"I've provided for that.  The fool went to the South-east instead of the
South-west.  All warmth, all sweetness, comes with the South-west!--I've
provided for that, friend Rip.  My trusty Tom awaits him there, as if by
accident.  He tells him he has not seen her, and advises him to remain in
town, and go for her there to-morrow, and the day following.  Tom has
money for the work.  Young Tom ought to see London, you know, Rip!Den we
bought in Dijon. And he came to the liter four francs without glass, and
then to the customs! Cook What you doing now? It stinks so infernal!
_Christine._ Oh, it's a devil filth, the Miss Julie for Diana wants.
_Jean._ You should get yourself a little petite express, Christine! But
why you must stand on the holy night and for the Beesten cook? Is it ill,
what? _Christine._ Yep! It has become the dog hinausgeschlichen - and
since they have made a nonsense - and you'll see, including the lady wants
to know nothing. _Jean._ Yes, in a relationship is the lady too proud
and too little of other proud, just like the Countess in his own lifetime.
They felt most comfortable in the kitchen and in the stables, but they
never wanted to ride horses with _einem_ they went with dirty cuffs, but
the Count had crown to have the buttons.

The lady to her now to talk about is themselves and their person
in eight is not enough.

I would say it is not fine. Now just as they danced in the barn, they
tore the foresters of Annas page and asked him to. We would not so
behave, but so it goes, when the gentry to make common, then - they
are common! But she is handsome! Gorgeous! O! These shoulders! This bosom!
and - & c.! _Christine._ Well, this is also a lot of art! I know what
Clare said, it helps when tightening. _Jean._ Pah, Klara!

You are always jealous of each other! I am with her as this and have them
ride to see - And then, as she dances! _Christine._ Hear again, Jean!
Will not you dance with me when I'm finished? _Jean._ Yes, of course
I will das du _Christine._ promise me? _Jean._ Promise? When I say it I
Thue, Thue then I do it too! Meanwhile, thanks for the food. It was very
good. (He suggests the cork into the bottle into it.) _Das Fräulein_
(in the Glasthür, speaks to the outside). I am once again! Is only as
long as progress! _Jean_ (Hides the wine bottle in his desk drawer and
then respectfully stands up). _Fräulein Julie_ (occurs and goes to Christine
on the stove). Na! Is it ready? _Christine_ (Giebt her by signs to understand
that Jean is present). _Jean_ (Galant). Have secrets from the ladies?
_Julie_ (He proposes with the handkerchief into his face). Is he
curious? _Jean._ Oh, how wonderful it smelled after violets!

_Julie_ (Flirtatious). Insolent! He understands also perfume? He can dance
- Not hersehen! He go away! (It occurs behind the table.) _Jean_ (Saucy,
but good).

Is it a magic potion, what the ladies since the Midsummer Night brew?
Something to be written in the stars of the fortune to read, so
you can get to see Future!

_Julie_ (Spicy). Yes, if he gets to see, then He must have good eyes!
(To Christine.)

Pour it into a half bottle and cork it tightly. He now Come and dance
with me a Scottish, Jean - (You can her handkerchief on the table.)
_Jean_ (Tentatively). I want to be rude to anyone, but this dance, I
had promised Christine - _Julie._ Well, yes they can get another.

(It occurs to Christine.) Or, Christine?
Berry before him,
profuse of mellow curtsies.

Richard ran to her and caught her hands: "She's well?--upstairs?"

"Oh, quite well! only a trifle tired with her journey, and fluttering-
like," Mrs. Berry replied to Ripton alone.  The lover had flown aloft.

The wise woman sagely ushered Ripton into her own private parlour, there
to wait till he was wanted.


CHAPTER XXVII

"In all cases where two have joined to commit an offence, punish one of
the two lightly," is the dictum of The Pilgrim's's Scrip.

It is possible for young heads to conceive proper plans of action, and
occasionally, by sheer force of will, to check the wild horses that are
ever fretting to gallop off with them.  But when they have given the
reins and the whip to another, what are they to do?  They may go down on
their knees, and beg and pray the furious charioteer to stop, or moderate
his pace.  Alas!  each fresh thing they do redoubles his ardour: There is
a power in their troubled beauty women learn the use of, and what wonder?
They have seen it kindle Ilium to flames so often!  But ere they grow
matronly in the house of Menelaus, they weep, and implore, and do not, in
truth, know how terribly two-edged is their gift of loveliness.  They
resign themselves to an incomprehensible frenzy; pleasant to them,
because they attribute it to excessive love.  And so the very sensible
things which they can and do say, are vain.

I reckon it absurd to ask them to be quite in earnest.  Are not those
their own horses in yonder team?  Certainly, if they were quite in
earnest, they might soon have my gentleman as sober as a carter.  A
hundred different ways of disenchanting him exist, and Adrian will point
you out one or two that shall be instantly efficacious.  For Love, the
charioteer, is easily tripped, while honest jog-trot Love keeps his legs
to the end.  Granted dear women are not quite in earnest, still the mere
words they utter should be put to their good account.  They do mean them,
though their hearts are set the wrong way.  'Tis a despairing, pathetic
homage to the judgment of the majority, in whose faces they are flying.
Punish Helen, very young, lightly.  After a certain age you may select
her for special chastisement.  An innocent with Theseus, with Paris she
is an advanced incendiary.

The fair young girl was sitting as her lover had left her; trying to
recall her stunned senses.  Her bonnet was un-removed, her hands clasped
on her knees; dry tears in her eyes.  Like a dutiful slave, she rose to
him.  And first he claimed her mouth.  There was a speech, made up of all
the pretty wisdom her wild situation and true love could gather, awaiting
him there; but his kiss scattered it to fragments.  She dropped to her
seat weeping, and hiding her shamed cheeks.

By his silence she divined his thoughts, and took his hand and drew it to
her lips.

He bent beside her, bidding her look at him.

"Keep your eyes so."

She could not.

"Do you fear me, Lucy?"

Remember there inside Christine!

Do you think that they do not even feel?

_Julie._ I believed it before, but now I think it no more.

No, slavery is slavery - _Jean._ And is strumpet strumpet!

_Julie_ (On the knees, with folded hands ).

O God in Heaven, take my miserable life of me!

Take me by the dirt in which I sink!

Save me! Save me! _Jean._ I can not deny that you'm sorry thun!

At that time, when I was in Zwiebelbeet in the Rose Garden and you saw there
- now I will tell you - because I had the same dirty thoughts,
like all boys.

_Julie._ And yet you wanted me to die for!

_Jean._ In Oats box? That was just empty posturing.

_Julie._ So lie? _Jean_ (Begins to be sleepy).

Almost!

The story I once read in a newspaper, from a chimney sweep, which
is in a box with lilac appealed because he was sentenced to
Alimentationsbeitrag.

_Julie._ Yes, so are you - _Jean._ What else should I invent; we
must the woman always room with flatteries catch!

_Julie._ scoundrel! _Jean._ harlot!

_Julie._ And I should be the first branch - _Jean._ But the branch
was rotten.

_Julie._ I should be the flagship of the hotel be - And I _Jean._
the hotel.

_Julie._ sit in your office, your clients attract, falsify your
invoices - _Jean._ I would even care - _Julie._ The fact that a
human soul so dirty through and through his can!

if you take me home now"--

The lover stood up.  "He who has been arranging that fine scheme to
disgrace and martyrize you?  True, as I live! that's the reason of their
having you back.  Your old servant heard him and your uncle discussing
it.  He!--Lucy! he's a good man, but he must not step in between you and
me.  I say God has given you to me."

He was down by her side again, his arms enfolding her.

She had hoped to fight a better battle than in the morning, and she was
weaker and softer.

She took the animal froze in her mantle and warmed it, and then wore it
to the little princess. Rosaurus, the eyes on him was he had a serious
dream, only the great hunger, he felt, told him that it was no dream.
The hag Wisdom annoyed them little further.  She rustled her garments
ominously, and vanished.

"Oh, my own Richard!" the fair girl just breathed.

He whispered, "Call me that name."

She blushed deeply.

"Call me that name," he repeated.  "You said it once today."

"Dearest!"

That hill seemed an ordeal, those millions of yellow flowers and
crimson fruit, grow among the thorns and trunks without leaves or
foliage (like cacti), I plot represent the history of the gypsy and
the five pillars of smoke in an area with no homes, they gave me
the idea of camps variables a nomadic people.

Finally, the numerous underground forges that race albéitares and
are, made me think that visiting the kingdom of Vulcano in caricature.

Cold charity to all
I cannot get on with Gibbon
In our House, my son, there is peculiar blood.  We go to wreck!
Our most diligent pupil learns not so much as an earnest teacher