[Illustration: By Swinging the Top Back the Table is Transformed into
the Elegant Davenport Seen on the Opposite Page]

[Illustration: The Billiard Table as Converted into a Luxurious
Davenport--A Child Can Make the Change in a Moment]

The top or table is built upon and about a heavy frame of well seasoned
1-3/4-in. by 5-3/4-in. white pine. The parts to this frame are
thoroughly mortised and tenoned together. Middle stretchers, lengthwise
and crosswise, give added strength and rigidity. Upon this frame the
slate bed is leveled by planing the frame wherever necessary. Slats are
fastened to the bed by screws, the heads of which are countersunk so
that they may be covered over even with plaster of paris.

[Illustration: Details Showing Dimensions of Parts]

The top and side facings are built together, the angle being reinforced
with block and glue, as shown in detail. These facings, to which the
cushions are attached, are afterward made fast to the frame by
ornamental headed screws. The detail and photograph show the manner of
applying the under facing.

Before attaching the top and side facings, the bed cloth should be
placed over the slate and fastened. The nap of the cloth should run from
the head toward the opposite end of the table. Draw the cloth as tight
as possible, taking care that there shall be no wrinkles.

The billiard cushions can be bought ready to cover. The bumpers which
keep the top from striking the front posts can be obtained by making
proper selection from oak door bumpers carried in stock by hardware
dealers. The brass swing bars, most likely, can be obtained at the same
place.

The upholstering on the under side of the top--the back of the
davenport--is to be built upon a stout frame made of some suitable
common wood, and the whole set in the recess formed as shown in the
detail drawing--the whole being fastened from the back before the slate
bed is put in position.

Effort should be made to select leather of a color that will harmonize
with the wood finish which is to be applied.


EASILY MADE BOOK SHELVES


Very cheap but useful and attractive book shelves are shown in the
accompanying drawing. The vertical strips, A, may be 3/4 in. by 2 in.
and are screwed to four shelves, B, each cut to the shape of a quarter
circle. The screws are all countersunk and as the heads all come on the
side next to the wall, they do not show. The design might be varied
somewhat to suit the fancy of the builder, although the appearance of
the shelves constructed as shown is very pleasing, especially so if the
workmanship is good and the wood carefully stained and varnished. The
total cost of construction was less than 75 cents.

[Illustration]


A BLACKING CASE TABOURET


[Illustration]

A substantial piece of mission furniture which may be used as a tabouret
or plant stand as well as a blacking case, in which there is a
receptacle for brushes, blacking and a shoe rest, is shown in the
illustration. The stock can be secured mill-planed, sandpapered and in
lengths almost ready to be assembled. The stock list consists of the
following pieces:

  4 posts, 1-1/2 by 1-1/2 by 17 in.
  4 side rails, 1 by 6-1/2 by 9-1/2 in.
  2 top pieces, 1 by 8-1/4 by 16-1/2 in.
  1 bottom, 1/4 by 9-1/2 by 9-1/2 in.
  1 cleat, 1 by 1 by 18 in.

The posts and cleat are surfaced on four sides, while the other pieces
are surfaced on only two sides. The allowance of 1/2 in. on the side
rails, top and bottom, is for fitting the joints. Be sure the surfaces
of the pieces for the posts are square and the ends sawed square off,
making the posts exactly the same length when they come from the mill.

[Illustration: Details of Shoe Rest]

Square up the four side rails to 6 by 9 in. Cut one end of each post
tapering with a chisel; face and sandpaper the posts and side rails
before making the joints. The side rails are attached to the posts with
three dowels to each joint. The place for each dowel is located by
making a line exactly in the middle lengthwise on each end of each side
rail. Three lines are made to intersect this middle line, as shown in
the detail. Drive a 1/2-in. brad in each intersection allowing a small
portion of each brad to project, and cut off the heads. Gauge a line in
the middle of each post at the top where the joints are to be made and
press the end of a side rail containing the brads against the post. This
will mark the places to bore holes for the dowels. Pull out the brads
and bore holes for the dowel pins.

[Illustration: Details of Tabouret Construction]

When gluing up the side rails and posts, first put on a coat of glue on
the ends of the side rails and let it dry. This will fill up the pores
in the end grain of the wood which will make a strong joint when
finally glued together. The dowel pins are made 3/8 in. square with a
slight taper at the ends. These can be easily forced into the holes,
when the ends of the side rails are coated with glue and ready to be put
together, by clamps pressing on the outside of the posts.

The bottom is held in position with narrow strips tacked on the lower
edge of the side rails. Square up the top pieces to 8 by 16 in. and
fasten one piece to the top with cleats and screws as shown in the
drawing. The other piece is hinged to the first one with two 2-in.
hinges.

The shoe rest can be made from a block of wood and covered with sheet
tin, copper or brass, or a cast-iron rest can be purchased. The rest is
fastened to the under side of the hinged top. Stain the wood any dark
color and apply a very thin coat of shellac. Put on wax and you will
have a finish that can be renewed at any time by wiping with a little
turpentine and rewaxing.


HOW TO MAKE A ROLL TOP DESK


[Illustration: The Desk Complete]

The materials for this roll top desk can be purchased from a mill
dressed and sandpapered so the hardest part of the work will be
finished. The wood must be selected to suit the builder and to match
other articles of furniture. The following list of materials will be
required:

   68 lineal ft. of 1 by 3 in. hardwood.
   65 lineal ft. of 1 by 2 in. hardwood.
    3 lineal ft. of 1/4 by 24 in. hardwood.
   45 lineal ft. of 1/4 by 10-1/2 in. hardwood.
   36 lineal ft. of 1 by 12 in. hardwood.
   35 lineal ft. of 3/8 by 9 in. soft wood.
  100 sq. ft. of 1/2 by 12 in. soft wood.
    1 piece 34 in. wide and 54 in. long hardwood.
   30 pieces 1 by 1 in. 48 in. long.

[Illustration]

The upper and lower back panels are constructed very similar, the only
difference being in the height. The inside edge of the 3-in. pieces is
plowed with a 1/4-in. plow 3/8 in. deep exactly in the center and also
both edges of each 2-in. piece. The 16-in. pieces in the upper back
panel and the 24-in. pieces in the lower back panel must be cut 1/2 in.
longer and a 1/4-in. tongue made on each end to fit into the plowed
groove and form a mortise joint.

The upper back panel is filled in with four boards 9-1/2 in. wide and
16-1/2 in. long, while the four boards in the lower back panel are 9-1/2
in. wide and 24-1/2 in. long cut from the 1/4-in. hard wood. When the
grooves are cut properly, the joints made perfect and the boards fitted
to the right size, these two panels can be assembled and pressed
together in cabinet clamps. This will make the outside dimensions as
given in the drawing.

