Holiday Romance, by Charles Dickens
Scanned and proofed by David Price
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


HOLIDAY ROMANCE - IN FOUR PARTS


PART I - INTRODUCTORY ROMANCE PROM THE PEN OF WILLIAM TINKLING,
ESQ. (Aged eight.)


THIS beginning-part is not made out of anybody's head, you know.
It's real.  You must believe this beginning-part more than what
comes after, else you won't understand how what comes after came to
be written.  You must believe it all; but you must believe this
most, please.  No relationship has been made out between the
fragments, but the four-fairly complete prisms fall into two groups,
A and C, B and D, as regards both the form of writing and the character
of the text.

All date seemingly from the same month of the same year, though
from separate days. The most fragmentary of these, D, seems the
best, as it has the smallest number of unique readings and has also
the largest number of omissions, [Footnote: II. 21b-23a; III.
37b-39a; IV. 36.] all of which are clearly interpolations in the
places where they are given. This is especially true of the one
[Footnote: IV. 36.] which refers to the Anu-Adad and Ishtar temples,
for not only is the insertion awkward, we know from the Obelisk
[Footnote: II. 13.] that the Anu-Adad temple was not completed
till year five, so that it must be an interpolation of that date.

In spite of its general resemblance to D, especially in its
omissions, B is very poorly written and has over two
hundred unique readings. One of its omissions would seriously
disarrange the chronology, [Footnote: IV. 40-42.] others are clearly
unwarranted, [Footnote: II. 79081; V.4; VIII. 29b-33.] and
one long addition [Footnote: VII. 17-27; also I. 35; different
in VI. 37.] further marks its peculiar character.

Our conclusion must be that it is a poor copy of a good original. C
is between A and B, agreeing with the latter in a strange interpolation
[Footnote: III. 2a-c.] and in the omission of the five kings of the
Muski. [Footnote: I. 63b.

King, _Supplement_, 116 follows C.] A is the latest but best preserved,
while the character of the text warrants us in making this our
standard as it has but few unique readings and but one improbable
omission. [Footnote: VII. 105-8.] The same account, in slightly
different form and seemingly later in date [Footnote: K.2815 is dated
in the eponomy of Ninib nadin apal, the LAH MA GAL E
official. He probably is after the rab bi lul official in whose
year the hexagons are dated.] is also found in some tablet
inscriptions.The Drowvey who
was to fall was the one in spectacles, not the one with the large
lavender bonnet.  At that signal I was to rush forth, seize my
bride, and fight my way to the lane.  There a junction would be
effected between myself and the colonel; and putting our brides
behind us, between ourselves and the palings, we were to conquer or
die.

The enemy appeared, - approached.  Waving his black flag, the
colonel attacked.  Confusion ensued.  Anxiously I awaited my
signal; but my signal came not.  So far from falling, the hated
Drowvey in spectacles appeared to me to have muffled the colonel's
head in his outlawed banner, and to be pitching into him with a
parasol.  The one in the lavender bonnet also performed prodigies
of valour with her fists on his back.  Seeing that all was for the
moment lost, I fought my desperate way hand to hand to the lane.
Through taking the back road, I was so fortunate as to meet nobody,
and arrived there uninterrupted.

It seemed an age ere the colonel joined me.  He had been to the
jobbing tailor's to be sewn up in several places, and attributed
our defeat to the refusal of the detested Drowvey to fall.  Finding
her so obstinate, he had said to her, 'Die, recreant!' but had
found her no more open to reason on that point than the other.

My blooming bride appeared, accompanied by the colonel's bride, at
the dancing-school next day.  What?  Was her face averted from me?
Hah?  Even so.  With a look of scorn, she put into my hand a bit of
paper, and took another partner.  On the paper was pencilled,
'Heavens!  Can I write the word?  Is my husband a cow?'

In the first bewilderment of my heated brain, I tried to think what
slanderer could have traced my family to the ignoble animal
mentioned above.  Vain were my endeavours.  At the end of that
dance I whispered the colonel to come into the cloak-room, and I
showed him the note.

'There is a syllable wanting,' said he, with a gloomy brow.

'Hah!  What syllable?' was my inquiry.

'She asks, can she write the word?  And no; you see she couldn't,'
said the colonel, pointing out the passage.

'And the word was?' said I.

'Cow - cow - coward,' hissed the pirate-colonel in my ear, and gave
me back the note.

Feeling that I must for ever tread the earth a branded boy, -
person I mean, - or that I must clear up my honour, I demanded to
be tried by a court-martial.  The colonel admitted my right to be
tried.  Some difficulty was found in composing the court, on
account of the Emperor of France's aunt refusing to let him come
out.  He was to be the president.  Ere yet we had appointed a
substitute, he made his escape over the back-wall, and stood among
us, a free monarch.

The court was held on the grass by the pond.  I recognised, in a
certain admiral among my judges, my deadliest foe.  In later times,
as the catacombs were extended, the tufa dug out from one passage
was carried into the old passages no longer used; and thus, as
the catacomb extended in one direction, it was closed up in another,
and the ancient graves were concealed.

This is now one of the great impediments in the way of modern
exploration; and the same process is being repeated at present;
for the Church allows none of the earth or stone to be removed
that has been hallowed as the resting-place of the martyrs,
and thus, as one passage is now opened, another has to be closed.
The archaeologists may rebel, but the priests have their way.
The ancient filling up was, however, productive of one good result;
it preserved some of the graves from the rifling to which most were
exposed during the period of the desertion of the catacombs.

Most of the graves which are now found with their tiled or marble
front complete, and with the inscription of name or date upon them
unbroken, are those which were thus secluded.

But there is still another curious fact bearing upon the Christian
origin of the catacombs. They are in general situated on somewhat
elevated land, and always on land protected from the overflow of
the river, and from the drainage of the hills.

The early traditions of the Church preserve the names of many
Christians who gave land for the purpose,--a portion of their
_vignas_, or their villas. The names of the women Priscilla,
Cyriaca, and Lucina are honored with such remembrance, and are
attached to three of the catacombs. Sometimes a piece of land
was thus occupied which was surrounded by property belonging
to those who were not Christian. This seems to have been the case,
for instance, in regard to the cemetery of St. Callixtus; for (and
this is one of the recent discoveries of the Cavaliere de Rossi)
the paths of this cemetery, crossing and recrossing in three, four,
and five stages, are all limited to a definite and confined
area,--and this area is not determined by the quality of the ground,
but apparently by the limits of the field overhead.

'Is that paper - please to look at it - in your hand?'

'It is,' said the colonel.

'Is it a military sketch?'

'It is,' said the colonel.

'Of an engagement?'

'Quite so,' said the colonel.

'Of the late engagement?'

'Of the late engagement.'

'Please to describe it, and then hand it to the president of the
court.'

From that triumphant moment my sufferings and my dangers were at an
end.  The court rose up and jumped, on discovering that I had
strictly obeyed orders.  My foe, the admiral, who though muzzled
was malignant yet, contrived to suggest that I was dishonoured by
having quitted the field.  But the colonel himself had done as
much, and gave his opinion, upon his word and honour as a pirate,
that when all was lost the field might be quitted without disgrace.
I was going to be found 'No coward and not guilty,' and my blooming
bride was going to be publicly restored to my arms in a procession,
when an unlooked-for event disturbed the general rejoicing.  This
was no other than the Emperor of France's aunt catching hold of his
hair.  The proceedings abruptly terminated, and the court
tumultuously dissolved.

It was when the shades of the next evening but one were beginning
to fall, ere yet the silver beams of Luna touched the earth, that
four forms might have been descried slowly advancing towards the
weeping willow on the borders of the pond, the now deserted scene
of the day before yesterday's agonies and triumphs.  On a nearer
approach, and by a practised eye, these might have been identified
as the forms of the pirate-colonel with his bride, and of the day
before yesterday's gallant prisoner with his bride.

On the beauteous faces of the Nymphs dejection sat enthroned.  All
four reclined under the willow for some minutes without speaking,
till at length the bride of the colonel poutingly observed, 'It's
of no use pretending any more, and we had better give it up.'

'Hah!' exclaimed the pirate.  'Pretending?'

'Don't go on like that; you worry me,' returned his bride.

The lovely bride of Tinkling echoed the incredible declaration.
The two warriors exchanged stony glances.

'If,' said the bride of the pirate-colonel, 'grown-up people WON'T
do what they ought to do, and WILL put us out, what comes of our
pretending?'

'We only get into scrapes,' said the bride of Tinkling.

'You know very well,' pursued the colonel's bride, 'that Miss
Drowvey wouldn't fall.  You complained of it yourself.  And you
know how disgracefully the court-martial ended.  As to our
marriage; would my people acknowledge it at home?'

'Or would my people acknowledge ours?' said the bride of Tinkling.

Again the two warriors exchanged stony glances.

'If you knocked at the door and claimed me, after you were told to
go away,' said the colonel's bride, 'you would only have your hair
pulled, or your ears, or your nose.'

'If you persisted in ringing at the bell and claiming me,' said the
bride of Tinkling to that gentleman, 'you would have things dropped
on your head from the window over the handle, or you would be
played upon by the garden-engine.'

'And at your own homes,' resumed the bride of the colonel, 'it
would be just as bad.  You would be sent to bed, or something
equally undignified.  Again, how would you support us?'

The pirate-colonel replied in a courageous voice, 'By rapine!'  But
his bride retorted, 'Suppose the grown-up people wouldn't be
rapined?'  'Then,' said the colonel, 'they should pay the penalty
in blood.' - 'But suppose they should object,' retorted his bride,
'and wouldn't pay the penalty in blood or anything else?'

A mournful silence ensued.

'Then do you no longer love me, Alice?' asked the colonel.

'Redforth!  I am ever thine,' returned his bride.

'Then do you no longer love me, Nettie?' asked the present writer.

'Tinkling!  I am ever thine,' returned my bride.

We all four embraced.  Let me not be misunderstood by the giddy.
The colonel embraced his own bride, and I embraced mine.  But two
times two make four.

'Nettie and I,' said Alice mournfully, 'have been considering our
position.  The grown-up people are too strong for us.  They make us
ridiculous.  Besides, they have changed the times.  William
Tinkling's baby brother was christened yesterday.  What took place?
Was any king present?  Answer, William.'

I said No, unless disguised as Great-uncle Chopper.

'Any queen?'

There had been no queen that I knew of at our house.  There might
have been one in the kitchen: but I didn't think so, or the
servants would have mentioned it.

'Any fairies?'

None that were visible.

'We had an idea among us, I think,' said Alice, with a melancholy
smile, 'we four, that Miss Grimmer would prove to be the wicked
fairy, and would come in at the christening with her crutch-stick,
and give the child a bad gift.  Was there anything of that sort?
Answer, William.'

I said that ma had said afterwards (and so she had), that Great-
uncle Chopper's gift was a shabby one; but she hadn't said a bad
one.  She had called it shabby, electrotyped, second-hand, and
below his income.

'It must be the grown-up people who have changed all this,' said
Alice.  'WE couldn't have changed it, if we had been so inclined,
and we never should have been.  Or perhaps Miss Grimmer IS a wicked
fairy after all, and won't act up to it because the grown-up people
have persuaded her not to.  Either way, they would make us
ridiculous if we told them what we expected.'

'Tyrants!' muttered the pirate-colonel.

'Nay, my Redforth,' said Alice, 'say not so.  Call not names, my
Redforth, or they will apply to pa.'

'Let 'em,' said the colonel.  'I do not care.  Who's he?'

Tinkling here undertook the perilous task of remonstrating with his
lawless friend, who consented to withdraw the moody expressions
above quoted.

'What remains for us to do?' Alice went on in her mild, wise way.
'We must educate, we must pretend in a new manner, we must wait.'

The colonel clenched his teeth, - four out in front, and a piece of
another, and he had been twice dragged to the door of a dentist-
despot, but had escaped from his guards.  'How educate?  How
pretend in a new manner?  How wait?'

'Educate the grown-up people,' replied Alice.  'We part to-night.
Yes, Redforth,' - for the colonel tucked up his cuffs, - 'part to-
night!  Let us in these next holidays, now going to begin, throw
our thoughts into something educational for the grown-up people,
hinting to them how things ought to be.  Let us veil our meaning
under a mask of romance; you, I, and Nettie.  William Tinkling
being the plainest and quickest writer, shall copy out.  Is it
agreed?'

The colonel answered sulkily, 'I don't mind.'  He then asked, 'How
about pretending?'

'We will pretend,' said Alice, 'that we are children; not that we
are those grown-up people who won't help us out as they ought, and
who understand us so badly.'

The colonel, still much dissatisfied, growled, 'How about waiting?'

'We will wait,' answered little Alice, taking Nettie's hand in
hers, and looking up to the sky, 'we will wait - ever constant and
true - till the times have got so changed as that everything helps
us out, and nothing makes us ridiculous, and the fairies have come
back.  We will wait - ever constant and true - till we are eighty,
ninety, or one hundred.  And then the fairies will send US
children, and we will help them out, poor pretty little creatures,
if they pretend ever so much.'

'So we will, dear,' said Nettie Ashford, taking her round the waist
with both arms and kissing her.  'And now if my husband will go and
buy some cherries for us, I have got some money.'

In the friendliest manner I invited the colonel to go with me; but
he so far forgot himself as to acknowledge the invitation by
kicking out behind, and then lying down on his stomach on the
grass, pulling it up and chewing it.  When I came back, however,
Alice had nearly brought him out of his vexation, and was soothing
him by telling him how soon we should all be ninety.

As we sat under the willow-tree and ate the cherries (fair, for
Alice shared them out), we played at being ninety.  Nettie
complained that she had a bone in her old back, and it made her
hobble; and Alice sang a song in an old woman's way, but it was
very pretty, and we were all merry.  At least, I don't know about
merry exactly, but all comfortable.

There was a most tremendous lot of cherries; and Alice always had
with her some neat little bag or box or case, to hold things.  In
it that night was a tiny wine-glass.  So Alice and Nettie said they
would make some cherry-wine to drink our love at parting.

Each of us had a glassful, and it was delicious; and each of us
drank the toast, 'Our love at parting.'  The colonel drank his wine
last; and it got into my head directly that it got into his
directly.  Anyhow, his eyes rolled immediately after he had turned
the glass upside down; and he took me on one side and proposed in a
hoarse whisper, that we should 'Cut 'em out still.'

'How did he mean?' I asked my lawless friend.

'Cut our brides out,' said the colonel, 'and then cut our way,
without going down a single turning, bang to the Spanish main!'

We might have tried it, though I didn't think it would answer; only
we looked round and saw that there was nothing but moon-light under
the willow-tree, and that our pretty, pretty wives were gone.  We
burst out crying.  The colonel gave in second, and came to first;
but he gave in strong.

We were ashamed of our red eyes, and hung about for half-an-hour to
whiten them.  Likewise a piece of chalk round the rims, I doing the
colonel's, and he mine, but afterwards found in the bedroom
looking-glass not natural, besides inflammation.  Our conversation
turned on being ninety.  The colonel told me he had a pair of boots
that wanted soling and heeling; but he thought it hardly worth
while to mention it to his father, as he himself should so soon be
ninety, when he thought shoes would be more convenient.  The
colonel also told me, with his hand upon his hip, that he felt
himself already getting on in life, and turning rheumatic.  And I
told him the same.  And when they said at our house at supper (they
are always bothering about something) that I stooped, I felt so
glad!

This is the end of the beginning-part that you were to believe
most.


PART II. -  ROMANCE.  FROM THE PEN OF MISS ALICE RAINBIRD (Aged
seven.)


THERE was once a king, and he had a queen; and he was the manliest
of his sex, and she was the loveliest of hers.  The king was, in
his private profession, under government.  The queen's father had
been a medical man out of town.

They had nineteen children, and were always having more.  Seventeen
of these children took care of the baby; and Alicia, the eldest,
took care of them all.  Their ages varied from seven years to seven
months.

Let us now resume our story.

One day the king was going to the office, when he stopped at the
fishmonger's to buy a pound and a half of salmon not too near the
tail, which the queen (who was a careful housekeeper) had requested
him to send home.  Mr. Pickles, the fishmonger, said, 'Certainly,
sir; is there any other article?  Good-morning.'

The king went on towards the office in a melancholy mood; for
quarter-day was such a long way off, and several of the dear
children were growing out of their clothes.  He had not proceeded
far, when Mr. Pickles's errand-boy came running after him, and
said, 'Sir, you didn't notice the old lady in our shop.'

'What old lady?' inquired the king.  'I saw none.'

Now the king had not seen any old lady, because this old lady had
been invisible to him, though visible to Mr. Pickles's boy.
Probably because he messed and splashed the water about to that
degree, and flopped the pairs of soles down in that violent manner,
that, if she had not been visible to him, he would have spoilt her
clothes.

Just then the old lady came trotting up.  She was dressed in shot-
silk of the richest quality, smelling of dried lavender.

'King Watkins the First, I believe?' said the old lady.

'Watkins,' replied the king, 'is my name.'

'Papa, if I am not mistaken, of the beautiful Princess Alicia?'
said the old lady.

'And of eighteen other darlings,' replied the king.

'Listen.  You are going to the office,' said the old lady.

It instantly flashed upon the king that she must be a fairy, or how
could she know that?

'You are right,' said the old lady, answering his thoughts.  'I am
the good Fairy Grandmarina.  Attend!  When you return home to
dinner, politely invite the Princess Alicia to have some of the
salmon you bought just now.'

'It may disagree with her,' said the king.

The old lady became so very angry at this absurd idea, that the
king was quite alarmed, and humbly begged her pardon.

'We hear a great deal too much about this thing disagreeing, and
that thing disagreeing,' said the old lady, with the greatest
contempt it was possible to express.  'Don't be greedy.  I think
you want it all yourself.'

The king hung his head under this reproof, and said he wouldn't
talk about things disagreeing any more.

'Be good, then,' said the Fairy Grandmarina, 'and don't.  When the
beautiful Princess Alicia consents to partake of the salmon, - as I
think she will, - you will find she will leave a fish-bone on her
plate.  Tell her to dry it, and to rub it, and to polish it till it
shines like mother-of-pearl, and to take care of it as a present
from me.'

'Is that all?' asked the king.

'Don't be impatient, sir,' returned the Fairy Grandmarina, scolding
him severely.  'Don't catch people short, before they have done
speaking.  Just the way with you grown-up persons.  You are always
doing it.'

The king again hung his head, and said he wouldn't do so any more.

'Be good, then,' said the Fairy Grandmarina, 'and don't!  So this
looks like a letter from the king to the god Ashur, to the
city named from him, and to its inhabitants. Yet it is a very
unusual rescript, very different from those which have come down
to us in the official archives, especially in the use of the third
person in speaking of the king, while in the regular letters the
first is always found.

Further, in the body of the supposed letter, the king, as is usual
in the official annals, speaks in the first person.

However it may be with the real character of the "letter," there
can be no doubt as to its great value. To be sure, we may see
in its boast that in the campaign but six soldiers were lost a more
or less severe stretching of the truth, but, at least in comparison
with the later records, it is not only much fuller, but far more
accurate.

Indeed, comparison with the later Annals shows that document to
be even worse than we had dared suspect.

Comparison of the newly discovered inscription with the parallel
passages of the broken prism B shows that this is simply a condensed
form of its original.

The booty seems to have been closely copied, but the topographical
details are much abbreviated. The discovery of this tablet, while
supplying the lacunae in Prism B, has made this part useless. But
all the more clearly is brought out the superiority, in this very
section, of the Prism over the later Annals. Naturally, we
assume the same to be true in the other portions preserved, in fact,
the discovery of the tablet has been a brilliant confirmation of the
proof long ago given that this was superior to the Annals.
[Footnote:

Olmstead, _Sargon_, 11 ff., with reconstruction of the order of
the various fragments, as against Prasek, OLZ. XII. 117, who sharply
attacked me "über den historischen wert den Stab zu brechen."]

Unfortunately but a part of these fragments has been published
[Footnote: Winckler, _Sargon_, II. 45 ff. cf. I. xif. Photograph,
Ball, _Light from the East_, 185. Thureau-Dangin, _op_. _cit_.,
76 ff.] and the difficulties in the way of copying these fragments
have made many mistakes. [Footnote: To judge by a comparison of
Winckler's text with that prepared by King for Thureau-Dangin,
_l.c._] But a few of these fragments have as yet been translated
or even discussed. [Footnote: Winckler, _Sargon_, I. 186 f.;
AOF. II. 71 ff.; _Mitth. Vorderas. Gesell._, 1898, 1, 53;
Thureau-Dangin, _l.c._] For all parts of the reign which
they cover, save where we have the tablet, they are now clearly
seen to be our best authorities, nearer in date to the events they
chronicle and much freer from suspicion than the Annals.

The most urgent need for the history of the reign is that the
fragments which are still unpublished [Footnote: Cf. Bezold, ZA.
1889, 411 n. 1.] should be published at once with a collation of
those previously given. Even a translation and examination of the
fragments already published would mark a considerable advance in
our knowledge of the period. [Footnote:
For detailed study of Prism B, cf. Olmstead, _l.c._]
Very similar to Prism B is our other broken prism, A. [Footnote:
Winckler. _Sargon_, II. 44; 1. 186 ff.; _Untersuch. Altor.
Gesch._, 118 ff.; _Textbuch_3, 41 f.; Rogers, 329 f.; G. Smith,
_Disc._, 288 ff. Boscawen, _Bab.

Or. Rec._ IV. 118 ff. The Dalta episode and the beginning and end are
still untranslated.] Both were found at Nineveh [Footnote:
G. Smith, _Disc._, 147.] and this of itself proves a date some
distance from the end of the reign when Sargon was established at
Dur Sharruken.

[Footnote: Cf. Olmstead, _Sargon_, 14 n.] Prism A is of much the
same type as the other, in fact, when we see how the Ashdod
expedition, begun in the one, can be continued in the other,
[Footnote: As in Winckler, _Sargon_, I. 186 ff.] we are led to
believe that the two had a similar text. If, however, the
Dalta episode in each refers to the same event, then they had quite
different texts in this part of the history.

Which of the two is the earlier and more trustworthy, if they did
not have identical texts, and what are their relative relations
cannot be decided in their fragmentary state, but that they are
superior to the Annals is clear. Like Prism B, Prism A is worthy
of better treatment and greater attention than it has yet been
given.

The third group consists of the documents from about the year 707,
which have come down to us inscribed on the walls of Sargon's
capital, Dur Sharruken. [Footnote: For discussion of this group,
cf. Olmstead, _Sargon_, 6 ff.] The earliest document of this
group is naturally the inscription of the cylinders which were
deposited as corner stones, [Footnote: Place, _Nineve_, II. 291 ff.;
Oppert, _Dour Sarkayan_, 11 ff.; I R. 36; Lyon, _Keilschrifttexte
Sargons_, 1 ff. Winckler, _Sargon_, II. 43; Menant, 199 ff.; Peiser,
KB. II. 38 ff. Barta, in Harper, 59 ff.] indeed, it closely agrees
with the deed of gift which dated to 714.

[Footnote: Cf. Olmstead, _Sargon_, 178 f.] The same inscription
is also found on slabs.

[Footnote: Menant, RT.

XIII. 194.]

It is the fullest and best account of the building of Dur Sharruken,
and from it the other documents of the group seem to have derived
their building recital.

Nor are other phases of the culture life neglected, as witness, for
example, the well known attempt to fix prices and lower the high
cost of living by royal edict.

The remaining inscriptions of the group are all closely related and
all seem derived from the Annals.

The display inscription gives the data of the Annals in briefer
form and in geographical order.

Numbers are very much increased, and its only value is in filling
the too numerous lacunæ of its original.

[Footnote: Botta, _Mon. de Nineve_, 95 ff.; Winckler, _Sargon_,
II. 30 ff.; I. 97 ff.
Oppert-Menant, _Fastes de Sargon_.-JA. 1863 ff.; Menant, 18 ff.;
Oppert, RP¹, IX. 1 ff.; Peiser, KB. II. 52 ff.] Imperfect recognition
of its character has led many astray. [Footnote: The error in
connecting Piru and Hanunu, for example, already pointed out by
Olmstead, _Sargon_, 10, is still held by S. A. Cook, art.
Philistines, in the new _Encyclopedia Britannica_.] Other
inscriptions of the group are incised on bulls, on founda-slabs,
on bricks, pottery, and glass, or as labels on the sculptures. Save
for the last, they are of absolutely no value for the historian
as they simply abstract from the Annals. As for the Cyprus stole,
its location alone gives it a factitious importance. [Footnote:
For full bibliography of the minor inscriptions, cf. Olmstead,
_Sargon_, 6 f. For others since found at Ashur, cf. KTA. 37-42;
71; MDOG. 20, 24; 22, 37; 25, 28, 31, 35; 26, 22; 31, 47; Andrä,
_Tempel_, 91ff.; Taf. XXI; Genouillac-Thureau-Dangin, RA. X. 83
ff.]
The one important document of the group, then, is the Annals. That,
with all its value, it is a very much over estimated document,
has already been shown. [Footnote: Olmstead, _Sargon_, 3 ff.] There
are four recensions, some of which differ widely among themselves
and from other inscriptions.

For example, there are three accounts of the fate of Merodach
Baladan.

In one, he is captured; [Footnote: Display 133.] in the second he
begs for peace; [Footnote: Annals V.] in the third, he runs away
and escapes.

[Footnote: Annals 349.]

Naturally, we are inclined to accept the last, which is actually
confirmed by the later course of events.

But it is only when we compare the Annals with earlier documents
that we realize how low it ranks, even among official inscriptions.

Already we have learned the dubious character of its chronology.

The Assyrian Chronicle has "in the land" for 712, that is, there
was no campaign in that year.

Yet for that very year, the Annals has an expedition against Asia
Minor!

It is prism B which solves the puzzle.

In the earliest years, it seems to have had the same chronology as
the Annals.

Later, it drops a year behind and, at the point where it ends, it has
given the Ashdod expedition as two years earlier than the Annals.
[Footnote: Cf. Ohmstead, _Sargon_, 11.]

Even with the old data, it was clear that the Prism was earlier
and therefore probably more trustworthy; and it was easy to explain
the puzzle by assuming that years "in the land" had been later
padded out by the Annals, just as we have seen was done for Dan Ashur
under Shalmaneser III. Now the discovery of the tablet of the year
714 has completely vindicated the character of Prism B while
it has even more completely condemned the Annals as a particularly
untrustworthy example of annalistic writing.

In the first place, it shows us how much we have lost. The tablet
has 430 lines, of which a remarkably small portion consists of
passages which are mere glorifications or otherwise of no value.
Out of this mass of material, the Annals has utilized but 36
lines. That this is a fair sample of what we have lost in other
years is hardly too much to suspect. Further, it would seem
that the Annals used, not the tablet itself, but, since it has
a phrase common to the Annals and the Prism, [Footnote: Ann.
125 f.; Prism B, Thureau-Dangin, _op. cit._, 76 f.] but not found
in the tablet, either the Prism itself or a common ancestor.

The cases where we can prove that the editor of the Annals "improved"
his original are few but striking. It is indeed curious that he has
in a few cases lowered the numbers of his original, even to the
extent of giving three fortified cities and twenty four villages
[Footnote:
Ann. 105.] where the tablet has twelve fortified cities and eighty
four villages. [Footnote: Tabl. 89.] On the other hand, by a trick
especially common among the Sargonide scribes, the 1,235 sheep of
the tablet [Footnote: Tabl. 349.] has reached the enormous total
of 100,225! [Footnote: Ann. 129; of. Thureau-Dangin, _op. cit._,
68, n. 4 for comparison of numbers. The same phenomenon can be
constantly seen in the huge increases of the numbers of the
Display inscription as compared with its original, the Annals.]
More serious, because less likely to be allowed for, is the statement
that Parda was captured [Footnote: Ann. 106.] when the original
merely says that it was abandoned by its chief. [Footnote: Tabl.
84.] But the most glaring innovation of the scribe is where, in
speaking of the fate of Rusash, the Haldian king, after his defeat,
he adds "with his own iron dagger, like a pig, his heart he pierced,
and his life he ended." [Footnote:
Ann. 139.] This has long been doubted on general principles,
[Footnote:
Cf. Olmstead, _Sargon_, 111.] but now we have the proof that it is
only history as the scribe would like it to have been written.
For the new inscription, while giving the conventional picture
of the despair of the defeated king, says not a word of any suicide.
[Footnote: Tabl. 411ff.] However, the tablet does elsewhere
mention the sickness of Rusash, [Footnote: _Ibid._ 115.] and
it may well be that it is to this sickness that we must attribute
his death later.

[Footnote: Cf. Thureau-Dangin, _op. cit._, xix.] The complete
misunderstanding of the whole campaign by earlier writers [Footnote:
Compare, for example, the brief and inaccurate account in Olmstead,
_Sargon_, 112 ff., with that in thureau-Dangin, _op. cit._ on the
basis of the new tablet] furnishes the clearest indication of the
unsatisfactory character of our recital so long as we must rely
entirely on the Annals.

It is the discovery of conditions like these which forces us to
subject our official inscriptions to the most rigid scrutiny before
we dare use them in our history.

[Footnote: Botta, _Monuments de Ninive_, pi. 70 ff.; 104 ff.; 158f£.;
Winckler, _Sargon_ II. pl. 1 ff.

Oppert in Place, _Ninive_, II. 309 ff.; _Les Inscriptions de Dour
Sarkayan_, 29 ff.; RP: VII. 21 ff.; Menant, 158 ff.; Winckler, _De
inscriptione quae vocatur Annalium_, 1886; _Sargon_, I. 3 ff.]

CHAPTER VI

ANNALS AND DISPLAY INSCRIPTIONS 
(Sennacherib and Esarhaddon)
Of the sources for the reign of Sennacherib (705-686), [Footnote:
The only fairly complete collection of sources for the reign is
still Smith-Sayce, _History of Sennacherib_, 1878, though nearly
all the data needed for a study of the Annals are given by Bezold,
KB.

II. 80 ff. Extracts, Rogers, 340 ff.

Cf. also Olmstead, _Western Asia in the reign of Sennacherib,
Proceedings of Amer.

Historical Assn._, 1909, 94 ff.] the chief is the Annals, added to
at intervals of a few years, and so existing in several editions.

As usual, the latest of these, the Taylor inscription, has been
accorded the place of honor, so that the earliest edition, the so
called Bellino Cylinder, can be called by a well known historian
"a sort of duplicate of" the Taylor inscription.

[Footnote: Maspero, _Histoire_, III. 273 _n. 1._] As we have seen
repeatedly, the exact reverse should be our procedure, though
here, as in the case of Ashur nasir apal, the evil results in the
writing of history are less serious than in the case of most reigns.
This is due to the unusual circumstances that, with comparatively
few exceptions, there was little omission or addition of the earlier
data.

Regularly, the new edition simply added to the old, and, as a result,
the form of the mass of clay on which these Annals were written
changes with the increased length of the document, the earlier being
true cylinders, while the latter are prisms.

[Footnote: King, _Cuneiform Texts_, XXVI. 7 f.]

At the same time that the narrative of military events was lengthened,
the account of the building operations followed suit.

A serious defect is the fact that these documents are dated, not
by years, but by campaigns, with the result that there are serious
questions in chronology.

The increase in the number of our editions, however, has solved
many of these, as the date of the campaign can now usually be fixed
by observing in which dated document it last occurs.

Of the more than twenty five more or less complete documents, the
first is the so called Bellino Cylinder which dates from October,
702.

The fact that it has been studied separately has tended to prevent
the realization that it is actually only a recension.

As a first edition, it is a trifle fuller, but surprisingly
little. [Footnote: K. 1680. Grotefend, _Abh.

Göttingen, Gesell_. 1850.

L. 63 f. Smith-Sayce, 1 f., 24 ff., cf. 43 ff. Oppert, _Exped._
I. 297 ff.; Menant, 225 ff.; Talbot, JRAS. XVIII. 76 ff.; _Trans.
Roy. Soc. Lit._ VIII, 369 ff.; RP¹, I. 23 ff. It is the Bl. of
Bezold.] Next comes Cylinder B, now represented by six complete and
seven fragmentary cylinders. It includes campaign three and is
dated in May, 700. [Footnote:

Smith-Sayce, 30, 70 f., cf. 24, 43, 53; Evetts, ZA. III. 311 ff.;
for list of tablets, cf. Bezold, _l. c._] Cylinder C dates from
697 and contains the fourth expedition. [Footnote: K. 1674;
Smith-Sayce, 14, 76, cf. 30, 43, 53, 73, 78. The A 2 of Bezold.] The
mutilated date of Cylinder D may be either 697 or 695, but as it
has one campaign more than Cylinder C of 697, we should probably
date it to the latter year.

[Footnote: BM. 22,508; K. 1675; Smith-Sayce, 24, 30, 43, 53, 73,
79; King, _Cuneiform Texts_, XXVI. 38, cf. p. 10, n. 2. The A 8
of Bezold.] From this recension seems to have been derived
the display inscription recently discovered on Mt. Nipur, which
was inscribed at the end of campaign five. [Footnote: Inscription
at Hasanah (Hassan Agha?) King, PSBA. XXXV. 66 ff.]
Somewhat different from these is the newest Sennacherib inscription,
[Footnote: BM. 103,000; King, _Cuneiform Texts, XXVI_; cf. Pinches,
JRAS. 1910, 387 ff.] which marks the transition from the shorter
to the longer cylinders.

[Footnote: King, _op. cit._, 9.] After the narrative of the fifth
campaign, two others are given, and dated, not by the number of
campaign as in the documents of the regular series, but by the
eponyms, so that here we have actual chronology.

The two campaigns took place in 698 and 695 respectively, the
inscription itself being dated in 694. That they are not dated by
the campaigns of the king and that they are not given in the later
editions is perhaps due to the fact that the king did not conduct
them in person.

[Footnote: King, _op. cit._, p. 10.] The occasion for this new
edition is not to be found, however, in these petty frontier
wars, but in the completion of the new palace, in the increase in
the size of the city of Nineveh, in the building of a park, and in
the installation of a water supply, as these take up nearly a half
of the inscription.

The recovery of this document has also enabled us to place in the
same group two other fragments, now recognized as duplicates.

[Footnote: BM. 102, 996, King, _Cuneiform Texts_, XXVI. 38; cf. p.
15, n. 1; K. 4492, ibid. 39, not a reference to Tarbisi, as
Meiasner-Rost, _Bauinschriften_, 94f; as is shown by King, p. 18
n. 1.]

At about the same time must be placed the various inscriptions on
the bulls which were intended to decorate this new palace.

One contains only five expeditions, [Footnote: Bull 2, Smith-Sayce,
3, 24, 30 f., 43, 51 f., 53, 67 f., 73, 78 f.,86.

FROM THE PEN OF LIEUT.-COL. ROBIN REDFORTH
(Aged nine.)


THE subject of our present narrative would appear to have devoted
himself to the pirate profession at a comparatively early age.  We
find him in command of a splendid schooner of one hundred guns
loaded to the muzzle, ere yet he had had a party in honour of his
tenth birthday.

It seems that our hero, considering himself spited by a Latin-
grammar master, demanded the satisfaction due from one man of
honour to another. - Not getting it, he privately withdrew his
haughty spirit from such low company, bought a second-hand pocket-
pistol, folded up some sandwiches in a paper bag, made a bottle of
Spanish liquorice-water, and entered on a career of valour.

It were tedious to follow Boldheart (for such was his name) through
the commencing stages of his story.  Suffice it, that we find him
bearing the rank of Capt. Boldheart, reclining in full uniform on a
crimson hearth-rug spread out upon the quarter-deck of his schooner
'The Beauty,' in the China seas.  It was a lovely evening; and, as
his crew lay grouped about him, he favoured them with the following
melody:


O landsmen are folly!
O pirates are jolly!
O diddleum Dolly,
Di!
CHORUS. - Heave yo.


The soothing effect of these animated sounds floating over the
waters, as the common sailors united their rough voices to take up
the rich tones of Boldheart, may be more easily conceived than
described.

It was under these circumstances that the look-out at the masthead
gave the word, 'Whales!'

All was now activity.

'Where away?' cried Capt. Boldheart, starting up.

'On the larboard bow, sir,' replied the fellow at the masthead,
touching his hat.  For such was the height of discipline on board
of 'The Beauty,' that, even at that height, he was obliged to mind
it, or be shot through the head.

'This adventure belongs to me,' said Boldheart.  'Boy, my harpoon.
Let no man follow;' and leaping alone into his boat, the captain
rowed with admirable dexterity in the direction of the monster.

All was now excitement.

'He nears him!' said an elderly seaman, following the captain
through his spy-glass.

'He strikes him!' said another seaman, a mere stripling, but also
with a spy-glass.

'He tows him towards us!' said another seaman, a man in the full
vigour of life, but also with a spy-glass.

In fact, the captain was seen approaching, with the huge bulk
following.  We will not dwell on the deafening cries of 'Boldheart!
Boldheart!' with which he was received, when, carelessly leaping on
the quarter-deck, he presented his prize to his men.  They
afterwards made two thousand four hundred and seventeen pound ten
and sixpence by it.

Ordering the sail to be braced up, the captain now stood W.N.W.
'The Beauty' flew rather than floated over the dark blue waters.
Nothing particular occurred for a fortnight, except taking, with
considerable slaughter, four Spanish galleons, and a snow from
South America, all richly laden.  Inaction began to tell upon the
spirits of the men.  Capt. Boldheart called all hands aft, and
said, 'My lads, I hear there are discontented ones among ye.  Let
any such stand forth.'

After some murmuring, in which the expressions, 'Ay, ay, sir!'
'Union Jack,' 'Avast,' 'Starboard,' 'Port,' 'Bowsprit,' and similar
indications of a mutinous undercurrent, though subdued, were
audible, Bill Boozey, captain of the foretop, came out from the
rest.  His form was that of a giant, but he quailed under the
captain's eye.

'What are your wrongs?' said the captain.

'Why, d'ye see, Capt. Boldheart,' replied the towering manner,
'I've sailed, man and boy, for many a year, but I never yet know'd
the milk served out for the ship's company's teas to be so sour as
'tis aboard this craft.'

At this moment the thrilling cry, 'Man overboard!' announced to the
astonished crew that Boozey, in stepping back, as the captain (in
mere thoughtfulness) laid his hand upon the faithful pocket-pistol
which he wore in his belt, had lost his balance, and was struggling
with the foaming tide.

All was now stupefaction.

But with Capt. Boldheart, to throw off his uniform coat, regardless
of the various rich orders with which it was decorated, and to
plunge into the sea after the drowning giant, was the work of a
moment.  Maddening was the excitement when boats were lowered;
intense the joy when the captain was seen holding up the drowning
man with his teeth; deafening the cheering when both were restored
to the main deck of 'The Beauty.'  And, from the instant of his
changing his wet clothes for dry ones, Capt. Boldheart had no such
devoted though humble friend as William Boozey.

Boldheart now pointed to the horizon, and called the attention of
his crew to the taper spars of a ship lying snug in harbour under
the guns of a fort.

'She shall be ours at sunrise,' said he.  'Serve out a double
allowance of grog, and prepare for action.'

All was now preparation.

When morning dawned, after a sleepless night, it was seen that the
stranger was crowding on all sail to come out of the harbour and
offer battle.  As the two ships came nearer to each other, the
stranger fired a gun and hoisted Roman colours.  Boldheart then
perceived her to be the Latin-grammar master's bark.  Such indeed
she was, and had been tacking about the world in unavailing
pursuit, from the time of his first taking to a roving life.

Boldheart now addressed his men, promising to blow them up if he
should feel convinced that their reputation required it, and giving
orders that the Latin-grammar master should be taken alive.  He
then dismissed them to their quarters, and the fight began with a
broadside from 'The Beauty.'  She then veered around, and poured in
another.  'The Scorpion' (so was the bark of the Latin-grammar
master appropriately called) was not slow to return her fire; and a
terrific cannonading ensued, in which the guns of 'The Beauty' did
tremendous execution.

The Latin-grammar master was seen upon the poop, in the midst of
the smoke and fire, encouraging his men.  To do him justice, he was
no craven, though his white hat, his short gray trousers, and his
long snuff-coloured surtout reaching to his heels (the self-same
coat in which he had spited Boldheart), contrasted most
unfavourably with the brilliant uniform of the latter.  At this
moment, Boldheart, seizing a pike and putting himself at the head
of his men, gave the word to board.

A desperate conflict ensued in the hammock-nettings, - or somewhere
in about that direction, - until the Latin-grammar master, having
all his masts gone, his hull and rigging shot through, and seeing
Boldheart slashing a path towards him, hauled down his flag
himself, gave up his sword to Boldheart, and asked for quarter.
Scarce had he been put into the captain's boat, ere 'The Scorpion'
went down with all on board.

On Capt. Boldheart's now assembling his men, a circumstance
occurred.  He found it necessary with one blow of his cutlass to
kill the cook, who, having lost his brother in the late action, was
making at the Latin-grammar master in an infuriated state, intent
on his destruction with a carving-knife.

Supposing the Jews to have followed this mode of interment at Rome,
it would have been a strong motive for its adoption by the early
Christians. The first converts in Rome, as St.

Paul's Epistle shows, were, in great part, from among the Jews.

The Gentile and the Jewish Christians made one community, and the
Gentiles adopted the manner of the Jews in placing their dead,
"wrapped in linen cloths, in new tombs hewn out of the rock."

Believing, then, the catacombs to have been begun within a few years
after the first preaching of Christianity in Rome, there is abundant
evidence to prove that their construction was continued during the
time when the Church was persecuted or simply tolerated, and that
they were extended during a considerable time after Christianity
became the established creed of the empire.

Indeed, several catacombs now known were not begun until some time
after Constantine's conversion.[C] They continued to be used as
burial-places certainly as late as the sixth century. This use
seems to have been given up at the time of the frequent desolation
of the land around the walls of Rome by the incursions of barbarians,
and the custom gradually discontinued was never resumed.

The catacombs then fell into neglect, were lost sight of, and their
very existence was almost forgotten. But during the first five
hundred years of our era they were the burial-places of a smaller
or greater portion of the citizens of Rome,--and as not a single
church of that time remains, they are, and contain in themselves,
the most important monuments that exist of the Christian history
of Rome for all that long period.

[Footnote C: For instance, about the middle of the fourth century,
St.
Julius, then Pope, is said to have begun three. See Marchi's
_Momumenti delle Arti Cristiane_, p. 82.]
It has been much the fashion during the last two centuries, among
a certain class of critics hostile to the Roman Church, and sometimes
hostile to Christianity, to endeavor to throw doubts on the fact
of this immense amount of underground work having been accomplished
by the Christians.

It has been said that the catacombs were in part the work of the
heathen, and that the Christians made use of excavations which they
found ready to their hand. Such and other similar assertions have
been put forward with great confidence; but there is one overwhelming
and complete answer to all such doubts,--a visit to the catacombs
themselves. No skepticism can stand against such arguments as are
presented there.

Every pathway is distinctly the work of Christian hands; the
whole subterranean city is filled with a host of the Christian dead.
But there are other convincing proofs of the character of
their makers. These are of a curiously simple description, and are
due chiefly to the investigations of late years. Nine tenths of the
catacombs now known are cut through one of the volcanic rocks which
abound in the neighborhood of Rome.

Of the three chief varieties of volcanic rock that exist there,
this is the only one which is of little use for purposes of
art or trade. It could not have been quarried for profit. It would
not have been quarried, therefore, by the Romans, except for the
purposes of burial,--and the only inscriptions and other indications
of the character of the occupants of these burial-places prove that
they were Christian.

[D] They are very different from the sepulchres of the great and
rich families of Rome, who lined the Appian, the Nomentan, and
Flaminian Ways with their tombs, even now magnificent in ruin; very
different, too, from the _columbaria_, or pigeon-holes, in which
the ashes of the less wealthy were packed away; and still more
different from the sad undistinguished ditch that received the
bodies of the poor:-- 
"Hoc miserae plebi stabat commune sepulcrum."

[Footnote D: The volcanic rocks are the _Tufa litoide_, very hard,
and used for paving and other such purposes; difficult to be quarried,
and unfit for graves on account of this difficulty.

The _Tufi granulare_, a soft, friable, coarse-grained rock, easily
cut,--fitted for excavation.
It is in this that the catacombs are made. It is used for
very few purposes in Rome.

One may now and then see
some coarse filling-up
of walls done with it, or
its square-cut blocks piled up as a fence.

Ordering his boat's
crew (with the intrepid though illiterate William at their head) to
keep close and be upon their guard, Boldheart bravely went on, arm
in arm with the chief.

But how to depict the captain's surprise when he found a ring of
savages singing in chorus that barbarous translation of 'For what
we are going to receive,' &c., which has been given above, and
dancing hand in hand round the Latin-grammar master, in a hamper
with his head shaved, while two savages floured him, before putting
him to the fire to be cooked!

Boldheart now took counsel with his officers on the course to be
adopted.  In the mean time, the miserable captive never ceased
begging pardon and imploring to be delivered.  On the generous
Boldheart's proposal, it was at length resolved that he should not
be cooked, but should be allowed to remain raw, on two conditions,
namely:

1. That he should never, under any circumstances, presume to teach
any boy anything any more.

2. That, if taken back to England, he should pass his life in
travelling to find out boys who wanted their exercises done, and
should do their exercises for those boys for nothing, and never say
a word about it.

Drawing the sword from its sheath, Boldheart swore him to these
conditions on its shining blade.  The prisoner wept bitterly, and
appeared acutely to feel the errors of his past career.

The captain then ordered his boat's crew to make ready for a
volley, and after firing to re-load quickly.  'And expect a score
or two on ye to go head over heels,' murmured William Boozey; 'for
I'm a-looking at ye.'  With those words, the derisive though deadly
William took a good aim.

'Fire!'

The ringing voice of Boldheart was lost in the report of the guns
and the screeching of the savages.  Volley after volley awakened
the numerous echoes.  Hundreds of savages were killed, hundreds
wounded, and thousands ran howling into the woods.  The Latin-
grammar master had a spare night-cap lent him, and a long-tail
coat, which he wore hind side before.  He presented a ludicrous
though pitiable appearance, and serve him right.

We now find Capt. Boldheart, with this rescued wretch on board,
standing off for other islands.  At one of these, not a cannibal
island, but a pork and vegetable one, he married (only in fun on
his part) the king's daughter.  Here he rested some time, receiving
from the natives great quantities of precious stones, gold dust,
elephants' teeth, and sandal wood, and getting very rich.  This,
too, though he almost every day made presents of enormous value to
his men.

The ship being at length as full as she could hold of all sorts of
valuable things, Boldheart gave orders to weigh the anchor, and
turn 'The Beauty's' head towards England.  These orders were obeyed
with three cheers; and ere the sun went down full many a hornpipe
had been danced on deck by the uncouth though agile William.

We next find Capt. Boldheart about three leagues off Madeira,
surveying through his spy-glass a stranger of suspicious appearance
making sail towards him.  Descending from the level of the ground by
a flight of steps into one of the narrow underground passages,
one sees on either side, by the light of the taper with which he
is provided, range upon range of tombs cut, as has been described,
in the walls that border the pathway.

Usually the arrangement is careful, but with an indiscriminate
mingling of larger and smaller graves, as if they had been made one
after another for young and old, according as they might be
brought for burial. Now and then a system of regularity is
introduced, as if the _fossor_, or digger, who was a recognized
officer of the early Church, had had the leisure for preparing
graves before they were needed. Here, there is a range of little
graves for the youngest children, so that all infants should
be laid together, then a range for older children, and then
one for the grown up. Sometimes, instead of a grave suitable
for a single body, the excavation is made deep enough into the rock
to admit of two, three, or four bodies being placed side by
side,--family graves. And sometimes, instead of the simple _loculus_,
or coffin-like excavation, there is an arch cut out of the tufa,
and sunk back over the whole depth of the grave, the outer side of
which is not cut away, so that, instead of being closed in front
by a perpendicular slab of marble or by tiles, it is covered on the
top by a horizontal slab.

Such a grave is called an _arcosolium_, and its somewhat elaborate
construction leads to the conclusion that it was rarely
used in the earliest period of the catacombs[E]. The _arcosolia_
are usually wide enough for more than one body; and it would seem,
from inscriptions that have been found upon their covering-slabs,
that they were not infrequently prepared during the lifetime of
persons who had paid beforehand for their graves.

It is not improbable that the expenses of some one or more of the
cemeteries may have been borne by the richer members of the Christian
community, for the sake of their poorer brothers in the faith.
The example of Nicodemus was one that would be readily followed.

[Footnote E: There is one puzzling circumstance in the
cemetery of S.
Domitilla.

_All_ the graves in this cemetery are _arcosolia_, and yet the date
of construction is early. The Cavaliere de Rossi suggests that the
cemetery was begun at the expense of the Domitilla whose name it
bears, the niece of Domitian, previously to her banishment; that
her position enabled her to have it laid out from the beginning on
a regular plan, and to introduce this more expensive and elaborate
form of grave, which was continued for the sake of uniformity in
the later excavations.]

But beside the different forms of the graves, by which their general
character was varied, there were often personal marks of affection
and remembrance affixed to the narrow excavations, which give to
the catacombs their most peculiar and touching interest. The marble
facing of the tomb is engraved with a simple name or date; or where
tiles take the place of marble, the few words needed are
scratched upon their hard surface.

It is not too much to say that we know more of the common faith and
feeling, of the sufferings and rejoicings of the Christians of the
first two centuries from these inscriptions than from all other
sources put together.
'No,' said the mayor, rubbing his eyes, which he could scarce
believe, when he saw the goodly vessel riding at anchor.

'She is named "The Beauty,"' said the captain.

'Hah!' exclaimed the mayor, with a start.  'And you, then, are
Capt. Boldheart?'

'The same.'

A pause ensued.  The mayor trembled.

'Now, mayor,' said the captain, 'choose!  Help me to my bride, or
be bombarded.'

The mayor begged for two hours' grace, in which to make inquiries
respecting the young lady.  Boldheart accorded him but one; and
during that one placed William Boozey sentry over him, with a drawn
sword, and instructions to accompany him wherever he went, and to
run him through the body if he showed a sign of playing false.

At the end of the hour the mayor re-appeared more dead than alive,
closely waited on by Boozey more alive than dead.

'Captain,' said the mayor, 'I have ascertained that the young lady
is going to bathe.  Even now she waits her turn for a machine.  The
tide is low, though rising.  I, in one of our town-boats, shall not
be suspected.  When she comes forth in her bathing-dress into the
shallow water from behind the hood of the machine, my boat shall
intercept her and prevent her return.  Do you the rest.'

'Mayor,' returned Capt. Boldheart, 'thou hast saved thy town.'

The captain then signalled his boat to take him off, and, steering
her himself, ordered her crew to row towards the bathing-ground,
and there to rest upon their oars.  All happened as had been
arranged.  I.
122 ff.; Talbot, JRAS. OS. XIX. 124 ff.; Houghton-Finlay, RP(1),
XI. 9 ff.; Oppert, _Hist._, 132 ff.; Hommel, _Gesch._, 532 ff.;
Menant, 49 ff. Proved to Tiglath Pileser, Lotz, _op. cit._, 193 f.;
cf. Budge-King, 131 n. 4, though Streck, ZA.

XVIII. 187 ff., still believes that it belongs to an earlier king.
Found at Nineveh, though it deals with Ashur constructions.] Only
the upper portion, probably less than half to judge by the
proportions, is preserved, and even this is terribly mutilated.
Fortunately, the parts best preserved are those relating to the
years not dealt with in the Annals. The first half of the document
is devoted to the campaigns of Tiglath Pileser, then come his
hunting exploits, and only a bit at the end is reserved for the
building operations of the unknown ruler under whom it was
erected. Its source seems to have had the same relation to the
earliest form of the Annals that the Obelisk of Shalmaneser III had
to the Monolith, that is, it gave the data for the earlier part
of the reign, that covered by the other source, very briefly, only
expanding as it reached a period where the facts were not represented
by any other document.

That our earlier Annals, or perhaps rather, one of its sources, was
a main source of our second type, is proved by the coincidences
in language in the two, in one case no less than twenty signs
the same, [Footnote: In year V we have _ishtu...adi alu Kargamish
sha matu Hatte...isu elippe pl mashku tahshe_.] not to speak of
the hunting expeditions. But this earlier Annals was not the
only, or at least not the direct source for the Obelisk, nor was
that source merely a fuller recension of it.

Data for the first six years, not found in the earlier Annals, are
given in the Obelisk, [Footnote:
Obl.

I. 17, reference to Marduk nadin ahe, King of Akkad; II. 1, one
thousand men of land of...; II. 2, four thousand of them carried
prisoner to Assyria, the position of which shows that it cannot,
with Budge-King, 132 n., be referred to Ann. III. 2, the Kashi;
II. 12, the Mushki (?); II. 13, temple of Ami and Adad. These all
precede the Carchemish episode.] while our document also, for
the first time in Assyrian historical inscriptions, dates the
events by the name of the eponym for the year, and, still more
unusual, by the month as well.
One of the inhabitants of this country, a truly sweet young
creature of the name of Mrs. Orange, had the misfortune to be sadly
plagued by her numerous family.  Her parents required a great deal
of looking after, and they had connections and companions who were
scarcely ever out of mischief.  So Mrs. Orange said to herself, 'I
really cannot be troubled with these torments any longer: I must
put them all to school.'

Mrs. Orange took off her pinafore, and dressed herself very nicely,
and took up her baby, and went out to call upon another lady of the
name of Mrs. Lemon, who kept a preparatory establishment.  Mrs.
Orange stood upon the scraper to pull at the bell, and give a ring-
ting-ting.

Mrs. Lemon's neat little housemaid, pulling up her socks as she
came along the passage, answered the ring-ting-ting.

'Good-morning,' said Mrs. Orange.  'Fine day.  How do you do?  Mrs.
Lemon at home!'

'Yes, ma'am.'

'Will you say Mrs. Orange and baby?'

'Yes, ma'am.  Walk in.'

Mrs. Orange's baby was a very fine one, and real wax all over.
Mrs. Lemon's baby was leather and bran.  However, when Mrs. Lemon
came into the drawing-room with her baby in her arms, Mrs. Orange
said politely, 'Good-morning.  Fine day.  How do you do?  And how
is little Tootleumboots?'

'Well, she is but poorly.  Cutting her teeth, ma'am,' said Mrs.
Lemon.

'O, indeed, ma'am!' said Mrs. Orange.  'No fits, I hope?'

'No, ma'am.'

'How many teeth has she, ma'am?'

'Five, ma'am.'

'My Emilia, ma'am, has eight,' said Mrs. Orange.  'Shall we lay
them on the mantelpiece side by side, while we converse?'

'By all means, ma'am,' said Mrs. Lemon.  'Hem!'

'The first question is, ma'am,' said Mrs. Orange, 'I don't bore
you?'

'Not in the least, ma'am,' said Mrs. Lemon.  'Far from it, I assure
you.'

'Then pray HAVE you,' said Mrs. Orange, - 'HAVE you any vacancies?'

'Yes, ma'am.  How many might you require?'

'Why, the truth is, ma'am,' said Mrs. Orange, 'I have come to the
conclusion that my children,' - O, I forgot to say that they call
the grown-up people children in that country! - 'that my children
are getting positively too much for me.  Let me see.  Two parents,
two intimate friends of theirs, one godfather, two godmothers, and
an aunt.  HAVE you as many as eight vacancies?'

'I have just eight, ma'am,' said Mrs. Lemon.

'Most fortunate!  Terms moderate, I think?'

'Very moderate, ma'am.'

'Diet good, I believe?'

'Excellent, ma'am.'

'Unlimited?'

'Unlimited.'

'Most satisfactory!  Corporal punishment dispensed with?'

'Why, we do occasionally shake,' said Mrs. Lemon, 'and we have
slapped.  But only in extreme cases.'

'COULD I, ma'am,' said Mrs. Orange, - 'COULD I see the
establishment?'

'With the greatest of pleasure, ma'am,' said Mrs. Lemon.

Mrs. Lemon took Mrs. Orange into the schoolroom, where there were a
number of pupils.  'Stand up, children,' said Mrs. Lemon; and they
all stood up.

But, unhappily, the stories of the early Christian centuries were
taken possession of by a Church which has sought in them the means
of enhancing her claims and increasing her power; mingling with
them falsehoods and absurdities, cherishing the wildest and most
unnatural traditions, inventing fictitious miracles, dogmatizing
on false assertions, until reasonable and thoughtful religious men
have turned away from the history of the first Christians in Rome
with a sensation of disgust, and with despair at the apparently
inextricable confusion of fact and fable concerning them.

But within a few years the period to which these stories belong has
begun to be investigated with a new spirit, even at Rome itself,
and in the bosom of the Roman Church.

It was no unreasonable expectation, that, from a faithful and honest
exploration of the catacombs, and examination of the inscriptions
and works of art in them or derived from them, more light might be
thrown upon the character, the faith, the feeling, and the life of
the early Christians at Rome, than from any other source whatever.

Results of unexpected interest have proved the justness of this
expectation.

These results are chiefly due to the labors of two Romans, one a
priest and the other a layman, the Padre Marchi, and the Cavaliere
de Rossi, who have devoted themselves with the utmost zeal and with
great ability to the task of exploration.

The present Pope, stimulated by the efforts of these scholars,
established some years since a Commission of Sacred Archeology
for the express purpose of forwarding the investigations in the
catacombs; and the French government, soon after its military
occupation of Rome, likewise established a commission for the purpose
of conducting independent investigations in the same field.

[A]

[Footnote A: In 1844, Padre Marchi published a series of numbers,
seventeen in all, of a work entitled _Monumenti delle Arti Cristiane
Primitive nella Metropol del Cristianesmo_. The numbers are in
quarto, and illustrated by many carefully executed plates. The
work was never completed; but it contains a vast amount of important
information, chiefly the result of Padre Marchi's own inquiries. The
Cavaliere de Rossi, still a young man, one of the most learned and
accomplished scholars of Italy, is engaged at present in editing
all the Christian inscriptions of the first six centuries.

No part of this work has yet appeared.

He is the highest living authority on any question regarding the
catacombs. The work of the French Commission has been published at
Paris in the most magnificent style, in six imperial folio
volumes, under the title, _Catacombes de Rome_, etc., etc. _Par_
LOUIS PERRET.

_Ouvrage publié par Ordre et aux Frais du Gouvernement, sous la
Direction d'une Commission composée de_ MM.

AMPERE, INGRES, MERIMÉE, VITET. It consists of four volumes of
elaborate colored plates of architecture, mural paintings, and
all works of art found in the catacombs, with one volume of
inscriptions, reduced in fac-simile from the originals, and one
volume of text.

The work is of especial value as regards the first period of Christian
Art.

Its chief defect is the want of entire accuracy, in some instances,
in its representations of the mural paintings,--some outlines effaced
in the original being filled out in the copy, and some colors
rendered too brightly.

But notwithstanding this defect, it is of first importance in
illustrating the hitherto very obscure history and character of
early Christian Art.]
The Roman catacombs consist for the most part of a subterranean
labyrinth of passages, cut through the soft volcanic rock of the
Campagna, so narrow as rarely to admit of two persons walking abreast
easily, but here and there on either side opening into chambers of
varying size and form.

The walls of the passages, through their whole extent, are lined
with narrow excavations, one above another, large enough to admit
of a body being placed in each; and where they remain in their
original condition, these excavations are closed in front by tiles,
or by a slab of marble cemented to the rock, and in most cases
bearing an inscription.

Nor is the labyrinth composed of passages upon a single level only;
frequently there are several stories, connected with each other
by sloping ways.

There is no single circumstance, in relation to the catacombs, of
more striking and at first sight perplexing character than
their vast extent.
About twenty different catacombs are now known and are more or less
open,--and a year is now hardly likely to pass without the discovery
of a new one; for the original number of underground cemeteries,
as ascertained from the early authorities, was nearly, if not quite,
three times this number.

Alicumpaine, 'that they
should have their supper by themselves.  Our table is in the corner
here, where the gentlemen can have their wineglass of negus, and
their egg-sandwich, and their quiet game at beggar-my-neighbour,
and look on.  As for us, ma'am, we shall have quite enough to do to
manage the company.'

'O, indeed, you may say so!  Quite enough, ma'am,' said Mrs.
Orange.

The company began to come.  The first of them was a stout boy, with
a white top-knot and spectacles.  The housemaid brought him in and
said, 'Compliments, and at what time was he to be fetched!'  Mrs.
Alicumpaine said, 'Not a moment later than ten.  How do you do,
sir?  Go and sit down.'  Then a number of other children came; boys
by themselves, and girls by themselves, and boys and girls
together.  They didn't behave at all well.  Some of them looked
through quizzing-glasses at others, and said, 'Who are those?
Don't know them.'  Some of them looked through quizzing-glasses at
others, and said, 'How do?'  Some of them had cups of tea or coffee
handed to them by others, and said, 'Thanks; much!'  A good many
boys stood about, and felt their shirt-collars.  Four tiresome fat
boys WOULD stand in the doorway, and talk about the newspapers,
till Mrs. Alicumpaine went to them and said, 'My dears, I really
cannot allow you to prevent people from coming in.  I shall be
truly sorry to do it; but, if you put yourself in everybody's way,
I must positively send you home.'  One boy, with a beard and a
large white waistcoat, who stood straddling on the hearth-rug
warming his coat-tails, WAS sent home.  'Highly incorrect, my
dear,' said Mrs. Alicumpaine, handing him out of the room, 'and I
cannot permit it.'

There was a children's band, - harp, cornet, and piano, - and Mrs.
Alicumpaine and Mrs. Orange bustled among the children to persuade
them to take partners and dance.  But they were so obstinate!  For
quite a long time they would not be persuaded to take partners and
dance.  Most of the boys said, 'Thanks; much!  But not at present.'
And most of the rest of the boys said, 'Thanks; much!  But never
do.'

'O, these children are very wearing!' said Mrs. Alicumpaine to Mrs.
Orange.

'Dear things!  I dote upon them; but they ARE wearing,' said Mrs.
Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine.

At last they did begin in a slow and melancholy way to slide about
to the music; though even then they wouldn't mind what they were
told, but would have this partner, and wouldn't have that partner,
and showed temper about it.  And they wouldn't smile, - no, not on
any account they wouldn't; but, when the music stopped, went round
and round the room in dismal twos, as if everybody else was dead.

'O, it's very hard indeed to get these vexing children to be
entertained!' said Mrs. Alicumpaine to Mrs. Orange.

'I dote upon the darlings; but it is hard,' said Mrs. Orange to
Mrs. Alicumpaine.

They were trying children, that's the truth.  First, they wouldn't
sing when they were asked; and then, when everybody fully believed
they wouldn't, they would.  'If you serve us so any more, my love,'
said Mrs. Alicumpaine to a tall child, with a good deal of white
back, in mauve silk trimmed with lace, 'it will be my painful
privilege to offer you a bed, and to send you to it immediately.'

The girls were so ridiculously dressed, too, that they were in rags
before supper.  How could the boys help treading on their trains?
And yet when their trains were trodden on, they often showed temper
again, and looked as black, they did!  However, they all seemed to
be pleased when Mrs. Alicumpaine said, 'Supper is ready, children!'
And they went crowding and pushing in, as if they had had dry bread
for dinner.

'How are the children getting on?' said Mr. Orange to Mrs. Orange,
when Mrs. Orange came to look after baby.  Mrs. Orange had left
baby on a shelf near Mr. Orange while he played at beggar-my-
neighbour, and had asked him to keep his eye upon her now and then.

'Most charmingly, my dear!' said Mrs. Orange.  'So droll to see
their little flirtations and jealousies!  Do come and look!'

'Much obliged to you, my dear,' said Mr. Orange; 'but I don't care
about children myself.'

So Mrs. Orange, having seen that baby was safe, went back without
Mr. Orange to the room where the children were having supper.

'What are they doing now?' said Mrs. Orange to Mrs. Alicumpaine.

'They are making speeches, and playing at parliament,' said Mrs.
Alicumpaine to Mrs. Orange.

On hearing this, Mrs. Orange set off once more back again to Mr.
Orange, and said, 'James dear, do come.  The children are playing
at parliament.'

'Thank you, my dear,' said Mr. Orange, 'but I don't care about
parliament myself.'

So Mrs. Orange went once again without Mr. Orange to the room where
the children were having supper, to see them playing at parliament.
And she found some of the boys crying, 'Hear, hear, hear!' while
other boys cried 'No, no!' As we walk along the dark passage, the eye
is caught by the gleam of a little flake of glass fastened in the
cement which once held the closing slab before the long since
rifled grave. We stop to look at it. It is a broken bit from
the bottom of a little jar (_ampulla_); but that little glass
jar once held the drops of a martyr's blood, which had been
carefully gathered up by those who learned from him how to die, and
placed here as a precious memorial of his faith. The name of
the martyr was perhaps never written on his grave; if it were
ever there, it has been lost for centuries; but the little dulled
bit of glass, as it catches the rays of the taper borne through
the silent files of graves, sparkles and gleams with a light and
glory not of this world. There are other graves in which martyrs
have lain, where no such sign as this appears, but in its place
the rude scratching of a palm-branch upon the rock or the plaster.
It was the sign of victory, and he who lay within had conquered.
The great rudeness in the drawing of the palm, often as if, while
the mortar was still wet, the mason had made the lines upon it
with his trowel, is a striking indication of the state of feeling
at the time when the grave was made. There was no pomp or parade;
possibly the burial of him or of her who had died for the faith
was in secret; those who carried the corpse of their beloved to the
tomb were, perhaps, in this very act, preparing to follow his
steps,--were, perhaps, preparing themselves for his fate.

Their thoughts were with their Lord, and with his disciple who had
just suffered for his sake,--with their Saviour who was coming so
soon. What matter to put a name on the tomb? They could not forget
where they had laid the torn and wearied limbs away.
Orange; 'but they DO want
variety.'

Mr. Orange got his hat, and Mrs. Orange got her bonnet and her
baby, and they set out to walk home.  They had to pass Mrs. Lemon's
preparatory establishment on their way.

'I wonder, James dear,' said Mrs. Orange, looking up at the window,
'whether the precious children are asleep!'

'I don't care much whether they are or not, myself,' said Mr.
Orange.

'James dear!'

'You dote upon them, you know,' said Mr. Orange.  'That's another
thing.'

'I do,' said Mrs. Orange rapturously.  'O, I DO!'

'I don't,' said Mr. Orange.

'But I was thinking, James love,' said Mrs. Orange, pressing his
arm, 'whether our dear, good, kind Mrs. Lemon would like them to
stay the holidays with her.'

'If she was paid for it, I daresay she would,' said Mr. Orange.

'I adore them, James,' said Mrs. These, too, are of various sizes and forms; the largest of them
would hold but a small number of persons;[F] but not unfrequently
two stand opposite each other on the passage-way, as if one were
for the men and the other for the women who should be present at
the services.

Orange tried the experiment; and the
children (that would be in other countries) kept them at school as
long as ever they lived, and made them do whatever they were told.