Produced by Olaf Voss and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


SONNETS

BY THE

NAWAB NIZAMAT JUNG BAHADUR


"_Love is not discoverable by the eye, but only by the soul. Its
elements are indeed innate in our mortal constitution, and we
give it the names of Joy and Aphrodite; but in its highest nature no
mortal hath fully comprehended it_."

EMPEDOCLES.


"_Every one choose the object of his affections according to his
character.... The Divine is beauty, wisdom, goodness, and by these the
wings of the soul are nourished_."

PLATO.


1917


CONTENTS


         FOREWORD, BY R.C. FRASER
         NOTE ON THE HISTORY OF THE SONNET IN ENGLISH LITERATURE
         PROLOGUE
      I. REBIRTH
     II. THE CROWN OF LIFE
    III. BEFORE THE THRONE
     IV. WORSHIP
      V. UNITY
     VI. LOVE'S SILENCE
    VII. THE SUBLIME HOPE
   VIII. THE HEART OF LOVE
     IX. "'TWIXT STAR AND STAR"
      X. THE HIGHER KNIGHTHOOD
     XI. IN BEAUTY'S BLOOM
    XII. ETERNAL JOY
   XIII. CONSTANCY
    XIV. CALM AFTER STORM
     XV. THE STAR OF LOVE
    XVI. IMPRISONED MUSIC
   XVII. LOVE'S MESSAGE
  XVIII. ECSTASY
    XIX. THE DREAM
     XX. ETHEREAL BEAUTY
    XXI. A CROWN OF THORNS
   XXII. TWO HEARTS IN ONE
  XXIII. YEARNING
   XXIV. LOVE'S GIFT
         EPILOGUE


FOREWORD

BY RICHARD CHARLES FRASER


The following Sonnet Sequence,--written during rare intervals of leisure
in a busy and strenuous life,--was privately printed in Madras early in
1914, without any intention of publication on the part of the author. He
has, however, now consented to allow it to be given to a wider audience;
and we anticipate in many directions a welcome for this small but
significant volume by the writer of _India to England_, one of the most
popular and often-quoted lyrics evoked by the Great War.

The Nawab Nizamat Jung Bahadur, was born in the State of Hyderabad, but
educated in England; and there are some--at Cambridge and elsewhere--who
will remember his keenly discriminating interest in British history and
literature, and the comprehensive way he, in a few words, would indicate
his impressions of poets and heroes, long dead, but to him ever-living.

His appreciation was both ardent and just; he could swiftly recognise
the nobler elements in characters which at first glance might seem
startlingly dissimilar; and he could pass without apparent effort from
study of the lives of men of action to the inward contemplations of
abstruse philosophers.

To those who have not met him, it may appear paradoxical to say that his
tastes were at the same moment acutely fastidious and widely
sympathetic; but anyone who has talked with him will recall the blend of
high impersonal ideas with a remarkable personality which seldom failed
to stimulate other minds--even if those others shared few if any of his
intellectual tastes.

A famous British General (still living) was once asked, "What is the
most essential quality for a great leader of men?" And he replied in one
word "SYMPATHY." The General was speaking of leadership in relation to
warfare; and by "Sympathy" he meant swift insight into the minds of
others; and, with this insight, the power to arouse and fan into a flame
the spark of chivalry and true nobility in each. The career of the Nawab
Nizamat Jung has not been set in the world of action,--he is at present
a Judge of the High Court in Hyderabad,--but nevertheless this
definition of sympathy is not irrelevant, for the Nawab's personal
influence has been more subtle and far-reaching than he himself is yet
aware. His love of poetry and history, if on the one hand it has
intensified his realisation of the sorrows and tragedies of earthly
life, on the other hand has equipped him with a power to awake in others
a vivid consciousness of the moral value of literature,--through which
(for the mere asking) we any of us can find our way into a kingdom of
great ideas. This kingdom is also the kingdom of eternal realities--or
so at least it should be; and those who in the early nineties in England
talked with Nizamoudhin (as he then was) could scarcely fail to notice
that he valued the genius of an author, or the exploits of a character
in history, chiefly in proportion to the permanent and vital nature of
the truths this character had laboured to express--whether in words or
action.

But Truth, has many faces; and scarcely any poet (except perhaps
Shakespeare) has come within measurable distance of expressing every
aspect of the human character. The Nawab could take pleasure in reading
poets as temperamentally dissimilar as Shelley and Scott, Spenser and
Byron,--to name only a few. Shelley, who was a spirit utterly unable to
understand this world or ordinary homespun human nature; and Scott, who
not only comprehended both without an effort, but who combined the
practical and the romantic elements successfully in his own life, A
devotion to Spenser, "the poet's poet," the poet of a dreamy yet very
real and living chivalry,--Spenser who used to forget himself in his
creations,--did not prevent the Nawab from understanding Byron, who
never could forget himself at all; and who, with all his vivid impulses
of generous sympathy for the oppressed, is nevertheless generally
classed to-day as a colossal egoist. (Unjustly so, for no mere egoist
would have toiled as he toiled for Greek emancipation, in the
nerve-racking campaign which cost him his life.)

In _India to England_--most characteristic of the war poems of Nizamat
Jung--we see traces of the influence of more than one of the English
poets he has read so lovingly. But the poem is none the less poignantly
personal. The same may be said of the Sonnets here prefaced; for
although they are related to the sonnets of earlier poets whose work
must be familiar to the writer, yet they are in no sense imitations, nor
are they echoes.

"_Poetry is the natural language of strong emotion_," the Nawab said many
years ago;--and if it may be asked why, holding this view, he has chosen
such an elaborate (and, some people might add, artificial) form as the
Sonnet, we can only answer that when an emotion or conviction is
deep-seated and permanent, it becomes clarified, concentrated, and
intensified under the stern discipline of compression within the
arbitrary yet expressive limitations of a sonnet.[A]

One of the main reasons why the Nawab's friends have urged the
publication of his Sonnets, is that despite occasional imperfections (of
which he himself is conscious), they form a consistent whole, and in
their spirit and sentiment they are akin to some of the most noble
utterances of the great minds and hearts whose words have been like
torches to show what heights a strong aspiring soul can climb.

Dialect and variant spellings have been retained. The oe ligature is shown
as {oe}, whilst the Greek letter _theta_ is represented by {th}.

Contents

PAGE THE CRYSTAL EGG 1

THE STAR 35
A STORY OF THE STONE AGE 59
A STORY OF THE DAYS TO COME 165
THE MAN WHO COULD WORK MIRACLES 325 

THE CRYSTAL EGG
There was, until a year ago, a little and very grimy-looking shop
near Seven Dials, over which, in weather-worn yellow lettering, the
name of "C.

  Cave, Naturalist and Dealer in Antiquities," was inscribed.

  The contents of its window were curiously
  variegated. They comprised some elephant
  tusks and an imperfect set of chessmen, beads and weapons, a box
of eyes, two skulls of tigers and one human, several moth-eaten
stuffed monkeys (one holding a lamp), an old-fashioned cabinet, a
flyblown ostrich egg or so, some fishing-tackle, and an extraordinarily
dirty, empty glass fish-tank.

  There was also, at the moment the story begins,
  a mass of crystal, worked into the shape of an egg and brilliantly
polished.

  And at that two people, who stood outside
  the window, were looking, one of them
  a tall, thin clergyman, the other a black-bearded young man of
dusky complexion and unobtrusive costume.

The dusky young man spoke with eager gesticulation, and seemed anxious
for his companion to purchase the article.

While they were there, Mr. Cave came into his shop, his beard still
wagging with the bread and butter of his tea. When he saw these men and
the object of their regard, his countenance fell. He glanced
guiltily over his shoulder, and softly shut the door. He was a little old
man, with pale face and peculiar watery blue eyes; his hair was a
dirty grey, and he wore a shabby blue frock coat, an ancient silk hat,
and carpet slippers very much down at heel. He remained watching the
two men as they talked.

The clergyman went deep into his trouser pocket, examined a handful of
money, and showed his teeth in an agreeable smile. Mr. Cave seemed still
more depressed when they came into the shop.

The clergyman, without any ceremony, asked the price of the crystal
egg.

Mr.

Cave glanced nervously towards the door leading into the parlour,
and said five pounds.

The clergyman protested that the price was high, to his companion
as well as to Mr.

Cave--it was, indeed, very much more than Mr.

Cave had intended to ask, when he had stocked the article--and an
attempt at bargaining ensued.

Mr. Cave stepped to the shop-door, and held it open. "Five pounds is my
price," he said, as though he wished to save himself the trouble of
unprofitable discussion. As he did so, the upper portion of a woman's
face appeared above the blind in the glass upper panel of the door
leading into the parlour, and stared curiously at the two customers.
"Five pounds is my price," said Mr.
Cave, with a quiver in his voice.

But in Italy,
towards the end of the thirteenth century, it had already become a
favourite mode of expression; and some forty years later, in a
manuscript treatise on the _Poetica Volgare_ (written in 1332 by a Judge
in Padua), sixteen different forms of sonnet were enumerated as then in
current use.

But despite the continued vogue of the Sonnet, and its association with
the names of such masters as Dante, Petrarch, Tasso and Michelangelo in
Italy; Ronsard in France; Camoens in Portugal; Shakespeare, Milton,
Wordsworth and Rossetti in England--to say nothing of a host of minor
poets, who, though one star differeth from another in glory, yet
constitute a brilliant galaxy--it is remarkable that even now the
average non-literary reader when asked "What is a Sonnet?" seldom gives
any more explicit reply than to say it is "a short poem limited to
fourteen lines."

The rules for the structure of those fourteen lines, and the labour and
patience entailed in producing a poem under these limitations, are not
always realised even by those who enjoy the results of the poet's
concentrated efforts. The more successful a sonnet, the more the reader
is apt to accept its beauty as if it had grown by a natural process like
a flower. This, perhaps, is the best compliment we could pay the poet;
but if the poet is one who boldly essays a most difficult and complex
form, in a language which for him is foreign, then we should pause a
moment to consider what it is that he has set out to accomplish.

Taking the structure first (though for the poet the spirit and impetus
of the central idea must of course come first)--a sonnet on the Italian
(Petrarchan) model must consist of fourteen lines of ten syllables each,
and must be composed of a major and minor system, i.e. an octave and a
sestet.

In the octave (the first eight lines) the first, fourth, fifth and
eighth lines must rhyme on the same sound, and the second, third, sixth
and seventh, must rhyme on another sound.

In the sestet (the last six lines) more liberty of rhyme and arrangement
is permitted, but a rhymed couplet at the end is not usual except when
the sonnet departs from the Italian model and is on the English or, as
we say, "Shakespearian" pattern.

Each sonnet must be complete; and, even if one of a sequence, it should
contain within itself everything necessary to the understanding of it.
It must be the expression of _one_ emotion, _one_ fact, _one_ idea, and
"the continuity of the thought, idea, or emotion must be unbroken
throughout." "Dignity and repose," "expression ample yet reticent," are
qualities which one of our ablest modern critics emphasises as
essential, and the end must always be more impressive than the
beginning,--the reader must be carried onwards and upwards, and left
with a definite feeling that in what has been said there is neither
superfluity nor omission, but rather a completeness which precludes all
wish or need for a longer poem.

How difficult this is for the poet can only be realised by trying to
achieve it.

Necks whiter than the iv'ry arm bestow'd 60 By Jove on Pelops, or
the Milky Road!
Bright locks, Love's golden snares, these falling low, Those playing
wanton o'er the graceful brow!
Cheeks too, more winning sweet than after show'r, Adonis turn'd to
Flora's fav'rite flow'r!
Yield, Heroines, yield, and ye who shar'd th'embrace Of Jupiter in
ancient times, give place; Give place ye turban'd Fair of Persia's
coast, And ye, not less renown'd, Assyria's boast!

Submit, ye nymphs of Greece! Ye once the bloom 70 Of Ilion,9 and all ye
of haughty Rome, Who swept of old her theatres with trains Redundant,
and still live in classic strains!
To British damsels beauty's palm is due, Aliens! to follow them is fame
for you.
Oh city,10 founded by Dardanian hands, Whose towering front the circling
realm commands, Too blest abode! no loveliness we see In all the earth,
but it abounds in thee.
The virgin multitude that daily meets, 80 Radiant with gold and beauty,
in thy streets, Outnumbers all her train of starry fires With which
Diana gilds thy lofty spires.

Fame says, that wafted hither by her doves, With all her host of
quiver-bearing Loves, Venus, prefering Paphian scenes no more, Has
fix'd her empire on thy nobler shore.

But lest the sightless boy inforce my stay, I leave these happy walls,
while yet I may.
Immortal Moly11 shall secure my heart 90 From all the sorc'ry of
Circaean art, And I will e'en repass Cam's reedy pools To face once more
the warfare of the Schools.
Meantime accept this trifle; Rhymes, though few, Yet such as prove thy
friend's remembrance true.

1 Diodati was a schoolfellow of Milton at St. Paul's, of Italian extraction,
nephew of Giovanni Diodati, the translator of the Bible into Italian, and
son of Theodore Diodati, a physician of eminence, who married and settled
in England. charles Diodati's early death formed the subject of The
"Epitaphium Damonis" ("The Death of Damon").

2 The Dee of Chester.

3 The Vergivian Sea, so called by Ptolemy, was the Irish Sea between
England and Ireland.

4 Cambridge.

5 Milton had been rusticated (suspended) on account of a quarrel
with his tutor, Chappell.

6 Chappell.

7 Ovid.

8 In Thebes--the guilty lords are Eteocles and Polynices the
brothers-sons of Oedipus and Jocasta, who fell in their unnatural
strife.

9 Troy.

10 London.

The Dardanian (i.e. Trojan) hands are those of Brutus, the legendary founder
of London.

11 The magical plant by which Odysseus was enabled to escape from Circe.
See Homer (Odyssey, x. 370-375).

ELEGY II

On the Death of the University Beadle at Cambridge.1
Thee, whose refulgent staff and summons clear, Minerva's flock
longtime was wont t'obey, Although thyself an herald, famous here,
The last of heralds, Death, has snatch'd away.

He calls on all alike, nor even deigns To spare the office that
himself sustains.

  Thy locks were whiter than the plumes
  display'd By Leda's paramour2 in ancient time,
  But thou wast worthy ne'er to have decay'd, Or,
  Aeson-like,3 to know a second prime, 10 Worthy
  for whom some Goddess should have won
  New life, oft kneeling to Apollo's son.4
  Commission'd to convene with hasty call
  The gowned tribes, how graceful wouldst thou stand!

  So stood Cyllenius5 erst in Priam's hall,
  Wing-footed messenger of Jove's command, And so,
  Eurybates6 when he address'd To
  Peleus' son Atrides' proud behest.
  
  Dread Queen of sepulchres!

whose rig'rous laws And watchful eyes, run through the realms below,
20 Oh, oft too adverse to Minerva's cause, Too often to the Muse
not less a foe, Chose meaner marks, and with more equal aim Pierce
useless drones, earth's burthen and its shame!

Flow, therefore, tears for Him from ev'ry eye, All ye disciples of
the Muses, weep!

  Assembling, all, in robes of sable
  dye, Around his bier, lament his endless
  sleep, And let complaining Elegy rehearse
  In every School her sweetest saddest verse. 30
  
  1 Richard Redding of St. John's College,
  M.A. He died in October, I626.
  2 The Swan--Jove had turned himself into that bird.
3 i.e. Jason, who was restored to youth by his daughter Medea.
4 Esculapius, the god of medicine.

5 Hermes.
6 One of the heralds sent to Achilles by Agamemnon.
ELEGY III Anno Aetates 17.1
On the Death of the Bishop of Winchester.2
Silent I sat, dejected, and alone, Making in thought the public
woes my own, When, first, arose the image in my breast Of England's
sufferings by that scourge, the pest.3 How death, his fun'ral torch
and scythe in hand, Ent'ring the lordliest mansions of the land,
Has laid the gem-illumin'd palace low, And level'd tribes of Nobles
at a blow.I clasp thy feet,--O fold me in thy wings,
  And place thy pure white hands upon my head,
  And breathe, O breathe, thy love-breath o'er mine eyes
  Till, like the flame that from dark ashes springs,
  My chastened spirit, from a self that's dead,
  Upon the wings of Love shall heav'nward rise.


II

THE CROWN OF LIFE


  I know not what Love is,--a memory
  Of Heav'n once known,--a yearning for some goal
  That shines afar,--a dream that doth control
  The spirit, shadowing forth what is to be.
  But this I know, my heart hath found in thee
  The crown of life, the glory of the soul,
  The healing of all strife, the making whole
  Of my imperfect being,--yea, of me!

  For to mine eyes thine eyes, through Love, reveal
  The smile of God; to me God's healing breath
  Comes through thy hallowed lips whose pray'r is Love.
  Thy touch gives life! And oh, let me but feel
  Thy hovering hand my closing eyes above,--
  Then, then, my soul will triumph over Death.


III

BEFORE THE THRONE


  When on thy brow I gaze and in thine eyes--
  Eyes heavy-laden with the soul's desire,
  Not passion-lit, but lit with Heav'n's own fire--
  I have a vision of Love's Paradise.
  Gazing, my trancèd spirit straightway flies
  Beyond the zone to which the stars aspire;
  I hear the blent notes of the white-wing'd quire
  Around Immortal Love triumphant rise.

  And there I kneel before th' eternal throne
  Of Love, whose light conceals him,--there I see,
  Veiled in his sacred light, a face well known
  To me on earth, now, yearning, bend o'er me.
  Heaven's mystic veil, inwove of light and tone,
  Conceals thee not, Belovèd,--I know thee!


IV

WORSHIP


  How poor is all my love, how great thy claim!
  How weak the breath, the voice which would reveal
  All that thy soul hath taught my soul to feel--
  Longings profound,--deep thoughts without a name.
  If God's self might be worshipped, without blame,
  In His best works, then would I silent kneel
  Watching thine eyes,--until my soul should steal
  Back, unperceived, to regions whence it came!

  If my whole life were but one thought of thee,
  That thought the purest worship of my heart
  And my soul's yearning blent; if at thy feet
  I offered such a life, there still would be
  Something to wish for,--something to complete
  The measure of my love and thy desert.


V

UNITY


  When I approach thee, Love, I lay aside
  All that is mortal in me; with a heart
  Absolved and pure, and cleansed in every part
  Of every thought that I might wish to hide
  From God, I come,--fit spirit to abide
  With such a soaring spirit as thou art,
  Whose eye transfixes with a fiery dart
  Presumptuous passion and ignoble pride.

  Yea, thus I come to thee, and thus I dare
  To gaze into thine eyes; I take thy hand,
  And its soft touch upon my lips and eyes
  Thrills thy pure being, while it lingers there,
  Into my heart and soul;--and then we stand
  Like the first two that loved in Paradise!


VI

LOVE'S SILENCE


  When through thine eyes the light of Heav'n doth shine
  Upon my being, and thy whisper brings,
  As the soft rustling of an angel's wings,
  Joy to my soul and peace and grace divine;
  When thus thy body and thy soul combine
  To weave the mystic web thy beauty flings
  Around my heart, whose thrilling silence rings
  With Hope's unuttered songs that make thee mine,--

  Ah, then, O Love! what need of words have we,
  Who speak in feeling to each other's heart?
  Words are too weak Love's message to impart,
  Too frail to live through Love's eternity.
  Silence, the voice of God, alone must be
  Love's voice for thee, beloved as them art.


VII

THE SUBLIME HOPE


  What need to tell thee o'er and o'er again
  What eyes to eyes have spoken silently
  And heart to heart hath uttered? Love must be
  For us a hushed delight, a voiceless pain
  Serenely borne! Our lips must ne'er profane
  Our inmost feelings,--lest the sanctity
  Of Love be lessened in our hearts and we
  Nought higher than the common path attain!

  The common path were death to us, whose love,
  O'erruled by Fate, from earthly hopes debarred,
  Must look to Heav'n for sublimer joys
  Than those which earth can give, which earth destroys.
  Our path is steep, but there is light above,
  And Faith can make the roughest way less hard.


VIII

THE HEART OF LOVE


  Look in mine eyes, Belovèd,--for my tongue
  Must never utter what my heart doth claim,--
  And read Love there, for Love's forbidden name
  Dies on my trembling lips unvoiced, unsung.
  Nor sighs, nor tears--the bitter tribute wrung
  From hearts of woe--must e'er that love proclaim
  For which the world's unpitying heart would blame
  Thy pity--though from purest fountains sprung.

  Fate and the world, they bid wide oceans roll
  Between our yearning hearts and their desire;
  Yea, lips they silence, but can ne'er control
  The heart of Love, nor quench its sacred fire.
  I must not speak; O look into my soul--
  There read the message which thou dost require!


IX

"TWIXT STAR AND STAR"


  Not here,--not here, where weak conventions mar
  Life's hopes and joys, Love's beauty, truth and grace,
  Must I come near thee, greet thee face to face,
  Pour in thine ear the songs and sighs that are
  My heart's best offerings. But in regions far,
  Where Love's ethereal pinions may embrace
  Beauty divine--in the clear interspace
  Of twilight silence betwixt star and star,

  And in the smiles of cloudless skies serene,
  In Dawn's first blush and Sunset's lingering glow,
  And in the glamour of the Moon's chaste beams--
  My soul meets thine, and there thine image seen,
  More real than life, doth to my lone heart show
  Such charms as live in Memory's haunting dreams!


X

THE HIGHER KNIGHTHOOD


  A time there was, when for thy beauty's prize--
  Hadst thou but deemed my love that prize deserved--
  What hope, what faith my daring heart had nerved
  For proud achievement and for high emprize!
  No Knight, that owned the spell of Beauty's eyes
  And wore her sleeve upon his helm, had served
  His vows with faith like mine; I ne'er had swerved
  One jot from mine for all beneath the skies.

  That time is dead, alas! and yet this heart
  Is thine, still thine, with Love's high chivalry
  And Faith that cannot die; but now its part
  Must be a higher knighthood,--patiently
  To brook life's ills, and, pierced with many a dart,
  By sacrifice of self to merit thee.


XI

IN BEAUTY'S BLOOM


  As when the Moon, emerging from a cloud,
  Sheds on the dreary earth her gracious light,
  A smile comes o'er the frowning brow of Night,
  Who hastens to withdraw her sable shroud;
  And then the lurking shadows' dark-robed crowd,
  Pursued with glitt'ring shafts, is put to flight;
  And, robed in silv'ry raiment, soft and bright
  The humblest flower as a Queen seems proud;

  So when thou com'st to me in Beauty's bloom,
  And on thy face soft Pity's graces shine,
  Thou can'st dispel the heavy shades of gloom
  From my sad heart, which ceases then to pine;
  And Hope and Joy their quenched beams relume
  And gild the universe with light divine.


XII

ETERNAL JOY


  Truth is but as the eye of God doth see;
  And Love is truth, and Love hath made thee mine.
  What though on earth our lives may not combine,
  Love makes us one for all Eternity!
  God gives us to each other, bids us be
  Each other's soul's fulfilment, makes Love shine
  Upon our souls as His own light divine.
  An effluence of His own deity.

  Why ask for more? Our union is above
  All earthly unions, ours those heights serene
  Where Love alone is Heav'n and Heav'n is Love--
  Where never comes the world's harsh breath between
  Hope's fruits and flow'rs. Ah, why then earthward move,
  Where pure and perfect bliss hath never been?


XIII

CONSTANCY


  Ah, Love, I know that to my love thou art,
  And must be, in this life, a dream,--a name!
  But be it joy or grief, or praise or blame,
  I give thee all the worship of my heart.
  'Tis not for Love to bid life's cares depart;
  Love wings the soul for Heaven whence it came.
  Such love from Petrarch's soul did Laura claim,
  And Beatrice to Dante did impart.

  To thee I turn,--be thou or near or far,
  And whether on my love thou frown or smile,--
  As, in mid-ocean, to some fairy isle
  Palm-crowned; as, in the heav'ns, to eve's bright star
  Whose pure white fire allures the vision, while
  Myriads of paler lights unnoticed are!


XIV

CALM AFTER STORM


  Thou hast but seen what but mine eyes have shown--
  Mine eyes that gazing on thee picture Heaven;
  Thou hast but heard what but my voice hath given--
  My voice that takes from thine a calmer tone.
  Ah! couldst thou know all that my heart hath known,
  While with Despair's dark phantoms it hath striven--
  From faith to doubt, from joy to sorrow driven,
  Till rescued and redeemed by Love alone,--

  Thou wouldst not marvel were my cloudless brow
  O'er-clouded, were my aspect less serene!
  Love smiles on Death, unveils his mystery
  Of joy and grief, and Love bids me avow
  This truth, with chastened heart and tranquil mien,--
  'Less pure Love's bliss if less Love's agony.'


XV

THE STAR OF LOVE


  Time's cycle rolls--once more I hail the day
  On which propitious Heaven sent to Earth,
  Disguised in thy fair form, in mortal birth,
  The Star of Love, whose pure celestial ray
  Glides through the spirit's gloom and lights the way
  To bliss! I hail thy coming 'midst the dearth
  Of the soul's aspirations, when the worth
  Of hearts like thine had ceased men's hearts to sway.

  I greet thee, Love, and with thee scale the height,
  That cloudless height where winged spirits rest:
  Where the deep yearnings of the mortal breast,
  From mortal bin set free, reveal to sight
  That living Presence, that Eternal Light
  In which enwrapt the eager soul is blest.


XVI

IMPRISONED MUSIC


  Oh, had I but the poet's voice to sing,
  Then would the music prisoned in my heart
  (Panting in vain its message to impart)
  Hover around thee, Love, on trembling wing,
  To tell thee of the soft-eyed hopes that cling
  To Love's white feet, the doubts and fears that start
  And pierce his bosom with a poisoned dart,--
  The smiles that soothe, the cold hard looks that sting!

  But 'tis not mine, the soaring joy of Song:
  I strive to voice my soul, but strive in vain.
  Though passion thrills, and eager fancies throng,
  Deckt in the varying hues of joy and pain,
  Yet the weak voice--as weak as Love is strong--
  Dies murm'ring on Love's throbbing heart again.


XVII

LOVE'S MESSAGE


  We will not take Love's name; that little word,
  By lips too oft profaned, we will not use.
  From Nature's best and loveliest we will choose
  Fit symbols for Love's message; like a bird,--
  Whose warbled love-notes by its mate are heard
  In greenwood glade,--shalt thou in strains profuse
  The prisoned music of thy heart unloose,
  While my heart's love is by sweet flow'rs averred.

  Then take, O take these fresh-awakened flowers,
  The symbols of my love, and keep them near,
  Where they may feel thy breath and touch thy hand;
  Then sing thy songs to me,--in silver showers
  Pour forth, thine eager soul, and I shall hear;
  Ah, thus will Love Love's message Understand!


XVIII

ECSTASY


  The Nightingale upon the Rose's breast
  Warbling her tale of life-long sorrow lies,
  Till in love's trancèd ecstasy her eyes
  Close and her throbbing heart is set at rest;
  For, to the yielding flow'r her bosom prest,
  Death steals upon her in the sweet disguise
  Of crownèd love and brings what life denies,--
  mingling of the souls,--Love's eager quest!

  Thus let my heart against thy heart repose,
  Sigh forth its life in one delicious sigh,
  Then drink new life from out thy balmy breath;
  Thus in love's languor let our eyelids close,
  And let our blended souls enchanted lie,
  And dream of joy beyond the gates of death.


XIX

THE DREAM


  Was it a dream, when, through the spirit's gloom,
  I saw the yearning face of Beauty shine--
  Soft in its human aspect, though divine,
  Pleading for human love, though armed with doom?
  And was it but a dream, that faint perfume,
  Blent of loose tress and soft lips joined to mine,
  Those fair white arms that did my neck entwine,
  That neck's sweet warmth, that smooth cheek's floral bloom?

  Ah! was it true, or was it but a dream
  Of bliss that scarce to mortal hearts is given?
  Ah! was it thou, Belovèd, or some bright
  Phantom of thee that made thy presence seem,
  Rich with the warmth of Life, the light of Heaven,
  To hover o'er the realms where both unite?


XX

ETHEREAL BEAUTY


  Nay, it was thou, when the fair Evening Star
  Leaned on the purple bosom of the West;
  'Twas thou, when o'er the far hills' frowning crest
  Fell the soft beams of Cynthia's silv'ry car:
  Thyself--than stars and moonbeams fairer far--
  A vision in ethereal beauty drest!
  But, when thy head drooped flow'r-like on my breast,
  Then did no word our souls' communion mar:

  Love spake to love without a sign or glance,
  And heart to heart its inmost depth revealed
  In the deep thrilling silence of that trance,
  Till earth, and earthly being ceased to be,
  And our blent souls at that high altar kneeled
  Whence Love doth gaze upon Eternity!


XXI

A CROWN OF THORNS


  There was a crown of thorns upon the head
  Of Love, when he across my threshold came.
  I knew the sign and did not ask his name,
  But took him to my heart, although he said,
  'The soul's dumb agonies, the tears unshed
  That sear the heart, th' injustice and the blame
  Of the harsh world,--God wills that I should claim
  Through these immortal Life when Hope is dead.'

  I took him to my heart and clasped him close.
  E'en though his thorns did make my bosom bleed.
  Then from the very core of pain arose
  A joy that seemed to be the utmost need
  Of my worn soul! Love whispered, '_This_ the meed
  Of hearts that keep their faith amidst Love's woes.'


XXII

TWO HEARTS IN ONE


  Two hearts made one by Love that cannot die
  Whatever life may bring, shall never part;
  In life they're one, and e'en in death one heart!
  Are we not such, Belovèd, thou and I?
  Ah, then, why mourn that 'neath another sky,
  Far from these longing arms and eyes thou art?
  I clasp thee still, and lo! thy lips impart
  New life to me as in the days gone by.

  I feel thy heart in mine,--our hopes and fears,
  Like music's wedded notes, together flow;
  Our sighs the same, the same our smiles and tears,--
  The selfsame bliss is ours, the selfsame woe.
  For Love no weary leagues, no ling'ring years--
  Two hearts in one nor time nor distance know.


XXIII

YEARNING


  The night is sweet: thy breath is in the air,
  I feel it on my face; thy tender eyes
  Look love upon me from yon starry skies!
  They bring to me, those glancing moonbeams fair,
  The shine and ripple of thy silken hair.
  And in the silent whispers and the sighs
  That from the throbbing heart of Nature rise,
  I hear thee, feel thee,--own thy presence there.

  Ah, fond deceit!--too soon the heart, unblest,
  Unsated, turns from these illusive charms
  Back to the haunting dream of heav'n once known:
  It pines for those soft eyes, that throbbing breast,
  Those sweet life-giving lips, those circling arms--
  The breath, the touch, the warmth of Beauty flown.




XXIV

LOVE'S GIFT


  I'm far from thee, yet oft our spirits meet:
  We share the longings of each other's breast,
  And all our joys and sorrows are confest
  As though our lips did love's fond tale repeat.
  Ah! In fact I always rejected the proposal (warned
  by recent volumes of pestilential reminiscences)
  and would none of it; not only from its apparent
  vainglory as to the inevitable extenuation of one's own faults and
failures in life, and the equally certain amplification of
self-registered virtues and successes,--but even still more from
the mischief it might occasion from a petty record of commonplace
troubles and trials, due to the "changes and chances of this mortal
life," to the casual mention or omission of friends or foes, to the
influence of circumstances and surroundings, and to other
revelations--whether pleasant or the reverse--of matters merely
personal, and therefore more of a private than a public character.

  
  Her countenance benign,
  Where Love and Pity's chastened graces shine,
  Reflects the hallowed light of other spheres.

  Then to my anguished soul, with care outworn,
  Comes, like a strain on aerial wings upborne,
  This message from her soul:--'_Bid sorrow cease;
  Love dies not;--'tis th' immortal life above.
  And chastened souls, that win eternal peace
  Through earthly suff'ring, know that Heaven is Love_!'