"And now about the matter I wanted to speak of last night. La Lalli
comes to us, you see, for the Carnival: it is a great triumph for
Ravenna. She is certainly the first singer in Italy, since England
with its brute power of money, robbed us of poor Sparderini. But
between you and me, figliuolo mio, we should never have got her, if
there had not been certain difficulties--certain scandals,--che so
io?--at Milan. All that is no business of ours, you know, tutt'
altro! But there has been talk;--stories have got about!--mere
calumny probably, as Signor Ercole very justly remarked,--but it is
very desirable that such things should not be the talk of the town
here. It is mauvais genre to chatter about such matters. You can
make it mauvais genre among the youngsters at Ravenna, if you
choose. Do so; you understand! That's all."

"Perfectly, uncle! Lasci fare a me! I'll see to it; though I confess
I do not quite understand why we need trouble ourselves about any
such gossip," said Ludovico, delighted to be able to fall in with
his uncle's wishes in something.

"Well, I should have thought that you might understand. In the first
place I don't want it to be said or imagined, either here or
elsewhere, that Ravenna has taken up with a singer, who could not
get an engagement elsewhere. Not that that is the case by any means.
But don't you see, if it is said that she was obliged to leave
Milan, it puts us in the position of a pis aller! And I don't like
that. In the next place, I don't want to have light talk about a
person whom I have had so large a share in bringing to the city.
These are things you ought to learn to think of, caro mio!" replied
the Marchese, a little annoyed at having to put his feelings on the
subject into such plain words.

"I'll take care that things shall be as you wish. When is she to
arrive?" asked Ludovico.

"About the end of the year--in a month's time or thereabouts.
Stadione did not mention whether the day of her coming had been
fixed. Her first appearance will be on the night of the Beffana, the
6th of January."

"Because they were talking at the Circolo of getting up some little
matter of welcome,--taking the horses from her carriage, and drawing
her in, or some thing of that kind, and a serenata of course.
Leandro is busy already with a poem for the occasion, you may
swear!"

"Bravo! bene! If only our good friend the Conte keeps his muse
within tolerable limits! It would not do to quite smother her in
verse on her first arrival; and, you know, our good Leandro has
rather a special gift that way. Well, get up any kind of
dimostrasione you like for the occasion,--it will all help to give
eclat to our opening. You can arrange all about the when, and the
where, etc., with Stadione. We are going to have a meeting of the
Belle Arte Committee here this morning. They'll be here directly!"
said the Marchese Lamberto, pulling out his watch.

"One word more, uncle, before I'm off," said Ludovico.

"What is it?--money, I suppose?" said the Marchese, again taking out
his watch.

"No, sir; not money this time,--unless, indeed, you insist on it,"
said the nephew, laughing.

"Not at all, not at all! I won't press it on you by any means!" said
the uncle in a similar tone; "but what were you going to say?"

"Why, with reference to what you were saying just now, about the
Signorina Foscarelli," replied Ludovico, in quite a different tone.
"I am always anxious to shape my conduct in accordance with your
advice, uncle. You see La Foscarelli has all but finished her work
at St. Vitale, you know: she is to do her copying in the Cardinal's
Palace next, for you have kindly arranged for her permission to do
so. Now, she can't very well go to the palace, for the first time,
alone, you know! If you had not expressed the opinions you have on
the subject, I should have gone with her, thinking no harm. But
perhaps--to the palace, you know;--it would be better, if you would
not mind it, to accompany her, for the first time, yourself."

"Very right, very properly thought of, my dear boy! Yes; I can go
with her--or I can send Burini, which will come to the same thing."

"No, uncle; not the same thing--to send a mere maestro di casa,--a
servant! It would not be nice for the poor girl; it would make all
the difference with the servants and people at the palace: if I
avoid going with her to please you, you will go with her yourself,
won't you?"

"Very well, very well; I'll go with her. If any man has more to do
of his own than all the rest of the city put together, there are
sure to be other folk's at fairs thrust on him also; it has been so
with me all my life. Well, I will find half an hour somehow."

"Thanks, uncle! Good-by, I wish you well through your meeting."

"We shall see each other at dinner?"

"Yes. A rivederla!"


CHAPTER X

The Contessa Violante


The Contessa Violante Marliani lived, as has been said, with her
great-aunt, a sister of the Cardinal. They occupied a small house
nearly contiguous to the palace, which was almost more their home
than their own dwelling. The Marchesa Lanfredi, the Cardinal's
sister, though a great-aunt, was not yet sixty years old. She had
been left a childless widow, very scantily provided for, early in
life, and had retired from Bologna, her husband's native place, to
live first at Foligno, of which city her brother had been bishop,
and afterwards at Ravenna, to which he had been subsequently
promoted. The Cardinal was six or seven years her senior. His elder
brother, the grandfather of the Lady Violante, had inherited the
family estates in the neighbourhood of Pesaro, and had died, leaving
them to his only son, Violante's father, when the latter was a very
young man.

This Conte Alberto Marliani had married for love, as it is called.
That is to say, that he had not married for any of the reasons for
which marriages among people of his rank and his country are usually
made; but had been attracted by a pretty gentle face seen in a Roman
ball-room. The pretty gentle face had remained always gentle; but
had soon ceased to be pretty.

The Contessa Marliani was inclined to devotion. The Conte was very
much disinclined to anything of the sort. He soon got tired of his
wife, repented of his marriage, and commenced an active system of
breaking her heart. It was not a very difficult task, for she was as
gentle in spirit as in face. He completed it when his only child
Violante was about nine years old. But he had also completed, much
about the same time, the entire dissipation of the never very large
Marliani property. And it so happened that, very shortly afterwards,
his own career was brought to a conclusion, which his relatives felt
to have overtaken him a few years too late! He was travelling from
Rome down to Pesaro to complete the sale of the last portion of the
estates, the proceeds of which had been anticipated, when he was
very opportunely drowned in attempting to cross the Tiber swollen by
flood.

The little Violante, thus left an almost destitute orphan, was
nevertheless a personage of some importance. She was the only
remaining scion of the family; and the position of her great-uncle
seemed to promise a renewed period of prosperity and fortune to the
old name. Violante was the Cardinal Legate's natural and sole heir.
The Cardinal was a very rich man; and in amassing wealth and
attaining honours, he had, like a true Italian, never thought the
less of the additions to, and provisions for, the fortunes and
splendour of the family name, which he was winning, because he was
himself a priest, and would leave no heirs of his name. The
peculiarities in the position of a sacerdotal aristocracy have
engrafted the passion of nepotism in the hearts, as well as the
practice of it in the manners, of the members of Rome's hierarchy.

Generally the family tie is a stronger one among the Italians than
among ourselves. In the upper classes, it is certainly so; and,
probably, among all classes. It may be thought strange, perhaps,
that this should be the case with a people whose lives are supposed
to be less pervaded by the sentiment of domesticity than our own.
The explanation may, however, perhaps be found in the greater and
more frequent disruption of family ties, which is caused by that
more active social movement, which pushes our younger sons away from
the parental stock in search of the means of founding families of
their own.

And one of the results of the Italian mode of living and feeling is
seen in the very common family ambition of Churchmen.

The little Violante then, as has been said, was a personage of some
importance, at least in the eyes of the Cardinal and his sister; and
when she was left an orphan, was at once taken to live with her
great-aunt, under the auspices of her Cardinal great-uncle. Both of
those remaining members of the family would have preferred that the
one remaining scion of the race should have been a boy; but--when
the young Contessa should be married, of course her name should be
thenceforward borne as part of that of the family; into which she
should marry,--as is so commonly the case in Italy, (many of the
oldest and most illustrious names in the peninsula having survived
to the present day solely by virtue of such arrangements); and the
Marliani be thus saved from extinction.

The young Contessa Violante, when she reached the age of young-
ladyhood, had not the "fatal gift of beauty." Some people think that
such a deprivation is the most unfortunate from which a woman can
suffer. Others maintain that the absence of beauty is, upon the
whole, no real misfortune. But however philosophers may settle this
question, it can hardly be doubted that no young girl devoid of
beauty, was ever yet persuaded that to be unattractive in
appearance, was otherwise than a very, very sore affliction and
misfortune. Nature often kindly mitigates the blow by making the
unlovely girl unconscious of her want of beauty. But this was not
the case with the young Contessa Violante Marliani.

Violante knew that she was not beautiful, or even pretty. Probably
in her own estimate of herself she exaggerated her plainness. She
was one of those persons who have not the gift of self-deception.
Neither was she elegant in person. And yet there was something about
her bearing, which would have prevented any one from imagining that
she was other than a high-born lady. There was strong evidence of
intellect in her face; and it was doubtless from within that came
that quiet dignity of bearing that marked her.

And it was a dignity compatible and combined with the most perfect
gentleness and almost humility of manner;--a dignity arising not
from the conscious ness of any high position or high qualities, but
from the consciousness of that sort of gentle passive strength,
which knows that no external circumstance, or difficulty, or
pressure will avail to make its owner step but a hair's breadth
aside from the path which conscience has marked as that of right and
duty.

Violante was tall and slender, but her figure was not graceful.
People did not say of her that she was slender; they said she was
thin. And that was incontestably true. She was very thin. But her
shoulders were high and square, and there was a sort of angularity
and harshness about all the lines of her person. Her head seemed
somewhat too large for her body; and the upper part of it seemed too
large for the lower portion. She had a large, square forehead, white
enough, but strongly marked with inequalities of surface, which,
however much they might have delighted a phrenologist, were not
conducive to girlish comeliness. Her hair was of the very light
reddish quality, which has not a single touch in it of that rich
sunny auburn, which makes so many heads charming, red though they
be. Her face was perfectly white, yet not clear of complexion. And
the pale grey eyes beneath their all but colourless brows completed
the impression of a general want of vigour and vitality.

A little before the end of that year in which the Ravenna impresario
performed his memorable journey to Milan with the results that have
been recorded, Violante di Marliani reached her twenty-third
birthday; a few months before that day the Marchese Ludovico had
reached his twenty-second. It was a difference on the wrong side,
but not so great as to form any serious objection to the proposed
match. But twenty-three is a rather mature age for an Italian noble
lady to reach unmarried. That such should have been the case with
the Signora Violante was by no means because no suitor for her hand
had ever presented himself. Several such aspirants had entered the
lists. For the Contessa Violante was the great-niece of her great
uncle. But some of these had appeared objectionable to the Cardinal
and his sister;--who also were not at all likely to forget all that
was due to the prospects arising from such a relationship, and all
that it implied; and all of them had been objectionable to the young
Contessa herself.

Violante's expectations, indeed, in that line, or in any other of
all the different ways in which happiness may come to mortals in
this world, was very small. For the first nine years of her life she
had lived the only companion of a very miserable mother. And all
that mother's misery had apparently come from the fact of her having
a husband. Those first years of the child's life had been very sad;
very monotonous, very depressing. Perhaps the effect of them did but
confirm the speciality of an idiosyncrasy, which would have been
much the same without them. But, at all events, when the child was
brought to the house of her great-aunt, it seemed as if her mind and
character had been too long and too uniformly toned to accord with
sadness, for happiness to have any power of taking hold of her.

The old Marchesa Lanfredi, who took the young Contessa under her
roof, and under her care, was not a bad sort of woman in the main;
but she was thoroughly and consistently worldly, and judged
everything from a worldly point of view. The Contessa Marliani was
an important little lady in her eyes; and was treated, by her with
an indulgence and consideration which she would have considered out
of place in the case of a child not born to such expectations and
such a destiny. She was not contented with her young relative; but
was more perplexed and puzzled by her than angered. And as Violante
grew towards womanhood, her great-aunt understood her less and less.

In the first place, she had a much stronger tendency towards
devotion than the Marchese Lanfredi thought either natural or
becoming in a young woman. Of course it was right and proper to pay
due attention to one's religious duties; there was no necessity to
tell her, a Cardinal Archbishop's sister, that, it was to be
supposed. But she had a strong objection to excess in such matters.
And to her mind Violante carried her devotional practices, and yet
more her devotional ideas, to excess. Of the latter, indeed, the old
Marchesa Lanfredi disapproved altogether. Young people had no ideas
upon the subject in her time;--and the world was certainly a better
world then than it had been since.

