
I saw that rich and great as she was, she was still a woman, and as much
liable to all manner of passion and all womanly weakness as I was myself.
I saw as I lived in her house that rank is of little worth, and the
higher it is, the greater the trouble and the anxiety it brings with it.
Great people must be careful of their dignity.  It will not suffer them
to live at ease.  They must eat at fixed hours and by rule, for
everything must be according to their state, and not according to their
constitutions.  And they have frequently to take food more fitted for
their state than for their liking.  So it was that I came to hate the
wish to be a great lady.  God deliver me from this artificial and evil
life!  Then, as to servants, though this lady has very good servants, how
slight is the trust she is able to put in them.  One must not be
conversed with more than the rest, otherwise he is envied and hated of
all the rest.  This of itself is a slavery; and it is another of the lies
of the world to call such people masters and mistresses, who, in reality,
are nothing but slaves in a thousand ways.  I really see nothing good in
the world and its ways but this, that it will not tolerate the smallest
fault in those who are not its own.  For by detracting, and
fault-finding, and evil-reporting on the good, the world greatly helps to
perfect them.  He who will not die to the world shall die by it.  O
wretched world!  Bless God, my daughters, that He has chosen and enabled
you to turn your backs for ever on a thing so base.  The world is to be
known by this also, that it esteems a man not by what he is, but by what
he possesses: by what is in his purse: and, that failing, the honour and
esteem of the world instantly fail also.  O our Lord; Supreme Power,
Supreme Goodness, Supreme Truth; Thy perfections are without beginning
and without end.  They are infinite and incomprehensible.  They are a
bottomless ocean of beauty.  O my God, that I had the eloquence of an
angel's speech to set forth Thy goodness and Thy truth, and to win all
men over to Thee!


ON EVIL-SPEAKING


After my vow of perfection I spake not ill of any creature, how little
soever it might be.  I scrupulously avoided all approaches to detraction.
I had this rule ever present with me, that I was not to wish, nor assent
to, nor say such things of any person whatsoever, that I would not have
them say of me.  And as time went on, I succeeded in persuading those who
were about me to adopt the same habit, till it came to be understood that
where I was absent persons were safe.  So they were also with all those
whom I so instructed.  Still, for all that, I have a sufficiently strict
account to give to God for the bad example I am to all about me in some
other respects.  May it please His Majesty to forgive me, for I have been
the cause of much evil.  For one thing, the devil sometimes fills me with
such a harsh and cruel temper: such a spirit of anger and hostility at
some people, that I could eat them up and annihilate them.  At the same
time, concerning things said of myself in detraction, and they are many,
and are very prejudicial to me, I find myself much improved.  These
things make little impression upon me.  I am under them as a deaf man
that hears not, and as a man in whose mouth there is no retaliation.  Nay,
I almost always see that my greatest detractors have only too good reason
for what they say.  In this way my soul actually gains peace and strength
under detraction, till it becomes a great favour done me, and a great
advantage.  Upon betaking myself to prayer, I find in my heart neither
repugnance at my detractors nor enmity.  For, although, when I first hear
the detraction, it causes me a little disconcert, yet not any
long-lasting disquiet or alteration.  Nay, sometimes when I see people
take pity on me because of my detractors, I laugh at them, so little do
all my detractors now hurt me.


ON SELF-EXCUSING


That which I am now to persuade you to, namely, the not excusing of
yourselves, causes a great confusion in me.  For it is a very perfect
quality and of great merit; and I ought far better to practise what I
tell you concerning this excellent virtue.  I confess myself to be but
little improved in this noble duty.  For it is a mark of the deepest and
truest humility to see ourselves condemned without cause, and to be
silent under it.  It is a very noble imitation of our Lord.  Were I truly
humble, I would desire disesteem, even though having in the matter in
hand given no real offence.  Here no bodily strength is needed, my
daughters, nor any one's assistance, but God's.  How well is this
written, and how ill is it practised by the writer!  Indeed, I never
could make trial of this grace in any matter of consequence, because I
never heard of any one speaking ill of me, but I immediately saw how far
short he came of the full truth.  For, if he was wrong or exaggerated in
his particulars, I had offended God much more in other matters that my
detractor knew nothing about.  And, methought, God favoured me much in
not proclaiming my secret sins to all men.  And, thus, I am very glad
that my detractor should ever report a trifling lie about me, rather than
the terrible truth.

O my Lord, when I remember in how many ways Thou didst suffer detraction
and misrepresentation, who in no way deserved it, I know not where my
senses are when I am in such a haste to defend and excuse myself.  Is it
possible that I should desire any one to speak any good of me, or to
think it, when so many ill things were thought and spoken of Thee!  What
is this, O Lord; what do we imagine to get by pleasing worms, or being
praised by them?  What about being blamed by all men, if only we stand at
last blameless before Thee!


ON PRAISE, PRECEDENCY, AND POINTS OF HONOUR


Observe carefully the stirrings of your heart in matters of superiority.
Pray to be delivered from such thoughts as these: I am older.  I deserve
better.  I have laboured more.  I have more talent.  Such thoughts are
the plague and poison of the heart.  Believe me, if there remain in you
any allowed hankerings after the praises of men, though you may have
spent many years in prayer, or rather in idle forms of prayer, you have
made no progress, and never will, till your heart is crucified to the
approval and the praise of men.  If you feel in yourself any point of
honour, any pride, any desire of eminence or pre-eminence, you must free
yourself from that abominable bondage, and for that chain there is no
hammer and file like humility and prayer.  Among the rest of my great
imperfections this was one.  I had very little knowledge of my Breviary,
or of that which was to be sung in the choir, and all the while I saw
that some other novices could instruct me.  But I was too proud to ask
any questions.  I was afraid that my great ignorance should be
discovered.  Shortly afterwards a good example was set before me, and
then, when God had once opened my eyes to my sinful pride, I was content
to ask information and the help even of little children.  And yet,--and
this surprised me, I lost no credit or honour thereby.  Nay, it seemed to
me that my Lord after that gave me better skill and a better memory.  I
could sing but very ill, and I was troubled at this, not because I failed
in my worship of God, but because so many heard me, and thus I was
disturbed on the mere point of honour and praise.  I told them that I
could not do what others did, and what was expected of me.  At first I
had some difficulty in this, but it soon became both natural and pleasant
to me to tell the truth.  By these nothings,--and they are really
nothings, and I am sufficiently nothing when such things could put me to
so much pain,--and by little and little His Divine Majesty vouchsafed to
supply me with strength.  I was never good at the choir, but I tried to
do my part for it in folding up the mantles of the singers; and,
methought, in that I was serving the angels of God who so well praised
Him.  I did that also by stealth, such was my pride, and my pride was
hurt when they discovered what I did.  O my Lord, who that ever reads
this can fail to despise and abhor me?  I beseech Thy Divine Majesty that
I may soon be able to leave all such vanities as the praise and blame of
men, and seek Thy praise only!  And then add this, which is worth
knowing.  The devil will not dare to tempt one to pride or precedency who
is truly humble because, being very crafty, he fears defeat.  If you are
truly humble, you will only grow in that grace by every temptation to
pride or praise.  For, immediately on the temptation, you will reflect on
your whole past life and present character, and on the stupendous
humility of Jesus Christ.  And by these considerations your tempted soul
will come off so victorious, that the enemy will think twice before he
comes back, for fear of a broken head.


ON HUMILITY


Keep yourselves, my daughters, from that false humility which the devil
suggests concerning the greatness of your sins.  For hereby he is wont to
disquiet our souls after sundry sorts, and to draw us off Holy Communion,
and also from prayer.  It is sometimes a great and a true humility to
esteem ourselves as bad as may be, but at other times it is a false and a
spurious humility.  I know it, for I have experienced it.  True humility,
however great, does not disquiet nor disorder the soul.  It comes with
great peace, and great serenity, and great delight.  Though we should see
our utter wickedness, and how truly we deserve to be in hell, and think
that both God and man must despise and abhor us; yet, if this be a true
humility, it comes with a certain sweetness and satisfaction attending
it.  This humility does not stifle nor crush the soul.  It rather dilates
the soul, and disposes the soul for the better service of God.  While
that other sorrow troubles all, and confounds all, and destroys all.  It
is the devil's humility when he gets us to distrust God.  When you find
yourselves thus, lay aside all thinking on your own misery, and meditate
on the infinite mercy of God, and on the inexhaustible merit and grace of
Jesus Christ.

I was once considering what the reason was why our Lord loved humility in
us so much, when I suddenly remembered that He is essentially the Supreme
Truth, and that humility is just our walking in the truth.  For it is a
very great truth that we have no good in us, but only misery and
nothingness, and he who does not understand this walks in lies: but he
who understands this the best is the most pleasing to the Supreme Truth.
May God grant us this favour, sisters, never to be without the humbling
knowledge of ourselves.

O Sovereign Virtues!  O Ladies of all the creatures!  O Empresses of the
whole world!  Whoever hath you may go forth and fight boldly with all
hell at once.  Let your soldiers not fear, for victory is already theirs.
They only fear to displease God.  They constantly beseech Him to maintain
all the virtues in them.  It is true these virtues have this property, to
hide themselves from him who possesses them, so that he never sees them
in himself, nor thinks that he can ever possess a single one of them.
Other men see all the virtues in him, but he so values them that he still
pursues them, and seeks them as something never to be attained by such as
he is.  And Humility is one of them, and is Queen and Empress and
Sovereign over them all.  In fine, one act of true humility in the sight
of God is of more worth than all the knowledge, sacred and profane, in
the whole world.


ON SORROW FOR SIN


It is indeed a very great misery to live on in this evil world where our
enemies are ever at our gate, and where we can neither eat nor sleep in
peace, but are compelled to have our armour on night and day.  There is
no rest here, nor happiness, nor will be till we are with the
Everlastingly Blessed.  As I write I am seized with terror, lest I should
never escape this sinful life.  Pray for me, my daughters, that Christ
may ever live in me: for, otherwise, what security can there be for such
as I am, who have been so wicked.  You may sometimes have thought, my
daughters, that those to whom the Lord particularly communicates Himself,
will be henceforth secure of enjoying Him for ever, and that they will
have no need to fear or bewail their former sins.  But this is a great
mistake.  Sorrow for sin increases in proportion as more and more grace
is received from God.  And I, for my part, believe, that this bitter
sorrow will never leave us till we come where neither sin nor anything
else will ever disquiet us.  True, both past sin, and present sinfulness,
affect us more at one time than at another; and, likewise, in a different
manner.  I know one who often wishes for death, that she may be freed
from the torment of her sinful heart.  No one's sins can equal hers,
because there can be no one who has obtained such favours of her God.  Her
fear is not so much of hell, as that she should so grieve God's Holy
Spirit, that He will be wearied out, and will forsake her, and leave her
in her sins.  This fear and pain is not at all eased by believing that
her past sins have all been forgiven and forgotten of God.  Nay, her fear
and pain but increase by seeing such mercy extended toward a woman who
deserves nothing but hell.


ON LEARNING AND INTELLECT


I always had a great respect and affection for intellectual and learned
men.  It is my experience that all who intend to be true Christians will
do well to treat with men of mind and books about their souls.  The more
learning our preachers and pastors have the better.  For if they have not
much experience themselves, yet they know the Scriptures and the recorded
experiences of the saints better than we do.  The devil is exceedingly
afraid of learning, especially where it is accompanied with humility and
virtue.  For my own part, I bless God continually, and we women, and all
such as are not ourselves intellectual or learned, are always to give God
infinite thanks that there are some men in the world who take such great
pains to attain to that knowledge which we need but do not possess.  And
it delights me to see men taking the immense trouble they do take to
bring me so much profit, and that without any trouble to me.  I have only
to sit still and hear them.  I have only to come and ask them a question.
Let us pray for our teachers, for what would we do without them.  I
beseech the Lord to bless our teachers, that they may be more and more a
blessing to us.

When I spoke of humility, it must not be understood as if I spoke against
aspiring after the highest things that mind and heart and life can attain
to.  For though I have no ability for the wisdom and the knowledge of God
myself, and am so miserable that God did me a great favour in teaching me
the very lowliest truths: yet, in my judgment, learning and knowledge are
very great possessions, and a great assistance in the life of prayer, if
only they are always accompanied with humility.  I have of late seen some
very learned men become in addition very spiritual and prayerful men.  And
that makes me pray that all our men of mind and learning may soon become
spiritual men and men of much prayer.

Let no one be admitted into this House unless she is a woman of a sound
understanding.  For if she is without mind she will neither know herself,
nor understand her teachers.  For the most part they that are defective
in mind ever think that they understand things better than their
teachers.  And ignorance and self-conceit is a disease that is incurable;
and besides, it usually carries great malice along with it.  Many speak
much and understand little.  Others, again, speak little and not very
elegantly, and yet they have a sound understanding.  There is such a
thing as a holy simplicity that knows little of anything but of how to
treat with God.  At the same time commend me to holy people of good
heads.  From silly devotees, may God deliver us!  While all that is true,
in the very act of prayer itself there is little necessity for learning,
for the mind then, because of its nearness to the light, is itself
immediately illuminated.  I myself, who am what I am, even I am a
different person in prayer.  It has often happened to me, who scarcely
understand a word of what I read in Latin, when in deep prayer, to
understand the Latin Psalms as if they were Spanish.  At the same time,
even for prayer, let those who have to teach and preach take full
advantage of their learning, that they may help poor people of little
learning, of whom I am one.  Ministering with all learning and all
intellectual ability to souls is a great thing, when it is done unto God.
I have many experiences in prayer that I do not understand, and cannot
explain or defend.  Our Lord has not been pleased to give me the full
intellectual understanding of all His dealings with me.  That is the
truth.  Though you, my father, may think that I have a quick
understanding, it is in reality not so.  Sometimes my advisers used to be
amazed at my ignorance how God carried on His work within me.  It was
there, but the way of it was a great deep to me.  I could neither wade
out unto God, nor down into myself.  Though, as I have said, I loved to
converse with men of mind as well as of heart.  At the same time, my
difficulties but increased my devotion, and the greater my difficulty the
greater the increase of my devotion.  Praise His Name.


ON PRAYER


(1) _The Price of Prayer_.--O Thou Lord of my soul, and my Eternal Good,
why is it that when a soul resolves to follow Thee, and to do her best to
forsake all for Thee,--why is it that Thou dost not instantly perfect Thy
love and Thy peace within that soul?  But I have spoken unadvisedly and
foolishly, for it is we who are at fault in prayer, and never Thee.  We
are so long and so slow in giving up our hearts to Thee.  And then Thou
wilt not permit our enjoyment of Thee without our paying well for so
precious a possession.  There is nothing in all the world wherewith to
buy the shedding abroad of Thy love in our heart, but our heart's love.
If, however, we did what we could, not clinging with our hearts to
anything whatsoever in this world, but having our treasure and our
conversation in heaven, then this blessedness would soon be ours, as all
Thy saints testify.  God never withholds Himself from him who pays this
price and who perseveres in seeking Him.  He will, little by little, and
now and then, strengthen and restore that soul, till at last it is
victorious.  If he who enters on this road only does violence enough to
himself, with the help of God, he will not only go to heaven himself, but
he will not go alone: he will take others with him.  God will give him,
as to a good leader, those who will go after him.  Only, let not any man
of prayer ever expect to enjoy his whole reward here.  He must remain a
man of faith and prayer to the end.  Let him resolve, then, that whatever
his aridity and sense of indevotion may be, he will never let himself
sink utterly under his cross.  And the day will come when he will receive
all his petitions in one great answer, and all his wages in one great
reward.  For he serves a good Master, who stands over him watching him.
And let him never give over because of evil thoughts, even if they are
sprung upon him in the middle of his prayer, for the devil so vexed the
holy Jerome even in the wilderness.  But all these toils of soul have
their sure reward, and their just recompense set out for them.  And, I
can assure you, as one who knows what she is saying, that one single drop
of water out of God's living well will both sustain you and reward you
for another day and another night of your life of life-long prayer.

(2) _Sin spoils Prayer_.--Now I saw that there would be no answer to me
till I had entire purity of conscience, and no longer regarded any
iniquity whatsoever in my heart.  I saw that there were some secret
affections still left in me, which, though they were not very bad perhaps
in themselves, yet in a life of prayer such as I was attempting those
remanent affections spoiled all.

(3) _Eighteen Years of Misery in Prayer_.--It is not without very good
reason that I have dwelt so long on this part of my life.  It will give
no one any pleasure to see any one so base as I was.  And I wish all who
read this to have me in abhorrence.  I failed in all obedience, because I
was not leaning on my strong pillar of prayer.  I passed nearly twenty
years of my life on this stormy sea, constantly tossed with tempest and
never coming to harbour.  It was the most painful life that can be
imagined, because I had no sweetness in God, and certainly no sweetness
in sin.  I was often very angry with myself on account of the many tears
I shed for my faults, when I could not but see how little improvement all
my tears made in me.  All my tears did not hold me back from sin when the
opportunity returned.  Till I came to look on my tears as little short of
a delusion: and yet they were not.  It was the goodness of the Lord to
give me such compunction even when it was not as yet accompanied with
complete reformation.  But the whole root of my evil lay in my not
thoroughly avoiding all occasions of sin, and in my confessors, who
helped me at that time so little.  If they had only told me what a
dangerous road it was I was travelling in, and that I was bound to break
off all occasions of sin, I do believe, without any doubt, that the
matter would have been remedied at once.  Nevertheless, I can trace
distinctly the mercy of God to me in that all the time I had still the
courage to pray.  I say courage, because I know nothing in the whole
world that requires greater courage than plotting treason against the
King, knowing that He knows it, and yet continuing to frequent His
presence in prayer.  I spent more than eighteen years in that miserable
attempt to reconcile God and my life of sin.  The reason that I tell and
repeat all this so often is that all who read what I write may understand
how great is that grace God works in the soul when He gives it a
disposition to pray on, even when it has not yet left off all sin.  If
that soul perseveres, in spite of sin, and temptation, and many relapses,
our Lord will bring that soul at last--I am certain of it--to the harbour
of salvation, to which He is surely bringing myself.  I will say what I
know by experience,--let him never cease from prayer, who has once begun
to pray, be his life ever so bad.  For prayer is the only way to amend
his life, and without prayer it will never be mended.  Let him not be
tempted of the devil, as I was, to give up prayer on account of his
unworthiness.  Let him rather believe that if he will only still repent
and pray, our Lord will still hear and answer.  For myself, very often I
was more occupied with the wish to see the end of the hour.  I used
actually to watch the sand-glass.  And the sadness I sometimes felt on
entering my oratory was so great, that it required all my courage to
force myself in.  In the end our Lord came to my help: and, then, when I
had done this violence to myself, I found far greater peace and joy than
when I prayed with regale and rapture.  If our Lord then bore so long
with me in all my wickedness, why should any one despair, however wicked
he may be?  Let him have been ever so wicked up till now, he will not
remain in his wickedness so many years as I did after receiving so many
graces from our Lord.  And this more I will say,--prayer was the true
door by which our Lord distributed out all His grace so liberally to me.
Prayer and trust.  I used indeed to pray for help: but I see now that I
committed all the time the fatal mistake of not putting my whole trust in
His Majesty.  I should have utterly and thoroughly distrusted and
detested and suspected myself.  I sought for help.  I sometimes took
great pains to get it.  But I did not understand of how little use all
that is unless we root utterly all confidence out of ourselves, and place
it at once, and for ever, and absolutely in God.  Those were eighteen
miserable years.

(4) _Aridity in Prayer_.--Let no one weary or lose heart in prayer
because of aridity.  For the Hearer of prayer comes in all such cases
very late.  But at last He comes.  And though He confessedly comes late,
He correspondingly makes up to the soul for all His delays, and rewards
her on the spot for all her toil, and dryness, and discouragement of many
years.  I have great pity on those who give way and lose all this through
not being taught to persevere in prayer.  It is a bad beginning, and very
prejudicial to proficiency in prayer, to use it for the gust and
consolation that a man receives at the time.  I know by my own
experience, that he who determines to pray, not much heeding either
immediate comfort or dejection, he has got into one of the best secrets
of prayer.  I am troubled to hear that grave men, and men of learning and
understanding, complain that God does not give them sensible devotion.  It
proceeds from ignorance of the true life of prayer, and from not carrying
the cross into prayer as into all the rest of the spiritual life.  He who
begins to pray should be well told that he begins to plant a fine garden
in very bad soil; a soil full of the most noxious and ineradicable weeds.
And that after good herbs and plants and flowers have been sown, then he
has to weed and water and fence and watch that garden night and day and
all his life.  Till the Lord of the garden is able to come and recreate
and regale Himself where once there was nothing but weeds, and stones,
and noxious vermin.  Prayer, howsoever perfect in itself it may be, must
always be directed in upon the performance of good works.  We must not
content ourselves with the gift of prayer, or with liberty and
consolation and gust in prayer.  We must come out from prayer the most
rapturous and sweet only to do harder and ever harder works for God and
our neighbour.  Otherwise the prayer is not good, and the gusts are not
from God.  The growth and maturity and fruitfulness of the soul do not
stand in liberty in prayer, but in love.  And this love is got not by
speaking much but by doing and suffering much.  For my part, and I have
been long at it, I desire no other gift of prayer but that which ends in
every day making me a better and better woman.  By its fruits your prayer
will be known to yourselves and others.

At other times I find myself so arid that I am not able to form any
distinct idea of God, nor can I put my soul into an attitude of prayer,
though I am in the place of prayer, and though I feel that I know
something of God.  This mind of mine at such times is like a born fool or
some idiot creature that nothing can bind down.  I cannot command myself.
I cannot properly say one _Credo_.  At such times I laugh bitterly at
myself, and see clearly my own natural misery.  I come then to see the
exceeding favour of the Lord in that He ever holds this insane fool fast
in prayer and holiness.  What would those who love and honour me think if
they saw their friend in this dotage and distraction?  I reflect at such
times on the great hurt our original sin has done us.  For it is from our
first fall that all this has come to us that we so wander from God, and
are so often utterly incapable of God.  But it is not so much Adam's sin
as my own that works in me all this alienation and inability and aridity.
Methinks I love God; but my actions, and the endless imperfections I see
in myself, cause me great fear, and deep and inconsolable distress.

(5) _Prayer after Sin_.--Never let any one leave off prayer on any
pretence: great sins committed, or any other pretence whatsoever.  For by
leaving off prayer the soul will be finally lost, while every return to
prayer is new life and new strength, as I am continually telling you.  I
tell you again that the leaving off of prayer was the most devilish and
the most deadly temptation I ever met with.

(6) _Meditation in Prayer_.--He who prays should often stop to think with
whom he speaks: who he himself is who speaks: who Jesus Christ is through
whom he speaks: what that country is to which he aspires: how he may best
please Him who dwells there: and what he is to do so that his character
and disposition may suit with God's disposition and character.  Mental
prayer, as I am wont to call it, is the constant meditation of such
things as these.  And mental prayer ought to be endeavoured after by all,
though they have no virtues, because it is the beginning of them, and
therefore the one interest of all men is at once to begin such prayer.
But it will be exercised with no little difficulty unless the steady
acquisition of the virtues accompanies it.  In prayer it is far best to
be alone; as, for our example and instruction, our Lord always was when
He prayed.  For we cannot talk both to God and man at the same moment.
And, if we feel too much alone, and must have company, no company is
comparable to Christ's company.  Let us picture and represent Christ to
ourselves and to His Father as always at our side.  Those who pray with
proper preparation: that is, with much meditation on the whole life and
death of our Lord: on their own death: on the last day, or such like, our
Lord will bring all such to the port of light.  Meditate much on the
Sacred Humanity of our Lord: what He was on earth: what He said: what He
did, and what He suffered.  Because this life of ours is long and uphill,
which to pass well through needs the constant presence with us of our
great Exemplar, Jesus Christ.

(7) _The Presence of God in Prayer_.--In prayer there would sometimes
come upon me such a sense of the Presence of God that I seemed to be all
engulfed in God.  I think the learned call this mystical experience; at
any rate, it so suspends the ordinary operations of the soul that she
seems to be wholly taken out of herself.  This tenderness, this
sweetness, this regale is nothing else but the Presence of God in the
praying soul.  At the same time, I believe that we can greatly help
toward the obtaining of God's Presence.  We obtain it by considering much
our own baseness, the neglect and the ingratitude we show toward the Son
of God, how much He has done for us, His passion and terrible suffering,
His whole life so full of affliction, by delighting ourselves in His word
and in His works, and such things as these.  And if in these reflections
the soul be seized with the Presence of God, then the whole soul is
regaled as I have described.  The heart is filled with relenting.  Tears
also abound.  In this way does the Divine Majesty repay us even here for
any little care we take to serve Him and to be with Him.  The life of
prayer is just love to God and the custom of being ever with Him.

(8) _Supernatural Prayer_.--In supernatural prayer God places the soul in
His immediate Presence, and in an instant bestows Himself upon the soul
in a way she could never of herself attain to.  He manifests something of
His greatness to the soul at such times: something of His beauty,
something of His special and particular grace.  And the soul enjoys God
without dialectically understanding just how she so enjoys Him.  She
burns with love without knowing what she has done to deserve or to
prepare herself for such a rapture.  It is the gift of God, and He gives
His gifts to whomsoever and whensoever He will.  This, my daughters, is
perfect contemplation: this is supernatural prayer.  Now this is the
difference between natural and supernatural prayer: between mental and
transcendental prayer.  In ordinary prayer we more or less understand
what we say and do.  We think of Him to whom we speak; we think about
ourselves and about our Surety and Mediator.  In all this, by God's help,
we can do something, so to speak, of ourselves.  But in pure supernatural
and transcendental prayer, we do nothing at all.  His Divine Majesty it
is who does it all.  He works in us at such elect seasons what far
transcends and overtops all the powers and resources even of the renewed
nature.  At the same time, as a far-off means of attaining to
supernatural prayer, it is necessary to put upon ourselves the acquiring
of the great virtues, and especially, humility: we must give up and
resign ourselves wholly and entirely unto God.  Whoever will not attempt
to do this, with all the grace of God, that man will never come within
sight of the highest prayer.  Let him, in absolutely everything, seat
himself in the lowest place.  Let him account himself utterly and
hopelessly unworthy of everything he possesses, both in nature and in
grace.  Let him shun advancement.  Let him apply himself to daily
mortification, not of the body so much as of the mind and the heart, and
let him be more than content with the least thing that God allows him,
for this is true humility.  In short, let His Majesty lead us in any way
He pleases, and the chances are that He will soon lead us by these ways
to a life of prayer and communion it had not entered into our hearts to
conceive possible to such sinners as we are.  Let no man be too much cast
down, because he has not yet attained to supernatural prayer.  God leads
His people in the way that He chooses out as best for Him and for them.
And he who stands low in his own eyes, may all the time stand high in
God's eyes.  Supernatural prayer is not necessary to salvation: nor doth
God require it of us.  They shall not fail of salvation who practise
themselves in the solid virtues.  No, they may have more merit in His
eyes than their more favoured neighbours, because their obedience, and
their faith, and their love have cost them more.  Their Lord deals with
them as with strong and valiant men, appointing them travail and trouble
here, that they may fight for Him the good fight of faith, and only come
in for the prize at the end.  And, after all, what greater mark of a high
election can there be than to taste much of the cross?  Whom the Lord
loveth, in that measure He lays on them His cross.  And the heaviest of
all our crosses is a life of sanctification and service without sensible
consolation.

(9) _Over-familiarity in Prayer_.--He was a man of a powerful
understanding.  I thought on his great gifts, and the possibilities there
were in him of doing great service if he were once entirely devoted to
God.  He asked me to recommend him much to God, and I did not need to be
asked.  I went away to the place to which I used to retreat in cases like
this.  And once there, I put myself into a state of entire recollection,
and began to treat with our Lord in a way, when I think of it, of too
great familiarity.  But it was love that spake, and every one allows love
great familiarity, and no one so much as our Lord.  My soul overlooked
the distance between herself and her Lord.  She forgot herself, as she so
often does, and began to talk impertinences and to take too great
freedoms.  I entreated our Lord with many tears.  I judged my friend to
be already a good man, but I must have him much better, and I said so too
freely, I fear.  'O Lord,' I remember I said,' Thou must not deny me this
favour that I ask.  This is a man for us to make a friend of.'  And far
more than that.  And He did it.  Yes, He did it.  O His immense bounty
and goodness!  He regards not the words but the affection with which the
words are uttered.  That must be so, when He endures with such an
impertinent and over-familiar and irreverent wretch as I am; endures and
answers.  May He be blessed to all eternity!

(10) _The Best Result of Prayer_.--To Father Gratian.  To-day I received
three letters from your Reverence by the way of the head-post.  The whole
matter is in a nut-shell.  That prayer is the most acceptable which
leaves the best results.  Results, I mean, in actions.  That is true
prayer.  Not certain gusts of softness and feeling, and nothing more.  For
myself, I wish no other prayer but that which improves me in virtue.  I
would fain live more nearly as I pray.  I count that to be a good prayer
which leaves me more humble, even if it is still with great temptations,
tribulations, and aridities.  For it must never be thought that because a
man has much suffering, therefore he cannot have prayed acceptably.  His
suffering is as incense set forth before God.  Tell my daughters that
they must work and suffer as well as pray, and that it is the best prayer
that has with it the most work and the most suffering.

