I said: "I'll have to get you to excuse me; I think maybe I
might write to suit you after a while; as soon as I had had some
practice and learned the language I am confident I could. But, to
speak the plain truth, that sort of energy of expression has its
inconveniences, and a man is liable to interruption. You see that
yourself. Vigorous writing is calculated to elevate the public, no
doubt, but then I do not like to attract so much attention as it
calls forth. I can't write with comfort when I am interrupted so
much as I have been to-day. I like this berth well enough, but I
don't like to be left here to wait on the customers. The
experiences are novel, I grant you, and entertaining, too, after a
fashion, but they are not judiciously distributed. A gentleman
shoots at you through the window and cripples _me_; a bomb-shell
comes down the stove-pipe for your gratification and sends the
stove-door down _my_ throat; a friend drops in to swap compliments
with you, and freckles _me_ with bullet-holes till my skin won't
hold my principles; you go to dinner, and Jones comes with his
cowhide, Gillespie throws me out of the window, Thompson tears all
my clothes off, and an entire stranger takes my scalp with the easy
freedom of an old acquaintance; and in less than five minutes all
the blackguards in the country arrive in their war-paint, and
proceed to scare the rest of me to death with their tomahawks. Take
it altogether, I never had such a spirited time in all my life as I
have had to-day. No; I like you, and I like your calm, unruffled
way of explaining things to the customers, but you see I am not
used to it. The Southern heart is too impulsive; Southern
hospitality is too lavish with the stranger. The paragraphs which I
have written to-day, and into whose cold sentences your masterly
hand has infused the fervent spirit of Tennessean journalism, will
wake up another nest of hornets. All that mob of editors will
come--and they will come hungry, too, and want somebody for
breakfast. I shall have to bid you adieu. I decline to be present
at these festivities. I came South for my health; I will go back on
the same errand, and suddenly. Tennessean journalism is too
stirring for me."

After which we parted with mutual regret, and I took apartments at
the hospital.


"Of course you do, Monsieur le Cure; there are few you know so well.

It is Mademoiselle Vincart."
"Reine?"
The Abbe flung away the pruning-knife and branch that he was cutting,
and gazed at Claudet with a stupefied air. At the same time, his
jovial face became shadowed, and his mouth assumed an expression
of consternation.

"Yes, indeed, Reine Vincart," repeated Claudet, somewhat vexed at
the startled manner of his reverence; "are you surprised at my
choice?"

"Excuse me-and-is it all settled?"

stammered the Abbe, with bewilderment, "and--and do you really
love each other?"

"Certainly; we agree on that point; and I have come here to arrange
with you about having the banns published."

"What! already?"

murmured the cure, buttoning and unbuttoning the top of his coat
in his agitation, "you seem to be in a great hurry to go to work.
The union of the man and the woman--ahem--is a serious matter,
which ought not to be undertaken without due consideration.

That is the reason why the Church has instituted the sacrament of
marriage.

Hast thou well considered, my son?"
"Why, certainly, I have reflected," exclaimed Claudet with some
irritation, "and my mind is quite made up.

Once more, I ask you, Monsieur le Cure, are you displeased with my
choice, or have you anything to say against Mademoiselle Vincart?"

"I? no, absolutely nothing.

Reine is an exceedingly good girl."

"Well, then?"

"Well, my friend, I will go over to-morrow and see your fiancee,
and we will talk matters over.

I shall act for the best, in the interests of both of you, be
assured of that. In the meantime, you will both be united this evening
in my prayers; but, for to-day, we shall have to stop where we are.

Good-evening, Claudet!

I will see you again."

With these enigmatic words, he dismissed the young lover, who
returned to the chateau, vexed and disturbed by his strange
reception.

The moment the door of the presbytery had closed behind Claudet,
the Abbe Pernot, flinging to one side all his preparations, began
to pace nervously up and down the principal garden-walk.

He appeared completely unhinged. His features were drawn,
through an unusual tension of ideas forced upon him.

He had hurriedly caught his skullcap from his head, as if he feared
the heat of his meditation might cause a rush of blood to the head.

He quickened his steps, then stopped suddenly, folded his arms
with great energy, then opened them again abruptly to thrust his
hands into the pockets of his gown, searching through them with
feverish anxiety, as if he expected to find something which might
solve obscure and embarrassing questions.

"Good Lord! Good Lord! What a dreadful piece of business;
and right in the bird season, too! But I can say nothing to Claudet.
It is a secret that does not belong to me. How can I get out of it?
Tutt! tutt! tutt!"
These monosyllabic ejaculations broke forth like the vexed
clucking of a frightened blackbird; after which relief, the Abbe
resumed his fitful striding up and down the box-bordered alley.

This lasted until the hour of twilight, when Augustine, the servant,
as soon as the Angelus had sounded, went to inform her master that
they were waiting prayers for him in the church.

In the midst of this mournful spot was a decayed
and aged little "frame" house with but one room, one window, and no
ceiling--it had been a smoke-house a generation before. Nicodemus
was given this lonely and ghostly den as a bedchamber.

The village smarties recognized a treasure in Nicodemus right
away--a butt to play jokes on. It was easy to see that he was
inconceivably green and confiding. George Jones had the glory of
perpetrating the first joke on him; he gave him a cigar with a
fire-cracker in it and winked to the crowd to come; the thing
exploded presently and swept away the bulk of Nicodemus's eyebrows
and eyelashes. He simply said:

"I consider them kind of seeg'yars dangersome"--and seemed to
suspect nothing. The next evening Nicodemus waylaid George and
poured a bucket of ice-water over him.

One day, while Nicodemus was in swimming, Tom McElroy "tied" his
clothes. Nicodemus made a bonfire of Tom's by way of retaliation.

A third joke was played upon Nicodemus a day or two later--he
walked up the middle aisle of the village church, Sunday night,
with a staring hand-bill pinned between his shoulders. The joker
spent the remainder of the night, after church, in the cellar of a
deserted house, and Nicodemus sat on the cellar door till towards
breakfast-time to make sure that the prisoner remembered that if
any noise was made some rough treatment would be the consequence.
The cellar had two feet of stagnant water in it, and was bottomed
with six inches of soft mud.

But I wander from the point. It was the subject of skeletons that
brought this boy back to my recollection. Before a very long time
had elapsed, the village smarties began to feel an uncomfortable
consciousness of not having made a very shining success out of
their attempts on the simpleton from "old Shelby." Experimenters
grew scarce and chary. Now the young doctor came to the rescue.
There was delight and applause when he proposed to scare Nicodemus
to death, and explained how he was going to do it. He had a noble
new skeleton--the skeleton of the late and only local celebrity,
Jimmy Finn, the village drunkard--a grisly piece of property which
he had bought of Jimmy Finn himself, at auction, for fifty dollars,
under great competition, when Jimmy lay very sick in the tanyard a
fortnight before his death. The fifty dollars had gone promptly for
whiskey and had considerably hurried up the change of ownership in
the skeleton. The doctor would put Jimmy Finn's skeleton in
Nicodemus's bed!

This was done--about half-past ten in the evening. About Nicodemus's
usual bedtime--midnight--the village jokers came creeping stealthily
through the jimpson weeds and sunflowers towards the lonely frame
den. They reached the window and peeped in. It appears, indeed, to have
been the earlier form of rule. Megasthenes noticed it in India. "The
village-communities," says Sir Charles Metcalf, "are little republics,
having everything they want within themselves, and almost independent
of any foreign relations. They seem to last where nothing else
lasts." These villages usually consist of the holders of the
land, those who farm and cultivate it, the established village-servants,
priest, blacksmith, carpenter, accountant, washerman, potter,
barber, watchman, shoemaker, etc.He had sold the skeleton to a
travelling quack for three dollars and was enjoying the result!

[Illustration: "WHEEZING THE MUSIC OF 'CAMPTOWN RACES'"]


Mr. Bloke's Item


Our esteemed friend, Mr. John William Bloke, of Virginia City,
walked into the office where we are sub-editor at a late hour last
night, with an expression of profound and heartfelt suffering upon
his countenance, and, sighing heavily, laid the following item
reverently upon the desk, and walked slowly out again. He went
straight on, stumbling over the juniper bushes, and wondering what
he should say when he reached the farm, and how he should
begin.
Sometimes he addressed himself, thus: "Have I the right to speak?
What a revelation! And to a young girl!We were so moved at his
distress that we did not think to call him back and endeavor to
comfort him until he was gone, and it was too late. The paper had
already gone to press, but knowing that our friend would consider
the publication of this item important, and cherishing the hope
that to print it would afford a melancholy satisfaction to his
sorrowing heart, we stopped the press at once and inserted it in
our columns:

