"They have been companions in the mixed line or Delhi since the
mutiny," earnestly replied Hawke, slowly concluding: "And Ram Lal
has been Johnstone's broker in selecting his almost unequaled Indian
collection. Ram is a thief, like all Hindus, but he is square to
me.  I hold him in my hand. You can trust to him, but only through
me!" Berthe Louison raised her eyes and then fixed a searching
glance upon Alan Hawke, as if she would read his very soul.

"And, can I trust you?" she said, almost solemnly.

"You remember our strange compact, Madame," coldly said Alan
Hawke.  "Here, face to face with the enemy, I expect to know what
is required of me--and also what my future recompense will be."

"Ah, I forgot," mused the strange lady of the bungalow. "You have
the right to teach me a lesson, in both manners and business. I
forgot how sharply I had drawn the line, myself. Well, Sir, I will
trust to you without any assurance on your part." She rang the
silver bell at her side, once, and the silent Jules appeared, as
attentive as Rastighello in the boudoir of the Duchess of Ferrara.
"My traveling bag, Jules," said the lady, in a careless tone. There
was a silence punctuated only by Alan Hawke's heavy breathing,
until the silent servitor returned, bowing and departing without
a word, as he placed the bag at Madame Louison's side. With
a businesslike air, the lady handed Alan Hawke a sealed letter,
addressed simply:

HUGH FRASER JOHNSTONE, ESQ., DELHI.

Near at hand, in the opened bag, the watchful Major saw the revolver
and dagger once more which he had noted, at Lausanne.

"Let Ram Lal deliver that personally to the would-be Baronet,
to-morrow morning at eight o'clock. He is to say nothing. There will
be no reply," measuredly remarked the strange woman whose life as
Alixe Delavigne had brought to her the legacy of an undying hatred
for the man whom she was about to face. "This will bring Hugh
Johnstone to me at once!"

"That is all?" stammered Alan Hawke, as he received the document,
respectfully standing "at attention."

"No, not quite all!" laughed Berthe Louison. "Pray continue a career
of judiciously liberal social splendor here, an external 'swelling
port' just suited to a man whose feet are planted upon a financial
rock. But do not overdo it! It might excite Hugh Johnstone's alarm.
Here is five hundred pounds in notes. There will be no accounts
between us."

"And, I am to do nothing else?" cried Hawke, in surprise. "I fear
to have you meet this man alone! He is rich, powerful, and crafty.
The nature of your business, I fear, is that of deadly quarrel.
Remember, this man is at bay. He is unscrupulous. I fear for you!"

The renegade spoke only the truth. For dark memories of Hugh Fraser's
bitter deeds in days past now thronged upon his brain.

"Fear not for me." cried Berthe Louison, springing up like a tigress
in defense of her cubs. "Do you know that his life would be the
forfeit of a lifted finger? Do you take me for a blind fool?" she
raged. "Do you know the power of gold? Ah, my friend, there are
unseen eyes watching my pathway here, and may God have mercy upon
any one who practices against me, in secret! Any 'strange happening'
to me would be fearfully avenged! As for this flinty-hearted brute,
he would never even reach that threshold alive, if he dared to
threaten! Go! Leave him to me. Come here to-morrow night. I shall
have need of your cool brain and your ready wit! My only task was
to find him and the girl together."

"And if I am questioned about you? If anything occurs?" persisted
Alan Hawke.

"Simply ignore my existence; if we meet we are strangers!" gasped
Berthe, who had thrown herself on a divan. "Obey me without
questioning my motive! Each night you will receive orders for the
next day, should I need your secret hand! Go now! I am tired! I
must be ready to meet this man!"

Alan Hawke had reached the door, but he turned back. "And as to
Ram Lal? What shall I do?" The woman's eyes flashed fire.

"Leave him also to me! I will handle him! A few rupees--will serve
as his bait. Stay! You say that this Swiss woman, Justine Delande,
is sympathetic, and seems to be a worthy person?" She was scanning
his impassive face with steely glances now.

"She is younger than her sister Euphrosyne," gravely said Alan
Hawke, "and not without some personal attractions. Her older sister
adores her. Even this old brute, Johnstone, seems to treat her with
great respect and deference."

"There is the only danger to us! Watch that woman! Mingle freely
in the Johnstone household," said Berthe, wearily, "but never cast
your eyes toward Nadine. Never even hint to this Swiss governess
that you have seen her sister. After they return to Europe it is
another thing. Silence and discretion now. Good night. Come to-morrow
night at ten o'clock; all will be quiet, and you can steal away
from the Club in safety."

Major Alan Hawke stole away to the hidden entrance like a thief
of the night. He started as he saw the menacing figure of Jules
Victor glide swiftly after him to the secret opening in the wall.
The servitor spoke not a single word, but watched the business
agent disappear. "I must watch this damned Frenchman," he mused,
feeling for his packet of notes and loosening his revolver. "He
may be set on by this she devil to watch Ram Lal." And then Hawke
gayly sought the jewel merchant, lingering an hour in the very room
where he was on the morrow to meet the heart-awakened Justine. Old
Ram Lal grinned as he accepted the letter. He was happy, for he
heard the jingling of golden guineas in the near future. "You have
nothing to do with me, Ram Lal," laughed the Major. "The lady will
give you your orders, only you are to tell me all for both our
sakes. I will see you rewarded," and again Ram Lal grinned in his
quiet way.

When Alan Hawke's head was resting on his pillow he suddenly became
possessed with a strange new fear. "By God! I believe that she has
been here before; she seems to be up to the whole game."

Alan Hawke's steps hardly died away in the hallway before the beautiful
Nemesis made a careful inspection of her splendid reception-room.
The splendors of its curtained arches, its fretted ceiling, and
its frescoed walls were idly passed over, for the woman only made
an exhaustive survey of its geometrical arrangement. Marie Victor
was in waiting at her side, and the mistress and maid were soon
joined by Jules. Throwing open the door of a little adjoining
cabinet, Madame Louison whispered a few private directions to the
ex-Communard. "Do this at once yourself; none of the blacks are to
know. I trust none of them!" imperatively commanded Berthe. "Marie
will receive him. You are to be here at nine o'clock, and be sure
to let no one of these yellow spies observe you. Now, both of you.
Here is the rearrangement of the furniture. This will be your first
task in the morning. You can both use the whole household for these
changes. They are to obey you in all. Let all be ready when I have
breakfasted. Now, Marie, I will try and rest. Jules, inspect and
examine the house; then you can take your post for the night at my
door. Have you exhausted every possibility of any trickery in the
sleeping room?"

"There's but the one door, Madame. Trust to me. I have sounded every
inch of the walls, and even examined the floor." Jules Victor's
romantic nature thrilled with the possibilities of the little life
drama to come.

Berthe Louison departed to rest upon her arms the night before the
battle. Much marveled the swarming band of Ram Lal's creatures that
no human being was suffered to approach the Lady of the Bungalow
but her two white attendants. Berthe Louison had not reached the
idle luxury of employing a dozen Hindus in infinitesimal labors
near her person. For she fathomed easily Ram Lal's devotion to
Major Alan Hawke.

The presence of keen-eyed Marie Victor's brass camp-bed in My
Lady's sleeping-room was a source of wonder to the velvet-eyed spy
who was Ram Lal's especial "Bureau of Intelligence." "Strange ways
has this Mem-Sahib," murmured the Hindu when he craved to know if
the Daughter of the Sun and Light of the World desired aught. "I
will then have two to watch. The waiting woman has the eye of a
tiger."

A personal verification of the fact that Jules Victor was encamped for
the night, en zouave, on a divan drawn before the only door joining
the boudoir and sleeping-room, caused the sly spy to greatly marvel,
for the scarred face of the French social rebel was ominously
truculent, and a pair of Lefacheux revolvers and a heavy knife lay
within the ready reach of this strange "outside guard."

In the dim watches of the first night in Delhi, the same barefooted
Hindu spy learned by a visit of furtive inspection, that a night
light steadily burned in the boudoir where Jules was toujours pret.
The sneaking rascal crept away, with a violently beating heart,
fearing even the rustle of his bare feet upon the mosaic floor.

And all this, and much more, did he deliver with abject humility
to Ram Lal Singh, when that worthy appeared the next day to crave
his mysterious patron's orders. It seemed a tough nut to crack,
this tripartite household arrangement.

The dawn found Madame Berthe Louison as alertly awake as bird and
beast stirring in the ruined splendors of old Shahjehanabad. Long
before the anxious Justine Delande arose to deck herself furtively
for her tryst with Alan Hawke, Berthe Louison knew that all her
orders of the night before were executed.

"You are sure that you can see perfectly, Jules?" said the anxious
woman.

"I command the whole side of the room where you will be seated,"
replied the Frenchman, "and the ornaments and carved tracery cover
the aperture. Marie has tested it and I have also done the same,
reversing our positions. Nothing can be seen."

"Good! Remember! Nine o'clock sees you at your post! You are
prepared?" The woman's voice trembled.

"Thoroughly!" cried the alert servitor, "Only give me your signal!
I must make no mistake! There's no time to think in such cases!"
He bent his head, while his mistress, in a low voice gave her last
orders. Jules saluted, as if he were the leader of a forlorn hope.

"And now for the first skirmish!" mused Berthe Louison, as she
personally examined some matters, of more material interest to her,
in the reception-room.

The rearrangement of the furniture seemed to be satisfactory, and
Madame Berthe Louison composedly busied herself with the arrangement
of a writing case, and a few womanly articles upon the table which
she had chosen as her own peculiar fortification. A few moments
were wasted upon trifling with a well-worn envelope, now carefully
hidden in her bosom. This maneuver passed the time needed for
a stately carriage to sweep up from the opened grand gate of the
bungalow to the raised veranda steps. "There he is!" she grimly
said. "Now, for the first blood!"

A man who was shaking with mingled rage and fear hastily strode
across the broad portico, as Berthe Louison glided away from the
curtained window and confidently resumed her own chosen chair. Her
bosom was heaving, her eye was fixed and stern, and she steadily
awaited her foe, for one last warning whisper had reached her hidden
servitor.

When Marie Victor threw open the double doors of the reception
room, on its threshold stood the towering form of the man whom
Alixe Delavigne had known in other years as Hugh Fraser, the man
whose pallid face told her that he knew at last that he was under
the sword of Damocles! Clad in white linen, his sun helmet in his
hand, steadying himself with a jeweled bamboo crutch-handled stick,
the old Anglo-Indian waited until Berthe Louison's voice rang out,
as clear as a silver bell: "Marie! I am not to be interrupted."
she calmly said. "You may wait beyond, in the ante-room!"

The woman who had emerged from the dark penumbra of a dead Past,
to torture the embryo Baronet, gazed silently at the stern old man
glowering there.

Striding up to her, the insolent habit of years was, strong upon
him, as he hoarsely said: "What juggling fiend of hell brings you
here?"

Without a tremor in her voice, the lady of Jitomir replied:

"I came here to undo the work of years! To teach an orphaned girl
to know that a love which hallows and which blesses, can reach her
from the grave in which your cold brutality buried the only being
I ever loved! She shall know her mother, from my lips, and not
wither in the gray hell of your egoism. I have searched the world
over, and found you, at last, together!"

"By God! You shall never even see her face, you she-devil!" cried
the infuriated old man, nearing the defiant woman. "You were
the go-between for your worthless sister and that Russian cur,
Troubetskoi!"

"You lie! Hugh Fraser, you lie!" cried Berthe, in a ringing voice.
"You crushed the flower that Fate had drifted within your reach!
You turned her into the streets of London to starve! You robbed
her of her child, all this to feed your own flinty-hearted tyrant
vanity!  She was divorced from you by a Royal Russian Decree, before
she married the man whose heart broke when she was laid in the
tomb. She rests with the princes of his line, and her tomb bears
the name of wife!"

The old nabob crept nearer, growling:

"You shall never see the child's face!"

Then, Alixe Delavigne sprang up and faced him: "There she is! on
my heart! Just what her mother was, before you sent her to an early
grave. Valerie died hungering for one sight of that child's face!"
Throwing the picture of Nadine Johnstone on the table, the lady
of Jitomir said: "Pierre Troubetskoi left to me the wealth which
makes me your equal. I fear you not! I shall see Nadine to-morrow!"

"Never!" roared Hugh Johnstone, now beyond all control. "I defy you!
Beware how you approach my threshold!" His eyes were murderous in
their steely blue gleam, and, yet, he met a glance as steady as
his own.

"Listen," said Berthe Louison, sinking back into her chair, "I
will tell you a little story." Hugh Johnstone was now gazing at the
photograph, which trembled in his hand. "Once upon a time a man
secreted a vast deposit of jewels, really the spoil of a deposed king,
and, rightly, the property of the victorious British Government!"
The photograph fell to the floor as the old man sprang up from the
chair, into which he had dropped. "This paper, the receipt for the
deposit, once delivered to the Viceroy of India--and the Baronetcy
which is to be your life crown is lost for ever." The old man's hands
knotted themselves in anger. "The lying story that the deposit was
stolen by an underling will bring you, Hugh Johnstone, to the felon's
cell! You shall live to wear the convict's chain! The Government
is partly aware of the facts. It rests for me to give the Viceroy
the receipt for your private deposit. The private bank vault
in Calcutta has hidden your shame for twenty years. You know the
condition of your settlement with the Government. Now, shall I see
my sister's child? I hold your very existence here--in the hollow
of my hand!" The dauntless woman drew forth a yellowed envelope from
her breast. There was a smothered shriek, a crash and a groan, as
Jules Victor, springing from his concealment, hurled the infuriated
man to the floor!

With a knee on the panting nabob's breast, he hissed:

"Move, and you are a dead man!"

"Take the paper, Madame," calmly said the victorious Jules. Then
Alixe Delavigne laughed scornfully.

