Some of the remaining years of Lord Mar's life were, nevertheless,
devoted to chimerical projects for which he received in return little
but disappointment, ingratitude, and humiliation. One of his schemes was
to engage Charles the Twelfth of Sweden on the side of the Chevalier. In
a letter to Captain Straiton, the Chevalier's agent in Edinburgh, he
signified that if five or six thousand bolls of meal could be purchased
by the King's friends and sent to Sweden, where there was then a great
scarcity, it would be of service to his master in conciliating the good
will of Charles. This proposal was communicated by Mar's desire to
Lockhart of Carnwath, to Lord Balmerino, and to the Bishop of Edinburgh.
But it was the sanguine disposition of Mar which alone could lead him to
suppose such a scheme practicable. It was, in the first place, found
impossible to raise so large a sum from men, many of them exiles, or
involved in difficulties from the expenses of the recent insurrection.
It was also deemed folly to conceive that so large a quantity of Scotch
meal as necessary could be exported without exciting the suspicion of
Government.

The next plan which Lord Mar contrived was not so fully unfolded as the
project of which Charles the Twelfth was to be the object. He wrote to
Edinburgh soon after the failure of the first scheme, to this effect:
that a certain foreign prince had entered into a design for the
restoration of James: that it "would look odd if his friends at home did
not assist him;" and he wished they would fall on some means to have in
readiness such a sum as they could afford to venture in his cause when a
fair opportunity occurred. The hint was taken up seriously by the
zealous Lockhart of Carnwath, and assurances were sent from "several
persons of honour, that they would be in a condition to answer his
Majesty's call." Among these, the Earl of Eglintoun offered three
thousand guineas; and the others "would have given a good round sum."
The conduct of the English Government to the Duke of Argyle, who had
been superseded as Commander-in-Chief in Scotland, and the strong
personal friendship between Lockhart and the Duke, emboldened Mar to
hope that a negotiation might be entered into with Argyle, and that he
might be persuaded to join in their schemes. At the same time, Lord Mar
enjoined the strictest secrecy in all these affairs, and with reason,
for the letters of the exiled Jacobites abounded in false hopes and
plans; many of their correspondents at home had not the discretion to
conceal their delight, when the sanguine expectations of their party
prevailed over despair.

The agent employed by Lockhart to treat with the Duke of Argyle was
Colonel John Middleton. By him Lockhart was, however, assured that his
Grace would neither directly nor indirectly treat with Mar for "he
believed him his mortal enemy, and had no opinion of his honour; and,"
added Middleton, "I cannot think Mar does, more seriously now than
before, desire to see Argyle in the King's measures, lest he eclipsed
him." It was therefore resolved by Lockhart, that the correspondence
between the Chevalier and Argyle should be contrived without Mar's
cognizance. Valentine.) Well ... now ... (Speaks very seriously and always
faster:) McNaughtan, you know what today is made with me?. .. You do not
believe that I have the habit, so my patients along, as I have you today
mitgespielt? (McNaughtan.) I hope not. (Dr. Valentine.) The reason is
that I am either totally insane, or rather sooner never really in
possession of my common sense I had.

Now I am able to do anything - I'm finally grown up - I am become a
man - and your daughter is to a man made out of me! (McNaughtan unbelievingly:)
Are you in love with my daughter? (Dr. Valentine, his words pour out
now in a real flow from his lips:) Love ... Nonsense! ... It is much
more and much higher than love ... it is life, faith, strength, certainty,
paradise ... (McNaughtan interrupts him with biting scorn:) nonsense,
man! What did (you) to a woman to entertain ... You can not marry. (Dr.
Valentine.) Who will they marry? ... I want to kiss her
hands, I will kneel at her feet, I want to live, I will die for
them ... and that should satisfy me! Look at her book - you see! (He
kisses the handkerchief:) If you give me all your money to sell these
items that I serve as an excuse to go down the beach and with her
to speak again, - I would just laugh in the face.

(He goes against the wanton stages, where he was a waiter come up from
the beach straight into the arms running. The two keep each other before
overturning, they are mutually tightly around the waist to embrace
and hold upside down.) (The waiter delicately: ) Softly, Doctor
- gently! (Dr. Valentine about his own ferocity unpleasant affect:)
Excuse me! (The waiter). Please, doctor - please. This is quite
natural in your old age .-- The gracious lady took me to her book
heraufgeschickt; should I allow you to send it immediately to bring?
(Dr. Valentine.) With pleasure! - And you want me provide you with the
taking of a dental sechswöchentlichen to Treat ... (He offers him Dolly
five-shilling piece on.) (The waiter, as if this sum his highest
expectations überträfe:) Thank you, Mr. Doctor - a thousand thanks!
(Dr. Valentine falls down the stairs.) A very high - young man, very
masculine and well grown! (McNaughtan reduction in grumpy:) And will
quickly make a fortune - no doubt! I know how much revenue his
sechswöchentlichen amount.

(He goes on the terrace at the iron table and continues.) (The waiter
philosophically:) Yes, Gracious Lord, you never know ...
It is almost incredible
that men of Whig principles, who held high offices in the Government,
should, at various times, have engaged in correspondence with the agents
of James; yet such is the fact.

Among those who were involved in these dangerous negotiations, Charles
Earl of Sunderland, the son-in-law of Marlborough, and at that time
Prime Minister of George the First, was one with whom Lord Mar treated.
Among the Sunderland Papers is to be found a singular letter from the
Earl of Mar to the Earl of Sunderland, urging that nobleman to assist in
inducing his royal master to accede to a proposal from which he might
himself derive a suitable advantage. "We find," says Dr. Coxe,
"unequivocal proofs that Lord Sunderland, who was considered at the head
of the new administration formed in 1717, was in secret correspondence
with the Pretender and his principal agents."[154]

The letter referred to from Lord Mar, on which Dr. Coxe has inscribed
the word "curious," began with professions of respect and confidence on
the part of his Lordship, to whom it was quite as easy to address those
expressions to a man of one party as of the other. It contained also a
promise of secrecy, and an exaction of a similar observance on the part
of Lord Sunderland. He then alluded to the misfortunes into which the
British nation was thrown by the disputed succession, and the violence
of party spirit in consequence. The subtle politician next touched on
the subject of George the First, whom he delicately terms, "your
master."

Oh, yes! This child has turned to my heart - with a Dolchstoß. (Dr.
Valentine, the very bad at:) Listen, McNaughtan, leave in peace! She
has treated you very well. I've got a lot worse Breakfast Time to
persuade than you.
He then suggests that the Earl would have it in his power to prevent the
dangers resulting from a disputed succession, "which can only be
prevented by restoring the rightful and lineal heir."

"I can assure your Lordship," he continues, "my master has so many good
qualities, that he will make the nation happie, and wants but to be
known to be beloved; and I dare promise in his name, that there is not
any thing you could ask of him, reasonable, for yourself and your
friends, but he would agree to. My master is young, in perfect good
health, and as likely to live as any who has pretensions to his crown,
and he is now about marrying, which, in all appearance, will perpetuate
rightfull successors to him of his own body, who will ever have more
friends in those kingdoms, as well as abroad, than to allow the house of
Hanover to continue in possession of their right without continual
disturbance."

The Earl then suggests that George the First should secure to himself
the possession of "his old and just inheritance, and by the assistance
of '_his master_,' and those who would join, acquire such new ones on
the Continent as would make his family more considerable than any of its
neighbours.

"Britain and Ireland will have reason to bless your master for so good
and Christian an action; and Europe no less for the repose it would have
by it: and your master would live the remainder of his life in all the
tranquillity and splendour that could be required, and end his days with
the character of good and just."

Lord Mar was at this time on the borders of France, where he proposed to
wait until he received Lord Sunderland's reply, in hopes that the
Minister of George the First might be induced to give him a meeting,
either in France or Flanders. "If you approve not of what I have said,"
he adds, "let it be buried on your side, as, upon my honour, it shall be
on mine." (He stands there a moment and frowned and ballt his hands in
excitement. Then he takes the chair from the end of the breakfast
table and sat down next to Gloria.

With a moving effort, gently and patiently to be, he says:) I think Now
I am so far.

In any event, I will try. (Gloria finds:) You Sehn: anything goes, if
it is to vigorously end thinks. (McNaughtan with sudden fright:) No, you
do not! Think nothing - I will, thou shalt feel it! That is the
only thing that can help us. Hear! Do you know - but above all - I forgot:
how is you? I think your nickname. You can not thee well Sophronia
call.

(Gloria astonished with reluctance:) Sophronia? ...Coxe is even
yet more astonishing:

"On the death of Lord Sunderland the secret of this correspondence
became by some means known to the Regent Duke of Orleans, and he
hastened to make so important a communication to the King of England.
You were a very small child, when you took from me, but you did everything
fairly well understood. Can you really not remember that you've loved,
or - (shy:) Kinderart suffer at least liked?
."[155]

How near were the unfortunate Stuarts to that throne which they were
destined never to ascend!

Upon the disgrace of Bolingbroke, and on his return to England, the
Seals had been offered by James Stuart to Lord Mar, who refused them on
the ostensible ground that he "could not speak French." The actual
reason was perhaps to be sought for in a far deeper motive.[156]

