Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


Allison Bain, by Margaret Murray Robertson.

________________________________________________________________________
For many people this will be a very difficult book to read.  In the
first place most of the cast speak with a strong Scottish dialect, which
you could find very difficult to get used to.  In the second place there
is a strong brand of Scottish Protestantism colouring practically every
conversation.  And in the third place the book could probably be placed
fairly in the genre of "psychological novel," in which people talk a lot
but don't do much else.

You can certainly make an audiobook of it, but you will need your
strongest concentration to follow what is happening.  Don't listen to it
while driving your car--it is far too demanding for that!

________________________________________________________________________
ALLISON BAIN, BY MARGARET MURRAY ROBERTSON.


CHAPTER ONE.

                                              "Was she wrong?
  Is it wrong in the bird to escape from the snare of the fowler?
  Is it wrong in the hunted deer to flee to the screening thicket?"

Mr Hadden was standing at the open door of the manse, waiting
patiently, while his housekeeper adjusted his grey plaid on his
shoulders in preparation for a long ride over the hills.  His faithful
Barbara was doing her part protesting, but she was doing it carefully
and well.

"Such a day as it is!" said she.  "Such a time of rain!  Indeed, sir, I
canna think it right for you to go so far.  Mightna ye just bide still
at home till they come to the kirkyard?"

But the minister shook his head.  "I will need to go, Barbara.  Think of
poor Allison Bain on this sorrowful day."

"Ay, poor Allie!  I'm wae for her this sorrowful day, as ye say.
Greatly she'll need a good word spoken to her.  But in a' the rain--and
at your age--"

"Ay!  I am a good ten years older than the man we are to lay in the
grave.  I might, as ye say, meet them at the kirkyard, but I must see
that desolate bairn.  And I think it may be fair."

It was June, but it looked more like November, so low lay the clouds,
and so close hung the mist over all the valley.  For a week the sun had
hidden his face, and either in downpour or in drizzle, the rain had
fallen unceasingly, till the burn which ran down between the hills had
overflowed its banks and spread itself in shallow pools over the level
fields below.  The roads would be "soft and deep," as Barbara said, and
the way was long.  But even as she spoke there was an opening in the
clouds and the wind was "wearing round to the right airt," for the
promise of a fair day, and it was early yet.

"And rain or shine, I must go, Barbara, as ye see yourself.  The powney
is sure-footed.  And my son Alexander is going with me, so there is
nothing to fear."

And so the two men set out together.  "My son Alexander," whose name the
minister spoke with such loving pride, was the youngest and best beloved
of the many sons and daughters who had been born and bred in the manse,
of whom some were "scattered far and wide" and some were resting beside
their mother in the kirkyard close at hand.  In his youth, Alexander had
given "some cause for anxiety to his father and mother," as outside folk
put it delicately, and he had gone away to America at last, to begin
again--to make a man of himself, or to perish out of sight of their
loving and longing eyes.  That was more than fifteen years before this
time, and he had not perished out of sight, as so many wanderers from
loving homes have done.  He had lived and struggled with varying
fortunes for a time, but he had never failed once to write his
half-yearly letter to his father and mother at home.  The folk of the
olden time did not write nor expect so many letters as are written and
sent nowadays, and the father and mother lived hopefully on one letter
till another came.  And for a while the lad wrote that he was making a
living, and that was all, and then he wrote that he was doing well, and
just when he was almost ready to tell them that he was coming home to
show them his young wife, there came word to him that his mother was
dead.  Then he had no heart to go home.  For what would the manse be
without his mother to welcome them there?

So he sent home to his father a gift of money for the poor of the
parish, and stayed where he was, and did well still, with fair prospects
of some time being a rich man, and then--after more years--God touched
him, not in anger, but in love, though He took from him his only son and
best beloved child.  For then he remembered his father who had loved
him, and borne with him, and forgiven him through his troubled youth,
and had sent him away with his blessing at last, and a great longing
came upon him to see his father's face once more.  And so he had made
haste to come, fearing all the way lest he might find the manse empty
and his father gone.  It was a homecoming both sad and glad, and the
week of rain had been well filled with a history of all things joyful
and sorrowful which had come to them and theirs, in the years that were
gone.  And to-day father and son were taking their way over the hills,
so familiar to both, yet so strange to one of them, on a sorrowful
errand.

They kept the high-road for a while, and then turned into a broken path
over the higher ground, the nearest way to the farm of Grassie, where
the "goodman" who had ploughed and sowed and gathered the harvests for
fifty years and more lay dead of a broken heart.

Slowly and carefully they moved over the uneven ground which gradually
ascended and grew less wet as they went on, the son keeping by his
father's side where the roughness of the way permitted, in silence, or
only exchanging a word now and then.  The clouds parted as they reached
the hilltop, and they turned to look back on the wide stretch of low
land behind them, which "looked in the sunshine," the minister said,
"like a new-made world."  They lingered for a while.

"We need not be in haste.  It takes the folk long to gather at such a
time, for they will come from far, and it is weary waiting.  But I must
have time for a word with Allison, poor lassie, before they carry her
father away," added he with a sigh.

"But the sun may shine for Allison yet, though this is a dark day for
her and a most sad occasion.  Though her father's hearthstone be cold,
let us hope that she may yet see good days in the home of her husband."

But the minister shook his head.

"She must see them there if she is ever to see good days again, but my
fears are stronger than my hopes, Oh! man Alex!  I'm wae for bonny Allie
Bain."

"Is her husband such a wretch, then?"

"A wretch?  By no means.  I hope not.  But he is a dour man of nearly
twice her years.  An honest man?  Well, I have never heard him accused
of dishonesty.  A hard man he has been called, but he suits our
thriftless laird all the better for that.  He has kept his place as
factor at Blackhills for fifteen years and more, and has grown rich,
they say--as riches are counted among folk who for the most part are
poor.  And he is respected--in a way."

"Well, if I had been asked about it, I would have said that it was a
rise in the world for Allie Bain to be made the mistress of the factor's
fine house over yonder.  I suppose he might have looked for a wife in
almost any of the better families of the countryside, without much
chance of being refused."

"Yes, but he is said to have set his heart on Allison Bain years ago
when she was only a child--a strange-like thing for such a man to do.
He went to work warily, and got her father and even her mother on his
side--or so it is said.  But Allie herself would have naught to say to
him.  She laughed at first, and then she scoffed at his advances, and
Willie, her only brother, upheld her in her scorning--for a while.  But
Willie went wrong--and from bad to worse; but now he is in the tollbooth
at Aberdeen, as you have heard.  But I believe that even now the poor
lassie would have a fairer chance of a peaceful life if they were to get
away to begin again together, when his time is over, than ever she can
hope for in the house of her husband.  And the lad would be stronger,
and have a better chance with his sister's help.  I fear--though I would
say it to none but you--I fear that Allison's consent was won at last by
no fair means."

"I mind Willie, a nice little lad, merry and frank and well-doing.  I
should never have thought of such a fate for him."

"Yes, frank he was, and a fine lad in many ways; but he was not of a
strong will, and was easily led away.  Allison was far the stronger of
the two, even when they were children.  It breaks my heart to think what
a woman she might have become in favourable circumstances, and now, I
fear, she has much suffering before her.  Her mother's helplessness--she
was bedridden for years before she died--laid too much on Allison, and
she has grown changed, they say, and hard.  She was ay more like her
father than her mother, except for her sweet looks."

"And how came the marriage about at last?  And where was her brother?"

"He had fallen into trouble by that time.  He had got in with ill folk
that made use of him for their own purposes.  There had been much
meddling with the game on the Blackhills estate, and one night one of
the gamekeepers got a sore hurt in a fight with some of those who had
been long suspected.  His life was despaired of for a time, and it was
on Willie Bain that the blame was laid.  At any rate he kept out of the
way.  It was said afterward that Brownrig had wrought on his fears
through some of his companions, and in the meantime to save her brother,
as she thought, Allison's consent was won."

"It will be an ill day for Brownrig when Allison shall hear of that."

"I doubt she has heard of it already.  All I know is soon told.
Asia will have a spider-line of railway by and by, when the slow-coach
proceedings of the East India Company have given something like form
to the Bombay and Bengal projects; but at present the progress is miserably
slow; and _Bradshaw_ need not lay aside a page for the rich Orient for
many years to come.

There are a few general considerations respecting the present aspect of
the railway system, interesting not only in themselves, but as giving
a foretaste of what is to come. In the autumn of last year, a careful
statistician calculated that the railways of Europe and America, as
then in operation, extended in the aggregate to 25,350 miles, the total
cost of which was four hundred and fifty millions of pounds. Of
this, the United Kingdom had 7000 miles, costing L.250,000,000. According
to the view here given, the 7000 miles of our own railways have been
constructed at an expense prodigiously greater than the remaining 18,350
miles in other parts of the world. It needs no figures to prove that
this is the fact. Many of the continental and American railways are single
lines, and so far they have been got up at a comparatively small
cost.

But the substantial difference of expense lies in our plan of leaving
railway undertakings to private parties--rival speculators and jobbers,
whose aim has too frequently been plunder.

And how enormous has been that plunder let enriched engineers and
lawyers--let impoverished victims--declare.

Shame on the British legislature, to have tolerated and legalised the
railway villainies of the last ten years; in comparison with which the
enforcements of continental despotisms are angelic innocence!

Besides being got up in a simple and satisfactory manner, under
government decrees and state responsibility, the continental
railways are evidently more under control than those of the United
Kingdom.

The speed of trains is regulated to a moderate and safe degree; on all
hands there seems to be a superior class of officials in charge; and
as the lines have been made at a small cost, the fares paid by
travellers are for the most part very much lower than in this
country.

Government interference abroad is, therefore, not altogether a wrong.
Annoying as it may sometimes be, and bad as it avowedly is in principle,
there is in it the spirit of protection against private oppression.

And perhaps the English may by and by discover that jobbing-companies,
with stupendous capital and a monopoly of conveyance, are capable of
doing as tyrannical things as any continental autocrat!

If a section of the English public stands disgraced in the eyes of Europe
by its vicious speculation--properly speaking, gambling--in railway
finance, our country is in some degree redeemed from obloquy by
the grandeur of a social melioration which jobbing has not been
able to obstruct.

The wide spread of railways over the continent, we have said, is working
a perceptible change in almost all those arrangements which bear on the
daily comforts of life.

No engine of a merely physical kind has ever wrought so powerfully
to secure lasting international peace as the steam-engine.

The locomotive is every hour breaking down barriers of separation between
races of men. And as wars in future could be conducted only by cutting
short the journeys by railway, arresting trains, and ruining great
commercial undertakings, we may expect that nations will pause
before rushing into them.

Already, the French railways, which push across the frontier into the
German countries, are visibly relaxing the custom-house and passport
systems. Stopping a whole train at an imaginary boundary to examine
fifteen hundred passports, is beyond even the French capacity for official
minutiæ. A hurried glance, or no glance at all--a sham inspection at the
best--is all that the gentlemen with moustaches and cocked-hats can
manage. The very attempt to look at bushels of passports is becoming
an absurdity.

And what has to be done in the twinkling of an eye, will, we have no
doubt, soon not be done at all.
Thanks to railways for this vast privilege of free locomotion!

A NEW PRINCIPLE IN NATURE.

It is pretty well known that researches by Matteucci, Du Bois-Reymond,
and others, have made us acquainted with the influence of electricity
and galvanism on the muscular system of animals, and that important
physiological effects have been attributed to this influence, more
than perhaps we are warranted in assuming in the present state of
our knowledge.

That an influence is exerted in some way, is clear from the difference
in our feelings in dry and wet weather: it has been supposed,
however, that the effects on the nervous system are not produced
by an accumulation of positive or of negative electricity, but by
the combination of the two producing dynamic electricity.

While these points are undergoing discussion, we have an opportunity of
bringing before our readers the results of investigations bearing on
the general question.

Most persons are aware of the fact, that a peculiar taste follows
the application of two different metals to the tongue in a popular
galvanic experiment.

This taste is caused by the azotic acid formed from the oxygen and
azote of the atmosphere. An electric discharge, too, is accompanied by a
smell, which smell is due to the presence of what is called ozone; and
not long ago M.

Schoenbein, of Basel, the inventor of guncotton, discovered ozone as a
principle in the oxygen of the atmosphere; and it is considered
to be the _active_ principle of that universal constituent.

Later researches have brought out a striking analogy between the
properties of ozone and chlorine, and have led to conclusions as to the
dangerous effect which the former may produce, in certain cases, on the
organs of respiration.

Some idea of its energy may be formed from the fact, that mice perish
speedily in air which contains one six-thousandth of ozone. It is
always present in the atmosphere in a greater or lesser degree, in direct
relation with the amount of atmospheric electricity, and appears to obey
the same laws in its variations, finding its maximum in winter and its
minimum in summer.

Ozone, in scientific language, is described as 'a compound of oxygen
analogous to the peroxide of hydrogen, or, that it is oxygen in
an allotropic state--that is, with the capability of immediate and
ready action impressed upon it.'

Besides being produced by electrical discharges in the atmosphere, it
can be obtained artificially by the passing of what is called the
electrical brush into the air from a moist wooden point, or by electrolyzed
water or phosphorus. The process, when the latter substance is employed,
is to put a small piece, clean scraped, about half an inch long, into a
large bottle which contains just so much of water as to half cover
the phosphorus, and then closing the mouth slightly, to guard against
combustion, to leave it standing for a time in a temperature of about
60 degrees.
Ozone soon begins to be formed, as shewn by the rising of a light column
of smoke from the phosphorus, which, at the same time, becomes luminous.
In five or six hours, the quantity will be abundant, when the bottle is
to be emptied of its contents, washed out, and closed for use and
experiment.

Whichever way the ozone be produced, it is always identical in its
properties; and these are described as numerous and remarkable. Its
odour is peculiar, resembling that of chlorine, and, when diluted,
cannot be distinguished from what is called the electric smell. When
largely diffused in atmospheric air, it causes unpleasant sensations,
makes respiration difficult, and, by acting powerfully on the mucous
membranes, produces catarrhal effects; and as such air will kill small
animals, it shews that pure ozone must be highly injurious to the
animal economy.

It is insoluble in water, is powerfully electromotive, and is most
strikingly energetic in numerous chemical agencies, its action on
nearly all metallic bodies being to carry them at once to the state of
peroxide, or to their highest point of oxidation; it changes sulphurets
into sulphates, instantaneously destroys several gaseous compounds,
and bleaches indigo, thus shewing its analogy with chlorine.

In proceeding to the account of his experiments, M. Schoenbein shews,
that gases can be produced by chemical means, which exercise an oxidizing
influence of a powerful nature, especially in their physiological effects,
even when diffused through the atmosphere in very minute quantities:
also, that owing to the immense number of organic beings on the
earth, their daily death and decomposition, an enormous amount of
gases is produced similar to those which can be obtained by artificial
means; and besides these, a quantity of gaseous or volatile products,
'whose chemical nature,' as the author observes, 'is as yet unknown,
but of which we can easily admit that some, at least, diffused
through the air, even in very small quantities, and breathed with
it, exert a most deplorable action on the animal organism.

Hence it follows, that the decomposition of organic matters ought to be
considered as one of the principal causes of the corruption of the
air by miasmatic substances. Now, a continuous cause, and acting on so
vast a scale, would necessarily diffuse through the atmosphere a
considerable mass of miasmatic gases, and accumulate them till at
length it would be completely poisoned, and rendered incapable of
supporting animal life, if nature had not found the means of
destroying these noxious matters in proportion as they are produced.'

The question then arises: What are the means employed for this object?
M. Schoenbein believes that he has found it in the action of ozone,
which is continually formed by the electricity of the atmosphere,
and is known to be a most powerful agent of oxidation, causing
serious modifications of organic bodies, and, consequently, of their
physiological action.

'To assure myself,' he pursues, 'that ozone destroys the miasma
arising from the decomposition of animal matters, I introduced into
a balloon containing about 130 pints of air, a piece of flesh
weighing four ounces, taken from a human corpse, and in a very
advanced state of putrefaction.

I withdrew it after a minute; the air in the balloon had acquired a strong
and very repulsive odour, shewing that it was charged with an appreciable
quantity--at least for the smell--of miasm caused by the
putrefaction.

'To produce ozone, I introduced into the infected balloon a stick of
phosphorus an inch long, with water sufficient to half cover it. At the
same time, for the sake of comparison, I placed a similar quantity of
phosphorus and water in another balloon full of pure atmospheric air.
After some minutes, the reaction of ozone in the latter was most
evidently manifested, while no trace of it was yet apparent in the former,
which still gave off an odour of putrefaction. This, however,
disappeared completely at the end of ten or twelve minutes, and
immediately the reaction of the ozone was detected.'

The conclusion drawn from this experiment is, that the ozone destroyed
the miasm by oxidation, and could only make its presence evident
after the complete destruction of the noxious volatile substances.

This effect is more strikingly shewn by another experiment.

A balloon of similar capacity to the one above mentioned was charged as
strongly as possible with ozone, and afterwards washed with water.

The same piece of flesh was suspended within it; and the opening being
carefully closed, it was left inside for nine hours before the air of the
balloon presented the least odour of putrefaction.

The air was tested every thirty minutes by an ozonometer, and the
proportion of ozone found to be gradually diminishing; but as long
as the paper of the instrument exhibited the slightest trace of
blue, there was no smell, which only came on as the last signs of
ozone disappeared.

Thus, all the miasm given off by the piece of flesh during nine hours
was completely neutralised by the ozone with which the balloon
had been impregnated, so small in quantity as to be but the 6000th
part of a gramme. One balloon filled with ozonified air, would suffice
to disinfect 540 balloons filled with miasmatic air. 'These considerations,'
says M. Schoenbein, 'shew us how little the miasma of the air are to be
appreciated by weight, even when they exist therein in a quantity
very sensible to the smell, and how small is the proportion of
ozone necessary to destroy the miasm produced by the putrefaction
of organic substances, and diffused through the atmosphere.'

The presence of ozone in any vessel or in the atmosphere, may be
detected by a test-paper which has been moistened with a solution composed
of 1 part of pure iodide of potassium, 10 parts of starch, and 100 parts
of water, boiled together for a few moments. Paper so prepared turns
immediately blue when exposed to the action of ozone, the tint being
lighter or darker according to the quantity.
Schoenbein's ozonometer consists of 750 slips of dry bibulous paper
prepared in the manner described; and with a scale of tints and
instructions, sufficient to make observations on the ozone of the
atmosphere twice a day for a year.

After exposure to the ozone, they require to be moistened to bring
out the colour.

M. Schoenbein continues: 'We must admit that the electric discharges
which take place incessantly in different parts of the atmosphere,
and causing therein a formation of ozone, purify the air by this
means of organic, or, more generally, oxidizable miasma; and that
they have thus the important office of maintaining it in a state
of purity suitable to animal life.

By means of atmospheric electricity, and, indirectly, nature thus attains
on a great scale the object that we sometimes seek to accomplish in a
limited space by fumigations with chlorine.

'Here, as in many other cases, we see nature effecting two different
objects at one stroke.

For if the oxidizable miasma are destroyed by atmospheric ozone,
they, in turn, cause the latter to disappear, and we have seen that
it is itself a miasm.

This is doubtless the reason why ozone does not accumulate in the
atmosphere in greater proportion than the oxidizable miasma,
notwithstanding the constant formation of one and the other.

'In all times, the idea has been held, that storms purify the air,
and I do not think that this opinion is ill-founded.

We know, in fact, that storms give rise to a more abundant production
of ozone.

It is possible, and even probable, that sometimes, in particular localities,
there may not be a just relation between the ozone and the oxidizable
miasma in the air, and that the latter cannot be completely
destroyed.

Hence, in accordance with the chemical nature and physiological influence
of these miasma, they would exert a marked action on the animal economy,
and cause diseases among the greater number of those who breathe the
infected air. But numerous experiments prove that, as a rule, the air
contains free ozone, though in very variable proportions; from which we
may conclude that no oxidizable miasm--sulphuretted hydrogen, for
example--can exist in such an atmosphere, any more than it could exist
in air containing but a trace of chlorine.

'I do not know if it be true, as has been advanced by Mr Hunt and other
persons, that ozone is deficient in the atmospheric air when some
wide-spread malady, such as cholera, is raging. In any case, it would
be easy, by means of the prepared paper, to determine the truth or fallacy
of this opinion.

'There is one fact which should particularly engage the attention of
physicians and physiologists, which is, that, of all seasons, the winter
is distinguished by the greatest proportion of ozone; whence it
follows, that during that season the air contains least of oxidizable
miasma.

We can say, therefore, with respect to this class of miasma, that the air
is purer in winter than in summer.

'All my observations agree in shewing, that the proportion of ozone in the
air increases with the height; if this fact be general, as I am disposed
to believe, we must consider the upper regions of the atmosphere as
purer, with regard to oxidizable miasma, than the lower.

'The appearance of certain maladies--intermittent fever, for example--appears
to be connected with certain seasons and particular geographical
conditions.

It would be worth while to ascertain, by ozonometric observations,
whether these physiological phenomena have any relation whatever
with the proportion of ozone contained in the air in which they
occur.

'Considering the obscurity which prevails as to the cause of the greater
part of diseases, and the great probability that many among them owe
their origin to the presence of chemical agents dispersed in the atmosphere,
it becomes the duty of medical men and physiologists, who interest
themselves in the progress of their science, to seize earnestly all the
means by which they may hope to arrive at more exact notions upon the
relations which exist between abnormal physiological phenomena and
external circumstances.'

Such is a summary of M.

Schoenbein's views as communicated to the Medical Society of Basel; and
we the more readily accord them the publicity of our columns, as, apart
from the intrinsic value of the subject, it is one which has for some
time excited the interest of scientific inquirers in this country.
During the late visitation of cholera, reports were frequently spread
that the atmosphere was deficient in ozone.

ENGLISH SISTERS OF CHARITY.

How much real good could yet be done in this old, full, struggling
world of ours, where so many among us have need of help, if each
in his or her small circle could manage just not to leave undone
some of the things that should be done.

Little more is wanting to effect this than the will, or perhaps the mere
suggestion. A high influence may at a time confer a considerable benefit;
but very humble means, systematically exerted, even during a comparatively
short season, will certainly relieve a load of misery.

In a small village towards the west of England, there dwelt, some
years ago, two maiden gentlewomen, sisters, the daughters of the
deceased rector of the parish. Their father had early in life entered
upon his duties in this retired locality, contentedly abiding there
where fate had placed him, each passing year increasing his interest
in the charge which engrossed all his energies. His moderate stipend,
assisted by a small private fortune, sufficed for his quiet tastes,
and for the few charities required by his flock; it also enabled
him to rear a large family respectably, and to start them creditably
on their working way.

There was no railway near this village--even the Queen's highway
was at some distance.

Fields, meadows, a shady lane, a brook, and the Welsh mountains for a
background, formed the picture of beauty that attracted the stranger.

There was hardly what could be called a street. The cottages were
clustered upon the side of the wooded bank above the stream, shrouded in
gardens of apple-trees; but there was space near the foot of the
hill for a green of rather handsome size, with a plane-tree in the
middle of it, and a few small shops along one side.

Opposite the shops was the inn, the doctor's house, the market-house,
and a public reading-room; and a bylane led from the green up towards
the church--an old, low-walled, steep-roofed building, with a square,
dumpy tower, in which hung a peal of bells, and where was placed a
large, round, clumsy window. A clump of hardwood trees enclosed
the upper end of the church-yard, and extended to the back of the
rector's garden, quite concealing his many-gabled dwelling. In a still,
summer evening, the brook could be heard from the parlour windows
of the rectory, dancing merrily along to its own music; and at those
less pleasant seasons when the foliage was scanty, it could be seen
here and there between the boles of the trees, sparkling in the
sunshine as it rippled on, while glimpses of the rich plain beyond
added to the harmony of the prospect.

The society of the village and its immediate neighbourhood was of
a humble kind--neither the rich nor the great were members of it; yet
there were wisdom, and prudence, and talent, and good faith to be
found in this little community, where all inclined to live as
brethren, kindly together.

It was not a bad school this for the young to grow up in. The rector's
family had here been trained; and when they grew to rise beyond
it, and then passed out upon the wider world, those of them that
were again heard of in their birthplace, did no discredit to its
name: and all passed out, all but two--our two sisters.

It is said adversity must at some time reach us all: it had been
late in visiting them, for they had passed a happy youth in that
quiet parsonage.

At last, sorrow came, and they were left alone, the two extremes
of the chain which had bound the little household together--all the
intermediate links had broken; and when, upon their father's death,
they had to quit their long-loved home, they found themselves verging
upon old age, in circumstances that natures less strictly disciplined
would have felt to have been at the least dreary.

The younger sister was slightly deformed, and very delicate; the elder,
though still an active woman, was quite beyond the middle of life;
the income of the two, just L.30--no great elements these of either
usefulness or happiness. Let us see, then, what was made of them.
Some relations pressed the sisters to share their distant home, but
they would not leave the village.

They felt as if their work lay there. The friends they knew best
were all around them; the occupations they had been used to still
remained to them; the memory of all they had loved there clung to
them, in the old haunts so doubly dear to the bereaved who bear
affliction patiently.

So they moved only to a cottage a little higher up the hill, yet within
view of the church, and of the dear old house, with its garden, sheltering
wood, and pleasant rivulet; and there they lived in comfort, with
enough to use and much to spare, their cruse never failing them
when wanted.

It was a real cottage, which a labourer had left: there was no ornament
about it till they added some. Rude and unfashioned did this
low-thatched cabin pass to them; it was their own hands, with very little
help from their light purse, which made of a mere hovel the prettiest
of rural dwellings--her own hands, indeed; for Sister Anne alone
was the working-bee.

Sister Catherine helped by hints and smiles, and by her nimble
needle; but for out-of-doors labour she had not strength.

Sister Anne nailed up the trellised porch, over which gay creepers
were in time to grow.

Sister Anne laid out the beds of flowers, protected by a low paling from
the sheep which pastured on the downs.

But in summertime the "gowany braes" which
lie nearest to it, and the "heather braes" into which they gradually
change as they rise higher in the distance, have a certain beauty of
their own.  So have the clear brown burns which water its narrow fields,
and the belts of wood which are planted here and there on the hillsides.

In summertime, even the little town itself, as it was fifty years ago
and more, might be called a pretty place, at least the lanes about it
were pretty.  There were many lanes about it, some of them shaded by
tall firs or spreading beeches, others shut in by grassy dikes which
inclosed the long, narrow "kail-yards" running back from the clusters of
dwellings which fronted the narrow streets.  There were tall laburnums
here and there, and larch and rowan trees, and hedges of hawthorn or
elder, everywhere, some of them shutting in gardens full of such fruits
and flowers as flourish in the north.

Yes, in summer the place might have been called a pretty place; but
under low, leaden skies, when the reaches of sodden grass-land and
rain-bleached stubble had to relieve their grey dreariness only a newly
ploughed brown ridge, or the long turnip fields, green still under the
rain and sleet of the last November days, even the hills were not
beautiful, and the place itself had a look of unspeakable dreariness.

On such a day the Reverend Robert Hume was leading his horse down the
slope which looks on the town from the south, and though his eyes had
the faculty of seeing something cheerful even in dismal things, he
acknowledged that, to eyes looking on it for the first time, the place
might seem a little dreary.

It did not look dreary to him, as he came into one of the two long
streets which, crossing each other at right angles, made the town.
Though he bowed his high head to meet the bitter wind, and plashed
through the muddy pools which the rain had left in the hollows here and
there, he was glad at heart to see the place, and to be at home; and he
smiled to himself as he came in sight of the corner, beyond which lay
the house which held his treasures.

All the town seemed like home to him.  As he went slowly on, he had a
thought to give to many dwellers on the street.  Was "auld Maggie's"
thatch holding out the wet?  And surely there was danger that the water
of that pool might find its way in beneath "Cripple Sandy's" door.
There were friendly faces regarding him from some of the narrow windows,
and "welcome hame," came to him from more than one open door.  The town
pump was by no means a beautiful object in itself, but his eye rested
with great satisfaction upon it.  It stood on the square where the
houses fell back a little, at the place where the two streets crossed,
and it could be seen from the furthest end of either of them.  It had
not long stood there, and as it caught his eye, the pleasant thought
came freshly to him, how the comfort and cleanliness of the homes might
be helped, and how much the labour of busy housewives must be lightened
by it.

But it was no Nethermuir woman who so deftly plied the heavy handle, and
lifted her full buckets as if they had been empty, and who walked before
him down the street with a step which made him think of the heather
hills and the days of his youth.  There was no woman of that height in
Nethermuir, nor one who carried herself so freely and so lightly.  It
was no one he had ever seen before.  But some one crossed the way to
speak to him, and he lost sight of her, and a few steps brought him to
his own door.  His house was close upon the street.  It was of grey
stone, and only looked high because of the low thatched cottages near
it, on both sides of the way.  On the left, a little back from the
street, stood the kirk, hardly higher than the house.  It had no special
features, and was not unlike in appearance to the low outbuildings of
the manse, which extended behind it.

Its insignificance alone saved it from positive ugliness, but the
minister gave it as he passed, a fond admiring glance.  He knew every
grey stone in its walls, and every pane of glass in its narrow windows.
He had not built it with his own hands but his heart had been in the
laying of every stone and the driving of every nail in it.  And that was
true of the house as well.  He had only time for a glance.  For through
the close there came a shout, and his boys were upon him.

"Steady, lads.  Is all well?  Where is your mother, and how is your
sister?  Robert, you'll take good care of Bendie and rub her well down.
She's quite done out, poor beast; and John, you'll help your brother.
She must go to the smithy on Monday.  There is something wrong with one
of her shoes.  I've been leading her for the last miles."

And so on.  Not a spoken word of tenderness, but Davie leaned against
his father in utter content, and little Norman clasped his arms round
his knee.  Jack eagerly helped to unsaddle the tired mare, not caring to
speak, though as a general thing he had plenty to say.  And Robert had
enough to do with the lump that rose in his throat when he met his
father's eye.  The father ended as he began:

"Where is your mother?"

The mother was standing at the kitchen-door with a child in her arms.

"Well, dearie?" said the one to the other--their eyes said the rest.  It
was the child that the minister stooped to kiss, but the touch of his
hand on his wife's shoulder was better to her than a caress.  Fond words
were rare between these two, who were indeed one--and fond words were
not needed between them.

Mrs Hume set down the child and helped her husband off with his wet
coat, and if he would have permitted it, she would have helped him off
with his boots also, since the wet and the chill had made him helpless.
But it was not needed this time.  For a woman with a step like a
princess crossed the floor and bent down to the work.

"Thank you, my lassie.  You have both strength and skill, and you have a
good will to use them, though I may have no right to demand it at your
hands.  It is perhaps your way of doing the Lord's bidding.  `If I, your
Lord and Master, have washed your feet!'  Do you not mind?"

The smile which rose to Mrs Hume's face had a little surprise in it.
For it was not the minister's way to meet strangers with a text like
that.

"It is Allison Bain," said she.

"Oh! it is Allison Bain, is it?  So you are come already.  I have seen
your friend Dr Fleming, since you left."

"Dr Fleming was kind to me when I sore needed kindness."

Her eyes searched wistfully the minister's face, and it came into his
mind that she was wondering how much of her story had been told to him.

"Dr Fleming said many kind things about you, and I trust it may prove
for the good of us all, that we have been brought together," said he.

In his esteem it was no small thing that this poor soul who had suffered
and perhaps sinned--though looking in her face he could not think it--
should have been given into their care.  But nothing more could be said.
A soft, shrill voice came from a room on the other side of the house.

"Are you coming, father?  I am here, waiting for you."

"Ah, yes!  Ay waiting, my bonny dooie (little dove)."

When his wife entered the room, he was sitting in silence with the pale
cheek of his only daughter resting against his.  A fair, fragile little
creature she was, whose long, loose garments falling around her, showed
that she could not run and play like other children, whatever might be
the cause.  It was a smile of perfect content which met her mother's
look.

"Well, mother," said she softly.

"Well, my dear, you are happy now.  But you are not surely going to keep
your father in his damp clothes?  And tea will soon be ready."

"Ah, no!  I winna keep him.  And he is only going up the stair this
time," said the child, raising herself up and fondly stroking the grave
face which was looking down upon her with love unutterable.  He laid her
upon the little couch by the fireside and went away without a word.

"Come soon, father," said the child.

It was not long before he came.  The lamp was lighted by that time, and
the fire was burning brightly.  The boys had come in, and the mother
went to and fro, busy about the tea-table.  The father's eyes were
bright with thankful love as he looked in upon them.

It was not a large room, and might have seemed crowded and uncomfortable
to unaccustomed eyes.  For all the six sons were there--the youngest in
the cradle, and the little daughter's couch took up the corner between
the window and the fire.  The tea-table was spread with both the leaves
up, and there was not much room certainly between it and the other
table, on which many books and papers were piled, or the corner where
the minister's arm-chair stood.

The chair was brought forward in a twinkling, and he was seated in it
with his little white dove again on his knee.  This was the usual
arrangement for this hour evidently.  To-night the brothers stood before
them in a half circle looking on.

"Well, and how has my Marjorie been all this long time?"

"Oh!  I have been fine and well, father, and the time has not been so
very long.  Do you ken what Mrs Esselmont has sent me?  A doll.  A fine
doll with joints in her knees, and she can sit down.  And her clothes
come off and on, just like anybody's.  Jack has made a stool for her,
and he said he would make me a table and a chair if you brought a knife
to him when you came home.  Did you bring Jack a knife, father?"

"Well--I'm not just sure yet.  I will need to hear how Jack has been
behaving before we say anything about a knife," said her father; but his
smile was reassuring, though his words were grave.

"I think Jack has been good, father.  And mother was here, ye ken, and
she would settle it all, and not leave anything over till you come home,
unless it were something serious," added the child gravely.

Jack hung his head.

"So I am to let bygones be bygones?" said his father.

"And, father," said the child again, her sweet, shrill voice breaking
through the suppressed noise of her brothers--"Allie has come!"  And
even the introduction of the wonderful doll had brought no brighter look
to the little pale face.  "Allie has come, and I like Allie."

"Do you, love?  That is well."

"Yes, father.  Eh! but she's bonny and strong!  When she carried me up
the stair to my bed, I shut my een, and I thought it might be father
himself, Robin is strong, too, and so is Jack, but I'm not ay just so
sure of them," said Marjorie, looking deprecatingly at her brothers,
"and I ay feel as if I must help mother when she carries me, because
she's whiles weary.  But it is almost as good as having you, father,
when Allie takes me in her arms."

Marjorie was "whiles weary" also, it seemed.  She had talked more than
all the rest of them put together, which was not her way in general; so
she laid her head down on her father's shoulder, and said no more till
tea was brought in.  It was the new maid who brought in the bright
tea-kettle at last, and set it on the side of the grate.  Marjorie
raised her head and put out a hand to detain her.

"Father, this is Allison Bain.  And, Allie, ye must tell father about
the lady.  Father, Allie kenned a lady once, who was like me when she
was little, and hardly set her foot to the ground for many a year and
day.  I think she must have been even worse than me, for once they had
her grave-clothes made," said the child in an awed voice, "and when she
didna die, they were hardly glad, for what was her life worth to her,
they said.  But she was patient and good, and there came a wise woman to
see her and whether it was the wise woman that helped her or just the
Lord himself, folk couldna agree, but by and by she grew strong and well
and went about on her own feet like other folk and grew up to be a
woman, and was the mother of sons before she died."

Jack and his brothers laughed at the climax, but the child took no
notice of their mirth.

"It might happen to me too, father, if a wise woman were to come, or if
the Lord himself were to take me in hand."

"Ay, my lammie," said her father softly.

"The mother of sons before she died," repeated the child.  "But she did
die at last, father.  It ay comes to that."

"Ay, dear, soon or late, it ay comes to that."

"But, father, I wouldna like it to be soon with me.  And if only a wise
woman would come here--But never mind, father," added she, laying her
soft little hand on his as his kind eyes grew grave; "I can wait.  I'm
only little yet, and there's plenty of time, and now Allie has come, and
she is strong and kind.  I like Allie," she added, caressing the hand
which she had been holding fast all the time.  "Allie says that maybe
the best thing that could happen to me would be to die, but I would like
to live and go about like other folk a whilie first."

"I am sure Allie will be good to you," said her father.

"Ay, that will I," said Allie, looking gravely down upon the child.

"Come, now, tea is ready," said the mother's cheerful voice.  And rather
quietly, considering their number, the boys took their places at the
table.

There were five of them; the sixth was asleep in the cradle.  Robert,
the eldest, just fifteen, was a "good scholar," and dux in the parish
school.  He was ready for the university, and was going there when the
way should be made clear for him.  As a general thing, he had a book in
his hand while he munched the oaten bannocks, which formed the chief
part of the boys' evening meal.  But to-night he listened and put in his
word with the rest.  And there were words in plenty, for their father
had been away ten whole days, and he had much to hear.

The others were handsome, hardy boys, with dark eyes and sun-browned
faces, and the fair hair of so many Scottish laddies, darkening a little
already in the elder ones.  They were seen at their best to-night, for
their father had been expected, and clean hands and faces had been a
matter of choice, and not, as was sometimes the case, of compulsion, and
"the lint white locks," longer and more abundant than we usually see
them on boyish heads nowadays, were in reasonable order.

If a hundredth part of the pride and delight which filled their father's
heart, as he looked round on them, had been allowed to appear on his
face, it would have astonished them all not a little.  His eyes met
those of their mother with a look in which was thankfulness as well as
pride, but to the boys themselves he said quietly enough:

"I am glad to hear from your mother that you have been reasonably good
boys while I have been away.  If there is anything that any of you think
I ought to hear of, you'll tell me yourselves."

A look was exchanged among the older lads.

"The nicht, father?" said one of them.

"Well, to-morrow may do, unless it be something more than usual.  Is it
Jack?"

Of course it was Jack.  He looked at his mother and hung his head, but
said nothing.

"Hoot, man! get it over the nicht," whispered Robin.

And so he did.  But poor Jack's mischief need not be told.  It was not
really very serious, though his father listened seriously, and kept his
smiles till he was alone with the boy's mother.  _Mischief_ is a generic
term in the Scottish tongue, including some things bad enough, but also
some things in which fun is one of the chief elements, and Jack's
_mischief_ was mostly of this kind.  Sometimes his father laughed in
private, even when he found it necessary to show displeasure to the
culprit.

But he was reasonable in his punishments, which was not invariably the
case with even good men and good fathers, in that land, in those days.
There were whispers among some of the frequenters of the little kirk, to
the effect that the minister's laddies needed sharper discipline than
they were like to have at home, and there were prophecies that they
would be likely to get their share of discipline of one kind or another
when they should be out of their father's hands.

Jack got easily off, whatever his fault had been, and had his knife
besides.  They all grew a little noisy over their father's gifts.  As it
was Saturday night, his first thought had been that they should not be
distributed till Monday.  But their mother said they might, perhaps,
think all the more about them if they had not seen them.  So each got
his gift, and their delight in them, seeing there was so little to
rejoice over, was in the eyes of the father and mother both amusing and
pathetic.

But little and great are comparative terms when applied to money's worth
as to other things, and considering the amount which must be made to
stand for all that was needed in the home, the presents were not so
trifling.  Still, the minister was a rich man in the opinion of many
about him, and it cannot be said that he was a poor man in his own
opinion.  At any rate, between them, his wife and he had made their
comparative poverty answer a good many of the purposes of wealth, not to
their children only, but to many a "puir bodie" besides, since they came
to Nethermuir.

"And now, my lads, we'll to worship and then you'll to your beds, for I
have my morrow's sermon to look at yet, and I see your mother's work is
not done."

So "the Books" were brought out and Allison Bain was called in from the
kitchen.  The minister asked God's blessing on the reading of the Word
and then he chose a Psalm instead of the chapter in Numbers which came
in course.  It was the thirty-fourth:

"I will bless the Lord at all times; His praise shall continually be in
my mouth," and so on to the end.

"The Lord redeemeth the soul of His servants, and none of them that
trust in Him shall be desolate."

"He believes it all," said Allison Bain to herself, lifting once again
her sad eyes to his face.  And then they sang:

  "Oh!  God of Bethel, by whose hand
  Thy people still are fed--"

which was their family song of thanksgiving, as it was of many another
family in those days, on all special occasions for rejoicing.  It was
the mother who led the singing with a voice which, in after years, when
her sons were scattered in many lands, they remembered as "the sweetest
ever heard."  The father sang too, but among the many good gifts which
God had given to him, music had been denied.  He did not know one tune
from another, except as it might be associated with some particular
Psalm or Hymn, and his voice, both powerful and flexible in speaking,
had in singing only two unvarying tones.  But he was never silent when
the time came "to sing praises," and truly his voice did not spoil the
music to those who loved him.  The boys had their mother's gift and they
all sang with good will to-night.  Allie's voice was mute, but her lips
trembled a little, and her head drooped low as they sang--

  "God of our fathers be the God
  Of their succeeding race."

She was not forgotten in the prayer which followed.  It was not as "the
stranger within our gates" that she was remembered, but as one of the
household, and it was reverently asked that the casting in of her lot
with theirs might be for good to her and to them for all time and beyond
it.  But there was no brightening of her face when she rose and passed
out from among them.

The minister's sermon was not his first thought when he returned to the
parlour, after carrying his little daughter up-stairs.  By and by his
wife sat down with her stocking-basket by her side.  They had many
things to speak about, after a ten days' separation, which had not
occurred more than twice before in all their married life, and soon they
came round to their new servant.

"Well, what do you think of her?" said the minister.

"I cannot say.  I cannot quite make her out," said Mrs Hume gravely.

"You have not had much time yet."

"No; I mean that I do not think she intends that I should make her out."

"She says little?"

"She says nothing.  She has passed through some sore trouble, I am quite
sure.  She looks, at times, as if she had lost all that she cared for,
and had not the heart to begin again."

"I think you have made her out fairly well," said the minister smiling.

"Why was Dr Fleming so anxious to send her here?  Had he known her
long?  And how did he come to know her?"

"He had not known her very long.  This is the way he came to know her:
She was brought to the infirmary, ill of fever.  She had gone into a
cottage on the outskirts of the town `to rest herself,' she said.  But
she was too ill to leave the place, and then she was sent to the
infirmary.  She had a struggle for life, which none but a strong woman
could have won through, and when she began to grow better, she made
herself useful among the other patients, and was so helpful, that when
one of the nurses went away, they kept her on in her place.  But
evidently she had not been used with town life, or even indoor life, and
she grew dowie first, and then despairing, and he was glad at the
thought of getting her away, for fear of what might happen.  It was
change which she needed, and work such as she had been used with."

"But it was a great risk to send her here."

"Yes, in one way.  And I hardly think he would have ventured to do so,
but that, quite by accident, he had heard about her from an old college
friend.  It seems that this gentleman came to see Dr Fleming at the
infirmary, and getting a glimpse of the young woman's face, he betrayed
by his manner that it was not for the first time.  He was bound, he
said, for her sake, not to seem to know her, nor would he say anything
about her home or her station in life.  But he said that he knew well
about her, that she was an orphan who had suffered much, that she was a
good woman, one to be trusted and honoured, and he begged his friend to
ask her no questions, but to get her out of the town into some quiet
country place where she might outlive the bitterness of the past.  And
his last words were, `Fortunate will they be who can have her as a
helper in the house.'"

"It is a pity for her sake that she should refuse to trust us."

"Yes.  There is one thing which you ought to know, though Dr Fleming
rather betrayed it than expressed it openly.  I think, from what he
said, and also from what he did not say, that there had been some fear
that her mind might give way under the strain of her trouble, whatever
it is.  She seemed to have lost the power of turning her thoughts away
from it, and yet she had never uttered a word with regard to it.  She
was sometimes, he said, like one walking in her sleep, deaf and blind to
all that was going on about her.  She had a dazed look, painful to see."

"I ken the look well."

"She had been used with country life, he thought, for in the town she
was like a creature caged and wild to get out.  Her best chance was, he
said, an entire change of scene and of work, and he thought it
providential that we were to lose our Kirstin at this time.  Our house,
he thought, would be a good place for her.  She will have plenty to do,
and will have every allowance made for her, and she will be kindly and
firmly dealt with.  And then, there are the bairns, and our bonny
Maysie.  I confess the glimpse I have gotten of her has already greatly
interested me."

"I acknowledge I have felt the same.  But others will be interested in
her also.  Does she really think that she can keep a secret in a place
like this?  What she will not tell, others will guess.  Or worse, they
will imagine a story for her."

"We must do what we can to guard her from ill or idle tongues."

"Yes, and if she were just a commonplace servant-lass, like our Kirstin,
it might be easy to do so.  But with a face and eyes like hers, to say
nothing of her way of carrying herself, every eye will be upon her."

"She is a stately woman truly.  But her dark, colourless face will
hardly take the fancy of common folk.  They will miss the lilies and
roses.  She has wonderful een," added the minister.

"Yes, like those of a dumb creature in pain.  Whiles I feel, looking at
her, that I must put my arms about her and let her greet (weep) her
heart out on my breast.  But she has hardly given me a chance to say a
kind word to her yet.  That may come in time, however."

"It will be sure to come," said the minister heartily.  "What sorrowful
soul ever withstood you long?  And you have reason to trust her?  She
has done well thus far?"

"I have had no cause to distrust her.  Yes, she has done wonderfully
well.  Though I doubt whether she has ever occupied a servant's place
before.  And she gets on well with the lads.  Jack has once felt the
weight of her hand, I believe.  I do not think he will be in a hurry
again to vex her with his nonsense."

"I must have a word with Jack, and with them all."

"As for our Marjorie, her heart is taken captive quite."

"My precious darling!  She may do Allison good.  And we must all try to
help the poor soul as we may, for I fear she is in an evil case."


CHAPTER THREE.

  "For the highest and the humblest work had been given them to do."

Yes, Allison Bain was in an evil case, but if an entire change of scene
and manner of life, and hard work and plenty of it, were likely to have
a beneficial effect upon her, she had come to the right place to find
them.  And she had come also to the right place to get faithful,
patient, and kindly oversight, which she needed as much as change.

When she had been longing to get away--anywhere--out of the great town,
which was like a prison to her, Dr Fleming had spoken to her about
taking service at the manse of Nethermuir, and she had said that she
would go gladly, and at once.

The only manse which she knew much about was in her mind when she made
the promise,--a house apart, in a sheltered, sunny spot, having a high
walled fruit garden behind it, and before, a broad, sloping lawn, with a
brown burn running at the foot.  Yes, she would like to go.  She would
get away from the din and closeness of the town.  In a place like that
in which the old minister lived alone among his books, with only his
children or his grandchildren coming home to see him now and then, she
would be at peace.  She would be away from the curious eyes that were ay
striving, she thought, to read her sorrowful secret in her face.  Yes,
she would be glad to go.

But it was a very different place in which she found herself when she
reached Nethermuir.  Anything more unlike the ideal Scottish manse than
the house to which she had come could not well be imagined.  There was
no walled garden or lawn, or "wimplin burn" to see.  If it had even a
right to be called "The Manse," might be doubted.

For it was only the house of the "Missioner Minister," a humble abode,
indeed, in comparison with the parish manse.  It was a narrow,
two-storied house, with but the causey (pavement) between it and the
street.  Across the close, which separated it from a still humbler
dwelling, came the "clack, clack" of a hand-loom, and the same sound,
though the night was falling, came from other houses near.

"A poor place, indeed," was Allison Bain's first thought, as she stood
regarding it from the darkening street, with a conscious, dull sinking
of the heart, which had already fallen so low.  Not that the place
mattered much, she added, as she stood looking at the lights moving here
and there in the house.  She was too weary to care for anything very
much that night.  The morning stars had lighted her way the first two
hours of her journey, and there had been little time for rest during the
short November day.  Footsore and exhausted after her thirty miles of
travel, she went slowly and heavily in.  She could only listen in
silence to the kindly welcome of her new mistress, and then go silently
to the rest and quiet of her bed.

Morning came.  Rest and quiet!  These were not here, it seemed.  The
sound of many voices was filling the house when Allie, having long
overslept herself, awoke at last and lifted her heavy head from the
pillow.  There were shrill, boyish voices, laughing, shouting,
wrangling, without pause.  There was racket on the stairs, and wrestling
in the passage, and half-stifled cries of expostulation or triumph
everywhere, till a door opened, and closed again, and shut it all out.

And so Allison's new life began.  She had not come to seek an easy time.
And as for quiet, if she had but known it, the noise and bustle and
boyish clamour, the pleasant confusion of coming and going about the
homely little manse, and the many claims upon her attention and patience
and care, were just what she needed to help her.  Whether she knew it or
not, she set herself to her work with a will, and grew as content with
it, after a while, as she could have been anywhere at this time of her
life.

Mr Hume belonged to the little band of remarkable men, to whom, on
their first coming North, was given the name of "Missioners."  Some
people say the name was given because these men were among the first to
advocate the scheme of sending missionaries to the heathen.  Others say
they were so named because they themselves came, or were sent, to preach
the Gospel of Christ to those who were becoming content to hear what the
new-comers believed and declared to be "another Gospel."  In course of
time the name given to the leaders fell also to those who followed--an
honourable name surely, but in those days it was spoken contemptuously
enough sometimes, by both the wise and the foolish, and Mr Hume, during
the first years of his ministry in Nethermuir, had his share of
contumely to meet or to ignore as well as the rest.

But all that had been long past before Allison Bain came with her
spoiled life, and her heavy heart, to seek shelter under his roof.  By
that time, to no minister--to no man in all the countryside--was a truer
respect, a fuller confidence given, by those whose good word was of any
value.

He had not been over-eager to win the good word of any one.  The courage
and hopefulness of youth and an enthusiastic devotion to the work to
which he had been set apart, carried him happily through the first
troubled years, and when youthful courage and hopefulness had abated
somewhat, then natural patience, and strength daily renewed, stood him
in good stead.  He loved his work not less, but more as time went on,
and it prospered in his hands.  His flock was only "a little flock"
still; but the gathering in of these wanderers to the fold had given
him, as one by one they came, a taste of such perfect satisfaction, as
few of the great ones of the world--be they heroes or sages--have
claimed to be theirs, even in the moment of their highest triumphs.

This kind of success and his satisfaction in it might not be appreciated
by those who looked on from the outside of his circle of influence; but
there was another kind, both of success and of satisfaction in it, which
they could appreciate, and at which they might well wonder.

By means of the pennies and sixpences and shillings slowly gathered
among themselves, though few among them had many pennies to spare, and
with the help of occasional pounds, which by one hand and another found
their way into the treasury from abroad, first the kirk had been built
and then the manse.  They were humble structures enough, but sufficient
for their purpose, and indeed admirable in all respects in the eyes of
those who had a part in them.

Then out of a low stretch of barren clay, which was a slimy pool, with a
green, unhealthy margin for some months of the year, the minister had
made such a garden as few in the town could boast.  The hawthorn hedge
around it, as well as every tree and bush in it, was planted by the
minister's own hand, or under his own eye.  It might not have seemed a
very fine garden to some people.  There were only common flowers and
fruits in it, and still more common vegetables; but the courage, the
skill, the patience which had made it out of nothing, must have been
appreciated anywhere.  To the moderately intelligent and immoderately
critical community of Nethermuir, the visible facts of kirk and manse,
of glebe and garden, appealed more clearly and directly than did the
building up of "lively stones into a spiritual house," which was his
true work, or the flourishing of "trees of righteousness" in their
midst, which was his true joy.

And, perhaps, this was not so much to be wondered at, considering all
things.  For some of the "trees" looked to be little other than "crooked
sticks" to their eyes; and of some of the "stones" it might well be
said, that they "caused many to stumble."  And since it was halting, and
shortcoming, and inconsistency that some of their critical neighbours
were looking for among "folk that set themselves up to be better than
their neebors," it is not surprising that it was these that they should
most readily see.

Even the minister himself saw these things only too often.  But then, he
saw more.  He saw the frequent struggle and resistance, as well as the
rare yielding to temptation, and he saw also, sometimes, the soul's
humiliation, the repentance, the return.

And even the "crooked sticks" were now and then acknowledged to be not
altogether without life.  Saunners Crombie might be sour and dour and
crabbed whiles, readier with reproof and rebuke than with consolation or
the mantle of charity.  But even Saunners, judged by deeds rather than
by words, did not altogether fall short of fruit-bearing, as many a poor
soul, to whose wants, both temporal and spiritual, he ministered in
secret, could gladly testify.

And on many of the folk who had "ta'en up wi' the little kirk," a change
had passed, a change which might be questioned and cavilled at, but
which could not be denied.  In more than one household, where strife and
discontent had once ruled, the fear of God and peace and good-will had
come to dwell.  To another, long wretched with the poverty which comes
of ill-doing, and the neglect which follows hopeless struggle, had come
comfort, and at most times plenty, or contentment with little when
plenty failed.

There were lads and lassies among them, of whom in former days, evil
things had been prophesied, who were now growing into men and women,
earnest, patient, aspiring--into such men and women as have made the
name of Scotland known and honoured in all lands.  They were not spared
a sneer now and then.  They were laughed at, or railed at, as "unco
gude," or as "prood, upsettin' creatures, with their meetings, and
classes, and library books," and the names which in the Scotch of that
time and place stood for "prig" and "prude," were freely bestowed upon
them.  But, all the same, it could not be denied that they were not
"living to themselves," that they were doing their duty in all the
relations of life, and of some of them it was said that "they might be
heard o' yet" in wider spheres than their native town afforded.

Neither could it be denied that some who had set out with them in life,
with far fairer promise than they, had "gaen the wrang gait," with an
ever-lessening chance of turning back again.  And what made the
difference?

Was it just the minister's personal influence teaching, guiding,
restraining, encouraging?  Or was it that a change had really passed
upon them--the change in which, at least, the minister believed, and
which he preached--which, according to him, must pass on each man for
himself, before true safety or happiness, either in this world or the
next, could be assured--the change which can be wrought by the Power of
God alone?

Converted!  The word had long been a scoff on the lips of some in
Nethermuir, but even the scoffers had to confess that, to some of the
missioners at least, something had happened.

There was Peter Gilchrist.  If an entire change of heart, and mind, and
manner of life meant conversion, then Peter was converted.  And that not
through the slow process of reading the Bible on the Sabbath-day, or by
learning the catechism, or by a decent attendance upon appointed
ordinances--not even "under the rod"--the chastising hand of Him who
smites the sinner for his good--which would have been reasonable enough.
It had happened to others.

But Peter had been converted by one sermon, it was said, a sermon
preached at the house-end of Langbarns in the next parish.  No great
sermon, either.  At least many a one had heard it without heeding it.
But it had "done" for Peter.

The very last thing that Peter had been thinking about was listening to
the sermon.  He, with some of his chosen friends, had gone to the
meeting--held out of doors, because there was no other place in which to
hold it--for the help and encouragement of the constable, who, it was
said, had a warrant to seize and carry before a magistrate "the
missioner minister" for a breach of the law, in holding a preaching
meeting at Langbarns without the consent of the parish minister.  The
presumption was that the sight of the constable, and the announcement of
his errand, would be enough to silence the minister and disperse the
meeting.  But that did not follow.  If he were to be meddled with, "it
should not be for nothing," the minister declared to a rather timid
friend and adviser.  And his courage stood him in good stead.  He gave
the folk assembled such a sermon as probably few of them had ever heard
before.  The constable had not, he acknowledged, nor Peter; and the
worst of it--or the best of it--for Peter was, that having heard it, he
could not forget it.

When the meeting was over, Mr Hume went silently and swiftly away with
the departing crowd, and he never would have been quite sure that
anything serious had been intended if he had not afterward had Peter's
word for it.

Returning home from a similar meeting, held in another direction, a week
or two afterward, he was waylaid by that unhappy man, and in a rather
unexpected manner called to account for his sermon, and for the misery
it had caused.  They went home to the manse together, and spent a good
part of the night in the minister's study, and more nights than one
before Peter "came to himself" and "went to his Father," and so was made
ready to begin a new life indeed.

It _was_ a new life.  There was no gainsaying that.  He had been a
reckless character, a drunkard, a swearer, an ill husband and a worse
father, in the sight of all men.  But from the day when at last he came
out of the minister's study with a face which shone, though there were
tears upon it, all that was over.

For days and months his wife watched him and wondered, and rejoiced with
trembling, never sure how it all might end.  His children, with
something of the dogged indifference with which in former days they had
come to bear the effects of his drunken anger, took the good of his
changed ways "while they lasted," they said to one another, hardly
daring to hope that they would last "for ay."

But though he had had a stumble or two since then he had, on the whole,
during thirteen years walked warily and wisely, even in the unwilling
judgment of those who had watched for his halting.  Even they were
compelled to allow that "to be converted" meant something to the
purpose, at least in the case of Peter Gilchrist.

There were many besides him whose lives illustrated the power of the
Gospel as held forth by Mr Hume, and there were but a few in the place
who went beyond a grumble of dissent or disapproval of him and his
doings now.  Even the most inveterate of the grumblers, or the most
captious of the fault-finders, could not withstand the persistent
friendliness which never resented an injury nor forgot a favour, and
which was as ready, it seemed, with a good turn for those who wished him
ill as for those who wished him well.

According to some folk, the minister ought to have been "sour, and dour,
and ill-conditioned," considering the belief he held and the doctrines
he preached.  These were the folk who never went to hear him.  But even
they acknowledged that he was friendly and kindly, cheerful and
forbearing, even when vexation or indignation on his part might have
been excusable.  And they also acknowledged that "he wasna a man who
keepit a calm sough, and slippet oot o' things just to save himself
trouble."  He could be angry--and show it, too--where cruelty, or
dishonesty, or treachery came under his eye, or where blasphemous words
were uttered in his hearing.  And there were two or three of the
evildoers of the place who had been made to feel the weight of his
words, and the weight of his hand also on occasion, and who were in the
way now of slipping down the lanes, rather than meet the minister in the
light of day.

And he was "a weel learnt man," and fair in an argument, and willing to
look at all the sides of a subject.  This was Weaver Sim's opinion of
the minister, and he was an oracle in a small way among his neighbours.

"He has his ain notions and opinions, as is to be expectet o' the like
o' him.  But he's a weel learnt man, and on the whole fair and liberal.
And whiles he has a twinkle in his e'e that tells that he sees some
things that ither folk canna see, and that he enjoys them."

All this had been conceded during the early years of the minister's life
in Nethermuir.  He had made his own place among the town's folk since
then, and so had his wife.  It was a good place, and they were worthy of
it.  And it is possible that, in all Scotland, poor Allison Bain could
have found no safer refuge than she was likely to find with them.

She filled her place well--was indeed invaluable in it.  But when weeks
and months had passed, her master and mistress knew nothing more of her
heart or her history than on the day when she first came among them.
But they had patience with her, and watched her with constant and kindly
oversight, and they trusted her entirely at last.

"Her trust in us will come in time," said her mistress; "and in the
meanwhile I can only be thankful that she has been sent to us, both for
her sake and ours."

It was indeed "a great relief and comfort" for Mrs Hume to know that a
wise head and capable hands were between her and many of her household
cares.  For what with her husband, and her six sons, and her frail
little daughter, and the making, and mending, and thinking for them all,
her days were sometimes over-full.

To the minister his wife was hands, and eyes, and sometimes head.  She
had to keep her heart light and her face bright, and now and then she
had to "set it as a flint" for his sake.  She had to entertain many a
wearisome visitor, and to listen to many a tale of care or trouble or
complaint, that the quiet of his study need not be broken in upon.  She
stood between him and some vexations which he might have taken
seriously, and from which he might have suffered, but which yielded
under the influence of her smiles and soft words, or disappeared in the
presence of her indifference or her anger, as the case might be.

She had slow, dull natures to stir up, and natures hard and crabbed to
soften and soothe, and in numberless other ways to hold up her husband's
hands, and maintain his honour in the little community to which he stood
as God's overseer.

There were "puir bodies" in every street, into whose dim little rooms
the face of the minister's wife came like sunshine.  She was a kind of
Providence to some of them, having made herself responsible to them for
cups of tea, or basins of soup, or jugs of milk in their time of need.
And for better help still.  To the suffering and sorrowful she came with
words of comfort and consolation, and with words of chiding or of cheer
to the "thraward" and the erring, who had helped to make their own
trouble.  She was mindful of all and kind to all as they had need and
she had power.

She had other uses for her time also, duties and pleasures which she
could not neglect.  A new book found its way to the manse sometimes, and
she had the _Evangelical Magazine_ to read--it would be thought dry
reading nowadays--and the weekly paper as well, for great interest was
taken in public affairs at that time.  These books and papers were to be
thought over, and considered, and then discussed with her husband, and
sometimes with the two or three hard-handed farmers or artisans of their
flock, who had, under their teaching, learned to care for books, and
even for "poyms," and for all that the great world in the distance was
trying to say and to do.

It was well for her that she had learned to do two things at once, or
even three,--that she could enjoy her book quite as well with her
knitting-needles glancing busily in her skilful fingers, and her foot on
her boy's cradle, and withal never forget to meet and answer the smile
of her patient little daughter, or by glance or word or touch to keep
her restless lads in order.

Her brown eyes seldom looked troubled or weary, and her voice, though at
times imperative enough, never grew sharp or fretful.  Her steps went
lightly up and down the stair, and through the streets of the town, and
her smile was like sunshine at home and abroad.

And the help that Allison's willing and efficient service was to her
mistress cannot be told.  It would have helped her more if the girl had
been happier in the giving of it.

"But," said her hopeful mistress, "that will come in time."


CHAPTER FOUR.

  "She crept a' day about the house
  Slow fitted and heart-sair."

Truly there was enough to do in the house.  Allison's day began long
before the dawn of the winter morning, and ended when there was nothing
more to do, and night had come by that time.  All was done deftly and
thoroughly, as even the faithful Kirstin had not always done it, but
silently and mechanically.  She took no satisfaction, that her mistress
could see, in a difficult or tiresome piece of work well ended--in a
great washing or ironing got through in good time, or in a kitchen made
perfect in neatness.  When the lads came home from school to put it all
in disorder, with bats and balls, and sticks and stones, she made no
remonstrance, but set to work to put it in order again.  It made no
difference, her downcast face seemed to say.

With the lads themselves--tiresome and vexatious often--she was, for the
most part, patient and forbearing, but it was not a loving patience, or
a considerate forbearance, as old Kirstin's had been.  Kirstin had been
vexed often, and had sometimes complained of their thoughtlessness and
foolishness.  But nothing seemed to make much difference to the silent
ruler of the kitchen.  Everything but the work of the moment was allowed
to pass unheeded.

The lads, cautioned by their father, and kept in mind by their mother,
did not often go beyond the bounds of reasonable liberty in the use they
made of her domain.  When they did so, a sharp word, like a sudden shot,
brought them to their proper place again and set matters right between
them.  The lads bore no malice.  They never complained to their mother
at such times, and if they had, she would have paid little attention to
such complaints.  That "laddies must be kept in order," she very well
knew.

And thus the early weeks of winter passed, doing for Allison some of the
good which work well done is sure to do for the heavy-hearted.  But the
good which the busy days wrought, the nights, for a time, seemed to
destroy.

In the long evenings, when Marjorie and the younger brothers were
asleep, and the elder lads were at their books, there came a time of
quiet to all the house, when Allison had the kitchen to herself and she
could sit in silence, undisturbed, but not at rest.  Then her trouble
came back upon her, and night after night she sat gazing into the fire
till it fell into red embers, and then into grey ashes, thinking of the
painful days of the year now drawing to a close.  And, poor soul! the
anguish of pain and shame which, months ago, had touched her and hers,
was as sharp and "ill to bide" as when the blow had fallen.  Nay, in a
sense it was worse.  For in the first amazement of a sudden shock, the
coming anguish seems impossible, and the natural resistance of the soul
against it gives a sort of courage for the time.

But with Allison, the fear had changed to certainty.  Trouble had fallen
on her and hers, and had darkened for her all the past and all the
future, she believed, for as yet time had not lightened the darkness.

It was not that she was thinking about all this.  She was living it all
over.  She saw again the home she had left forever--the low house, with
the sunshine on it, or the dull mist and the rain.  A vision of a
beautiful, beloved face, drawn with terror, or fierce with anger, was
ever before her.  Or a grey head moving restlessly on its last pillow--a
face with the shadow of death upon it, and of an anguish worse than
death.  In her ears was a voice uttering last words, with long, sobbing
sighs between.

"O!  Willie, Willie!" the broken voice says.  "Where are ye, Willie?
Mind, Allison, ye hae promised--to watch for his soul as ane that maun
gie account.  And the Lord deal--wi' you, as--ye shall deal wi' Him."

And in her heart she answers:

"Father, be at peace about him.  I'll be more mindfu' o' him than the
Lord himself has been."

She sees the anguish in the dying eyes give place to darkness, and
sitting there by the grey ashes on the hearth, cries out in her despair.
Thus it has been with her since her father was laid in the grave, and
the prison-doors shut upon her only brother.  Their faces are ever
before her, their voices in her ears.

She cares for nothing in the wide world at such times.  She does not
even care for herself, or her own life, though a shadow dark and dread
lies on it.  If her life could come to an end, that Would be best, she
thinks.  But it must not come to an end yet.  Oh! if she and Willie
could die together, or get away anywhere and be forgotten.  If they
could only pass out of all men's minds, as though they had never been!
But all such thoughts are foolish, she tells herself.  Nothing in their
lives can be changed, nor mended, nor forgotten.

And having got thus far, it all begins again, and she lives over the
happy days when, bairns together, they played among the heather, or
followed the sheep on the hills; when their father was like God to them,
ay loving them, and being kind to them; but not ay seeming just so
mindful of them as their mother was.  Their mother was ill whiles, and
took less heed of things, and needed much done for her, but they loved
their mother best.  At least they never feared her, as they sometimes
feared their father, who yet loved them both--Willie best, as did all
who ever saw his face.

And thus on through all the weary way, her thoughts would travel through
days of still content, through doubt, and fear, and anguish, to the end,
only to begin again.

Persius Flaccus pursued his studies at Volterra till he was twelve years
old, and then continued them at Rome, under Remmius Palaemon, the
grammarian, and Verginius Flaccus, the rhetorician. Arriving at the age
of twenty-one, he formed a friendship with Annaeus Cornutus [955],
which lasted through life; and from him he learned the rudiments of
philosophy. Among his earliest friends were Caesius Bassus [956], and
Calpurnius Statura; the latter of whom died while Persius himself was yet
in his youth.
Servilius (539) Numanus [957], he reverenced as a father.

Through Cornutus he was introduced to Annaeus, as well as to Lucan, who
was of his own age, and also a disciple of Cornutus. At that time Cornutus
was a tragic writer; he belonged to the sect of the Stoics, and left
behind him some philosophical works. Lucan was so delighted with
the writings of Persius Flaccus, that he could scarcely refrain
from giving loud tokens of applause while the author was reciting
them, and declared that they had the true spirit of poetry.

It was late before Persius made the acquaintance of Seneca, and then he
was not much struck with his natural endowments. At the house of Cornutus
he enjoyed the society of two very learned and excellent men, who were
then zealously devoting themselves to philosophical enquiries,
namely, Claudius Agaternus, a physician from Lacedaemon, and Petronius
Aristocrates, of Magnesia, men whom he held in the highest esteem,
and with whom he vied in their studies, as they were of his own
age, being younger than Cornutus.

During nearly the last ten years of his life he was much beloved
by Thraseas, so that he sometimes travelled abroad in his company; and
his cousin Arria was married to him.

Persius was remarkable for gentle manners, for a modesty amounting to
bashfulness, a handsome form, and an attachment to his mother, sister,
and aunt, which was most exemplary.

He was frugal and chaste. He left his mother and sister twenty thousand
sesterces, requesting his mother, in a written codicil, to present
to Cornutus, as some say, one hundred sesterces, or as others, twenty
pounds of wrought silver [958], besides about seven hundred books,
which, indeed, included his whole library.
Cornutus, however, would only take the books, and gave up the legacy
to the sisters, whom his brother had constituted his heirs.

He wrote [959] seldom, and not very fast; even the work we possess he
left incomplete. Some verses are wanting at the end of the book [960],
but Cornutus thoughtlessly recited it, as if (540) it was finished;
and on Caesius Bassus requesting to be allowed to publish it, he delivered
it to him for that purpose., In his younger days, Persius had
written a play, as well as an Itinerary, with several copies of
verses on Thraseas' father-in-law, and Arria's [961] mother, who
had made away with herself before her husband.

But Cornutus used his whole influence with the mother of Persius to prevail
upon her to destroy these compositions. As soon as his book of Satires
was published, all the world began to admire it, and were eager to
buy it up. He died of a disease in the stomach, in the thirtieth year of
his age [962]. But no sooner had he left school and his masters, than
he set to work with great vehemence to compose satires, from having
read the tenth book of Lucilius; and made the beginning of that book
his model; presently launching his invectives all around with so
little scruple, that he did not spare cotemporary poets and orators,
and even lashed Nero himself, who was then the reigning prince.

The verse ran as follows:

Auriculas asini Mida rex habet; King Midas has an ass's ears;
but Cornutus altered it thus;
Auriculas asini quis non hahet?
Who has not an ass's ears?

in order that it might not be supposed that it was meant to apply to
Nero.

THE LIFE OF HORACE.

They had fowls and they had fish of
the best, for in those days the London market did not devour all that
the sea produced, and the fishwives tramped inland many miles, with
their creels on their backs, glad to sell their fish to the country
folk.  They had soup often, and always potatoes and some other
vegetables; but milk and oatmeal, prepared in various ways, was the
principal food for the bairns of the manse, and for all other bairns as
well.

Were they to be commiserated, the lads and lassies, who in manse and
farmhouse and cottage had to content themselves with such simple,
unvarying fare?  They did not think so, for except in books, they knew
nothing of any other way of life.  I do not think so, because I have
seen other ways and their results.  Besides, luxury is a comparative
term, like wealth, or a competence; and the occasional slice of
loaf-bread, with jelly or even treacle on it, probably gave greater
satisfaction to the children of that country, and that time, than the
unlimited indulgence in cakes and pastry, or creams and ices can give to
the experienced young people of the present day, in some other
countries, who, taking the usual comprehensive survey of the luxuries
prepared for the frequenters of city hotels or watering-places, are
sometimes obliged to confess themselves "disappointed in the fare!"

One thing is sure, plain food made strong men and women of most of them;
and no lingering dyspepsia of childhood spoiled the pleasure of those of
them who won their way to the right to live as they pleased in
after-life.

During Allison's reign in the manse kitchen, the bairns were
exceptionally fortunate in their daily fare.  For though she seemed to
go about in a maze, like the man in the ballad, as Robin said, "whose
thoughts were other-where," she never burned the porridge, nor singed
the broth, nor put off the weekly baking of "cakes," till they were
obliged to content themselves, now and then, with less than the usual
portion.

It was wonderful how well the work was done, considering how little her
heart seemed to be in the doing of it, her mistress sometimes thought.
She would have been better pleased had an opening been left now and then
for the "putting in mind," which had been necessary sometimes, even in
the case of the much-valued Kirstin.  She would have liked to see
whether a sharp word or two would have moved the silent Allison for a
moment out of the dull, mechanical performance of her duty.

Praise did not do it, and she had been lavish of praise at first.
Allison heard it, as she heard all else, without heeding, as though
doing well were a matter of course, needing no words about it.  She did
not respond, by ever so little, to her mistress' kindly attempts to make
friends, till something else had moved her.

The tact and patience of her mistress in dealing with her were helped by
the belief which gradually came to her, that this silent withdrawal of
herself from all approaches of kindliness or sympathy was hardly
voluntary on Allison's part.  It was not so much that she refused help
as that she had ceased to expect it.  Under some terrible strain of
circumstances her courage had been broken, and her hope.  She was like
one who believed that for her, help was impossible.

Of course she was wrong in this, her mistress thought.  She was young
and time brings healing.  If her trouble had come through death, healing
would come soon.  If it were a living sorrow, there might still be more
to suffer; but her strong spirit would rise above it at last--of that
she was sure.

All this she had said to the minister one night.  He listened in silence
a while, then he said:

"And what if sin, or the love of it, makes her trouble?  There are some
things which cannot be outlived."

"Tell me what trouble touches any of us with which sin--our own, or that
of other folk--has not to do.  Yes, there has been sin where there is
suffering such as hers, but I cannot think that she has been the sinner.
Allison is an honest woman, pure and true, or my judgment is at fault.
It is the sin of some one else which has brought such gloom and
solitariness upon her.  Whether she is a real Christian, getting all the
good of it, is another matter.  I have my doubts."

All this time the minister's "new lass" had not been overlooked by those
who worshipped in the little kirk, nor by some who did not.  The usual
advances had been made toward acquaintance--friendly, curious, or
condescending, as the case might be, but no one had made much progress
with the stranger.  Her response to each and all alike was always
perfectly civil, but always also of the briefest, and on a second
meeting the advances had to be made all over again.

When business or pleasure brought any of the cottage wives to the manse
kitchen, as happened frequently, their "gude-day t'ye" was always
promptly and quietly answered, but it never got much beyond that with
any of them.  Allison went about her work in the house or out of it, and
"heeded them as little as the stools they sat on," some of them said,
and their husbands and brothers could say no more.

When she was discussed, as of course she was at all suitable times and
occasions, the reports which were given of her were curiously alike.
Friendliness, curiosity, condescension--the one had sped no better than
the other.  The next-door neighbours to the manse had no more to tell
than the rest.  There was no lingering at the kitchen-door, or at the
mouth of the close in the long gloaming, as there used to be in
Kirstin's time.

"Ceevil! ay, if ye can ca' it civeelity.  She maistly just says naething
and gaes by as gin she didna see ye," said the weaver's wife.

"For my pairt, I hae nae feast o' sic civeelity," said Mrs Coats from
the other side of the street.  "I should like to ken mair aboot her ere
I hae muckle to say to her."

"It winna trouble her though you sae naething," said the weaver.  "She's
valued in the manse, that's weel seen."

"Ay, she is that," said his wife.  "I never thought they would soon get
one to step so readily into auld Kirstin's shoon.  She gets through far
mair than ever Kirstin did in the course of the day, and the hoose is
like a new preen (pin)."

"I daursay.  New besoms sweep clean," said Mrs Coats with a sniff.

"There's a differ in besoms, however, be they auld or new," said the
weaver.

"She's the kin' o' lass to please the men it seems.  We'll need to keep
a calm sough the lave o' us," said Mrs Coats.

"It's ay safe to keep a calm sough," said the weaver.  "Gin she suits
the minister's wife that's the chief thing.  The warst we ken o' her yet
is that she's no' heedin' ony o' us, and she micht hae waur fauts."

"That may be.  But something must ail a young lass like yon when she is
sae slow to open her lips, and goes by a body--even a young lad, as gin
there was naebody there."

"That's her loss," said the weaver with a laugh.

That she went about "without heeding" was a more serious matter in the
case of the new lass than might at first be supposed.  If she had not
lived at the manse, which was so much frequented by all sorts of people,
or if she had been plain, or crooked, or even little, it would have
mattered less that she was so preoccupied and so difficult to approach.

Fewer people, in that case, might have noticed her.  As it was, many
eyes were on her when she went down the street with her water-buckets,
or sat in the kirk in a dream.  She would have been called a beautiful
woman anywhere.  In the street of this dull little town, where men had
eyes as well as in larger places, it was not surprising that she should
be watched and wondered at.

Her face was beautiful, but it wanted the colour and brightness which
made "a bonny face" to the eyes of most of the folk of Nethermuir.  It
was thin and sallow when she first came there, and the gloom upon it,
and "the dazed look" which came when she was suddenly spoken to, did
much to mar and shadow its beauty.  And so did the great mutch, with its
double "set-up" border of thick muslin, which was tied close around it,
covering the ears, and the round throat, and hiding all the beautiful
hair, which after the fever was beginning to grow again.  But nothing
could disguise the firm, erect form, which might have been thought too
tall, perhaps, if it had not been round and full in proportion; and the
short gown confined at the waist by the long strings of her apron, and
the rather scant petticoat of dark winsey that fell beneath it, are not
such unbecoming garments as might be supposed by those accustomed to
garments of a more elaborate fashion.

Her strength was quite as highly appreciated by the stooping weavers and
shoemakers of Nethermuir as was her beauty, and the evidences which she
unconsciously gave of it were much admired and often recounted among
them.  When "Auld Maggie" fell on the slide which the town laddies had
made in the street, and tailor Coats ran to get some one to help to
carry her home, "the minister's lass" lifted her in her arms, and had
her in her bed with a hot-water bottle at her feet before he came back
again.  And while every other woman in the street needed to take at
least one rest, at a neighbour's door, between the pump and her own,
"the minister's lass," turning neither head nor eye, moved on without a
pause, till she disappeared round the close that led to her
kitchen-door.

"And, for that matter, except for the way her face is turned, ye wud
never ken whether her buckets were fou or toom" (full or empty), said an
admiring observer, as he watched her steady and rapid steps along the
street.

So poor Allison, for one reason and another, could not be overlooked.
Her name--or rather the name which her place gave her--"the minister's
lass," was on many lips for a time.  Absolutely nothing was known about
her except what the kindly and guarded letter of Dr Fleming had
conveyed; yet much was supposed and said concerning her, and some things
were repeated till they were believed, which she might have resented had
she heard of them.  They might have angered her, and so have helped to
shake her out of the heaviness and dulness that had fallen upon her.
But she "never heeded."  She saw neither the hand which was held out to
her in friendliness nor the face that turned away in indifference or
anger.

And perhaps, on the whole, it was as well that she heeded nothing.  For
as weeks and months passed on, and other folk came or went, and new
events--which would have hardly deserved the name elsewhere--happened to
give subject-matter for discussion at proper times and places, Allison
became just "the minister's lass," tolerated, if not altogether
approved, among the censors of morals and manners in the town, and she
still went her way, for the most part, unconscious of them all.


CHAPTER FIVE.

"He wales a portion with judicious care, And `Let us worship God,' he
says with solemn air."

In the minister's home on Sabbath morning, the custom was for the two
eldest lads to take turns with the "lass" in keeping the house, while
all the rest, except Marjorie and the two youngest, went to the kirk.
It cannot be said that this was felt to be a hardship by the lads--
rather the contrary, I am afraid--when the weather and the season of the
year permitted them to spend the time in the garden, or when a new book,
not in the "Index expurgatorious" of Sabbath reading was at hand, or
even a beloved old one.

Of course there were Sabbath-day tasks to learn.  But the big boys were
by this time as familiar with the catechism as with the multiplication
table, and a psalm, or a paraphrase, or a chapter in the New Testament,
hardly was accounted by them as a task.  Frequent reading, and constant
hearing at family worship, and at the school, had made the words of many
parts of the book so familiar to them that only a glance was needed to
make them sure of their ground.  It needed, perhaps, a second glance if
another repetition was suddenly required.  It was "licht come, licht go"
with them--easily learned, easily forgotten--in the way of tasks.  But
in another way it was not so.  The Word thus learned "in the house and
by the way," and so associated with all else which their young, glad
lives held, could never be quite forgotten; nay more, could never--in
theory and opinion at least--cease to be authoritative as the law by
which, wherever they might wander, their steps were to be guided.  But
the chief thing to them at present was, that even with "tasks" to learn,
there was still time to enjoy their books.

The lads had the firmest belief in their father's power as a preacher.
But it must be remembered that those were the days when a full two hours
were not considered, either by preacher or hearers, too long to give to
a discourse.  And the minister's sons were expected so to listen that
they should be able to give to their mother, at evening worship, all the
"heads and particulars"--and they were usually many--and a good deal
besides of the sermon.  In those circumstances it is not surprising that
their turn in the summer garden, or even at the kitchen fireside, should
sometimes be preferred to going to the kirk.

So when it began to be noticed that Allison quietly made her
arrangements to be in the house every second Sabbath, instead of every
third, as would have been fair, Robin remonstrated.

"It's my turn at home to-day, Allie.  No, Maysie, you mustna grumble.
It's but fair that Allie should have her turn at the kirk as weel as the
rest of us.  You must just content yourself with me.  I'm to bide
to-day."

"I'm no' carin' to go to the kirk to-day," said Allison.

"But that's no' the question.  I'm carin' to bide at home," and as his
mother had already gone, and no appeal could be made to her, bide he
did, and so did Allison.

When this had happened two or three times, it was considered necessary
to take notice of it, and Mrs Hume did so, telling her, quietly but
firmly, how necessary it was that the minister's household should set a
good example in the place.  And, beyond that, she sought to make it
clear that it was the duty of all to avail themselves of the privilege
of worshipping with God's people on His day, in His house.  If Allison--
being the daughter of one who had been in his lifetime an elder in the
established kirk, as Dr Fleming had informed them--had any doubts of
the propriety of worshipping with dissenters, that was another matter.
But she should go to her own kirk, if she could not take pleasure in
coming to theirs.

"It's a' ane to me," said Allison.

But on the next fine Sabbath morning she availed herself of the
permission, and took her way to the parish kirk.  She would like the
walk, at any rate, she told herself, and she did enjoy the walk down the
lanes, in her own sad fashion; but the lanes took her out of the way a
little, and made her late.

That night, at worship-time, when Allison's turn came to be questioned
as to what she had heard at the kirk, she could tell the text.  But she
did not tell that she had learned it by overhearing it repeated by an
old man to his neighbour, as they came after her up the road.  Nor did
she tell that, being late at the kirk door, and shrinking from the
thought of going in alone among so many strange folk, she had passed the
time occupied by the preaching sitting on a broken headstone in the
kirkyard.

She never went there again.  It was truly "a' ane" to one whose mind,
the moment her hands and her head were no longer occupied with the round
of daily work, went back to brood over the days and joys that could
never return, or over the sorrow which could never be outlived.

"I see no difference.  It's a' ane to me," repeated she when Mrs Hume,
not wishing to seem to influence her against her will, again suggested
that, if she preferred it, she should go to the kirk.

"Difference!"  There was all the difference between truth only dimly
perceived and truth clearly uttered, in what she would be likely to hear
in the two kirks, in the opinion of the minister's wife.  And if that
might be not altogether a charitable judgment, it might at least be said
that it would be but a cold exposition of the Gospel that old Mr Geddes
would be likely to give, either in the pulpit or out of it.  But she did
not enter into the discussion of the matter with Allison.  She was well
pleased that she should decide the matter for herself.

"For though she sits in the kirk like a person in a dream, surely some
true, good word will reach her heart after a time," said her kindly
mistress.  She had a good while to wait before it came to that with
Allison.  But it came at last.

"Allison," said Mrs Hume, coming into the kitchen one afternoon, "we'll
do without the scones at tea to-night, in case the baking them should
make you late with other things.  You mind you did not get to the
meeting at all last time, and the minister wishes all his own family to
be present when it is possible."

Allison raised herself up from the work which was occupying her at the
moment, and for once gave her mistress a long look out of her sad brown
eyes.

"It was not that I hadna time.  I wasna carin'."

"I am sorry to hear you say that.  The meetings are a means of grace
which have been blessed to many; and though there may be some things
said now and then which--are not just for edification, yet--"

Allison shook her head.

"I didna hear them.  I mean I wasna heedin'."

"Well, I will not say that my own attention does not wander sometimes.
Some things are more important than others," said the minister's wife, a
name or two passing through her mind, which it would not have been wise
to utter even to the silent Allison; "but," added she, "we can all join
in the Psalms and in the prayers."

Allison's answer was a slow movement of her head from side to side, and
a look sadder than words.  A pang of sympathy smote through the soft
heart of her mistress.

"Allie," said she, laying her hand on her arm, "you pray also?"

"Lang syne--I used to pray--maybe.  I'm no' sure."

She had left her work and was standing erect, with her hands, loosely
clasped, hanging down before her.  Her eyes, with the same hopeless look
in them, were turned toward the window, through which the relenting sun
was sending one bright gleam before he went away, after a day of mist
and rain.

"I do not understand you, Allison," said Mrs Hume.

"It could not have been right prayer, ye ken, since it wasna answered."

"But the answer may be to come yet.  It may come in God's way, not in
yours."

"Can the dead live again?" said Allison with dilating eyes.

"Surely, they will live again.  Is it your father, Allie? or your
mother?  They served the Lord, you said yourself, and they are now in
His presence.  Death is not a dreadful thing to come to such as they,
that you should grudge it."

Allison had sunk down on a low stool, and laid her face on her arm, but
she raised it now as she answered:

"But they didna just die.  They were killed.  Their hearts were broken
by the one they loved best in the world.  _That_ cannot be changed.
Even the Lord himself cannot blot out that and make it as if it had
never been."

"The Lord himself!  Was there sin in it, Allie?  But do you not mind?
`The blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin.'  It _can_
be blotted out.  It is never too late for that."

But Allison made no answer.  Rising with a cry she turned and went out
without a word.

Mrs Hume was greatly moved, wishing earnestly that she had not spoken.
If the minister had been in his study, she would have gone to him with
her trouble.  But he was out.  So she went into the parlour, where she
had only little Marjorie for company.  She had not even Marjorie for the
moment, for the child had fallen asleep in her absence.  As she thought
about it, she was not so sure that she had made a mistake, or that there
was anything to regret.  Better to be moved to anguish by sorrowful
memories, or even by remorse, than to live on in the dull heaviness of
heart, which had been Allison's state since she came to them, she
thought at last, and she was sure of it when, after a little, the door
opened, and Allison said, without showing her face:

"I think, mem, if ye please, I will hae time for the scones I promised
wee Marjorie."

"Very well, Allison," said her mistress quietly and with a sudden
lightening of the heart, she bent down and kissed the lips of her little
sleeping daughter.  She was greatly relieved.  She could not bear the
thought that she had hurt that sore heart without having helped it by
ever so little.  When the time came for the meeting, Allison was in her
place with the rest.

The kirk, which could not be heated, and only with difficulty lighted,
was altogether too dismal a place for evening meetings in the
winter-time.  So the usual sitting-room of the family was on one evening
of the week given up to the use of those who came to the prayer-meeting.
This brought some trouble both to the mistress and the maid, for the
furniture of the room had to be disarranged, and a good deal of it
carried into the bedroom beyond; and the carpet, which covered only the
middle of the room, had to be lifted and put aside till morning.

The boys, or it might be some early meeting-goer, helped to move the
tables and the chairs, and to bring in the forms on which the folk were
to sit, and sometimes they carried them away again when the meeting was
over.  All the rest fell on Allison.  And truly, when morning came, the
floor and the whole place needed special care before it was made fit for
the occupation of the mother and Marjorie.

But to do all that and more was not so hard for Allison as just to sit
still through the two hours during which the meeting lasted.  It was at
such times, when she could not fill her hands and her thoughts with
other things, that her trouble, whatever it might be, came back upon
her, and her mistress saw the gloom and heaviness of heart fall on her
like a cloud.  It was quite true, as she had said, at such times she
heard nothing of what was going on about her, because "she wasna
heedin'."  But to-night she heeded.

She had Marjorie on her lap for one thing, for the child's sleep had
rested her, and her mother had yielded to her entreaty to be allowed to
sit up to the meeting.  Allison could not fall into her usual dull
brooding, with the soft little hand touching her cheek now and then, and
the hushed voice whispering a word in her ear.  So for the first time
her attention was arrested by what was going on in the room, and some of
the folk got their first good look at her sad eyes that night.

And if Allison had but known it, it was well worth her while both to
look and to listen.  The minister was the leader of the meeting, but it
was open to all who had anything to say.

It was something else besides a prayer-meeting on most nights.  There
was usually a short exposition of some passage of Scripture by the
minister, and frequently a conversational turn was given to this part of
the exercise.  The minister had "the knack" of putting questions
judiciously, to the great help and comfort of those who had something to
say, but who did not well know how to say it.  And though it must be
acknowledged, as Mrs Hume had admitted to Allison, that there were now
and then things said which were not altogether for edification, on the
whole, this method, in the minister's hands, answered well.  It kept up
the interest of the meeting to some who would hardly have cared to
listen to a sermon out of the kirk, or on a week night.  [For he is said
to have had obscene pictures so disposed in a bedchamber lined with
mirrors, that, whichever way he looked, lascivious images might present
themselves to his view.] [971] He lived for the most part in the retirement
of his farm [972], on the confines of the Sabine and Tiburtine territories,
and his house is shewn in the neighbourhood of a little wood not
far from Tibur.

Some Elegies ascribed to him, and a prose Epistle apparently written
to commend himself to Mecaenas, have been handed down to us; but I believe
that neither of them are genuine works of his; for the Elegies are
commonplace, and the Epistle is wanting in perspicuity, a fault which
cannot be imputed to his style. He was born on the sixth of the ides of
December [27th December], in the consulship of Lucius Cotta [973] and
Lucius Torquatus; and died on the fifth of the calends of December [27th
November], in the consulship of Caius Marcius Censorinus and Caius
Asinius Gallus [974]; having completed his fifty-ninth year.
He made a nuncupatory will, declaring Augustus his heir, not being able,
from the violence of his disorder, to sign one in due form. He
was interred and lies buried on the skirts of the Esquiline Hill, near
the tomb of Mecaenas. [975] 
(544) M.

ANNAEUS LUCANUS, a native of Corduba [976], first tried the powers
of his genius in an encomium on Nero, at the Quinquennial games.
He afterwards recited his poem on the Civil War carried on between Pompey
and Caesar. His vanity was so immense, and he gave such liberty to his
tongue, that in some preface, comparing his age and his first efforts
with those of Virgil, he had the assurance to say: "And what now
remains for me is to deal with a gnat."

In his early youth, after being long informed of the sort of life his
father led in the country, in consequence of an unhappy marriage [977],
he was recalled from Athens by Nero, who admitted him into the
circle of his friends, and even gave him the honour of the quaestorship;
but he did not long remain in favour.
Smarting at this, and having publicly stated that Nero had withdrawn,
all of a sudden, without communicating with the senate, and without
any other motive than his own recreation, after this he did not
cease to assail the emperor both with foul words and with acts which
are still notorious.

So that on one occasion, when easing his bowels in the common privy,
there being a louder explosion than usual, he gave vent to the
nemistych of Nero: "One would suppose it was thundering under ground,"
in the hearing of those who were sitting there for the same purpose, and
who took to their heels in much consternation [978]. In a poem also,
which was in every one's hands, he severely lashed both the emperor and
his most powerful adherents.

At length, he became nearly the most active leader in Piso's conspiracy
[979]; and while he dwelt without reserve in many quarters on
the glory of those who dipped their hands in the (545) blood of tyrants,
he launched out into open threats of violence, and carried them so
far as to boast that he would cast the emperor's head at the feet
of his neighbours.

When, however, the plot was discovered, he did not exhibit any firmness
of mind. A confession was wrung from him without much difficulty;
and, humbling himself to the most abject entreaties, he even named his
innocent mother as one of the conspirators [980]; hoping that his want
of natural affection would give him favour in the eyes of a
parricidal prince. Having obtained permission to choose his mode of
death [981], he wrote notes to his father, containing corrections
of some of his verses, and, having made a full meal, allowed a
physician to open the veins in his arm [982].

I have also heard it said that his poems were offered for sale, and
commented upon, not only with care and diligence, but also in a trifling
way. [983]

THE LIFE OF PLINY.

[984]

PLINIUS SECUNDUS, a native of New Como [985], having served in (546)
the wars with strict attention to his duties, in the rank of a
knight, distinguished himself, also, by the great integrity with
which he administered the high functions of procurator for a long
period in the several provinces intrusted to his charge.

But still he devoted so much attention to literary pursuits, that it
would not have been an easy matter for a person who enjoyed entire
leisure to have written more than he did. He comprised, in twenty
volumes, an account of all the various wars carried on in successive
periods with the German tribes. Besides this, he wrote a Natural History,
which extended to seven books. He fell a victim to the calamitous event
which occurred in Campania. For, having the command of the fleet at
Misenum, when Vesuvius was throwing up a fiery eruption, he put to sea
with his gallies for the purpose of exploring the causes of the
phenomenon close on the spot [986]. But being prevented by contrary winds
from sailing back, he was suffocated in the dense cloud of dust and
ashes. Some, however, think that he was killed by his slave, having
implored him to put an end to his sufferings, when he was reduced
to the last extremity by the fervent heat. [987]
THE END OF LIVES OF THE POETS.

FOOTNOTES:

[925] Lucius Fenestella, an historical writer, is mentioned by Lactantius,
Seneca, and Pliny, who says, that he died towards the close of the
reign of Tiberius

.

[926] The second Punic war ended A.U.C. 552, and the third began A.U.C.

605. Terence was probably born about 560.

[927] Carthage was laid in ruins A.U.C. 606 or 607, six hundred and sixty
seven years after its foundation.

[928] These entertainments were given by the aediles M. Fulvius Nobilior
and M. Acilius Glabrio, A.U.C. 587.

[929] St. Jerom also states that Terence read the "Andria" to
Caecilius who was a comic poet at Rome; but it is clearly an anachronism,
as he died two years before this period. It is proposed, therefore,
to amend the text by substituting Acilius, the aedile; a correction
recommended by all the circumstances, and approved by Pitiscus and
Ernesti.

[930] The "Hecyra," The Mother-in-law, is one of Terence's plays.

[931] The "Eunuch" was not brought out till five years after the
Andria, A.U.C. 592

.

[932] About 80 pounds sterling; the price paid for the two
performances.

What further right of authorship is meant by the words following,
is not very clear

.

[933] The "Adelphi" was first acted A.U.C. 593.

[934] This report is mentioned by Cicero (Ad Attic, vii. 3), who applies
it to the younger Laelius.

The Scipio here mentioned is Scipio Africanus, who was at this time about
twenty-one years of age

.

[935] The calends of March was the festival of married women. See
before, VESPASIAN, c. xix

.

  
  [936] Santra, who wrote biographies of celebrated characters, is
mentioned as "a man of learning," by St.

Jerom, in his preface to the book on the Ecclesiastical Writers.

[937] The idea seems to have prevailed that Terence, originally an
African slave, could not have attained that purity of style in Latin
composition which is found in his plays, without some assistance.

The style of Phaedrus, however; who was a slave from Thrace, and lived
in the reign of Tiberius, is equally pure, although no such
suspicion attaches to his work.

[938] Cicero (de Clar. Orat. c. 207) gives Sulpicius Gallus a high character
as a finished orator and elegant scholar. He was consul when the Andria
was first produced.

[939] Labeo and Popilius are also spoken of by Cicero in high terms,
Ib.
cc. 21 and 24. Q. Fabius Labeo was consul with M. Claudius Marcellus,
A.U.C. 570 and Popilius with L. Postumius Albinus, A.U.C. 580.

[940] The story of Terence's having converted into Latin plays this
large number of Menander's Greek comedies, is beyond all probability,
considering the age at which he died, and other circumstances.

Indeed, Menander never wrote so many as are here stated.

[941] They were consuls A.U.C. 594. Terence was, therefore, thirty-four
years old at the time of his death.

[942] Hortulorum, in the plural number. This term, often found in Roman
authors, not inaptly describes the vast number of little inclosures,
consisting of vineyards, orchards of fig-trees, peaches, etc., with
patches of tillage, in which maize, legumes, melons, pumpkins, and other
vegetables are cultivated for sale, still found on small properties, in
the south of Europe, particularly in the neighbourhood of towns.

[943] Suetonius has quoted these lines in the earlier part of his Life
of Terence. See before p. 532, where they are translated.

[944] Juvenal was born at Aquinum, a town of the Volscians, as appears
by an ancient MS., and is intimated by himself. Sat. iii. 319.

[945] He must have been therefore nearly forty years old at this time,
as he lived to be eighty.

[946] The seventh of Juvenal's Satires.

[947] This Paris does not appear to have been the favourite of Nero,
who was put to death by that prince [see NERO, c. liv.], but another
person of the same name, who was patronised by the emperor Domitian. The
name of the poet joined with him is not known. Salmatius thinks it
was Statius Pompilius, who sold to Paris, the actor, the play of Agave;

Esurit, intactam Paridi nisi vendat Agaven.--Juv. Sat. vii. 87

.

[948] Sulpicius Camerinus had been proconsul in Africa; Bareas Soranus
in Asia. Tacit. Annal. xiii. 52; xvi. 23. Both of them are said to
have been corrupt in their administration; and the satirist introduces
their names as examples of the rich and noble, whose influence was less
than that of favourite actors, or whose avarice prevented them
from becoming the patrons of poets

.

[949] The "Pelopea," was a tragedy founded on the story of the daughter
of Thyestes; the "Philomela," a tragedy on the fate of Itys, whose
remains were served to his father at a banquet by Philomela and her
sister Progne.

[950] This was in the time of Adrian. Juvenal, who wrote first in the
reigns of Domitian and Trajan, composed his last Satire but one in the
third year of Adrian, A.U.C. 872.

[951] Syene is meant, the frontier station of the imperial troops in that
quarter of the world.

[952] A.U.C. 786, A.D. 34.

[953] A.U.C. 814, A.D. 62.

[954] Persius was one of the few men of rank and affluence among the Romans,
who acquired distinction as writers; the greater part of them having
been freedmen, as appears not only from these lives of the poets, but
from our author's notices of the grammarians and rhetoricians. A
Caius Persius is mentioned with distinction by Livy in the second
Punic war, Hist. xxvi. 39; and another of the same name by Cicero,
de Orat. ii.
6, and by Pliny; but whether the poet was descended from either of
them, we have no means of ascertaining

.

[955] Persius addressed his fifth satire to Annaeus Cornutus.

He was a native of Leptis, in Africa, and lived at Rome in the time of
Nero, by whom he was banished.

[956] Caesius Bassus, a lyric poet, flourished during the reigns of
Nero and Galba. Persius dedicated his sixth Satire to him.

[957] "Numanus." It should be Servilius Nonianus, who is mentioned by
Pliny, xxviii. 2, and xxxvii. 6.

[958] Commentators are not agreed about these sums, the text varying
both in the manuscripts and editions

.

[959] See Dr.

Thomson's remarks on Persius, before, p. 398.

[960] There is no appearance of any want of finish in the sixth Satire of
Persius, as it has come down to us; but it has been conjectured that
it was followed by another, which was left imperfect.

[961] There were two Arrias, mother and daughter, Tacit.

Annal. xvi.
34. 3.

[962] Persius died about nine days before he completed his twenty-ninth
year.

[963] Venusium stood on the confines of the Apulian, Lucanian, and
Samnite territories.

Sequor hunc, Lucanus an Appulus anceps; Nam Venusinus arat finem
sub utrumque colonus.

Hor Sat. xi. 1. 34.
[964] Sat. i. 6. 45.

[965] Horace mentions his being in this battle, and does not scruple
to admit that he made rather a precipitate retreat, "relicta non
bene parmula."

--Ode xi. 7-9.

[966] See Ode xi. 7. 1.

[967] The editors of Suetonius give different versions of this epigram.

It seems to allude to some passing occurrence, and in its present form
the sense is to this effect: "If I love you not, Horace, to my
very heart's core, may you see the priest of the college of Titus
leaner than his mule

."

[968] Probably the Septimius to whom Horace addressed the ode
beginning 
Septimi, Gades aditure mecum.

--Ode xl. b. i.

[969] See AUGUSTUS, c. xxi.; and Horace, Ode iv, 4

.

[970] See Epist. i. iv. xv.

Me pinguem et nitidum bene curata cute vises.

[971] It is satisfactory to find that the best commentators consider
the words between brackets as an interpolation in the work of
Suetonius.

Some, including Bentley, reject the preceding sentence also.

[972] The works of Horace abound with references to his Sabine farm
which must be familiar to many readers.

Some remains are still shewn, consisting of a ruined wall and a
tesselated pavement in a vineyard, about eight miles from Tivoli,
which are supposed, with reason, to mark its site.

At least, the features of the neighbouring country, as often sketched
by the poet--and they are very beautiful--cannot be mistaken.

[973] Aurelius Cotta and L. Manlius Torquatus were consuls A.U.C.
688.

The genial Horace, in speaking of his old wine, agrees with Suetonius
in fixing the date of his own birth:

O nata mecum consule Manlio Testa.--Ode iii. 21.
And again,
Tu vina, Torquato, move Consule pressa meo.--Epod. xiii. 8.

[974] A.U.C. 745. So that Horace was in his fifty-seventh, not his
fifty-ninth year, at the time of his death.

[975] It may be concluded that Horace died at Rome, under the hospitable
roof of his patron Mecaenas, whose villa and gardens stood on the Esquiline
hill; which had formerly been the burial ground of the lower classes;
but, as he tells us,
Nunc licet Esquiliis habitare salubribus, atque Aggere in aprico
spatiare.

--Sat. i. 8.

[976] Cordova. Lucan was the son of Annaeus Mella, Seneca's brother.

[977] This sentence is very obscure, and Ernesti considers the
text to be imperfect.

[978] They had good reason to know that, ridiculous as the tyrant made
himself, it was not safe to incur even the suspicion of being
parties to a jest upon him

.

[979] See NERO, c. xxxvi.
[980] St. Jerom (Chron. Euseb.) places Lucan's death in the tenth
year of Nero's reign, corresponding with A.U.C. 817. This opportunity
is taken of correcting an error in the press, p. 342, respecting
the date of Nero's accession. It should be A.U.C. 807, A.D. 55.
[981] These circumstances are not mentioned by some other writers.
See Dr. Thomson's account of Lucan, before, p. 347, where it is
said that he died with philosophical firmness.
[982] We find it stated ib. p. 396, that Lucan expired while
pronouncing some verses from his own Pharsalia: for which we have
the authority of Tacitus, Annal. xv. 20. 1. Lucan, it appears,
employed his last hours in revising his poems; on the contrary,
Virgil, we are told, when his death was imminent, renewed his
directions that the Aeneid should be committed to the flames.
[983] The text of the concluding sentence of Lucan's life is corrupt,
and neither of the modes proposed for correcting it make the sense
intended very clear.
[984] Although this brief memoir of Pliny is inserted in all the
editions of Suetonius, it was unquestionably not written by him.
The author, whoever he was, has confounded the two Plinys, the uncle
and nephew, into which error Suetonius could not have fallen, as
he lived on intimate terms with the younger Pliny; nor can it be
supposed that he would have composed the memoir of his illustrious
friend in so cursory a manner. Scaliger and other learned men
consider that the life of Pliny, attributed to Suetonius, was
composed more than four centuries after that historian's death.
[985] See JULIUS, c. xxviii. Caius Plinius Caecilius Secundus (the
younger Pliny) was born at Como, A.U.C. 814; A.D. 62. His father's
name was Lucius Caecilius, also of Como, who married Plinia, the
sister of Caius Plinius Secundus, supposed to have been a native
of Verona, the author of the Natural History, and by this marriage
the uncle of Pliny the Younger. It was the nephew who enjoyed the
confidence of the emperors Nerva and Trajan, and was the author of
the celebrated Letters.
[986] The first eruption of Mount Vesuvius occurred A.U.C. 831,
A.D. 79.
See TITUS, c. viii. The younger Pliny was with his uncle at Misenum
at the time, and has left an account of his disastrous enterprise
in one of his letters, Epist. vi. xvi.
[987] For further accounts of the elder Pliny, see the Epistles of
his nephew, B. iii. 5; vi. 16. 20; and Dr. Thomson's remarks before,
pp. 475-478.There was Scotch
of the broadest in their songs and in their talk, and the manse boys,
who were expected to speak English in the presence of their father and
mother, among their companions made the most of their opportunities for
the use of their own more expressive tongue.  But there was no vulgarity
or coarseness in their talk.

As silent here as elsewhere, the presence of "the new lass," as the
visitors, long accustomed to old Kirstin, called her, did not interfere
in the least with the order of things.  She might have been blind or
deaf for all the difference it made to them, and, except on the rare
occasions when little Marjorie was permitted to be there, for all the
difference their coming made to her.  When Marjorie was there, Allison's
wheel, or the stocking she was knitting, was put aside, and the child
rested at ease and content in her arms.  No one of them all took more
pleasure at such times than Marjorie.  She liked the stories and the
songs and the quaint old ballads, of which Robin and some of the others
had a store, and she was a sympathetic little creature, and could not be
happy unless Allie enjoyed them also, so her attention was never allowed
to wander when the child's hand could touch her cheek.

But better than either song or story, Marjorie liked to hear about all
that was going on in the town.  Nothing came amiss to her that any one
had to tell.  She liked to hear about their neighbours, and the bairns,
their goings and comings, their sickness and recovery.  Even their new
gowns and their visits to one another interested the friendly little
child, who could not visit herself, nor wear new gowns, and the lad who
had the most to say about them all was the one who pleased her best.
All they used to tell her made her a little sad sometimes, for she could
not come and go, or run and play, as those happy children could, and her
chief desire was to be strong and well and "to go about on her own feet
like other folk."

January was nearly over before there came any frost to speak of, and the
first bright, sharp weather, it was said, did much good to the sick folk
in the town.  Then they had snow--not just a shower to excite first
expectation and then disappointment among the lads and lassies who
rejoiced in its coming, as they mostly delighted in any change that
came--but a heavy fall, and then a high wind which drifted it here and
there between the hills and made some of the roads impassable for the
time.  Many of the lanes were filled full, and some of the folk had to
be dug out, because the snow had covered their doors.

There was no end to the great balls which were rolled along the streets.
A strong fort was built on the square beside the pump, which was
fiercely attacked and bravely defended, and battles were fought through
all the streets before the snow was trodden into black slush beneath the
feet of the combatants.  Even the dreaded "kink-hoast" (whooping-cough)
failed to keep some of the bolder spirits out of the fray, and those of
them who took the fun in moderation were none the worse, but rather the
better for the rally.

But Marjorie saw none of this, and she longed to see it all; and though
she had been less ill with the cough than some of the others had been,
she lost ground now, refused her food, and grew fretful and listless as
Allison had never seen her before.

It was hard for the eager little creature to listen quietly to all her
brothers had to tell of what was going on among the young folk of the
town.  They boasted of Robin's strength and skill, and of Jack's
unequalled prowess when "snawba'ing" was the order of the day, and she
wanted to see it all.  And she longed to see the rush of the full burn
and the whiteness of all the hills.  Allison looked at her with a great
longing to comfort her, but what could she say?  Even the mother thought
it wisest to listen in silence to the child's murmurs.

"But it's no' just the snawba'ing and the white hills I am thinking
about, mother.  This is the way it will ay be, all my life long.  I must
just sit still and hear the sound of things, and never be in the midst
of them like other folk.  All my life, mother!  Think of it!"

"My dear," said her mother gravely, "all your life may not be a very
long time."

"But, mother, I would like it to be long.  There is Robin going to be a
great scholar and astonish the whole world; and Jack is going in search
of adventures; and Davie's going to America to have a farm of a thousand
acres, all his own.  And why should I have to stay here, and not even
see the snawba'ing, nor the full burn, nor the castle that the boys
made?"

As a general thing Mrs Hume left her little daughter's "why"
unanswered, only trying to beguile her from such thoughts to the
enjoyment of what was left to her in her quiet life.  To-day her heart
was sore for the child, knowing well that her lot would not seem more
easy to bear as the years went on.

"My darling," said she, "it is God's will."

"Yes, mother; but why should it be God's will just with me?  Surely when
He can do _anything_, He might give me a chance with the rest.  Or else
He should just make me content as I am."

"And so He will, dear, in time.  You must ask Him, and leave all in His
hand."

"Oh! yes.  I must just leave it.  There is nothing else to do.  As to
asking--I ay ask to be made strong, and to walk about on my ain feet.
And then--wouldna I just serve Him!"

The last words were spoken to Allison, whose kind, sad eyes had been
resting on her all the time.  And Allison answered:

"But surely it may be His will that you should see the full burn and the
snawy braes, if it be your mother's will!  A' the bairns are better
since the frost came, and I might carry wee Marjorie as far as the fit
o' the Wind Hill for a change."

"Oh! mother! mother!  Let me go.  Allie carries me so strong and easy.
And I might have Mrs Esselmont's warm shawl round me, and the soft
little hat, and I would never feel the cold.  Oh! mother! mother!"

"I might at least take her to the end o' the lane; and if she should be
cauld, or weary, or if the cough came on, I could be hame with her in a
minute."

Though only half convinced of the wisdom of such a plan, her mother
consented; and by and by the happy child, wrapped warmly, her pale face
looking very bright and sweet in the soft little hat, laid herself back
in Allison's arms with a sigh of content.

"Yes, I'm going to heed what Robin says, and fall into raptures and
weary myself.  I'm just going to be quiet and see it all, and then I
will have it all to think about afterward."

The snow was all trodden down in the street through which they passed
first, to see the snow castle which the boys had made, and the castle
itself was a disappointment.  It was "past its best," Allison said.  It
was battered and bulging, and the walls had lost their whiteness; and
the snow about it was trampled and soiled, and little pools of dirty
water had collected at its base.  But even "at its best," it must have
fallen far short of the beauty of the castle which the child's
imagination had built, as she lay in the dark, wishing so eagerly to be
like the rest.

But the rush of the full burn did not disappoint her, nor the long level
fields, nor the hills beyond.  The only blink of sunshine which came
that day rested on them as they crossed the foot-bridge and came into
the broken path which led to the farm of Wind Hill.  A hedge bordered
the near fields, and a few trees rose up bare and black on the hillside;
and all the rest of the land, as far as they could see, lay in unsullied
whiteness.

"A clean, clean world!" said Marjorie.  "It looks like a strange
country.  It's bonny; but I think I like the green grass best, and the
gowans."

"Weel, ye may take a good look o' it this day, for it winna lie long
clean and white like this," said Allison, as a soft warm wind met them
as they turned.  They went up and down where the snow lay lightest, and
then crossed the burn at the end of the green.

"Are you sure ye're nae cauld?" said Allison.

"That I am not.  And, Allie, I havena given a cough since I came out."

"But we'll need to gae hame now.  If we dinna make your mother anxious
this time, she will be the readier to let us take another turn some fine
day."

Marjorie's face fell for an instant.

"No, Allie, I'm no' going to be fractious.  But we might just look in
and ask for Mrs Beaton, as we are so near.  And Robin says John is
coming home, and we might ask about it."

But Allison shook her head.

"We got no leave to go and see anybody.  And if we take the street we'll
hae twa or three idle folk glowerin' an' speerin' this and that at us.
I like the bonny quiet lane best."

Marjorie's shrill laugh rang out at that.

"Are ye feared at the folk, Allie?  They ay mean it for kindness.  But I
like the lane, too.  And maybe my mother will let us come and see Mrs
Beaton next time."

The end of Mrs Beaton's house skirted the green, and so did the narrow
strip of garden which was behind it.  The road home was as short the one
way as the other.  If they crossed the green toward the right it took
them to the street, and if they turned the other way they took the path
behind the gardens, or rather the kail-yards of the houses on the
street.  Before they entered this path they turned to take a last look
of the long, snowy slope of the hills with the sunshine on them.

"The snow is pleasanter just to look at than to wade about in," said
Allison.

"But, Allison, that is because ye dinna ken.  O!  I would like weel to
wade about in it, as the other bairns do."

"O!  I ken fine what it is like.  I have been in far deeper snaw whiles,
following the sheep--"

"Have ye, Allie?  But ye dinna ken what it would be like never to have
put your foot in the snaw all your life.  Think of that, Allie.  But
never mind.  Tell me about following the sheep through the drifts."

But the shadow, which the child had learned to know, had fallen on
Allison's face, and she answered nothing.

"Never mind, Allie dear, I'll tell you something.  Do ye ken what that
little housie is?  It has neither door nor window.  There is a hole on
this side that is shut with a board.  But it is a nice place.  I have
been in it whiles.  That is the place where John Beaton makes headstones
when he's no' away building houses on the other side of Aberdeen."

"Do ye mean stanes for the kirkyard?"

"Just that.  He's a clever lad, John.  He can do many things, Robin
says.  He's Robin's friend."

"It maun be dreary wark."

"But that wouldna trouble John.  He's strong and cheerful, and I like
him weel.  He's wise, and he's kind.  He tells me about folk that he has
seen, and places and things.  And whiles he sings to me, and I like him
best after my father and mother and my brothers--and you," added
Marjorie, glancing up at Allison.  "I'm no' sure which o' the two I like
best.  I'll ken better when I see you together.  Ye're the bonniest
far!" said the child, fondly patting the cheek, to which the soft wind
blowing upon it had brought a splendid colour.  "Did Mrs Beaton never
tell you about `My John'?"

"Oh! ay.  But I dinna mind about it.  I wasna heedin'."

"But ye'll like him when ye see him," said Marjorie.

The mother was watching for them when they reached home, and Robin was
there too.  It was Robin who took the child from Allison and carried her
in.

"Oh, mother!  I have been over the burn, and I've seen the hills all
covered with snow and the sun shining on them, and it was beautiful.
And I'm not just so very tired.  Are ye tired, Allie?"

"What would tire me?  I would like to carry ye ilka (every) day to the
top o' Win'hill.  It might do ye good."

Robin had never heard Allison say so many words at a time before.

"It has done Allie good, at any rate," said he as he seated himself by
the parlour fire and began to take off his little sister's wraps.  Then
he took off her shoes and stockings "to warm her bonny wee footies," as
he said.

"Has it done her good?  I'm glad o' that," said Marjorie, "for Allie has
had sore trouble, I'm nearly sure.  She forgets me whiles, even when she
has me in her arms, and her face changes, and her een look as if she
were seein' things no' there."

"My dear!" said her mother.  "It might vex Allie for you to be watching
her face, and speaking about it, since she has never said a word about
her troubles to you."

"Oh, mother!  It is only to you and Robin.  Do you think I would speak
about my Allie to other folk?" and the tears came into the child's eyes.

"Now, Maysie," said her brother, "when ye begin to look like that, I ay
ken that ye're tired and likely to grow fractious and ill to do with.
So you must just lie still in my arms, and I'll sing ye to sleep.  What
shall I sing?  The _Lass o' Glenshee_? or _The Lord's my Shepherd_?"

It was not long before the child was sleeping sweetly on her little
couch, nor did the flush which her mother so dreaded to see, and which
too often followed any unusual excitement, come to her cheeks as she
slept.  She slept well at night also, and nothing could be clearer than
that the long walk had done her no harm, but good.

So, a precedent being established, Marjorie had many a walk after that.

Sometimes she was allowed to spend an hour with Mrs Beaton, or auld
Maggie, or some other friend, and at such times Allison would leave her
and return for her again.  It cannot be said that her limbs grew much
stronger, or that the dull pain in the weary little back troubled her no
more.  But the change gave her new thoughts and new interests, and
rested her when she grew weary of her doll, and her books, and of the
quiet of the parlour, and sometimes even of her mother's company.

But when the days grew long and warm, there were even better things in
store for her, and for Allison also, through her tender care of the
child.


CHAPTER SEVEN.

  "The spring cam' o'er the Westlin hill,
  And the frost it fled awa',
  And the green grass lookit smilin' up
  Nane the waur for a' the snaw."

The winter had been so long in coming and so moist and mild when it
came, that weatherwise folk foretold a spring late and cold as sure to
follow.  But for once they were all mistaken.  Whatever might come
later, there came, when April had fairly set in, several days which
would have done credit to June itself, and on one of these days the
schoolmistress made up her mind that she would go down to the manse and
speak to the minister's wife about the bairns.

She was standing at her own door, looking out over the hills, which were
showing some signs of coming summer.  So were the birch-trees in the
distance, and the one laburnum which stood in a corner of Mistress
Beaton's garden.  She sighed as she gazed.

"The simmer will soon be here, and it'll soon be over again.  It's but a
blink noo," she said to herself, "but if the morn is like this day,
we'll mak' the best o' it.  I'se hae the bairns up to the Stanin'
Stanes.  The wind there will blaw awa' what's left o' the kink-hoast
among them.  They'll be a' keen eneuch to get there for the sake o' the
ploy, and if they're weel eneuch for the like o' that, their mithers
will hardly hae the face to keep them langer frae the school.  And it is
high time they were comin' back again," added she, thinking less,
perhaps, of their loss of lore than of the additional penny a week which
each returning one would bring to her limited housekeeping.

She was a tall, gaunt woman, with a wrinkled, unhappy-looking face and
weary eyes.  Her grey hair showed a little under the mob cap, closely
bound round her head with a broad, black ribbon, and her spectacles,
tied with a string for safety, rested high on her furrowed forehead.
She wore the usual petticoat of dark winsey, and her short gown of some
dark-striped print fell a little below the knee.  A large cotton
kerchief was spread over her shoulders and fastened snugly across her
breast.  Her garments were worn and faded, but perfectly neat and clean,
and she looked, as she was, a decent, but not very cheery old woman.
She had an uncertain temper, her friends allowed, and even those who
were not so friendly acknowledged that "her lang warstle wi' the bairns
o' twa generations, to say nothing of other troubles that had fallen to
her lot, might weel account for, and even excuse that."

She turned into the house at last, and began gathering together the
dog-eared Bibles and Testaments, and the tattered catechisms, and
"Proverbs of Solomon," which were the only books approved or used in her
school, and placed them in a wooden tray by the door.  She gave a brief
examination to the stockings which the lassies had been knitting in the
afternoon, muttering and shaking her head as she held them up to the
light.  The mistakes in some of them she set right, and from some of
them she pulled out the "wires," sticking them into the balls of
worsted, with some anticipatory pleasure at the thought of the
consternation of the "careless hizzies" to whom they belonged.

Then the forms were set back, and "the tawse," a firm belt of leather,
cut into strips at one end--by no means the least important of the
educational helps of the time and place--was hung in its usual
conspicuous position, and then the school-room, which was also the whole
house, was supposed to be in order for the night.

It was a dismal little place, having a small window on the side next the
street, and a still smaller one on the other.  There was the inevitable
box-bed on the side opposite the fireplace, and the equally inevitable
big brown chest for clothing, and bedding, and all other household
valuables that needed a touch of "the smith's fingers" for safety.
There was the meal-chest, and a tiny cupboard for dishes and food, and
on a high dresser, suggestive of more extensive housekeeping operations
than the mistress had needed for many a year and day, were piled a
number of chairs and other articles not needed in the school.

A dismal place, but it was her own, till morning should bring the bairns
again.  So she mended the peat fire into a brighter glow, and seated
herself beside it, to take the solace of her pipe, after the worries and
weariness of the day.

A pleasant sound put an end to her meditations.  From under the chair
which stood near the little window at the head of the box-bed, came,
with stately step, a big, black hen, announcing, with triumphant cackle,
that _her_ duty was done for the day also.  The mistress rose and took
the warm egg from the nest.

"Weel dane, Tappie!  Ye'se get your supper as ye deserve, and then I
maun awa' to the manse."  So she scattered her scanty supply of crumbs
about the door, and then prepared herself for her visit.

If she had been going to the manse by special invitation, she would have
put on her Sabbath-day's gown and shawl, and all the folk would have
known it as she went up the street.  But as she was going on business,
she only changed her mutch, and her kerchief and apron, and putting her
key in its accustomed hole in the thatch, she went slowly down the
street, knitting, or, as she would have called it, "weaving," as she
went.

She had not very far to go, but two or three greetings she got and
returned as she passed.  "Mistress Jamieson," the neighbours called her
to her face, but she knew quite well that behind her back she was just
called Bell Cummin, her maiden name, as was the way among the humbler
class of folk in these parts.  They all paid her a certain measure of
respect, but she was not a favourite among them, for she was silent and
sour, and sometimes over-ready to take offence, and her manner was not
over-friendly at the best of times.

At the entrance of the close which led to the back door of the manse
stood the weaver's wife from next door, and with her a woman with whom
the mistress was not always on speaking terms.  This was the wife of
tailor Coats, who spent, as the schoolmistress had once told her, more
time on the causey (pavement) than was good either for herself or her
bairns.  She would fain have passed her now without speaking, but that
was not the intention of Mistress Coats.

"The minister's nae at hame, nor the mistress," said she, "and since ye
hae lost your journey, ye micht as weel come in and hae a crack (talk)
with Mistress Sim and me, and gie's o' your news."

"I dinna deal in news, and I hae nae time for cracks and clavers."

"Dear me! and sae few bairns as ye hae noo at the schule.  Gin ye could
but learn them their samplers noo, or even just plain sewing, ye might
keep the lassies thegither for a whilie langer.  But their mithers man
hae them taucht to use their needles, and it canna be wonnered at."

This was a sore subject with the mistress, who was no needle-woman, and
she turned, ready with a sharp answer.  But the smile on the woman's
face, and the look of expectation on the more friendly face of Mistress
Sim, served as a warning, and calling her discretion to her help, she
turned at once into the manse.

It was peaceful enough there.  No one was in the kitchen, and after a
moment's hesitation she crossed the little passage and knocked at the
parlour-door.  No response being given, she pushed it gently open and
looked into the room.  The two youngest boys were amusing themselves
with their playthings in a corner, and Marjorie lay on her couch with
her doll and her doll's wardrobe, and a book or two within reach of her
hand.  The tiny little face brightened at the sight of the mistress.

"Come away in, Mistress Jamieson.  I am very glad to see you," said she,
with a tone and manner so exactly like what her mother's might have
been, that the mistress could not but smile a little with amusement as
well as with pleasure.  "My father and mother are both away from home
to-day; but they will soon be back now, and you'll just bide till they
come, will you not?"

Mistress Jamieson acknowledged herself to be in no special haste, and
sitting down, she made advances toward an interchange of greetings with
the little boys.  Wee Wattie, not quite four years old, came forward
boldly enough, and submitted to be lifted to her knee.  But Norman, aged
five, had been once or twice sent to the school, with his brothers, when
his absence was convenient at home, and certain unpleasant recollections
of such times made him a little shy of meeting her friendly advances.
Even Robin and Jack had been in their day afraid of the mistress and her
tawse.  But Marjorie had never been at the school, and had always seen
her in her best mood in the manse parlour.  She had had rather a dull
afternoon with but her little brothers for company, for Allie was busy,
and had only looked in now and then to see that the little ones had got
into no mischief.  So the child was truly pleased to see the mistress,
and showed it; and so Mistress Jamieson was pleased, also, and in the
best of humour for the afternoon.

And this was a fortunate thing for Marjorie.  For she had many questions
in her mind which no one could answer so well as the mistress--questions
about the reading of one child and of the "weaving" of another, and of
the well-doing or ill-doing of many besides.  For though she did not see
the bairns of the town very often, she knew them all, and took great
interest in all that concerned them.

She knew some things about the bairns of the school which the mistress
did not know herself, and which, on the whole, it was as well she should
not know.  So when, in the case of one of them, they seemed to be
approaching dangerous ground, and Mrs Jamieson's face began to lengthen
and to take the set, which to Marjorie, who had only heard about it,
looked ominous of trouble to some one, the child turned the talk toward
other matters.

"I must show you my stocking," said she, opening a basket which stood
within reach of her hand.  "It is not done so ill for a beginner, my
mother says.  But it is slow work.  I like the flowering of muslin
better, but mother says too much of it is no' good for the een.  And it
is quite proper that every one should ken how to make stockings,
especially one with so many brothers as I have."

The stocking was duly examined and admired.  It had been the work of
months, done in "stents" of six or eight times round in a day, and it
was well done "for a beginner."  There were no mended botches, and no
traces of "hanging hairs and holey pies," which so often vexed the very
heart of the mistress in the work of some of the "careless hizzies" whom
she was trying to teach.  She praised it highly, but she looked at the
child and wondered whether she would live to finish it.  There was no
such thought in the mind of Marjorie.

"Mother says that making stockings becomes a pleasant and easy kind of
work when one grows old.  And though I canna just say that I like it
very well.  I must try and get on with it, for it is one of the things
that must be learned young, ye ken."

"Ay, that's true.  And what folk can do weel, they ay come to like to do
in course o' time," said the mistress encouragingly.  "I only wish that
Annie Cairns and Jeannie Robb could show work as weel done."

"Oh! but they are different," said the child, a sudden shadow falling on
her face.  "If I could run about as they can, I would maybe no' care
about other things."

"Puir wee lammie!" said the mistress.

"Oh! but I'm better than I used to be," said Marjorie, eagerly; "a great
deal better.  And I'll maybe be well and strong some day, our Allie
says."

"God grant it, my dear," said the mistress reverently.

"And I have some things to enjoy that the other bairns havena.  See, I
have gotten a fine new book here," said Marjorie, mindful of her
mother's warning about speaking much of her trouble to other folk.
"It's a book my father brought home to my mother the last time he was
away.  I might read a bit of it to you."

"Ay, do ye that.  I will like weel to hear you."

It was "The Course of Time," a comparatively new book in those days, and
one would think a dreary enough one for a child.  It was a grand book to
listen to, when her mother read it to her father, Marjorie thought, and
she liked the sound of some of it even when she read it to herself.  And
it was the sound of it that the mistress liked as she listened, at least
she was not thinking of the sense, but of the ease and readiness with
which the long words glided from the child's lips.  It was about "the
sceptic" that she was reading--the man who had striven to make this fair
and lovely earth.

"A cold and fatherless, forsaken thing that wandered on forlorn,
undestined, unaccompanied, unupheld"; and the mistress had a secret fear
that if the child should stumble among the long words and ask for help,
she might not be able to give it without consideration.

"Ay, it has a fine sound," said she, as Marjorie made a pause.  "But I
wad ken better how ye're comin' on wi' your readin' gin ye were to tak'
the New Testament."

There was a tradition among the old scholars that, in the early days of
her experience as a teacher, the mistress used to make a little pause
before committing herself in the utterance of some of the long words in
the Bible; if it were so, that time was long past.  But before Marjorie
had opened the book, Allison came in, to mend the fire and put things to
rights; and as the books had only been intended as a diversion from
unpleasant possibilities, they were gladly and quickly put aside.

"This is our Allie, mistress," said Marjorie, putting out her hand to
detain her friend as she passed.

"Ay, ay.  I ken that.  I hae seen her at the kirk and elsewhere," said
the mistress, rather stiffly.

"And she is so strong and kind," said the child, laying her cheek on the
hand that had been put forth to smooth her pillow, which had fallen
aside.

Mistress Jamieson had seen "the new lass" often, but she had never seen
on her face the look that came on it at the loving movement of the
child.

"Are ye wearyin' for your tea, dear?  It's late, and I doubt they needed
to go on all the way to Slapp, as they thought they might, and maybe
they winna be home this while."

A shadow fell on the face of the child.  Allison regarded her gravely.

"Never heed, my lammie.  I'll take the wee laddies into the kitchen, and
ye can make tea for the mistress and your brothers if they come in.
You'll like that, dear."

Marjorie brightened wonderfully.  She ay liked what made her think she
was able to do as other folk did.  The mistress rose, excusing herself
for having been beguiled into staying so long.

"And what would my mistress say if we were to let ye away without your
tea?" asked Allison, with great respect and gravity.

Then Robin came in, and he added his word, and to tell the truth the
mistress was well pleased to be persuaded.  She and Robin were on the
friendliest terms now, though there had been "many a tulzie" between
them in the old days.  For Robin, though quieter than Jack, and having
the reputation of being "a douce and sensible laddie" elsewhere, had
been, during the last days of his subjection to Mistress Jamieson, "as
fou o' mischief as an egg is fou o' meat," and she had been glad enough
to see the last of him as a scholar.  But all that had been long
forgotten and forgiven.  Robin behaved to her with the greatest respect
and consideration, "now that he had gotten some sense," and doubtless
when he should distinguish himself in college, as he meant to do, the
mistress would take some of the credit of his success to herself, and
would hold him up as an example to his brothers as persistently as she
had once held him up as a warning.

To-night they were more than friendly, and did not fall out of
conversation of the most edifying sort, Marjorie putting in her word now
and then.  All went well till wee Wattie took a fit of coughing, and
Norman followed in turn; and then Mistress Jamieson told them of her
proposed expedition to the Stanin' Stanes, for the benefit of all the
bairns, if the day should prove fine.

Marjorie leaned back in her chair, clasping her hands and looking at her
brother with eager entreaty in her eyes.  But Robin would not meet her
look.  For Marjorie had a way of taking encouragement to hope for the
attainment of impossible things when no encouragement was intended, and
then when nothing came of it, her disappointment was as deep as her
hopes had been high.

Then she turned her eyes to the mistress, but resisted the impulse to
speak.  She knew that her words would be sympathetic and encouraging,
but that it must end in words as far as she was concerned.

"And it's ay best to go straight to my mother," said Marjorie to
herself, remembering past experiences; "and there will be time enough to
speak in the morning if the day should be fine."

So she wisely put the thought of the morrow away, and took the good of
the present.  And she had her reward.  Warned by Robin, Allie said not a
word of what awaited the school bairns next day, though the little boys
discussed it eagerly in the kitchen.  So, when the mother came home, she
found her little daughter quietly asleep, which was not often the case
when anything had happened to detain her father and mother from home
later than was expected.

But though Allison said nothing, she thought all the more about the
pleasure which the child so longed to enjoy with the rest.  Before she
slept, she startled her mistress not a little, entering of her own free
will into an account of the schoolmistress' plan to take the bairns to
the hills for the sake of their health, and ending by asking leave to
take little Marjorie to "the Stanin' Stanes" with the rest.  She spoke
as quietly as if she had been asking a question about the morning's
breakfast, and waited patiently for her answer.  Mrs Hume listened
doubtfully.

"I hope she has not been setting her heart upon it.  It will be a sad
disappointment to her."

"If it must be a disappointment.  No, we have had no words about it.
But she heard it from the mistress.  It wad be as good for her as for
the other bairns."

"I fear it would not be wise to try it.  And she can hardly have set her
heart upon going, or she would not be sleeping so quietly."

"It would do her good," persisted Allison.

"And you could trust her with Allison, and Robin might meet them and
carry the child home," said the minister.

Mrs Hume turned to him in surprise.  When the minister sat down in the
parlour to take a half-hour's recreation with a book, he became, as far
as could be observed, quite unconscious of all that might be going on
around him, which was a fortunate circumstance for all concerned,
considering the dimensions of the house, and the number of people in it.
But never a word, which touched his little daughter, escaped him,
however much his book might interest him.

"You would take good care of her, Allison?" repeated he.

"Ay, that I would."

"If it were a possible thing that she could go I would not be afraid to
trust her with Allison.  But the risk of harm would be greater than the
good she could get, or the pleasure."

"It is a long road, and I doubt ye might weary, Allison," said the
minister.

"I hae carried hame lost lammies, two, and whiles three o' them, a
langer road over the hills than the road to the Stanin' Stanes.  Ay,
whiles I grew weary, but what of that?" said Allison, with an animation
of face and voice that astonished them both.

"Well!  We'll sleep on it.  A wise plan at most times when doubtful
questions are being considered."

And who could measure the delight of the child when it was told her that
she was to go to the hills with the rest?  If her mother were still only
half convinced of the wisdom of the measure, she did not suffer her
anxiety to appear in a way to spoil her little daughter's pleasure.  And
Marjorie moderated her raptures and was wonderfully quiet and unexcited
while all preparations were going on.  Nor did she show impatience when
she had still some time to wait after her little brothers had set out to
join the other bairns at the school.

The mistress was to have the help of some of the elder girls in
marshalling the little lads and lassies, and in encouraging them through
the rather long, tramp up the hills.  Allison, who had been busy from
early morning, and had still something to do, assured the child that it
would only be a weariness for them both if she were obliged to measure
her steps by those of the bairns, and that they would reach the Stanin'
Stanes before them; though they gave them a whiles start.

"They are doing one another good," said the minister, as they stood at
the door, following with their eyes the stately figure of Allison as she
went steadily down the street, looking neither to the right hand nor the
left.  But it was "lanesome like" to go back into the parlour and look
at Marjorie's empty couch.

And Marjorie was moving on, as she sometimes did in her dreams, down the
street, and past the well on the green, and over the burn, and up the
brae, first between hedges that would soon be green, and then between
dikes of turf or grey stone, till at last Allison paused to rest, and
then they turned to look at the town, lying in a soft haze of smoke in
the valley below.

They could see the manse and the kirk and the trees about the garden,
and all the town.  They could see the winding course of the burn for a
long way, and Burney's Pot, as they called the pond into which the burn
spread itself before it fell over the dam at Burney's mill.  A wide
stretch of farming land rose gradually on the other side of the valley
beyond.  Some of the fields were growing green, and there were men
ploughing in other fields, and everywhere it looked peaceful and bright,
"a happy world," Marjorie said.  They could see Fir Hill, the house
where Mrs Esselmont lived in summertime--at least they could see the
dark belt of firs that sheltered it from the east and half hid it from
the town.

"It's bonny over yonder.  I was there once, and there is such a pretty
garden," said Marjorie.

Then they went on their way.  It was the loveliest of spring days.  The
sun did not shine quite all the time, because there were soft white
clouds slowly moving over the sky which hid his face now and then.  But
the clouds were beautiful and so was their slow movement over the blue,
and the child lay in Allison's arms, and looked up in perfect content.

Spring does not bring all its pleasant things at once in that northern
land.  The hedges had begun to show their buds a good while ago, but
they had only buds to show still, and the trees had no more.  The grass
was springing by the roadside, and here and there a pale little flower
was seen among it, and the tender green of the young grain began to
appear in sheltered and sunny spots.  Oh! how fair and sweet it all was
to Marjorie's unaccustomed eyes!

"Oh, Allie!" said she, "can it be true that I am here?"

She could not free her arms from the enveloping shawl to clasp Allie's
neck, but she raised herself a little and laid her cheek against hers,
and then she whispered:

"I prayed the Lord to let me come."  Then they went on in the soft warm
air their pleasant way.  By and by they left the road and went over the
rougher ground that lay between them and the end of their journey.  In a
hollow where there was standing water, Allison took the wrong turning,
and so going a little out of the way, came suddenly on the mistress and
her noisy crowd of bairns, who were looking for them in another
direction.

It was a day to be remembered.  But it was not all pleasure to every
one, though every moment was full of delight to Marjorie.  The bairns
were wild and not easily managed, and the mistress "had her ain adoes
among them."  Of course the tawse had been left at home, and the
sternness of countenance which was the right and proper thing in the
school, the mistress felt would be out of place among the hills, even
supposing the bairns would heed it, which was doubtful.  As for setting
limits beyond which they were not to wander, that was easily done, but
with all the treasures of the hills awaiting discovery, was it likely
that these limits would be kept in mind?

The mistress strode after the first wandering group, and called after
the second, and then she declared that "they maun gang their ain gait,
and tak' their chance o' being lost on the hills," and she said this
with such solemnity of countenance as to convince the little ones who
remained that they at least had best bide where they were.  It was not
likely, after all, that anything more serious than wet feet or perhaps
torn clothes would happen to them--serious enough troubles in their own
way, and likely to be followed by appropriate pains and penalties
without the intervention of the mistress.  At any rate they must just
take their chance.

So, she "put them off her mind," and with the other bairns, and Allison
carrying Marjorie in her arms, wandered for a while among "the Stanes."

Seven great stones there were, arranged around another greater still;
and they might well wonder, as many had wondered before them, how they
had been brought there, and by whom, and for what purpose.  That is,
Marjorie wondered, and told them what her father thought, and Robin; and
Allison listened and smiled, and wondered too, since she was called to
think about it at all.

As for the mistress, the "Stanin' Stanes" were just the Stanin' Stanes
to her.  She accepted them as she did the hills themselves, and the
heather, and the distant mountains; and she objected decidedly to the
minister's opinion as announced by his little daughter.

"We are maybe standing in a temple where, hundreds and hundreds of years
ago, the folk worshipped an unknown God," said Marjorie.

The mistress vehemently dissented.

"What should put the like o' that in the minister's head?  It's an ill
thing for ane to try to be wise aboon what's written."

"But it's all in a book," said the child eagerly.  "Robin read it to my
mother and me.  And in the Bible ye ken there were folk seeking Him, `if
haply they might feel after Him and find Him.'  And maybe they were
doing that here."

But the mistress would not hear such a thing said.

"Think ye the Lord wad hae letten stan' a' these years in a Christian
land like Scotland sic monuments o' will worship and idolatry?  Na, na,
lassie, I couldna believe that, though your father should preach it out
o' the poopit."

"But, Mistress Jamieson, the Lord lets ill men (evil men) live in
Scotland, and has patience with them, and whiles saves them from their
sins.  And maybe the folk were `feeling after Him' in those faraway
days."

"John Beaton told my father that these muckle stanes are quite different
from the rest o' the stanes upon the hills hereaboot," said Annie
Cairns.

"John Beaton nae less!" said the mistress scornfully.  "As gin the Lord
couldna put what kin' o' stanes He liket wherever it was His will to put
them.  And what kens John Beaton mair than the lave?"

"Grannie thinks it was the fairies that brocht them up the brae.  But
John kens weel about stanes."

It was Annie Cairns, one of the older lassies, who had made the last two
ventures.  It was certainly a bold thing for a lassie, who was every day
convicted in the school of lost loops in her stocking, to put in her
word with her betters on such a matter.  The mistress answered her with
a look which she knew well, and heeded little.  But it startled
Marjorie, who had only heard about such looks from her brothers.  Her
face warned Allison that enough had been said.

"Ye're growing tired, my lammie, and ye'll need to lie down and rest for
a while."

"Yes, I'm tired, now that I think about it," said the child, lying back
in her kind arms again.

The wind had grown a little sharp by this time, and they found a
sheltered spot on which the sunshine fell, on the south side of one of
the great stones; here Allie made a couch, and the child rested on it in
perfect content.  Some of the little ones were tired also, and fell
asleep, and were well happed by Allison and the mistress, and the rest
went away to amuse themselves for a while.

Marjorie did not mean to go to sleep.  She could see a wide stretch of
sky, over which the white clouds were wandering still, and the tops of
the faraway hills, and she thought she could see the sea.  But she was
asleep and dreaming when it came to that.

In the meantime, soothed by a whiff of her pipe, Mistress Jamieson was
getting on quite friendly terms with Allison, who had her good word from
that day forth.  For with the most respectful attention she sat
listening to the all-embracing and rather dismal monologue of the old
woman, as few were accustomed to do.  Did she listen?  She certainly did
not understand all that was said, and she could not afterward have
repeated a word of it.  But she saw a face, wrinkled and grey, and not
very happy--an old, tired face.  And if she was thinking of troubles
that had made deep lines in other faces, rather than of the cares and
vexations which had saddened the lot and soured the temper of the
schoolmistress, her silence and the softening look in her beautiful, sad
eyes, and the grave "ay" or "no" that came in response to some more
direct appeal, pleased and soothed the heart of the lonely old woman to
a sense of comfort which came seldom enough to her.

And though Allison's answers were of the briefest, when the mistress
began to question her about herself and her life before she came to
Nethermuir, they were civil, and they were quietly and readily given,
and fortunately there was not much time for questions; for the bairns
came straggling back by twos and threes as they had gone away.  Each
brought some treasure found in their wanderings, and Marjorie would have
been buried beneath the offerings of flowers, and tender green bracken,
and "bonny stanies" that were brought to her, if Annie Cairns had not
taken possession of them all, promising to carry them safe to the manse.

There were still some stragglers for whom they must wait.  There would
have been little good in going to search for them, and there was no need
to hurry home, for the afternoon was not far over--at least there would
have been no need if the bairns had not been all so ravenously hungry.
The "piece" which each had brought from home had been made away with by
the greater number, before even the "Stanes" were in sight, and the
additional supply which Allison had provided did not go very far among
so many.

In these circumstances, imagine the shout of welcome which greeted the
appearance of Robin with a bag upon his back--Robin's bag, the bairns
called it; but the treat of baps and buns was John Beaton's, who took
this way to celebrate his homecoming.  And it is to be doubted whether
he ever in all his life spent many other crown-pieces to better purpose,
as far as the giving or the getting or pleasure was concerned.


CHAPTER EIGHT.

  "Love sought is good, but love unsought is better."

John Beaton came slowly up the height which hid for the moment the spot
where the bairns had gathered, and Robin followed with his bag on his
shoulder.  Confusion reigned triumphant.  Some of the little ones had
become tired and fretful, and the elder girls were doing what they could
to comfort and encourage them.  But by far the greater number were as
lively as when they set out in the morning, and by no means in haste to
end their day of pleasure.  Up the shelving side of one of the great
grey stones they were clambering, and then, with shrill shrieks and
laughter, springing over the other side to the turf below.  Not the
slightest heed was given to the voice of the mistress, heard amid the
din, expostulating, warning, threatening "broken banes and bluidy noses,
ere a' was dane."  This was what Robin saw, and it was "a sight worth
seeing."

What John Beaton saw was Allison Bain standing apart, with Marjorie in
her arms, and he saw nothing else for a while.  Even Robin, with his bag
on his shoulder, stopped a moment to gaze at "our lass," as he called
her in a whisper to his friend.  She looked a very different lass from
"our Allie" in the manse kitchen, with her downcast eyes, and her
silence, and her utter engrossment with the work of the moment.  Her big
mutch had fallen off, and a mass of bright hair lay over the arm which
the child had clasped about her neck.  The air had brought a wonderful
soft colour to her cheeks, and her lips were smiling, and so were her
eyes, as she watched the wild play of the bairns, and her darling's
delight in it.  There was not a sign of stooping or weariness.

"Though Davie says she carried Maysie every step of the way," said
Robert to his friend.  "Man!  John!  It might be Diana herself!"

But John said nothing, and Robin had no time for more, for the bairns
had descried him and his bag, and were down on him, as he said, like a
pack of hungry wolves.

So John shook hands with the mistress, "in a dazed-like way," she said
afterward, and at the first moment had scarce a word for Marjorie, who
greeted him with delight.

"John, this is my Allie," said she, laying her hand on her friend's
glowing cheek, "and, Allie, this is Mrs Beaton's John, ye ken."

Allie glanced round at the new-comer, but she was too busy gathering
back the wisp of hair that the wind was blowing about her face to see
the hand which he held out to her, and the smile had gone quite out of
her eyes when she raised them to his face.

"They minded me o' Crummie's een," John told his mother long afterward.

The schoolmistress sat down upon a stone, thankful that her labours were
over, and that the guiding home of the bairns had fallen into stronger
hands than hers.  And as she watched the struggle for the booty which
came tumbling out of the bag, she was saying to herself:

"I hae heard it said o' John Beaton that he never, a' his days, looket
twice in the face o' a bonny lass as gin there were onything to be seen
in it mair than ordinar.  But I doot, after this day, _that_ can never
be said o' him again.  His time is come or I'm mista'en," added she with
grim satisfaction.  "Noo we'll see what's in him."

"And now, Maysie," said Robin, coming back when the "battle of the baps"
was over, "I'm to have the charge o' you all the way home, my mother
said.  Allie has had enough o' ye by this time.  And we have Peter
Gilchrist's cart, full o' clean straw, where ye can sit like a wee queen
among her courtiers.  So come awa', my bonny May."

But Allison had something to say to that proposal.

"No, no!  I'll not lippen her to you and your cairt; your mother could
never expect such a thing o' me," said she, clasping the child.

"Well, all I can say is, these were my orders, and ye maun take the
responsibility of disobedience.  What say ye, Maysie?"

"Oh!  Allie, it would be fine to go with the ither bairns in the cairt."

"But, my dearie, your mother never could have meant anything like that.
It would never, never do.  Tired!  No, I'm no' tired yet.  And if I were
ever so tired--"

"Will ye lippen her to me?  I have carried Marjorie many a time," said
John Beaton, coming forward and holding out his arms.

Allison raised her eyes to his for an instant, and then--not with a
smile, but with a sudden faint brightening of the whole face, better to
see than any smile, John thought--she put the child in his arms.

"Ay, I think I may lippen her to you, since ye have carried her before."

So the child was wrapped warmly, and was well content.

"And as ye have the cairt, and I'm not needed with the bairns, I'll awa'
hame, where my work is waiting me," said Allison to Robin, and she lost
no time.

They saw her appearing and disappearing, as she kept her way among the
heather for a while; and then John Beaton said, with a long breath, that
they would need to go.  So the mistress was made comfortable in the cart
with as many of the little ones as could be packed into it, and Robin
took the reins.  The rest of them went down the hill in a body, and all
got safely home at last.  And the happiest of them all was Marjorie when
John laid her tired, but smiling and content, upon her little couch.

"Oh, mother! it's fine to be like the other bairns.  I have had such a
happy day.  And, mother," she whispered, as her mother bent over her,
undoing her wraps, "you'll need to ask John to stay to tea."

But John would not stay.  He must take tea with his mother this first
night, he said, which Marjorie owned was but right.  So he went away.
He came back again to worship, however, after Marjorie was in bed.

Peter Gilchrist was there too, and Saunners Crombie.  It was a way the
folk o' the little kirk had, to time their business at the smithy or the
mill, so as to be able to drop in at the usual hour for family worship
at the manse.  At such times there was rather apt to be "lang worship,"
not always so welcome to the tired lads as to the visitors, and to-night
Jack and Davie murmured audibly to their mother when the chapter was
given out.

For the chapter was about Jacob seeking for his father's blessing, and
the lads felt that Peter and Saunners might keep on to any length about
him.  And so it proved.  Decided opinions were expressed and maintained
as eagerly as though each one present had a personal interest in the
matter.  Peter Gilchrist had his misgivings about Jacob.  He was "a
pawkie lad" in Peter's estimation--"nae just fair forth the gait in his
dealings with his brother, and even waur (worse) with his old blind
father, to whom he should have thought shame to tell lees in that
graceless way."

Saunners, on the other hand, was inclined to take Jacob's part, and to
make excuses for him as being the one who was to inherit the promise,
and the blame was by him laid at the door "of the deceiving auld wife,
Rebekah, by whom he had evidently been ill brocht up"; and so they
"summered and wintered" the matter, as Jack said they would be sure to
do, and for a while there seemed little prospect of coming to the end of
it.  Nearer and nearer came the noise, gradually getting louder, and as
it passed them closely they distinctly felt a blast or whiff of air.

They were paralysed with an indefinable fear, and were scarcely able to
drag themselves along the remaining quarter of a mile to their
house. The elder of the two was in very bad health, and the other had
almost to carry her. Immediately she entered the house she collapsed,
and had to be revived with brandy.

An old woman, it seems, had been murdered for her savings by a tramp
near the spot where this strange occurrence took place, and it is
thought that there is a connection between the crime and the haunting
of this part of the Kimmage Road.

Whatever the explanation may be, the whole story bears every evidence
of truth, and it would be hard for anyone to disprove it.

Churchyards are generally considered to be the hunting-ground of all
sorts and conditions of ghosts. People who would on all other occasions,
when the necessity arises, prove themselves to be possessed of at any
rate a normal amount of courage, turn pale and shiver at the thought of
having to pass through a churchyard at dead of night. It may be some
encouragement to such to state that out of a fairly large collection of
accounts of haunted places, only one relates to a churchyard. The
story is told by Mr. G. H. Millar of Edgeworthstown: "During the winter
of 1875," he writes, "I attended a soiree about five miles from
here.

I was riding, and on my way home about 11.30 P.M. I had to pass
by the old ruins and burial-ground of Abbeyshrule. The road led
round by two sides of the churchyard. It was a bright moonlight night,
and as my girth broke I was walking the horse quite slowly. As I
passed the ruin, I saw what I took to be a policeman in a long overcoat;
he was walking from the centre of the churchyard towards the
corner, and, as far as I could see, would be at the corner by the
time I would reach it, and we would meet. Quite suddenly, however, he
disappeared, and I could see no trace of him. Soon after I overtook a
man who had left the meeting long before me. I expressed wonder that he
had not been farther on, and he explained that he went a 'round-about'
way to avoid passing the old abbey, as he did not want to see
'The Monk.'

On questioning him, he told me that a monk was often seen in the churchyard."

A story told of a ghost which haunts a certain spot on an estate near the
city of Waterford, bears a certain resemblance to the last story
for the reason that it was only after the encounter had taken place
in both cases that it was known that anything out of the ordinary
had been seen.

In the early eighties of last century ---- Court, near Waterford, was
occupied by Mr. and Mrs. S---- and their family of two young boys and
a girl of twenty-one years of age.

Below the house is a marshy glen with a big open drain cut through it.
Late one evening the daughter was out shooting rabbits near this drain
and saw, as she thought, her half-brother standing by the drain in a
sailor suit, which like other small boys he wore. She called to him
once or twice, and to her surprise got no reply.

She went towards him, and when she got close he suddenly disappeared. The
next day she asked an old dependent, who had lived many years in the
place, if there was anything curious about the glen. He replied at
once:

"Oh! you mean the little sailor man. Sure, he won't do you any harm."

This was the first she had heard of anything of the sort, but it was
then found that none of the country-people would go through the glen
after dusk.

Some time afterwards two sons of the clergyman of the parish in which
---- Court stands were out one evening fishing in the drain, when one
of them suddenly said, "What's that sailor doing there?"

  The other saw nothing, and
      presently the figure vanished.
  At the time of the appearance
      neither had heard of Miss S----'s experience, and no one has been
able to explain it, as there is apparently no tradition of any
"little sailor man" having been there in the flesh.

  Mr. Joseph M'Crossan, a journalist
      on the staff of the
  _Strabane Chronicle_, has
      sent us a cutting from that paper describing a ghost which appeared
to men working in an engine-house at Strabane railway station on
two successive nights in October 1913.

The article depicts very graphically the antics of the ghost and
the fear of the men who saw it. Mr. M'Crossan interviewed one of these
men (Pinkerton by name), and the story as told in his words is
as follows: "Michael Madden, Fred Oliphant, and I were engaged
inside a shed cleaning engines, when, at half-past twelve (midnight),
a knocking came to all the doors, and continued without interruption,
accompanied by unearthly yells.

  The three of us went to one of the
      doors, and saw--I could
  swear to it without doubt--the form of
      a man of heavy build.

I thought I was about to faint.
My hair stood high on my head. We all squealed for help, when the
watchman and signalman came fast to our aid.

  Armed with a crowbar, the signalman
      made a dash at the 'spirit,'
  but was unable to strike down the
      ghost, which hovered about our shed till half-past two.

It was moonlight, and we saw it plainly. There was no imagination on our
part. We three cleaners climbed up the engine, and hid on the roof of
the engine, lying there till morning at our wit's end.

  The next night it came at half-past one.
  Oliphant approached the spirit
  within two yards, but he then collapsed, the ghost uttering terrible
yells.

I commenced work, but the spirit 'gazed' into my face, and I fell forward
against the engine.

Seven of us saw the ghost this time. Our clothes and everything in the
shed were tossed and thrown about."
The other engine-cleaners were interviewed and corroborated Pinkerton's
account. One of them stated that he saw the ghost run up and down a
ladder leading to a water tank and disappear into it, while the signalman
described how he struck at the ghost with a crowbar, but the weapon
seemed to go through it. The spirit finally took his departure through
the window.

The details of this affair are very much on the lines of the good
old-fashioned ghost yarns. But it is hard to see how so many men could
labour under the same delusion.

The suggestion that the whole thing was a practical joke may also be
dismissed, for if the apparition had flesh and bones the crowbar
would have soon proved it.

The story goes that a man was murdered near the spot some time ago; whether
there is any connection between this crime and the apparition it would
be hard to say.
However, we are not concerned with explanations (for who, as yet,
can explain the supernatural?)

; the facts as stated have all the appearance of truth.

Mr. Patrick Ryan, of P----, Co.

Limerick, gives us two stories as he heard them related by Mr. Michael
O'Dwyer of the same place. The former is evidently a very strong believer
in supernatural phenomena, but he realises how strong is the
unbelief of many, and in support of his stories he gives names of
several persons who will vouch for the truth of them.

With a few alterations, we give the story in his own words: "Mr.
O'Dwyer has related how one night, after he had carried the mails to the
train, he went with some fodder for a heifer in a field close to
the railway station near to which was a creamery.

He discovered the animal grazing near the creamery although how she
came to be there was a mystery, as a broad trench separated it from
the rest of the field, which is only spanned by a plank used by pedestrians
when crossing the field.

'Perhaps,' he said in explanation, 'it was that he _should_ go there
to hear.'

It was about a quarter to twelve (midnight), and, having searched
the field in vain, he was returning home, when, as he crossed the
plank, he espied the heifer browsing peacefully in the aforementioned
part of the field which was near the creamery.

He gave her the fodder and--Heavens! was he suffering from delusions?
Surely his ears were not deceiving him--from the creamery funnel there
arose a dense volume of smoke mingled with the sharp hissing of
steam and the rattling of cans, all as if the creamery were working,
and it were broad daylight.

His heifer became startled and bellowed frantically. O'Dwyer,
himself a man of nerves, yet possessing all the superstitions of the
Celt, was startled and ran without ceasing to his home near by,
where he went quickly to bed.

"O'Dwyer is not the only one who has seen this, as I have been told by
several of my friends how they heard it.

Who knows the mystery surrounding this affair!"
The second story relates to a certain railway station in the south of
Ireland; again we use Mr. Ryan's own words: "A near relative of mine"
(he writes) "once had occasion to go to the mail train to meet a friend.

While sitting talking to O'Dwyer, whom he met on the platform, he heard
talking going on in the waiting-room.

O'Dwyer heard it also, and they went to the door, but saw nothing save
for the light of a waning moon which filtered in through the window.
Uncertain, they struck matches, but saw nothing. Again they sat
outside, and again they heard the talking, and this time they did
not go to look, for they knew about it.

In the memory of the writer a certain unfortunate person committed suicide
on the railway, and was carried to the waiting-room pending an
inquest. He lay all night there till the inquest was held next day.
'Let us not look further into the matter,' said O'Dwyer, and my
relative having acquiesced, he breathed a shuddering prayer for the repose
of the dead."

The following story, which has been sent as a personal experience by
Mr.
William Mackey of Strabane, is similar in many ways to an extraordinary
case of retro-cognitive vision which occurred some years ago to two
English ladies who were paying a visit to Versailles; and who published
their experiences in a book entitled, _An Adventure_ (London, 1911).

Mr.
Mackey writes: "It was during the severe winter of the Crimean War,
when indulging in my favourite sport of wild-fowl shooting, that I
witnessed the following strange scene. It was a bitterly cold night
towards the end of November or beginning of December; the silvery moon
had sunk in the west shortly before midnight; the sport had been all
that could be desired, when I began to realise that the blood was
frozen in my veins, and I was on the point of starting for home,
when my attention was drawn to the barking of a dog close by, which
was followed in a few seconds by the loud report of a musket, the
echo of which had scarcely died away in the silent night, when
several musket-shots went off in quick succession; this seemed to
be the signal for a regular fusillade of musketry, and it was quite
evident from the nature of the firing that there was attack and
defence.

"For the life of me I could not understand what it all meant; not being
superstitious I did not for a moment imagine it was supernatural,
notwithstanding that my courageous dog was crouching in abject
terror between my legs; beads of perspiration began to trickle down
from my forehead, when suddenly there arose a flame as if a house
were on fire, but I knew from the position of the blaze (which was
only a few hundred yards from where I stood), that there was no
house there, or any combustible that would burn, and what perplexed
me most was to see pieces of burning thatch and timber sparks fall
hissing into the water at my feet.

When the fire seemed at its height the firing appeared to weaken, and
when the clear sound of a bugle floated out on the midnight air,
it suddenly ceased, and I could hear distinctly the sound of cavalry
coming at a canter, their accoutrements jingling quite plainly on
the frosty air; in a very short time they arrived at the scene of
the fight.

I thought it an eternity until they took their departure, which
they did at the walk.

"It is needless to say that, although the scene of this tumult was
on my nearest way home, I did not venture that way, as, although
there are many people who would say that I never knew what fear
was, I must confess on this occasion I was thoroughly frightened.

"At breakfast I got a good sound rating from my father for staying
out so late.

My excuse was that I fell asleep and had a horrible dream, which I
related.

When I finished I was told I had been dreaming with my eyes open!--that I
was not the first person who had witnessed this strange sight.

He then told me the following narrative: 'It was towards the end
of the seventeenth century that a widow named Sally Mackey and her
three sons lived on the outskirts of the little settlement of the
Mackeys.

A warrant was issued by the Government against the three sons for high
treason, the warrant being delivered for execution to the officer in
command of the infantry regiment stationed at Lifford.

A company was told off for the purpose of effecting the arrest, and the
troops set out from Lifford at 11 P.M.

"'The cottage home of the Mackeys was approached by a bridle-path,
leading from the main road to Derry, which only permitted the
military to approach in single file; they arrived there at midnight,
and the first intimation the inmates had of danger was the barking,
and then the shooting, of the collie dog.

Possessing as they did several stand of arms, they opened fire on the
soldiers as they came in view and killed and wounded several; it
was the mother, Sally Mackey, who did the shooting, the sons loading
the muskets.

Whether the cottage went on fire by accident or design was never
known; it was only when the firing from the cottage ceased and the
door was forced open that the officer in command rushed in and
brought out the prostrate form of the lady, who was severely wounded
and burned.

  All the sons perished, but the
  soldiers suffered severely, a good many being killed and wounded.

"'The firing was heard by the sentries at Lifford, and a troop of cavalry
was despatched to the scene of conflict, but only arrived in time to
see the heroine dragged from the burning cottage. She had not, however,
been fatally wounded, and lived for many years afterwards with a
kinsmen.

My father remembered conversing with old men, when he was a boy, who
remembered her well. She seemed to take a delight in narrating incidents
of the fight to those who came to visit her, and would always finish
up by making them feel the pellets between the skin and her ribs.'"

CHAPTER VI
APPARITIONS AT OR AFTER DEATH
It has been said by a very eminent literary man that the accounts
of the appearance of people at or shortly after the moment of death
make very dull reading as a general rule.

This may be; they are certainly not so lengthy, or full of detail, as
the accounts of haunted houses--nor could such be expected. In our
humble opinion, however, they are full of interest, and open up problems
of telepathy and thought-transference to which the solutions may not
be found for years to come. That people have seen the image of a friend
or relative at the moment of dissolution, sometimes in the ordinary
garb of life, sometimes with symbolical accompaniments, or that they
have been made acquainted in some abnormal manner with the fact that
such a one has passed away, seems to be demonstrated beyond all
reasonable doubt.

But we would hasten to add that such appearances are not a proof of
existence after death, nor can they be regarded in the light of special
interventions of a merciful Providence. Were they either they would
surely occur far oftener. The question is, Why do they occur at all? As
it is, the majority of them seem to happen for no particular reason, and
are often seen by persons who have little or no connection with the
deceased, not by their nearest and dearest, as one might expect. It
is supposed they are _veridical_ hallucinations, _i.e._ ones which
correspond with objective events at a distance, and are caused by a
telepathic impact conveyed from the mind of an absent agent to the
mind of the percipient.

From their nature they fall under different heads. The majority of them
occur at what may most conveniently be described as the time of
death, though how closely they approximate in reality to the instant of
the Great Change it is impossible to say. So we have divided this chapter
into three groups:

(1) Appearances at the time of death (as explained above).

(2) Appearances clearly _after_ the time of death.

(3) In this third group we hope to give three curious tales of appearances
some time _before_ death.

GROUP I

We commence this group with stories in which the phenomena connected
with the respective deaths were not perceived as representations of the
human form. In the first only sounds were heard. It is sent as a personal
experience by the Archdeacon of Limerick, Very Rev.

J. A. Haydn, LL.D.
"In the year 1879 there lived in the picturesque village of Adare, at a
distance of about eight or nine miles from my residence, a District
Inspector named ----, with whom I enjoyed a friendship of the most
intimate and fraternal kind.

At the time I write of, Mrs. ---- was expecting the arrival of their
third child. She was a particularly tiny and fragile woman, and much
anxiety was felt as to the result of the impending event. He and she
had very frequently spent pleasant days at my house, with all the apartments
of which they were thoroughly acquainted--a fact of importance in this
narrative.

"On Wednesday, October 17, 1879, I had a very jubilant letter from
my friend, announcing that the expected event had successfully happened
on the previous day, and that all was progressing satisfactorily. On
the night of the following Wednesday, October 22, I retired to bed
at about ten o'clock.

My wife, the children, and two maid-servants were all sleeping upstairs,
and I had a small bed in my study, which was on the ground floor. The
house was shrouded in darkness, and the only sound that broke the
silence was the ticking of the hall-clock.

"I was quietly preparing to go to sleep, when I was much surprised
at hearing, with the most unquestionable distinctness, the sound of
light, hurried footsteps, exactly suggestive of those of an active,
restless young female, coming in from the hall door and traversing
the hall.

They then, apparently with some hesitation, followed the passage leading
to the study door, on arriving at which they stopped. I then heard
the sound of a light, agitated hand apparently searching for the handle
of the door. By this time, being quite sure that my wife had come
down and wanted to speak to me, I sat up in bed, and called to her by
name, asking what was the matter.

As there was no reply, and the sounds had ceased, I struck a match,
lighted a candle, and opened the door.

No one was visible or audible. I went upstairs, found all the doors shut
and everyone asleep. Greatly puzzled, I returned to the study and went
to bed, leaving the candle alight.

Immediately the whole performance was circumstantially repeated,
but _this_ time the handle of the door was grasped by the invisible
hand, and _partly_ turned, then relinquished.

I started out of bed and renewed my previous search, with equally
futile results.

The clock struck eleven, and from that time all disturbances ceased.

"On Friday morning I received a letter stating that Mrs. ---- had died
at about midnight on the previous Wednesday.

I hastened off to Adare and had an interview with my bereaved friend.
With one item of our conversation I will close. He told me that his
wife sank rapidly on Wednesday, until when night came on she became
delirious. She spoke incoherently, as if revisiting scenes and
places once familiar. 'She thought she was in _your_ house,' he said,
'and was apparently holding a conversation with _you_, as she used
to keep silence at intervals as if listening to your replies.'

I asked him if he could possibly remember the hour at which the imaginary
conversation took place. He replied that, curiously enough, he could tell
it accurately, as he had looked at his watch, and found the time between
half-past ten and eleven o'clock--the exact time of the mysterious
manifestations heard by me."

A lady sends the following personal experience: "I had a cousin in
the country who was not very strong, and on one occasion she desired
me to go to her, and accompany her to K----.

I consented to do so, and arranged a day to go and meet her: this
was in the month of February.

The evening before I was to go, I was sitting by the fire in my small
parlour about 5 P.M.

There was no light in the room except what proceeded from the fire.

Beside the fireplace was an armchair, where my cousin usually sat
when she was with me. Suddenly that chair was illuminated by a light
so intensely bright that it actually seemed to _heave_ under it, though
the remainder of the room remained in semi-darkness. I called out in
amazement, 'What has happened to the chair?' In a moment the light
vanished, and the chair was as before. In the morning I heard that my
cousin had died about the same time that I saw the light."

We now come to the ordinary type, _i.e._ where a figure appears. The
following tale illustrates a point we have already alluded to,
namely, that the apparition is sometimes seen by a disinterested
person, and _not_ by those whom one would naturally expect should
see it.

A lady writes as follows: "At Island Magee is the Knowehead Lonan, a
long, hilly, narrow road, bordered on either side by high thorn-hedges
and fields. Twenty years ago, when I was a young girl, I used to go
to the post-office at the Knowehead on Sunday mornings down the Lonan,
taking the dogs for the run. One Sunday as I had got to the top of the
hill on my return journey, I looked back, and saw a man walking rapidly
after me, but still a good way off. I hastened my steps, for the day
was muddy, and I did not want him to see me in a bedraggled state.
But he seemed to come on so fast as to be soon close behind me, and
I wondered he did not pass me, so on we went, I never turning to
look back.

About a quarter of a mile farther on I met A. B. on 'Dick's Brae,' on
her way to church or Sunday school, and stopped to speak to her. I
wanted to ask who the man was, but he seemed to be so close that I
did not like to do so, and expected he had passed. When I moved on, I was
surprised to find he was still following me, while my dogs were lagging
behind with downcast heads and drooping tails.

"I then passed a cottage where C. D. was out feeding her fowls. I spoke
to her, and then feeling that there was no longer anyone behind, looked
back, and saw the man standing with her. I would not have paid
any attention to the matter had not A. B. been down at our house that
afternoon, and I casually asked her:

"'Who was the man who was just behind me when I met you on Dick's
Brae?'
"'What man?' said she; and noting my look of utter astonishment, added,
'I give you my word I never met a soul but yourself from the time I
left home till I went down to Knowehead Lonan.'
"Next day C.

D. came to work for us, and I asked her who was the man who was
standing beside her after I passed her on Sunday.

"'Naebody!' she replied,' I saw naebody but yoursel'.'
"It all seemed very strange, and so they thought too. About three weeks
later news came that C. D.'

s only brother, a sailor, was washed overboard that Sunday morning."
The following story is not a first-hand experience, but is sent by the
gentleman to whom it was related by the percipient. The latter said to
him:

"I was sitting in this same chair I am in at present one evening, when I
heard a knock at the front door. I went myself to see who was there,
and on opening the door saw my old friend P. Q. standing outside
with his gun in his hand.

I was surprised at seeing him, but asked him to come in and have something.
He came inside the porch into the lamplight, and stood there for a few
moments; then he muttered something about being sorry he had disturbed
me, and that he was on his way to see his brother, Colonel Q., who lived
about a mile farther on. Without any further explanation he walked
away towards the gate into the dusk.

"I was greatly surprised and perplexed, but as he had gone I sat down
again by the fire. About an hour later another knock came to the door,
and I again went out to see who was there. On opening it I found P.
Q.'s groom holding a horse, and he asked me where he was, as he had
missed his way in the dark, and did not know the locality. I told
him, and then asked him where he was going, and why, and he replied
that his master was dead (at his own house about nine miles away), and
that he had been sent to announce the news to Colonel Q."

Miss Grene, of Grene Park, Co. Tipperary, relates a story which was
told her by the late Miss ----, sister of a former Dean of Cashel.
After this he fell into the way of
taking long walks in all directions, and did a turn of work here and
there as he could get it, and generally came home hungry, and tired, and
ready for his bed, so that no reading could be expected of him.

But the days were growing short, and the dark hours many and long, and
the mother's heart "grew wae" for her son many a time.  By and by
something happened.

It was a good thing for the minister's Davie that John Beaton was within
sound of the voices of the lad's terrified companions the day that he
fell into "Burney's Pot," and it was a good thing also for John.  The
little lad was nearly gone when he was pulled out of the water, and
having no knowledge of his home or name, since his young companions had
taken to their heels as soon as they saw Davie safe, John took him home
to his mother, and together they did what could be done for his help.

This was the beginning.  Davie was allowed to fall asleep in Mrs
Beaton's bed, and in the gloaming John carried him home wrapped in a
blanket, and then he saw the minister and his wife and Marjorie.  It was
the beginning for John of more than can well be told.

His manner of life from that time was changed.  Not that he went often
to the manse at first, though the door was always open to him, and a
welcome awaiting him.  But the life he saw there, the words he heard,
and the spirit that showed in all that was done, or said, or planned, in
great things and in small, came like a new revelation to him; and the
more he saw and thought of it all, the less he thought about his own
loss and his changed life and his unhopeful prospects.

He had more days of leisure that winter than well pleased him, but not
one of them was spent in wandering aimlessly about the dreary hills.  He
had company, most days, wherever he went.  If he had not Robin or Jack,
there was always Davie, who seemed to think he had a special claim upon
him.  Davie had not yet been promoted to a seat in the parish school,
but was beginning to think himself, at eight, too big a boy for Mistress
Jamieson's rule, since he could say the Catechism from end to end,
proofs and petitions and all.  With Davie trotting along at his side,
John had little chance for brooding.  Besides, he had taken to his books
again, and meant to employ his leisure and make up for lost time if such
a thing might be.  It was not likely that he would have much use for
Latin or Logic in the life that lay before him, he told himself; but he
might as well make the most of the idle days, and keep his mind from
stagnation.

And he had less of leisure after a while.  It was about this time that
he began to try his hand at the making of "headstones" for the kirkyard.
Chance put such work in his way, and being ready of hand and quick of
eye, and having long patience and much need of a job, he set to work
with a will.  He did not succeed in pleasing himself, but he pleased his
employer, which answered the purpose; and he did more at the work, at
odd times, when he could get nothing else to do.

The life which he saw lived in the manse did something for him, and the
Word as it was held forth in the little kirk did more; but that came
long afterward.  The minister was the busiest of men, either among his
books or among his people, or in his garden or his land; but he was
never too busy for a cheery word to John, or for help or counsel to any
one who needed them.  And the same might be said of the minister's wife.
She was active and had enough to do at home, but she was glad to help
those who needed help anywhere.  She had good sense and good judgment,
and was ready with sweet words or sharp words, as the case presented
seemed to demand.  She was firm where firmness seemed to be required,
but had long patience and unfailing gentleness in her dealings with the
weak and even with the wilful; and as the days passed, John took heed of
her words and ways with ever-growing interest.

She had not an easy life, but she had usually firm health and she had a
cheerful nature, and the peace of God was in her heart.  So she "stood
in her lot" strong and unafraid, whatever might befall.

She was a loving mother to her sons, but her rule was firm as well as
gentle.  There was no need in that house to appeal to the father's
stronger will where obedience was not promptly given.  It was a serious
matter indeed that needed an appeal to their father.  To the lads their
mother's word was law.  Not that the law was not forgotten sometimes, or
even wilfully broken in times of strong temptation.  But confession of
sins, though not always prompt, was, in course of time, quite certain.
She had their confidence entirely.  It was an unhappy boy, indeed, who
carried about, for even a few days, a sinful or sorrowful secret hidden
from his mother.

In among these lads John came as another brother, and Mrs Hume was kind
and gracious in her intercourse with him.  She was faithful also, and
told him of faults and failings which his own mother never acknowledged,
and helped him to correct them, as, even had she seen them, his own
mother might have hesitated to do.  It was, indeed, a good day for John
when the door of the manse was opened to him.

And then there was Marjorie, poor little soul, who was nearly nine, and
who looked like six, a fair, weak little creature, who could only walk a
step or two at a time, and who was yet as eager to know, and to do, and
to be in the midst of things as the strongest of them all.  "Another
brother," she called their new friend, who had more sense and patience
than Robin or Jack, and who could carry her so easily and strongly
without being tired.  It was a happy day for Marjorie when John came in
to see her.  It was better than a new book, she thought, to hear him
talk.

"And a new book is so soon done with," said Marjorie, who did not see
very many new books, and who had usually learned them by heart before
she had had them many days.  But John had always something to tell her.
He told her about new places and new people, and he had seen the sea,
and had sailed on it.  He had been in London and had seen the king and
the queen, "like the travelled cat," as Robin said.  And there was no
end to the stories he could tell her that she had never heard before.
She was never tired of listening to him, and hailed his coming with
delight, and long before he had come to feel quite at ease with the
mother, John had learned to love dearly the eager, gentle little
creature, from whose eyes the joy at his coming chased the look of pain
and weariness.

As for the friendship which grew more slowly, but quite as surely,
between John and the elder boys of the manse, it cannot be said whether
he or they benefited most by it.  To Robin and Jack, John seemed a far
wiser and stronger man than he knew himself to be--a man of wider
experience, higher aims, and firmer purpose.  And their belief in him,
their silent yet evident admiration of all his words and ways, their
perfect trust in his discretion and sympathy, did as much for him as for
them, and helped him to strive for the attainment of all the good gifts
which they believed him to possess.

He helped them in many ways.  He helped them at their work and kept them
back from taking part in many a "ploy," which, though only foolish, and
not so very wrong, were still both foolish and wrong to them, because in
engaging in them they would waste their time, and--being the minister's
sons--set a bad example to the rest of the lads, and, worst of all, vex
their father and their mother.  And they could bear to be restrained by
him, because, in the carrying out of all harmless fun, they profited by
many a hint from John, and sometimes even by his help.  But they all
agreed that the less said about this matter among the neighbours the
better for all concerned.

John had been in Nethermuir several months before he saw the inside of
the little kirk.  He knew little about the folk who worshipped there,
except that they were said to be "a queer kin' o' folk, who set
themselves up as better than their neebors, and wiser than a' their
teachers."  Differing, as they seemed to do, both in preaching and in
practice, from the kirk of the nation, they were doubtless wrong,
thought John.  But whatever they were, they were folk in whom he took no
interest, and with whom he had nothing at all to do.  So when he had
gone to the kirk at all, he had gone to the parish kirk to please his
mother, who was not always able to go so far herself.  Sometimes he had
permitted himself to go even farther than the kirk, coming back when the
service was half over to sit for a while on a fallen headstone, as
Allison did afterward when her turn came.

On fine days his mother went with him, and then it was different.  He
sat with the rest and listened to what the minister had to say, with no
inclination to find fault.  Indeed there was no fault to be found from
John's point of view or from the minister's.  It cannot be averred that
in what was said there was either "food or physic for the soul of man."
But not knowing himself to be in especial need of either the one or the
other, John missed nothing to which he had been accustomed all his days
to listen in the kirk.

"We had a good discourse," his mother would say, as they went slowly
home together, and John always assented.  "Yes, mother, we had a good
discourse."

So John went most days to please his mother.  But there came a day of
rain, and sleet, and bitter east wind, when, if her conscience would
have permitted, Mrs Beaton would have refrained from making her usual
suggestion about the propriety of honouring the Sabbath-day by going to
the kirk.  As for John, he was no more afraid of the rain, and the
sleet, and the east wind than he was afraid of the summer sunshine; but
when he proposed to go to hear Mr Hume, the sound of the sleet and the
rain on the windows silenced any objection she might have had to his
going "once in a way, the day being wild and wintry," and she even added
a hope that he might "hear something to do him good."

This was at the very beginning of his acquaintance with the minister and
his family.  If he had waited for a while, till the charm of their
friendliness and genuine kindness had wrought, till the time came when
he had seen with his own eyes, and heard with his own ears that which
proved his new friend to be different in some ways from the most of
those to whom he had all his life looked up as leaders and teachers, yet
not unworthy also to teach and to lead, John might have been better
prepared to get the good which his mother hoped for him.  And yet he
might not.  At any rate, it was to that dark day in the little kirk
that, in the years which came afterward, he looked back as the beginning
of "good" to him.

"A dismal hole," he called it, as he went in among the first and sat
down in a corner.  It was scarcely barer or more dingy and dim than the
rest of the kirks in country places were in those days; but it was very
small, and it had windows only on one side.  On that dark day it was
dismal, and it could not have been beautiful at any time.  The chill of
the sleet and the wild east wind had got into it, and John wondered at
the folk who should choose, of their own free will, to pass two hours,
or even three, in the damp and gloom and dreariness.  "There will be few
here to-day," thought he.

But they came one after another, and by twos and threes, and there was
the stamping of wet shoes, and the shaking out of wet plaids, and many a
sneeze, and many a "hoast" (cough).  And still more came, some of them
with familiar faces from the neighbouring streets, and some from beyond
the hills, miles away.  Peter Gilchrist was there, of course, and
Saunners Crombie, and an old woman or two, who would better have kept
the house, John thought, on such a day.  And by and by the kirk was well
filled.  John would have liked to see the minister's seat.  It was close
to the door, and so was the one in which he sat; but a little porch,
which protected the door, came between.  He heard the clatter of the
boys' feet as they came in, and once he heard their mother's "quietly,
boys," gently but firmly uttered, and by that time the minister was in
the pulpit, and the service began.

It was just to be like other services in other kirks, John thought at
first.  There was a psalm read, and a remark was made on a verse here
and there, and then they sang.  He had a certain enjoyment in the
singing, because he had never heard anything like it before.  The sleet
or something else had kept the usual precentor at home, and Saunners
Crombie filled the office for the time.  He had the singing mostly to
himself for the first verse, because no one knew what tune he meant to
sing, and some of those who joined, trying to do their best, "went out
of it a'thegither," as Saunners said angrily afterward.  The second
verse went better.  The minister's boys took it up and their mother, and
were joined by "the discordant crowd," as John called them while he
listened; and though he might have done good service on the occasion, he
never opened his lips.

Then came the "long prayer," in which John certainly did not join.  But
he listened, and after a little he wondered.  It was "like all the
prayers," he said to himself at first--confession, petition,
thanksgiving.  Yet it was a little different.  The words came with a
certain power.  It was as if he who prayed saw the face of Him whom he
addressed, a living Person whom he knew and had proved, and not an awful
unknown Being hidden in light unapproachable, or in dimness or darkness.
He was speaking to One whose promise had been given, and many times
made good unto those who trusted Him.  And to him who was asking,
evidently the promise was sure, the Word unchangeable.

"All good things!  Why, a man who believed that need be afraid of
nothing," said John to himself.

Then a chapter from the New Testament was read.  It was the one in
Corinthians about charity, from every verse of which a sermon might be
preached, the minister said; but he only lingered a minute on the verse
which speaks of the charity "which thinketh no evil," and by the little
stir that went through the congregation, John thought that perhaps a
word on that subject might be specially needed.

Then came the sermon, and John listened intently.  But he did not like
it.  He told his mother, when he went home, that he had heard the folk
saying about the kirk door that they had had a grand sermon.  "And they
should ken," said John with a shrug.

"The text?  Oh! it was a fine text: `Christ the power of God, and the
wisdom of God unto salvation.'  It was like no sermon I ever heard
before," said John, "and I am not sure that I ever wish to hear another
of the same kind."

John did not go to the manse that week, and he had no intention of going
to the kirk on Sunday, but when Sunday came he changed his mind and was
there with the rest.  He sat in his corner and listened, and wondered,
and grew angry by turns.

"Is not my Word like as a fire? saith the Lord, and like a hammer that
breaketh the rock in pieces?"

That was the text and that was the way in which the Word came to John
Beaton, and he would have none of it--for a time.

To his mother, who went to the kirk with him after a while, it came in
another way.  It was not new to her.  It was just what she had been
hearing all her life, she said, only the minister made it clearer and
plainer than ever it had been made to her before.  Or it might be that
her heart was more open to receive the Word than it used to be in former
days, when both heart and hands were full of the good things of this
life, which, she said, had contented her to the forgetting of the
Giver's greater gifts.

She had never been a woman of many words, and even to her son she rarely
spoke of these things.  But as time went on she grew sweeter and gentler
day by day, he thought.  He left her with less anxiety when he went
away, and he found her always when he came home peaceful and content.
For the peace of God was with her.


CHAPTER TEN.

  "O! love will venture in where it daurna weel be seen;
  O! love will venture in where wisdom ance has been."

Saunners Crombie had not been mistaken when he told his friend that "a
measure of prosperity" had, of late, come to John Beaton.  A debt long
due to his father had been paid to him, and the story which the debtor
had to tell was worth many times the money to John and his mother.

It was not the first good deed done in secret by the father which had
since his death come to the knowledge of the son.  Other stories had
been told by friends and neighbours, and even by comparative strangers,
of kind words spoken by him, and generous help given, which had healed
sick hearts, and opened the way out of depths of despair to some who
were sinners, and to some who were only sufferers.  And now this man
came to tell how he also had been helped--saved, he called it, and he
told it with tears in his eyes, though more than a generation had passed
since then.

David Cunningham was the son of the minister of the parish where the
first of the three Johns had lived, and where the second John and his
brothers and sisters had been born.  He had fallen into foolish ways
first, and then into evil ways, and through some act of inexcusable
folly, or worse, had, it seemed, shut upon himself the last door of hope
for a life of well-doing.  An offer of a clerkship in an East Indian
house had been given him by a friend of his family, and a sum sufficient
for his outfit had been advanced.  This sum he had lost, or rather it
had been claimed for the payment of a debt which he could not have
confessed to his father without breaking the old man's heart.  It would
have been utter ruin to the lad if John Beaton had not come to the
rescue.

This was before John was a rich man, or even had a prospect of riches,
but he gave the money willingly, even gladly, to save the son of his
father's friend.

"When you come home a rich man you can pay me, if I be living; and if I
be dead, you can pay it to them who may come after me," said he.  And
now David Cunningham had come home to pay his debt.

"Every month from the very first," he told John, "I put something away
toward it, and a good many months passed before the full sum was saved.
Then, when I wrote to your father that it was ready for him, he told me
to invest it for him, and let it grow till I should come home again.
That was five-and-thirty years ago, and it has grown well since then.
It is yours now, and much pleasure and profit may you get out of it."

"There is no fear of that," said John.

"And I have a better wish than that for you," said Mr Cunningham
gravely.  "May you have the chance and the heart to help to save some
poor fellow as your father saved me."

"Thank you for the good wish.  I will try to follow in my father's
steps," said John.  "But the money is my mother's, and the pleasure of
doing good with it will be hers."

"And if all I have heard of her be true, her pleasure will be to give
pleasure to her son," said his friend.

"Yes; that is true, too," said John.

But as the money was well invested, it was to be allowed to remain where
it was for the present.  The income from it would secure to his mother a
home more like that to which she was born than the one in which she had
lived since her husband's death, "though, God bless her, she has never
murmured," said her son.

And John was triumphing in his heart.  He saw, or he thought he saw, his
way clear to the carrying out of several plans, which he had been
dreaming about, but which he had hardly suffered himself to regard as
possible till now.  He had been in Aberdeen all the winter, working both
with his head and his hands.  He had fallen in with an old schoolfellow,
who was in the second year of his university course, a cripple lad, who
was altogether unfit for the kind of life enjoyed most by lads of his
age when set free from their lectures and their hours of study.  He was
living a lonely life till John found him, and his visits to the lad's
rooms were good for them both.

John had been reading steadily during the winter leisure of the years he
had been in Nethermuir, and now he enjoyed greatly going over the ground
with his friend, and gradually the knowledge came to him that he had
grown in mind as well as in stature since the days when he had trifled
with, or utterly neglected, the opportunities which had been given him.
He could do now with ease and pleasure that which in those idle days had
been a task and a burden.  Gradually that which had been a vague
longing, a half-acknowledged desire, became a settled purpose.

It was to consult with his mother as to the carrying out of this purpose
that he had come to Nethermuir at this time, and he had not meant to
sleep until all his plans were laid before her.  But when three days had
passed--on the fourth he was to return to Aberdeen--not a word with
regard to them had been uttered.  John had not got out of the maze into
which he had fallen when he first caught sight of Allison Bain, standing
with loosened hair and smiling eyes, watching the mad play of the
bairns, with little Marjorie in her arms.

He had not forgotten his plans or his purposes.  There were moments when
he would have been willing to forget them, when he even tried to forget
them and to smile at his thought of them, as he had sometimes smiled at
a foolish dream in the light of the morning.  He was not quite sure that
he needed to speak to his mother at all.  He might at least wait a
while.  Why should he trouble her by speaking about changes which might
never come?

And yet, had he not told his mother all his plans and even his thoughts
all his life?  Her word would make clear what course he should take.
Her "single eye" would see the fine scheme he had been dreaming about in
its true light.  He could trust his mother's wise simplicity more than
his own ambitious desires, which could hardly be worthy, he thought,
since they were the outcome of discontent.

And why should he not be content as he was?  He had fallen from no high
estate.  His father and his father's father had wrought with their
hands, and had been honoured of all who knew them.  Why should he not be
content to live as they lived, or to work his way upward to an easier
life, as his father had done?

"At any rate, I will have it out with my mother to-night," said he.

He was standing, when he came to this resolve, on the very spot where he
first caught sight of Allison Bain.  It was the second time he had stood
there since that day, for no reason that he could have told to any one.
He had come to the spot in the early morning after that first sleepless
night.  He needed a walk to stretch his legs, which were rather stiff
after the long tramp of yesterday, he told his mother, when he came home
to the breakfast he had kept waiting, and he told himself that he only
chanced to take that road rather than another.

He said nothing about it to Robert Hume.  They had the night before
agreed to take an early walk together.  Robin was late; but happily, as
he thought, he caught sight of John as he was disappearing over the
first hilltop, and followed with no thought of finding himself in the
way.

But when he came to the head of the last hillock, and saw John standing
where he had stood the day before, "looking at nothing," as Robin told
his mother afterward, he was seized with sudden shamefaced-ness, and
turning, shot like an arrow down the brae.

John had been less at the manse than he usually was while visiting his
mother.  He was to go there in the evening, and he must speak to his
mother before he said anything about his half-formed plans to the
minister or Mrs Hume, as he came home fully intending to do.  So he
turned homeward on the last afternoon; and as he walked he was saying to
himself, with indignant contempt of his indecision, that after all he
must be a poor creature, a fool, though he had never been in the way of
thinking so till now.

"Well, John lad," said his mother, looking up as he came in.

Her little maid had gone home for the day, and Mrs Beaton was sitting
in her arm-chair "just waiting," as she said.

It was a nice little room.  A bright fire burned in the grate, and a
shining tea-kettle was steaming on the hob.  The carpet on the floor was
faded and worn, and the furniture was of the plainest; but there were a
few pretty things in the room to brighten it, and over the mantel-piece
was a portrait of John's father, "taken at his best."  For some strange
reason, which he himself did not understand, John paused at the door,
and looked up at the strong, good face.

The picture was not much as a work of art perhaps, but it was a striking
likeness.  There was the firm mouth, and the kind grey eyes, and the
broad shoulders, rounded and stooping a little, after long years of
labour, and the abundant dark hair, which had showed no silver threads
until the last blow came to end all.  A sudden pang smote John's heart
as he looked.

"I was but a lad," he said to himself.  "I didna ken what he was till I
lost him."

"You are growing like him, John," said his mother softly.

"Am I, mother?  I doubt it is only your loving een that can see it."

"Are ye troubled, John?" were the words that rose to the mother's lips,
but they were not spoken.  "Ye're needing your tea, John," said she
instead.

John laughed.  "I'm needing something, and I'll be glad of my tea in the
meantime.  No, you are not to rise.  You are to sit still in your chair
and tell me what to do."

Not that he needed telling.  The skill, and the will, and the gentleness
natural to a loving daughter had come to this mother's son through long
and loving service.  So the little table was brought forward, on which
all things were already arranged.  The tea was "masket," and the teapot
covered with the "cosie," and during the three minutes necessary and
sufficient for its proper infusion, John went to his room, and the
mother's face grew grave while she waited.

"He's no' at peace with himself.  But he'll tell me if he's needing my
help.  God bless him and keep him this day--and forever and ay."

Then John came in and they had their tea, and spoke about other things,
about the visit she had had in the afternoon from little Marjorie, whom
Allison Bain had carried in her arms to see her, as she often did, and
of how the child was growing stronger every day.  And then they agreed
together that little Annie Thorn, who had been coming in to help Mrs
Beaton all these years, should come now to stay always, because it would
be better in many ways for both mistress and maid.  They spoke of other
things besides; but it must be acknowledged that John said little, and
was not so ready with assent or with response as he was wont to be when
his mother had anything to say to him.

After a time they fell into silence for a little, and then John said:

"I have something to tell you, mother."

"Is it good news, John?" said his mother with a little flutter at her
heart.

"Part of it is good, surely.  As for the rest--that may be good or bad,
as you shall take it."

"I'm waiting, John."

For John's head had drooped on his hand, and he sat thinking.

"And you're a wee anxious?  But there is no occasion, mother dear.  I
have good news.  I meant to tell you the night I came home.  I could
hardly wait till I got home to tell you.  I dinna ken how I put it off,"
added John hurriedly.  "Mother, did you ever hear my father speak of a
good turn he once did to one David Cunningham, a long time ago it must
have been?"

"No.  He wasna one who was in the way of telling o' the good turns he
did, as ye ken.  But I mind the name of Cunningham."

"This must have been before your day.  Maybe a good while before it."
And John went on to tell the story of his father's timely help to a
foolish lad, and of the debt which the man wished to pay, according to
his friend's desire, to those who came after him.  And when he had told
all he knew about it, and how the money which his father had given had
been increasing during all these years till it had become a sum so large
that the interest alone would keep his mother in comfort for the rest of
her life, his mother only said softly:

"Well, John?" as though the something which he had had to say was still
to be told.

"Well, mother, I think it is your turn now.  Wasna that grand of my
father?"

"It was like him.  And is this David Cunningham able to spare all that
money?  It would be an ill thing to harm or harass him now after so long
a time."

"I cannot say whether he be rich or poor; but I am certain sure that
nothing will hinder him from paying his debt.  He told me that the sight
of my face had given him more pleasure than anything he had seen in
Scotland yet," said John laughing.  "I would have brought him out to see
you, if the doctor would have let him come.  He is but a frail man, and
must go south again till summer is fairly here.  He said little about
himself, but I know he is a married man."

"And he would be sorry to hear of your father's losses at the last."

"Ay, that was he, and angry at the ill done him.  If he had but known,
he said, he could have helped to tide him over the worst of his
troubles, and it might have prolonged his life."

"It was God's will, and we must submit," said Mrs Beaton softly.

"Yes, it was God's will."  Then John rose and set the table back into
its place, and stirred the fire and sat down again.

"Well, John?" said his mother in a little.

"Well, mother!  You are a rich woman again, in a small way."

"I have ay been a rich woman.  If I had been asked would I have more, I
would have said I am content.  I am glad of this for your sake, John, if
you are glad.  But I think the message from your father, as it seems, is
more to me than the money."

"Yes, mother, and to me as well."

"You had something to tell me, John," said his mother, in a little.

"I thought I had when I came home.  Now I am not sure.  There is
something that we may speak about together, and you will help me to make
up my mind one way or the other."

Mrs Beaton listened in silence as John went on to tell her what he had
been doing and thinking for a while.  He had not been idle since the
building season ended.  He had been in the employment of one of the
builders of the town.  He had been able to make himself useful to him--
first by going over and putting to rights the books of the business,
which had fallen into confusion, and afterward at more congenial work,
where his knowledge of drawing, to which he had given much time when he
was a boy, was brought into account with a success which had surprised
himself.  And now his employer had offered him a permanent place, with
an opportunity to acquire the kind of knowledge of his work which would
come but slowly to him while he worked only with his hands.

He owned that he liked Mr Swinton, and that they got on well together.
Yes, the prospect of success seemed reasonably certain if he were to
give himself wholly to the work.  And then he came to a pause.

"Yes.  It looks like that," said his mother.  She missed the eager
hopefulness with which her son was wont to bring forward any new plan or
prospect of his, and she thought it wiser to let him go on of his own
accord to say his say than to question him.  "Do you think well of it,
mother?  But there is one thing to be said which will please neither you
nor me.  I doubt in such a case we will need to say farewell to
Nethermuir, and take up house in the town."

"Ay, we should both be sorry for that, but it could be done.  You have
more to say yet, John?"

"I thought I might have more to say, but since you are content with
things as they are, it might be as well to say nothing."

"Tell me what is in your mind, John.  You needna doubt but I'll take it
reasonably, whatever it may be."

John laughed.

"I have no fears for you, mother.  It is for myself and my own
discontents that I fear."

"Tell your mother, laddie."

Then he went on with his story.  How he had taken to college work in
earnest with Sandy Begg, how he had enjoyed it and been successful with
it, and how the thought had come into his mind that after all he might
go on again and redeem his character by doing now what he had failed to
do when the way was made easy to him.

"I think my father would be pleased, mother, if he could ken.  When I
think of him I canna forget that I gave him a sore heart at the time
when his troubles were coming thick upon him.  I would like to do as he
wished me to do, now that the way seems open."

"_Is_ the way open?" asked his mother gravely.  "If you take that way,
all that you have been doing and learning for the last years will be an
utter loss.  I have ay liked to think of you as following in your
father's steps to overtake success as he did."

"I am not the man my father was, as no one should ken better than my
mother."

"But if you were to fall in with this man's offer, you could take the
road your father took with fewer steps and less labour, and I might see
you a prosperous man yet before I die.  And all the good your father
did, whether openly or in secret, would begin again in his son's life,
and some of it, at least, your mother might see.  I canna but long for
the like of that, John."

"I would try to do my best, mother.  But my best would fall far short of
what my father did."

"Oh, fie!  John, laddie!  What ails ye at yourself the nicht, man?  Do I
no' ken my ain son by this time, think ye?  Ay, do I.  Better, maybe,
than he kens himsel'."

"There can be small doubt of that, mother.  Only your kind eyes see
fewer faults and failings than he kens of himself.  And, mother, I am
afraid the man who had my father for his good friend has done me an ill
turn.  He has, in a measure, taken away the motive for my work, and so I
can have little pleasure in it."

"But, John, you will have your ain life to live and your ain work to do
when your mother is dead and gone.  I have been pleased and proud to
have my son for breadwinner, and to ken that he was pleased and proud
for the same reason.  But for all that, I am glad that you are set free
to think of your ain life.  You are wearing on, lad, and it would be a
great gladness for me to see you in your ain house with wife and bairns
about you before I die.  Ye can let yourself think of it now, since I am
off your hands."

They gave their time, too; for they were the nurses of all the sick,
the comforters of all the sorrowful, the advisers of all in
difficulty--without parade.

They were applied to as of course--it seemed natural. And
they were sociable: they had their little tea-parties with their
acquaintance; they made their little presents at Christmas-time; they
sweetened life throughout their limited sphere; and all so quietly, that
no one guessed the amount of their influence till it ceased. They
preached 'the word' practically, producing all the charity it taught,
inculcating the 'peace on earth, good-will towards men' which
disposes even rude natures to the gentler feelings, and soothes the
chafed murmurer by the tender influence of that love which is so
kind.

They were unwearied in their walk of mercy, though they met with
disappointment even among the simple natures reared in this secluded
spot. They bore it meekly; and when cross or trial came to those
around, then could our good sisters carry comfort to afflicted friends,
never pleading quite in vain for the exercise of that patience
which lightens suffering.

They were as mothers to the young, as daughters to the old, of all degree;
for they did not ostentatiously devote themselves to the poor and ignorant
alone--the so-called poor: the poor in spirit, of whatever rank,
were as much their care as were the poor in purse; their charge was
all who needed help--a help they gave simply, lovingly, not as meddlers,
but as sisters bound to a larger family by the breaking of the
ties which had united them to their own peculiar household.

There was no scenic effect visible along the humble walk of their pure
benevolence, no harsh outlines to mark the course they went, or shew
them to the world as devoted to particular excellence all throughout a
lifetime of painful mortifications. Very noiseless was their quiet way.
In a spirit of thankfulness they accepted their lot, turning its
very bitterness into joy, by gratefully receiving the many pleasures
still vouchsafed them; for it is a happy world, in spite of all its
trials, to those who look aright for happiness.

Our sisters found it and bestowed it. How many blessed their name! How
many have had reason to love the memory of these two unobtrusive women,
who, without name, or station, or show, or peculiarity, or distinction
of any kind, were the types of a class the circle of which even this
humble memorial, by its truth and suggestiveness, may aid in extending--of
the true, simple, earnest, brave, holy Sisters of Charity of our
country!

BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION.

I am not sure about bribery and corruption. It may be a bad
thing, but many seem to think otherwise. Much may be said on both sides
of the question. Oh! don't tell me of a worm selling his birthright
for a mess of pottage: I never read of such worms in Buffon, or
even in Pliny.

But if they do exist in the human form, the baseness consists in the
sale, not in the _quid pro quo_.

A mess of pottage in itself is a very good thing--I should say, a very
respectable thing; and no exchange can take away from it that character.
Still, if what we give for it is an heirloom, coming from our ancestors
and belonging to our posterity, the transaction is shabby, and not only
shabby, but dishonest. If that is proved, I don't defend the worm.

Trample on him by all means--jump on him. But beware of insulting the
mess of pottage, which is as respectable as when newly out of the pot.

He by no
means meant to give up his work at present.  He meant to work in the
summer as he had hitherto done, and go on with his reading in the
winter.  If he and Mr Swinton were to come to an agreement, it would be
all the easier for him.  He had no fear but that he could get on with
both work and reading till he had got through with the college at least.

"But, O John! it will be a lang look to the end!  I can hardly hope to
see it, though that would matter little if it were the best thing for
you.  But what is to come after?" asked his mother with a sigh.

John could not tell her that.  But there was nothing more certain than
that when he should be "thoroughly furnished," the right work would be
found--the very highest work--and a kind of life which would suit him,
though he might not grow rich in it.

"John," said his mother gravely, "I hardly think all that would help you
to live a better life than your father lived.  It is not the _kind_ of
work that matters; it is the way it is done.  Your father did his duty
in the sight of God and man, and went far beyond what folk whiles call
duty, never letting his left hand ken what his right hand was doing.
And I have ay hoped that ye might follow in his steps.  It is like a
slight on your father, John, when ye speak of higher work."

"Mother! you cannot really think that of me!  And, mother, you must mind
that my father meant me to do as I wish to do.  It is only to begin a
little later than he hoped.  And there is no fear but I shall see my
work when I am ready for it."

"And yet there is many a man in Scotland with a store o' book learning
who has done little work, or only ill work, for God and man.  And even
with a good-will the opportunity doesna ay come."

"Well, never mind, mother.  There is no pressing need to decide now, at
least till summer is over.  We will wait to see what may happen."  He
did not speak cheerfully, however.

"John," said his mother earnestly, "are ye sure that your heart is set
on this?  What has come to you?  Has anything happened to unsettle you,
lad?  Tell your mother, John."

John laughed as he rose and then stooped down and kissed her.

"Nothing has happened.  It is quite possible that you are right and that
I am wrong.  We will just wait and see, and decide the matter later.
Even if we have to leave Nethermuir, it need not be till summer is over.
I am sorry that I have troubled you with this now.  You will vex
yourself thinking about it all."

"'Deed I'll do nothing of the kind.  I'll just leave it all in better
hands than either yours or mine.  And as to your troubling me--Who has a
lad a right to trouble if it be not his ain mother?  And when a' is
said, our way is laid out before us by Him who kens a' and cares for a'.
Why should I trouble myself taking thought to-day for the things o'
to-morrow?  Go your ways to the manse, John, and I'll bide still and
think about it all."

But the visit to the manse was not so satisfactory as usual.  There were
other people there, and though John had a few minutes alone with Mr
Hume in the study, there was no time to enter fully into the matter
which he had at heart, and on which, he sincerely believed, he wished
for the minister's opinion and counsel, and so he said nothing about it.

Robin went down-stairs with him, and while he was making ready the
lantern to light the way to an outhouse, where Davie had a puppy which
his friend must see, John stood waiting by the kitchen-door.  In her
accustomed corner sat Allison, spinning in the light of the lamp which
hung high above her head.  She raised her eyes and smiled when John came
in, but she gave no other answer to his greeting, and went on with her
spinning, apparently quite unconscious of his presence.  As for him, he
found nothing to say to her, though the lighting of the lantern seemed
to take a good while.  To himself he was saying:

"I am glad I came.  Of course I knew it was but a fancy and utterly
foolish, and that: it would pass away.  But it is well to know it.  Yes,
I'm glad I came in."

Could this be the stately maiden he had seen smiling in the sunshine on
the hill, with wee Marjorie in her arms?  There she sat in the shadow,
with the accustomed gloom on her face, wearing the disguise of the big
mutch with the set-up borders, tied with tape under the chin.  An apron,
checked in blue and white, held with its strings the striped, short gown
close over the scanty petticoat of blue.  John wondered whether her
thoughts ever wandered away from the thread she was drawing from the
head of flax so silently.

"A decent, dull servant-lass, strong and wholesome, invaluable doubtless
in her place, but just like any other lass of her kind."  That is what
he said, and then he added:

"She has bonny een."  Ay, wonderful soft een, with a world of sorrow and
sweetness in them; and he waited with impatience till she should lift
them to meet his again.  But she did not.  And though he let the lads
pass out before him, and turned at the door to look back, there she sat,
busy with her thread and her own thoughts, with never a thought of him.

"A good lass," he repeated as he followed the lads; but he could not
quite ignore the sense of discomfiture that was on him, as he went down
the lane with Robin at his side.  He had enough to say to Robin.  He had
something to tell him about his winter's work, and without meaning to do
so, he gave him "an inkling," as Robin called it to his mother, of the
plans he had been making, and of the new course which was opening before
him.

But John said no more to his mother.  It was late when, he came home
that night, and there was no time for many words in the morning, for he
had a long journey before him.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

  "Oh! the happy life of children still restoring joy to ours!
          Back recalling all the sweetness."

Summer came slowly but happily to Marjorie this year, bringing with it,
oh! so many pleasures to which she had hitherto been a stranger.  She
had had the early spring flowers brought into the parlour many a time,
and ferns and buds and bonny leaves, for all the bairns of the place
were more than glad to be allowed to share their treasures with her; and
the one who came first and brought the most of these, thought herself
the happiest, and great delight in past summers had all this given to
the child.  She had watched, too, the springing of the green things in
the garden, the wakening of pale little snowdrops and auriculas, and the
gradual unfolding of the leaves and blossoms on the berry-bushes, and on
the one apple-tree, the pride of the place.

But she had never with her own hands plucked the yellow pussies from the
saughs (low willows) by the burn, nor found the wee violets, blue and
white, hiding themselves under last year's leaves.  She had never
watched the slow coming of, first the buds, and then the leaves on the
trees along the lanes, nor seen the hawthorn hedges all in bloom, nor
the low hills growing greener every day, nor the wandering clouds making
wandering shadows where the gowans--the countless "crimson-tipped
flowers"--were gleaming among the grass.  All this and more she saw this
year, as she lay in the strong, kind arms of Allison.  And as the days
went on it would not have been easy to say whether it was the little
child, or the sad and silent woman, who got the greater good from it
all.

For Allison could no longer move along the lanes and over the fields in
a dream, her inward eyes seeing other faraway fields and hills and a
lost home, and faces hidden for evermore, when a small hand was now and
then laid upon her cheek to call her back to the present.  The little
silvery voice was ever breaking in upon these dreary memories, and
drearier forebodings, with cooing murmurs of utter content, or with
shrill outbursts of eager delight, in the enjoyment of pleasures that
were all of Allie's giving.  And so what could Allie do but come out of
her own sorrowful musings and smile and rejoice in the child's joy, and
find a new happiness in the child's love.

There was much to be done in the house, but there was no day so busy or
so full of care but that Allison could manage to give the child a blink
of sunshine if the day were fair.  There was much to do out of the house
also, what with the cows and the garden and the glebe.  Cripple Sandy,
who was the minister's man-of-all-work, had all that he could do, and
more, in the narrow fields.  So Allison rose early and milked her cows,
and led them out herself, to no wide pasture, but to one of those fields
where she tethered them first and flitted them later in the morning when
they had cropped their little circle bare.  And both at the tethering
and the flitting Marjorie assisted when the day was fine, and it was a
possible thing.  She woke when Allison rose, and being first
strengthened by a cup of warm milk and a bit of bread, and then wrapped
warmly up in a plaid to keep her safe from the chill air of the morning,
she was ready for a half-hour of perfect enjoyment.  When that was over,
she was eager for another cup of milk and another sleep, which lasted
till breakfast was over and her brothers had all gone to school.

And when the time for the afternoon flitting of the cows came, Marjorie
was in the field once more, sitting on a plaid while the placid
creatures were moved on, and she and Allie went home again as they came,
through the lanes in which there were so many beautiful things.

Sometimes a neighbour met them, who had something to say to the child,
and sometimes they met the bairns coming from the school.  When they
came home by the longest way, as Marjorie liked best to do, they would
have a word with the schoolmistress, as she was taking the air at her
door when the labours of the day were over, and sometimes a smile and a
flower from Mrs Beaton in her garden over the way.  This was the very
best summer in all her life, Marjorie told her father one day, as Allie
laid her down on her couch in the parlour again.

All this was beginning to do the child good.  Even the neighbours
noticed the change after a little, and were glad also.  Some of them
meant that the coming and going passed the time and contented her.
Others said that it was well that her mother's heart was set at rest
about her, and that she got more time for all else that she had to do;
and all thought well of the new lass for her care of little Marjorie.

The mother, who had consented to these new doings with misgiving, began,
after a little, to see the change for the better that was being wrought
in the child.  Long before midsummer there was dawning a soft little
gleam of colour on Marjorie's cheek, not at all like the feverish tints
that used to come with weariness or fretfulness or excitement of any
kind.  The movements of the limbs and of the slender little body were
freer and stronger, and quite unconsciously, it seemed, she helped
herself in ways on which she had never ventured before.

Her father saw the change too, though not so soon as her mother; but
having seen it, he was the more hopeful of the two.  And by and by they
spoke to one another, saying if this thing could be done, or that, their
Marjorie might be helped and healed, and grow strong and tall like the
other bairns, and have a hopeful and happy life before her.  But they
paused when they had got thus far, knowing that the child was in God's
hands, and that if it were His will to bring about the fulfilment of
their desire, He would also show a way in which it was to be done.
Whether this might be or not, their little gentle darling would ay be,
as she had ay been, the dearest blessing in their happy home.

"And may God bless Allison Bain, however it is to be."

"Yes," said the mother.  "I think a blessing is already coming to her
through the child."

"Is she less sad, think you?  She seems more at home among us, at
least."

"I cannot say that she is lass sad.  But her sadness is no longer utter
gloom and despair, as it seemed to be at first.  And she says her
prayers now, Marjorie tells me.  I see myself that she listens to what
you say in the kirk.  I think it may be that she is just coming out of
the darkness of some great sorrow which had at first seemed to her to
end all.  She is young and strong, and it is natural that her burden of
trouble, whatever it may be, should grow lighter as the time goes by.
Oh! she is sad still, and she is sometimes afraid, but she is in a
better state to bear her trouble, whatever it may be, than she was when
she came first among us.  I sometimes think if some good and pleasant
thing were to come into her life, some great surprise, that might take
her thoughts quite off the past, she might forget after a little and get
back her natural cheerfulness again."

Mrs Hume ceased suddenly.  For a moment a strong temptation assailed
her.  If ever man and wife were perfectly one in heart and thought and
desires, these two were.  As for the wife, no thought or wish of hers,
whether of great things or of small, seemed quite her own till she had
also made it his.  Seeing the look which had come to her face, her
husband waited for her to say more.  But she was silent.  She had no
right to utter the words which had almost risen to her lips.  To tell
another's secret--if indeed there were a secret--would be betrayal and a
cruel wrong.  Even to her husband she might not tell her thoughts, and
indeed, if she had but known it, there was, as far as Allison Bain was
concerned, no secret to tell.

But Robin, who was in the way of sharing with his mother most things
which greatly interested himself, had told her about his morning run
over the hills after John Beaton, and how he had found him "looking at
nothing" on the very spot where, the day before, he had got his first
look at Allison Bain, and how he had turned and run home again without
being seen.  Robin only told the story.  He drew no inference from it,
at least he did not for his mother's hearing.

His mother did that for herself.  Remembering John's dazed condition at
worship on the first night of his homecoming, it is not surprising she
should have said to herself that "the lad's time had come."

And what of Allison?  She had asked herself that question a good many
times since John's departure; but she owned that never, either by word
or look, had Allison betrayed herself, if indeed she had anything to
betray, and of that she was less assured as the days went on.  But
whether or not, it was evident, Mrs Hume assured herself, that Allison
was "coming to herself" at last.

And so she was.  Young and naturally hopeful, it is not to be supposed
that Allison's sorrow, heavy and sore though it was, could make all the
future dark to her, and bow her always to the earth.  She had lost
herself for a time in the maze of trouble, into which death, and her
enforced marriage, and her brother's sin and its punishment, had brought
her.  But she was coming to the end, and out of it now.  She was no
longer living and walking in a dream.  She was able to look over the
last year of her life at home with calmness, and she could see how,
being overwrought in mind and body, spent with work and watching and
care, she had fallen under the mastery of blind terror for her brother's
safety, and had yielded where she ought to have stood firm.

She had no one to blame for what had befallen her.  Her mother had
hardly been in a state to know what was going on around her, except that
her "bonny Willie"--as she called him in her prayers, and in her
murmured longings for him--was faraway, and might not come home in time
to see her die, or to help to lay her in her grave.  Her father grieved
for his son, but, angry at him also, had uttered no word either to help
or to hinder the cause of the man who had made Allison's promise the
price of her brother's safety.  But he went about with bowed head,
listening, and looking, and longing, ay longing, for the coming of the
lad.  So what could she do but yield for their sakes, and take what
seemed the only way to bring him back again?

But one wrong was never righted by the doing of another, and her
sacrifice had come to worse than naught.  Though she had sinned blindly,
she had suffered for her sin, and must suffer still.  But gradually the
despair which darkened all the year was passing.  There was hope in her
heart now, and a longing to throw off the dead-weight which had so long
held her down.  And the lightening of her burden showed now and then in
eye, and voice, and step, so that all could see the change.  But with
all this the thought of John Beaton had nothing to do.

She had seen him just as she had seen other folk and he had come into
her thoughts once or twice when he was not in her sight.  But that was
because of the good understanding there was between him and little
Marjorie.  The child had much to say about him when he was at home; and
when she was carried out in Allison's arms on those days, she was always
wishing that they might meet him before they went home again.

One day they met, and Marjorie being gently and safely transferred to
John's arms, Allison turned and went back into the house without a word
of explanation or apology.

"It's ironing day," explained Marjorie, a little startled at the look on
John's face.

"Oh! it's ironing day, is it?  Well, never mind.  I am going to take you
to the very top of Windhill to give you a taste of the fresh air, and
then I shall carry you home to take tea with my mother and me."

"That will be delightful," said Marjorie with a sigh of pleasure.

No.  In those days Allison was thinking nothing at all about John.  When
she went about the house, with no gloom, but only a shadow of softened
sadness on her face, and a look of longing in her eyes, it was of her
brother that she was thinking.  She was saying in her heart:

"God help him in that dismal place--he who should be free upon the hills
with the sheep, or following the plough on his ain land at home."

And when a sudden smile came, or a bright glance, or a murmur of song,
she was telling herself that his time was nearly over; that he would
soon be free again to go faraway over the sea, where, with kind help
from Mr Hadden, he would begin a new life, and all would be well with
him once more.  Yes, and they might be together again.

But this could not be for a long time.  She must not even try to see her
brother.  For Brownrig would be sure to have a watch set on him when he
was free.  And Brownrig--having the law on his side, as he had said in
the hearing of many, on the night of the dark day on which her father
was buried, raising his voice that she too might hear him, the door
being locked and barred between them--Brownrig would come and she would
be found, and then lost forever.

"For," said Allison to herself, "I should have to drown myself then, and
make an end of it all."

She was standing on the edge of Burney's Pot, near the mill-dam, when
she said this to herself, and she shuddered as she looked down into the
grey water.

"But it will never come to that!  Oh! no, mother, it will never come to
that.  But to save myself from that man, even to end all would surely be
no sin."

But these thoughts did not haunt and terrify her now, as her doubts and
dreads had done during the winter.  She had no time for brooding over
the past.  Every hour of the day was more than full with all she had to
do, and there were no long, dark evenings, when she had only her wheel
and her own thoughts for company.

And there was Marjorie.  Marjorie had something to do with her thoughts
through all the hours of the day.  She was always there to lift or to
lay down, to carry here or to carry there, to speak to or to smile upon.
And she grew sweeter and dearer every day.  Above all, the time was
hastening, and Willie would soon be free.  That thought made all the
days bright to Allison.

And so she grew, not light-hearted, but reasonable and patient in her
thoughts of all that had befallen them, and, at most times, hopeful as
to all that might lie before them.

The neighbours who, at her first coming among them, had been inclined to
resent her gloom and her silence, were ready now, for the sake of her
friendly looks, to forgive the silence which she kept still.  Even in
the kirk she was like another woman, they said, and didna seem to be
miles awa', or dreaming, or in fear.

Of this change Allison herself was conscious, when she thought about it.
The minister's words did not seem "just to go by" her as they used to
do.  She listened and took her portion with the rest of the folk, and
was moved, or glad, or doubtful, or afraid, as they were, and thought
about all she had heard afterward, as doubtless some of the rest did
also.

She was not desirous now, as she had been at first, for more than her
own turn of staying at home from the kirk.  This was partly because
little Marjorie was sometimes able to go there; and when she went she
was carried in Allison's arms, where she rested, sometimes listening to
her father's voice, and sometimes slumbering through the time.  But it
was partly, also, because there came now and then a message to Allison
there.

For some of the good words spoken must be for her, she thought, since
the minister said they were for all.  Allison was not good at
remembering sermons, or even "heads and particulars," as Robin was.  For
a long time she had heard nothing but the minister's voice, and carried
away no word of his, either for correction or instruction.  His sermons
were "beyond her," as she said.  They meant nothing to her.  But now and
then a good word reached her out of the Book; and sometimes a word of
the minister, spoken, as was the way in those days, as a comment on the
psalm that was to be sung, or on the chapter that was read, touched her,
strangely enough, more even than the words of the Book itself, with
which she had been familiar all her life.

One day in early summer she carried her wee Marjorie to the kirk with a
sad heart.  For the Sabbath-days were the worst to bear, since she had
least to do, and more time for thinking.  All the morning her thoughts
had been with "her Willie," shut in between stone walls, away from the
sunshine and the sweet air, and she was saying to herself: Would the
shame and the misery of it all have changed him, and would he come out,
angry and reckless, a lost laddie?  Oh! if she could only go to meet him
at the very door, and if they could get away together over the sea, to
that country so great and wide that they might easily lose themselves in
it, and so pass out of the sight and out of the thoughts of all who had
known them in their happy youth, before trouble had come!  Might it not
be?  And how could it be?  Might she not set Brownrig and his wicked
wiles at naught, and go with her brother to save him?

And then the minister's voice was heard: "Fret not thyself because of
evildoers."  And so on: "Commit thy way unto the Lord.  Trust also in
Him and He shall bring it to pass."

"Bring it to pass!"  In the midst of her trouble and longing, Allison
had almost uttered the words aloud, as though they had been spoken to
her alone of all the listening people, and then Marjorie stirred in her
slumber and brought her to herself again.

"Rest in the Lord.  Wait patiently for Him.  Fret not thyself because of
him who prospereth in the way, because of the man who bringeth wicked
devices to pass."

Surely those words were for her!  And she heard no more till he came to
the good man whose "steps are ordered of God."

"Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord
upholdeth him with His hand.

"I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous
forsaken, nor his seed begging bread."

And then Robin touched his mother's hand.  For Allison had drawn her big
black bonnet over her face to hide from the folk in the kirk the tears
which were falling fast on the bright hair of the little sleeper.  Mrs
Hume made no sign that she saw them, but she prayed silently for the
sorrowful woman who all the long winter had kept her sorrow to herself.

"Say nothing, Robin," said she, when they rose to go out together.  "She
will be the better for her tears, or rather for that which made them
flow."

To herself Robin's mother said:

"She will surely speak now, and open her heart to comfort."

She had a while to wait for that, but a change came over Allison as the
summer days went on.  She was restless sometimes, and anxious and
afraid.  She had an air of expectation as though she were waiting for
something, and sometimes she had the look of one eager to be up and
away.

One night when Mrs Hume went up to see her little daughter in her bed,
she found Allison writing.  She said nothing to her and did not seem to
see, and waited in expectation of hearing more.  But she never did.

For Allison's courage failed her and the letter was never sent.  It was
written to Dr Fleming, who had been kind to her in the infirmary, and
it told him of her brother who was in prison, and asked him to visit him
and to be kind to him, as he had been to her.  But after it was written
she was afraid to send it.

No.  She must wait and have patience.  Willie must go away alone over
the sea, as they had agreed together in the only letters that had passed
between them since he was a prisoner.  Mr Hadden would befriend him as
he had promised, and she would follow him when the right time came.

"But it is ill waiting," said Allison to herself.  "It is ill waiting."

In those days many a word came to her as she sat in the kirk or in the
parlour at worship-time, which set her thinking.  Some of them
strengthened her courage and gave her hope, and some of them made her
afraid.  For she said to herself:

"Are these good words for me?"

They we're for the minister and for the minister's wife, doubtless,
every promise of them all, and for many more who heard them spoken.  But
were they for her?

"For," said she, "`if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not
hear my prayer.'  And I'm no' sure of myself.  `Love your enemies,' the
Book says, and I doubt there's hatred in my heart to one man.

"Or maybe it is only fear of him and anger.  I think if I could only get
well away from him, and safe from the dread of him, I would hate him no
longer.  I would pity him.  I pity him now, even.  For he has spoiled
his own life as well as mine, and what with anger and shame, and the
pity of some folk and the scorn of others, he must be an unhappy man.
Yes, I _am_ sorry for him.  For the fault was partly mine.  I should
have stood fast whatever befell.  And how is it all to end?"


CHAPTER TWELVE.

  "A man may _choose_ to _begin_ love, but not to end it."

The spring passed quickly and summer came on, and then something
happened which made a little stir of pleasure in the manse, and in the
pleasure Allison shared, because of little Marjorie.  Mrs Esselmont
came home.

Mrs Esselmont had been, in former days, one of the great ladies of the
shire, and, with a difference, she was one of its great ladies still.
Marjorie had been "kirstened after her," as they used to call it in that
country.  The child was "Marjorie Esselmont Hume," and she was right
proud of her name.

But Mrs Esselmont did not come back this time to Esselmont House, which
had been the home of the Esselmonts for many a year and day.  Her
husband was dead and her sons also, and the great house, and the wide
lands which lay about it, had passed to another Esselmont, a stranger,
though of the same blood.  She came back, as indeed she had gone away, a
sorrowful woman, for she had just parted from her youngest and dearest
daughter, who was going, as was her duty, to Canada with her soldier
husband.

The acquaintance of Mrs Esselmont and the minister had commenced soon
after the coming of Mr Hume--then little more than a lad--a "missioner"
to Nethermuir.  At the bedside of one whom the lady had long befriended,
they met by chance--if one may so speak of a meeting which was the
beginning of so much to them both.  The poor woman in whom both were
interested was drawing nigh to the end of all trouble, and these two did
not meet again for years.

The next meeting was in no sense by chance.  In a time of great sorrow
Mrs Esselmont came to the minister for help, because she remembered how
his words, spoken in God's name, had brought peace to one who had sinned
and suffered, and who was sore afraid as the end drew near.  And that
was the beginning of a lasting friendship between them.

They had not met often during the last few years.  Mrs Esselmont had
lived much in England with her daughters, and had only once returned to
her own house during the summer.  Now she said she must look upon
Firhill as her permanent home, and she did not speak very cheerfully
when she said it.

For though she was a good woman, she was not of a cheerful nature, and
she had had many a trouble in the course of her life.  Some of them had
been troubles to which, at the time, it seemed wrong for her to submit,
but which it was in vain, and worse than in vain, to resent.  They were
troubles which could only be ignored as far as the world was concerned,
but which, she told herself, could never be forgotten or forgiven.  They
were all over now, buried in graves, forgiven and forgotten.  But the
scars were there still of wounds which had hurt sorely and healed
slowly, and now she was looking sadly forward to a solitary old age.

She had been long away, but Marjorie had not been allowed to forget her.
Gifts and kind wishes had come often to the child from her friend, and
her name had often been named in the household.  But her coming was a
shock to Marjorie.  What she had imagined of the writer of the letters
which she had heard read, and of the giver of the gifts which she had
received, no one could say.  But the first glimpse which she got of the
tall form, shrouded in trailing, black garments, and of the pale face,
encircled by the border of the widow's cap, and shaded by the heavy
widow's veil, struck her with something like terror, which must have
ended in tears and sobs and painful excitement, if her mother had not
seen the danger in time and carried her away.

"Poor darling!  I fear she is no stronger as time goes on," said the
lady gently.

"Yes, we think her a little stronger.  Indeed we think there is a
decided change for the better since spring opened.  She is able to stand
now, and even to walk a little in the garden.  But she is very frail
still, our poor little girl," said the mother with a sigh.

"What has helped her, do you think?"

"Nature, it must be, and Allison Bain.  The doctor has done nothing for
her for more than a year, but even he acknowledges that there is a
change for the better, though he does not give us much reason to hope
that she will ever be very strong."

"It is God's will," said Mrs Esselmont with a sigh.

"We can only wait and see what God will send her.  As it is, she is a
blessing in the house."

"Yes.  Still with your large family and your many cares, she must be a
constant anxiety to you both night and day."

"Well, we get used with even care and anxiety.  And she is a happy
little creature naturally.  Allison has helped us greatly with her.  She
is very kind and sensible in all her ways of doing for her."

"And who is Allison?"

It was on Mrs Hume's lips to say, "We do not know who she is," but she
did not say it.

"She came to fill Kirstin's place.  Poor Kirstin was called home to
nurse her mother, who is lingering still, though she was supposed to be
dying when her daughter was sent for."

And then Mrs Hume went on to speak of something else.

Allison was "coming to herself," growing "like other folk," only bonnier
and better than most.  There was no need to call attention to her as in
any way different from the rest.  Allison had been good to Marjorie, and
Marjorie was fond of Allison.  That was all that need be said even to
Mrs Esselmont.  But the lady and Allison were good friends before all
was done.

For many of Mrs Esselmont's lonely days were brightened by the visits
of the child Marjorie.  And though the pony carriage was sometimes sent
for her, and though she enjoyed greatly the honour and glory of driving
away from the door in the sight of all the bairns who gathered in the
street to see, she owned that she felt safer and more at her ease in the
arms of "her own Allie," and so when it was possible, it was in
Allison's arms that she was brought home.

If there had been nothing else to commend her to the pleased notice of
Mrs Esselmont, Allison's devotion to the child must have done so.  And
this stately young woman, with her soft voice, and her silence, and her
beautiful, sorrowful eyes, was worth observing for her own sake.  But
Allison was as silent with her as with the rest of her little world,
though her smile grew brighter and more responsive as the days went on.

Mrs Esselmont's house stood on the hillside, facing the west.  Behind
it rose the seven dark firs which had given to the place its name.  The
tall firs and the hilltop hid from the house the sunshine of the early
morning, but they stood a welcome shelter between it and the bleak east
wind which came from the sea when the dreary time of the year had come.

The house was built of dull grey stone, with no attempt at ornament of
any kind visible upon it.  All its beauty was due to the ivy, which grew
close and thick over the two ends, covering the high gables, and even
the chimneys, and creeping more loosely about the windows in the front.
Without the ivy and the two laburnums, which were scattering their
golden blossoms over the grass when Allison saw it first, the place
would have looked gloomy and sad.

But when one had fairly passed up the avenue, or rather the lane, lying
between a hedge of hawthorn on one side and the rough stone dike which
marked the bounds of the nearest neighbour on the other, and entered at
the gate which opened on the lawn, it was not the dull grey house which
one noticed first, but the garden.

"The lovely, _lovely_ garden!"  Marjorie always called it.  She had not
seen many gardens, nor had Allison, and the wealth of blossoms which
covered every spot where the green grass was not growing, was wonderful
in their eyes.

The place was kept in order by an old man, who had long been gardener at
Esselmont House, and it was as well kept in the absence of the mistress
as when she was there to see it.  The garden was full of roses, and of
the common sweet-smelling flowers, for which there seems little room in
fine gardens nowadays, and it was tended by one who loved flowers for
their own sake.

It was shut in and sheltered by a high stone wall on the east, and by a
hawthorn hedge on the north, but the walls on the other sides were low;
and sitting beneath the laburnums near the house, on the upper edge of
the sloping lawn, one could see the fields, and the hills, and a
farmhouse or two, and the windings of the burn which nearly made an
island of the town.  From the end of the west wall, where it touched the
hawthorn hedge, one could see the town itself.  The manse and the kirk
could be distinguished, but not very clearly.  Seen from the hill the
place looked only an irregular group of little grey houses, for the
green of the narrow gardens behind was mostly hidden, and even the trees
along the lanes seemed small in the distance.  But Marjorie liked to
look down over it now and then, to make sure that all was safe there
when she was away.

It was a strange experience for her to be for hours away from her own
home, and even out of the town.

Poor little Marjorie had passed more time on her couch in her mother's
parlour, during her life of eleven years, than in all other places put
together.  She was happy in the change, and enjoyed greatly the sight of
something new, and there were many beautiful things for her to see in
Mrs Esselmont's house.  But she needed "to get used with it," and just
at first a day at a time was quite enough for her strength.  The day was
not allowed to be very long, and the pleasure of getting home again was
almost as great as the pleasure of getting away had been.  But the best
of all was, that the child was getting a little stronger.

There was much besides this to make it a good and happy summer at the
manse.  The younger lads were busy at school under a new master, who
seemed to be in a fair way to make scholars of them all, Robin was full
of delight at the thought that _at last_ he was to go to college, and he
fully intended to distinguish himself there.  He said "at last," though
he was only a month or two past sixteen, and had all his life before
him.

"Ay, ye hae a' ye're life afore ye, in which to serve the Lord or the
Deevil," Saunners Crombie took the opportunity to say to him, one night
after the evening meeting, when he first heard that the lad was to go
away.

Robin looked at him with angry eyes, and turned his back on him without
a word.

"Hoot, man Saunners!  There is no fear o' the laddie," said his more
hopeful crony, Peter Gilchrist.

"Maybe no, and maybe ay.  It'll be nae haflin course that yon lad will
tak'.  He'll do verra well or verra ill, and I see no signs o' grace in
him so far."

"Dinna bode ill o' the lad.  The Lord'll hae the son o' his father and
mother in His good keeping.  And there's John Beaton, forby (besides),
to hae an e'e upon him.  No' but that there will be mony temptations in
the toon for a lad like him," added Peter, desirous to avoid any
discussion with his friend.

"John Beaton, say ye?  I doubt he'll need himsel' all the help the Lord
is like to give to ane that's neither cauld nor het.  It's wi' stumblin'
steps he'll gang himsel', if I'm no mista'en."

But to this Peter had nothing to say.  They had been over the ground
before, and more than once, and each had failed to convince the other.
Crombie went on:

"He carries his head ower-heich (over-high), yon lad.  He's nae likely
to see the stanes at his ain feet, to say naething o' being a help to
the like o' Robert Hume."

"Hae ye had ony words wi' him of late?" asked Peter gravely.

"Nae me!  He's been here often eneuch.  But except in the kirk, where he
sits glowerin' straecht afore him, as gin there was naebody worthy o' a
glance within the four walls, I havena set my een upon him.  It's inborn
pride that ails him, or else he has gotten something no' canny upon his
mind."

"His mother's no' just so strong.  It's that which brings him hame sae
often.  His heart is just set on his mother."

"It's no' like to do his mother muckle gude to be forced to leave her
ain house, and take lodgin's in a toon.  But gin _he_ be pleased,
that'll please her," said Saunners sourly.

"Hae ye ony special reason for thinkin' and sayin' that the lad has
onything on his mind?  He's dull-like whiles, but--"

"I'm no' in the way o' sayin' things for which I hae nae reason," said
Saunners shortly.  "As to special--it's nae mair special to me than to
yoursel'.  Has he been the same lad this while that he ance was, think
ye?  Gude-nicht to ye."

"Gude-nicht," said Peter meekly.  "Eh! but he's dour whiles, is
Saunners!  He is a gude man.  Oh! ay, he's a gude man.  But he's hard on
folk whiles.  As for John Beaton--I maun hae a crack (a little talk)
with himsel'."

But Peter did not get his crack with John at this time, and if he had
had, it is doubtful whether he would have got much satisfaction out of
it.

John was not altogether at ease with regard to the state of his mother's
health, but it cannot be said that he was especially anxious.  For
though the last winter had tried her, the summer "was setting her up
again," she always told him cheerfully when he came.  And she was always
at her best when her son was with her.

Her little maid, Annie Thorn, to whom she had become much attached, and
whom she had trained to do the work of the house in a neat and orderly
manner, was permitted to do many things which had until now been done by
the careful hands of her mistress.  She was "little Annie" no longer,
but a well-grown, sensible lass of sixteen, who thought: herself a
woman, able to do all that any woman might do.  She was willing even to
put on the thick muslin cap of her class if her mistress would have
consented that she should so disguise herself and cover her pretty hair.

No, John was not anxious about his mother.  He was more at ease about
her than he had been since he had been obliged to leave her so much at
home alone.  But he came home more frequently to see her.  He had more
time, and he could bear the expense better.  Besides, the office work
which he had to do now kept him closer, and made change and exercise
more necessary for him, and so he came, knowing that he could not come
too often for his mother's pleasure.

This was what he said to her and to himself, but he knew in his heart
that there was another reason for his coming; he called himself a fool
for his pains, but still he came.

He knew now that it was the thought of Allison Bain which would not let
him rest, which drew him ever to return.  For the thought of her was
with him night and day.  Her "bonny een" looked up at him from his
papers, and his books, and from the waves of the sea, when his
restlessness urged him forth to his nightly wanderings on the shore.

But even when he turned his face toward Nethermuir, he scorned himself
for his weakness.  It was a kind of madness that was on him, he
thought--a madness that would surely come to an end soon.

"Few men escape it, at one time or another of their lives, as I have
heard said.  The sooner it comes, the sooner it is over.  It has gone
ill with many a one.  But I am a strong man, and it will pass.  Yes!  It
shall pass."

This was what he said to himself, and he said also that Allison's
indifference, which he could not but see, her utter unconsciousness of
him and his comings and goings, his words and his ways, was something
for which he might be glad, for all that would help him through with it
and hasten his cure.

But he was not so sure after a while--sure, that is, that Allison's
indifference and unconsciousness of him and his feelings made it easier
for him to put her out of his thoughts.  There were times when with a
sort of anger he longed to make her look at him, or speak to him, even
though her words might hurt him.  He was angry with her, and with
himself, and with all the world; and there was truth in old Crombie's
accusation that he carried his head high and neglected his friends.

It was all that he could do sometimes to endure patiently the company of
Robert Hume or his brothers.  Even Davie, who was not exacting in the
matter of response to his talk, missed something in his chief _friend_,
and had serious misgivings about it.

And Davie's mother had her own thoughts also, and she was not well
pleased with John.  That "his time was come" she knew by many a token,
and she knew also, or guessed, the nature of the struggle that was going
on in him.  She acknowledged that his prudence was praiseworthy, and
that it might not be the best wisdom for him to yield to impulse in a
matter so important; but she also told herself scornfully that if his
love were "true love," he would never have waited for prudence or for
ambition to put in a word, but would have gladly taken his chance
whatever might befall.

"Though indeed he might have cause to repent afterward," she
acknowledged with a sigh.

And since Allison was not thinking at all about him, little ill would be
done.  The lad would get his discipline and go his way, and might never
know what a chance of happiness he had let slip out of his hands.

"For he could make her learn to love if he were to try," said Mrs Hume
to herself.  "But he must not try unless--And if he should say or do
anything likely to bring watchful eyes or gossiping tongues upon
Allison, I shall have something to say to the lad myself."

Some one else was having her own thoughts about these two.  Mistress
Jamieson had seen the lad when "his een first lichted on the lass," and
she had guessed what had happened to him.  Now she waited and watched
with interest expecting more.  She had not counted on the blindness or
long-continued indifference of Allison.

Was it indifference on her part?  Or was it prudence, or a proper pride?
And the conclusion the mistress came to was this:

"She's no' heedin' him.  Ay, ye're a braw lad, John Beaton, and a
clever; but it'll do ye nae ill to be neglecit for a wee while, or even
set at naucht.  Ye thocht to tak' her captive wi' a smile and a few saft
words!  And ye'll do it yet, I daursay, since it's the nature o' woman
to be sae beguiled," added the mistress with a sigh.

But her interest was a silent interest.  She never named their names
together in a neighbour's hearing.

It was of her brother that Allison was thinking all this time--of poor
Willie, who, as she believed, had never seen the sunshine, or even the
light of all these summer days.  Every night and every morning she
counted the days that must pass before he should be set free to go to
his own house; and she rejoiced and suffered beforehand, as he must
rejoice and suffer when that time came.

It would be November then.  She knew just how Grassie would look to him
under the grey sky, or the slanting rain, with the mist lying low in the
hollows, and the wind sighing among the fir-trees on the height.  She
could see the dull patches of stubble, and the bare hedges, and the
garden where only a touch of green lingered among the withered
rose-bushes and berry-bushes, and the bare stalks of the flowers which
they used to care for together.

She saw the wet ricks in the corn-yard, and the little pools left in the
footmarks of the beasts about the door.  She heard the lowing of the
cows in the byre, and the bleating of the sheep in the fold, and she
knew how all familiar sights and sounds would hurt the lad, who would
never more see the face or hear the voice of kith or kin in the house
where he was born.  How could he ever bear it?

"Oh!  God, be good to him when that day comes!" was her cry.

And since they had agreed that they must not meet on this side of the
sea, was there no other way in which she might reach him for his good?
She had thought of many impossible ways before she thought of John
Beaton.  It was in the kirk, one Sabbath-day, that the thought of him
came.

The day was wet and windy, and Marjorie was not there to fill her
thoughts, and they wandered away to Willie in the prison, and she fell
to counting the days again, saying to herself: "How could he ever bear
it?"

She was afraid for him.  She strove against her fears, but she was
afraid--of the evil ways into which, being left to himself, or to the
guidance of evil men, he might be tempted to fall.  Oh! if she might go
to him!  Or if she had a friend whom she might trust to go in her stead!

And then she lifted her eyes and met those of John Beaton.  She did not
start, nor grow red, nor turn away.  But her whole face changed.  There
came over it a look which cannot be described, but which made it for the
moment truly beautiful--a look hopeful, trustful, joyful.

Allison was saying to herself:

"Oh, Willie! if I might only dare to speak and bid him go to you."


CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

  "She wakened heavy-hearted
      To hear the driving rain,
  By noon the clouds had parted,
      And the sun shone out again.
  `I'd take it for a sign,' she said,
      `That I have not prayed in vain.'"

That night while Mrs Beaton and her son sat by the fireside, exchanging
a word now and then, but for the most part in silence, a knock came to
the door.  Allison had given herself no time to reconsider the
determination to which she had come when she met John's eyes in the
kirk, being bent on abiding by it whatever might befall.

It had not come into her mind that her courage might fail her at the
last moment.  It was not that her courage was failing, she told herself,
as she stood waiting.  It was because she had run down the lane so
quickly that her heart was beating hard.  It was like the thud of a
great hammer against her side; it frightened her, and she was tempted to
turn and run away.  But she did not.

"I would be sorry when it was too late," thought she, and knocked again.

There was a pause of a minute or two, and then the door opened, and John
Beaton appeared, carrying a light.

"I was wishing to say a word to Mrs Beaton, if she will let me," said
Allison, making a great effort to speak as usual.

"Surely," said John.  "Come in."

"Come away in, Allison," said Mrs Beaton's kind voice out of the
darkness.

When John had shut the door and come into the parlour with the light, he
was surprised to see that the two women had clasped hands, and that on
his mother's face was the look which he had hitherto believed it had
worn for him alone.  He moved a chair forward from the wall.

"Sit down, Allison," said he.

"No," said she; "I will say first what I came to say."

John set down the candle and turned to go.  But Allison put out her hand
to detain him.

"'Bide still," said she.  "I have to ask your mother to ask her son to
do something for me--something which I cannot do for myself, but which
must be done, or I think my heart will break."

"'Bide still, John," said his mother.

John moved the light again, so that it fell on Allison's face, and then
went and stood in the shadow, leaning on the back of his mother's chair.
Allison stood for a moment silent, and both mother and son regarded her
with interest and with surprise as well.

This was quite a different Allison, Mrs Beaton thought, from the one
who went up and down the street, heeding no one, seeing nothing unless
the child Marjorie was in her arms to call her attention to whatever
there might be to see.  She seemed eager and anxious, full of
determination and energy.  She had not at all the air of one who had
been accustomed to go and come at the bidding of other folk.

"It is the true Allison at last," said John to himself.

"Her gown has something to do with it," thought Mrs Beaton, and perhaps
it had.  Her gown was black, and hung in straight folds about her.  A
soft, white kerchief showed above the edge of it around her throat, and
her Sunday cap, less voluminous and of lighter material than those which
she wore about her work, let her shining hair be seen.

"A strong and beautiful woman," John said to himself.  His mother was
saying it also; but with a better knowledge of a woman's nature, and a
misgiving that some great trouble had brought her there, she added:

"May God help her, whatever it may be.  Allison, sit down," she said
after waiting a minute for her to speak.

"It is that my heart is beating so fast that I seem to be in a tremble,"
said Allison, clasping her hands on her side.

"Sit down, my dear," said Mrs Beaton kindly.  "Not yet.  It is only a
few words that I must say, I have had great trouble in my life.  I have
trouble yet--that must be met.  And it came into my mind when I was
sitting in the kirk that you might maybe help me, and--keep my heart
from breaking altogether," said she; then lifting her eyes to John's
face she asked, "Have ye ever been in the tollbooth at Aberdeen?  It is
there my Willie is, whom I would fain save."

John's mother felt the start her son gave at the words.  Even she
uttered a word of dismay.

"I must tell you more," said Allison eagerly.  "Yes, he did wrong.  But
he had great provocation.  He struck a man down.  At first they thought
the man might die.  But he didna die.  My mother died, and my father,
but this man lived.  Willie was tried for what he had done, and though
all in the countryside were ready to declare that Brownrig had gotten
only what he well deserved, they sentenced the lad to a long year and a
half in the tollbooth, and there he has been all this time.  A long time
it has been to me, and it has been longer to him.  It is near over now,
thank God."

"And have you never seen him nor heard from him since then?" asked Mrs
Beaton.

"I wrote one letter to him and he wrote one to me.  That was at the
first.  I wrote to him to tell him what I was going to do, and to warn
him what he must do when his time was over.  I dared not write again,
for fear that--and even now I dare not go to him.  When we meet it must
be on the other side of the sea.  But I _must_ hear from him before
then.  He wasna an ill lad, though ye might think it from what I have
told you.  He was only foolish and ill advised.

"And think of him all these long days and months alone with his anger
and his shame--him that had ay had a free life in the fields and on the
hills.  And there is no one to speak a kind word to him when he comes
out of that weary place--"

"And you would like my John to go and see him?" said Mrs Beaton.

"Oh! if he only would!  Think of him alone, without a friend!  And he is
easily led either for good or ill."

"Is it likely that he would listen to anything that an utter stranger
would say to him?" said John.

He spoke coldly, as his mother noticed with pain.  Allison did not
notice it.

"But you would not seem like a stranger to him if you came from me.  And
anyway, ye wouldna be strangers long.  You would like Willie, or you
would be the first one who didna, all his life.  And oh! he needs one
wise, and strong, and good like you.  The very touch of your hand would
give him hope, and would keep him from losing heart--and, it might be,
from losing himself--"

She stood, bending slightly toward him, her eyes, which in spite of his
will and his reason had all these months haunted him by night and by
day, looking into his.  She stood in utter unconsciousness of herself or
of him, save as one whose strength might help the weakness of another
who was in sore need.  No spoken words could have made clearer to him
that he--John Beaton--was not in all her thoughts, save as a possible
friend to the unknown criminal, who, doubtless, had well deserved his
fate.

And to think of the life which lay before this woman, with this weak
fool to share it--a woman among ten thousand!

"She will need strength for two, and her love will give it to her,"
thought John, a dull pain at his heart with which some self-contempt was
mingled.  Randall, who, with Sinnott, had shown considerable strength of
mind by staying in the house under such trying circumstances, had
evidently had enough of ghostly hauntings, for as he lay on the
floor, trembling in every limb and bathed in perspiration, he
exclaimed: "Oh, isn't this dreadful?

I can't stand it; I can't stay here any longer." He was eventually
persuaded to get back to bed. Later on more rapping occurred in a
different part of the room, but it soon stopped, and the rest of the
night passed away in peace.

Randall and Sinnott went to their homes the next day, and Mr. Murphy
spent from eleven till long past midnight in their vacated room,
but heard and saw nothing unusual.

He states in conclusion that "Randall could not reach that part of the
floor from which the rapping came on any occasion without attracting my
attention and that of my comrade."
The next case related by Professor Barrett occurred in County Fermanagh,
at a spot eleven miles from Enniskillen and about two miles from the
hamlet of Derrygonelly, where there dwelt a farmer and his family of four
girls and a boy, of whom the eldest was a girl of about twenty
years of age named Maggie.

His cottage consisted of three rooms, the kitchen, or dwelling-room, being
in the centre, with a room on each side used as bedrooms.

In one of these two rooms Maggie slept with her sisters, and it was
here that the disturbances occurred, generally after they had all
gone to bed, when rappings and scratchings were heard which often
lasted all night. Rats were first blamed, but when things were moved by
some unseen agent, and boots and candles thrown out of the house, it
was seen that something more than the ordinary rat was at work. The old
farmer, who was a Methodist, sought advice from his class leader, and
by his directions laid an open Bible on the bed in the haunted room,
placing a big stone on the book.

But the stone was lifted off by an unseen hand, the Bible moved out
of the room, and seventeen pages torn out of it.

They could not keep a lamp or candle in the house, so they went to
their neighbours for help, and, to quote the old farmer's words to
Professor Barrett, "Jack Flanigan came and lent us a lamp, saying
the devil himself would not steal it, as he had got the priest to
sprinkle it with holy water."

"But that," the old man said, "did us no good either, for the next day
it took away that lamp also."
Professor Barrett, at the invitation of Mr. Thomas Plunkett of Enniskillen,
went to investigate. He got a full account from the farmer of the freakish
tricks which were continually being played in the house, and gives a
graphic account of what he himself observed: "After the children,
except the boy, had gone to bed, Maggie lay down on the bed without
undressing, so that her hands and feet could be observed.

The rest of us sat round the kitchen fire, when faint raps, rapidly
increasing in loudness, were heard coming apparently from the walls,
the ceiling, and various parts of the inner room, the door of which
was open.

On entering the bedroom with a light the noises at first ceased, but
recommenced when I put the light on the window-sill in the kitchen.

I had the boy and his father by my side, and asked Mr. Plunkett to
look round the house outside.

Standing in the doorway leading to the bedroom, the noises recommenced,
the light was gradually brought nearer, and after much patience I
was able to bring the light into the bedroom whilst the disturbances
were still loudly going on.

At last I was able to go up to the side of the bed, with the lighted
candle in my hand, and closely observed each of the occupants lying on
the bed. The younger children were apparently asleep, and Maggie was
motionless; nevertheless, knocks were going on everywhere around;
on the chairs, the bedstead, the walls and ceiling.

The closest scrutiny failed to detect any movement on the part of those
present that could account for the noises, which were accompanied by a
scratching or tearing sound. Suddenly a large pebble fell in my presence
on to the bed; no one had moved to dislodge it, even if it had been
placed for the purpose.

When I replaced the candle on the window-sill in the kitchen, the
knocks became still louder, like those made by a heavy carpenter's hammer
driving nails into flooring."
A couple of days afterwards, the Rev. Maxwell Close, M.A., a well-known
member of the S.P.R., joined Professor Barrett and Mr. Plunkett, and
together the party of three paid visits on two consecutive nights
to the haunted farm-house, and the noises were repeated. Complete
search was made, both inside and outside of the house, but no cause
could be found.
When the party were leaving, the old farmer was much perturbed that
they had not "laid the ghost."

When questioned he said he thought it was fairies. He was asked if it
had answered to questions by raps and he said he had; "but it
tells lies as often as truth, and oftener, I think.

We tried it, and it only knocked at L M N when we said the alphabet
over." Professor Barrett then tested it by asking mentally for a certain
number of raps, and immediately the actual number was heard.

He repeated this four times with a different number each time, and with
the same result.

Perhaps the most interesting part of this particular case is at the end
of Professor Barrett's account, when, at the request of the old
farmer, Mr.

Maxwell Close read some passages from Scripture, followed by the Lord's
Prayer, to an accompaniment of knockings and scratches, which were at
first so loud that the solemn words could hardly be heard, but
which gradually ceased as they all knelt in prayer.

And since that night no further disturbance occurred.

Another similar story comes from the north of Ireland. In the year
1866 (as recorded in the _Larne Reporter_ of March 31 in that
year), two families residing at Upper Ballygowan, near Larne,
suffered a series of annoyances from having stones thrown into their
houses both by night and by day.

Their neighbours came in great numbers to sympathise with them in their
affliction, and on one occasion, after a volley of stones had been
poured into the house through the window, a young man who was present
fired a musket in the direction of the mysterious assailants. The
reply was a loud peal of satanic laughter, followed by a volley of
stones and turf. On another occasion a heap of potatoes, which was in
an inner apartment of one of the houses, was seen to be in commotion,
and shortly afterwards its contents were hurled into the kitchen,
where the inmates of the house, with some of their neighbours, were
assembled.

The explanation given by some people of this mysterious affair was as
mysterious as the affair itself.

It was said that many years before the occurrences which we have
now related took place, the farmer who then occupied the premises
in which they happened was greatly annoyed by mischievous tricks
which were played upon him by a company of fairies who had a habit
of holding their rendezvous in his house.

The consequence was that this man had to leave the house, which for
a long time stood a roofless ruin.

After the lapse of many years, and when the story about the dilapidated
fabric having been haunted had probably been forgotten, the people who
then occupied the adjoining lands unfortunately took some of the stones
of the old deserted mansion to repair their own buildings.

At this the fairies, or "good people," were much incensed; and they vented
their displeasure on the offender in the way we have described.

A correspondent from County Wexford, who desires to have his name
suppressed, writes as follows: "Less than ten miles from the town
of ----, Co.

Wexford, lives a small farmer named M----, who by dint of thrift and
industry has reared a large family decently and comfortably.

"Some twenty years ago Mr. M----, through the death of a relative, fell
in for a legacy of about a hundred pounds. As he was already in rather
prosperous circumstances, and as his old thatched dwelling-house
was not large enough to accommodate his increasing family, he
resolved to spend the money in building a new one.

"Not long afterwards building operations commenced, and in about a year
he had a fine slated cottage, or small farm-house, erected and ready for
occupation: so far very well; but it is little our friend M----
anticipated the troubles which were still ahead of him.

He purchased some new furniture at the nearest town, and on a certain day
he removed all the furniture which the old house contained into
the new one; and in the evening the family found themselves installed
in the latter for good, as they thought.

They all retired to rest at their usual hour; scarcely were they snugly
settled in bed when they heard peculiar noises inside the house. As
time passed the din became terrible--there was shuffling of feet, slamming
of doors, pulling about of furniture, and so forth.

The man of the house got up to explore, but could see nothing, neither
was anything disturbed. The door was securely locked as he had
left it.

After a thorough investigation, in which his wife assisted, he had to
own he could find no clue to the cause of the disturbance.

The couple went to bed again, and almost immediately the racket recommenced,
and continued more or less till dawn.

"The inmates were puzzled and frightened, but determined to try whether
the noise would be repeated the next night before telling their neighbours
what had happened.

But the pandemonium experienced the first night of their occupation
was as nothing compared with what they had to endure the second
night and for several succeeding nights.

Sleep was impossible, and finally Mr. M---- and family in terror abandoned
their new home, and retook possession of their old one.

"That is the state of things to this day. The old house has been
repaired and is tenanted. The new house, a few perches off, facing
the public road, is used as a storehouse. The writer has seen it
scores of times, and its story is well known all over the country-side.
Mr. M---- is disinclined to discuss the matter or to answer questions;
but it is said he made several subsequent attempts to occupy the house,
but always failed to stand his ground when night came with its
usual rowdy disturbances.

"It is said that when building operations were about to begin, a
little man of bizarre appearance accosted Mr.

M---- and exhorted him to build on a different site; otherwise the
consequences would be unpleasant for him and his; while the local
peasantry allege that the house was built across a fairy pathway
between two _raths_, and that this was the cause of the trouble.

It is quite true that there are two large _raths_ in the vicinity, and
the haunted house is directly in a bee-line between them.
For myself I offer no explanation; but I guarantee the substantial
accuracy of what I have stated above."
Professor Barrett, in the paper to which we have already referred,
draws certain conclusions from his study of this subject; one of
the chief of these is that "the widespread belief in fairies, pixies,
gnomes, brownies, etc., probably rests on the varied manifestations
of poltergeists."

The popular explanation of the above story bears out this conclusion,
and it is further emphasized by the following, which comes from
Portarlington: A man near that town had saved five hundred pounds,
and determined to build a house with the money. He fixed on a certain
spot, and began to build, very much against the advice of his friends,
who said it was on a fairy path, and would bring him ill-luck. Soon the
house was finished, and the owner moved in; but the very first night his
troubles began, for some unseen hand threw the furniture about and broke
it, while the man himself was injured. Being unwilling to lose the value
of his money, he tried to make the best of things. But night after
night the disturbances continued, and life in the house was
impossible; the owner chose the better part of valour and left.

No tenant has been found since, and the house stands empty, a silent
testimony to the power of the poltergeist.

Poltergeistic phenomena from their very nature lend themselves to spurious
reproduction and imitation, as witness the famous case of Cock
Lane and many other similar stories. At least one well-known
case occurred in Ireland, and is interesting as showing that where
fraud is at work, close investigation will discover it. It is
related that an old Royal Irish Constabulary pensioner, who obtained
a post as emergency man during the land troubles, and who in 1892
was in charge of an evicted farm in the Passage East district, was
being continually disturbed by furniture and crockery being thrown
about in a mysterious manner.

Reports were brought to the police, and they investigated the matter;
but nothing was heard or seen beyond knocking on an inside wall
of a bedroom in which one of the sons was sleeping; this knocking
ceased when the police were in the bedroom, and no search was made in
the boy's bed to see if he had a stick. The police therefore could
find no explanation, the noises continued night after night, and
eventually the family left and went to live in Waterford. A great
furore was raised when it was learnt that the hauntings had followed
them, and again investigation was made, but it seems to have been
more careful this time: an eye was kept on the movements of the
young son, and at least two independent witnesses saw him throwing
things about--fireirons and jam-pots--when he thought his father
was not looking.

It seems to have been a plot between the mother and son owing to the
former's dislike to her husband's occupation, which entailed great
unpopularity and considerable personal risk.

Fearing for her own and her family's safety, the wife conceived of
this plan to force her husband to give up his post.

Her efforts were successful, as the man soon resigned his position
and went to live elsewhere.[7]
[Footnote 7: _Proceedings_, S.P.R.]

CHAPTER V

HAUNTED PLACES

That houses are haunted and apparitions frequently seen therein are
pretty well established facts. The preceding chapters have dealt with
this aspect of the subject, and, in view of the weight of evidence to
prove the truth of the stories told in them, it would be hard for
anyone to doubt that there is such a thing as a haunted house,
whatever explanation maybe given of "haunting."

We now turn to another division of the subject--the outdoor ghost
who haunts the roadways, country lanes, and other places.

Sceptics on ghostly phenomena are generally pretty full of explanations
when they are told of a ghost having been seen in a particular
spot, and the teller may be put down as hyper-imaginative, or as
having been deluded by moonlight playing through the trees; while
cases are not wanting where a reputation for temperance has been
lost by a man telling his experiences of a ghost he happens to have
met along some country lane; and the fact that there are cases where
an imaginative and nervous person has mistaken for a ghost a white
goat or a sheet hanging on a bush only strengthens the sceptic's
disbelief and makes him blind to the very large weight of evidence
that can be arrayed against him.

Some day, no doubt, psychologists and scientists will be able to give
us a complete and satisfactory explanation of these abnormal
apparitions, but at present we are very much in the dark, and any
explanation that may be put forward is necessarily of a tentative
nature.

The following story is sent us by Mr. J. J.

Crowley, of the Munster and Leinster Bank, who writes as follows:
"The scene is outside Clonmel, on the main road leading up to a
nice old residence on the side of the mountains called ---- Lodge.

I happened to be visiting my friends, two other bank men.

It was night, about eight o'clock, moonless, and tolerably dark,
and when within a quarter of a mile or perhaps less of a bridge
over a small stream near the house I saw a girl, dressed in white,
wearing a black sash and long flowing hair, walk in the direction
from me up the culvert of the bridge and disappear down the other
side.

At the time I saw it I thought it most peculiar that I could distinguish
a figure so far away, and thought a light of some sort must be falling
on the girl, or that there were some people about and that some
of them had struck a match.

When I got to the place I looked about, but could find no person there.

"I related this story to my friends some time after arriving, and was
then told that one of them had wakened up in his sleep a few nights
previously, and had seen an identical figure standing at the foot of his
bed, and rushed in fright from his room, taking refuge for the
night with the other lodger.

They told the story to their landlady, and learned from her that
this apparition had frequently been seen about the place, and was
the spirit of one of her daughters who had died years previously
rather young, and who, previous to her death, had gone about just
as we described the figure we had seen.

I had heard nothing of this story until after I had seen the ghost,
and consequently it could not be put down to hallucination or
over-imagination on my part."

The experiences of two constables of the Royal Irish Constabulary while
on despatch duty one winter's night in the early eighties has been
sent us by one of the men concerned, and provides interesting
reading.

It was a fine moonlight night, with a touch of frost in the air, when
these two men set out to march the five miles to the next barrack. Brisk
walking soon brought them near their destination. The barrack which
they were approaching was on the left side of the road, and facing it
on the other side was a whitethorn hedge.

The road at this point was wide, and as the two constables got
within fifty yards of the barrack, they saw a policeman step out
from this hedge and move across the road, looking towards the two
men as he did so.

He was plainly visible to them both.
"He was bare-headed" (runs the account), "with his tunic opened
down the front, a stout-built man, black-haired, pale, full face,
and short mutton-chop whiskers."

They thought he was a newly-joined constable who was doing "guard"
and had come out to get some fresh air while waiting for a patrol
to return.

As the two men approached, he disappeared into the shadow of the barrack,
and apparently went in by the door; to their amazement, when they
came up they found the door closed and bolted, and it was only after loud
knocking that they got a sleepy "All right" from some one inside, and
after the usual challenging were admitted. There was no sign of the
strange policeman when they got in, and on inquiry they learnt that
no new constable had joined the station. The two men realised then that
they had seen a ghost, but refrained from saying anything about it to
the men at the station--a very sensible precaution, considering the
loneliness of the average policeman's life in this country.

Some years afterwards the narrator of the above story learnt that
a policeman had been lost in a snow-drift near this particular
barrack.

Whether this be the explanation we leave to others: the facts as
stated are well vouched for.

  There is no evidence to support the
  theory of hallucination, for the
  apparition was so vivid that the idea of its being other than
normal never entered the constables' heads _till they had got into
the barrack_.

When they found the door shut and bolted, their amazement was caused
by indignation against an apparently unsociable or thoughtless
comrade, and it was only afterwards, while discussing the whole
thing on their homeward journey, that it occurred to them that it
would have been impossible for any ordinary mortal to shut, bolt,
and bar a door without making a sound.

In the winter of 1840-1, in the days when snow and ice and all their
attendant pleasures were more often in evidence than in these degenerate
days, a skating party was enjoying itself on the pond in the grounds
of the Castle near Rathfarnham, Co. Dublin. Among the skaters was a
man who had with him a very fine curly-coated retriever dog. The pond
was thronged with people enjoying themselves, when suddenly the
ice gave way beneath him, and the man fell into the water; the dog
went to his rescue, and both were drowned.

A monument was erected to perpetuate the memory of the dog's heroic
self-sacrifice, but only the pedestal now remains. The ghost of the
dog is said to haunt the grounds and the public road between the
castle gate and the Dodder Bridge. Many people have seen the phantom
dog, and the story is well known locally.

The ghost of a boy who was murdered by a Romany is said to haunt
one of the lodge gates of the Castle demesne, and the lodge-keeper
states that he saw it only a short time ago.

The Castle, however, is now in possession of Jesuit Fathers, and the
Superior assures us that there has been no sign of a ghost for a long
time, his explanation being that the place is so crowded out with
new buildings "that even a ghost would have some difficulty in
finding a comfortable corner."

It is a fairly general belief amongst students of supernatural phenomena
that animals have the psychic faculty developed to a greater extent
than we have. There are numerous stories which tell of animals being
scared and frightened by something that is invisible to a human
being, and the explanation given is that the animal has seen a ghost
which we cannot see.

A story that is told of a certain spot near the village of G----, in Co.
Kilkenny, supports this theory. The account was sent us by the eye-witness
of what occurred, and runs as follows: "I was out for a walk one evening
near the town of G---- about 8.45 P.M., and was crossing the bridge that
leads into the S. Carlow district with a small wire-haired terrier
dog. When we were about three-quarters of a mile out, the dog began
to bark and yelp in a most vicious manner at 'nothing' on the left-hand
side of the roadway and near to a straggling hedge. I felt a bit creepy
and that something was wrong. The dog kept on barking, but I could at
first see nothing, but on looking closely for a few seconds I believe I
saw a small grey-white object vanish gradually and noiselessly
into the hedge.

No sooner had it vanished than the dog ceased barking, wagged his tail,
and seemed pleased with his successful efforts." The narrator goes on to
say that he made inquiries when he got home, and found that this
spot on the road had a very bad reputation, as people had frequently seen
a ghost there, while horses had often to be beaten, coaxed, or led
past the place. The explanation locally current is that a suicide was
buried at the cross-roads near at hand, or that it may be the ghost
of a man who is known to have been killed at the spot.

The following story has been sent us by the Rev. H.R.B. Gillespie, to
whom it was told by one of the witnesses of the incidents described
therein.

One bright moonlight night some time ago a party consisting of a man,
his two daughters, and a friend were driving along a country road in
County Leitrim. They came to a steep hill, and all except the
driver got down to walk. One of the two sisters walked on in front,
and after her came the other two, followed closely by the trap. They
had not gone far, when those in rear saw a shabbily-dressed man
walking beside the girl who was leading.

But she did not seem to be taking any notice of him, and, wondering what
he could be, they hastened to overtake her. But just when they were
catching her up the figure suddenly dashed into the shadow of a disused
forge, which stood by the side of the road, and as it did so the
horse, which up to this had been perfectly quiet, reared up and became
unmanageable. The girl beside whom the figure had walked had seen
and heard nothing.

The road was not bordered by trees or a high hedge, so that it could
not have been some trick of the moonlight. One of the girls described
the appearance of the figure to a local workman, who said, "It is very
like a tinker who was found dead in that forge about six months ago."

Here is another story of a haunted spot on a road, where a "ghost"
was seen, not at the witching hour of night, not when evening shadows
lengthen, but in broad daylight. It is sent to us by the percipient, a
lady, who does not desire to have her name mentioned. She was walking
along a country road in the vicinity of Cork one afternoon, and
passed various people.

She then saw coming towards her a country-woman dressed in an old-fashioned
style. This figure approached her, and when it drew near, suddenly
staggered, as if under the influence of drink, and disappeared! She
hastened to the spot, but searched in vain for any clue to the
mystery; the road was bounded by high walls, and there was no gateway or
gap through which the figure might slip.

Much mystified, she continued on her way, and arrived at her destination.

The minister was not at home, and Mrs Hume, who was not very well,
was up-stairs with her little daughter.  All this Allison told him, and
asked him to sit down, with no thought that he would do so, for few
words had ever passed between them.  He sat down, however, and leaned
over the fire with his hands spread out, for "the nicht was cauld," he
said.

Allison brought dry peats and mended the fire, and then took to her
stocking-mending again.  It would not have been easy for her to begin a
conversation with Crombie under any circumstances.  It seemed impossible
to do so now, for what could she say to him?  Saunners had been in deep
affliction.  His wife was dead, and he had just returned from her burial
in a distant parish, and it seemed to Allison that it would be
presumption in her to utter a word of condolence, and worse still to
speak about indifferent things.

She stole a glance at him now and then as she went on with her work.
How old, and grey, and grim he looked!  And how sad and solitary the
little house at the edge of the moss must be, now that his wife was not
there!  His grey hair and his bowed head 'minded her of her father; and
this man had no child to comfort him, as she had tried to comfort her
father when her mother died.  She was very sorry for him.

Her sympathy took a practical turn, and she rose suddenly and went out.
The tea-kettle was singing on the hearth, and when she returned she went
to the dresser and took the teapot down.

"Ye're chilled and weary, and I am going to make you a cup of tea," said
she.  Saunners looked up in surprise.

"There's nae occasion.  I'll get my supper when I gae hame."

He made a little pause before the word, as though it were not easy to
say it.

"Ay, will ye.  But that will be a while yet.  And I must do as I am
bidden.  The mistress would have come down, but she's no' just very well
the night, and is going to her bed.  The minister may be in soon."

So the tea was made and butter spread upon the bannocks, and then
Allison made herself busy here and there about the kitchen and out of
it, that he might have his tea in peace.  When his meal was finished and
the dishes put away, she sat down again, and another glance at the bowed
head and the wrinkled, careworn face, gave her courage to say:

"I am sorry for your trouble."

Saunners answered with a sigh.

"Ye must be worn out wi' that lang road and your heavy heart."

"Ay.  It was far past gloaming o' the second day ere I wore to the end
o' the journey.  The langest twa days o' a lang life they were to me.
But it was her wish to be laid there wi' her ain folk, and I bid to gie
her that last pleasure.  But it was a lang road to me and Girzzie, too,
puir beast."

"And had ye no friend to be with ye all that time?"

Saunners shook his head.

"Peter Gilchrist offered to go wi' me.  But he was ahind with his farm
work, an' I wasna needin' him.  Twa folk may shorten a lang day to ane
anither, but it's no ay done to edification.  But the warst o' a' was
coming hame to a forsaken hoose."

The old man shivered at the remembrance and his grey head drooped lower.

"I'm sorry for your trouble," repeated Allison.  "It's the forsaken home
that at first seems the worst to bear."

"Ay, do ye ken that?  Weel, mine's a forsaken hoose.  She was but a
feckless bodie, and no' ay that easy to deal wi', but she's a sair miss
in the hoose.  And I hae but begun wi't," added Saunners with a sigh.
Then there was a long silence.  "It's a bonny place yon, where I laid
her down," said he at last, as if he was going on with his own thoughts.
"It's a bonny spot on a hillside, lying weel to the sun, wi' a brown
burn at the foot.  I got a glimpse over the wall of the manse garden.
The minister's an auld man, they say.  I didna trouble him.  He could
hae dane nae gude either to her or to me.  It's a fine, quiet spot to
rest in.  I dinna wonder that my Eppie minded on it at last, and had a
longing to lie there with her kin.  It is a place weel filled--weel
filled indeed."

Allison's work had fallen on her lap, and she sat with parted lips and
eager eyes gazing at him as he went on.

"I saw the name o' Bain on a fine new headstane there.  An only son had
put it up over his father and his mother, within a few months, they
said.  I took notice of it because o' a man that came in and stood
glowering at it as we were finishing our job.  It was wi' nae gude
intent that he cam', I doubt.  He was ane that middled with maist things
in the parish, they said.  But I could hae proved that my Eppie belonged
to the parish, and had a gude right to lie there wi' her kin.  We were
near dane ere he took heed o' us, and it was ower late to speak then.
He only speired a question or twa, and then gaed awa'."

Then there was a long pause.  Saunners sat looking into the fire,
sighing now and then, and clearing his throat as if he were ready to
begin again.  When he turned toward her, Allison took to her
stocking-darning.  She longed to ask him a question--but she dared not
do it, even if she could have uttered the words.  Saunners went on:

"I thocht it queer-like of the man, but I would hardly have heeded it
but for that which followed.  When his back was fairly turned there came
a wee wifie out o' the corner, where she had been watchin', and shook
her neive (fist) at him and ca'ed him ill names.  It was like a curse
upon him.  And she bade him go hame to his fine house, where he would
have to live his leefu' lane a' his days as a punishment for his
wickedness.  I had a few words with her after that.  She was unco
curious to hear about my Eppie, and how I came to lay her there.  We
gaed through among the stanes thegither, and she had plenty to say about
ane and anither; and whiles she was sensible enough, and whiles I had my
doubts about it.  Many a strange thing she told me gin I could only
mind."

Then Saunners sat silent again, thinking.  Allison turned her face away
from the light.

Was the terrible old man saying all this with a purpose?  Did he know
more than he told, and did he mean it for a warning?  For it must have
been in the parish of Kilgower where he had laid down the body of his
wife.  And it must have been Brownrig whom the "wee bowed wifie" had
cursed.  She grew sick at the thought of what might be coming upon her;
but she put force upon herself, and spoke quietly about other matters.
Then the old man rose to go.

"I thocht maybe I might see John Beaton the nicht.  Is he at hame, think
ye?"  Allison shook her head.

"I havena heard of his being here, but he may have come for all that."

"Ye would be likely to ken," said Saunners, and then he went away.

Allison listened till the sound of his footsteps died in the distance,
then she rose and did what was still to be done in the house.  She
barred the door, and covered the fire, and put out the lights, and went
softly up-stairs to the little room where Marjorie slumbered peacefully.
Then she sat down to think of all that she had heard.

It was not much.  Crombie had seen two names on a headstone in the
kirkyard of Kilgower.  That they were the names of her father and mother
she did not doubt.  She had been greatly startled by all she had heard,
but she had not betrayed herself; and after all, had she not more cause
to be glad and thankful than to be afraid?  Willie had put up that
stone!  Was not that enough to make it sure that he had been at home,
and that all had been well with him?  He might be at home yet, on his
own land.  Or he might be on the sea--on his way to a new country which
was to give a home to them both.  Glad tears came to Allison's eyes as
she knelt down and laid her face on Marjorie's pillow.

"I am glad and thankful," she said, "and I will not vex myself thinking
about what the old man said.  It might just be by chance that he spoke
with no thought about me, except that the name was the same.  I will be
thankful and have patience and wait.  I am sure he would not wish to
harm me.  Only if he were to speak of all that in the hearing of other
folk it might end in my having to go away again."

But the thought of having to go away did not seem so terrible to her as
it would have done a few months ago.  Her courage had risen since then.
She had "come to herself," and she was reasonable both in her fears and
her hopes, and so she repeated, as she laid her head on her pillow:

"I will be thankful and have patience and wait.  And I will put my trust
in God."


CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

  "She courtsied low, she spoke him fair,
          She sent him on his way;
  She said as she stood smiling there,
  You've wealth, and wiles, and wisdom rare,
          But I have won the day."

Crombie did not leave the manse with an easy mind, and the more he
thought of what he had said, and what he had not said there, the more
uneasy he became.  He was in a quandary, he told himself, putting the
accent on the last "a."  To his surprise and consternation he found
himself in doubt as to the course he ought to pursue.

He had gone to the manse with the full intention of asking the
minister's lass whether she were the wife of the man whom he had seen
"glowering at the new headstane" in the kirkyard of Kilgower, and of
putting it to her conscience whether she was not breaking the laws of
God and man by keeping herself hidden out of his way.

But he had not asked her.  He could not do it.  He had come away without
a word, and now he was saying to himself that the man who through
soft-heartedness, or through the influence of carnal affection, suffered
sin in another, thus being unfaithful to a sinful soul in danger, was
himself a sinner.  He ought to have spoken, he told himself.  He could
not be called upon to tell the story to another, but to Allison herself
he should have spoken.  If her conscience needed to be wakened, he
sinned against her in keeping silence.  It might have been to prepare
him for this very work that he had been sent to lay his Eppie down in
that faraway kirkyard.

Saunners stood still on the hillside when he got thus far.  Ought he to
go back again?  He could not be sure.  The thought of the first glimpse
he had got that night of Allison sitting quiet and busy with her work,
with a look of growing content upon her face that had once been so
gloomy and sad, came back to him, and he moved on again.

"I'll sleep on it," said he, "and I'll seek counsel."

It was a wise resolution to which to come.  Saunners was a good man,
though, perhaps, he did not always do full honour to his Master or to
himself in the sight of those who were looking on.  He was "dour, and
sour, and ill to bide," it was said of him, even by some among his
friends.

But there was this also to be said of Saunners.  It was only when a life
of struggle and disappointment and hard, wearing work was more than half
over, that he had come to see the "True Light," and to find the help of
the Burden-Bearer.  A man may forsake the sins of his youth and learn to
hate the things which he loved before, and to love the things which he
hated, and in his heart long, and in his life strive, to follow the
Perfect Example in all things.  But the temper which has been indulged
for half a lifetime cannot be easily and always overcome, and habits
which have grown through the years cannot be cast aside and put out of
sight in a moment, like an ill-fitting garment which will never trouble
more.  Life was, in a way, a struggle to Saunners still.

But though he lost his temper sometimes and seemed to those who were too
ready to judge him to fail in the putting on of that Charity which
"thinketh no evil" and which is "the bond of perfectness," he was still
a good man, honest, conscientious, just, and he could never willingly
have sought to harm or to alarm any helpless or suffering creature.  But
then neither would his conscience let him consent to suffer sin in one
whom he might, through faithful dealing, save from loss and ruin, and
whom he might bring back to the right way again.

"She doesna look like a sinfu' woman," he thought, recalling the glimpse
he had got through the open door, of Allison sitting at peace and safe
from harm.  "She is like a woman who has seen sorrow, and who is winning
through wi't.  And yon man had an evil look.

"And after a', what hae I to go upon?  A name on a headstane in a
farawa' kirkyard!  A' the rest came frae the wee wud wifie (the little
mad woman), who micht have made up the story, or only believed it true
because o' the ill-will she bore to yon dark, angry-lookin' man.  And
even if the story be true, what call have I to mak' or meddle in it?

"No' an ill word that ever I hae heard has been spoken of the lass since
she came to the manse.  She's at peace, and she's doing the duty that
seems to be given her to do, and--I'll bide a wee and seek counsel.  And
after a', what hae I to go upon?" repeated Saunners.

But there was plenty to go upon, as he knew well, if he had only been
sure that it would be wise to do anything, or meddle at all in the
matter.  He had only spoken a word to Allison; but the wee wifie, while
they sat together on a fallen gravestone, had told him, not the whole
story--she was hardly capable of doing that--but all of it that she had
seen with her own eyes.

Oh! yes.  She knew well about bonny Allie Bain.  She was in the kirk
when she was married--"sair against her will.  It was like a muckle
black corbie carrying off a cushat doo.  But the cushat got free for a'
that," said the wee wifie, with nods and smiles and shrill laughter.

But she said nothing of the brother's part in that which followed,
though she told with glee how Brownrig had gotten his deserts before all
was done, and how the bride went one way and the bridegroom went
another, "carried hame wi' sair banes in his gig."  She told how first
Allison's mother, and then her father, were put in the grave, where they
both lay with the new stone at their heads, and how "bonny Allie" had
come to say farewell to them there.  She grew eager and eloquent when
she came to her own part in the story.

"I was here mysel', as I am maist days, for it's a bonny place and
halesome, though ye mightna think it here among the dead folk.  I like
to hae a crack with them that's been awa' for mony a year and day.  My
mother lies ower in yon nook, and the man I should hae marriet.  My
father and my brother were lost at sea.

"Oh! ay--and about bonny Allie.  Weel, she lay down wi' her face upon
the sod, and lay lang there, and when she lifted it again it was white
as the snaw, but there wasna a tear upon it.  Then there came the bark
o' a dog that I kenned weel.  He was sent after me once, though Brownrig
denies it.  So I made free to go in by; and says I, `Miss Allie dear, I
hear the bark o' the black dog, Worry, and I doubt his maister's nae
farawa'.'

"She was speakin' ower the wa' to the minister's son by that time, and
after a minute or twa she came awa', put her face down on the grave
again, and then she followed me.  And when we came near to the foot o'
the brae, I garred (made) her take off her hose and shoon, and wade doon
the burn a bittie that the dog mightna follow the scent, and I laid doon
peats that she might step on them a bit o' the way between the burn and
my ain door.

"When she came in she sat still like ane dazed and spent, and never a
word spake she.  But I stirred up the fire and boiled the kettle, and
said I:--

"`Did ye break your fast afore ye came awa'?'

"`There wasna time,' said she.

"`And ye had nae heart for your supper yestreen, and ye forgot ye're
denner, and nae wonder.  But if ye're thinkin' o' winning awa' to
Aberdeen this day, or even the morn, ye'll need to tak' something to
make ye strong for the journey.'

"So she ate her bread and drank her tea, and then she lay down in my bed
and sleepit the hale day.  I was unsettled mysel' that day, and I thocht
I would gang up the brae to the Meikles and get some buttermilk that the
mistress had promised me.  So I darkened the window and locket my door.
But I didna leave my key in the thecking (thatch) as I do whiles, in
case any o' the neebors micht send a bairn wi' a sup o' milk, or a bit
from a new cut cheese.  It's weel to gie them a chance to open the
door."

"And what then?" said Crombie, fearful of another digression.  "What
happened then?"

"Oh! naething happened.  I only thocht I would be as weel awa', in case
Brownrig sent or came himsel' to see what there was to see.  So I gaed
awa' for a while, and when I cam' back I just set mysel' doon at the
door to wait for what would come next.  Allie sleepit on, and had nae
appearance o' having moved when the sun was near set, which wasna early,
for the days were near their langest.  But I made the fire burn up, and
b'iled the kettle to be ready, and made the tea.  And then wha' should I
see but Brownrig himsel', riding on his black horse and followed by his
uncanny tyke.  I had only time to draw thegither the doors o' my
press-bed ere he was upon me.

"I was feared at the sicht o' the dog, and the man saw it; but it wasna
for mysel' that I was feared, and that he didna see.

"`Ye needna gang white like that at the dog.  He'll do ye no harm,' said
he.

"`No, unless ye bid him,' said I.

"He gaed me a dark look, and said he: `I'm not like to do that, though I
hear ye have accused me of it.'

"So I saw he was gaen to speak me fair, and I cam' to the door, and a'
at once I saw the twa cups that I had set on the table for Allie and me.

"`Ye're to hae a veesitor the nicht?' said he.

"`Wha' kens?' said I.  `I'm ay ready, and it is to be you the nicht.
Come ye away in and take a cup o' tea, and maybe I'll find a drappie o'
something stronger, gin ye'll promise no' to tell the gauger.  No' that
I'm feared at _him_.  He's a frien' o' mine, and that's mair than I
would mak' bauld to say o' ye're-sel',' said I, giein' another feared
look at the dog.  `Come in by, and sit doon.'

"But it was growing late, he said, and he must awa'.  He had only a
question to speir at me.  Had I, by ony chance, seen his wife passing by
that day?  And in whose company?

"`Ye're wife?' said I, as gin I had forgotten.  I whiles do forget.

"`Ay, my wife, Mistress Brownrig--her that was Allison Bain!'

"`Oh!' said I then; `bonny Allie Bain?  Ay, I did that!  In the early,
_early_ mornin' I saw her ower yonder, lying wi' her face on the
new-made grave.'

"I spak' laich (low) when I said it.

"`And did ye no' speak to her?' said he.

"`I daured na,' said I.

"`And which way went she?' said he.

"`She stood up on her feet, and looked about her like one dazed, and
then somebody spoke to her from ower the wall.  And in a wee while I
cam' round and said a word, but she never answered me.'

"`And wha was the man?  Or was it a man?'

"`Oh! ay.  It was a man.  It was the minister's son wha has come lately
frae America.  But I heard na a word he said.'

"`Hadden?' he said.  `I'll hae a word wi' him.'  And he gaed off in a
hurry, and I was glad enow.  Then I cried after him: `Take ye're dog wi'
ye, and the next time ye come leave him at hame.'  But he never heeded,
but hurried awa'."

"And what happened then?" asked Saunners, trying to hide the interest he
took in the story, lest she should suspect that he had a reason for it.

"Doubtless Mr Hadden told him the truth.  There was little to tell.
But naething came o' it, nor of a' the search which he has keepit up
since then near and far.  It gaes me lauch when I think about it.  He
was mad wi' the love of her, and the last time he touched her hand was
when he put the ring upon it in the kirk.  Her lips he never touched--
that I'll daur to swear.  And a' this time he has been livin' in the
house that he made sae grand and fine for her.  And doesna he hate it
waur than pain or sin by this time?  Ay! that does he," said she with
her shrill laughter.  "He has had a hard year o' it.  He gaes here and
there; and when a new-comer is to be seen among us, his een is upon him
to mak' sure that he mayna hae something to say to the folk that bides
in Grassie--that's the Bains' farm.  And gin he thocht one had a word to
say about Allie, he would gar his black dog rive him in bits but he
would get it out o' him."

Then a change came over the old woman's face.

"And how did she get awa' at last?" asked Crombie, growing uneasy under
her eye.

"Oh! she won awa' easy eneuch in a while.  She was far frae weel then,
and I'm thinkin' that she's maybe dead and a' her troubles ower by this
time."

"And her name was Allie Bain, was it?"

"Ay, ay! her name was Allie Bain."

"Weel, I need to be goin' now.  I thank ye for yer story.  And if ever I
happen to see her, I'se tell her that I saw a frien' o' hers wha spak'
weel o' her.  And what may ye're ain name be?"

"My name's neither this nor that, that ye should seek to ken it.  And,
man! gin ye're een should ever licht on ane that ca's hersel' Allie
Bain, gae by her, as gin she wasna there.  It's better that neither man
nor woman should ken where she has made her refuge, lest ane should
speak her name by chance, and the birds o' the air should carry the
sound o' it to her enemy ower yonder.  Na, na!  The least said is
soonest mended, though I doubt I have been sayin' mair than was wise
mysel'.  But ye seem a decent-like bodie, and ye were in sair trouble,
and I thocht I micht hearten ye with friendly words ere ye gaed awa'.
But hae ye naething to say about Allison Bain neither to man nor woman,
for ill would be sure to come o' it."

She was evidently vexed and troubled, for she rose up and sat down, and
glanced sidewise at him in silence for a while.  Then she said:

"I daursay ye're thinkin' me a queer-like crater.  I'm auld, and I'm
crooket, and whiles my head's no richt, and there are folk that dinna
like to anger me, for fear that I micht wish an ill wish on them.  I
read my Bible, and say my prayers like ither folk.  But I'm no sayin'
that I haena seen uncanny things happen to folk that hae gaen against
me.  There's Brownrig himsel' for instance.

"I'm no' sayin' to ye to do the lass nae ill.  Ye seem a decent man, and
hae nae cause to mean her ill.  But never ye name her name.  That's gude
advice--though I havena ta'en it mysel'.  Gude-day to ye.  And haste ye
awa'.  Dinna let Brownrig's evil een licht on ye, or he'll hae out o' ye
a' ye ken and mair, ere ye can turn roond.  Gude-day to ye."

"Gude-day to you," said Saunners, rising.  He watched her till she
passed round the hill, and then he went away.

But the repentant wee wifie did not lose sight of him till he had gone
many miles on his homeward way.  She followed him in the distance, and
only turned back when she caught sight of Brownrig on his black horse,
with his face turned toward his home.

Though Saunners would not have owned that the woman's words had hastened
his departure, he lost no time in setting out.  It was not impossible
that, should Brownrig fall in with him later, he might seek to find out
whether he had ever seen or heard of Allison Bain, since that seemed to
be his way with strangers.  That he should wile out of him any
information that he chose to keep to himself, Saunners thought little
likely.  But he might ask a direct question; and the old man told
himself he could hold up his face and lie to no man, even to save
Allison Bain.

So he hastened away, and the weariness of his homeward road was
doubtless beguiled by the thoughts which he had about the story he had
heard, and about his duty concerning it.  His wisdom would be to forget
it altogether, he told himself.  But he could not do so.  He came to the
manse that night with the intention of telling Allison all he had heard,
and of getting the truth from her.  But when he saw her sitting there so
safe, and out of harm's way, he could not do it.

And yet he could not put it altogether out of his thoughts.  He would
not harm a hair of the lassie's head.  A good woman she must be, for she
had been doing her duty in the manse for nearly a year now, and never a
word to be spoken against her.  And who knew to what straits she might
be driven if she were obliged to go away and seek another shelter?
There were few chances that she would find another home like the manse.
No, he would utter not another word to startle her, or to try to win her
secret.

"But there is John Beaton to be considered.  I would fain hae a word wi'
John.  He's a lad that maybe thinks ower-weel o' himself, and carries
his head ower-high.  But the root o' the matter's in him.  Yes, I hae
little doubt o' that.  And if I'm nae sair mista'en there's a rough
bittie o' road before him.  But he is in gude hands, and he'll win
through.  I'll speak to him, and I'll tak' him at unawares.  I'll ken by
the first look o' his face whether his heart is set on her or no."


CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

  "Love will venture in where it daurna weel be seen."

But John had been taken by surprise before Crombie's turn came to speak.
Some one else had spoken.

It was Saturday night.  The work of the week was over Marjorie was safe
asleep, and restless with the thoughts which always came with leisure,
Allison threw a shawl over her head and went out into the lane.  It was
dark there, where the hedge was high, and the branches hung low from the
trees in the manse garden; but beyond the lane, the fields and the
faraway hills lay clear in the moonlight.  With lingering steps she
turned toward the green, along the path which skirted the cottage
gardens.  When she came to the last of them she heard her name called
softly.

It was John Beaton's voice.  She could not see him where he stood, but
he saw her clearly.  He saw on her face, as she drew near, the shadow
which told of the old sadness and gloom; and he saw it pass, like the
mist before the sunshine, as she stood still to listen.  In a moment he
had leaped the dike, and stood by her side.

"Allison!" said he eagerly, as he took her hand.

John was young, and he had had but small experience of woman and her
ways, or he never would have mistaken the look on Allison's face for the
look of love which he longed to see.  He never would have clasped and
kissed her without a word.

In the extremity of her surprise and dismay, Allison lay for a moment in
his embrace.  Then she struggled to get free.

"Allison, forgive me--because I love you.  Allison, say that you will be
my wife."

A low cry of anguish came from her white lips.

"Oh! may God pity me.  I have been sorely wrong, or this would not have
come to be my punishment."

She drew herself away from him, but she made no movement to leave him.
John hung his head before her.

"Allison, forgive my presumption, and give me a chance to win your love.
Allison, I love you dearly."

"Hush!" she whispered.  "Come with me.  I must speak to you.  I have
done wrong, but how could I ever have dreamed that you would give a
thought to me?"

She laid her hand upon his arm.

"I am in sore trouble.  Come with me somewhere--to your mother--for I
must speak to you."

"Not to my mother, if you have anything to say which will grieve her,"
said John huskily.

"It might grieve her, but she would understand.  She might be angry for
a moment; but she is kind and good, and she would not think evil of me."

They stood in silence for a minute or two.  Then she said:

"Come into the manse.  No one will be there till I have time to say what
I must say."

They moved on till they came to the lane that led thither, and passed
out of the moonlight into the shadow.

"Allison," said John, pausing, "you cannot surely mean to cut me off
from all hope?  You might come to--care for me in time."

"Care for you?  Oh, yes!  I care for you.  You are my friend, and
Willie's.  But I have done you a wrong, and with no will to do it."

Instead of going into the house they turned aside at the end of the
hedge, and entered the garden.  On the summer-seat, under the tall
fir-trees, they sat down in silence.  After a time Allison rose, and
stood before her friend.

"John," said she, "when I heard your voice to-night I was glad.  My
heart has been heavy with a great dread all the week; and when I heard
your voice I said to myself, here is a friend who will help me.  John,"
she said after a moment's silence, "it is my secret I am going to tell
you--my secret that I have kept all these long months.  I trust you,
John.  You will tell me what I must do."

"Well," said John, as she paused again.

"John--I am a wife already.  It is from--from the man who married me
against my will that I have been hiding all this time.  You must not
think ill of me, for I was like a lost creature when my father died, and
I knew not what to do.  I came away hoping that God would let me die, or
keep me hidden till my brother should get away to the other side of the
sea.  And God has kept me safe till now.  John, will you forgive me and
help me?"

The hands she held out to him trembled.  She was shaking with excitement
and the chill of the night.  He rose and wrapped her shawl close about
her.

"Allison, sit down.  Or shall we go into the house?  I will do all that
I can to help you--so help me God!" said John with a groan, fearing that
he was past help.

"No, I will not sit down.  Sometime I will tell you all my story, but
not to-night.  This is what I must tell you.  It was in our parish of
Kilgower where Mr Crombie laid down his wife.  There he heard something
of Allison Bain.  He saw the man who married me against my will--who has
sworn to find me and to take me home to his house, alive or dead.  It
was in my hearing that he took that oath.  But whether Mr Crombie
really knows about me, or whether he was only speaking for the sake of
saying something, or whether it was to find me out, or to warn me, I
cannot say.  And oh!  I have been so safe here, and I have come to
myself among these kind people."

"What do you wish me to do?" said John, as she paused.

"If Crombie should know who I am, and should speak of me to any one, you
would hear of it.  He may even speak to you.  You are his friend.  Then
will you warn me, and give me time to go away?  I should be sorry, oh!
so sorry, to leave the kind folk here and go away again among strangers.
But I will never go with that man, never."

"I will help you if I can.  I hope you may be mistaken in thinking that
Crombie knows your story.  I think, at the worst, it is only a guess he
has made."

Allison shook her head.

"He saw the names of my father and mother on the headstone that their
son has set up over their grave.  Willie may be at home still, but I
hope he has gone away to America.  Oh! if I were only sure that he were
I would go to him at once.  I could hardly be brought back so far.  And
I might hide myself in that great country so that I could never be
found."

"Allison," said John gently.  "Think of me as a friend, who will help
you whatever may happen."

"I thank you kindly, and I trust you.  I will bide still where I am
while I may, for oh!  I dread the thought of these first dark days
coming on me again."

"I do not think you need to be afraid of Crombie.  He would not
willingly injure you.  He is a good man, though his sense of duty makes
him sometimes say or do what looks hard."

"Yes.  He might think it right to betray me--not that it would be
betrayal, since I have not trusted him or any one else."

She made a great effort to quiet herself and to speak calmly.  But she
was anxious and afraid, and she grew sick at heart at the thought that
all the dreariness and misery of the first days of her stay in
Nethermuir might come back upon her again, of that she might have to go
away among strangers.

"But I will not go to yon man's house whatever befall," she said in her
heart.

The cloud which had hidden the moon for a while passed and showed the
trouble in her face, and John's heart smote him as he saw it.  To whom
might this poor soul turn in her distress?  And why should she tell her
story to any one?  Since she had kept it so long to herself, it could
not be an easy one to tell.  Why should she tell it?  Whether she had
been right or wrong in her flight and her silence, it could not be
helped now, and if she could be saved from her present fear and pain, it
would be right to help her.

"Allison," he said in a little, "you say you trust me.  I also trust
you.  You do not need to tell your story to me.  Some day, perhaps, you
may tell it to my mother.  No one can give you wiser counsel or warmer
sympathy than she will.  And I think you need not fear Saunners Crombie.
At any rate, he would speak first to yourself, or to one whom he knows
to be your friend.  He would never betray you to your--enemy."

"Well, I will wait.  I will not go away--for a while at least.  And you
will be my friend?"

"I will try to help you," said John.

But all the thoughts which were passing through John Beaton's mind would
not have made a pleasant hearing for his mother.  A sudden, strong
temptation assailed him, at which he hardly dared to look, and he strove
to put it from him.

"As to Crombie," said he, "he is an old man, and growing forgetful.  It
may all pass out of his mind again.  That would be best."

"Yes," said Allison, "that would be best."

They walked down to the gate together.

"And you will forgive me, Allison, and--trust me?"

"I will ay trust you.  And it is you who need to forgive me," said she,
holding out her hand.  "But it never came into my mind--"

John held her hand firmly for a moment.

"Allison!" said he, and then he turned and went away.

It was his mother who should befriend Allison Bain.  But how to tell her
story?  If it had to be told, Allison must tell it herself.  As to
speaking with Saunners Crombie about Allison Bain and her troubles--

John uttered an angry word, and hurried down the lane and past the
gardens and the green, and over the fields and over the hills, till he
came to himself standing in the moonlight within sight of the "Stanin'
Stanes."  And being there he could only turn and go home again, carrying
his troubled thoughts with him.

He had many of them, and the thought which pressed upon him most
painfully for the moment was one which need not have troubled him at
all.  How was he to meet his mother and speak to her about Allison Bain
with all this angry turmoil in his heart?  He was angry with himself,
with Crombie, even with Allison.

"How could I have thought--" she had said, looking at him with entreaty
in her lovely eyes.  While she had been in his thoughts by day and in
his dreams by night, he "had never come into her mind!"

"But I could have made her think of me if I had not been a fool, with my
fine plans about rising in the world!  I could make her care for me
yet," said John to himself, quite unconscious that from the window of
her room his mother's kind, anxious eyes were watching him.

"Something has happened to vex him," said she to herself.  "I will not
seem to spy upon him.  He will tell me, if he needs my help, in his own
time."

But she waited and listened long before his footstep came to the door,
and he went to his room without coming to say good-night as he passed.

"He is thinking I am asleep," said she with a sigh.

There was nothing to be said.  That was the conclusion to which John
came that night.  What could he say to his mother about Allison Bain?
If he were to speak a word, then nothing could be kept back.  His mother
had a way of knowing his thoughts even before he uttered them, and why
should she be vexed at seeing the trouble which, if he spoke at all,
could not be concealed from her?

If the story must be told to his mother, Allison herself must tell it.
But why need it be told?  If only that meddling old fool, Crombie, had
had the sense to hold his tongue.  What good could come of speaking?
Why should not the poor soul be left to forget her troubles and to grow
content?  Even his mother could only warn her and help her to get away
if it ever came to that with her.  But until then silence was best.

He would have a word with Saunners to find out what he knew and what he
only suspected, and he would do what might be done to keep him silent.

John had his word with Crombie, but it did not come about in the way
which he had desired and planned.  While he was the next day lingering
about the kirk in the hope of getting a word with him, Crombie was
asking for John at his mother's door.

"Come away in, Mr Crombie," said Mrs Beaton when she heard his voice.
"I have been wishing to see you this while."

Then there were a few words spoken between them about the sorrow which
had come upon him, and of his wife's last days, and of the long journey
he had taken to lay her in the grave.  Saunners told of the bonny, quiet
place on the hillside, where he had laid her down, and before he had
taken time to consider, the name of Allison Bain had been uttered.

"I saw the names of her father and her mother--`John Bain and Allison
his wife'--on a fine, new headstane that had been put over them by their
son.  They hae been dead a year and more.  Decent folk they seem to hae
been.  He farmed his ain land.  I heard about it from a wee bowed wifie
who was there in the kirkyard.  She had something to say o' Allison Bain
as well."

And then Crombie came to a pause.  Mrs Beaton was startled by his
words, but kept silence, for she saw that he had not meant to speak.
But in a little he went on.

"It was a queer story that she told altogether, and I hae been in a
swither as to what I was to do with it, or if I was to do anything with
it.  I cam' the day to speak to your son aboot it, but taking a' the
possibeelities into consideration, I'm no' sure but what I hae to say
should be said to a prudent woman like yoursel'.  I would be loth to
harm the lass."

"I will never believe an ill word of Allison Bain till she shall say it
to me with her own lips," said Mrs Beaton, speaking low.

"Weel, I have no ill to say o' her.  There was no ill spoken o' her to
me.  That is, the woman thought no ill, but quite the contrary--though
mair micht be said.  Ye're her friend, it seems, and should ken her
better than I do.  I'se tell ye all I ken mysel', though it was to ye're
son I meant to tell it."

"And why to my son?" asked Mrs Beaton gravely.

It is possible that Crombie might have given a different answer if the
door had not opened to admit John himself.  The two men had met before
in the course of the day, and all had been said which was necessary to
be said about the death and burial of Crombie's wife, and in a minute
Crombie turned to Mrs Beaton again.

"As to the reason that I had for thinkin' to speak to your son, there
was naebody else that I could weel speak to about it.  No' the minister,
nor his wife.  It would be a pity to unsettle them, or to give them
anxious thoughts, and that maybe without sufficient reason.  And John's
a sensible lad, and twa heads are better than ane."

John laughed and mended the fire, and asked "whether it was Robin or
Jack this time, and what was ado now?"

"It's aboot neither the one nor the other," said Saunners, with a touch
of offence in his voice.  "It's aboot the lass at the manse--Allison
Bain."

It had been a part of Crombie's plan "to take the lad by surprise" when
he mentioned Allison's name, and he peered eagerly into his face "to see
what he could see."  But the peats, which John had put on with a liberal
hand, had darkened the fire for the time, and he had taken his place
beside his mother's chair and was leaning on it, as he had a way of
doing when anything special was to be said between them, and Saunners
saw nothing.  "Begin at the beginning," said Mrs Beaton.  So Saunners
began again, and getting into the spirit of the affair, told it well.
They listened in silence till he came to a pause.

"It is a curious story," said John, by way of saying something.

"It was a curious story as I heard it," said Saunners.  "Is the wee wine
`a' there'?" asked John quietly.  "I'm by no means sure o' it.  She
looked daft-like when she shook her neive (fist) at the man Brownrig
behind his back and called him ill names.  And her lauch when she told
me that the man had never touched his wife's hand since the day he put
the ring upon it, and when she swore that _never_ had he touched her
lips, was mad enow."

John's mother felt the start which her son gave when the words were
spoken.

"And is it true, think ye?" said she.  "There seems to be truth in the
story, but where it lies I canna say.  And whether it be true or no, I
am beginning to think that I have no call to make or meddle in it."

"There is just one thing that I must say again," said Mrs Beaton--"I'll
never believe an ill word of Allison Bain till with her own lips she
gives me leave to do it!  Dublin, was investigated by Professor W. Barrett
and Professor Henry Sidgwick.

The story is singularly well attested (as one might expect from its
being inserted in the pages of the _Proceedings S.P.R._[3]), as the
apparition was seen on three distinct occasions, and by three
separate persons who were all personally known to the above gentlemen.

The house in which the following occurrences took place is described
as being a very old one, with unusually thick walls.

The lady saw her strange visitant in her bedroom. She says: "Disliking
cross-lights, I had got into the habit of having the blind of the back
window drawn and the shutters closed at night, and of leaving the
blind raised and the shutters opened towards the front, liking to
see the trees and sky when I awakened.

Opening my eyes now one morning, I saw right before me (this occurred
in July 1873) the figure of a woman, stooping down and apparently looking
at me. Her head and shoulders were wrapped in a common woollen shawl;
her arms were folded, and they were also wrapped, as if for warmth,
in the shawl.

I looked at her in my horror, and dared not cry out lest I might
move the awful thing to speech or action.

Behind her head I saw the window and the growing dawn, the looking-glass
upon the toilet-table, and the furniture in that part of the room.

After what may have been only seconds--of the duration of this vision
I cannot judge--she raised herself and went backwards towards the
window, stood at the toilet-table, and gradually vanished.

I mean she grew by degrees transparent, and that through the shawl
and the grey dress she wore I saw the white muslin of the table-cover
again, and at last saw that only in the place where she had stood."

The lady lay motionless with terror until the servant came to call
her.

The only other occupants of the house at the time were her brother and
the servant, to neither of whom did she make any mention of the
circumstance, fearing that the former would laugh at her, and the
latter give notice.

[Footnote 3: July 1884, p. 141.]
Exactly a fortnight later, when sitting at breakfast, she noticed that
her brother seemed out of sorts, and did not eat. On asking him if anything
were the matter, he answered, "I have had a horrid nightmare--indeed
it was no nightmare: I saw it early this morning, just as distinctly
as I see you."

"What?" she asked. "A villainous-looking hag," he replied, "with her
head and arms wrapped in a cloak, stooping over me, and looking like
this--" He got up, folded his arms, and put himself in the exact posture
of the vision. Whereupon she informed him of what she herself had seen
a fortnight previously.

About four years later, in the same month, the lady's married sister and
two children were alone in the house.

The eldest child, a boy of about four or five years, asked for a
drink, and his mother went to fetch it, desiring him to remain in
the dining-room until her return.

Coming back she met the boy pale and trembling, and on asking him why he
left the room, he replied, "Who is that woman--who is that woman?"
"Where?" she asked. "That old woman who went upstairs," he replied.

So agitated was he, that she took him by the hand and went upstairs
to search, but no one was to be found, though he still maintained
that a woman went upstairs.

A friend of the family subsequently told them that a woman had been
killed in the house many years previously, and that it was reported to
be haunted.

CHAPTER II
HAUNTED HOUSES IN CONN'S HALF

From a very early period a division of Ireland into two "halves"
existed.

This was traditionally believed to have been made by Conn the Hundred-fighter
and Mogh Nuadat, in A.D. 166. The north was in consequence known as
Conn's Half, the south as Mogh's Half, the line of division being a
series of gravel hills extending from Dublin to Galway.
This division we have followed, except that we have included the whole
of the counties of West Meath and Galway in the northern portion. We
had hoped originally to have had _four_ chapters on Haunted Houses,
one for each of the four provinces, but, for lack of material from
Connaught, we have been forced to adopt the plan on which Chapters
I-III are arranged.

Mrs. Acheson, of Co. Roscommon, sends the following: "Emo House,
Co.
Westmeath, a very old mansion since pulled down, was purchased by my
grandfather for his son, my father. The latter had only been living in
it for a few days when knocking commenced at the hall door.

Naturally he thought it was someone playing tricks, or endeavouring to
frighten him away. One night he had the lobby window open directly over
the door.

The knocking commenced, and he looked out: it was a very bright night,
and as there was no porch he could see the door distinctly; the
knocking continued, but he did not see the knocker move. Another
night he sat up expecting his brother, but as the latter did not
come he went to bed.

Finally the knocking became so loud and insistent that he felt sure his
brother must have arrived. He went downstairs and opened the door, but
no one was there. Still convinced that his brother was there and had
gone round to the yard to put up his horse, he went out; but scarcely
had he gone twenty yards from the door when the knocking recommenced
behind his back.

On turning round he could see no one."

  "After this the knocking got very bad, so
          much so that he could not rest.

All this time he did not mention the strange occurrence to anyone. One
morning he went up through the fields between four and five o'clock. To
his surprise he found the herd out feeding the cattle. My father asked
him why he was up so early. He replied that he could not sleep. 'Why?'
asked my father. 'You know why yourself, sir--the knocking.' He then found
that this man had heard it all the time, though he slept at the end
of a long house.

My father was advised to take no notice of it, for it would go as it came,
though at this time it was continuous and very loud; and so it did.
The country people said it was the late resident who could not rest."

"We had another curious and most eerie experience in this house. A former
rector was staying the night with us, and as the evening wore on
we commenced to tell ghost-stories.

He related some remarkable experiences, and as we were talking the
drawing-room door suddenly opened as wide as possible, and then slowly
closed again. It was a calm night, and at any rate it was a heavy double
door which never flies open however strong the wind may be blowing.

Everyone in the house was in bed, as it was after 12 o'clock, except
the three persons who witnessed this, viz. myself, my daughter, and
the rector. The effect on the latter was most marked.

He was a big, strong, jovial man and a good athlete, but when he saw the
door open he quivered like an aspen leaf."
A strange story of a haunting, in which nothing was seen, but in which
the same noises were heard by different people, is sent by one of the
percipients, who does not wish to have her name disclosed. She
says:
"When staying for a time in a country house in the North of Ireland
some years ago I was awakened on several nights by hearing the
tramp, tramp, of horses' hoofs.

Sometimes it sounded as if they were walking on paving-stones, while at
other times I had the impression that they were going round a large
space, and as if someone was using a whip on them. I heard neighing, and
champing of bits, and so formed the impression that they were carriage
horses. I did not mind it much at first, as I thought the stables must
be near that part of the house. After hearing these noises several times
I began to get curious, so one morning I made a tour of the place.
I found that the side of the house I occupied overlooked a neglected
garden, which was mostly used for drying clothes.

I also discovered that the stables were right at the back of the house,
and so it would be impossible for me to hear any noises in that quarter;
at any rate there was only one farm horse left, and this was securely
fastened up every night.

Also there were no cobble-stones round the yard. I mentioned what I
had heard to the people of the house, but as they would give me no
satisfactory reply I passed it over. I did not hear these noises every
night."
"One night I was startled out of my sleep by hearing a dreadful disturbance
in the kitchen. It sounded as if the dish-covers were being taken off the
wall and dashed violently on the flagged floor. At length I got up and
opened the door of my bedroom, and just as I did so an appalling crash
resounded through the house. I waited to see if there was any light to
be seen, or footstep to be heard, but nobody was stirring.
There was only one servant in the house, the other persons being
my host, his wife, and a baby, who had all retired early.

Next morning I described the noises in the kitchen to the servant, and she
said she had often heard them. I then told her about the tramping of
horses: she replied that she herself had never heard it, but that other
persons who had occupied my room had had experiences similar to
mine.

I asked her was there any explanation; she said No, except that a story
was told of a gentleman who had lived there some years ago, and was very
much addicted to racing and gambling, and that he was shot one
night in that house.

For the remainder of my visit I was removed to another part of the
house, and I heard no more noises."

A house in the North of Ireland, near that locality which is eternally
famous as having furnished the material for the last trial for
witchcraft in the country, is said to be haunted, the reason being
that it is built on the site of a disused and very ancient graveyard.

It is said that when some repairs were being carried out nine human skulls
were unearthed. It would be interesting to ascertain how many houses in
Ireland are traditionally said to be built on such unpleasant
sites, and if they all bear the reputation of being haunted.

The present writer knows of one, in the South, which is so situated
(and this is supported, to a certain extent, by documentary evidence
from the thirteenth century down) and which in consequence has an
uncanny reputation.

But concerning the above house it has been found almost impossible to get
any information. It is said that strange noises were frequently heard
there, which sometimes seemed as if cartloads of stones were being run
down one of the gables.
On one occasion an inmate of the house lay dying upstairs. A friend
went up to see the sick person, and on proceeding to pass through the
bedroom door was pressed and jostled as if by some unseen person hurriedly
leaving the room. On entering, it was found that the sick person
had just passed away.

An account of a most unpleasant haunting is contributed by Mr. W. S.
Thompson, who vouches for the substantial accuracy of it, and also
furnishes the names of two men, still living, who attended the
"station."

We give it as it stands, with the comment that some of the details seem
to have been grossly exaggerated by local raconteurs. In the year 1869
a ghost made its presence manifest in the house of a Mr. M---- in
Co.

Cavan.

In the daytime it resided in the chimney, but at night it left its
quarters and subjected the family to considerable annoyance.

During the day they could cook nothing, as showers of soot would
be sent down the chimney on top of every pot and pan that was placed
on the fire.

At night the various members of the family would be dragged out of bed
by the hair, and pulled around the house. When anyone ventured to light
a lamp it would immediately be put out, while chairs and tables would
be sent dancing round the room.

At last matters reached such a pitch that the family found it impossible
to remain any longer in the house.

The night before they left Mrs. M---- was severely handled, and her
boots left facing the door as a gentle hint for her to be off.

Before they departed some of the neighbours went to the house, saw
the ghost, and even described to Mr. Thompson what they had seen. According
to one man it appeared in the shape of a human being with a pig's
head with long tusks.
Another described it as a horse with an elephant's head, and a headless
man seated on its back. Finally a "station" was held at the house by
seven priests, at which all the neighbours attended.

The station commenced after sunset, and everything in the house had
to be uncovered, lest the evil spirit should find any resting-place.
A free passage was left out of the door into the street, where many
people were kneeling.
About five minutes after the station opened a rumbling noise was heard,
and a black barrel rolled out with an unearthly din, though to some
coming up the street it appeared in the shape of a black horse with a
bull's head, and a headless man seated thereon.

From this time the ghost gave no further trouble.

The same gentleman also sends an account of a haunted shop in which members
of his family had some very unpleasant experiences.

"In October 1882 my father, William Thompson, took over the grocery and
spirit business from a Dr. S---- to whom it had been left by will. My
sister was put in charge of the business, and she slept on the premises
at night, but she was not there by herself very long until she
found things amiss.

The third night matters were made so unpleasant for her that she had
to get up out of bed more dead than alive, and go across the street to
Mrs.
M----, the servant at the R.I.C. barrack, with whom she remained until
the morning.

She stated that as she lay in bed, half awake and half asleep, she saw
a man enter the room, who immediately seized her by the throat and
well-nigh choked her. She had only sufficient strength left to gasp
'Lord, save me!' when instantly the man vanished. She also said that
she heard noises as if every bottle and glass in the shop was
smashed to atoms, yet in the morning everything would be found
intact.

My brother was in charge of the shop one day, as my sister had to
go to Belturbet to do some Christmas shopping.

He expected her to return to the shop that night, but as she did not
do so he was preparing to go to bed about 1 A.M., when suddenly a
terrible noise was heard.

The light was extinguished, and the tables and chairs commenced to dance
about the floor, and some of them struck him on the shins.

Upon this he left the house, declaring that he had seen the Devil!"
Possibly this ghost had been a rabid teetotaller in the flesh, and
continued to have a dislike to the publican's trade after he had
become discarnate.

At any rate the present occupants, who follow a different avocation, do
not appear to be troubled.

Ghosts are no respecters of persons or places, and take up their quarters
where they are least expected. One can hardly imagine them entering a
R.I.C. barrack, and annoying the stalwart inmates thereof.

Yet more than one tale of a haunted police-barrack has been sent to
us--nay, in its proper place we shall relate the appearance of a
deceased member of the "Force," uniform and all!

The following personal experiences are contributed by an ex-R.I.C.
constable, who requested that all names should be suppressed.

"The barrack of which I am about to speak has now disappeared, owing to
the construction of a new railway line.

It was a three-storey house, with large airy apartments and splendid
accommodation. This particular night I was on guard. After the constables
had retired to their quarters I took my palliasse downstairs to
the day-room, and laid it on two forms alongside two six-foot tables
which were placed end to end in the centre of the room."

"As I expected a patrol in at midnight, and as another had to be sent
out when it arrived, I didn't promise myself a very restful night,
so I threw myself on the bed, intending to read a bit, as there
was a large lamp on the table.

Scarcely had I commenced to read when I felt as if I was being pushed
off the bed.

At first I thought I must have fallen asleep, so to make sure, I got up,
took a few turns around the room, and then deliberately lay down again
and took up my book. Scarcely had I done so, when the same thing happened,
and, though I resisted with all my strength, I was finally landed on
the floor.

My bed was close to the table, and the pushing came from that side,
so that if anyone was playing a trick on me they could not do
so without being under the table: I looked, but there was no visible
presence there.

I felt shaky, but changed my couch to another part of the room, and
had no further unpleasant experience.

Many times after I was 'guard' in the same room, but I always took care
not to place my couch in that particular spot."
"One night, long afterwards, we were all asleep in the dormitory, when
we were awakened in the small hours of the morning by the guard
rushing upstairs, dashing through the room, and jumping into a bed in
the farthest corner behind its occupant. There he lay gasping, unable
to speak for several minutes, and even then we couldn't get a
coherent account of what befel him.

It appears he fell asleep, and suddenly awoke to find himself on the
floor, and a body rolling over him. Several men volunteered to go downstairs
with him, but he absolutely refused to leave the dormitory, and stayed
there till morning. Nor would he even remain downstairs at night without
having a comrade with him.

It ended in his applying for an exchange of stations."

"Another time I returned off duty at midnight, and after my comrade, a
married Sergeant, had gone outside to his quarters I went to the
kitchen to change my boots.

There was a good fire on, and it looked so comfortable that I remained
toasting my toes on the hob, and enjoying my pipe.

The lock-up was a lean-to one-storey building off the kitchen, and
was divided into two cells, one opening into the kitchen, the other
into that cell.

I was smoking away quietly when I suddenly heard inside the lock-up a
dull, heavy thud, just like the noise a drunken man would make by
crashing down on all-fours. I wondered who the prisoner could be, as I
didn't see anyone that night who seemed a likely candidate for free
lodgings.

However as I heard no other sound I decided I would tell the guard
in order that he might look after him.

As I took my candle from the table I happened to glance at the
lock-up, and, to my surprise, I saw that the outer door was open.

My curiosity being roused, I looked inside, to find the inner door also
open.

There was nothing in either cell, except the two empty plank-beds, and
these were immovable as they were firmly fixed to the walls.

I betook myself to my bedroom much quicker than I was in the habit of
doing."
"I mentioned that this barrack was demolished owing to the construction
of a new railway line.

It was the last obstacle removed, and in the meantime workmen came from
all points of the compass. One day a powerful navvy was brought into the
barrack a total collapse from drink, and absolutely helpless.
You have not knowingly done what is wrong."

"I did not wait to consider whether I was right or wrong, but I should
have done what I did even if I had known it to be wrong.  And I would
not undo it now, even if you were to tell me I ought to do so.  I could
not.  I would rather die," said Allison, speaking low.

There was a long silence and Allison stood still with her eyes fixed on
the floor.

"Sit down, Allison, where I can see you.  Put off your shawl and your
bonnet.  You are too warm in this room."

Allison let her shawl slip from her shoulders and untied the strings of
her black bonnet.

"Take it off," said Mrs Esselmont, as Allison hesitated.

Her hair had grown long by this time and was gathered in a knot at the
back of her head, but little rings and wavy locks escaped here and
there--brown, with a touch of gold in them--and without the disguise of
the big, black bonnet, or of the full bordered mutch, a very different
Allison was revealed to Mrs Esselmont.

"A beautiful woman," she said to herself, "and with something in her
face better than beauty.  She can have done nothing of which she need be
ashamed."

Aloud she said:

"Allison, since you have said so much, if you think you can trust me,
you should, perhaps, tell me all."

"Oh!  I can trust you!  But afterward folk might say that you did wrong
to take me with you, knowing my story.  And if I tell you I would need
to tell Mr and Mrs Hume as well, since they are to trust me with their
child.  And though you might be out of the reach of any trouble because
of taking my part, they might not, and their good might be evil spoken
of on my account, and that would be a bad requital for all their
kindness."

"And have you spoken to no one, Allison?  Is there no one who is aware
of what has befallen you?"

Allison grew red and then pale.  It was the last question that she
answered.

"It was in our parish that Saunners Crombie buried his wife.  One night
he came into the manse kitchen, and he told me that he had seen my name
on a new headstone, `John Bain and Allison his wife'--the names of my
father and mother.  And he had some words with one who had known me all
my life.  But I never answered him a word.  And whether he was trying
me, or warning me, or whether he spoke by chance, I cannot say.  I would
like to win away from this place, for a great fear has been upon me
since then.  I might be sought for here.  But I would never go back.  I
would rather die," repeated Allison, and the look that came over her
face gave emphasis to her words.

"And has he never spoken again?"

"Never to me.  I do not think he would willingly do me an ill turn, but
he might harm me when he might think he was helping me into the right
way.  Oh!  I would like to go away from this place, and it would be
happiness as well as safety to go with you and my Marjorie."

Mrs Esselmont sat thinking in silence for what seemed to Allison a long
time.  Then she raised herself up and held out her hand.

"Allison, I understand well that there are some things that will not
bear to be spoken about.  Tell me nothing now, but come with me.  I
trust you.  Come with me and the child."

The tears came into Allison's eyes, and she said quietly:

"I thank you, madam.  I will serve you well."


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

  "God be with thee,
  Else alone thou goest forth,
  Thy face unto the north."

Before he went away on the morning after they had heard the story which
Crombie had to tell, John Beaton had said to his mother:

"If Allison Bain seems anxious or restless, you must find some way of
letting her know that she has nothing to fear from the old man.  He will
say nothing to harm her."

But he did not tell her that he had already heard the story of Allison's
marriage from her own lips.  And not knowing this, after considering the
matter, his mother decided to say nothing, believing that it would not
be well for Allison's peace of mind to know that the sad story of her
life had been told to them.

And even if she had wished to do so, it would not have been easy to find
a chance to speak.  For Allison was shy of Mrs Beaton at this time, and
went no more to see her in the gloaming, as she had sometimes done of
late, and was not at ease with her when they met.

For she said to herself, that Mrs Beaton might know, or might suspect
that her son had of late been giving too many of his thoughts to one of
whom they knew nothing; and though she was not to blame, Mrs Beaton
might still blame her for her son's folly.

Allison was indeed troubled.  Since the night on which Crombie had so
startled her, she had never been quite at rest.  She had striven to be
reasonable and to put away her fears; but there never came a step to the
door, that she did not pause from her work to listen for the words that
might be spoken.  She looked on every unfamiliar face that came into the
kirk, or that she passed on the street or in the lanes, with a momentary
terror, lest she should meet the eyes of one whom her enemy had sent in
search of her.

She had said to herself many times, "I will wait quietly.  I will stay
where I am, and I will not yield to my fears."

But when Mrs Esselmont spoke to her, and a way of escape appeared, she
knew that she had been sore afraid, and that she could not long have
borne the strain which had been upon her.

"Six days!" she said to herself, as she came down from Firhill that
night, in the darkness.  "Only six days and nights, and I shall be away,
and safe for a year at least; and then!--but I will not look beyond the
year.  I will care for the child, and be at peace."

As for John, he had written to his mother that he was to be sent north
on business that might keep him there some days.  He did not tell where
he was going, and she did not hear again for a good while after that.
When he did write he said nothing about his journey or its results, as
he was usually in the way of doing, and he said nothing about coming
home.  His mother's heart was sore for her son.  No word concerning
Allison Bain had passed between them, but she knew that his heart had
gone from him and that he must suffer for a time.

"But he'll win through," she said, hopefully, to herself, "as other men
have won through the same trouble in all the generations of men, since
ever the world began; and may he be the wiser and the better for the
pain!  He will be sorry not to see her again," added she, with a sigh.

So she wrote a letter telling him, among other things, that wee Marjorie
was to be sent away with Mrs Esselmont for the good of her health; that
she was likely to be away a year at least.  She said some hopeful words
as to the benefit the child might receive, and then she added: "It is
Allison Bain who is to have the care of her."  Of Allison herself she
only said that she was one to be trusted, and that the child would be
happy in her care.  But to this there came no word in reply.

On the last day at home Marjorie was carried down the street by Jack,
that she might say good-bye to Mrs Beaton and the schoolmistress, and
the neighbours generally.  Jack had been warned by his mother that if
there should be any signs of weariness or excitement, there must be no
lingering.  The child must be brought home at once.  But Marjorie took
it all very quietly.

"Yes, I'm going away.  Yes, I'm sorry, and I'm glad, but I'm not afraid,
because our Allison is going with me.  Oh! yes, I'm glad.  I'm going to
see new things and places--me that was never ten miles away from home in
all my life!  And I'm going to come home strong and well, like the other
bairns to help my mother and them all.  And my mother has my sister now
to take my place.  It's my father that I'm sorriest for.  But I'll come
home strong and well, and then he'll be glad that he let me go."

She said the same to the bairns who lingered on their way home from the
school to speak to her as they passed.  She was coming home again well
and strong, and she would be happy, having Allison all to herself; and
though she was sorry to leave them, she was not afraid.

Allison had no formal leave-takings.  She had been very busy all day,
and came down-stairs after seeing Marjorie quietly asleep, doubtful
whether she should go to say good-bye to Mrs Beaton and the
schoolmistress or not.  The question was decided for her.

"Allison," said Mrs Hume, as she passed the parlour-door, "I think it
would be but kind to ask Mrs Beaton if she has any message to send to
her son.  You could leave it with Robin if you should not chance to see
him yourself in the town.  Are you very tired?"

"I am not so very tired.  Yes, I will go now," said Allison.

So she turned down the lane and went round by the green, as she had gone
so many times before, not without some troubled thoughts of her own.
She found Mrs Beaton sitting alone in the firelight.

"Come away in, Allison.  I have been expecting you," said she.

Allison sat down at her bidding, and gave Mrs Hume's message.

"I hope you may see him.  But I have nothing to say or to send.  He will
be home soon.  And you are glad to be going, Allison, for the sake of
the child?"

"Yes, I am glad to be going."

"But you are not sorry that you came here?  You have been content?"

"No.  I had to go away from home.  I am not sorry I came here.
Everybody at the manse has been kind."

"And you have been good to them and to me.  I am glad to have kenned
you, Allison Bain," but Mrs Beaton sighed as she said it.

What could Allison answer?  Indeed, what was to be said between these
two?  Nothing, unless all might be said.  A word might have broken the
spell of silence between them, but the word was not spoken.

"It would make her unhappy to know that her secret had been told to us,"
thought Mrs Beaton.  And Allison thought: "His mother would be grieved,
if she knew all; and she never need know.  He will forget me when I am
gone away."

And so, after a few quiet words about other matters, they said
"good-bye" to one another.  Allison lingered a moment, looking down with
wistful eyes on the gentle old face of her friend.

"Have you anything to say to me, Allison Bain?"

But Allison shook her head.  "Nothing that it would please you to hear;
and it is all over now, and I am going away."

"Yes, you are going away.  I may not be here when you come back again,
and I must say one thing to you.  I trust you, Allison Bain.  I believe
you to be good and true, whatever trouble may have come into your life
by the ill-doing of others.  May the Lord have you in His keeping, and
bring you safe through all trouble `into a large place.'  Kiss me, my
dear."

Allison stooped and kissed her, and went away without a word.  As she
turned from the door a hand was laid upon her arm, and a voice said:

"Is it you, Allison Bain?  I would like a word wi' ye.  I'll no' keep ye
lang."

Allison was tired and sad at heart, and she longed to be alone.  She
could not but yield, however, to the entreating voice of the mistress,
and she crossed the street to her door.  The lamp was lighted, and a
small, bright fire burned on the hearth, and one of the chairs had been
taken down from the high dresser for the expected visitor.

"Sit ye doon, Allison," said the schoolmistress.  "I saw ye when ye gaed
into Mistress Beaton's, and I waited for you, but I winna keep ye lang.
And ye're going farawa'?  Are ye glad to go?  And are ye ever comin'
back again?"

"I must come back with Marjorie.  Whatever happens, I must bring home
the child to her father and her mother," said Allison, gravely.

"Ay, ye must do that, as ye say, whatever should happen.  And may
naething but gude befall ye.  I'll miss ye sairly; ye hae been a great
divert to me, you and the minister's bairn thegither--especially since
the cloud lifted, and ither things happened, and ye began to tak' heart
again.  Do ye mind the `Stanin Stanes' yon day, and a' the bairns, and
John Beaton wi his baps?  Oh! ay.  I'll miss ye mair than ye ken."

The old woman sat for a time looking in silence at Allison, then she
said:

"Eh! woman!  It's weel to be the like o' you!  English; but taking even
the lowest equivalent, the sum-total amounts to a capital which Spain
will have some difficulty in raising. The Santander line, however, has
attracted English capital and engineering towards it; the first sod was
turned by the king-consort in May 1852, and the works are now in
progress.

There is also an important line from Madrid to the Portuguese frontier
near Badajoz, marked out on paper; but the fruition of this as well as
other schemes will mainly depend on the readiness with which English
capital can be obtained. Unfortunately, 'Spanish bonds' are not in the
best favour in England.

Portugal is a _terra incognita_ to railways. It is on the extremest verge
of Europe towards the Atlantic; and European civilisation finds
entrance there with remarkable slowness. In 1845, the government tried
to invite offers from capitalists to construct railways; in 1849, the
invitations were renewed; but the moneyed men were coy, and would not
be wooed. In 1851, the government appointed a commission to investigate
the whole subject. The commission consisted of five persons; and their
Report, dated October 20, 1851, contains a large mass of valuable
information.

It appeared in an English translation in some of the London journals
towards the close of the year.

The commissioners take for granted that Spain will construct railways from
Madrid to the Portuguese frontier at Badajoz on the one side, and to
the French frontier, near Bayonne, on the other; and they then
inquire how best to reach Badajoz from Lisbon.

Three routes present themselves--one to Santarem, and across the
Tagus to Badajoz; another to Santarem and Coimbra, and so on into Spain
by way of Almeida; and a third to Oporto, and thence by Bragança into
Spain.

The first of these, being more directly in the route to Madrid, is preferred
by the commissioners, who estimate the outlay at a million and a quarter
sterling. They discuss the terms on which capitalists might possibly be
induced to come to their aid; and they indulge in a hope that, ten years
hence, Lisbon may be united to Central Europe by a railway, of
which 260 kilomètres will cross Portugal to Badajoz, 370 from Badajoz
to Madrid, and about 400 from Madrid to the French frontier, where
the Paris and Bayonne Railway will continue the route.

(Five kilomètres are equal to rather more than three English miles.)
The Continental _Bradshaw_ will, we apprehend, have to wait long
before these peninsular trunk-lines find a place in its pages.

Leaving altogether the countries of Europe, and crossing the Mediterranean,
we find that even Africa is becoming a member of the great railway
system.

After a world of trouble, financial and diplomatic, the present
ruler of Egypt has succeeded in giving reality to a scheme for a
railway from Alexandria to the Nile.

A glance at a map of Egypt will shew us that a canal extends from
Alexandria to the Nile, to escape the sanded-up mouths of that famous
river.

Whatever she knew or suspected, Allison felt that the
old woman did not mean her harm.

"Why should you be so kind to me--a stranger?" said she gently.

"I hardly ken mysel', except that I wish ye weel.  And then ye mind me
o' my ain youth, partly that ye're sae like what I once was, and partly
that ye are sae different.  I can see _now_ where I gaed wrang.  And ye
hae your life afore ye.  Hae patience, and make the best of it that ye
may."

"I'll try," said Allison humbly.  And so they parted.

Allison got a glimpse of the grim old face among those who were standing
about the door to see them set off in the morning.  And she never saw it
more.  Before Allison came back to Nethermuir again the schoolmistress
was done with her toils, and troubles, and discontents, and was at rest.
And Allison never knew what the old woman might have known or guessed
of her life before she came to the manse.

There were a good many others there to see the travellers away.
Marjorie was in the "gig" with her father and mother, who were to take
her to join Mrs Esselmont at Firhill, so her time for tears was not
come, nor was theirs.  The child looked round on the faces of her
friends and smiled and nodded, and was sorry, and glad, at the same
time, but she was not, as she had told them, in the least afraid of what
might be before her.

The same might be said of her father and mother--with a difference.
They were glad, and they were sorry, and the mother was a little
fainthearted for them both at the thought of the long days, that lay
before them.  But they were not afraid.  They trusted their child in the
Good Hand which had "led them all their life long until now," and they
had confidence in Allison Bain.

Allison herself wondered a little at their perfect faith in her.  The
night before, when worship was over, she had stayed behind the others to
hear a few last words which were yet to be spoken.  When the father and
mother had said all they had to say and Allison was at the door to go
away, she paused a minute or two, then coming back again she said
gravely:

"I think if you had known me all my days,--if you had seen all my life
till now,--I think you would still be willing to trust me with your
Marjorie.  But I cannot tell you.  There is a reason--it is better to
say nothing.  Some day, I hope, I may be able to tell you all."

"We can wait till then," said the minister heartily.  The child's mother
said the same.

They had trusted her from the first, and any doubts which might have
arisen as to the wisdom of committing their child to the care of one of
whom they really knew very little, were put aside at the remembrance of
all that she had already done for her.  The few words which Mrs
Esselmont said to them as to her interview with Allison encouraged them
also, and they, too, agreed with her in thinking that it was as well not
to seek to know more than Allison was willing to reveal.

Allison was glad, and more than glad, to get away.  But still when the
travellers reached the last point where a glimpse could be caught of the
valley in which the little town lay, she told herself that thankful as
she was to leave it for a while, she was more thankful still that in her
time of need she had been guided to find a refuge there.


CHAPTER NINETEEN.

  "Unless you can swear for life or for death
  Oh! fear to call it loving."

Business made it necessary for Mrs Esselmont to remain one day in
Aberdeen.  She stayed with a friend, but Allison and Marjorie found a
place prepared for them in the house where Robin, now a student in the
university, had taken up his abode.

It was a dark and rainy day, and Robin was greatly disappointed that he
could not take them out to see all that was to be seen in the town, and
Marjorie was disappointed also.  But in her heart Allison was glad of
the rain and the grey mist which came when the rain was over.  For how
could she be sure of those whom she might see in the streets, or of
those who might see her?  Every hour that passed helped to lighten the
dull weight on her heart, and gave her courage to look forward with
hope.

Dr Fleming came to see Marjorie in the afternoon, as her father had
asked him to do.  He looked at Allison with astonished eyes.

"You owe me thanks for sending you out yonder," said he.

"And so do we," said Robin.

"It was a good day for me," said Allison, and her eyes said more than
that.

"Yes, better than you know," said the doctor.  "And for you, too, my wee
pale lily, if all I hear be true.  And so Allison Bain is going to carry
you away and to bring you home again a bonny, blooming rose, is she?
May God grant it," added the doctor reverently.

"I will try to take good care of her," said Allison.

"I am sure of that."

When the visit was over, Allison followed the doctor to the door.

"I would be glad if I were sure that my name would not be named over
yonder," said she, casting down her eyes.

"Be glad then, for your name shall not be spoken.  It is the theory of the
law--if the law really has a theory--that in the matter of a parliamentary
canvass, every man, as a celebrated Irish minister expressed it,
should stand upon his own bottom. By this poetical figure, Lord
Londonderry meant that the man should depend upon himself, upon his
own merits and character, without having recourse to any extrinsic
means of working upon the judgment of others.

It is likewise the theory of the law, that a man who _suffers_ his
judgment to be indirectly biassed is as bad as the other--and worse:
that he is, in fact, a Worm, unfit to possess his birthright, of
which he should be forthwith deprived.

Well, this being premised:
here is the Honourable Tom Snuffleton, who wants to represent our borough,
but having neither merit nor character of any convertible kind, offers
money and gin instead. The substitute is accepted; and Honourable Tom,
slapping his waistcoat several times, congratulates the free and
independent electors on having that day set a glorious example to
the world, by thus exercising their birthright and upholding their
palladium; and the affair is finished amid cheers and hiccups.

When I say, however, that the substitute is accepted, I do not mean
that it is accepted by, or can be offered to the whole constituency.

That would be a libel.

There are many of the electors who have a soul above sovereigns,
and who, if they could accomplish it, would never drink anything
less than claret.

These persons are ambitious of being noticed by the family of Honourable
Tom. They are not hungry, but they take delight in a dinner in
that quarter.

They also feel intensely gratified by having their wives and daughters
bowed to from the family carriage.

A thousand considerations like these blind them to the absence of merit
and character on the part of the candidate, and lay them open to
that extrinsic influence which, according to the meaning of the
law, is bribery and corruption.

As for the man who takes his bribe, for the sake of convenience, in
the direct, portable, and exchangeable form of a sovereign, he
lays it out in any pleasure or distinction he, on his part, has a
fancy for.

If he is a dissolute person, he spends it in the public-house; if
he is a proper-behaved husband, he gives his wife a new gown; if
he is a respectable, serious individual, he devotes it to the
conversion of the Wid-a-wak tribe in Central Africa, and gloats
upon the name of John Higgins in the subscription-list.

In whichever way, however, he may seek to gratify himself, he is neither
better nor worse, so far as I can see, than the voter of more elegant
aspirations: they have both been bribed; they are both corrupt; they have
both sold their birthright.

This is a homely way of viewing the question, but it suffices.

If we inquire into the motives of a hundred electors, we shall not
find ten of them free from some alloy of self-interest, direct or
indirect.

In cases where the candidates are all equally good, equally bad, or
equally indifferent, there may be no practical harm in this; but
it is not a political but a moral question that is before us.

The question is as to the _bribe_. If we are to be excused because of
the nature of the solatium we accept, then should a thief successfully
plead that it was not money he stole, but a masterpiece of Raphael.

He died lately.  His son William Bain had
gone wrong before that.  An idle lad he was, and hastened his father's
death.'

"I kenned by this time what he was to be at," said John to Allison, when
he had got thus far.  "And I thought it wiser to take the matter into my
own hands.  So I said that I thought I had heard the name of William
Bain before.  Where could it have been?

"`In the tollbooth, likely,' said Brownrig, losing hold of himself for a
minute, for his eyes gleamed with eagerness or with anger, I could not
say which.  `Yes, it might.  I have been there,' I said.  `I had a
friend who went there now and then on Sunday afternoons, and once or
twice I went with him.  But I never saw Bain.  He must have been out
before ever I went there.'

"I saw the change in the man's face when I said this.

"`He was here in June,' he said.  `He's off to America now, and I would
give much to ken who went with him.  There are few men that one can
trust.  Truth may be so told as to make one believe a lie; but I'll win
to the end o' the clue yet,' he said.  He had an evil look when he said
it.

"I made haste over my work after that," went on John, "for I could not
trust myself to listen.  If he had named your name--"

John rose and went to the window, and stood there long, looking out into
the darkness.

The unhappy story did not end here, but Allison heard no more.  Brownrig
appeared again in the early morning, and John was asked to go with him
to see what repairs might be required on the outbuildings of a farm that
was soon to pass to a new tenant.  Something would need to be done, and
the matter might as well be considered at once.

On their way they passed by the manse, and Dr Hadden's name was
mentioned.

"He has a son in America who has done well there.  There are two or
three lads from this parish who have gone out to him, Willie Bain among
the rest"; and then Brownrig muttered to himself words which John could
not hear, but he answered:

"I have heard of several who have done well out there.  Land is cheap
and good, and skilled labour is well paid," and so on.

But Brownrig came back again to Bain.

"That will not be the way with him.  An idle lad and an ill-doing was
he.  Folk said I was hard on him.  He thought it himself.  I would have
been glad to help him, and to be friends with him before he went away,
but he didna give me the opportunity.  I respected his father and would
gladly have helped him for his sake.  If you should hear word of him, ye
might let me know."

"I might possibly hear of him," said John; "but it is hardly likely."

He was glad to get away from the man.  If by any chance he had uttered
the name of Allison, John could not have answered for himself.  But he
was not done with him yet.  Late at night Brownrig came again to the inn
and asked for him.  John had gone to his room, but he came down when the
message was brought to him.  The man had been drinking, but he could
still "take care of himself," or he thought so.  He made some pretence
of having something more to say about business, but he forgot it in a
little, and went off to other matters, speaking with angry vehemence
about men and things of which John knew nothing.  It was a painful sight
to see, and when two or three men came into the room John rose and
wished him good-night.  Brownrig protested violently against his
"desertion," as he called it, but John was firm in his refusal to stay.

He was afraid, not of Brownrig, but of himself.  He was growing wild at
the thought that this man should have any hold over Allison Bain--that
the time might come when, with the help of the law, he might have her in
his power.  But he restrained himself, and was outwardly calm to the
last.

"Ye're wise to go your ways," said the innkeeper, as John went into the
open air.  "Yon man's no easy to do wi', when he gets past a certain
point.  He'll give these two lads all the story of his wrongs, as he
calls it, before he's done.  He's like a madman, drinking himself to
death."

John would not trust himself to speak, but he stood still and listened
while the man went on to tell of Brownrig's marriage and all that
followed it, and of the madness that seemed to have come upon the
disappointed man.

"She has never been heard of since, at least he has never heard of her;
and it's my belief he would never hear of her, though half the parish
kenned her hiding-place.  It is likely that she's safe in America by
this time.  That is what he seems to think himself.  I shouldna wonder
if he were to set out there in search of her some day."

John listened in silence, catching every now and then the sound of
Brownrig's angry voice, growing louder and angrier as time went on.

It was of all this that John was thinking now, as he stood looking out
long into the darkness.  Then he came and sat down again, shading his
eyes with his hand.

"I am glad to be going away," said Allison, after a little; "and I thank
you for--all your kindness."

"Kindness!" repeated John.  "I would like to be kind to you, Allison, if
you would let me.  Allison I think I could make you a happy woman."

He rose and stood before her.  Allison shook her head sadly.

"I cannot think of myself as being a happy woman any more;" and then she
added: "But when I am fairly away, and not afraid, I can be content.  I
have my Marjorie now, and when she does not need me any more, I can go
to Willie.  Oh! if I were only safe away."

John went to the window again.  When he came back his face was very
pale, but his eyes were gleaming.  He sat down on the sofa beside her.

"I am glad--yes, I am glad you are going away.  That will be best for a
time.  And I am glad you have Marjorie.  But, Allison, what is to come
after?  You have your brother?  Yes, but he may have some one else then,
and may not need you.  Oh!  Allison, will you let me speak?"

Allison looked up.  She grew red, and then pale, but she did not
withdraw her eyes from his.

"Speak wisely, John," said she.

"Allison!  You cannot think that you owe duty to that man--that brute, I
should rather say?  Is there anything in the laws of man or of God to
bind you to him?  Would it be right to let him claim you as his wife?
Would it be right for you to go to him?"

"Even if it were right, I could not go to him," said she.

"And will you let him spoil your life?  Will you let him make you a
servant in another woman's house--a wanderer on the face of the earth?"

"He cannot spoil my life if I can only get safe away."

"And do you not hate and loathe him for his sin against you?"

"I do not hate him.  I would loathe to live with him.  I think--that I
pity him.  He has spoiled his own life, though he cannot spoil mine--if
I only _get_ safe away.  It was my fault as well as his.  I should have
trusted in God to help Willie and me.  Then I would have been strong to
resist him."

John bent toward her and took her hand.

"Will you use your strength against me, Allison?"

"No, John.  If I have any strength, I will use it in your behalf."

"Allison, I love you dearly.  Let me speak, dear," he entreated, as she
put up her hand to stop him, "Yes, let me tell you all.  From the first
moment that my eyes lighted on you I loved you.  Do you mind the day?
Wait, dear; let me confess all.  I did not wish to love you.  I was in
love with myself, only seeking to satisfy my own pride and vain ambition
by striving to win a high place in the world.  The way had opened before
me, and some day I was to be wise and learned, and a great man among
men.  I fought against my love.  Are you angry with me.  Do you despise
me?  But love conquered.  Love is strong and true."

Allison's colour changed; and, for a moment, her eyes fell before his;
but she raised them again, and said, gravely and firmly:

"John, when a good man loves a woman whom he believes to be good, what
is due from him to her?"

"Ah!  Allison.  Let me have a chance to show you!  It will take a long
life to do it."

"John, let me speak.  Does he not honour her in his heart?  And does he
not uphold her honour before the world?"

"We would go away together across the sea."

"Hush!  Do not say it.  Do not make me sorry that you love me.  Do not
make me doubt it."

"Ah! but you cannot doubt it.  You will never be able to doubt that I
love you.  Allison, do you love me, ever so little?  I could teach you,
dear, to love me."

He sought to take her hand, but she would not yield it to him.

"And your mother, John?"

"She would forgive us, if it were once done."

"And my mother, up in heaven?  What would she think if she were to know?
No, John, it cannot be."

"You do not love me.  You would not hesitate if you loved me."

"Do I not love you?  I am not sure.  I think I might learn to love you;
but I could not go with you.  No, I could not."

"Allison, I could make you a happy woman," said John, ending where he
had begun.

"And would you be a happy man?  Not if you are the good man that I have
ay believed you to be.  You would be wretched, John; and seeing it,
could I be happy, even if my conscience slumbered?"

"Allison, do you love me, ever so little?  Whatever else is to be said,
look once into my face and say, `John, I love you.'"

She looked into his face as he bade her, and her own changed, as she met
his eyes.  But she did meet them bravely.

"I think I might have learned to love you--as you said--but I will not
do you that wrong.  You may suffer for a while, but your life will not
be lost.  God be with you, and fare ye well."

She rose as she spoke.  John rose also, pained and angry.  He did not
take the hand which she held out to him.

"Is that all you have to say to me?"

"We shall be friends always, I hope."

"Friends!  No.  We have got past that.  It must be all or nothing
between us.  You must see that."

She looked at him with wet, appealing eyes.

"It cannot be all," said she, speaking low.

John turned and went away without a word.

That was not the very last between them.  John came in the morning in
time to carry Marjorie to the carriage, and to place her in Allison's
arms.  Something was said about letters, and Marjorie exclaimed:

"Oh!  Allison, will it not be fine to get letters from Robin and John?"

John looked up to see the tears in Allison's sad eyes, and his own
softened as he looked.

"Good-bye, my friend," said she.  "Good-bye."

Even if he had wished he could not have refused to take her hand this
time, with Marjorie and Robin looking on.  But he did not utter a word,
and in a moment they were gone.

John stood on the pavement looking after the carriage till it
disappeared around a corner of the street, "And now," said he, "I must
to my work again."


CHAPTER TWENTY.

  "Will I like a fule, quo' he,
  For a haughty hizzie dee?"

There was work enough waiting him, if he were to carry out the plans he
had pleased himself with making, before ever he had seen the face of
Allison Bain.  In one year more he had hoped to get to the end of his
university course.  If not in one year, then in two.  After that, the
world was before him and hard work.

"It has happened well," he was saying to himself, as he still stood
looking at the corner of the street.  "Yes, it has happened well.  I am
glad she is gone away.  If she had been staying on in Nethermuir, it
might not have been so easy for me to put her out of my thoughts.  It
has happened well."

And then he turned and went down the street "with his nose in the air,"
as was said by a humble friend of his who saw him, but whom he did not
see.

"I must have my turn of folly like the lave (the rest), as auld Crombie
would say.  And `it's weel over,' as he would also say, if he kenned
all.  I must to my work again."

Then he turned the corner and came face to face with the husband of
Allison Bain.  John's impulse during the space of one long-drawn breath
was to knock the man down and trample him under his feet.  Instead of
this, in answer to Brownrig's astonished question, "Have you forgotten
me?"  John met his extended hand and stammered:

"I did not expect to see you.  And for the moment--certainly--"

"I have been at Mr Swinton's office to see him or you.  You are late
this morning."

"I am on my way there now.  Have you time to go back again?  That is, if
I can do anything for you!"

"I'll go back with you.  It is business I came down about.  I am sorry
to hear from Mr Swinton that you are thinking of leaving his
employment.  I was hoping that ye might have the overseeing of a job
that the laird has nearly made up his mind to."

"Oh! as to that, the matter is by no means settled yet, though I have
been thinking about it.  I may stay on."

"A place in the employ of a man like Swinton, and I may add, after what
I have heard him say,--a place in his confidence also, must make good
stepping-stones to fortune for a young man.  Where were you thinking of
going, if one may ask?  To America, I suppose, like so many other folk
in these days."

"To America!  Oh! no; I have no thought of leaving Scotland at present,
or even of leaving Aberdeen.  I intend taking a while at the college.  I
began it when I was a lad.  But my plans may fall through yet."

"It would take time and it would take money," said Brownrig.

"That's true, but I have plenty of time before me."

"Well, ye may be up our way after all.  The laird has ta'en it intil his
head to have a new wing put to the house.  It has as muckle need of a
new wing as a Collie dog has o' twa tails," said Brownrig--falling into
Scotch, as some folk have a way of doing when they wish to be
contemptuous or jocose, or indeed are moved in any way.  "But if it is
to be done, it is to be done well, and Swinton is the man, with you to
oversee."

"There could be little done this year," said John.

"Plans and preparations could be made.  The work must be done in the
summer."

Brownrig seemed to be thinking of something else, for when they came to
the corner of the street, he stood still, looking out toward the sea.
John paused also for a moment, but he grew impatient and moved on.  All
this time he had been saying to himself:

"In some way I must keep this man in sight through the day and through
the night as well, as long as he shall stay in the town.  If he were to
see her now!  If he were to follow her!"

John drew his breath hard at the thought.

There was a long stair to go up before Mr Swinton's rooms could be
reached, and when they came to the foot of it Brownrig paused.

"I am not quite myself this morning," he said.  "I'll wait till later in
the day before I try to see Mr Swinton again.  There's no special
hurry."

"You are not looking very well," said John gravely.  "It would be as
wise for you to wait a while and refresh yourself.  I'll go with you a
bit of the way."

They went back together till they came to the door of the inn.  John
refused Brownrig's invitation to enter, and left him there.  Then he
took his way to Robert's lodgings.  Robert had not returned.

"Can they be lingering yet?" said John to himself.  "I must see that
they are fairly away."

In the street opposite the house where Mrs Esselmont had stayed, no
carriage was standing.  John slowly passed the house and turned again,
waiting for a while.  Then he went toward the office.  Looking in at the
inn parlour on his way thither, he saw Brownrig sitting with a friend.
There were a bottle and glasses between them, and judging that he was
"safe enough for the present," John went to his work.  Brownrig paid
another visit to Mr Swinton the next day, but nothing was definitely
arranged between them as to the work which was to be done, and in a day
or two he went away.

It must be owned that it went ill with John Beaton about this time.  He
had been in the way of saying to himself, and of saying to others also,
whom he wished to influence, that the thing which a man desired with all
his heart to do, that he could do.  Of course he meant only such things
as were not in their nature impossible to be done.  But after a while he
was not so sure of himself.

While Brownrig had lingered in the town, John had been more or less
occupied with thoughts of him.  He had kept sight of him at most times.
He had known where he was and what he was doing, and in what company.
He had done this for the sake of Allison Bain, declaring to himself that
whatever might be done to prevent her falling into the hands of the man
who called her his wife, it was right for him to do.

But Brownrig showed no sign of knowing that Allison had been in the
town, and in a few days he turned his face homeward again.

Then John had time to attend to his own affairs, and it went ill with
him for a while.  He faced his trouble like a man, and "had it out with
himself," as he might have "had it out" with friend or foe, with whom a
battle was to be fought for the sake of assured peace to come after.

Yes, he loved Allison Bain--loved her so well that he had been willing
to sacrifice a hopeful future at home, and begin a life of labour in a
strange land, so that she might share it with him.  He had not tried to
shut his eyes as to the right and wrong of the matter.  He had seen that
which he had desired to do as other men would see it, and he had still
spoken.

But Allison Bain did not love him.  At least she did not love him well
enough to be willing to do what was wrong for his sake.  And now it was
all past and gone forever.

What, then, was his duty and interest in the circumstances?

To forget her; to put her out of his thoughts and out of his heart; to
begin at the work which he had planned for himself before ever he had
seen her face; to hold to this work with might and main, so as to leave
himself no time and no room for the cherishing of hope or the rebelling
against despair, and he strengthened himself by recalling the many good
reasons he had seen for not yielding when the temptation first assailed
him.

He ought to be glad that she had refused to listen to him.  She had been
wise for them both, and it was well.  Yes, it was well.  This momentary
madness would pass away, and he had his work before him.

And so to his work he determined to set himself.  So many hours were to
be given to Mr Swinton and so many to his books.  In these
circumstances there would be no leisure for dreams or for regrets, and
he would soon be master of himself again.

And he must lose no time.  First he must go and see his mother.  He hung
his head as he owned to himself how few of his thoughts had been given
to her of late.

All this while she had had many thoughts concerning him; and when, one
night, he came at last, wet and weary, through the darkness of a
November night, she welcomed him lovingly, and uttered no word of
reproach or even of surprise at his long silence, or at his seeming
forgetfulness of the plan which he had himself proposed.  She was just
as usual, more glad to see him than she had words to tell, and full of
interest in all that he had to say.

And John flattered himself that he was "just as usual" also.  He had
plenty to say at first, and was cheerful over it.  Of his own accord he
told her about the travellers, as he called them; how he had seen them
at Robin's lodgings at night, and when they went away in the morning;
and of how content little Marjorie seemed to be in Allison Bain's care,
and how sure she was that she was coming home strong and well.

"You'll need to go and tell her mother about it to-morrow," said Mrs
Beaton.  "She will be glad to hear about her, though I daresay they have
had a letter by this time."

"Surely, I'll go to tell them," said John.

But he grew silent after that.  He said a few words about how busy he
had been of late, and then he owned that he was very tired, and bade his
mother good-night cheerfully enough.

"For," said he, "why should my mother be vexed by any trouble of mine,
that is so sure soon to pass away?"

And his mother was saying, as she had said before:

"If he needs me, he will tell me, and if I cannot help him, silence is
best between us.  For oh!  I fear if all were told, there might be some
things said that his mother would grieve to hear."

The next day passed as Sabbath-days at home usually passed.  They went
to the kirk together in the morning, and John went alone in the
afternoon.  He led the singing, and shook hands with a good many people,
and was perhaps more friendly with some of them than was usual with him.

He went to the manse in the gloaming to tell them how he had seen the
last of Marjorie, how she had been happy and bright, and how she had
promised to write a letter to him and to many more; but he never
mentioned Allison's name, Mrs Hume noticed, nor did she.

He found his mother sitting by the light of the fire.  She gave him her
usual greeting.

"Well, John?" said she, cheerfully.

"Well, mother?" said he cheerfully also.

There was not much more said for a while.  John's thoughts were faraway,
his mother saw, and she sat waiting with patience till they should come
back again--with a patience which might have failed at last.

"He maybe needs a sharp word," she thought.

It could wait, however; and in a little she said gently:

"You are looking tired, John; you have been overworking yourself, I
doubt."

John laughed.

"Oh! no, mother; far from that.  I have plenty of work before me,
however, and must buckle to it with a will.  You are thinking of coming
with me, mother?  I hope your heart is not failing you at the thought of
the change?"

"Failing me! by no means.  Surely, I have been thinking of it and
preparing for it, and it is full time the change were made, for the
winter is drawing on."

"Yes, the winter is drawing on."

"But, John, I have been taking a second thought about the house.  I must
go to the town with you for the winter, and that for various reasons.
Chiefly because you cannot come here often without losing your time, and
I weary for you whiles, sorely.  I did that last year, and this year it
would be worse.  But I would like to be here in the summer.  If I have
to part from you I would rather be here than among strangers."

"But, mother, what has put that in your head?  It is late in the day to
speak of a parting between you and me."

"Parting!  Oh, no.  Only it is the lot of woman, be she mother or wife,
to bide at home while a man goes his way.  You may have to seek your
work when you are ready for it; and I am too old and frail now to go
here and there as you may need to do, and you could ay come home to me
here."

John's conscience smote him as he listened.  He had been full of his own
plans and troubles; he had been neglecting his mother, who, since the
day he was born, had thought only of him.

"You are not satisfied with the decision I have come to--the change of
work which I have been planning."

His mother did not answer for a minute.

"I would have been well pleased if the thought of change had never come
into your mind.  But since it has come, it is for you to do as you think
right.  No, I would have had you content to do as your father did before
you; but I can understand how you may have hopes and ambitions beyond
that, and it is for you to decide for yourself.  You have your life
before you, and mine is nearly over; it is right that you should choose
your way."

John rose and moved restlessly about the room.  His mother was hard on
him, he said to himself.  His hopes and ambitions!  He could have
laughed at her words, for he had been telling himself that such dreams
were over forever.  It mattered little whether he were to work with his
head or his hands, except as one kind of work might answer a better
purpose than the other in curing him of his folly and bringing him to
his senses again.

"Sit down, John," said his mother; "I like to see your face."

John laughed.

"Shall I light the candle, mother?"

"There is no haste about it.  I have more to say.  It is this.  You may
be quite right in the decision to which you have come.  You are young
yet, and the time which you may think you have lost, may be in your
favour.  You have a stronger body than you might have had if you had
been at your books all these years; and you have got experience, and I
hope some wisdom, that your books could not have given you.  I am quite
content that you should have your will."

"Thank you, mother.  That is a glad hearing for me.  I could have had
little pleasure in my work, going against your wish and will."

"Well, take pleasure in it now.  If I held back for a while, it was only
that I thought I saw a chance of a better kind of happiness for you.
The sort of work matters less than we think.  If it is done well, that
is the chief thing.  And you have been a good son to your mother."

"Thank you, mother.  I hope you will never have to say less of me than
that.  And now is it settled?"

"Now it's settled--as far as words can settle it, and may God bless you
and--keep you all your days."

She had almost said, "comfort you!" but she kept it back, and said it
only in her heart.

Though Mrs Beaton's preparations were well advanced, there was still
something to do.  It could be done without John's help, however, and he
left as usual, early in the morning.  It was a good while before he saw
Nethermuir again.

In a few days his mother was ready to follow him.  The door was shut and
locked, and the key put into the responsible hand of cripple Sandy for
safe keeping.  It must be owned that John's mother turned away from the
little house where her son had made a home for her, with a troubled
heart.  Would it ever be her home again? she could not but ask herself.
It might be hers, and then it would also be his in a way--to come back
to for a day or a week now and then for his mother's sake.  But it could
never more be as it had been.

It was nothing to grieve for, she told herself.  The young must go forth
to their work in the world, and the old must stay at home to take their
rest, and to wait for the end.  Such was God's will, and it should be
enough.

It was, in a sense, enough for this poor mother, who was happier in her
submission than many a mother who has seen her son go from her; but she
could not forget that--for a time at least--her son must carry a sad
heart with him wherever he went.  And he was young, and open to the
temptations of youth, from which his love and care for his mother, and
the hard work which had fallen to his lot, had hitherto saved him.  How
would it be with him now?

"God guide him!  God keep him safe from sin," she prayed, as she went
down the street.

Mrs Hume stood at the door of the manse, waiting to welcome her, and
the sight of her kind face woke within the mother's heart a momentary
desire for the easement which comes with the telling of one's anxious or
troubled thoughts to a true friend.  Loyalty to her son stayed the
utterance of that which was in her heart.  But perhaps Mrs Hume did not
need to be told in words, for she gave silently the sympathy which was
needed, all the same, and her friend was comforted and strengthened by
it.

"Yes," said she, "I am coming back again in the spring.  It is more like
home here among you all than any other place is likely to be now; and
John will ay be coming and going, whatever he may at last decide to do."

Perhaps the silence of the minister as to John's new intentions and
plans implied a doubt in his mind as to their wisdom.  Mrs Beaton was
silent also with regard to them, refusing to admit to herself or to him,
that her son needed to have his sense and wisdom defended.

But they loved John dearly in the manse, and trusted him entirely, as
his mother saw with a glad heart.  So her visit ended happily, and no
trace of anxiety or regret was visible in her face when John met her at
her journey's end.


CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

  "The very rod,
  If we but kiss it as the stroke descendeth,
  Distilleth oil to allay the inflicted smart."

And so their new life began, and long before the first month was over,
Mrs Beaton was apparently as content with the state of affairs as could
well be desired.  She had no trouble as to household matters, and sat
with her book or her needle at one side of the table, while her son sat
with his books and his papers at the other side, very much as they had
done during those evenings which John had spent at home in Nethermuir.

Robert Hume lived in the same house, and their meals were served
together.  But Robert pursued his college work in his own room, and only
came as a visitor to Mrs Beaton's parlour when his books were put
aside.  John still spent several hours daily in Mr Swinton's office,
and all the rest of the time he was busy also with his college work.  To
see her son content, was enough for Mrs Beaton.

To give the history of one day would be giving the history of nearly all
the days of the winter, except as the Sabbath made a break among them,
Robin was reasonably industrious, but he could not be expected to
satisfy himself with the unbroken routine into which John readily fell.
He had his own companions and his amusements, and their meals were
enlivened by his cheerful accounts of all that was happening in the
world around them.  At his books Robert did fairly well, but he was not
likely to overwork himself.

They heard often from Marjorie by the way of the manse, and several
times during the winter a little letter came to Robin or to John,
written with great care and pains by her own hand.  She was very happy,
she said, and she had not forgotten them; and by and by she hoped to be
able to tell them that she was growing strong and well.

Twice or thrice during the winter Brownrig made his appearance at the
office of Mr Swinton.  He had, each time, something to say about
business, but apparently the laird had changed his mind about the
building of the new wing, for nothing more was to be done for the
present.

John could not help thinking that his chief reason for coming there was
to see him, in the hope that he might hear something about William Bain.
More than once he brought his name into their talk, asking if Mr
Beaton had heard anything of him, and hoping that he was doing well.  On
his second visit, meeting John in the street, he turned and walked with
him, and told him that one of the lads who had sailed with Bain had been
heard from by his friends.  The ship had been disabled in a storm before
they were half-way over, and had gone far out of her course, but had got
safely into a southern port at last.

The passengers had gone their several ways probably, and lost sight of
one another, for this lad could tell nothing of Bain, though he had
himself safely reached the town where Mr Hadden, the minister's son,
lived, and to which Bain had also intended to go.  "I thought perhaps
you or your friend might have had some word from him, as you had taken
some trouble to help him," said Brownrig.

"No, that is not at all likely," said John, "at least as far as I am
concerned.  Neither likely nor possible.  He never saw me, nor I him.
He never, to my knowledge, heard my name, and it was only by chance that
I ever heard his.  But I will give you the name of the man who used to
go to the tollbooth on Sunday afternoons.  It is just possible, though
not very likely, that he may have heard from him."

John wrote the name and address, and gave it to him.

"Have you been at the shipping office for news?" said he.

Yes, Brownrig had been there, and had been told that the ship was
refitting in the American port, and would soon be home, but that, was
all he had heard.  Whenever it was possible to do so, John kept out of
the man's way.  He had spoken to him nothing but the truth, yet he could
not help feeling like a deceiver.  And though he told himself that he
was ready to lie to Brownrig, rather than say anything that might give
him a clue by which the hiding-place of Allison Bain might be
discovered, still lying could not be easy work to unaccustomed lips, and
he said to himself, "the less of it the better."  So he did not
encourage Brownrig when they met, and he kept out of his way whenever it
was possible for him to do so.  But he pitied the man.  He was sorry for
the misery for which there could be no help, since Allison Bain feared
him, even if she did not hate him.  He pitied him, but he could not help
him to gain his end.  Whether it were right or whether it were wrong, it
was all the same to John.  He could not betray to her enemy the woman
who had trusted her cause in his hands.

But while he pitied him, Brownrig's persistence in seeking him irritated
him almost beyond his power to endure.  And the worst of it to John was,
that he could not put it all out of his thoughts when Brownrig had
turned his back upon the town, and had gone to his own place.

He grew restless and irritable.  He could not forget himself in his work
as he had been able to do at first, nor fix his attention upon it at
all, at times.  He read the same page over and over again, and knew not
what he read; or he sat for many minutes together, without turning a
leaf, as his mother sometimes saw, with much misgiving as to how it was
all to end.  And when it came to this with him, it was time for her to
speak.

"John, my lad," she said suddenly one night, and in her voice was the
mother's sharpness which is so delightful to hear and so effectual when
it is heard only at long intervals; "John, my lad, shut your book and
put on your coat, and take Robin with you for a run on the sands, and
then go to your bed."

John's dazed eyes met hers for a moment.  Then he laughed and rose,
yawning and stretching his arms above his head.

"You are right, mother, as you always are.  We'll away to the links;"
and his cheerful voice calling up-stairs for Robin to come down at once,
was music to the ears of his mother.

"There's not much wrong with him," she said to herself hopefully.
"He'll win through, and begin again, when once he is fairly free."

She meant that when "those weary examinations" were all over, he would
have time to rest and come to himself, and be ready for his work,
whatever it was to be.  And--hopeful old mother that she was--she meant
more than that.  She meant, that before this son of hers, who was wiser
and stronger and better than the sons of most mothers, lay a fair
future.  "The world was all before him where to choose."  He would only
be the stronger for the weight of the burden which had fallen so early
on his young shoulders.  In time he would forget his dream, outlive his
disappointment, and be not the worse, but the better for the discipline.
He would go his way and serve his Master, and win honour among good
men.  "And I'll bide at home and hear of him whiles, and be content,"
said the anxious, happy mother, with tears in her loving eyes.

In the meantime John was on the sands, facing the wind, which drowned
his voice as he sang:

  "Will I like a fule, quo' he,
  For a haughty hizzie dee?"

But it was not the wind which silenced his song, for Allison Bain was no
"haughty hizzie" of the sort, "Who frown to lead a lover on," but a sad
and solitary woman, who might have a sorrowful life before her.

"To whom may the Lord be kind!" said John, with a softened heart.  "I
love her, and it is no sin to love her, since I may never see her face
again."

And many more thoughts he had which might not so well bear the telling;
and all the time Robin was bawling into his inattentive ears an account
of a battle of words which had taken place between two of his friends,
who had agreed, since neither would acknowledge defeat, to make him
umpire to decide between them.

When they, turned their backs to the wind and their faces homeward,
hearing and answering became possible.  They had the matter decided to
their own satisfaction before they reached the house, and their merry
sparring and laughter, and the evidence they gave of an excellent
appetite when supper-time came, might have been reassuring to Mrs
Beaton, even had she been more anxious than she was about her son.

After that John was more careful of his looks and words and ways, when
in his mother's presence.  All tokens of weariness or preoccupation or
depression were kept out of her sight; and, indeed, at all times he felt
the necessity of struggling against the dullness and the indifference to
most things, even to his work, which were growing upon him.

He did his best against it, or he thought he did so.  He forced himself
to read as usual, and when he "could make nothing of it," he took long
walks in all weathers, so as to keep his "helplessness" out of his
mother's sight, believing that when the necessity for exertion should be
over--when he could get out of the groove into which it would have
perhaps been better that he had never put himself, all would be as it
had been before.  And said he grimly:

"If the worse comes to the worst, I can but fall to breaking stones
again."

It ended, as it generally does end, when a man sets himself to do the
work of two men, or to do in six months the work of twelve, in order to
gratify a vain ambition, or to lighten a heavy heart.  It took no more
than a slight cold, so it was thought to be at first, to bring the
struggle to an end, and the work of the winter.

There was a night or two of feverish restlessness, of "tossing to and
fro until the dawning of the day," a day or two of effort to seem well,
and to do his work as usual, and then Doctor Fleming was sent for.  It
cannot be said that there ever came a day when the doctor could not,
with a good conscience, say to John's mother, that he did not think her
son was going to die; but he was very ill, and he was long ill.  The
college halls were closed, and all the college lads had gone to their
homes before John was able, leaning on Robert's arm, to walk to the
corner of the street; and it may be truly said, that the worst time of
all came to him after that.

He had no strength for exertion of any kind; and worse than that, he had
no motive, and in his weakness he was most miserable.  It was a change
he needed, they all knew, and when the days began to grow long and warm,
something was said about returning to Nethermuir for a while.

"To Nethermuir, and the lanes where Allison used to go up and down with
little Marjorie in her arms, to the kirk where she used to sit; to the
hills which hid the spot where his eyes first lighted on her!"

No, John could not go there.  He had got to the very depths of weakness
when it came to that with him--and of self-contempt.

"There is no haste about it, mother," said he.  "The garden?  Yes, but I
could do nothing in it yet.  In the third test an intimate friend of the Countess, long since
dead, entered the room, and passing slowly by her went out at the
other end.

She showed not the slightest sign of fear, and the Earl felt satisfied
that he could place his fate in her keeping, but he again warned her of
his danger if she lost her presence of mind while he was in another
shape. He then turned himself into a black bird, flew about the
room, and perching on the Countess's shoulder commenced to sing.
Suddenly a black cat appeared from under a chest, and made a spring
at the bird; in an agony of fear for its safety the Countess
threw up her arms to protect it and swooned away.
When she came to she was alone, the bird and the cat had disappeared,
and she never saw the Earl again."
It is said that he and his knights lie in an enchanted sleep, with
their horses beside them, in a cave under the Rath on the hill of
Mullaghmast, which stands, as the crow flies, five miles to the
north of Kilkea Castle.

Once in seven years they are allowed to issue forth; they gallop
round the Curragh, thence across country to Kilkea Castle, where
they re-enter the haunted wing, and then return to the Rath of Mullaghmast.

The Earl is easily recognised as he is mounted on a white charger shod
with silver shoes; when these shoes are worn out the enchantment will
be broken, and he will issue forth, drive the foes of Ireland from
the land, and reign for a seven times seven number of years over the vast
estates of his ancestors.

Shortly before '98 he was seen on the Curragh by a blacksmith who was
crossing it in an ass-cart from Athgarvan to Kildare. A fairy blast
overtook him, and he had just time to say, "God speed ye Gentlemen"
to the invisible "Good People," when he heard horses galloping up behind
him; pulling to one side of the road he looked back and was terrified
at seeing a troop of knights, fully armed, led by one on a white
horse.

The leader halted his men, and riding up to the blacksmith asked him to
examine his shoes. Almost helpless from fear he stumbled out of the
ass-cart and looked at each shoe, which was of silver, and then
informed the knight that all the nails were sound.

The knight thanked him, rejoined his troop, and galloped off. The blacksmith
in a half-dazed state hastened on to Kildare, where he entered a
public-house, ordered a noggin of whisky, and drank it neat. When he
had thoroughly come to himself he told the men that were present
what had happened to him on the Curragh; one old man who had listened
to him said: "By the mortial!

man, ye are after seeing 'Gerod Earla.'" This fully explained the
mystery.
Gerod Earla, or Earl Gerald, is the name by which the Wizard Earl is
known by the peasantry.

One other legend is told in connection with the Wizard Earl of a considerably
later date. It is said that a farmer was returning from a fair in Athy
late one evening in the direction of Ballintore, and when passing
within view of the Rath of Mullaghmast he was astonished to see a
bright light apparently issuing from it.

Dismounting from his car he went to investigate.

On approaching the Rath he noticed that the light was proceeding from
a cave in which were sleeping several men in armour, with their horses
beside them. He cautiously crept up to the entrance, and seeing that
neither man nor beast stirred he grew bolder and entered the chamber;
he then examined the saddlery on the horses, and the armour of
the men, and plucking up courage began slowly to draw a sword from
its sheath; as he did so the owner's head began to rise, and he
heard a voice in Irish say, "Is the time yet come?"

In terror the farmer, as he shoved the sword back, replied, "It is
not, your Honour," and then fled from the place.

It is said that if the farmer had only completely unsheathed the
sword the enchantment would have been broken, and the Earl would
have come to his own again.

In 1642 Wallstown Castle, the seat of the Wall family, in County Cork,
was burnt down by the Cromwellian troops, and Colonel Wall, the head
of the family, was captured and imprisoned in Cork jail, where he died.

One of the defenders during the siege was a man named Henry Bennett,
who was killed while fighting.

His ghost was often seen about the place for years after his death. His
dress was of a light colour, and he wore a white hat, while in his
hand he carried a pole, which he used to place across the road
near the Castle to stop travellers; on a polite request to remove
the pole he would withdraw it, and laugh heartily.

A caretaker in the place named Philip Coughlan used frequently to be visited
by this apparition. He came generally about supper time, and while
Coughlan and his wife were seated at table he would shove the pole
through the window; Coughlan would beg him to go away and not interfere
with a poor hard-worked man; the pole would then be withdrawn, with a
hearty laugh from the ghost.

In the Parish Church of Ardtrea, near Cookstown, is a marble monument and
inscription in memory of Thomas Meredith, D.D., who had been a
Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, and for six years rector of the
parish.

He died, according to the words of the inscription, on 2nd May 1819,
as a result of "a sudden and awful visitation." A local legend explains
this "visitation," by stating that a ghost haunted the rectory, the
visits of which had caused his family and servants to leave the house.
The rector had tried to shoot it but failed; then he was told to
use a silver bullet; he did so, and next morning was found dead at
his hall-door while a hideous object like a devil made horrid noises
out of any window the servant man approached.

This man was advised by some Roman Catholic neighbours to get the
priest, who would "lay" the thing.

The priest arrived, and with the help of a jar of whisky the ghost
became quite civil, till the last glass in the jar, which the priest
was about to empty out for himself, whereupon the ghost or devil
made himself as thin and long as a Lough Neagh eel, and slipped
himself into the jar to get the last drops.

But the priest put the cork into its place and hammered it in, and,
making the sign of the Cross on it, he had the evil thing secured. It
was buried in the cellar of the rectory, where on some nights it
can still be heard calling to be let out.

A story of a phantom rat, which comes from Limerick, is only one of many
which show the popular Irish belief in hauntings by various animals.
Many years ago, the legend runs, a young man was making frantic and
unacceptable love to a girl. At last, one day when he was following
her in the street, she turned on him and, pointing to a rat which
some boys had just killed, said, "I'd as soon marry that rat as you."

He took her cruel words so much to heart that he pined away and died.
After his death the girl was haunted at night by a rat, and in spite
of the constant watch of her mother and sisters she was more than once
bitten. The priest was called in and could do nothing, so she determined
to emigrate. A coasting vessel was about to start for Queenstown, and her
friends, collecting what money they could, managed to get her on board.
The ship had just cast off from the quay, when shouts and screams
were heard up the street.

The crowd scattered, and a huge rat with fiery eyes galloped down to
the quay. It sat upon the edge screaming hate, sprang off, and did not
reappear. After that, we are told, the girl was never again haunted.

A legend of the Tirawley family relates how a former Lord Tirawley,
who was a very wild and reckless man, was taken from this world.

One evening, it is said, just as the nobleman was preparing for a night's
carouse, a carriage drove up to his door, a stranger asked to see him
and, after a long private conversation, drove away as mysteriously as
he had come.
Whatever words had passed they had a wonderful effect on the gay
lord, for his ways were immediately changed, and he lived the life
of a reformed man.

As time went on the effect of whatever awful warning the mysterious
visitor had given him wore off, and he began to live a life even more
wild and reckless than before. On the anniversary of the visit he was
anxious and gloomy, but he tried to make light of it. The day passed, and
at night there was high revelry in the banqueting hall.

Outside it was wet and stormy, when just before midnight the sound
of wheels was heard in the courtyard.

All the riot stopped; the servants opened the door in fear and trembling:
outside stood a huge dark coach with four black horses. The "fearful
guest" entered and beckoned to Lord Tirawley, who followed him to
a room off the hall.

The friends, sobered by fear, saw through the door the stranger drawing
a ship on the wall; the piece of wall then detached itself and the
ship grew solid, the stranger climbed into it, and Lord Tirawley
followed without a struggle.

The vessel then sailed away into the night, and neither it nor its
occupants were ever seen again.

The above tale is a good example of how a legend will rise superior
to the ordinary humdrum facts of life, for it strikes us at once
that the gloomy spectre went to unnecessary trouble in constructing a
ship, even though the task proved so simple to his gifted hands. But
the coach was at the door, and surely it would have been less
troublesome to have used it.

A strange legend is told of a house in the Boyne valley. It is said that
the occupant of the guest chamber was always wakened on the first night
of his visit, then he would see a pale light and the shadow of a
skeleton "climbing the wall like a huge spider." It used to crawl out on
to the ceiling, and when it reached the middle would materialise into
apparent bones, holding on by its hands and feet; it would break in
pieces, and first the skull and then the other bones would fall
on the floor.

One person had the courage to get up and try to seize a bone, but
his hand passed through to the carpet though the heap was visible
for a few seconds.

  The following story can hardly be
  called _legendary_, though it may certainly be termed ancestral.

The writer's name is not given, but he is described as a rector
and Rural Dean in the late Established Church of Ireland, and a Justice
of the Peace for two counties. It has this added interest that it was
told to Queen Victoria by the Marchioness of Ely.

"Loftus Hall, in County Wexford, was built on the site of a stronghold
erected by Raymond, one of Strongbow's followers. His descendants forfeited
it in 1641, and the property subsequently fell into the hands of
the Loftus family, one of whom built the house and other buildings.

About the middle of the eighteenth century, there lived at Loftus Hall
Charles Tottenham, a member of the Irish Parliament, known to fame
as 'Tottenham and his Boots,' owing to his historic ride to the
Irish capital in order to give the casting vote in a motion which
saved £80,000 to the Irish Treasury.

"The second son, Charles Tottenham, had two daughters, Elizabeth and Anne,
to the latter of whom our story relates. He came to live at Loftus Hall,
the old baronial residence of the family, with his second wife and the
two above-mentioned daughters of his first wife.

Loftus Hall was an old rambling mansion, with no pretence to beauty:
passages that led nowhere, large dreary rooms, small closets, various
unnecessary nooks and corners, panelled or wainscotted walls, and
a _tapestry chamber_.

Here resided at the time my story commences Charles Tottenham, his second
wife and his daughter Anne: Elizabeth, his second daughter, having
been married.

The father was a cold austere man; the stepmother such as that
unamiable relation is generally represented to be.

What and how great the state of lonely solitude and depression of mind
of poor Anne must have been in such a place, without neighbours
or any home sympathy, may easily be imagined.

"One wet and stormy night, as they sat in the large drawing-room,
they were startled by a loud knocking at the outer gate, a most
surprising and unusual occurrence.

Presently the servant announced that a young gentleman on horseback
was there requesting lodging and shelter.

He had lost his way, his horse was knocked up, and he had been
guided by the only light which he had seen.

The stranger was admitted and refreshed, and proved himself to be
an agreeable companion and a finished gentleman--far too agreeable
for the lone scion of the House of Tottenham, for a sad and mournful
tale follows, and one whose strange results continued almost to the
present day.

"Much mystery has involved the story at the present point, and in truth
the matter was left in such silence and obscurity, that, but for
the acts of her who was the chief sufferer in it through several
generations, nothing would now be known.

The fact, I believe, was--which was not unnatural under the circumstances--that
this lonely girl formed a strong attachment to this gallant youth
chance had brought to her door, which was warmly returned.

The father, as was his stern nature, was obdurate, and the wife no
solace to her as she was a step-mother.

It is only an instance of the refrain of the old ballad, 'He loved,
and he rode away'; he had youth and friends, and stirring scenes,
and soon forgot his passing attachment.

Poor Anne's reason gave way.

"The fact is but too true, she became a confirmed maniac, and had to be
confined for the rest of her life in the tapestried chamber before
mentioned, and in which she died.

A strange legend was at once invented to account for this calamity:
it tells how the horseman proved such an agreeable acquisition that
he was invited to remain some days, and made himself quite at home,
and as they were now four in number whist was proposed in the
evenings.

The stranger, however, with Anne as his partner, invariably won every
point; the old couple never had the smallest success.

One night, when poor Anne was in great delight at winning so
constantly, she dropped a ring on the floor, and, suddenly diving
under the table to recover it, was terrified to see that her agreeable
partner had an unmistakably cloven foot.

Her screams made him aware of her discovery, and he at once vanished
in a thunder-clap leaving a brimstone smell behind him.

The poor girl never recovered from the shock, lapsed from one fit into
another, and was carried to the tapestry room from which she never
came forth alive.

"This story of his Satanic majesty got abroad, and many tales are
told of how he continued to visit and disturb the house.

The noises, the apparitions, and disturbances were innumerable, and greatly
distressed old Charles Tottenham, his wife, and servants.

It is said that they finally determined to call in the services of
their parish priest, a Father Broders, who, armed with all the
exorcisms of the Church, succeeded in confining the operations of
the evil spirit to one room--the tapestry room.

"Here, then, we have traced from the date of the unhappy girl's misfortune
that the house was disturbed by something supernatural, and that
the family sought the aid of the parish priest to abate it, and
further that the tapestry room was the scene of this visitation.

"But the matter was kept dark, all reference to poor Anne was
avoided, and the belief was allowed to go abroad that it was Satan
himself who disturbed the peace of the family.

Her parents were ready to turn aside the keen edge of observation from her
fate, preferring rather that it should be believed that they were
haunted by the Devil, so that the story of her wrongs should sink
into oblivion, and be classed as an old wives' tale of horns and
hoofs.

The harsh father and stepmother have long gone to the place appointed
for all living.

The Loftus branch of the family are in possession of the Hall. Yet poor
Anne has kept her tapestried chamber by nearly the same means which
compelled her parents to call in the aid of the parish priest so
long ago.

"But to my tale: About the end of the last century my father was
invited by Mrs.

Tottenham to meet a large party at the Hall. He rode, as was then the
custom in Ireland, with his pistols in his holsters.

On arriving he found the house full, and Mrs. Tottenham apologised to
him for being obliged to assign to him the tapestry chamber for
the night, which, however, he gladly accepted, never having heard
any of the stories connected with it.

"However, he had scarcely covered himself in the bed when suddenly
something heavy leaped upon it, growling like a dog. The curtains
were torn back, and the clothes stripped from the bed. Supposing that
some of his companions were playing tricks, he called out that he would
shoot them, and seizing a pistol he fired up the chimney, lest he
should wound one of them. He then struck a light and searched the room
diligently, but found no sign or mark of anyone, and the door
locked as he had left it on retiring to rest.

Next day he informed his hosts how he had been annoyed, but they could
only say that they would not have put him in that room if they had
had any other to offer him.

"Years passed on, when the Marquis of Ely went to the Hall to spend
some time there.

His valet was put to sleep in the tapestry chamber. In the middle of
the night the whole family was aroused by his dreadful roars and
screams, and he was found lying in another room in mortal terror.

After some time he told them that, soon after he had lain himself down
in bed, he was startled by the rattling of the curtains as they
were torn back, and looking up he saw a tall lady by the bedside
dressed in stiff brocaded silk; whereupon he rushed out of the room
screaming with terror.

"Years afterwards I was brought by my father with the rest of the family
to the Hall for the summer bathing. Attracted by the quaint look of
the tapestry room, I at once chose it for my bedroom, being utterly
ignorant of the stories connected with it.

For some little time nothing out of the way happened. One night,
however, I sat up much later than usual to finish an article in a magazine
I was reading. The full moon was shining clearly in through two large
windows, making all as clear as day.

I was just about to get into bed, and, happening to glance towards
the door, to my great surprise I saw it open quickly and noiselessly,
and as quickly and noiselessly shut again, while the tall figure
of a lady in a stiff dress passed slowly through the room to one
of the curious closets already mentioned, which was in the opposite
corner.

I rubbed my eyes.
Every possible explanation but the true one occurred to my mind,
for the idea of a ghost did not for a moment enter my head.

I quickly reasoned myself into a sound sleep and forgot the matter.

"The next night I again sat up late in my bedroom, preparing a gun
and ammunition to go and shoot sea-birds early next morning, when
the door again opened and shut in the same noiseless manner, and
the same tall lady proceeded to cross the room quietly and deliberately
as before towards the closet.

I instantly rushed at her, and threw my right arm around her, exclaiming
'Ha! I have you now!' To my utter astonishment my arm passed through
her and came with a thud against the bedpost, at which spot she
then was.

The figure quickened its pace, and as it passed the skirt of its dress
lapped against the curtain and I marked distinctly the pattern of her
gown--a stiff brocaded silk.

"The ghostly solution of the problem did not yet enter my mind.

However, I told the story at breakfast next morning. My father, who
had himself suffered from the lady's visit so long before, never said
a word, and it passed as some folly of mine. So slight was the impression
it made on me at the time that, though I slept many a night after in
the room, I never thought of watching or looking out for anything.

"Years later I was again a guest at the Hall. The Marquis of Ely
and his family, with a large retinue of servants, filled the house to
overflowing. As I passed the housekeeper's room I heard the valet
say:

'What! I to sleep in the tapestry chamber? Never! I will leave my
lord's service before I sleep there!' At once my former experience in
that room flashed upon my mind. I had never thought of it during the
interval, and was still utterly ignorant of Anne Tottenham: so when
the housekeeper was gone I spoke to the valet and said, 'Tell
me why you will not sleep in the tapestry room, as I have a
particular reason for asking.'

He said, 'Is it possible that you do not know that Miss Tottenham passes
through that room every night, and, dressed in a stiff flowered
silk dress, enters the closet in the corner?'

I replied that I had never heard a word of her till now, but that I
had, a few years before, twice seen a figure exactly like what he had
described, and passed my arm through her body.
'Yes,' said he, 'that was Miss Tottenham, and, as is well known,
she was confined--mad--in that room, and died there, and, they say,
was buried in that closet.'

"Time wore on and another generation arose, another owner possessed the
property--the grandson of my friend.

When several days had passed, he made up his mind that he would go to
the bank and see Mr Hadden, and he went.  It was too late to see him
that day.  Mr Hadden had gone home.  On that night something happened.
John met the man whom he was seeking, face to face.

It could be no one else, he said to himself.  For the eyes which met his
for a moment were the beautiful, sad eyes of Allison Bain.  "Now, God
guide me!" said John in strong entreaty, and then he followed the lad.
He followed him down one street and up another, and out into the country
along the lake shore.  The stranger moved more slowly as he went on and
stopped at last; and, leaning upon a broken fence, looked out long upon
the water.

"I'm not so very strong yet," said John to himself, as he paused also,
for his heart was beating hard and his hands trembled.

While he hesitated whether he should speak at once or wait a while, the
lad turned and began to retrace his steps.  John addressed him as he
passed.  "Can you tell me if I am on the right road to--to--Jericho?"
said he, at a loss for a name.  "No, I cannot tell you.  I am a stranger
here."

"A stranger?  So am I.  And you are a Scotchman, I ken by your tongue.
So am I.  We are both strangers in a strange land."

If John had had time to think, he might not have spoken in this way, but
it is very likely he might have said nothing which would have answered a
better purpose.  The lad turned and looked at him.

"Yes, I am a stranger.  I have no friends--no one," he said huskily, and
the tears came into his eyes.

"I have no friends on this side of the sea, and not so very many beyond
it--besides my mother."

This, also, was a stupid sort of thing to say, he owned, when he came to
think of it, and then he added:

"I have heard that this is a fine country to get on in."

"Yes, so they say."

They went on in silence, and very slowly, the stranger walking wearily,
as John could see.

"I am done out," said he at last, stopping and leaning against a tree.

"Yes, so I see.  Have you far to go?  I will go with you."

"I have nowhere to go.  I came here yesterday, and I slept last night in
a boat by the wharf."

"Then ye'll just come with me," said John heartily, giving him his arm
to lean upon.  He would have liked to ask his name, but he did not.
They walked on slowly, till they came to the house where John was
staying.

"I have brought a friend," said he to the mistress of the house.  "He
will share my room, and I will be responsible for him."

"He looks sick," said the woman gravely.  "I hope you realise what you
are undertaking?"

John _thought_ he "realised" it, but he did not.  It would have made no
difference, however, if he had.  His new friend tossed and muttered all
night, and in the morning was unable to raise his head from the pillow,
and that was but the beginning.  Many days passed before he was able to
do so.  He was light-headed much of the time, and uttered a great many
names, some of them angrily enough, and some of them with love and
longing unspeakable.  It was, "Oh! mother! mother!"  Or, "Oh!  Allie!
Allie! where are you gone?" through the whole of one painful night when
he was at the worst, till the dawn brought sleep at last, and a respite.

He grew better after a while, and the visits of the doctor ceased, but
his strength came slowly and his spirits failed him often.  The house in
which they lodged stood near the water's edge.  The heat was great in
the middle of the day, and at night the wind which came from the lake
was damp and chill.  John saw that a change of place was needed, and he
would fain have carried him away to get the fresh air of the country.

"A change is what he needs.  We can manage it for a day now and then, to
get somewhere," said John to himself; "and then--I must to work again."

He knew, or he supposed, that if he applied to Mr Hadden, who had the
reputation of being a rich man who did much good with his money, all
would be made easy to this stranger; but he himself had the best right
to have the pleasure of helping Allison's brother; and he said to
himself:

"I'll bide a wee.  He has not mentioned Mr Hadden's name, nor his own,
for that matter.  Yes, I'll bide a wee, and we'll manage it in some
way."


CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

      "Let us be content to work--
  To do the thing we can, and not presume
  To fret because 'tis little."

And it was managed very much to John's satisfaction, and very easily
managed.  One morning John hailed an early market-man, returning home
with his empty waggon, and asked him if he would take passengers for a
little way into the country.  The man hesitated only for a minute.

"Well, yes, I guess so--just as well as not.  Glad of your company,"
said he, after a second glance at John's face, and away they went
together.  It paid to have their company their new friend told them, as
he took his leave of them.

"If you think of walking back to town to-night, I guess you've come far
enough," said he, when they came to the top of the hill.

He left them on a little knoll, sheltered by a few great maple-trees,
and having a sloping, stony pasture between it and the lake, and here
they spent the morning.  John had a book, and he enjoyed it, while his
patient slept.  But he could not quite put away all anxious thoughts,
and he laid it down at last to face them.

What was to be done with this silent lad, who had fallen into his hands?
Since the night of their meeting, he had spoken no word about himself,
except as he had muttered or cried out unconsciously while the fever was
upon him.  He had not asked a question or hesitated a moment in letting
John do with him as he would, accepting all help and tendance as quietly
and naturally as they were cheerfully given.

And John liked all this, in a way.  But it could not continue.  For the
lad's sake something must be said, something must be done.

"He must be made stronger, and put in the way of doing for himself,
before I leave," said John, thinking rather of the lightness of his
purse than of any desire he had to see the country or even to get home
again.

"Yes, we must lose no time," he repeated, and looked up to meet the
lad's eyes fixed on him.

"You have never told me your name," said he gravely.

John laughed.

"Have I not?  Well, it is John Beaton.  Did you ever hear it before?"

"No, I have never heard it."

"And you have not told me yours.  It is rather queer, too.  The name is
usually the first exchange made between men meeting as strangers, when
they wish to become friends."

There was no answer to this.  "Well?" said John, after a little.

"I have been thinking--I mean I call myself William Leslie."

"And is that your name?" asked John gravely.

"Yes, it is my name.  It is not all of my name.  But what does it matter
in this new country?  My name is nothing to any one."

"But it is something to yourself.  I havena a fine name, but it was my
father's before me, and my grandfather's, and I wouldna change it to be
called a lord," said John gravely.  "My lad, I hope you have done
nothing to make you afraid or ashamed to own your name?"

"I have done nothing that I wouldna do again, ten times over, if it
would give me my revenge!" he cried, raising himself up, while his eyes
flashed angrily.  "It is not for shame, but for safety that I wish to
have my name forgotten, and--for Allie's sake."

He lay down again, and after the anger, the tears came.  Then John did
an extraordinary thing.  When he stooped to arrange the plaid over his
friend, he kissed him on his lips and on his closed eyelids.  Then he
rose and turned his back upon him.

While he stood thus the rain began to fall, the first drops of a summer
shower, which promised to be a heavy one.  What was to be done now?
Where were they to find shelter?  John ran up the hill to the other side
of the grove and looked northward toward the threatening clouds, and
down over a wide landscape, which even the glooming clouds could not
make otherwise than fair.  There were fields of grass and grain
stretching as far as the eye could reach.  There were men at work among
the hay, piling high the long wagons, in haste to get it to shelter
before the rain came on.  A white farmhouse, half hidden by trees, stood
near, and great barns with doors wide open, waiting for the coming of
the wagons.  It did not need a minute for John to take all this in, and
in another he was speeding down the hill and over the meadow with his
friend in his arms, nor did he pause till he had laid him in one of the
barns on a bed of fragrant hay.

"I must go back for the plaid and the basket," said he; and stooping
down, he added gently: "My lad, if any one should ask your name, mind
that you are Willie Bain."

He came back as a great load of hay drew up at the barn door.

"Drive right in under cover, Sam," said the farmer, who followed.  "I
expect we'll have to leave it here.  We can't unload in time to do much
more.  Hurry up and cock up as much of the rest as you can.  If it had
only held up another hour!"

The man slid down from the load and made for the field.

"Well how, it begins to look as though it might hold up," soliloquised
the farmer.  "I 'most wish I had let him stay.  Halloo, Sam!"

But Sam was out of hearing by this time, though he was not making the
greatest possible haste to the field.

"Perhaps I might help you to unload," said John from the dimness of the
barn floor.  The farmer did not hesitate a second.

"I don't know who you be, but I expect you are to be trusted to pitch
the hay back as fast as I pitch it down.  Go ahead."

John could be trusted, it seemed.  The farmer did not succeed in
embarrassing him with the abundance of the great forkfuls which he threw
down into the mow, and the team was backed out into the yard in what the
farmer called "pretty considerable quick time."  And then he saw William
Bain sitting with John's plaid about him, on a bundle of hay in the
corner.

"Well! it seems to me that we're goin' to have company," said he.

"We have been enjoying the fresh air up among your trees yonder.  But I
was afraid of the rain for the lad, who has been ill of late, so we
ventured to take possession of your barn."

"All right.  It's nothing catching he's had, is it?  He'd better go
right into the house, hadn't he?"

But Bain preferred to stay where he was, among the hay.  John took his
place on the hay-cart, and set out with the farmer to the field.

"Well, I shouldn't wonder if we saved most of it now.  It's just
possible--with your help," added he, nodding in a friendly way to John.
As they passed the door of the farmhouse he called out:

"See here, Myra; there's company out there in the south barn.  You tell
grandma she'd better have him in, and see to him.  There's nothing
catching, you say?  Well, the old lady will fix him up, and make him
comfortable; and she'll like nothing better."

The rain "held up" for a while, and the farmer and his two men, with the
help of John, wrought wonders.  When, at last, the rain came down in
torrents, the fragrant hay was all safe under cover, and the farmer was
triumphant.

Of course John came to the house with him, and there he found Willie
Bain sitting in a rocking-chair, content and smiling, under the
guardianship of a lovely old woman, whose face told that her pleasure
all her life had been found in pleasing and helping others.  It was a
good sight for John to see.

"He'll do now," said he to himself.  "He has fallen into good hands.  I
only wish I might leave him here for a day or two.  It would set him up
again."

"Be you brothers?" said the farmer, as he caught the satisfied look with
which John regarded the lad sitting at his ease among them.

"We are fellow-countrymen," said John, "and that makes brothers of us
here in a strange land."

The evening was one to be remembered by these brothers, who had been
strangers less than a month ago.  A good many times in the course of his
life has John told the story of that first evening in Jacob Strong's
house.  He has forgotten many things, and times, and places better worth
remembering, perhaps, but he will never forget his first coming into
that long, low room, through whose open windows shone in the afterglow
from the west, when the first heavy shower was over.

There was a wide fireplace, and on high, brass andirons a bright wood
fire was burning.  Over it was a mantel-shelf on which were arranged
candlesticks of brass and snuffer-trays, and various other things quaint
and pretty.  There was a tall clock in the corner, and a tall
looking-glass between the windows.  There was a secretary in another
corner, with a book-case above it, and some pictures on the walls.  The
table was laid for tea, and the room and all that was in it was perfect
in neatness.  Grandma Strong was there waiting for them, and the
farmer's wife and his "little daughter," as Jacob Strong called a
slender girl of sixteen, who was leaning shyly on her grand mother's
chair.  He might well remember it, and his friend also, for it was a
good day for them both which brought them there, and Jacob Strong and
his household proved true friends to them.

Jacob Strong!  John told his mother long afterward, that if the Bible
had been searched from end to end to find a good name for a good man,
none better than that could have been found for their new friend.  Not
that either of the patriarch's names fitted him exactly.  He was not a
"supplanter," and though he was on the right side, as no one who knew
him well would deny or even doubt, yet if one had wished to tell his
character in two words, it would not have been as "a soldier of God"
that one would have described him.  But he was in many ways very like
the patriarch, as we see him in the Bible story.  He was wise, he was
wily, he was patient.  He could bide his time and secure his chance, and
when it came to that, that he had to yield, of to humble himself, to
meet loss, or to dispense beyond what was pleasing to a man who took
reasonable satisfaction in getting and in holding, he could yet do it
without wincing visibly.  He was fortunate in being in the hands of two
good women, his mother and his wife, who knew him well, and loved him
well, and who were jealous for his honour before men, and for his
singleness of heart before God.

Of course John's knowledge of his character came later, and by slow
degrees.  But even on this first night he was greatly interested in his
talk, which was at once "worldly wise and heavenly simple," as he
afterward heard one of his neighbours say.  And Jacob was strong in
nature as in name.  He could "hold on."  He had paid every dollar which
his farm had originally cost him, by the work of his own hands on other
men's farms.  And with the help of his mother first, and then of his
wife, "who each carried a good head on her shoulders," as he told John,
he had made it pay.  By and by he added another hundred acres to the
first hundred, and later, when "the Western fever" set in, and people
began to talk about prairie lands, and great wheat farms to be made out
there in the Far West, one of his neighbours sold out to him, and
Jacob's two hundred acres became four.

"And that is about as much as I want to have on my hands, till labour
comes to cost less, which won't be for a spell, as things look now,"
said he.

All this he told to John while a second heavy shower kept him waiting.
Before the rain was over, Willie Bain was at rest for the night, in Mrs
Strong's south chamber.  Then John told all that was necessary for them
to know about the lad,--how, though he had known friends of his at home,
he had never seen the lad himself until he had met him by chance on the
lake shore.  Finding him alone and ill, he had taken him home and cared
for him.  Bain was better now, and would soon be well.  Yes, he meant to
stay in the country.  As to himself, John could not say whether he would
stay long or not; the chances were he would remain for a time.

Then when the rain seemed over, John rose to go.  The folk where they
lived might be troubled about them.  He had something to do in the
morning, but in the course of the day he would come back for his friend.
And with many thanks for their kindness to the lad, he took his
departure.

Since William Bain had acknowledged his name, John thought it right that
Mr Hadden should be informed of his arrival in the town, and next
morning he went again to see him, at his place of business.  He was a
good deal surprised at the manner in which Mr Hadden received him.  It
was not at all as one receives a stranger, he thought, but the reason
was soon made clear to him.

John Beaton was not altogether a stranger to Mr Hadden.  His name had
been mentioned in both letters which Allison had written, as one who had
been willing to befriend her brother while he was in prison, and who
wished still to befriend him since he was set free.  John told of his
meeting with the lad, of his illness, and his good fortune in falling
into the hands of the kind people out at the farm.

"It must be the Strongs you are speaking of.  Certainly he could be in
no better hands, if he still needs to be taken care of.  And the longer
he is there, the better it will be for him."

"I would like well to leave him there for a while, if they were willing
to keep him.  I will see how things look when I go out for him
to-night."

Of his own affairs or intentions John said nothing.  He spent the rest
of the morning in looking about him, in order to ascertain what sort of
work there was to be done in the town, to which he might put his hand
with a hope of success.  There was building going on, and he came at
last to a wide yard, where stone-cutting was done, and he said to
himself, that if they would but give him a chance, he would fall to, and
do his best for a while at least.

But he did not go to inquire at once.  He stood thinking of the day when
he first tried his hand on the granite of Aberdeen, and earned his
shilling before he laid the hammer down again.

"I might have done better, but then I might have done worse," he
admitted with not unreasonable satisfaction.  No fragments were too
small for use in Sister Anne's most skilful cookery; not a crumb, nor a
dreg, nor a drop was wasted.

Many a cup of comfort fed the sick or the weary, made from what, in
richer households, unthrifty servants would have thrown away.
There were always roots to spare from the small garden, herbs for
medicines, eggs for sale, salves, and lotions, and conserves of
fruit or honey.

All the poor infants in the parish were neatly clothed in baby-linen made
out of old garments.Willie Bain's first word to him was:

"Why did you never tell me that ye had seen our Allie?"

"Do ye no' mind that, till last night you never told me your name?  How
was I to ken?" added John, as Willie hung his head.  "I did ken you as
soon as ever I saw your face.  Yes, I have seen your sister.  She is
safe where she is.  No evil hand can touch her, and in a while she is
coming out here to you."

Poor Willie Bain was but weak yet, and the tears were running down his
cheeks, while John told him in few words what his sister had been doing,
how she had won the respect of all who had known her, and how she had
now gone away from Scotland with a good friend, but was looking forward
to the time when she might join her brother, so that they might have
again a home together.

"And, Willie, my lad," added John, gravely, "if I had a sister like
yours, I would make a man of myself for her sake."

"You are a man already," said Willie, with a sound which might have been
either a laugh or a sob.  "As for me--yes, I ken I havena been taking
right care of myself for a while.  I fell into ill hands down yonder.
But now I have you, and I _will_ be a man for Allie's sake."

There had been tokens visible of the fact that the young man had not
been "taking care of himself," but John had spoken no word which
betrayed his knowledge.

They were in the garden at this time, sitting in a wide, green walk,
between high rows of currant-bushes, a great apple-tree making a
grateful shade around them.  By and by they rose and walked up and down,
John lending his strength to help his friend's weakness; and he asked:

"Would you not like to stay here a little while?"

"Till I get my strength back again?  Yes, I would like it well.  I mean
sometime to have land of my own, and could begin to learn here the new
ways that are needed in a new country.  Yes, I would like well to bide
here for a while."

He spoke eagerly and hopefully.

"I wish Allie were here.  There would be no fear then," said Willie,
looking up at John with Allie's wistful eyes.

"She cannot come for a time.  It is likely that she might be sought for
here--in Mr Hadden's neighbourhood, I mean.  But, Willie man, I think
it is as well that she should not come just now, even for your sake.  It
_is you who_ would be _looking_ up to her, because she is wiser than
you, and maybe stronger.  She would lead, and you would follow.  That
might be well, in a way.  But it would be better, it would be far more
manly for you to learn to stand by your own strength--to walk by your
own wisdom.  Of course, I mean by the help of God, in all things," said
John, gravely.

"Do ye ken Allie well?" asked Willie, looking up into his friend's face.

John hesitated a moment.

"I cannot say that I have known her long, or seen her often.  But I know
that she has borne much trouble well and bravely, and that she must be
strong.  And I know that she has walked warily and done wisely in
difficult places, so that all those who _do_ know her well, respect her,
and some few people love her dearly--my mother among the rest."

"You must tell me all about her some time," said Willie, with glistening
eyes.

"Yes," said John.  Then he paused before he added:

"I think, Willie, in speaking of your sister to any one here, you should
say nothing about her marriage, since it has not been a happy one."

Willie withdrew his hand from John's arm, and turned upon him with a
face white with anger.

"Married!  Happy!  I'll swear that he has never touched her hand, nor
looked in her face, since that cursed day.  Call you that marriage?"

"Thank God!" said John; "and may he never touch her hand, nor look upon
her face.  Gently, my friend, she is safe from him now."

Then he led him back to the shadow of the apple-tree, and told him more
about his sister.  He told how she had lived at the manse, and how they
had valued her there.  He told of little Marjorie, whom her father and
mother had intrusted to Allison's care, and of the child's love for her,
and how Allison had been helped and comforted through her love for the
child.  She was quite safe now, so faraway in the South, and no one
would harm her while she was in Mrs Esselmont's care.  John talked on
till the lad had grown quiet again, and then they were called to tea.

The first words that Grandma Strong said when they came in together
were:

"You don't think of taking that boy back to that hot place to-night, do
you?  I don't think you had better--for a day or two, at least."

It was all very easily settled after that.  John was glad to agree with
the dear old woman.  Willie was to stay at the farm till he was a little
stronger.

"We're glad to have him stay.  Don't you say a word about it," was the
younger Mrs Strong's answer, when John tried to thank her for all their
kindness to his friend, for whom he felt responsible, he said, until he
should be strong and well.

"You had better stay and help us through with haying and harvesting.
You could pay your way and his too, and have something over," said Mr
Strong.

But John had his own work laid out before him, and intended to make long
hours, so that he could hardly hope to come out to see his friend for a
while.

"Come Saturday night and spend Sunday.  You can go to meeting here as
well as there."

And John answered:

"Yes, I will be glad to come."

Does this sudden friendship, this acceptance of utter strangers,
without a word spoken in their behalf, except what they spoke for
themselves, seem strange, unlikely, impossible?  It did not seem strange
to John, till he came to think of it afterward as he walked home.  Face
to face with these kind people, their mutual interest seemed natural
enough.  In thinking about it, as he went swiftly on in the moonlight,
he did wonder a little.  And yet why should he wonder? he asked himself.

"Honest folk ken one another, with few words about it.  It has happened
well, and--not by chance," added he, reverently, recalling many a one at
home who would have him often in their thoughts at the best place--and
thinking especially of two, who, in all quiet moments, would be
"remembering" both him and his friend there.

It must not be forgotten that all this happened many years ago, before
all the nations of the earth had turned their faces toward the West, in
search of a refuge from poverty or tyranny, disgrace or despair.  There
was room enough, and land enough for all who were willing to work and to
live honestly.  Every strong and honest man who came, while he bettered
himself and those who belonged to him, did good also to his neighbours,
and to the country at large.  And so in those days, as a rule, new
comers were well received.  But beyond this, John and his friend were
liked for their own sakes, and might well rejoice at the welcome which
they got at the farmhouse, for a great many good things and happy days
came to them through the friends they found there, before all was done.

It is possible that if John had not met in with William Bain in those
circumstances, he might have travelled about for a while till he was
strong again, and then he might have turned his face homeward.  If he
had found the lad well, and doing well, he might have contented himself
with leaving him to the kindly care, or the unobtrusive supervision of
Mr Hadden, who had known his family, and who had promised to befriend
him.  But John could not quite free himself from a sense of
responsibility with regard to Willie Bain.  He must keep sight of him
for a while.  He liked the lad from the first and soon he loved him.  He
would not be losing time by remaining for a few weeks.  He meant to
travel by and by, and see the country, and in the meantime he might do
something toward helping Willie to make a man of himself for Allison's
sake.

So he went to the stone-yard, and did his day's work with the rest.  It
was hard work for a while.  He had got out of the way of it somewhat,
and he had not got back his strength altogether.  The day was long, and
he was glad when night came.  After the first week, however, he was
himself again, and then he grew strong and brown, and was as fit for his
work as ever he had been, he told his mother in the second letter which
he sent her, after he began.

He told her about William Bain.  But that was for herself alone.  As no
one else in Nethermuir had ever heard of the lad, it was not necessary
to speak of him there, lest his name might be mentioned in the hearing
of some who might not wish him or his sister well.  He did not write to
Allison about her brother.  Mr Hadden did that, and the story of John's
kindness to the lad lost nothing in being told by him.

Before the summer was over, John had begun to consider the question,
whether, after all, it might not be as well for him to stay where he
was, and take up a new life in a new land.  His mother had more than
once in her letters assured him of her willingness to come out to him
should he decide to remain in America.  But there was to be no haste
about it.  He must be quite certain of himself and his wishes, and he
must have won such a measure of success, as to prove that he was not
making a mistake, before she joined him.  It might be better for him to
be alone for a while, that he might be free to come and go, and do the
very best for himself.  The best for himself, would be best for his
mother.  And in the meantime she was well and strong, in the midst of
kind friends, and content to wait.  And she would be more than content
to join him when the right time came.

And so John followed his mother's counsel.  He kept his eyes open and
"worked away," and by the end of the first year, he began to see his way
clear to "the measure of success" which his mother desired for him.  He
had proved himself, as a workman, worthy of the confidence of those who
had employed him, and as a man, he had won the esteem of many a one
besides.  That he worked with his hands, did not in that country, at
that time, necessarily exclude him from such society as the town of
Barstow offered.  But it made him shy of responding to the advances of
some of the people who lived in the big white houses among the trees
along the street, and who went to the same church in which, after a few
weeks of wandering, here and there, John settled down.

The only people whom he came to know very well during his first year,
were the Strongs at the farm, and the Haddens.  Mr Hadden was friendly
with him from the first, because he was a fellow-countryman, and because
he was a friend of William Bain's.  Afterward, they were more than
friendly, for better reasons.  Mr Hadden had no cause to feel surprise
in finding in a skilled workman from his native land, a man of wide
reading and intelligence.  He had found many such among his countrymen
who had come to seek a home in his own adopted country.  But John Beaton
was different from most of those with whom he had come in contact, in
that it was not necessary in his case, that allowance should be made for
unconscious roughness of manner or speech, or for ignorance of certain
ways and usages of society, which are trifles in themselves, but of
which it is desirable that one should be aware.

But at this time John did not care much for society of any kind.  He
never had cared much for it.  In Nethermuir he had "kept himself to
himself," as far as most of the townsfolk were concerned, and it must be
owned, that beyond his own small circle of friends in the manse, and in
one or two other houses, he had not been a very popular person.  He had
no time to give to anything of that sort, he had always said, but he
might have found the time, if he had had the inclination.  He had not
much leisure in Barstow.  Still, in the course of the first two years,
he came to know a good many people in the way of business; and in
connection with the work undertaken by the church to which he belonged,
he also made friends whom he valued, but his first friends were his best
friends.

All that need be told of the first three years of his residence in
Barstow, may be gathered from a letter which he wrote to his mother
about that time.

"You ought to be a happy woman, mother, for you have gotten the desire
of your heart.  Do you not mind once saying to me, that you desired for
me nothing better in this life, than that I should do as my father had
done, and make my own way in the world?  Well, that is just what I am
doing.  There is this difference between us--that I have got `a measure
of success' on easier terms than my father did.  I am not a rich man,
and I have no desire to be one--though even that may come in time.  But
I stand clear of debt, and I see a fair way to success before me.  I
have `got on' well even for this country, where all things move more
rapidly than with us at home.

"I have had two friends who have stood by me all these years.  They have
helped me with their money, with their names, and with their influence.
I might, in the course of time, have gotten on without their help, but
they have taken pleasure in standing by me, like true friends.

"Yes, I have liked my work, and my way of life, though to you I will own
that I have sometimes wearied of them--and of everything else.  But
one's life must go on till God's will brings it to an end, and I know of
no other way that would suit me better now.  And between whiles, as I
have told you before, I find higher work which I am able to help along.

"And now, dear mother--when are you coming home?--For this is to be your
home, is it not?  You say you are able to come alone.  But if you can
wait a few months longer I will go for you.  I have building going on in
different parts of the city, and the foundation of your own house is
laid, on the knowe (knoll), which I have told you of, beneath the
maple-trees, and full in sight, the great lake into which the sun sinks
every night of the year.  In six months it will be ready for you, and I
shall be ready to cross the sea to bring you home.

"I long with all my heart to have my mother here.  I think I shall be
quite content when that time comes.

"William Bain had told me about his sister before your letter came.  He
was wild with anger, and said, some things which he has taken back since
then.  I heard from Mr Hume and from Mrs Hume, as well.  I cannot
blame them for their advice--or rather, for their silence.  And I cannot
blame Allison Bain for what she has seen right to do.  God bless her--
Amen."

And so the letter ends, without even his name.


CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

  "Oh!  Blessed vision! happy Child."

"Are you sure you are glad to come home, Allie dear?" said Marjorie
Hume, looking up rather doubtfully into her friend's face, for Allison
had said not a word in answer to her exclamations for some time.

They were walking together through a wide street in Aberdeen, and
Marjorie had been amusing herself looking at the people whom they met,
and at the pretty things in the shop windows, and had been enjoying it
all so much that, for a while, she had never doubted that Allison was
enjoying it also.  But Allison was looking away to the sea, and her face
was very grave, and there was a look in her eyes that Marjorie had not
seen in them for a long time now.  The look changed as the child
repeated the question:

"Allie, you are surely glad to be going home?"

"I am very glad to be bringing my darling home strong and well to her
father and mother and them all.  They will be more than glad to see us
again."

"And, Allie dear, it is your home too, till Mrs Esselmont wants you
again.  And you will try to be happy there?  And you will not be ay
wishing to win away to your brother in America--at least for a while?"

"No, not for a while.  But I must go when he sends word that he needs
me.  That may be sooner than we ken.  When he gets his own land, and has
his house built, then I will go.  But I am in no hurry," said Allison,
after a pause.  "And now let us go and take a look at the sea.  It is
too early yet to see Dr Fleming."

"But it is not the same sea that we have been looking at so long--the
sea that has helped to make me strong and well."

"It is a grand sea, however, and it is our own.  And to-day it is as
bonny, and smooth, and blue, as ever the Southern Sea was, and the same
sun is shining upon it.  And we must make haste, for we have no time to
lose."

They did not go at once, however.  As they turned into the next street,
a hand was laid on Allison's arm, and looking up she met the eyes of one
whom she had not seen for many a day.  She had last seen him looking
sorrowfully down on the face of her dying father.

"Mr Rainy!" cried she, faintly, thinking of that day.

"Eh! woman, but I am glad to see you after all this time.  Where have
you been since that sorrowful day?  I was just thinking about you as I
came down the street.  I must believe in a special Providence after
this.  I was just saying to myself that I would give a five-pound note,
and maybe twa, if I could but put my hand on Allison Bain.  And lo! here
ye are.  And, Allison, my woman, if your father could speak to you, he
would say, `Put yourself into my old friend's hand, and be advised and
guided by him, and ye'll never have cause to repent it.'  And now I say
it for him."

Allison shook her head.

"I cannot do that--blindly.  I need neither the help nor the guidance
that you would be likely to give me.  I must go my way with the child."

"The child!  Ah! yes, I see, and a bonny little creature she is," said
Mr Rainy, offering his hand to Marjorie.  "And whose child may she be?"

"She is the child of my master and mistress.  I have been in service all
this time, and I need help from no one."

"In service!  Yes, and among decent folk, I'll be bound!  Well! well!
And doubtless you will be able to account for every day and hour that
has gone by since you--were lost sight of.  That is well."

"It might be well if there were any one who had a right to call me to
account," said Allison, coldly.

Mr Rainy had turned with them, and they were walking down the street
together.

"A right?  The less said about rights the better.  But this I will say,
you have a right to look upon me as a friend, as your father did before
you.  And I have a right to expect it from you.  Your father trusted me,
and it will be for your good to trust me likewise."

"Yes, he trusted you.  And if I needed help that you could give, I might
come to you for it.  But I have only to ask that you forget that you
have seen me.  Not that it matters much now; I have got over my first
fear.  I must bid you good-day.  We are on our way to see Doctor
Fleming.  But first we are going down to the sands."

And then Allison made him a courtesy which minded Marjorie of Mrs
Esselmont.  Then they went down another street together, and left him
standing there.

Mr Rainy had been for many years the friend and legal adviser of the
laird of Blackhills, and more than once, in his visits to the great
house on the laird's business, he had given counsel to Allison's father
with regard to his affairs.  He had been with him when he was drawing
near his end, and had done, what, at that late day, could be done, to
set his affairs in order, and to secure, that which he possessed, for
the benefit of those he left behind.  He had known all the circumstances
of Allison's unfortunate marriage.  He had not spared Brownrig when the
matter was discussed between them, but in no measured terms had declared
his conduct to have been cowardly, selfish, base.

But when Allison disappeared so suddenly, he had done his utmost to find
her.  That a woman might begin by hating a man, and yet come to love him
when he was her husband, he believed to be possible.  At the least
Allison might come to tolerate her husband if she did not love him.  She
might come, in time, to take the good of her fine house and of the fine
things, of which there was like to be no stint in it, and live her life
like the rest, when her first anger at his treacherous dealing was over.
For her own sake, for the sake of her good name, and the respect he
owed to the memory of her father, Mr Rainy left no means untried, that
might avail to discover her.  He never imagined it possible that she
would remain within a short day's journey of the place where all her
life had been spent.

Of late he had come to believe that she was dead.  And he said to
himself, that if she could have been laid to her rest beside her father
and her mother, no one need have grieved for her death.  For her
marriage could hardly have been a happy one.  All her life long she had
forgotten herself, and lived only for her father and mother, because she
loved them, and because they needed her.  For the same reason she would
have laid herself down in the dust, to make a way for her young scamp of
a brother to pass over to get his own will.  But for the man who had
married her she had professed no love, and even in his fine house it
might have gone ill with them both.

"But it is different now," he said to himself, as he went down the
street.  "Brownrig is a dying man, or I am much mistaken, and he has
known little of any one belonging to him for many a year and day.  And
his heart is softening--yes, I think his heart must be softening.  He
might be brought to make amends for the ill turn he did her when he
married her.  As for her, she will hear reason.  Yes, she must be
brought to hear reason.  She seemed to ken Dr Fleming.  I will see him.
A word from a man like him might have weight with her.  I will see him
at once."

Mr Rainy lost no time.  He needed to say his say quickly, for the
doctor had much before him in his day's work.  The patience with which
he listened, soon changed to eager interest.  "It is about Brownrig--the
man whose horse fell with him in the street--that I want to ask.  He was
brought to the infirmary lately.  You must have seen him."

Then in the fewest possible words that he could use, Mr Rainy told the
story of Allison Bain.

"I met her in the street, and the sight of me hurt her sorely, though
she did not mean that I should see it.  I came to you because she named
your name, and I thought you might help in the matter."

Dr Fleming listened in silence.  He had never forgotten Allison Bain.
He had never been told her story before; but through some words spoken
by Mr Hadden, and later by Mr Hume, he knew that she _had_ a story,
and that it was a sad one.  It was not necessary for him to say all this
to Mr Rainy, who ended by saying:

"What I want you to tell me is, whether the man is likely to live or to
die."  And then he added, with an oath, "If I thought he might live, I
would not lift my finger to bring a woman like her, into the power of a
man like him.  Certainly I would not do so against her will.  But if he
is to die--that is another thing."

Doctor Fleming was not the kind of man to be taken altogether into his
confidence as to the motive he had in desiring to bring these two
together, and he said no more.

"I will see the man to-day," said the doctor, gravely.

As one door opened to let Mr Rainy out, another opened to admit Allison
and Marjorie.  It was Marjorie who spoke first.

"My father said I was to come and see you, doctor.  I am little Marjorie
Hume.  You'll mind on me, I think."

Doctor Fleming laughed, and lifting the little creature in his arms,
kissed her, "cheek and chin."

"My little darling!  And are you quite well and strong?"

"Oh! yes.  I'm quite well and strong now--just like other bairns.  I'm
not very big yet," added she, as he set her down again.  "But I am well.
Allie will tell you."

Allison, who had remained near the door, came forward smiling.

"She is much better indeed," said she.

"You should say quite well, Allie dear," urged Marjorie, in a whisper.

"Yes, I may say quite well.  Her father wished us to come and see you
before going home.  Or rather, he wished you to see the child.  But your
time is precious."

"Where are you staying?  At the old place with Mrs Robb?  Well, I will
come round and see you this evening.  I have a good many questions to
ask.  You were not thinking of leaving to-day?"

No, they were to remain a day to rest, and some one was to meet them
when they left the mail-coach to take them home.  The doctor asked a
question or two and let them go, but his eyes followed them with
interest till they passed round the corner out of sight.

When he came to see them in the evening, he found Marjorie sleeping on
the sofa, while Allison sat by her side with her work in her hand.  It
happened well, for the doctor had some questions to ask which could be
answered all the more clearly and exactly, that the child need not be
considered in the matter.  They spoke softly, not to disturb her, and in
answer to the doctor's questions Allison told briefly and directly all
that he wished to know.  Indeed, he could not but be surprised at the
fulness and the clearness of the account which she gave, of all that the
doctor had done.  The minutest details of treatment were given; and
sometimes the reason, and the result, almost as fully and effectively as
they were written down, in a letter which had been sent him by Dr
Thorne.  To this letter he referred for a moment, and as he folded it
up, he said:

"The child fell into good hands.  Dr Thorne is a skilful doctor and a
wise man.  That is well seen in his works and his words."

"Yes," said Allison.  "You are right there."

She had spoken very quietly and gravely up to this time.  Now the colour
came into her cheeks, and her eyes shone as she went on.

"I could never tell you all his goodness.  At first he seemed just to
wish to please his friend, Mrs Esselmont.  I doubt whether he had much
hope of helping the child at first.  And then he took up the case in
full earnest, for the sake of science, or just for the pleasure of
seeing what wonderful things skill and patience could do for help and
healing.  But in a while, it was not just a _case_ with him.  He soon
came to love her dearly.  And no wonder he loved the gentle little
creature, ay patient and cheerful and making the best of everything,
even when they hurt her, or wearied her, with this thing or that, as
whiles they had to do.  Not a child in a thousand would have borne all
she has come through, to have health and strength at last.  And not a
doctor in a thousand could have brought her through, I hope, sir, you
will excuse my saying so much," said Allison, pausing suddenly, as she
caught the look with which Doctor Fleming was regarding her.

"Oh! yes.  I understand well."  And then he opened his letter and read a
line or two.

"`It is a remarkable case altogether.  The pleasure I have taken in it
has paid me ten times over for my trouble.'"

"I am sure of it," said Allison, speaking low and eagerly.  "I could
never tell you all his kindness.  You see it was not just saving a life.
It was a far greater thing to do than that.  It would not have been so
very sad a thing for a child like her to have died, to have been spared
the trouble that comes into the life of even the happiest, though many
would have missed her sorely.  But she might have lived long, and
suffered much, and grown weary of her life.  It is from that that she
has been saved, to happy days, and useful.  It will be something to see
her father's face when his eyes light upon her.  And the doctor speaks
in earnest, when he says he took pleasure in helping the child."

Doctor Fleming looked up from his letter and smiled, and then read a few
words more from it.

"`You will understand and believe me when I say, that her firm and
gentle nurse has done more for the child than I have done.  Without her
constant, wise and loving care, all else could have availed little.  She
is a woman among a thousand--a born nurse--'"

Allison laughed softly though the tears came to her eyes.

"Did he say that?  He is kind.  And I am glad, because--if a time should
come when--"

And then she paused as she met Marjorie's wondering eyes.  The doctor
had something to say to the child, but he did not linger long.  He had
come with the intention, also, of saying something to Allison of
Brownrig's condition.  But he could not bring himself to do it.

"I will wait for a day or two, to see how it is like to be with him.  He
is not in a fit state to be moved, as the sight of her would be likely
to move him.  And even if I knew he were able to bear it, I could not by
any words about him, spoil her happy homecoming."

"A happy homecoming!"  It was that truly.  When they came to the mill,
where the houses on that side of the town begin, Marjorie would have
liked to leave the gig, with which Robert had gone to meet them, at the
point where they left the mail-coach, that all the folk might see that
she could walk, and even run, "like the other bairns."  And then
everybody would see how wise her father and mother had been in sending
her away to a good man's care.  But Robert laughed at her, and said
there would be time enough for all that in the days that were coming,
and Allison bade her wait till her father and mother might see her very
first steps at home.

The time of their homecoming was known, and there were plenty of people
to see them as they passed down the street.  Every window and door
showed a face which smiled a welcome to the child.  As for Marjorie she
smiled on them all, and nodded and called out many a familiar name; and
there were happy tears in her eyes, and running down her cheeks, before
she made the turn which brought the manse in sight.

And then, when they stopped at the door, her father took her in his
arms, and carried her into the parlour where her mother was waiting for
her, and set her on her own little couch which had never been removed
all this time, and then the door was shut.  But not for very long.

For there were all the brothers waiting to see her, and there was the
little sister, who, when she went away, had been a tiny creature in a
long white frock, whom Marjorie longed to see.  She was a little lass of
two years now, rosy and strong as any brother of them all.  She was in
Allison's arms when the door was opened to admit them, and the pleasant
confusion that followed maybe imagined, for it cannot be described.

That was but the beginning.  During the next few days, many a one came
to the manse to see the little maiden who had suffered so patiently,
though she longed so eagerly to be strong and well like the rest.  And
now she was "strong and well," she told them all, and the eager, smiling
face was "bonnier and sweeter than ever," her admiring friends agreed.

And those who could not come to see her, she went to see--auld Maggie
and the rest.  The schoolmistress was come to the end of all her
troubles, before this time, and was lying at peace in the kirkyard.  So
were some others, that Marjorie missed from the kirk and from the
streets, but there was room only for brief sorrow in the heart of the
child.

In the course of a few days Marjorie and Allison were invited to drink
tea at Mrs Beaton's, which was a pleasure to them both.  Mrs Beaton
read to them bits out of her John's last letters, which told a good many
interesting things about America, and about John himself, and about a
friend of his, who was well and happy there.  Marjorie listened eagerly
and asked many questions.  Allison listened in silence, gazing into her
old friend's kindly face with wistful eyes.

That night, when the child was sleeping quietly, Allison came back again
to hear more.  There was not much to hear which Allison had not heard
before, for her brother wrote to her regularly now.  She had some things
to tell John's mother, which she had not heard from her son, though she
might have guessed some of them.  He had told her of his growing success
in his business, and he had said enough about Willie Bain to make it
clear that they were good friends, who cared for one another, and who
had helped one another through the time when they were making the first
doubtful experiment of living as strangers in a strange land.  But
Willie had told his sister of his friend's success in other directions,
and he gave the Americans credit for "kenning a good man when they saw
him."

"For," said Willie, "it is not just an imagination, or a way of
speaking, to say, that in this land `all men are free and equal.'  Of
course, there are all kinds of men--rich and poor, good, bad, and
indifferent--here as in other lands.  All are not equal in that sense,
and all are not equally successful.  But every man has a chance here,
whether he works with his head or his hands.  And no man can claim a
right to be better than his neighbour, or to have a higher place than
another because of his family, or his father's wealth.  It is character,
and intelligence, and success in what one has undertaken to do, that
bring honour to a man here.  At least that is the way with my friend.
If he cared for all that, he might have pleasure enough, and friends
enough.  He is very quiet and keeps close at his work.

"He has been a good friend to me--better than I could ever tell you, and
nothing shall come between us to separate us, _that_ I say, and swear.
Sometimes I think I would like to go back to Grassie again, that I might
give myself a chance to redeem my character there.  But still, I do not
think I will ever go.  And so, Allie, the sooner you come the better.
There is surely no danger now after nearly three years."

All this Allison read to John's mother, and there was something more
which, for a moment, she thought she would like to read that might give
pleasure to her kind old friend.  For Willie in his next letter had
betrayed, that the "something" which was never to be permitted to come
between the friends to separate them, was the good-will of pretty and
wayward Elsie Strong, who since she had come home from the school, where
she had been for a year or more, "has been as changeable as the wind
with me," wrote poor Willie, and greatly taken up, and more than
friendly with Mr Beaton whenever he came out to the farm.  And then he
went on to say, that he thought of going to look about him farther West
before he settled down on land of his own.  And he had almost made up
his mind to go at once, and not wait till the spring, as he had at first
intended to do.

The letter went on to say that John Beaton had bought land, and was
going to build a house upon it.

"It is the bonny knowe with the maples on it, looking down on the lake,
where John brought me that first day to breathe the fresh air.  John
saved my life that time, and I will never forget it, nor all his
goodness to me since then.  Of course, Mr Strong would not have sold a
rod of it to any one else.  But Elsie is an only child, and it would be
hard for him to part from her.

"The more I think of it, the more I wish to go farther West before I
take up land of my own--and you must come when I have got it--"

All this Allison glanced over in silence, but she could not bring
herself to read it to Mrs Beaton.

"He has told her himself, doubtless, though she has no call to tell it
to me.  I am glad--or I would be glad but for the sake of Willie, poor
lad."

And then, as she rose to go, the door opened, and Saunners Crombie came
stumbling in.


CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

  "Show me what I have to do,
  Every hour my strength renew."

"Mistress Beaton," said the old man, "it is a liberty I am taking to
trouble you at this late hour.  But I hae been at the manse to get
speech o' Allison Bain, and if I dinna see her the nicht I kenna when I
may see her, and it is of importance."

Allison came forward, and offered her hand with a smile.

"I am sorry that you have had the trouble of seeking for me," said she.

"That's neither here nor there.  I am glad to see you safe hame again.
Ye hae been doin' your duty down yonder they tell me.  May ye ay hae the
grace to do it.  I hae some words to say to ye.  Will ye go with me, or
will I say them here?  I am just come hame from Aberdeen."

"And you are done out.  Sit you down and rest yourself," said Mrs
Beaton, as she rose.  Allison put out her hand to stay her as she was
about to leave the room.

"Bide still with me.  Mr Crombie can have nothing to say to me, that
you may not hear."

The old man was leaning forward with his hands on his knees, looking
tired and ready to fall asleep where he sat.  He roused himself as
Allison spoke.

"That is as ye shall think yoursel'.  This is what I hae to say to you.
I hae heard o' yon man again.  I hae seen him.  And I hae come to say to
you, that it is your duty to go to him where he lies on his dying bed.
Ay woman! ye'll need to go.  It's no' atween you and him now, but atween
you and your Maker."

"It has come at last," said Allison, growing pale.

Mrs Beaton sat down beside her, and taking her hand, held it firmly in
both hers.

"It was an accident," went on Crombie.  "He had been drinking too
freely, they say.  He was in the town, and he set off late to go home,
and was thrown from his horse.  How it happened canna be said, but they
found him in the morning lying by the dike-side, dead--it was supposed
at first.  But they carried him to the infirmary, and he is living yet.
He is coming to himself, and kens folk, and he _may_ live to leave the
place, but it's less than likely."

"And who bade you come to Allison Bain with all this?" asked Mrs
Beaton, gravely.  "And are you quite sure it is true?"

"Oh! ay, it's true.  I didna come to her with hearsays.  I gaed mysel'
to the infirmary and I saw him with my ain een.  And who bade me come
here to her, say ye?  It was the Lord himself, I'm thinking.  The man's
name wasna named to me, nor by me.  I kenned him because I had seen him
before.  And it was borne in upon me that I should tell Allison Bain o'
his condition.  Or wherefore should the knowledge of it have come to me
who am the only one here beside yoursel' who kens how these twa stand to
ane anither?"

But Mrs Beaton's heart sickened at the thought of what might be before
Allison.

"What could she do for him if she were to go there?  He is in good hands
doubtless, and is well cared for.  Has he been asking for her?"

"That I canna say.  But ye may ken without my telling you, that there is
no saying `wherefore?' to a message from the Lord.  And it is between
the Lord and this woman that the matter is to be settled now."

But Mrs Beaton shook her head.

"I canna see it so.  If he really needed her--if it were a matter of
life and death--"

"A matter of life and death!  Do ye no' see, woman, that it is for more
than that?  It is the matter of the saving of a soul!  Do ye not
understand, that a' the evil deeds o' a' his evil life will be coming
back now on this man, and setting themselves in array against him, and
no' among the least o' them the evil he brought on her and hers?  And
what kens he o' the Lord and His mercy?  And what has he ever heard of
salvation from death through faith in the Son of God?"

Mrs Beaton had no words with which to answer him, and they all were
silent for a while.  Then Crombie began again, more gently:

"And if he were to come out of his fever, with all the dreads and doubts
upon him that hae been filling his nights and days, and if he were to
see her face with a look of forgiveness on it, and the peace of God, it
might encourage him to hope in God's mercy, and to lippen himsel'--
sinner as he kens himsel' to be--in the hands of Him who is gracious,
and full of compassion and tender mercy.  Think of the honour of being
the means, in the Lord's hand, of saving a sinner like that!"

The old man had risen, and with his eyes on Allison's face, spoke
earnestly, almost with passion.  But as he ended, he sank back into his
chair again silent and exhausted.  At a word now from Mrs Beaton,
Allison rose and went out into the kitchen.

"Mr Crombie," said Mrs Beaton, softly, "it is a great thing that you
are asking of Allison Bain.  I know not what to say.  I can speak no
word to bid her go.  I pray that she may be guided aright."

The old man answered nothing.  He seemed utterly spent and helpless.

"You have had a long journey.  You are quite worn out," said Mrs
Beaton.

"Ay, have I.  And it's no' just done yet, and there is a dark house and
a silent at the end o't.  But I'll win through it."

In a few minutes Allison came in quietly.

"Mr Crombie, you are to come with me to the fire.  I have made some tea
for you, and you must eat and drink before you try to go home."

He looked at her without a word.  She took his hand, and he rose and
went with her to the kitchen, where a table was spread and a small fire
burned on the hearth.  She put food before him, and though at first he
refused it, after a little he ate, and was refreshed.  Then he leaned
back and seemed ready to fall asleep again.

"Mr Crombie," said Allison, stooping and speaking low, "I will think of
what you have said.  I wish to do right, and I pray that God may guide
me.  Wait here till I come back again."

She had seen one of Peter Gilchrist's men on his way to the mill with
his cart, at a late hour, and she hoped to find him still lingering
about the place.  Crombie must be committed to his care, for in his
present state he could not be allowed to take his way home alone.
Before she could begin to think of what he had said, he must be safely
sent on his way.  Fortunately, she met the man coming down the street,
and Crombie went with him.  Then the two women sat down and looked at
one another in silence.  For the moment, Mrs Beaton was more troubled
and anxious than Allison herself.

"My dear," said she, "it looks as if all these years that you have been
kept safe from his hands, had been in vain."

"No," said Allison, "much good has come to me in those years.  They have
not been in vain.  Mrs Beaton, I wish to do what is right.  Tell me
what I ought to do."

"My dear, I cannot tell you.  It is you yourself who must decide.
Allison, are you strong enough, or patient enough, to think of what may
be before you?  Think of living your life--ten--twenty years with a man
like that!  Yes, it is said that he is dying, but that is what no one
can really know.  And if you go to him now, it must be till death comes
to part you.  May God guide you.  It is not for me to say what it is
right for you to do."  Allison sat silent.

"It is not as though all the blame had been his.  I should have stood
firm against him.  And his life has been ruined as well as mine--far
more than mine.  God has been very good to me.  If I were sure of His
will in this thing, I wouldna be afraid."

"But, Allison!  Think of your brother."

"Yes, it was of him I thought before, and I did a great wrong."

"Allison, it would be to sacrifice yourself a second time.  My dear, at
least take time to think, and to seek counsel.  You have been taken by
surprise.  In your great pity for this man, you must not let yourself do
what can never be undone."

"No, I have not been taken by surprise.  I have been expecting something
to happen ever since I came back again."  And then Allison told of her
meeting with Mr Rainy on the street in Aberdeen, and how he had spoken
to her of Brownrig.

"He said nothing of his being hurt or in danger.  But what he did say,
has never been out of my thoughts since then.  I seem to have been
preparing myself for some great change, all this time.  It would be far
easier for me to lose myself out of the sight and knowledge of all who
know me, than it was when I left my home.  I was hardly myself then.  My
only thought was, how I was to get away.  I knew not where I was going.
Yet I believe I was guided here."

Allison spoke with perfect quietness.  Mrs Beaton could only look and
listen, astonished, as she went on.

"Yes, I was guided here, and much good has come to me since then.  And I
think--I believe, that I wish to follow God's wul in this, whatever it
may be.  And I have only you to help me with your counsel."

"You have the minister--and Mrs Hume."

"Yes, I might speak to them--I must speak to them," said Allison, with a
sigh.  "I _must_ say something to them.  They know nothing of me, except
what they have seen with their own eyes.  But I do not think they will
blame me much, when they know all."

Mrs Beaton said nothing.  Little had ever been said to her, either by
the minister or his wife, concerning Allison or her affairs.  But in
seeking to comfort the mother in her first loneliness, when her son went
away, the minister had almost unconsciously shown her that he knew even
more of John's disappointment and remorse than she herself knew.  She
had made no response, for she believed that for all concerned, silence
was best.

As for Brownrig, whether he were dying or not, how could he be helped or
comforted by the sight of the woman against whom he had so deeply and
deliberately sinned?  As to the saving of his soul, God was gracious,
and full of compassion.  He had many ways of dealing with men, whether
in mercy or in judgment.  Could it be God's will that Allison's life
should be still one of sacrifice, and pain, and loss, because of him?
Surely, surely not.

Meanwhile Allison was repeating to herself Crombie's words:

"Life and death!  It is the matter of a soul's salvation!  It is not
between you and that bad man any more.  It is between you and the Lord
himself, who is ever merciful, and ready to forgive.  Forgive and it
shall be forgiven unto you--"

Over and over again, the words repeated themselves to her as she sat in
silence, till Mrs Beaton said gently:

"Allison, you have been greatly moved and startled by that which you
have heard.  You are in no state to decide anything now.  Sleep upon it,
my dear.  Take time to look upon this matter in all lights, before you
suffer yourself to be entangled in a net from which there may be no
escape for many a year and day--from which you may never, all your life,
escape.  Allison, do you think the Lord has kept you safe these years,
to let you lose yourself now?  No, I will say nothing to influence you
against your conscience.  Do nothing hastily, that is all I ask.  Seek
counsel, as I shall seek it for you."

But when the old woman had kissed her, and blessed her, and bidden her
good-night, she held her fast and could not let her go, till Allison
gently withdrew herself from her clasp.

"Pray to God to guide me in the right way," she whispered, and then she
went away.

Mrs Beaton slept little that night--less than Allison did, though she
had much to do before she laid herself down beside little Marjorie.
"Seek counsel," Mrs Beaton had said.  And this in the silence of the
night, she herself tried to do.  And gradually and clearly it came to
her that better counsel was needed than that which she would fain have
given to her friend.

Was it of Allison she had been thinking in all that she had said?  Not
of Allison alone.  Her first thought had been of her son, and how it
might still be God's will that he should have the desire of his heart.
And oh! if Allison could but go to him as she was, without having looked
again on that man's face, or touched his hand, or answered to his name.
Surely, for this woman who had suffered much, and long, and in silence,
to whom had come the blessed "afterward" and "the peaceable fruits of
righteousness," surely, for her it could not be God's will that the
worst was yet to come.  Who could say?

"And yet, ah me! our _worst_ is whiles His _best_ for us and ours!  I
doubt I have been seeking to take the guidance of their affairs into my
ain hand.  No, no, Lord!  I would not have it for them nor for myself.
She is in Thy hand.  Keep her there safe.  And a soul's salvation--that
is a great thing--"

That was the way in which it ended with Mrs Beaton.  But the day was
dawning before it came to that.  And as the day dawned, Allison was once
more standing on the hilltop to take a last look of her place of refuge,
and then she turned her face toward Aberdeen.

When she left Mrs Beaton and went round by the green, and the lanes,
where she had gone so many times, and in so many moods, she was saying
to herself:

"I will speak now, and I will take what they shall say to me for a
sign."

It was later than she had thought.  Worship was over, and all the house
was quiet, as she knocked at the parlour-door with a trembling hand.
The minister sat in his usual seat with an open letter before him, and
Mrs Hume's face was very grave as she bade her sit down.  But Allison
was in haste to say what must be said, and she remained standing with
her hands firmly clasped.

"I have something to tell you, and it must be told to-night.  You will
try to think as little ill of me as you can.  I did wrong maybe, but I
could see no other way.  But now I am not sure.  I think I wish to do
God's will, and you will tell me what it is."

She spoke low, with a pause at the close of every sentence, and she was
very white and trembling as she ceased.  Mrs Hume rose, and leading her
to a chair made her fit down, and sat beside her, still holding her
hand.

"We shall be glad to help you if we can," said the minister.

Then Allison told her story briefly, so briefly that it is doubtful
whether her listeners would have understood it, if they had heard it
then for the first time.  They had not heard it all, only bits here and
there of it, but enough to enable them to understand something of the
morbid fear and the sense of utter desolation from which she had
suffered, when she first came among them.  Her voice grew firm as she
went on, and she spoke clearly and strongly, so that many words were not
needed.  She hesitated a little, when she came to the time when she had
asked John Beaton to befriend her brother, but she went on gravely:

"He did not see my brother.  He had gone.  I had been months away with
the child, before I heard that Willie was in America safe and well.  It
was a friend who wrote to me--Mr Hadden, our minister's son.  Willie is
doing well, and some time I am to go out to him--if I can."

She paused, withdrew her hand from Mrs Hume's clasp, and rose, saying:

"Now, I must tell you.  All this time I have been afraid that--the man
who married me would find me and take me to his house in spite of me.
But it is I who have found him.  It was Mr Crombie who told me about
him.  He said he had seen him--on his dying bed, and in God's name he
bade me go to him, and tell him that I forgave him for the ill he did
me.  He said it was not between me and the man who had sinned against
me, but it was between me and the Lord himself, and that I must forgive
if I would be forgiven.  And if you shall say the same--"

Allison sat down and bent her head upon her hands.  Mrs Hume laid her
hand upon the bowed head, but she did not speak.  Mr Hume said:

"I do not see how Crombie has had to do with this matter."

Allison looked up.

"I should have told you that it was in our parish that Mr Crombie
buried his wife.  He saw the names of my father and mother on their
headstone, and some one there--meaning me no ill--told him about me.
And when he came home again, he thought it his duty to point out to me
that I might be in the wrong.  But I think it must have gone out of his
mind, for he never spoke to me again till to-night."

"And to-night he spoke?"

"Yes.  To-night he came to me in Mrs Beaton's house, and warned me that
it was my duty to go to a dying man.  And if you tell me the same, I
must go."

She let her face fall again upon her hands.

Mr Hume did not answer her at once.  He opened again the letter which
he held and read it from beginning to end.  It was a letter from Doctor
Fleming, of Aberdeen, telling him of the state in which Brownrig was
lying, and of his relations with Allison.  He left it to Mr Hume to
decide whether or not Allison should be told of Brownrig's condition,
and to advise her what she ought to do.  He said that Mr Rainy, who had
long been a friend of the Bain family, strongly advised that she should
come at once to Aberdeen, and added, at Mr Rainy's request, that as Mr
Brownrig had kept up no close intercourse with any one belonging to him,
it might be much for Allison's interest to respond in a friendly spirit
to this call.  Dr Fleming, for himself, said that it might be for
Allison's future peace of mind, if she could tell this man that she had
forgiven his sin against her.  The disclosure of Crombie rendered it
unnecessary to discuss this letter with her.

"Allison," said Mr Hume, after some time of silence, "no one can decide
this matter for you.  You need not fear him any more, and it is well
that he should know that you have forgiven him.  And it would be well
also for you."

"Have I forgiven him?  I do not know.  I wish him no ill.  I never
wished him any ill, even at the worst, and if he is dying--"

Allison paused, and a look of something like terror passed over her
face, but she did not utter her thought.

"Allison," said Mrs Hume, "I think there is much in what Crombie said.
At length becoming tired, I sat down on a rock by the edge of a lake. My
attention was quite taken up with the beauty of the scene before me, as
it was a glorious summer's day.

Presently I felt a cold chill creep through me, and a curious stiffness
came over my limbs, as if I could not move, though wishing to do so. I
felt frightened, yet chained to the spot, and as if impelled to stare
at the water straight before me. Gradually a black cloud seemed to rise,
and in the midst of it I saw a tall man, in a tweed suit, jump
into the water, and sink.

In a moment the darkness was gone, and I again became sensible of the
heat and sunshine, but I was awed, and felt eerie.
This happened about June 25, and on July 3 a Mr.----, a bank clerk,
committed suicide by drowning himself in the lake.[8]"
[Footnote 8: _Proceedings S.P.R._, x. 332.]

The following incident occurred in the United States, but, as it
is closely connected with this country, it will not seem out of
place to insert it here.

It is sent by Mr. Richard Hogan as the personal experience of his sister,
Mrs. Mary Murnane, and is given in her own words.

"On the 4th of August 1886, at 10.30 o'clock in the morning, I left my
own house, 21 Montrose St., Philadelphia, to do some shopping. I had not
proceeded more than fifty yards when on turning the corner of the street
I observed my aunt approaching me within five or six yards. I was greatly
astonished, for the last letter I had from home (Limerick) stated
that she was dying of consumption, but the thought occurred to me
that she might have recovered somewhat, and come out to Philadelphia.

This opinion was quickly changed as we approached each other, for our
eyes met, and she had the colour of one who had risen from the grave. I
seemed to feel my hair stand on end, for just as we were about to
pass each other she turned her face towards me, and I gasped, 'My God,
she is dead, and is going to speak to me!' but no word was spoken, and
she passed on. After proceeding a short distance I looked back, and
she continued on to Washington Avenue, where she disappeared from me.
There was no other person near at the time, and being so close, I
was well able to note what she wore.

She held a sunshade over her head, and the clothes, hat, etc., were those
I knew so well before I left Ireland.

I wrote home telling what I had seen, and asking if she was dead. I received
a reply saying she was not dead at the date I saw her, but had been
asking if a letter had come from me for some days before her death.

It was just two days before she actually died that I had seen her."

CHAPTER VII
BANSHEES, AND OTHER DEATH-WARNINGS

Of all Irish ghosts, fairies, or bogles, the Banshee (sometimes
called locally the "Boh[-e][-e]ntha" or "Bank[-e][-e]ntha") is the best
known to the general public: indeed, cross-Channel visitors would class
her with pigs, potatoes, and other fauna and flora of Ireland, and
would expect her to make manifest her presence to them as being one of
the sights of the country. She is a spirit with a lengthy pedigree--how
lengthy no man can say, as its roots go back into the dim, mysterious
past. The most famous Banshee of ancient times was that attached to the
kingly house of O'Brien, Aibhill, who haunted the rock of Craglea
above Killaloe, near the old palace of Kincora. In A.D. 1014 was fought
the battle of Clontarf, from which the aged king, Brian Boru, knew
that he would never come away alive, for the previous night Aibhill
had appeared to him to tell him of his impending fate.

The Banshee's method of foretelling death in olden times differed from
that adopted by her at the present day: now she wails and wrings
her hands, as a general rule, but in the old Irish tales she is to
be found washing human heads and limbs, or bloodstained clothes,
till the water is all dyed with human blood--this would take place
before a battle.

So it would seem that in the course of centuries her attributes and
characteristics have changed somewhat.

Very different descriptions are given of her personal appearance.
Sometimes she is young and beautiful, sometimes old and of a fearsome
appearance. One writer describes her as "a tall, thin woman with
uncovered head, and long hair that floated round her shoulders,
attired in something which seemed either a loose white cloak, or
a sheet thrown hastily around her, uttering piercing cries."

Another person, a coachman, saw her one evening sitting on a stile in
the yard; she seemed to be a very small woman, with blue eyes, long
light hair, and wearing a red cloak.

Other descriptions will be found in this chapter. By the way, it does
not seem to be true that the Banshee exclusively follows families of
Irish descent, for the last incident had reference to the death of a
member of a Co. Galway family English by name and origin.

One of the oldest and best-known Banshee stories is that related in the
_Memoirs_ of Lady Fanshaw.[9] In 1642 her husband, Sir Richard, and she
chanced to visit a friend, the head of an Irish sept, who resided
in his ancient baronial castle, surrounded with a moat.

At midnight she was awakened by a ghastly and supernatural scream, and
looking out of bed, beheld in the moonlight a female face and part
of the form hovering at the window.

The distance from the ground, as well as the circumstance of the moat,
excluded the possibility that what she beheld was of this world.
The face was that of a young and rather handsome woman, but pale,
and the hair, which was reddish, was loose and dishevelled.

The dress, which Lady Fanshaw's terror did not prevent her remarking
accurately, was that of the ancient Irish. This apparition continued to
exhibit itself for some time, and then vanished with two shrieks
similar to that which had first excited Lady Fanshaw's attention.
In the morning, with infinite terror, she communicated to her host
what she had witnessed, and found him prepared not only to credit,
but to account for the superstition.

"A near relation of my family," said he, "expired last night in this
castle.

We disguised our certain expectation of the event from you, lest it
should throw a cloud over the cheerful reception which was your due.
Now, before such an event happens in this family or castle, the
female spectre whom you have seen is always visible.

She is believed to be the spirit of a woman of inferior rank, whom
one of my ancestors degraded himself by marrying, and whom afterwards,
to expiate the dishonour done to his family, he caused to be drowned
in the moat."

In strictness this woman could hardly be termed a Banshee. The motive
for the haunting is akin to that in the tale of the Scotch "Drummer
of Cortachy," where the spirit of the murdered man haunts the family
out of revenge, and appears before a death.

[Footnote 9: Scott's _Lady of the Lake_, notes to Canto III (edition of
1811).]
Mr. T.J. Westropp, M.A., has furnished the following story: "My maternal
grandmother heard the following tradition from her mother, one of the
Miss Ross-Lewins, who witnessed the occurrence. Their father, Mr.
Harrison Ross-Lewin, was away in Dublin on law business, and in his
absence the young people went off to spend the evening with a friend
who lived some miles away.

The night was fine and lightsome as they were returning, save at
one point where the road ran between trees or high hedges not far to the
west of the old church of Kilchrist. The latter, like many similar
ruins, was a simple oblong building, with long side-walls and high
gables, and at that time it and its graveyard were unenclosed, and
lay in the open fields. As the party passed down the long dark lane
they suddenly heard in the distance loud keening and clapping of hands,
as the country-people were accustomed to do when lamenting the dead.

The Ross-Lewins hurried on, and came in sight of the church, on the
side wall of which a little gray-haired old woman, clad in a dark cloak,
was running to and fro, chanting and wailing, and throwing up her
arms.

The girls were very frightened, but the young men ran forward and surrounded
the ruin, and two of them went into the church, the apparition
vanishing from the wall as they did so.

They searched every nook, and found no one, nor did anyone pass out.

  All were now well scared, and got home as fast as possible.

On reaching their home their mother opened the door, and at once told them
that she was in terror about their father, for, as she sat looking
out the window in the moonlight, a huge raven with fiery eyes lit
on the sill, and tapped three times on the glass.
They told her their story, which only added to their anxiety, and as
they stood talking, taps came to the nearest window, and they saw the
bird again.

A few days later news reached them that Mr. Ross-Lewin had died suddenly
in Dublin. This occurred about 1776."
Mr. Westropp also writes that the sister of a former Roman Catholic Bishop
told his sisters that when she was a little girl she went out one
evening with some other children for a walk. Going down the road, they
passed the gate of the principal demesne near the town. There was a rock,
or large stone, beside the road, on which they saw something. Going
nearer, they perceived it to be a little dark, old woman, who began
crying and clapping her hands.

Some of them attempted to speak to her, but got frightened, and all finally
ran home as quickly as they could.
Next day the news came that the gentleman, near whose gate the
Banshee had cried, was dead, and it was found on inquiry that he
had died at the very hour at which the children had seen the
spectre.

A lady who is a relation of one of the compilers, and a member of a
Co.
Cork family of English descent, sends the two following experiences of a
Banshee in her family.

"My mother, when a young girl, was standing looking out of the window in
their house at Blackrock, near Cork. She suddenly saw a white
figure standing on a bridge which was easily visible from the house.
The figure waved her arms towards the house, and my mother heard
the bitter wailing of the Banshee.

It lasted some seconds, and then the figure disappeared. Next morning
my grandfather was walking as usual into the city of Cork. He accidentally
fell, hit his head against the curbstone, and never recovered
consciousness.

"In March 1900, my mother was very ill, and one evening the nurse and
I were with her arranging her bed. We suddenly heard the most extraordinary
wailing, which seemed to come in waves round and under her bed. We
naturally looked everywhere to try and find the cause, but in vain.

The nurse and I looked at one another, but made no remark, as my mother
did not seem to hear it. My sister was downstairs sitting with my
father. She heard it, and thought some terrible thing had happened to her
little boy, who was in bed upstairs. She rushed up, and found him sleeping
quietly.

My father did not hear it. In the house next door they heard it, and ran
downstairs, thinking something had happened to the servant; but
the latter at once said to them, 'Did you hear the Banshee?

Mrs. P---- must be dying.'"
A few years ago (_i.e._ before 1894) a curious incident occurred
in a public school in connection with the belief in the Banshee.
One of the boys, happening to become ill, was at once placed in a
room by himself, where he used to sit all day.

On one occasion, as he was being visited by the doctor, he suddenly
started up from his seat, and affirmed that he heard somebody crying. The
doctor, of course, who could hear or see nothing, came to the
conclusion that the illness had slightly affected his brain.

However, the boy, who appeared quite sensible, still persisted that he
heard someone crying, and furthermore said, "It is the Banshee,
as I have heard it before."

The following morning the head-master received a telegram saying
that the boy's brother had been accidentally shot dead.[10]
[Footnote 10: A.G.

Bradley, _Notes on some Irish Superstitions_, p. 9.]

That the Banshee is not confined within the geographical limits of
Ireland, but that she can follow the fortunes of a family abroad, and
there foretell their death, is clearly shewn by the following story. A
party of visitors were gathered together on the deck of a private yacht
on one of the Italian lakes, and during a lull in the conversation
one of them, a Colonel, said to the owner, "Count, who's that
queer-looking woman you have on board?"

The Count replied that there was nobody except the ladies present, and
the stewardess, but the speaker protested that he was correct, and
suddenly, with a scream of horror, he placed his hands before his
eyes, and exclaimed, "Oh, my God, what a face!"

For some time he was overcome with terror, and at length reluctantly
looked up, and cried:

"Thank Heavens, it's gone!"

"What was it?" asked the Count.

"Nothing human," replied the Colonel--"nothing belonging to this world.
It was a woman of no earthly type, with a queer-shaped, gleaming
face, a mass of red hair, and eyes that would have been beautiful
but for their expression, which was hellish.

She had on a green hood, after the fashion of an Irish peasant."
An American lady present suggested that the description tallied
with that of the Banshee, upon which the Count said:
"I am an O'Neill--at least I am descended from one.

My family name is, as you know, Neilsini, which, little more than a
century ago, was O'Neill.

My great-grandfather served in the Irish Brigade, and on its dissolution
at the time of the French Revolution had the good fortune to escape
the general massacre of officers, and in company with an O'Brien
and a Maguire fled across the frontier and settled in Italy.

On his death his son, who had been born in Italy, and was far more Italian
than Irish, changed his name to Neilsini, by which name the family
has been known ever since. But for all that we are Irish."

"The Banshee was yours, then!" ejaculated the Colonel. "What exactly
does it mean?"

"It means," the Count replied solemnly, "the death of some one very
nearly associated with me.

Pray Heaven it is not my wife or daughter."
On that score, however, his anxiety was speedily removed, for within two
hours he was seized with a violent attack of angina pectoris, and
died before morning.[11]
[Footnote 11: _Occult Review_ for September, 1913.]

Mr.

Elliott O'Donnell, to whose article on "Banshees" we are indebted for
the above, adds: "The Banshee never manifests itself to the person
whose death it is prognosticating.

Other people may see or hear it, but the fated one never, so that when
everyone present is aware of it but one, the fate of that one may
be regarded as pretty well certain."

We must now pass on from the subject of Banshees to the kindred one of
"Headless Coaches," the belief in which is widespread through the
country.

Apparently these dread vehicles must be distinguished from the
phantom coaches, of which numerous circumstantial tales are also
told.

The first are harbingers of death, and in this connection are very
often attached to certain families; the latter appear to be spectral
phenomena pure and simple, whose appearance does not necessarily
portend evil or death.

"At a house in Co. Limerick," writes Mr. T.J. Westropp, "occurred the
remarkably-attested apparition of the headless coach in June 1806,
when Mr.

Ralph Westropp, my great-grandfather, lay dying.

The story was told by his sons, John, William, and Ralph, to their
respective children, who told it to me.

They had sent for the doctor, and were awaiting his arrival in the
dusk.

As they sat on the steps they suddenly heard a heavy rumbling, and
saw a huge dark coach drive into the paved court before the door.

One of them went down to meet the doctor, but the coach swept past him,
and drove down the avenue, which went straight between the fences
and hedges to a gate.

Two of the young men ran after the coach, which they could hear
rumbling before them, and suddenly came full tilt against the avenue
gate.

The noise had stopped, and they were surprised at not finding the carriage.
The gate proved to be locked, and when they at last awoke the
lodge-keeper, he showed them the keys under his pillow; the doctor
arrived a little later, but could do nothing, and the sick man died
a few hours afterwards."

Two other good stories come from Co. Clare. One night in April 1821,
two servants were sitting up to receive a son of the family, Cornelius
O'Callaghan, who had travelled in vain for his health, and was returning
home. One of them, Halloran, said that the heavy rumble of a coach roused
them. The other servant, Burke, stood on the top of the long flight of
steps with a lamp, and sent Halloran down to open the carriage door. He
reached out his hand to do so, saw a skeleton looking out, gave one yell,
and fell in a heap.

When the badly-scared Burke picked himself up there was no sign or sound
of any coach. A little later the invalid arrived, so exhausted that he
died suddenly in the early morning.

On the night of December 11, 1876, a servant of the MacNamaras was
going his rounds at Ennistymon, a beautiful spot in a wooded glen,
with a broad stream falling in a series of cascades.

In the dark he heard the rumbling of wheels on the back avenue, and,
knowing from the hour and place that no mortal vehicle could be coming,
concluded that it was the death coach, and ran on, opening the gates
before it. He had just time to open the third gate, and throw himself
on his face beside it, when he heard a coach go clanking past.

On the following day Admiral Sir Burton Macnamara died in London.

Mr.

Westropp informs us that at sight or sound of this coach all gates
should be thrown open, and then it will not stop at the house to call
for a member of the family, but will only foretell the death of some
relative at a distance. We hope our readers will carefully bear in
mind this simple method of averting fate.

We may conclude this chapter with some account of strange and varied
death-warnings, which are attached to certain families and foretell the
coming of the King of Terrors.

In a Co.

Wicklow family a death is preceded by the appearance of a spectre;
the doors of the sitting-room open and a lady dressed in white satin
walks across the room and hall.

Before any member of a certain Queen's Co. family died a looking-glass was
broken; while in a branch of that family the portent was the opening
and shutting of the avenue gate.

In another Queen's Co. family approaching death was heralded by the
cry of the cuckoo, no matter at what season of the year it might
occur.

A Mrs. F---- and her son lived near Clonaslee. One day, in mid-winter,
their servant heard a cuckoo; they went out for a drive, the trap
jolted over a stone, throwing Mrs. F---- out, and breaking her
neck. The ringing of all the house-bells is another portent which seems
to be attached to several families. In another the aeolian harp is
heard at or before death; an account of this was given to the present
writer by a clergyman, who declares that he heard it in the middle of
the night when one of his relatives passed away. A death-warning in the
shape of a white owl follows the Westropp family. This last
appeared, it is said, before a death in 1909, but, as Mr. T. J.
Westropp remarks, it would be more convincing if it appeared at
places where the white owl does _not_ nest and fly out every night.
No doubt this list might be drawn out to much greater length.

A lady correspondent states that her cousin, a Sir Patrick Dun's nurse,
was attending a case in the town of Wicklow.

Her patient was a middle-aged woman, the wife of a well-to-do shopkeeper.
One evening the nurse was at her tea in the dining-room beneath the
sick-room, when suddenly she heard a tremendous crash overhead. Fearing
her patient had fallen out of bed, she hurried upstairs, to find her
dozing quietly, and there was not the least sign of any disturbance. A
member of the family, to whom she related this, told her calmly that
that noise was always heard in their house before the death of any of
them, and that it was a sure sign that the invalid would not
recover.

Contrary to the nurse's expectations, she died the following
day.

Knocking on the door is another species of death-warning.

The Rev.
D. B. Knox writes: "On the evening before the wife of a clerical
friend of mine died, the knocker of the hall-door was loudly rapped. All
in the room heard it. The door was opened, but there was no one
there.
Again the knocker was heard, but no one was to be seen when the door
was again opened. A young man, brother of the dying woman, went
into the drawing-room, and looked through one of the drawing-room
windows.

The full light of the moon fell on the door, and as he looked the knocker
was again lifted and loudly rapped."
The following portent occurs in a Co. Cork family. At one time the
lady of the house lay ill, and her two daughters were aroused one
night by screams proceeding from their mother's room.

They rushed in, and found her sitting up in bed, staring at some
object unseen to them, but which, from the motion of her eyes,
appeared to be moving across the floor.

When she became calm she told them, what they had not known before, that
members of the family were sometimes warned of the death, or approaching
death, of some other member by the appearance of a ball of fire,
which would pass slowly through the room; this phenomenon she had
just witnessed.

A day or two afterwards the mother heard of the death of her brother,
who lived in the Colonies.

A strange appearance, known as the "Scanlan Lights," is connected
with the family of Scanlan of Ballyknockane, Co.

Limerick, and is seen frequently at the death of a member. The traditional
origin of the lights is connected with a well-known Irish legend, which
we give here briefly.
Scanlan Mor (died A.D. 640), King of Ossory, from whom the family
claim descent, was suspected of disaffection by Aedh mac Ainmire, Ard-Righ
of Ireland, who cast him into prison, and loaded him with fetters.

When St.
Columcille attended the Synod of Drom Ceat, he besought Aedh to free his
captive, but the Ard-Righ churlishly refused; whereupon Columcille
declared that he should be freed, and that that very night he
should unloose his (the Saint's) brogues.

Columcille went away, and that night a bright pillar of fire appeared
in the air, and hung over the house where Scanlan was imprisoned.

A beam of light darted into the room where he lay, and a voice
called to him, bidding him rise, and shake off his fetters.

In amazement he did so, and was led out past his guards by an angel.
He made his way to Columcille, with whom he was to continue that night,
and as the Saint stooped down to unloose his brogues Scanlan
anticipated him, as he had prophesied.[12]
[Footnote 12: Canon Carrigan, in his _History of the Diocese of
Ossory_ (I. 32 intro.), shows that this legend should rather be
connected with Scanlan son of Ceannfaeladh.]

Such appears to be the traditional origin of the "Scanlan lights." Our
correspondent adds: "These are always seen at the demise of a
member of the family.

We have ascertained that by the present head of the family (Scanlan
of Ballyknockane) they were seen, first, as a pillar of fire with
radiated crown at the top; and secondly, inside the house, by the
room being lighted up brightly in the night.

By other members of the family now living these lights have been seen
in the shape of balls of fire of various sizes." The above was
copied from a private manuscript written some few years ago.

Our correspondent further states: "I also have met with four persons
in this county [Limerick] who have seen the lights on Knockfierna near
Ballyknockane before the death of a Scanlan, one of the four being
the late head of the family and owner, William Scanlan, J.P., who
saw the flames on the hill-side on the day of his aunt's death some
years ago.

The last occasion was as late as 1913, on the eve of the death of a Scanlan
related to the present owner of Ballyknockane."
Was I wrong from the beginning?  And is my sin
finding me out?  Have I undertaken what I can never go through with?
God help me, is all that I can say, and though I must doubt myself, let
me never, never doubt Him."

And then she set herself to meet the strong wind, and held her way
against it till she came to a sheltered spot, and there she sat down to
rest.  When she turned homeward again, there was no strong wind to
struggle against.  It helped her on as she went before it, and it seemed
to her as if she had come but a little way when she reached the place
where she had stood watching the coming in of the waves.  The weight was
lifted a little from her heart.

"It is only a day at a time, however long it may be," she told herself.
"It is daily strength that is promised, and God sees the end, though I
do not."

Yes, daily strength is promised, and the next day, and for many days, as
she went into the dim room where the sick man lay, Allison felt the need
of its renewal.  It was not the silence which was so hard to bear.  It
was the constant expectation, which was almost dread, that the silent
lips might open to speak the recognition which she sometimes saw in the
eyes, following her as she moved.  There were times when she said to
herself that she could not long bear it.

"In one way he is better," said the doctor.  "He is coming to himself,
and his memory--his power of recalling the past--is improving.  He is
stronger too, though not much, as yet.  With his loss of memory his
accident has had less to do, than the life he had been living before it.
He has had a hard tussle, but he is a strong man naturally, and he may
escape this time.  From the worst effects of his accident he can never
recover.  As far as I can judge from present symptoms, he will never
walk a step again--never.  But he may live for years.  He may even
recover so as to be able to attend to business again--in a way."

Allison had not a word with which to answer him.  The doctor went on.

"I might have kept this from you for a while, but I have this reason for
speaking now.  I do not ask if you have `counted the cost.'  I know you
have not.  You cannot do it.  You have nothing to go upon which might
enable you to do so.  Nothing which you have ever seen or experienced in
life, could make you know, or help you to imagine, what your life would
be--and might be for years,--spent with this man as his nurse, or his
servant--for it would come to that.  Not a woman in a thousand could
bear it,--unless she loved him.  And even so, it would be a slow
martyrdom."

Allison sat silent, with her face turned away.

"What I have to say to you is this," went on the doctor.  "Since it is
impossible--if it is impossible, that such a sacrifice should be
required at your hands, it will not be wise for you to bide here longer,
or to let him get used to you, and depend upon you, so that he would
greatly miss you.  If you are to go, then the sooner the better."

Allison said nothing, but by her changing colour, and by the look in her
eyes, the doctor knew that she was considering her answer, and he waited
patiently.

"No," said Allison, "I do not love him, but I have great pity for him--
and--I am not afraid of him any more.  I think I wish to do God's will.
If you do not say otherwise, I would wish to bide a while yet,--till--it
is made plain to me what I ought to do.  For I was to blame as well as
he.  I should have stood fast against him.  I hope--I believe, that I
wish to do right now, and the right way is seldom the easy way."

"That is true.  But many a sacrifice which good women make for men who
are not worthy of it, is made in vain.  I do not like to think of what
you may have to suffer, or that such a man should have, as it were, your
life at his disposal.  As for you, you might leave all this care and
trouble behind you, and begin a new life in a new land."

"That was what I meant to do.  But if the Lord had meant that for me,
why should He have let me be brought here, knowing not what might be
before me?"

"I doubt I am not quite free from responsibility in the matter, but I
thought the man was going to die."

"No, you are not to blame.  When Mr Rainy touched my arm that day in
the street, I seemed to know what was coming, and I would not wait to
hear him.  And when Saunners Crombie spoke his first word to me that
night, I kenned well what I must do.  But like you, I thought he was
going to die.  And so I came, though I was sore afraid.  But I am not
afraid now, and you might let me bide a little longer, till I see my way
clearer, whether I should go or stay."

"Let you stay!  How could I hinder you if I were to try?  And I am not
sure that I wish to hinder you.  I suppose there may be a woman in a
thousand who could do as you desire to do, and come through unscathed,
and you may be that woman.  My only fear is--no, I will not say it.  I
do believe that you are seeking to do God's will in this matter.  Let us
hope that during the next few days His will may be made clear to you,
and to me also."

But Mr Rainy had also a word to say with regard to this.

Charles Dale, as he came to breakfast quite mystified. Something very
strange must have occurred, but he will not tell us, seems quite nervous,
and, in short, is determined to give up his tutorship and return to
England. Every year something mysterious has happened to any person
who slept in that room, but they always kept it close. Mr. D----, a
Wexford gentleman, slept there a short while ago.
He had a splendid dressing-case, fitted with gold and silver articles,
which he left carefully locked on his table at night; in the morning he
found the whole of its contents scattered about the room.'
"Upon hearing this I determined to write to the Rev. Charles Dale, then
Incumbent of a parish near Dover, telling him what had occurred to myself
in the room, and that the evidence of supernatural appearances
there were so strong and continued for several generations, that I
was anxious to put them together, and I would consider it a great
favour if he would tell me if anything had happened to him in the
room, and of what nature.

He then for the first time mentioned the matter, and from his letter now
before me I make the following extracts:

"'For three weeks I experienced no inconvenience from the lady, but
one night, just before we were about to leave, I had sat up very
late.

It was just one o'clock when I retired to my bedroom, a very beautiful
moonlight night. I locked my door, and saw that the shutters were
properly fastened, as I did every night.

I had not lain myself down more than about five minutes before
something jumped on the bed making a growling noise; the bed-clothes
were pulled off though I strongly resisted the pull.

I immediately sprang out of bed, lighted my candle, looked into the
closet and under the bed, but saw nothing.'

"Mr. Dale goes on to say that he endeavoured to account for it in some
such way as I had formerly done, having never up to that time heard
one word of the lady and her doings in that room.

He adds, 'I did not see the lady or hear any noise but the growling.'
"Here then is the written testimony of a beneficed English clergyman,
occupying the responsible position of tutor to the young Marquis
of Ely, a most sober-minded and unimpressionable man.

He repeats in 1867 almost the very words of my father when detailing
his experience in that room in 1790--a man of whose existence he had never
been cognisant, and therefore utterly ignorant of Miss Tottenham's
doings in that room nearly eighty years before.

"In the autumn of 1868 I was again in the locality, at Dunmore, on the
opposite side of the Waterford Estuary. I went across to see the old
place and what alterations Miss Tottenham had forced the proprietors
to make in the tapestry chamber.

I found that the closet into which the poor lady had always vanished
was taken away, the room enlarged, and two additional windows put
in: the old tapestry had gone and a billiard-table occupied the
site of poor Anne's bed.

I took the old housekeeper aside, and asked her to tell me how Miss
Tottenham bore these changes in her apartment.

She looked quite frightened and most anxious to avoid the question, but
at length hurriedly replied, 'Oh, Master George! don't talk about
her: last night she made a horrid noise knocking the billiard-balls
about!'
"I have thus traced with strict accuracy this most real and true
tale, from the days of 'Tottenham and his Boots' to those of his
great-great-grandson.

Loftus Hall has since been wholly rebuilt, but I have not heard
whether poor Anne Tottenham has condescended to visit it, or is
wholly banished at last."

CHAPTER X
MISTAKEN IDENTITY--CONCLUSION

We have given various instances of ghostly phenomena wherein the witnesses
have failed at first to realise that what they saw partook in any way
of the abnormal. There are also many cases where a so-called
ghost has turned out to be something very ordinary. Though more often
than not such incidents are of a very trivial or self-explanatory
nature (_e.g._ where a sheep in a churchyard almost paralysed a
midnight wayfarer till he summoned up courage to investigate), there
are many which have an interest of their own and which often throw
into prominence the extraordinary superstitions and beliefs which
exist in a country.

Our first story, which is sent us by Mr. De Lacy of Dublin, deals with
an incident that occurred in the early part of last century. An epidemic
which was then rife in the city was each day taking its toll of
the unhappy citizens.

The wife of a man living in Merrion Square was stricken down and hastily
buried in a churchyard in Donnybrook which is now closed. On the night
after the funeral one of the city police, or "Charlies" as they were
then called, passed through the churchyard on his rounds. When nearing
the centre he was alarmed to hear a sound coming from a grave close
at hand, and turning, saw a white apparition sit up and address him.
This was all he waited for; with a shriek he dropped his lantern
and staff and made off as fast as his legs would carry him.

The apparition thereupon took up the lamp and staff, and walked to Merrion
Square to the house of mourning, was admitted by the servants, and
to the joy of the whole household was found to be the object of
their grief returned, Alcestis-like, from the grave.

It seems that the epidemic was so bad that the bodies of the victims
were interred hastily and without much care: the unfortunate lady had
really been in a state of coma or trance, and as the grave was lightly
covered, when she came to she was able to force her way up, and seeing
the "Charlie" passing, she called for assistance.

An occurrence which at first had all the appearance of partaking of the
supernormal, and which was afterwards found to have a curious explanation,
is related by Dean Ovenden of St.

Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin. "At Dunluce Rectory, Co.

Antrim," he writes, "I had a strange experience.

                  There was a force-pump
  attached to the back wall of the house, and many people drew water
from it, as it was better than any obtained at that time in Bushmills.

We used to notice, when going to bed, the sound of someone working the
pump. All the servants denied that they ever used the pump between 11
P.M. and 12 midnight. I often looked out of the back window when I
heard the pump going, but could not see anyone.
I tied threads to the handle, but although they were found
unbroken in the morning the pumping continued, sometimes only for
three or four moves of the handle.

On many nights no pumping was heard. The man-servant sat up with a
gun and the dog, but he neither saw nor heard anything. We gave it up as
a bad job, and still the pumping went on.

After about two years of this experience, I was one night alone in
the house.

It was a calm and frosty night and I went to bed about 11.30 P.M.
and lay awake; suddenly the pump began to work with great clearness,
and mechanically I counted the strokes: they were exactly twelve.

I exclaimed, 'The dining-room clock!'

I sprang from bed and went down, and found that the clock was fast, as
it showed two minutes past twelve o'clock. I set back the hands to 11.55
and lay in bed again, and soon the pumper began as usual. The explanation
was that the vibration of the rising and falling hammer was carried
up to the bedroom by the wall, but the sound of the bell was never
heard.

I found afterwards that the nights when there was no pumping were always
windy."
A man was walking along a country lane at night and as he was coming round
a bend he saw a coffin on the road in front of him. At first he thought
it was a warning to him that he was soon to leave this world; but after
some hesitation, he finally summoned up courage to give the thing a poke
with his stick, when he found that the coffin was merely an outline of
sea-weed which some passer-by had made. Whereupon he went on his way
much relieved.

The unbeliever will state that rats or mice are more often than not the
cause of so-called ghostly noises in a house. That, at any rate, instances
have happened where one or other of these rodents has given rise
to fear and trepidation in the inmates of a house or bedroom is
proved by the following story from a Dublin lady.

She tells how she was awakened by a most mysterious noise for which she
could give no explanation. Overcome by fear, she was quite unable to get
out of bed, and lay awake the rest of the night. When light came she
got up: there was a big bath in the room, and in it she found a mouse
which had been drowned in its efforts to get out. So her haunting was
caused by what we may perhaps call a ghost in the making.

The devil is very real to the average countryman in Ireland. He has given
his name to many spots which for some reason or other have gained some
ill-repute--the Devil's Elbow, a very nasty bit of road down in
Kerry, is an instance in point. The following story shows how prevalent
the idea is that the devil is an active agent in the affairs of this
world.

A family living at Ardee, Co. Louth, were one night sitting reading in the
parlour. The two maids were amusing themselves at some card game
in the kitchen. Suddenly there was a great commotion and the two
girls--both from the country--burst into the sitting-room, pale with
fright, and almost speechless. When they had recovered a certain amount,
they were asked what was the matter; the cook immediately exclaimed,
"Oh, sir! the devil, the devil, he knocked three times at the window and
frightened us dreadfully, and we had just time to throw the cards into
the fire and run in here before he got us." One of the family, on hearing
this, immediately went out to see what had caused all this
trepidation, and found a swallow with a broken neck lying on the
kitchen window-sill.

The poor bird had evidently seen the light in the room, and in its
efforts to get near it had broken its neck against the glass of the
window.

An amusing account of a pseudo-haunting comes from County Tipperary, and
shows how extraordinarily strong is the countryman's belief in
supernatural phenomena.

The incidents related occurred only a very short time ago. A farmer in
the vicinity of Thurles died leaving behind him a young widow. The latter
lived alone after her husband's death, and about three months after
the funeral she was startled one night by loud knocking at the door.
On opening the door she was shocked at seeing the outline of a man
dressed in a shroud.

In a solemn voice he asked her did she know who he was: on receiving a
reply in the negative, he said that he was her late husband and
that he wanted £10 to get into heaven.

The terrified woman said she had not got the money, but promised to have
it ready if he would call again the next night. The "apparition" agreed,
then withdrew, and the distracted woman went to bed wondering how she
was to raise the money. When morning came she did not take long in
telling her friends of her experience, in the hope that they would be
able to help her. Their advice, however, was that she should tell the
police, and she did so.

That night the "apparition" returned at the promised hour, and asked for
his money. The amount was handed to him, and in a low sepulchral voice
he said, "Now I leave this earth and go to heaven." Unfortunately, as
he was leaving, a sergeant and a constable of the R.I. Constabulary
stopped him, questioned him, and hauled him off to the barracks to spend
the remainder of the night in the cell, where no doubt he decided that
the haunting game has its trials.[14]
[Footnote 14: _Evening Telegraph_ for Dec. 10, 1913.]
An occurrence of very much the same description took place in County
Clare about three years ago.

Again the departed husband returns to his sorrowing wife, sits by
the fire with her, chatting no doubt of old times, and before he leaves
for the other world is regaled with pig's head and plenty of whisky. The
visit is repeated the next night, and a request made for money to play
cards with down below: the wife willingly gives him the money.

Again he comes, and again he borrows on the plea that he had lost
the night before, but hoped to get better luck next time.

On the woman telling a neighbour a watch was kept for the dead man's
return, but he never came near the place again.

An account of a police-court trial which appeared in the _Irish Times_
of 31st December 1913 emphasizes in a very marked degree the extraordinary
grip that superstition has over some of the country people. A young
woman was on her trial for stealing £300 from the brother of her
employer, Patrick McFaul of Armagh.

District Inspector Lowndes, in opening the case for the Crown, told the
bench that the money had been taken out of the bank by McFaul to
buy a holding, for the purchase of which negotiations were going on.

The money was carelessly thrown into a drawer in a bedroom, and left there
till it would be wanted. A short time afterwards a fire broke out in
the room, and a heap of ashes was all that was found in the drawer, though
little else in the room besides a few clothes was injured. "The McFauls
appeared to accept their loss with a complacency, which could only be
accounted for by the idea they entertained that the money was destroyed
through spiritual intervention--that there were ghosts in the
question, and that the destruction of the money was to be taken as
a warning directed against a matrimonial arrangement, into which
Michael McFaul was about to enter."

The accused girl was servant to the McFauls, who discharged her a few
days after the fire: but before this she had been into Derry and
spent a night there; during her stay she tried to change three £20
notes with the help of a friend.

But change was refused, and she had to abandon the attempt. "If some of
the money was burned, some of it was certainly in existence three days
later, to the amount of £60. One thing was manifest, and that was
that an incredible amount of superstition appeared to prevail amongst
families in that neighbourhood when the loss of such a sum as this could
be attributed to anything but larceny, and it could for a moment be
suggested that it was due to spiritual intervention to indicate that a
certain course should be abandoned."

CONCLUSION

The foregoing tales have been inserted, not in order that they may
throw ridicule on the rest of the book, but that they may act as a
wholesome corrective.

If _all_ ghost stories could be subjected to such rigid examination
it is probable that the mystery in many of them would be capable
of equally simple solution--yet a remnant would be left.

And here, though it may seem somewhat belated, we must offer an apology
for the use of the terms "ghost" and "ghost story."

The book includes such different items as hauntings, death-warnings,
visions, and hallucinations, some of which obviously can no more
be attributed to discarnate spirits than can the present writer's
power of guiding his pen along the lines of a page; whether others
of these must be laid to the credit of such unseen influences is
just the question.

But in truth there was no other expression than "ghost stories" which
we could have used, or which could have conveyed to our readers,
within reasonable verbal limits, as they glanced at its cover, or
at an advertisement of it, a general idea of the contents of this
book.

The day will certainly come when, before the steady advance of scientific
investigation, and the consequent influencing of public opinion,
the word "ghost" will be relegated to limbo, and its place taken
by a number of expressions corresponding to the results obtained
from the analysis of phenomena hitherto grouped under this collective
title.

That day is approaching.
How full of pity and of entreaty was
the old man's voice when he spoke of One who, hating sin, yet loves the
sinner; One who is slow to anger, full of compassion and of great mercy,
not willing that any should perish, but that all, even the worst, should
come unto Him and live.

"And, O man! ye need Him no less, that you may be going back to your
life again.  The Lord could do wonderful things for the like of you, if
ye would but let Him have His will o' ye.  Able! ay, is He, and willing
as able, and surely He has given you a sign.  Look at this woman against
whom, it is said, ye woefully sinned!  If she, who is but a weak and
sinful mortal, has forgiven you, and is caring for you, and would save
you, how can there be doubt of Him who gave His life a ransom for you?"

A glance at Allison's face stayed his words.  Then he knelt down and
prayed--not in many words--not as if entreating One offended or angry,
but One waiting, looking, listening, loving; One "mighty to save."  And
then he rose and touched the hand of each, and went silently away.

Had Brownrig fallen asleep?  Allison slowly turned her face toward him.
He lay with closed eyes, motionless, and there were tears on his cheeks.
As Allison tried gently to withdraw her hand from his clasp his eyes
opened.

"Is it true, Allie?  Have you forgiven me?"

"I--was sorry for you long since, even before you were hurt.  I never
wished ill to you.  I came when I heard that you were like to die, so
that we might forgive one another--"

Allison had gone almost beyond her power of speech by this time, but he
held her fast.

"Oh!  Allie, ye micht hae made a good man o' me, if ye had but had the
patience and the will to try."

But Allison said:

"No, that could never have been.  I wasna good myself, and I was dazed
with trouble."

"Ay, poor lassie, ye hae much to forgive.  But I will make amends, I
will make amends.  Yes, in the sight of God and man, I will make full
amends."

Allison could bear no more.  Where was it all to end?  Surely she was in
the net now, and it was drawing close upon her, and she could not bear
it.  For a moment it came into her mind to flee.  But the temptation did
not linger long, nor did it return.

In his accustomed place Dickson was waiting.

"Your master requires you," said Allison, and then she passed on to her
refuge among the auld wives, and puir bodies in the wide ward beyond.
But it was not a refuge to-day.

"And how is your patient the day, puir man?" said she who was bowed with
rheumatism being `no' fifty yet.

"We heard that the minister had been sent for to see him," said another.
"It is to be hoped that he will do him some good."

Allison answered them both quietly: "He is just as usual.  Yes, the
minister has been there," and moved on to some one else.

It was the hour which she usually spent among them, and she went from
one bed to another, saying and doing what was needed for the suffering
or fretful poor souls among them, answering kindly and firmly, with
never-failing patience, the grateful looks of some, and the dull
complaining of others, till the time came which set her free to go her
own way again.

She was the better for the hour which she had dreaded when she first
came in.  She no longer felt the touch of that hot hand on hers, or the
gaze of the eager eyes, which she had met with such sinking of heart.
She was herself again.

"To think that I should grow fainthearted this day of all days, when for
the first time he seemed to be touched by a good man's words.  I should
be rejoicing and thankful.  And whatever else is true, it is true that
He who brought me here, kens the end, though I do not."

And so she went home to her rest, and the next day was like all the
days, except that the sick man, as Dickson put it, "wasna sae ill to do
wi'."  It became evident to both doctor and nurse, that Brownrig had at
last taken in the thought that he might be going to die.  He said
nothing for a while, but he marked their words and watched their ways,
and when Dr Kirke came, which he did every few days, he listened with
patience which grew to pleasure as time went on.  When at last he
repeated to Doctor Fleming himself, the question which he had put to
Allison, the doctor's rather ambiguous answer did not satisfy him.

"I see you have your own thoughts about it," said Brownrig.  "I think
you are mistaken.  I do not mean to die if I can help it.  I wish to
live, and I mean to live--if such is God's will," he added, after a
pause.  "I'm no' going to let myself slip out o' life without a struggle
for it.  I have a strong will, which hasna ay been guided to good ends,
ye'll say, and I acknowledge it.  But `all that a man hath will he give
for his life,' the Book says, And I will do my best to live."

The doctor said nothing.

"It is not that I'm feared to die.  If all is true that Doctor Kirke has
been saying to me, why should I fear?  `More willing to forgive, than ye
are to be forgiven,' says he.  And I can believe it.  I _do_ believe it.
If Allison Bain can forgive, surely He will not refuse, who is
`merciful and full of compassion'.  And I hope--I believe--that I am
forgiven."

Looking up, Doctor Fleming saw the tears on the sick man's cheek.  That
was all he was permitted to say for the time, for his strength was not
great though his will was strong.  The rest of the day was passed
between sleeping and waking, while Allison sat working in silence by the
window.  But he returned to his declaration in the morning.

"Yes, I mean to live, but for a' that I may as well be prepared for
death.  And you'll send Mr Rainy to me this very day.  He must just
come while I need him--and when I'm at my best and able for him.  I'll
die none the sooner for setting all things in order to my mind."

So the next day Mr Rainy came, and for a good many days, and went
through with him many matters of business, which must be attended to
whether he lived or died.  He was quite fit for it--a little at a time--
Mr Rainy declared.  But the doctor wondered that his strength held out
through it all.  There was no evidence of failure in sense or judgment
in all he said or planned, though his memory sometimes was at fault.

There was much to do, and some of it was not of a nature to give either
peace or pleasure to the sick man.  But it came to an end at last, and
there were a few days of quiet till he was rested.  Then he began again.

"I may be going to die, or I may be going to live.  Who can say?  It
must be as God wills.  But I have settled with myself one thing.
Whether I am to live or to die, it is to be in my own house."

This was said to Dickson, who was ready with an answer to please him.

"And the sooner the better, sir, say I.  The fine fresh air o' the hills
would set you up sooner than a' their doctor's bottles is like to do.
If it were only May instead of November, I would say the sooner the
better."

"And I say the sooner the better at this time.  Yes, it's late, and it's
a lang road, and I have little strength to come and go upon.  But there
are ways o' doing most things--when the siller (money) needna be
considered, and where there is a good will to do them."

"Ay, sir, that's true.  And I daresay the laird micht send his ain
carriage, and ye micht tak' twa days to it, or even three."

"No, no.  The sooner the journey could be gotten over the better.  But
that's a good thought o' yours about the laird's carriage.  He'll send
it fast enough, if I but ask it.  But I'm done out now, and I'll need to
lie still a while, to be ready and at my best, when the doctor comes."

But when the doctor came, Brownrig had forgotten his intention to speak,
or he did not feel equal to the effort needed for the assertion of his
own will in a matter which was of such importance to him.  So it was
Allison to whom he first spoke of his wish to go home.  He said how
weary he had grown of the dull room, and the din of the town, and even
of the sight of the doctors' faces, and he said how sure he was that he
would never gather strength lying there.  It would give him new life, he
declared, to get home to his own house, and to the free air of the
hills.

Allison listened in silence, and when he would be answered, she murmured
something about the coming of the summer days making such a move
possible, and said that the doctors would have to decide what would be
the wisest thing to do.

"They will be the wisest to decide _how_ it is to be done, but it is
decided already that the change is to be made.  You speak of the summer
days!  Count ye the months till then, and ask if I could have the
patience to wait for them?  Yes, there is a risk, I ken that weel, but I
may as well die there as here.  And to that I have made up my mind."

Allison did not answer him, and he said no more.  He had grown wary
about wasting his strength, or exciting himself to his own injury, and
so he lay quiet.

"You might take the Book," said he in a little.

Yes, there was always "The Book."  Allison took the Bible, and as it
fell open in her hand, she read: "I will lead the blind by a way they
know not," and her head was bowed, and the tears, which were sometimes
very near her eyes, fell fast for a single moment.  But they fell
silently.  No sound of voice or movement of hand betrayed her, and there
was no bitterness in her tears.

"Yes, it is for me--this word.  For surely I am blind.  I canna see my
way through it all.  But if I am to be led by the hand like a little
child, and upheld by One who is strong, and who cares for me, who `has
loved me,' shall I be afraid?"

And if her voice trembled now and then as she read, so that at last
Brownrig turned uneasily to get a glimpse of her face, he saw no shadow
of doubt of fear upon it, nor even the quiet to which he had become
accustomed, but a look of rest and peace which it was not given to him
to understand.  Allison took her work and sat as usual by the window.

"I may have my ups and downs as I have ay had them," she was saying to
herself, "but I dinna think I can ever forget--I pray God that I may
never forget--that I am `led.'"

Brownrig lay quiet, but he was not at his ease, Allison could see.  He
spoke at last.

"Are you sure that you have forgiven me--quite sure--in the way that God
forgives?  Come and stand where I can see your face."

Allison in her surprise at his words neither answered nor moved.

"For ye see, if ye were to fail me, I doubt I could hardly keep hold of
the Lord himself.  If there is one thing that the minister has said
oftener than another, it is this, that when God forgives He also
receives.  You believe this surely?  Come and stand where I can see your
face."

Allison laid down her work, and came and stood not very near him, but
where the light fell full upon her.

"I cannot but be sorry for--what happened, but I bear no anger against
you for it now.  Yes, I have forgiven.  I wish you no ill.  I wish you
every good.  I am far sorrier for you than I am for myself.  God sees my
heart."

She did not need to prove her words.  He knew that they were true.  If
she had not been sorry for him, if she had not forgiven him, and had
pity upon him, why should she have come to him at all?  But God's way
went beyond that.  He not only pitied and pardoned, He received, loved,
saved.  But he was afraid to say all this to her.

"In sickness and trouble she has been willing to stand by me, as she
stands by all suffering creatures.  That is all.  And she is not one of
those women who long for ease and prosperous days, or for anything that
I could offer her to tempt her.  I must just content myself with what
she freely gives, nor ask for more."

Then he turned away his face, and Allison did not move till he spoke
again.

"You could help me greatly with the doctor, if ye were to try."

Allison made a gesture of dissent.

"That is little likely," said she.

"He thinks much of you, and ye ken it well."

"Does he?  It must be because he thinks I am kind to all the poor folk
yonder--not because he thinks me wise," added she with a smile.

"As to wisdom,--that's neither here nor there in this matter.  I am
going hame to my ain house.  That's decided, whatever may be said by any
doctor o' them a'.  As for life and death--they are no' in the doctors'
hands, though they whiles seem to think it.  I'm going hame, whether it
be to live or to die.  But I want no vexation about it; I'm no' able to
wrangle with them.  But if you were to speak to Doctor Fleming--if you
were to tell him that you are willing to go with me--to do your best for
me, he would make no words about it, but just let me go."

Allison's colour changed, but she stood still and said quietly:

"Do you think Doctor Fleming is a man like that?  And don't you think he
will be only too glad to send you home when you are able for the
journey?  Your wisest way will be to trust it all to him."

"At least you will say nothing against it?"

"I shall have nothing to say about it--nothing."  She spoke calmly and
was quite unmoved, as far as he could see.  But she was afraid.  She was
saying in her heart that her time was coming.  Beyond the day!  Surely
she must look beyond the day.  But not now.  Not this moment.  Even in
her dismay she thought of him, and "pitied" him, as he had said.

"You are wearing yourself out," said she gently.  "The doctor will not
think well of what you have to say, if you are tired and feverish.  Lie
quiet, and rest till he come."

He did not answer her except with his eager appealing eyes, which she
would not meet.  She sat by the window sewing steadily on, till the
doctor's step came to the door.


CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

  "Look not at thine own peace, but look beyond,
  And take the Cross for glory and for guide."

It was Allison's way when the doctor came, to answer such questions as
he had to ask, and then to call Dickson, and betake herself to the long
ward beyond.  But to-day Brownrig's first words were:

"I have something to say to you, doctor, and I wish my wife to hear it.
Bide ye still, Allison."

"My wife!"  Neither the doctor nor Allison had ever heard him utter the
word before.  Allison took her usual seat by the window, and the doctor
placed himself beside the bed.  It was the same story over again which
Brownrig had to tell.  He was going home to his own house.  It might be
to die, and it might not.  But whether he were to live or die, home he
must go.  He had something to do which could only be done there.  The
doctors had owned that their skill could do nothing more for him.  His
cure, if he were to be cured, must be left to time.  He would never
improve in the dreary dullness of the place, and there were many reasons
why he should be determined to go--reasons which would affect other folk
as well as himself; go he must, and the sooner the better.  He said it
all quietly enough, speaking reasonably, but with decision.  Doctor
Fleming listened in silence, and did not answer immediately.  To himself
he was saying, that it might be well to let the man have his way.  He
did not think it would make much difference in the end.  There was a
chance for him--not for health, but for a few years of such a life as no
man could envy, as few men could endure.  Staying here, or going there,
it would be all the same in the end.

Doctor Fleming had in his thoughts at the moment a life long sufferer,
who was happy in the midst of his suffering, and who made the chief
happiness of more than one who loved him--one strong in weakness,
patient to endure, a scholar, a gentleman; a simple, wise soul, to whom
the least of God's works was a wonder and delight; a strong and faithful
soul, who, in the darkness of God's mysterious dealings, was content to
wait His time--willing to stay, yet longing to go--full of pain, yet
full of peace.

"Yes," said the doctor, unconsciously uttering his thought aloud, "full
of pain, yet full of peace."

And here was this man, so eager to live--this drunkard and liar and
coward!  What could life hold for him that he should so desire to
prolong it?  And what would life with such a man be to such a woman as
Allison Bain?

"Yes, I know God can change the heart.  He is wise to guide and mighty
to save, and they are both in His good hands.  May His mercy be
vouchsafed to them both."

"Well," said the sick man, as the doctor suddenly rose to his feet.

"Well--it would be a risk, but it would not be impossible for you to be
taken home, as you seem to desire it--if only the summer were here."

"Yes, I have been waiting to hear you say that--like the rest," said
Brownrig, with the first touch of impatience in his voice; "but the
summer days are faraway, and winna be here for a while.  And ye ken
yourself what chance I have of ever seeing the summer days, whether I
bide or whether I go, and go I must."

Then he went on to say how the laird would be sure to send the
Blackhills carriage for him--the easy one, which had been made in London
for the auld leddy, his mother, and how the journey might be taken
slowly and safely.

"And if I were only once there!" he said, looking up with anxious eyes.
Then he lay still.

"If you were once there, you think you would be yourself again?"

A sudden spasm passed over the eager face.

"No--not that.  I ken, though you have never said it in my hearing, that
it is your belief that, be my life long or short, I can never hope to
bear my own weight again.  My life's over an' done with--in a sense, but
then--there is--Allison Bain."

His voice sank to a whisper as he uttered her name.

"Yes," said the doctor to himself, "there is Allison Bain!"

Then he rose and moved about the room.  He, too, had something to say of
Allison Bain--something which it would be a pain for the sick man to
hear, but which must be said, and there might come no better time for
saying it than this.  And yet he shrunk from the task.  He paused by the
window and took out his watch.

"Mistress Allison," said he, speaking, as was his way when addressing
her, with the utmost gentleness and respect, "I have half an hour at my
disposal to-day.  Go your ways down to the sands, and breathe the fresh
air while I am here.  The days are too short to put it off later, and
you need the change."

"Yes, I will go," said Allison.

"And do not return to-night, neither here nor to the long ward.  Mind, I
say you must not."

As her hand was on the latch Brownrig called her name.  When she came
and stood beside the bed he looked at her, but did not speak.

"Were you needing anything?" she asked, gently.

"No.  Oh! no, only just to see your face.  You'll come early in the
morning?"

"Yes, I will come early."

But as she moved away there came into her eyes a look as of some
frightened woodland creature, hemmed in and eager to escape.  There was
silence for a moment, and just as the doctor was about to speak,
Brownrig said:

"Yes, it was well to send her away to get the air, and what I have to
say may as well be said now, for it must not be said in her hearing.
And it may be better to say it to you than to Rainy, who is but a--no
matter what he is.  But to you I must say this.  Think of Allison Bain!
Think of my wife,--for she _is_ my wife, for all that's come and gone.
It is for her sake that I would fain win home to Blackhills.  It is to
help to make it all easy for her afterward.  If I were to die here, do
you not see that it would be a hard thing for her to go and lay me down
yonder, in the sight of them who canna but mind the time, when she
seemed to think that the touch of my hand on his coffin would do
dishonour to her father's memory among them?  It would hurt her to go
from my grave to take possession of her own house, with the thought of
all that in her mind, and with all their een upon her.  But if they were
to see us there together, and to ken all that she has done and been to
me for the last months, they would see that we had forgiven one another,
and they would understand.  Then she would take her right place easily
and naturally, and none would dare to say that she came home for the
sake of taking what was left."

He paused exhausted, but Doctor Fleming said nothing in reply, and he
went on.

"It would be better and easier for her to be left in her ain house.  And
even though my days were shortened by the journey, what is a week or two
more or less of life to me?  You'll just need to let me go."

In a little he spoke again, saying a few words at a time.

"No, my day is done--but she may have a long life before her.  Yes, she
has forgiven me--and so I can believe--that God will also forgive.  And
I am not so very sorry--that my end is near,--because, though I would
have tried, I might have failed to make her happy.  But no one can ever
love her as I have done.  Or maybe it was myself I loved--and my own
will and pleasure."

There was a long pause, and then he went on speaking rather to himself
than to him who sat silent beside him.

"Oh! if a man could but have a second chance!  If my mother had but
lived--I might have been different.  But it's too late now--too late!
too late!  I am done out.  I'll try to sleep."

He closed his eyes and turned away his face.  Greatly moved, Doctor
Fleming sat thinking about it all.  He had spoken no word of all he
meant to say, and he would never speak now.  No word of his was needed.
He sat rebuked in this man's presence--this man whom, within the hour,
he had called boaster and braggart, liar and coward.

"Truly," he mused, "there _is_ such a thing as getting `a new heart.'
Truly, there _is_ a God who is `mighty to save!'  I will neither make
nor meddle in this matter.  No, I cannot encourage this woman to forsake
him now--at the last--if the end is drawing near--as I cannot but
believe.  He may live for years, but even so, I dare not say she would
be right to leave him.  God guide and strengthen her for what may be
before her.  It will be a sore thing for her to go home and find only
graves."

"Doctor," said Brownrig suddenly, "you'll no' set yourself against it
longer--for the sake of Allison Bain!"

"My friend," said the doctor, bending forward and taking his hand, "I
see what your thought is, and I honour you for it.  Wait a day or two
more before you make your plans to go, and then, if it is possible for
you to have your wish, you shall have it, and all shall be made as easy
and safe for you as it can possibly be made.  You are right in thinking
that you will never--be a strong man again.  And after all, it can only
be a little sooner or later with you now."

"Av, I ken that well.  It is vain to struggle with death."

"And you are not afraid?"

"Whiles--I am afraid.  I deserve nothing at His hand, whom I have ay
neglected and often set at naught.  But, you see, I have His own word
for it.  Ready to forgive--waiting to be gracious--I am sorry for my
sins--for my lost life--and all the ill I have done in it.  Do you think
I am over-bold just to take Him at His word?  Well--I just do that.
What else can I do?"

What indeed!  There was nothing else to be done--and nothing else was
needed.

"He will not fail you," said the doctor gently.

"And you'll speak to--my wife? for I am not sure--that she will wish to
go--home."  And then he closed his eyes and lay still.

In the meantime Allison had taken her way to the sands, and as she went
she was saying to herself:

"I can but go as I am led.  God guide me, for the way is dark."

It was a mild November day, still and grey on land and sea.  The grey
sea had a gleam on it here and there, and the tide was creeping softly
in over the sands.  Allison walked slowly and wearily, for her heart was
heavy.  She was saying to herself that at last, that which she feared
was come upon her, and there was truly no escape.

"For how can I forsake him now?  And yet--how can I go with him--to meet
all that may wait me there?  Have I been wrong all the way through, from
the very first, and is this the way in which my punishment is to come?
And is it my own will I have been seeking all this time, while I have
been asking to be led?"

There was no wind to battle against to-day, but when she came to the
place where she had been once before at a time like this, she sat down
at the foot of the great rock, and went over it all again.  To what
purpose!

There was only one way in which the struggle could end,--just as it had
often ended before.

"I will make no plan.  I will live just _day_ by _day_.  And if I am led
by Him--as the blind are led--what does it matter where?"

So she rose and went slowly home, and was "just as usual," as far as
Mrs Robb, or even the clearer-eyed Robert, could see.  Robert was back
to his classes and his books again, and he took a great but silent
interest in Allison's comings and goings, gathering from chance words of
hers more than ever she dreamed of disclosing.  And from her silence he
gathered something too.

A few more days passed, and though little difference could be seen in
Brownrig's state from day-to-day, when the week came to an end, even
Allison could see that a change of some kind had come, or was drawing
near.  The sick man spoke, now and then, about getting home, and about
the carriage which was to be sent for him, and when the doctor came, he
asked, "Will it be to-morrow?"  But he hardly heeded the answer when it
was given, and seemed to have no knowledge of night or day, or of how
the time was passing.

He slumbered and wakened, and looked up to utter a word or two, and then
slumbered again.  Once or twice he started, as if he were afraid, crying
out for help, for he was "slipping away."  And hour after hour--how long
the hours seemed--Allison sat holding his hand, speaking a word now and
then, to soothe or to encourage him, as his eager, anxious eyes sought
hers.  And as she sat there in the utter quiet of the time, she _did_
get a glimpse of the "wherefore" which had brought her there.

For she _did_ help him.  When there came back upon him, like the voice
of an accusing enemy, the sudden remembrance of some cruel or
questionable deed of his, which he could not put from him as he had done
in the days of his strength, he could not shut his eyes and refuse to
see his shame, nor his lips, and refuse to utter his fears.  He moaned
and muttered a name, now and then, which startled Allison as she
listened, and brought back to her memory stories which had been
whispered through the countryside, of hard measure meted out by the
laird's factor, to some who had had no helper--of acts of oppression,
even of injustice, against some who had tried to maintain their rights,
and against others who yielded in silence, knowing that to strive would
be in vain.

Another might not have understood, for he had only strength for a word
or two, and he did not always know what he was saying.  But Allison
understood well, and she could not wonder at the remorse and fear which
his words betrayed.  Oh! how she pitied him, and soothed and comforted
him during these days.

And what could she say to him, but the same words, over and over again?
"Mighty to save!--To the very utmost--even the _chief_ of sinners,--for
His name's sake."

Yes, she helped him, and gave him hope.  And in helping him, she herself
was helped.

"I will let it all go," she said to herself, at last.  "Was I right?
Was I wrong?  Would it have been better?  Would it have been worse?  God
knows, who, though I knew it not, has had His hand about me through it
all.  I am content.  As for what may be before me--that is in His hand
as well."

Would she have had it otherwise?  No, she would not--even if it should
come true that the life she had fled from, might still be hers.  But
that could never be.  Brownrig helpless, repentant, was no longer the
man whom she had loathed and feared.

Since the Lord himself had interposed to save him, might not she--for
His dear name's sake--be willing to serve him in his suffering and
weakness, till the end should come?  And what did it matter whether the
service were done here or there, or whether the time were longer or
shorter?  And why should she heed what might be said of it all?  Even
the thought of her brother, who would be angry, and perhaps unreasonable
in his anger, must not come between her and her duty to this man, to
whom she had been brought as a friend and helper at last.

And so she let all go--her doubts, and fears, and cares, willing to wait
God's will.  Her face grew white and thin in these days, but very
peaceful.  At the utterance of some chance word, there came no more a
sudden look of doubt or fear into her beautiful, sad eyes.  Face, and
eyes, and every word and movement told of peace.  Whatever struggle she
had been passing through, during all these months, it was over now.  She
was waiting neither for one thing nor another,--to be bound, or to be
set free.  She was "waiting on God's will, content."

They all saw it--Mistress Robb, in whose house she lived, and Robert
Hume, and Doctor Fleming, who had been mindful of her health and comfort
all through her stay.  Even Mr Rainy, who had little time to spare from
his own affairs, took notice of her peaceful face, and her untroubled
movements as she went about the sickroom.

"But oh!  I'm wae for the puir lassie," said he, falling like the rest
into Scotch when much moved.  "She kens little what's before her.  He is
like a lamb now; but when his strength comes back, if it ever comes
back,--she will hae her ain adoes with him.  Still--she's a sensible
woman, and she canna but hae her ain thochts about him, and--and about--
ahem--the gear he must soon--in the course o' nature--leave behind him.
Weel! it will fall into good hands; it could hardly fall into better,
unless indeed, the Brownrig, that young Douglas of Fourden married
against the will o' his friends some forty years ago, should turn out to
be the factor's eldest sister, and a soldier lad I ken o', should be her
son.  It is to a man's own flesh and blood, that his siller (money)
should go by rights.  But yet a man can do what he likes with what he
has won for himsel'--"

All this or something like it, Mr Rainy had said to himself a good many
times of late, and one day he said it to Doctor Fleming, with whom,
since they both had so much to do with Brownrig, he had fallen into a
sort of intimacy.

"Yes, she is a sensible woman, and may make a good use of it.  But it is
to a man's ain flesh and blood that his gear should go.  I have been
taking some trouble in the looking up of a nephew of his, to whom he has
left five hundred pounds, and I doubt the lad will not be well pleased,
that all the rest should go as it's going."

The doctor had not much to say about the matter.  But he answered:

"As to Mistress Allison's being ready to take up the guiding of
Brownrig's fine house when he is done with it, I cannot make myself
believe it beforehand.  She has no such thought as that, or I am greatly
mistaken.  By all means, do you what may be done to find this nephew of
her husband's."

"Is it that you are thinking she will refuse to go with Brownrig to
Blackhills?"

"I cannot say.  I am to speak to her to-morrow.  If he is to go, it must
be soon."

"She'll go," said Mr Rainy.

"Yes, I think she may go," said the doctor; but though they agreed, or
seemed to agree, their thoughts about the matter were as different as
could well be.

The next day Doctor Fleming stood long by the bed, looking on the face
of the sleeper.  It had changed greatly since the sick man lay down
there.  He had grown thin and pale, and all traces of the
self-indulgence which had so injured him, had passed away.  He looked
haggard and wan--the face was the face of an old man.  But even so, it
was a better face, and pleasanter to look on, than it had ever been in
his time of health.

"A spoiled life!" the doctor was saying to himself.  "With a face and a
head like that, he ought to have been a wiser and better man.  I need
not disturb him to-day," said he to Allison, as he turned to go.

He beckoned to her when he reached the door.

"Mistress Allison, answer truly the question I am going to put to you.
Will it be more than you are able to bear, to go with him to his home,
and wait there for the end?"

"Surely, I am able.  I never meant to go till lately.  But I could never
forsake him now.  Oh! yes, I will be ready to go, when you shall say the
time is come."

She spoke very quietly, not at all as if it cost her anything to say it.
Indeed, in a sense, it did not.  She was willing now to go.

The doctor looked at her gravely.

"Are you able--quite able?  I do not think he will need you for a very
long time.  I am glad you are willing to go, though I never would have
urged you to do so, or have blamed you if you had refused."

In his heart he doubted whether the journey could ever be taken.  Days
passed and little change appeared.  The sick man was conscious when he
was spoken to, and answered clearly enough the questions that were put
to him by the doctors; but he had either given up, or had forgotten his
determination to get home to die.  Allison stayed in the place by night
as well as by day, and while she rested close at hand, Robert Hume or
the faithful Dickson took the watch.  She would not leave him.  He might
rouse himself and ask for her, and she would not fail him at the last.
She did not fail him.  For one morning as she stood looking down upon
him, when the others had gone away, he opened his eyes and spoke her
name.  She stooped to catch his words.

"Is it all forgiven?" he said faintly.

"All forgiven!" she answered, and yielding to a sudden impulse, she bent
her head and touched her lips to his.

A strange brightness passed over the dying face.

"Forgiven!" he breathed.  It was his last word.

He lingered still a few days more.  Long, silent days, in which there
was little to be done but to wait for the end.  Through them all,
Allison sat beside the bed, slumbering now and then, when some one came
to share her watch, but ready at the faintest moan or movement of the
dying man, with voice or touch, to soothe or satisfy him.  Her strength
and courage held out till her hand was laid on the closed eyes, and then
she went home to rest.


CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

  "Choosing to walk in the shadow,
  Patient and not afraid."

Allison had need of rest, greater need than she knew.  The first days
after her long watch and service came to an end were passed in utter
quiet.  No one came to disturb her, either with question or counsel.
Mr Rainy, of course, took the management of affairs into his hands; and
if he could have had his own way, everything which was to be done, and
the manner of doing it, would have been submitted to her for direction
or approval.  It would, to him, have seemed right that she should go at
once to Blackhills, to await in the forsaken house the coming home of
its dead master.

But Doctor Fleming had something to say about the matter.  He would not
allow a word to be spoken to her concerning any arrangement which was to
be made.

"You know that you have full power to do as you think fit with regard to
the burial, and all else that may require your oversight.  Any reference
which you would be likely to make to Mistress Allison, would be a mere
matter of form, and I will not have her disturbed.  Man! ye little ken
how ill able she is to bear what ye would lay upon her.  As to her even
hearing a word about going up yonder, it is out of the question.  Leave
her in peace for a while, and you will have the better chance of getting
your own way with her later."

"As you say, doctor, it is a mere matter of form.  But forms and
ceremonies cannot ay be dispensed with.  She might like to have her ain
say, as is the way with women.  However, I can wait till later on, as
you advise."

So Allison was left in quiet.  Brownrig was carried to his own house,
and for a few days his coffin stood there in the unbroken silence of the
place.

Then his neighbours gathered to his burial, and "gentle and simple"
followed him to his grave.  As the long procession moved slowly on, many
a low-spoken word was exchanged between friends concerning the dead man
and his doings during the years he had been in the countryside.  His
strong will, his uncertain temper, his faithful service to an easy and
improvident employer, all were discussed and commented upon freely
enough, yet with a certain reticence and forbearance also, since "he had
gone to his account."

It was a pity that he had become so careless about himself of late, they
said.  That was the mild way in which they put it, when they alluded to
"the drink" which had been "the death of him."  And who was to come
after him?  Who was to get the good of what he had left?

Allison Bain's name was spoken also.  Had she been wrong to go away?
Had she been right?  If she had accepted her lot, might she have saved
him, and lived to be a happy woman in spite of all?  Who could say?  But
if all was true that his man Dickson was saying, she had helped to save
him at last.

In silence they laid him down within sight of the grave where Allison
had knelt one sorrowful day, and there they left him to his rest.

Allison was worn and spent, but she was a strong woman and she would
soon be herself again, she said, and her friends said so also.  They did
not know that Doctor Fleming had, at this time, some anxiety about her.
He remembered the first days of his acquaintance with her, and the dull
despair into which she had fallen, before he sent her to Nethermuir, and
he would not have been surprised if, after the long strain upon mind and
body through which she had passed, the same suffering had fallen upon
her again.  Therefore it was that he used both his authority as a
physician and his influence as a friend, to prevent any allusion to
business matters; and though he was guarded in all that he said to Mr
Rainy on the subject, he yet said enough to show him the propriety of
letting all things remain as they were, for a time.

So Allison was left at peace,--in the quiet little house which she was
beginning to call her home.  She had been asked, and even entreated by
Mrs Hume, to come to the manse for a while.  Mrs Beaton had written to
say how glad it would make her if Allison would come to her for a week
or two.  But remembering the misery of her first months in Nethermuir,
Allison hesitated at first, and then refused them both.  She was better
where she was, she said, and in a few days she would be ready for her
work again.

She did not say it to them, and she hardly confessed it to herself, but
she shrank from the thought of the eyes that would be looking at her,
and the tongues that would be discussing her, now that her secret was
known.  For of course it could not be kept.  All her small world would
know how who she was, and why she had come to take refuge in the manse.
They would think well of her, or ill of her, according to their natures,
but that would not trouble her if she were not there to hear and see.
So she stayed where she was, and as she could not do what she would have
liked best, she made up her mind to go back to the infirmary again.

She would have liked best to go away at once to her brother in America,
and some of her friends were inclined to wonder that she did not do so.
But Allison had her reasons, some of which she was not prepared to
discuss with any one,--which indeed she did not like to dwell upon
herself.  She had been asked to come to the home of the Haddens to stay
there till her brother was ready for her.  When she was stronger and
surer of herself, she would accept their kind invitation, and then she
would go to Willie--it did not matter where.  East or West, far or near,
would be all the same to her in that strange land, so that she and
Willie might be able to help one another.

"And, oh!  I wish the time were only come," said she.

Since this must be waited for, she would have liked well to ask kind
Doctor Thorne, who had called her "a born nurse," to let her come to
him, that she might be at his bidding, and live her life, and do some
good in the world.  The first time that Doctor Fleming had come to see
her, after her long labour and care were over, it had been on her lips
to ask him to speak to the good London doctor for her.  But that was at
the very first, and the fear that Doctor Fleming might wonder at her for
thinking of new plans, before the dead man was laid in his grave, had
kept her silent.  After that she hesitated for other reasons.  London
was faraway, and the journey was expensive, and it would only be for a
year at most, and possibly for less, as whenever her brother said he was
ready for her she must go.  So there was nothing better for her to do
than just to return to her work in the infirmary, and wait with
patience.

"And surely that ought to be enough for me, after all I have come
through, just to stay there quietly and wait.  I ought to ken by this
time--and I do ken--that no real ill can come upon me.

"Pain?  Yes, and sorrow, and disappointment.  But neither doubt, nor
fear, nor any real ill can harm me.  I may be well content, since I am
sure of that.  And I _am_ content, only--whiles, I am foolish and
forget."

She was not deceiving herself when she said she was content.  But she
must have forgotten--being foolish--one night on which Doctor Fleming
came in to see her.  For her cheeks were flushed, and there were traces
of tears upon them, as he could see clearly when the light was brought
in.  She might have causes for anxiety or sorrow, of which he knew
nothing.  But he would have liked to know what had brought the tears
to-night, because he, or rather Mr Rainy, had something to say to her,
and he at least was doubtful how she might receive it.

_Was_ he doubtful?  Hardly that.  But he was quite sure that what was to
be said, and all which might follow, would be a trouble to Allison, and
the saying of it might be put off, if she had any other trouble to bear.

"Are you rested?" said he.  "Are you quite strong and well again?"

"Yes, I am quite well and strong."

"And cheerful?  And hopeful?"

"Surely," said Allison, looking at him in surprise.

"Oh!  I see what you are thinking.  But it is only that I had a letter
to-night.  No, it brought no ill news.  It is from--my Marjorie.  I
don't know--I canna tell why it should--"

"Why it should have made the tears come, you would say.  Well, never
mind.  I am not going to ask.  You are much better and stronger than you
were, I am glad to say."

"Yes, I am quite well and cheerful,--only--"

But a knock came to the door, and Allison rose to open it.

"It is Mr Rainy.  He has come to speak about--business.  But he will
not keep you long to-night."

Mr Rainy had never come much into contact with Allison Bain.  She was
to him "just a woman, like the lave."  He had no wife, and no near kin
among women, and it is possible that he knew less of the sex than he
thought he did.  He did not pretend to know much about Allison, but he
knew that several people, whose sense and judgment he respected, thought
well of her.  She was tall and strong, and had a face at which it was a
pleasure to look, and, judging from all that he had heard about her, she
might be freer than most, from the little vanities and weaknesses usual
to her kind.  She was a reasonable woman, he had heard, and that he
should have anything to do to-night, except to explain how matters
stood, and to suggest the time and the manner of certain necessary
arrangements, he had not imagined.

He came prepared to be well received, and he did not for a moment doubt
that he should make good his claim to be heard and heeded in all that
concerned the affairs which Brownrig had left in his hands.  So he
greeted Allison with gravity suited to the occasion, yet with a
cheerfulness which seemed to imply that he had pleasant news to tell.
Allison received him with a quietness which, he told himself, it cost
her something to maintain.  But he thought none the less of her for
that.

"No woman could stand in _her_ shoes this night, and not be moved, and
that greatly.  And not one in ten could keep a grip of herself as she is
doing--no, nor one in fifty," said he to himself.  Aloud he said: "I
ought, perhaps, to have given you longer time to consider when you could
receive me.  But the doctor informed me that you had been at the
infirmary to-day, and as he was at liberty he suggested that you would
doubtless be willing to see us to-night.  There are certain matters that
must be attended to at once."

"For the present I come home early," said Allison.  "The evening is the
only time I have to myself."

"Yes.  For the present, as you say.  Ahem!  You are aware, perhaps, that
for years I was employed by--by Mr Brownrig in the transaction of so
much of his business as was in my line.  And you know that during his
last illness I was often with him, and was consulted by him.  In short,
the arrangement of his affairs was left to me."

This was but the introduction to much more.  Allison listened in
silence, and when he came to a pause she said quietly:

"And what can I have to do with all this?"

Mr Rainy looked a little startled.

"You are not, I should suppose, altogether unaware of the manner in
which--I mean of the provisions of your husband's will?"

"I know nothing about it," said Allison.

"Then let me have the pleasure of telling you that by this will, you
are, on certain conditions, to be put in possession of all of which Mr
Brownrig died possessed.  There are a few unimportant legacies to
friends."  He mentioned the names of several persons, and then went on
with his explanations.

Allison understood some things which he said, and some things she
neither understood nor heeded.  When he came to an end at last, she did
not, as he expected, ask what was the condition to which he had
referred, but said:

"And what will happen if I say that I can take nothing?"

Mr Rainy looked at her in astonishment.

"That is easily told," said he, with a queer contortion of his face.
"The property of the deceased would go to the next of kin."

Then Mr Rainy waited to hear more,--waited "to see what it was that she
would be at," he said to himself.

"And it is your place to settle it all, to see that all is put right as
it should be?"

"Yes, that is my place, with the help of one or two others.  Your friend
Doctor Fleming has something to do with your affairs, under the will."

"What you have to do will be to put the will aside, as if it had never
been made.  I hope it will not add to the trouble you must have to
settle everything without it."

"Are you in earnest?" asked Mr Rainy gravely.

"Surely, I am in earnest."

"Do you mean to say that you refuse to receive the property which your
husband left to you?  Is it because of the condition?  No, it cannot be
that, for I named no condition.  And indeed it is hardly a condition.
It is rather a request."

Allison asked no question, though he paused expectant.

"The condition--if it can be called a condition--is easy enough to
fulfil.  It is to take possession of a fine house, and live in it--a
while every year, anyway, and to call yourself by your husband's name.
Is that a hard thing to do?"

Allison grew red and then pale.

"I have nothing to say about any condition.  With no condition my
decision would have been the same.  What you have to do must be done
with no thought of me."

"But what is your reason?  What would you have?  You were friends with
him.  You were good to him all those long months.  You had forgiven him
before he died."

"I think I had forgiven him long before that time.  I came to him
because I was sorry for him, and he, too, had something to forgive.  I
wished to be at peace with him before he died, for his sake and for my
own."

"What more need be said?  You had forgiven one another, and he wished to
make amends.  Give me a reason for this most astonishing resolution."

"I can give you no reason, except that I cannot take what you say he has
left to me.  I have no right to it.  It should go to those of his own
blood."

There was more said, but not much, and not another word was spoken by
Allison.  Doctor Fleming, who had been silent hitherto, said something
about taking longer time to consider the matter--that there was no need
for haste.  She should take time, and consult her friends.  But he did
not seem surprised at her decision, and indeed "spoke in a half-hearted
kind of a way, which was likely to do little ill, little good in this
strange matter," Mr Rainy declared, with an echo of reproach in his
voice, as they left the house together.

"Is she a' there, think ye?  It canna surely be that she refuses to be
beholden to him, because of the ill turn he did her when he married her?
She forgave him, and that should end all ill thoughts.  Yes, she had
forgiven him; no one could doubt that who saw her as you saw her.  And
no one would think of casting up to her that she served him with any
thought of what he had to leave behind him.  But she might think so, and
I daresay she has her ain pride, for all her gentle ways.  You must have
a word with her, doctor.  It is easy seen that your word would go far
with her.  As for me, I canna follow her, nor understand her, unless it
is that she has a want or a weakness about her somewhere."

"No," said the doctor, "it cannot be explained in that way."

"Well, what would she have?  Man! think ye what many a woman would give
for her chance!  A house of her own, and wealth, no responsibilities, no
incumbrances, and not a true word to be spoken against her.  Why! it
would be the beginning of a new life to her.  With her good looks, and
the grip she has of herself (her self-possession), she would hold her
own--no fear of that.  And no one has a right to meddle with her.  There
is her brother, but it is hardly likely he will trouble her.  And she is
the stronger of the two, and she has had experience since the old days.
I canna fathom it--unless there be somebody else," said Mr Rainy,
standing still in the street.  "Doctor, can you tell me that?  I think I
would have heard of him, surely.  And he would be a queer lad that would
object to her coming to him with her hands full.  And there is not a
word said about her not marrying again.  No, it must just be that she is
a woman of weak judgment."

They had walked a long way by this time, and now they turned into
another street, and soon came to Mr Rainy's door.

"Come in, doctor, come in.  You surely must have something to say about
this strange freak, though I own I have not given you much chance to say
it.  Come in if you can spare the time.  It's early yet."

The doctor went in with him, but he had not much to say except that he
was not altogether surprised at Mistress Allison's decision.  Indeed he
owned that he would have been surprised had she decided otherwise.

"But what, I ask, in the name of common sense, is the reason?  You must
know, for you seem to have foreseen her refusal."

"I do not believe she herself could find a reason, except that she
cannot do this thing.  The reason lies in her nature.  She came to him,
as she says, because she was sorry for him, and because she wished that
they might forgive one another before he died.  And I daresay she
thought she might do him some good.  And so she did.  May God bless her!
But as to what he had, or what he might do with it, I doubt if the
thought of it ever came into her mind, till you spoke the word
to-night."

Mr Rainy shook his head.

"I don't say that it is altogether beyond possibility.  She seems to be
a simple-minded creature in some ways, but she's a woman.  And just
think of it!  A free life before her, and all that money can give--I
mean of the things dear to women--even to good and sensible women--gowns
and bonnets and--things.  It couldna but have come into her mind."

"But even if she has thought of all these things, she refuses them now."

"Yes, she does that, but why?  It may be that she hasna confidence in
herself.  But that would come.  There is no fear of a fine, stately
woman like her.  It is a pity that the poor man didna get to his own
house to die."

"Yes, it was Brownrig's sole reason for wishing to go, that all might be
made easier for her.  He was eager to see her in the possession of all
he had to give.  It was too late, however.  He failed rapidly, after he
told me his wish.  Still, I do not think that her being there would have
made any difference in the end."

"Do you mean that she would have said the same in those circumstances,
and that she will hold out now?  That she will go her own ways, and earn
her bread, and call herself Allison Bain to the end of her days?  No,
no! she will come round.  We'll give her time, and she'll come round,
and ken her ain mind better.  A year and a day I'll give her, and by
that time she will be wiser and less--less, what shall I call it?  Less
scrupulous."

"There are, doubtless, folk ready to put in a claim for a share of what
is left, should she refuse."

"There is one man, and he has a family.  I have had my eye on him for a
while.  He knows his connection with Brownrig.  I don't think he is
proud of it.  But he will have no scruples about taking all that he can
get, I daresay.  The will, as it stands, is not to be meddled with.  I
hope he may have to content himself with his five hundred pounds."

Doctor Fleming smiled.

"I should say that he stands a fair chance of taking that and all else
besides.  Time will show."

"I think, doctor," said Mr Rainy gravely, "if you were to give your
mind to it, you could make her see her interest, and her duty as well."

"I am not so sure of that.  If we happen to be sitting in the dining-room
after dinner, sometimes we hear what sounds like the noise of a
heavy coach rumbling up to the hall door.

We have both heard this noise hundreds of times between eight P.M.
and midnight. Sometimes we hear it several times the same night, and
then perhaps we won't hear it again for several months. We hear it
best on calm nights, and as we are nearly a quarter of a mile from the
high road, it is difficult to account for, especially as the noise
appears to be quite close to us--I mean not farther away than the hall-door.
I may mention that an Englishman was staying with us a few years
ago. As we were sitting in the dining-room one night after dinner he
said, 'A carriage has just driven up to the door'; but we knew it was
only the 'phantom coach,' for we also heard it.

Only once do I remember hearing it while sitting in the drawing-room.

So much for the 'sound' of the 'phantom coach,' but now I must tell you
what I _saw_ with my own eyes as clearly as I now see the paper
on which I am writing.

Some years ago in the middle of the summer, on a scorching hot day,
I was out cutting some hay opposite the hall door just by the
tennis court.

It was between twelve and one o'clock. I remember the time distinctly,
as my man had gone to his dinner shortly before.

The spot on which I was commanded a view of the avenue from the entrance
gate for about four hundred yards.
I happened to look up from my occupation--for scything is no easy work--and
I saw what I took to be a somewhat high dogcart, in which two people
were seated, turning in at the avenue gate. As I had my coat and waistcoat
off, and was not in a state to receive visitors, I got behind a
newly-made hay-cock and watched the vehicle until it came to a bend
in the avenue where there is a clump of trees which obscured it
from my view.

As it did not, however, reappear, I concluded that the occupants
had either stopped for some reason or had taken by mistake a cart-way
leading to the back gate into the garden.

Hastily putting on my coat, I went down to the bend in the avenue, but
to my surprise there was nothing to be seen.

"Returning to the Rectory, I met my housekeeper, who has been with
me for nearly twenty years, and I told her what I had seen.

She then told me that about a month before, while I was away from
home, my man had one day gone with the trap to the station.

She saw, just as I did, a trap coming up the avenue until it was lost to
sight owing to the intervention of the clump of trees. As it did not
come on, she went down to the bend, but there was no trap to be
seen.

When the man came in some half-hour after, my housekeeper asked him if he
had come half-way up the avenue and turned back, but he said he
had only that minute come straight from the station.

My housekeeper said she did not like to tell me about it before,
as she thought I 'would have laughed at her.'

Whether the 'spectral gig' which I saw and the 'phantom coach' which
my wife and I have often heard are one and the same I know not,
but I do know that what I saw in the full blaze of the summer sun
was not inspired by a dose of the spirits referred to by my friend
the parish priest.

"Some time during the winter of 1912, I was in the motor-house one dark
evening at about 6 P.M.

I was working at the engine, and as the car was 'nose in' first, I
was, of course, at the farthest point from the door.
I had sent my man down to the village with a message. He was gone about
ten minutes when I heard heavy footsteps enter the yard and come
over to the motor-house.

I 'felt' that there was some one in the house quite close to me,
and I said, 'Hullo, ----, what brought you back so soon,' as I knew
he could not have been to the village and back.

As I got no reply, I took up my electric lamp and went to the back of the
motor to see who was there, but there was no one to be seen, and
although I searched the yard with my lamp, I could discover no one.

About a week later I heard the footsteps again under almost identical
conditions, but I searched with the same futile result.

"Before I stop, I must tell you about a curious 'presentiment' which
happened with regard to a man I got from the Queen's County.

He arrived on a Saturday evening, and on the following Monday morning I
put him to sweep the avenue.

He was at his work when I went out in the motor car at about 10:30 A.M.
Shortly after I left he left his wheel-barrow and tools on the
avenue (just at the point where I saw the 'spectral gig' disappear)
and, coming up to the Rectory, he told my housekeeper in a great
state of agitation that he was quite sure that his brother, with
whom he had always lived, was dead.

He said he must return home at once.

My housekeeper advised him to wait until I returned, but he changed
his clothes and packed his box, saying he must catch the next train.

Just before I returned home at 12 o'clock, a telegram came saying his
brother had died suddenly that morning, and that he was to return at once.
On my return I found him almost in a state of collapse. He left by the
next train, and I never heard of him again."
K---- Castle is a handsome blending of ancient castle and modern
dwelling-house, picturesquely situated among trees, while the steep
glen mentioned below runs close beside it.

It has the reputation of being haunted, but, as usual, it is difficult
to get information.

One gentleman, to whom we wrote, stated that he never saw or heard
anything worse than a bat.

On the other hand, a lady who resided there a good many years ago, gives
the following account of her extraordinary experiences therein:

DEAR MR. SEYMOUR,
I enclose some account of our experiences in K---- Castle. It would be
better not to mention names, as the people occupying it have told
me they are afraid of their servants hearing anything, and consequently
giving notice.

They themselves hear voices often, but, like me, they do not mind. When
first we went there we heard people talking, but on looking
everywhere we could find no one.

Then on some nights we heard fighting in the glen beside the house.

We could hear voices raised in anger, and the clash of steel: no person
would venture there after dusk.

One night I was sitting talking with my governess, I got up, said
good-night, and opened the door, which was on the top of the back
staircase.

As I did so, I _heard_ some one (a woman) come slowly upstairs,
walk past us to a window at the end of the landing, and then with a
shriek fall heavily. As she passed it was bitterly cold, and I drew
back into the room, but did not say anything, as it might frighten the
governess. She asked me what was the matter, as I looked so white.
Without answering, I pushed her into her room, and then searched the
house, but with no results.

Another night I was sleeping with my little girl. I awoke, and saw a
girl with long, fair hair standing at the fireplace, one hand at
her side, the other on the chimney-piece. Thinking at first it was my
little girl, I felt on the pillow to see if she were gone, but she
was fast asleep.

There was no fire or light of any kind in the room.

Some time afterwards a friend was sleeping there, and she told me that
she was pushed out of bed the whole night.

Two gentlemen to whom I had mentioned this came over, thinking they would
find out the cause. In the morning when they came down they asked
for the carriage to take them to the next train, but would not tell what
they had heard or seen.
Another person who came to visit her sister, who was looking after
the house before we went in, slept in this room, and in the morning
said she must go back that day.

She also would give no information.

  On walking down the corridor, I have
  heard a door open, a footstep cross before me, and go into another
room, _both_ doors being closed at the time.

An old cook I had told me that when she went into the hall in the
morning, a gentleman would come down the front stairs, take a plumed hat
off the stand, and vanish _through_ the hall door. This she saw nearly
every morning. She also said that a girl often came into her bedroom,
and put her hand on her (the cook's) face; and when she would push
her away she would hear a girl's voice say, "Oh don't!" three times. I
have often heard voices in the drawing-room, which decidedly sounded
as if an old gentleman and a girl were talking.

Noises like furniture being moved were frequently heard at night, and
strangers staying with us have often asked why the servants turned out
the rooms underneath them at such an unusual hour. The front-door
bell sometimes rang, and I have gone down, but found no one.

Yours very sincerely, F.T.

"Kilman" Castle, in the heart of Ireland--the name is obviously a
pseudonym--has been described as perhaps the worst haunted mansion in
the British Isles. That it deserves this doubtful recommendation, we
cannot say; but at all events the ordinary reader will be prepared to
admit that it contains sufficient "ghosts" to satisfy the most greedy
ghost-hunter.
A couple of months ago the present writer paid a visit to this castle, and
was shown all over it one morning by the mistress of the house,
who, under the _nom de plume_ of "Andrew Merry" has published novels
dealing with Irish life, and has also contributed articles on the
ghostly phenomena of her house to the _Occult Review_ (Dec. 1908
and Jan. 1909).

The place itself is a grim, grey, bare building. The central portion,
in which is the entrance-hall, is a square castle of the usual type;
it is built on a rock, and a slight batter from base to summit gives an
added appearance of strength and solidity. On either side of the castle
are more modern wings, one of which terminates in what is known
as the "Priest's House."
Now to the ghosts.

The top storey of the central tower is a large, well-lighted apartment,
called the "Chapel," having evidently served that purpose in times past.
At one end is what is said to be an _oubliette_, now almost filled up.
Occasionally in the evenings, people walking along the roads or in the
fields see the windows of this chapel lighted up for a few seconds
as if many lamps were suddenly brought into it.

This is certainly _not_ due to servants; from our experience we can
testify that it is the last place on earth that a domestic would enter
after dark. It is also said that a treasure is buried somewhere in or
around the castle.
The legend runs that an ancestor was about to be taken to Dublin on a
charge of rebellion, and, fearing he would never return, made the best
of the time left to him by burying somewhere a crock full of gold and
jewels. Contrary to expectation, he _did_ return; but his long confinement
had turned his brain, and he could never remember the spot where he had
deposited his treasure years before.

Some time ago a lady, a Miss B., who was decidedly psychic, was
invited to Kilman Castle in the hope that she would be able to locate
the whereabouts of this treasure.
In this respect she failed, unfortunately, but gave, nevertheless, a curious
example of her power. As she walked through the hall with her hostess,
she suddenly laid her hand upon the bare stone wall, and remarked,
"There is something uncanny here, but I don't know what it is."
In that very spot, some time previously, two skeletons had been
discovered walled up.

The sequel to this is curious. Some time after, Miss B. was either trying
automatic writing, or else was at a séance (we forget which), when a
message came to her from the Unseen, stating that the treasure at
Kilman Castle was concealed in the chapel under the tessellated pavement
near the altar. But this spirit was either a "lying spirit," or else a
most impish one, for there is no trace of an altar, and it is
impossible to say, from the style of the room, where it stood; while
the tessellated pavement (if it exists) is so covered with the
debris of the former roof that it would be almost impossible to
have it thoroughly cleared.

There is as well a miscellaneous assortment of ghosts. A monk with
tonsure and cowl walks in at one window of the Priest's House, and out
at another. There is also a little old man, dressed in the antique garb
of a green cut-away coat, knee breeches, and buckled shoes: he
is sometimes accompanied by an old lady in similar old-fashioned
costume.
Another ghost has a penchant for lying on the bed beside its lawful
and earthly occupant; nothing is seen, but a great weight is felt,
and a consequent deep impression made on the bedclothes.

The lady of the house states that she has a number of letters from
friends, in which they relate the supernatural experiences they had
while staying at the Castle. In one of these the writer, a gentleman, was
awakened one night by an extraordinary feeling of intense cold at his
heart. He then saw in front of him a tall female figure, clothed from
head to foot in red, and with its right hand raised menacingly in
the air: the light which illuminated the figure was from within. He
lit a match, and sprang out of bed, but the room was empty. He went back
to bed, and saw nothing more that night, except that several times the
same cold feeling gripped his heart, though to the touch the flesh
was quite warm.

But of all the ghosts in that well-haunted house the most unpleasant is
that inexplicable thing that is usually called "It." The lady of
the house described to the present writer her personal experience of
this phantom. High up round one side of the hall runs a gallery which
connects with some of the bedrooms.

One evening she was in this gallery leaning on the balustrade, and
looking down into the hall.

Suddenly she felt two hands laid on her shoulders; she turned round
sharply, and saw "It" standing close beside her.

She described it as being human in shape, and about four feet high;
the eyes were like two black holes in the face, and the whole figure
seemed as if it were made of grey cotton-wool, while it was accompanied
by a most appalling stench, such as would come from a decaying human
body.

The lady got a shock from which she did not recover for a long
time.

CHAPTER IV

POLTERGEISTS

Poltergeist is the term assigned to those apparently meaningless noises
and movements of objects of which we from time to time hear accounts.
The word is, of course, German, and may be translated "boisterous
ghost."

A poltergeist is seldom or never seen, but contents itself by moving
furniture and other objects about in an extraordinary manner, often
contrary to the laws of gravitation; sometimes footsteps are heard, but
nothing is visible, while at other times vigorous rappings will
be heard either on the walls or floor of a room, and in the manner
in which the raps are given a poltergeist has often showed itself
as having a close connection with the physical phenomena of
spiritualism, for cases have occurred in which a poltergeist has
given the exact number of raps mentally asked for by some person
present.

Another point that is worthy of note is the fact that the hauntings of
a poltergeist are generally attached to a certain individual in a
certain spot, and thus differ from the operations of an ordinary ghost.

The two following incidents related in this chapter are taken from a paper
read by Professor Barrett, F.R.S., before the Society for Psychical
Research.[6] In the case of the first anecdote he made every
possible inquiry into the facts set forth, short of actually being an
eye-witness of the phenomena. In the case of the second he made personal
investigation, and himself saw the whole of the incidents related.
There is therefore very little room to doubt the genuineness of
either story.

[Footnote 6: _Proceedings_, August 1911, pp. 377-95.]
In the year 1910, in a certain house in Court Street, Enniscorthy, there
lived a labouring man named Redmond. His wife took in boarders
to supplement her husband's wages, and at the time to which we refer
there were three men boarding with her, who slept in one room above
the kitchen.

The house consisted of five rooms--two on the ground-floor, of which
one was a shop and the other the kitchen. The two other rooms upstairs
were occupied by the Redmonds and their servant respectively.
The bedroom in which the boarders slept was large, and contained
two beds, one at each end of the room, two men sleeping in one of
them; John Randall and George Sinnott were the names of two, but
the name of the third lodger is not known--he seems to have left
the Redmonds very shortly after the disturbances commenced.

It was on July 4, 1910, that John Randall, who is a carpenter by
trade, went to live at Enniscorthy, and took rooms with the Redmonds.
In a signed statement, now in possession of Professor Barrett, he tells
a graphic tale of what occurred each night during the three weeks he
lodged in the house, and as a result of the poltergeist's attentions
he lost three-quarters of a stone in weight. It was on the night of
Thursday, July 7, that the first incident occurred, when the bedclothes
were gently pulled off his bed. Of course he naturally thought it was
a joke, and shouted to his companions to stop. As no one could
explain what was happening, a match was struck, and the bedclothes
were found to be at the window, from which the other bed (a large piece
of furniture which ordinarily took two people to move) had been
rolled just when the clothes had been taken off Randall's bed.

Things were put straight and the light blown out, "but," Randall's account
goes on to say, "it wasn't long until we heard some hammering in
the room--tap-tap-tap-like.

This lasted for a few minutes, getting quicker and quicker. When
it got very quick, their bed started to move out across the room....
We then struck a match and got the lamp.

We searched the room thoroughly, and could find nobody.
Nobody had come in the door. We called the man of the house (Redmond);
he came into the room, saw the bed, and told us to push it back and get
into bed (he thought all the time one of us was playing the trick on
the other). I said I wouldn't stay in the other bed by myself, so I
got in with the others; we put out the light again, and it had only
been a couple of minutes out when the bed ran out on the floor
with the three of us.

Richard struck a match again, and this time we all got up and put
on our clothes; we had got a terrible fright and couldn't stick it
any longer.

We told the man of the house we would sit up in the room till daylight.
During the time we were sitting in the room we could hear footsteps
leaving the kitchen and coming up the stairs; it would stop on the
landing outside the door, and wouldn't come into the room.

The footsteps and noises continued through the house until daybreak."

The next night the footsteps and noises were continued, but the unfortunate
men did not experience any other annoyance. On the following day the
men went home, and it is to be hoped they were able to make up for all
the sleep they had lost on the two previous nights. They returned on
the Sunday, and from that night till they finally left the house the men
were disturbed practically every night. On Monday, 11th July the bed
was continually running out from the wall with its three occupants.

He brought her books now and then, to improve her mind
and pass the time, he told her, and Allison began, to her own surprise,
to take pleasure in them, such as she had taken in books in the days of
her youth, before all things went wrong with them, and all the world was
changed.

A letter came from her brother at last.  It was dated at a strange place
in the West, and it was not a cheerful letter.

"It is a long time since I wrote to you," he said.  "I had no heart to
write.  I was grieved and angry, and I would only have hurt you with my
words.  But I have not made so much of my own life that I should venture
to find fault with what you are doing with yours.  As to my plans that
you asked about, I have none now.  I may wait a while before I think of
getting a home of my own, since I am not like to have any one to share
it with me.  Oh!  Allie, how is it that all our fine hopes and plans
have come to nothing?  It was your duty, you thought, to take the step
you have taken.  I cannot see it so.  Having once gone to him, you can
never leave him till death comes to part you.  You might as well have
gone at the first as at the last, and you would have saved yourself the
trouble of years.  But it is useless to say more--"

Then he went on to tell her that he had come West to see the country--
and a fine country it was, grand for growing grain.  He had not made up
his mind to stay in it.  "It is a fine country, but it has a dreary look
to me.  There is not a hill to be seen far or near, and in some parts,
not a tree for scores of miles.  I hardly think I will stay here long."

Allison read all this with painful misgivings.  Willie alone and
discouraged, and alas! open to temptation, perhaps, as he had been
before--how would it end?  Her heart sank within her, and she said to
herself, that there was no need for her to wait for a settlement of that
troublesome business.  There were those who could settle it without her
help, and she would away to her brother.

His name was signed at the end of the page, but she turned the leaf over
and read a few lines more.

"I have gotten a letter from John Beaton, and I have made up my mind to
go back to Barstow.  John says he is going home to bring out his mother,
and he will give you all the news--so no more at present."

Allison's heart was lightened as she read.

"There cannot be much wrong with him since he is going back again," she
thought, "and I can wait patiently till his friend comes, to hear more."

She had not long to wait.  One night, when she came home in the early
gloaming, she found Mrs Robb standing at the door.

"Mr Robert is in the room," said she, "and a friend with him.  He asked
for you, and I thought ye might maybe like to take off your cap and
change your gown before you went in to them."

"I may as well," said Allison.  "It is some one from Nethermuir, I
suppose," she thought as she went up the stair.

So she came down quite unprepared to find John Beaton standing in the
middle of the room, with his eyes fixed on the door.  They stood for a
moment looking at one another, and then their hands met, but not a word
of greeting passed between them.  Then Allison sat down, and John took a
turn up and down the room.

"I heard from my brother that you were coming home for your mother, but
I did not think it was to be so soon," said Allison.

"It is the best time for me to leave my work.  It is rather early in the
season for my mother, I am afraid.  But the voyage is shorter than it
used to be, and she can have every comfort."

"She will be glad to go," said Allison.

"Yes, for some reasons.  But at her age, changes are neither easy nor
welcome.  Still, I am sure she will be glad to go."

"You have something to tell me about my brother," said Allison.

"Yes, I have much to tell you--and nothing but good."

"I was thankful when I heard that he was to go back again to Mr
Strong's house.  It has been like home to him a long time.  Did he send
a letter to me?"

"Yes--but it is a very little one.  I am to tell you all the news," said
John, taking from his pocketbook a tiny, folded paper.  Allison opened
it and read:

"Dear Allie, it was all a mistake; it was me she cared for all the time.
Oh!  Allie, you must love her dearly for my sake."

It seemed to take Allison a good while to read it, short as it was.
When at last she looked up and met John's eyes, a sudden rush of colour
made her hide her face in her hands.

"Don't be sorry, Allie; you would not if you knew all," said John.

"Oh! no.  It is not that I am sorry.  But--he will not need me now.  Oh!
I am not sorry.  I am glad for him."  But her voice trembled as she
said it.

"Will he not need his sister?  You would not say so if you knew what the
thought of you has been to him all these years.  You have not seen your
brother for a long time, but it is you who have made a man of him, for
all that."

"Have I made a man of him?  It has been with your good help then."

"Yes, I think I may have helped him.  We have been friends, and more,
ever since we met that night by the lake shore."

"Ah! he needed a friend then.  I seemed to forget my fears for him,
after I heard that you had found him.  I do not know how to thank you
for all you have been to him."

"I will tell you how," said John.  But he did not.  He rose and walked
up and down again.  After a little he sat down beside her, and had more
to say.  He spoke of his first meeting with her brother, of Willie's
illness, and of the good fortune that came to them both on the day when
they took shelter from the rain in Mr Strong's barn.  He told her much
more than that.  Some things she had heard before, and some things she
heard now for the first time.  She listened to all with a lightened
heart, and more than once the happy tears came to her eyes.  And when
John ended thus, "You will be proud of your brother yet, Allison," she
put out her hand, and John took it, and, for a moment, held it closely.

Before Allison came in John had said to Robert:

"You are not to go away; I have nothing to say to Allison Bain to-night
that all Nethermuir might not hear."

But for the moment he wished the words unsaid.  A wild desire "to put
all to the touch" and know his fate assailed him.  He spoke quietly
enough, however, when he went on to tell, in answer to Allison's
questions, why Willie had gone away so suddenly to the West.

He had always intended to go out there some time, but with the
suddenness of his going Mr Strong had something to do.  It never seemed
to have come into the father's mind that his little Elsie was not a
child any longer, and when he began to notice the look that came into
Willie's eyes when they lighted on her, he was startled first, and then
he was angry, and he let his anger be seen, which was foolish.  I am
afraid he spoke to Elsie herself, which was more foolish still.  For she
became conscious, and shy, and ill at ease, and these two, who up to
that time had been like brother and sister, had little to say to one
another.  When Elsie was sent away to visit an aunt, Willie grew
restless and angry, and, in a moment when something had vexed him, he
told Mr Strong that he had made up his mind to go West.

"Mr Strong said `all right' a little too readily perhaps, and gave the
lad no time to reconsider his decision, and so Willie went away.  It
happened when I was in another town, where I had building going on.  I
heard of the matter first from a letter which Willie sent me, and
hurried back as soon as possible, hoping to induce him to wait for a
while, that I might go with him, as I had always meant to do.  I was too
late.  But it has all ended well.  Willie was glad to get home again,
and they were all glad to have him home.  Mr Strong had missed the lad
more than he had been willing to confess, even to himself."

"And is that what you call ending well?  Is that to be the end?" said
Robert, speaking for the first time.

John laughed.  "That is as far as it has gone yet, and it as well as
well can be.  We must wait for the rest."

"Tell me about Elsie," said Allison.

John had a good deal to tell about Elsie, and about other people.  He
had much to say about Mr Hadden and his family, and about their great
kindness to both Willie and himself.  He had something also to say of
his own business and of his success in it, and Robin drew him out to
describe the house he had built for himself among the maples, by the
lake.  A pleasant place he said it was, but it would have to wait a
while yet before it could be called a home.

Then Robin challenged him to say truly, whether, after all, he was quite
contented with his life in the new world, and whether he had not had
times of being homesick, repentant, miserable?

No, John had never repented.  He had succeeded in every way, far better
than he had had any reason to expect or hope.  Miserable?  No.  No one
need be miserable anywhere, who had enough to do, and a measure of
success in doing it.

"As to homesickness--it depends on what you call homesickness.  My heart
was ay turning homewards, but not with any thought that I had been wrong
or foolish to leave Scotland.  No, I am not sorry I went to America when
I did."

And then, turning to Allison he added:

"And yet I had no intention of staying there when I went.  If it hadna
been the thought of finding Willie, I would never have turned my face to
Barstow.  Indeed, I think your Willie and his trust in me, and perhaps
also my care for him, has had more to do with my contentment, yes, and
with my success, than all else together."

"I am glad," said Allison, and her impulse was to put out her hand
again.  But she did not.  She only said:

"How long do you think of staying in Scotland?"

"Only as long as my mother needs to make ready for the journey."

"And when you go will you pass this way?  I should like well to see your
mother, and say good-bye before she goes away."

"You must go borne for a while to the manse, Allie.  That is what you
must do," said Robert.

"No," said Allison, "I would like a quiet day with her here far better."

"And you shall have it," said John heartily.  "That will be far better
than to be there in the confusion of leaving."

Then John rose, saying it was time to go, and Robert, who was to see him
a few miles on his journey, remembered that there was still something to
be done, and hurried away.

He might as well have stayed where he was, for the parting between these
two was as undemonstrative as their meeting had been.  But when the
young men had gone a few steps down the pavement, John turned back again
to the door where Allison was still standing.

"Allie," said he, "say a kind word to me before I go.  Tell me you have
forgiven the presumption of that night."

"I have had none but kind thoughts of you since then, John," said she,
giving him her hand.

He stooped and kissed it.

"I am not going to ask anything from you just now, because--But I must
tell you--that I love you dearly,--so dearly, that I can wait patiently
till you shall bid me come again."

Laying her hand upon his shoulder, Allison whispered softly:

"Will you wait till the year is over, John?"


CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

  "And I will come again, my love,
  Though 'twere ten thousand mile."

A year and a day Mr Rainy had given to Allison Bain, in which to
reconsider her decision as to her refusal to be benefited by the
provisions of Brownrig's will, and now the year was drawing to a close.
"The next of kin" had signified his intention of returning to Scotland
immediately, and as he was an officer in the army, who might be sent on
short notice to any part of the empire, it was desirable that he should
know as soon as might be, what chance there was of his inheriting the
property which his uncle had left.

Mr Rainy had written cautiously to this man at first.  He had had
little doubt that Brownrig's widow, as he always called Allison in his
thoughts, would be brought to her senses and hear reason, before the
year was out.  So he had not given the next of kin much encouragement to
believe that more than his five hundred pounds would fall to his share.

It was a matter of conscience with Mr Rainy.  Whatever any one else
might think or say, or whatever his own private opinion might be, it was
clearly his duty to use all diligence in carrying out the expressed
wishes of the testator.  In the meantime he left Allison to herself,
believing that frequent discussion would only make her--womanlike--hold
the more firmly to her first determination.

But after all was said and done, this "troublesome business," which had
caused care and anxiety to several people besides Allison, was brought
to a happy end.  Mr Rainy's house was the place appointed for the
meeting of all those who had anything to do with the matter, either
officially or otherwise; and on the day named, shy and anxious, but
quite determined as to what she was to say and do, Allison took her way
thither.  She told herself that she would have at least one friend
there.  Doctor Fleming had promised not to fail her, and though he had
never spoken many words to her about the will, she knew that he would
stand by her in the decision to which she had come.  She had confidence
in his kindness and consideration.  No word to deride her foolishness
would fall from his lips, and even Mr Rainy's half-contemptuous
expostulations would be restrained by the good doctor's presence.

She reached the house at the appointed hour, and found all who had a
right to be present on the occasion, already there.  It was her friend
Doctor Fleming who came forward to the door, and led her into the room.

"Mrs Esselmont!" said Allison, as the lady advanced to meet her.

"Yes, Allison, I am here," said she gravely.

There were a number of gentlemen present, and voices were heard also, in
the room beyond.  Mrs Esselmont's presence and support were just what
Allison needed to help her self-possession, as Mr Rainy brought one
after another to greet her; and she went through the ceremony of
introduction with a gentle dignity which surprised only those to whom
she was a stranger.  The last hand that was held out to her was that of
"the next of kin," as Mr Rainy announced gravely.

He was a tall man, with a brown face and smiling eyes, and the grasp of
his hand was firm and kindly.  They looked at each other for a moment,
and then Allison turned a triumphant glance on Mr Rainy.

"Mistress Allison," said the new-comer, "I have been hearing strange
things about you."

"But only things of which you are glad to hear," said Allison eagerly.
"I have heard of you too, though I do not remember ever to have heard
your name."

"I am Allan Douglas, the son of Mr Brownrig's eldest sister."

He had not time to say more.  Allison put her other hand on the hand
which held hers.

"Not Captain Douglas from Canada?  Not Miss Mary's husband?" said
Allison, speaking very softly.

She saw the answer in his smiling eyes, even before he spoke, "Yes, the
husband of Mary Esselmont,--the daughter of your friend."

Allison turned with a radiant face to those who were looking on.

"And is not this the best way?  Is not this as right as right can be?"
said she, still speaking low.

Not one of them had a word to answer her.  But they said to one another
that she was a strange creature, a grand creature, a woman among a
thousand.  Allison might well laugh at all this when it was told her
afterward.  For what had she done?  She had held to her first
determination, and had taken her own will against the advice and even
the entreaty of those who were supposed to be wiser than she.  She had
only refused to take up a burden which she could not have borne.  What
was there that was grand in all that?

"As right as right can be," she repeated, as she went over to the sofa
where Mrs Esselmont was sitting.  "And now you will have your Mary home
again," said she.

Her Mary was there already.  A fair, slender woman with a delicate face,
was holding out her hand to Allison.

"I am glad to see the Allison of whom my mother has so often told me,"
said she.

"And I am glad you are come home for her sake," said Allison.

There was no long discussion of the matter needed after this.  Mr Rainy
might be trusted to complete all arrangements as speedily as might be,
and it was with a lightened heart that Allison saw one after another of
those concerned take their departure.

Captain Douglas had still something to say to Allison, and he came and
sat down by the side of his wife.

"Have you heard from your brother lately?  Do you know that I went to
see him before I left America?"

"No," said Allison in surprise.  "I have had no letter for a month and
more.  Was it by chance that you met in that great country?"

"Oh! no.  When Mr Rainy told me of your decision, he also told me that
you had a brother in America, and gave me his address.  The place was
not very faraway from the town where we were stationed, and I made up my
mind to see him before I returned home.  Mr Rainy could not tell me
whether you had consulted with your brother or not, and I thought it was
right for your sake as well as for my own, that I should see him and
learn _his_ opinion of the matter."

"Well?" said Allison anxiously.

"Well, he answered me scornfully enough, at first, and told me I was
welcome to take possession of a bad man's ill-gotten gains, and more
angry words he added.  But that was only at first.  He had a friend with
him who sent me away, and bade me come again in the morning.  From him I
heard something of the cause of your brother's anger against my uncle.
We were on better terms, your brother and I, before I left."

"And was he angry with me?  I mean, was he angry that I was with your
uncle at the end?"

"He did not speak of that.  You must let me thank you for all you did
for my uncle in his last days."

"Oh! no.  You must not thank me.  It was only my duty; I could not have
done otherwise," said Allison.  "And did Willie not speak of me at all?"

"Yes.  He said that there was not in all Scotland another woman like his
sister Allie, nor in America either."

Allison, smiled at that.

"And did he send no letter to me?"

"Yes, he sent a letter.  I have it with me.  No, I gave it to a friend,
who said he would put it into your own hand."

"It was to your brother's friend that he gave the letter," said Mrs
Esselmont in a whisper.

So when Allison came home to see a light in the parlour window, and a
tall shadow moving back and forth upon the blind, she knew who was
waiting for her there.

An hour later Robert Hume came to the house.

"Mistress Allison must have gone to the inn with Mrs Esselmont and her
friends," said Mrs Robb, "and here has the poor lad been waiting for
her in the parlour an hour and more.  What can be keepin' her, think
you?  And I dinna just like to open the door."

Robert laughed.  "Poor fellow, indeed!" said he.  "I suppose we may at
least knock and ask leave to open it."

They had seen each other already, but the hands of the two young men met
in a clasp which said some things which neither would have cared to put
into words for the other's hearing.  Then Robert turned to Allison, who
was sitting there "just as usual," he thought at first.  But there was a
look on her face, which neither he nor any one else had seen there till
now.

"No.  I am not going to sit down," said Robert.  "But I promised my
mother that I would write to-night, to tell her how it all ended, and I
need my time."

"Ended!  It is only beginning," said John.

"Robert," said Allison gravely, "does John ken?"

Robert laughed.

"There are few things that John doesna ken, I'm thinking.  What I mean
is this.  How did old Rainy and you agree at last?"

"Yes, Allison, I ken," said John, as she turned to him, "and I say as
you said: The end is as right as right can be."

"Were you there, John?" said Allison wondering.

"Surely, I was there as Captain Douglas' friend.  He had a right to ask
me, you see."

"You know him, John, and Miss Mary?"

"We sailed together, and I had seen Captain Douglas before that time."

"Yes, when he went to see my brother.  A friend helped him, he told me,
a friend of Willie's, and I knew it must be you."

John told something of the interview between them, and when a pause
came, Robert, who had been standing all this time, said:

"There is just one thing more which I must tell my mother.  When are you
coming home to the manse? and--when is it to be?"

"You are a bold lad, Robin.  _I_ have not dared to ask that yet," said
John.

But when Robert was gone he asked it, and Allison was kind and let him
"name the day."

"A week hence!  But is not that very soon, considering all you have to
do?"

"Oh, no!  All that I have to do can be done after," said John.  "Will it
be too soon for you?"

Allison's modest "providing" had been growing under her own busy hands,
during the brief leisure which her daily duties left her.  It was all of
the plainest and simplest, but it was sufficient in her esteem.

"Yes," said she after a moment's hesitation, "I can be ready, and--
whatever more you think I need--you will have to give me, John."

John laughed and kissed her hand.  Then he said gravely:

"And, dear, I made a promise once, for you and for myself.  I said, if
this happy day should ever come, I would take my wife, first of all, to
the manse of Kilgower--to get an old man's blessing."

Kilgower!  At the name, a shadow of the old trouble fell on Allison's
face--for the last time.

"I will go anywhere with you, John," said she.

The next day Allison went home to the manse--another "happy homecoming,"
as Marjorie called it,--though she was to be there only a little while.
There were few changes in the manse since the old days.  There was a
gleam of silver on the dark hair of the minister, and the face of the
minister's wife showed a touch of care, now and then, when she fell into
silence.  But in the home there were cheerfulness and content, and a
hopeful outlook as there had always been, and the peace which comes as
the fulfilment of a promise which cannot be broken.

The boys had grown bigger and stronger, and they had three sisters now.
Jack was not at home.  Jack was in the South learning to make steam
engines, and when he had learned, he was going to America to make his
fortune, like John Beaton.  And so was Davie.  Only Davie was to have
land--a farm of a thousand acres.  To America the thoughts and hopes of
all the young people of the manse were turning, it seemed, and the
thoughts of a good many in the town, as well.

John Beaton's success in the new country to which he had gone, was the
theme of admiring discussion among the townsfolk, and when John came to
Nethermuir, before the week was over, he found that all arrangements had
been made for a lecture about America, which was to be delivered in the
kirk.  John saw at once that he could not refuse to speak.  But it would
be no _lecture_ that he could give, he declared.  If any one had any
questions to ask, he would answer them as well as he could.  And this he
did, to the general satisfaction.

As to his own success--yes, he had been successful in so far, that he
had made a beginning.  That was all he had done as yet.  It was a
beginning indeed, which gave him good reason for thankfulness and for
hope.

"Oh! yes.  America is a fine country.  But after all, the chief thing
is, that there is room for folk out there.  When one comes to speak
about success, courage and patience and strength and hard work are as
necessary to ensure it there as they are here in Scotland.  But there is
this to be said.  When a man's land is his own, and he kens that every
stroke of his axe and every furrow of his plough is to tell to his own
advantage, it makes a wonderful difference."  And so on, to the pleasure
and profit of all who heard it.

Allison did not hear the lecture, nor Marjorie.  They were at Mrs
Esselmont's.  Marjorie enjoyed the visit and had much to say of it, when
she came home.  Allison did not enjoy it so well.  She was a little
doubtful as to how John would be pleased when he came to hear all.  That
was what troubled Allison,--that, and the fear that Mrs Esselmont and
Mrs Douglas might see her trouble.

For it seemed that it was not to be left to John to supply all the rest
that was needed in the way of Allison's "providing."  For a glimpse was
given her of a great many beautiful things,--"naiprie," and bed linen,
and gowns and shawls, and other things which a bride is supposed to
require.  And something was said of china and silver, that were waiting
to be sent away to the ship when the time for sailing came.  And Allison
was not sure how John might like all this.  But she need not have been
afraid.

Mrs Esselmont had a word with John that night, when he came after his
"lecture" to take Allison home.  On their way thither, he said to her:

"What did Mrs Esselmont mean when she said to me, that she had at one
time hoped that you would come home to her, to be to her a daughter in
her old age?"

"Did she say that?  It was friend and companion that she said to me.  It
was at the worst time of all, when Willie had written to me that he was
going away to the far West.  I was longing to get away, but I couldna
go, not knowing that Willie wanted me, and because--until--Oh! yes, I
was sad and lonely, and not very strong, and Mrs Esselmont asked me.
But it was not daughter she said to me, but companion and friend."

"And what answer did you give her?"

"I thanked her, but I couldna promise, since I _must_ go to my brother
sooner or later."

"And was it only of your brother that you thought, Allison?"

"I had no right to think of any one else then, and besides--"

"Well, besides?" said John after a pause.

"It was you that Elsie liked best, Willie thought--and that her father
liked best, as well--"

"Did the foolish fellow tell you that?"

"He said that Elsie was ay friendly with you, and that she had hardly a
word or a look for him, and he was afraid that it might break friendship
between you if he stayed on, and he said he was going away."

"And he did go, the foolish lad.  Friendly!  Yes, Elsie and I were
friendly, but it was Willie who had her heart.  But his going away did
no harm in the end."

Allison sighed.

"It was ay Willie's way to yield to impulse, and ill came of it whiles."

"It is his way still--whiles.  But it is _good_ that mostly comes of it
now.  And in Elsie's hands, a thread will guide him.  You will love
Elsie dearly, Allison."

"I love her dearly already."

They had reached the manse by this time, and as they lingered a moment
in the close, John said:

"And were you pleased with all the bonny things that Mrs Esselmont has
been speaking to me about?"

Allison started, and laid her hand on his arm.

"Are you pleased, John?  I was afraid--"

"Yes, I am pleased.  She is very kind."

John kept her hand in his, and led her on till they came to the
garden-gate.

"Now tell me of what you are afraid, Allie," said he.

"Oh! not afraid.  But I was glad to come to you with little, because I
knew you would be glad to give me all.  And I thought that--perhaps--
you--But Mrs Esselmont is very kind."

"My dear, I would be ill to please indeed, if I were not both pleased
and proud to hear the words which Mrs Esselmont said of you to-night.
Yes, she is more than kind, and she has a right to give you what she
pleases, because she loves you dearly."

Allison gave a sigh of pleasure.

"Oh! it was not that I was afraid.  But I was, for so long a time,
troubled and anxious,--that--whiles I think I am not just like other
women--and that you might--"

John uttered a little note of triumph.

"Like other women?  You are very little like the most of them, I should
say."

"It is not of you--it is of myself I am afraid.  You think too well of
me, John.  I am not so good and wise as you believe, but I love you,
John."

That ought to have been enough, and there were only a few words more,
and this was one of them:

"Allie," said John gravely, "I doubt that I am neither so wise nor so
good as you think me to be.  You will need to have patience with me.
There are some who say I am hard, and ower-full of myself, and whiles I
have thought it of myself.  But, Allie, if I am ever hard with you, or
forgetful, or if I ever hurt you by word or deed, it will not be because
I do not love you dearly.  And you will ay have patience with me, dear,
and trust me?"

"I am not afraid, John."

The happy day came, and the marriage in the manse parlour was a very
quiet affair, as those who were most concerned desired it to be.  But in
the opinion of Nethermuir generally, a great mistake had been made.  The
marriage should have been in the kirk, it was said, so that all the town
might have seen it.

Robert was best-man, and Marjorie was best-maid.  Mrs Esselmont and her
daughter and son-in-law were there, and one other guest.

"Think of it!" folk said.  "Only one asked to the marriage out of the
whole town, and that one auld Saunners Crombie!"

There was a good reason for that in John's esteem, and in Allison's.
Saunners appreciated the honour which was done him.  He also did honour
to the occasion--pronouncing with unction over the bride and bridegroom
the blessings so long ago spoken at the gate of Bethlehem.

It was not quite springtime yet, but the day was like a spring day, with
a grey sky, and a west wind blowing softly, when John and Allison came
in sight of the kirk of Kilgower.  Only the voice of the brown burn
broke the stillness, murmuring its way past the manse garden, and the
kirkyard wall, and over the stepping-stones on which Allison had not
dared to rest her tired feet, on the morning when she saw it last, and
she said in her heart:

"Oh! can it be that I am the same woman who would fain have died on that
day?"

LIVES OF THE POETS.

(531)

CONTENTS:

Terence Juvenal Persius Horace Lucan Pliny

THE LIFE OF TERENCE.

Publius Terentius Afer, a native of Carthage, was a slave, at Rome,
of the senator Terentius Lucanus, who, struck by his abilities and
handsome person, gave him not only a liberal education in his youth,
but his freedom when he arrived at years of maturity.

Some say that he was a captive taken in war, but this, as Fenestella
[925] informs us, could by no means have been the case, since both
his birth and death took place in the interval between the termination
of the second Punic war and the commencement of the third [926];
nor, even supposing that he had been taken prisoner by the Numidian
or Getulian tribes, could he have fallen into the hands of a Roman
general, as there was no commercial intercourse between the Italians
and Africans until after the fall of Carthage [927].

Terence lived in great familiarity with many persons of high station,
and especially with Scipio Africanus, and Caius Delius, whose
favour he is even supposed to have purchased by the foulest means.

But Fenestella reverses the charge, contending that Terence was older than
either of them. Cornelius Nepos, however, (532) informs us that they were
all of nearly equal age; and Porcias intimates a suspicion of this
criminal commerce in the following passage:--
"While Terence plays the wanton with the great, and recommends
himself to them by the meretricious ornaments of his person; while,
with greedy ears, he drinks in the divine melody of Africanus's
voice; while he thinks of being a constant guest at the table of
Furius, and the handsome Laelius; while he thinks that he is fondly
loved by them, and often invited to Albanum for his youthful beauty,
he finds himself stripped of his property, and reduced to the lowest
state of indigence.

Then, withdrawing from the world, he betook himself to Greece,
where he met his end, dying at Strymphalos, a town in Arcadia. What
availed him the friendship of Scipio, of Laelius, or of Furius, three
of the most affluent nobles of that age? They did not even minister to
his necessities so much as to provide him a hired house, to which
his slave might return with the intelligence of his master's death."

He wrote comedies, the earliest of which, The Andria, having to be
performed at the public spectacles given by the aediles [928], he
was commanded to read it first before Caecilius [929].

Having been introduced while Caecilius was at supper, and being meanly
dressed, he is reported to have read the beginning of the play
seated on a low stool near the great man's couch.

It's a bonny
place, and wholesome."

And so on she wandered.  They did not try to bring her thoughts back to
later days.  "It was as well not," Allison said sadly.

Yes, she was sore failed, but she brightened wonderfully at the touch of
a golden piece which John put into her hand.

"I'll tak' it to the manse and get it changed for the bawbees and
pennies that are gaithered in the kirk.  It'll tak' twa or three
Sabbaths o' them, I daursay, to mak' it out.  Eh! but ye're a braw lad,
and a weelfaured," added she, holding up the lamp and peering into his
face.  "And muckle gude be wi' ye a' ye're days," she added as they went
away.

"You have never told me of all the help she gave you," said John as they
went down the burn side together.

"Sometime I will tell you; I would fain forget it all just now."

The next day they went to Grassie, to see the two or three with whom
Allison could claim kindred in the countryside.  She had seen them last
on her father's burial-day.  Then they went to many a spot where in
their happy childhood Allison and her brother used to play together.
John had heard of some of these before, he said.  He knew the spot at
the edge of the moor, where young Alex.  Hadden had rescued Willie from
the jaws of death, and he recognised the clump of dark old firs, where
the hoodie-crows used to take counsel together, and the lithe nook where
the two bairns were wont to shelter from the east wind or the rain.  And
he reminded Allison of things which she had herself forgotten.  At some
of them she wept, and at others she laughed, joyful to think that her
brother should remember them so well.  And she too had some things to
tell, and some sweet words to say, in the gladness of her heart, which
John might never have heard but for their walk over the hills that day.

They went to the kirk on the Sabbath, and sat, not in the minister's
pew, but in the very seat where Allison used to sit with her father and
her mother and Willie before trouble came.  And when the silence was
broken by the minister's voice saying: "Oh!  Thou who art mighty to
save!" did not her heart respond joyfully to the words?  The tears rose
as she bowed her head, but her heart was glad as she listened to the
good words spoken.  When they came out into the kirkyard, where, one by
one, at first, and afterward by twos and threes, the folk who had known
her all her life came up to greet her, there were neither tears nor
smiles on her face, but a look at once gentle, and firm, and grave--the
look of a strong, patient, self-respecting woman, who had passed through
the darkness of suffering and sorrow into the light at last.

John stood a little apart, watching and waiting for her, and in his
heart he was saying, "May I grow worthy of her and of her love."  When
there had been "quite enough of it," as he thought, and he was about to
put an end to it, there drew near, doubtful, yet eager, an old bowed
man, to take her hand, and then John saw his wife's face, "as if it had
been the face of an angel."

She had waited for all the rest to come to her, but she went forward to
meet this man with both hands held out to him, and they went aside
together.  Then, Allison stooped toward him, speaking softly, and while
he listened, the tears were running down his withered cheeks, but he
smiled and prayed God bless her, at the end.

"Who was your last friend?" said John when they had left the kirkyard,
and were drawing near the manse.

"It was--the father of Annie Brand.  She died--over yonder--"

She could not say more, and she did not need to.  John had heard the
story of Annie Brand and of others, also, from her friend Doctor
Fleming, and in his heart he said again:

"O God! make me worthy of her love."

They did not linger long after the Sabbath, though their old friend
asked for all the time which they could freely give.  They were not
specially pressed for time, John acknowledged, but there were several
places to which they meant to go--to some of them for business, to all
of them for pleasure.  He had left all his affairs "on the other side"
in good hands, so that they need not be in haste to return, and they
were free to go about at their leisure.

It would have astonished any one unaccustomed to the few wants of simple
tastes, and to the many small gains from various trifling produce which
careful industry alone can accumulate, to see the plenty consequent on
skill, order, and neatness.And with all this, and the voyage that lies
before you, you will have time to get acquaint with one another, before
the warstle of common life begins."

And so they went away.  And their "happy eyes" saw many a fair picture,
and day by day they "got acquaint" with one another, as their dear old
friend had said.

And in due time they sailed away in to the West, to begin together a new
life in a new land.