THE DOUBLE TRAITOR

BY E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM

1915


CHAPTER I


The woman leaned across the table towards her companion.

"My friend," she said, "when we first met--I am ashamed, considering that
I dine alone with you to-night, to reflect how short a time ago--you
spoke of your removal here from Paris very much as though it were a
veritable exile. I told you then that there might be surprises in store
for you. This restaurant, for instance! We both know our Paris, yet do we
lack anything here which you find at the Ritz or Giro's?"

The young man looked around him appraisingly. The two were dining at one
of the newest and most fashionable restaurants in Berlin. The room
itself, although a little sombre by reason of its oak panelling, was
relieved from absolute gloom by the lightness and elegance of its
furniture and appointments, the profusion of flowers, and the soft grey
carpet, so thickly piled that every sound was deadened. The delicate
strains of music came from an invisible orchestra concealed behind a
canopy of palms. The head-waiters had the correct clerical air, half
complacent, half dignified. Among the other diners were many beautiful
women in marvellous toilettes. A variety of uniforms, worn by the
officers at different tables, gave colour and distinction to a _tout
ensemble_ with which even Norgate could find no fault.

"Germany has changed very much since I was here as a boy," he confessed.
"One has heard of the growing wealth of Berlin, but I must say that I
scarcely expected--"

He hesitated. His companion laughed softly at his embarrassment.

"Do not forget," she interrupted, "that I am Austrian--Austrian, that is
to say, with much English in my blood. What you say about Germans does
not greatly concern me."

"Of course," Norgate resumed, as he watched the champagne poured into his
glass, "one is too much inclined to form one's conclusions about a nation
from the types one meets travelling, and you know what the Germans have
done for Monte Carlo and the Riviera--even, to a lesser extent, for Paris
and Rome. Wherever they have been, for the last few years, they seem to
have left the trail of the _nouveaux riches_. It is not only their
clothes but their manners and bearing which affront."

The woman leaned her head for a moment against the tips of her slim and
beautifully cared for fingers. She looked steadfastly across the table at
her vis-à-vis.

"Now that you are here," she said softly, "you must forget those things.
You are a diplomatist, and it is for you, is it not, outwardly, at any
rate, to see only the good of the country in which your work lies."

- That you have done with your stupidity! "She awoke to the now, on the
bed edge seated Johann and threw him to the letter from High Vogels
him.

The looked dull to her and said not a word. This only aroused them
even more. You schimpfend stamped out of the bedroom and ran down to Rienk.
The hostess received them very cool. "Mr. Vogel has high let me know
that he no longer comes.

I can you no longer need .-- This is the thanks that I am so you've
accepted, "she railed with lifted head. Anna tried in every possible kind,
it's mind. Forgiveness."

And above all - do you believe that such a man as high bird can face such
squalor say!

Adjust times to - the court still has a sequel.

And I, what have I by my good nature? - Before the courts I will
be dragged.

My Local lose reputation - I've got the injury and sitting 'in the quagmire
- you will see if it's not coming?

- Say it's just' Kerl' - it's most like me, it attracts out. Basta!
"Zeterte the Bienken always certain. Anna was gradually angry and
cursed." Geh'n you just from my place - You! Such a war "I every day!"
Hissed the angry landlady, ran to the door and tore it to: "You just
Geh'n from my place!" "Geh'n you!" She screamed that her head started blue
" Geh'n you! - You bitch man! "Even Anna burst into the accumulated
anger now completely."

What do you say as what? Kupplerin you, you dirty, "she cried even more
shrill." As long as it is being made, one is good, then you can go, you
dirty shreds!

"" Geh'n you! Geh'n you!

"Whistled the landlady stifled:" Out there, out! "Anna nagging left the
restaurant. Quavery excitement before she came into her apartment." It
is an end to everything!

I do not like anymore! "She moaned and sank exhausted into a kitchen chair.
In fits and crying and accusations she Johann their misfortune.

He had his head under the tap and let the water keep the cold blast
üher him herabrinnen.

He turned not to . Not in the least, he is upset. Annas patience tore
completely. She began to moan wildly. "And you - you lungerst because
heroben around and lets me ausrennen feet!

I can communicate with people mucking around and erode the soup, which
thou hast eingebrockt! "She barked at him." You! You rascal! "He
finally turned around.

Not a word came from him." So talking about it, stick!

"She cried," what do you do?

I can do nothing! I am ruined! "He was silent still. As he stood, like an
actual stick. They broke in his indifference and fell into a violent wines.
It shook her so.

Johann saw without dejection on their zusammengekauerte, jerking down form."
What do I want?

"he finally said casually as if nothing occurred which, -" I will
not even throw out.

Just today I go back to class and ready. And Rienk - which will once
again stop Geschimpfe with her when she is tired. "Anna looked up at once
to him." Is it a nice guy, this high bird. With the leaves still talking,
"he growled. The unsuspecting Ernst, the self-evidence of these words
subdued. In fact, she was completely calm and last truly believed
that this is the only way was happy with everything in one fell swoop
would be unfortunate resolve." Lord, I'm so stupid! I let myself into
any of Bockhorn hunt, "she scolded herself, quickly wiped the tears from
coffee and put water on. She was quite cheerful again. When she
again sat at the table, she started on the Rienk to scold and high bird
and told in the course of the interview all sorts of the two. "It was
quite true, that thou hast him heimgeleuchtet times," she said, "the
entire clan always believed that they could Schindluder with a
drive!

- What it gave me everything offered, if I would sleep with him!
And how has the Rienk coupled and now - now she plays on this sow,
that old!

"She looked again and again how to move over John, but was because he
was completely calm, more prolix and told more and more and more .

His equanimity tormented her.

She spoke boldly, suits. "He has the money just thrown away. The blouse,
he has broken me once. He always has his hand under my skirt had the
dirt bag! Of the trousers, he has even half a dozen dahergebracht and
wanted, that's before I put him - and helped with the Bienken and
disappeared when he began, "she said and continued:" Once wollt
'ich him in heraufnehmen the morning and wait till you come from
the factory.

"John made no facial expressions."

Yeah - the hole and the money, "he muttered in passing."

It's always around. "Her hands moved in a continued. Nervous crushed
the bread crumbs with your fingers. She told nothing more. They remained
silent. When he was fortgegangen dropped her head on the table and
a desert sobs broke from her .-- Johann came without hindrance through
the factory gate. In the dressing room it was already strange faces.
Nobody talked to him more and when he was in the engine room
hinuntersteigen wanted the foreman came quickly to him and cried:
"You are dismissed but what do you want to be here?"

Some workers were surprised with miens stand.

It shook him out of the text. He looked uneasy in the shift foreman to the
workers and helpless in the space around.

"They are now determined once released, I know," cried the foreman resolute,
"I can not understand that you are the gatekeeper hereingelassen,
has it is known!

Did you not, he pointed out? "John shook his head silently, remained
doggedly are stupid and childish. The other two workers trotted on. The
foreman brought the bell. Zeternd he talked to the same, when he arrived
with him. "How could you have let in the man. The boss has it's explicitly
said that he is sacked," he barked. The porter looked angry at John and
said also: "Yeah I've just not seen. You are fired. They no longer welcome.
"John bent together."

Yes - yes, yes now, then I must go, "he finally stuttered out, went
into the dressing room and removed it.

Depressed, he appeared almost embarrassed by the large factory portal to
the outside. Worn, he came at home.

"Yes," he said tonlos to Anna, "I have been rausgesetzt!" "Because you are
now!" pushed this out, "idiot!" The accusations began anew. "I must return
to me what else umsehn," he growled annoyed.

"And I? Rienk When we set out, then what is!

Do you think I've got nothing to me my feet ausgerannt that we have a
little decent could live!

You no work, no money, I had nothing to do - I thank you! " belferte it.
"Well, in God's name, it will be again!" He completed and put to bed.
Anna stood powerless against this monotony. Before bitterness she
trembled on the whole body and in a continued faustete hands. "God,
it is to run away!" she cried at once: "I am - I go!" They violently
threw the door. "Stupid woman Rooms!" He got out of bed, cried after her,
but no one answered. Because of such stupidity, it was suddenly ripped
out of order .-- He closed the door again.

The night sleep was the devil .-- He finally dressed and she went
looking for. without thinking, he immigrated to the street meat and
found it there too.

Already a gentleman stood in a light raincoat in front of her and
lispelte. Johann came to the two approached and snatched away,
Anna: "Nonsense! Come on!" "I do not like!" she gritted stubborn
and wanted to unloose. The Lord raincoat grabbed her party and began to
roar. He has swung the stick and wanted to include John. Since there was
a hasty step constable angeflitzt noted the name of the Lord, and
took the two on the guard.

Everything whining Annas nothing helped.

The Explain Johanns was in vain. They had to. Ugly, mishap, such as
the common people make!

All the way Anna Johann overwhelmed with the desert and finally
tore Swear this also patience.

"Halt the mouth, stupid animals, stupid!"

he cursed, "but nothing helps yes, what you run because of it,
so in the middle of the night, now you have it." "Forward!
march-march!"

growled the man repeatedly protection. V.

The incident in the street meat had the effect that because John kept
pimping in investigation. A procedure was initiated against him. Anna
sacked after about ten days.

It was polizeiärztlich investigated and received the customary authorization
card prostitutes again.

When she arrived home, she was not a little astonished. The Rienk now
become raving once had and used the opportunity to seize. During
the detention period was the month that came first, the third party,
the Fifth and Seventh.

There were at least fairly clear letters and the bar owner who put
in the box, dated.

We saw it leaning, scratched-hingeflitzten formal letter of Scripture,
that Sylvia Rienk the wait for the tired Mietszins had to wait and
these tenants.

"This where guys have to chase my guest, you can drag with me," it
was finally in the eighth letter of termination.

And they kept right, Wacker landlady. Anna had to move. They sold what was
left, and received a room near the street meat.

The fists threateningly stretched, they on the day of their deduction,
plärrend and nagging, with white foam at the mouth of Rienk
entgegenhielt, and the gloating, vindictive restlos: "That I'll
still be brushed on, Mistvettel!"

was a beginning for her behavior.

Now there have been almost daily minor or major inconvenience in the bar
"Tip-Top". Anna rushes police and bribed by her scandal-addicted guests
in the restaurant. In the street was full of meat they are now hardworking.
With a zeal, indeed, with an almost fanatical self-oblivion, as it only
when desperate or drilling-hatred will end, they doggedly to Earn. "Die?
Hm, the drag on record," was not infrequently heard another
prostitute when the speech came to Anna.

And it was true .-- But the strangest was that all the leverage they now
put in motion to John to get free.

They threw the money away to lawyers, drafted a petition to the
others, assailed the authorities, ran from pillar to post, yes, she took
in the end even the romantic plan to help him with some men to rid it of
the Blue sky herunterzuholen promised their money back and money decreased
and disappeared one day.

And John? He lay all day on the bench, was even thickness of the
food they sent him, and was always calm and dry, when they visit
him was allowed.

When she received from the excerpt from the home Rienkeschen told, he
silently listened to - then, after a while, he smiled and said: "HML Hm,
- was so nice in the evening with high bird hmhamhm!" He found
nothing bad that Anna sometimes complained.

"It is - so what we should open up, as the Rienk has," he said at another
as a vague idea of circle.

And once again, as Anna lamented that all the food would be so expensive
, he let fall something like: "Nuja, the farmers do now healthy. Hm, the
farmers and those who sell what für'n stomach -" It is said that the
way to overcome and come to perfect peace.

There are people the absence of sentience born.

And there are what, which, if the pain and shock to their soul in rapid
succession wear, most recently in a complete stupefaction lead. These
included John Krill. "It was so nice in the evening with high bird
- so comfortable!" and "So what has the Rienk, must 'man unstop." That
was it! - Meanwhile, the deadline to negotiate against him. Anna rushes
around even more. They slept no more, they forgot the food. In the
courtroom she coughed all the time. Unsteady ran the pupils of their
eyes from one corner to another. Rienk was also loaded as a witness.

Unfortunately, one of the few lawyers who had taken Anna, to come
to them to attend.

You wore a black silk dress, its top heavy tangle of greasy curly neck
herabrann üher the hochgeschnürten on expanding bosom. A blood-red
Granatkollier Patzig emblazoned on the yellow skin of her neck, wither,
whose blue veins just bad from the thick powder was smeared.

Their hands were frog beteuernd pressed on the stomach and sometimes
played with the tortoise-Lorgnon which is at a large gold chain herabhing.
"I am equally ready with my statements, Mr. magistrate, I've got
a business and a lot in the head," she began when she called.

"Die? - Thank God, I've always had decent interior operator," she continued,
üher Anna questioned, and threw a lateral, patronizing view of
this, "but now, lest you also once inside .-- I have it but me -
believe me, Mr. magistrate, I'm fifteen years in the same place and know
what the reputation of a business mind - I've sworn it to me: Rienk,
says' I, Rienk - from the meat street you take no more, not to the world!
" She came more and more into the train. "Vettel!" Anna screamed shrilly,
and was cautioned. The Rienk quickly turned around and then back to
the judges.

"You should not be angry, Mr. magistrate?"

And they cut a wine Miene court: "How did 'the people I helped and
what did I like this! - It's just good that I never lose my head', it is
just so good that I never in the same Level note with - with - so
what.

"And finally called to order, they told circumlocutory that John's
position at this factory is not in vain Lord had adopted."

And night shift - he will already have known why.

One knows such - night! " And Mr Hochvogel? ... It fell slightly in
confusion. Well, turns out to have seen such a Lord would not be so easy
to Bockhorn hunt. "The need here! The witness must make!" Anna screamed,
and her lawyer said it also completed. Well, it was still unfavorable.
Although the manufacturer, the whole thing was very uncomfortable,
although he was extremely withheld and nothing against John could
actually argue, just as those nasty incident in the Rienkeschen
bar - it was all a bad, very bad impression - Johann Krill was
convicted.

Anna got a minute long scream convulsions.

It crashed before and wanted to go Rienk.

It had to protect people with violence away.

Johann, without agitation joining in the performances, took everything
out calmly.

He smiled, almost embarrassed, as he judges at the end asked if he had
something to say about hope. "Stupid," he growled and scratched behind
the right ear, "stupid, Mr. Judge, you just tap into it and - and then
happens all kinds. "The stone Amtsmienen knew for a moment not
really, they should laugh or some soothing words of sympathy from her
lips can. It was too late. Anna Johann could no longer visit. The two
were apart .-- In their rage beat Anna a few days later, the two
large windows Rienkeschen the bar and could only with difficulty
be overcome.

The ax was removed and it summoned the constable took her with.

And again, there was a process.

Because of threats and vandalism, Anna krill to two months in jail.

Here the thread from breaking.

There is nothing more to report. One million is a lot - one billion is more
.-- Johann Krill is legion. Perhaps Johann Krill works again
somewhere or he drinks, or he has lost the grip and sits further
into prisons.

Anna -- It will one day ill be back healthy, become ill again, and
so on ....

The only thing that persists as long as this company is - the Rienk! How
long?

Diplomatically, however, you have committed every
fault possible, I am very sorry, but I think that you had better
report in Downing Street as soon as possible. The train leaves, I
think, at three o'clock."

Norgate for a moment was unable to speak or move. He was struggling with
a sort of blind fury.

"This is the end of me, then," he muttered at last. "I am to be disgraced
because I have come to a city of boors."

"You are reprimanded and in a sense, no doubt, punished," the Ambassador
explained calmly, "because you have come to--shall I accept your term?--a
city of boors and fail to adapt yourself. The true diplomatist adapts
himself wherever he may be. My personal sympathies remain with you. I
will do what I can in my report."

Norgate had recovered himself.

"I thank you very much, sir," he said. "I shall catch the three
o'clock train."

The Ambassador held out his hand. The interview had finished. He
permitted himself to speak differently.

"I am very sorry indeed, Norgate, that this has happened," he declared.
"We all have our trials to bear in this city, and you have run up
against one of them rather before your time. I wish you good luck,
whatever may happen."

Norgate clasped his Chief's hand and left the apartment. Then he made his
way to his rooms, gave his orders and sent a messenger to secure his seat
in the train. Last of all he went to the telephone. He rang up the number
which had become already familiar to him, almost with reluctance. He
waited for the reply without any pleasurable anticipations. He was filled
with a burning sense of resentment, a feeling which extended even to the
innocent cause of it. Soon he heard her voice.

"That is Mr. Norgate, is it not?"

"Yes," he replied. "I rang up to wish you good-by."

"Good-by! But you are going away, then?"

"I am sent away--dismissed!"

He heard her little exclamation of grief. Its complete genuineness broke
down a little the wall of his anger.

"And it is my fault!" she exclaimed. "If only I could do anything! Will
you wait--please wait? I will go to the Palace myself."

His expostulation was almost a shock to her.

"Baroness," he replied, "if I permitted your intervention, I could never
hold my head up in Berlin again! In any case, I could not stay here. The
first thing I should do would be to quarrel with that insufferable young
cad who insulted us last night. I am afraid, at the first opportunity, I
should tell--"

"Hush!" she interrupted. "Oh, please hush! You must not talk like
this, even over the telephone. Cannot you understand that you are not
in England?"

"I am beginning to realise," he answered gruffly, "what it means not to
be in a free country. I am leaving by the three o'clock train, Baroness.
Farewell!"

"But you must not go like this," she pleaded. "Come first and see me."

"No! It will only mean more disgrace for you. Besides--in any case, I
have decided to go away without seeing you again."

Her voice was very soft. He found himself gripping the pages of the
telephone book which hung by his side.

"But is that kind? Have I sinned, Mr. Francis Norgate?"

"Of course not," he answered, keeping his tone level, almost indifferent.
"I hope that we shall meet again some day, but not in Berlin."

There was a moment's silence. He thought, even, that she had gone away.
Then her reply came back.

"So be it," she murmured. "Not in Berlin. Au revoir!"


CHAPTER III


Faithful to his insular prejudices, Norgate, on finding that the other
seat in his coupé was engaged, started out to find the train attendant
with a view to changing his place. His errand, however, was in vain. The
train, it seemed, was crowded. He returned to his compartment to find
already installed there one of the most complete and absolute types of
Germanism he had ever seen. A man in a light grey suit, the waistcoat of
which had apparently abandoned its efforts to compass his girth, with a
broad, pink, good-humoured face, beardless and bland, flaxen hair
streaked here and there with grey, was seated in the vacant place. He had
with him a portmanteau covered with a linen case, his boots were a bright
shade of yellow, his tie was of white satin with a design of lavender
flowers. A pair of black kid gloves lay by his side. He welcomed Norgate
with the bland, broad smile of a fellow-passenger whose one desire it is
to make a lifelong friend of his temporary companion.

"We have the compartment to ourselves, is it not so? You are English?"

Some queer chance founded upon his ill-humour, his disgust of Germany and
all things in it, induced Norgate to tell a deliberate falsehood.

"Sorry," he replied in English. "I don't speak German."

The man's satisfaction was complete.

"But I--I speak the most wonderful English. It pleases me always to speak
English. I like to do so. It is practice for me. We will talk English
together, you and I. These comic papers, they do not amuse. And books in
the train, they make one giddy. What I like best is a companion and a
bottle of Rhine wine."

"Personally," Norgate confessed gruffly, "I like to sleep."

The other seemed a little taken aback but remained, apparently, full of
the conviction that his overtures could be nothing but acceptable.

"It is well to sleep," he agreed, "if one has worked hard. Now I myself
am a hard worker. My name is Selingman. I manufacture crockery which I
sell in England. That is why I speak the English language so wonderful.
For the last three nights I have been up reading reports of my English
customers, going through their purchases. Now it is finished. I am well
posted. I am off to sell crockery in London, in Manchester, in Leeds, in
Birmingham. I have what the people want. They will receive me with open
arms, some of them even welcome me at their houses. Thus it is that I
look forward to my business trip as a holiday."

"Very pleasant, I'm sure," Norgate remarked, curling himself up in his
corner. "Personally, I can't see why we can't make our own crockery. I
get tired of seeing German goods in England."

Herr Selingman was apparently a trifle hurt, but his efforts to make
himself agreeable were indomitable.

"If you will," he said, "I can explain why my crockery sells in England
where your own fails. For one thing, then, I am cheaper. There is a
system at my works, the like of which is not known in England. From the
raw material to the finished article I can produce forty per cent.
cheaper than your makers, and, mind you, that is not because I save in
wages. It is because of the system in the various departments. I do not
like to save in wages," he went on. "I like to see my people healthy and
strong and happy. I like to see them drink beer after work is over, and
on feast days and Sundays I like to see them sit in the gardens and
listen to the band, and maybe change their beer for a bottle of wine.
Industrially, Mr. Englishman, ours is a happy country."

"Well, I hope you won't think I am rude," Norgate observed, "but from the
little I have seen of it I call it a beastly country, and if you don't
mind I am going to sleep."

Herr Selingman sat for several moments with his mouth still open. Then he
gave a little grunt. There was not the slightest ill-humour in the
ejaculation or in his expression. He was simply pained.

"I am sorry if I have talked too much," he said. "I forgot that you,
perhaps, are tired. You have met with disappointments, maybe. I am sorry.
I will read now and not disturb you."

For an hour or so Norgate tried in vain to sleep. All this time the man
opposite turned the pages of his book with the utmost cautiousness,
moved on tiptoe once to reach down more papers, and held out his finger
to warn the train attendant who came with some harmless question.

"The English gentleman," Norgate heard him whisper, "is tired. Let
him sleep."

Soon after five o'clock, Norgate gave it up. He rose to his feet,
stretched himself, and was welcomed with a pleasant smile from his
companion.

"You have had a refreshing nap," the latter remarked, "and now, is it not
so, you go to take a cup of English tea?"

"You are quite right," Norgate admitted. "Better come with me."

Herr Selingman smiled a smile of triumph. It was the reward of geniality,
this! He was forming a new friendship!

"I come with great pleasure," he decided, "only while you drink the tea,
I drink the coffee or some beer. I will see. I like best the beer," he
explained, turning sidewise to get out of the door, "but it is not the
best for my figure. I have a good conscience and a good digestion, and I
eat and drink much. But it is good to be happy."

They made their way down to the restaurant car and seated themselves at a
table together.

"You let me do the ordering," Herr Selingman insisted. "The man here,
perhaps, does not speak English. So! You will drink your tea with me,
sir. It is a great pleasure to me to entertain an Englishman. I make many
friends travelling. I like to make friends. I remember them all, and
sometimes we meet again. _Kellner_, some tea for the gentleman--English
tea with what you call bread and butter. So! And for me--" Selingman
paused for a moment and drew a deep sigh of resignation--"some coffee."

"Very kind of you, I'm sure," Norgate murmured.

Herr Selingman beamed.

"It is a great pleasure," he said, "but many times I wonder why you
Englishmen, so clever, so world-conquering, do not take the trouble to
make yourselves with the languages of other nations familiar. It means
but a little study. Now you, perhaps, are in business?"

"Not exactly," Norgate replied grimly. "To tell you the truth, at the
present moment I have no occupation."

"No occupation!"

Herr Selingman paused in the act of conveying a huge portion of rusk to
his mouth, and regarded his companion with wonder.

"So!" he repeated. "No occupation! Well, that is what in Germany we know
nothing of. Every one must work, or must take up the army as a permanent
profession. You are, perhaps, one of those Englishmen of whom one reads,
who give up all their time to sport?"

Norgate shook his head.

"As a matter of fact," he said, "I have worked rather hard during the
last five or six years. It is only just recently that I have lost my
occupation."

Herr Selingman's curiosity was almost childlike in its transparency, but
Norgate found himself unable to gratify it. In any case, after his
denial of any knowledge of the German language, he could scarcely lay
claim to even the most indirect connection with the diplomatic service.

"Ah, well," Herr Selingman declared, "opportunities will come. You have
perhaps lost some post. Well, there are others. I should not, I think, be
far away from the truth, sir, if I were to surmise that you had held some
sort of an official position?"

"Perhaps," Norgate assented.

"That is interesting," Herr Selingman continued. "Now with the English of
commerce I talk often, and I know their views of me and my country. But
sometimes I have fancied that among your official classes those who are
ever so slightly employed in Government service, there is--I do not love
the word, but I must use it--a distrust of Germany and her peace-loving
propensities."

"I have met many people," Norgate admitted, "who do not look upon Germany
as a lover of peace."

"They should come and travel here," Herr Selingman insisted eagerly.
"Look out of the windows. What do you see? Factory chimneys, furnaces
everywhere. And further on--what? Well-tilled lands, clean, prosperous
villages, a happy, domestic people. I tell you that no man in the world
is so fond of his wife and children, his simple life, his simple
pleasures, as the German."

"Very likely," Norgate assented, "but if you look out of the windows
continually you will also see that every station-master on the line wears
a military uniform, that every few miles you see barracks. These simple
peasants you speak of carry themselves with a different air from ours. I
don't know much about it, but I should call it the effect of their
military training. I know nothing about politics. Very likely yours is a
nation of peace-loving men. As a casual observer, I should call you more
a nation of soldiers."

"But that," Herr Selingman explained earnestly, "is for defence only."

"And your great standing army, your wonderful artillery, your Zeppelins
and your navy," Norgate asked, "are they for defence only?"

"Absolutely and entirely," Herr Selingman declared, with a new and
ponderous gravity. "There is nothing the most warlike German desires more
fervently than to keep the peace. We are strong only because we desire
peace, peace under which our commerce may grow, and our wealth increase."

"Well, it seems to me, then," Norgate observed, "that you've gone to a
great deal of expense and taken a great deal of trouble for nothing. I
don't know much about these things, as I told you before, but there is no
nation in the world who wants to attack Germany."

Herr Selingman laid his finger upon his nose.

"That may be," he said. "Yet there are many who look at us with envious
eyes. I am a good German. I know what it is that we want. We want peace,
and to gain peace we need strength, and to be strong we arm. That is
everything. It will never be Germany who clenches her fist, who draws
down the black clouds of war over Europe. It will never be Germany, I
tell you. Why, a war would ruin half of us. What of my crockery? I sell
it all in England. Believe me, young gentleman, war exists only in the
brains of your sensational novelists. It does not come into the world of
real purpose."

"Well, it's very interesting to hear you say so," Norgate admitted. "I
wish I could wholly agree with you."

Herr Selingman caught him by the sleeve.

"You are just a little," he confided, "just a little suspicious, my young
friend, you in your little island. Perhaps it is because you live upon an
island. You do not expand. You have small thoughts. You are not great
like we in Germany, not broad, not deep. But we will talk later of these
things. I must tell you about our Kaiser."

Norgate opened his lips and closed them again.

"Presently," he muttered. "See you later on."

He strolled to his coupé, tried in vain to read, walked up and down the
length of the train, smoked a cigarette, and returned to his compartment
to find Herr Selingman immersed in the study of many documents.

"Records of my customers and my transactions," the latter announced
blandly. "I have a great fondness for detail. I know everything. I carry
with me particulars of everything. That is where we Germans are so
thorough. See, I place them now all in my bag."

He did so and locked it with great care.

"We go to dinner, is it not so?" he suggested.

"I suppose we may as well," Norgate assented indifferently.

They found places in the crowded restaurant car. The manufacturer of
crockery made a highly satisfactory and important meal. Norgate, on the
other hand, ate little. Herr Selingman shook his head.

"My young English friend," he declared, "all is not well with you that
you turn away from good food. Come. Afterwards, over a cigar, you shall
tell me what troubles you have, and I will give you sound advice. I have
a very wide knowledge of life. I have a way of seeing the truth, and I
like to help people."

Norgate shook his head. "I am afraid," he said, "that my case is
hopeless."

"Presently we will see," Herr Selingman continued, rubbing the window
with his cuff. "We are arrived, I think, at Lesel. Here will board the
train one of my agents. He will travel with us to the next station. It is
my way of doing business, this. It is better than alighting and wasting a
day in a small town. You will not mind, perhaps," he added, "if I bring
him into the carriage and talk? You do not understand German, so it will
not weary you."

"Certainly not," Norgate replied. "I shall probably drop off to sleep."

"He will be in the train for less than an hour," Herr Selingman
explained, "but I have many competitors, and I like to talk in private.
In here some one might overhear."

"How do you know that I am not an English crockery manufacturer?"
Norgate remarked.

Herr Selingman laughed heartily. His stomach shook, and tears rolled
down his eyes.

"That is good!" he exclaimed. "An English crockery manufacturer! No, I do
not think so! I cannot see you with your sleeves turned up, walking
amongst the kilns. I cannot see you, even, studying the designs for pots
and basins."

"Well, bring your man in whenever you want to," Norgate invited, as he
turned away. "I can promise, at least, that I shall not understand what
you are saying, and that I won't sneak your designs."

There was a queer little smile on Herr Selingman's broad face. It almost
seemed as though he had discovered some hidden though unsuspected meaning
in the other's words.


CHAPTER IV


Norgate dozed fitfully as the train sped on through the darkness. He woke
once to find Herr Selingman in close confabulation with his agent on the
opposite side of the compartment. They had a notebook before them and
several papers spread out upon the seat. Norgate, who was really weary,
closed his eyes again, and it seemed to him that he dreamed for a few
moments. Then suddenly he found himself wide-awake. Although he remained
motionless, the words which Selingman had spoken to his companion were
throbbing in his ears.

"I do not doubt your industry, Meyer, but it is your discretion which is
sometimes at fault. These plans of the forts of Liège--they might as well
be published in a magazine. We had them when they were made. We have
received copies of every alteration. We know to a metre how far the guns
will carry, how many men are required to man them, what stocks of
ammunition are close at hand. Understand, therefore, my friend, that the
sight of these carefully traced plans, which you hint to have obtained at
the risk of your life, excites me not at all."

The other man's reply was inaudible. In a moment or two Selingman
spoke again.

"The information which I am lacking just at present in your sphere of
operations, is civilian in character. Take Ghent, for instance. What I
should like here, what our records need at present, is a list of the
principal inhabitants with their approximate income, and, summarising it
all, the rateable value of the city. With these bases it would be easy to
fix a reasonable indemnity."

Norgate was wide-awake now. He was curled up on his seat, underneath his
rug, and though his eyelids had quivered with a momentary excitement, he
was careful to remain as near as possible motionless. Again Selingman's
agent spoke, this time more distinctly.

"The young man opposite," he whispered. "He is English, surely?"

"He is English indeed," Selingman admitted, "but he speaks no German.
That I have ascertained. Give me your best attention, Meyer. Here is
again an important commission for you. Within the next few days, hire an
automobile and visit the rising country eastwards from Antwerp. At some
spot between six and eight miles from the city, on a slight incline and
commanding the River Scheldt, we desire to purchase an acre of land for
the erection of a factory. You can say that we have purchased the
concession for making an American safety razor. The land is wanted, and
urgently. See to this yourself and send plans and price to me in London.
On my return I shall call and inspect the sites and close the bargain."

"And the Antwerp forts?"

The other pursed his lips.

"Pooh! Was it not the glorious firm of Krupp who fitted the guns there?
Do you think the men who undertook that task were idle? I tell you that
our plans of the Antwerp fortifications are more carefully worked out in
detail than the plans held by the Belgians themselves. Here is good work
for you to do, friend Meyer. That and the particulars from Brussels which
you know of, will keep you busy until we meet again."

Herr Selingman began to collect his papers, but was suddenly thrown back
into his seat by the rocking of the train, which came, a few moments
later, to a standstill. The sound of the opening of windows from the
other side of the corridor was heard all down the train. Selingman and
his companion followed the general example, opening the door of the
carriage and the window opposite. A draught blew through the compartment.
One of the small folded slips of paper from Selingman's pocket-book
fluttered along the seat. It came within reach of Norgate. Cautiously he
stretched out his fingers and gripped it. In a moment it was in his
pocket. He sat up in his place. Selingman had turned around.

"Anything the matter?" Norgate asked sleepily.

"Not that one can gather," Selingman replied. "You have slept well. I am
glad that our conversation has not disturbed you. This is my agent from
Brussels--Mr. Meyer. He sells our crockery in that city--not so much as
he should sell, perhaps, but still he does his best."

Mr. Meyer was a dark little man who wore gold-rimmed spectacles, neat
clothes, and a timid smile. Norgate nodded to him good-humouredly.

"You should get Herr Selingman to come oftener and help you," he
remarked, yawning. "I can imagine that he would be able to sell anything
he tried to."

"It is what I often tell him, sir," Mr. Meyer replied, "but he is too
fond of the English trade."

"English money is no better than Belgian," Herr Selingman declared, "but
there is more of it. Let us go round to the restaurant car and drink a
bottle of wine together while the beds are prepared."

"Certainly," Norgate assented, stretching himself. "By-the-by, you
had better look after your papers there, Herr Selingman. Just as I
woke up I saw a small slip fluttering along the seat. You made a most
infernal draught by opening that door, and I almost fancy it went out
of the window."

Herr Selingman's face became suddenly grave. He went through the papers
one by one, and finally locked them up in his bag.

"Nothing missing, I hope?" Norgate asked.

Herr Selingman's face was troubled.

"I am not sure," he said. "It is my belief that I had with me here a
list of my agents in England. I cannot find it. In a sense it is
unimportant, yet if a rival firm should obtain possession of it, there
might be trouble."

Norgate looked out into the night and smiled.

"Considering that it is blowing half a hurricane and commencing to rain,"
he remarked, "the slip of paper which I saw blowing about will be of no
use to any one when it is picked up."

They called the attendant and ordered him to prepare the sleeping
berths. Then they made their way down to the buffet car, and Herr
Selingman ordered a bottle of wine.

"We will drink," he proposed, "to our three countries. In our way we
represent, I think, the industrial forces of the world--Belgium, England,
and Germany. We are the three countries who stand for commerce and peace.
We will drink prosperity to ourselves and to each other."

Norgate threw off, with apparent effort, his sleepiness.

"What you have said about our three countries is very true," he remarked.
"Perhaps as you, Mr. Meyer, are a Belgian, and you, Mr. Selingman, know
Belgium well and have connections with it, you can tell me one thing
which has always puzzled me. Why is it that Belgium, which is, as you
say, a commercial and peace-loving country, whose neutrality is
absolutely guaranteed by three of the greatest Powers in Europe, should
find it necessary to have spent such large sums upon fortifications?"

"In which direction do you mean?" Selingman asked, his eyes narrowing a
little as he looked across at Norgate.

"The forts of Liege and Namur," Norgate replied, "and Antwerp. I know
nothing more about it than I gathered from an article which I read not
long ago in a magazine. I had always looked upon Belgium as being outside
the pale of possible warfare, yet according to this article it seems to
be bristling to the teeth with armaments."

Herr Selingman cleared his throat.

"I will tell you the reason," he said. "You have come to the right man
to know. I am a civilian, but there are few things in connection with my
country which I do not understand. Mr. Meyer here, who is a citizen of
Brussels, will bear me out. It is the book of a clever, intelligent, but
misguided German writer which has been responsible for Belgium's
unrest--Bernhardi's _Germany and the Next War_--that and articles of a
similar tenor which preceded it."

"Never read any of them," Norgate remarked.

"It was erroneously supposed," Selingman continued, "that Bernhardi
represented the dominant military opinion of Germany when he wrote that
if Germany ever again invaded France, it would be, notwithstanding her
guarantees of neutrality, through Belgium. Bernhardi was a clever writer,
but he was a soldier, and soldiers do not understand the world policy of
a great nation such as Germany. Germany will make no war upon any one,
save commercially. She will never again invade France except under the
bitterest provocation, and if ever she should be driven to defend
herself, it will assuredly not be at the expense of her broken pledges.
The forts of Belgium might just as well be converted into apple-orchards.
They stand there to-day as the proof of a certain lack of faith in
Germany on the part of Belgium, ministered to by that King of the
Jingoes, as you would say in English, Bernhardi. How often it is that a
nation suffers most from her own patriots!"

"Herr Selingman has expressed the situation admirably," Mr. Meyer
declared approvingly.

"Very interesting, I'm sure," Norgate murmured. "There is one thing
about you foreigners," he added, with an envious sigh. "The way you all
speak the languages of other countries is wonderful. Are you a Belgian,
Mr. Meyer?"

"Half Belgian and half French."

"But you speak English almost without accent," Norgate remarked.

"In commerce," Herr Selingman insisted, "that is necessary. All my agents
speak four languages."

"You deserve to capture our trade," Norgate sighed.

"To a certain extent, my young friend," Selingman declared, "we mean to
do it. We are doing it. And yet there is enough for us both. There is
trade enough for your millions and for mine. So long as Germany and
England remain friends, they can divide the commerce of the world between
them. It is our greatest happiness, we who have a business relying upon
the good-will of the two nations, to think that year by year the clouds
of discord are rolling away from between us. Young sir, as a German
citizen, I will drink a toast with you, an English one. I drink to
everlasting peace between my country and yours!"

Norgate drained his glass. Selingman threw back his head as he followed
suit, and smacked his lips appreciatively.

"And now," the former remarked, rising to his feet, "I think I'll go and
turn in. I dare say you two still have some business to talk about,
especially if Mr. Meyer is leaving us shortly."

Norgate made his way back to his compartment, undressed leisurely and
climbed into the upper bunk. For an hour or two he indulged in the fitful
slumber usually engendered by night travelling. At the frontier he sat up
and answered the stereotyped questions. Herr Selingman, in sky-blue
pyjamas, and with face looking more beaming and florid than ever, poked
his head cheerfully out of the lower bunk.

"Awake?" he enquired.

"Very much so," Norgate yawned.

"I have a surprise," Herr Selingman announced. "Wait."

Almost as he spoke, an attendant arrived from the buffet car with some
soda-water. Herr Selingman's head vanished for a moment or two. When he
reappeared, he held two glasses in his hand.

"A whisky soda made in real English fashion," he proclaimed triumphantly.
"A good nightcap, is it not? Now we are off again."

Norgate held out his hand for the tumbler.

"Awfully good of you," he murmured.

"I myself," Selingman continued, seated on the edge of the bunk, with his
legs far apart to steady himself, "I myself enjoy a whisky soda. It will
be indeed a nightcap, so here goes."

He drained his glass and set it down. Norgate followed suit. The religion
of Christ has mitigated this celebrity craze. Perhaps some day that
beliefs are less firm, and then moved by the miserable nombradía
actual, or try again perpetrate crimes on the other lifted the men, even
in the gallows. Good is Christian humility, which is entirely contrary
to the vanity agreed with pride straight and healthy. After exclaiming,
with a very eloquent Bishop of Hippo: _ Great thing is man made
in the image and likeness of God!

_ Who has to worry about that at this low earth do you do if you
or not? If our aspiration is to consist in _ser perfect as our
Father who is in cielo_, what added to the sum of the perfectly
ordinary worldly praise and honor?

The good imitator of Christ is undoubtedly very humble, but in relation to
the God who loves and adores. Prostrate before your God is despicable
sinner is vile worm, but the same lofty humiliation you later. The humble
Francis of Assisi rises to heaven, and if we bear witness to the
revelation that had their spiritual children, went to sit in the
splendor and high throne left vacant there Lucifer after his
rebellion.

And my reasoning is not delayed further. Básteme conclude aconsejándote not
make the slightest case you do or you do not heed.

The estimate gives the same without a need to give anyone.

Thousand other things are tangible and intangible assets that are
beyond us and outside us that we must seek and find.

Examples of intangible I love. And you will find who you love. As an
example of the material, almost like figure and compendium of all of them
put the money, and that we have in abundance, thanks to the splendid
munificence of Father Ambrose. Rejoice then, and have broad chest.

And Father Ambrose, in his wisdom, foresight, events will be provided
so that soon you will meet, not as an end, simply because you attend
you, but as a means of realizing other goals.

Tiburcio came here in his peroration singular when left the church
a venerable old man, richly dressed, as a gentleman that was very
major.

And standing in front of and looking for Morsamor landmark milestone
with joyful surprise, he said: - You are, sir, a living portrait,
I do not know if your father or your grandfather, whom I knew and
tried and made half a century, but whose image is engraved in my
memory with indelible traits.

You should first open, loyal and loving friendship and later life. My
name is Duarte, and am the son of the heroic Pedro Mendaña,
who after the battle of Toro remained so long in the castle of Castronuño,
against all the power of Castile. A brave adventurer of that nation, whose
name was like yours Zuheros Miguel, whose nickname was also Morsamor
war, the castle was my constant companion in arms. We often daring raids
in the enemy country. Felled their breads, looted farms and villages and
often came back to our fortress loaded with rich booty.

In one of these trips that I will never forget, we are surrounded by
great blow villains armed and warlike people on horseback.

They knocked me of my own, asaz badly wounded, and there I would have died
if I am not defending Morsamor with extraordinary verve.

He could reject some of the moments that surrounded us, stand with
incredible lightness to the haunches of his horse, and flee with me to
escape everything from a flood of arrows and bullets. So we went
castle Castronuño.

Shortly after my father evicted the castle under very honest and
advantageous capitulation.

Seven thousand guilders Castilian became my father's favor by leaving
him to the fortress and returned to their homeland.

Then we parted Morsamor of which remained in Castile. Because I owe him
so much, I could never forget, but not again see him or hear from
him later.

At that time there was no doubt older than you now. Sailed early wrinkling
his face and his hair and his beard, black as sloe, bleached enough
silver threads. Morsamor was younger, but seemed to have more than forty
years. You shine now thriving youth. Perhaps you have not yet met
the twenty-five. I, therefore, that you are not the son but the grandson
of my savior and friend of your same name. Allow you to resume the ties
of friendship that, you pay the debt of gratitude and embrace you closely.
Morsamor was left embracing and embraced with effusion to Duarte de
Mendaña, reminding him that benefit, although accepting that the
benefactor had not been him, but his grandfather. - That's better
- Tiburcio said laughing and so on -.

So you yourself triplicate and forges your ancestors. So you like a
certain merchant who knew Father Ambrose in Rome, who said that was
portrayed in sculpture and painting, costumes of all ages, even those that
flourished in the Scipione and Favio. With such a good morning there are
long series of illustrious progenitors. Since this was the recognition
of Mendaña Duarte made Morsamor, helped him a lot, paved difficulties
dispelled fears that the King and made him speak and he received in his
court.-V-cut in the inbox and Morsamor and Doncel Tiburcio, soon to
be estimated and managed ones. The festivals of every successive moment
of time without a break. The King wanted to celebrate the link into your
daughter the Infanta Doña Beatriz with the Duke of Savoy, and longed to
dazzle the ambassadors of that potentate, which was to be his son, with
luxury, magnificence and splendor of the capital their domains. The
flying time without feeling in the midst of so many delights. There were
bright sara, feasting, hunting and tours enjoyable and varied countryside.
Tiburcio, who was cheerful and very telling, fun and joy to the ladies
and took them many places. Not enough favor with both men. Perhaps
many envied him. Maybe they hurt others in the insolent luck with
the money they earned when they were playing dice.

However, although the role was very lucid that Tiburcio had, in
flaunting Morsamor went ahead and got major applause. Very Tiburcio was
held by serenity and dexterity in a hunt on horseback, with his injured
Rejón blowing a huge, wild boar, leaving him dead.

But Morsamor was even more welcomed because, sew closed, horse, and armed
also fragile stick whose tip had groomed iron, Lidia and killed brave bulls
among the enthusiastic cheers of knights and ladies. Clearly then, there
were clothes Morsamor of Doña Sol Quiñones.

The truth is that he is turned on it, he showed that it served and
wore their colors. When you have ordered something like a fair, where
knights luciesen ability over several years to the rider, running and
lifting rings bohordos, Morsamor wanted to take part in the fair and
showcase them in a significant romantic feelings that had inspired him
doña Sol. Asked about the case to Tiburcio, who understood everything,
Tiburcio had to tell him that he did not feel bad its purpose ,
provided that the company was not Sobrado boastful, nor very clear
nor very dark, but with discretion and with convenient slogan, motto
or slogan of remarkable concision and Latin rather than in modern
language.

Tiburcio then added: - This style of business is very nice and very
often during the day.

No prince or king, or knight who bravely and love did not come out
looking like now some company, now in its sobreveste, now in its
flag or banner and the crest of his helmet. Some of these companies
have been and are held by the wisdom and primarily with expressing
thoughts, intent or claim of who uses it.

Hence, very learned men have not neglected to invent, but they have had
a lot of glory. Antonio de Nebrija, Castilla egregia master of humane
letters, is the company that invented the King Ferdinand the Catholic,
which was the Gordian knot, disrupted and broken by the hand and sword
of Alexander, with a sign that read : _Tanto monta_, or that it's the
same break to unleash.

And then Luis Marliani, Bishop of Tuy and distinguished physician
and mathematician, invented company even better for Carlos César V,
replacing the link Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. And that was
and is the firm's representation of the columns of Hercules, with
this letter: _Plus ultra_; brief, eloquent and sublime words, which
evoke in the minds of those who see the vastness of the ocean,
islands and continents incognito, In short, the new world, discovered
and mastered by the tenacity, courage and fortune of the sons of
Iberia.

Companies are these policies, but also have tended to invent Galanes
lovers sometimes very funny and kind business. Let's see if you are you
think of a worthy and commendable that suits your purposes. Morsamor
replied: - In truth, I been a company that sounds good.

If you spot something, be on is clear. I put a field divided into quiñones
or luck, but no one can cultivate and enjoy because it surrounds a
salamander that wraps around the field. And in the center is a golden
sun whose rays crushes the salamander to the pair burned. And the
salamander's mouth leaves a film that goes into the sun and bring this
letter: _EN you live and die ardo_. Tiburcio could not find the subtle
and ingenious, but as it was quite frank and said his opinion
bluntly advised and in full freedom, spoke to Morsamor of this sort:
- Of all that I find pearls.

He allowed, however, make a few remarks, and even daring to advise
and amonestarte, because although novice and younger than you, as
I am the agent and representative of sapientísimo Father Ambrose,
for which I speak.

I declare, therefore, your name, love that these terms are somewhat
puerile and can be harmful. Have you come to it new life by virtue of
science for stunning return to the old and to incur (and forgive those who
qualify) in the same follies and nonsense of your previous life? You've
revamped for major companies that honor and glory to you and the entire
human race and not to fall in love like a fool and a damsel cogotuda
tuned to eventually deviate from them with prudish disdain when it meets
his love and Hart's own adorations receive. If I like Pythagoras believed
that the souls transmigrations and subsequent reports are different
bodies, which fear that going in you, I would be inclined to suggest
that anything good for the advancement that transmigration of souls.

Lives as though we had seven cats, do not simply in the seventh than
in the first and give identical trips and falls. Nothing censuraría me if
this affair should be limited to a fleeting hobby and gallant, but
not far wrong if you are serious.

The unprecedented effort that Father Ambrose did for remozarte not be so
miserable outcome. - Your warning - answered Miguel de Zuheros - is
unfounded and even perverse. Sandia qualifying blasphemous and miserable
love, the origin of rich virtues and great actions. Remember the
divine fable of Aesop.

       Love came down from Olympus to console the human race.

At the banquet of the gods because it lacked the old Love joy was absent.
Love returned to the skies and very rarely goes to the passing world,
where their smaller brethren, sons of the nymphs, take their appearance
and mimic wounding vulgares souls.

But real and blue Love hurts chosen souls, and hiriéndolas, ratings and
resources for carrying out the highest achievements. I imagine this
celestial love and I want to be hurt. How contrary, that such love
sterilises tarnish or purpose that may have to redefine the Father
Ambrose - many would argue against me - "said Tiburcio -.

Momentum for great deeds, I would prefer you love the glory of the homeland,
that of the human lineage, from God and not a woman either.

Such love has no short of idolatry.

You will alambic finger and spiritual, but I suspect it is not. I think
the consortium was born of your worldly vanity that comes with some itching
no doubt that Father Ambrose was the hand he was when he composed
the preparatory potion before you tip remozarte, pouring it on too
true ingredient: juice that the mandrake Lía departed Jacob and
Rachel attracted her lap. - seems unlikely - brought Morsamor - you
is so handsome, so feel free to truly poetic, or rather the denial
entregándote a brooding evil. - Who knows?

- said Tiburcio -. Is possible that I have some devil, but even so, I
would always put on a devil very sensible and very wise. Morsamor Without
anger heard warnings of Tiburcio, but not responded to his advice
and continued to worship and pretending doña Sol de Quiñones.

The fair featured brilliantly and he wore the same company that we have
described. There was another magnificent feast in the palace. Gil
Vicente egregia the poet had composed an allegorical and mythological
order to celebrate the wedding of the Infanta and wish him every
luck in his trip to the States for her husband. The car was in the
palace with luxury and primarily in the garments and ornaments of
all liars contained therein.

None other than Divine Providence takes the appropriate measures and
warned that the navigation for all of the newly betrothed is
prosperous, and dignified grata.

To this end and call it by Jupiter case. Jupiter and then summoned to
meet the gods of the seas and winds and orders and arranges them so
kindly things that infants may reach the port of Villafranca,
healthy, safe and welcoming, as was in effect.

The wonderful and candid order of Gil Vicente is titled _Cortes of
Júpiter_, and was applauded by the audience nobleman.

But, amid the applause, there were ladies and courtiers who whispered
utterance of a subject whose absence is not surprising but did comment
on it, perhaps pious perhaps evil. It was this subject trovador Riveiro
Bernardin, estimated as a new Macías. Everyone knew his courage, his
fervent love for Doña Beatriz. And few believed that she had fallen in
love with that love so pure and passionate. For some it was the despair
of the Bernardin Riveiro going to miss seeing the high purpose of
their worship and their religion.

What should ido Riveiro Bernardin to hide his pain or rather to give
free rein in solitude?

This questioned the knights and ladies, though we wondered how deep
mystery that all but knew.

What may be doubted whether it was shared doña Beatriz trovador of
punishment, whether the conceited pomp and her bridal triumph, not
taking care of that sentence or if his heart became soft melancholy,
something dream as sweet, sad and vague that the reality was brilliant
fade away like the pale light of stars to the joyful splendor of
pink dawn.

Whatever it was, the Infanta Doña Beatriz, accompanied by the
ambassadors of their husband and great group of ladies and gentlemen
of the first illustrious nobility of Portugal, left Lisbon for the
end of Villafranca Nice.

The King, his father, and Mrs Queen were put to the convent of
Bethlehem to dismiss.

And from there the magnificent navy sailed vessel of eighteen, so
powerful and well gunships that, as Gil Vicente in his car, they
could not do less than the Turkish quake.

Soon after the departure of the Infanta Doña Beatriz, the court was
Cintra a delicious summer residence.

"It is well for me that it is calm," Selingman acknowledged. "I do not
love the sea. Shall we part for a little time? If we meet not at Dover,
then in London, my young friend. London is the greatest city in the
world, but it is the smallest place in Europe. One cannot move in the
places one knows of without meeting one's friends."

"Until we meet in London, then," Norgate observed, as he settled himself
down in his chair.


CHAPTER VI


Norgate spent an utterly fruitless morning on the day after his arrival
in London. After a lengthy but entirely unsatisfactory visit to the
Foreign Office, he presented himself soon after midday at Scotland Yard.

"I should like," he announced, "to see the Chief Commissioner of
the Police."

The official to whom he addressed his enquiry eyed him tolerantly.

"Have you, by any chance, an appointment?" he asked.

"None," Norgate admitted. "I only arrived from the Continent this
morning."

The policeman shook his head slowly.

"It is quite impossible, sir," he said, "to see Sir Philip without an
appointment. Your best course would be to write and state your business,
and his secretary will then fix a time for you to call."

"Very much obliged to you, I'm sure," Norgate replied. "However, my
business is urgent, and if I can't see Sir Philip Morse, I will see some
one else in authority."

Norgate was regaled with a copy of _The Times_ and a seat in a
barely-furnished waiting-room. In about twenty minutes he was told that a
Mr. Tyritt would see him, and was promptly shown into the presence of
that gentleman. Mr. Tyritt was a burly and black-bearded person of
something more than middle-age. He glanced down at Norgate's card in a
somewhat puzzled manner and motioned him to a seat.

"What can I do for you, sir?" he enquired. "Sir Philip is very much
engaged for the next few days, but perhaps you can tell me your
business?"

"I have just arrived from Berlin," Norgate explained. "Would you care to
possess a complete list of German spies in this country?"

Mr. Tyritt's face was not one capable of showing the most profound
emotion. Nevertheless, he seemed a little taken aback.

"A list of German spies?" he repeated. "Dear me, that sounds very
interesting!"

He took up Norgate's card and glanced at it. The action was, in its way,
significant.

"You probably don't know who I am," Norgate continued. "I have been in
the Diplomatic Service for eight years. Until a few days ago, I was
attached to the Embassy in Berlin."

Mr. Tyritt was somewhat impressed by the statement.

"Have you any objection to telling me how you became possessed of this
information?"

"None whatever," was the prompt reply. "You shall hear the whole story."

Norgate told him, as briefly as possible, of his meeting with Selingman,
their conversation, and the subsequent happenings, including the
interview which he had overheard on the golf links at Knocke. When he had
finished, there was a brief silence.

"Sounds rather like a page out of a novel, doesn't it, Mr. Norgate?" the
police official remarked at last.

"It may," Norgate assented drily. "I can't help what it sounds like. It
happens to be the exact truth."

"I do not for a moment doubt it," the other declared politely. "I
believe, indeed, that there are a large number of Germans working in this
country who are continually collecting and forwarding to Berlin
commercial and political reports. Speaking on behalf of my department,
however, Mr. Norgate," he went on, "this is briefly our position. In the
neighbourhood of our naval bases, our dockyards, our military aeroplane
sheds, and in other directions which I need not specify, we keep the most
scrupulous and exacting watch. We even, as of course you are aware,
employ decoy spies ourselves, who work in conjunction with our friends at
Whitehall. Our system is a rigorous one and our supervision of it
unceasing. But--and this is a big 'but', Mr. Norgate--in other
directions--so far as regards the country generally, that is to say--we
do not take the subject of German spies seriously. I may almost say that
we have no anxiety concerning their capacity for mischief."

"Those are the views of your department?" Norgate asked.

"So far as I may be said to represent it, they are," Mr. Tyritt assented.
"I will venture to say that there are many thousands of letters a year
which leave this country, addressed to Germany, purporting to contain
information of the most important nature, which might just as well be
published in the newspapers. We ought to know, because at different times
we have opened a good many of them."

"Forgive me if I press this point," Norgate begged. "Do you consider that
because a vast amount of useless information is naturally sent, that fact
lessens the danger as a whole? If only one letter in a thousand contains
vital information, isn't that sufficient to raise the subject to a more
serious level?"

Mr. Tyritt crossed his legs. His tone still indicated the slight
tolerance of the man convinced beforehand of the soundness of his
position.

"For the last twelve years," he announced,--"ever since I came into
office, in fact,--this bogey of German spies has been costing the nation
something like fifty thousand a year. It is only lately that we have come
to take that broader view of the situation which I am endeavouring
to--to--may I say enunciate? Germans over in this country, especially
those in comparatively menial positions, such as barbers and waiters, are
necessary to us industrially. So long as they earn their living
reputably, conform to our laws, and pay our taxes, they are welcome here.
We do not wish to unnecessarily disturb them. We wish instead to offer
them the full protection of the country in which they have chosen to do
productive work."

"Very interesting," Norgate remarked. "I have heard this point of view
before. Once I thought it common sense. To-day I think it academic
piffle. If we leave the Germans engaged in the inland towns alone for a
moment, do you realise, I wonder, that there isn't any seaport in England
that hasn't its sprinkling of Germans engaged in the occupations of which
you speak?"

"And in a general way," Mr. Tyritt assented, smiling, "they are
perfectly welcome to write home to their friends and relations each week
and tell them everything they see happening about them, everything they
know about us."

Norgate rose reluctantly to his feet.

"I won't trouble you any longer," he decided. "I presume that if I make a
few investigations on my own account, and bring you absolute proof that
any one of these people whose names are upon my list are in traitorous
communication with Germany, you will view the matter differently?"

"Without a doubt," Mr. Tyritt promised. "Is that your list? Will you
allow me to glance through it?"

"I brought it here to leave in your hands," Norgate replied, passing it
over. "Your attitude, however, seems to render that course useless."

Mr. Tyritt adjusted his eyeglasses and glanced benevolently at the
document. A sharp ejaculation broke from his lips. As his eyes wandered
downwards, his first expression of incredulity gave way to one of
suppressed amusement.

"Why, Mr. Norgate," he exclaimed, as he laid it down, "do you mean to
seriously accuse these people of being engaged in any sort of league
against us?"

"Most certainly I do," Norgate insisted.

"But the thing is ridiculous!" Mr. Tyritt declared. "There are names
here of princes, of bankers, of society women, many of them wholly and
entirely English, some of them household names. You expect me to believe
that these people are all linked together in what amounts to a conspiracy
to further the cause of Germany at the expense of the country in which
they live, to which they belong?"

Norgate picked up his hat.

"I expect you to believe nothing, Mr. Tyritt," he said drily. "Sorry I
troubled you."

"Not at all," Mr. Tyritt protested, the slight irritation passing from
his manner. "Such a visit as yours is an agreeable break in my routine
work. I feel as though I might be a character in a great modern romance.
The names of your amateur criminals are still tingling in my memory."

Norgate turned back from the door.

"Remember them, if you can, Mr. Tyritt," he advised, "You may have cause
to, some day."


CHAPTER VII


Norgate sat, the following afternoon, upon the leather-stuffed fender of
a fashionable mixed bridge club in the neighbourhood of Berkeley Square,
exchanging greetings with such of the members as were disposed to find
time for social amenities. A smartly-dressed woman of dark complexion and
slightly foreign appearance, who had just cut out of a rubber, came over
and seated herself by his side. She took a cigarette from her case and
accepted a match from Norgate.

"So you are really back again!" she murmured. "It scarcely seems
possible."

"I am just beginning to realise it myself," he replied. "You haven't
altered, Bertha."

"My dear man," she protested, "you did not expect me to age in a month,
did you? It can scarcely be more than that since you left for Berlin. Are
you not back again sooner than you expected?"

Norgate nodded.

"Very much sooner," he admitted. "I came in for some unexpected
leave, which I haven't the slightest intention of spending abroad, so
here I am."

"Not, apparently, in love with Berlin," the lady, whose name was Mrs.
Paston Benedek, remarked.

Norgate's air of complete candour was very well assumed.

"I shall never be a success as a diplomatist," he confessed. "When I
dislike a place or a person, every one knows it. I hated Berlin. I hate
the thought of going back again."

The woman by his side smiled enigmatically.

"Perhaps," she murmured, "you may get an exchange."

"Perhaps," Norgate assented. "Meanwhile, even a month away from London
seems to have brought a fresh set of people here. Who is the tall, thin
young man with the sunburnt face? He seems familiar, somehow, but I can't
place him."

"He is a sailor," she told him. "Captain Baring his name is."

"Friend of yours?"

She looked at him sidewise.

"Why do you ask?"

"Jealousy," Norgate sighed, "makes one observant. You were lunching with
him in the Carlton Grill. You came in with him to the club this
afternoon."

"Sherlock Holmes!" she murmured. "There are other men in the club with
whom I lunch--even dine."

Norgate glanced across the room. Baring was playing bridge at a table
close at hand, but his attention seemed to be abstracted. He looked often
towards where Mrs. Benedek sat. There was a restlessness about his manner
scarcely in keeping with the rest of his appearance.

"One misses a great deal," Norgate regretted, "through being only an
occasional visitor here."

"As, for instance?"

"The privilege of being one of those fortunate few."

She laughed at him. Her eyes were full of challenge. She leaned a little
closer and whispered in his ear: "There is still a vacant place."

"For to-night or to-morrow?" he asked eagerly.

"For to-morrow," she replied. "You may telephone--3702 Mayfair--at
ten o'clock."

He scribbled down the number. Then he put his pocket-book away
with a sigh.

"I'm afraid you are treating that poor sailor-man badly," he declared.

"Sometimes," she confided, "he bores me. He is so very much in earnest.
Tell me about Berlin and your work there?"

"I didn't take to Germany," Norgate confessed, "and Germany didn't take
to me. Between ourselves--I shouldn't like another soul in the club to
know it--I think it is very doubtful if I go back there."

"That little _contretemps_ with the Prince," she murmured under
her breath.

He stiffened at once.

"But how do you know of it?"

She bit her lip. For a moment a frown of annoyance clouded her face. She
had said more than she intended.

"I have correspondents in Berlin," she explained. "They tell me of
everything. I have a friend, in fact, who was in the restaurant
that night."

"What a coincidence!" he exclaimed.

She nodded and selected a fresh cigarette.

"Isn't it! But that table is up. I promised to cut in there. Captain
Baring likes me to play at the same table, and he is here for such a
short time that one tries to be kind. It is indeed kindness," she added,
taking up her gold purse and belongings, "for he plays so badly."

She moved towards the table. It happened to be Baring who cut out, and he
and Norgate drifted together. They exchanged a few remarks.

"I met you at Marseilles once," Norgate reminded him. "You were with the
Mediterranean Squadron, commanding the _Leicester_, I believe."

"Thought I'd seen you somewhere before," was the prompt acknowledgment.
"You're in the Diplomatic Service, aren't you?"

Norgate admitted the fact and suggested a drink. The two men settled down
to exchange confidences over a whisky and soda. Baring looked around him
with some disapprobation.

"I can't really stick this place," he asserted. "If it weren't for--for
some of the people here, I'd never come inside the doors. It's a rotten
way of spending one's time. You play, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes, I play," Norgate admitted, "but I rather agree with you. How
wonderfully well Mrs. Benedek is looking, isn't she!"

Baring withdrew his admiring eyes from her vicinity.

"Prettiest and smartest woman in London," he declared.

"By-the-by, is she English?" Norgate asked.

"A mixture of French, Italian, and German, I believe," Baring replied.
"Her husband is Benedek the painter, you know."

"I've heard of him," Norgate assented. "What are you doing now?"

"I've had a job up in town for a week or so, at the Admiralty," Baring
explained. "We are examining the plans of a new--but you wouldn't be
interested in that."

"I'm interested in anything naval," Norgate assured him.

"In any case, it isn't my job to talk about it," Baring continued
apologetically. "We've just got a lot of fresh regulations out. Any one
would think we were going to war to-morrow."

"I suppose war isn't such an impossible event," Norgate remarked. "They
all say that the Germans are dying to have a go at you fellows."

Baring grinned.

"They wouldn't have a dog's chance," he declared. "That's the only
drawback of having so strong a navy. We don't stand any chance of
getting a fight."

"You'll have all you can do to keep up, judging by the way they talk in
Germany," Norgate observed.

"Are you just home from there?"

Norgate nodded. "I am at the Embassy in Berlin, or rather I have been,"
he replied. "I am just home on six months' leave."

"And that's your real impression?" Baring enquired eagerly. "You really
think that they mean to have a go at us?"

"I think there'll be a war soon," Norgate confessed. "It probably won't
commence at sea, but you'll have to do your little lot, without a doubt."

Baring gazed across the room. There was a hard light in his eyes.

"Sounds beastly, I suppose," he muttered, "but I wish to God it would
come! A war would give us all a shaking up--put us in our right places.
We all seem to go on drifting any way now. The Services are all right
when there's a bit of a scrap going sometimes, but there's a nasty sort
of feeling of dry rot about them, when year after year all your
preparations end in the smoke of a sham fight. Now I am on this beastly
land job--but there, I mustn't bother you with my grumblings."

"I am interested," Norgate assured him. "Did you say you were considering
something new?"

Baring nodded.

"Plans of a new submarine," he confided. "There's no harm in telling you
as much as that."

Mrs. Benedek, who was dummy for the moment, strolled over to them.

"I am not sure," she murmured, "whether I like the expression you have
brought back from Germany with you, Mr. Norgate."

Norgate smiled. "Have I really acquired the correct diplomatic air?" he
asked. "I can assure you that it is an accident--or perhaps I am
imitative."

"You have acquired," she complained, "an air of unnatural reserve. You
seem as though you had found some problem in life so weighty that you
could not lose sight of it even for a moment. Ah!"

The glass-topped door had been flung wide open with an unusual flourish.
A barely perceptible start escaped Norgate. It was indeed an unexpected
appearance, this! Dressed with a perfect regard to the latest London
fashion, with his hair smoothly brushed and a pearl pin in his black
satin tie, Herr Selingman stood upon the threshold, beaming upon them.


CHAPTER VIII


Selingman had the air of a man who returns after a long absence to some
familiar spot where he expects to find friends and where his welcome is
assured. Mrs. Paston Benedek slipped from her place upon the cushioned
fender and held out both her hands.

"Ah, it is really you!" she exclaimed. "Welcome, dear friend! For days I
have wondered what it was in this place which one missed all the time.
Now I know."

Selingman took the little outstretched hands and raised them to his lips.

"Dear lady," he assured her, "you repay me in one moment for all the
weariness of my exile."

She turned towards her companion.

"Captain Baring," she begged, "please ring the bell. Mr. Selingman and I
always drink a toast together the moment he first arrives to pay us one
of his too rare visits. Thank you! You know Captain Baring, don't you,
Mr. Selingman? This is another friend of mine whom I think that you have
not met--Mr. Francis Norgate, Mr. Selingman. Mr. Norgate has just arrived
from Berlin, too."

For a single moment the newcomer seemed to lose his Cheeryble-like
expression. The glance which he flashed upon Norgate contained other
elements besides those of polite pleasure. He was himself again,
however, almost instantly. He grasped his new acquaintance by the hand.

"Mr. Norgate and I are already old friends," he insisted. "We occupied
the same coupe coming from Berlin and drank a bottle of wine together in
the buffet."

Mrs. Benedek threw back her head and laughed, a familiar gesture which
her enemies declared was in some way associated with the dazzling
whiteness of her teeth.

"And now," she exclaimed, "you find that you belong to the same bridge
club. What a coincidence!"

"It is rather surprising, I must admit," Norgate assented. "Mr. Selingman
and I discussed many things last night, but we did not speak of bridge.
In fact, from the tone of our conversation, I should have imagined that
cards were an amusement which scarcely entered into Mr. Selingman's
scheme of life."

"One must have one's distractions," Selingman protested. "I confess that
auction bridge, as it is played over here, is the one game in the world
which attracts me."

"But how about the crockery?" Norgate asked. "Doesn't that come first?"

"First, beyond a doubt," Selingman agreed heartily. "Always, though, my
plan of campaign is the same. On the day of my arrival here, I take
things easily. I spend an hour or so at the office in the morning, and
the afternoon I take holiday. After that I settle down for one week's
hard work. London--your great London--takes always first place with me.
In the mornings I see my agents and my customers. Perhaps I lunch with
one of them. At four o'clock I close my desk, and crockery does not exist
for me any longer. I get into a taxi, and I come here. My first game of
bridge is a treat to which I look forward eagerly. See, there are three
of us and several sitting out. Let us make another table. So!"

They found a fourth without difficulty and took possession of a table at
the far end of the room. Selingman, with a huge cigar in his mouth,
played well and had every appearance of thoroughly enjoying the game.
Towards the end of their third rubber, Mrs. Benedek, who was dummy,
leaned across towards Norgate.

"After all, perhaps you are better off here," she murmured in German.
"There is nothing like this in Berlin."

"One is at least nearer the things one cherishes," Norgate quoted in the
same language.

Selingman was playing the hand and held between his fingers a card
already drawn to play. For a moment, it was suspended in the air. He
looked towards Norgate, and there was a new quality in his piercing gaze,
an instant return in his expression of the shadow which had swept the
broad good-humour from his face on his first appearance. The change came
and went like a flash. He finished playing the hand and scored his points
before he spoke. Then he turned to Norgate.

"Your gift of acquiring languages in a short space of time is most
extraordinary, my young friend! Since yesterday you have become able to
speak German, eh? Prodigious!"

Norgate smiled without embarrassment. The moment was a critical one,
portentous to an extent which no one at that table could possibly
have realised.

"I am afraid," he confessed, "that when I found that I had a fellow
traveller in my coupe I felt most ungracious and unsociable. I was in
a thoroughly bad temper and indisposed for conversation. The simplest
way to escape from it seemed to be to plead ignorance of any language
save my own."

Selingman chuckled audibly. The cloud had passed from his face. To all
appearance that momentary suspicion had been strangled.

"So you found me a bore!" he observed. "Then I must admit that your
manners were good, for when you found that I spoke English and that you
could not escape conversation, you allowed me to talk on about my
business, and you showed few signs of weariness. You should be a
diplomatist, Mr. Norgate."

"Mr. Norgate is, or rather he was," Mrs. Paston Benedek remarked. "He has
just left the Embassy at Berlin."

Selingman leaned back in his chair and thrust both hands into his
trousers pockets. He indulged in a few German expletives, bombastic and
thunderous, which relieved him so much that he was able to conclude his
speech in English.

"I am the densest blockhead in all Europe!" he announced emphatically.
"If I had realised your identity, I would willingly have left you alone.
No wonder you were feeling indisposed for idle conversation! Mr. Francis
Norgate, eh? A little affair at the Café de Berlin with a lady and a
hot-headed young princeling. Well, well! Young sir, you have become more
to me than an ordinary acquaintance. If I had known the cause of your
ill-humour, I would certainly have left you alone, but I would have
shaken you first by the hand."

The fourth at the table, who was an elderly lady of somewhat austere
appearance, produced a small black cigar from what seemed to be a
harmless-looking reticule which she was carrying, and lit it. Selingman
stared at her with his mouth open.

"Is this a bridge-table or is it not?" she enquired severely. "These
little personal reminiscences are very interesting among yourselves, I
dare say, but I cut in here with the idea of playing bridge."

Selingman was the first to recover his manners, although his eyes seemed
still fascinated by the cigar.

"We owe you apologies, madam," he acknowledged. "Permit me to cut."

The rubber progressed and finished in comparative silence. At its
conclusion, Selingman glanced at the clock. It was half-past seven.

"I am hungry," he announced.

Mrs. Benedek laughed at him. "Hungry at half-past seven! Barbarian!"

"I lunched at half-past twelve," he protested. "I ate less than usual,
too. I did not even leave my office, I was so anxious to finish what was
necessary and to find myself here."

Mrs. Benedek played with the cards a moment and then rose to her feet
with a little grimace.

"Well, I suppose I shall have to give in," she sighed. "I am taking it
for granted, you see, that you are expecting me to dine with you."

"My dear lady," Selingman declared emphatically, "if you were to break
through our time-honoured custom and deny me the joy of your company on
my first evening in London, I think that I should send another to look
after my business in this country, and retire myself to the seclusion of
my little country home near Potsdam. The inducements of managing one's
own affairs in this country, Mr. Norgate," he added, "are, as you may
imagine, manifold and magnetic."

"We will not grudge them to you so long as you don't come too often,"
Norgate remarked, as he bade them good night. "The man who monopolised
Mrs. Benedek would soon make himself unpopular here."


CHAPTER IX


Norgate had chosen, for many reasons, to return to London as a visitor.
His somewhat luxurious rooms in Albemarle Street were still locked up. He
had taken a small flat in the Milan Court, solely for the purpose of
avoiding immediate association with his friends and relatives. His whole
outlook upon life was confused and disturbed. Until he received a
definite pronouncement from the head-quarters of officialdom, he felt
himself unable to settle down to any of the ordinary functions of life.
And behind all this, another and a more powerful sentiment possessed him.
He had left Berlin without seeing or hearing anything further from Anna
von Haase. No word had come from her, nor any message. And now that it
was too late, he began to feel that he had made a mistake. It seemed to
him that he had visited upon her, in some indirect way, the misfortune
which had befallen him. It was scarcely her fault that she had been the
object of attentions which nearly every one agreed were unwelcome, from
this young princeling. Norgate told himself, as he changed his clothes
that evening, that his behaviour had been the behaviour of a jealous
school-boy. Then an inspiration seized him. Half dressed as he was, he
sat down at the writing-table and wrote to her. He wrote rapidly, and
when he had finished, he sealed and addressed the envelope without
glancing once more at its contents. The letter was stamped and posted
within a few minutes, but somehow or other it seemed to have made a
difference. His depression was no longer so complete. He looked forward
to his lonely dinner, at one of the smaller clubs to which he belonged,
with less aversion.

"Do you know where any of my people are. Hardy?" he asked his servant.

"In Scotland, I believe, sir," the man replied. "I called round this
afternoon, although I was careful not to mention the fact that you were
in town. The house is practically in the hands of caretakers."

"Try to keep out of the way as much as you can. Hardy," Norgate
enjoined. "For a few days, at any rate, I should like no one to know
that I am in town."

"Very good, sir," the man replied. "Might I venture to enquire, sir, if
you are likely to be returning to Berlin?"

"I think it is very doubtful, Hardy," Norgate observed grimly. "We are
more likely to remain here for a time."

Hardy brushed his master's hat for a moment or two in silence.

"You will pardon my mentioning it, sir," he said--"I imagine it is of no
importance--but one of the German waiters on this floor has been going
out of his way to enter into conversation with me this evening. He seemed
to know your name and to know that you had just come from Germany. He
hinted at some slight trouble there, sir."

"The dickens he did!" Norgate exclaimed. "That's rather quick
work, Hardy."

"So I thought, sir," the man continued. "A very inquisitive individual
indeed I found him. He wanted to know whether you had had any news yet as
to any further appointment. He seemed to know quite well that you had
been at the Foreign Office this morning."

"What did you tell him?"

"I told him that I knew nothing, sir. I explained that you had not been
back to lunch, and that I had not seen you since the morning. He tried to
make an appointment with me to give me some dinner and take me to a
music-hall to-night."

"What did you say to that?" Norgate enquired.

"I left the matter open, sir," the man replied. "I thought I would
enquire what your wishes might be? The person evidently desires to gain
some information about your movements. I thought that possibly it might
be advantageous for me to tell him just what you desired."

Norgate lit a cigarette. For the moment he was puzzled. It was true that
during their journey he had mentioned to Selingman his intention of
taking a flat at the Milan Court, but if this espionage were the direct
outcome of that information, it was indeed a wonderful organisation which
Selingman controlled.

"You have acted very discreetly, Hardy," he said. "I think you had better
tell your friend that I am expecting to leave for somewhere at a moment's
notice. For your own information," he added, "I rather think that I shall
stay here. It seems to me quite possible that we may find London, for a
few weeks, just as interesting as any city in the world."

"I am very glad to hear you say so, sir," the man murmured. "Shall I
fetch your overcoat?"

The telephone bell suddenly interrupted them. Hardy took up the receiver
and listened for a moment.

"Mr. Hebblethwaite would like to speak to you, sir," he announced.

Norgate hurried to the telephone. A cheery voice greeted him.

"Hullo! That you, Norgate? This is Hebblethwaite. I'm just back from a
few days in the country--found your note here. I want to hear all about
this little matter at once. When can I see you?"

"Any time you like," Norgate replied promptly.

"Let me see," the voice continued, "what are you doing to-night?"

"Nothing!"

"Come straight round to the House of Commons and dine. Or no--wait a
moment--we'll go somewhere quieter. Say the club in a quarter of an
hour--the Reform Club. How will that suit you?"

"I'll be there, with pleasure," Norgate promised.

"Righto! We'll hear what you've been doing to these peppery Germans. I
had a line from Leveson himself this morning. A lady in the case, I hear?
Well, well! Never mind explanations now. See you in a few minutes."

Norgate laid down the receiver. His manner, as he accepted his
well-brushed hat, had lost all its depression. There was no one in the
Cabinet with more influence than Hebblethwaite. He would have his chance,
at any rate, and his chance at other things.

"Look here, Hardy," he ordered, as he drew on his gloves, "spend as much
time as you like with that fellow and let me know what sort of questions
he asks you. Be careful not to mention the fact that I am dining with Mr.
Hebblethwaite. For the rest, fence with him. I am not quite sure what it
all means. If by any chance he mentions a man named Selingman, let me
know. Good night!"

"Good night, sir!" the man replied.

Norgate descended into the Strand and walked briskly towards Pall Mall.
The last few minutes seemed to him to be fraught with promise of a new
interest in life. Yet it was not of any of these things that he was
thinking as he made his way towards his destination. He was occupied most
of the time in wondering how long it would be before he could hope to
receive a reply from Berlin to his letter.


CHAPTER X


The Right Honourable John Hebblethwaite, M.P., since he had become a
Cabinet Minister and had even been mentioned as the possible candidate
for supreme office, had lost a great deal of that breezy, almost
boisterous effusion of manner which in his younger days had first
endeared him to his constituents. He received Norgate, however, with
marked and hearty cordiality, and took his arm as he led him to the
little table which he had reserved in a corner of the dining-room. The
friendship between the entirely self-made politician and Norgate, who was
the nephew of a duke, and whose aristocratic connections were
multifarious and far-reaching, was in its way a genuine one. There were
times when Hebblethwaite had made use of his younger friend to further
his own undoubted social ambitions. On the other hand, since he had
become a power in politics, he had always been ready to return in kind
such offices. The note which he had received from Norgate that day was,
however, the first appeal which had ever been made to him.

"I have been away for a week-end's golf," Hebblethwaite explained, as
they took their places at the table. "There comes a time when figures
pall, and snapping away in debate seems to stick in one's throat. I
telephoned directly I got your note. Fortunately, I wasn't doing anything
this evening. We won't play about. I know you don't want to see me to
talk about the weather, and I know something's up, or Leveson wouldn't
have written to me, and you wouldn't be back from Berlin. Let's have the
whole story with the soup and fish, and we'll try and hit upon a way to
put things right before we reach the liqueurs."

"I've lots to say to you," Norgate admitted simply. "I'll begin with the
personal side of it. Here's just a brief narration of exactly what
happened to me in the most fashionable restaurant of Berlin last
Thursday night."

Norgate told his story. His friend listened with the absorbed attention
of a man who possesses complete powers of concentration.

"Rotten business," he remarked, when it was finished. "I suppose you've
told old--I mean you've told them the story at the Foreign Office?"

"Had it all out this morning," Norgate replied.

"I know exactly what our friend told you," Mr. Hebblethwaite continued,
with a gleam of humour in his eyes. "He reminded you that the first duty
of a diplomat--of a young diplomat especially--is to keep on friendly
terms with the governing members of the country to which he is
accredited. How's that, eh?"

"Pretty nearly word for word," Norgate admitted. "It's the sort of
platitude I could watch framing in his mind before I was half-way through
what I had to say. What they don't seem to take sufficient account of in
that museum of mummied brains and parchment tongues--forgive me,
Hebblethwaite, but it isn't your department--is that the Prince's
behaviour to me is such as no Englishman, subscribing to any code of
honour, could possibly tolerate. I will admit, if you like, that the
Kaiser's attitude may render it advisable for me to be transferred from
Berlin. I do not admit that I am not at once eligible for a position of
similar importance in another capital."

"No one would doubt it," John Hebblethwaite grumbled, "except those
particular fools we have to deal with. I suppose they didn't see it in
the same light."

"They did not," Norgate admitted.

"We've a tough proposition to tackle," Hebblethwaite confessed
cheerfully, "but I am with you, Norgate, and to my mind one of the
pleasures of being possessed of a certain amount of power is to help
one's friends when you believe in the justice of their cause. If you
leave things with me, I'll tackle them to-morrow morning."

"That's awfully good of you, Hebblethwaite," Norgate declared gratefully,
"and just what I expected. We'll leave that matter altogether just now,
if we may. My own little grievance is there, and I wanted to explain
exactly how it came about. Apart from that altogether, there is something
far more important which I have to say to you."

Hebblethwaite knitted his brows. He was clearly puzzled.

"Still personal, eh?" he enquired.

Norgate shook his head.

"It is something of vastly more importance," he said, "than any question
affecting my welfare. I am almost afraid to begin for fear I shall miss
any chance, for fear I may not seem convincing enough."

"We'll have the champagne opened at once, then," Mr. Hebblethwaite
declared. "Perhaps that will loosen your tongue. I can see that this is
going to be a busy meal. Charles, if that bottle of Pommery 1904 is iced
just to the degree I like it, let it be served, if you please, in the
large sized glasses. Now, Norgate."

"What I am going to relate to you," Norgate began, leaning across the
table and speaking very earnestly, "is a little incident which happened
to me on my way back from Berlin. I had as a fellow passenger a person
whom I am convinced is high up in the German Secret Service Intelligence
Department."

"All that!" Mr. Hebblethwaite murmured. "Go ahead, Norgate. I like the
commencement of your story. I almost feel that I am moving through the
pages of a diplomatic romance. All that I am praying is that your fellow
passenger was a foreign lady--a princess, if possible--with wonderful
eyes, fascinating manners, and of a generous disposition."

"Then I am afraid you will be disappointed," Norgate continued drily.
"The personage in question was a man whose name was Selingman. He told me
that he was a manufacturer of crockery and that he came often to England
to see his customers. He called himself a peace-loving German, and he
professed the utmost good-will towards our country and our national
policy. At the commencement of our conversation, I managed to impress him
with the idea that I spoke no German. At one of the stations on the line
he was joined by a Belgian, his agent, as he told me, in Brussels for the
sale of his crockery. I overheard this agent, whose name was Meyer,
recount to his principal his recent operations. He offered him an exact
plan of the forts of Liège. I heard him instructed to procure a list of
the wealthy inhabitants of Ghent and the rateable value of the city, and
I heard him commissioned to purchase land in the neighbourhood of Antwerp
for a secret purpose."

Mr. Hebblethwaite's eyebrows became slowly upraised. The twinkle in his
eyes remained, however.

"My!" he exclaimed softly. "We're getting on with the romance all right!"

"During the momentary absence of this fellow and his agent from the
carriage," Norgate proceeded, "I possessed myself of a slip of paper
which had become detached from the packet of documents they had been
examining. It consisted of a list of names mostly of people resident in
the United Kingdom, purporting to be Selingman's agents. I venture to
believe that this list is a precise record of the principal German spies
in this country."

"German spies!" Mr. Hebblethwaite murmured. "Whew!"

He sipped his champagne.

"That list," Norgate went on, "is in my pocket. I may add that although I
was careful to keep up the fiction of not understanding German, and
although I informed Herr Selingman that I had seen the paper in question
blow out of the window, he nevertheless gave me that night a drugged
whisky and soda, and during the time I slept he must have been through
every one of my possessions. I found my few letters and papers turned
upside down, and even my pockets had been ransacked."

"Where was the paper, then?" Mr. Hebblethwaite enquired.

"In an inner pocket of my pyjamas," Norgate explained. "I had them made
with a sort of belt inside, at the time I was a king's messenger."

Mr. Hebblethwaite played with his tie for a moment and drank a little
more champagne.

"Could I have a look at the list?" he asked, as though with a sudden
inspiration.

Norgate passed it across the table to him. Mr. Hebblethwaite adjusted his
pince-nez, gave a little start as he read the first name, leaned back in
his chair as he came to another, stared at Norgate about half-way down
the list, as though to make sure that he was in earnest, and finally
finished it in silence. He folded it up and handed it back.

"Well, well!" he exclaimed, a little pointlessly. "Now tell me, Norgate,
you showed this list down there?"--jerking his head towards the street.

"I did," Norgate admitted.

"And what did they say?"

"Just what you might expect men whose lives are spent within the four
walls of a room in Downing Street to say," Norgate replied. "You are
half inclined to make fun of me yourself, Hebblethwaite, but at any
rate I know you have a different outlook from theirs. Old Carew was
frantically polite. He even declared the list to be most interesting! He
rambled on for about a quarter of an hour on the general subject of the
spy mania. German espionage, he told me, was one of the shadowy evils
from which England had suffered for generations. So far as regards
London and the provincial towns, he went on, whether for good or evil,
we have a large German population, and if they choose to make reports to
any one in Germany as to events happening here which come under their
observation, we cannot stop it, and it would not even be worth while to
try. As regards matters of military and naval importance, there was a
special branch, he assured me, for looking after these, and it was a
branch of the Service which was remarkably well-served and remarkably
successful. Having said this, he folded the list up and returned it to
me, rang the bell, gave me a frozen hand to shake, a mumbled promise
about another appointment as soon as there should be a vacancy, and that
was the end of it."

"About that other appointment," Mr. Hebblethwaite began, with some
animation--

"Damn the other appointment!" Norgate interrupted testily. "I didn't come
here to cadge, Hebblethwaite. I am never likely to make use of my friends
in that way. I came for a bigger thing. I came to try and make you see a
danger, the reality of which I have just begun to appreciate myself for
the first time in my life."

Mr. Hebblethwaite's manner slowly changed. He pulled down his waistcoat,
finished off a glass of wine, and leaned forward.

"Norgate," he said, "I am sorry that this is the frame of mind in which
you have come to me. I tell you frankly that you couldn't have appealed
to a man in the Cabinet less in sympathy with your fears than I myself."

"I am sorry to hear that," Norgate replied grimly, "but go on."

"Before I entered the Cabinet," Mr. Hebblethwaite continued, "our
relations with Foreign Powers were just the myth to me that they are to
most people who read the _Morning Post_ one day and the _Daily Mail_ the
next. However, I made the best part of half a million in business through
knowing the top and the bottom and every corner of my job, and I started
in to do the same when I began to have a share in the government of the
country. The _entente_ with France is all right in its way, but I came to
the conclusion that the greatest and broadest stroke of diplomacy
possible to Englishmen to-day was to cultivate more benevolent and more
confidential relations with Germany. That same feeling has been spreading
through the Cabinet during the last two years. I am ready to take my
share of the blame or praise, whichever in the future shall be allotted
to the inspirer of that idea. It is our hope that when the present
Government goes out of office, one of its chief claims to public approval
and to historical praise will be the improvement of our relations with
Germany. We certainly do not wish to disturb the growing confidence which
exists between the two countries by any maladroit or unnecessary
investigations. We believe, in short, that Germany's attitude towards us
is friendly, and we intend to treat her in the same spirit."

"Tell me," Norgate asked, "is that the reason why every scheme for the
expansion of the army has been shelved? Is that the reason for all the
troubles with the Army Council?"

"It is," Hebblethwaite admitted. "I trust you, Norgate, and I look upon
you as a friend. There are still, however, changes and gaps in his memory.
Lacante is extraordinary. Although the doctor had recommended rest
and isolation of sick Lacante enter ten times a day on the fourth of his
daughter, and under the pretext of looking for a book, and to ascertain
the proper temperature. Fiber paternal hitherto inert and dumb, is vibrated
in order to contact this weak creature, so sweet in their sufferings
and so beautiful in its pallor aching. Oh, dear! Beauty is a powerful
sorceress. Furthermore, it seems Lacante delicious novelty of the
feeling you experience at an age when everything has been tried and exhausted
to the stool. In the immaculate purity of such feelings what the irresistible
force of those feelings have not liked! Lacante savor its charm with a
trembling joy drained out of fear of seeing before their eyes that spring
in which dreams of quench thirst of their old age. I do not think I
could already separated from her daughter.

The other day I heard an order for English or German governess accompany
Helena during his convalescence ... Think, rightly, that Polydorus,
for all its goodwill, a company should not be your daughter.

I also spoke to a room that is rented on the same floor as
hers and that could complement your home. I think things are settled
in this way and, really, since the existence of Elena is no longer a
secret to anyone, I do not see why it should be deprived of the
joy of your presence. This may be compelled to sacrifice some
intimacies and moderate the tone of the talks. The taste will not lose
anything with this. Maximum of Cosmos to his brother August 8. Today
is a great feast for his friends and Lacante: Elena has been a time
in the room. Fifteen days have again checked the evenings of Thursday
night and the owner of the house, while some attack of gout, it had
seemed a very good mood. At about ten left us without saying a word,
and almost immediately had to come back to Elena in the hand. What
an appearance, my dear, one of the forgotten child, emaciated, dressed
in a white coat, flexible and silky, giving a figure of old!

With his dark hair separated in the united front and behind in a thick
braid, and the astonishment of their ojazos shy, slightly sunken,
looked like a celestial being. His father, radiant, she is introduced
to the Marquise de Oreve, who was there and welcomed the eyes,
firmly investigating and words of welcome and surrounded a little
concerned. I wonder what he thought the girl in that round face, topped
by a complicated braids and curls building and walked from one
shoulder to another slow presumptuous.

I had never crashed as much as then, by contrast with the candid
simplicity of Helena, the ways of those ridiculous and those
ornaments.

Lacante had his daughter sat down and presented one by one his
guests, adding the name of each note a feature set for their memories.
When he came to me with alacrity Elena said: - In this gentleman
I know.

Quimper is the friend who has been so good to me. And I offered her
emaciated hand.

At this moment the doctor entered Muret and was outraged to find it still
standing still more than ten.

We had to see Lacante, confused as a schoolboy caught in misconduct,
with haste to take Elena, despite his gouty foot, and returning
back to the anger of the doctor.

He seemed rejuvenated by the beauty of her daughter.

When he returned, was unanimous and warmly welcomed. Gerardo improvised
Lautrec, in honor of Elena, a sonnet rhyming sounds and rare, in comparison
with that of the virgins Propilias and rimaba amphora with canéfora,
which is rich, new ... and not hurt anyone.

Maximum of Cosmos to his brother. August 20. I just received your letter
and want to respond quickly to your affectionate rebuke. scolds
me for my choice because they could have done a better marriage.

Say, if you want, that could make it more rich, but not with such a
beautiful bride. Marriage, for me, should not be a good business,
comfortable and productive, the good marriage is where our hearts
are joined, the intelligence to understand the tastes and fit, and
this is what happens to me and Luciana. what you think without
atreverte to say, what I see through your oratorical precautions,
it is because I have a fool of me pretty ambitious and poor, which
has an excellent barrier to believe that love is pretending to make
a .

Do not deny it I can feel your mind in spite of the veils that clothe ...
But keep in mind that I am aware of my mediocrity insufficient
current resources and the uncertainty of my distant hope, which are
reduced to a professorship at the College of France when Marignol
kindly let me have yours.

Do you think that really her beauty, her youth, has twenty-three
years, the honored name of his father, his wit and talent, you need
to represent the comedy of love to ensure a husband?

"The suspicion is insulting and not very pleasant for me. I'm not fatuous
nor do I believe in a position to lose their heads at women who
find the passage.

But what a devil! I am not a monster and also does not seem entirely
impossible that a young talent and heart is in love with a guy who is
not stupid, but does not have the beauty of Apollo and the perverse
result of Don Juan. And also my friend, even if I wanted to prove that
Luciana ensure a first position and a good husband, and had used cunning
to fish on the hook for its beauty, it is already late to go back
because I gave my word. But calm, loves me and I prefer that all beset
with their adulation.

Otherwise, why would I choose? Yesterday, at the home of the Marquise
de Oreve where we gather to celebrate the recovery of Helena,
Luciana dazzled.

The other women seemed comparsas to enforce and it was such a
megawatt star.

The same Helen, very nice, however, under the veil of timidity and
modest silence that envelops are eclipsed and disappeared.

Nobody can compare with Luciana. Since you enjoy my chronicles, I will
tell you that food in the house of the Marquise.

Oreve was that of his right to Lacante, of course, and to his left to
Kissel, the sculptor. In front of her, his August spouse. You know? I think
not. A tall man and thin, little beard and a red hair, very unruly despite
the cosmetic plasters of dealing civilized. Outside of this malignancy
in some hair rebels, the Marquis is happy.

Has the aquiline nose and long, which is eminently aristocratic and
full of satisfaction. It is fond of history and life goes scavenging
ancient chronicles.

Know backwards alliances, good and bad, all the big families and
the supremely judged, to forget, no doubt, he married Leontina
Marsh, daughter of a drug manufacturer.

With her head thrown slightly backward and with eyes and ahuevados
vague, his thoughts on a stroll past so distant and go as high in
the ranks of princes, who can not see what is happening in front
of their noses.

And should some things have happened! ... The marquis had both sides
of the Grevillois and Sofia Jansien, and while we sat, I heard him say:
- In 1590, a Miss La Ferte-Jonchère married with a gentleman Grevaulx-Loys,
which must have left, after several changes of language, the family
you: Grevaulx Greville-Loys-Loys ... ... Grevillois ... Do you understand?
Left his dissertation to go to sit on the edge of the table with the
youth, since my little social significance in that it allows me to associate
light battalion. I did not dare to sit next to Luciana, who had told me
so low, always cautious in his tactics: "Do not call attention." Gerardo
Lautrec had the honor of being your neighbor and I was in front, without
losing a movement or an expression, or even a shade of his face. Perhaps
I had been bothered by Gerardo applications where Luciana, with a
sign and an imperceptible smile, I had not proved that we were
secretly together.

The conversation turned to the top of the new literature and novels.

Since the Academy is Lacante, the Marquesa had become a fierce
intolerance for other writers, and his jealous friend did not
recognize the merit of any.

Loti is not even grace this adorable Bamountcho. Foreigners seem less of
a rivalry next and are treated less severely. D'Annunzio spared no
wrong.

Lacante smiled kindly to those burnt in his honor and defend the victims
some good reasons to be loose. Its natural equity is left numb by the
rumor of such adulation and wealth loquacious, not even allow you to
develop your mind. Is tilted her head and resigned under the weight of
the reasons that it deals indiscreet the inexhaustible eloquence of the
owner of the house, unless the Marquis, bothered by noise, not stop
it with a shrug of his long hand colorless: - Dear friend, we love
to hear Lacante, let us hear it.

The first part of the meal was devoted to literature. Towards the roast,
however, the conversation is lost, leaving the literary labyrinths,
made a daring trip to the highest peaks of art, under the direction of
Kissel. Then, as yielding to the attraction of the void, we took a
huge dip in the dark abyss in which the struggle against metaphysical
religions, that the insignificant, and the science that despises.

You grace I long for the bush where we came from digression to digression,
the concept of divinity. Kissel also was who started the issue with a
bold defense of the plastic beauty which was like divinize how the beauty
was for him the first attribute of a god and the cult of beauty,
the first dogma of a religion: the Greece former was the cradle of
true religion, the only one worthy of the human touch and unite in
a common worship, the worship of beauty.

Gerardo Lautrec attempted to spiritualize the idea by showing the
beauty of the image and symbol of the moral beauty, the only
representation of divinity.

Sofia Jansien to hear this, as the great red under their ricillos of a jet
black, with indignant scorn wondered how it was possible to waste
time in defining what does not exist. - About Us - said, - we are
our own gods since it always giving to the divinity of our own
attributes, including our services, as evidenced by the mythology
of the Greeks.

Lacante addressed to the Marchioness, which had been limited until
now to adopt all the theories successively with benevolence and
slightly ironic with smiling indifference generally opposed to the
opinions of others in everything that relates to issues of religious
metaphysics.

This is an area where it is believed that the teacher and does not
support foreign missions, rather than smiling mercy.

He would have preferred not to be compelled to answer, and walked out of
step with his usual ability to not offend anyone. He developed the
first idea that to those who consider the universe as an independent
force that takes itself all that exists, does not require the
assumption God and whether God is good or fair, good or bad, means
nothing. - It's true - he added - that if you can not rationally
prove God's existence, it is absolutely impossible to exist.

It is prudent, therefore, act as if their existence was proven and recognized
as a source of all the good that is in us. - What?

- Sofia exclaimed the impetuous, upset by that skillful balance between
the various views .- - Why this deception imposed on our credulity?

What revolts in religion is to speak on behalf of a God who can not
define. Gerard replied that the word God is just the inexpressible, and
I did observe that science uses the same procedure to use words to express
certain assumptions, as ether and the atom, which facilitates the
explanation of phenomena.

Very low, duty consciousness, no doubt, the Grevillois said that virtue
would not exist without belief in God, and this provided the opportunity
Kissel a furious charge against the virtues employed, bills of exchange
drawn against the Eternal Father. And then (he wanted to bring you here
for this long detour) Luciana, who had hitherto kept a prudent
silence, raised his head and looked nice with emotion: -- No reward is
what we ask of God, but to be our witness in the rough road
of life. We need to know who is present, invisible and eternal, seeing the
injustice of fate, the violence imposed upon us by his glory, the fatalities
that oppress us, our miseries and our virtues, often ignored around
the world.

Her voice vibrated, shone their eyes, and Lacante greeted with kind
gestures, more for its amazing beauty for his eloquence. - Luciana beautifully
shows us - said Lacante gallantry - a fatal act of our poor humanity,
that leads to conceive the existence of God as a dogma necessary, while
being unable to establish a rational dogma.

This impasse - said laughing - is the great misfortune of the
philosophers.

Then, from Helena, who was listening with great attention, asked: - What
do you understand all this, my daughter? Low transparency his skin ran the
flame of shame. The girl dropped the eye does not respond, but its fun
to Lacante short, he insisted: - Let's see, tell us what you think.

A devout as you should be well aware of these things.

What's your best represents God's goodness and beauty? Elena responded
with great tenderness: - Love And word had such a charm in those exquisite
lips innocent. Sofia drove us to lose that delicate voice screaming in
pleasure neck: - Hooray! Bravo! That is the truth, is the true religion
of love. - Love, son of Venus - murmured the Marquis, who bored
these issues and sought a refuge, habitual for him in the genealogy.

The Marquesa believed to be explain the thinking of Elena. - This girl,
ladies, just wanted to speak of divine love and knows no other,
do you, dear?

In the convent of Brittany not only taught you to love God ... - For
God and men, lady - Elena responded with boldness and without candida
miss seeing the smiles of all. - Diablo!

- Kissel said with his usual brutality - ask to be added to the
ladies Elena ... not heard it, stunned by the crash of Sofia laughing
at the jokes I like extremely.

We got up from the table to the noise of those laughs, and went to the
hall.

Lacante Father Elena Jalavieux. August. priest: I feel very guilty and
very disrespectful to you.

Promised to give him news of my trip, I arrived home from my father
and what was me.

Have spent nearly two months and have not fulfilled my promise, and
although he might apologize for having been bad, very bad, as they
say, prefer to accuse and to ask you for forgiveness, in my heart
to hear those words uttered so sweet that after you the confession
of my faults: 'Go in peace!

"What would need their advice in this existence so new And I have
no one to go, because nobody knows me enough to interest me.

My father is very good, but councils need to please and I do not dare
pedírselos. I was intimidated to the point, despite their kindness, which
exceeds anything that could wait.

I showed tenderness and this is truly a marvel, as I have done nothing
so far that I like.

I think it has been my hobby for the care they lavished me during
my illness, I was grateful to live as if I had any merit in it.

If that is successful must not give thanks to God. Unfortunately (and
this is a great secret that I trust you) I do not think about such
things and this gives me an extreme penalty.

According to what I may try my ignorance, I believe that God is for
him a matter of study, an interesting and intractable problem, not
the Father full of justice and love that you taught me to love and
fear.

This difference in the way of conceiving God, eternal life, our
very soul, all these beliefs are chained, it is what makes me be
so shy next to my father.

There is a misunderstanding between us, more so, a difficulty to understand,
I do find myself in a foreign country between the company's so smart, so
clever and, I believe, very wise. My sentiments are not echoed.

Everything you say surprises and make you smile. All this is perhaps my
ignorance and I do not know the exact meaning of words, but I see clearly
what it is that religious practices are not used in Paris on Sunday and
that is different some other days of the week. My father, however, is so
good, that I may act according to my conscience, provided it does not
bother him in his habits, which is, after all, very natural. You will
believe you, priest?

What little I do for God, quietly and silently, I do so with more fervor
and it gives me more for the same sweetness that I have to overcome
more difficulties.

Much desire to please my father and I want. Do you think is the only
being in the world who can devote my life, what would I do if my heart
no one cares about him? ... What shocked you, priest? You think that
God calls us the heart and life, and this is enough to fill them.

But I beg you, do not think that.

God is too big and I too small and need to rise to intermediaries, such as
rungs on a scale of love, but if my intelligence is going right to him,
and asked no more light, if faith enough to believe me, my heart
could not climb so high for a single flight.

I feel my heart as empty and heavy to be empty ... Is it absurd that I'm
writing, but I still suffer from this long illness, his head low and I
do not know how my thoughts. It is, therefore, forgive me if I say any
nonsense. Bye, another day you write in more detail my views on the
people around my father. So far I like women less than men ... I mean
that disoriented me most, because they are actually another species
that women of Quimper, at least that I met at my poor aunt.

Here, much as the look, it is impossible for me to know whether
they are young or old, handsome or ugly, good or bad, as they have
a point, that baffled, to be everything at once.

At the same time are wholly contrary points of producing and
uncertainty is causing some discomfort.

I have seen, however, a very nice lady who would want to much, but ... Mr
cure, remove the "but" until you know better. Farewell, my good and
venerable father, you allow me, right? continue giving him that name.
Do not forget you in their prayers for her daughter respectful,
ELENA LACANTE.

His brother Max. August 25. A few days ago I came home from Lacante,
as usual, to take some notes that I had requested.

Lacante had gone to a reunion of _Diario of Sabios_, not found in his
office rather than Elena, a busy finishing a letter. - Who you write
with such application - I asked him sitting in front of her. Elena
showed me the envelope. - The father Jalavieux.

It seems that the priest who gave the first communion. - And what tells
you how long is it? Do mortal sins - not, incidentally. Wrong way could
y. .. figúrese you. The cards are sometimes lost. - Show me your letter,
do you want? - No. - So you write a serious secret that parent Jalavieux?
Elena hesitated. - Not exactly secrets ... -- what then?

- Things of little importance, but such trust. - Do not you have enough
confidence in me to say? The girl dropped her head without replying. He
was so cute with that look of youthful confusion and sincerely, I
wanted to continue having fun in the joke. - Do you not know that
I am very interested in your person, their ideas, their feelings
... - I know you are very good and I love my father.

Because of this, or you can look for me. - Because of this and many
other reasons besides, Elena.

I love you and ... and a sister. - Oh! better - the girl
exclaimed with candid joy. - In that case you teach me your letter
as you would if I had the good fortune to be his brother.

Elena moved his head and turned serious. - No ... I can not. I think that
would be missing due to considerations Mr Jalavieux to admit a third
between the two without his knowledge. - This is a subtle scruples
...

Moreover, this man does not know. - Who cares?

The offense was ignored even though there ... I may be an error, but I
feel well.

While speaking he was folding the letter to put it in the envelope, and
I leaned over quickly and it took off. - Now - I said putting it away
so that he could not cogérmela -- -I am the master of its secrets
to you, Miss Helena.

Let's laugh at the outrage he had seen in his bold attempt by my
eyes, and while I laughed, my eyes were fixed by chance in this
sentence: "I have seen a very nice lady who would want to much, but
...

"This last word, but still very legible, had been crossed out with a
stroke of pen, and that circumstance was a special significance for me. -
Is the lady of a Grevillois which you find so beautiful - I taught him
the paragraph away. - I do not want to answer you.

Then Baring spoke from the other end of the telephone.

"Who is it wants me?" he enquired, rather impatiently.

"Are you Baring?" Norgate asked, deepening his voice a little.

"Yes! Who are you?"

"I am a friend," Norgate answered slowly.

"What the devil do you mean by 'a friend'?" was the irritated reply. "I
am engaged here most particularly."

"There can be nothing so important," Norgate declared, "as the warning I
am charged to give to you. Remember that it is a friend who speaks. There
is a train about five o'clock to Portsmouth. Your work is finished. Take
that train and stay away from London."

Norgate set down the receiver without listening to the tangle of
exclamations from the other end, and walked quickly out of the shop. He
re-entered his taxi.

"The St. James's Club," he ordered.


CHAPTER XIII


Norgate found Selingman in the little drawing-room of the club, reclining
in an easy-chair, a small cup of black coffee by his side. He appeared to
be exceedingly irate at the performance of his partner in a recent
rubber, and he seized upon Norgate as a possibly sympathetic confidant.

"Listen to me for one moment," he begged, "and tell me whether I have not
the right to be aggrieved. I go in on my own hand, no trump. I am a
careful declarer. I play here every day when I am in London, and they
know me well to be a careful declarer. My partner--I do not know his
name; I hope I shall never know his name; I hope I shall never see him
again--he takes me out. 'Into what?' you ask. Into diamonds! I am
regretful, but I recognise, as I believe, a necessity. I ask you, of what
do you suppose his hand consists? Down goes my no trump on the table--a
good, a very good no trump. He has in his hand the ace, king, queen and
five diamonds, the king of clubs guarded, the ace and two little hearts,
and he takes me out into diamonds from no trumps with a score at love
all. Two pences they had persuaded me to play, too, and it was the rubber
game. Afterwards he said to me: 'You seem annoyed'; and I replied 'I am
annoyed,' and I am. I come in here to drink coffee and cool myself.
Presently I will cut into another rubber, where that young man is not.
Perhaps our friend Mrs. Benedek will be here. You and I and Mrs. Benedek,
but not, if we can help it, the lady who smokes the small black cigars.
She is very amiable, but I cannot attend to the game while she sits there
opposite to me. She fascinates me. In Germany sometimes our women smoke
cigarettes, but cigars, and in public, never!"

"We'll get a rubber presently, I dare say," Norgate remarked, settling
himself in an easy-chair. "How's business?"

"Business is very good," Selingman declared. "It is so good that I must
be in London for another week or so before I set off to the provinces. It
grows and grows all the time. Soon I must find a manager to take over
some of my work here. At my time of life one likes to enjoy. I love to be
in London; I do not like these journeys to Newcastle and Liverpool and
places a long way off. In London I am happy. You should go into business,
young man. It is not well for you to do nothing."

"Do you think I should be useful in the crockery trade?" Norgate asked.

Herr Selingman appeared to take the enquiry quite seriously.

"Why not?" he demanded. "You are well-educated, you have address,
you have intelligence. Mrs. Benedek has spoken very highly of you.
But you--oh, no! It would not suit you at all to plunge yourself
into commerce, nor would it suit you, I think, to push the affairs
of a prosperous German concern. You are very English, Mr. Norgate,
is that not so?"

"Not aggressively," Norgate replied. "As a matter of fact, I am rather
fed up with my own country just now."

Mr. Selingman sat quite still in his chair. Some signs of a change which
came to him occasionally were visible in his face. He was for that moment
no longer the huge, overgrown schoolboy bubbling over with the joy and
appetite of life. His face seemed to have resolved itself into sterner
lines. It was the face of a thinker.

"There are other Englishmen besides you," Selingman said, "who are a
little--what you call 'fed up' with your country. You have much common
sense. You do not believe that yours is the only country in the world.
You like sometimes to hear plain speech from one who knows?"

"Without a doubt," Norgate assented.

Mr. Selingman stroked his knee with his fat hand.

"You in England," he continued, "you are too prosperous. Very, very
slowly the country is drifting into the hands of the people. A country
that is governed entirely by the people goes down, down, down. Your
classes are losing their hold and their influence. You have gone from
Tory to Whig, from Whig to Liberal, from Liberal to Radical, and soon it
will be the Socialists who govern. You know what will come then?
Colonies! What do your radicals care about colonies? Institutions! What
do they care about institutions? All you who have inherited money, they
will bleed. You will become worse than a nation of shop-keepers. You will
be an illustration to all the world of the dangers of democracy. So! I
go on. I tell you why that comes about. You are in the continent of
Europe, and you will not do as Europe does. You are a nation outside. You
have believed in yourselves and believed in yourselves, till you think
that you are infallible. Before long will come the revolution. It will be
a worse revolution than the French Revolution."

Norgate smiled. "Too much common sense about us, I think, Mr. Selingman,
for such happenings," he declared. "I grant you that the classes are
getting the worst of it so far as regards the government of the country,
but I can't quite see the future that you depict."

"Good Englishman!" Herr Selingman murmured approvingly. "That is your
proper attitude. You do not see because you will not see. I tell you that
the best thing in all the world would be a little blood-letting. You do
not like your Government. Would it not please you to see them humiliated
just a little?"

"In what way?"

"Oh! there are ways," Selingman declared. "A little gentle smack like
this,"--his two hands came together with a crash which echoed through the
room--"a little smack from Germany would do the business. People would
open their eyes and begin to understand. A Radical Government may fill
your factories with orders and rob the rich to increase the prosperity of
the poor, but it will not keep you a great nation amongst the others."

Norgate nodded.

"You seem to have studied the question pretty closely," he remarked.

"I study the subject closely," Selingman went on, "because my interests
are yours. My profits are made in England. I am German born, but I am
English, too, in feeling. To me the two nations are one. We are of the
same race. That is why I am sorrowful when I see England slipping back.
That is why I would like to see her have just a little lesson."

Selingman paused. Norgate rose to his feet and stood on the hearthrug,
with his elbow upon the mantelpiece.

"Twice we have come as far as that, Mr. Selingman," he pointed out.
"England requires a little lesson. You have something in your mind behind
that, something which you are half inclined to say to me. Isn't that so?
Why not go on?"

"Because I am not sure of you," Selingman confessed frankly. "Because
you might misunderstand what I say, and we should be friends no
longer, and you would say silly things about me and my views.
Therefore, I like to keep you for a friend, and I go no further at
present. You say that you are a little angry with your country, but
you Englishmen are so very prejudiced, so very quick to take offence,
so very insular, if I may use the word. I do not know how angry you
are with your country. I do not know if your mind is so big and broad
that you would be willing to see her suffer a little for her greater
good. Ah, but the lady comes at last!"

Mrs. Benedek was accompanied by a tall, middle-aged man, of fair
complexion, whom Selingman greeted with marked respect. She turned
to Norgate.

"Let me present you," she said, "to Prince Edward of Lenemaur--Mr.
Francis Norgate."

The two men shook hands.

"I played golf with you once at Woking," Norgate reminded his new
acquaintance.

"I not only remember it," Prince Edward answered, "but I remember the
result. You beat me three up, and we were to have had a return, but you
had to leave for Paris on the next day."

"You will be able to have your return match now," Mrs. Benedek observed.
"Mr. Norgate is going to be in England for some time. Let us play bridge.
I have to leave early to-night--I am dining out--and I should like to
make a little money."

They strolled into the bridge-room. Selingman hung behind with Norgate.

"Soon," he suggested, "we must finish our talk, is it not so? Dine with
me to-night. Mrs. Benedek has deserted me. We will eat at the Milan
Grill. The cooking there is tolerable, and they have some Rhine wine--but
you shall taste it."

"Thank you," Norgate assented, "I shall be very pleased."

They played three or four rubbers. Then Mrs. Benedek glanced at
the clock.

"I must go," she announced. "I am dining at eight o'clock."

"Stay but for one moment," Selingman begged. "We will all take a little
mixed vermouth together. I shall tell the excellent Horton how to
prepare it. Plenty of lemon-peel, and just a dash--but I will not give
my secret away."

He called the steward and whispered some instructions in his ear. While
they were waiting for the result, a man came in with an evening paper in
his hand. He looked across the room to a table beyond that at which
Norgate and his friends were playing.

"Heard the news, Monty?" he asked.

"No! What is it?" was the prompt enquiry.

"Poor old Baring--"

The newcomer stopped short. For the first time he noticed Mrs. Benedek.
She half rose from her chair, however, and her eyes were fixed upon him.

"What is it?" she exclaimed. "What has happened?"

There was a moment's awkward silence. Mrs. Benedek snatched the paper
away from the man's fingers and read the little paragraph out aloud. For
a moment she was deathly white.

"What is it?" Selingman demanded.

"Freddy Baring," she whispered--"Captain Baring--shot himself in his room
at the Admiralty this afternoon! Some one telephoned to him. Five minutes
later he was found--dead--a bullet wound through his temple!... Give me
my chair, please. I think that I am going to faint."


CHAPTER XIV


Selingman and Norgate dined together that evening in a corner of a large,
popular grill-room near the Strand. They were still suffering from the
shock of the recent tragedy. They both rather avoided the topic of
Baring's sudden death. Selingman made but one direct allusion to it.

"Only yesterday," he remarked, "I said to little Bertha--I have known her
so long that I call her always Bertha--that this bureau work was bad for
Baring. When I was over last, a few months ago, he was the picture of
health. Yesterday he looked wild and worried. He was at work with others,
they say, at the Admiralty upon some new invention. Poor fellow!"

Norgate, conscious of a curious callousness which even he himself found
inexplicable, made some conventional reply only. Selingman began to talk
of other matters.

"Truly," he observed, "a visit to your country is good for the patriotic
German. Behold! here in London, we are welcomed by a German _maître
d'hôtel_; we are waited on by a German waiter; we drink German wine; we
eat off what I very well know is German crockery."

"And some day, I suppose," Norgate put in, "we are to be German subjects.
Isn't that so?"

Selingman's denial was almost unduly emphatic.

"Never!" he exclaimed. "There is nothing so foolish as the way many of
you English seem to regard us Germans as though we were wild beasts of
prey. Now it gives me pleasure to talk with a man like yourself, Mr.
Norgate. I like to look a little into the future and speculate as to our
two countries. Above all things, this thing I do truly know. The German
nation stands for peace. Yet in order that peace shall everywhere
prevail, a small war, a humanely-conducted war, may sometime within the
future, one must believe, take place. It would last but a short time, but
it might lead to great changes. I have sometimes thought, my young friend
Norgate, that such a war might be the greatest blessing which England
could ever experience."

"As a discipline, you mean?" Norgate murmured.

"As a cleansing tonic," Selingman declared. "It would sweep out your
Radical Government. It would bring the classes back to power. It would
kindle in the spirits of your coming generation the spark of that
patriotism which is, alas! just now a very feeble flame. What do you
think? You agree with me, eh?"

"It is going a long way," Norgate said cautiously, "to approve of a form
of discipline so stringent."

"But not too far--oh, believe me, not too far!" Selingman insisted. "If
that war should come, it would come solely with the idea of sweeping away
this Government, which is most distasteful to all German politicians. It
would come solely with the idea that with a new form of government here,
more solid and lasting terms of friendship could be arranged between
Germany and England."

"A very interesting theory," Norgate remarked. "Do you believe in it
yourself?"

Selingman paused to give an order to a waiter. His tone suddenly became
more serious. He pointed to the menu.

(He takes the glass from the breakfast table and puts it before McNaughtan
out.) Yes, Gracious Lord - you never know ... You can only see my son,
who would have ever thought that he would then bring a silk gown
to wear as a royal lawyer?

And yet today, he deserves no less than sixty pounds to each process,
Gracious Lord.

What a lesson! (McNaughtan.) Well, I hope he is grateful, and knows what
he owes you. (The waiter). We ourselves very well tolerated - indeed,
very good in view of the diversity of our positions. (With a second of his
crossings irresistible:) A bit of sugar, without the potion down noticeably
sweet, the Fadheit remove the soda. Let, Gracious Lord. (He throws
a piece of sugar into the glass:) But as I say to him: Finally,
what is the difference?

I must have a dress dress, if I want to show what I am, and he has
a wig and a gown, create, if he wants to show what he is.

If my income mainly from tips or gratuities, and I must do so as if I were
not looking, his income mainly from fees, and he must also, as I well
understand, pretend as if he was not looking. - If he loves and
socializing him into his profession with all sorts of social classes
is, of my doing that too. If it is for a lawyer is not favorable, the
son of a waiter to be, it is also a waiter is not favorable, the father
of a lawyer to be. I assure you there are people who on the whole
nerve see!

- Can I use anything else you care, Gracious Lord? (McNaughtan.) No,
thanks.

(Humbled and bitter:) I hope you will have no objection that I am here
for a while still remain seated. Here Disruption 'I do not in any
event the Company at the beach.
"Would you like to hear more?" Selingman repeated.

"I think I should."

"Very well, then," Selingman proceeded. "Tomorrow we will talk of it.
There are some ways in which you might be very useful, useful at the same
time to your country and to ours. Your position might be somewhat
peculiar, but that you would be prepared for a short time to tolerate."

"Peculiar in what respect?" Norgate asked.

Selingman held his glass of yellow wine up to the light and criticised it
for a moment. He set it down empty.

"Peculiar," he explained, "inasmuch as you might seem to be working with
Germany, whereas you were really England's best friend. But let us leave
these details until to-morrow. We have talked enough of serious matters.
I have a box at the Gaiety, and we must not be late--also a supper party
afterwards. This is indeed a country for enjoyment. To-morrow we speak of
these things again. You have seen our little German lady at the Gaiety?
You have heard her sing and watch her dance? Well, to-night you shall
meet her."

"Rosa Morgen?" Norgate exclaimed.

Selingman nodded complacently.

"She sups with us," he announced, "she and others. That is why, when they
spoke to me of going back for bridge to-night, I pretended that I did not
hear. Bridge is very good, but there are other things. To-night I am in a
frivolous vein. I have many friends amongst the young ladies of the
Gaiety. You shall see how they will welcome me."

"You seem to have found your way about over here," Norgate remarked, as
he lit a cigar and waited while his companion paid the bill.

"I am a citizen of the world," Selingman admitted. "I enjoy myself as I
go, but I have my eyes always fixed upon the future. I make many friends,
and I do not lose them. I set my face towards the pleasant places, and I
keep it in that direction. It is the cult of some to be miserable; it is
mine to be happy. The person who does most good in the world is the
person who reflects the greatest amount of happiness. Therefore, I am a
philanthropist. You shall learn from me, my young friend, how to banish
some of that gloom from your face. You shall learn how to find
happiness."

They made their way across to the Gaiety, where Selingman was a very
conspicuous figure in the largest and most conspicuous box. He watched
with complacency the delivery of enormous bouquets to the principal
artistes, and received their little bow of thanks with spontaneous and
unaffected graciousness. Afterwards he dragged Norgate round to the
stage-door, installed him in a taxi, and handed over to his escort two or
three of his guests.

"I entrust you, Mr. Norgate," he declared, "with our one German export
more wonderful, even, than my crockery--Miss Rosa Morgen. Take good care
of her and bring her to the Milan. The other young ladies are my honoured
guests, but they are also Miss Morgen's. She will tell you their names. I
have others to look after."

Norgate's last glimpse of Selingman was on the pavement outside the
theatre, surrounded by a little group of light-hearted girls and a few
young men.

"He is perfectly wonderful, our Mr. Selingman," Miss Morgen murmured, as
they started off. "Tell me how long you have known him, Mr. Norgate?"

"Four days," Norgate replied.

She screamed with laughter.

"It is so like him," she declared. "He makes friends everywhere. A day is
sufficient. He gives such wonderful parties. I do not know why we all
like to come, but we do. I suppose that we all get half-a-dozen
invitations to supper most nights, but there is not one of us who does
not put off everything to sup with Mr. Selingman. He sits in the
middle--oh, you shall watch him to-night!--and what he says I do not
know, but we laugh, and then we laugh again, and every one is happy."

"I think he is the most irresistible person," Norgate agreed. "I met him
two or three nights ago, coming over from Berlin, and he spoke of nothing
but crockery and politics. To-night I dine with him, and I find a
different person."

"He is a perfect dear," one of the other girls exclaimed, "but so
curiously inquisitive! I have a great friend, a gunner, whom I brought
with me to one of his parties, and he is always asking me questions about
him and his work. I had to absolutely worry Dick so as to be able to
answer all his questions, didn't I, Rosa?"

Miss Morgen nodded a little guardedly.

"I should not call him really inquisitive," she said. "It is because he
likes to seem interested in the subject which interests you."

"I am not at all sure whether that is true," the other young lady
objected. "You remember when Ellison Gray was always around with us?
Why, I know that Mr. Selingman simply worried Maud's life out of her to
get a little model of his aeroplane from him. There were no end of
things he wanted to know about cubic feet and dimensions. He is a dear,
all the same."

"A perfect dear!" the others echoed.

They drew up outside the Milan. Rosa Morgen turned to their escort.

"We will meet you in the hall in five minutes," she said. "Then we can
all go together and find Mr. Selingman."


CHAPTER XV


Selingman's supper party was in some respects both distinctive and
unusual. Norgate, looking around him, thought that he had never in his
life been among such a motley assemblage of people. There were eight or
nine musical comedy young ladies; a couple of young soldiers, one of whom
he knew slightly, who had arrived as escorts to two of the young ladies;
Prince Edward of Lenemaur; a youthful peer, who by various misdemeanours
had placed himself outside the pale of any save the most Bohemian
society, and several other men whose faces were unfamiliar. They occupied
a round table just inside the door of the restaurant, and they sat there
till long after the lights were lowered. The conversation all the time
was of the most general and frivolous description, and Selingman, as the
hour grew later, seemed to grow larger and redder and more joyous. The
only hint at any serious conversation came from the musical comedy star
who sat at Norgate's left.

"Do you know our host very well?" she asked Norgate once.

"I am afraid I can't say that I know him well at all," Norgate replied.
"I met him in the train coming from Berlin, a few nights ago."

"He is the most original person," she declared. "He entertains whenever
he has a chance; he makes new friends every hour; he eats and drinks and
seems always to be enjoying himself like an overgrown baby. And yet, all
the time there is such a very serious side to him. One feels that he has
a purpose in it all."

"Perhaps he has," Norgate ventured.

"Perhaps he has," she agreed, lowering her voice a little. "At least, I
believe one thing. I believe that he is a good German and yet a great
friend of England."

"You don't find the two incompatible, then?"

"I do not," the young lady replied firmly. "I do not understand
everything, of course, but I am half German and half English, so I can
appreciate both sides, and I do believe that Mr. Selingman, if he had not
been so immersed in his business, might have been a great politician."

The conversation drifted into other channels. Norgate was obliged to give
some attention to the more frivolous young lady on his right. The general
exodus to the bar smoking-room only took place long after midnight. Every
one was speaking of going on to a supper club to dance, and Norgate
quietly slipped away. He took a hurried leave of his host.

"You will excuse me, won't you?" he begged. "Enjoyed my evening
tremendously. I'd like you to come and dine with me one night."

"We will meet at the club to-morrow afternoon," Selingman declared. "But
why not come on with us now? You are not weary? They are taking me to a
supper club, these young people. I have engaged myself to dance with
Miss Morgen--I, who weigh nineteen stone! It will be a thing to see.
Come with us."

Norgate excused himself and left the place a moment later. It was a fine
night, and he walked slowly towards Pall Mall, deep in thought. Now it
is a strange thing for the marketing of medical services to children
three to six years.

In healthy days is the doctor and the chimney sweeps often even
used as an educational means: "son, if you're not good, the chimney
sweeps and picks up!"

Or "child, if you have too much of it eatest, then the doctor and
there you bitter medicine, or even requires you to leech!

"The consequence is that, in bad times when the doctor called to the room
occurs, the little angel to cry ill, to defend and to look to kick
start.

An investigation of the condition is worse, but impossible for hours but
the doctor may not be the calming, soothing it. As usually helped me
quickly leaf paper and pencil, one of the stories as they are in the
book will soon invented, drawn with three strokes, and as alive
to tell.

The wild man opposition is quiet, the tears dry, and the physician can
easily do his duty. [Illustration: Heinrich Hoffmann] Thus, most of
these great scenes, and I drew it from existing stock and some
were later invented, the images were with the same pen and ink
drawing, with only the rhymes I had written, everything immediately
and without literary intention.

The booklet was included on the Christmas table. The effect on the
person the boy was expected, but unexpectedly was on some adult
friends, the book got to face.

From all sides, I was asked to print it and publish it. I leaned it from
the beginning, I had not the faintest thought of as a children's
writer and images Büchler proceedings. Almost unwilling I was encouraged
when I was once in a literary dinner party with one of my current
publisher in the comfortable zusammensaß bottle. And so did the modest
house child suddenly out into the wide open world and made his journey
now, I can say to the world, and is today since thirty-one years to come
_hundertsten_ edition. From Uebersetzungen me until now is an English,
Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Russian, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese
(for Brazil) come to face. I must also mention the strange
success, the beginning of the book itself was in Frankfurt . In the
first months of the year 1846, after the Struwwelpeter last Christmas for
the first time in the children's world was made, I was often
delighted grateful mothers or fathers on the street is stopped,
which I welcomed with the words: "Dear Doctor, what have They made
us happy.

I have at home, a three-year-old child, which has until now developed
very slowly and is now in a very short time the whole book memorized
and knows very excellent hersagt. I assure you, in which the child is!
"- At that time, the geniuses among the children has become quite
common.

Later the people saw clearly, that it not only in the exceptional
facilities of the little ones, than the happily taken plastic diction
stage. Nevertheless one has the Struwwelpeter also accused of major
sins, even the same as a fairy tale, the images as often bitter
grimace term enough blame.

As someone said: "That book with its grimaces spoil the aesthetic feeling
of the child."

Well, you educate the babies in art galleries or in cabinets with antique
Gypsabdrücken! But we must also prevent that the child itself is
not small human figures made of two circles and four straight lines
in the known way draw and is happier than when he shows the Laocoon.
- The book is so fabulous, gruesome, exaggerated notions cause!

The Germanic child is only the Germanic people, and these are hardly
national educators the story of Little Red Riding Hood, the wolf swallowed,
from Snow White, the wicked stepmother poisoned from the People's
consciousness and from the nursery Vertilger.

With the absolute truth, with algebraic or geometric rates comes
to mind but no children, but makes them miserable atrophy. - And
how many miracles surrounded because not even the adults, even the
sober scientist!

The Baby is all still wonderful, and look what it hears, and in relation
to the still unexplained is about the mass of the recognized but not so
huge. The mind will already give his right, and man is happy, which
is a part of children's sense of his first years in the twilight of life
over to save understood.

My other books of the kind, "King Nutcracker," "In heaven and on earth",
"Bastian of the sluggard," "Prince and Grünewald Perlenfein," emerged
in the same intention and the same view. But I always went by the
conviction of the child and recorded only understands what it sees. "(From
the arbor, born 1871 No 46) The Struwwelpeter or funny stories and funny
pictures [Illustration] When the kids are like, come to them the Christ
Child, and when they eat their soup and bread do not forget that
when they make no noise, still are the seven things when Spaziergehn
on the streets of Mom can keep, it brings them good enough and a
nice Picturebook.

Literarische Anstalt. Frankfurt a. M. [Illustration] Look once, here it is,
ugh, the _Struwwelpeter_!

At the hands of two he had not cut his nails for almost a year, he does
not comb his hair. Pfui shouts as everyone: Garstger Struwwelpeter! The
story of the evil Friederich [Illustration] The _Friederich_, Friederich
of the humor was a Todbringer! He started flying in the house and tore
them from the wings. He suggested the Chair and dead birds, the cats have
suffered great distress and just listen, we bös he was: He whipped
his Gretchen indeed! [Illustration] At the well stood a great dog who
drank the water there with his mouth. As with the whip herzu is slipped
the bitter Friederich, and beat the dog, who howled very , and
came and hit him more and more.

Because the dog bit him in the leg, quite deeply into the blood into it.
The bitter Friederich, screamed and wept bitterly. But after the dog ran
home and took the whip in the mouth. [Illustration] Ins bed Friedrich
must now enter, many suffered from pain in his leg, and the doctor sits
there and gives him bittre Arzenei. The dog sat at tables of Frederick,
where he ate the large cake, which also ate and drank good liverwurst
the wine for his thirst.

The whip, he has brought and take it very sorglich eight. The sad story
even with the lighter [Illustration] _Paulinchen_ was alone at
home, the parents were both from.

As she jumped through the room with light courage and Sing and Sang, as she
saw suddenly stand in front of a lighter kind anzusehn. "egg," she said,
"Oh, how beautiful and fine! That must be an excellent toy. I light
me a match, it's how often the mother has done. "And _Minz_ and _Maunz_,
the cats, collect their paws. your face with the paws:" The father's
forbidden!

Miau! M! Miau! M! Let stand! otherwise you burn brightly, "Pauli's not
hear the cats! The match burns bright and even light, which flickers funny,
crackles loudly, as her grad's on the picture looks. Pauli Chen but very
pleased in the room and jumped back and forth.

But Minz and Maunz, the cats, collect their paws. your face with the paws:
"The mother's forbidden! Miau! M! Miau! M!'s Throw away! otherwise you
burn brightly, "[Illustration] But alas!

the flame summarizes the dress, the apron burns, it shines far. It burns
the hand, it burns the hair, it burns even the whole child. Minz and
Maunz And, even the screaming miserably to two: "herbei!

Herbei! Who can help quickly? In fire, the whole child! Miau!
M! Miau! M!

       To Help!

the child is burning brightly, "Incinerated, everything is completely
and utterly, the poor child with skin and hair, a Häuflein ash
remains alone and both shoes, so pretty and delicate. And Minz and
Maunz, small to sit there and cry:" Miau! M! Miau! M! Where are the
poor parents! where? "And her tears flow as it streams in the meadows.
The history of the black boys [Illustration] There was a walk in
front of the gate a coal pitch-black raven-Mohr.

The sun shone on his brain since he took his umbrella.

Then came the _Ludwig_ hergerannt and wore his flag in his hand.
_Kaspar_ The came with a quick step and brought with his pretzel. And even
the _Wilhelm_ stiff and was not brought his round Reif. The screamed
and laughed all three, as there Mohr passed because it was so was black
as ink! [Illustration] Then came the big _Nikolas_ with its huge inkstand.
The said, "My children, listen to me and let the pretty Mohren in Ruh!
What can because this Moor that he does not know is how you? "The boys
were followed but not him and laughed and laughed in the face worse than
previously about the poor, the black Moor. [Illustration] The Niklas
was malicious and wild, you see it here in this picture! He immediately
grabbed the boy finds the arm, at the head, at the Rock and the
West and the Wilhelm Ludewig, the Kaspar also that fought.

He dips them in ink deep, as well as Kaspar »fire cried. Until
übern head dips into the inkstand to the great Nicholas.

[Illustration] You see them here, as they are black, much blacker than the
negro child.

The negro ahead in the sunshine, the ink hinterdrein boys, and they
had not laughed, had she Niklas made not black.

The story of the savage hunter [Illustration] There was the wild man hunter
green grass on new Röcklein; took knapsack, flint and powder horn,
and ran out into the field quickly.

He wore glasses on the Nas and wanted to shoot dead the Has. The bunny
sits in the house and leaves laughs hunter from the wild. Now the
sun shone even too much, because his gun was too heavy. He laid himself
down in the green grass, all saw the little Has.

And when the hunters snores and slept, Has the whole secret to him,
ran and took the Flint and the Brill, and slipped them very powerful
and quiet.

The spectacle now has the bunnies themselves Nas on his set, and
want's to shoot from the gun.

The hunter but very afraid. He runs away and jumps and screams: "To help
its people to help their people," [Illustration] Here comes the wild man
as the hunter deep in Brno Chen. He jumps into it. The need was great
and it shoots the shotgun Has the release. [Illustration] The
hunter wife sat at the window and drank from their Kaffeetaß. The shot
completely in two, the bunnies, because the woman cried: "Oh wei!

O wei! "But at the Brno's secretly sat the baby bunnies, the little
Has.

The squatted there in the green grass, the coffee flowed to the
Nas. He shouted: 'Who has burnt me?" And held the spoon in the hand.
The story of thumb Lollipops [Illustration] »_Konrad_," said the
woman Mama, "I go out and you stay there.

Be neat and pretty devout until after I come back home. And above all,
Konrad, hör! not suck thumb more, because with Scher Schneider's otherwise
quite so quickly, and the thumb as he performs as if it would be paper.
"[Illustration] Fort is now the mother and Wupper!

the thumb in the mouth.

[Illustration] Bauz!

there goes the door, and enters into a fast running jump to Schneider
in the stub to the thumb-Lollipops-Bub. Alas! now it is quite the shear
folding with the thumb, with the large, sharp Scher! Hei! crying because
of the very Konrad. [Illustration] When the mother comes home, sees
the Konrad sad. Without it there is the thumb, which are both continuing.
The history of soup Kaspar [Illustration] The _Kaspar_, was the
fiddle, a fat boy and round.

He had red cheeks and fresh, the soup he ate at the table nicely.

But once he began to Shrine: "I do not eat soup! no, I do not eat my soup!
No, my soup ESS I do not! "On _nächsten_ day - yes just look at her!
because he was much leaner. Since he started again to the shrine," I
do not eat soup! no, I do not eat my soup! No, my soup ESS I do not! "On
_dritten_ day, alas and oh! as Kaspar, the thin and weak!

But when the soup came in, he immediately began to return to the shrine,"
I do not eat soup! no, I do not eat my soup!

No, my soup ESS I do not!

"On _vierten_ days finally even Kaspar was like a Fädchen. He weighed
perhaps half a lot - and was dead on _fünften_ days The story of
fidgety-Philipp [Illustration] "Whether the _Philipp_ today probably
still wants to sit at table?" So said in a serious tone of the father
to his son, and the mother looked silently at the whole table
around.

But Philip did not, resulting in him the father speaks . gaukelt and
he rocks, he trappelt and zappelt on the chairs back and forth. "Philipp,
which displeases me a lot!"

[Illustration] Look, love their children, see what's going to Philipp!
top is in the picture. Behold! He even swings wildly, until the
chair falls backwards. There is nothing more to keep him.

After the tablecloth, he screams. But what helps you? At the same time,
falling plates, bottles and bread.

Father is in great distress, and the mother blicket silent on the
whole table around.

[Illustration] Now Philip is completely hidden, and the table is covered.
What the father wanted to eat, down to the earth rolls. soup, bread and
all the bite, everything is herabgerissen. soup bowl is broken, and the
parents stand there. Both are very angry indeed, have nothing to
eat more.

The story of Hans Guck-in-the-air [Illustration ] If the _Hanns_
went to school, his gaze always hung in the sky.

After the rooftops, clouds, swallows, he looks up everywhere. Before the
legs are tight, yes, there was not the boy, so that everyone cries
out: "See the Hans Guck-in-the-air, "a dog came running, therefore,
unrelated Hännslein looked into the air.

No one cries out:" Hanns! Give eight, the dog is close, "What
happened?

Bauz, perdauz! - There are two, dog and Hännschen incidentally.

[Illustration] Once he went to shore with the edge of the folder in his
hand.

After the high blue sky, he saw where the swallow flew, so that it
plugs grad increasingly came to the river. And the fishes in the series
are very surprised that all three. One more step! and bump! Hanns
plunges headlong down completely! - The three fishes, very frightened, are
immediately hidden.

[Illustration] But fortunately there are two men from the sewing
of guilt, and they have him with sticks from the water absorbed.

Look! Now is the sopping wet! Oh, that's a bad fun! water runs from
the poor fellow's hair into his face, from the clothes of the poor,
and it freezes him for mercy.

But all three fish, swim hurtig equal herbei ; Köpflein stretching
from the tsunami, laugh, listen to that man's doing, continued to laugh
for a long time.

And the section swims well.

The Story of Flying Robert [Illustration] When the rain niederbraust when
the storm left the field durchsaust girls or boys nicely at home in
their offices. _Robert_ but thought: No!

the outside must be splendid! patschet And in the field with the umbrella
around. [Illustration] Hui, as the whistling storm and pants that the
tree is niederbeugt! Behold! the screen covers the wind, and the Robert
flies swiftly through the air so high, so far. Nobody hears him when he
cries. At the clouds he already faces, and also the hat flies away.
[Illustration] Umbrella and Robert fly there through the clouds always
continue. And the hat flies far ahead, faces the sky at last. Where
the wind they hingetragen, yes, the white man to say no. _aus The other
picture books from the publisher Rütten & Loening_ _Vom author of
Struwwelpeter: _ [ Illustration: Visiting Mrs. solar rebate from
the publication of Edward and Walter Hesse Mountain] [Illustration:
In heaven and on earth] [Illustration: Bastian the sluggard]
[Illustration: King Nutcracker and poor Reinhold] [Illustration:
Prince Grünewald and Perlenfein ] melodies to Dr.

Heinrich Hoffmann Struwwelpeter _Von other authors: _ The Pegasus
Classic picture for the German youth of H.

Oswalt and E. Klimsch tree Allerlei Unterm fairytale fairy tales, stories
and fables in rhyme and pictures of The Robinson H. Oswalt in rhyme
and Image of Fried _Zu star refer all Buchhandlungen_ [Illustration]
pressure by C.

Naumann 's Druckerei, Frankfurt a. M.

That country is England. England must be dealt with diplomatically.' He
looks across the continent to you, Prince. This is the friendly message
which I have brought from his own lips."

The Prince stirred his coffee thoughtfully. He was a man just passing
middle-age, with grey hair, thin in places but carefully trimmed, brushed
sedulously back from his high forehead. His moustache, too, was grey, and
his face was heavily lined, but his eyes, clear and bright, were almost
the eyes of a young man.

"You can reassure the Emperor," he declared. "As you may imagine, my
supply of information here is plentiful. If those things should come that
we know of, it is my firm belief that with some reasonable yet nominal
considerations, this Government will never lend itself to war."

"You really believe that?" she asked earnestly.

"I do," her companion assured her. "I try to be fair in my judgments.
London is a pleasant city to live in, and English people are agreeable
and well-bred, but they are a people absolutely without vital impulses.
Patriotism belongs to their poetry books. Indolence has stagnated their
blood. They are like a nation under a spell, with their faces turned
towards the pleasant and desirable things. Only a few months ago, they
even further reduced the size of their ridiculous army and threw cold
water upon a scheme for raising untrained help in case of emergency. Even
their navy estimates are passed with difficulty. The Government which is
conducting the destinies of a people like this, which believes that war
belongs to a past age, is never likely to become a menace to us."

Anna drew a little sigh and lit the cigarette which the Prince passed
her. She threw herself back in her chair with an air of contentment.

"It is so pleasant once more to be among the big things," she declared.
"In Berlin I think they are not fond of me, and they are so pompous and
secretive. Tell me, dear Prince, will you not be kinder to me? Tell me
what is really going to happen?"

He moved his chair a little closer to hers.

"I see no reason," he said cautiously, "why you should not be told.
Events, then, will probably move in this direction. Provocation will be
given by Servia. That is easily arranged. Tension will be caused, Austria
will make enormous demands, Russia will remonstrate, and, before any one
has time to breathe, the clouds will part to let the lightnings through.
If anything, we are over-ready, straining with over-readiness."

"And the plan of campaign?"

"Austria and Italy," the Prince continued slowly, "will easily keep
Russia in check. Germany will seize Belgium and rush through to Paris.
She will either impose her terms there or leave a second-class army to
conclude the campaign. There will be plenty of time for her then to turn
back and fall in with her allies against Russia."

"And England?" Anna asked. "Supposing?"

The Prince tapped the table with his forefinger.

"Here," he announced, "we conquer with diplomacy. We have imbued the
present Cabinet, even the Minister who is responsible for the army, with
the idea that we stand for peace. We shall seem to be the attacked party
in this war. We shall say to England--'Remain neutral. It is not your
quarrel, and we will be capable of a great act of self-sacrifice. We will
withhold our fleet from bombarding the French towns. England could do no
more than deal with our fleet if she were at war. She shall do the same
without raising a finger.' No country could refuse so sane and
businesslike an offer, especially a country which will at once count upon
its fingers how much it will save by not going to war."

"And afterwards?"

The Prince shrugged his shoulders. "Afterwards is inevitable."

"Please go on," she insisted.

"We shall occupy the whole of the coast from Antwerp to Havre. The
indemnity which France and Russia will pay us will make us the mightiest
nation on earth. We shall play with England as a cat with a mouse, and
when the time comes.... Well, perhaps that will do," the Prince
concluded, smiling.

Anna was silent for several moments.

"I am a woman, you know," she said simply, "and this sounds, in a way,
terrible. Yet for months I have felt it coming."

"There is nothing terrible about it," the Prince replied, "if you keep
the great principles of progress always before you. If a million or so
of lives are sacrificed, the great Germany of the future, gathering
under her wings the peoples of the world, will raise them to a pitch
of culture and contentment and happiness which will more than atone
for the sacrifices of to-day. It is, after all, the future to which we
must look."

A telephone bell rang at the Prince's elbow. He listened for a moment
and nodded.

"An urgent visitor demands a moment of my time," he said, rising.

"I have taken already too much," Anna declared, "but I felt it was time
that I heard the truth. They fence with me so in Berlin, and, believe me,
Prince Herschfeld, in Vienna the Emperor is almost wholly ignorant of
what is planned."

The door was opened behind them. The Prince turned around. A young man
had ushered in Herr Selingman. For a moment the latter looked steadily at
Anna. Then he glanced at the Ambassador as though questioningly.

"You two must have met," the Prince murmured.

"We have met," Anna declared, smiling, as she made her way towards the
door, "but we do not know one another. It is best like that. Herr
Selingman and I work in the same army--"

"But I, madame, am the sergeant," Selingman interrupted, with a low bow,
"whilst you are upon the staff."

She laughed as she made her adieux and departed. The door closed heavily
behind her. Selingman came a little further into the room.

"You have read your dispatches this morning, Prince?" he asked.

"Not yet," the latter replied. "Is there news, then?"

Selingman pointed to the closed door. "You have spoken for long
with her?"

"Naturally," the Prince assented. "She is a confidential friend of the
Emperor. She has been entrusted for the last two years with all the
private dispatches between Vienna and Berlin."

"In your letters you will find news," Selingman declared. "She is
pronounced suspect. She is under my care at this moment. A report was
brought to me half an hour ago that she was here. I came on at once
myself. I trust that I am in time?"

The Prince stood quite silent for a moment.

"Fortunately," he answered coolly, "I have told her nothing."


CHAPTER XVIII


As Norgate entered the premises of Selingman, Horsfal and Company a
little later on the same morning he looked around him in some surprise.
He had expected to find a deserted warehouse--probably only an office. He
saw instead all the evidences of a thriving and prosperous business.
Drays were coming and going from the busy door. Crates were piled up to
the ceiling, clerks with notebooks in their hands passed continually back
and forth. A small boy in a crowded office accepted his card and
disappeared. In a few minutes he led Norgate into a waiting-room and
handed him a paper.

"Mr. Selingman is engaged with a buyer for a few moments, sir," he
reported. "He will see you presently."

Norgate looked through the windows out into the warehouse. There was no
doubt whatever that this was a genuine and considerable trading concern.
Presently the door of the inner office opened, and he heard Mr.
Selingman's hearty tones.

"You have done well for yourself and well for your firm, sir," he was
saying. "There is no one in Germany or in the world who can produce
crockery at the price we do. They will give you a confirmation of the
order in the office. Ah! my young friend," he went on, turning to
Norgate, "you have kept your word, then. You are not a customer, but you
may walk in. I shall make no money out of you, but we will talk
together."

Norgate passed on into a comfortably furnished office, a little redolent
of cigar smoke. Selingman bit off the end of a cigar and pushed the box
towards his visitor.

"Try one of these," he invited. "German made, but Havana
tobacco--mild as milk."

"Thank you," Norgate answered. "I don't smoke cigars in the morning. I'll
have a cigarette, if I may."

"As you will. What do you think of us now that you have found your
way here?"

"Your business seems to be genuine enough, at all events," Norgate
observed.

"Genuine? Of course it is!" Selingman declared emphatically. "Do you
think I should be fool enough to be connected with a bogus affair? My
father and my grandfather before me were manufacturers of crockery. I can
assure you that I am a very energetic and a very successful business man.
If I have interests in greater things, those interests have developed
naturally, side by side with my commercial success. When I say that I am
a German, that to me means more, much more, than if I were to declare
myself a native of any other country in the world. Sit opposite to me
there. I have a quarter of an hour to spare. I can show you, if you will,
over a thousand designs of various articles. I can show you
orders--genuine orders, mind--from some of your big wholesale houses,
which would astonish you. Or, if you prefer it, we can talk of affairs
from another point of view. What do you say?"

"My interest in your crockery," Norgate announced, "is non-existent. I
have come to hear your offer. I have decided to retire--temporarily, at
any rate--from the Diplomatic Service. I understand that I am in
disgrace, and I resent it. I resent having had to leave Berlin except at
my own choice. I am looking for a job in some other walk of life."

Selingman nodded approvingly.

"Forgive me," he said, "but it is true, then, that you are in some way
dependent upon your profession?"

"I am not a pauper outside it," Norgate replied, "but that is not the
sole question. I need work, an interest in life, something to think
about. I must either find something to do, or I shall go to Abyssinia. I
should prefer an occupation here."

"I can help you," Selingman said slowly, "if you are a young man of
common sense. I can put you in the way of earning, if you will, a
thousand pounds a year and your travelling expenses, without interfering
very much with your present mode of life."

"Selling crockery?"

Selingman flicked the ash from the end of his cigar. He shook his head
good-naturedly.

"I am a judge of character, young man," he declared. "I pride myself upon
that accomplishment. I know very well that in you we have one with
brains. Nevertheless, I do not believe that you would sell my crockery."

"It seems easy enough," Norgate observed.

"It may seem easy," Selingman objected, "but it is not. You have not, I
am convinced, the gifts of a salesman. You would not reason and argue
with these obstinate British shopkeepers. No! Your value to me would lie
in other directions--in your social position, your opportunities of
meeting with a class above the commercial one in which I have made my few
English friends, and in your own intelligence."

"I scarcely see of what value these things would be to a vendor of
crockery."

"They would be of no value at all," Selingman admitted. "It is not in the
crockery business that I propose to make use of you. I believe that we
both know that. We may dismiss it from our minds. It is only fencing with
words. I will take you a little further. You have heard, by chance, of
the Anglo-German Peace Society?"

"The name sounds familiar," Norgate confessed. "I can't say that I know
anything about it."

"It was I who inaugurated that body," Selingman announced. "It is I who
direct its interests."

"Congratulate you, I'm sure. You must find it uphill work sometimes."

"It is uphill work all the time," the German agreed. "Our great object
is, as you can guess from the title, to promote good-feeling between the
two countries, to heal up all possible breaches, to soothe and dispel
that pitiful jealousy, of which, alas! too much exists. It is not easy,
Mr. Norgate. It is not easy, my young friend. I meet with many
disappointments. Yet it is a great and worthy undertaking."

"It sounds all right," Norgate observed. "Where do I come in?"

"I will explain. To carry out the aims of our society, there is much
information which we are continually needing. People in Germany are often
misled by the Press here. Facts and opinions are presented to them often
from an unpalatable point of view. Furthermore, there is a section of the
Press which, so far from being on our side, seems deliberately to try to
stir up ill-feeling between the two countries. We want to get behind the
Press. For that purpose we need to know the truth about many matters; and
as the truth is a somewhat rare commodity, we are willing to pay for it.
Now we come face to face. It will be your business, if you accept my
offer, to collect such facts as may be useful to us."

"I see," Norgate remarked dubiously, "or rather I don't see at all. Give
me an example of the sort of facts you require."

Mr. Selingman leaned a little forward in his chair. He was warming to
his subject.

"By all means. There is the Irish question, then."

"The Irish question," Norgate repeated. "But of what interest can that be
to you in Germany?"

"Listen," Selingman continued. "Just as you in London have great
newspapers which seem to devote themselves to stirring up bitter feeling
between our two countries, so we, alas! in Germany, have newspapers and
journals which seem to devote all their energies to the same object. Now
in this Irish question the action of your Government has been very much
misrepresented in that section of our Press and much condemned. I should
like to get at the truth from an authoritative source. I should like to
get it in such a form that I can present it fairly and honestly to the
public of Germany."

"That sounds reasonable enough," Norgate admitted. "There are several
pamphlets--"

"I do not want pamphlets," Selingman interrupted. "I want an actual
report from Ulster and Dublin of the state of feeling in the country,
and, if possible, interviews with prominent people. For this the society
would pay a bonus over and above the travelling expenses and your salary.
If you accept my offer, this is probably one of the first tasks I should
commit to you."

"Give me a few more examples," Norgate begged.

"Another subject," Selingman continued, "upon which there is wide
divergence of opinions in Germany, and a great deal of misrepresentation,
is the attitude of certain of your Cabinet Ministers towards the French
_entente_: how far they would support it, at what they would stop short."

"Isn't that rather a large order?" Norgate ventured. "I don't number
many Cabinet Ministers among my personal friends."

Selingman puffed away at his cigar for a moment. Then he withdrew it
from his mouth and expelled large volumes of smoke.

"You are, I believe, intimately acquainted with Mr. Hebblethwaite?"

"How the mischief did you know that?" Norgate demanded.

"Our society," Selingman announced, smiling ponderously, "has
ramifications in every direction. It is our business to know much. We are
collectors of information of every sort and nature."

"Seems to have been part of your business to follow me about,"
observed Norgate.

"Perhaps so. If we thought it good for us to have you followed about, we
certainly should," Selingman admitted. "You see, in Germany," he added,
leaning back in his chair, "we lay great stress upon detail and
intelligence. We get to know things: not the smattering of things, like
you over here are too often content with, but to know them thoroughly and
understand them. Nothing ever takes us by surprise. We are always
forewarned. So far as any one can, we read the future."

"You are a very great nation, without a doubt," Norgate acknowledged,
"but my quarter of an hour is coming to an end. Tell me what else you
would expect from me if I accepted this post?"

"For the moment, I can think of nothing," Selingman replied. "There are
many ways in which we might make use of you, but to name them now would
be to look a little too far into the future."

"By whom should I really be employed?"

"By the Anglo-German Peace Society," Selingman answered promptly. "Let
me say a word more about that society. I am proud of it. I am one of
those prominent business men who are responsible for its initiation. I
have given years of time and thought to it. All our efforts are directed
towards promoting a better understanding with England, towards teaching
the two countries to appreciate one another. But in the background there
is always something else. It is useless to deny that the mistrust
existing between the two countries has brought them more than once
almost to the verge of war. What we want is to be able, at critical
times, to throw oil upon the troubled waters, and if the worst should
come, if a war really should break out, then we want to be able to act
as peacemakers, to heal as soon as possible any little sores that there
may be, and to enter afterwards upon a greater friendship with a
purified England."

"It sounds very interesting," Norgate confessed. "I had an idea that you
were proposing something quite different."

"Please explain."

"To be perfectly frank with you," Norgate acknowledged, "I thought you
wanted me to do the ordinary spy business--traces of fortresses, and
particulars about guns and aeroplanes--"

"Rubbish, my dear fellow!" Selingman interrupted. "Rubbish! Those things
we leave to our military department, and pray that the question of their
use may never arise. We are concerned wholly with economic and social
questions, and our great aim is not war but peace."

"Very well, then," Norgate decided, "I accept. When shall I start?"

Selingman laid his hand upon the other's shoulder as he rose to his feet.

"Young man," he said, "you have come to a wise decision. Your salary will
commence from the first of this month. Continue to live as usual. Let me
have the opportunity of seeing you at the club, and let me know each day
where you can be found. I will give you your instructions from day to
day. You will be doing a great work, and, mind you, a patriotic work. If
ever your conscience should trouble you, remember that. You are working
not for Germany but for England."

"I will always remember that," Norgate promised, as he turned away.


CHAPTER XIX


Norgate found Anna waiting for him in the hall of the smaller hotel,
a little further westward, to which she had moved. He looked
admiringly at her cool white muslin gown and the perfection of her
somewhat airy toilette.

"You are five minutes late," she remonstrated.

"I had to go into the city," he apologised. "It was rather an important
engagement. Soon I must tell you all about it."

She looked at him a little curiously.

"I will be patient," promised Anna, "and ask no questions."

"You are still depressed?"

"Horribly," she confessed. "I do not know why, but London is getting on
my nerves. It is so hatefully, stubbornly, obstinately imperturbable. I
would find another word, but it eludes me. I think you would call it
smug. And it is so noisy. Can we not go somewhere for lunch where it is
tranquil, where one can rest and get away from this roar?"

"We could go to Ranelagh, if you liked," suggested Norgate. "There
are some polo matches on this afternoon, but it will be quiet enough
for lunch."

"I should love it!" she exclaimed. "Let us go quickly."

They lunched in a shady corner of the restaurant and sat afterwards
under a great oak tree in a retired spot at the further end of the
gardens. Anna was still a little thoughtful.

"Do you know," she told her companion, "that I have received a hint to
present myself in Berlin as soon as possible?"

"Are you going?" Norgate demanded quickly.

"I am not sure," she answered. "I feel that I must, and yet, in a sense,
I do not like to go. I have a feeling that they do not mean to let me out
of Berlin again. They think that I know too much."

"But why should they suddenly lose faith in you?" Norgate asked.

"Perhaps because the end is so near," she replied. "They know that I have
strong English sympathies. Perhaps they think that they would not bear
the strain of the times which are coming."

"You are an even greater pessimist than I myself," Norgate observed. "Do
you really believe that the position is so critical?"

"I know it," she assured him. "I will not tell you all my reasons. There
is no need for me to break a trust without some definite object. It seems
to me that if your Secret Service Department were worth anything at all,
your country would be in a state almost of panic. What is it they are
playing down there? Polo, isn't it? There are six or eight military
teams, crowds of your young officers making holiday. And all the time
Krupps are working overtime, working night and day, and surrounded by
sentries who shoot at sight any stranger. There are parts of the country,
even now, under martial law. The streets and the plains resound to the
footsteps of armed hosts."

"But there is no excuse for war," he reminded her.

"An excuse is very easily found," she sighed. "German diplomacy is clumsy
enough, but I think it can manage that. Do you know that this morning I
had a letter from one of the greatest nobles of our own Court at Vienna?
He knew that I had intended to take a villa in Normandy for August and
September. He has written purposely to warn me not to do so, to warn me
not to be away from Austria or Germany after the first of August."

"So soon!" he murmured.

They listened to the band for a moment. In the distance, an unceasing
stream of men and women were passing back and forth under the trees and
around the polo field.

"It will come like a thunderbolt," she said, "and when I think of it, all
that is English in me rises up in revolt. In my heart I know so well that
it is Germany and Germany alone who will provoke this war. I am terrified
for your country. I admit it, you see, frankly. The might of Germany is
only half understood here. It is to be a war of conquest, almost of
extermination."

"That isn't the view of your friend Selingman," Norgate reminded her.
"He, too, hints at coming trouble, but he speaks of it as just a salutary
little lesson."

"Selingman, more than any one else in the world, knows differently," she
assured him. "But come, we talk too seriously on such a wonderful
afternoon. I have made up my mind on one point, at least. I will stay
here for a few days longer. London at this time of the year is wonderful.
Besides, I have promised the Princess of Thurm that I will go to Ascot
with her. Why should we talk of serious things any longer? Let us have a
little rest. Let us promenade there with those other people, and listen
to the band, and have some tea afterwards."

Norgate rose with alacrity, and they strolled across the lawns and down
towards the polo field. Very soon they found themselves meeting friends
in every direction. Anna extricated herself from a little group of
acquaintances who had suddenly claimed her and came over to Norgate.

"Prince Herschfeld wants to talk to me for a few minutes," she whispered.
"I think I should like to hear what he has to say. The Princess is there,
too, whom I have scarcely seen. Will you come and be presented?"

"Might I leave you with them for a few minutes?" Norgate suggested.
"There is a man here whom I want to talk to. I will come back for you in
half an hour."

"You must meet the Prince first," she insisted. "He was interested when
he heard who you were."

She turned to the little group who were awaiting her return. The
Ambassador moved a little forward.

"Prince," she said, "may I present to you Mr. Francis Norgate? Mr.
Norgate has just come from Berlin."

"Not with the kindliest feelings towards us, I am afraid," remarked the
Prince, holding out his hand. "I hope, however, that you will not judge
us, as a nation, too severely."

"On the contrary, I was quite prepared to like Germany," Norgate
declared. "I was simply the victim of a rather unfortunate happening."

"There are many others besides myself who sincerely regret it," the
Prince said courteously. "You are kind enough to leave the Baroness for a
little time in our charge. We will take the greatest care of her, and I
hope that when you return you will give me the great pleasure of
presenting you to the Princess."

"You are very kind," Norgate murmured.

"We shall meet again, then," the Prince declared, as he turned away with
Anna by his side.

"In half an hour," Anna whispered, smiling at him over her shoulder.


CHAPTER XX


The Right Honourable John William Hebblethwaite strolled along by the
rails of the polo ground, exchanging greetings with friends, feeling very
well content with himself and the world generally. A difficult session
was drawing towards an end. The problem which had defeated so many
governments seemed at last, under his skilful treatment, capable of
solution. Furthermore, the session had been one which had added to his
reputation both as an orator and a statesman. There had been an
astonishingly flattering picture of him in an illustrated paper that
week, and he was exceedingly pleased with the effect of the white hat
which he was wearing at almost a jaunty angle. He was a great man and he
knew it. Nevertheless, he greeted Norgate with ample condescension and
engaged him at once in conversation.

"Delighted to see you in such company, my young friend," he declared.
"I think that half an hour's conversation with Prince Herschfeld would
put some of those fire-eating ideas out of your head. That's the man
whom we have to thank for the everyday improvement of our relations
with Germany."

"The Prince has the reputation of being a great diplomatist,"
Norgate remarked.

"Added to which," Hebblethwaite continued, "he came over here charged,
as you might say, almost with a special mission. He came over here to
make friends with England. He has done it. So long as we have him in
London, there will never be any serious fear of misunderstanding between
the two countries."

"What a howling optimist you are!" Norgate observed.

"My young friend," Hebblethwaite protested, "I am nothing of the sort. I
am simply a man of much common sense, enjoying, I may add, a few hours'
holiday. By-the-by, Norgate, if one might venture to enquire without
indiscretion, who was the remarkably charming foreign lady whom you were
escorting?"

"The Baroness von Haase," Norgate replied. "She is an Austrian."

Mr. Hebblethwaite sighed. He rather posed as an admirer of the other sex.

"You young fellows," he declared, "who travel about the world, are much
to be envied. There is an elegance about the way these foreign women
dress, a care for detail in their clothes and jewellery, and a carriage
which one seldom finds here."

They had reached the far end of the field, having turned their backs, in
fact, upon the polo altogether. Norgate suddenly abandoned their
conversation.

"Look here," he said, in an altered tone, "do you feel inclined to answer
a few questions?"

"For publication?" Hebblethwaite asked drily. "You haven't turned
journalist, by any chance, have you?"

Norgate shook his head. "Nevertheless," he admitted, "I have changed my
profession. The fact is that I have accepted a stipend of a thousand a
year and have become a German spy."

"Good luck to you!" exclaimed Hebblethwaite, laughing softly. "Well, fire
away, then. You shall pick the brains of a Cabinet Minister at your
leisure, so long as you'll give me a cigarette--and present me, when we
have finished, to the Baroness. The country has no secrets from you,
Norgate. Where will you begin?"

"Well, you've been warned, any way," Norgate reminded him, as he offered
his cigarette case. "Now tell me. It is part of my job to obtain from you
a statement of your opinion as to exactly how far our _entente_ with
France is binding upon us."

Hebblethwaite cleared his throat.

"If this is for publication," he remarked, "could you manage a photograph
of myself at the head of the interview, in these clothes and with this
hat? I rather fancy myself to-day. A pocket kodak is, of course, part of
the equipment of a German spy."

"Sorry," Norgate regretted, "but that's a bit out of my line. I am the
disappointed diplomatist, doing the dirty work among my late friends.
What we should like to know from Mr. Hebblethwaite, confidentially
narrated to a personal friend, is whether, in the event of a war between
Germany and Russia and France, England would feel it her duty to
intervene?"

Hebblethwaite glanced around. The throng of people had cleared off to
watch the concluding stages of the match.

"I have a sovereign on this," he remarked, glancing at his card.

"Which have you backed?" Norgate enquired.

"The Lancers."

"Well, it's any odds on the Hussars, so you've lost your money,"
Norgate told him.

Hebblethwaite sighed resignedly. "Well," he said, "the question you
submit is a problem which has presented itself to us once or twice,
although I may tell you that there isn't a soul in the Cabinet except one
who believes in the chance of war. We are not a fire-eating lot, you
know. We are all for peace, and we believe we are going to have it.
However, to answer your questions more closely, our obligations depend
entirely upon the provocation giving cause for the war. If France and
Russia provoked it in any way, we should remain neutral. If it were a war
of sheer aggression from Germany against France, we might to a certain
extent intervene. There is not one of us, however, who believes for a
single moment that Germany would enter upon such a war."

"When you admit that we might to a certain extent intervene," Norgate
said, "exactly how should we do it, I wonder? We are not in a
particular state of readiness to declare war upon anybody or anything,
are we?" he added, as they turned around and strolled once more towards
the polo ground.

"We have had no money to waste upon senseless armaments," Mr.
Hebblethwaite declared severely, "and if you watch the social measures
which we have passed during the last two years, you will see that every
penny we could spare has been necessary in order to get them into working
order. It is our contention that an army is absolutely unnecessary and
would simply have the effect of provoking military reprisals. If we, by
any chance in the future, were drawn into war, our navy would be at the
service of our allies. What more could any country ask than to have
assured for them the absolute control of the sea?"

"That's all very well," Norgate assented. "It might be our fair share on
paper, and yet it might not be enough. What about our navy if Antwerp,
Ostend, Dunkirk, Calais, Boulogne, and Havre were all German ports, as
they certainly would be in an unassisted conflict between the French and
the Germans?"

They were within hearing now of the music of the band. Hebblethwaite
quickened his pace a little impatiently.

"Look here," he protested, "I came down here for a holiday, I tell you
frankly that I believe in the possibility of war just as much as I
believe in the possibility of an earthquake. My own personal feeling is
that it is just as necessary to make preparations against one as the
other. There you are, my German spy, that's all I have to say to you.
Here are your friends. I must pay my respects to the Prince, and I should
like to meet your charming companion."

Anna detached herself from a little group of men at their approach, and
Norgate at once introduced his friend.

"I have only been able to induce Mr. Hebblethwaite to talk to me for the
last ten minutes," he declared, "by promising to present him to you."

"A ceremony which we will take for granted," she suggested, holding out
her fingers. "Each time I have come to London, Mr. Hebblethwaite, I have
hoped that I might have this good fortune. You interest us so much on the
Continent."

Mr. Hebblethwaite bowed and looked as though he would have liked the
interest to have been a little more personal.

"You see," Anna explained, as she stood between the two men, "both
Austria and Germany, the two countries where I spend most of my time, are
almost military ridden. Our great statesmen, or the men who stand behind
them, are all soldiers. You represent something wholly different. Your
nation is as great and as prosperous as ours, and yet you are a pacifist,
are you not, Mr. Hebblethwaite? You scorn any preparations for war. You
do not believe in it. You give back the money that we should spend in
military or naval preparations to the people, for their betterment. It is
very wonderful."

"We act according to our convictions," Mr. Hebblethwaite pronounced. "It
is our earnest hope that we have risen sufficiently in the scale of
civilisation to be able to devote our millions to more moral objects than
the massing of armaments."

"And you have no fears?" she persisted earnestly. "You honestly believe
that you are justified in letting the fighting spirit of your people
lie dormant?"

"I honestly believe it, Baroness," Mr. Hebblethwaite replied. "Life is a
battle for all of them, but the fighting which we recognise is the fight
for moral and commercial supremacy, the lifting of the people by
education and strenuous effort to a higher plane of prosperity."

"Of course," Anna murmured, "what you say sounds frightfully convincing.
History only will tell us whether you are in the right."

"My thirst," Mr. Hebblethwaite observed, glancing towards the little
tables set out under the trees, "suggests tea and strawberries."

"If some one hadn't offered me tea in a moment or two," Anna declared, "I
should have gone back to the Prince, with whom I must confess I was very
bored. Shall we discuss politics or talk nonsense?"

"Talk nonsense," Mr. Hebblethwaite decided. "This is my holiday. My brain
has stopped working. I can think of nothing beyond tea and strawberries.
We will take that table under the elm trees, and you shall tell us all
about Vienna."


CHAPTER XXI


Norgate, after leaving Anna at her hotel, drove on to the club, where he
arrived a few minutes before seven. Selingman was there with Prince
Edward, and half a dozen others. Selingman, who happened not to be
playing, came over at once and sat by his side on the broad fender.

"You are late, my young friend," he remarked.

"My new career," Norgate replied, "makes demands upon me. I can no longer
spend the whole afternoon playing bridge. I have been attending to
business."

"It is very good," Selingman declared amiably. "That is the way I like to
hear you talk. To amuse oneself is good, but to work is better still.
Have you, by chance, any report to make?"

"I have had a long conversation with Mr. Hebblethwaite at Ranelagh this
afternoon," Norgate announced.

There was a sudden change in Selingman's expression, a glint of eagerness
in his eyes.

"With Hebblethwaite! You have begun well. He is the man above all others
of whose views we wish to feel absolutely certain. We know that he is a
strong man and a pacifist, but a pacifist to what extent? That is what we
wish to be clear about. Now tell me, you spoke to him seriously?"

"Very seriously, indeed," Norgate assented. "The subject suggested
itself naturally, and I contrived to get him to discuss the possibilities
of a European war. I posed rather as a pessimist, but he simply jeered at
me. He assured me that an earthquake was more probable. I pressed him on
the subject of the _entente_. He spoke of it as a thing of romance and
sentiment, having no place in any possible development of the
international situation. I put hypothetical cases of a European war
before him, but he only scoffed at me. On one point only was he
absolutely and entirely firm--under no circumstances whatever would the
present Cabinet declare war upon anybody. If the nation found itself face
to face with a crisis, the Government would simply choose the most
dignified and advantageous solution which embraced peace. In short, there
is one thing which you may count upon as absolutely certain. If England
goes to war at any time within the next four years, it will be under some
other government."

Selingman was vastly interested. He had drawn very close to Norgate, his
pudgy hands stretched out upon his knees. He dropped his voice so that it
was audible only a few feet away.

"Let me put an extreme case," he suggested. "Supposing Russia and Germany
were at war, and France, as Russia's ally, were compelled to mobilise. It
would not be a war of Germany's provocation, but Germany, in
self-defence, would be bound to attack France. She might also be
compelled by strategic considerations to invade Belgium. What do you
think your friend Hebblethwaite would say to that?"

"I am perfectly convinced," Norgate replied, "that Hebblethwaite would
work for peace at any price. The members of our present Government are
pacifists, every one of them, with the possible exception of the
Secretary of the Admiralty."

"Ah!" Mr. Selingman murmured. "Mr. Spencer Wyatt! He is the gentleman who
clamours so hard and fights so well for his navy estimates. Last time,
though, not all his eloquence could prevail. They were cut down almost a
half, eh?"

"I believe that was so," Norgate admitted.

"Mr. Spencer Wyatt, eh?" Selingman continued, his eyes fixed upon the
ceiling. "Well, well, one cannot wonder at his attitude. It is not his
role to pose as an economist. He is responsible for the navy.
Naturally he wants a big navy. I wonder what his influence in the
Cabinet really is."

"As to that," Norgate observed, "I know no more than the man in
the street."

"Naturally," Mr. Selingman agreed. "I was thinking to myself."

There was a brief silence. Norgate glanced around the room.

"I don't see Mrs. Benedek here this afternoon," he remarked.

Selingman shook his head solemnly.

"The inquest on the death of that poor fellow Baring is being held
to-day," he explained. "That is why she is staying away. A sad thing
that, Norgate--a very sad happening."

"It was indeed."

"And mysterious," Selingman went on. "The man apparently, an hour before,
was in high spirits. The special work upon which he was engaged at the
Admiralty was almost finished. He had received high praise for his share
in it. Every one who had seen him that day spoke of him as in absolutely
capital form. Suddenly he whips out a revolver from his desk and shoots
himself, and all that any one knows is that he was rung up by some one on
the telephone. There's a puzzle for you, Norgate."

Norgate made no reply. He felt Selingman's eyes upon him.

"A wonderful plot for the sensational novelist. To the ordinary human
being who knew Baring, there remains a substratum almost of uneasiness.
Where did that voice come from that spoke along the wires, and what was
its message? Baring, by all accounts, had no secrets in his life. What
was the message--a warning or a threat?"

"I did not read the account of the inquest," Norgate observed. "Wasn't it
possible to trace the person who rang up, through the telephone office?"

"In an ordinary case, yes," Selingman agreed. "In this case, no! The
person who rang up made use of a call office. But come, it is a gloomy
subject, this. I wish I had known that you were likely to see Mr.
Hebblethwaite this afternoon. Bear this in mind in case you should come
across him again. It would interest me very much to know whether any
breach of friendship has taken place at all between him and Mr. Spencer
Wyatt. Do you know Spencer Wyatt, by-the-by?"

"Only slightly," Norgate replied, "Not well enough to talk to him
intimately, as I can do to Hebblethwaite."

"Well, remember that last little commission," Selingman concluded. "Are
you staying on or leaving now? If you are going, we will walk together. A
little exercise is good for me sometimes. My figure requires it. It is a
very short distance, but it is better than nothing at all."

"I am quite ready," Norgate assured him.

They left the room and descended the stairs together. At the entrance
to the building, Selingman paused for a moment. Then he seemed suddenly
to remember.

"It is habit," he declared. "I stand here for a taxi, but we have agreed
to walk, is it not so? Come!"

Norgate was looking across the street to the other side of the pavement.
A man was standing there, engaged in conversation with a plainly-dressed
young woman. To Norgate there was something vaguely familiar about the
latter, who turned to glance at him as they strolled by on the other side
of the road. It was not until they reached the corner of the street,
however, that he remembered. She was the young woman at the telephone
call office near Westbourne Grove!


CHAPTER XXII


Mr. Hebblethwaite was undoubtedly annoyed. He found himself regretting
more than ever the good nature which had prompted him to give this
visitor an audience at a most unusual hour. He had been forced into the
uncomfortable position of listening to statements the knowledge of which
was a serious embarrassment to him.

"Whatever made you come to me, Mr. Harrison?" he exclaimed, when at last
his caller's disclosures had been made. "It isn't my department."

"I came to you, sir," the official replied, "because I have the privilege
of knowing you personally, and because I was quite sure that in your
hands the matter would be treated wisely."

"You are sure of your facts, I suppose?"

"Absolutely, sir."

"I do not know much about navy procedure," Mr. Hebblethwaite said
thoughtfully, "but it scarcely seems to me possible for what you tell me
to have been kept secret."

"It is not only possible, sir," the man assured him, "but it has been
done before in Lord Charles Beresford's time. You will find, if you make
enquiries, that not only are the Press excluded to-day from the
shipbuilding yards in question, but the work-people are living almost in
barracks. There are double sentries at every gate, and no one is
permitted under any circumstances to pass the outer line of offices."

Mr. Hebblethwaite sat, for a few moments, deep in thought.

"Well, Mr. Harrison," he said at last, "there is no doubt that you have
done what you conceived to be your duty, although I must tell you
frankly that I wish you had either kept what you know to yourself or
taken the information somewhere else. Since you have brought it to me,
let me ask you this question. Are you taking any further steps in the
matter at all?"

"Certainly not, sir," was the quiet reply. "I consider that I have done
my duty and finished with it, when I leave this room."

"You are content, then," Mr. Hebblethwaite observed, "to leave this
matter entirely in my hands?"

"Entirely, sir," the official assented. "I am perfectly content, from
this moment, to forget all that I know. Whatever your judgment prompts
you to do, will, I feel sure, be satisfactory."

Mr. Hebblethwaite rose to his feet and held out his hand.

"Well, Mr. Harrison," he concluded, "you have performed a disagreeable
duty in a tactful manner. Personally, I am not in the least grateful to
you, for, as I dare say you know, Mr. Spencer Wyatt is a great friend of
mine. As a member of the Government, however, I think I can promise you
that your services shall not be forgotten. Good evening!"

The official departed. Mr. Hebblethwaite thrust his hands into his
pockets, glanced at the clock impatiently, and made use of an expression
which seldom passed his lips. He was in evening dress, and due to dine
with his wife on the other side of the Park. Furthermore, he was very
hungry. The whole affair was most annoying. He rang the bell.

"Ask Mr. Bedells to come here at once," he told the servant, "and tell
your mistress I am exceedingly sorry, but I shall be detained here for
some time. She had better go on without me and send the car back. I will
come as soon as I can. Explain that it is a matter of official business.
When you have seen Mrs. Hebblethwaite, you can bring me a glass of sherry
and a biscuit."

The man withdrew, and Mr. Hebblethwaite opened a telephone directory. In
a few moments Mr. Bedells, who was his private secretary, appeared.

"Richard," his chief directed, "ring up Mr. Spencer Wyatt. Tell him that
whatever his engagements may be, I wish to see him here for five minutes.
If he is out, you must find out where he is. You can begin by ringing up
at his house."

Bedells devoted himself to the telephone. Mr. Hebblethwaite munched a
biscuit and sipped his sherry. Presently the latter laid down the
telephone and reported success.

"Mr. Spencer Wyatt was on his way to a city dinner, sir," he announced.
"They caught him in the hall and he will call here."

Mr. Hebblethwaite nodded. "See that he is sent up directly he comes."

In less than five minutes Mr. Spencer Wyatt was ushered in. He was
wearing the uniform of an Admiral of the Fleet--a tall, broad-shouldered
man, fair complexioned, and with the bearing of a sailor.

"Hullo, Hebblethwaite, what's wrong?" he asked. "Your message just caught
me. I am dining with the worshipful tanners--turtle soup and all the rest
of it. Don't let me miss more than I can help."

Mr. Hebblethwaite walked to the door to be sure that it was closed and
came back again.

"Look here, Wyatt," he exclaimed, "what the devil have you been up to?"

Wyatt whistled softly. A light broke across his face.

"What do you mean?" he demanded.

"You know perfectly well what I mean," Hebblethwaite continued. "Five
weeks ago we had it all out at a Cabinet meeting. You asked Parliament to
lay down six battleships, four cruisers, thirty-five submarines, and
twelve torpedo boats. You remember what a devil of a row there was.
Eventually we compromised for half the number of battleships, two
cruisers, and the full amount of small craft."

"Well?"

"I am given to understand," Hebblethwaite said slowly, "that you have
absolutely disregarded the vote--that the whole number of battleships are
practically commenced, and the whole number of cruisers, and rather more
than the number of smaller craft."

Wyatt threw his cocked hat upon the table.

"Well, I am up against it a bit sooner than I expected," he remarked.
"Who's been peaching?"

"Never mind," Hebblethwaite replied. "I am not telling you that. You've
managed the whole thing very cleverly, and you know very well, Wyatt,
that I am on your side. I was on your side in pressing the whole of your
proposals upon the Cabinet, although honestly I think they were far
larger than necessary. However, we took a fair vote, and we compromised.
You had no more right to do what you have done--"

"I admit it, Hebblethwaite," Wyatt interrupted quickly. "Of course, if
this comes out, my resignation's ready for you, but I tell you frankly,
as man to man, I can't go on with my job, and I won't, unless I get the
ships voted that I need. We are behind our standard now. I spent
twenty-four hours making up my mind whether I should resign or take this
risk. I came to the conclusion that I should serve my country better by
taking the risk. So there you are. What are you going to do about it?"

"What the mischief can I do about it?" Hebblethwaite demanded irritably.
"You are putting me in an impossible position. Let me ask you this,
Wyatt. Is there anything at the back of your head that the man in the
street doesn't know about?"

"Yes!"

"What is it, then?"

"I have reasons to believe," Wyatt announced deliberately, "reasons
which are quite sufficient for me, although it was impossible for me to
get up in Parliament and state them, that Germany is secretly making
preparations for war either before the end of this year or the
beginning of next."

Hebblethwaite threw himself into an easy-chair.

"Sit down, Wyatt," he said. "Your dinner can wait for a few minutes. I
have had another man--only a youngster, and he doesn't know
anything--talking to me like that. We are fully acquainted with
everything that is going on behind the scenes. All our negotiations with
Germany are at this moment upon the most friendly footing. We haven't a
single matter in dispute. Old Busby, as you know, has been over in Berlin
himself and has come back a confirmed pacifist. If he had his way, our
army would practically cease to exist. He has been on the spot. He ought
to know, and the army's his job."

"Busby," Wyatt declared, "is the silliest old ass who ever escaped
petticoats by the mere accident of sex. I tell you he is just the sort of
idiot the Germans have been longing to get hold of and twist round their
fingers. Before twelve months or two years have passed, you'll curse the
name of that man, when you look at the mess he has made of the army.
Peace is all very well--universal peace. The only way we can secure it is
by being a good deal stronger than we are at present."

"That is your point of view," Hebblethwaite reminded him. "I tell you
frankly that I incline towards Busby's."

"Then you'll eat your words," Wyatt asserted, "before many months are
out. I, too, have been in Germany lately, although I was careful to go as
a tourist, and I have picked up a little information. I tell you it
isn't for nothing that Germany has a complete list of the whole of her
rolling stock, the actual numbers in each compartment registered and
reserved for the use of certain units of her troops. I tell you that from
one end of the country to the other her state of military preparedness is
amazing. She has but to press a button, and a million men have their
rifles in their hands, their knapsacks on their backs, and each regiment
knows exactly at which station and by what train to embark. She is making
Zeppelins night and day, training her men till they drop with exhaustion.
Krupp's works are guarded by double lines of sentries. There are secrets
there which no one can penetrate. And all the time she is building ships
feverishly. Look here--you know my cousin, Lady Emily Fakenham?"

"Of course!"

Talk of the Oreve? I lack courage. Luciana drag my poor door to
door, as a suspect, as charged, without her knowledge of defense, much
like a betrayal. If I confess my doubts, I despise weakness and
refuse to defend themselves, I know, offended in his pride as much
as his love. What I do not prevent the infiltration into my blood and
in my heart the poison of doubt, it will corrupt my existence and
yours.

Who can claim to stifle forever the suspicion, that monster of a
hundred heads always renascent?

Did I not seen all the men at her feet? I do not suspect recently inspired
Lautrec Gerardo? It is true that I knew who were going after their gifts
and who maintained a secret correspondence ... It was Elena! ...
Definitely, women are born fools and evil from the cradle by a necessity
of nature. How well is the inspiration that keeps women at a distance
from danger! So was I, in my wise indifference, before the beauty Eva
came to tempt me ... The fruit that has offered me a bitter taste ...
But what good moan when you are with the rope around his neck? Elena
Father Jalavieux. Oh! priest, I am experiencing an event in which my
faltering courage. You know that Maximus, the person you want most
after my father, is convinced, by an unfortunate chance, that I
have sustained a correspondence Lautrec suspect. You know that Max is going
to marry one whose secret is in my hands. I kept this secret until
now religiously forbidden and I have to sentence, for fear that
behind her crept into my heart a shadow of desire and of hope. I ended
up working great, because I love Max and I know that no one else will take
the place of that exile. Well, just now, my father told me, after talking
with me of the small incidents of the day: - Also I saw Max. Do not you
find a sad and worried - I was shocked as yourself I do not know what is.
- It is unfortunate and I have started the confidentiality of their
misfortunes. Figúrate that poor boy is awash with anonymous complaints
against Luciana . I could not contain a shudder, and my father noticed. -
Did you know? - No ... I am amazed ... What do they say? - Nothing
needed ... Suggest that another has loved and has given more than
hope. - I thought - I said with all the calm that I allowed my emotions
- which was not giving any importance to the anonymous. -- nothing
more despicable, indeed, but why not leave to take his fateful end.

As much as protesting against the infamy of the proceeding, the
suspicion remains. Max is a test ... In addition, the perfidious
insinuations Jansien launched, without wishing to explain them. -
That is also negligible. - Whatever ... but will always be a fact
that the young woman's reputation is not intact ... for any reason,
serious or frivolous, ancient or recent ...

What do you think? My heart beat so hard, I work hard to talk. - I think
the Jansien is perhaps jealous of the beauty of Luciana and others may
be disturbed by his marriage ... - Did you notice anything that would
justify such, hablillas - None - answered with a voice choked - but
Luciana attracts tributes and maybe not to them. - Nothing more - nothing
more. - Your opinion is, then, that does not give importance to the incident
and Luciana to marry his eyes closed? This time my heart wavered. - not
me who should be advised to Maximum, Dad ... I never asked
my opinion ... My father understood this response in the sense that I
wanted. - Alas my daughter!

- I said tenderly, - the two had thought that would be better choice ...
It is, however, give you an answer ...

Cree that women look at you and you do confide ... Is it true? - The
secrets that we do not have great significance, and also forced to take
sensitivity secret. - You want me to understand ... - No, no, no! --
exclaimed .-- strongly responds to a maximum that I have nothing to
say. - So you know nothing, absolutely nothing unflattering Luciana
...

Yes or no? Why am I so compelled?

In a second my mind went through a whirlwind of confusing thoughts and
opponents of uncertainty and endless scruples ... My father looked at
me with firmness ... then priest, I found an inner voice, my
conscience told me in his ear: 'Do not commit treason.

"And I answered firmly: - No. - So I can reassure Max - said my father, who
expected anything else. I responded with a sign, and without strength
to speak. I lied to my father, I lied to friends to meet my oath. Did
I do wrong? Am I guilty? If so, I hope God forgives me, because He knows
what it has cost me. Máximo his brother.

December 3. At last the despicable accusation that weighs about Luciana
and I know where it went. Oreve The Marquise of me yesterday at his
home by an urgent letter and I was running with a presentiment of what
was to happen. I was so pale and desencajado, who said the Marquise
to me: - Do not panic you, dear friend ... What I have to say first of
all requires calm and cold blood ... - This is Luciana, right? - As you
guessed it, I do not have to take precautions ... oratorical
- I beg you , Madam, what are the charges? - Slow down or you do not,
I venture to continue ... It is, I believe, of a lightweight ... a
reckless ... But malignant assumptions go further ... I begged that
shortened, but I had to suffer a Exordium, prepared beforehand, on the
arduous duties of friendship and the effort to impose a strong interest
in me ... At last he spoke. It is, in effect, and Lautrec was to
Jansien which has circulated the rumor. Joked about it with Kissel,
who was very indignant apparently to tell the Marquesa. Jansien The
claims of having seen a single Luciana come home tomorrow Lautrec and be
there for a very long time that Sofia could climb home of his lawyer, who
lives in the third, handing some papers and then come down at precisely
the moment that Luciana was leaving the ground floor occupied by the
couple. His lackey also saw, because she has heard the driver tell the
story and laugh ... at the expense of mine, no doubt ... Luciana is proud
and even a little haughty to the servants, and I presume that was the low
regions of the easement where the left anonymous.

Naturally, I do not believe such a story. There was an error, or ...
What reason could lead to home Luciana de Lautrec ... La Vere, and if
the accusation is false, as I say, the Jansien will have to recant
in public or accountable to fool her husband.

Morning is Luciana justified in the eyes of the whole world.

I swear on my love offended. Máximo his brother. December 4. I've seen,
everything is true ... I am humbled. I found in that room so modest, so
sad, the light that reaches above the neighboring roofs, in that
narrow alley and moist.

I was painting a miniature of a child, whose photograph was in front.

I always see you as well, with brush in hand, dressed in a dark
robe, and crowned by a splendid golden hair of a pale sun that
started in December reflexes sad.

When you hear the door open again head and smiled. .. And that smile,
I handed over my heart, thinking of what to say. - So tomorrow ... Good
morning - blithely told me I aviada .-- Very bad for you. Echos by the
shoulders, to hide the frayed suit, a shawl of bright streaks that had
dropped, and leaning gracefully, he gave me his hand. It was oppressing
and oppressed against my lips, trying to revive my courage, as she always
smiling, looked at me, waiting for the explanation of my visit to
that hour. - Luciana - I said very low - is it true that it has ido
you Lautrec only to find his house on the street in Jena?

My fiancee was so pale, until his lips were discolored, while a horrible
sensation of cold running through my veins, my teeth creaked and seemed
the sun had just turned off. - I swear to you that I've never seen
Gerardo Lautrec in his home.

His voice was changed and his breathing was yearnings. - Why do you
deny?

Saw you enter. - Who saw me? Who dares to say that? - The Jansien of
... Would see her attorney, Lehoux, who lives in the same house as
Lautrec, and has seen you, you, Luciana, enter this man's house, where
you were no doubt expected, since there was . - It is a mistake ... Lautrec
was not at home ... Not only did ... leave a message - a message ...
Whose? Luciana wavered. - I had to ask one thing ... - And you were
forced to go to ask - I did wrong ... very bad ... But I swear to you my
eternal salvation that Lautrec was not at home and did not see it. - But
you came ... Why wait? - No, to write me in the lobby. - What did you ask
that so important?

Luciana gave a gesture of irritation and fatigue. - Why ask? ... If you
doubt me, is useless ... - Why not tell the truth, if it is innocent -
it is, but you do not believe it. - How do you not ask more than that
does not believe it, I thirst for innocence and justified in view of the
whole world as it is for me in advance? But, by God, Luciana, are you
honest.

His face was contracted with an expression of suffering and then lifted
his head and said with determination. - Well, what I will be ...
and you will be relentless, I know ...

I went home to complain of Mr.

Lautrec letters that had the imprudence to write ... - Many are those for
a reckless woman who is married, Luciana ... What do these letters say?
Was your mother you know of that correspondence? - If I did not have to
claim ido secret. Lautrec left the next day and could not tolerate
dejárselas. - What do these letters say? - Frases novel ... such sentimental
nonsense, without sincerity, which amused the frivolity of women ...

What I am punished for that childish vanity!

... - Will have Lautrec - Not ... I have returned. - Did not you say that
was not in his house - That's the truth ... I sent them a safe person.
- Can I know the name of that person? - What ... That matters little
... - I care a lot, on the contrary, who has been involved in such an
unfortunate episode for me. - Well, you can ask and know that no
procedure is Elena Lacante. - Elena! I could not contain a scream. In the
midst of my sorrow, my gentleness and humiliated him in the dark I plunged
the confessions of Luciana, a lightning erupted from me joy. ¡Helena,
at least, is innocent and pure! Is there, then, women loyal, true and
false and without artifice - His surprise you test me - said Luciana
- Elena that has kept the secret ... I want to do justice to turn ...
Letters Lautrec that you saw him, they were mine. - Do you have -
I have burned ... and responses. - Ah! Naturally, he also wrote to you
... to the list of mail, as you made me write ... It is unfortunate,
Luciana, you have destroyed this interesting correspondence, which
could indicate the degree more or less excusable for its lightness ...
Why have you burned? - I deserved a better fate. - Were love letters
- his, yes ... I gave in another tone. - And you are legitimate and
natural, you promised to another, with Mr Lautrec sustain a gallant
letters?

If I would have loved you, even a little, it would have been
sufficient to prevent a word. - Forget you that our commitment was
secret and that my freedom allowed Lautrec apparent attempt to
please. - So do not accuse him but you ...

What has enabled you to speak and write of his love, when the honor required
him to shut up the first word - True ... I've done wrong, and I'm bitterly
... Think you, however, that our future was uncertain, and our marriage a
distant possibility. - That is, you left a door open for his impatience
and his cruel indifference and dry ... Do you think, Luciana, it is easy
to forgive me that? Is it possible? Luciana replied in tone resolved.
- No!

... While you will forgive me, I could not forget ...

And neither do I forget my lack of toughness or their complaints. Retain
an indelible feeling at the same time compelled to believe by his
mercy. Give up this double burden. - So? - Asked yearning
emotion.

She was shocked, and tears his eyes sparkled. His voice was weakened
and told me very low - I think we cheated ... I'm not the woman for you
to you ... and it not like you either ... I had thought - Luciana!
... My heart was starting to lose it at the time, and included, however,
that telling the truth. And this was the most bitter of all . Luciana
got up slowly. - Forget that you loved me. I will remember forever ...
and this is the sweetest memories of my past life ...

I made a sign with his hand in farewell, and left the room. ...

I did not retained in the dining room, I ran to the exit of Grevillois,
he was putting his modest table. - What?

- cried to see my face down. - Luciana to tell you. respectfully
kissed that hand labor and wrinkled and I'll see that no more that
threshold, leaving behind Me feverish dreams of one years and the
ruins of my late youth. ...

I'm free but only the Father ...

Elena Jalavieux. The impossible happens sometimes priest. My father
has called me just now and as I've seen, I knew that was not satisfied.
- Come here - I said, - give and account for your conduct. Why have you
lied to me - Why, Dad - I've said that you did not know anything
about the misdeeds of Luciana, although they were well informed by
evidence, and has left more than a friend drop relief without bond
in that it tended casquivana. - Dad, had been entrusted to me and
I had sworn secrecy. - You have done wrong, very wrong.

A young man who wants and respects his father has no secrets for him. -
I bitterly regretted my recklessness, but once committed the
absence, I could make the treason which had been handed to me with
any confidence?

- Had been delivered ... interest, for you draw up the fire, tontilla.
- I thought that to see it so desolate, so unhappy. And then I thought
that should not commit perjury. My father said, hollow voice: - Oh!
¡Beautiful sentiments! ... Would have to ask, however, if loyalty to
your word that should be more respect for the truth. - I 've asked in
anguish, Dad ... And in doubt about what to do, I have taken the game
that cost me more work.

He feared that the truth was too consistent with my ... wishes. I could
not continue and got the head. My father shook in his chair, thinking
that I was crying, and said: - Now tears, the argument of supreme
women.

Do not cry, go vote! Removed cap and threw it at the other end of the
room. Then he softens. - Bring me the hat and do not take the air in despair
... Come, come here ... there is something good, after all, in that head.
You say that she was afraid, talking, giving in to some secret
desire?

Is that your thinking? Answer ... Will you love most? I was as
sharp, with the head down, and had no courage to answer. My father
continued: - I suspected ... love it. Where is evil? Let's talk a
little ... - But he loves me not me - whispered sadly. - Let me
talk, what the hell!

If you love, you know without shame that his marriage has broken
down. - Completely - Completely.

Same Luciana has confessed the story and has released from their oaths. -
And he consented? - No resistance, and very happy to be estimated.
Clearly, this couple ran two hares at once and you reserved as
second-table dish. - But I'm sure he still loves ...

It's so beautiful and so seductive! - Bah! ... In any case, does not think
like a friend of ours, that beauty is a virtue that waiver of the
other ...

For the moment, seems a poor cat escaped from the boiler ... and
has a healthy fear of women ...

This is the beginning of wisdom ... Let us do the time ... Meanwhile,
we'll get over to our side as they have got rid of that girl.

You do not admire you, cure, how I escaped, without doing anything
for it, this secret that I weighed so much?

Jalavieux Father Elena. My dad takes sick days and with many
alternatives that will never lead to recovery.

I am distraught. Today, when I left my room to be installed next to my
father, I met Max. I gave him his hand, and he held in his and told me
in tone of reproach: - Why did you flee from me? A month ago I find that
half of talking. - You know that my father took care of all of my
time. - Are you single at the moment - it is the Marquis of Oreve.
- Then there is site for me and I must go, unless you have to make
me be the indulgence. - Stay, I beg you.

He sat next to the desk, and I in the low chair beside the couch always
look for my father. - Today a month ago, I suffered a great
disappointment, and you know what I mean and how brutal it was light.

It would have been less cruel for me to hear the truth from his mouth
on you. - It was impossible!

- Do not argue with his reasons, Elena, although I suspect it was
his indifference to what you gave them so strong.

I am quiet and not revealed by a sign or my true feelings. - If I say this
- he continued, - can you believe it is not to regret my fate, which
is rather odd. - Why - Because it's ridiculous be deceived. - What
if there is no love?

Max replied sadly: - Who knows if one does not start by fooling
himself ...

But I did not want to talk with you to lecture on psychology sentimental,
but to ask forgiveness. - Have you thought of me, really - I said .-- This
should be smiling, because appearances were against me. - Y you
cared enough, confiéselo. - not so little, since I had a great pity.

But be consoled me innocent. - You are simply an angel.

Elena, this is what I wanted to tell.

I could not put out less than a laugh. - Makes you sick to laugh at a
poor little devil of hyperbole ... I saved you a grudge? - As little
hyperbole? -- -For having doubted you. - I had forgiven you until you
are justified, and have no merit now showing magnanimous ... Would you
go to see my father? "Max stood up. - I'll scare off the ... No Oreve
drove them off, and my father was very tired at night, because of the
visits he had received. But He said it distracted from their pain. Máximo
his brother. December 23. Lacante is very much in danger. The drop top
threat to the heart and live in perpetual alarm. Yesterday he called me
and told me: - Do not fool yourself, my friend, about what I'm going to
ask you, because it is not anything that could restrict your freedom
or an indirect way of chaining.

I am very bad, I know, and I do not disguise the rapid outcome of
my disease, whose progress is too well known to be wrong.

I therefore have to anticipate my next disappearance strongly ... Do
not afflict yourself, my friend ...

Sick you know that this accident of death is inevitable and regrettable
that law of Nature is as futile as it would mourn the day when the
night comes.

I kept sixty-eight years, I have spent the average of human life, and
I have no right to complain.
For our common sake you
will, I am sure, seek to discover the truth."

"So far as I can, certainly," Anna replied, "but I must admit that I,
like you, find Mr. Norgate a little incomprehensible."

"There are men," Selingman declared, "there have been many of the
strongest men in history, impenetrable to the world, who have yielded
their secrets readily to a woman's influence. The diplomatists in life
who have failed have been those who have underrated the powers possessed
by your wonderful sex."

"Among whom," Anna remarked, "no one will ever number Herr Selingman."

"Dear Baroness," Selingman concluded, as the maid whom Anna had summoned
stood ready to show him out, "it is because in my life I have been
brought into contact with so many charming examples of your power."

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more silence and solitude. Anna moved restlessly about on her couch.
Her eyes were a little hot. That future into which she looked seemed to
become more than ever a tangled web. At half-past seven her maid
reappeared.

"Madame will dress for dinner?"

Anna swung herself to her feet. She glanced at the clock.

"I suppose so," she assented.

"I have three gowns laid out," the maid continued respectfully. "Madame
would look wonderful in the light green."

"Anything," Anna yawned.

The telephone bell tinkled. Anna took down the receiver herself.

"Yes?" she asked.

Her manner suddenly changed. It was a familiar voice speaking. Her maid,
who stood in the background, watched and wondered.

"It is you, Baroness! I rang up to see whether there was any chance of
your being able to dine with me? I have just got back to town."

"How dared you go away without telling me!" she exclaimed. "And how can I
dine with you? Do you not realise that it is Ascot Thursday, and I have
had many invitations to dine to-night? I am going to a very big
dinner-party at Thurm House."

"Bad luck!" Norgate replied disconsolately. "And to-morrow?"

"I have not finished about to-night yet," Anna continued. "I suppose you
do not, by any chance, want me to dine with you very much?"

"Of course I do," was the prompt answer. "You see plenty of the Princess
of Thurm and nothing of me, and there is always the chance that you may
have to go abroad. I think that it is your duty--"

"As a matter of duty," Anna interrupted, "I ought to dine at Thurm House.
As a matter of pleasure, I shall dine with you. You will very likely not
enjoy yourself. I am going to be very cross indeed. You have neglected
me shamefully. It is only these wonderful roses which have saved you."

"So long as I am saved," he murmured, "tell me, please, where you would
like to dine?"

"Any place on earth," she replied. "You may call for me here at half-past
eight. I shall wear a hat and I would like to go somewhere where our
people do not go."

Anna set down the telephone. The listlessness had gone from her manner.
She glanced at the clock and ran lightly into the other room.

"Put all that splendour away," she ordered her maid cheerfully. "To-night
we shall dazzle no one. Something perfectly quiet and a hat, please. I
dine in a restaurant. And ring the bell, Marie, for two aperitifs--not
that I need one. I am hungry, Marie. I am looking forward to my dinner
already. I think something dead black. I am looking well tonight. I can
afford to wear black."

Marie beamed.

"Madame has recovered her spirits," she remarked demurely.

Anna was suddenly silent. Her light-heartedness was a revelation. She
turned to her maid.

"Marie," she directed, "you will telephone to Thurm House. You will ask
for Lucille, the Princess's maid. You will give my love to the Princess.
You will say that a sudden headache has prostrated me. It will be enough.
You need say no more. To-morrow I lunch with the Princess, and she will
understand."


CHAPTER XXV


"Confess," Anna exclaimed, as she leaned back in her chair, "that my idea
was excellent! Your little restaurant was in its way perfection, but the
heat--does one feel it anywhere, I wonder, as one does in London?"

The old man remained impassive and motionless, supported in the
long flare that served crosier, but his secretary or family, young
and robust, he lost patience, are brought face to mulatto and he
shook him so hard punch, what felled by land.

The popular anger then everything broke brake. Men, women and kids
fell on the two seem to foreigners and Jews, and doubtless would have
been torn, if not go very long and Miguel de Zuheros Tiburcio, by breaking
through the crowded and bustling crowds and rattling blows on it,
with naked swords, but it was outright trying to not cause injuries
or deaths.

Surprised and frightened by the mob that sudden and unexpected
intervention, not a little back, leaving a clear long way around the
unarmed strangers, in front of which were ready to defend the other
two strangers on horseback. The populace, however, after his first
surprise, attacked and Zuheros Miguel Tiburcio, going some who rushed
armed with clubs and daggers. Blood that had been pending and perhaps
fatal to the success of our two heroes, if you suddenly did not
receive relief from a dashing young man, younger in appearance
Tiburcio, also on horseback, richly dressed and elegant, with the
coat of arms embroidery real in sobreveste, thereby indicating that
it was boy or menino Fidalgo of the King's chamber.

His name then ran from mouth to mouth among the plebs.

Damien was sympathetic to Goes, which deprived a lot with the sovereign.
So far this had the crowd at bay, but not someone irritability, and
began the three gentlemen on the one hand, and seven or eight that were
on Fidalgo foot and came to assist them, and otherwise desarrapada the
crowd, a very hard-fought skirmish, which had ended in tragedy,
if this had not dampened the anger of all, parándolos amazed and
respectful of the clarinets and resonate the sound of jubilant the
cheers that heralded the entry into the square of the King and his
entourage.

"Tell me," she begged, "what reason?"

He leaned towards her.

"It is so hopeless," he said. "I am just a broken diplomat whose career
is ended almost before it is begun, and you--well, you have everything at
your feet. It is foolish of me, isn't it, but I love you."

He took her hand, and she did not withdraw it.

"If it is foolish," she murmured, "then I am foolish, too. Perhaps you
can guess now why I came to London."

He drew her into his arms. She made no resistance. Her lips, even, were
seeking his. It seemed to him in those breathless moments that a greater
thing than even the destiny of nations was born into the world. There
was a new vigour in his pulses as she gently pushed him back, a new
splendour in life.

"Dear," she exclaimed, "of course we are both very foolish, and yet, I do
not know. I have been wondering why this has not come to me long ago, and
now that it has come I am happy."

"You care--you really care?" he insisted passionately.

"Of course I do," she told him, quietly enough and yet very
convincingly. "If I did not care I should not be here. If I did not
care, I should not be going to say the things to you which I am going to
say now. Sit back in your chair, please, hold my hand still, smoke if
you will, but listen."

He obeyed. A deeper seriousness crept into her tone, but her face was
still soft and wonderful. The new things were lingering there.

"I want to tell you first," she said, "what I think you already know. The
moment for which Germany has toiled so long, from which she has never
faltered, is very close at hand. With all her marvellous resources and
that amazing war equipment of which you in this country know little, she
will soon throw down the gage to England. You are an Englishman, Francis.
You are not going to forget it, are you?"

"Forget it?" he repeated.

"I know," she continued slowly, "that Selingman has made advances to you.
I know that he has a devilish gift for enrolling on his list men of
honour and conscience. He has the knack of subtle argument, of twisting
facts and preying upon human weaknesses. You have been shockingly treated
by your Foreign Office. You yourself are entirely out of sympathy with
your Government. You know very well that England, as she is, is a country
which has lost her ideals, a country in which many of her sons might
indeed, without much reproach, lose their pride, Selingman knows this. He
knows how to work upon these facts. He might very easily convince you
that the truest service you could render your country was to assist her
in passing through a temporary tribulation."

He looked at her almost in surprise.

"You seem to know the man's methods," he observed.

"I do," she answered, "and I detest them. Now, Francis, please tell me
the truth. Is your name, too, upon that long roll of those who are
pledged to assist his country?"

"It is," he admitted.

She drew a little away.

"You admit it? You have already consented?"

"I have drawn a quarter's salary," Norgate confessed. "I have entered
Selingman's corps of the German Secret Service."

"You mean that you are a traitor!" she exclaimed.

"A traitor to the false England of to-day," Norgate replied, "a friend,
I hope, of the real England."

She sat quite still for some moments.

"Somehow or other," she said, "I scarcely fancied that you would give in
so easily."

"You seem disappointed," he remarked, "yet, after all, am I not on
your side?"

"I suppose so," she answered, without enthusiasm.

There was another and a more prolonged silence. Norgate rose at last
to his feet. He walked restlessly to the end of the room and back
again. A dark mass of clouds had rolled up; the air seemed almost
sulphurous with the presage of a coming storm. They looked out into
the gathering darkness.

"I don't understand," he said. "You are Austrian; that is the same as
German. I tell you that I have come over on your side. You seem
disappointed."

"Perhaps I am," she admitted, standing up, too, and linking her arm
through his. "You see, my mother was English, and they say that I am
entirely like her. I was brought up here in the English country.
Sometimes my life at Vienna and Berlin seems almost like a dream to me,
something unreal, as though I were playing at being some other woman.
When I am back here, I feel as though I had come home. Do you know really
that nothing would make me happier than to hear or think nothing about
duty, to just know that I had come back to England to stay, and that you
were English, and that we were going to live just the sort of life I
pictured to myself that two people could live so happily over here,
without too much ambition, without intrigue, simply and honestly. I am a
little weary of cities and courts, Francis. To-night more than ever
England seems to appeal to me, to remind me that I am one of her
daughters."

"Are you trying me, Anna?" he asked hoarsely.

"Trying you? Of course not!" she answered. "I am speaking to you just
simply and naturally, because you are the one person in the world to whom
I may speak like that."

"Then let's drop it, both of us!" he exclaimed, holding her arm
tightly to his. "Courts and cities can do without you, and Selingman
can do without me. We'll take a cottage somewhere and live through
these evil days."

She shook her head.

"You and I are not like that, Francis," she declared. "When the storm
breaks, we mustn't be found hiding in our holes. You know that quite
well. It is for us to decide what part we may play. You have chosen. So,
in a measure, have I. Tomorrow I am going on a secret mission to Italy."

"Anna!" he cried in dismay.

"Alas, yes!" she repeated, "We may not even meet again, Francis, till the
map of Europe has been rewritten with the blood of many of our friends
and millions of our country-people. But I shall think of you, and the
kiss you will give me now shall be the last upon my lips."

"You can go away?" he demanded. "You can leave me like this?"

"I must," she answered simply. "I have work before me. Good-by, Francis!
Somehow I knew what was coming. I believe that I am glad, dear, but I
must think about it, and so must you."

Norgate left the hotel and walked out amid the first mutterings of the
storm. He found a taxi and drove to his rooms. For an hour he sat before
his window, watching the lightning play, fighting the thoughts which beat
upon his brain, fighting all the time a losing battle. - Sixty-two years
now ... --- Oh! So much as that! - I got twenty-nine. - Ah - I Confess
that you are too old. - No, very young. I think this girl is no big
difference between my twenty-nine years and sixty - Lacante two ...
It's so much distance between her and me! This girl has brought me
into the category of typical theater. Believing that has barely begun
to live, and miss seeing that others have gone for youth, is a discovery
that puts him in a gloomy. Helena looked through the window station and
peoples with a thrill that seemed suffering. - Coming Soon to Paris -
asked anxious. - Not yet, I advise you. - There is Paris! - cried to
see the vast extent of houses and monuments that arose on the
horizon .

And it became very pale.

At the station I took a car with my partner, who was shaking to the
point of having to hold it.

And with his voice choked, wondering every two steps: - Is it
here?

Even watching the noise of the streets, crossing the car, nor the bustle
of the crowds drawn by the idea of his father, not knew.

Tournon in the street helped to get off and go up the only house that
leads to Lacante. Our friend is an early bird, as you know, and it
was already lifted and installed at his desk writing. Mrs. Polydorus,
dignified and tiesa, introduced us and, seeing the extravagant
costume Helena, hanging on my arm, whispered among teeth with
impertinence: - My God!

What is this? It was not the best impression made Lacante view of Helena,
who was standing in front of me, cut and confused, waiting for a word
of welcome while ojillos examined the penetrants that good sir fat and
bald, winding whose lips were twisted in a nervous giggle. - Elena is -
I told him appearing. Lacante offered his hand. - Come, my child,
Come ... I can not go out to meet you. I had the extended leg and foot,
surrounded by flannel. --... But my heart will find you, yea, my heart
goes to your event. Lacante said this twice, as well to be convinced
itself. The girl knelt beside his chair and kissed his hand, which fell
a few tears. - What is it? What do you have? - Asked me Lacante agitated.
- A little tired and a lot of emotion. - Yes, yes ... indeed ...
fatigue, emotion ... It is very natural ... Poor girl! That will
happen when we have known better. He gave a pat on the shoulder and
sent the lady a ride to Polydorus room that she had not prepared and
is to release the next room, crowded with books, among which has
been achieved campaign to introduce a bed and a washbasin.

In all this, I was working on getting my luggage, which had just arrived.
When I returned to my room Lacante found slumped in his chair,
with pursed and eyebrows look of concern. - It is a package, my
dear friend, a true package - said the head with air moving shocked.

I protested saying that Elena was charming and that he had seen evil.
- What was to see beneath those rags grotesque and through her tears?
I hate the women who weep. - Elena is always crying, and even has
a laugh like a fresh spring of pure water.

If I had a daughter would be like her. - And devout, is not it?

- That yes, it is quite ... - Let's go there! That is all very well,
very well. Was what was needed in my home. I was talking with dry irony,
giving impatient drumming with his hands in the arms of the couch. I
replied with some asperity: - Do not blame you, it was well educated. -
Yes no doubt ... no doubt ... The Boivic was educated in his image, but
the downside is that it has killed half of his work ...

Anyway, what actually chest.

After all these do not last sanctimoniousness. There is no such as
Paris to iron what is left over of that kind in a young brain. - But
if you intend to put it in a convent ... - Even in the convent,
my friend ...

The ambient air enters the gates and the cloisters. Within a year
you will be amazed of the way done ... and maybe you come up shy
to Lacante ...

I was going to prevent my objections. Word of honor, believe me I will
marry your daughter ...

Luciana And then my dear Luciana, who is not devout, but has a
high and generous soul and intelligence of my sister, my friend
made me stay for lunch, and I have talked about Elena.

Has asked me to report me to various religious houses, and then I had
issued a warning a few skeletons that were not our friends that night,
which was, like Thursday, the receipt, on the pretext that it was
racked with gout.

The truth was that the presence of pregnant Helena in that house so small,
whose four parts are always open. I would like to delay the disclosure
of that secret part of his life, that marriage did not confess,
and perhaps unacknowledged, as I contracted with a woman of lower
status, and the birth of one daughter, who had thought to set in
Brittany.

Now will try to confine them in a convent until the case if there
is that does not take the veil.

As skeptical as I am sure you would accept with pleasure that solution, the
most comfortable and most secret of all.

Sirviéronnos lunch table in a wheel next to the couch of the sick,
and what seemed a comidita children. Elena came free of its ugly and
old and very pretty, despite her shyness, with that pure virginal
profile among heavy curls of dark brown hair.

His father was happy to see them, and winking repeatedly made me welcome.
HETE but here, sitting at the table, the girl was cross with gravity
and recollection.

The lady gets a laugh Polydorus shrinking shoulder. Lacante smiles, looking
with curiosity and Elena, putting his fingers on the hand of his daughter,
he says: - I see my daughter, who are pious and you welcome this,
piety is a source of enjoyment for those intimate possess ...

Here in Paris, is not used to make each step manifestations of religion.
There are churches, which are going to pray publicly, and each has
their conscience, which is a kind of private chapel in which they
can worship God "in spirit and truth," as Scripture says, without
anybody in confidence.

Do not make more outward signs of faith and call conténtate with secret
blessing of God on the day your actions. Do you understand? The
girl became incarnate and listened motionless, her eyes low, but
answered without hesitation and with a firm voice: -- Yes, Dad. The
following day another incident. It was Friday, and Elena did not eat.
When questioned by his father, he replied that he had custom fast.
- Well, my dear girl - Lacante him, - you have to lose that habit
and settle with mine, that is just.

Obedience is a virtue that will double as austerity. I am sure that
I'll resist the displeasure. Elena smiled and introduced the dish without
saying a word. Lacante was very happy for this submission without
shade or miss a victim of anger.

When I arrived, I found it radiant. - It is such a good girl Elenita, dear.
Nothing gazmoña or rebel. And he told me the story of the day. - When
I said that is a young delicious! - I exclaimed. Lacante puckered nose
and moved his head mischievously. - Yes, - said, -- ... delightful
and docile Has eaten his cheerfully chop ... but ... has taken
no dessert. What do you say this? ...

I did not want to go against that and I did not like watching ...
But I have seen and understood. - It has been half ingenious - told - to
reconcile obedience to the precepts of Christian mortification. -
Without a doubt, my friend.

So we returned the church where her mother was: a flexible surface
sweetness, but firm on the bottom ... ¿Strong ... This is what
we have to do after all - he added with thoughtful expression. - What
does it matter who is responsible, unless it abroad or moodiness or
requirements? Well, on the contrary, that girls have principles, so it
is more likely to be women honored.

Lacante was thinking. - It would be interesting to know - as he said talking
to himself, - who could be more if hereditary influences atavistic or
those exercised at the earliest age by a strange mind.

It would be funny.

I can not boast of having given the seed of all virtues, and as his
mother, a poor creature badly educated by parents who did not
give more than bumps and bad examples, I do not know what could
pass as good outside beauty ...

This girl has, however, an expression of honesty and innocence that
must come from the education they received ... - I do not know
why, dear teacher, you will refuse himself the satisfaction of
having sent his daughter's life, the qualities that make you an
honest man.

In the still of the wonderful nature, the special qualities of our sex to
become suitable for women. The sense of honor that we have, for example,
there is modesty and fidelity to faith affidavit. - You can be my friend,
can be ... But winning such a transformation, perhaps, when it is
fortified by what we call the old superstitions, well, appropriate in
amount to the imagination alive and sensitive to women.

For those who sincerely believe in it, religion should be of solid support
in the fight against the passions. Need to know if it would be sufficient
to contraveneno opposed by nature an instinct more or less messy,
and I repeat, the experiment would be interesting. - If it were not
your daughter from you.

I do not suppose you have the intention of experiencing Lacante ...
took an expression of anger. - Who is that? - Exclaimed pounding on
the table with rule .-- Did I say I like something ... My
daughter goes to the convent, which is the place to keep himself
in the ideas that have been instilled ...

And I am not that concerned ... Do not tell bullshit, man. Snarled still
a while, and then, turning to Polydorus, which came to him a few
newspapers, the tone of the attention in a good mood: - Well, Polidoro,
what you say to my daughter?

The woman with an air of gloating sufficiency not without disdain and
said: - It is a couple simple and without malice, surely ... But do not
wear a dress or know to use your eyes ... - Stop there, Polydorus! Very
grateful to you who do not teach the arts of adornment ... No need to
know, until further notice ... Do you understand? - Perfectly, sir,
and just ... If Mr is fine and the lady ... What I said was for
their sake. I will speak for gloves, if it pleases the Lord. - Yeah,
I like, Polidoro, and as you are smart, stay calm. Máximo his brother.
July 10. I have run a portion of convents. I had never seen so many nuns,
women kind, in short, with a simple dignity and civility pudica have
great charm. After many comparisons and reflections, I think we are
going to decide to put it in the House of Zion, which is seems more
suitable for her. The studies are not bad there and the admission of
pensioners is less aristocratic pretensions in the Sacred Heart, for
example.

Helena, on the other hand, is sensitive since yesterday and the doctor has
advised him to stay in bed. It is undoubtedly the result of the
change of air and life.

Their existence is not happy, always alone with Polydorus ... and the devil
knows what they can tell Polydorus at that gloomy quarter of a mezzanine,
with windows overlooking a courtyard, surrounded on all sides by five-storey
houses. I have proposed to him strolling through Paris, between cage
before the gates of Zion, but we must wait to be dressed decently and
freedom for all those galas moldy in a closet and had without doubt
the lady Boivic of thirty years ago.

Maximum of Cosmos to his brother. July 15 . It had to happen was
ocurrírsete of that idea.

Love Elena! Lacante! ...

The thing was in the air and within the plausibility romantic, and your
superior insight has not hesitated to tear the veils of the future or
prophesy. Well, no, no predictions. Nobody is a prophet in his family.
Elena is nice and the unique circumstances in which I appeared and were
moving a funeral poetry. But, as I've said, my choice is made. Do you
think I have a heart with numbered boxes in which the tenderness collect?
Say be wary of the gallant and romantic adventures and love to
hurt as lightning. But do not know, man, this is not gallant
adventure or love lightly.

Nothing ray.

The love that is Grevillois Luciana, who know have long since before
the death of his father, who died suddenly three years ago, in the
Observatory, where he was studying with his telescope an eclipse of
the moon. All the newspapers talk about this. He was a distinguished
astronomer, a member of the Academy and of several scientific
societies.

Private property, left, on the death, his wife and daughter in the most
precarious situation, with a modest widow of the munificence of the
Government added a tobacconist , who succeeded Lacante them. The two
poor women have managed to fill the shortage of resources and have
been cheerfully to work.

The mother of embroidery samples to the stores, and daughter, who has talent,
paint miniatures.

These are not procedures or adventurous history and I think that there can
be nothing more honorable. I have often seen at the house of the
Marquesa de Oreve, the great friend of Lacante, which is an
artistic and literary salon in which our coach is king and pope, under
the auspices of the Marquis of Oreve, a high coturno flycatchers. All
these people must be unknown to you, that you've forgotten the time after
you've run across the world, far from _boulevard_. Grevillois The ladies
did not attend the Thursday Lacante, but are part of the usual circle
of Marquesa Leontina Oreve.

There is also to miss Carolina Godwin, lyric poet, very popular in
England, not too young and pretty thing, but like some of monads by their
frightened bird species and a chirp that is used to express feelings
and ideas of supraterrestres an elevation that causes dizziness. Jansien
Sofia is also a big rise in attractive color and powerful, whose story
I will tell you one day.

Luciana shines among the ladies, you can believe it, with a radiance
that dazzles with its golden hair and his waist goddess. Admirábala
me away, without having ever thought of making the cut (you know who
I am by nature somewhat galante) even talk to her in a particular
way.

Beautiful and admired as it was, I felt a kind of different from
mine and, instinctively, without conscious intention, I kept a
distance, only happy with his presence, as it is happy with a ray
of sunshine.

This lasted for some years where, in one afternoon last October,
Luciana came to sit next to me.

I got up to acercárseme, ready to give the site and think it had
bothered me. But she, with a graceful gesture, made me sign that I
re-sit. - Confess you, sir, that you are not funny - I said
smiling. - What is the point? - Months ago years and yet we are almost
every week in this circle, so small that it is impossible that we are
completely strangers to each other, and you never had the temptation, even
the most frivolous and fleeting, to talk to me and try to whether
there is in my soul more than a doll ... and to see that, stunned
by this sudden attack, did not respond, he continued by saying: -
I desire to know the long color depths of your mind you, not the
that is displayed in full light conversation made for the gallery,
but which is silent, which reserves, which only comes when one is
sure to find sympathy.

I was literally stunned.

You know I'm not inclined to make use of it. If I have some respect for
my intelligence, dispensed entirely on my physical clothes, and that
was the subject of attention from that radiant beauty hacíame doubt if
he was awake or perfidies mired in a dream. As it was, showed me moved
by benevolence and spoke at length. I was amazed that the reason
for young, the maturity of thought, insight, some disappointments, of
their intelligence. One sees in her a heart that has suffered and, if
not sour, it has been soaked in the bitter waters of adversity and is
ready to fight more than a passive resignation. It is a brave, Luciana
this, and I've loved this brave. For my part, I thought he had been
pleased to know that. We create custom, in all our meetings, a moment
of intimate conversation, and we miss seeing that we were wonderfully
agree on many issues of art, the sense of Nature, literary preferences,
general aspects of life, all in order. It is true that there are religious
aspirations which I can not follow it, but nothing close, nothing like
the devotions of our childhood friend Elena Lacante.

Religion is Luciana a flight towards the heights of the soul.

A few weeks later, he said, one day she spoke with great confidence
- Confess that you had reason to venture to start, and we were made
to understand.

Why are you systematically separated from me - You are too beautiful and
I did not dare to approach. - She did you find me beautiful ... I appreciate
you very much. Which of the two is more the other? - A glance from you
is worth more than everything in me and all I could offer in exchange.
- Provide you with all - she said to me smiling - and I shall just whatever.
If at that time had told me to open the balcony and throw me
headlong into the street, I think we would not have hesitated, he
was so fanatical in my heart love for her at that time. - Do what
you want from me - I said very touched.

Luciana replied: - What I want is a friend.

Would you be? - It is not enough. It was a moment silent, looking at the
back of the eye, and then said: - Do you believe in what they
called - certainly I think. - Do not rush you, because then it would
weigh.

I just friendship. - I love you all - I exclaimed passionately.

If we had been alone, had close to my heart, but we were around ten people,
and although the habits of the room allowed some manners an intimate family
and friendship, we must observe the same restraint and an impeccable
foreign reserves.

I
have come on behalf of a certain individual--whom we will call, if you
please, Mr. X----. Mr. X---- has powerful connections in America,
associated chiefly with German-Americans. As you know from your own
correspondence with an organisation over there, the situation in Ireland
is intensely interesting to them at the present moment."

"I have gathered that, sir," Mr. Bullen confessed. "The help which the
Irish and Americans have sent to Dublin has scarcely been of the
magnitude which one might have expected, but one is at least assured of
their sympathy."

"It is partly my mission to assure you of something else," Norgate
declared. "A secret meeting has been held in New York, and a sum of money
has been promised, the amount of which would, I think, surprise you. The
conditions attached to this gift, however, are peculiar. They are
inspired by a profound disbelief in the _bona fides_ of England and the
honourableness of her intentions so far as regards the administration of
the bill when passed."

Mr. Bullen, who at first had seemed a little puzzled, was now deeply
interested. He drew his chair nearer to his visitor's.

"What grounds have you, or those whom you represent, for saying that?"
he demanded.

"None that I can divulge," Norgate replied. "Yet they form the motive of
the offer which I am about to make to you. I am instructed to say that
the sum of a million pounds will be paid into your funds on certain
guarantees to be given by you. It is my business here to place these
guarantees before you and to report as to your attitude concerning them."

"One million pounds!" Mr. Bullen murmured, breathlessly.

"There are the conditions," Norgate reminded him.

"Well?"

"In the first place," Norgate continued, "the subscribers to this fund,
which is by no means exhausted by the sum I mention, demand that you
accept no compromise, that at all costs you insist upon the whole bill,
and that if it is attempted at the last moment to deprive the Irish
people by trickery of the full extent of their liberty, you do not
hesitate to encourage your Nationalist party to fight for their freedom."

Mr. Bullen's lips were a little parted, but his face was immovable.

"Go on."

"In the event of your doing so," Norgate continued, "more money, and arms
themselves if you require them, will be available, but the motto of those
who have the cause of Ireland entirely at heart is, 'No compromise!' They
recognise the fact that you are in a difficult position. They fear that
you have allowed yourself to be influenced, to be weakened by pressure
so easily brought upon you from high quarters."

"I understand," Mr. Bullen remarked. "Go on."

"There is a further condition," Norgate proceeded, "though that is less
important. The position in Europe at the present moment seems to indicate
a lasting peace, yet if anything should happen that that peace should be
broken, you are asked to pledge your word that none of your Nationalist
volunteers should take up arms on behalf of England until that bill has
become law and is in operation. Further, if that unlikely event, a war,
should take place, that you have the courage to keep your men solid and
armed, and that if the Ulster volunteers, unlike your men, decide to
fight for England, as they very well might do, that you then proceed to
take by force what it is not the intention of England to grant you by any
other means."

Mr. Bullen leaned back in his chair. He picked up a penholder and played
with it for several moments.

"Young man," he asked at last, "who is Mr. X----?"

"That, in the present stage of our negotiations," Norgate answered
coolly, "I am not permitted to tell you."

"May I guess as to his nationality?" Mr. Bullen enquired.

"I cannot prevent your doing that."

"The speculation is an interesting one," Mr. Bullen went on, still
fingering the penholder. "Is Mr. X---- a German?"

Norgate was silent.

"I cannot answer questions," he said, "until you have expressed
your views."

"You can have them, then," Mr. Bullen declared.

"You can go back to Mr. X---- and tell him this. Ireland needs help
sorely to-day from all her sons, whether at home or in foreign
countries. More than anything she needs money. The million pounds of
which you speak would be a splendid contribution to what I may term our
war chest. But as to my views, here they are. It is my intention, and
the intention of my Party, to fight to the last gasp for the literal
carrying out of the bill which is to grant us our liberty. We will not
have it whittled away or weakened one iota. Our lives, and the lives of
greater men, have been spent to win this measure, and now we stand at
the gates of success. We should be traitors if we consented to part with
a single one of the benefits it brings us. Therefore, you can tell Mr.
X---- that should this Government attempt any such trickery as he not
unreasonably suspects, then his conditions will be met. My men shall
fight, and their cause will be just."

"So far," Norgate admitted, "this is very satisfactory."

"To pass on," Mr. Bullen continued, "let me at once confess that I find
something sinister, Mr. Norgate, in this mysterious visit of yours, in
the hidden identity of Mr. X----. I suspect some underlying motive
which prompts the offering of this million pounds. I may be wrong, but
it seems to me that I can see beneath it all the hand of a foreign
enemy of England."

"Supposing you were right, Mr. Bullen," Norgate said, "what is England
but a foreign enemy of Ireland?"

A light flashed for a moment in Mr. Bullen's eyes. His lip curled
inwards.

"Young man," he demanded, "are you an Englishman?"

"I am," Norgate admitted.

"You speak poorly, then. To proceed to the matter in point, my word is
pledged to fight. I will plunge the country I love into civil war to gain
her rights, as greater patriots than I have done before. But the thing
which I will not do is to be made the cat's-paw, or to suffer Ireland to
be made the cat's-paw, of Germany. If war should come before the
settlement of my business, this is the position I should take. I would
cross to Dublin, and I would tell every Nationalist Volunteer to shoulder
his rifle and to fight for the British Empire, and I would go on to
Belfast--I, David Bullen--to Belfast, where I think that I am the most
hated man alive, and I would stand side by side with the leader of those
men of Ulster, and I would beg them to fight side by side with my
Nationalists. And when the war was over, if my rights were not granted,
if Ireland were not set free, then I would bid my men take breathing time
and use all their skill, all the experience they had gained, and turn and
fight for their own freedom against the men with whom they had struggled
in the same ranks. Is that million pounds to be mine, Mr. Norgate?"

Norgate shook his head.

"Nor any part of it, sir," he answered.

"I presume," Mr. Bullen remarked, as he rose, "that I shall never have
the pleasure of meeting Mr. X----?"

"I most sincerely hope," Norgate declared fervently, "that you never
will. Good-day, Mr. Bullen!"

He held out his hand. Mr. Bullen hesitated.

"Sir," he said, "I am glad to shake hands with an Irishman. I am willing
to shake hands with an honest Englishman. Just where you come in, I don't
know, so good evening. You will find my secretary outside. He will show
you how to get away."

For a moment Norgate faltered. A hot rejoinder trembled upon his lips.
Then he remembered himself and turned on his heel. It was his first
lesson in discipline. He left the room without protest.


CHAPTER XXVIII


Mr. Hebblethwaite turned into Pall Mall, his hands behind his back, his
expression a little less indicative of bland good humour than usual. He
had forgotten to light his customary cigarette after the exigencies of a
Cabinet Council. He had even forgotten to linger for a few minutes upon
the doorstep in case any photographer should be hanging around to take a
snapshot of a famous visitor leaving an historic scene, and quite
unconsciously he ignored the salutation of several friends. It was only
by the merest chance that he happened to glance up at the corner of the
street and recognised Norgate across the way. He paused at once and
beckoned to him.

"Well, young fellow," he exclaimed, as they shook hands, "how's the
German spy business going?"

"Pretty well, thanks," Norgate answered coolly. "I am in it twice over
now. I'm marrying an Austrian lady shortly, very high up indeed in the
Diplomatic Secret Service of her country. Between us you may take it that
we could read, if we chose, the secrets of the Cabinet Council from which
you have just come."

"Any fresh warnings, eh?"

Norgate turned and walked by his friend's side.

"It is no use warning you," he declared. "You've a hide as thick as a
rhinoceros. Your complacency is bomb-proof. You won't believe anything
until it's too late."

"Confoundedly disagreeable companion you make, Norgate," the Cabinet
Minister remarked irritably. "You know quite as well as I do that
the German scare is all bunkum, and you only hammer it in either to
amuse yourself or because you are of a sensational turn of mind. All
the same--"

"All the same, what?" Norgate interrupted.

Hebblethwaite took his young friend's arm and led him into his club.

"We will take an apéritif in the smoking-room," he said. "After that I
will look in my book and see where I am lunching. It is perhaps not
the wisest thing for a Cabinet Minister to talk in the street. Since
the Suffragette scares, I have quite an eye for a detective, and there
has been a fellow within a few yards of your elbow ever since you
spoke to me."

"That's all right," Norgate reassured him. "Let's see, it's Tuesday,
isn't it? I call him Boko. He never leaves me. My week-end shadowers are
a trifle less assiduous, but Boko is suspicious. He has deucedly long
ears, too."

"What the devil are you talking about?" Hebblethwaite demanded, as
they sat down.

"The fact of it is," Norgate explained, "they don't altogether trust me
in my new profession. They give me some important jobs to look after, but
they watch me night and day. What they'd do if I turned 'em up, I can't
imagine. By-the-by, if you do hear of my being found mysteriously shot
or poisoned or something of that sort, don't you take on any theory as to
suicide. It will be murder, right enough. However," he added, raising his
glass to his lips and nodding, "they haven't found me out yet."

"I hear," Hebblethwaite muttered, "that the bookstalls are loaded with
this sort of rubbish. You do it very well, though."

"Oh! I am the real thing all right," Norgate declared. "By-the-by, what's
the matter with you?"

"Nothing," Hebblethwaite replied. "When you come to think of it, sitting
here and feeling the reviving influence of this remarkably well-concocted
beverage, I can confidently answer 'Nothing.' And yet, a few minutes ago,
I must admit that I was conscious of a sensation of gloom. You know,
Norgate, you're not the only idiot in the world who goes about seeing
shadows. For the first time in my life I begin to wonder whether we
haven't got a couple of them among us. Of course, I don't take any notice
of Spencer Wyatt. It's his job. He plays the part of popular
hero--National Anthem, God Save the Empire, and all that sort of thing.
He must keep in with his admirals and the people, so of course he's
always barking for ships. But White, now. I have always looked upon White
as being absolutely the most level-headed, sensible, and peace-adoring
Minister this country ever had."

"What's wrong with him?" Norgate asked.

"I cannot," Hebblethwaite regretted, "talk confidentially to a
German spy."

"Getting cautious as the years roll on, aren't you?" Norgate sighed.
"I hoped I was going to get something interesting out of you to cable
to Berlin."

"You try cabling to Berlin, young fellow," Hebblethwaite replied grimly,
"and I'll have you up at Bow Street pretty soon! There's no doubt about
it, though, old White has got the shivers for some reason or other. To
any sane person things were never calmer and more peaceful than at the
present moment, and White isn't a believer in the German peril, either.
He is half inclined to agree with old Busby. He got us out of that Balkan
trouble in great style, and all I can say is that if any nation in Europe
wanted war then, she could have had it for the asking."

"Well, exactly what is the matter with White at the present moment?"
Norgate demanded.

"Got the shakes," Hebblethwaite confided. "Of course, we don't employ
well-born young Germans who are undergoing a period of rustication, as
English spies, but we do get to know a bit what goes on there, and the
reports that are coming in are just a little curious. Rolling stock is
being called into the termini of all the railways. Staff officers in
mufti have been round all the frontiers. There's an enormous amount of
drilling going on, and the ordnance factories are working at full
pressure, day and night."

"The manoeuvres are due very soon," Norgate reminded his friend.

"So I told White," Hebblethwaite continued, "but manoeuvres, as he
remarked, don't lead to quite so much feverish activity as there is about
Germany just now. Personally, I haven't a single second's anxiety. I only
regret the effect that this sort of feeling has upon the others. Thank
heavens we are a Government of sane, peace-believing people!"

"A Government of fat-headed asses who go about with your ears stuffed
full of wool," Norgate declared, with a sudden bitterness. "What you've
been telling me is the truth. Germany's getting ready for war, and you'll
have it in the neck pretty soon."

Hebblethwaite set down his empty glass. He had recovered his composure.

"Well, I am glad I met you, any way, young fellow," he remarked. "You're
always such an optimist. You cheer one up. Sorry I can't ask you to
lunch," he went on, consulting his book, "but I find I am motoring down
for a round of golf this afternoon."

"Yes, you would play golf!" Norgate grunted, as they strolled towards the
door. "You're the modern Nero, playing golf while the earthquake yawns
under London."

"Play you some day, if you like," Hebblethwaite suggested, as he called
for a taxi. "They took my handicap down two last week at Walton
Heath--not before it was time, either. By-the-by, when can I meet the
young lady? My people may be out of town next week, but I'll give you
both a lunch or a dinner, if you'll say the word. Thursday night, eh?"

"At present," Norgate replied, "the Baroness is in Italy, arranging for
the mobilisation of the Italian armies, but if she's back for Thursday,
we shall be delighted. She'll be quite interested to meet you. A keen,
bright, alert politician of your type will simply fascinate her."

"We'll make it Thursday night, then, at the Carlton," Hebblethwaite
called out from his taxi. "Take care of Boko. So long!"

At the top of St. James's Street, Norgate received the bow of a very
elegantly-dressed young woman who was accompanied by a well-known
soldier. A few steps further on he came face to face with Selingman.

"A small city, London," the latter declared. "I am on my way to the
Berkeley to lunch. Will you come with me? I am alone to-day, and I hate
to eat alone. Miss Morgen has deserted me shamefully."

"I met her a moment or two ago," Norgate remarked. "She was with
Colonel Bowden."

Selingman nodded. "Rosa has been taking a great interest in flying
lately. Colonel Bowden is head of the Flying Section. Well, well, one
must expect to be deserted sometimes, we older men."

"Especially in so great a cause," Norgate observed drily.

Selingman smiled enigmatically.

"And you, my young friend," he enquired, "what have you been doing
this morning?"

"I have just left Hebblethwaite," Norgate answered.

"There was a Cabinet Council this morning, wasn't there?"

Norgate nodded.

"An unimportant one, I should imagine. Hebblethwaite seemed thoroughly
satisfied with himself and with life generally. He has gone down to
Walton Heath to play golf."

Selingman led the way into the restaurant.

"Very good exercise for an English Cabinet Minister," he remarked,
"capital for the muscles!"


CHAPTER XXIX


"I had no objection," Norgate remarked, a few hours later, "to lunching
with you at the Berkeley--very good lunch it was, too--but to dine with
you in Soho certainly seems to require some explanation. Why do we do it?
Is it my punishment for a day's inactivity, because if so, I beg to
protest. I did my best with Hebblethwaite this morning, and it was only
because there was nothing for him to tell me that I heard nothing."

Selingman spread himself out at the little table and talked in voluble
German to the portly head-waiter in greasy clothes. Then he turned to
his guest.

"My young friend," he enjoined, "you should cultivate a spirit of
optimism. I grant you that the place is small and close, that the odour
of other people's dinners is repellent, that this cloth, perhaps, is not
so clean as it once was, or the linen so fine as we are accustomed to.
But what would you have? All sides of life come into the great scheme. It
is here that we shall meet a person whom I need to meet, a person whom I
do not choose to have visit me at my home, whom I do not choose to be
seen with in any public place of great repute."

"I should say we were safe here from knocking against any of our
friends!" Norgate observed. "Anyhow, the beer's all right."

They were served with light-coloured beer in tall, chased tumblers.
Selingman eyed his with approval.

"A nation," he declared, "which brews beer like this, deserves well of
the world. You did wisely, Norgate, to become ever so slightly associated
with us. Now examine carefully these _hors d'oeuvres_. I have talked with
Karl, the head-waiter. Instead of eighteen pence, we shall pay three
shillings each for our dinner. The whole resources of the establishment
are at our disposal. Fresh tins of _delicatessen_, you perceive. Do not
be afraid that you will go-away hungry."

"I am more afraid," Norgate grumbled, "that I shall go away sick.
However!"

"You may be interested to hear," announced Selingman, glancing up, "that
our visit is not in vain. You perceive the two men entering? The nearest
one is a Bulgarian. He is a creature of mine. The other is brought here
by him to meet us. It is good."

The newcomers made their way along the room. One, the Bulgarian, was
short and dark. He wore a well-brushed blue serge suit with a red tie,
and a small bowler hat. He was smoking a long, brown cigarette and he
carried a bundle of newspapers. Behind him came a youth with a pale,
sensitive face and dark eyes, ill-dressed, with the grip of poverty upon
him, from his patched shoes to his frayed collar and well-worn cap.
Nevertheless, he carried himself as though indifferent to these things.
His companion stopped short as he neared the table at which the two men
were sitting, and took off his hat, greeting Selingman with respect.

"My friend Stralhaus!" Selingman exclaimed. "It goes well, I trust?
You are a stranger. Let me introduce to you my secretary, Mr.
Francis Norgate."

Stralhaus bowed and turned to his young companion.

"This," he said, "is the young man with whom you desired to speak. We
will sit down if we may. Sigismund, this is the great Herr Selingman,
philanthropist and millionaire, with his secretary, Mr. Norgate. We take
dinner with him to-night."

The youth shook hands without enthusiasm. His manner towards Selingman
was cold. At Norgate he glanced once or twice with something approaching
curiosity. Stralhaus proceeded to make conversation.

"Our young friend," he explained, addressing Norgate, "is an exile in
London. He belongs to an unfortunate country. He is a native of Bosnia."

The boy's lip curled.

"It is possible," he remarked, "that Mr. Norgate has never even heard of
my country. He is very little likely to know its history."

"On the contrary," Norgate replied, "I know it very well. You have had
the misfortune, during the last few years, to come under Austrian rule."

"Since you put it like that," the boy declared, "we are friends. I am one
of those who cry out to Heaven in horror at the injustice which has been
done. We love liberty, we Bosnians. We love our own people and our own
institutions, and we hate Austria. May you never know, sir, what it is to
be ruled by an alien race!"

"You have at least the sympathy of many nations who are powerless to
interfere," Selingman said quietly. "I read your pamphlet, Mr. Henriote,
with very great interest. Before we leave to-night, I shall make a
proposal to you."

The boy seemed puzzled for a moment, but Stralhaus intervened with some
commonplace remark.

"After dinner," he suggested, "we will talk."

Certainly during the progress of the meal Henriote said little. He ate,
although obviously half famished, with restraint, but although Norgate
did his best to engage him in conversation, he seemed taciturn, almost
sullen. Towards the end of dinner, when every one was smoking and coffee
had been served, Selingman glanced at his watch.

"Now," he said, "I will tell you, my young Bosnian patriot, why I sent
for you. Would you like to go back to your country, in the first place?"

"It is impossible!" Henriote declared bitterly, "I am exile. I am
forbidden to return under pain of death."

Selingman opened his pocket-book, and, searching among his papers,
produced a thin blue one which he opened and passed across the table.

"Read that," he ordered shortly.

The young man obeyed. A sudden exclamation broke from his lips. A pink
flush, which neither the wine nor the food had produced, burned in his
cheeks. He sat hunched up, leaning forward, his eyes devouring the paper.
When he had finished, he still gripped it.

"It is my pardon!" he cried. "I may go back home--back to Bosnia!"

"It is your free pardon," Selingman replied, "but it is granted to you
upon conditions. Those conditions, I may say, are entirely for your
country's sake and are framed by those who feel exactly as you feel--that
Austrian rule for Bosnia is an injustice."

"Go on," the young man muttered. "What am I to do?"

"You are a member," Selingman went on, "of the extreme revolutionary
party, a party pledged to stop at nothing, to drive your country's
enemies across her borders. Very well, listen to me. The pardon which
you have there is granted to you without any promise having been asked
for or given in return. It is I alone who dictate terms to you. Your
country's position, her wrongs, and the abuses of the present form of
government, can only be brought before the notice of Europe in one way.
You are pledged to do that. All that I require of you is that you keep
your pledge."

The young man half rose to his feet with excitement.

"Keep it! Who is more anxious to keep it than I? If Europe wants to know
how we feel, she shall know! We will proclaim the wrongs of our country
so that England and Russia, France and Italy, shall hear and judge for
themselves. If you need deeds to rivet the attention of the world upon
our sufferings, then there shall be deeds. There shall--"

He stopped short. A look of despair crossed his face.

"But we have no money!" he exclaimed. "We patriots are starving. Our
lands have been confiscated. We have nothing. I live over here Heaven
knows how--I, Sigismund Henriote, have toiled for my living with Polish
Jews and the outcasts of Europe."

Selingman dived once more into his pocket-book. He passed a packet across
the table.

"Young man," he said, "that sum has been collected for your funds by the
friends of your country abroad. Take it and use it as you think best. All
that I ask from you is that what you do, you do quickly. Let me suggest
an occasion for you. The Archduke of Austria will be in your capital
almost as soon as you can reach home."

The boy's face was transfigured. His great eyes were lit with a wonderful
fire. His frame seemed to have filled out. Norgate looked at him in
wonderment. He was like a prophet; then suddenly he grew calm. He placed
his pardon, to which was attached his passport, and the notes, in his
breast-coat pocket. He rose to his feet and took the cap from the floor
by his side.

"There is a train to-night," he announced. "I wish you farewell,
gentlemen. I know nothing of you, sir," he added, turning to Selingman,
"and I ask no questions. I only know that you have pointed towards the
light, and for that I thank you. Good night, gentlemen!"

He left them and walked out of the restaurant like a man in a dream.
Selingman helped himself to a liqueur and passed the bottle to Norgate.

"It is in strange places that one may start sometimes the driving wheels
of Fate," he remarked.


CHAPTER XXX


Anna almost threw herself from the railway carriage into Norgate's arms.
She kissed him on both cheeks, held him for a moment away from her, then
passed her arm affectionately through his.

"You dear!" she exclaimed. "Oh, how weary I am of it! Nearly a week in
the train! And how well you are looking! And I am not going to stay a
single second bothering about luggage. Marie, give the porter my
dressing-case. Here are the keys. You can see to everything."

Norgate, carried almost off his feet by the delight of her welcome, led
her away towards a taxicab.

"I am starving," she told him. "I would have nothing at Dover except a
cup of tea. I knew that you would meet me, and I thought that we would
have our first meal in England together. You shall take me somewhere
where we can have supper and tell me all the news. I don't look too
hideous, do I, in my travelling clothes?"

"You look adorable," he assured her, "and I believe you know it."

"I have done my best," she confessed demurely. "Marie took so much
trouble with my hair. We had the most delightful coupe all to
ourselves. Fancy, we are back again in London! I have been to Italy, I
have spoken to kings and prime ministers, and I am back again with you.
And queerly enough, not until to-morrow shall I see the one person who
really rules Italy."

"Who is that?" he asked.

"I am not sure that I shall tell you everything," she decided. "You have
not opened your mouth to me yet. I shall wait until supper-time. Have you
changed your mind since I went away?"

"I shall never change it," he assured her eagerly. "We are in a taxicab
and I know it's most unusual and improper, but--"

"If you hadn't kissed me," she declared a moment later as she
leaned forward to look in the glass, "I should not have eaten a
mouthful of supper."

They drove to the Milan Grill. It was a little early for the theatre
people, and they were almost alone in the place. Anna drew a great sigh
of content as she settled down in her chair.

"I think I must have been lonely for a long time," she whispered, "for
it is so delightful to get back and be with you. Tell me what you have
been doing?"

"I have been promoted," Norgate announced. "My prospective alliance with
you has completed Selingman's confidence in me. I have been entrusted
with several commissions."

He told her of his adventures. She listened breathlessly to the account
of his dinner in Soho.

"It is queer how all this is working out," she observed. "I knew before
that the trouble was to come through Austria. The Emperor was very
anxious indeed that it should not. He wanted to have his country brought
reluctantly into the struggle. Even at this moment I believe that if he
thought there was the slightest chance of England becoming embroiled, he
would travel to Berlin himself to plead with the Kaiser. I really don't
know why, but the one thing in Austria which would be thoroughly
unpopular would be a war with England."

"Tell me about your mission?" he asked.

"To a certain point," she confessed, with a little grimace, "it was
unsuccessful. I have brought a reply to the personal letter I took over
to the King. I have talked with Guillamo, the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs, with whom, of course, everything is supposed to rest.
What I have brought with me, however, and what I heard from Guillamo, are
nothing but a repetition of the assurances given to our Ambassador. The
few private words which I was to get I have failed in obtaining, simply
because the one person who could have spoken them is here in London."

"Who is that?" he enquired curiously.

"The Comtesse di Strozzi," she told him. "It is she who has directed the
foreign policy of Italy through Guillamo for the last ten years. He does
nothing without her. He is like a lost child, indeed, when she is away.
And where do you think she is? Why, here in London. She is staying at the
Italian Embassy. Signor Cardina is her cousin. The great ball to-morrow
night, of which you have read, is in her honour. You shall be my escort.
At one time I knew her quite well."

"The Comtesse di Strozzi!" he exclaimed. "Why, she spent the whole of
last season in Paris. I saw quite a great deal of her."

"How odd!" Anna murmured. "But how delightful! We shall be able to talk
to her together, you and I."

"It is rather a coincidence," he admitted "She had a sort of craze to
visit some of the places in Paris where it is necessary for a woman to go
incognito, and I was always her escort. I heard from her only a few weeks
ago, and she told me that she was coming to London."

Anna shook her head at him gaily.

"Well," she said, "I won't indulge in any ante-jealousies. I only
hope that through her we shall get to know the truth. Are things here
still quiet?"

"Absolutely."

"Also in Paris. Francis, I feel so helpless. On my way I thought of
staying over, of going to see the Minister of War and placing certain
facts before him. And then I realised how little use it would all be.
They won't believe us, Francis. They would simply call us alarmists. They
won't believe that the storm is gathering."

"Don't I know it!" Norgate assented earnestly. "Why, Hebblethwaite here
has always been a great friend of mine. I have done all I can to
influence him. He simply laughs in my face. To-day, for the first time,
he admitted that there was a slight uneasiness at the Cabinet Meeting,
and that White had referred to a certain mysterious activity throughout
Germany. Nevertheless, he has gone down to Walton Heath to play golf."

She made a little grimace.

"Your great Drake," she reminded him, "played bowls when the Armada
sailed. Your Cabinet Ministers will be playing golf or tennis. Oh, what a
careless country you are!--a careless, haphazard, blind, pig-headed
nation to watch over the destinies of such an Empire! I'm so tired of
politics, dear. I am so tired of all the big things that concern other
people. They press upon one. Now it is finished. You and I are alone. You
are my lover, aren't you? Remind me of it. If you will, I will discuss
the subject you mentioned the other day. Of course I shall say 'No!' I am
not nearly ready to be married yet. But I should like to hear your
arguments."

Their heads grew closer and closer together. They were almost
touching when Selingman and Rosa Morgen came in. Selingman paused
before their table.

"Well, well, young people!" he exclaimed. "Forgive me, Baroness, if I am
somewhat failing in respect, but the doings of this young man have become
some concern of mine."

Her greeting was tinged with a certain condescension. She had suddenly
stiffened. There was something of the _grande dame_ in the way she held
up the tips of her fingers.

"You do not disapprove, I trust?"

"Baroness," Selingman declared earnestly, "it is an alliance for which no
words can express my approval. It comes at the one moment. It has riveted
to us and our interests one whose services will never be forgotten. May
I venture to hope that your journey to Italy has been productive?"

"Not entirely as we had hoped," Anna replied, "yet the position there is
not unfavourable."

Selingman glanced towards the table at which Miss Morgen had already
seated herself.

"I must not neglect my duties," he remarked, turning away.

"Especially," Anna murmured, glancing across the room, "when they might
so easily be construed into pleasures."

Selingman beamed amiably.

"The young lady," he said, "is more than ornamental--she is extremely
useful. From the fact that I may not be privileged to present her to you,
I must be careful that she cannot consider herself neglected. And so good
night, Baroness! Good night, Norgate!"

He passed on. The Baroness watched him as he took his place opposite his
companion.

"Is it my fancy," Norgate asked, "or does Selingman not meet entirely
with your approval?"

She shrugged her shoulders.

"It is not that," she replied. "He is a great man, in his way, the
Napoleon of the bourgeoisie, but then he is one of them himself. He
collects the whole scheme of information as to the social life and
opinions--the domestic particulars, I call them--of your country. Details
of your industries are at his finger-tips. He and I do not come into
contact. I am the trusted agent of both sovereigns, but it is only in
high diplomatic affairs that I ever intervene. Selingman, it is true,
may be considered the greatest spy who ever breathed, but a spy he is. If
we could only persuade your too amiable officials to believe one-tenth of
what we could tell them, I think our friend there would breakfast in an
English fortress, if you have such a thing."

"We should only place him under police supervision," declared Norgate,
"and let him go. It's just our way, that's all."

She waved the subject of Selingman on one side, but almost at that moment
he stood once more before them. He held an evening paper in his hand.

"I bring you the news," he announced. "A terrible tragedy has happened.
The Archduke of Austria and his Consort have been assassinated on their
tour through Bosnia."

For a moment neither Anna nor Norgate moved. Norgate felt a strange sense
of sickening excitement. It was as though the curtain had been rung up!

"Is the assassin's name there?" he asked.

"The crime," Selingman replied, "appears to have been committed by a
young Servian student. His name is Sigismund Henriote."


CHAPTER XXXI


They paused at last, breathless, and walked out of the most wonderful
ballroom in London into the gardens, aglow with fairy lanterns whose
brilliance was already fading before the rising moon. They found a seat
under a tall elm tree, and Anna leaned back. It was a queer mixture of
sounds which came to their ears; in the near distance, the music of a
wonderful orchestra rising and falling; further away, the roar of the
great city still awake and alive outside the boundary of those grey
stone walls.

"Of course," she murmured, "this is the one thing which completes my
subjugation. Fancy an Englishman being able to waltz! Almost in that
beautiful room I fancied myself back in Vienna, except that it was more
wonderful because it was you."

"You are turning my head," he whispered. "This is like a night out of
Paradise. And to think that we are really in the middle of London!"

"Ah! We miss her laugh and said affectionately: - Well, you love me, and
this is important ... - Yes, I love you because I think the sincere
and loyal ...

One thing you could leave, the falsehood and lies ...

And that's not what I hope ...

I believe in you ... looking like a point of comparison, but she
did not give me time to find it. - Thank you - said rising and shook
hands .-- I also have confidence, and since Marignol not insist on
die and cut the food, we must have patience and continue to love
the mystery ... - Why do not we have to clarify a little?

Luciana said with her head no. - If we could set a date, even distant, I
would be the first to boast of his choice to you, my friend ... But think
of the ridicule of this everlasting sighing bride by marriage ...

The ridiculous is what I fear most in the world ... - I do not see
the ridiculous ...

Luciana made a nervous gesture. - Women as well we - said. - What has
come, then that question on the date of our marriage - An probe - said
laughing .-- The poor opinion I have of myself makes me doubt you, especially
when I see him exercise his privileges older brother to Elena Lacante.
I fear sometimes that you were misled about their feelings, as she deceived
... - Elena! ...

I thought it fell a sharp tip to the deepest of my heart. - It's
impossible - I exclaimed. - Elena can not deceive ...

Never a word of mine could cause the illusion of love. - Better for
her in that case - Luciana said indifferently.

I kept a print of this painful conversation.

I feel more closely united than ever with Luciana. We explained, forgiven
and reconciled.

I renewed the security of his love and his will to be mine. You should be
happy and I am not. The more you know, the more I see that the feelings
are not that simple Luciana frank and bright that I won at first.

His soul is complicated, and what she ignores me and peat alarm. When I
grieve alongside his charm, seduce me and I won. Away, I try to
understand, analyze and lose the peace in my heart ... Why, then, this
is so sad! His brother Max. October 25. I am sending you, because you
want the photo of Luciana, and add to Helena, to which you will be glad
to know. Both are like a perfect and can, if it amuses you, remove your
psychological horoscopes as if they were watching themselves. What the
photograph can not replicate the dazzling brightness of the complexion,
hair, the eyes of Luciana.

It is beautiful, wonderfully beautiful ... Oh! loved, the man is a
stupid animal. A few days ago I thought that the heart of Luciana away
from me, and I fell into the morass of despair.

The horrible thought of a break I sought, and the anguish of living
in the darkest jealousy. Today everything is calmer.

Luciana is sweet, careful not to dislike ... and I'm not quiet. I am
tormented and tortured with a thousand chimeras and unjustified
complaints ... Sometimes I wonder if it's not my freedom that I miss.
I think those children crying and kicking for having a drum, and when
they do, they take time to break to see what is inside. The truth is
that I no longer such a joyous sound that I expected. I'm wasting time
moaning in rather than my suitcase, then travel out of shortly.

He promised to give a lecture on the artistic circles of Antwerp
and take the opportunity to walk by my eloquence Ghent, Mechelen
and Brussels, where I am invited.

It is a journey of eight days and that will distract me a few pesos
in my hospital bag.

The whole world is going well, Lautrec has set for his departure
next week, which reassures me.

I deplore the matter to the minor, but I prefer to know that far
away.

Luciana also comes in a few days with his mother, for Rouen, where there
is an exhibition of paintings. I guess that will seek to return to Paris
at the same time as me.

I got down the car. I will tell you my journey in the next letter.
Bye. Jalavieux Father Elena. October 30.

We returned to Paris, my good priest.

A few rain storms and wind have made us fear for the health of my
father, and we left the 'Villa Sol "to which the sun and rarely
visited.

I was surprised to find on the same floor of our home to a charming
room decorated in a charming me.

Max has been in charge of arrangements and those who have chosen
everything, and you can not imagine how cool, how nice and what is tasteful.
My room has two windows at a jardinillo surrounded by high walls,
whose ugliness is covered by a tapestry of ivy.

I am very happy and have no single point of view as the dark courtyard
where grass grows between the tiles.

About jardinillo there is a big picture of heaven, in which the
moon to celebrate the day of our arrival.

Beside the bedroom is a piececita with a shelf of books and a piano,
that is my living room, and a little farther another piece in the larger
sleeping Donna Polidoro.

I answer you that I am well saved, because the good lady did not pamper me,
mad as I am about to take the ascendancy in the home.

Work hard with my father, and also makes me take music lessons and English;
will not be your fault if you do not get to be a woman well.

It would be completely happy if the health of my dear father was
more solid, but suffers greatly from gout and there are times when
I despair that we can not relieve it.

All our custom summer have been changed.

The Marquise of Oreve is still Vaucresson for a few days, Max has
left yesterday to give Belgium a few lectures, and Mr Lautrec will soon
know what not to distant regions, which seem to be two or three
years .

I miss her, because it is friendly and cheerful.

Grevillois and that of her daughter had returned to his room on the streets
of Verneuil. Just now Mr Kissel had come to welcome us and has made us
aware of the serious illness of a wise man, Mr. Marignol, professor at the
College of France and the maximum is for that.

I do not want to harm this man, who did not know, but it is old, and
if his health forced him to retire, would ensure the future of
maximum forward and we by him.

Máximo his brother. Ghent, November 3. My two first conference had
gone very well, I have gathered many plaudits, and even better, I had a
large and enthusiastic audience. It will be a weakness, but the fact is
that the applause, not just tickle pleasantly self-esteem of the speaker,
but give wit, animation and eloquence, is like a springboard from
which to launch an increased force.

This morning, when you open a newspaper of France, I read about
the sudden death of Marignol. Poor man! I can not say sorry, and I deceive
myself if I get much pity for his death. Was old, older than his age,
and their mission was accomplished. I had not been gentle with me and
challenged me the way with an arrogance that it was unkind. Moreover, it
should stop dying it is an accident that we are all booked and there
are perhaps those who have suffered the most worthy of compassion.
However, this accident of death is so permanent and irreparable, the
pleasure of seeing that my future has been secured less lively
than I expected, and I felt a kind of remorse for having desired
so that square, but would have preferred, surely obtain the voluntary
withdrawal of the possession.

At last barriers have disappeared from Luciana and me.

The road is paved, then I do not see anyone in line for the seat.

When I look back the wedding date and announce it to our friends, Lacante
foremost, and this somewhat clouded my joy. Will be amazed and surprised
me to be an indictment, because he had more confidence. Why I did not
envision at least my projects? I will removed the value of their
desire to speak, loosely stated, to give me in marriage to Elena?

That, precisely, was to force me. The truth is that never has spoken
clearly on this matter and it is ridiculous to abandon an impertinence
honor that no one offers one. I say this not to justify and achievement.
The truth is that I've fallen so cowardly to me it was painful to
say, I enjoyed the chance to get out of trouble, and I am now in a
cruel predicament.

And if it were true which means Luciana if Helena could be wrong
about the feelings that inspire me, I would have committed a bad
action ...

Fortunately I do not think so, and this reassures me. While strolling
recently aware of this case under the vaults of the great Cathedral of
Antwerp, in the evening, I looked to see Elena as I appeared in
Quimper, in a lightning Moon, a fantastic creature as a being of
pure spirituality.

When I'm away from it, that's how I see it and be passed through my
life.

And can not prevent one of sadness and anger of indignation at the
thought that I will never be anything to it and another will seize
one days of that innocence and that sweetness.

It is reckless, selfish and ungrateful, and have thought that not being
able to throw in my mind.

I begin to believe that I brought to the marriage and that I am an
amphibian species as they are made to float between two waters do
not ever walk on land.

I curse and insult me because of disgust as I am and not be otherwise way.
Not worth Marignol who died because I did not produce any content. Jalavieux
Father Elena. I think of a great adventure, which I have undertaken a
little lightly and without knowing how to go out. Here's the story, priest.
Yesterday evening we ate at the house of the Marquesa de Oreve with the
ladies Grevillois, the Jansien and a few men, among whom was Gerardo
Lautrec. Trying, just for a farewell meal before his great expedition
across the world. There was talk of the East, the Asian races,
customs and costumes of other things related to the journey of Don Gerardo,
when suddenly , the Jansien gives a loud sigh and exclaimed: - Where will
you be tomorrow at this time ... Far longer. Lautrec laughed and answered:
- Not as far as you think. Twenty-four hours delay my trip to shake
hands with a maximum of Cosmo, who arrives tomorrow with all the
laurels of Belgium. - Tanta friendship! ... Confess that you are a
pretext. - Not at all, ma'am. I am a close friend of Maximus, and besides,
I must ask a service ... I put a deposit on your hands that, for me, is
important because they are my most precious papers. - How it?

- Luciana said .-- Why him? There was something so strange in the
sound of your voice, I could not look less.

His eyes shone with a strange radiance, but for a moment that lit the
flame was extinguished and Luciana again into immobility haughty and
a little sad that it had saved so far. Lautrec replied: - I hope these
papers to Maximus because he is my friend and the gentleman that I know
more. If I die, I am sure that I will scrupulously implemented, and to
publish what you find worthy of it, to burn and what should not be
read. In saying that I watched Luciana, who had asked, but she seemed to
think otherwise and remained indifferent and thoughtful. My father
said, approving a Lautrec: - Max is the same loyalty and also discreet
as a tomb. You can trust the most important engagements with the knowledge
that will be implemented conscientiously. - I - said in Sofia
Jansien tone loud and hard - do not know anything more than a
discreet confidant, fire.

Ha, ha, ha! This lady has a way to laugh that breaks the glass. Lautrec
continued: - Yes, when one dies, which has more secrets to be
delivered to the fire.

While retaining a breath of life we want to conserve the fragile
remains of the happy days of the pleasures to be enjoyed and those
that had not been waived yet ...

Nobody wants to sacrifice the past or the future. Their quick glances,
always seek the approval of those present, were arrested in Luciana,
but it did not lift their eyes and Gerard could not read in those
beautiful marble impassive factions, in a fixed haughty and absolute
immobility.

Aquella attitude so contrasted with his usual application look,
respond and smile, which could not be felt for the difference.

Supposed to be sheltering at the apparent callousness and pride to his
sentence for failing to report the departure of Lautrec. At some tumultuous
to say farewell, after the split of the evening, my father invited all
to come home tonight to celebrate the return of Max.

All accepted unless Mrs Jansien, which was already compromised, and
the Grevillois, which have to be in Rouen tomorrow afternoon and
not return within the next two days.

Luciana, wrapped in a dark coat with hood is ensured in part face, was
talking in a corner of the reception, with Lautrec, in a low voice
and animation.

His mother, ready to leave, call and I heard him say: - Oh!

So Mr Lautrec never ... anymore. And he left. - Bye, then ... for long.
Diols Lautrec hand, Luciana and dropped it into his own as to his regret.
Upon leaving, he moved to my side and said hastily: - Well you see
me tomorrow morning, I ask ...

I will make you a great service ...

You know we left at nine. Falters, strange, but she took his hand, I squeezed
with force and told me: - If you knew! ... Go you, you beg. Her mother
was calling on the ladder, and Luciana added, looking earnestly: - It
will be you? Do it for me, Elena.

I promised, and this morning my father got permission to go to say goodbye
to her. I was writing and consented to do without question. I went out,
then, with Mrs. Schwartz, a lady who comes every morning to join the
church and my classes and at the same time, I taught German.

Would be barely eight when I arrived to the streets of Verneuil.

I opened the door of Mrs Grevillois and seemed very surprised to
see me. - Luciana - I said .-- I do not know if they hesitated to
receive it you can, my daughter, we're going now.

Before I answer that came to ask for Luciana, it appeared. - Between you -
told me strongly - I am very happy to see it. And speaking to his mother
to prevent any objection, he added: - I am absolutely List and I have
taken tea. As you take your clothes and just, I can talk a moment
with Elena. I have to show some paintings that do not know. The entering
of Grevillois did Mrs.

Schwartz in the dining room and I followed Luciana to his room, a very
modest room with a window onto a courtyard that resembles a narrow
pit.

Fortunately, as living on the top floor are the light above the rooftops
nearby. I offered the only chair, worn and not very strong, and she sat
in bed, without curtains and covered with a blanket of flowers very faded
blue.

These details were set out in my mind by the contrast between
those wretched things and the splendid beauty and brilliance
of youth who served in that frame.

Luciana was very pale and his eyes showed a long irritated insomnia.

It took me the hand, kept on his own, whose heat burned me through my
glove and said: - Thanks for coming ... Are you good, Elena, and you
can rely on you, does it? Her eyes looked as if I am looking for my soul
at the bottom of mine. - If I ask you a service ... a great service that
only you can borrow, you want to - certainly, if I can do it ...
.. y. - And ... - And if it does not need to miss any duty.

For her lips moved and faded shadow of a smile not without pity. -
If necessary, he said - absent any duty, do not ask you ... I am writing
to you because I have felt in particular, because I know you are
loyal and loving and because you believe in the sanctity of an oath ...
Oh! you have no fear - added guessing that the solemnity of the oath
word I had alarmed - this is just me, myself, one thing that my
future depends ... - A Marriage?

-- -Nearly ... painfully hesitated and said: - A failed marriage
... - And you feel - I replied, shocked by his pallor and empozando
to a part of the truth. - Yeah, sorry .. .

One can not help but love making is ... then stopped and said: - I
saved you the secret, right?

Do you promise? Those things are bad ... as you understand. - I understand
... - I promise you the secret ... - ... I promise - A secret
inviolable ... ... confession of a secret - except for my confessor - I
believe in you, my good and godly counsel. Luciana reflected a
moment. - Except for that, if you talk about it deems useful. - You are
my promise, but if it is so painful entrusted to me, tell me
what else? - It is necessary ... Did not I told him I have to ask
a great service?

Luciana was made incarnate and pale alternately. - Have you repaired -
he said at last - that Mr Lautrec made me love - It was hard not
to repair . - Have you thought that you could marry me?

- It happened to me this idea, but not very safe. Mr Lautrec, I do not
know why, did not seem ready for marriage ... - You were right and tried
to hit me more ... I stopped by clouding their good words, for its
tenderness and its superficial and vague vain protests ... I'd like ...
How do you find it? - Very nice. - His person, his tastes, his wit, his
position ... his fortune, without being pretty huge, their relationships,
I like it all ... weak and had to write ... - It is unfortunate ...

But he is an honest man and not abuse that trust. - I think so ...

I am certain ... My imprudent letters are safe in their hands ...

But he goes and does not conceal the dangers that await him.

He shuddered and his voice became weak. - If you do not return,
what would these letters?

- I heard yesterday that you hoped their roles to maximum; These letters
are no doubt covered in them. - Mr Cosmos know ... my point - but
the letters must be tucked into an envelope ... - What do I know?

Besides you can open an envelope, break ...

Just a coincidence that always happens in these cases. - Even if
it did, does not abuse the secret to discover. - Ah!

You do not understand - cried with despair .-- And humiliation and shame?
Is not nothing to you? How to think about it without dying? That idea
gives me fever ... trembled and was shaken by major calofríos. -
It is absolutely necessary that I have those letters. - Do you
have requested Mr Lautrec - Yes, certainly, and has refused to dármelas.
- is abominable, hateful ... - No, you did not create in any part of its
brutality ... On the contrary, protested his love, his dedication ...
Want to keep my letters by tenderness, and perhaps because
they know how to live ... Yesterday even dared to ask me to continuásemos
that correspondence. - Are you sure - I hesitated, - that he does
not believe in marriage - has never spoken that word here ... I had
thought, crazy me, that love ... feelings of admiration for enthusiastic
and passionate sympathy which he expressed, what lead to that ...
I wrote ... and I replied ... This recklessness is now cruel agonies
atoned with ... more cruel than you might think. He seemed to doubt if
I would say one thing that finally did not dare to trust. - Elena,
I told you to recover those letters. - Conmigo!

What can I do ... I think if you had insisted ... - I have insisted - I
have replied nervously .-- more ...

I went to his house to request them. - Oh! ... Luciana - Yeah, this
morning gave way foolish and useless, without knowing my mother. I was
not at home and I undertook in vain.

I could not do more than write two words, I let him in on the verge. We
urge you to take home last night to test the Marquise that my
madness, and that the deposit in a corner of the library, where I
had taken out without anyone notase.

The fate has willed that his servant did not give it my skeletons . -
can not be sent to you ... by the same procedure used to write -
I could, but ensures that you can not go without a dear friend and
exceptional begged me to trust your wisdom and in his honor, and
without committing to anything, she discussed the future with tender
words ... and vague.

I know him well ... and I do not trust him or anyone ... except you,
Elena ... I've seen you sweet, compassionate and courageous, beside
a miserable sinner, the Briffarde ... and I thought that you would
have pity on my anguish. - What can I do - I said sadly. - Tonight you
will see Gerardo, Elena, and ask you require to deliver these
letters ...

Here you have two words for him, which I have prepared and allowed his
intervention.

You can not get out of trouble with novel phrases. Credulity, trust that
I have shown, prevent me from speaking ... I can not, however, ask
her to marry me if he does not want or can not find that I am a good
match for his ambition. - Luciana - I said .-- extremely disturbed fear
not being able to fulfill a mission so delicate, you do not know what
I'm shy. - Your kindness will inspire you.

You are
right. If I may be permitted to say so," he added, "Captain Fielder is
wrong. Germany has no wish to fight with any one. The last country in the
world with whom she would care to cross swords is England."

"If Germany does not wish for war," Captain Fielder persisted, "why does
she keep such an extraordinary army? Why does she continually add to her
navy? Why does she infest our country with spies and keep all her
preparations as secret as possible?"

"Of these things I know little," Selingman confessed, "I am a
manufacturer, and I have few friends among the military party. But this
we all believe, and that is that the German army and navy are our
insurance against trouble from the east. They are there so that in case
of political controversy we shall have strength at our back when we seek
to make favourable terms. As to using that strength, God forbid!"

The little lady threw a triumphant glance across at her companion.

"There, Captain Fielder," she declared, "you have heard what a typical,
well-informed, cultivated German gentleman has to say. I rely much more
upon Mr. Selingman than upon any of the German reviews or official
statements of policy."

Captain Fielder was bluntly unconvinced.

"Mr. Selingman, without doubt," he agreed, "may represent popular and
cultivated German opinion. The only thing is whether the policy of the
country is dictated by that class. Do you happen to have seen the
afternoon papers?"

"Not yet," Mr. Selingman admitted. "Is there any news?"

"There is the full text," Captain Fielder continued, "of Austria's
demands upon Servia. I may be wrong, but I say confidently that those
demands, which are impossible of acceptance, which would reduce Servia,
in fact, to the condition of a mere vassal state, are intended to provoke
a state of war."

Mr. Selingman shook his head.

"I have seen the proposals," he remarked. "They were in the second
edition of the morning papers. They are onerous, without a doubt, but
remember that as you go further east, all diplomacy becomes a matter of
barter. They ask for so much first because they are prepared to take a
great deal less."

"It is my opinion," Captain Fielder pronounced, "that these demands are
couched with the sole idea of inciting Russia's intervention. There is
already a report that Servia has appealed to St. Petersburg. It is quite
certain that Russia, as the protector of the Slav nations, can never
allow Servia to be humbled to this extent."

"Even then," Mr. Selingman protested good-humouredly, "Austria is
not Germany."

"There are very few people," Captain Fielder continued, "who do not
realise that Austria is acting exactly as she is bidden by Germany.
To-morrow you will find that Russia has intervened. If Vienna disregards
her, there will be mobilisation along the frontiers. It is my private and
very firm impression that Germany is mobilising to-day, and secretly."

Mr. Selingman laughed good-humouredly.

"Well, well," he said, "let us hope it is not quite so bad as that."

"You are frightening me, Captain Fielder," Mrs. Barlow declared. "I am
going to take you off to play bridge."

They left the room. Selingman looked after them a little curiously.

"Your military friend," he remarked, "is rather a pessimist."

"Well, we haven't many of them," Norgate replied. "Nine people out of ten
believe that a war is about as likely to come as an earthquake."

Selingman glanced towards the closed door.

"Supposing," he said, dropping his voice a little, "supposing I were to
tell you, young man, that I entirely agreed with your friend? Supposing I
were to tell you that, possibly by accident, he has stumbled upon the
exact truth? What would you say then?"

Norgate shrugged his shoulders.

"Well," he observed, "we've agreed, haven't we, that a little
lesson would be good for England? It might as well come now as at
any other time."

"It will not come yet," Mr. Selingman went on, "but I will tell you what
is going to happen."

His voice had fallen almost to a whisper, his manner had become
portentous.

"Within a week or two," he said, "Germany and Austria will have declared
war upon Russia and Servia and France. Italy will join the allies--that
you yourself know. As for England, her time has not come yet. We shall
keep her neutral. All the recent information which we have collected
makes it clear that she is not in a position to fight, even if she wished
to. Nevertheless, to make a certainty of it, we shall offer her great
inducements. We shall be ready to deal with her when Calais, Ostend,
Boulogne, and Havre are held by our armies. Now listen, do you flinch?"

The two men were still standing in the middle of the room. Selingman's
brows were lowered, his eyes were keen and hard-set. He had gripped
Norgate by the left shoulder and held him with his face to the light.

"Speak up," he insisted. "It is now or never, if you mean to go through
with this. You're not funking it, eh?"

"Not in the least," Norgate declared.

For the space of almost thirty seconds Selingman did not remove his gaze.
All the time his hand was like a vice upon Norgate's shoulder.

"Very well," he said at last, "you represent rather a gamble on my
part, but I am not afraid of the throw. Come back to our bridge now.
It was just a moment's impulse--I saw something in your face. You
realise, I suppose--but there, I won't threaten you. Come back and
we'll drink a mixed vermouth together. The next few days are going to
be rather a strain."


CHAPTER XXXIV


Norgate's expression was almost one of stupefaction. He looked at the
slim young man who had entered his sitting-room a little diffidently and
for a moment he was speechless.

"Well, I'm hanged!" he murmured at last. "Hardy, you astonish me!"

"The clothes are a perfect fit, sir," the man observed, "and I think that
we are exactly the same height."

Norgate took a cigarette from an open box, tapped it against the table
and lit it. He was fascinated, however, by the appearance of the man who
stood respectfully in the background.

"Talk about clothes making the man!" he exclaimed. "Why, Hardy, do you
realise your possibilities? You could go into my club and dine, order
jewels from my jeweller. I am not at all sure that you couldn't take my
place at a dinner-party."

The man smiled deprecatingly.

"Not quite that, I am sure, sir. If I may be allowed to say so, though,
when you were good enough to give me the blue serge suit a short time
ago, and a few of your old straw hats, two or three gentlemen stopped me
under the impression that I was you. I should not have mentioned it, sir,
but for the present circumstances."

"And no wonder!" Norgate declared. "If this weren't really a serious
affair, Hardy, I should be inclined to make a little humorous use of you.
That isn't what I want now, though. Listen. Put on one of my black
overcoats and a silk hat, get the man to call you a taxi up to the door,
and drive to Smith's Hotel. You will enquire for the suite of the
Baroness von Haase. The Baroness will allow you to remain in her rooms
for half an hour. At the end of that time you will return here, change
your clothes, and await any further orders."

"Very good, sir," the man replied.

"Help yourself to cigarettes," Norgate invited, passing the box across.
"Do the thing properly. Sit well back in the taxicab, although I'm
hanged if I think that my friend Boko stands an earthly. Plenty of money
in your pocket?"

"Plenty, thank you, sir."

The man left the room, and Norgate, after a brief delay, followed his
example. A glance up and down the courtyard convinced him that Boko had
disappeared. He jumped into a taxi, gave an address in Belgrave Square,
and within a quarter of an hour was ushered into the presence of Mr.
Spencer Wyatt, who was seated at a writing-table covered with papers.

"Mr. Norgate, isn't it?" the latter remarked briskly. "I had Mr.
Hebblethwaite's note, and I am very pleased to give you five minutes. Sit
down, won't you, and fire away."

"Did Mr. Hebblethwaite give you any idea as to what I wanted?"
Norgate asked.

"Better read his note," the other replied, pushing it across the table
with a little smile.

Norgate took it up and read:--

"My dear Spencer Wyatt,

"A young friend of mine, Francis Norgate, who has been in the Diplomatic
Service for some years and is home just now from Berlin under
circumstances which you may remember, has asked me to give him a line of
introduction to you which will secure him an interview during to-day.
Here is that line. Norgate is a young man for whom I have a great
friendship. I consider him possessed of unusual intelligence and many
delightful gifts, but, like many others of us, he is a crank. You can
listen with interest to anything he may have to say to you, unless he
speaks of Germany. That's his weak point. On any other subject he is as
sane as the best of us.

"Many thanks. Certainly I am coming to the Review. We are all looking
forward to it immensely.

"Ever yours,

"JOHN W. HEBBLETHWAITE."

Norgate set down the letter.

"There are two points of view, Mr. Spencer Wyatt," he said, "as to
Germany. Mr. Hebblethwaite believes that I am an alarmist. I know that I
am not. This isn't any ordinary visit of mine. I have come to see you on
the most urgent matter which any one could possibly conceive. I have come
to give you the chance to save our country from the worst disaster that
has ever befallen her."

Mr. Spencer Wyatt looked at his visitor steadily. His eyebrows had drawn
a little closer together. He remained silent, however.

"I talk about the things I know of," Norgate continued. "By chance I
have been associated during the last few weeks with the head of the
German spies who infest this country. I have joined his ranks; I have
become a double traitor. I do his work, but every report I hand in is a
false one."

"Do you realise quite what you are saying, Mr. Norgate?"

"Realise it?" Norgate repeated. "My God! Do you think I come here to say
these things to you for dramatic effect, or from a sense of humour, or as
a lunatic? Every word I shall say to you is the truth. At the present
moment there isn't a soul who seriously believes that England is going to
be drawn into what the papers describe as a little eastern trouble. I
want to tell you that that little eastern trouble has been brought about
simply with the idea of provoking a European war. Germany is ready to
strike at last, and this is her moment. Not a fortnight ago I sat
opposite the boy Henriote in a café in Soho. My German friend handed him
the money to get back to his country and to buy bombs. It's all part of
the plot. Austria's insane demands are part of the plot; they are meant
to drag Russia in. Russia must protest; she must mobilise. Germany is
secretly mobilising at this moment. She will declare war against Russia,
strike at France through Belgium. She will appeal to us for our
neutrality."

"These are wonderful things you are saying, Mr. Norgate!"

"I am telling you the simple truth," Norgate went on, "and the
history of our country doesn't hold anything more serious or more
wonderful. Shall I come straight to the point? I promised to reach it
within five minutes."

"Take your own time," the other replied. "My work is unimportant enough
by the side of the things you speak of. You honestly believe that Germany
is provoking a war against Russia and France?"

"I know it," Norgate went on. "She believes--Germany believes--that
Italy will come in. She also believes, from false information that she
has gathered in this country, that under no circumstances will England
fight. It isn't about that I came to you. We've become a slothful, slack,
pleasure-loving people, but I still believe that when the time comes we
shall fight. The only thing is that we shall be taken at a big
disadvantage. We shall be open to a raid upon our fleet. Do you know that
the entire German navy is at Kiel?"

Mr. Wyatt nodded. "Manoeuvres," he murmured.

"Their manoeuvre," Norgate continued earnestly, "is to strike one great
blow at our scattered forces. Mr. Spencer Wyatt, I have come here to warn
you. I don't understand the workings of your department. I don't know to
whom you are responsible for any step you might take. But I have come to
warn you that possibly within a few days, probably within a week,
certainly within a fortnight, England will be at war."

Mr. Wyatt glanced down at Hebblethwaite's letter.

"You are rather taking my breath away, Mr. Norgate!"

"I can't help it, sir," Norgate said simply. "I know that what I am
telling you must sound like a fairy tale. I beg you to take it from me as
the truth."

"But," Mr. Spencer Wyatt remarked, "if you have come into all this
information, Mr. Norgate, why didn't you go to your friend Hebblethwaite?
Why haven't you communicated with the police and given this German spy of
yours into charge?"

"I have been to Hebblethwaite, and I have been to Scotland Yard," Norgate
told him firmly, "and all that I have got for my pains has been a snub.
They won't believe in German spies. Mr. Wyatt, you are a man of a little
different temperament and calibre from those others. I tell you that all
of them in the Cabinet have their heads thrust deep down into the sand.
They won't listen to me. They wouldn't believe a word of what I am saying
to you, but it's true."

Mr. Spencer Wyatt leaned back in his chair. He had folded his arms. He
was looking over the top of his desk across the room. His eyebrows were
knitted, his thoughts had wandered away. For several moments there was
silence. Then at last he rose to his feet, unlocked the safe which stood
by his side, and took out a solid chart dotted in many places with little
flags, each one of which bore the name of a ship. He looked at it
attentively.

"That's the position of every ship we own, at six o'clock this evening,"
he pointed out. "It's true we are scattered. We are purposely scattered
because of the Review. On Monday morning I go down to the Admiralty, and
I give the word. Every ship you see represented by those little flags,
moves in one direction."

"In other words," Norgate remarked, "it is a mobilisation."

"Exactly!"

Norgate leaned forward in his chair.

"You're coming to what I want to suggest," he proceeded. "Listen. You can
do it, if you like. Go down to the Admiralty to-night. Give that order.
Set the wireless going. Mobilise the fleet to-night."

Mr. Wyatt looked steadfastly at his companion. His fingers were
restlessly stroking his chin, his eyes seemed to be looking through
his visitor.

"But it would be a week too soon," he muttered.

"Risk it," Norgate begged. "You have always the Review to fall back upon.
The mobilisation, to be effective, should be unexpected. Mobilise
to-morrow. I am telling you the truth, sir, and you'll know it before
many days are passed. Even if I have got hold of a mare's nest, you know
there's trouble brewing. England will be in none the worse position to
intervene for peace, if her fleet is ready to strike."

Mr. Spencer Wyatt rose to his feet. He seemed somehow an altered man.

"Look here," he announced gravely, "I am going for the gamble. If I have
been misled, there will probably be an end of my career. I tell you
frankly, I believe in you. I believe in the truth of the things you talk
about. I risked everything, only a few weeks ago, on my belief. I'll risk
my whole career now. Keep your mouth shut; don't say a word. Until
to-morrow you will be the only man in England who knows it. I am going to
mobilise the fleet to-night. Shake hands, Mr. Norgate. You're either the
best friend or the worst foe I've ever had. My coat and hat," he ordered
the servant who answered his summons. "Tell your mistress, if she
enquires, that I have gone down to the Admiralty on special business."


CHAPTER XXXV


Anna passed her hand through Norgate's arm and led him forcibly away from
the shop window before which they had been standing.

"My mind is absolutely made up," she declared firmly. "I adore
shopping, I love Bond Street, and I rather like you, but I will have no
more trifles, as you call them. If you do not obey, I shall gaze into
the next tobacconist's window we pass, and go in and buy you all sorts
of unsmokable and unusable things. And, oh, dear, here is the Count! I
feel like a child who has played truant from school. What will he do to
me, Francis?"

"Don't worry, dear," Norgate laughed. "We're coming to the end of this
tutelage, you know."

Count Lanyoki, who had stopped his motor-car, came across the street
towards them. He was, as usual, irreproachably attired. He wore white
gaiters, patent shoes, and a grey, tall hat. His black hair, a little
thin at the forehead, was brushed smoothly back. His moustache, also
black but streaked with grey, was twisted upwards. He had, as always, the
air of having just left the hands of his valet.

"Dear Baroness," he exclaimed, as he accosted her, "London has been
searched for you! At the Embassy my staff are reduced to despair.
Telephones, notes, telegrams, and personal calls have been in vain.
Since lunch-time yesterday it seemed to us that you must have found some
other sphere in which to dwell."

"Perhaps I have," Anna laughed. "I am so sorry to have given you all this
trouble, but yesterday--well, let me introduce, if I may, my husband, Mr.
Francis Norgate. We were married by special license yesterday afternoon."

The Count's amazement was obvious. Diplomatist though he was, it was
several seconds before he could collect himself and rise to the
situation. He broke off at last, however, in the midst of a string of
interjections and realised his duties.

"My dear Baroness," he said, "my dear lady, let me wish you every
happiness. And you, sir," he added, turning to Norgate, "you must have,
without a doubt, my most hearty congratulations. There! That is said. And
now to more serious matters. Baroness, have you not always considered
yourself the ward of the Emperor?"

She nodded.

"His Majesty has been very kind to me," she admitted. "At the same time,
I feel that I owe more to myself than I do to him. His first essay at
interfering in my affairs was scarcely a happy one, was it?"

"Perhaps not," the Count replied. "And yet, think what you have done! You
have married an Englishman!"

"I thought English people were quite popular in Vienna," Anna
reminded him.

The Count hesitated. "That," he declared, "is scarcely the question.
What troubles me most is that forty-eight hours ago I brought you a
dispatch from the Emperor."

"You brought," Anna pointed out, "what really amounted to an order to
return at once to Vienna. Well, you see, I have disobeyed it."

They were standing at the corner of Clifford Street, and the Count, with
a little gesture, led the way into the less crowded thoroughfare.

"Dear Baroness," he continued, as they walked slowly along, "I am placed
now in a most extraordinary position. The Emperor's telegram was of
serious import. It cannot be that you mean to disobey his summons?"

"Well, I really couldn't put off being married, could I," Anna protested,
"especially when my husband had just got the special license. Besides, I
do not wish to return to Vienna just now."

The Count glanced at Norgate and appeared to deliberate for a moment.

"The state of affairs in the East," he said, "is such that it is
certainly wiser for every one just now to be within the borders of their
own country."

"You believe that things are serious?" Anna enquired. "You believe, then,
that real trouble is at hand?"

"I fear so," the Count acknowledged. "It appears to us that Servia has a
secret understanding with Russia, or she would not have ventured upon
such an attitude as she is now adopting towards us. If that be so, the
possibilities of trouble are immense, almost boundless. That is why,
Baroness, the Emperor has sent for you. That is why I think you should
not hesitate to at once obey his summons."

Anna looked up at her companion, her eyes wide open, a little smile
parting her lips.

"But, Count," she exclaimed, "you seem to forget! A few days ago, all
that you say to me was reasonable enough, but to-day there is a great
difference, is there not? I have married an Englishman. Henceforth this
is my country."

There was a moment's silence. The Count seemed dumbfounded. He stared at
Anna as though unable to grasp the meaning of her words.

"Forgive me, Baroness!" he begged. "I cannot for the moment realise the
significance of this thing. Do you mean me to understand that you
consider yourself now an Englishwoman?"

"I do indeed," she assented. "There are many ties which still bind me to
Austria--ties, Count," she proceeded, looking him in the face, "of which
I shall be mindful. Yet I am not any longer the Baroness von Haase. I am
Mrs. Francis Norgate, and I have promised to obey my husband in all
manner of ridiculous things. At the same time, may I add something which
will, perhaps, help you to accept the position with more philosophy? My
husband is a friend of Herr Selingman's."

The Count glanced quickly towards Norgate. There was some relief in his
face--a great deal of distrust, however.

"Baroness," he said, "my advice to you, for your own good entirely, is,
with all respect to your husband, that you shorten your honeymoon and
pay your respects to the Emperor. I think that you owe it to him. I think
that you owe it to your country."

Anna for a moment was grave again.

"Just at present," she pronounced, "I realise one debt only, and that is
to my husband. I will come to the Embassy to-morrow and discuss these
matters with you, Count, but whether my husband accompanies me or not, I
have now no secrets from him."

"The position, then," the Count declared, "is intolerable. May I ask
whether you altogether realise, Baroness; what this means? The Emperor is
your guardian. All your estates are subject to his jurisdiction. It is
his command that you return to Vienna."

Anna laughed again. She passed her fingers through Norgate's arm.

"You see," she explained, as they stood for a moment at the corner of the
street, "I have a new emperor now, and he will not let me go."

       *        *       *       *       *

Selingman frowned a little as he recognised his visitor. Nevertheless,
he rose respectfully to his feet and himself placed a chair by the side
of his desk.

"My dear Count!" he exclaimed. "I am very glad to see you, but this is an
unusual visit. I would have met you somewhere, or come to the Embassy.
Have we not agreed that it was well for Herr Selingman, the crockery
manufacturer--"

"That is all very well, Selingman," the Count interrupted, "but this
morning I have had a shock. It was necessary for me to talk with you at
once. In Bond Street I met the Baroness von Haase. For twenty-four hours
London has been ransacked in vain for her. This you may not know, but I
will now tell you. She has been our trusted agent, the trusted agent of
the Emperor, in many recent instances. She has carried secrets in her
brain, messages to different countries. There is little that she does not
know. The last twenty-four hours, as I say, I have sought for her. The
Emperor requires her presence in Vienna. I meet her in Bond Street this
morning and she introduces to me her husband, an English husband, Mr.
Francis Norgate!"

He drew back a little, with outstretched hands. Selingman's face,
however, remained expressionless.

"Married already!" he commented. "Well, that is rather a surprise."

"A surprise? To be frank, it terrifies me!" the Count cried. "Heaven
knows what that woman could tell an Englishman, if she chose! And her
manner--I did not like it. The only reassuring thing about it was that
she told me that her husband was one of your men."

"Quite true," Selingman assented. "He is. It is only recently that he
came to us, but I do not mind telling you that during the last few weeks
no one has done such good work. He is the very man we needed."

"You have trusted him?"

"I trust or I do not trust," Selingman replied. "That you know. I have
employed this young man in very useful work. I cannot blindfold him.
He knows."

"Then I fear treachery," the Count declared.

"Have you any reason for saying that?" Selingman asked.

The Count lit a cigarette with trembling fingers.

"Listen," he said, "always, my friend, you undervalue a little the
English race. You undervalue their intelligence, their patriotism, their
poise towards the serious matters of life. I know nothing of Mr. Francis
Norgate save what I saw this morning. He is one of that type of
Englishmen, clean-bred, well-born, full of reserve, taciturn, yet, I
would swear, honourable. I know the type, and I do not believe in such a
man being your servant."

The shadow of anxiety crossed Selingman's face.

"Have you any reason for saying this?" he repeated.

"No reason save the instinct which is above reason," the Count replied
quickly. "I know that if the Baroness and he put their heads together, we
may be under the shadow of catastrophe."

Selingman sat with folded arms for several moments.

"Count," he said at last, "I appreciate your point of view. You have, I
confess, disturbed me. Yet of this young man I have little fear. I did
not approach him by any vulgar means. I took, as they say here, the bull
by the horns. I appealed to his patriotism."

"To what?" the Count demanded incredulously.

"To his patriotism," Selingman repeated. "I showed him the decadence of
his country, decadence visible through all her institutions, through her
political tendencies, through her young men of all classes. I convinced
him that what the country needed was a bitter tonic, a kind but
chastening hand. I convinced him of this. He believes that he betrays his
country for her ultimate good. As I told you before, he has brought me
information which is simply invaluable. He has a position and connections
which are unique."

The Count drew his chair a little nearer.

"You say that he has done you great service," he said. "Well, you must
admit for yourself that the day is too near now for much more to be
expected. Could you not somehow guard against his resolution breaking
down at the last moment? Think what it may mean to him--the sound of his
national anthem at a critical moment, the clash of arms in the distance,
the call of France across the Channel. A week--even half a week's extra
preparation might make much difference."

Selingman sat for a short time, deep in thought. Then he drew out a box
of pale-looking German cigars and lit one.

"Count," he announced solemnly, "I take off my hat to you. Leave the
matter in my hands."


CHAPTER XXXVI


Norgate set down the telephone receiver and turned to Anna, who was
seated in an easy-chair by his side.

"Selingman is down-stairs," he announced. "I rather expected I should see
something of him as I didn't go to the club this afternoon. You won't
mind if he comes up?"

"The man is a nuisance," Anna declared, with a little grimace. "I was
perfectly happy, Francis, sitting here before the open window and looking
out at the lights in that cool, violet gulf of darkness. I believe that
in another minute I should have said something to you absolutely
ravishing. Then your telephone rings and back one comes to earth again!"

Norgate smiled as he held her hand in his.

"We will get rid of him quickly, dearest," he promised.

There was a knock at the door, and Selingman entered, his face wreathed
in smiles. He was wearing a long dinner coat and a flowing black tie. He
held out both his hands.

"So this is the great news that has kept you away from us!" he exclaimed.
"My congratulations, Norgate. You can never say again that the luck has
left you. Baroness, may I take advantage of my slight acquaintance to
express my sincere wishes for your happiness?"

They wheeled up a chair for him, and Norgate produced some cigars. The
night was close. They were on the seventh story, overlooking the river,
and a pleasant breeze stole every now and then into the room.

"You are well placed here," Selingman declared. "Myself, I too like to
be high up."

"These are really just my bachelor rooms," Norgate explained, "but under
the circumstances we thought it wiser to wait before we settled down
anywhere. Is there any news to-night?"

"There is great news," Selingman announced gravely. "There is news of
wonderful import. In a few minutes you will hear the shouting of the boys
in the Strand there. You shall hear it first from me. Germany has found
herself compelled to declare war against Russia."

They were both speechless. Norgate was carried off his feet. The reality
of the thing was stupendous.

"Russia has been mobilising night and day on the frontiers of East
Prussia," Selingman continued. "Germany has chosen to strike the first
blow. Now listen, both of you. I am going to speak in these few minutes
to Norgate here very serious words. I take it that in the matters which
lie between him and me, you, Baroness, are as one with him?"

"It is so," Norgate admitted.

"To be frank, then," Selingman went on, "you, Norgate, during these
momentous days have been the most useful of all my helpers here. The
information which I have dispatched to Berlin, emanating from you, has
been more than important--it has been vital. It has been so vital that I
have a long dispatch to-night, begging me to reaffirm my absolute
conviction as to the truth of the information which I have forwarded.
Let us, for a moment, recapitulate. You remember your interview with Mr.
Hebblethwaite on the subject of war?"

"Distinctly," Norgate assented.

"It was your impression," Selingman continued, "gathered from that
conversation, that under no possible circumstances would Mr.
Hebblethwaite himself, or the Cabinet as a whole, go to war with Germany
in support of France. Is that correct?"

"It is correct," Norgate admitted.

"Nothing has happened to change your opinion?"

"Nothing."

"To proceed, then," Selingman went on. "Some little time ago you called
upon Mr. Bullen at the House of Commons. You promised a large
contribution to the funds of the Irish Party, a sum which is to be paid
over on the first of next month, on condition that no compromise in the
Home Rule question shall be accepted by him, even in case of war. And
further, that if England should find herself in a state of war, no
Nationalists should volunteer to fight in her ranks. Is this correct?"

"Perfectly," Norgate admitted.

"The information was of great interest in Berlin," Selingman pointed out.
"It is realised there that it means of necessity a civil war."

"Without a doubt."

"You believe," Selingman persisted, "that I did not take an exaggerated
or distorted view of the situation, as discussed between you and Mr.
Bullen, when I reported that civil war in Ireland was inevitable?"

"It is inevitable," Norgate agreed.

Selingman sat for several moments in portentous silence.

"We are on the threshold of great events," he announced. "The Cabinet
opinion in Berlin has been swayed by the two factors which we have
discussed. It is the wish of Germany, and her policy, to end once and for
all the eastern disquiet, to weaken Russia so that she can no longer call
herself the champion of the Slav races and uphold their barbarism against
our culture. France is to be dealt with only as the ally of Russia. We
want little more from her than we have already. But our great desire is
that England of necessity and of her own choice, should remain, for the
present, neutral. Her time is to come later. Italy, Germany, and Austria
can deal with France and Russia to a mathematical certainty. What we
desire to avoid are any unforeseen complications. I leave you to-night,
and I cable my absolute belief in the statements deduced from your work.
You have nothing more to say?"

"Nothing," Norgate replied.

Selingman was apparently relieved. He rose, a little later, to his feet.

"My young friend," he concluded, "in the near future great rewards will
find their way to this country. There is no one who has deserved more
than you. There is no one who will profit more. That reminds me. There
was one little question I had to ask. A friend of mine has seen you on
your way back and forth to Camberley three or four times lately. You
lunched the other day with the colonel of one of your Lancer regiments.
How did you spend your time at Camberley?"

For a moment Norgate made no reply. The moonlight was shining into the
room, and Anna had turned out all the lights with the exception of one
heavily-shaded lamp. Her eyes were shining as she leaned a little forward
in her chair.

"Boko again, I suppose," Norgate grunted.

"Certainly Boko," Selingman acknowledged.

"I was in the Yeomanry when I was younger," Norgate explained slowly. "I
had some thought of entering the army before I took up diplomacy. Colonel
Chalmers is a friend of mine. I have been down to Camberley to see if I
could pick up a little of the new drill."

"For what reason?" Selingman demanded.

"Need I tell you that?" Norgate protested. "Whatever my feeling for
England may be at the present moment, however bitterly I may regret the
way she has let her opportunities slip, the slovenly political condition
of the country, yet I cannot put away from me the fact that I am an
Englishman. If trouble should come, even though I may have helped to
bring it about, even though I may believe that it is a good thing for the
country to have to meet trouble, I should still fight on her side."

"But there will be no war," Selingman reminded him. "You yourself have
ascertained that the present Cabinet will decline war at any cost."

"The present Government, without a doubt," Norgate assented. "I am
thinking of later on, when your first task is over."

Selingman nodded gravely.

"When that day comes," he said, as he rose and took up his hat, "it will
not be a war. If your people resist, it will be a butchery. Better to
find yourself in one of the Baroness' castles in Austria when that time
comes! It is never worth while to draw a sword in a lost cause. I wish
you good night, Baroness. I wish you good night, Norgate."

He shook hands with them both firmly, but there was still something of
reserve in his manner. Norgate rang for his servant to show him out. They
took their places once more by the window.

"War!" Norgate murmured, his eyes fixed upon the distant lights.

Anna crept a little nearer to him.

"Francis," she whispered, "that man has made me a little uneasy.
Supposing they should discover that you have deceived them, before they
have been obliged to leave the country!"

"They will be much too busy," Norgate replied, "to think about me."

Anna's face was still troubled. "I did not like that man's look," she
persisted, "when he asked you what you were doing at Camberley. Perhaps
he still believes that you have told the truth, but he might easily have
it in his mind that you knew too many of their secrets to be trusted when
the vital moment came."

Norgate leaned over and drew her towards him.

"Selingman has gone," he murmured. "It is only outside that war is
throbbing. Dearest, I think that my vital moments are now!"


CHAPTER XXXVII


Mr. Hebblethwaite permitted himself a single moment of abstraction. He
sat at the head of the table in his own remarkably well-appointed
dining-room. His guests--there were eighteen or twenty of them in
all--represented in a single word Success--success social as well as
political. His excellently cooked dinner was being served with faultless
precision. His epigrams had never been more pungent. The very
distinguished peeress who sat upon his right, and whose name was a
household word in the enemy's camp, had listened to him with enchained
and sympathetic interest. For a single second he permitted his thoughts
to travel back to the humble beginnings of his political career. He had a
brief, flashlight recollection of the suburban parlour of his early days,
the hard fight at first for a living, then for some small place in local
politics, and then, larger and more daring schemes as the boundary of his
ambitions became each year a little further extended. The robber reaches
for his bow, the already wet flaccid withdrawn; He aims, and
summarizes the most pilgrims, but the wind and rain are contrary;
The arrow falls in front of the dull blighted, which he should
pierce the heart.

"O gate!" Zeus is angry to hear that, "If you close the arrow now teach
Whether the storm, I allowed too much?

Had I given you sunshine, So you would have the arrow's life, The storm
you got robbed." The Treasure A sick Father called the Son. "Son!" he
said, "to get care, Yeah, I once long ago a treasure hidden; He is
-" Here the father died already. Who was dismayed when the son? "A
treasure! (So were his words.) A Treasure ! Solo at which locations?
Where I find him? " He sends for people to dig the treasures to be able
to break through the hard chafing Tennen, Durchgräbt the garden and the
house, And yet no treasure digging out. After a lot of trying Does he
pull back the strangers, addiction themselves in the home, Browse
Father's bedchamber, And findt with mild Müh (how great was his
pleasure!)

it is under a floorboard. ---- Perhaps that some eh the truth should
be, if he uses Mindre Müh wanted to search the truth.

And some they probably would have been discovered earlier, Wofern he did
not believe they would be deeply hidden. it is well hidden, is not
so hidden, that you are the dark writings Wust, To sehn, with a thousand
worries, down to the basic need to ransack. rely Do not be strange to
Müh search itself, such attention to such often you find them. The
truth, dear friend, all have needed, to us, as humans, happy, Ward
out of the hands, which they assigned us, Only slightly obscured, not
deeply buried.

The suicide O young man, learning from history, The you maybe forced
to tears, what fruits bejammernswerte Love of the Fine brings!

An example wohlgezogner Youth, Des-old father's solace and crew, a young
man , by virtue early to rise was greatest hope, the compulsive
power of the beautiful shoots, Clim tenderly nachzugehn.

He sighs, he begged for love opposite; Solo vain was his Flehn. Fußfällig
he accuses her of suffering.

Umsonst! Clim called him fliehn. Yes, he cries, yes, I will shun you, I
want you forever entziehn. He pulls the sword from the sheath, And - o
What can be verwegner! In short, he besieht the spigot and cutting,
And it's slow again. The dying father A father left zween heir, Christopher,
who was clever, and Görgen, which was stupid. His end came, and shortly
before his death, he saw quite distressed after his Christoph order. "Sohn
"he began," haunts me a sad thought: You have common sense, how will
future dirs go? listening to, I have a barrier in my jewelry box stand,
they should yours.

Take it, my son, And give the brother nothing. "The son was shocked
and stutzte long." Oh father, "he began," if I receive so much, How ways;
the point then continued my brother? "" He? " was the father of
him, "For me Görgen is not perturbed by certain ways; the point
of his stupidity continues."

The sweet dream of dreams with which we deceive nice, welcoming the
Timon once the night, during sleep, he experienced the pleasure of On
waking he hardly thought. He looks from his bed in mid-rises quickly up
a great treasure. And he quickly built his hut in his sleep already a
castle on. vestibule His teeming with clients, And naked on the chimney,
he, The previously little named him, in awe itzt to be verziehn. The
beauty, who often guards saddened by their brittleness, Timon must
make perfect happiness; dreaming because he loved that. He looks from
Doris to embrace, And calls as that he is dreaming, happily, he lallt:
"Oh, Doris, my request! Timon Did you finally defeated?" His companion
heard him sleeping lallen, He hears that he seduced a dream, And do him
the favor Liebreich, And makes that loses his dream.

"friend," he exclaims, "Do not cheat, it is a dream, ermuntre you!" "Oh,
bad friend, how to pleasure," complains Timon anxiously, "you bring me,
you do that my dream vanishes; Why deprive me the pleasure? Enough, I
considered it was founded, the error because I do not know. "---- we often
teases her, her true friends, with your attentive, often you're resting
our enemies by you are our teacher. Who says the mistake you rob us, our
hearts with the desire has? And so we strongly believe we still Schadt
less, than good? The world is at war, Who all the world cut mania . The
most fun types of emergence, because it looks dark. What is the hero for
his battles? He thinks he is the greatest hero. treat him the desire
to hochzuachten So it is not the courage. Where, asks: What Adelheid
probably thinks? She thinks my husband loves me faithfully. You are
mistaken, but treat her joy, And let the poor woman here. What does the
husband of Lisette? He believes that it is chastity. He is mistaken, and
I wanted to bet himself, but silent, if you know it better.

What thinks the philosopher in the letter? I read the Court, the city pays
tribute to me! He is mistaken, but let him remain incorrect So he has a
desire to think. Scans of human life: What drives to great deeds of
what maintains us peace and comfort to give?

Very often a dream, a sweet delusion. Genug that we feel, it is also a
thousand times a sham! error should disappear entirely: it would be bad
for a man . The A dancing bear, a long time bread ertanzen must Entrann,
and chose the first residence. The Bear greeted him with a brotherly
kiss, And growled happily through the forest. And where a bear was
the other: So it was : Petz is back! The bear told it, what he in foreign
lands for adventure ausgestanden what he seen, heard, done! And started
as he redte dancing, even as he went on his chain, In polish
beautiful to dance . The brothers, who dance cream, admired the expression
of his limbs, And the brothers tried it, rather than alone, as he, to
go: So they could hardly stand upright, And some was the length of
long blighted. To the more let's see the dancers, but his art querulousness
the whole bunch. Fort, cried all continue with you! fool you want to
be wiser than we? Man forced the Petz, which marked out. ---- Do not be
clever, you will dich little hate you because then everyone is
similar, but ever clever you are faced with many others, the more you
take in eight, dich sehn boasting to leave. True ists, they will in
the short time from your laudable arts speak; But dare not, soon
followed by the envy, and makes the skill A A noteworthy crimes.

The Tartarfürst A Tartarfürst, which is in stories praises, That
he, as Prince, Europe durchgereist, ordered his people because he
wanted to make Galanter, That no woman it distinguished child should
be breast-feeding itself.

The wild ladies just laughed, and you still fueled her child with
her breasts, and believed that it is nature And their mothers would have
to follow. The Chan began to become outraged, Has a very sharp mandate,
and swore that every woman should die of ethics, for her child
does not hold Ammen wanted.

And because they are forced cream: How did it because of Ammen.

Alone they could not shoot the long escape, your own blood on her chest to
nourish. Most, began to use the chance to swear death. Once, when the
Tartarfürst was quite alone, Kam, with the sword in his hand, a genteel
woman running at him, And said, of noble wrath kindled " Listening
to my child abzudrängen me, otherwise I'm here, you kill me baby
it yourself, and mammalian I want to, So I have this chest.

In this duty, my child should be taking, set me, O Lord, no animal
ashamed.

"The good Tartarfürst terrified, And failed, in order not to lose
his life, The European taste in his hordes introduced. The death of
the fly and mosquito, the death of the fly called me tight; The death
of the mosquito heischt my song . And I will give you miserably
report How those died, and died. She sat down, the young fly, full of
courage in a cup of wine; decided, did three good moves, And fell
into the glass in front like it.

The mosquito was the girlfriend lie. "This tomb," she said, "I want to barn.
On the light do I want to have fun, but not to a cup of wine." Solo, blinded
by the notes, she went to the eager desire after, the Burned small legs,
and died after a brief Ach.

You who are your driving to nurture themselves in the pleasure verdarbt
rests well, and your honor to let me say that their human starbt.

The immortal author An author wrote many books And was the wonder of
his time; The journalists gütge hands revered him forever. He saw the end
before his gentle, almost all works of his hands, the sixth time already
set up, And, with tiefgelehrtem glances, in a wig Spanish Before each title
characterized. He remained before contradict each other, and wrote to
the day since the death of him entseelt; And the list of his books,
the small fonts included, participated in the CV alone three sheets
and three pages. after you read this man's death The writings with
deliberation; And see the miracle of his campaign time in ten years
out of fashion, and his divine method would mean a perturbed drought.

The man had merely been famous, Weil Stümper praised him, eh Kenner read
it. ---- Famous for, it is not difficult, you may only be a lot
of small ghosts write; But during the big world to stay, including
some more, as, at the shallow mind, in strict Lehrart write.

Wuchrer The A Wuchrer came in a short time at a Count's property, not by
fraud and injustice, no, he is often beschwur solely by God's blessing.
And to be grateful heart God on the day to lay down, And maybe even from
Vertraun holy God for retribution to move, he had a hospital for poor
Fromme baun. By now the building be brought, And in front of the house
hours, and secretly thought about, how much he earns to God and the
poor did, was preceded by a mischievous friend over. The miser who likes
to have, that this friend's house should be admired, asked him with
joyful cries, Obs large enough for the poor was "Why not?" said the
friend.

"Here you can right a lot of people very comfortable together and
yet, all the live here, the poor, you have made: it is much too
small."

The great dream of an old fable Buche (The title sheet is missing because
otherwise my readers will ichs to), from which I am looking for Council
to recover, even if I can not invent; Ans this old German book, which
I have some service done, Will I have a dream election.

When I once so begins my author, after his way to tell, sat in a church,
it occurred to me jähling On: Who likes of so many thousands of souls
that make the place their prayer choose But probably soul frömmste
In the thoughts I fell asleep, and saw in a dream before me the spirit
of protection of the temple are "you", he said, "wish you the frömmste
heart to see?" And touched my face with his rights. I came when he done
this, a mild to cold showers. And suddenly I saw myself in glory heilgem
stand. "catching on," he said, "go through the church. The, so that
your stems shine, that he thee three kisses, The frömmste has the heart,
which can be found here." I went to make it soon to know, in the hard
gloss empfangnen before the sacristy once, and once again, passing,
because to me it seemed as if you kiss me.

I waited a good time, And once was, entirely alone, cold, kissed.

I went to the chapels, in which I found frömmsten miens, And everything
seemed to aufzuhellen, you smiled, you did And gallantly kissed my hand
distress. I was top on a higher stage faces, full of Ernst and deeper
wisdom, shall see. I stayed a nice little stand. SAHN to me, and made a
face, as if they are sick and tired of me already seen. ungeküßt
And I have to go away.

I put myself now before the lower stands. This threw me a lot of white
hands, a kiss, since there too.

I had my eye on a long question: Oh, good heart! Where do you live? Solo
you do not want me to hug, dare, And I was very saddened to protect
my mind. My sad fate to sue him. By that I still slipped through the hall,
saw me in a bad dress , A dear girl, and see, she kissed me with
a sudden and complete innocence joy.

And anyway I had it received the third kiss: So I already feel the
selge Triebe The honesty and love people so much in me, as I have
never felt.

A girl who I called out to the world barely thought Possesses the best
heart! I called it, and awoke.

The gentle man Its so jealous you and not as volatile, the men
advancing pfleget!

O woman, overcomes you, read this poem and you Embarrassed at the
same time, and forever widerleget.

We men are all alone The only once, but forever love us is fairly
written in blood. Prove it! I hear all the shrine. Quite well! It will
be demonstrated. ---- A dear wife became ill, of whom? From many
of bile? The old mockery! Kluger believes no more. No, no, the women
siechten all, if these evils would be harmful. Genug, she became
very ill. The man Wendt everything, what you may call for men; Urgent
their right to time the powder einzuschütten He leaves for his
wife in all churches ask And that is even more than other commonly
used was: Yet multiplies the risk .

He groans, he cries and screams that he wants to spoil her.

"Oh, Angel", says the woman, "your actions make one, I will die with
pleasure, promise me, not again frein." He swears, no more to choose.
"Your Shadow", he exclaims, "is to torture me, If I am a second
wife defeated."

He swears. Then his wife dies happily. Who will be able to grief
probably describe our The widower überfällt?

He knows before Jammer hardly remain close to his house is too small is
his world.

He sacrifices his wife allertreusten the complaints remain without food
and drink, instead of looking no bearing; He complains, and
is tired of life.

Indes orders the time they take to the grave. Blessed One, the black
wedding dress to her, The Widower betränt occurs hinan in their coffin.
"What?" Suddenly he begins to swear to, "What, executioner, what
should this be? For a dead woman a wedding dress to choose? law, I
wanted to re-frein: So yes, I must make a new can."

You people grieved him not to go, pick a different dress, And let the
poor widower time, He will deal with the time already hold. The A siskin
siskin and a nightingale's, were once at the same time before Damon
hung window.

The nightingale began, her divine song to sing And Damon little son
liked the sweet sound. "Oh, both of which sings so beautiful?

The bird, I would really sehn!" The father makes him such joy, It takes
the same birds come. "Here," saith he, " they are all both; But what
will be the beautiful singer? Getraust you, me to say? "The son can not
ask twice, fast, he calls the siskin:" the ", saith he," must be so
true I am honest.

How beautiful is his and yellow plumage!

drum he sings such beautiful songs, the other sees man's equal in his
feathers that he was not clever can sing. "---- Say, if you common life
is often not like this boy closes? Wem color dress and a handsome type,
the mind is so stupid he is.

Stax ways; the point, and little is published Stax: So it holds
even for clever.

Why? Look only at its mines, How advantageous is every train!

One else has a lot of fortunes, however, because the mine promises nothing:
So you, at first glance, Off the face, from the wig, that his
intellect and wit gebricht.

The farmers and Amtmann A highly skilled candidate, the long with lots
of praise, the pulpits in the town entered, indeed his village on the
sample, alone as well they did it: So the hour he was but farmers do
not. No, the verstorbne Lord, that was another man who had the right
to his text studieret, And God's word, how gebühret, Greek Soon, soon
ebräisch angeführet, The Church Fathers often zitieret, The heretic
ausschändieret stately, And schematisieret always so fine, That he
gerühret heart of the farmers. "Mr. Amtmann, as I said, the first
report only He, like this gentleman, we have not."

"That just says, why not?"

"He listens so well, he does not have such gifts as the verstorbne
Sir. "

"I know, Hebblethwaite," he replied, "but there's something that you
don't know. We were told to mobilise the fleet an hour ago. My God, what
chance should we have had! Germany means scrapping, and look where our
ships are, or ought to be."

"I know it," Hebblethwaite groaned.

"Well, they aren't there!" Spencer Wyatt announced triumphantly. "A week
ago that young fellow came to me. He told me what was impending. I half
believed it before he began. When he told me his story, I gambled upon
it. I mistook the date for the Grand Review. I signed the order for
mobilisation at the Admiralty, seven days ago. We are safe,
Hebblethwaite! I've been getting wireless messages all day yesterday and
to-day. We are at Cromarty and Rosyth. Our torpedo squadron is in
position, our submarines are off the German coast. It was just the toss
of a coin--papers and a country life for me, or our fleet safe and a
great start in the war. This is the man who has done it."

"It's the best news I've heard this week," Hebblethwaite declared, with
glowing face. "If our fleet is safe, the country is safe for a time. If
this thing comes, we've a chance. I'll go through the country. I'll start
the day war's declared. I'll talk to the people I've slaved for. They
shall come to our help. We'll have the greatest citizen army who ever
fought for their native land. I've disbelieved in fighting all my life.
If we are driven to it, we'll show the world what peace-loving people can
do, if the weapon is forced into their hands. Norgate, the country owes
you a great debt. Another time, Wyatt, I'll tell you more than you know
now. What can we do for you, young fellow?"

Norgate rose to his feet.

"My work is already chosen, thanks," he said, as he shook hands. "I have
been preparing for some time."


CHAPTER XXXIX


The card-rooms at the St. James's Club were crowded, but very few people
seemed inclined to play. They were standing or sitting about in little
groups. A great many of them were gathered around the corner where
Selingman was seated. He was looking somewhat graver than usual, but
there was still a confident smile upon his lips.

"My little friend," he said, patting the hand of the fair lady by his
side, "reassure yourself. Your husband and your husband's friends are
quite safe. For England there will come no fighting. Believe me, that is
a true word."

"But the impossible is happening all the time," Mrs. Barlow protested.
"Who would have believed that without a single word of warning Germany
would have declared war against Russia?"

Mr. Selingman raised his voice a little.

"Let me make the situation clear," he begged. "Listen to me, if you will,
because I am a patriotic German but also a lover of England, a sojourner
here, and one of her greatest friends. Germany has gone to war against
Russia. Why? You will say upon a trifling pretext. My answer to you is
this. There is between the Teuton and the Slav an enmity more mighty than
anything you can conceive of. It has been at the root of all the unrest
in the Balkans. Many a time Germany has kept the peace at the imminent
loss of her own position and prestige. But one knows now that the
struggle must come. The Russians are piling up a great army with only one
intention. They mean to wrest from her keeping certain provinces of
Austria, to reduce Germany's one ally to the condition of a vassal state,
to establish the Slav people there and throughout the Balkan States, at
the expense of the Teuton. Germany must protect her own. It is a
struggle, mind you, which concerns them alone. If only there were common
sense in the world, every one else would stand by and let Germany and
Austria fight with Russia on the one great issue--Slav or Teuton."

"But there's France," little Mrs. Barlow reminded him. "She can't keep
out of it. She is Russia's ally."

"Alas! my dear madam," Selingman continued, "you point out the tragedy of
the whole situation. If France could see wisdom, if France could see
truth, she would fold her arms with you others, keep her country and her
youth and her dignity. But I will be reasonable. She is, as you say,
bound--bound by her alliance to Russia, and she will fight. Very well!
Germany wants no more from France than what she has. Germany will fight a
defensive campaign. She will push France back with one hand, in as
friendly a manner as is compatible with the ethics of war. On the east
she will move swiftly. She will fight Russia, and, believe me, the issue
will not be long doubtful. She will conclude an honourable peace with
France at the first opportunity."

"Then you don't think we shall be involved at all?" some one else asked.

"If you are," Selingman declared, "it will be your own doing, and it will
simply be the most criminal act of this generation. Germany has nothing
but friendship for England. I ask you, what British interests are
threatened by this inevitable clash between the Slav and the Teuton? It
is miserable enough for France to be dragged in. It would be lunacy for
England. Therefore, though it is true that serious matters are pending,
though, alas! I must return at once to see what help I can afford my
country, never for a moment believe, any of you, that there exists the
slightest chance of war between Germany and England."

"Then I don't see," Mrs. Barlow sighed, "why we shouldn't have a rubber
of bridge."

"Let us," Selingman assented. "It is a very reasonable suggestion. It
will divert our thoughts. Here is the afternoon paper. Let us first see
whether there is any further news."

It was Mrs. Paston Benedek who opened it. She stared at the first sheet
for a moment with eyes which were almost dilated. Then she looked around.
Her voice sounded unnatural.

"Look!" she cried. "Francis Norgate--Mr. Francis Norgate has committed
suicide in his rooms!"

"It is not possible!" Selingman exclaimed.

They all crowded around the paper. The announcement was contained in a
few lines only. Mr. Francis Norgate had been discovered shot through the
heart in his sitting-room at the Milan Court, with a revolver by his
side. There was a letter addressed to his wife, who had left the day
before for Paris. No further particulars could be given of the tragedy.
The little group of men and women all looked at one another in a strange,
questioning manner. For a moment the war cloud seemed to have passed even
from their memories. It was something newer and in a sense more dramatic,
this. Norgate--one of themselves! Norgate, who had played bridge with
them day after day, had been married only a week or so ago--dead, under
the most horrible of all conditions! And Baring, only a few weeks before!
There was an uneasiness about which no one could put into words, vague
suspicions, strange imaginings.

"It's only three weeks," some one muttered, "since poor Baring shot
himself! What the devil does it mean? Norgate--why, the fellow was full
of common sense."

"He was fearfully cut up," some one interposed, "about that Berlin
affair."

"But he was just married," Mrs. Paston Benedek reminded them, "married to
the most charming woman in Europe,--rich, too, and noble. I saw them only
two days ago together. They were the picture of happiness. This is too
terrible. I am going into the other room to sit down. Please forgive me.
Mr. Selingman, will you give me your arm?"

She passed into the little drawing-room, almost dragging her companion.
She closed the door behind them. Her eyes were brilliant. The words came
hot and quivering from her lips.

"Listen!" she ordered. "Tell me the truth. Was this suicide or not?"

"Why should it not be?" Selingman asked gravely. "Norgate was an
Englishman, after all. He must have felt that he had betrayed his
country. He has given us, as you know, very valuable information. The
thought must have preyed upon his conscience."

"Don't lie to me!" she interrupted. "Tell me the truth now or never come
near me again, never ask me another question, don't be surprised to find
the whole circle of your friends here broken up and against you. It's
only the truth I ask for. If a thing is necessary, do I not know that it
must be done? But I will hear the truth. There was that about Baring's
death which I never understood; but this--this shall be explained."

Selingman stood for a moment or two with folded arms.

"Dear lady," he said soothingly, "you are not like the others. You have
earned the knowledge of the truth. You shall have it. I did not mistrust
Francis Norgate, but I knew very well that when the blow fell, he would
waver. These Englishmen are all like that. They can lose patience with
their ill-governed country. They can go abroad, write angry letters to
_The Times_, declare that they have shaken the dust of their native land
from their feet. But when the pinch comes, they fall back. Norgate has
served me well, but he knew too much. He is safer where he is."

"He was murdered, then!" she whispered.

Selingman nodded very slightly.

"It is seldom," he declared, "that we go so far. Believe me, it is only
because our great Empire is making its move, stretching out for the great
world war, that I gave the word. What is one man's life when millions are
soon to perish?"

She sank down into an easy-chair and covered her face with her hands.

"I am answered," she murmured, "only I know now I was not made for these
things. I love scheming, but I am a woman."


CHAPTER XL


Mr. Selingman's influence over his fellows had never been more marked
than on that gloomiest of all afternoons. They gathered around him as he
sat on the cushioned fender, a cup of tea in one hand and a plateful of
buttered toast by his side.

"To-day," he proclaimed, "I bring good news. Yesterday, I must admit,
things looked black, and the tragedy to poor young Norgate made us all
miserable."

"I should have said things looked worse," one of the men declared,
throwing down an afternoon paper. "The Cabinet Council is still sitting,
and there are all sorts of rumours in the city."

"I was told by a man in the War Office," Mrs. Barlow announced, "that
England would stand by her treaty to Belgium, and that Germany has made
all her plans to invade France through Belgium."

"Rumours, of course, there must be," Selingman agreed, "but I bring
something more than rumour. I received to-day, by special messenger from
Berlin, a dispatch of the utmost importance. Germany is determined to
show her entire friendliness towards England. She recognises the
difficulties of your situation. She is going to make a splendid bid for
your neutrality. Much as I would like to, I cannot tell you more. This,
however, I know to be the basis of her offer. You in England could help
in the fight solely by means of your fleet. It is Germany's suggestion
that, in return for your neutrality, she should withdraw her fleet from
action and leave the French northern towns unbombarded. You will then be
in a position to fulfil your obligations to France, whatever they may be,
without moving a stroke or spending a penny. It is a triumph of
diplomacy, that--a veritable triumph."

"It does sound all right," Mrs. Barlow admitted.

"It has relieved my mind of a mighty burden," Selingman continued,
setting down his empty plate and brushing the crumbs from his waistcoat.
"I feel now that we can look on at this world drama with sorrowing eyes,
indeed, but free from feelings of hatred and animosity. I have had a
trying day. I should like a little bridge. Let us--"

Selingman did not finish his sentence. The whole room, for a moment,
seemed to become a study in still life. A woman who had been crossing the
floor stood there as though transfixed. A man who was dealing paused with
an outstretched card in his hand. Every eye was turned on the threshold.
It was Norgate who stood there, Norgate metamorphosed, in khaki
uniform--an amazing spectacle! Mrs. Barlow was the first to break the
silence with a piercing shriek. Then the whole room seemed to be in a
turmoil. Selingman alone sat quite still. There was a grey shade upon his
face, and the veins were standing out at the back of his hands.

"So sorry to startle you all," Norgate said apologetically. "Of course,
you haven't seen the afternoon papers. It was my valet who was found
dead in my rooms--a most mysterious affair," he added, his eyes meeting
Selingman's. "The inquest is to be this afternoon."

"Your valet!" Selingman muttered.

"A very useful fellow," Norgate continued, strolling to the fireplace and
standing there, "but with a very bad habit of wearing my clothes when I
am away. I was down in Camberley for three days and left him in charge."

They showered congratulations upon him, but in the midst of them the
strangeness of his appearance provoked their comment.

"What does it mean?" Mrs. Benedek asked, patting his arm. "Have you
turned soldier?"

"In a sense I have," Norgate admitted, "but only in the sense that every
able-bodied Englishman will have to do, in the course of the next few
months. Directly I saw this coming, I arranged for a commission."

"But there is to be no war!" Mrs. Barlow exclaimed. "Mr. Selingman
has been explaining to us this afternoon what wonderful offers
Germany is making, so that we shall be able to remain neutral and yet
keep our pledges."

"Mr. Selingman," Norgate said quietly, "is under a delusion. Germany, it
is true, has offered us a shameless bribe. I am glad to be able to tell
you all that our Ministry, whatever their politics may be, have shown
themselves men. An English ultimatum is now on its way to Berlin. War
will be declared before midnight."

Selingman rose slowly to his feet. His face was black with passion.
He pushed a man away who stood between them. He was face to face
with Norgate.

"So you," he thundered, suddenly reckless of the bystanders, "are a
double traitor! You have taken pay from Germany and deceived her! You
knew, after all, that your Government would make war when the time came.
Is that so?"

"I was always convinced of it," Norgate replied calmly. "I also had the
honour of deceiving you in the matter of Mr. Bullen. - Ah! Ah! It is
ironic you ... mocks you ... I am not, however, a visionary, my friend,
and I see I see well. - What do you see? - A pretty girl and a boy.
Just at the moment. - But ... it seems that ... Dígnese tell me what
you mean its clever allusions. - Absolutely nothing, my friend, I have
nothing to say to you ... only I do not feel you have spoken before
of their projects. I had forgotten you quite recently. The vain urged, and
I could not get anything else. I am certain, however, he had in mind any
malice against me or against Luciana ... likely to Luciana, who is too
beautiful to not arouse much envy. I do not think what tormented by
the sayings of this stunning Sofia Jansien and, however, that
conversation has me worried. Jalavieux Father Elena. Polidor has Doña
come this morning to tell me that my father called me, and I happily
raced to his office, as the happiest moments of the day are what
happened to him.

Máximo was with him and the two had a serious aspect. Then I missed a
tremble without knowing why, by instinct, just because my heart crushed
by the secret that I carry in my sins and for my father.

I sat on a stool beside his chair and waited with questioning eyes.
- It is very young - my father said to please Maximus - is a girl.
There was a tenderness in their words that seemed to plead mercy
for me.

Max replied: - He is young in years, but I think very advanced for his
age.

Her voice takes me hurt as much as scathing irony of his words, whose meaning
I only partly understood.
"I demand to see your warrant!" the latter exclaimed.

The officer produced it. Selingman threw it on the floor and spat upon
it. He looked around the room, in the further corner of which two men
and a woman were standing upon chairs to look over the heads of the
little crowd.

"Take me where you will," he snarled. "You are a rotten, treacherous,
cowardly race, you English, and I hate you all. You can kill me first, if
you will, but in two months' time you shall learn what it is like to wait
hand and foot upon your conquerors."

He strode out of the room, a guard on either side of him and the door
closed. One woman had fainted. Mrs. Paston Benedek was swaying back
and forth upon the cushioned fender, sobbing hysterically. Norgate
stood by her side.

"I have forgotten the names," he announced pointedly, "of many of that
fellow's dupes. I am content to forget them. I am off now," he went on,
his tone becoming a little kinder. "I am telling you the truth. It's war.
You men had better look up any of the forces that suit you and get to
work. We shall all be needed. There is work, too, for the women, any
quantity of it. My wife will be leaving again for France next week with
the first Red Cross Ambulance Corps. I dare say she will be glad to hear
from any one who wants to help."

"I shall be a nurse," Mrs. Paston Benedek decided. "I am sick of bridge
and amusing myself."

"The costume is quite becoming," Mrs. Barlow murmured, glancing at
herself in the looking-glass, "and I adore those poor dear soldiers."

"Well, I'll leave you to it," Norgate declared. "Good luck to you all!"

I will not admit! (Gloria.) They had no right to send me the name of
your sister to give. I do not even know her. (McNaughtan.) nonsense!
Everything I do I can not offer: it has its limits!

I do not have - do you?"Selingman is just one
of the most dangerous spies who has ever worked in this country, but the
war itself was inevitable. We've known that for years, only we wouldn't
believe it. We'll all meet again, perhaps, in the work later on."

Late that night, Norgate stood hand in hand with Anna at the window of
their little sitting-room. Down in the Strand, the newsboys were
shouting the ominous words. The whole of London was stunned. The great
war had come!

"It's wonderful, dear," Anna whispered, "that we should have had
these few days of so great happiness. I feel brave and strong now for
our task."

Norgate held her closely to him.

All the neighbors and gave advice Krummholzöl Mithridates had the dog
comfortable, reluctance einzunehmen. Even the neighboring restaurateurs
Müh, The previously in foreign lands, as a doctor, ausgestanden, War
in vain for the cattle. Hardly yell the grim post, as of their
Mittagskost, All my brothers and friends to visit Phylax, ran. Pantelon,
his best friend, licking his lips in the hot. O, erseufzt he bittre hour!
O! who would have meant? "Ah!" Phylax cried, "Pantelon!
I saw Hebblethwaite as I came in. He is a changed
man. Talks about raising an immense citizen army in six months. Both his
boys have taken up commissions. Hebblethwaite himself is going around the
country, recruiting. They are his people, after all. He has given them
their prosperity at the expense, alas! of our safety. It's up to them now
to prove whether the old spirit is there or not. We shall need two
million men. Hebblethwaite believes we shall get them long before the
camps are ready to receive them. If we do, it will be his justification."

"And if we don't?" Anna murmured.

Norgate threw his head a little further back.

"Most pictures," he said, "have two sides, but we need only look at one.
I sat beside her and did during the entire time not a single word spoken
with her - not a single word I could find - and not a word she had for me!
(McNaughtan.) Now? (Dr. Valentine. ) Well ... now ...
If it is, dear, the end
is certain. And I am going to believe that it is!"