B.  The maximum blast effect of the bomb was calculated to extend over
an area of approximately 1 mile in radius; therefore the selected
targets should contain a densely built-up area of at least this size.

C.  The selected targets should have a high military strategic value.

D.  The first target should be relatively untouched by previous
bombing, in order that the effect of a single atomic bomb could be
determined.

The weather records showed that for five years there had never been two
successive good visual bombing days over Tokyo, indicating what might
be expected over other targets in the home islands.  It is possible, and
even likely, that strong cords of hemp were wound round the pipes
forming the siphons, as is related by Delorme in describing a similar
Roman aqueduct siphon near Constantinople; Delorme also describes,
in the aqueduct last mentioned, a pipe for the escape of air from the
lowest part of the siphon carried up against a tower, which was
higher than the aqueduct, and it is certain that there must have
been some such contrivance on the siphons of the aqueduct constructed
at Lyons.

Flacheron supposes that they consisted of small pipes carried from
the lowest part of the siphons up along the side of the valley and
above the reservoirs, or, in some instances, of taps fixed at the
lowest part of the siphons.

The Romans have been blamed for not using inverted siphons in the
aqueducts at Rome, and it has been said that this is a sufficient
proof that they did not understand the simplest principles of
hydraulics, but the remains of the aqueducts at Lyons negative this
assumption altogether.

The Romans were not so foolish as to construct underground siphons,
many miles long, for the supply of Rome; but where it was necessary
to construct them for the purpose of crossing deep valleys, they did so.
The same emperor Claudius who built the aqueduct at Rome known by his
name built the aqueduct of Mont Pila, at Lyons, and it is quite clear,
therefore, that his engineers were practically well acquainted with the
principles of hydraulics. It is thus seen that the ancient Romans
spared no pains to obtain a supply of pure water for their cities, and
I think it is high time that we followed their example, and went
to the trouble and expense of obtaining drinking water from unimpeachable
sources, instead of, as is too often the case, taking water which
we know perfectly well has been polluted, and then attempting to
purify it for domestic purpose

s
The center of the city contained a number of reinforced concrete
buildings as well as lighter structures.  Outside the center, the area
was congested by a dense collection of small wooden workshops set among
Japanese houses; a few larger industrial plants lay near the outskirts
of the city.  The houses were of wooden construction with tile roofs.
Many of the industrial buildings also were of wood frame construction.
The city as a whole was highly susceptible to fire damage.

Some of the reinforced concrete buildings were of a far stronger
construction than is required by normal standards in America, because
of the earthquake danger in Japan.  This exceptionally strong
construction undoubtedly accounted for the fact that the framework of
some of the buildings which were fairly close to the center of damage
in the city did not collapse.

The population of Hiroshima had reached a peak of over 380,000 earlier
in the war but prior to the atomic bombing the population had steadily
decreased because of a systematic evacuation ordered by the Japanese
government.  At the time of the attack the population was approximately
255,000.  This figure is based on the registered population, used by
the Japanese in computing ration quantities, and the estimates of
additional workers and troops who were brought into the city may not be
highly accurate.  Hiroshima thus had approximately the same number of
people as the city of Providence, R.I., or Dallas, Tex.


Nagasaki

Nagasaki lies at the head of a long bay which forms the best natural
harbor on the southern Japanese home island of Kyushu.  The main
commercial and residential area of the city lies on a small plain near
the end of the bay.  Two rivers divided by a mountain spur form the two
main valleys in which the city lies.  This mountain spur and the
irregular lay-out of the city tremendously reduced the area of
destruction, so that at first glance Nagasaki appeared to have been
less devastated than Hiroshima.

The heavily build-up area of the city is confined by the terrain to
less than 4 square miles out of a total of about 35 square miles in the
city as a whole.

The city of Nagasaki had been one of the largest sea ports in southern
Japan and was of great war-time importance because of its many and
varied industries, including the production of ordnance, ships,
military equipment, and other war materials.  The narrow long strip
attacked was of particular importance because of its industries.

In contrast to many modern aspects of Nagasaki, the residences almost
without exception were of flimsy, typical Japanese construction,
consisting of wood or wood-frame buildings, with wood walls with or
without plaster, and tile roofs.  Many of the smaller industries and
business establishments were also housed in wooden buildings or
flimsily built masonry buildings.  Nagasaki had been permitted to grow
for many years without conforming to any definite city zoning plan and
therefore residences were constructed adjacent to factory buildings and
to each other almost as close as it was possible to build them
throughout the entire industrial valley.


THE ATTACKS

Hiroshima

Hiroshima was the primary target of the first atomic bomb mission.  The
mission went smoothly in every respect.  The weather was good, and the
crew and equipment functioned perfectly.  In every detail, the attack
was carried out exactly as planned, and the bomb performed exactly as
expected.

The bomb exploded over Hiroshima at 8:15 on the morning of August 6,
1945.  About an hour previously, the Japanese early warning radar net
had detected the approach of some American aircraft headed for the
southern part of Japan.  The alert had been given and radio
broadcasting stopped in many cities, among them Hiroshima.  The planes
approached the coast at a very high altitude.  At nearly 8:00 A.M., the
radar operator in Hiroshima determined that the number of planes coming
in was very small--probably not more than three--and the air raid alert
was lifted.  Mr. Pickwick, unwilling to hazard a quarrel, gladly assented
to the proposition.

When Mr. Pickwick opened his eyes next morning, the first object upon
which they rested was Samuel Weller, seated upon a small black
portmanteau.

He soon learnt that money was in the Fleet just what money was out
of it; and that if he wished it he could have a room to himself,
if he was willing to pay for it.

"There's a capital room up in the coffee-room flight that belongs to a
Chancery prisoner," said the turnkey. "It'll stand you in a pound a
week. Lord! Why didn't you say at first that you was willing to come
down handsome?"
The matter was soon arranged, and in a short time the room was
furnished.

"Sam," said Mr. Pickwick, when his servant had done his best to make the
apartment comfortable, and was now inspecting the arrangements,
"I have felt from the first that this is not the place to bring a
young man to."

"Nor an old 'un neither, sir."
"You're quite right, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick. "But old men may come
here through their own heedlessness and unsuspicion. Do you understand
me, Sam?"
"Vell, sir," rejoined Sam, after a pause, "I think I see your
drift, and it's my 'pinion that you're a-comin' it a great deal too
strong, as the mail-coachman said to the snowstorm ven it overtook
him."
"For the time that I remain here," said Mr. Pickwick, "you must
leave me, Sam."
"Now, I tell you vot it is," said Mr. Weller, in a grave and solemn
voice. "This here sort o' thing won't do at all, so don't let's
hear no more about it." 
"I am serious, Sam," said Mr. Pickwick.
"You air, air you, sir?" inquired Mr. Weller. "Wery good, sir. Then
so am I."
With that Mr. Weller fixed his hat on his head with great precision
and left the room.The staff officer went to the airport and took off for the southwest.
After flying for about three hours, while still nearly 100 miles from
Hiroshima, he and his pilot saw a great cloud of smoke from the bomb.
In the bright afternoon, the remains of Hiroshima were burning.

Their plane soon reached the city, around which they circled in
disbelief.  A great scar on the land, still burning, and covered by a
heavy cloud of smoke, was all that was left of a great city.  They
landed south of the city, and the staff officer immediately began to
organize relief measures, after reporting to Tokyo.

Tokyo's first knowledge of what had really caused the disaster came
from the White House public announcement in Washington sixteen hours
after Hiroshima had been hit by the atomic bomb.


Nagasaki

Nagasaki had never been subjected to large scale bombing prior to the
explosion of the atomic bomb there.  On August 1st, 1945, however, a
number of high explosive bombs were dropped on the city.  A few of
these bombs hit in the shipyards and dock areas in the southwest
portion of the city.  Several of the bombs hit the Mitsubishi Steel and
Arms Works and six bombs landed at the Nagasaki Medical School and
Hospital, with three direct hits on buildings there.  While the damage
from these few bombs were relatively small, it created considerable
concern in Nagasaki and a number of people, principally school
children, were evacuated to rural areas for safety, thus reducing the
population in the city at the time of the atomic attack.

On the morning of August 9th, 1945, at about 7:50 A.M., Japanese time,
an air raid alert was sounded in Nagasaki, but the "All clear" signal
was given at 8:30.  (Tiberius Claudius Cæsar), and afford positive
evidence that the work was carried out under the emperor Claudius.
Lead pipes, constructed in a similar manner, have also been found at
Bath, in this country, in connection with the Roman baths. The great
difference between this aqueduct and those near Rome arises from
the fact that, instead of being carried across a nearly flat country,
it was carried across one intersected with deep ravines, and that
it was therefore necessary to have recourse to the system of inverted
siphons.

There can be no doubt that the inverted siphons were made of lead,
although no remains of them have been found; for we know that the
Romans used lead largely, and, as we have seen, pieces of the lead
distribution pipes have been found.

Again the crew was specially trained and selected; but bad weather
introduced some momentous complications.  These complications are best
described in the brief account of the mission's weaponeer, Comdr., now
Capt., F. L.  Ashworth, U.S.N., who was in technical command of the
bomb and was charged with the responsibility of insuring that the bomb
was successfully dropped at the proper time and on the designated
target.  His narrative runs as follows:

"The night of our take-off was one of tropical rain squalls, and
flashes of lightning stabbed into the darkness with disconcerting
regularity.  +M. Mery.+ Enamoured quod you? haue ye spied out that?
Ah sir, mary nowe I see you know what is what.
Enamoured ka? mary sir say that againe, But I thought not ye had marked
it so plaine.
+R. Royster.+ Yes, eche where they gaze all vpon me and stare.Skillful piloting and expert navigation brought us to the rendezvous
without incident.

