Now, however, a mighty change was coming, and the dwellers in the hamlet
were supposed to be highly delighted, as a matter of course, with the
prospect.  And, certainly, the hearts of old John Price and his wife and
daughter did rejoice; but not so the hearts of most of the inhabitants,
for they were thoroughly conscious that much of the goings on in their
village would not bear looking into by those who feared God and
respected human law.  Bridgepath had been now for a good many years a
_privileged_ place in the eyes of poachers, gamblers, and Sabbath-
breakers, where the devil's active servants could hold their festivals,
especially on the Lord's day, without fear of interruption from
policeman or preacher.  And the women were as bad as the men; they
"loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil."  So
the new school and reading-room arose amidst the sneers and loudly-
expressed disgust of the majority of the population; the proprietors of
the beer-shops being specially bitter in their denunciations of this
uncalled-for innovation on the good old times and habits, so long the
favoured lot of a primitive and unsophisticated people, who had been
quite content when left to their own devices, and could do perfectly
well without these new-fashioned schemes, if only good people would just
let them alone.  The good people, however, saw the matter in a different
light; and so, spite of all the grumbling and outspoken dissatisfaction,
the buildings were completed in the spring, and the new schoolmaster and
his wife took up their abode in Bridgepath.

Colonel Dawson had chosen his man carefully, and duly warned him that he
would find his post at first no bed of roses.  To which the master
replied that he was not afraid of encountering his share of thorns; and
that he doubted not but that with prayer, patience, and perseverance,
there would be both flowers and fruit in Bridgepath in due time.  As for
opposition, he rather enjoyed a little of it, and trusted to be enabled
to live it down.  The colonel was satisfied, for he knew that he had
chosen a man who had already proved himself to be no mere talker.  So
Bridgepath looked on in sulky wonder; but soon was constrained to
acknowledge that, in their new schoolmaster, the right man had been put
into the right place.

And now the colonel was very anxious to get the help of some earnest-
hearted Christian lady, who would visit the sick and needy in the
neglected hamlet, carrying with her Christ in her heart and on her lips;
for his sister was too old to undertake such a work.  His thoughts
turned to Mary Stansfield.  He would go and have a talk with the old
lady her aunt about it.


CHAPTER FOUR.

WHAT IS UNSELFISHNESS?

Colonel Dawson took a deep interest both in Miss Stansfield and her
niece.  He understood them both, and pitied them both, but for very
different reasons.  He pitied the old lady because she was throwing away
her own happiness and crippling her own usefulness.  He pitied her
because she was not what she might so easily have been; because she was
storing up vinegar where she might have gathered honey; and was one of
those of whom Dr South says that "they tell the truth, but tell it with
the tongue of a viper."  He pitied Mary Stansfield, but with a pity
mingled with profound respect and admiration.  He pitied her that she
should have to bear those daily raspings of the spirit which her aunt,
half unconsciously, perpetually inflicted on her.  And yet he could not
altogether regret the discipline, when he marked how the trial was daily
burnishing the fine gold of her character.  Still, he pitied both, and
was a frequent visitor at Morewood Court, partly because he marked how
few were the friends who cared to stay at the house, and, more still,
because he hoped to be of use in lightening the burden of both aunt and
niece.

Colonel Dawson was one of those who love "working in the shade."  Not
that he was ashamed or afraid of working in the light, but he was
content to pursue the less attractive and less ornamental paths of
usefulness, which few comparatively cared to follow.  And so he had set
himself resolutely and prayerfully to the task of rearranging the
character of one who, he was persuaded, was capable and desirous of
doing good and great things, could she only be got to hold herself at
arm's-length from herself for a little while, and see herself in the
glass of God's Word, and as others saw her.  He felt sure that there was
good, practical sense enough in her mind, and grace enough in her heart,
to make her yield to conviction when he should draw her on to see and
acknowledge a better way; and then he knew that, when she should have
been drawn out of the old self into a better self, she would duly
appreciate and love her long-suffering niece.  But he was well aware
that the old self would not surrender its throne without a severe
struggle, and he was therefore not surprised to find the old lady's
bitterness rather increase than diminish as through their conversations
she was learning to become more and more dissatisfied with herself.

Her poor niece had to bear in consequence the burden of an increased
irritability in her aunt's addresses to her.  But she was greatly
cheered when the colonel took an opportunity of seeing her alone, and
assuring her that, spite of appearances to the contrary, the clouds were
beginning to break, and that light and peace would shortly follow.

It was now the month of June; the school and reading-room at Bridgepath
had got fairly established; the growlers and grumblers had nearly all of
them subsided; and many long-benighted souls were receiving light with
gladness.

"Pray excuse my calling so early," said the colonel, as he took his seat
beside the elder Miss Stansfield, on a bright sunny morning.  The
drawing-room window was open, and the ladies were seated on either side
of it--the aunt half reclining on an easy-chair, the other occupying a
low stool, with the open Bible from which she had been reading aloud on
her lap.

Miss Stansfield received her visitor very cordially, but it was plain
that the reading of the Holy Book had not imparted any sunshine to her
spirit, and there were traces of recent tears in her niece's eyes.

The colonel saw this, but made no remark on it.  For a few moments he
gazed on the lovely garden, visible through the open window, without
speaking; then he said abruptly, "I was thinking how selfish we
naturally are; those beautiful flowers reminded me of it, and seemed to
reproach me.  God gives us such a profusion of colour, and harmonises it
so marvellously to delight us; and yet how ready we are to pick out, as
it were, the sombrest tints in his dealings with us, and to keep our
eyes fixed on them."

Miss Stansfield coloured slightly, and then said, after a pause, during
which her niece did not look up, but nervously moved the leaves of her
Bible, "Yes, I quite agree with you, Colonel Dawson; there is abundance
of selfishness in our days, especially among young people.  They seem to
think of nothing but having their own way, and seldom condescend to
admit that those who have been brought up in less enlightened days can
have gained any wisdom by experience."

"Ah!  I dare say," replied the other; "I've no doubt that young people,
many of them at least, have a large share of this very unlovable
quality.  Perhaps we have all of us more of it than we should like to
admit to ourselves.  But now, to tell the truth, I am on the look-out
for one or two unselfish people;--can either of you, my dear friends,
help me to find them?"

"I think you will search in vain in _this_ neighbourhood," said the old
lady dryly.

"Nay, my dear Miss Stansfield, are you not a little uncharitable?
Surely you can point me to some who love doing good, and forget
themselves in doing it."

"I can say `Yes' to the first but not to the last part of your
question," was the reply.  "There are plenty who love doing good,
according to the popular estimate of goodness; but they love still more
to be known and praised as the doer of it."

"Well," rejoined her visitor, "granting this in a measure, I should
still like to know of some of these popular good-doers.  We must make
considerable allowance for human frailty.  Perhaps I shall be able to
pick out a real jewel, where you have believed them to be only coloured
glass and tinsel."

"I fear not, Colonel Dawson.  However, I will mention a few of what I
believe to be but counterfeit gems.  There are the Wilders, for
instance.  Those girls are always doing good, and their brother too.
You have only to look into the local papers to see what a broad stream
of good works is perpetually flowing from that family.  What with
ecclesiastical decorations, Sunday-school and day-school _fetes_,
dancing at charity balls, managing coal and clothing clubs, and a
hundred other things in which the world and the Church get their
alternate share pretty evenly, that family is a perfect pattern of good
deeds for everybody to look at,--like the children's samplers, which
their mothers point to with so much pride, as they hang up framed in
their cottages."

The colonel looked grave, and said, "Then you do not consider that there
are likely to be any unselfish workers in the Wilder family?"

"You had better ask my niece, colonel.  She will give you an
unprejudiced opinion."

The other looked towards the younger lady, and said, "I am asking now in
confidence, and with an object, not from mere idle curiosity, far less
from any wish to pick holes in the characters and conduct of any of my
neighbours.  So, Miss Mary, kindly give me your opinion."

Thus appealed to, the younger lady replied, but evidently with much
reluctance, "I fear that my aunt is right in her judgment of the
Wilders.  I dare not recommend them to you as likely to prove, in the
truest sense, unselfish workers.  They are very kind and good-natured,
and no one can help liking them; but--" and she hesitated.

"I understand you," said the colonel; "they would not come up to my
standard, you think?"

"I fear not; but then I should be sorry to judge them harshly, only you
asked my honest opinion."

"Oh, speak out, my dear, speak out," said her aunt; "they are but
afflicted with the epidemic which has attacked all ranks in our day.
Thus, where will you find a really unselfish servant nowadays?  The old-
fashioned domestics who would live a generation in a family, mourn over
an accidental breakage committed once in a quarter of a century, and
count their employer's interest as their own, are creatures entirely of
the past.  And as with maid and man, so with mistress and master, old or
young.  `What am I to get as an equivalent if I do this or that?' seems
the prevailing thought now with workers of every kind."

"Ah yes," said the colonel thoughtfully, "there is too much truth in
what you say; only, in the darkest night we may detect a few stars, and
some very bright ones too, if we will only look for them.  And I am
looking for stars now, but I shall be quite content to get one or two of
the second or third magnitude."

"I'm afraid you'll hardly be able to find any in this neighbourhood, for
the clouds," said the old lady, with a smile, in which the bitter
prevailed over the sweet.

"Nay, nay, my dear friend," cried the colonel cheerily, "don't let us
talk about clouds this lovely June morning.  I fear, however, that I
must not look for what I want among the Wilders.  I can readily
understand that they might be unwilling to work in the shade, where
there would be nothing to repay them except the smile of Him who will
not let even the cup of cold water rightly given go unrewarded.  What do
you say to Lady Willerly's daughter?  I have heard great things of her.
They tell me she is one of the most unselfish creatures under the sun."

"Ay," said the old lady dryly, "when the sun shines on her; but you want
workers in the shade.  Grace Willerly will not do for that."

"You think not?  Well, let me tell you what I have heard of her.  Those
who know her well say that she never seems so happy as when she is doing
good and making others happy.  Her mother calls her `my sunbeam.'  She
seems to take a pleasure in thwarting herself in order to gratify
others.  If she wants to go out for a walk, and some tiresome visitor
comes in, she will laugh, and say, `I was just wanting some one to come
and keep me in, for I dare say I should have caught cold if I had gone
out just now.'  Or it may be quite the other way.  She is just sitting
down to draw or play, and some one calls and asks her to take a walk,
and she at once leaves her occupation, jumps up, and says, `Ah, how nice
this is!  I ought to take exercise, but felt disinclined; and you've
come at the very right time, to entice me out.'  In fact, her greatest
pleasure seems to be to cross her own will and inclinations, that she
may do what will give pleasure to others.  Such is the picture that
intimate friends have drawn of her; and certainly it is a very charming
one.  What say you to it, Miss Mary?"

"It is very beautiful, Colonel Dawson--" and she hesitated.

"Ah, then, too highly coloured, I suppose you would say.  Give me your
candid opinion."

"It is very difficult to say what I feel," replied Mary Stansfield,
"without seeming to lay myself open to the charge of censoriousness or
captiousness; and yet I cannot help seeing a shade of unreality, and
even insincerity, on that bright and beautiful character,--that it
wants, in fact, one essential element of genuine unselfishness."

"Of course it does," broke in the elder lady; "you mean that it is not
free from self-consciousness and, more or less, of parade."

"I fear so, dear aunt.  I cannot help thinking that, as some one has
said of faith, so it may be said of true unselfishness, that `it is
colourless like water,'--it makes no show nor assertion of itself.  But
dear Grace Willerly is a sterling character for all that."

"So then," said the colonel, after a pause, "I must give up in despair,
must I?  No, that will never do.  Now, I am wanting a quiet worker in
the shade for poor Bridgepath,--some young lady friend who has a little
leisure time, and will go now and then and read in the cottages there
the Word of God, and give some loving counsel to those who need it so
much.  I have the good vicar's full consent and approbation; he will
gladly welcome any such helper as I may find for the post.  It will be a
true labour of love; and, without any more words I am come to ask Miss
Stansfield if she will spare her niece for the good work, and Miss Mary
if she will be willing to undertake it."

The reply of the two ladies, who were equally taken by surprise, was in
each case made in a single word, and that word very characteristic.
"Impossible!" cried the old lady.  "Me!" exclaimed the younger one.

"Nay, not impossible, dear friend," said the colonel gently.  "I want
this service of love only once a week for an hour or two, and I am sure
you can spare my young friend for that time.--And as for yourself, Miss
Mary, I believe, from what I have seen of you, that you are just fitted
for the work; and I am sure that you are too sincere to excuse yourself
on the ground of an unfitness which you do not really feel."

"And what am I to do?" asked the old lady bitterly.

"Exercise a little of this true unselfishness, dear friend.  You see
there are many ways in which you too can show true unselfishness in the
cause of that Master whom I know you truly love, though he has laid you
aside from much active work for him."

Miss Stansfield did not answer for a time; she looked pained, but the
bitterness had passed away from her countenance.  Evading an immediate
reply, she said, "I don't understand these many ways in which I can show
unselfishness, Colonel Dawson."

"Do you not?  May I mention some?"

"Yes, do," she replied earnestly.

"Well, bear with me then, while I make one or two suggestions which our
late conversations have been leading up to.  I will imagine myself in
your place, and looking out to see where I may best put the stamp of the
Cross on my life.  I am wishing to do good, I am trying to do good: but
may it not be that my benevolence is sometimes rendered so ungraciously
that it gives more pain than pleasure to those who receive it?  Ah,
then, I will put the stamp of the Cross here.  I will try, not only to
do good, but to do it graciously.  Perhaps, again, I am looking upon
suffering and natural infirmity of temper as an excuse for harshness and
hard judgment, and not as a call to exercise charity, patience, and
forbearance.  Then let me put the stamp of the Cross here also.  Or,
once more, perhaps I am in the habit of looking for the weeds rather
than the flowers, for the shadows rather than the sunshine, in my lot.
Well, then, here again I may place the stamp of the Cross, by exercising
quiet, unostentatious self-denial and unselfishness before the loving
eyes of him who has made us for himself, and redeemed us that we might
in all things glorify him.  Might I not thus, dear friend, exhibit true
unselfishness, and at the same time brighten my own heart, and also the
hearts of others?"

No one spoke for a few moments, but the old lady bowed her head upon her
hands and wept silently.  Then she stretched out a hand to the colonel,
without raising her head, and said in a half-stifled whisper, "Thank
you, thank you, faithful friend.  Mary shall undertake the post if she
will."

Ah yes!  Light had shone into that clouded spirit; the shadows were
passing away.  Mary Stansfield knelt her down by the old lady's side,
and in one loving, tearful embrace, such as they had never known before,
the icy barrier that had so long chilled that young and loving heart was
melted, and there was peace.

The colonel was more than satisfied.  He knew, as he quietly stole out
of the room without a further word, that he had been privileged to gain
that morning two like-minded workers in the shade, instead of one.


CHAPTER FIVE.

THE STAMP OF THE CROSS.

A few days after Colonel Dawson's happy interview with Miss Stansfield
and her niece, a _fete_ was given by the Wilders at their residence,
Holly House, partly for the entertainment of the children who belonged
to the Sunday-school classes taught by the Misses Wilder, and partly
also as a means of gathering together as many neighbouring friends and
acquaintances as might be at leisure to come.

Colonel Dawson and his nephew had received a pressing invitation; and
also Lady Willerly and her daughter, though the latter was hardly
expected, as it was known how many engagements she had to tie her at
home.  The invitation, however, decided Grace Willerly to write at once
and say that, although she had a very pressing engagement, she would
arrange to put it off, as she felt that a good game of play with the
dear children on the lawn at Holly House would be just the very thing
she wanted to do her good and freshen her up.

So a large party assembled on the day appointed, and among them the
colonel and his nephew--the former because he wished to keep on friendly
terms with his neighbours, though he anticipated but little pleasure
from this particular gathering.  Besides this, he was a little anxious
to see to what extent the intimacy between the young Wilders and his
nephew had gone; for he had something of a misgiving that the young man
might be getting entangled in the attractions of one of the young
ladies, and this was the last thing he would have desired for him.  As
for Horace Jackson himself, his impression concerning the younger
members of the Wilder family was that they were decidedly "jolly."  He
had not yet consciously arrived at a warmer stage of feeling in regard
to any one of them, and his estimate was tolerably correct.  Somebody
had characterised the young ladies of Holly House as "dashing girls,"
and such they certainly were.

The eldest was now about one and twenty, a fine _manly_ young woman,
with a loud voice, and very demonstrative manners, who seemed inclined
to do good in the spirit of a prize-fighter, by attacking the evils
which she sought to remedy with a masculine vigour, such as would drive
them in terror off the field.  The second daughter, Clara, was of a
rather less commanding appearance than her elder sister, but dressed and
talked pretty much in the same fashion.  The third, Millicent, would
naturally have been quiet and retiring, but had constrained herself to
imitate her sisters.  She had, however, only so far succeeded as to
acquire an abrupt and off-hand style of speaking, which was calculated
to shut up old-fashioned people, who had been brought up under the
impression that young ladies should belong to the feminine gender.
Indeed, when the three Misses Wilder were met on the public road in
their walking attire, with natty little hats on their heads, ulsters
down to their feet, turn-down collars round their necks, and riding-
whips or walking-sticks in their hands, it would have been very
difficult for an unpractised observer to determine to what particular
sex they belonged.

Their brother was proud of his sisters, and matched them admirably.  He
was a kind-hearted, outspoken, generous young man, up to anything, from
a midnight spree to a special religious service; hating everything like
cant as decidedly "low," and going in for sincerity, truth, and free-
thought.  Moreover, he spent his money, or, more strictly speaking, his
father's money as well as his own, on horses, dogs, and guns, and left
sundry little bills to stand over till the poor creditors had lost both
hope and patience.

It was now four o'clock, and the children were assembling for tea, after
a series of games, in which they had been joined by Grace Willerly with
an unflagging energy, and been occasionally encouraged by a kind word
from Mr and Mrs Wilder and their daughters.

"What a charming sight, isn't it?" said Mrs Wilder to Colonel Dawson,
as they strolled up to the tea-tables, which had been set out under the
shade of some huge elms.  "How happy the dear children seem!"

"Yes," replied her guest; "it is indeed a pleasant sight, and I am sure
we may well learn a lesson of contentment with simple pleasures from the
hearty enjoyment of these young ones.  What a pity that the world and
its attractions should ever get a place in the hearts of these or of any
of us, since God has made us for purer and higher things!"

"Ah!  Very true, colonel;--but won't you come into the house?  I see our
friends are gathering in the drawing-room.  We shall find tea there; and
Clara and Millicent, with Grace Willerly, will see that their little
friends want for nothing.  Oh!  Here is your nephew.--Pray, Mr Jackson,
come in with us; I am sure you will be glad of a little refreshment."

So the elder guests assembled in the drawing-room, and got through an
hour of miscellaneous gossip very creditably; at the end of which all
adjourned to the garden again, and strolled about in twos and threes
till the school children were dismissed and it was time for the visitors
to take their leave.

"What a relief!" exclaimed the colonel to his nephew, as they trotted on
side by side on their ride homewards.

"Well, it was dull work, uncle, I allow," said the young man, laughing.
"But these gatherings are, I suppose, useful and necessary, if people
are to keep up friendly acquaintance with one another, and do what is
civil and neighbourly."

"Yes, perhaps so," replied his uncle; "but such an afternoon is little
better than bondage and lost time--at any rate to a man of my colonial
habits.  However, it has given me an opportunity of seeing more of the
young ladies at Holly House."

"And I am afraid, uncle, that you do not find them improve upon
acquaintance."

"Just so, Horace; they don't suit my taste at all."

"And yet, dear uncle, with all their dash, and _brusquerie_, and
fastness, they really are most kind-hearted and unselfish girls."

"Kind-hearted, I allow, but I doubt their unselfishness."

"But why, uncle?  What would you have more?  They certainly don't spare
themselves.  They are here, there, and everywhere, when any good is to
be done, and think nothing of spending any amount of time and money in
making other people happy."

"True, Horace, but there is a pleasurable excitement in all this which
more than overbalances any trouble it may cost, especially when the
world's applause for their good deeds is thrown into the same scale."

"But," remonstrated the young man, in rather a disturbed and anxious
tone, "is not this dealing them a little hard measure?  Where shall we
find anything that will deserve the name of unselfishness, if we weigh
people's actions too rigorously?"

"Ah!  You think me severe and uncharitable, Horace.  But now, it just
comes to this.  What do the Misses Wilder and their brother (for I
suppose we must take him into consideration too), really forsake or give
up in order to do good?  I don't pretend to know the private affairs of
the family generally, but certainly there are strong rumours afloat that
the maxim, `Be just before you are generous,' is not acted upon by the
young people in their money concerns.  I allowed just now that they are
good-natured, but good-nature is a very different thing from
unselfishness.  What personal gratification do they surrender in order
to do good?  What worldly pleasure or amusement do they deny themselves?
What extravagance do they curtail?"

"I can't say much for them in that respect, certainly," replied the
young man thoughtfully; "indeed, I must frankly confess that I have
heard more than once from the eldest Miss Wilder the expression of her
hope and conviction that the united good deeds of the family would be
accepted, by the world at any rate, as a sort of atonement for follies
and excesses which clearly could not be justified in themselves."

"I can well believe it, my dear nephew: but I have something much
weightier to say on the subject, and it is this.  There is manifestly
one great want in all the doings of these kind-hearted people at Holly
House, which would make me at once deny the character of unselfishness
to their best deeds."

"And what is that, dear uncle?"

"The stamp of the Cross, Horace.  I know that there are plenty of
crosses about them,--crosses on their prayer-books, crosses round their
necks, crosses on their writing-cases and on their furniture; but _the_
Cross is wanting.  In a word, they are not denying self, and seeking to
do good to others from love to that Saviour who gave up so much for
them.  I know that they are not without religion in the eyes of the
world; but I cannot, I dare not believe that they are really actuated by
love to the great Master in what they may do to make others happy.  Am I
wrong, Horace?"

"No, uncle, I cannot say that you are.  Much as I like the girls on many
accounts, I should not be speaking my honest sentiments were I to say
that I believed them to be doing good to others from real Christian
motives.  And yet--"

"Ah, my dear nephew, I know what you would say.  I know that the world
would embrace such as these within its elastic band as among genuine
unselfish workers, though avowedly on a lower level than that adopted by
the true Christian.  But, after all, can God, the searcher of hearts,
approve of anything as being truly unselfish which does not bear the
stamp of the Cross?  And can anything of which he does not approve be a
reality?"

"I suppose not," said the other reluctantly.  "Still, it is difficult
not to be dazzled by what looks like a reflection from the true Light;
and difficult, too, to detect a sham where we are willing to see a
reality."

"Very difficult," replied Colonel Dawson: "and yet the world abounds in
shams, and cant, and hypocrisy.  The world commonly lays these things at
the door of religious professors; but the truth all the while is that
the sham, and the cant, and the hypocrisy are really in those who take
or gain credit for a character--unselfishness, for example--which is
only to be found in true Christians, and hold themselves back from that
genuine devotion, and self-sacrifice, and coming out to Christ, without
which their boasted and lauded excellences are nothing better than a
delusion and an empty name."

The young man did not reply, and the subject was dropped for the
remainder of the ride home.


CHAPTER SIX.

DUTY.

Mary Stansfield and Grace Willerly were sitting together, about three
weeks after the above conversation, in an arbour in the garden attached
to Lady Willerly's house.  Miss Stansfield had come to spend a day or
two by special invitation, by way of getting a little change, which she
much needed; her aunt having spared her without a murmur, and having
accepted the services of a former domestic in her place.

"How very kind of your aunt to spare you!" said Grace to her friend; "I
hardly expected it, knowing how much she depends upon you."

"Oh yes!" was the reply: "you cannot tell, dear Grace, what a wonderful
change has come over my dear aunt.  And it is all owing, under God, to
the loving faithfulness of our kind friend Colonel Dawson.  I scarcely
ever get a harsh word or a hard look now; and when I do, my aunt at once
calls me to her, and asks me to forgive her.  Oh, is it not wonderful?
I am sure I blush with shame to think how little I deserve it."

"Yes, it is very wonderful, dear Mary.  Certainly our new neighbour is a
most earnest and useful man; and he has shown his discernment, too, in
getting hold of yourself to work for him in Bridgepath.  But I am afraid
you will find it very up-hill work; you'll want the strength of a horse,
the patience of Job, and the zeal of an apostle in such a place as
that."

"Certainly, I shall want the grace of an apostle," said the other
quietly; "but the work is very delightful, and is more than repaying me
already for any little trouble or self-denial it may cost me."

"It is very good of you to say so, Mary; I am afraid the work wouldn't
suit me.  I don't mind making sacrifices--indeed, I think I can truly
say it is one of my chief pleasures to make them; but there must be
something very depressing in the jog-trot sort of work you are called on
to do.  I don't mind anything, so long as it has a little bit of dash in
it; but I am afraid I should soon grow weary of a regular grind like
yours."

"Oh, but you are quite mistaken about my work at Bridgepath," said the
other, laughing.  "There is nothing dull or monotonous about it; and it
is such a happiness to see the light of God's truth beginning to dawn on
dark and troubled hearts.  And there is one particularly interesting
family--I mean John Price's.  You have heard, I dare say, that he was
steward to the squire, and that he lost almost everything by his poor
master's extravagance.  Poor man, he is bed-ridden now, and I fear had
little comfort even from his Bible, for he seemed to have learned little
from it but patience.  But, oh!  How he has brightened up, and his wife
and daughter, too, now that they have been led to see that it is their
privilege to work and suffer _from_ salvation instead of _for_
salvation."

"I don't understand you," interrupted Miss Willerly.

"Don't you?  Oh, it makes all the difference.  Poor John Price has been
reading his Bible, and bearing his troubles patiently, in the hope that
at the end he may be accepted and saved through his Saviour's merits.
That is what I mean by working _for_ salvation."

"And what else, dear Mary, would you have him do?"

"O Grace!  This is poor work indeed, working in view of a merely
possible salvation.  No!  What he has learned now is to see that his
Saviour, in whom he humbly and truly believes, has given him a present
salvation; so that he, and his wife and daughter too, can now say, `We
love him, because he first loved us.'  And so they work and suffer
cheerfully, and even thankfully, from love to that Saviour who has
already received them as his own.  This is what I mean by working _from_
salvation.  Surely we shall work more heartily for one of whom we know
that he _has_ saved us, than for one of whom we know only that he has
saved others, and may perhaps save us also in the end."

"I see what you mean, dear Mary, but I never saw it so before.  Such a
view of God's love to us personally must take the selfishness out of our
good works, because what we do will be done just simply from love to
Christ.  It is a beautiful way of looking at God's dealings with us."

"Yes, Grace; and as true and scriptural as it is beautiful.  It is just
what God sees that we need, and furnishes us with the most constraining
motive to serve him, and to deny self in his service."

"I see it," said Miss Willerly sadly and thoughtfully, after a pause.
"I very much fear, dear Mary, that I have been greatly deceiving myself.
I have been just simply building up a monument to my own honour and
glory out of my heap of little daily crosses."

"Nay, dear Grace, you are dealing too severely with yourself."

"No, I think not.  At any rate, I am sadly aware that not the love of
Christ, but the love of human applause, has been the constraining motive
in my acts of self-denial.  I have made such a parade of my willingness
to thwart my own will that I might please others, so that while I should
have been startled to see a full-grown trumpeter at my side proclaiming
my unselfishness, I have all the while been keeping in my service a
little dwarf page, who has been sounding out my praises on his shrill
whistle."

"You judge yourself hardly, dear Grace; and yet, no doubt, self does
enter largely even into our unselfishness.  I am sure I have felt it,
oh, how deeply!  And specially just lately, since I have undertaken this
work at Bridgepath."

"You, dear Mary!"

"Yes, indeed.  And I see now how wisely our heavenly Father ordered his
discipline in my case.  There was indeed a `needs-be' in my dear aunt's
former harshness and irritability to me; but for that, and for her
disparaging remarks on my conduct, I might have been more self-seeking
than I am.  But the discipline has been changed now, and I trust that
the chastisement has not been wholly in vain.  What we all want, I am
sure, if we are to be true workers for God, is to lift our eyes from
self, and keep them steadily fixed on Him who has done so much for us."

"I am sure you are right," said the other.  "I know I wish to do right,
and I feel a pleasure in crossing my own inclination when it will
gratify others; but then my inmost look has been to the world and its
approbation.  `What will people say?  What will people think?' or, at
any rate, `What will good people say and think?' this has been the
prominent thought in my heart, I fear."

