The belief in the _infernal_ art of witchcraft is perhaps the
most horrid, as it certainly is the most absurd, phenomenon in
the religious history of the world. Of the millions of victims
sacrificed on the altars of religion this particular delusion can
claim a considerable proportion. By a moderate computation, nine
millions have been burned or hanged since the establishment of
Christianity.[2] Prechristian antiquity experienced its
tremendous power, and the primitive faith of Christianity easily
accepted and soon developed it. It was reserved, however, for the
triumphant Church to display it in its greatest horrors: and if
we deplore the too credulous or accommodative faith of the early
militant Church or the unilluminated ignorance of paganism, we
may still more indignantly denounce the cruel policy of
Catholicism and the barbarous folly of Protestant theology which
could deliberately punish an impossible crime. It is the reproach
of Protestantism that this persecution was most furiously raging
in the age that produced Newton and Locke. Compared with its
atrocities even the Marian burnings appear as nothing: and it may
well be doubted whether the fanatic zeal of the 'bloody Queen,'
is no less contemptible than the credulous barbarity of the
judges of the seventeenth century. The period 1484 (the year in
which Innocent VIII. published his famous 'Witch Hammer' signally
ratified 120 years later by the Act of Parliament of James I. of
England) to 1680 might be characterised not improperly as the era
of devil-worship; and we are tempted almost to embrace the theory
of Zerdusht and the Magi and conceive that Ahriman was then
superior in the eternal strife; to imagine the _Evil One_, as in
the days of the Man of Uz, 'going to and fro in the earth, and
walking up and down in it.' It is come to that at the present
day, according to a more rational observer of the seventeenth
century, that it is regarded as a part of religion to ascribe
great wonders to the devil; and those are taxed with infidelity
and perverseness who hesitate to believe what thousands relate
concerning his power. Whoever does not do so is accounted an
atheist because he cannot persuade himself that there are two
Gods, the one good and the other evil[3]--an assertion which is
no mere hyperbole or exaggeration of a truth: there is the
certain evidence of facts as well as the concurrent testimony of
various writers.

  [2] According to Dr. Sprenger (_Life of Mohammed_). Cicero's
  observation that there was no people either so civilised or
  learned, or so savage and barbarous, that had not a belief
  that the future may be predicted by certain persons (De
  Divinatione, i.), is justified by the faith of Christendom,
  as well as by that of paganism; and is as true of witchcraft
  as it is of prophecy or divination.

  [3] Dr. Balthazar Becker, Amsterdam, 1691, quoted in
  Mosheim's _Institutes of Ecclesiastical History_, ed. Reid.

Those (comparatively few) whose reason and humanity alike
revolted from a horrible dogma, loudly proclaim the prevailing
prejudice. Such protests, however, were, for a long time at
least, feeble and useless--helplessly overwhelmed by the
irresistible torrent of public opinion. All classes of society
were almost equally infected by a plague-spot that knew no
distinction of class or rank. If theologians (like Bishop Jewell,
one of the most esteemed divines in the Anglican Church,
publicly asserting on a well known occasion at once his faith and
his fears) or lawyers (like Sir Edward Coke and Judge Hale) are
found unmistakably recording their undoubting conviction, they
were bound, it is plain, the one class by theology, the other by
legislation. Credulity of so extraordinary a kind is sufficiently
surprising even in theologians; but what is to be thought of the
deliberate opinion of unbiassed writers of a recent age
maintaining the possibility, if not the actual occurrence, of the
facts of the belief?

The deliberate judgment of Addison, whose wit and preeminent
graces of style were especially devoted to the extirpation of
almost every sort of popular folly of the day, could declare:
'When I hear the relations that are made from all parts of the
world, not only from Norway and Lapland, from the East and West
Indies, but from every particular nation in Europe, I cannot
forbear thinking that there is such an intercourse and commerce
with evil spirits as that which we express by the name of
witchcraft.... In short, when I consider the question whether
there are such persons in the world as those we call witches, my
mind is divided between two opposite opinions; or rather, to
speak my thoughts freely, I believe in general that there is and
has been such a thing as witchcraft, but at the same time can
give no credit to any particular modern instance of it.'[4]
Evidence, if additional were wanted, how deference to authority
and universal custom may subdue the reason and understanding. The
language and decision of Addison are adopted by Sir W. Blackstone
in 'Commentaries on the Laws of England,' who shelters himself
behind that celebrated author's sentiment; and Gibbon informs us
that 'French and English lawyers of the present age [the latter
half of the last century] allow the _theory_ but deny the
_practice_ of witchcraft'--influenced doubtless by the spirit of
the past legislation of their respective countries. In England
the famous enactment of the subservient parliament of James I.
against the crimes of sorcery, &c., was repealed in the middle of
the reign of George II., our laws sanctioning not 130 years since
the popular persecution, if not the legal punishment.

  [4] _Spectator_, No. 117. The sentiments of Addison on a
  kindred subject are very similar. She is the daughter of a
  prominent man in the village near Park Street Church
  Station. She was in native dress when she came to us;
  when I saw her over there, although her mother was away at
  the Agency and she was staying with relatives, she looked
  very neat and clean. She wore a pretty dress made after
  the style worn in our school and in every respect looked
  as well as though she had just come out of school. I
  think she would have returned with us had her parents
  been at home.
  
  * * * * *
  There were two young women also, whom I should be glad
  to have in the school here. They have just united with
  the church and been baptized.
They seem quite superior in many ways to their surroundings.Sir W. Scott, who wrote
  when the profound metaphysical inquiries of Hume had gained
  ground (it is observable), is quite sceptical.

The origin of witchcraft and the vulgar diabolism is to be found
in the rude beginnings of the religious or superstitious feeling
which, known amongst the present savage nations as Fetishism,
probably prevailed almost universally in the earliest ages; while
that of the sublimer magic is discovered in the religious systems
of the ancient Chaldeans and Persians. Chaldea and Egypt were the
first, as far as is known, to cultivate the science of magic: the
former people long gave the well-known name to the professional
practisers of the art. Cicero (_de Divinatione_) celebrates, and
the Jewish prophets frequently deride, their skill in divination
and their modes of incantation. The story of Daniel evidences how
highly honoured and lucrative was the magical or divining
faculty. The Chazdim, or Chaldeans, a priestly caste inhabiting a
wide and level country, must have soon applied themselves to the
study, so useful to their interests, of their brilliant expanse
of heavens. By a prolonged and 'daily observation,' considerable
knowledge must have been attained; but in the infancy of the
science astronomy necessarily took the form of an empirical art
which, under the name of astrology, engaged the serious attention
and perplexed the brains of the mediæval students of science or
magic (nearly synonymous terms), and which still survives in
England in the popular almanacks. The natural objects of
veneration to the inhabitants of Assyria were the glorious
luminaries of the sun and moon; and if their worship of the stars
and planets degenerated into many absurd fancies, believing an
intimate connection and subordination of human destiny to
celestial influences, it may be admitted that a religious
sentiment of this kind in its primitive simplicity was more
rational, or at least sublime, than most other religious systems.

It is not necessary to trace the oriental creeds of magic further
than they affected modern beliefs; but in the divinities and
genii of Persia are more immediately traced the spiritual
existences of Jewish and Christian belief. From the Persian
priests are derived both the name and the practice of magic. The
Evil Principle of the Magian, of the later Jewish, and thence of
the western world, originated in the system (claiming Zoroaster
as its founder), which taught a duality of Gods. The philosophic
lawgiver, unable to penetrate the mystery of the empire of evil
and misery in the world, was convinced that there is an equal and
antagonistic power to the representative of light and goodness.
Hence the continued eternal contention between Ormuzd with the
good spirits or genii, Amchaspands, on one side, and Ahriman with
the Devs (who may represent the infernal crew of Christendom) on
the other. Egypt, in the Mosaic and Homeric ages, seems to have
attained considerable skill in magic, as well as in chymistry and
astrology. As an abstruse and esoteric doctrine, it was strictly
confined to the priests, or to the favoured few who were admitted
to initiation. The magic excellence of the magicians, who
successfully emulated the miracles of Moses, was apparently
assisted by a legerdemain similar to that of the Hindu jugglers
of the present day.[5]

  [5] The names of two of these magicians, Jannes and Jambres,
  have been preserved by revelation or tradition.

In Persian theology, the shadowy idea of the devil of western
Asia was wholly different from the grosser conception of
Christendom. Neither the evil principle of Magianism nor the
witch of Palestine has much in common with the Christian. 'No
contract of subjection to a diabolic power, no infernal stamp or
sign of such a fatal league, no revellings of Satan and his
hags,'[6] no such materialistic notions could be conformable to
the spirit of Judaism or at least of Magianism. It is not
difficult to find the cause of this essential dissimilarity. A
simple unity was severely inculcated by the religion and laws of
Moses, which permitted little exercise of the imagination: while
the Magi were equally severe against idolatrous forms. A
monstrous idea, like that of 'Satan and his hags,' was impossible
to them. Christianity, the religion of the West, has received
its _corporeal_ ideas of demonology from the divinities and
demons of heathenism. The Satyri and Fauni of Greece and Rome
have suggested in part the form, and perhaps some of the
characteristics, of the vulgar Christian devil. A knowledge of
the arts of magic among the Jews was probably derived from their
Egyptian life, while the Bedouins of Arabia and Syria (kindred
peoples) may have instilled the less scientific rites of
Fetishism. It is in the early accounts of that people that
sorcery, whatever its character and profession, with the allied
arts of divination, necromancy, incantations, &c., appears most
flourishing. The Mosaic penalty, 'Thou shalt not suffer a witch
to live,' and the comprehensive injunction, 'There shall not be
found among you that maketh his son or his daughter to pass
through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter
with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer,' indicate
at once the extent and the horror of the practice. Balaam (that
equivocal prophet), on the border-land of Arabia and Palestine,
was courted and dreaded as a wizard who could perplex whole
armies by means of spells. His fame extended far and wide; he was
summoned from his home beyond the Euphrates in the mountains of
Mesopotamia by the Syrian tribes to repel the invading enemy.
This great magician was, it seems, universally regarded as 'the
rival and the possible conqueror of Moses.'[7]

  [6] Sir W. Scott, _Letters on Demonology_.

  [7] Dean Stanley's _Lectures on the Jewish Church_.

About the time when the priestly caste had to yield to a profane
monarchy, the forbidden practices were so notorious and the evil
was of such magnitude, that the newly-elected prince 'ejected'
(as Josephus relates) 'the fortune-tellers, necromancers, and all
such as exercised the like arts.' His interview with the witch
has some resemblance to modern _diablerie_ in the circumstances.
Reginald Scot's rationalistic interpretation of this scene may be
recommended to the commentating critics who have been so much at
a loss to explain it. He derides the received opinion of the
woman of Endor being an agent of the devil, and ignoring any
mystery, believes, 'This Pythonist being a _ventriloqua_, that
is, speaking as it were from the bottom of her belly, did cast
herself into a trance and so abused Saul, answering to Saul
in Samuel's name in her counterfeit hollow voice.[8] An
institution very popular with the Jews of the first temple,
often commemorated in their scriptures--the schools of the
prophets--was (it is not improbable) of the same kind as the
schools of Salamanca and Salerno in the middle ages, where magic
was publicly taught as an abstruse and useful science; and when
Jehu justifies his conduct towards the queen-mother by bringing a
charge of witchcraft, he only anticipates an expedient common and
successful in Europe in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
A Jewish prophet asserts of the Babylonian kings, that they were
diligent cultivators of the arts, reproaching them with
practising against the holy city.

  [8] _Discoverie of Witchcraft_, lib. viii. chap. 12. The
  contrivance of this illusion was possibly like that at
  Delphi, where in the centre of the temple was a chasm, from
  which arose an intoxicating smoke, when the priestess was to
  announce divine revelations. Seated over the chasm upon the
  tripod, the Pythia was inspired, it seems, by the soporific
  and maddening drugs.

Yet if we may credit the national historian (not to mention the
common traditions), the Chaldean monarch might have justly
envied, if he could scarcely hope to emulate, the excellence of a
former prince of his now obscure province. Josephus says of
Solomon that, amongst other attainments, 'God enabled him to
learn that skill which expels demons, which is a science useful
and sanative to men. He composed such incantations also by which
distempers are alleviated, and he left behind him the manner of
using exorcisms by which they drive away demons so that they
never return.'[9] The story of Daniel is well known. In the
captivity of the two tribes carried away into an honourable
servitude he soon rose into the highest favour, because, as we
are informed, he excelled in a divination that surpassed all the
art of the Chaldeans, themselves so famous for it. The inspired
Jew had divined a dream or vision which puzzled 'the magicians,
and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans,'
and immediately was rewarded with the greatest gift at the
disposal of a capricious despot. Most of the apologetic writers
on witchcraft, in particular the authors of the 'Malleus
Maleficarum,' accept the assertion of the author of the history
of Daniel that Nebuchadnezzar was 'driven from men, and did eat
grass as oxen,' in its apparent sense, expounding it as plainly
declaring that he was corporeally metamorphosed into an ox, just
as the companions of Ulysses were transformed into swine by the
Circean sorceries.

  [9] _Antiquities_, book viii. 2. Whiston's transl.

The Jewish ideas of good or at least evil spirits or angels were
acquired during their forced residence in Babylon, whether under
Assyrian or Persian government. At least 'Satan' is first
discovered unmistakably in a personal form in the poem of Job, a
work pronounced by critics to have been composed after the
restoration. In the Mosaic cosmogony and legislation, the writer
introduces not, expressly or impliedly, the existence of an evil
principle, unless the serpent of the Paradisaic account, which
has been rather arbitrarily so metamorphosed, represents it;[10]
while the expressions in books vulgarly reputed before the
conquest are at least doubtful. From this time forward (from the
fifth century B.C.), says a German demonologist, as the Jews
lived among the admirers of Zoroaster, and thus became acquainted
with their doctrines, are found, partly in contradiction to the
earlier views of their religion, many tenets prevailing amongst
them the origin of which it is impossible to explain except by
the operation of the doctrines of Zoroaster: to these belongs the
general acceptance of the theory of Satan, as well as of good and
bad angels.[11] Under Roman government or vassalage, sorceric
practices, as they appear in the Christian scriptures, were much
in vogue. Devils or demons, and the 'prince of the devils,'
frequently appear; and the _demoniacs_ may represent the victims
of witchcraft. The Talmud, if there is any truth in the
assertions of the apologists of witchcraft, commemorates many of
the most virtuous Jews accused of the crime and executed by the
procurator of Judea.[12] Exorcism was a very popular and
lucrative profession.[13] Simon Magus the magician (_par
excellence_), the impious pretender to miraculous powers, who
'bewitched the people of Samaria by his sorceries,' is celebrated
by Eusebius and succeeding Christian writers as the fruitful
parent of heresy and sorcery.

  [10] Some ingenious remarks on the subject of the serpent,
  &c., may be found in _Eastern Life_, part ii. 5, by H.
  Martineau.

  [11] Horst, quoted in Ennemoser's _History of Magic_. It has
  been often remarked as a singular phenomenon, that the
  'chosen people,' so prompt in earlier periods on every
  occasion to idolatry and its cruel rites, after its
  restoration under Persian auspices, has been ever since
  uniformly opposed, even fiercely, to any sign contrary to the
  unity of the Deity. But the Magian system was equally averse
  to idolatry.

  [12] Bishop Jewell (_Apology for the Church of England_)
  states that Christ was accused by the malice of his
  countrymen of being a juggler and wizard--_præstigiator et
  maleficus_. In the apostolic narrative and epistles, sorcery,
  witchcraft, &c., are crimes frequently described and
  denounced. The Sadducean sect alone denied the existence of
  demons.

  [13] The common belief of the people of Palestine in the
  transcendent power of exorcism is illustrated by a miracle
  of this sort, gravely related by Josephus. It was exhibited
  before Vespasian and his army. 'He [Eleazar, one of the
  professional class] put a ring that had a root of one of
  those sorts mentioned by Solomon to the nostrils of the
  demoniac; after which he drew out the demon through his
  nostrils: and when the man fell down immediately he adjured
  him to return into him no more, making still mention of
  Solomon, and reciting the incantations which he composed.
  And when Eleazar would demonstrate to the spectators that he
  had such power, he set a little way off a cup or basin full
  of water, and commanded the demon as he went out of the man
  to overturn it, and thereby to let the spectators know he
  had left the man.' This performance was received with
  contempt or credulity by the spectators according to their
  faith: but the credulity of the believers could hardly
  exceed that of a large number of educated people, who in our
  own generation detect in the miracles of animal magnetism,
  or the legerdemain of jugglers, an infernal or supernatural
  agency.

That witchcraft, or whatever term expresses the criminal
practice, prevailed among the worshippers of Jehovah, is evident
from the repeated anathemas both in their own and the Christian
scriptures, not to speak of traditional legends; but the Hebrew
and Greek expressions seem both to include at least the use of
drugs and perhaps of poison.[14] The Jewish creed, as exposed in
their scriptures, has deserved a fame it would not otherwise
have, because upon it have been founded by theologians, Catholic
and Protestant, the arguments and apology for the reality of
witchcraft, derived from the sacred writings, with an ingenuity
only too common and successful in supporting peculiar prejudices
and interests even of the most monstrous kind.[15]

  [14] _Chashaph_ and _Pharmakeia._ Biblical critics are
  inclined, however, to accept in its strict sense the
  translation of the Jacobian divines. 'Since in the LXX.,'
  says Parkhurst, the lexicographer of the N.T., 'this noun
  [pharmakeia] and its relatives always answer to some Hebrew
  word that denotes some kind of their magical or conjuring
  tricks; and since it is too notorious to be insisted upon,
  that such infernal practices have always prevailed, and do
  still prevail in idolatrous countries, I prefer the other
  sense of incantation.'

  [15] A sort of ingenuity much exercised of late by 'sober
  brows approving with a text' the institution of slavery:
  _divine_, according to them; _the greatest evil that afflicts
  mankind_, according to Alexander von Humboldt. See _Personal
  Narrative_.

In examining the phenomenon as it existed among the Greeks and
Romans, it will be remarked that, while the Greeks seem to have
mainly adopted the ideas of the East, the Roman superstition was
of Italian origin. Their respective expressions for the
predictive or presentient faculty (_manteia_ and _divinatio_), as
Cicero is careful to explain, appear to indicate its different
character with those two peoples: the one being the product of a
sort of madness, the other an elaborate and divine skill. Greek
traditions made them believe that the magic science was brought
from Egypt or Asia by their old philosophic and legislating
sages. Some of the most eminent of the founders of philosophic
schools were popularly accused of encouraging it. Pythagoras (it
is the complaint of Plato) is said to have introduced to his
countrymen an art derived from his foreign travels; a charge
which recalls the names of Roger Bacon, Albertus Magnus, Galileo,
and others, who had to pay the penalty of a premature knowledge
by the suspicion of their cotemporaries. Xenophanes is said
to be the only one of the philosophers who admitted the existence
or providence of the gods, and at the same time entirely
discredited divination. Of the Stoics, Panætius was the only one
who ventured even to doubt. Some gave credit to one or two
particular modes only, as those of dreams and frenzy; but for the
most part every form of this sort of divine revelation was
implicitly received.[16]

  [16] Cicero, in his second book _De Divinatione_, undertakes
  to refute the arguments of the Stoics, 'the force of whose
  mind, being all turned to the side of morals, unbent itself
  in that of religion.' Cross, who, nevertheless gave us a
  most hearty welcome.

As soon as the news of our arrival had spread, we began to have
visitors, but, knowing that I should not see many of the people,
especially the older women, unless I went to their homes, I arranged
with Mr.Apollonius of Tyana, a modern Pythagorean, is the most
famous magician of antiquity. This great miracle-worker of
paganism was born at the commencement of the Christian era; and
it has been observed that his miracles, though quite independent
of them, curiously coincide both in time and kind with the
Christian.[17] According to his biographer Philostratus, this
extraordinary man (whose travels and researches extended, we are
assured, over the whole East even into India, through Greece,
Italy, Spain, northern Africa, Ethiopia, &c.) must have been in
possession of a scientific knowledge which, compared with that of
his cotemporaries, might be deemed almost supernatural.
Extraordinary attainments suggested to him in later life to
excite the awe of the vulgar by investing himself with magical
powers. Apollonius is said to have assisted Vespasian in his
struggle for the throne of the Cæsars; afterwards, when accused
of raising an insurrection against Domitian, and when he had
given himself up voluntarily to the imperial tribunal at Rome, he
escaped impending destruction by the exertion of his superhuman
art.

  [17] The proclamation of the birth of Apollonius to his
  mother by Proteus, and the incarnation of Proteus himself,
  the chorus of swans which sang for joy on the occasion, the
  casting out of devils, raising the dead, and healing the
  sick, the sudden appearances and disappearances of
  Apollonius, his adventures in the cave of Trophonius, and
  the sacred voice which called him at his death, to which may
  be added his claim as a teacher having authority to reform
  the world, 'cannot fail to suggest,' says a writer in the
  _Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography_, &c., ed. by Dr.
  W. Smith, 'the parallel passages in the Gospel history.'

Of the incantations, charms, and magic compounds in the practice
of Greek witchcraft, numerous examples occur in the tragic and
comic poetry of Greece; and the _philtres_, or love-charms, of
Theocritus are well known. The names of Colchis, Chaldea,
Assyria, Iberia, Thrace, may indicate the origin of a great part
of the Hellenic sorceries. A great work has been accomplished
by these schools and churches. These ten years have seen a
most decided uplifting of character and power among the colored
race. They are steadily acquiring property, building homes and
improving their surroundings.
Originally of celestial rank, by a later metamorphosis
connected, if not personally identical with, Persephone,
the Queen of Hades, Hecate was invested with many of the
characteristic attributes of a modern devil, or rather perhaps of
a witch. The triple goddess, in her various shapes, wandered
about at night with the souls of the dead, terrifying the
trembling country people by apparitions of herself and infernal
satellites, by the horrible whining and howls of her hellhounds
which always announced her approach. She frequented cross-roads,
tombs, and melancholy places, especially delighting in localities
famous for deeds of blood and murder. The hobgoblins, the various
malicious demons and spirits, who provoked the lively terrors of
the mediæval peoples, had some prototypes in the fairy-land of
Greece, in the Hecatean hobgoblins (like the Latin larvæ, &c.),
Empusa, Mormo, and other products of an affrighted imagination
familiar to the students of Greek literature in the comic pages
of Aristophanes.[18] From the earliest literary records down to
the latest times of paganism as the state religion, from the
times of the Homeric Circe and Ulysses (the latter has been
recognised by many as a genuine wizard) to the age of Apollonius
or Apuleius, magic and sorcery, as a philosophical science or as
a vulgar superstition, had apparently more or less distinctly a
place in the popular mythology of old Greece. But in the pagan
history of neither Greece nor Rome do we read of holocausts of
victims, as in Christian Europe, immolated on the altars of a
horrid superstition.[19] The occasion of the composition of the
treatise by Apuleius 'On Magic' is somewhat romantic. On his way
to Alexandria, the philosopher, being disabled from proceeding on
the journey, was hospitably received into the mansion of one
Sicinius Pontianus. Here, during the interesting period of his
recovery, he captivated, or was captivated by, the love of his
host's mother, a wealthy widow, and the lovers were soon united
by marriage. Pudentilla's relatives, indignant at the loss of a
much-coveted, and perhaps long-expected fortune, brought an
action against Apuleius for having gained her affection by means
of spells or charms. The cause was heard before the proconsul of
Africa, and the apology of the accused labours to convince his
judges that a widow's love might be provoked without superhuman
means.[20]

  [18] Particularly in the _Batrachoi_. The dread of the
  infernal apparition of the fierce Gorgo in Hades blanched
  the cheek of even much-daring Odysseus (Od. xi. 633). The
  satellites of Hecate have been compared, not
  disadvantageously, with the monstrous guardians of hell;
  than whom

       'Nor uglier follow the night-hag when, called
        In secret, riding through the air she comes
        Lured with the smell of infant blood to dance
        With Lapland witches--.'

  [19] An exceptional case, on the authority of Demosthenes,
  is that of a woman condemned in the year, or within a year
  or two, of the execution of Socrates.

  [20] St. Augustin, in denouncing the Platonic theories of
  Apuleius, of the mediation and intercession of demons
  between gods and men, and exposing his magic heresies, takes
  occasion to taunt him with having evaded his just fate by
  not professing, like the Christian martyrs, his real faith
  when delivering his 'very copious and eloquent' apology (_De
  Civitate Dei_, lib. viii. 19). In the _Golden Ass_ of the
  Greek romancist of the second century, who, in common with
  his cotemporary the great rationalist Lucian, deserves the
  praise of having exposed (with more wit perhaps than
  success) some of the most absurd prejudices of the day, his
  readers are entertained with stories that might pretty
  nearly represent the sentiments of the seventeenth century.

