One thing only tends to disorganise the country, and that is war,
caused, in the first instance, by polygamy, producing a family of
half-brothers, who, all aspiring to succeed their father, fight
continually with one another, and make their chief aim slaves and
cattle; whilst, in the second instance, slavery keeps them ever fighting
and reducing their numbers. The government revenues are levied, on
a very small scale, exclusively for the benefit of the chief and his
grey-beards. For instance, as a sort of land-tax, the chief has a right
to drink free from the village brews of pombe (a kind of beer made by
fermentation), which are made in turn by all the villagers successively.
In case of an elephant being killed, he also takes a share of the meat,
and claims one of its tusks as his right; further, all leopard, lion, or
zebra skins are his by right. On merchandise brought into the country by
traders, he has a general right to make any exactions he thinks he has
the power of enforcing, without any regard to justice or a regulated
tariff. This right is called Hongo, in the plural Mahongo. Another
source of revenue is in the effects of all people condemned for sorcery,
who are either burnt, or speared and cast into the jungles, and their
property seized by the grey-beards for their chief.

As to punishments, all irreclaimable thieves or murderers are killed
and disposed of in the same manner as these sorcerers; whilst on minor
thieves a penalty equivalent to the extent of the depredation is levied.
Illicit intercourse being treated as petty larceny, a value is fixed
according to the value of the woman--for it must be remembered all
women are property. Indeed, marriages are considered a very profitable
speculation, the girl's hand being in the father's gift, who marries
her to any one who will pay her price. This arrangement, however, is not
considered a simple matter of buying and selling, but delights in the
high-sounding title of "dowry." It was not hard rock, but black, decomposed
stuff which could be crumbled in the hand like a baked potato, and
when spread out on a paper exhibited a thick sprinkling of gold and
particles of "native" silver.
Higbie brought a handful to the cabin, and when he had washed it out
his amazement was beyond description. Wide West stock soared skywards.
It was said that repeated offers had been made for it at a thousand
dollars a foot, and promptly refused. We have all had the "blues"--the
mere sky-blues--but mine were indigo, now--because I did not own in
the Wide West. The world seemed hollow to me, and existence a grief. I
lost my appetite, and ceased to take an interest in anything. Still I
had to stay, and listen to other people's rejoicings, because I had
no money to get out of the camp with.

The Wide West company put a stop to the carrying away of "specimens,"
and well they might, for every handful of the ore was worth a sun of
some consequence. To show the exceeding value of the ore, I will remark
that a sixteen-hundred-pounds parcel of it was sold, just as it lay,
at the mouth of the shaft, at one dollar a pound; and the man who
bought it "packed" it on mules a hundred and fifty or two hundred miles,
over the mountains, to San Francisco, satisfied that it would yield at a
rate that would richly compensate him for his trouble. The Wide West
people also commanded their foreman to refuse any but their own operatives
permission to enter the mine at any time or for any purpose. I kept up
my "blue" meditations and Higbie kept up a deal of thinking, too, but
of a different sort.
With them, as with the rest of the world, "familiarity
breeds contempt"; hospitality lives only one day; for though proud of a
rich or white visitor--and they implore him to stop, that they may keep
feeding their eyes on his curiosities--they seldom give more than a cow
or a goat, though professing to supply a whole camp with provisions.

Taking the negroes as a whole, one does not find very marked or much
difference in them. Each tribe has its characteristics, it is true. For
instance, one cuts his teeth or tattoos his face in a different manner
from the others; but by the constant intermarriage with slaves, much
of this effect is lost, and it is further lost sight of owing to the
prevalence of migrations caused by wars and the division of governments.
As with the tribal marks so with their weapons; those most commonly in
use are the spear, assage, shield, bow and arrow. It is true some affect
one, some the other; but in no way do we see that the courage of tribes
can be determined by the use of any particular weapon: for the bravest
use the arrow, which is the more dreaded; while the weakest confine
themselves to the spear. Lines of traffic are the worst tracks (there
are no roads in the districts here referred to) for a traveller to go
upon, not only because the hospitality of the people has been damped
by frequent communication with travellers, but, by intercourse with the
semi-civilised merchant, their natural honour and honesty are corrupted,
their cupidity is increased, and the show of firearms ceases to frighten
them.

Of paramount consideration is the power held by the magician (Mganga),
who rules the minds of the kings as did the old popes of Europe. They,
indeed, are a curse to the traveller; for if it suits their inclinations
to keep him out of the country, they have merely to prognosticate all
sorts of calamities--as droughts, famines, or wars--in the event of his
setting eyes on the soil, and the chiefs, people, and all, would believe
them; for, as may be imagined, with men unenlightened, supernatural and
imaginary predictions work with more force than substantial reasons.
Their implement of divination, simple as it may appear, is a cow's
or antelope's horn (Uganga), which they stuff with magic powder, also
called Uganga. Stuck into the ground in front of the village, it is
supposed to have sufficient power to ward off the attacks of an enemy.

By simply holding it in the hand, the magician pretends he can discover
anything that has been stolen or lost; and instances have been told of
its dragging four men after it with irresistible impetus up to a thief,
when it be-laboured the culprit and drove him out of his senses. So
imbued are the natives' minds with belief in the power of charms, that
they pay the magician for sticks, stones, or mud, which he has doctored
for them. They believe certain flowers held in the hand will conduct
them to anything lost; as also that the voice of certain wild animals,
birds, or beasts, will insure them good-luck, or warn them of danger.
With the utmost complacency our sable brother builds a dwarf hut in his
fields, and places some grain on it to propitiate the evil spirit, and
suffer him to reap the fruits of his labour, and this too they call
Uganga or church.

These are a few of the more innocent alternatives the poor negroes
resort to in place of a "Saviour." They have also many other and more
horrible devices. For instance, in times of tribulation, the magician,
if he ascertains a war is projected by inspecting the blood and bones
of a fowl which he has flayed for that purpose, flays a young child,
and having laid it lengthwise on a path, directs all the warriors, on
proceeding to battle, to step over his sacrifice and insure themselves
victory. Another of these extra barbarous devices takes place when a
chief wishes to make war on his neighbour by his calling in a magician
to discover a propitious time for commencing. The doctor places a large
earthen vessel, half full of water, over a fire, and over its mouth
a grating of sticks, whereon he lays a small child and a fowl side by
side, and covers them over with a second large earthen vessel, just like
the first, only inverted, to keep the steam in, when he sets fire below,
cooks for a certain period of time, and then looks to see if his victims
are still living or dead--when, should they be dead, the war must be
deferred, but, otherwise commenced at once.

And I'll tell you what took me from the toll-house--but mind, never mention
it, as you would keep peace in the west country.'
This is John's story, as nearly in his own words as I can call them to
mind:--
* * * * *

The family in whose service I was brought up lived on their
estate in Dumbartonshire, which came through the mistress of the mansion,
who had been heiress of entail, and a lady in her own right; we called
her Lady Catherine, and a prouder woman never owned either estate or
title. Her father had been a branch of the Highland family to whom
the property originally belonged. Her mother was sprung from the old
French nobility, an emigrant of the first Revolution, and she had been
brought up in England, and married in due time to an Honourable Mr ----
there. When she first came to the estate, her husband had been some
years dead, and Lady Catherine brought with her a son, who was to
be heir--at that time a boy like myself--and two handsome grown-up
daughters. The castle was a great fabric, partly old and partly new.
It stood in the midst of a noble park, with tall trees and red deer in it.
Its last possessor had been a stingy old bachelor; but after Lady
Catherine's coming, the housekeeping was put on a grand scale. There
was a retinue of English servants, and continual company. I remember it
well, for just then my poor mother died. She had been a widow, living
in a low cottage hard by the park-wall, with me and a gray cat for
company, and her spinning-wheel for our support.

I was but a child when she died; and having neither uncle nor aunt
in the parish, they took me, I think, by her ladyship's order, into the
castle, to run small errands, and help in the garden; from which post,
in process of time, I rose to that of footman. Lady Catherine was in
great odour with the country gentry for her high-breeding, her fashionable
connections, and her almost boundless hospitality.

She was popular with the tenantry too, for there was not a better managed
estate in the west, and the factor had general orders against distress
and ejectment.

They said her ladyship had been reckoned a beauty in London drawing-rooms,
and our parish thought her wonderfully grand for the gay dresses
and rich jewellery she wore. Doubtless, these were but the cast-offs
of the season, for regularly every spring she and the family went up
to London, where they kept a fine house, and what is called the best
society. How much the gay dresses had to do with the beauty is not
for me to say, but Lady Catherine was a large, stately woman, with
a dark complexion, and very brilliant red, which the servants
whispered was laid on in old court fashion.Now, considering this good supply of meat, whilst all
tropical plants will grow just as well in central equatorial Africa
as they do in India, it surprises the traveller there should be any
famines; yet such is too often the case, and the negro, with these
bounties within his reach, is sometimes found eating dogs, cats, rats,
porcupines, snakes, lizards, tortoises, locusts, and white ants, or
is forced to seek the seeds of wild grasses, or to pluck wild herbs,
fruits, and roots; whilst at the proper seasons they hunt the wild
elephant, buffalo, giraffe, zebra, pigs, and antelopes; or, going out
with their arrows, have battues against the guinea-fowls and small
birds.

The frequency with which collections of villages are found all over the
countries we are alluding to, leaves but very little scope for the runs
of wild animals, which are found only in dense jungles, open forests,
or praires generally speaking, where hills can protect them, and near
rivers whose marshes produce a thick growth of vegetation to conceal
them from their most dreaded enemy--man. The prowling, restless
elephant, for instance, though rarely seen, leaves indications of his
nocturnal excursions in every wilderness, by wantonly knocking down the
forest-trees. The morose rhinoceros, though less numerous, are found in
every thick jungle. So is the savage buffalo, especially delighting in
dark places, where he can wallow in the mud and slake his thirst without
much trouble; and here also we find the wild pig.

The gruff hippopotamus is as widespread as any, being found wherever
there is water to float him; whilst the shy giraffe and zebra affect all
open forests and plains where the grass is not too long; and antelopes,
of great variety in species and habits, are found wherever man will
let them alone and they can find water. The lion is, however, rarely
heard--much more seldom seen. Hyenas are numerous, and thievishly
inclined. Leopards, less common, are the terror of the villagers. Foxes
are not numerous, but frighten the black traveller by their ill-omened
bark. Hares, about half the size of English ones--there are no
rabbits--are widely spread, but not numerous; porcupines the same. Wild
cats, and animals of the ferret kind, destroy game. Monkeys of various
kinds and squirrels harbour in the trees, but are rarely seen. Tortoises
and snakes, in great variety, crawl over the ground, mostly after the
rains. Rats and lizards--there are but few mice--are very abundant, and
feed both in the fields and on the stores of the men.

The wily ostrich, bustard, and florikan affect all open places. The
guinea-fowl is the most numerous of all game-birds. Partridges come
next, but do not afford good sport; and quails are rare. Ducks and snipe
appear to love Africa less than any other country; and geese and storks
are only found where water most abounds. Vultures are uncommon; hawks
and crows much abound, as in all other countries; but little birds, of
every colour and note, are discoverable in great quantities near water
and by the villages. Huge snails and small ones, as well as fresh-water
shells, are very abundant, though the conchologist would find but little
variety to repay his labours; and insects, though innumerable, are best
sought for after the rains have set in. [3]


The Wanguana or Freed Men

The Wa-n-guana, as their name implies, are men freed from slavery; and
as it is to these singular negroes acting as hired servants that I have
been chiefly indebted for opening this large section of Africa, a few
general remarks on their character cannot be out of place here.

Of course, having been born in Africa, and associated in childhood with
the untainted negroes, they retain all the superstitious notions of the
true aborigines, though somewhat modified, and even corrupted, by that
acquaintance with the outer world which sharpens their wits.

Most of these men were doubtless caught in wars, as may be seen every
day in Africa, made slaves of, and sold to the Arabs for a few yards
of common cloth, brass wire, or beads. They would then be taken to the
Zanzibar market, resold like horses to the highest bidder, and then kept
in bondage by their new masters, more like children of his family
than anything else. In this new position they were circumcised to make
Mussulmans of them, that their hands might be "clean" to slaughter their
master's cattle, and extend his creed; for the Arabs believe the day
must come when the tenets of Mohammed will be accepted by all men.

Their father evidently kept them on short allowance, judging from their
coarse tartan clothes, and continual munching of oaten cakes: but I
was told they were hard students, and particularly clever in the
anatomy class. One dark, dreary morning, about the Christmas-time, I
noted that Lady Catherine and her family had been in my dreams all
night--their grand house, and gay goings-on in London, mingling strangely
with the old story of Master Arthur and the farmer's daughter. When
the newspaper, which I shared with the schoolmaster, came, judge of my
astonishment to read that her ladyship had died suddenly in a fit of
apoplexy, which came upon her at the whist-table, and her remains had
been conveyed to the family vault in Dumbartonshire. There was a
lesson on the uncertainty of life! and it is my trust that I found in it
a use of warning; but the continual news and strangers at the toll-bar,
the exact gathering in of the dues, which was not always an easy task,
and your own merry schoolmates, Master Willie, had in a manner
shuffled it out of my mind before the second evening.

It had been a dark, foggy day, and I went early to sleep, there being
few travellers; but in the dead of night, between twelve and one, I was
roused by a thundering summons at the toll-bar. The night was calm and
starless, a mass of heavy clouds covered the sky, broken at times by
gusts of moaning wind from the west, and broad bursts of moonlight.
I threw on my coat, lit my lantern, and hurried out. There stood a large
gig with three persons. They must have been tightly packed in it, and
I never saw a more impatient horse.

There was some delay in getting out the silver, and I had time to see
that the two men who sat, one on each side, were the Highland brothers.
There was a woman between them, in a dingy cloak and bonnet, with a thick
black veil.
She neither moved nor spoke, though the toll somehow puzzled the students.
I was determined to have it any way, and one of them saying something
to his companion in Gaelic, reached a half-crown to me. I knew I had
no change, and told him so. 'I'll call in the morning,' said he; but the
horse gave a bound, and the silver flew out of his fingers. Both the
brothers looked down after it. I had a strange curiosity about their
companion, and that instant a gust of wind blew back the veil, and the
moonlight shone clear and full upon the face:
it was the dead visage of Lady Catherine! I saw but one glance of it;
the next moment the heavy veil had fallen. 'Get the silver yourself,
and keep it all,' cried the two men, as I opened for them without a word:
and from that day to this, no one has ever heard the story from me.

I put the half-crown in the poor's-box next Sabbath. But, Master
Willie, after that night I never cared for keeping the toll-bar. The sound
of wheels coming after dark had always a strange effect on me, and I
could never see a gig pass without shivering. So I gave up my
situation, and took to the old trade of gardening again. The pleasant
plants and flowers bring no dark stories to one's mind. But yonder's
the laird: dinner will be ready by this time

.

* * * * *
And John was right; for it was ready, with a jovial party to despatch it.
But I never saw my old friend after. He emigrated to Canada with his
managing master in the following spring; and, having at least kept the
real names with enjoined secrecy, it seems at this distance of time
no breach of trust to repeat the toll-keeper's story.

CARDINAL MEZZOFANTI.

Among the lions of Rome during the last twenty years, not the least
attractive, especially for literary visitors, was the celebrated
Cardinal Mezzofanti. Easy of access to foreigners of every condition,
simple, unpretending, cheerful, courteous even to familiarity, he
never failed to make a most favourable impression upon his visitors;
and marvellous as were the tales in circulation concerning him, the
opportunity of witnessing more closely the exercise of his almost
preternatural powers of language, served but to deepen the wonder
with which he was regarded.If chance brings
him back again to Zanzibar, he calls his old Arab master his father, and
goes into slavery with as much zest as ever.

I have spoken of these freed men as if they had no religion. This
is practically true, though theoretically not so; for the Arabs, on
circumcising them, teach them to repeat the words Allah and Mohammed,
and perhaps a few others; but not one in ten knows what a soul means,
nor do they expect to meet with either reward or punishment in the next
world, though they are taught to regard animals as clean and unclean,
and some go through the form of a pilgrimage to Mecca. Indeed the whole
of their spiritual education goes into oaths and ejaculations--Allah and
Mohammed being as common in their mouths as damn and blast are with
our soldiers and sailors. The long and short of this story is, that the
freed men generally turn out a loose, roving, reckless set of beings,
quick-witted as the Yankee, from the simple fact that they imagine all
political matters affect them, and therefore they must have a word in
every debate. Nevertheless they are seldom wise; and lying being more
familiar to their constitution than truth-saying, they are for ever
concocting dodges with the view, which they glory in of successfully
cheating people. Sometimes they will show great kindness, even bravery
amounting to heroism, and proportionate affection; at another time,
without any cause, they will desert and be treacherous to their sworn
friends in the most dastardly manner. Whatever the freak of the moment
is, that they adopt in the most thoughtless manner, even though they may
have calculated on advantages beforehand in the opposite direction. In
fact, no one can rely upon them even for a moment. Dog wit, or any
silly remarks, will set them giggling. Any toy will amuse them. Highly
conceited of their personal appearance, they are for ever cutting their
hair in different fashions, to surprise a friend; or if a rag be thrown
away, they will all in turn fight for it to bind on their heads, then
on their loins or spears, peacocking about with it before their admiring
comrades. Even strange feathers or skins are treated by them in the same
way.

Should one happen to have anything specially to communicate to his
master in camp, he will enter giggling, sidle up to the pole of a
hut, commence scratching his back with it, then stretch and yawn, and
gradually, in bursts of loud laughter, slip down to the ground on his
stern, when he drums with his hands on the top of a box until summoned
to know what he has at heart, when he delivers himself in a peculiar
manner, laughs and yawns again, and, saying it is time to go, walks off
in the same way as he came. At other times when he is called, he will
come sucking away at the spout of a tea-pot, or, scratching his naked
arm-pits with a table-knife, or, perhaps, polishing the plates for
dinner with his dirty loin-cloth. If sent to market to purchase a
fowl, he comes back with a cock tied by the legs to the end of a stick,
swinging and squalling in the most piteous manner. The girl had a simple
wish to rest beside Arthur. It was the last words she spoke; and her
relations believed that, being his wife, she had a right to a place
in the vault without asking anybody's leave.

So they laid her quietly beside her husband, no one about the castle
caring to interfere, except the factor, who thought it incumbent on
him to let her ladyship know.

By way of answer to his letter, down came Lady Catherine herself, one
dark, wintry morning; and, without so much as changing her travelling
dress, she sent for four labourers, took them with her to the church,
and saying her family burying-place was never intended for a peasant's
daughter, made them take out Menie's coffin, and leave it at her
parents' door. They said that the old pair never got over that sight;
and the mother, in her bitterness of heart, declared that Providence
had many a way to punish pride, and the woman who had disturbed her
dead child, would never be suffered to keep her own grave in peace.

The story made a marvellous stir in our parish, and grand as Lady
Catherine was, she did not escape blame from all quarters. There was a
great gathering of Highland relatives and Lowland friends to a
second funeral, when they laid poor Menie among her humble kindred
in the church-yard.

It was but a little way from the park gate, and I stood there to see the
crowd scatter off in that frosty forenoon. Many a sad and angry look
was cast in the direction of the castle; but my attention was
particularly drawn to an old man and two boys, who stood gazing on the
place. He was close on the threescore-and-ten--they were little more than
children; but all three had the same gaunt, yet powerful frames;
dark-red hair, which in the old man was but slightly sprinkled with gray;
almost swarthy complexions; and a fierce, hard look in the deep-set
eyes. By after inquiries, I learned that these were the father of the
Highland cousin family, and his two youngest sons. There were three elder
brothers, but they were married, and settled on rough sheep-farms; and
the old man intended to maintain the ancient honours of his house, by
putting his younger boys into some of the learned professions.
The married sisters, now heiresses of entail, never visited the
castle again in my time.The language of this people is just as strange as they are themselves.
It is based on euphony, from which cause it is very complex, the more
especially so as it requires one to be possessed of a negro's turn of
mind to appreciate the system, and unravel the secret of its euphonic
concord. A Kisuahili grammar, written by Dr. Krapf, will exemplify what
I mean. There is one peculiarity, however, to which I would direct the
attention of the reader most particularly, which is, that Wa prefixed to
the essential word of a country, means men or people; M prefixed, means
man or individual; U, in the same way, means place or locality; and
Ki prefixed indicates the language. Example:--Wagogo, is the people of
Gogo; Mgogo, is a Gogo man; Ugogo, is the country of Gogo; and Kigogo,
the language of Gogo.

The only direction here necessary as regards pronunciation of native
words refers to the u, which represents a sound corresponding to that of
the oo in woo.


Journal of the Discovery of The Source of the Nile


Chapter 1. London to Zanzibar, 1859

The design--The Preparations--Departure--The Cape--The Zulu
Kafirs--Turtle-Turning--Capture of a Slaver--Arrive at Zanzibar--Local
Politics and News Since Last Visit--Organisation of the Expedition.

My third expedition in Africa, which was avowedly for the purpose of
establishing the truth of my assertion that the Victoria N'yanza, which
I discovered on the 30th July 1858, would eventually prove to be the
source of the Nile, may be said to have commenced on the 9th May 1859,
the first day after my return to England from my second expedition,
when, at the invitation of Sir. R. I. Murchison, I called at his
house to show him my map for the information of the Royal Geographical
Society. Sir Roderick, I need only say, at once accepted my views; and,
knowing my ardent desire to prove to the world, by actual inspection of
the exit, that the Victoria N'yanza was the source of the Nile, seized
the enlightened view, that such a discovery should not be lost to the
glory of England and the Society of which he was President; and said
to me, "Speke, we must send you there again." I was then officially
directed, much against my own inclination, to lecture at the Royal
Geographical Society on the geography of Africa, which I had, as the
sole surveyor of the second expedition, laid down on our maps. [4] A
council of the Geographical Society was now convened to ascertain what
projects I had in view for making good my discovery by connecting the
lake with the Nile, as also what assistance I should want for that
purpose.

Some thought my best plan would be to go up the Nile, which seemed to
them the natural course to pursue, especially as the Nile was said,
though nobody believed it, to have been navigated by expeditions sent
out by Mehemet Ali, Viceroy of Egypt, up to 3° 22' north latitude. To
this I objected, as so many had tried it and failed, from reasons which
had not transpired; and, at the same time, I said that if they would
give me œ5000 down at once, I would return to Zanzibar at the end of the
year, March to Kaze again, and make the necessary investigations of the
Victoria lake. 'Ha, John, that wont do!' said I; 'your mind was never so
unsteady.
Tell me the truth, for old times' sake; and if there is anything in the
story that should not be made public, you know I was always a capital
secret-keeper. Maybe it was a love-matter, John: are you married yet?'

'No, Master Willie,' cried my old friend, with a look of the most sincere
self-gratulation I ever saw. 'But it's a queer story, and one I
shouldn't care for telling; only, you were always a discreet boy,
and it rather presses on my mind at times.My motive for deferring the journey a year was the hope that I might, in
the meanwhile, send on fifty men, carrying beads and brass wire, under
charge of Arab ivory-traders, to Karague, and fifty men more, in the
same way, to Kaze; whilst I, arriving in the best season for travelling
(May, June, or July), would be able to push on expeditiously to my
depots so formed, and thus escape the great disadvantages of travelling
with a large caravan in a country where no laws prevail to protect one
against desertions and theft. Moreover, I knew that the negroes who
would have to go with me, as long as they believed I had property in
advance, would work up to it willingly, as they would be the gainers
by doing so; whilst, with nothing before them, they would be always
endeavouring to thwart my advance, to save them from a trouble which
their natural laziness would prompt them to escape from.

This beautiful project, I am sorry to say, was doomed from the first;
for I did not get the £2500 grant of money or appointment to the command
until fully nine months had elapsed, when I wrote to Colonel Rigby, our
Consul at Zanzibar, to send on the first instalment of property towards
the interior.

As time then advanced, the Indian branch of the Government very
graciously gave me fifty artillery carbines, with belts and
sword-bayonets attached, and 20,000 rounds of ball ammunition. In mining
parlance the Wide West had "struck it rich!" Everybody went to see the
new developments, and for some days there was such a crowd of people
about the Wide West shaft that a stranger would have supposed there
was a mass meeting in session there.Captain Grant, hearing that I was bound on this journey, being an old
friend and brother sportsman in India, asked me to take him with me,
and his appointment was settled by Colonel Sykes, then chairman of a
committee of the Royal Geographical Society, who said it would only be
"a matter of charity" to allow me a companion.

