This story was repeated by the nurse, but she was ignorant, she had no
proofs, so it was not generally believed; yet there was a perceptible
difference in the treatment of Dane by his neighbors, and among the
superstitious negroes it was declared that he had sold himself to the
devil. If he had, was it an air from hell that sounded in his ears when
he was alone?--the "Ave Maria" of a sinning but repentant woman. The
coldness and suspicion were more than he could stand. Besides, who could
tell? Evidence might be found against him. He would dig up his treasure
and fly the country. It was a year from the night when he had fired his
ship. Going out after dark, that none might see him, he stole to the tree
and began to dig. Presently a red light grew through the air, and looking
up he saw a flaming vessel advancing over the sea. It stopped, and he
could see men clambering into a boat at its side. They rowed toward him
with such miraculous speed that the ocean seemed to steam with a blue
light as they advanced. He stood like a stone, for now he could see the
faces of the rowers, and every one was the face of a corpse--a corpse
that had been left on board of that vessel and had been in the bottom of
the sea for the last twelvemonth. They sprang on shore and rushed upon
him. Next morning Dane's body was found beneath the oak with his hands
filled with gems and gold.




THE UNDER LAND

When the Chatas looked into the still depths of Bayou Lacombe, Louisiana,
they said that the reflection of the sky was the empyrean of the Under
Land, whither all good souls were sure to go after death. Their chief,
Opaleeta, having fallen into this bayou, was so long beneath the water
that he was dead when his fellows found him, but by working over him for
hours, and through resort to prayers and incantations of medicine men,
his life returned and he stood on his feet once more. Then he grieved
that his friends had brought him back, for he had been at the gates of
the Under Land, where the air is blithe and balmy, and so nourishing that
people live on it; where it is never winter; where the sun shines
brightly, but never withers and parches; and where stars dance to the
swing of the breezes. There no white man comes to rob the Indian and
teach him to do wrong. Gorgeous birds fly through changing skies that
borrow the tints of flowers, the fields are spangled with blossoms of red
and blue and gold that load each wind with perfume, the grass is as fine
as the hair of deer, and the streams are thick with honey.

At sunset those who loved each other in life are gathered to their
lodges, and raise songs of joy and thankfulness. Their voices are soft
and musical, their faces are young again and beam with smiles, and there
is no death. It was only the chiefs who heard his story, for, had all the
tribe known it, many who were old and ill and weary would have gone to
the bayou, and leaped in, to find that restful, happy Under Land. Those
who had gone before they sometimes tried to see, when the lake was still
and dappled with pictures of sunset clouds, but the dead never came
back--they kept away from the margin of the water lest they should be
called again to a life of toil and sorrow. And Opaleeta lived for many
years and ruled his tribe with wisdom, yet he shared in few of the
merry-makings of his people, and when, at last, his lodge was ready in
the Under Land, he gave up his life without a sigh.