Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Taavi Kalju and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: SIR GEORGE STEWART WHITE, V.C., G.C.S.I.

_From a Photograph by Window & Grove_]


Four Months Besieged

THE STORY OF LADYSMITH

BEING UNPUBLISHED LETTERS

FROM

H.H.S. PEARSE
THE 'DAILY NEWS' SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT


_WITH MAPS AND ILLUSTRATIONS FROM SKETCHES AND PHOTOGRAPHS MADE BY THE
AUTHOR_

London
MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
NEW YORK: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
1900
_All rights reserved_


PREFACE


The siege of Ladysmith will long remain in the memories of the age. The
annals of war furnish the record of many fierce struggles, in which men
and women have undergone sufferings more terrible and possibly shown a
devotion rising to sublimer heights. But the Boer War of 1899-1900 will
mark an epoch, and throughout its opening stage of four months the minds
of men, and the hopes and fears of the whole British race, centred upon
the little town in mid-Natal where Sir George White with his army
maintained a valiant resistance against a strenuous and determined foe
without, and disease and hunger and death within, until, to use his own
words, that slow-moving giant John Bull should pass from his slumber and
bestir himself to take back his own. For that reason alone the story of
Ladysmith will remain memorable. But it is a story which is brilliant in
brave deeds, which tells of danger boldly faced, of noble self-sacrifice
to duty, in calm endurance of many and growing evils--a story worth the
telling. Yet so far it has been told only in the necessarily disjointed
telegrams and letters of the press correspondents in the town. Native
runners who were captured and otherwise went astray, and the ruthless
pencil of the censor, were accountable for many gaps. Two or three of
the letters contained in the following pages escaped these perils, and
were published in the columns of the _Daily News_. The rest of the book
now appears for the first time.

The volume consists of pages from the letters and diaries of Mr. Henry
H.S. Pearse, the Special Correspondent of the _Daily News_. Mr. Pearse
was in Natal when the war broke out, and he was in Ladysmith during the
whole of the siege. He was fortunate enough to enjoy good health
throughout, and though he had some narrow escapes he was never hit. His
letters contain a complete story of the siege.

_April 1900._


CONTENTS


CHAPTER I                                                         PAGE

INTRODUCTORY

The declaration of war--Sir George White and the defence of
Natal--The force at Glencoe--Battle of Talana Hill--General
Yule's retirement--Battle of Elandslaagte--Useless victories--
The enemy's continued advance                                        1


CHAPTER II

LOMBARD'S KOP AND NICHOLSON'S NEK

General White forced to fight--The order of battle--Leviathan--
The Boers reinforced--A retrograde movement--How Marsden met his
death--Naval guns in action--A night of disaster--Who showed the
white flag?--A truce declared--A humiliating position                5


CHAPTER III

LADYSMITH INVESTED

The exodus of the townsfolk--Communications threatened--Slim
Piet Joubert--Espionage in the town--Neglected precautions--A
truce that paid--British positions described--Big guns face to
face--Boers hold the railways--French's reconnaissance--The
General's flitting--A gauntlet of fire--An interrupted telegram--
Death of Lieutenant Egerton--"My cricketing days are over"--Under
the enemy's guns--"A shell in my room"--Colonials in action--The
sacrifice of valuable lives                                         15


CHAPTER IV

EARLY DAYS OF THE SIEGE

Moral effects of shell fire--General White appeals to Joubert--
The neutral camp--Attitude of civilians--Meeting at the Town
Hall--A veteran's protest--Faith in the Union Jack--An impressive
scene--Removal of sick and wounded--Through the Boer lines--How
the posts were manned--Enemy mounting big guns--More about the
spies--Boer war ethics--In an English garden--Throwing up
defences--A gentlemanly monster--The Troglodytes--Humorous and
pathetic--"Long Tom" and "Lady Anne"--Links in the chain of fire--
A round game of ordnance                                            30


CHAPTER V

THE FIRST BOER ASSAULT

Joubert's boast--The preliminaries of attack--Shells in the town--
A simultaneous advance--Observation Hill threatened--A wary
enemy--A prompt repulse--Attack on Tunnel Hill--The colour-sergeant's
last words--Manchesters under fire--Prone behind boulders--A Royal
salute--The Prince of Wales's birthday--Stretching the Geneva
Convention--The redoubtable Miss Maggie--The Boer Foreign Legion--
Renegade Irishmen--A signal failure                                 58


CHAPTER VI

A MONTH UNDER SHELL FIRE

The first siege-baby--An Irish-American deserter--A soldierly
grumble--Boer cunning and Staff-College strategy--An ammunition
difficulty--The tireless cavalry--A white flag incident--What
the Boer Commandant understood--The Natal summer--Mere sound
and fury--Boer Sabbatarianism--Naval guns at work--"Puffing
Billy" of Bulwaan--Intrepid Boer gunners--The barking of
"Pom-Poms"--Another reconnaissance--"Like scattered bands of Red
Indians"--A futile endeavour--A night alarm--Recommended for the
V.C.--A man of straw in khaki--The Boer search-light--Shelling
of the hospital--General White protests--The first woman hit--
General Hunter's bravado--"Long Tom" knocked out--A gymkhana
under fire--Faith, Hope, and Charity--Flash signals from the
south--A new Creusot gun                                            69


CHAPTER VII

THE SORTIES OF DECEMBER

Retribution--Sir Archibald Hunter's bold scheme--A night attack--
Silently through the darkness--At the foot of Gun Hill--A broken
ascent--"Wie kom dar?" "The English are on us!"--Major Henderson
thrice wounded--Destroying "Leviathan"--Hussars suffer under
fire--Rejoicings in town--Sir George White's address to the
troops--Boer compliments--A raid for provender--A second sortie--
The Rifles' bold enterprise--An unwelcome light--Cutting the
wires--Surprise Hill reached--The sentry's challenge--Rifles'
charge with the bayonet--Boer howitzer destroyed--The return to
camp--Cutting the way home--Serious losses                         103


CHAPTER VIII

AFTER COLENSO

The Town-Guard called out--Echoes of Colenso--Heliograms from
Buller--The Boers and Dingaan's Day--Disappointing news--Special
correspondents summoned--Victims of the bombardment--Shaving
under shell fire--Tea with Lord Ava--Boer humour: "Where is
Buller?"--Sir George White's narrow escape--A disastrous shot--
Fiftieth day of the siege--Grave and gay--"What does England
think of us?"--Stoical artillerymen--The moral courage of
caution--How Doctor Stark was killed--Serious thoughts--Gordons
at play--Boers watch the match--A story by the way--"My name is
Viljoen"--How Major King won his liberty--A tribute to Boer
hospitality--"We rely on your Generals"--General White and
Schalk-Burger--A coward chastised--"Sticking it out"               128


CHAPTER IX

A CHRISTMAS UNDER SIEGE

Husbanding supplies--Colonel Ward's fine work--Our Christmas
market--A scanty show--Some startling prices--A word to cynics--
The compounding of plum-puddings--The strict rules of
temperance--Boer greetings "per shell"--A lady's narrow escape--
Correspondents provide sport--"Ginger" and the mules--The sick
and wounded--Some kindly gifts--Christmas tree for the children--
Sir George White and the little ones--"When the war is over"--Some
empty rumours--A fickle climate--Eight officers killed and
wounded--More messages from Buller--Booming the old year out       155


CHAPTER X

THE GREAT ASSAULT

Why the Boers attacked--Interesting versions--A general surprise--
Joubert's promise--Boer tactics reconsidered--Erroneous estimates--
Under cover of night--A bare-footed advance--The Manchesters
surprised--The fight on Waggon Hill--In praise of the Imperial
Light Horse--A glorious band--The big guns speak--Lord Ava falls--
Gordons and Rifles to the rescue--A perilous position--The death of
a hero--A momentary panic--Man to man--A gallant enemy--Burghers
who fell fighting--The storming of Cæsar's Camp--Shadowy forms in
the darkness--An officer captured--"Maak Vecht!"--Abdy's guns in
play--"Well done, gunners!"--Taking water to the wounded--
Dick-Cunyngham struck down--Some anxious moments--The Devons charge
home--A day well won                                               180


CHAPTER XI

WATCHING FOR BULLER

Sir Redvers Buller's second attempt--A message from the Queen--Last
sad farewells--Burial of Steevens and Lord Ava--At dead of night--
Relief army north of the Tugela--Water difficulties surmised--A
look in at Bulwaan--Spion Kop from afar--What the watchers saw--
The Boers trekking--Buller withdraws--The "key" thrown away--
Good-bye to luxuries--Precautions against disease--"Chevril"--The
damming of the Klip--Horseflesh unabashed--One touch of pathos--
Vague memories of home--Sweet music from the south--Buller tries
again--Disillusionment--The last pipe of tobacco                   209


CHAPTER XII

AFTER ONE HUNDRED DAYS

Boer pæan of victory--Rations cut down--Sausage without mystery--
The "helio" moves east--Sick and dying at Intombi--Famine prices
at market--Laughter quits the camps--A kindly thing by the enemy--
Good news at last--Heroes in tatters--The distant tide of battle--
Pulse-like throb of rifles--Two sons for the Empire--British
infantry on Monte Cristo--Boer ambulances moving north--"'Ave you
'eard the noos?"--Rations increased--Bulwaan strikes his tents--
"With a rifle and a red cross"--Buller "going strong"--Cronje's
surrender--A sorry celebration--"A beaten army in full retreat"--
"Puffing Billy" dismantled--General Buller's message--belief at
hand                                                               224


CHAPTER XIII

RELIEF AT LAST

The beginning of the end--Buller's last advance--Heroic
Inniskillings--The coming of Dundonald--A welcome at Klip River
Drift--A weather-stained horseman--The Natal troopers--Cheers
and tears--A grand old General--Sir George White's address--
"Thank God, we have kept the flag flying!"--"God save the Queen"--
Arrival of Buller--Looking backward--Within four days of
starvation--Horseflesh a mere memory--Eight hundred sick and
wounded--A word of tribute--Conclusion                             237


ILLUSTRATIONS


Sir George Stewart White, V.C., G.C.S.I. (from a
photograph by Window & Grove)                           _Frontispiece_

The Royal Hotel, Ladysmith (showing the ruins of
Mr. Pearse's bedroom wrecked by a shell from "Long
Tom," 3rd Nov. 1899)                                    _Face page 26_

A shell-proof resort (a culvert under a road used
as a living place by day for civilians, who returned
to their houses when the shelling ceased after sunset)              50

The British position at Ladysmith (looking north towards
Rietfontein and the Newcastle Road)                                 96

The British position at Ladysmith (looking nearly due south)       128

The British position at Ladysmith (looking south-east)             162

The British position at Ladysmith (looking eastward)               202


PLANS


Sketch-map of positions round Ladysmith, Nov. 1899      _Face page 60_

Siege of Ladysmith, after two months of bombardment                175

The environs of Ladysmith                                          180

Military map of Ladysmith                                _End of vol._


CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

     The declaration of war--Sir George White and the defence of
     Natal--The force at Glencoe--Battle of Talana Hill--General Yule's
     retirement--Battle of Elandslaagte--Useless victories--Enemy's
     continued advance.


Before taking up the history of the siege proper it will be well here to
pass briefly in review the events which led up to the isolation and
investment of Ladysmith. When war was declared by the Government of the
Transvaal in its despatch of the 9th October 1899, it found Her
Majesty's Government in very great measure unprepared. A month earlier,
however, reinforcements of 10,000 troops had been ordered to Natal from
India and elsewhere, and the major part of these were already in the
Colony. General Sir George White, who had arrived at Durban on 7th
October, had strongly advocated the abandonment of the northern district
of Natal, but allowed himself to be overborne by the urgent
representations of Sir W.F. Hely-Hutchinson, who believed the withdrawal
would involve grave political results. Sir William Penn Symons believed
that the districts in question could be defended by a comparatively
small force, and he was allowed to make the experiment. At that time
there were with him at Glencoe three battalions of infantry, a brigade
division of the Royal Artillery, the 18th Hussars, and a small body of
mounted infantry. The enemy crossed the borders immediately upon the
expiry of the term stipulated in the ultimatum, and on the 20th October
was fought the battle of Talana Hill.

This first battle of the campaign demonstrated at once the soundness of
Sir George White's views. General Symons's little army worthily
maintained the military traditions of their race, and in the face of a
terrible fire from modern rifles, in the hands of the stubbornest of
foes, rushed the enemy's position and swept him from the heights. But
victory demanded heavy toll. The gallant commander nobly expiated the
mistaken judgment which had led him so seriously to underrate the
strength of the invaders, and nearly forty officers killed, wounded, and
taken prisoners, figured on a list of about 430 casualties. So heavy a
price was paid for a brief success and the knowledge that the enemy was
too strong to make it safe to hold the Glencoe position longer.

General Yule, who now took command of the column, abandoned his camp on
the 22nd October, and withdrew by a circuitous route to Ladysmith,
which was reached on the 26th. In the meantime, however, on the 21st,
the Boers marched from the north-west, having cut the railway and
captured a train of supplies at Elandslaagte to the north of Ladysmith.
Sir George White therefore ordered out a force, under General French, to
clear them from the line and to restore communication. Here again the
hostile positions were stormed with reckless gallantry, and the Boers
were swept back in headlong flight, suffering heavy losses. But again
our loss, especially in officers, was very serious, and again it soon
became apparent that victory, quite apart from the price of it, had not
improved our position. The Boers, thrust back for the moment at one
point, steadily continued their advance. General White's force was again
engaged on the 24th October, when, in order to prevent the enemy
crossing the Newcastle road from west to east, and falling on the flank
of General Yule's retiring column, an attack was made in force upon the
enemy at Rietfontein, near Elandslaagte, and the Boers, after six hours'
fighting, were driven from the hills.

The object aimed at was thus secured. Whether, had the effort been
pushed home, a definite check might at this stage have been imposed upon
the Boer advance, is doubtful. Stopping where it did, it did not prevent
the steady and unceasing movements of the enemy to surround Ladysmith.
One more fight and they were to circle the town in a ring of metal
which was long to withstand all the blows that could be levelled against
it. The battle of Lombard's Kop, or Farquhar's Farm, as it is officially
styled, ended in disaster to the British arms, and drew tight the
threads in the entanglement of Ladysmith. The evil fortunes of the day
were described vividly by Mr. Pearse in a letter written on the
following day.


CHAPTER II

LOMBARD'S KOP AND NICHOLSON'S NEK

     General White forced to fight--The order of battle--Leviathan--The
     Boers reinforced--A retrograde movement--How Marsden met his
     death--Naval guns in action--A night of disaster--Who showed the
     white flag?--A truce declared--A humiliating position.


_October 31._--If the action on Rietfontein, or Pepworth's Farm ridges,
a week ago was the great score for us that official reports represent,
in that it checkmated all possible efforts of the Boers to intercept
Brigadier-General Yule's column on its march from Dundee, there can be
no doubt that the tables were turned upon us effectually yesterday. Not
only did our attempt to beat one of the enemy's columns in detail, and
capture the heavy Creusot guns that had been harassing us, fail through
misdirection, but when attacked in turn by Boer reinforcements, our
troops were untimely ordered to abandon a position that they had held
for four hours without serious loss, and this gave moral, if not
material victory to the enemy. Successful in every fight up to that
point, we are now in the humiliating position of finding ourselves
practically invested by a Boer force that will not attack except by
artillery fire at long range, and whose leader has the power
temporarily, at any rate, to choose the fighting ground that suits Boer
tactics best if we decide to take the offensive. Not only so, but our
little army here has suffered a great disaster in the loss of two
gallant regiments, one of which had only ten days earlier gained for
itself proud distinction by being first to crown the heights of Talana,
near Dundee, where British infantry proved worthy of its most glorious
traditions. As a purely defensive measure, if nothing more, the fight of
yesterday was forced upon us. Like some other operations in this brief
but eventful campaign, it came too late, but, whether timely or not,
a battle was inevitable unless we meant to sit down tamely and be
battered at.

Yesterday morning, long before daybreak, our force was on the move,
intent upon outflanking positions which the Boers held two days earlier.
Colonel Grimwood, with one brigade consisting of the 1st and 2nd King's
Royal Rifles, the Leicestershire and the Liverpool battalions, took up a
position on open ground near Lombard's Kop, supported by a regiment of
cavalry, the Border Mounted Rifles, and the Natal Carbineers with three
batteries. A fourth battery was posted on a green kopje almost directly
in line between Lombard's Kop and Rietfontein Hill. Colonel Ian
Hamilton, with the second infantry brigade, consisting of the Gordon
Highlanders, Rifle Brigade, Manchesters, and 1st Devons, formed a
strong reserve behind the long ridge connecting these points with their
left on the Newcastle road, where the Imperial Light Horse were held
ready for action when the proper time should come.

At four o'clock in the morning our infantry were all in position for the
fight, as it had been originally planned. Half an hour later they
exchanged shots with a few Boers scattered about kopjes in their front,
and from that moment, until nearly noon, they remained practically under
fire, never budging an inch, but remaining immovable, except when a
change of front became necessary to meet the Boer reinforcements, and
that was effected by an advance. Up to that point everything seemed to
be going in our favour. When there was daylight enough for gunners to
see clearly, the 42nd Battery, posted at the eastern end of a green
kopje that forms an irregular spur of Rietfontein Hill, but at a much
lower elevation, opened fire on that ridge where the Boers had planted
Long Tom.

It was interesting to watch shot after shot fall nearer the mark around
it as the gunners picked up the range, until one shell struck and burst
close to "Long Tom's" embrasure. Then the battery took to firing
shrapnel, which were so well timed that one could see projectiles from
the six guns in succession bursting at intervals along Rietfontein's
level crest, which must have been raked from end to end with a shower of
shrapnel bullets. The enemy's leviathan sent two shots at this battery,
without effect, and then turned its fire upon Ladysmith town again, not
with malicious intent, perhaps, but aiming to hit either the balloon or
the railway station, where, in addition to naval guns, there happened to
be stores of forage and other things that might easily have been set
aflame by shells.

Notwithstanding this demonstration, our force was making steady progress
towards an envelopment of the main Boer position at half-past seven in
the morning. Immediately after that, however, prospects changed with the
appearance of formidable reinforcements for the Boers, marching
apparently from the direction in which a large camp had been seen two
days earlier. They came into action on our right flank with a brisk
rifle fire, followed by the deep notes of artillery. In intervals
between the regular roar of field guns came the sledgehammer "thud!
thud! thud!" from an automatic gun, which Tommy Atkins, with his
aptitude for expressive phrases, promptly christened "Pom! Pom!" and
that name sticks to it with unpleasant associations, for the Boers had
not only one but many automatons of the same pattern. Like the heavier
field-piece, "Pom! Pom!" throws shells that burst badly, but throws them
with great accuracy, so that scores of shots in rapid succession fell
among our batteries whenever they advanced to a fresh position, or
changed ground in hope of keeping down that harassing fire.

At this time the Border Mounted Infantry and Natal Carbineers made
frequent dashes to secure advantageous points, and the Boers were at one
time so hard pressed that they gave ground hurriedly before an attempt
of the 60th Rifles to gain a rough crest which took the long hollow
behind Lombard's Kop in reverse. Then the enemy's reinforcements falling
back somewhat threatened our right flank, and Sir George White,
reluctant to prolong his already attenuated line, met that movement only
by sending the Carbineers round Lombard's Kop, and bringing up the
Imperial Light Horse in support.

About this time the Gordon Highlanders and Manchester battalion were
drawn forward from Hamilton's Brigade to the green tree-fringed kopje,
on the ridge of which our 42nd Battery still maintained its position,
playing effectively upon "Long Tom." It looked as if Sir George meant to
reinforce his fighting line, and try a decisive counter-stroke, by
throwing all the weight he could against the Boer left wing, which was
either wavering or executing some wily movement that had the appearance
of a retirement. But unluckily at this critical moment the 60th Rifles
and Leicestershire men began to fall back from the position they had
gained, which was immediately occupied by Boer riflemen, and the 60th,
exposed to a storm of bullets from three sides, came across open ground
in very loose formation. We presently learned that the order had been
sent for them "to retire on the balloon," Sir George White having
apparently resolved upon concentration by a retrograde movement.

Receiving a message in the words quoted, men naturally assumed that it
meant a hasty retreat and not a retirement by successive lines of
resistance. In some cases nerves overstrained by hours of inaction gave
way, and a few men threw down arms or equipment in a momentary panic,
abandoning even their Maxim gun for a time. This, however, was quickly
checked by the example of cool comrades, who, spreading out in obedience
to commands from their officers so that there might be wide intervals
for the shots to pass through, walked slowly and steadily across the
open veldt, where bullets were raining like hailstones. In that
retirement Major Myres, of the 1st Battalion King's Royal Rifles (60th),
fell mortally wounded. Young Marsden, of the same battalion, going to
the Major's assistance, knelt beside him, and bent over as if to bind up
a wound. In that position he remained motionless so long that Lieutenant
Johnson, who had been firing steadily with a wounded soldier's rifle
until twice hit himself, went to see if he could give any help. He found
his brother subaltern dead in the act of binding up a wound as he knelt
over the dying field-officer's body. At that moment Lieutenant Johnson
received his third wound, and had to be carried from the field by
ambulance men.

Mounted infantry of the King's Royal Rifles and Leicestershire
Regiment, with Natal and Border Mounted Rifles, covered this retirement
until it passed beyond the new line formed by Gordons and Manchesters,
so that Colonel Grimwood's Infantry Brigade, looking rather like broken
troops in the loose irregularity of every company, was not called upon
to rally or turn to face the enemy, but marched straight back towards
the balloon, "Long Tom" opening fire upon them as they crossed a ridge,
with marvellously exact knowledge of the range. Three shells burst close
to groups of the 60th, many men being hit.

At that moment, however, the Boer gunners' attention was diverted to
another point, where, from hills just in front of the town, and facing
Rietfontein, Captain Lambton's 12-pounders opened. It was as great a
surprise for us as for the Boers. We saw the shell explode just in front
of "Long Tom's" epaulement, and heard a cheer from spectators, scores of
the townspeople having gathered on a slope by Cove Hill to watch the
scene, among them a crippled gentleman who has to be wheeled about in a
Bath-chair. Nobody who does not know what sailors will accomplish in
spite of difficulties could have believed that Captain Lambton would
bring his guns into action so soon after reaching Ladysmith, and
especially, as we heard afterwards, as one had been upset by a shell
from "Long Tom" as it was being drawn across level ground slowly by a
team of oxen. Evidently, however, the mishap had done no harm, for the
bluejackets were manning two 12-pounders that showed no sign of damage,
and both of them were making excellent practice. At the third round it
planted a shell in the enemy's battery, and the fifth put "Long Tom" out
of action for a time by disabling some of its gunners. Sir George
White's gradual withdrawal of his forces to positions prepared for
defence was therefore not harassed by shell fire from beyond the range
of our own field batteries.

Quite apart from these operations, but intended to fit in with them, was
the despatch of a flying column late on Sunday night to turn the enemy's
right flank or cut off his line of retreat in the direction of Van
Reenan's Pass. For either purpose, two battalions of infantry, though
they might be the bravest and the best, with a mountain-battery of
7-pounders carried on mules, did not seem quite adequate, but Major
Adye, of the Royal Irish Rifles, who acted as staff-officer guiding the
column, was confident of success, and glad of the chance to be with two
such battalions as the Royal Irish Fusiliers and the Gloucesters in such
an enterprise.

Possibly all might have gone well with it but for a deplorable accident.
In the dead of night some boulders rolling down from a hill startled the
transport and mountain-battery mules, which stampeded, taking with them
nearly all the reserve rifle ammunition. As to what happened after that,
accounts vary greatly. Few of the Gloucester men or Royal Irish
Fusiliers got back to tell the story, except as wounded men on parole,
and they had not seen the whole thing through. It seems certain,
however, from concordance of evidence, that the Gloucesters and
Fusiliers, instead of outflanking the Boers, were actually between two
strong bodies of Free State men, when they seized a strong position and
established themselves there. At any rate, they were attacked in turn
soon after daybreak by Boers who crept up the slopes in rear, firing on
them from both flanks--some say all round. Notwithstanding this, the
thousand men held their ground against odds until nearly every round of
ammunition had been expended, and the casualties numbered nearly a
hundred and fifty killed or wounded.

Both regiments begged that they might be allowed to charge the rough
slopes from which the ceaseless stings of rifle-fire came, and the
Fusiliers, whose colonel would have led them willingly enough, had their
bayonets fixed, when some one hoisted the white flag, and by this act
the remnants of two gallant regiments became prisoners of war. "Flags of
truce!" said an "old brag" who recounted the story, with tears in his
voice; "I wish they would leave the damned rags at home, or dye them all
khaki colour, so that neither Dutchmen nor us could ever see them."

News of that disaster travelled fast. It was told on the battlefield in
front of Ladysmith two hours later, and it probably had some effect on
the fortunes of a fight that cannot be recalled by Englishmen with
unmixed satisfaction. The result may be regarded as a drawn battle, in
that each side remained at the finish in possession of its own position,
but on us who watched every phase, first with confidence and then with
increasing anxiety, the impression made was a very unpleasant one,
closely akin to humiliation.

The Boers were left in command of heights on which, if given time, they
may plant artillery to shell the town and camp with a fire to which we
can make no effective reply until the quick-firing naval guns of heavy
calibre and long range are mounted. Bluejackets have been working hard
to that end all day, unmolested by the enemy, who have declared a truce
for twenty-four hours in order that the wounded of both sides may be
placed in comparative safety.

General Joubert has sent to us an ambulance with wounded under parole
from the captured column, and in exchange his surgeons have taken a
similar number of Boer wounded from our hospitals. All who have come in
speak highly of the treatment they have received at the enemy's hands.


CHAPTER III

LADYSMITH INVESTED

     The exodus of the townsfolk--Communications threatened--Slim Piet
     Joubert--Espionage in the town--Neglected precautions--A truce that
     paid--British positions described--Big guns face to face--Boers
     hold the railways--French's reconnaissance--The General's
     flitting--A gauntlet of fire--An interrupted telegram--Death of
     Lieutenant Egerton--"My cricketing days are over"--Under the
     enemy's guns--"A shell in my room"--Colonials in action--The
     sacrifice of valuable lives.


     October closed without further hostilities, and its last day was
     uneventful in a military sense, though full of forebodings in the
     town, because all knew that the Boers were taking advantage of a
     brief armistice to bring up reinforcements. On this last day of the
     month civilians eager to get away from Ladysmith crowded every
     train. Writing on November 1st, Mr. Pearse  said:--

All Saints' Day is observed with some strictness by Boers who do not
show similar veneration for other festivals in the Church Calendar.
There have at any rate been no hostilities to-day, but from Captain
Lambton's Battery on Junction Hill, where the naval 4.7-inch
quick-firing gun is being mounted, we have by the aid of the signalman's
powerful telescope watched a significant Boer movement going on for
hours. We can see them among the scrubby trees between Lombard's Kop and
Umbulwaana (or Bulwaan as it is more generally called), and hurrying off
behind that hill along the road that leads southwards. That road cuts
the railway not more than six or seven miles out, and their movement
threatens our line of communications that way, unless we can manage to
check it by judicious use of cavalry and mounted troops. The flight of
townsfolk southward continues. They do not even trouble about luggage
now, but lock their doors and clear off. Half the houses are empty, and
many shops closed.

     It was early shown that the enemy had not undertaken the war in a
     half-hearted manner. He let no possible opportunity escape to
     better his position; and in the choice of means he was not inclined
     to risk his reputation for "slimness." On this point Mr. Pearse has
     a good deal to say in his next  letter:--

_November 2._--For two whole days after the battle of Lombard's Kop
there was absolute cessation of hostilities, and this lull the Boers
turned to account in a manner very characteristic. There can be hardly
any doubt that we might have taken advantage of it also to safeguard our
line of communications by posting a force where it might have checkmated
one of the enemy's obvious moves. Anything would have been better than
the inaction, which simply allowed the Boers to mature their own plans
and put them into execution without risk of interference from us. That
might almost have been foreseen when General Joubert on 31st October hit
upon a characteristic plan for finding out what was the exact state of
affairs in Ladysmith, and we, with a delightful naïveté, suspecting no
guile, seem to have played into his hands. It will be remembered that
the most painful incident of "Black" or "Mournful Monday" was the
surrender of all but a company or two of the Gloucesters and Royal Irish
Fusiliers, which with a mountain battery had been detached to turn the
enemy's flanks, with consequences so humiliating and disastrous to us.
Under pretence of treating the wounded from this column with great
consideration, Joubert sent them into camp here, taking their parole as
a guarantee that they would not carry arms again during this campaign.
With the ambulance waggon was an escort of twenty Boers, all wearing the
Red Cross badge of neutrality. Their instructions were to demand an
exchange of wounded, and on the plea of being responsible for the proper
care of their own men, they claimed to be admitted within our lines.
Such a preposterous request would not have been listened to for a moment
by some generals, but Sir George White, being anxious apparently to
propitiate an enemy whose guns commanded the town, full as it was of
helpless women and children, yielded that point, and so the ambulance
with its swaggering Boer escort came into town neither blindfolded nor
under any military restrictions whatever. Among this mounted escort
Ladysmith people recognised several well-known burghers, who were
certainly not doctors or otherwise specially qualified for attendance on
wounded men. They were free to move about the town, to talk with Boer
prisoners, and to drink at public bars with suspected Boer
sympathisers--all this while they probably picked up many interesting
items as to the number of troops in Ladysmith, the position of ordnance
stores and magazines, and the general state of our defences, which were
chaotic at that moment. One among the visitors was particularly curious
about the names of officers who dined habitually at the Royal Hotel
mess, and very anxious to have such celebrities as Colonel Frank Rhodes,
Dr. Jameson, and Sir John Willoughby pointed out to him. Does anybody in
his senses believe that such careful inquiries were made without an
object, or that the Red Cross badge was regarded as a sacred symbol
sealing the lips of a Boer as to all he had seen and heard in Ladysmith?

When Joubert's artillery began shelling the town their fire was directed
on important stores, the locality of which could only have been
indicated to them by secret agents, and on places where officers are
known to assemble at certain hours. These may all have been merely
strange coincidences, but, at any rate, they are noteworthy as showing
that in some way, whether by accident or cunning design, General
Joubert's gunners were able to profit by the truce that was agreed upon
without any exact stipulation on either side as to its duration. The
tacit understanding seems to have been that both forces should have time
to collect their wounded and bury their dead.

It is certain that the Boers took a little more time than was necessary
for this purpose, and turned it to good use for themselves by
strengthening the earthworks behind which "Long Tom" is mounted, while
we in turn were enabled to get a second naval gun of heavy calibre into
position before the bombardment began again. The necessity for doing
this was probably chief among reasons which kept our artillery silent
during the last two days, though it seemed to mere spectators that a
chance was thus being given for the enemy to mount batteries on heights
that commanded nearly every part of our camp.

To make this perfectly clear without the aid of a map showing contours
of all ridges and hollows is very difficult, and one can only attempt to
give in words a rough idea of the general position. If the reader will
bear in mind what a horse's hoof inverted looks like, he may get a
mental picture of Ladysmith and its surroundings--the heels of the
horse-shoe pointing eastward, where, five miles off, is the long, flat
top of steep Bulwaan, like the huge bar of a gigantic horse-shoe magnet.
The horse's frog approximately represents a ridge behind which, and
facing Bulwaan, but separated from it by broad stretches of meadow, with
the Klip River winding a serpentine course through them, between high
banks, is Ladysmith town. Between the frog and the horse-shoe lie our
various camps, mostly in radiating hollows, open either to the east or
west, but sheltered from cross fires by rough kopjes of porphyritic
boulders that have turned brown on the surface by exposure to sunshine.
Bushy tangles of wild, white jasmine spring from among these boulders
with denser growth of thriving shrubs bearing waxen flowers that blaze
in brilliant scarlet and orange, and the coarse grass that begins to
show on every patch of earth between the rocks is dotted with clusters
like dwarf petunias, or purple bells of trailing convolvulus. A rich
storehouse this for the botanist, whose contemplative studies, however,
might be rudely disturbed by the shriek and boom of shells bursting
about him, for, as I have said, the enemy's guns command most of these
ridges, though they cannot always search the hollows in which our camps
are as much as possible hidden.

The horse-shoe, in its irregular curve, is dotted here and there with
outposts, whose duty it is to keep the enemy's sharpshooters from
getting within rifle range of our artillery positions encrusting the
ridges at several points like nails of the horse-shoe. Without locating
them exactly, one may say that the Naval batteries are on rough
eminences of the northern heel, facing Rietfontein Hill, where the
Creusot gun, known as "Long Tom," is mounted behind earthworks at a
range of 6800 yards, which is well within compass of the _Powerful's_
12-pounders and at least 3000 yards less than the extreme distance at
which shells from her 4.7-inch quick-firing guns would be effective.

Positions for field batteries are prepared at other points round the
wide sweep, but only to be occupied as occasion may arise, and therefore
one does not care at present to locate them more precisely. The enemy,
having heavy artillery of various calibre mounted on Bulwaan, is able to
enfilade certain posts held by our infantry pickets on the heels of the
horse-shoe, but there are folds among the rocky kopjes where men can lie
comparatively screened from shells, which at that distance give timely
notice of their coming, as sound travels rather faster than the
projectiles do at the end of their flight.

We have outposts on Intombi or Maiden's Castle, which forms the
horse-shoe's southern heel, others stretching westward thence to a gap
in the toe of the shoe, through which a wood runs nearly due west until
it branches off to the Drakensberg Passes in one direction and
Maritzburg in the other, and pickets on the north-western and northern
heights, with a detached post at Observation Hill, an elongated kopje
outside the general defences, overlooking a wide valley of mimosa scrub
towards Rietfontein, which is the enemy's main stronghold, commanding
as it does the railways to Van Reenan's Pass in the west, and to
Newcastle in the north. Except for a distance of two miles from
Ladysmith, therefore, both these railways are in the hands of the Boers,
who can use them as uninterrupted lines of communication with the Orange
Free State and the Transvaal respectively. That they were being so used
to some purpose we had reason for believing, during the two peaceful
days following the one which from its associations has come to be known
among soldiers as "Mournful Monday." Standing on the naval battery, one
could watch Boers hard at work preparing positions near Lombard's Kop,
and along the crest of Bulwaan, for artillery that was probably then
being brought by railway from Laing's Nek, and at the same time columns
of Boer horsemen were moving behind Bulwaan southwards, evidently intent
upon cutting our own lines of communication. That they would be allowed
to accomplish it without a timely effort on our part to prevent them
seemed inconceivable.

For most of us it was a shock to realise that ten or twelve thousand
British soldiers could be shut up by an army of Boer farmers before any
attempt at a counter-stroke had been made. The mobility of our enemies,
however, gives them a wonderful advantage in such movements over a force
that consists mainly of slow-moving infantry, and unless opportunity is
taken to attack them promptly, when they may be beaten in detail, their
power for mischief is very far-reaching. Possibly Sir George White was
quite right to put his trust in defensive tactics, knowing that he could
hold Ladysmith against all attempts of the Boers to capture it
notwithstanding their numerical superiority, but it is none the less
vexatious and unpleasant to find ourselves beleaguered and bombarded.

Whether the enemy had power to invest Ladysmith effectually, and keep a
strong force across our lines of communication would only be ascertained
by a reconnaissance. Directly and without any warning except to officers
commanding detachments, a force assembled at the earliest hour this
morning (Nov. 2). There was so little fuss that soldiers lying in tents
on bivouac slept undisturbed by the clanking of bits as horses were
saddled, or the rumble of wheels when a battery moved to their places in
the column. Artillery, 5th Lancers, 18th Hussars, Natal Carbineers,
Border Mounted and Natal Mounted Rifles get together silently, the
volunteers vieing with regulars in this proof of discipline, which
indeed comes natural to men many of whom know by sporting experience on
the veldt that silence is a virtue. General French takes command of this
mobile little force, and at two o'clock it moves out through the
darkness for a reconnaissance along the Colenso Road, where it comes in
touch with the enemy soon after daybreak. A brisk skirmish against Boer
riflemen, who as usual have been quick to occupy commanding kopjes;
showers of shrapnel hurled among them from our field battery; a few
shells tearing up the dust in clouds in their distant camp; and two of
our own Lancers hit, makes up the story of this affair, which serves to
show conclusively that communication by road in that direction is
barred, if not effectually cut. General French therefore brought his
column back, reaching Ladysmith in time to take train for Durban,
handing over the cavalry command before he left to General Brocklehurst.

That train was the last to get through, and even then had to run the
gauntlet of rifle and artillery fire from Boers who were on both sides
of the line. An hour later the railway was cut by the Boers, whose light
guns completely commanded a defile through which the line passes; and at
two o'clock telegraphic communication stopped short in the middle of an
important despatch, while private and press messages innumerable await
their turn. The thread of that interrupted telegram will probably not be
taken up for many days, and we realise that our isolation is complete.
Communications might have been kept open for days longer by an energetic
use of artillery and mounted troops, but now it is too late to reopen
them without incurring risk of serious losses. We must be content to
wait the development of events in other quarters, for the Boers are all
round us now, and, blink the fact as we may, it must be admitted that
Ladysmith is under siege.

While General French was making his reconnaissance our naval 12-pounders
opened fire on "Long Tom" a few minutes after six o'clock, as a flash
and puff of white smoke from his muzzle told that the bombardment was
about to begin. For an hour and a half the artillery duel went on
briskly, Captain Lambton's naval battery answering shot for shot, or
rather anticipating each, as the shells from our guns travel with
greater velocity, and get home three seconds before "Long Tom's" can
take effect.

Unfortunately one of the enemy's shells fell close to Lieutenant
Egerton, instructor in gunnery of H.M.S. he asked.

"I'll take first watch," said I. "It's nearly twelve now. I'll wake you
at two, and you can wake Hogvardt at five, and Watkins will be fit and
well at breakfast time, and can give us roast cow."
Thus I was left alone again; and I sat, reviewing the position. Would the
islanders fight for their lady? Or would they let us go? They would only
let us go, I felt sure, if Constantine were outvoted, for he could not
afford to see me leave Neopalia with a head on my shoulders and
a tongue in my mouth. Then they probably would fight. Well, I
calculated that as long as our provisions held out, we could not
be stormed; our stone fortress was too strong.

But we could be beleaguered and starved out, and should be very soon,
unless the lady's influence could help us.
I had just arrived at the conclusion that I would talk very seriously
to her in the morning, when I heard a remarkable sound.

"There never was such a place for queer noises," said I, pricking up
my ears.

The noise seemed to come from directly above my head; it sounded as
though a light, stealthy tread were passing over the roof of the hall
in which I sat. But the only person in the house besides ourselves was
the prisoner; she had been securely locked in her room; how then could
she be on the top of the hall? For her room was in the turret over the
door.
Yet the steps crept over my head, going toward the kitchen. I snatched
up my revolver, and trod with a stealth equal to the stealth of
the steps overhead, across the hall and into the kitchen beyond.

My three companions slept the sleep of tired men, but I ruthlessly
roused Denny.

"Go on guard in the hall," said I; "I want to have a look round."
Denny was sleepy, but obedient.

I saw him start for the hall, and went on till I reached the compound
behind the house. Here I stood, deep in the shadow of the wall. The steps
were now over my head again. I glanced up cautiously, and above me,
on the roof, three yards to the right, I saw the flutter of a white
kilt.

"There are more ways out of this house than I know," I thought to myself.

I heard next a noise as though of something being pushed cautiously
along the flat roof. Then there protruded from between two of the
battlements the end of a ladder! I crouched closer under the wall.
The light flight of steps was let down; it reached the ground; the
kilted figure stepped on it and began to descend. Here was the Lady
Euphrosyne again! Her eagerness to go to her own room was fully
explained; there was a way from it across the house and out on
to the roof of the kitchen; the ladder showed that the way was kept in
use. I stood still.
She reached the ground, and as her foot touched it she gave the
softest possible little laugh of gleeful triumph. A pretty little laugh
it was.
Then she stepped briskly across the compound, till she reached the rocks
on the other side. I crept forward after her, for I was afraid of
losing sight of her in the darkness, and yet did not desire to arrest
her progress till I saw where she was going. On she went, skirting the
perpendicular drop of rock, I was behind her now. At last she came to
the angle formed by the rock running north and that which, turning to
the east, enclosed the compound.

"How's she going to get up?" I asked myself.

But up she began to go--her right foot on the north rock, her left foot
on the east. She ascended with such confidence that it was evident that
steps were ready for her feet. She gained the top. I began to mount
in the same fashion, finding steps cut in the face of the cliff. I reached
the top, and I saw her standing still, ten yards ahead of me. She went
on. I followed. She stopped, looked, saw me, screamed.

I rushed on her.
Her arms dealt a blow at me--I caught her hand, and in her hand there was
a little dagger. Seizing her other hand, I held her fast.

"Where are you going?" I asked in a matter-of-fact tone, taking no notice
of her hasty resort to the dagger. No doubt that was purely a national
trait.

Seeing that she was caught, she made no attempt to struggle.

"I was trying to escape," she said. "Did you hear me?"
"Yes, I heard you.

Where were you going?"
"Why should I tell you? Shall you threaten me with the whip again?"
I loosed her hands. She gave a sudden glance up the hill. She seemed
to measure the distance.

"Why do you want to go to the top of the hill?" I asked. "Have you friends
there?"
She denied the suggestion, as I thought she would.

"No, I have not. But anywhere is better than with you."
"Yet there is some one in the cottage up there," I observed. "It belongs
to Constantine, doesn't it?"
"Yes, it does," she answered, defiantly. "Dare you go and seek him there?
Or dare you only skulk behind the walls of the house?"
"As long as we are only four against a hundred I dare only skulk," I
answered. She did not annoy me at all by her taunts. "But do you think
he's there?"
"There! No, he's in the town--and he'll come from the town to kill you
to-morrow."
"There is nobody there?" I pursued.

"Nobody," she answered.

     "You're wrong," said I. "I saw somebody there to-day."
     "Oh, a peasant, perhaps."
     "Well, the dress didn't look like it. Do you really want
     to go there now?"
     "Haven't you mocked me enough?" she burst out. "Take me back
     to my prison."
     Her tragedy air was quite delightful. But I had been leading her
     up to something which I thought she ought to know.
     

     "There's a woman in that cottage," said I. "Not a peasant--a woman
     in some dark-colored dress, who uses opera glasses."
     I saw her draw back with a start of surprise.
     
     "It's false," she cried. "There's no one there. Constantine told me
     no one went there except Vlacho, and sometimes Demetri."
     
     "Do you believe all Constantine tells you?"

I asked.

"Why should I not? He's my cousin and--"
"And your suitor?"
She flung her head back proudly.

"I have no shame in that," she answered.

"You would accept his offer?"
"Since you ask, I will answer. Yes; I have promised my uncle I
would."
"Good God!" said I, for I was very sorry for her.

The emphasis of my exclamation seemed to startle her afresh. I felt her
glance rest on me in puzzled questioning.

"Did Constantine let you see the old woman whom I sent to him?" I
demanded.

"No," she murmured. "He told me what she said."
"That I told him he was his uncle's murderer?"
"Did you tell her to say that?" she asked, with a sudden inclination
of her body toward me.

"I did. Did he give you the message?"
She made no answer. I pressed my advantage.

"On my honor I saw what I have told you at the cottage," I
said. "I know what it means no more than you do. But before I came here
I saw Constantine in London. And there I heard a lady say she would come
with him. Did any lady come with him?"
"Are you mad?" she asked; but I could hear her breathing quickly, and
I knew that her scorn was assumed. I drew suddenly away from her, and
put my hands behind my back.

"Go to the cottage if you like," said I. "But I won't answer for what
you'll find there."
"You set me free?" she cried with eagerness.

"Free to go to the cottage. You must promise to come back. Or I'll go
to the cottage, if you'll promise to go back to your room and wait till
I return."
She hesitated, looking again toward where the cottage was; but I had
stirred suspicion and disquietude in her. She dared not face what
she might find in the cottage.

"I'll go back and wait for you," she said. "If I went to the cottage
and--and all was well, I'm afraid I shouldn't come back."
The tone sounded softer. I would have sworn a smile or a half smile
accompanied the words, but it was too dark to be sure; and when I
leaned forward to look, Euphrosyne drew back.

"Then you mustn't go," said I decisively, "I can't afford to lose you,"

"But if you let me go, I could let you go," she cried.

"Could you? Without asking Constantine? Besides, it's my island, you see."

"It's not," she cried, with a stamp of her foot. And without more she
walked straight by me and disappeared over the ledge of rock. Two
minutes later I saw her figure defined against the sky, a black
shadow on the deep gray ground. Then she disappeared. I set my face
straight for the cottage under the summit of the hill.

I knew that I had only to go straight, and I must come to the little
plateau, scooped out of the hillside, on which the cottage stood. I
found not a path, but a sort of rough track that led in the desired
direction, and along this I made my way very cautiously. At one point
it was joined at right angles by another track, from the side of the
hill where the main road across the island lay. This, of course,
afforded an approach to the cottage without passing by my house. In twenty
minutes the cottage loomed, a blurred mass, before me. I fell on my
knees and peered at it.

There was a light in one of the windows; I crawled nearer. Now I was
on the plateau; a moment later I was under the wooden veranda and beneath
the window where the light glowed. My hand was on my revolver. If
Constantine or Vlacho caught me here, neither side would be able
to stand on trifles; even my desire for legality would fail under
the strain.

But for the minute everything was quiet, and I began to fear that I
should have to return empty-handed; for it would be growing light in
another hour or so, and I must be gone before the day began to appear.
Ah! There was a sound--a sound that appealed to me after my climb--the
sound of wine poured into a glass; and then came a voice I knew.

"Probably they have caught her," said Vlacho the innkeeper. "What of that?
They will not hurt her. And she'll be kept safe."
"You mean she can't come spying about here?"
"Exactly. And that, my lord, is an advantage. If she came here--"
"Oh the deuce!" laughed Constantine. "But won't the men want me to free
her by letting that infernal crew go?"
"Not if they think Wheatley will go to Rhodes and get soldiers and return.
They love the island more than her. It will all go well, my lord. And
this other here?"
I strained my ears to listen. No answer came; yet Vlacho went on as
though he had received an answer.

"These cursed fellows make that difficult, too," he said. "It would be
an epidemic." Then he laughed, seeming to see wit in his own remark.

"Curse them, yes. We must move cautiously," said Constantine.
"What a nuisance women are, Vlacho."
"Ay, too many of them," laughed Vlacho.

"I had to swear my life out that no one was here--and then, 'If no one's
there, why mayn't I come?' You know the sort of thing."
"Indeed, no, my lord. You wrong me," protested Vlacho, humorously; and
Constantine joined in his laugh.

"You've made up your mind which, I gather?" asked Vlacho.

"Oh, this one, beyond doubt," answered his master.

Now, I thought that I understood most of this conversation, and I was
very sorry that Euphrosyne was not by my side to listen to it. But
I had heard about enough for my purpose, and I had turned to crawl away
stealthily--it is not well to try fortune too far--when I heard the
sound of a door opening in the house. Constantine's voice followed
directly on the sound.

"Ah, my darling, my sweet wife," he cried, "not sleeping yet? Where
will your beauty be. Vlacho and I must plot and plan for your sake, but
you need not spoil your eyes with sleeplessness."
Constantine did it uncommonly well. His manner was a pattern for
husbands. I was guilty of a quiet laugh all to myself, in the
veranda.

"For me? You're sure it's for me?" came in that Greek tongue with a
strange accent which had first fallen on my ears in the Optimum
restaurant.

"She's jealous, she's most charmingly jealous!" cried Constantine, in
playful rapture. "Does your wife pay you such compliments, Vlacho?"
"She has not cause, my lord. Now my Lady Francesca thinks she has cause
to be jealous of the Lady Euphrosyne."
Constantine laughed scornfully at the suggestion.

"Where is she now?" came swift and sharp from the woman. "Where is
Euphrosyne?"
"Why, she's a prisoner to that Englishman," answered Constantine.

I suppose explanations passed on this point, for the voices fell to a lower
level, as is apt to happen in the telling of a long story, and I could
not catch what passed till Constantine's tones rose again, as he said:

"Oh, yes, we must have a try at getting her out, just to satisfy the people.
For me, she might stay there as long as she likes, for I care for her
just as little as, between ourselves, I believe she cares for me."
Really, this fellow was a very tidy villain; as a pair, Vlacho and he
would be hard to beat--in England, at all events. About Neopalia I had
learned to reserve my opinion.

Such were my reflections as I turned to resume my interrupted crawl to
safety. But in an instant I was still again--still, and crouching
close under the wall, motionless as an insect that feigns death,
holding my breath, my hand on the trigger.

For the door of the cottage was flung open, and Constantine and Vlacho
appeared on the threshold.

"Ah," said Vlacho, "dawn is nearly on us. See, it grows lighter on the
horizon."
A more serious matter was that, owing to the opened door and the lamp
inside, it had grown lighter on the veranda, so light that I saw the
three figures--for the woman had come also--in the doorway; so light
that my huddled shape would be seen if any of the three turned an eye
towards it. I could have picked off both men before they could move; but
a civilized education has drawbacks; it makes a man scrupulous; I did not
fire. I lay still, hoping that I should not be noticed.

And I should not have been noticed but for one thing. Acting up to his
part in the ghastly farce which these two ruffians were playing with
the wife of one of them, Constantine turned to bestow kisses on the woman
before he parted from her. Vlacho, in a mockery that was horrible
to me who knew his heart, must needs be facetious. With a laugh he drew
back; he drew back farther still; he was but a couple of feet from the
wall of the house, and that couple of feet I filled.

In a moment, with one step backward, he would be upon me. Perhaps he would
not have made that step; perhaps I should have gone, by grace of
that narrow interval, undetected. But the temptation was too strong for
me. The thought of the thing threatened to make me laugh. I had a
penknife in my pocket; I opened it, and I dug it hard into that
portion of Vlacho's frame which came most conveniently (and
prominently) to my hand. Then, leaving the penknife where it was,
I leaped up, gave the howling ruffian a mighty shove, and with a
loud laugh of triumph bolted for my life down the hill. But when I
had gone twenty yards I dropped on my knees, for bullet after bullet
whistled over my head. Constantine, the outraged Vlacho too, perhaps,
carried a revolver. And the barrels were being emptied after me. I
rose and turned one hasty glance behind me. Yes, I saw their dim
shapes like moving trees. I fired once, twice, thrice, in my turn,
and then went crashing and rushing down the path that I had ascended
so cautiously.
I cannoned against the tree trunks; I tripped over trailing branches;
I stumbled over stones. Once I paused and fired the rest of my
barrels; a yell told me I had hit--but Vlacho, alas! not Constantine.
At the same instant my fire was answered, and a bullet went through
my hat. I was defenceless now, save for my heels, and to them I
took again with all speed. But as I crashed along, one, at least,
of them came crashing after me. Yes, it was only one. I had checked
Vlacho's career. It was Constantine alone. I suppose one of your
heroes of romance would have stopped and faced him, for with them
it is not etiquette to run away from one man. Ah, well, I ran away.
For all I knew, Constantine might still have a shot in the locker.
I had none. And if Constantine killed me, he would kill the only
man who knew all his secrets. So I ran. And just as I got within
ten yards of the drop into my own territory I heard a wild cry,
"Charlie, Charlie! Where the devil are you, Charlie?"
"Why, here, of course," said I, coming to the top of the bank and
dropping over.
I have no doubt that it was the cry uttered by Denny which gave
pause to Constantine's pursuit. He would not desire to face all
four of us. At any rate the sound of his pursuing feet died away
and ceased. I suppose he went back to look after Vlacho and show
himself safe and sound to that most unhappy woman, his wife. As for
me, when I found myself safe and sound in the compound, I said,
"Thank God!" And I meant it, too.
Then I looked round. Certainly the sight that met my eyes had a
touch of comedy in it.
Denny, Hogvardt, and Watkins stood in the compound. Their backs
were toward me, and they were all staring up at the roof of the
kitchen, with expressions which the cold light of morning revealed
in all their puzzled foolishness. On the top of the roof, unassailable
and out of reach--for no ladder ran from roof to ground now--stood
Euphrosyne, in her usual attitude of easy grace. And Euphrosyne was
not taking the smallest notice of the helpless three below, but
stood quite still, with unmoved face, gazing up toward the cottage.
The whole thing reminded me of nothing so much as of a pretty,
composed cat in a tree, with three infuriated, helpless terriers
barking round the trunk. I began to laugh.
"What's all the shindy?" called out Denny. "Who's doing revolver
practice in the wood? And how the dickens did she get there, Charlie?"

But when the still figure on the roof saw me, the impassivity of
it vanished. Euphrosyne leant forward, clasping her hands, and said
to me:

"Have you killed him?"
The question vexed me. It would have been civil to accompany it,
at all events, with an inquiry as to my own health.
"Killed him?" I answered gruffly. "No, he's sound enough."
"And--" she began; but now she glanced, seemingly for the first
time, at my friends below. "You must come and tell me," she said;
and with that she turned and disappeared from our gaze behind the
battlements. I listened intently. No sound came from the wood that
rose gray in the new light behind us.
"What have you been doing?" demanded Denny, surlily; he had not
enjoyed Euphrosyne's scornful attitude.
"I have been running for my life," said I, "from the biggest
scoundrels unhanged. Denny, make a guess who lives in that cottage."
"Constantine?" 
"I don't mean him."
"Not Vlacho--he's at the inn." 
"No, I don't mean Vlacho."
"Who, then, man?" 
"Some one you've seen."
"Oh, I give it up. It's not the time of day for riddles."
"The lady who dined at the next table to us at the Optimum," said
I.

Denny jumped back in amazement, with a long, low whistle.
"What, the one who was with Constantine?" he cried.
"Yes," said I. "The one who was with Constantine."
They were all three round me now; and, thinking that it would be
better that they should know what I knew, and four lives instead
of one stand between a ruffian and the impunity he hoped for, I
raised my voice and went on in an emphatic tone:
"Yes. She's there, and she's his wife."
A moment's astonished silence greeted my announcement. It was broken
by none of our party. But there came from the battlemented roof
above us a low, long, mournful moan that made its way straight to
my heart, armed with its dart of outraged pride and trust betrayed.
It was not thus, boldly and abruptly, that I should have told my
news. But I did not know that Euphrosyne was still above us, hidden
by the battlements; nor had I known that she understood English.
We all looked up. The moan was not repeated. Presently we heard
slow steps retreating with a faltering tread across the roof; and
we also went into the house in silence and sorrow.That
would be a weak point, but that it is protected by an outlying kopje
known as Rifleman's Post on the far side of the river. This is occupied
by a small body of the King's Royal Rifles, the other companies of which
hold King's Post, an eminence from which the northern horn of the
horse-shoe bends along by Cove Ridge, Junction Hill, Tunnel Hill, and
Cemetery Hill, to Helpmakaar Hill. Here the Devons are posted at the
heel of the shoe, which juts into a scrubby flat pointing towards the
neck between Lombard's Kop and Bulwaan. These hills are respectively
four and five miles distant from our outworks. Bulwaan stands across the
opening afar off like a huge, bevelled, flat-topped bar placed, as it
might be, for a horse-shoe magnet to attract it. The whole curve of our
defensive works must stretch nearly nine miles. In addition, there is an
undefended opening nearly two miles long, where the straggling town lies
naked to its enemies, or rather screened by nothing more formidable than
belts of mimosa, Australian willow, and eucalyptus trees. Between the
town and Bulwaan, however, flows Klip River, with many windings through
a broad plain, mostly pasturage, but with mimosa scrub closing it in
towards the gorge where river and railway converge at Intombi Spruit.

Long as our defensive line is for 10 or 12,000 men to occupy
effectively, it must be held at all costs, and a post must be kept on
Observation Hill north-west of the Cove Ridge, for if once the Boers got
possession of that kopje they might make other positions untenable. As
matters stand, they have planted guns on an outer ring of hills, whence
they can throw shells into the town. Sir George White was blamed for
giving up Lombard's Kop and Bulwaan, but these could not have been held
without weakening more important points. They seemed, moreover, too far
off to serve as artillery positions for the enemy's smaller guns, and
almost inaccessible for big Creusot 94-pounders. Against attacks by
riflemen from that direction the hard plain is a sufficient obstacle.
As they did not start at once, he came off the stage and led the
way, going on down the stairs, and calling gayly to the rest to
follow.

Windham had got to the stairhead by this time. Agnes Maine stood
there, on one side, looking calm and contained, and he took up his
position on the other, and followed the cue given by young Coleman.
He began to call out, extolling the absorbing and thrilling character
of the performance down-stairs, with the extravagant epithets of the
circus posters, laughing all the while. He urged them on when they
lingered, and restrained them when they came too fast, addressing
one and another with jocularity, laying his hands on some and pushing
them on with assumed playfulness, keeping up the fire of raillery
with desperate resistance.

When screams were heard now and then from below, he made it appear
to be only excited feminine merriment, directing attention to it, and
calling out to those yet to come:

"You hear them? Oh, yes; you'll scream, too, when you see it!"
All the time, though his faculties were sufficiently strained by the
effort he was making, he was watching Agnes Maine, who stood opposite,
doing nothing, but looking her calm, pale self, and now and then smiling
slightly at his extravagant humor. And he thought admiringly that her
simple quiet did more to keep up the illusion than all his labored and
violent simulation.

It seemed as if there never would be an end to the stream of leisurely
people who answered his banter with laugh and joke. But finally the
last of them were fairly on the stair, and he turned to Agnes Maine
with a suddenly transformed face.

"Now--be quick!" he called.

But she gave a low cry, looking away toward the farther end, where she
caught sight of a young couple still lingering. She ran toward
them, calling to them to hurry, and as they did not understand, she
took hold of the girl, and made her run. Windham had followed her,
and the four came together to the stairhead, but there they
stopped, and the young girl broke into wild screams. The foot of the
stairway was wrapped in smoke and flames.

There was an observatory upon the house, into which Windham had once gone
with Jeffrey Coleman, and he turned to it now, and made the three go up
before him. He stopped and cut away a rope that held some of the hangings,
and took it up with him. Miss Maine was standing with her arm about Fanny
Lee, whom she had quieted.

"Had she better go first?"

he asked.

"Yes, of course," Miss Maine answered.

He fastened the rope about the girl, assured her they would let
her down safely, and between them they persuaded her, shrinkingly, to
let herself be swung over, and lowered to the ground. In this Miss
Maine gave more help than young Pritchard, who shook and chattered
so much as to be of little use. And as soon as the girl was down and
Windham turned toward Miss Maine, Pritchard took a turn of the rope
around the railing, with a hasty knot, went over, and slid down it,
out of sight. But before he reached the ground, the rope broke
loose, and slipped out of Windham's grasp as he tried to catch
it.

A cry came up from below. Windham turned toward Miss Maine, and
they looked at one another, but said nothing. She was very pale and
still.
Windham glanced down and around; the fire was already following
them up the tower. He made her come to the other side, where the
balcony overhung the ridge of the sloping roof, got over the railing,
and helped her to do the same, and to seat herself on the narrow
ledge outside, holding on by the bars with her arms behind her. He
let himself down by his hands till within two or three feet of the
roof, and dropped safely upon it. Then he stood up, facing her just
below, braced himself with one foot on each side of the ridge, and
told her to loosen her hold and let herself fall forward. She did
so, and he caught her in his arms as she fell.Colonel Rhodes especially made light of the idea that any gun could
shoot so accurately as to get within a few feet of hitting the exact
mark aimed at from a range of nearly five miles. Since then, however,
the hotel has been nearly struck several times, and on each occasion
about the same hour, so that the most sceptical are now changing their
opinions in favour of a belief that the Royal Hotel has been marked for
destruction. Out of consideration for other guests, therefore, Colonel
Rhodes, "the Doctor," Sir John Willoughby, and Lord Ava have taken up
their quarters elsewhere.

It may be a mere coincidence, but since their departure shells have
fallen less frequently in this part of the town, though a great many
have passed close over the Town Hall, on which a Red Cross flag floats,
denoting its use as a refuge for sick and wounded, and the Convent
Hospital, conspicuously placed on a ridge behind, has been completely
wrecked inside. Fortunately, however, the convalescent patients and
nurses were got away before that happened. It will probably be pleaded
in justification of the Boers that these buildings, being directly in
the line of fire behind our naval batteries, were liable to be hit by
high shots from "Long Tom." The same excuse, however, cannot be made in
other cases when shells fell among houses that are not in line with any
defensive work, camp, or arsenal. One cannot suppose that a mere desire
for wanton destruction of life and property directed the shots, which
were probably aimed on the off-chance of hitting officers known or
believed to be living in those houses. That would be sufficient
justification according to all the accepted ethics of war, and some
military men contend even that the Boers would be quite right to shell
Ladysmith until it was reduced to ruins if they hoped to accelerate
thereby the work they have taken in hand. It must be remembered that
Joubert's main object just now is to gain possession of the town, which
it is said he has sworn to capture, and if he thought that end could be
hastened by ceaseless bombardment of the place, involving possible
slaughter of many unarmed people, there is nothing in the law of nations
to prevent him, so long as a military force remains here ostensibly for
the defence of Ladysmith.

So runs the argument, but it would be preposterous to assume that
General Joubert thinks he can reduce British troops to submission or
bring about an evacuation by such feeble means. Sir George White has,
from humane motives, yielded points to his adversary which most of us
would have thought worth fighting for, but he is every inch a gallant
soldier, as we who have watched him under heavy fire all know full
well, and nobody here needs to be assured that he will never surrender
Ladysmith or abandon its stubborn defence as long as there is any reason
for holding it.

Ample provision is made for the safety of all non-combatants, where they
will not be exposed to shell fire from any quarter, or other dangers
except unlikely accidents, and against these no foresight can guard
entirely. There are some people who continue to take all risks rather
than forsake their property by day or night. These, however, are
comparatively few. The great majority got away while there was yet time,
leaving their houses, full of furniture, locked up or in charge of
Kaffir servants. Curiously enough, they were in many cases the first to
suffer loss by shell fire, and are probably now congratulating
themselves on the timely desertion that enabled them to escape worse
evils.

Mr. Fortescue Carter, the most famous of Ladysmith's townsmen, whose
_History of the Boer War in 1881_ is well known, had scarcely left his
home, next door to the Intelligence Department's headquarters, when
shells began to fall in his beautiful garden among rose trees,
hollyhocks, dahlias, verbenas, and other familiar English flowers, which
he cultivated with much care. Neighbours might be content to surround
their houses with fences of almond-scented oleander, and let the hundred
varieties of South African shrubs bloom in wild profusion under the
shadowing eucalyptus tree, but his gardens were laid out with
well-ordered primness, and in them he delighted to see growing the
fragrant flowers that reminded him and his visitors of home life in
England. All this is in danger of becoming a shell-fretted wilderness
now. "Long Tom" once having turned his attention in this direction
continued to pound away until two shots struck the house itself, and,
bursting inside, shattered the dainty contents of several rooms to
atoms.

Meanwhile, in a picturesque, vine-trellised cottage, not fifty yards
off, ladies went about their domestic duties as usual, apparently
oblivious of all danger. One I saw quietly knitting in the cool, shaded
stoep, and her busy needles only stopped for one moment, when a shell
burst in the roadway beyond, then went on again as nimbly as ever. After
the first shock, some people, who seem least fitted to bear a continuous
strain on their nerves, become so accustomed to the hurtling of huge
projectiles through the air that they show no sign of fear when danger
is close to them. Women are often braver than men in these
circumstances. There is one whose courageous example alone keeps native
servants and coolie waiters at their posts, but she, when little more
than a child, saw some of the horrors of the Zulu War, and she speaks
with pride of her father as one of the few farmers who, refusing to quit
their homes, kept wives and families about them, and fought like heroes
in defence of all they held dear.

Not all in Ladysmith are of this heroic temper, but very few make open
parade of fear if they have any, and though precautions are taken
against exposure to unnecessary risks, there is no sign of panic yet.
Soldiers, every one of whom may be very valuable as a fighting unit
before this siege closes, are ordered to protect themselves by such
shelter trenches or bomb-proofs as can be constructed out of loose
stones, sandbags, forage bales, or other material that lies ready at
hand. The works have to be built under shell-fire, but when finished
they will be an inestimable advantage to regiments that occupy day and
night hill-crests where they might be enfiladed by long-range artillery
fire. That risk must, of course, be taken if the enemy's riflemen should
harden their hearts for a determined frontal attack upon any position
supported by flank fire from guns, but until such a critical moment
arrives the men not actually on duty as sentries or outlying pickets
will be little harassed by bursting shells or flying splinters or
showers of shrapnel bullets, if they dig themselves good pits to lie in,
with sufficiently thick coverings overhead.

The 1st Devon battalion, which, as one of the best here, and trusted for
its steadiness in all circumstances, was given the most vulnerable point
to hold, has busied itself in the formation of works that promise to
make Helpmakaar Hill impregnable, though its long, low spur is exposed
to artillery fire from Bulwaan and Lombard's Kop and the scrub-screened
nek between them. The works there show what can be done under
difficulties by a good regiment toiling cheerfully to carry out the
orders of good officers. The original breastworks were traced by
engineers who had in view rather the necessity of throwing up light
defences against rifle fire than the probability that these works would
be battered at by heavy artillery from one side and taken in reverse
from another. It soon became evident that the entrenchments if left in
that state would be untenable, and yet they could not be abandoned
without serious risk that Boers might then be able to advance under
cover near enough to threaten other posts, if not to command by rifle
fire, within twelve hundred yards or so, the heights on which naval guns
are mounted. Only by holding the contours of extreme spurs on Helpmakaar
Hill could the Devons hope to sweep by rifle fire a wide zone of
slightly undulating veldt, and thus command all possible approaches from
Lombard's Kop or Bulwaan in that direction. So they stuck generally to
the lines traced by engineers for their outer defences, but deepened the
trenches, widened the banks in front of them, built bomb-proof
traversers overlaid with balks and earth to neutralise the effects of
enfilading fire, and then began to form for themselves dug-out huts in
which to sleep, with solid earth roofs supported on railway sleepers.

All this means enormous labour, carried on frequently under a galling
cannonade from the enemy's smaller guns, and interrupted occasionally by
the necessity of having to keep down the rifle-fire that comes from a
distant kopje, while standing on the front of these works.

Yesterday, watching a cavalry patrol that tried in vain to feel for a
way through the scrubby nek into more open ground beyond, General
Brocklehurst and his staff were nearly hit by a shell from some
newly-mounted battery the exact position of which could not be located,
for its smokeless powder made no flash that anybody could see in broad
daylight, nor generated even the faintest wreath of vapour. Its
projectile travelled faster than sound, so that the range could not have
been great, but there was nothing by which our own batteries might have
been directed to effective reply. We all abused "Long Tom" at first
because of his unprovoked attack on a defenceless town, but by contrast
with what is known among Devon men as the "Bulwaan Sneak," and among
bluejackets as "Silent Susan," the big Creusot gun with its loud report,
the low velocity of its projectiles, and the puff of white smoke giving
timely warning when a shot is on its way, is regarded as quite a
gentlemanly monster.

Following the example thus set by regiments on the main defensive
positions, others temporarily in reserve have begun to build or dig for
themselves splinter-or bomb-proof retreats, in which they may take
shelter when the shelling becomes too hot. The Imperial Light Horse were
first to hit upon the idea of burrowing into the river-banks. They began
by forming mere niches, in which there was only just room enough for
three or four men to stand huddled together when they heard a shell
coming. Finding, however, that the soil could be easily dug out, they
set gangs of natives to work lengthening the tunnels and connecting them
by "cross drives," in the planning of which several Johannesburg mine
managers found congenial occupation. This went on until the river-bank
for a hundred yards in length was honeycombed by dark caves, in which a
whole regiment might have been hidden with all its ammunition, secure
from shell fire, the walls and roofs being so formed that they needed no
additional support. There was no danger of the stiff alluvial soil
falling in even if a shell had buried itself and burst above the
entrance to any of these cool grottoes.

[Illustration: A SHELL-PROOF RESORT

A culvert under a road used as a living-place by day for civilians, who
returned to their houses when the shelling ceased after sunset]

I spent half an hour in one of them, and found the air there delightful
by contrast with scorching sunshine outside. What it will be, however,
after many people have been crowded together for some time is less
pleasant to contemplate, but even for that the resourceful Imperial
Light Horse are prepared, and they already begin to talk of air-shafts
so cunningly contrived that light and air may enter, but shells be
rigidly excluded. Civilians in their turn emulate the Light Horse, but
with unequal success, and their excavations assume such primitive
forms that future archæologists may be puzzled to invent satisfactory
explanations of curious differences in the habits of the cave-dwellers
of Ladysmith, as exemplified by the divergent types of their underground
abodes.

And, indeed, these habits are strangely various even as presented to the
eyes of a contemporary student. Some people, having spent much time and
patient labour in making burrows for themselves, find life there so
intolerably monotonous that they prefer to take the chances above
ground. Others pass whole days with wives and families or in solitary
misery where there is not light enough to read or work, scarcely showing
a head outside from sunrise to sunset. They may be seen trooping away
from fragile tin-roofed houses half an hour before daybreak carrying
children in their arms, or a cat, or monkey, or a mongoose, or a cage of
pet birds, and they come back similarly laden when the night gets too
dim for gunners to go on shooting. There would be a touch of humour in
all this if it were not so deeply pathetic in its close association with
possible tragedies. One never knows where or at what hour a stray shot
or splinter will fall, and it is pitiful sometimes to hear cries for
dolly from a prattling mite who may herself be fatherless or motherless
to-morrow. We think as little as possible of such things, putting them
from us with the light comment that they happen daily elsewhere than in
besieged towns, and making the best we can of a melancholy situation.

There are, I believe, many good reasons why Sir George White should
allow his army to be hemmed in here defending a practically deserted
town, apart from the ignominy that abandonment would entail, and it is
probably sound strategy to keep Boer forces here as long as possible
while preparations are being matured for attacking them from other
directions. On the latter point one cannot express an opinion without
full knowledge of the circumstances such as we cannot hope to get while
communications are cut off. But nobody can pretend to regard our present
inaction following investment as anything but a disagreeable necessity,
or affect a cheerful endurance of conditions that become more
intolerable day after day. Now and then we have hopes that the Boers may
risk everything in a general attack with the object of carrying this
place by storm, when they would most certainly be beaten off and lose
heavily.

They did something to encourage this hope yesterday. It began with a
heavy artillery duel between "Long Tom" and the naval gun that is known
as "Lady Anne." After vain attempts to silence our battery, the enemy's
fire, generally so accurate, became wild, several shells going so high
that they struck the convent hospital hundreds of yards in rear. This,
at any rate, is the most charitable explanation of acts that would
otherwise be inexcusable. The Red Cross was at that time, and for days
before, flying above the convent, in which Colonel Dick-Cunyngham and
Major Riddell were patients, under the care of nursing sisters.
Fortunately, good shelter was found for them in the convent cellars
until they could be removed to safer quarters, but before this much of
the upper rooms had been reduced to ruins by persistent shelling. When
the Boers thought they had sufficiently demoralised our defensive forces
by artillery "preparation," a brisk attack by riflemen began to develop
against Maiden's Castle, Cæsar's Camp, and Waggon Hill, a continuous
range forming the southern key to our position, and held by the
Manchester Regiment. Brigadier-General Hamilton and his staff were there
from the outset, ready, if need be, to call up the Gordons in support.
This necessity, however, never arose, though the attack, as I can
testify from personal observation on the spot, was pushed for some time
with great persistence, the Boers trying again and again to creep up by
the western slopes of Waggon Hill, while shells raked the whole face of
Cæsar's Camp to Maiden's Castle, and burst repeatedly among the tents of
the Manchester battalion, without doing serious harm.

A colour-sergeant with only fourteen men defended the crest of Waggon
Hill until nightfall, when the Boers retired sullenly. To repeated
offers of reinforcements the sergeant warmly replied that he had men
enough for the job, and proved it by repelling every attack, the Boers
declining to face the steady fire that was poured upon them whenever
they showed themselves. Colonel Hamilton, however, had a firm conviction
that the Boer movement against that flank was only a feeler for more
determined enterprises to follow, and he accordingly stiffened the
defensive lines there by mounting half a field battery in strong
earthworks during the night, and sending up bodies of mounted infantry
to support the Manchesters.

As the sun was setting in clouded splendour behind Mount Tinwa's noble
crags and peaks, throwing their dark shadows across the lower hills near
us, a flash so quick, that it could hardly be seen, darted from out the
gloom there, and with the crashing report that followed came a shell
plump into one of our most crowded camps. This was evidently from a gun
newly mounted on Blaauwbank. Two other shells burst in quick succession
about the same place, but fortunately nobody was hit. Then, satisfied
with having got the range to a nicety, our enemy left us in undisturbed
quiet for the night, but with an uncomfortable consciousness that fresh
links were being forged in the chain of artillery fire by which
Ladysmith is now completely girdled, for two batteries that cannot be
exactly located have been shelling steadily all day from each end of
Bulwaan, with accurate aim and far-reaching effect, as if to disprove
all the theories that led to the error of abandoning that position.

This morning fallacious prophecies were further shattered by a shell
from works placed far back on the table top of Bulwaan. It did not
demolish anything else, but it makes us very chary now about predicting
what the Boers can or cannot do. Through telescopes they had been
watched building that strong fort, and everybody knew it was being
thrown up as an emplacement for heavy artillery, yet few people thought
that another gun, akin to "Long Tom" in calibre and range, could have
been mounted there so soon, until they saw the dense cloud of smoke from
a black powder charge, and heard the familiar gurgling screech of a big
shell, followed by the thundering report.

"Puffing Billy" was the appropriate name bestowed on this new enemy by
Colonel Rhodes, who has an amusing faculty for applying quaintly
descriptive phrases to every fresh development in this state of siege. I
am told on high authority that the word "siege" is not quite applicable
to our case here, but if the Boers are not sitting down before Ladysmith
in a very leisurely way, intent upon keeping us under bombardment as
long as they may choose to stay, I do not know the meaning of such
movements. It was we who provoked "Puffing Billy" to his first angry
roar by a trial shot from one of our big naval guns into the Bulwaan
battery. "Long Tom" presently joined in the chorus, and it took our two
4.7 quick-firers all their time to keep down that cross-fire. Though
"Lady Anne's" twin-sister had been mounted some days, her voice was
seldom heard, until this morning, when, after a few rounds, "Long Tom"
paid silent homage to her sway, and in celebration of that temporary
knock-out, Captain Lambton christened his new pet "Princess Victoria,"
but the bluejackets called it by another name, to indicate their faith
in its destructive effect.

It was interesting to watch these weapons at work. Their gunners would
wait until they saw a flash from "Long Tom" or "Puffing Billy" and then
fire, their shells getting home first by two or three seconds, owing to
the greater velocity imparted by cordite charges. Soon after ten o'clock
the enemy's artillery fire from different directions grew brisker. The
damage, whatever it may have been, inflicted on "Long Tom," or his crew,
having been made good under cover of a white flag, which the Boers seem
to think they are at liberty to use whenever it suits them, Rietfontein
called to Bulwaan, and Blaauwbank in the west echoed the dull boom that
came from the distant flat-topped hill in the east. Then along our main
positions, against the Leicesters and Rifles on one side, and the
Manchesters on another, an attack by rifles developed quickly.

Intermittently these skirmishes lasted most of the day, our enemy never
pressing his attack home, but contenting himself with long-range
shooting from good cover. Neither heavy guns nor small arms did much
damage. Major Grant, R.E., of the Intelligence Staff, was slightly
wounded as he sat coolly sketching the scene of hostilities as he saw it
from the front of Cæsar's Camp. A lieutenant of the Manchesters and
three men of the Leicester Regiment were also hit by rifle bullets or
shell splinters, but none very seriously.


CHAPTER V

THE FIRST BOER ASSAULT

     Joubert's boast--The preliminaries of attack--Shells in the town--A
     simultaneous advance--Observation Hill threatened--A wary enemy--A
     prompt repulse--Attack on Tunnel Hill--The colour-sergeant's last
     words--Manchesters under fire--Prone behind boulders--A Royal
     salute--The Prince of Wales's birthday--Stretching the Geneva
     Convention--The redoubtable Miss Maggie--The Boer Foreign
     Legion--Renegade Irishmen--A signal failure.


From the first moment of complete investment here my belief (continues
Mr. Pearse, writing on 9th November) has been that the Boers would never
venture to push an infantry attack against this place to the point of a
determined assault. This opinion is strengthened by to-day's events. Yet
it is said that Joubert believes he could take Ladysmith by a _coup de
main_ at any time were it not for his fear of mines, which he believes
have been secretly laid at many points round our positions. His riflemen
certainly did not come close enough to test the truth of this belief
to-day, but contented themselves with shooting from very safe cover at
long ranges. If they could have shaken our troops at any point they
would doubtless have taken advantage of it to push forward and take up
other equally sheltered positions, whence they might have practised
their peculiar tactics with possibly greater effect. These methods,
however, lack the boldness necessary for an assault on positions held by
disciplined troops, and having no single objective they are gradually
frittered away in isolated and futile skirmishes, whereby the defenders
are to some extent harassed, but the defences in no way imperilled.

Our enemies began at five o'clock this morning with artillery fire from
Bulwaan and Rietfontein on Pepworth's Hill. This unusual activity so
early warned us that some movement of more than ordinary importance
might be expected. All preparations for the possibility of an attack
more determined than the feeble feelers of yesterday had been made in
good time, so that there was no hurrying of forces to take up or
strengthen positions that might be threatened, and the Boers were
evidently somewhat puzzled where to look for the masses of men who
showed no sign of movement They thereupon took to shelling the town as
if they thought our troops might be concentrating there, and under cover
of this vigorous bombardment their riflemen advanced, so far as caution
would permit them, against several points wide apart. It must have been
with the idea of a feint that they made the first attack from westward
against Observation Hill, which was held by outposts of the 5th
Lancers, dismounted and trusting to their carbine fire, the
ineffectiveness of which, when opposed to Mauser rifles of greater
accuracy at long range, soon became evident.

Two companies of the Rifle Brigade had, however, been moved forward to
support the cavalry, and their steady shooting checked the enemy's
frontal attack. Several officers and other picked shots, lying prone
behind boulders, took on the Boers at their own game with perceptible
effect at 1200 yards or more, thereby keeping down a fire that might
otherwise have harassed our men, who were necessarily exposed at times
in taking up positions to meet some change of tactics on the other side.
Boers never expose themselves when they find bullets falling dangerously
close to them. They will be behind a rock all day if need be, waiting
for the chance of a pot-shot, and stay there until darkness gives them
an opportunity to get away unseen. They give no hostages to fortune by
taking any risks that can be avoided. The game of long bowls and sniping
suits them best. When one place gets too hot for them to pot quickly at
our men without risk of being potted in turn, they will steal away one
by one, wriggling their way between boulders, creeping under cover of
bushes, doing anything rather than show themselves as targets for other
men's rifles.

[Illustration: SKETCH MAP OF POSITIONS ROUND LADYSMITH, NOVEMBER 1899]

They have made the most of physical features, that in this country lend
themselves to such tactics, by occupying hills with heavy artillery, in
front of which are rough kopjes strewed with trap rock, and round
these the Boer riflemen can always move for advance or retirement well
screened from our fire. They have, however, to reckon sometimes with the
far-reaching power of shrapnel shells. When they ignore that we may
manage to catch them in a cluster.

So it happened to-day. After being beaten off from the direct attack on
Observation Hill they began feeling round its left flank by way of
kopjes, between which and our outposts there is a long bare nek, and in
rear of that the railway line to Van Reenan's Pass runs through a deep
cutting with open ground beyond. To effect a turning movement of any
significance the Boers had choice of two things: either they must show
themselves on spurs where there was scant cover, or take to the cutting;
and we knew by experience which they would prefer. In anticipation of
such a development one field-battery had been placed on the rough slope
that juts northward from Range Post, through which runs the main road to
Colenso in the south and to several of the Drakensberg passes in the
west. Up through a gorge deeply fretted by Klip River this battery
commanded the long bare nek. Two other guns, the Maxim-Nordenfelts of
Elandslaagte, manned by a comparatively weak detachment, took up a
position on their own account at the foot of King's Post near our old
permanent, but now disused, camp, whence they could bring a fire to bear
on the same point. All tried a few percussion shells by way of testing
the range and then turned to the use of shrapnel, which, admirably
timed, burst just beyond the nek, searching its reverse slopes and
enfilading the railway ravine with a hail of bullets, where apparently
the Boers must have been caught in some numbers. At any rate they are
said to have lost heavily there, and from that time the attack or rather
fusilade directed against Observation Hill began to slacken. We had not
many men hit considering that the skirmish had begun soon after daybreak
and continued with little cessation up to nine o'clock, when the Rifle
Brigade reported three wounded, one being young Lieutenant Lethbridge,
who is so badly injured that recovery in his case can hardly be hoped
for.

We had not, however, done with the enemy by repulsing him at one point.
His big guns opened again presently from Blaauwbank and Rietfontein to
the west and north. A smaller battery on Long Hill echoed the deep boom
from "Long Tom," who was carrying on a duel with our naval gun, and
throwing shells over the town, to burst very near Sir George White's
headquarters. Field-guns from the nek near Lombard's Kop joined in
chorus, shooting with effect on Tunnel Hill, held by the Liverpools,
several of whom were hit. Colour-Sergeant Macdonald went out of the
bomb-proof to mark where one shell had struck, when another burst on the
same spot, and he fell terribly mangled by jagged fragments of iron. His
comrades rushed to aid him, but he died in their arms, saying simply,
"What a pity it was I went out to see." In truth the shells did not want
looking for to-day. They were falling in rapid succession from one end
of Bulwaan on Helpmakaar Hill, where the Devons, thanks to having taken
wise precautions in making bomb-proof shelters, suffered little, though
"Puffing Billy" turned occasionally to hurl a 94-pounder in that
direction when tired of raking Cæsar's Camp and Maiden's Castle, where
the Manchesters had not only their flank exposed to this fire, but were
smitten in front by a heavy gun the Boers had mounted on Flat-Top
Mountain, some three miles off, and by smaller shells that came from
automatic guns hidden among scrub on the nearer slopes across Bester's
Farm. These did little harm, though the repeated thuds of their
discharge, like the rapid strokes of a Nasmyth hammer on its anvil,
might have shaken the resolution of any but the steadiest troops, seeing
that our field-battery on Maiden's Castle could not for a long time
locate the exact hiding-place of those vicious little weapons, and when
they did get a chance, the enemy's heavy artillery replied to their fire
with a more persistent cannonade than ever. The Manchesters stood
manfully the test of long exposure to this galling storm of iron and
lead, their fighting line continuing to hold the outer slopes, where
from behind boulders they could overlook the hollow between them and
their foes, and get occasionally shots at any Boer who happened to show
himself incautiously. That did not happen often, and their chances of
effective reply to the bullets or shells that lashed the ground about
them were few at first.

When an attack of riflemen did begin to develop with some show of being
pressed home, the Manchesters were still lying there ready to meet it
with a fire steadier than that of the Boers and if anything more deadly.
Being secure from flanking movements, since the Border Mounted Rifles
were on their right sweeping round Waggon Hill and some companies of the
60th in support, the Manchesters could devote all their attention to
that long front, and beat back every attempt of the Boers to cross the
valley where a tributary of the Klip River winds past Bester's Farm down
to the broad flats by Intombi Spruit. These hostile demonstrations were
never very determined or long sustained, and they slackened down to
nothing for a time just before noon.

At that hour a curiously impressive incident astonished many of us in
camp not less than it did the Boers. Guns, big and small, of our Naval
Battery having shotted charges were carefully laid with the enemy's
artillery for their mark, and at a given signal they began to fire
slowly, with regular intervals between. When twenty-one rounds had been
counted everybody knew that it was a Royal salute, in celebration of the
Prince of Wales's birthday. Then loud cheers, begun as of right by the
bluejackets, representing the senior service, ran round our chains of
outposts and fighting men, shaken into light echoes by the jagged
rocks, to roll in mightier chorus through the camps, thence onward by
river-banks, where groups emerged from their burrows, strengthening the
shouts with even more fervour, and into the town, where loyalty to the
Crown of England has a meaning at this moment deeper than any of us
could ever have attached to it before. "What do you make of it all?" was
the signal flashed from hill to hill along the Boer lines, and
interpreted by our own experts who hold the key. And well they might
wonder, for in all probability a Prince of Wales's birthday has never
been celebrated before with a Royal salute of shotted guns against the
batteries of a besieging force, and all who are here wish most heartily
that the experience may remain unique.

Our enemy's astonishment, however, had the effect of producing a
temporary cessation of hostilities. The bombardment was not carried on
with its previous vigour, possibly because some detachments, taken
unaware by the prolonged artillery fire from our side, had been
partially disabled. But the rifle attack against Maiden's Castle and
Cæsar's Camp was kept up until near sunset.

In the midst of this cross-fire a flag, with the Geneva emblem of mercy
on it, was hoisted at the topmost twig of a low mimosa bush in front of
Bester's Farm, which must not be confounded with the other Bester's away
to westward, near the Harrismith Railway, and giving its name to a
station on that line. There are many branches of the Bester family
holding farms in Natal, and nearly all are under a cloud of suspicion at
this moment because of their known sympathy with the Boers. That
red-cross flag was taken as a sign that the farmstead had been occupied
as a hospital, and we respected it accordingly, but, as on other
occasions in this curiously conducted campaign, the Boers, who stretch
the Geneva Convention for all it is worth in their own favour, made it
cover something else. While our soldiers scrupulously avoided firing
anywhere near the farmstead that bore that emblem of neutrality, they
saw herds of cattle and horses being driven off, and these were followed
presently by a trek waggon on which also the red-cross flag waved
conspicuously.

In that waggon were several women carrying white sunshades, and among
them, it is said, the redoubtable Miss Maggie who used to ride her
bicycle through our lines to the enemy's, even after war had been
declared and Free State burghers had crossed the border into Natal. If
that is so, she and many of her relations have crossed our lines
finally, to throw in their lot with the Boers, accompanied by very
valuable herds of live-stock. The only Besters who remained in our hands
as hostages have, I believe, been allowed to take refuge with sick and
wounded at Intombi Spruit camp, where they at least are safe enough
under the protection of their Boer friends. Other curious flags were
seen about the same place to-day. Lieutenant Fisher of the Manchesters,
who though wounded soon after sunrise refused to quit his post, and with
half a company held one shoulder of Waggon Hill until the last attack
had spluttered out, sent a careful report to his colonel before the
ambulance men took him to their field hospital. In this report he gives
details of some curious movements among the enemy. One contingent,
apparently some foreign legion, showing traces of elementary discipline
and evidently not numbering in its ranks many Boers of the old school,
advanced boldly across ground that afforded them little cover, and there
began to "front form" in fairly good order. They were well within range
of Lee-Enfield rifles, and a few volleys well directed sent them to the
right-about in anything but good order. Soon after, a second column
advanced with even more bravado, headed by a standard-bearer, who
carried a red flag. These were said to be Irishmen, who, having elected
to serve a republic, and being debarred from fighting under the green
banner of their own country, yet not quite ready to acknowledge the
supremacy of another race, may have flaunted the emblem of liberty by
way of compromise. More probably, however, they were a mixed lot owning
no common country, but willing or unwilling to serve under any colours
with equal impartiality. Two or three shrapnels bursting in front of
them to a vibrato accompaniment of rifle fire many were seen to fall,
but whether badly hit or not nobody on our side could say. At any rate,
these adventurous auxiliaries are likely to learn discretion from the
wily Boer after such an experience.

The attack, such as it was, had failed on both the positions threatened.
It was never pressed home with energy at any point, and unless the Boers
prove to be as good at concentration as they are in mobility, there is
not the remotest chance for them to achieve even a temporary success by
rifle attack against infantry whose discipline and steadiness have not
been shaken in the slightest degree by shell fire yet. What losses our
foes suffered we have no means of knowing, but they were probably much
heavier than our own, which numbered five killed and twenty-four
wounded, mostly by shells, in the twelve hours of intermittent
fighting.


CHAPTER VI

A MONTH UNDER SHELL FIRE

     The first siege-baby--An Irish-American deserter--A soldierly
     grumble--Boer cunning and Staff-College strategy--An ammunition
     difficulty--The tireless cavalry--A white flag incident--What the
     Boer Commandant understood--The Natal summer--Mere sound and
     fury--Boer Sabbatarianism--Naval guns at work--"Puffing Billy" of
     Bulwaan--Intrepid Boer gunners--The barking of "Pom-Poms"--Another
     reconnaissance--"Like scattered bands of Red Indians"--A futile
     endeavour--A night alarm--Recommended for the V.C.--A man of straw
     in khaki--The Boer search-light--Shelling of the hospital--General
     White protests--The first woman hit--General Hunter's
     bravado--"Long Tom" knocked out--A gymkhana under fire--Faith,
     Hope, and Charity--Flash signals from the south--A new Creusot gun.


     The garrison and inhabitants of Ladysmith now began to realise that
     they were doomed to a long period of inactivity if to nothing more
     serious. The days immediately following the Boer attempt of 9th
     November were quiet, rain and mist interfering with the enemy's
     bombardment. November 12 was, however, a somewhat eventful day,
     owing to the birth of the first siege-baby, and the arrival in camp
     of an Irish-American deserter from the Boers.

The baby, says Mr. Pearse in his diary (12th November), was born, not in
a dug-out by the river, but at a farm on a hill in the centre of
defensive works, where Mr. and Mrs. Moore, with their other children,
have elected to take the chances, near where I and other correspondents
have pitched our tents. Mrs. Moore made one trial of an underground
shelter, and then gave it up, saying that she should certainly die in
that damp atmosphere, so that it would be better to take the risk of
living where one could get fresh air, even though exposed to shells. The
Irish-American's story, though not to be swallowed without salt, tended
to confirm some things that seemed strange in the fight of three days
earlier, when, as will be remembered, Lieutenant Fisher's detachment
claimed to have shot many of a body that marched into action boldly with
a red flag flaunting at their head. The deserter said that the Irish
brigade that day lost heavily, having now only seventy-three left of the
original three hundred and fifty, and that ten Irishmen were killed by
one of our shells.

     It was not with a good grace that Sir George White's garrison
     resigned themselves to inaction. Their state of mind is shown
     clearly enough by Mr. Pearse in a letter written on 14th November,
     and describing the situation at this period.

_November 14._--The British troops here have their backs up now, and
grumble at the fate that chains them to a passive defence, when they
would wish for nothing better than to try conclusions with their foes at
close quarters. Sir George White knows best the part that he is expected
to play in the general strategy of this campaign, and there may be
reasons for not forcing the Boers to abandon any of their positions
round Ladysmith until the time ripens for a decisive action. It is
impossible, however, to ignore the effect that this produces on the
temper of soldiers, who say with characteristic energy of expression
that they would rather a hundred times take their chances with death in
a fair fight than remain idle under a shell fire that is trying to the
strongest nerves, though it does little material harm. Sir George is
naturally reluctant to sacrifice valuable lives in capturing positions
which we have not men enough to hold, but it would be something gained
if we could attack one point at a time, seize the Boer gun there, and
put it permanently out of action. Instead of that, we have allowed our
adversary to increase the number of artillery works and rifle sangars,
girding us about until his grip is so strong that even cavalry scouts
cannot push five miles from camp in any direction without having to run
the gauntlet of shells or Maxim bullets.

There are three positions which we might have held, or at least
prevented the enemy from occupying, and thereby frustrated all attempts
for at least a week longer, so that our communications southward would
have remained open until ample supplies of war material of various
kinds, much needed here, and especially appliances for long-distance
signalling or wireless telegraphy, could be brought up. But the time for
that went by while we were engaged in preparing positions for the
passive defence of Ladysmith, and the Boers, with the "slimness" that
has always characterised them in such operations, slipped round our
flank to cut us off from railway or telegraphic communication with lower
Natal. Even the guns of H.M.S. _Powerful_, on which we rely for keeping
down the enemy's long-range fire, did not get their full supply of
ammunition before the line was closed, and if any signalling appliances
more far-reaching than those ordinarily in use with a field force were
applied for in accordance with Captain Lambton's suggestion, they never
came.

As events have turned out, this was the gravest mischance of all, since
the next step which our wily enemies took was to close every means of
egress from this camp by placing their lighter artillery or mounted
riflemen on kopjes whence all open ground over which troops might move
could be swept by cross-fire. In other words, they took all the rough
eminences of the outer ranges best adapted for their own tactics, and
left the bare, shelterless plains or ridges to us. So far, therefore,
Boer cunning has proved itself more than a match for Staff-College
strategy, and nothing can restore the balance now but a strong blow
struck quickly and surely from our side. Against that the Boers are
naturally weak in proportion to the thinness of their investing line,
which stretches round a perimeter of nearly twenty miles; but on the
other hand, their greater mobility, owing to the fact that every
rifleman is mounted, gives them a surprising power of rapid
concentration on any point that happens to be threatened. This is a
factor that will have to be reckoned with in European warfare of the
future, if I mistake not the meaning of lessons we are learning here.
Nevertheless we might harass our enemies, giving them little rest day or
night. Here, however, the ammunition difficulty comes in again. We have
enough to last through a siege, but none to waste on doubtful
enterprises. This reduces us to the contemplation of night attacks, and
to trust in no weapon but the bayonet for capturing guns in positions
which we have not men enough to hold.

Tommy is ready and eager to try conclusions with the enemy on these
terms, if his leaders will only give him the chance, but meanwhile our
movements take the form of reconnaissances that lead to no tangible
advantages either in lessening the vigour of our adversary's bombardment
or in loosening any links in the chain of investment by which we are
bound. The situation is certainly curious and interesting historically
as an event for which no exact parallel can be found in the annals of
England's wars.

In writing of futile reconnaissances it is hardly necessary that I
should disclaim all intention of ignoring the excellent work done by
individual regiments on which the duties of patrolling have by turns
fallen. Dragoon Guards, Lancers, Hussars, Imperial Light Horse, Natal
Carbineers, and Border Mounted Rifles, have known little real rest for
days past. When not actually scouting the cavalry have been either on
outpost within touch of the enemy, or bivouacked beside their horses
ready for any emergency. The extreme tension necessitating all these
precautions may be relaxed somewhat now, but still we rely on the
mounted troops for information of every movement among the besiegers,
and so far trust in their alertness has been fully justified. The
morning after last Thursday's attack Major Marling pushed his patrols of
the 18th Hussars farther westward than they had been able to get since
communications were interrupted. Rumours, since confirmed, that the
Boers had suffered very heavily in their fruitless attack the previous
day, suggested the possibility of their having evacuated some positions.
Major Marling may have begun to take that view too when he saw a white
flag showing above the serrated crest of Rifleman's Ridge, which is
generally but too vaguely described as Blaauwbank, where the Boers have
at least one powerful field-gun mounted. Under a responsive flag of
truce Major Marling and a non-commissioned officer advanced to parley
with the enemy, whose pacific, if not submissive, spirit was thus
manifested. The field-cornet in charge said he understood there were to
be no hostilities that day. The English officer knew nothing of any
armistice, but agreed to retire without pushing the patrol farther in
that particular direction. As he and his comrades went back to join
their main body, Boer sharpshooters opened fire on them treacherously
from the rocks and sangars of Rifleman's Ridge. It is difficult to
understand such wanton violations of every principle recognised by
civilised belligerents, unless we assume that the Boers really thought
that their General had claimed a truce in order that his dead might be
buried, and that our cavalry were therefore at fault. It is, however,
impossible to find excuses, or give the Boers credit for good intentions
always in their use of the white flag. They seem to regard it as an
emblem to be hoisted for their own convenience or safety, and to be put
aside when its purpose has been served, without any consideration for
the other party. Even while this Boer officer pretended to think there
was a general truce that forbade scouting operations on our part there
was a gun being got into position by men of the same commando, and other
of the enemy's batteries were being either strengthened or moved to more
advantageous points. The work was, however, interrupted by a furious
thunderstorm and a night of heavy rain that brought the waters roaring
down from the Drakensberg ravines to flood the Klip River far above the
level at which some of its spruits can be crossed without difficulty at
other times.

English people, as a rule, picture early summer in South Africa as a
time of heat and drought. According to the calendar this is Natal's
summer, when hills and veldt, refreshed by genial showers, should be
green with luxurious growth of young grass, or brightened by a profusion
of brilliant wild flowers. But the seasons are out of joint just now. We
get days of torrid heat, bringing a plague of flies from which there is
no escape, and then a sudden thunderstorm sends the temperature down to
something that reminds one of chill October among English moorlands. The
sun hides its face abashed behind a misty veil, but the flies remain.
Drizzling rain, with white mists in the valleys, and heavy clouds
dragging their torn skirts about the mountains, also put a stop to the
bombardment until an hour past noon next day.

Probably these conditions were less favourable to us than to the enemy,
whose movements were completely masked, and when the clouds cleared some
of his batteries on new positions were ready to join the diabolical
concert that went on at intervals until dark. The concert, however, was
mere sound and firing signifying nothing--except in its effect on nerves
already unstrung--as we had no serious casualties that day. And the next
brought peace, for the Boers do not willingly fight on Sunday, and we
have no reasons at present for provoking them to a breach of the
tacitly-recognised ordination that gives us one day's rest in seven with
welcome immunity from shells. Their observance of the Sabbath, however,
does not run to a total cessation of labour on the seventh day, and if
they do not want to fight then they have no scruples about turning it
to account in preparations for a fight next morning. I asked, stopping
in front of her.

"Nothing," said Euphrosyne.

"Oh, I don't believe that," said I.

She looked at me. "I didn't mean to do it," she said again. "But can't
you guess why?"
"There's too much guessing to be done here," said I, impatiently; and I
started walking again. But presently I heard a voice say softly,
and in a tone that seemed to address nobody in particular--me least of
all:

"We Neopalians like a man who can be angry, and I began to think
you never would."
"I am not the least angry," said I, with great indignation.

I hate being told that I am angry when I am merely showing firmness.

Now, at this protest of mine Euphrosyne saw fit to laugh--the most
hearty laugh she had given since I had known her. The mirthfulness of
it undermined my wrath. I stood still opposite her, biting the
end of my mustache.

"You may laugh," said I, "but I'm not angry; and I shall pull this
house down--or dig it up--in cold blood, in perfectly cold blood."
"You are angry," said Euphrosyne, "and you say you're not. You are like
my father. He would stamp his foot furiously like that and say, 'I am
not angry, I am not angry, Phroso.'"

Phroso! I had forgotten that diminutive of my guest's classical name. It
rather pleased me, and I repeated it gently after her, "Phroso, Phroso,"
and I'm afraid I eyed the little foot that had stamped so bravely.

"He always called me Phroso. Oh, I wish he were alive! Then Constantine--"

"Since he isn't," said I, sitting by Phroso (I must write it, it's a deal
shorter)--by Phroso's elbow--"since he isn't, I'll look after Constantine.
It would be a pity to spoil the house, wouldn't it?"
"I've sworn," said Phroso.

"Circumstances alter oaths," said I, bending till I was very near
Phroso's ear.

"Ah," said Phroso, reproachfully, "that's what lovers say
when they find another more beautiful than their old love."
I shot away from Phroso's ear with a sudden backward start. Her
remark, somehow, came home to me with a very remarkable force.

I got off the table, and stood opposite to her, in an awkward and stiff
attitude.

"I am compelled to ask you for the last time if you will tell me the
secret," said I, in the coldest of tones.

She looked up with surprise. My altered manner may well have amazed her.

She did not know the reason of it.

"You asked me kindly and--and pleasantly, and I would not. Now
you ask me as if you threatened," she said. "Is it likely I should
tell you now?"
Well, I was angry with myself, and with her because she had made me
angry with myself; and, the next minute, I became furiously angry
with Denny, whom I found standing in the doorway that led to the
kitchen, with a grin of intense amusement on his face.

"What are you grinning at?" I demanded fiercely.

"Oh, nothing," said Denny, and his face strove to assume a prudent
gravity.

"Bring a pickaxe," said I.

Denny's face wandered toward Phroso. "Is she as annoying as that?" he
seemed to ask. "A pickaxe?" he repeated in surprised tones.

"Yes, two pickaxes! I'm going to have this floor up, and see if I can
find out the great Stefanopoulos secret." I spoke with an accent of
intense scorn.

Again Phroso laughed; her hands beat very softly against one another.

Heavens, what did she do that for when Denny was there, watching everything
with those shrewd eyes of his?

"The pickaxes!" I roared.

Denny turned and fled; a moment elapsed; I did not know what to do, how
to look at Phroso, or how not to look at her. I took refuge in flight.
I rushed into the kitchen on pretence of aiding or hastening
Denny's search. I found him taking up an old pick that stood near the
door leading to the compound. I seized it from his hand.

"Confound you!"

I cried, for Denny laughed openly at me; and I rushed back to the hall!
But on the threshold I paused--and said what I will not write.

For, though there came from somewhere just the last ripple of a mirthful
laugh, the hall was empty! Phroso was gone! I flung the pickaxe down
with a clatter on the boards, and exclaimed in my haste:

"I wish to heaven I'd never bought the island!"
But I did not mean that really.

(_To be continued._)

CLIMBING MONT BLANC IN A BLIZZARD.

CAUGHT IN A BLINDING SNOW STORM ON A NARROW CLIFF, TWO AND A HALF MILES
ABOVE SEA LEVEL.

BY GARRETT P. SERVISS,
Author of "Astronomy with an Opera Glass," "Climbing the Matterhorn,"[15]
etc.

[Footnote 15: See MCCLURE'S MAGAZINE for September, 1895.]
Standing on the spindling tower of the Matterhorn early one August
morning in 1894 I saw, for the first time, the white crown of Europe,
Mont Blanc, with its snows sparkling high above the roof of clouds that
covered the dozing summer in the valleys of Piedmont. Just one year
later I started from Chamonix to climb to that cool world in the
blue.

My guide was Ambroise Couttet, whose family name is famous in the
mountaineering annals of Savoy. An earlier Ambroise Couttet lies in the
icy bosom of Mont Blanc, fallen, years ago, down a crevasse so profound
that his would-be rescuers were drawn, baffled, awe-struck, and with
shaking nerves, from its horrible depths, whose bottom they could
not find.

     Even before that time Pierre Couttet had been whirled to death on
     the great peak, and his body, embedded and preserved in a glacier,
     was found nearly half a century afterward at its foot. And two
     other Couttets of past years escaped, by the merest hair of
     miraculous fortune, from a catastrophe on the same dreadful
     slopes in which three of their comrades were swallowed up. Yet the
     Ambroise Couttet of to-day is never so happy as when he is
     on the mountain. His eyes sparkle if he hears the thunder of an
     avalanche, and he smiles as he watches its tossing white crest
ploughing swiftly across some snowy incline which he has just
traversed.

One porter sufficed, for my only traps consisted of a hand camera, a
field-glass, and a few extra woollen shirts and stockings. Having
had no serious exercise since climbing the Matterhorn a year before,
I deemed it prudent to spare my strength for the more important work
above by taking a mule to the Pierre Pointue. It was a fine morning,
offering a promise of favorable weather after several days of mist and
rain.
Monsieur Janssen, the French astronomer, who was waiting at Chamonix
for his porters to complete their long and wearisome labor of transporting
piecemeal his telescope and other instruments of observation to the summit,
before making the ascent himself, said, grasping my arm at parting:

"I wish you good luck; good weather you are sure of."
[Illustration: COL DE BLANC, MONT BLANC.

From a photograph loaned by Mr. Frank Hegger, New York.]
It was high authority, for Monsieur Janssen has studied the weather all
his life, and knows the atmosphere of mountain peaks and of the airy
levels where balloons float; yet if he could have foreseen what was to
occur on Mont Blanc within twenty hours, he would have wished me the
good fortune of being somewhere else.

It was past the middle of the forenoon of the 10th of August when,
with Couttet and the porter, I left Chamonix.

Dismissing my tired mule at the Pierre Pointue, which hangs with its
flag nearly seven thousand feet above sea level, and high over the séracs
of the Glacier des Bossons, we began the ascent by way of the Pierre
a l'Echelle and over the missile-scarred foot of the Aiguille du Midi.
The upper part of this mountain as seen from Chamonix looks quite
sharp-pointed enough to deserve its name of the "Needle of the South."
The side toward the Glacier des Bossons is exceedingly steep, and when
the snows are melting the peak becomes a perfect catapult, volleys of
ice and stones being discharged from its lofty precipices. The falling
rocks, dropping, as some of them do, from ledge to ledge half a mile,
acquire the velocity of cannon shots. Nobody ever lingers on this part
of the route, and we had no desire to pause, although the Aiguille sends
comparatively few stones down so late in the summer.

The sun beat furiously while we were scrambling on the rocks, and the
latter were warm to the touch, although, thousands of feet below, the
immense cleft in the mountain side was choked with masses of
never-melted ice.

"Never mind," said Couttet, as I stopped to wipe the perspiration from
my face, "it will be cool enough when we get onto the glacier."
And it was--so cool in fact that I hastily pulled on my coat. Having
passed out of range of the Aiguille du Midi, we found comfortable
going on the ice.

[Illustration: THE MAUVAIS PAS, MONT BLANC.]
DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS OF THE ROUTE.

The northern slope of Mont Blanc is hollowed into a vast cavernous
channel, half filled with glaciers, and edged on the east by the Mont
Maudit, the Aiguille de Saussure, and the Aiguille du Midi, and on the
west by the Dome and Aiguille du Gouter and the Gros Bechat. Down this
tremendous gutter crowd the eternal snows of Mont Blanc, compressed
toward the bottom into the Glacier des Bossons and the Glacier de Taconnaz.
These immense ice streams are separated by the projecting nose of the
Montagne de la Cote, which rises from the valley of Chamonix and lies
in a long, dark ridge on the foot of Mont Blanc.

Above the Montagne de la Cote several gigantic rock masses, shooting
into pinnacles, push up through the ice from the bottom and near the
centre of the channel.
These are called the Grands Mulets, from the resemblance which they present,
when seen from Chamonix, to a row of huge black mules tramping up the
white mountain side.

[Illustration: THE GLACIER DES BOSSONS, MONT BLANC.]
I mention these features because the best route to the summit of
Mont Blanc lies over the glaciers and snow fields and between the walls
of the great trough I have described, and the first station is at the
Grands Mulets, where a cabin for the accommodation of climbers has
existed for many years. From the foot of the Aiguille du Midi, at the
Pierre a l'Echelle, across the Glacier des Bossons to the rocks of the
Grands Mulets the distance is about a mile and a quarter, and the
perpendicular increase of elevation nearly two thousand feet. The passage
seldom presents any difficulty, except to inexperienced persons,
although at times many crevasses must be crossed, particularly at
what is called the Junction, just above the point where the Glacier
des Bossons and the Glacier de Taconnaz are divided by the Montagne
de la Cote.

Here some underlying irregularity of the rocks, deep beneath the
surface of the mighty river of ice, causes the formation of a labyrinth
of fissures and crevasses, overhung with towering séracs, or ice
turrets; and the ice descends between the Grands Mulets and the rock
wall in front of the Gros Bechat in a sort of motionless cascade--motionless,
that is to say, except when cracks break apart into yawning chasms,
and massive blocks tumble into the depths.

Even a practised climber is occasionally compelled to look to his steps
in passing the Junction. On my return I witnessed an accident in
this place which proved at the same time the reality of the danger and
the usefulness in sudden crises of the mountaineer's rope. A tourist
descending from the Grands Mulets was passing, under an impending
sérac, around the head of a crevasse, where the only footway was a few
inches of ice hewn with the axe. Being heedless or nervous, his feet
shot from under him, and with a yell he plunged into the pit. Luckily,
he was tied to the rope between two guides, one of whom had passed
the dangerous corner, while the other, behind, had also a safe footing.
As he fell the guides braced themselves, the rope zipped, and the
unfortunate adventurer hung clutching and kicking at the polished blue
wall. He had really descended but a few feet into the crevasse, though
to him doubtless it seemed a hundred, and with a surprising display
of strength, or skill, the guides hauled him out by simply tightening
the rope. One of them pulled back and the other forward, and between
them the sprawling victim rose with the strain to the brink of the chasm,
where a third man dexterously caught and landed him.

[Illustration: REFUGE STATION AT THE GRANDS MULETS, MONT BLANC.]

Madame Marke and Olivier Gay were not so fortunate near this spot in
1870. A bridge of snow spanning a crevasse gave way beneath them, and,
the rope breaking, they disappeared and perished in the abyss.

We reached the Grands Mulets in the middle of the afternoon. Here the
great majority of amateur climbers are content to terminate their ascent
of Mont Blanc. The experience of getting as far as this point and back
again is, as the incidents just related show, anything but insignificant,
and may prove not only exciting but even tragic. Yet, of course,
the real work, the tug of war between human endurance and the
obstacles of untamed nature, is above. The Grands Mulets formed the
stopping place in some of the earliest attempts to climb Mont Blanc,
more than a hundred years ago. Here Jacques Balmat, the hero of the
first ascent, passed an awful night alone, amid the cracking of
glaciers and the shaking of avalanches, before his final victory
over the peak in 1786. In the spirit which led the Romans to surname
the conqueror of Hannibal "Scipio Africanus," the exultant Chamonniards
called their hero "Balmat de Mont Blanc." He, too, finally perished
by a fall from a precipice in 1834, and to-day there are those who
whisper that his spirit can be seen flitting over the snowy wastes
before every new catastrophe.
The cabin at the Grands Mulets is furnished with rough bunks and
cooking apparatus, and during the summer a woman, Adéle Balmat,
assisted by the guides, acts as hostess for this high-perched "inn,"
ten thousand feet above sea level.
It is customary to leave the Grands Mulets for the ascent to the
summit soon after midnight, in order to get over the immense snow
slopes before the action of the sun has loosened the avalanches and
weakened the crevasse bridges. But we did not start until half-past
three in the morning. The waning moon, hanging over the Dome du
Gouter, gave sufficient light to render a lantern unnecessary, and
dawn was near at hand. Threatening bands of clouds attracted anxious
glances from Couttet, and it was evident that a change of weather
impended. But we clambered over the rocks to the crevassed slopes
below the Gouter, and pushed upward.
We were now approaching the higher and narrower portion of the
immense cleft or channel in the mountain that I have described. On
our right towered the Dome du Gouter, and on the left the walls of
the Mont Maudit and its outlying pinnacles. Snowy ridges and peaks
shone afar in the moonlight on all sides. It was a wilderness of
white.
[Illustration: ADÉLE BALMAT, HOSTESS AT THE GRANDS MULETS STATION.]

At the height of twelve thousand feet we came upon the Petit Plateau,
a comparatively horizontal lap of snow which is frequently swept
clear across with avalanches of ice descending from the enormous
séracs that hang like cornices upon the precipices above. The frosty
splinters of a recent downfall sparkled and crunched under our feet.
It is one of the most dangerous places on the mountain. "Men have
lost their lives here and will again lose them," is the remark of
Mr. Conway, the Himalayan climber, in describing his passage of the
place. "Many times I have crossed it," said Monsieur Vallot, the
mountain meteorologist, last summer, "but never without a sinking
of the heart, and the moment we are over the Petit Plateau I always
hear my guides, trained and fearless men, mutter, 'Once more we are
out of it.'"
Knowing these things, it is needless to say that I found the Petit
Plateau keenly interesting. The menacing séracs leaned from the
cliffs, glittering icily, and threw black shadows upon the _névé_
beneath, but suffered us to pass unmolested.
Above the Petit Plateau is a steep ascent called the Grands Montées
which taxes the breath. Having surmounted this, we were on the Grand
Plateau, a much wider level than the other, edged with tremendous
ice cliffs and crevasses, and situated at an elevation of thirteen
thousand feet. For some time now it had been broad day, but the
clouds had thickened rapidly, and the summit was wrapped and
completely hidden in them. Blasts of frigid wind began to whistle
about us, driving stinging pellets of ice into our faces. We quickened
our steps, for it would not do to be caught in a storm here. The
Grand Plateau has taken more lives than its ill-starred neighbor
below.

A BLINDING STORM OF SNOW AND WIND.
We now bore off to the right, in order to clamber up the side of
the great channel, or depression, that we had thus far followed,
because at its upper end, where it meets the base of the crowning
pyramid of Mont Blanc, it abuts against ice-covered precipices that
no mortal will ever scale. Snow commenced to fall, and the wind
rose. As we neared the crest of the ridge connecting the Dome du
Gouter with the Bosses du Dromadaire and the summit, the tempest
burst fiercely upon us.For such picturesque effects there is a
great advantage in being encamped on a height, so that the whole
panorama of rugged kopjes, deep ravines where spruits or rivers sing,
silent camp, and sleeping town stretches round one, bounded only by an
amphitheatre of higher hills.

_November 22._--From half-past eleven last night there was heavy
musketry fire near the north-eastern line of our defensive works, and we
thought the Devons were being attacked hotly, but it turned out to be
nothing more than a fusilade from Boer rifles at some unknown objects.
Our foes are evidently getting a little jumpy and apprehensive of a
surprise by night. Sir George White sends out later a flag of truce to
protest against the persistent shelling of the Town Hall, where our sick
and wounded are lodged temporarily under the protection of a Red Cross
flag. Commandant Schalk-Burger is said to have replied somewhat
insolently that he understands the Geneva flag is being used by us to
shelter combatants. At any rate Intombi is the place for our sick and
wounded, and he will not respect any other hospital flag. Curiously
enough we accept this humiliation, so far as to remove the patients and
provide for them a camping-ground where the tents cannot be seen; but
the Red Cross flag still flies on the Town Hall. Again we watch the
beautiful effects of almost continuous lightning, brilliant as
moonlight, and then turn in before black clouds break in a terrific
thunderstorm. I have remarked before on the advantage of being on a hill
to watch the picturesque effects of a storm such as we have here. But
there are some disadvantages, especially if you have to sleep in a
patrol tent no higher than a fair-sized dog-kennel, and a tent-pole
happens to give way. Then you wake with wet canvas flapping about you.
The rain pours down in a deluge that makes you shiver at the mere
thought of turning out to put the tent-pole right. Let the rain drift
and the canvas flap with sounds like gunshots. It is better at any rate
than lying as Tommy does on the hillside yonder with only one blanket to
roll himself in, and with that thought, perhaps, you may be able to
cuddle yourself off to sleep again in spite of the storm.

_November 23._--Notwithstanding Sir George White's protest, Boer guns
are still laid to bear on the Town Hall, and shells frequently fall in
the enclosure near it, and have hit the building, sending splinters in
all directions, by one of which a dhoolie-bearer was killed. This seems
to me a scandalous violation of all the rules of civilised warfare,
which certainly entitle us to a field-hospital in addition to one at the
base. If Schalk-Burger had objected on the ground that the Town Hall so
long as it was used for sick and wounded came in the line of fire from
his guns to our batteries or defensive works, he would have been within
his rights, but all the same there would have been no truth in that
contention, and at any rate it rests with him to clear himself from the
charge of having fired on a Red Cross flag without warning. Meanwhile
other guns on Surprise Hill have been searching for the 18th Hussars in
their bivouac where Klip River runs through a deep ravine, and "Long
Tom" of Pepworth's has thrown a shell into Mrs. Davy's house, opposite
Captain Vallentin's, wounding its owner, who is the first woman hit,
though numbers of them, having got over their first panic, go about
their domestic duties all day as if there were no such thing as a
bombardment, and never think of taking shelter in a riverside cave now.
This shot brought upon "Long Tom" the vengeance of oar Naval Battery,
which must have battered him or his gunners severely.

All the afternoon Boer rifles have been dropping bullets into posts
held by the Rifle Brigade and Leicesters. Perhaps the men were showing
signs of being harassed when General Hunter visited them. With a laugh
he stood bolt upright on a rock, saying, "Now let us see whether these
Boers can shoot or not;" and there he remained in full view of them for
nearly a minute, while Mauser bullets hummed about him like a swarm of
wasps. Such an act may seem like senseless bravado, but those who know
Archibald Hunter well know that he had an object in giving this example
of coolness and pluck.

_November 24._--The Boers made a clever cattle-raid this morning. Twenty
spans of trek-oxen had been sent to graze on the veldt between our
outposts and Rifleman's Ridge in charge of Kaffir herd-boys. Slowly they
grazed towards better pasturage, nearer and nearer to the Boer lines,
from which shells in rapid succession were sent to burst just in rear of
the herds. Mounted infantry of the Leicesters attempted again and again,
to herd the cattle back, but they were met each time by heavy
rifle-fire, and at last two or three Boers dashing down the slope
rounded up herd after herd with the dexterity of expert "cow-boys." Thus
no less than 250 valuable trek-oxen fell into the enemy's hands, and we
had the humiliation of looking on helpless while it was being done.

The bombardment has been going on at intervals all day, from seven
o'clock this morning until dusk, when Bulwaan sent several shells on to
Junction Hill, killing three men of the Liverpool Regiment and wounding
eight. This is the most fatal half-hour we have experienced since the
siege began, but there was one lucky escape from a shell which burst in
the guard tent among four men without hurting any of them. For the
depression caused by these serious casualties there is some consolation
in the rumour that "Long Tom" of Pepworth's has been knocked out for
good and all. At any rate his last shot into the town was answered
effectively by the naval 4·7, which sent a shell straight into "Long
Tom's" embrasure, and he has not spoken or given any sign of life since.
Without wearisome iteration it would be impossible to do justice day by
day to the good work of the Naval Brigade under Captain Lambton. Without
the heavy guns of H.M.S. _Powerful_ our state here would be much worse
than it is, and everybody in besieged Ladysmith appreciates the
bluejackets, who are always cheery, always ready for any duty, and whose
good shooting has done much to keep down the fire of Boer artillery.

_November 25._--No hostilities disturb the quietness of morning or early
afternoon, but it is never safe to count on this, and look-out men are
kept constantly on the alert in each camp to give warning by sound of
high whistle or gong when one of the big guns has been fired. Against
"Silent Susan" such precautions avail nothing, for she wears no
white-cloud signal--the flash of discharge can only be seen if you
happen to be looking for it intently in the right place. Close upon the
heels of her report comes a shrill, fiendish whisper in the air, and by
the time you hear that, the shell is overhead or has burst elsewhere.
The Gordons and Imperial Light Horse, however, are not to be debarred
from sport by considerations of that kind. They take all reasonable
precautions and leave the rest to chance, with the result that they
snatch some amusement out of circumstances that seem unpromising. This
afternoon the Gordons had a Gymkhana, and got through it merrily to the
entertainment of many friends before a discordant note was heard from
Boer batteries. The bombardment did not begin until half-past six, and
lasted only until dusk, the final shot being fired by our naval gun into
some new works on Bulwaan.

_November 26._--The Boers are busy preparing an emplacement for heavy
artillery on Middle Hill, south of and flanking Bester's Ridge.
Apparently they suspect us of doing similar work on the plain in front
of Devonshire Hill, and their strict regard for the Sabbath does not run
to toleration of Sunday labour on our part, so they send three shells in
among some Kaffirs who are digging trenches with the harmless object of
burying dead horses there.

_November 27._--The Boers, grown bold with the success of their first
raid, try another--this time with the object of cutting out horses that
graze loose on the plain towards Bulwaan. But they have to do now with
Natal Carbineers, many of whom, like themselves, are veldt farmers,
familiar with every trick of rounding up horses or oxen. In vain do the
gunners of "Puffing Billy" throw percussion shells to drive the herd
towards their lines. In vain are shrapnels timed to burst in a shower
where Carbineers sweep round like Indian scouts to herd the startled
horses back. The Volunteers do their work neatly, coolly, quickly, to
the chagrin of Boers who wait in kloofs beyond Klip River for a chance
of carrying off some valuable horses. In their disappointment the
Bulwaan battery tries to get some consolation by shelling the camp of
the Carbineers. The new gun which Boers were mounting yesterday on
Middle Hill opened to-day, shelling first the Rifle Brigade piquets on
King's Post and then the sangar of the Manchesters in Cæsar's Camp. It
enfilades both positions with equal ease.

The Rifles had a narrow escape as they were at work on a wall, the top
of which was struck by a shell, and splinters flew all round without
hitting anybody. The Manchesters were not so fortunate, having three men
wounded, but none seriously. While I write, smoking concerts are being
held in the camps of Imperial Light Horse and Natal Volunteers, from
whose strong lungs the notes of "God Save the Queen" roll in a volume
that can be heard a mile off. Perhaps some faint echoes of it may stir
the air about sleeping Boers on Bulwaan.

_November 28._--A misty morning with rain, which does not prevent the
enemy from sending a few shots into town. Middle Hill, Rifleman's
Ridge, Telegraph Hill, with its three 9-pounders, which the Rifle
Brigade men, for quaint reasons of their own, name Faith, Hope, and
Charity, all have a turn at us, and our batteries reply; but there is
not much vigour in it on either side until Middle Hill, with its Creusot
94-pounder, and the howitzer on Surprise Hill, begin to shell our naval
12-pounders. There they touch Captain Lambton on a tender point, and he
lets them have it back with a will. To-day we have been cheered by news
of the victory over the Boers near Mooi River, but for Natal people
satisfaction is dashed by the thought that if Boers are so far down they
have raided the most fertile part of the Colony, and probably carried
off pedigree cattle that are priceless.

_November 29._--The night has been passed in preparing a surprise for
the big Creusot gun on Middle Hill, which, because of his propensity for
throwing shells into everybody's mess, has come to be known as the
"Meddler." Deep gun-pits are dug on the northern slope of Waggon Hill,
where on a nek they are screened by the higher spur from view of Middle
Hill. In these pits two old-fashioned howitzers, throwing shells with
sixty pounds of black powder for bursting charge, are mounted. Captain
Christie, R.A., takes command of them and waits his chance, which does
not come for a long time, the cannonade being at first confined to a
duel between Captain Lambton's pet, "Lady Anne," and "Puffing Billy" of
Bulwaan. At length, however, the "Meddler" chimes in, and Captain
Christie immediately looses off his two howitzers in succession. They
cannot be laid by sights on the object aimed at, which is hidden from
view. All has to be done by calculation of angles, and a fraction of
error may make all the difference. So we watch anxiously while the
shell--a long time in flight--follows its allotted parabola. One bursts
just short of the work; but its companion, a second later, goes over the
parapet and sends debris flying upwards in a mighty cloud. Thereupon the
howitzers are christened promptly "The Great Twin Brethren," "Castor and
Pollux," and "Puffing Pals," everybody selecting the name that appeals
to his imagination most strongly. It matters little by what name men
call them, so long as they can throw shells truly into the enemy's
battery, and this they do steadily. The "Meddler" cannot reply to them
effectively, and other Boer guns try in vain to reach them. At night a
curious palpitating light on the clouds southward attracts attention.
One Rifle Brigade man who has a smattering of the Morse Code watches it
for some time and mutters to himself, "X.X.X. Why, they're calling us
up"; and before a signalman can be roused we see clearly enough these
palpitations resolving themselves into dots and dashes. It is a signal
from the south, flashed by searchlight across miles of intervening
hills, but in a cypher which only those who have the key can read.

[Illustration: THE BRITISH POSITION AT LADYSMITH, LOOKING NORTH TOWARDS
RIETFONTEIN AND THE NEWCASTLE ROAD]

_November 30._--Day breaks across white mists on the plain, and then
comes gorgeous sunshine, with a glow of colour all round, brilliant
orange in the east above Bulwaan, deepening to blood-red in the west
behind the rugged crest of Mount Tintwa and the pitted peaks of Mont aux
Sources. From daybreak onward there is heavy artillery fire on camp and
town from every gun the Boers have mounted. Our howitzers and the
"Meddler" began it with a merry little set-to between themselves, doing
no harm. Then Surprise Hill, Telegraph Hill, Rifleman's Ridge, Bulwaan,
and Lombard's Kop joined in, the last aiming straight for the hospital,
with its Red Cross flag. Two shells had fallen close to that building,
from which all haste was made to remove the helpless patients. Most of
them had been got out when the third shot came crashing into the largest
ward, and from among the ruins one dead man and nine freshly wounded
were taken. Rifle fire quickened then about Observation Hill, and
bullets flying overhead made many think that the Boers were coming on,
but it all died away into silence without further casualties on our
side. At night the column southward flashes another long signal on the
clouded sky, and Boer search-lights try to obliterate it by throwing
their feeble rays across the beam that shines like a comet athwart the
darkness above Tugela heights.

_December 1._--"Long Tom" of Pepworth's Hill, which has not fired since
"Lady Anne" silenced it days ago, is now reported to be cracked and
useless, but the Boers are preparing emplacements for another heavy
piece of ordnance on a flat-topped nether spur of Lombard's Kop, where
they have a persistently disagreeable 40-pounder already mounted. We do
nothing to prevent this increase of hostile artillery, but content
ourselves with inventing new names for the batteries, so that the
intelligence map may be kept up to date with fullest details. This spur
henceforth is to be known as Gun Hill, probably because the weapon
already in position there has made itself conspicuously unpleasant by
shelling the headquarters and intelligence offices. From it three
successive shells were fired this morning into or near the convent where
Colonel Dick-Cunyngham, Major Riddell, and other convalescent wounded
have their quarters. Middle Hill gun only fired a few rounds to-day, and
was promptly silenced by our "Great Twin Brethren," the howitzers of
Waggon Hill.

_December 2._--We are not left long in doubt as to the meaning of those
new works on Gun Hill. A Creusot 94-pounder has opened from there,
shelling in rapid succession Sir George White's headquarters camp, the
Royal Artillery, and the Imperial Light Horse, who have their parade and
playground pitted by marks of this fire. People say that "Long Tom" has
been shifted from Pepworth's to the new position, but the shells, with
their driving-bands grooved deep and sharp, tell another story. It is a
new gun, or little used, and probably fresh from Pretoria. Its range is
great, and gives easy command of the ravine in which our cavalry are
bivouacked by the riverside. One shell has already burst there, wounding
a man of the 18th Hussars, but fortunately the enemy cannot see the
result of this fire, the river for a mile in length being screened from
his view by intervening hills.

_December 4._--One may skip Sunday when it is uneventful in its perfect
peace, as yesterday was, and be deeply thankful for the rest that is
given to us once a week when shells cease from troubling. The weather
has changed suddenly from brilliant sunshine and almost tropical heat to
cloudy skies that send the temperature down to shivering point. Few
shells fell in the town this morning, when groups gathered at street
corners discussing rumours of Lord Methuen's victory on Modder River,
which are now officially confirmed. General Clery is also said to have
defeated the Boers near Estcourt, but if so he did not get back the
cattle they had looted, for we have watched them for hours driving great
herds from southward up the roads that lead to Van Reenan's Pass.

Our batteries here have for once been most aggressive, shelling the
enemy's position at Rifleman's Ridge vigorously, while the howitzers
directed their fire on Middle Hill without drawing a reply from the
6-inch Creusot, which Captain Christie and his gunners believe to have
been put out of action completely. His twin brother, "Puffing Billy" of
Bulwaan, was also silenced for a time, but has come back to quite his
old form this evening, and threw several shells into the town and camps,
where troops assembled to cheer the news of Lord Methuen's victory when
it was read out in general orders.

_December 5._--The bombardment has been slack again to-day: all the
enemy's big guns silent. But there is great movement among the Boers,
who are apparently holding a great council of war at General Joubert's
headquarters. This may account for rumours of dissensions between the
Free State and Transvaal commandos.

_December 6._--Now we know what the firing of Boer guns all round
Ladysmith at midnight of 19th November meant. It was a night alarm
magnified by imagination into a desperate sortie from Ladysmith, and a
correspondent of the _Diggers' News_ telegraphed his version of the
affair in glowing terms to that paper, giving full details of things
that never happened. A copy just received in camp causes much amusement.
Reference to my notes for the 19th of last month will show that we were
at perfect peace here. Not a man of this force except the ordinary
patrols moved on the night when we are reported to have made that
strenuous but futile effort to break through the enemy's lines, and not
a shot was fired on our side. The Boers must have been startled at their
own shadows or at the movements of a subaltern's patrol which they
magnified into an army, and having beat the big drum they perhaps tried
to justify themselves by sending that cock-and-bull story to Pretoria.

To-night our troops are out for exercise, marching through the streets,
and singing or whistling merrily as they march. If the Boers get word of
this they may have another scare. The daily bombardment is now so much a
matter of course that one hardly makes a note of it unless some casualty
brings home to us the fact that nobody is safe while shells fly about.

_December 7._--During a heavy cannonade in which our naval batteries
engaged Gun Hill and Bulwaan from six o'clock until ten this morning,
women and children were walking about the streets quite unconcerned.
Hundreds of shells have already fallen in the town, and there are some
zealous statisticians who compile charts showing exactly where each
shell struck and the direction from which it was fired, but the majority
of us do not concern ourselves much about any that burst beyond a radius
of fifty yards from our own camps or houses, and so many fall harmless
that we seldom ask whether anybody has been hit, and it sometimes
happens therefore that one does not hear of serious casualties except by
accident. It comes rather as a surprise to find that our losses since
the siege began, thirty-six days ago, amount to thirteen killed and one
hundred and forty-eight wounded. A battle might have been won at less
cost.

This evening the 6-inch Creusot on Gun Hill was very active, directing
its fire toward headquarters at first, and then turning it on a building
which has just been selected for the new Post Office, to be opened when
communications are restored. It had a narrow escape of being blown to
ruins by a shell that entered through the roof and exploded inside.


CHAPTER VII

THE SORTIES OF DECEMBER

     Retribution--Sir Archibald Hunter's bold scheme--A night
     attack--Silently through the darkness--At the foot of Gun Hill--A
     broken ascent--"Wie kom dar?" "The English are on us!"--Major
     Henderson thrice wounded--Destroying "Leviathan"--Hussars suffer
     under fire--Rejoicings in town--Sir George White's address to the
     troops--Boer compliments--A raid for provender--A second
     sortie--The Rifles' bold enterprise--An unwelcome light--Cutting
     the wires--Surprise Hill reached--The sentry's challenge--The
     Rifles' charge--Boer Howitzer destroyed--The return to
     camp--Cutting the way home--Serious losses.


     This constant shelling of the town could not go on for ever without
     some attempt being made to stop it. Mr. Pearse had himself urged
     the practicability of capturing or putting out of action at close
     quarters the Boer big gun which could not be dealt with by our
     shell-fire. This was now to be done. The Creusot gun just mounted
     on Gun Hill, which like its neighbours had been given a name and
     endowed with a personality by the nimble-witted among the garrison,
     was to pay the penalty of its crimes, and the enterprise of which
     this was the result formed one of the most brilliant incidents in
     the history of the siege.

Probably (writes Mr. Pearse) no corps within our lines has been more
deliberately shelled than the Imperial Light Horse, who were driven out
of one camp by "Long Tom" of Pepworth's Hill, only to pitch their tents
by the river bank within sight of "Puffing Billy's" gunners, who had got
the range from Bulwaan to a nicety, so that they could pitch shell after
shell into the new encampment. Even their "Long Tom" also still pounded
at them by way of varying the monotony of a daily duel with our naval
guns. But the most annoying fire of all came from the newly-mounted
6-inch Creusot on Little Bulwaan, which, for the sake of distinction, is
known officially as Gun Hill, in front of Lombard's Kop. Having an
effective range that enables it to search with shell every part of our
camp that is visible, this weapon fired first in one direction, then in
another, changing its aim so frequently that nobody could predict where
the next shell might fall until it came hurtling through the air, in
dangerous proximity, with a sound that suggests the half-throttled
scream of a steam siren, and it generally finished, as it began, with a
few shots at the Imperial Light Horse, or their near neighbours the
Gordon Highlanders.

I do not know whether the idea of putting an end to the career of this
worrying monster originated at headquarters, or grew out of the wish,
frequently expressed by Imperial Light Horse and Natal Volunteers, to
"have a go" at the enemy's guns--Sir George White has given the credit
to General Sir Archibald Hunter, and such an enterprise is worthy of
the man who stormed the Dervish stronghold at Abu Hamed, and led his
troops up to the flame of rifle fire that fringed Mahmud's zeriba on the
Atbara. He kept the whole scheme so secret that he did not even let his
aide-de-camp know anything about it until some time after dinner last
night. Then he sent round a brief message to Colonel Royston commanding
the Volunteer Forces of Natal, and to Colonel Edwardes of the Imperial
Light Horse. In accordance with this order the troops detailed got under
arms very quietly, taking all the ammunition they could carry, but
leaving their horses and cumbersome equipment in the lines, for Sir
Archibald had wisely resolved that all taking part in this expedition
must march the five miles out, and get back as best they could on foot,
neither troop horses nor officers' chargers being allowed to join the
column. Lord Ava, who is attached to Brigadier-General Hamilton's staff,
happened to be a guest of the Light Horse. Getting an inkling of some
mysterious movement, for which officers were arming themselves like
their men with rifles, he stole away to get a night free from galloper's
duties, shouldered a Lee-Enfield, crammed a bandolier full of
cartridges, and came back in time to join the ranks before they marched
off.

It was then past ten o'clock; the crescent moon was "sloping slowly
towards the west" behind a bank of dark clouds, and in another hour the
faint light would have gone, giving place to a gloom that makes rocks,
trees, rough knolls, and deep dongas one shapeless black. General
Hunter's instructions were brief and simple, silence being the point
most strongly insisted on. For the rest, Imperial Light Horse and
Carbineers, to whom he entrusted the attack, were to follow their guides
and keep line if possible. These two corps contributed about one hundred
men each. The Border Mounted Rifles, Natal Volunteers, and a small field
force of Colonel Dartnell's Border Police, making altogether about four
hundred, were to be in reserve, the Border Mounted furnishing supports
and pushing them up the hill as each step in the ascent was gained. The
fourteen guides, with Major Henderson of the Intelligence branch as
staff officer, went ahead, and then the column moved off silently, the
order being passed from section to section in whispers. The Boers, five
miles off, would not have heard if a full band had played the
adventurous six hundred out; but we know that there are Boer emissaries
still in camp who might, by preconcerted signal, have given the alarm if
the unusual movement had aroused them and their suspicions. It was well,
therefore, to let such sleeping dogs lie. So the column marched in
silence along town roads, where nearly every house is deserted, and deep
dust muffled the tread of many feet until they were clear of the town,
and passing our outposts on Helpmakaar Hill. The forms of massed men
could be made out dimly where the Devon battalion rested under arms,
ready to give assistance in case of any reverse.

From that point the Helpmakaar road leads straight round a scrubby nek
where the Boers have thrown up a formidable series of earthworks. To
avoid these, the column struck off across open veldt into a hollow where
men had to feel their way among stunted bushes of the "Wacht een bichte"
thorn, and across dongas where the sandy banks crumbled under weights
incautiously placed, and slid down with men into depths of six feet or
more. After floundering about there they climbed out again to re-form
with such regularity as was possible in the circumstances. But for the
guides, who seemed to know every inch of ground, right directions would
almost inevitably have been lost. As it was, however, they reached the
foot of Little Bulwaan (or Gun Hill) at twenty minutes to two, and
preparations were made for an immediate assault lest daylight should
come before the work could be accomplished. Everybody knew full well how
impossible it would be to get away from the position without terrible
losses, if the Boers could see to shoot It was pretty well known that
not many of them occupied Gun Hill, but the number encamped within reach
of it was a matter of pure speculation, dependent on the accuracy of
Kaffir stories which might be true of one day, but quite untrustworthy
twenty-four hours later; so rapid are the Boers in their movements, if
they get any suspicion that an attack is impending.

Notwithstanding the difficulties of keeping touch across rough ground,
where silence was imposed, the different detachments, each with a guide
to lead it, marched so quietly that not a word was spoken, and all
arrived at their proper posts in admirable order, worthy of trained
troops. That, however, became somewhat broken as the ascent began, and
little wonder, for the boulders, rounded and worn smooth by the storms
of ages, were slippery to tread on, and occasionally a man's foot would
become wedged between them in a deep cleft. Here and there progress was
painfully slow, and the hill so steep that it had to be climbed on hands
and knees. The higher they climbed the worse it became, until, as one
man describing his own experiences said, they were like a lot of lizards
crawling over rocks. Half-way up the hill they had a narrow escape from
stumbling on a Boer picket. The sentry heard if he did not see the line
of crouching figures that passed him like ghosts in the darkness with
stealthy steps that must have sounded weird across the night stillness.
In a voice huskily vibrant, he challenged, "Wie kom dar?" Getting no
reply, he called again twice in louder tones, and then fired his rifle
at nothing in particular. Then, the whole picket waking, or beginning to
realise that danger was near, let off a volley, and voices were heard
shouting to comrades on the ridge. "The English are on us, Hans, Carl.
Shoot! shoot!" A few shots came from so close to one flank of the
Imperial Light Horse that Boers must have been lying there almost under
the feet of our men, if they did not actually join the ranks for a time
to escape detection. But a sound greeted their ears at that moment, and
knowing what it meant, they scampered downhill without waiting to hear
more. It was a ringing British cheer followed by strident commands to
"Fix bayonets and give the devils cold steel." Begun by Major Karri
Davis, the order ran along from Imperial Light Horse to Carbineers, who
had not a bayonet amongst them, for irregular mounted infantry in this
country do not carry such weapons. But they struck the butts of their
rifles on rocks, and made a great clatter as if preparing for a bayonet
charge, and cheered again and again for a good deal more than their
actual numbers, while crags on each hand tossed the shouts to and fro in
a mighty tumult. This was apparently too much for the small number of
Boers who held the crest. Letting off bullets in rapid succession, until
the magazines were exhausted, they turned and bolted, having hit only
ten of our men, one of whom, the tallest trooper in the Imperial Light
Horse, was badly wounded. In proportion to their numbers the guides
suffered most, having four out of fourteen hit, though none very
severely. The worst wound of all was from an explosive bullet similar to
those used in Express rifles for big-game shooting, and many missiles of
the same kind were seen to burst with a flash like shells as they
struck on stones round about, thus proving that the use of explosive
bullets by Boers is not quite so rare as most of us have believed
hitherto. Major Henderson received three wounds from buck-shot or
"loupalin," one of which penetrated deeply, but caused so little shock
at the time that he was able to keep pace with the best uphill.
Nevertheless, "scatter guns" are not weapons proper to be used in
warfare between civilised combatants.

Halting for a brief breathing space, now and again, at General Hunter's
command, then following with all the speed they could muster where he
and his aide-de-camp, Major King, led the Imperial Light Horse on the
left, the Carbineers on their right made a final dash for the steepest
climb of all, and, breathless, gained the ridge, to find that the Boers
had quitted it, leaving not a man in defence of the guns. A great stroke
of luck befell the Imperial Light Horse, who crossed the heights with
their left flank opposite a Boer 12-pounder and Maxim gun. The latter
they made a clean capture of, but the field-piece, being too heavy for
them to carry off, was left to the tender mercies of the engineers, who
soon had bracelets of gun-cotton round it, and the breech-pieces damaged
beyond repair.

Meanwhile the right flank was sweeping round towards the main battery in
expectation of meeting with some resistance from the gun's crew of "Big
Ben of Little Bulwaan." That weapon had, in virtue of similar qualities,
succeeded to "Long Tom's" second title, but did not live long to enjoy
it. The end of his active career was at hand when the Light Horse made
their dash for him and found that he had been deserted by all his
friends. It was poetical justice that Colonel Edwardes and Major Karri
Davis of the corps which Big Ben had shelled most persistently should be
first to lay hands on him and claim every part that could be taken away
as a rightful trophy for the Imperial Light Horse. But Major Henderson,
in spite of his wounds, General Sir Archibald Hunter, and Major King
were in the redoubt at that moment, and therefore the honours are
divided. Doctor Platt, of the Border Mounted, claims to have been among
the first four in. Some of the Carbineers are also under the impression
that they captured a gun, and though there is nothing to show for it,
they deserve full credit for an important share in the night's success.
A line was formed in rear of the battery, while engineers put rings of
gun-cotton round Big Ben's muzzle and breech. Then fuses were set
alight, and our men retired hastily beyond reach of the imminent
explosion. After that engineers and artillerymen went back to make sure
that their work had not been bungled, and saw with satisfaction that the
gun-cotton had rent great holes through Big Ben's breech in two places,
rendering him totally unfit for foreign service. This was the crowning
act of a great achievement, and the force that had aided in its
accomplishment marched back to camp triumphantly just as day broke.

As a precautionary measure, in case there should be a reverse, and with
the object also of cutting off any fugitive Boers who might fly
panic-stricken from Gun Hill, the 19th Hussars had gone earlier to make
a demonstration by way of Limit Hill, towards Modder's Spruit, and
destroy some Boer stores. With characteristic faith in the luck that has
favoured bold cavalry enterprises so often, they pushed far forward and
gained some valuable information at the risk of being cut off, but
fortunately that did not happen. Meanwhile the 18th, jealous for the
great reputation they have won as scouts, attempted a movement even more
hazardous. In advance of General Brocklehurst's reconnoitring force one
squadron of this regiment made straight for a position which the enemy
was believed to hold in strength between Pepworth's and Surprise Hill.
To do this they crossed near a deep cutting through which the Harrismith
railway passes, and there came under a terribly heavy fire, against
which even their hardihood was not proof. Retiring, they made a detour
to avoid unnecessary exposure, and swept round two small kopjes, where
not a Boer had been seen previously. But, as it happened, the stony
ridges were full of riflemen, who, without emerging from their
concealment, brought a furious fusillade to bear on the Hussars, who had
to run the gauntlet at full speed, all but one, and he, with gallant
self-sacrifice, rode straight towards the nearer kopje, drawing the
whole fire on himself, and thus giving his comrades time to get clear.
Fortunately not a bullet touched him as he wheeled about, lay flat on
his saddle-bow, and galloped after the squadron. Its retreat was covered
by a very pretty movement of the main body and by salvos of shrapnel
from our field batteries, with the naval guns chiming in. Then the
reconnoitring force slowly withdrew across the plain towards Junction
Hill, still under a rifle fire heavier even than we had to face on the
slopes of Elandslaagte, though not so well directed. Several saddles,
however, were emptied, bringing our losses in this affair up to five
killed and seventeen wounded. Of these considerably more than half were
18th Hussars, whose ranks have been seriously thinned since they marched
to Dundee less than eight weeks ago.

In camps and town everybody is elated to-day. Casting aside the sombre
garb that was suitable to retirement, ladies have come forth clad in
raiment that is festively bright to go a-shopping, as if there were no
such things as shells to disturb them, and no cares greater than
feminine frivolities. If the siege were at an end, and peace within
sight, we could hardly be more joyously animated, and all because two
hundred gallant fellows, led by a dashing General, have shown how Boer
positions may be captured at night, and Boer siege guns silenced for
ever with small loss.

Sir George White ordered special parades for the afternoon of all
volunteers, guides, Irregular Horse, and Frontier Police Force who had
taken part in the attack on Gun Hill. Each corps had its own appointed
place for the ceremony, and Sir George visited them in turn to
congratulate them on their brilliant achievement. For the guides, who
are attached as scouts, interpreters, and field orderlies to the
Intelligence Staff, the General had special words of praise. Without
their valuable aid the enterprise might have been doomed to failure, and
he expressed high appreciation of their gallantry, not less than of the
skill they had shown in guiding a column over difficult ground when
there was not light enough to make a single landmark visible except the
sky-line of Gun Hill. To the Imperial Light Horse he paid an equally
flattering tribute. As the men of three companies were drawn up in line
to receive him, "Puffing Billy" tried to put a spoke in their wheel by
sending a shell very near one flank, and the line was accordingly broken
into close column with a short front, so that it be hidden by house and
trees from sight of the gunners on Bulwaan. At that moment Sir George
White, with General Sir Archibald Hunter, General Brocklehurst, and a
number of staff officers, rode to the ground, and were received by a
general salute, to which the presence of two or three wounded men with
arms in blood-stained slings gave emphasis, as they had no rifles
wherewith to shoulder and present.

The officers on parade were Colonel Edwardes, commanding, Major Karri
Davis, Major Doveton, Lieutenant Fitzgerald, adjutant, Captain Fowler,
commanding F Company, Captain Mullins, B Company, and Captain
Codrington, E Company, with their subalterns, Lieutenants Brooking,
Normand, Matthias, Pakeman, Kirk, and Huntley, all of whom had been in
the fight except Major Doveton, who volunteered for it, but was
compelled to stay in camp for field-officer's duties. His seniors had
the privilege of first choice, and insisted on it, so there was nothing
left for him but submission to the inevitable. As a tribute to the men
whose heroic achievement is the brightest episode in this long siege,
Sir George White's soldierly speech will interest readers at home.
Addressing Colonel Edwardes, he said:

"General Hunter, who planned and carried out the very successful
movement of this morning, has reported to me the very efficient help
that he received from the men of the Imperial Light Horse as well as the
other corps who were employed. When he told me last night that he was
anxious to have a shy at the gun on Gun Hill, there was one thing that I
determined on, and that was, that I would give him the best support that
I could. I knew I could trust you to help on account of your knowledge
of the business which you have taken in hand in this campaign, and on
account of your bravery and your steadiness. I was also confident of
your intelligent individual action in case there might be any
difficulty to overcome. I have come here to express to you my
appreciation of the value of the work you did last night, and also to
thank you for it. It will be a great pleasure to me to report to General
Sir Redvers Buller, whose name brings confidence wherever it is
mentioned, on the work you have done, not only on this occasion, but on
every occasion when it has been my good luck to have your assistance. I
have no doubt there is a great deal more hard fighting before us, and my
only hope is that you will do as well in the future as in the past, so
that I may be able to say at the end of this campaign as I now say in
the middle of it, that your behaviour is an honour not only to your own
country and colony, but to the whole empire. Colonel Edwardes, I don't
wish to keep you any longer, owing to the circumstance that 'Long Tom'
of Bulwaan may interfere in this conference, but once more I thank you
one and all."

Lusty cheers were then given for Sir George White, General Hunter,
General Brocklehurst, and Colonel Edwardes. Sir George White's
appreciation of the heroic achievement is shared by Boer leaders, and in
their case it is all the more flattering because expressed while they
are smarting under the humiliation of a great loss. Dr. Davis, with
another medical officer and some ambulance men, went up Gun Hill at
daybreak under a flag of truce, to look after the wounded men who could
not be found when their comrades came down in the dark. Giving no heed
to the Geneva Cross, some Boers made Dr. Davis and his companions
prisoners, and they were taken before Commandant Schalk-Burger, who
received them with scant courtesy at first. In the end, however, he paid
a great compliment to the Light Horse on their plucky deed. One Boer
officer who stood by said he thought they all deserved the Victoria
Cross, and another showed familiarity with English habits of thought by
describing the night attack as "a devilish sporting thing." They wanted
to know who led it, and the answer has given Sir Archibald Hunter a
place in Boer estimation among the British soldiers whom they would
rather meet as friends than as enemies.

The Imperial Light Horse are celebrating their achievement by a
brilliant gathering to-night, and have feasted their guests on so many
good things that one begins to doubt whether there can be much scarcity
in camp, though ordinary articles of food, and especially drink, are
running up rapidly to famine prices.

Plenty in the Imperial Light Horse larder may however be accounted for
by success in another night attack about which one did not hear so much,
though it was carried out with characteristic dash as a preliminary to
the greater enterprise that followed twenty-four hours later. One
company of the Imperial Light Horse, being on outpost duty south of
Waggon Hill, had conceived the idea of a midnight raid on Bester's Farm,
whence the Boers, after an effective occupation of several weeks, had
retired, leaving a Red Cross flag still attached to a thorn bush in the
garden, by way of suggesting that poultry and pigs should be regarded as
under the protection of the Geneva Convention. They did not go far,
however, and parties of them came down to the farm nearly every night
for supplies. The Light Horse, having impartial minds, thought they
might as well "chip in" for some of the good things. So they made their
raid, and came back laden with provender. Much of this they distributed
with a liberality that has won for them and for all Natal Volunteers
concurrently the title of "friendlies," which will certainly stick as
long as British troops and Colonial Irregulars campaign together. Some
fat turkeys were part of the loot, and they helped to make a right royal
feast to-night, when the gallant "friendlies" had their cup of happiness
filled by warm congratulations from the Gordons, the Devons, and every
cavalry regiment with which they are brigaded.

     Such brilliant achievements as the above might, it was soon felt,
     be more difficult in future, the enemy having been put upon his
     guard; but all the good-comradeship in the world could not prevent
     some jealousy being felt, and nobody can pretend to regret that a
     spirit of noble emulation has thus been roused. There had never
     been any lack of men ready for work of that kind from the first day
     of investment. Devons and Gordons had volunteered weeks before to
     take the Boer guns from which the defenders suffered most
     annoyance, any night the General might give them permission; but
     those fine battalions were wanted for important duties in the
     purely defensive scheme, and so they had to lie behind earthworks
     or in bomb-proof structures, half tent, half cave, shelled when
     they ventured to move out by day, kept on the alert through many
     hours of weary night, and called to arms again an hour before dawn.
     They had shown--and the same is true of every corps and detachment
     in the garrison--the most splendid endurance. Indeed, the only
     signs of impatience seen among the troops were the outcome of an
     eager desire to be led out against the enemy, that they might get
     some satisfaction for the losses and annoyance to which they had
     been subjected from the long-range fire of Boer artillery.

     Now, however, the regulars, who had long been ready for any
     service, in view of the brilliant performance of the irregulars,
     regarded inaction as a slur upon their particular regiments. The
     feeling resulted in a second attempt being made, this time to
     destroy the enemy's big gun on Surprise Hill. Though it failed to
     win an equal success, it was a hardly less brilliant performance,
     and forms another engrossing page in Mr. Pearse's story. Writing on
     11th December, he thus describes the enterprise from its  inception:--

Lieut.-Colonel Metcalfe of the 2nd Rifle Brigade gave expression
yesterday to a general desire that the regulars should be allowed a
chance to prove their mettle, by sending to Sir George White a request
that his battalion might be allowed to attack the Boer position on
Surprise Hill and silence the howitzer there. This request had to be
sanctioned by Brigadier-General Howard, who, as an old Rifle Brigade
officer, was nothing loth to add strong reasons why the step should be
taken. Other corps might be panting for opportunities of distinction,
but the Rifle Brigade, having held the post on Cove Hill which now bears
its name under fire from this howitzer for weeks past, had a right to
claim that their chance should come first.

Sir George White, fully appreciating Colonel Metcalfe's plea of
privilege and the spirit that animated it, gave consent at once, and
left Colonel Metcalfe free to carry out his plan unhampered by any
conditions save those of ordinary military prudence. He did not even
give the direction of it to a staff officer, and though the Intelligence
Department furnished guides it took no active part in the affair, for
the success or failure of which Colonel Metcalfe alone held himself
responsible. Major Altham saw the column off and accompanied it for some
distance, but only as a spectator, and that no farther than the initial
stage, beyond which everything was shrouded in darkness. The new moon,
sinking behind heavy clouds, gave little light when the men fell into
rank by companies for their march. There were about 450 rifles all told.
To these must be added two small detachments of artillery and engineers,
taking with them charges of gun-cotton. The whole command numbered no
more than 469, and they were going for one of the strongest Boer
positions by which our force is ringed about.

Captain Gough's company was detached to lead the right assault, and
Major Thesiger's the left, each having with it a section of C Company.
Captains Paley and Stephens were to bring their companies close up in
support, while Lieutenant Byrne was in command of E Company, forming the
reserve. Only a small detachment of ambulance men with four stretchers
followed the column as it moved off a few minutes after ten o'clock,
across open ground by Observation Hill, and turned westward towards its
objective, which could just be seen, a dim rounded mass like a darker
cloud in the dark sky. The guides Ashby and Thornhill had no difficulty
in finding their way without other landmarks, for every inch of the
ground is familiar to them both. An unlooked-for obstacle, however,
presented itself as they neared the nek that joins Thornhill's Kop with
Rietfontein on Pepworth's Ridge. A break in clouds that hung behind
Surprise Hill let light through from the crescent moon that was still
well above the rugged Drakensberg Crags.

In that light, subdued though it was, a man crossing the nek would have
shown up sharply, and Boer sentries always keep well down where they can
watch the sky-line. Our troops, naturally anxious not to discover
themselves prematurely, lay down in a convenient donga and waited for
darkness. There they had to lie an hour or longer, until the nearest
ridges were again merged in the gloom of their surroundings, and the
more distant hills became vague shadows, perceptible only to the second
sight of men who are familiar with Nature in all aspects. Then the
column, moving silently, advanced towards the railway line, which few
could see until they were stopped by the barbed wire that fences it on
each side. The necessity for cutting this was another awkward hindrance.
All officers, however, had come provided for such an emergency with
wire-nippers. The anxiety was painfully tense as men listened to the
sharp click of these instruments, and heard the severed wires drop with
a clatter that struck harp-like across the deep silence, and went
vibrating along the fence towards a Boer camp where perhaps some sentry,
more alert than his comrades, might catch the meaning of such sounds. No
alarm followed, however, as the work of wire-cutting went on across the
railway and from enclosure to enclosure, care being taken to bend the
wires only in one place so that they could be bent back, leaving a space
just wide enough for successive companies in fours to defile through.

Thus by slow degrees they gained the foot of Surprise Hill, and began
the difficult ascent. Colonel Metcalfe, and probably most of his men,
expected that they would have been met by Boer rifle fire long before
this and compelled to win their way with the bayonet. It seemed almost
impossible to believe that the Boers, after one sharp lesson, would keep
no better watch than to let us creep up to their stronghold unopposed.
Suddenly a challenge "Wie kom dar?" rang out from half-way up the hill.
Silence would serve no longer, and indeed it had been broken again and
again by the clang of iron-heeled boots on loose stones. So the order to
fix swords was given, and passed in stentorian tones along the front.
Sword-bayonets rattled sharply against rifle barrels to show that there
was no deception this time, and then with lusty cheers the assaulting
companies sprang forward, floundering at times in deep clefts between
boulders, then re-forming to continue their advance, while the supports
and reserves fell as quickly as they could into the formation that is
roughly indicated in the accompanying diagram. That plan had been
adopted to guard against flank attacks by the oblique fire from two
companies, between which an opening was left for the assaulting
companies to retire through in case of reverses. But neither flank
attack nor reverses came at this critical point. Major Thesiger and
Captain Gough, following their respective guides, gained the crest
before their enemies had time to fire many shots from magazine rifles,
and the battery was won. But it contained neither gun nor gunners. Was
the whole expedition therefore fruitless? No! there came sounds as of
men at work stealthily a few yards off.

We could catch an occasional glimpse of the crowning peak and of the
observatory, which we knew contained two or three of Janssen's men
and some provisions. An hour later, when the storm seemed about at an
end, and we were preparing to ascend to the top, we saw the men
from the observatory coming down. They warned us that the snow above
was in bad condition, and, believing that more foul weather was to come,
they were embracing this opportunity to get down. Couttet proposed that
we should accompany them, especially as they reported nothing left
to eat at the observatory, but I declined. Again the event proved
that he was right, for while we waited a little before starting out,
the storm fell upon us once more. Then Couttet insisted upon descending,
and I did not think it wise to oppose his decision, knowing that it was
based upon experience and that he had nothing to gain and something to
lose in returning without having conducted his "monsieur" to the
summit.

[Illustration: A BIRTHPLACE OF AVALANCHES, MONT BLANC.]
A SECOND ATTEMPT FOR THE SUMMIT.

We put on the rope and scrambled down, but when we got upon the neck below
the Bosses the clouds whirled off and the burnished sun stood over the
white peak, too splendid to be looked upon.

"Couttet, we must go up," I exclaimed.

"As you say," he replied; and we turned upon our track.

We had got back to the hut and started up the steep arête above it,
when the sun disappeared, the air turned white, and the wind resumed
its wrestle.

So powerful was it that on our narrow ridge it had the advantage
of us, and we crouched behind a projecting point.

"It is too perilous," said Couttet, "and we must descend. I will not
take the risk."
I saw it was necessary to yield, and down we went. Hunger was beginning
to tell, and we made haste. Where the slopes were not seamed with
open crevasses we "glissaded," which is a very expeditious and
exhilarating method of getting down a mountain, although unsafe unless
one is certain of his ground. Sometimes we slid on our feet, steadying
ourselves with our batons or ice-axes, and sometimes I sat on the hard
snow and glided like a Turk on a toboggan slide, the tassel of my
woollen cap fluttering behind in the wind. We took the unbridged crevasses
with flying leaps, and so plunged rapidly downward, with frequent keen
regrets on my part, because the weather seemed mending again. But it
would not do to turn back now in our half-famished condition, and
we were glad when the Grands Mulets hove in sight below, a black
squadron in a sea of snow.

[Illustration: M. JANSSEN'S OBSERVATORY ON TOP OF MONT BLANC.]
In Chamonix I took a day or two to thaw out and mend bruises,
and then ran over to Martigny, crossed the Grand St. Bernard, the
St.

Gotthard, and the Grimsel passes, spent a week in William Tell's country,
prowling about the ruins of old castles and the sites of legendary
battles, and finally settled down in Milan to feast my eyes on the
pinnacles of its wondrous cathedral. But my failure to reach the top of
Mont Blanc cast a perceptible shadow over everything I saw.

One day, the 27th of August, as I stood on the cathedral spire, the
sun lay warm upon the Alps, and Mont Blanc shone in the distance. "It is
time to go," I said to myself; and descending, I hurried to my hotel
and packed a gripsack. The night express via Mont Cenis placed me
in Geneva the next morning in time to catch the first train for Cluses.
The same evening the diligence landed me in Chamonix. I sent for
Couttet.

"Mont Blanc in the morning," I said.

"Delighted, monsieur; we'll do it this time."
"Storm or no storm?"
"Yes."

It so happened that I was to hear one more story of disaster before getting
to the top of Mont Blanc. While I watched the distant mountain from
the Milan cathedral spire the closing scene of a new tragedy was
being enacted amid its merciless crevasses. Dr. Robert Schnurdreher,
an advocate of Prague, accompanied by Michael Savoye, guide, and Laurent
Brou, porter, ascended Mont Blanc from the Italian side on August
17th, and passed the night in the hut on the Bosses du Dromadaire where,
six days before, I had had a stormy experience. But now the weather
was superb, and when, on the morning of the 18th, they started to
descend to Chamonix, no thought of impending evil could have
oppressed their minds.

They passed the Grand Plateau and the Petit Plateau in safety, and
reached the labyrinth of crevasses between the cliffs of the Dome
du Gouter and the Grands Mulets.

Just what happened then no one will ever know, but there they
disappeared from the world of the living.

     [Illustration: VIEW FROM THE SUMMIT OF MONT BLANC, SHOWING THE
     MATTERHORN IN THE DISTANCE.]
     Eight days went by, and then a telegram was received at Chamonix
     from the family of the guide Savoye, in Courmayer, Italy, inquiring
     if he and his party had been seen. All Chamonix comprehended in
     an instant the significance of that telegram, and thirty guides
     started post haste for the mountains.
     
     The fact was now recalled that several days before some of
     Monsieur Janssen's porters had noticed an ice axe lying
     on the snow a little aside from the ordinary route.

     They thought nothing of it at the time, supposing that the implement
     had either been thrown away, or left behind by some one who
     would return to get it. This abandoned axe now became the first
     object of the search. Having discovered it, the guides knew well
     where to look for its owner. The axe lay on a slope of snow almost
     as hard as ice, and at the foot of the slope was the inevitable
     crevasse; not one of the largest, being only fifteen feet wide by
two hundred long, and one hundred deep, but all too sufficient.

They crept to the edge, and peered into the gloomy depths. There lay the
missing men, still tied together. Schnurdreher and Savoye had apparently
been killed at once; but there was heart-rending evidence that
Brou had survived the fall, and made a pitiful effort to scale the
perpendicular walls of the ice chasm. Enclosed in bags of rough
sacking, the bodies were dragged with ropes down to the Pierre Pointue,
and thence carried to Chamonix. This is a time-honored procedure in such
cases. Every boy in Chamonix understands how a body should be brought
down from Mont Blanc.

On the night of my arrival Savoye and Brou had just been buried at
Chamonix, and money was being raised for the relief of their almost
destitute families.

But Schnurdreher, in his mountain dress, with his spiked shoes on his
feet, still lay at the undertaker's, awaiting the coming of his
relatives.

     A RACE FOR THE SUMMIT.
     
     The morning of August 29th was cloudless, and with the same outfit
as before, but with a scion of the house of Balmat for porter in
place of the man who had filled that office on the first occasion,
I started once more for the frosty topknot of Europe.

At the Grands Mulets we found two Germans with their retinue of guides and
porters, six persons in all, who were also bound for the summit. They
left the Grands Mulets at midnight, and we followed them three-quarters
of an hour later. There was no moon, and Couttet carried a lantern.
On reaching the Petit Plateau we saw the lights of the other
party flashing ahead of us, and at the foot of the Grands Montées we
overtook them. They had talked confidently of making the ascent in
extraordinarily quick time, and some good-natured chaffing now passed
between Couttet and the rival guides. I had had no thought of a race;
but I defy anybody, under the circumstances in which we were placed,
not to experience a little spurring from the spirit of emulation.
Jerking the rope to attract Couttet's attention, I told him in a low
voice to pass the others at the first opportunity.

"We'll do it on the Grand Plateau," he whispered.

Five minutes later, however, the advance party paused to take breath.
We immediately broke out of their tracks in the snow and started to
pass around them; but they instantly accepted the challenge, and a
scrambling race began up the steep slope. Sometimes we sank so deep
that time was lost in extricating our legs, and again we slipped back,
which was even more annoying than sticking fast. The powdery snow
flew about like dust, and was occasionally dumped into my face by the
piston-like action of my knees. The lanterns jangled and flickered
wildly, and in their shifting and uncertain light, with our odd habiliments,
we must have resembled a company of mad demons on a lark.

     Such a race in such a place could only last a couple of minutes, and
     it was soon over, the American coming out ahead. Getting upon the
     Grand Plateau, we did not stop to rest, but broke into a dog
     trot.

"Whatever happens, Couttet, we must be first at the top."
"Very well, monsieur."
From the Grand Plateau there are two ways to the summit: one by the
Bosses du Dromadaire, which we followed on the first attempt; the other,
which we now adopted, by the "Corridor." This is a steep furrow, crossed
by an ice precipice with a great crevasse near its foot, which leads
upward from the left-hand border of the Grand Plateau to a snowy
saddle between the Mont Maudit and a precipitous out-cropping of rock
called the Mur de la Cote. A faint glimmer of approaching dawn now lay
on part of the rim of mountains surrounding us.

When we reached the foot of the Corridor the lights of the other party
were not visible. But here step-cutting became necessary, and this delayed
us so much that presently I caught dancing gleams from the pursuing
lanterns moving rapidly at the bottom of the bowl of night out of
which we were climbing.

They were fast gaining upon us.

"We must hurry, Couttet!"
"Yes, but no man goes quick here who does not go for the last time."
In fact, our position had an appearance of peril. We were part way up
the frozen precipice that cuts across the Corridor, and were balancing
ourselves on an acute wedge of ice which stood off several feet in front
of the precipice, being separated from it by a deep cleft. The outer side
of this wedge, whose edge we were traversing lengthwise, pitched down
into the darkness and ended, I believe, in a crevasse. Presently we
reached a place where the precipice overhung our precarious footway, and
an inverted forest of icicles depended above us.

"Make as little noise as possible, and step gently," said Couttet.

This is a familiar precaution in the High Alps, where the vibrations
of sound sometimes act the part of the trigger of a gun and let loose
terrific energies ready poised for action. The clinking of particles
of ice that shot from our feet into the depths distracted attention
from the beautiful play of the light of the lanterns on some of the
hanging masses.

At last we attained a point where it was possible, by swinging round
a somewhat awkward corner, to get upon the roof of the precipice. This
we found so steep that occasional steps had also to be cut there.

The lights of the pursuers had approached the foot of the wall, and though
now invisible, we knew the party was ascending close behind, taking
advantage of the steps we had made. This spurred us on, although I was
beginning to suffer some inconvenience from the rarity of the air, and
had to stop to breathe much oftener than I liked. In truth, the spurt
we had made, beginning at the Grands Montées, involved an over-expenditure
of energy whose effects I could not escape, and nature was already demanding
usury for the loan.

As we approached the ridge of the saddle, day rose blushing in the
east, and Couttet put out the lantern.

Turning to the right, we hurried in zigzags up the slippery Mur de la Cote,
stopping to cut steps only when strictly necessary. While we were
ascending this wall the sun appeared, and hung for a moment, a
great, dazzling, fire-colored circle, on a distant mountain rim.

     Below us for a long time the great valleys remained filled with
     gloom, while out of and around there rose hundreds of peaks, tipped
with pink and gold.

But very few of the towering giants now reached to our level, and in a
little while we should be above them all.

Once on top of the Mur we had level going again for a space, and hurrying
to the base of the crowning dome, which swells upward another thousand
feet, we began its ascent without stopping. About half way up the dome
the highest visible rocks of Mont Blanc on this side break through
the Mur. They are called the Petits Mulets. We had nearly reached
them when, looking back, I saw the heads of the other party appearing on
the brink of the Mur.

They looked up at us hanging right above them on the white slope, while
Couttet carried my handkerchief, streaming triumphantly in the morning
wind, from the end of his baton.
Waving their hands, they sat down and gave up the race. While they lunched
we pushed upward more slowly, and at six o'clock entered the door of
Monsieur Janssen's observatory, fifteen thousand seven hundred and
seventy-seven feet above the sea.

My first look was directed to the Matterhorn, which, thirty-five miles
away, pierced the morning sky with its black spike. Glittering near it
were the snow turrets of Monte Rosa, the Dent Blanche, and all
the marvellous circle of peaks that stand around Zermatt.

There was not a cloud to break the view. On one side lay Italy; on the
other France. It would be impossible to imagine the wild scene immediately
below us. The tremendous slopes of snow falling away on all sides, now
in steep inclines and now in broken precipices, ever down and
down, were not after all so imposing as the jagged pinnacles of
bare rock that sprang out of them.

There was something peculiarly savage, almost menacing, in the
aspect of these lower mountains, pressing in serried ranks
around their white-capped chief. They seemed to shut us far away from
the human world below, and one felt that he had placed himself entirely
in the hands of nature. This was her realm, where she acknowledged
no laws but her own, and was incapable of sympathy, pity, or
remorse.

FAIRY GOLD.

BY MARY STEWART CUTTING,
Author of "The Coupons of Fortune," "Henry," and other stories.

When Mr. William Belden walked out of his house one wet October evening
and closed the hall door carefully behind him, he had no idea that
he was closing the door on all the habits of his maturer life and entering
the borders of a land as far removed from his hopes or his imagination
as the country of the Gadarenes.

He had not wanted to go out that evening at all, not knowing what the
fates had in store for him, and being only too conscious of the
comfort of the sitting-room lounge, upon which, after the manner of the
suburban resident who travelleth daily by railways, he had cast himself
immediately after the evening meal was over. The lounge was in
proximity--yet not too close proximity--to the lamp on the table;
so that one might have the pretext of reading to cover closed
eyelids and a general oblivion of passing events.

     On a night when a pouring rain splashed outside on the pavements and
     the tin roofs of the piazzas, the conditions of rest in the cosey
     little room were peculiarly attractive to a man who had come home
     draggled and wet, and with the toil and wear of a long business
     day upon him. It was therefore with a sinking of the heart that
     he heard his wife's gentle tones requesting him to wend his way to
     the grocery to purchase a pound of butter.
     
     "I hate to ask you to go, William dear, but there really is
     not a scrap in the house for breakfast, and the butter-man does
not come until to-morrow afternoon," she said deprecatingly.

"It really will only take you a few minutes."
Mr. Belden smothered a groan, or perhaps something worse. The butter
question was a sore one, Mrs. Belden taking only a stated quantity of
that article a week, and always unexpectedly coming short of it
before the day of replenishment, although no argument ever served to
induce her to increase the original amount for consumption.

"Cannot Bridget go?" he asked weakly, gazing at the small, plump figure
of his wife, as she stood with meek yet inexorable eyes looking
down at him.

"Bridget is washing the dishes, and the stores will be closed before
she can get out."
"Can't one of the boys--" He stopped. There was in this household a
god who ruled everything in it, to whom all pleasures were offered
up, all individual desires sacrificed, and whose Best Good was the
greedy and unappreciative Juggernaut before whom Mr.

Belden and his wife prostrated themselves daily. This idol was called
The Children. Mr. Belden felt that he had gone too far.

"William!" said his wife severely, "I am surprised at you. John and
Henry have their lessons to get, and Willy has a cold; I could not think
of exposing him to the night air; and it is so damp, too!"
Mr. Belden slowly and stiffly rose from his reclining position on the
sofa. There was a finality in his wife's tone before which he succumbed.

The night air _was_ damp. As he walked along the street the water slopped
around his feet, and ran in rills down his rubber coat. He did not
feel as contented as usual. When he was a youngster, he reflected with
exaggerated bitterness, boys were boys, and not treated like
precious pieces of porcelain. He did not remember, as a boy, ever
having any special consideration shown him; yet he had been both happy
and healthy, healthier perhaps than his over-tended brood at home. In
his day it had been popularly supposed that nothing could hurt a boy.
He heaved a sigh over the altered times, and then coughed a little, for
he had a cold as well as Willy.

The streets were favorable to silent meditation, for there was no one
out in them. The boughs of the trees swished backward and forward in the
storm, and the puddles at the crossings reflected the dismal yellow
glare of the street lamps. Every one was housed to-night in the pretty
detached cottages he passed, and he thought with growing wrath of the
trivial errand on which he had been sent.

"In happy homes he saw the light," but none of the high purpose of the
youth of "Excelsior" fame stirred his heart--rather a dull sense of failure
from all high things.
What did his life amount to anyway, that he should count one thing more
trivial than another? He loved his wife and children dearly, but
he remembered a time when his ambition had not thought of being
satisfied with the daily grind for a living and a dreamless sleep at
night.

"'Our life is but a sleep and a forgetting,'" he thought grimly, "in
quite a different way from what Wordsworth meant." He had been one of the
foremost in his class at college, an orator, an athlete, a favorite
in society and with men. Great things had been predicted for him. Then
he had fallen in love with Nettie; a professional career seemed to
place marriage at too great a distance, and he had joyfully, yet with
some struggles in his protesting intellect, accepted a position that was
offered to him--one of those positions which never change, in which men
die still unpromoted, save when a miracle intervenes. It was not so
good a position for a family of six as it had been for a family of
two, but he did not complain.

He and Nettie went shabby, but the children were clothed in the best, as
was their due.

He was too wearied at night to read anything but the newspapers, and
the gentle domestic monotony was not inspiring. He and Nettie never went
out in the evenings; the children could not be left alone. He met his
friends on the train in that diurnal journey to and from the great city,
and she occasionally attended a church tea; but their immediate and
engrossing world seemed to be made up entirely of persons under thirteen
years of age. They had dwelt in the place almost ever since their
marriage, respected and liked, but with no real social life. If
Mr.
Belden thought of the years to come, he may be pardoned an unwonted sinking
of the heart.

It was while indulging in these reflections that he mechanically purchased
the pound of butter, which he could not help comparing with Shylock's
pound of flesh, so much of life had it taken out of him, and then found
himself stepping up on the platform of the station, led by his engrossing
thoughts to pass the street corner and tread the path most familiar to
him. He turned with an exclamation to retrace his way, when a man
pacing leisurely up and down, umbrella in hand, caught sight of him.

"Is that you, Belden?" said the stranger. "What are you doing down here
to-night?"
"I came out on an errand for my wife," said Belden sedately. He
recognized the man as a young lawyer, much identified with politics;
a mere acquaintance, yet it was a night to make any speaking animal
seem a friend, and Mr. Belden took a couple of steps along beside
him.

"Waiting for a train?" he said.
"Oh, thunder, yes!" said Mr. Groper, throwing away the stump of a
cigar.
"I have been waiting for the last half hour for the train; it's
late, as usual. There's a whole deputation from Barnet on board,
due at the Reform meeting in town to-night, and I'm part of the
committee to meet them here."
"Where is the other part of the committee?" asked Mr. Belden.
"Oh, Jim Crane went up to the hall to see about something, and
Connors hasn't showed up at all; I suppose the rain kept him back.
What kind of a meeting we're going to have I don't know. Say, Belden,
I'm not up to this sort of thing. I wish you'd stay and help me
out--there's no end of swells coming down, more your style than
mine."
"Why, man alive, I can't do anything for you," said Mr. Belden.
"These carriages I see are waiting for the delegation, and here
comes the train now; you'll get along all right."
He waited as the train slowed into the station, smiling anew at
little Groper's perturbation. He was quite curious to see the
arrivals. Barnet had been the home of his youth, and there might
be some one whom he knew. He had half intended, earlier in the day,
to go himself to the Reform meeting, but a growing spirit of inaction
had made him give up the idea. Yes, there was quite a carload of
people getting out--ladies, too.
"Why, Will Belden!" called out a voice from the party. A tall fellow
in a long ulster sprang forward to grasp his hand. "You don't say
it's yourself come down to meet us. Here we all are, Johnson,
Clemmerding, Albright, Cranston---all the old set. Rainsford, you've
heard of my cousin, Will Belden. My wife and Miss Wakeman are behind
here; but we'll do all the talking afterward, if you'll only get
us off for the hall now."
"Well, I am glad to see you, Henry," said Mr. Belden heartily. He
thrust the pound of butter hastily into a large pocket of his
mackintosh, and found himself shaking hands with a score of men.
He had only time to assist his cousin's wife and the beautiful Miss
Wakeman into a carriage, and in another moment they were all rolling
away toward the town hall, with little Mr. Groper running frantically
after them, ignored by the visitors, and peacefully forgotten by
his friend.
The public hall of the little town--which called itself a city--was
all ablaze with light as the party entered it, and well filled,
notwithstanding the weather. There were flowers on the platform
where the seats for the distinguished guests were placed, and a
general air of radiance and joyful import prevailed. It was a
gathering of men from all political parties, concerned in the welfare
of the State. Great measures were at stake, and the election of
governor of immediate importance. The name of Judge Belden of Barnet
was prominently mentioned. He had not been able to attend on this
particular occasion, but his son had come with a delegation from
the county town, twenty miles away, to represent his interests. On
Mr. William Belden devolved the task of introducing the visitors;
a most congenial one, he suddenly found it to be.
His friends rallied around him as people are apt to do with one of
their own kind when found in a foreign country. They called him
Will, as they used to, and slapped him on the shoulder in affectionate
abandon. Those among the group who had not known him before were
anxious to claim acquaintance on the strength of his fame, which,
it seemed, still survived him in his native town.The hand of fate seemed
there, but whether it was more merciful to him or to those who, having
escaped shot and shell, are now stricken by disease in an unhealthy
camp, who shall say?

Incidents of this kind turn our thoughts to a serious complexion at
times, and if a stranger could come suddenly into our midst in the
moments of depression we should not perhaps strike him as a particularly
cheerful community. Yet war even under these conditions has its
amenities, and our mirthful moods, though chastened by events that
thrust themselves upon us with unpleasant insistence, are not
infrequent. For many welcome breaks in the monotony of daily life we are
indebted to the officers and men of regiments that will not allow
themselves or their neighbours to get into the doldrums for lack of such
sports and entertainments as ingenuity can improvise. In this respect
the Natal Carbineers, Imperial Light Horse, and Gordon Highlanders have
shown a praiseworthy zeal, being encamped near each other, and having so
far an advantage over regiments like the Devon, Liverpool, Gloucester,
Leicester, Rifle Brigade, Royal Irish Fusiliers, King's Royal Rifles,
and Manchester, which since the first day of investment have been
detached for the defence of important positions, where they can hardly
venture to expose themselves in groups without a certainty of drawing
the enemy's artillery fire upon them, and where the necessity for
ceaseless watchfulness at night puts a severe strain on all ranks. Not
that the Gordons and Irregular Horse lead a leisurely life, or have any
especial immunity from shells. On the contrary, they take a full share
of duties in many forms, and they have been rather singled out as marks
for the enemy's guns to aim at; but they have not to rough it as a whole
battalion on hillsides without tents day after day, as their outpost
lines or patrols can be relieved from standing camps in the hollows, and
in those camps the main bodies, at any rate, get a fair allowance of
undisturbed sleep, for it is only by day that they are bombarded. When
the fire is not too hot, Gordons, and Light Horse especially, have merry
times at regimental sports or friendly contests.

In a despatch sent out by a Kaffir runner, who has never come back to
claim the reward for success, I gave a description of sports in the
Gordon camp, when they and the Imperial Light Horse had a football match
in the presence of many spectators, Sir George White and several members
of his staff being of the number. Such a gathering in full sight of
Bulwaan was too tempting for the enemy's gunners to resist. People were
so absorbed in the game that they did not at first notice a cloud of
smoke from "Puffing Billy," and when they did understand what the Kaffir
warning "Boss up" meant, there was only time for the spectators to
scatter hurriedly among tents before a shell fell plump between the
goals and burst there,--the spectators flying in all directions,--but
fortunately without harm to anybody. The men coolly filled up the pit
where the missile, that had so nearly "queered their pitch," fell, and
then played their game out; but care was taken to prevent onlookers from
getting into a dense crowd again, and mule races were substituted for
football, as presenting a less favourable mark for the aim of Boer
gunners. These, however, seemed to be quite satisfied for a time with
having made one good shot. They ceased firing, and stood or sat on the
battery parapets, where, with the aid of glasses, they could be clearly
seen watching the sports through telescopes and binoculars with
sympathetic interest. But that did not prevent them from turning their
gun with malicious intent on the town after these camp sports ended. It
was nearly dark when two shots fell near the Royal Hotel, and the third
went through it to find a victim in poor Dr. Stark.

The Gordons, for some reason or other, seem to have a curious
fascination for our foes, who single this battalion out for special
attentions, some of which could be dispensed with. In the form of
frequent shells they are distinctly embarrassing, as it is impossible at
present for the Highlanders to acknowledge such courtesies by an
appropriate reply. If they are intended as invitations to closer
acquaintance I am quite sure our kilted comrades will be happy to oblige
any night by kind permission of the General commanding. The Boers,
however, indulge at times in pleasantries that show no bitterness of
feeling, but rather a desire to be playfully satirical in a way which is
suggestive of the intellectual nimbleness of a humorous elephant. Their
inquiries after Sir Redvers Buller have already been mentioned. As to
the ostentatious friendliness of our enemies for British soldiers, with
whom a temporary truce brings them in contact, some amusing stories are
told. One day a field officer of Hussars was in command of cavalry on
outpost, when a Boer travelling-cart, flying the white flag, came
rapidly up to the examining picket, and its only occupant made a cool
request that he should be allowed to enter our camp, in virtue of the
Red Cross badge on his arm, as he wanted an ambulance sent out for some
of our wounded, who had fallen into the enemy's hands. The Boer
emissary was detained at the outposts until his message could be sent to
headquarters and an answer brought back. "As I must wait here an hour,"
said he blandly, "won't you dismount and take a seat beside me under the
shade of the awning?" Military regulations having made no provision for
a refusal in such cases, the Englishman accepted, and the two were
presently carrying on an animated conversation about many subjects not
connected with the siege of Ladysmith. Now, the major has a remarkably
youthful appearance, and when he chooses to assume the devil-may-care
manner of a light-hearted subaltern, it fits him easily. Moreover, his
shoulder-chains bore no distinctive badge of rank. There was nothing, in
fact, to show that he was anything more than a cavalry lieutenant, whom
no sense of responsibility oppressed. So the Boer felt his way quickly
to subjects in which one who serves under the Geneva Convention has no
right to be interested. Answers were given glibly enough, and at the end
of that hour, with profuse assurances of amicable consideration, he
departed, probably laying the flattering unction to his soul that much
valuable information had been unconsciously imparted to him. He did not
know that the free-and-easy young cavalry soldier who talked with such
apparent frankness had learned a staff officer's duties as aide-decamp
to one of our most astutely cautious Generals. This is the story as it
was told to me at second hand, and if only well invented it is too good
to be lost.

Still better is Major King's own narrative, of the adventures that
befell him when, as the bearer of a flag of truce without credentials,
he found himself practically a prisoner among the Boers. He had gone out
to the Boer outposts to make inquiries about another staff affair--the
bearer of a flag of truce whose prolonged absence was causing some
uneasiness, as the message taken by him to General Schalk-Burger did not
demand any answer. Major King had no intention of going inside the Boer
lines, and therefore took with him no letter or written authority for
his mission, but simply rode towards the enemy's piquets unarmed and
carrying a white flag, to show that for once he was not playing the part
of a combatant, though wearing a staff officer's undress uniform. When
his purpose was explained to the Boers on duty, they suggested that he
should accompany some of their number to the commandant's camp, and,
without taking the precaution to blindfold him, they led the way
thither, chatting pleasantly all the way about every topic except
fighting. On reaching a group of tents, the exact position of which he
for honourable reasons will not mention even to his own chief, Major
King was confronted by a Boer leader, who was at first very wroth with
the escort for bringing an English officer through the lines in that
unceremonious way. When matters had been explained, however, the
commandant, as he turned out to be, introduced himself, saying:

"My name is Viljoen. You have probably heard a great deal about me, if
not much that is good. Some of your countrymen in the Transvaal thought
me a very bad lot, and as they are now with the Imperial Light Horse in
Ladysmith, I daresay there are many queer stories told about me; but I
am not quite so bad as they make out. Your presence here without papers,
however, is very awkward, and I have no alternative but to make you a
prisoner."

"Oh, that's d----d nonsense," said Major King. "I had no wish to come
here, but your men insisted on bringing me. My only object was to find
out what had become of a brother-officer who should have got back to
camp long before this. I give you the word of a soldier that I did not
want to find out anything about your position, and whatever I may have
seen, which is precious little, will be told to no one."

The commandant was in a difficulty, but agreed to send for one who is
his senior in rank and submit the case to him. During the messenger's
absence Major King was hospitably entertained, and his hosts, or
captors, talked about sport, suggesting that some day might be set apart
for an armistice, so that Boers and English might have a friendly
race-meeting. The commandant, by way of showing that he does not bear
resentment for the things that have been said about him, described his
experiences after the battle of Elandslaagte, from which he was a
fugitive, and said:

"I walked that night until I could go no farther, thinking that the
Colonial volunteers were in pursuit. If I had known they were English
cavalry I should have given myself up, for I was nearly done."

As pronounced by him, "Fiyune," his name does not sound familiar to
English ears, and it was therefore not until some time afterwards that
Major King knew he had been entertained by the notorious Ben Viljoen,
who was first reported among the killed at Elandslaagte, then as wounded
and a prisoner, but who in fact got away from the fight almost
unscathed, and now holds a command in the Boer force outside Ladysmith.
Interviews with a senior commandant, who was by no means complaisant,
and finally with Schalk-Burger, followed. The latter, after raising many
difficulties and dangling prospects of imprisonment in Pretoria before
Major King, finally consented to release that officer on condition that
he would not take any military advantage of what he had seen or heard in
the Boer lines. That condition has been honourably kept, but the Major
does not feel himself bound to make any secret of the fact that while
the Boers kept him under detention they treated him "devilish well."
This way of putting it may seem a little ambiguous, but those who know
General Hunter's light-hearted A.D.C. will understand the sincerity of
his tribute to the hospitality of Commandants Schalk-Burger and Ben
Viljoen.

Another Boer, who may be credited with a desire to say pleasant things,
was talking under a flag of truce with an English officer about the
prospects on each side. "We admit," he said, "that the British soldiers
are the best in the world, and your regimental officers the bravest,
but--we rely on your generals."

Even on the battlefield, when men are apt to be carried away by the lust
of fighting, many incidents have happened that touch the chords of
sympathy. The Boers have curious notions about white flags and Geneva
Crosses, but so far as our experience goes nobody can accuse them of
inhumanity to a fallen or helpless foe, except in the matter of firing
on hospitals when they think there are military reasons to justify them.
They shelled the Town Hall of Ladysmith persistently while sick and
wounded were lying there and the Red Cross flag waved above its
clock-tower. In reply to a protest from Sir George White, Commandant
Schalk-Burger defended his gunners on the plea that we had no right to a
hospital in Ladysmith while there was a neutral camp at Intombi Spruit
for their reception. The contention was, of course, preposterous, and
based moreover on the insulting assumption that our General had been
guilty of sheltering effective combatants behind an emblem which all
civilised nations have agreed to respect. Possibly the enemy may seek to
show that we are not above suspicion in such things, by reference to a
skirmish in which one of our batteries did open from a position
directly in front of ambulance waggons. These were outspanned near a
field hospital when the affair began, and as it was thought necessary to
get the wounded out of possible danger quickly, they had to be removed
some little distance in dhoolies. Meanwhile the Boers were getting guns
on to a kopje where they might have enfiladed one of our most important
lines of defence. To stop them in time a battery had to be brought into
action, and the only ground from which it could have shelled the kopje,
to frustrate the enemy's purpose of mounting a gun there, was just in
front of the ambulance waggons. Care, however, had been taken in that
case to lower the Red Cross flag, so that our artillery cannot be
accused of using it as a "stalking horse," though each waggon bears the
same symbol painted conspicuously on its canvas awning. These are
matters about which some ill-feeling has been aroused, but they do not
lessen our appreciation of acts by which individual Boers have shown
magnanimity while smarting under losses that must have been bitterly
humiliating to them.

When our cavalry reconnaissance was pushed forward after the successful
night attack on Gun Hill, the Hussars got into a very tight place, from
which they extricated themselves by a dash that cost many lives, and
some wounded were left on the field with their dead comrades. Ambulances
were sent out for them under a flag of truce. As one Hussar was being
carried on a stretcher, a young Boer jeered at him, using epithets that
were so coarse and cowardly that they roused the ire of a bearded
veteran who probably fought against our troops nineteen years ago. With
one blow he felled the youngster, and thereby gave him an object-lesson
in the treatment that is meet for those who abuse a helpless foe. To
chivalry of a similar kind Captain Paley owed his life when wounded
after the night attack on Surprise Hill, according to the story told by
one who heard it while the wounded officer was being brought back to
camp next day. In the confusion and darkness Captain Paley's men did not
see him fall directly after he had given the order for them to charge.
He was left there sorely wounded, and one of the many foreigners now
fighting against us in the enemy's ranks levelled a rifle at him, but
was stopped before he could pull the trigger by a blow from the butt-end
of a rifle that sent him reeling. Again it was a grey-bearded veteran
who had come so timely to the rescue of an Englishman. If many such
stories are told we must either come to the conclusion that the older
Boers do not entertain against us the hatred with which they are
credited, or that there is one of their number who goes about the
battlefield from fight to fight seeking opportunities to succour British
soldiers in distress. At any rate, all this is simply history repeating
itself. Mr. Carter, in his impartial narrative of the former Boer war,
tells us:--

"Similar evidence was furnished after every encounter our troops had
with the Dutch. It was the young men--some mere boys of fifteen--who
displayed, with pardonable ignorance, bragging insolence. The men of
maturer years, with very few exceptions, behaved like men, and in the
hour of victory in many instances restrained the braggarts from
committing cowardly acts. In this fight at the Nek, Private Venables of
the 58th, who was one of the prisoners taken by the Boers, owed his life
to Commandant De Klerck, who intervened at a moment when several Boers
had their guns pointed at the wounded soldier."

It is not, however, very reassuring to find that but for such timely
intervention wounded men might possibly be shot or ill-treated, and
therefore our soldiers will not be restrained from risking their lives
to rescue a fallen comrade merely by the announcement that "we are at
war with a civilised foe, to whose care the wounded in battle may be
confidently left." We may be thankful for the fact that saving life
under fire is still regarded as an act worthy of the Victoria Cross "for
valour."

In other respects, we do not owe much gratitude to the Boers. If we were
dependent upon them for anything that could help to make life in a
bombarded town tolerable, Ladysmith's plight to-day would be pitiful.
They have tried their hardest--though not successfully--to make every
house in the place untenable between sunrise and sunset, doing
infinitely more damage to private property than to military defences;
and they have thrown shells about some parts of the long open town with
a persistence that would seem petty in its spitefulness if we could be
sure that the shots strike near what they are aimed at. So long as the
Boers do not violate any laws of civilised warfare nobody has a right to
blame them for trying the methods that may seem most likely to bring
about the fall of Ladysmith. They have, however, simply wrecked a few
houses, disfigured pretty gardens, mutilated public buildings, destroyed
private property, and disabled by death or wounds a small percentage of
our troops, without producing the smallest effect on the material
defences, or weakening the garrison's powers of endurance in any
appreciable degree. Such a bombardment day after day for seven weeks
would doubtless get on the nerves if we allowed ourselves to think about
it too much; but happily the civilians--men and women--who resolved to
"stick it out" here rather than accept from their country's enemies the
questionable benefits of a comparatively peaceful existence under the
white flag at Intombi Spruit have shown a fortitude and cheerfulness
that win respect from every soldier. Shelters are provided for them and
their children, but they do not always take advantage of these, even
when a bugle or whistle from the look-out post warns them that a shell
is coming. Ladies still go their daily round of shopping just as they
did in the early days of bombardment, indeed more regularly, and with a
cool disregard of danger that brave men might envy. Though more than
5000 shells have been thrown within our defensive lines, and a vast
number of these into the town itself, only one woman has been wounded so
far, and not a single child hit. For all this we have every reason to be
thankful.

When the sun goes down people who have taken shelter elsewhere during
the day return to their homes, and have pleasant social gatherings, from
which thoughts of Boer artillery are banished by innocent mirth and
music. Walking along the lampless streets, at an hour when camps are
silent, one is often attracted by the notes of fresh, young voices,
where soft lights glow through open casements, or the singers sit under
the vine-traceried verandah of a "stoup," accompanying the melody with
guitar or banjo. Occasionally stentorian lungs roar unmelodious
music-hall choruses that jar by contrast with sweeter strains, but
sentiment prevails, and who can wonder if there are sometimes tears in
the voices that sing "Swanee River" and "Home, Sweet Home," or if a
listener's heart is deeply moved as he hears the words, "Mother come
back from the Echoless Shore," sung amid such surroundings in the still
nights of days that are hoarse with the booming of guns. Few of us,
however, despise comic songs here when time and scene fit. We have them
at frequent smoking-concerts that help to enliven a routine of duty that
would be dull without these entertainments. There are no regimental
bands to cheer us, but the Natal Volunteers have improvised one in which
tin whistles and tambourines make a fair substitute for fifes and drums.
The pipes of the Gordon Highlanders we have always with us, too.


CHAPTER IX

A CHRISTMAS UNDER SIEGE

     Husbanding supplies--Colonel Ward's fine work--Our Christmas
     market--A scanty show--Some startling prices--A word to cynics--The
     compounding of plum-puddings--The strict rules of temperance--Boer
     greetings "per shell"--A lady's narrow escape--Correspondents
     provide sport--"Ginger" and the mules--The sick and wounded--Some
     kindly gifts--Christmas tree for the children--Sir George White and
     the little ones--"When the war is over"--Some empty rumours--A
     fickle climate--Eight officers killed and wounded--More messages
     from Buller--Booming the old year out.


     It needed perhaps all the music that could be mustered in the town
     to remind the beleaguered garrison and inhabitants that the festive
     season was upon them. It was inevitable that at such a time the
     thoughts of all should turn a little regretfully to other scenes.
     But it takes a great deal to depress the British soldier to the
     point at which he is willing to forego his Christmas; and on all
     hands, in spite of adverse fortune, preparations were made to keep
     the day in as fitting a manner as the restricted means
     allowed--with what success is described by Mr. Pearse in the
     following  letter:--

Thanks to the perfect organisation which Colonel Ward, C.B., brings into
all branches of the department over which he is chief here, and the
attention paid to innumerable details by his second in command, Colonel
Stoneman, there has never been any danger of necessary supplies being
exhausted, even if this place were invested for a much longer time than
seems likely now, but these two officers seem to have more than absolute
necessaries in reserve. When Colonel Ward was appointed Military
Governor of Ladysmith his measures for preserving health in the town and
camps surrounding it took a very comprehensive form. He not only made
provision for ample water-supply, in place of that which the Boers had
cut off, but his ideas of sanitary precaution embraced inquiry into
sources of food-supply and kindred subjects. To the end that he might
know whether wholesome meat and drink were being sold, it was obviously
necessary that he should have reports as to the articles in which
various proprietors of stores traded. Information on these points was
collected with so much care that, when the pinch came, he knew exactly
where to put his hand on provisions for the healthy and medical comforts
for the sick and wounded. He had only to requisition a certain number of
shops and hotels that were scheduled as having ample supplies of the
things wanted, and the trick was done. Some tradesmen were glad enough
to have their old stock taken over wholesale by the military authorities
at a profitable price, but others, who foresaw chances of a richer
harvest, were inclined to grumble at the arbitrary exercise of power of
officials whose acts they regarded as little better than confiscation,
and, unfortunately, some of these managed to evade the first call, so
that they were allowed to go on selling privately, and running up the
prices to a fabulous extent.

This was a mistake. All should have been treated alike, so that none
might complain that kissing goes by favour, even in the most immaculate
and best regulated armies. As it was, the military commissariat secured
much that would add to the comfort of soldiers, but for what was left
civilians had to pay dearly. Some idea of the way in which this worked
may be given by a quotation from the prices bid at our Christmas market
on Saturday. We have no Covent Garden or Leadenhall here, but it was
felt that some sort of show ought to be made at this festive season, and
accordingly everything in the form of Christmas fare that could be got
together was brought out for sale by auction. It did not amount to much.
The whole barely sufficed to fill one long table, which was placed in a
nook between the main street and a side alley, where fifty people or so
might crowd together without attracting the notice of Bulwaan's gunners,
who would delight in nothing so much as the chance of throwing a
surprise shell into the midst of such a gathering.

The time for holding this auction had been fixed with a view to the
enemy's ordinary practice of closing hostilities about sunset each
evening, but he does not allow this to become a hard and fast rule, nor
does he recognise "close time" that may not be broken in upon at will,
if sufficient temptation to shoot presents itself. So the sale was held,
not only in a secluded corner, but in the brief half-light between
sunset and night. Some civilians came as a matter of curiosity to look
on, but the majority were soldiers, regular or irregular, on business
intent, and they soon ran up with a rapidity that gave the good traders
of Ladysmith a lesson in commercial possibilities when it was too late
for them to profit by it to the full. Eggs sold readily at nine
shillings a dozen, their freshness being taken on trust and no questions
asked. Ducks that had certainly not been crammed with good food were
considered cheap at half a guinea each, and nobody grumbled at having to
give nine shillings and sixpence for a fowl of large bone but scanty
flesh. Imported butter in tins fetched eight and sixpence a pound, jam
three and sixpence a tin, peaches boiled that morning in syrup, and
classified therefore as preserves, went freely for seven and sixpence a
bottle, and condensed milk at five shillings a tin. But these prices
were low compared with the five shillings given for three tiny cucumbers
no longer than one's hand. The crowning bid of all, however, was thirty
shillings for twenty-eight new potatoes, that weighed probably three or
four pounds. The buyers were mostly mess-presidents of regiments, whose
officers began to crave for some change from the daily rations of tough
commissariat beef and compressed vegetables; or troopers of the Imperial
Light Horse, who will rough it with the best when necessity compels, but
not so long as there are simple luxuries to be had for the money that is
plentiful among them.

Cynics dining sumptuously in their clubs may jeer at the idea of
campaigners attaching so much importance to creature comforts. Let them
try a course of army rations for two months, and then say what price
they would set against a fresh egg or a new potato. Two privates of the
Gordon Highlanders stopped beside the auctioneer's stall as if
meditating a bid for some fruit. They listened in wonderment as the
prices went up by leaps and bounds. Then said one to the other, "Come
awa, mon! We dinna want nae sour grapes." For them, however, and for
others whose means did not run to Christmas market prices, there was
consolation in store. Colonel Ward had taken care that there should be a
reserve of raisins and other things necessary for the compounding of
plum-puddings; and officers of the Army Service Corps were able to
report for Sir George White's satisfaction that sufficient could be
issued for every soldier in this force to have a full ration. The only
thing wanting was suet, which trek oxen do not yield in abundance after
eking out a precarious existence on the shortest of short commons; and
half-fed commissariat sheep have not much superfluous fat about them.
What substitutes were found it boots not to inquire too curiously,
seeing that Tommy did not trouble to ask so long as he got his Christmas
pudding in some form. "I want to be," he said feebly.

"Then you'll have to look sharp," the doctor retorted. "You'd better
go fishing with me up-country in the morning."
He went, Mary making him promise to return in time for an excursion
to Blackberry Island which he had helped her plan.

He got back the night before; and in the morning the party set out, some
going round the shore by stage, and some in the boat down the bay.

Miss Maine went with those in the boat, and Windham went with
Mary in the stage. Both on the way and after their arrival, he stayed
by her, and did all he could to be useful and amusing.

They lunched on a grassy bank, in the shade of a cliff, by a tumbling
brook that streamed down from the rocks. By and by Mary remarked that
she would like to see where the little torrent came from, and
Windham said he would try and find out for her. He scrambled up, and
soon passed out of sight among the bowlders. He found some tough climbing,
but kept on, and after a while traced the stream to a clear pool where
a spring bubbled out of a rock wall in a cave-like chamber near the
top.

As he reached its edge, he caught sight of the reflection in the
pool of a woman's white dress; and, glancing up, saw Agnes Maine
standing a little above him, on a sort of natural pedestal, in a
rude niche at one side.

She looked so like a statue that she smiled slightly at the confused
thought of it which she saw for an instant in his face, but she turned
grave then as their eyes met for a moment in a look of intimate
recognition. Then he turned his away, with a sudden terror at himself,
and leaned back against the wall, white in the face.

She stepped down and passed by him. He half put out his hand to stop her,
but drew it back, and she partly turned at the gesture, but went on
out of his sight.

He stood there for some time; then climbed down the rocks again, shaping
his features into a careless form as he went, and came back to Mary
with a forced smile on his face. But he forgot what he had gone for,
and looked confused when Mary asked him if he had found it. And she
commented:

"Why, Philip, what has happened? You look as if you had seen a ghost."

"I have," he answered.

Mary asked no more, except by her look. Some one came and proposed a
sail, and Windham eagerly agreed, and went out in the boat with
Mary and others.

They sailed down the bay. On the return the wind died away, and when
they got back, the stage had gone with more than half the party, and Agnes
Maine was not among those who were waiting. They came on board, and the
boat headed away for home.

After landing they had to walk across some fields. When near the house,
Mary missed something, and Windham went back for it. He had to cross the
road, and as he came near it the stage passed along, with its merry
company laughing and singing. They did not notice him among the trees,
but he distinctly saw all who were in the open vehicle, and Miss Maine
was not among them.

She had climbed up the cliff by a gradual, roundabout path; and after
Windham saw her, she had wandered on, lost herself for a while,
and got back after both stage and boat had left, each party supposing
she had gone with the other.

Windham found a row-boat and started back.

He knew nothing about boats; but the bay was very smooth, it was yet
early, and he got across in due time. As he neared the island he saw
her, in her white dress, standing on the bluff, and looking out
toward him.

Off the shore, rocks and bowlders stood thickly out of the water, and
Windham threaded his way in among them, thinking nothing of those
underneath. The skiff was little better than an egg-shell, being built
of half-inch cedar; and before he knew what had happened, the point of a
sunken rock had cut through the bows, and the boat was filling
with water. With a landsman's instinct, he stood up on a thwart; the
boat tipped over and went from under him. In the effort to right it, he
made a thrust downward with one of the oars, but found no bottom;
and the next minute Agnes saw him clinging to the side of a steep rock,
with only his head and shoulders out of water.

She did not cry out; but after he had struggled vainly to get up the
rock, and found no other support for foot or hand than the one
projection just above him, by which he held, he looked toward her
as he clung there out of breath, and saw her eagerly watching him from
the water's edge. And her voice showed the stress of her feeling, though
it was quite clear when she called:

"Can't you climb up?"
"No, there is nothing to hold by."
"Can you swim?"
"No."
She looked all about, then back to him. There was no one in sight; the
island was out of the lines of communication, and a point just
north of them shut off the open water. But she saw that the reef to
which Windham clung trended in to the shore a little way off, and she
called:

"I think I can get out to you--keep hold till I come."
She ran along the beach, but not all the way. As soon as she was
opposite a part of the reef that seemed accessible, she walked straight
into the water, and made her way through it, though it was two or
three feet deep near the rocks. He saw her clamber upon them and start
toward him, springing from one to another, wading across submerged
places, climbing around or over the higher points. And even there, in his
desperate plight, as he watched her coming steadily toward him, her eyes
fixed on the difficult path, and her skirt instinctively gathered a
little in one hand, the sight of her fearless grace thrilled through
him, and filled him with despairing admiration.

She came presently to the edge of a wider gap with clear water beneath,
and paused for an instant.

Windham called out:

"Don't jump; you'll be lost!"
She looked at him a moment, studied the rocks again, stepped
back, then forward quickly, and sprang across. She slipped and fell,
but got to her feet again, and came on as before. She went out of Windham's
sight, but in another minute he heard a rustle above him, looked up, and
saw her standing very near the edge, and looking down at him, panting
a little, but otherwise calm.

"Don't stand there; you will fall!" he called to her.

She kneeled down and tried to reach over, but could not. She raised
herself again, and looked all around anxiously, but saw no one; she had
not seen any one since she left him hours before on the cliff. She
looked down at him and asked:

"Can you hold on long?"
"No," he answered, "not very long."
She moved back and lay down on the rock, with her face over the edge.
It was wet and slippery, and inclined forward, so that she had to brace
herself with one hand by a projection just below the brink. Lying so, she
could reach down very near him.

"Take hold of my hand," she said.

He raised one arm with an effort, so that she caught him by the
wrist, and his fingers closed about hers. She tried to pull him up
slowly, but he felt that it was hopeless, and would only result in
drawing her off the rock; so he settled back as before. He noticed
that she had given him her left hand, and saw that there was another
reason besides the necessity of bracing herself with her right. Her
wrist was cut and bleeding.

"Oh, you are hurt!" he exclaimed.

"Never mind," she replied; "that is nothing."
He looked up in her face with passionate regret. Her lips were parted,
and her breathing came quick and deep. He felt in her wrist the hot
blood with which all her pulses throbbed, and it went through him as
though one current flowed in their veins. Her eyes looked full into
his, and did not turn away till the lashes trembled over them suddenly,
and tears gushed out upon her face. An agony of yearning took hold
of Windham and wrung his heart.

"Agnes, do you know?" he asked.

And she answered, "Yes."
When she could see him again, drops stood out on his forehead, and his
eyes looked up at her with a despairing tenderness. Her lips closed,
and her features settled into a look of answering resolve.

"You must not give up," she urged. "Don't let go of my hand."
"Oh, I must!" he answered. "You couldn't hold me; I should only
draw you down."
She neither looked away nor made any reply.

"It would do no good," he went on.

"I should only drown you too."
"I don't care," she answered. "I will not let you go."
"Oh, Agnes!" he responded, the faintness of exhaustion creeping over
him, and mingling with a sharp but sweet despair.

Mary was standing at the door when the stage arrived, and she
saw that Agnes was not there. She took one of her brothers who was a
good boatman, and started back at once. When their boat rounded
the point of the island she was on the lookout, and was the first
to see the two they came to succor none too soon. And before they
saw her she caught sight, with terrible clearness, of the look in the
two faces that were bent upon one another. It was she who supported
Windham until Agnes could be taken off, and preparations made for getting
him on board; but she turned her eyes away, and did not speak to
him.

On the way back she hardly noticed the dreary and draggled pair, who had
little to say for themselves. Many things that had puzzled and troubled
her ranged themselves in a dreadful sequence and order now in her
unsuspicious mind.

     On their arrival she made some arrangements for their comfort,
     quietly; then went to her room, and did not come down again.
     

Windham left early in the morning, went straight back to Dr. Saxon, and
told him the whole story.

"I hardly know whether I'm a villain or not," Windham concluded.

"You might as well be," the doctor growled. "You've been a consummate fool,
and one does about as much harm as the other. Go home now and stay
there; and don't do anything more, for heaven's sake, until you
hear from me."
Windham went home, and was very miserable, as may be supposed. Hearing
nothing for some time, he could not bear it, and wrote to Mary that he
honored and admired her, and thought everything of her that he ever
had or could. In a week he got this reply:

"Mary Mandison has received Philip Windham's letter, and can only
reply that there is nothing to be said."
This stung him more deeply than silence, and he wrote that he was going
to see her on a certain day, and begged her not to deny him.

He went at the time, and she saw him, simply sitting still, and hearing
what he had to say. He hardly knew what to say then, but vowed and
protested, and finally complained of her coldness and cruelty. She
replied that she was not cold or cruel, but only, as she had told him,
there was nothing to be said. In the end he found this was true, and
rushed away in despair.

Mary had seemed calm; but when her mother came in that afternoon and
looked for her, she found her in her room, lying on her face.

When she knew who it was, she raised herself silently, looked in her
mother's face a moment, put her arms about her neck, and hid her hot,
dry eyes there as she used to do when a child.

Late that night those two were alone together in the same place,
and, before they parted, the mother said:

"You were always my brave child, and you are going to be my brave Mary
still."
And Mary answered with a low cry:

"Yes--yes; but not now--not now!"
For a good while Windham felt the sensation of having run headlong
upon a blank wall and been flung back and crippled. But the feeling
wore itself out as the months passed.
It was nearly a year before he heard from Dr. Saxon, and he had
given up looking for anything from him, when he received a cold
note, inviting him to call at the doctor's home, if he chose, at a
certain date and hour. At the time set he went to the city, and
rang the doctor's bell as the hour was striking.
[Illustration: "'AGNES, DO YOU KNOW?' HE ASKED. AND SHE ANSWERED,
'YES.'"]
He was shown into the library, and when the door closed behind him,
he fell back against it. Dr. Saxon was not the only person in the
room; at the farther end sat Agnes Maine. She knew nothing of his
coming; and when she glanced round and saw him, she stood up and
faced him, with her hands crossed before her, her breathing quickened,
and her face flushed blood-red.
The old doctor leaned back and looked from one to the other, studying
them openly and keenly. When he was satisfied, he ordered Windham
to take a chair near the window and told Agnes she might go out.
She faced him a moment; then went away with her straight, proud
carriage. The doctor finished something he was at, then got his
pipe and filled and lighted it, backed up against the chimney-piece,
and stood eying Windham with something more than his usual
scowl.
"Well, young man," he asked, finally, "what did you come here for?"
"I came here because you asked me to."
"No, sir; you didn't," the old man retorted. "I said you might come
if you liked."
Windham stood up, trembling, and replied with suppressed passion:
"I came on your invitation. I did not come to be insulted."
"Tut, tut," the doctor rejoined. "You needn't be so hoity-toity;
you haven't much occasion; sit down. Have you been making any more
of your 'mistakes,' as you call them?"
Windham answered emphatically: "No!"
"Are you going to?" the doctor continued.
"No, sir; I am not," Windham replied, with angry decision.
"Well, I wouldn't; you've done enough," the doctor commented
roughly.
"You call it a mistake, but I call it blind stupidity, worse than
many crimes. Mary is worth three of Agnes, to begin with; but it
would be just as bad if she were a doll or a dolt. Any fellow out
of swaddling-clothes, who has brains in his body, and isn't made
of wood, ought to know that passion is as hard a fact as hunger,
and no more to be left out of account. You were bound to know the
chances were that it would have to be reckoned with, first or last,
and you deliberately took the risk of wrecking two women's lives.
I don't say anything about your own; you richly deserve all you
got, and all that's coming to you. If law could be made to conform
to abstract justice, it would rank your offence worse than many for
which men pay behind bars."
He went out abruptly, and after a few minutes returned with Agnes,
who came in lingering, and apparently unwilling.
"Here, Agnes, I am going out," he said. "I've been giving this young
man my opinion of him, and haven't any more time to waste. You can
tell him what you think of him, and send him off."
He went out, and banged the door after him. Agnes leaned against
it, and stood there downcast and perfectly still. Windham sat sunk
together, as the doctor had left him, waiting for her to speak. But
she did not, and after a while he got up and stood by the high desk,
looking at her.
Finally he spoke low:
"Are you going to scold me, too? Mary has discarded me, and your
uncle says I am a miserable sinner, and ought to be in the penitentiary.
I don't deny it; but if I went there it would be for your sake. Do
you condemn me, too? Have you no mercy for me?"
A flush spread slowly over her pale face. Then she replied softly:
"No, I have no right. I am no better than you."
Two or three hours later Dr. Saxon sat at his desk, when Agnes
entered and came silently and stood beside him. He did not look up,
but asked quietly:

"Well, have you packed him off?"
"No," she answered under her breath; "you know I haven't."
He smiled up at her. This gruff old man had a rare smile on occasion
for those he liked. And he said:
"Well, he isn't the worst they make; he's got spirit, and he can
take a drubbing, too, when it's deserved. I tried him pretty well.
Didn't I fire into him, though, hot shot!" He fairly grinned at the
recollection.
"I had to, you know, to keep myself in countenance. I suppose I
said rather more than I meant--but don't you tell him so."
She smiled.They missed their mark,
however, and did not get another chance until the afternoon, when
several "Sneakers" were aimed at the old camp, and one burst close to a
group of officers who were exercising themselves and their ponies for a
polo match. This may have been meant as a rebuke to the
Sabbath-breakers. Boer riflemen were engaged at that time in the more
reprehensible pastime of sniping our outposts at long range, and they
kept this up until near sunset, as if engaged in the most laudable duty;
but we have long since learned that the Boer judges his own conduct by
one standard and ours by another.

To-day the sun shone brilliantly, bringing back tropical heat, in
contrast to the cold that always accompanies violent thunder-storms in
Natal.

     And so Christmas-tide was past, and the New Year broke upon the
     beleaguered garrison. So great is the influence of times and
     seasons that we may well believe that even in Ladysmith the first
     day of 1900 brought a brighter ray of hope. But hope must yet for
     long be deferred, and the daily round of tasks grow wearisome by
     repetition--the daily dole of eked-out rations, the daily tale of
     bursting shells, were for many weeks, with one day's startling
     break, to be the sole preoccupation of the defenders. The enemy,
     even on this first day of January, were not willing to leave the
     garrison in doubt as to their presence, although, despite the
     possible touch of sarcasm, there was a grim sort of friendliness in
     their reminder. It again took the form of blind shells--this time
     fired from the Free State batteries--inscribed "Compliments of the
     Season." The sarcasm (writes Mr. Pearse)

seems the more pointed because we hear that the Boers believe us to be
starving and unable to hold out much longer. We should, at any rate,
appreciate the good wishes more if they were sent in another form.
Shells, even without fuses or powder-charges, are not quite harmless;
and though these have done no damage so far, there is always a chance
that they may hit somebody when fired into the heart of a town where
people still carry on their customary occupations in spite of
bombardment.

     Whatever change favourable to their hopes was believed in by the
     Boers, there was none in the spirit with which soldiers and
     civilians alike in the invested township faced the duties placed
     upon them. Writing on New Year's Day Mr. Pearse has a timely and a
     generous word for the humbler heroes of the  siege:--

We have among us one little saddler for whose services there is so much
demand that he has steadily stitched away for hours together every
working day since the siege began, heedless of shells. There are
tailors, too, who have done their best to keep officers and civilians
clothed, not even quitting their benches when shrapnels burst near them,
and I know of at least one poor seamstress who, by working night and
day, has earned enough to buy something more than bare rations even at
famine prices. Cynics do not look for heroes or heroines among such as
these. They toil for gain, that is all. But they have stuck to their
notion of duty in the midst of danger, and no soldier could have done
more. Not all the shells fired into town on New Year's Day were
harmless, however. One from Bulwaan burst near Captain Vallentin's
house, which has been a favourite since Colonel Rhodes took up his
quarters there, and at last one hit just over the front door. It smashed
the drawing-room wall, passed thence to the kitchen, and mortally
wounded a soldier servant, whose last words to his master were, "I hope
you've had your breakfast, sir!"

     Up to this time the subject of food supply, though it had long
     seriously occupied the attention of the authorities, had not
     gravely added to the anxieties of the siege. Under the date of 1st
     January Mr. Pearse has the following  entry:--

Colonel Ward tells me that rations are holding out well. Neither
soldiers nor civilians, who number altogether over 20,000, have suffered
privations yet, and, thanks to Colonel Stoneman's admirable system of
distribution, something more than beef, bread, and groceries can still
be issued to those who are too weak to be nourished by rough campaigning
fare.

     Forage for horses was, however, getting very scarce, and the poor
     beasts suffered greatly.

Four hundred men, including natives, are sent out every day to cut grass
on the hillsides that are least exposed to Boer rifle fire, and they
manage to bring in about 32,000 lbs. daily, but this does not go far
among all the cavalry horses, transport animals, and cattle. Many must
be left to pick up their own food by grazing under guard. The old
troop-horses, however, break away from their allotted pasturages when
feeding-time comes. Perhaps their quick ears catch the familiar bugle
call to stables sounding afar off. At all events, neither knee-halters
nor other devices are of any avail. They get back to the old lines
somehow at feeding-time, and it is pitiful to see them standing
patiently, in a row, waiting for the corn or chaff that is not for them,
trying by a soft whinny to coax a little out of the hands of soldiers
who pass them, or sidling up to an old stable chum who is better fed
because better fit for work, in the hope of getting a share of his
forage for the sake of auld lang syne. Those who know how the cavalry
soldier loves a horse that has carried him well will not need to be told
how hard Tommy found it to resist the appeal of a dumb comrade in
distress; and who shall blame him if he shortened by just a handful or
so the allowance for horses that are rationed on a special scale rather
than turn a half-starved outcast empty away? But sentiment is a mistake
when kindness can do no more than prolong misery. There is no horse
sickness yet in the epidemic form. They simply pine for want of
nourishment until, too weak even to nibble the grass about them, they
drop and die. Some day we may have a use for them before things come to
that extremity, but at present the difficulty is to dispose of their
carcases. Sanitary considerations forbid that they shall be buried in
town or near camp. The enemy shells working parties, who begin to dig
pits on the open plain, and so an incinerating furnace has been built
for the cremation of horses.

[Illustration: SIEGE OF LADYSMITH, AFTER TWO MONTHS OF BOMBARDMENT]

     In the early days of the year the Boer batteries became much more
     active. We shall see that they were preparing for a climax, which,
     however, by the splendid bravery and determination of the garrison,
     was to be turned into one of disaster for the enemy rather than for
     the defenders. We are now within three days of the hottest ordeal
     Sir George White and his gallant army had to pass through.
     Happenings in the short interval are thus described in Mr. Pearse's
     notes:--

_January 3._--For two days the Boer fire from Bulwaan has been directed
mainly at the Town Hall or buildings near it, with occasional diversions
towards the Intelligence Offices on one side, or the Indian Ordnance
Laager on the other. Within these limits of deviation are the busiest
parts of Ladysmith, bakeries for the supply of all who are invested,
depots at which civilians assemble to draw their daily rations beside
the Market Square, where lank-sided dogs snarl over refuse, and such
stores as have still something to sell that has not been requisitioned
for military uses. The Royal Hotel seems to be a mark once more. Several
shells have come near hitting it to-day, and not twenty yards from the
room in which I am making these notes a shrapnel has just burst through
the wall of a stable. One horse standing there seems to be badly
wounded, but curiously enough hardly shows any signs of terror, though
the explosion close to him must have sounded terrific, and he was half
blinded by dust mingled with fumes of melinite. The fact that Boers use
high explosives for bursting charges has been questioned, but this
shrapnel, and others I have seen burst at close quarters, undoubtedly
contained melinite or some similar villainous compound, to which our own
lyddite is near akin. A little later two ladies were driving down the
main street when a shell burst just in front of their trap. The pony
swerved as if to bolt, but his driver pulled him up with a steady hand
and soothed him without a tremor in her voice. At the next corner, fully
exposed to Bulwaan's battery, these ladies stopped, waiting to watch the
effect of another shot.

It must not be thought that our own guns, though seldom mentioned, are
idle all this while. They do not waste ammunition, for a very good
reason, but wait their opportunity for effective reply to the enemy's
batteries, and when a naval 12-pounder or the "Lady Anne" comes into
action the Boer fire is apt to be hurried and wildly inaccurate if it
does not cease for a time. The Boers have however mounted a new gun near
Pepworth's, which sends "sneakers" into town and about Mount Hill with
irritating persistency, and its smokeless powder makes a flash so small
that the exact position cannot be located.

_January 5._--Days in succession pass unbroken by any incidents
dissimilar to the routine which in the very constancy of danger becomes
monotonous. Yesterday and to-day are so much alike that one hardly
remembers which was which unless some personal adventure or a friend's
narrow escape makes a nick in the calendar. Yesterday, for instance, one
of several shells bursting about the same spot shattered the water tanks
behind a chemist's shop, and its splinters came in curious curves over
the housetops, one grazing an officer of the Imperial Light Horse, to
whom I was at that moment talking. The next shell was into the police
camp, where it burst with destructive force, completely wrecking Colonel
Dartnell's tent with all its contents, but injuring nobody. Had that
genial and most popular officer followed the almost invariable practice
of his everyday life, there would have been an end of the man to whom
more than to anybody else we owe the timely retirement from Dundee. He
it was who told General Yule, "You must go to-night or you will not be
able to go at all," and whose advice, being acted upon, brought back
several thousand men to strengthen the garrison of Ladysmith just before
its investment. The loss of such a man would have been irreparable, for
he knows more than any other officer in this country about Boers and
their methods of fighting, and he has every thread of information at
command if he were allowed to use native scouts in his own way. He would
have made the best possible chief of an Intelligence Staff, but
unfortunately military etiquette or jealousy bars his employment in that
capacity. If his advice is asked for he gives it readily as at Dundee,
and though he has no authority to act in the way that would be most
congenial to his fearless and active nature, he is as ready as ever to
render a service when wanted. Some of us know too how much civilians
have been encouraged in their endurance of a long siege by Colonel
Dartnell's cheery example. Nothing disheartens him. He is always the
same whether the day's news be good or bad, and perhaps his
unostentatious services will be adequately recognised in the end. If
they had been taken advantage of in the beginning there would be fewer
blunders to regret.

To-day Colonel Stoneman had more than one narrow escape. Two shells
burst within splinter range of the office in which he and his assistants
have worked steadily at supply details since the bombardment began. A
third passed through the roof over that office after a ricochet, and
then, without bursting, rolled to the ground in front of a stoup where
several Army Service officers were sitting. That shell will be cherished
after extraction of its fuse and melinite charge. Fire from other Boer
guns proved more disastrous. Surprise Hill's howitzer threw one shell to
the little encampment behind Range Point, where it killed one man and
wounded four of the unfortunate Royal Irish Fusiliers.

     But the time seems now ripe for larger events. On the following day
     the Boers made their supreme attempt upon the defences of the town.
     Their best and their bravest were pitted against the siege-worn
     British soldier; but though they gained all the advantage of a
     night surprise, though their fierce energy placed them at this
     point and that several times within an inch of victory, they were
     hurled back by a foeman whose determination was greater than their
     own, and whose courage and spirit of self-sacrifice rose superior.


CHAPTER X

THE GREAT ASSAULT

     Why the Boers attacked--Interesting versions--A general
     surprise--Joubert's promise--Boer tactics reconsidered--Erroneous
     estimates--Under cover of night--A bare-footed advance--The
     Manchesters surprised--The fight on Waggon Hill--In praise of the
     Imperial Light Horse--A glorious band--The big guns speak--Lord Ava
     falls--Gordons and Rifles to the rescue--A perilous position--The
     death of a hero--A momentary panic--Man to man--A gallant
     enemy--Burghers who fell fighting--The storming of Cæsar's
     Camp--Shadowy forms in the darkness--An officer captured--"Maak
     Vecht!"--Abdy's guns in play--"Well done, gunners!"--Taking water
     to the wounded--Dick-Cunyngham struck down--Some anxious
     moments--The Devons charge home--A day well won.


     When Mr. Pearse spoke of the comparative calm which marked the
     closing days of 1899 as deceptive, he was right, and events
     promptly proved him so. On 6th January the Boers, as has been said,
     made a most determined attempt to bring the siege of Ladysmith to
     an end by storming the British defences. Why the enemy should have
     allowed so long an interval to elapse since their half-hearted
     effort of 9th November, is difficult to imagine. Dingaan's Day
     (16th December) was originally fixed for the attack, but
     Schalk-Burger was diverted from his purpose by the attempt made by
     Sir Redvers Buller to force the passage of the Tugela. The
     projected onslaught on the besieged town having once been
     abandoned, it was generally believed that the Boers would be too
     intent on watching the movements of the relief column to trouble
     about attacking Ladysmith in force. According to one report an
     imperative order from President Kruger precipitated matters, while
     another story is to the effect that a bogus despatch purporting to
     be from Sir George White to Sir Redvers Buller, brought about the
     sudden change in the enemy's tactics. This despatch, so the story
     runs, asked that relief might be sent at once as the ammunition was
     exhausted, and it was impossible for the garrison to hold out in
     the event of the town being attacked. The native runner, to whom
     the document was entrusted, was instructed to proceed in the
     direction of the Boer lines, and so faithfully complied with his
     orders that both runner and despatch fell into the hands of the
     enemy. If the Boers were led to attack by any such ruse they were
     completely disillusioned as to the capabilities of Sir George
     White's forces. Be it said to their credit that, whatever their
     hopes of an easy victory, they quitted themselves like men when
     they realised their tremendous mistake. The long fierce struggle is
     vividly described in the following letter written two days  after:--

[Illustration: THE ENVIRONS OF LADYSMITH]

Saturday's stubborn fight was a surprise in more senses than one. Nobody
here had credited the Boers with a determination to attack, unless
chance should give them overwhelming superiority in all respects, and
for that chance they have waited so supinely that it seemed probable the
game of long bowls with heavy artillery, varied by "sniping" from behind
rocks a mile off, would continue to be played day after day in the hope
of starving us into subjection, before Sir Redvers Buller could bring
up his relieving force. Everybody knew that issue to be well-nigh
impossible, because our resources are far from starvation point yet, and
it is inconceivable that eight or ten thousand British soldiers could be
hemmed in by three times their number of Boers, and compelled to yield
without a desperate fight in the last extremity. We were fully aware
that if ever an opening offered for the Boers to creep up within shorter
range, under cover, and without being seen, they would be prompt to take
advantage of it, in expectation of bringing off another Majuba, and that
is a danger to which our extenuated defensive lines necessarily expose
us, but we trusted with justice, as events have proved, to the
steadiness and discipline of well-trained troops, to hold the Boers in
check wherever they might gain any temporary advantage, and drive them
back at the bayonet's point. That they would even push an attack to
storming point few if any among us believed, for the simple reason that
rifles are of no use against cold steel when combatants come to close
quarters. The Boers know that well enough. Their only hope in attack
therefore rests on the chance of being able by stealth to seize an
advantageous position whence they may bring a deadly rifle fire to bear
on the defenders, whom they hope by this means to throw into panic.

That was the plan they tried on Saturday, being urged to it, as we have
since learned, by peremptory orders and fair promises from Joubert, who
is said to have watched the fight from a distance. That, however, seems
improbable, if Sir Redvers Buller was at the same time threatening a
movement against the Tugela Heights, though it is certain that Joubert
attached great importance to this attack on Ladysmith, because he had
written a letter ordering De Villiers to capture Bester's Ridge, at all
costs, with his commando of Free State Boers, and promising that those
who succeeded in winning that position should be released from further
service. This anxiety to get hold of a range which includes Cæsar's Camp
and Waggon Hill, and commands Ladysmith at a range of 5000 yards, can be
easily understood, but the urgency demanding any sacrifice of life,
provided that end were attained, suggests many possibilities, and gives
to Saturday's fight exceptional significance as a probable turning-point
in the Natal Campaign, which has hitherto gone in favour of our foes,
notwithstanding the victories we have gained over them in isolated
actions. Dundee and Elandslaagte, like Lord Methuen's fights on the
Modder River, added lustre to our army, by showing what British soldiers
can do in assaulting positions against the terrific fire from modern
magazine rifles, but it cannot be said that we have profited by them
while our enemies are able to keep us here cut off from all
communications except by heliograph or search-light signals, and have
yet force enough to interpose a formidable line of resistance between
Ladysmith and Sir Redvers Buller's column.

There cannot be many Boers in any position surrounding this place, but
their mobility gives them the power of concentrating quickly at any
point that might be threatened, and this for all practical purposes
increases their numbers threefold. As Colonel F. Rhodes put it in one of
his quaintly appropriate phrases, "We are a victorious army besieged by
an inferior enemy." But there are Boers in twice our own strength near
at hand, if, not actually all in the investing lines. The Tugela Heights
are scarcely twelve miles off as the crow flies, and this distance might
be covered by a Boer commando in less than two hours, so that a thousand
men or more moving from one of our enemy's columns to another, could be
brought into a fight in time to turn the tide against either Ladysmith
or its relieving force as occasion might prompt. For attacking a
particular point this mobility would give enormous advantages if the
Boers only knew how to make full use of them, and carried arms on which
they could rely for hand-to-hand fighting, in the critical moment of
pushing an attack home.

As it is they trust to tactics that have stood them well in previous
campaigns against British soldiers and natives, their object being to
gain some commanding position, whence, without being seen, they may pour
a deadly fire on their astonished foes, and thus cause a panic retreat
that might be turned into a disorderly rout by a sudden rush of
reinforcing Boers or a terrific storm of bullets from several quarters
at once. Reasoning from experience they hope to make history repeat
itself in another Majuba Hill. One would have thought that the fights at
Elandslaagte and Dundee would dispel delusions of that kind based on the
assumption that Tommy Atkins will not stand up against rifle bullets at
short range from Boers whom he cannot see if they but steal upon him and
open fire where he least expects to find them.

Probably there were erroneous estimates on both sides, but at any rate
it is certain that our foes were confident of being able to win by
massed surprise, and their effort was made with an adroitness not less
astonishing than the audacity of its conception. After this it will be
ridiculous for anybody to contend that the Boers are not brave fighters,
though they lack the daring by which alone fights like that of Saturday
can be decided. Their tactics have changed little since the old days,
and it remains true now as then that they are an offensive but not an
attacking force. Having gained by stealth the positions that were
supposed to command our outpost defences on Cæsar's Camp and Waggon
Hill, they acted from that moment as if on the defensive, trusting for
victory not to any forward movement of their own but to the belief that
our men would give way, and might then be rolled back in panic upon
Ladysmith by thousands of mounted Boers who awaited that turn of events
to make their meditated dash. Such undoubtedly was the plan conceived by
Free State and Transvaal commanders at the Krygsraad when Joubert,
Prinsloo, Schalk-Burger, Viljoen, and other leaders met together in
council some days ago. The manner of its execution may be conjectured by
the light of subsequent events.

The attack began before daybreak with a determined attempt to capture
the whole range of Bester's Ridge, which is divided officially into
Cæsar's Camp and Waggon Hill, forming the southern chain of our
defences, and held by the outposts of Colonel Ian Hamilton's Brigade.
Seventy of the Imperial Light Horse held Waggon Hill with a small body
of bluejackets and a few Engineers having charge of the 4.7 naval gun,
which they had brought up overnight for mounting in that position, but
it still remained on a bullock waggon. Next to them were several
companies of the King's Royal Rifles under Colonel Gore-Browne, while
the Manchester Regiment held Cæsar's Camp with pickets pushed forward to
the southern crest and eastern shoulder. Nearly the whole length of
ridge hence to Waggon Hill is a rough plateau, strong but presenting
little cover from artillery fire or the rifles of any foe bold enough to
scale the heights under cover of darkness. It was scarcely entrenched at
all, having only a few sangars dotted about as rallying-points. The
Boer movements were marked by a searchlight from Bulwaan, which played
for hours in a curious way across Intombi Hospital Camp to the posts
occupied by our men, intensifying the obscurity of all-surrounding
blackness.

All we know absolutely is that long before dawn Free Staters were in
possession of the western end of Bester's Ridge, where Waggon Hill dips
steeply down from the curiously tree-fringed shoulder in bold bluffs to
a lower neck, and thence on one side to the valley in which Bester's
Farm lies amid trees, and on the other to broad veldt that is dominated
by Blaauwbank (or Rifleman's Ridge), and enfiladed by Telegraph
Hill--both Boer positions having guns of long range mounted on them; and
at the same time Transvaalers, mostly Heidelberg men, had gained a
footing on the eastern end of the same ridge where boulders in Titanic
masses, matted together by roots of mimosa trees, rise cliff-like from
the plain where Klip River, emerging from thorny thickets, bends
northward to loop miles of fertile meadow-land before flowing back into
the narrow gorge past Intombi Spruit Camp. How the Boers got there one
can only imagine, for neither the Imperial Light Horse pickets on Waggon
Hill, nor the Manchesters holding the very verge of that cliff which we
call Cæsar's Camp and the Kaffirs Intombi, nor the mixed force of
volunteers and police watching the scrub lower down, saw any form or
heard a movement during the night. It was intensely dark for two or
three hours, but in that still air a steenbok's light leap from rock to
rock would have struck sharply on listening ears. Those on picket duty
aver that not a Boer could have shown himself or passed through the
mimosa scrub without being challenged. Yet four or five hundred of them
got to the jutting crest, of Cæsar's Camp somehow, and to reach it they
must either have crossed open ground or climbed with silent caution up
the boulder-roughened steeps.

An explanation may perhaps be found in the fact that a Boer takes off
his boots or vel-schoon when there is noiseless stalking to be done.
Going over the battlefield afterwards I noticed that where dead Boers
were lying thickest about the salient angle of that eastern space, all
were bare-footed. Boots and even rubber-soled canvas shoes had been
taken off for the climb, and these lay in pairs beside the bodies, just
as they had been placed when the fight began. And the spots on which
these Boers lay seemed to indicate that they must have scaled the steep
just where a sentry among the rocks on top would have found most
difficulty in seeing anything as he peered over jutting edges into the
darkness below. At any rate the Manchester picket was surprised before
dawn, as I shall describe presently, though it should have been put on
the alert by rifle firing an hour earlier away on Waggon Hill, where
the fight began between two and three o'clock. Then, however, it seemed
little more than the sniping between outposts, to which custom has made
all of us somewhat inattentive, and nobody thought for a moment that a
picket of Imperial Light Horse had been practically cut off before the
Boers fired a shot or our own men had given an alarm.

Waggon Hill was at that moment the key of a very critical situation, and
had the Light Horse been seized by panic, or given way an inch, the
Boers might possibly have brought enormous numbers up to that commanding
crest and enfiladed the rear of Cæsar's Camp. We know now that thousands
of Free Staters were waiting in the kloofs between Mounted Infantry Hill
and Middle Hill, not two miles distant, for the opportunity which, they
had no doubt, would be opened up to them by the success of five or six
hundred tough veterans who had volunteered to win that position or die
in the attempt. They had, however, to reckon with men whose gallantry
was proved at Elandslaagte and the night attack on Gun Hill--men who are
endowed with the rare quality which Napoleon the Great called "two
o'clock in the morning courage." One has to praise the Imperial Light
Horse so often, that reiteration may sound like flattery. But they
deserve every distinction that can be given to them for having by superb
steadiness, against great odds, saved the force on Bester's Ridge from a
very serious calamity, if not from actual disaster. They must share the
credit to some extent, however, with two small bodies of men already
mentioned, who happened to be on Waggon Hill neither for fighting nor
watch-keeping--the few bluejackets of H.M.S. _Powerful_ in charge of the
big gun which had been brought up that night for mounting there, and the
handful of Royal Engineers under Lieutenants Digby-Jones and Dennis,
preparing the necessary epaulements for that weapon. When firing began,
the gun being still on its waggon, all that could be done was to outspan
its team of oxen. Then bluejackets and sappers, seizing each his rifle,
took their places behind slight earthworks, prepared to fight it out
manfully. The only tribute they need ask for is that their roll of dead
and wounded may be borne in memory. Out of thirty all told, the Royal
Engineers lost two officers killed and fifteen men wounded. Of the few
sailors, one was killed and one wounded. This record seems hard to beat;
but the Imperial Light Horse could point to heaps of dead and maimed in
proof of the dauntless stand they made, for the living continued to
fight where their gallant comrades fell, scorning to quit an inch of
ground to the Boers, though they knew by the rifle fire flashing round
them in the darkness that they were hopelessly outnumbered from the
first. Their brigadier speaks of them as men with no nerves at all. When
one was hit, another stepped quietly up to his place and went on
shooting as if at target-practice, though he had no more cover than a
small stone to lie behind; and this happened not once but a score of
times, the officers taking an equal share in the fight with their men,
who speak with pride of the gallantry shown by Captains de Rothe and
Codrington, Lieutenants Webb, Pakeman, Adams, Campbell, and Richardson,
and the active veteran Major Doveton, who cheered his men on after he
had received two bullet wounds, one of which shattered his fore-arm and
shoulder.

By that time the sun was rising above Bulwaan in a halo of orange,
crimson, and purple, and men could count the grim faces of their
enemies. Ladysmith was aroused at dawn by the rattle of incessant rifle
fire rolling along Bester's Ridge from end to end. Up to that time no
big guns had spoken on either side, and people came out of their houses
slowly, in sulky humour at having their rest disturbed before the
conventional hour for shelling to begin. While they listened to the
continuous crackling as of damp sticks in a huge bonfire, few among them
realised that the sounds indicated anything more serious than a Boer
demonstration which would fizzle out quickly, and even when bullets
began to fall in the town itself, or went whistling away overhead, the
only comment made was that Mauser rifles must have a marvellous range if
they could send bullets so far beyond the ridge aimed at.

Bulwaan's 6-inch Creusot opened fire as the sun rose behind it in a
splendour of orange and crimson clouds. The white smoke changed to
wreaths of blue and deep purple against that glowing sky, while people
waited to hear the gurgling scream of a shell. It did not come the way
they expected, but burst above the dark crest of Cæsar's Camp. Then the
watchers, relieved because the big guns had found other occupation than
battering down houses, went back to bed or to their morning baths,
little thinking that the fate of Ladysmith was at the moment dependent
on men who lay among rocks, or behind grass tussocks, looking through
rifle sights at such short range that they could almost see the colour
of each other's eyes.

Colonel Hamilton, who had ridden out with his staff, and accompanied by
Colonel F. Rhodes, to the highest knoll of Bester's Ridge, grasped the
situation quickly and ordered up reinforcements. The Boers who had crept
round the crest of the eastern steep, which I have called by its Kaffir
name Intombi, were even then almost up to the camp that Colonel Hamilton
had quitted half an hour earlier, but screened from the Manchester
battalion's fire by a swell of the ground in front. Their further
progress, however, was stayed by a counter attack from Border Mounted
Rifles and Natal Volunteers whom Colonel Royston brought up to reinforce
the Frontier Police under Major Clark, who had been holding that point
with dogged determination since dawn. The brigadier, seeing that for a
time no headway was being made by the enemy against Cæsar's Camp,
turned his attention towards Waggon Hill and sent Lord Ava forward to
reconnoitre from the spot where Colonel Edwardes, with the main body of
Imperial Light Horse, reduced to less than half its original strength by
losses in former actions, was making a gallant effort to relieve the
remnants of two squadrons from their perilous plight on Waggon Hill.
Lord Ava watched its issue from the fighting line beside men with whom
he had scaled the rough heights of Elandslaagte and the stiffer steeps
of Gun Hill. As he raised himself upon a small boulder to look through
glasses at the enemy, who were pouring in a hail of bullets from a
distance of little more than 150 yards, a bullet struck him in the
forehead, and there he lay, apparently lifeless, with every sense dead
to the din of war about him. A few minutes later Colonel Frank Rhodes
heard that a staff-officer had been hit. He came at once to the
conclusion that it was the young friend who had been his companion daily
since they sailed from England early in September. As he went forward to
make sure, Lieutenant Lannowe, of the 4th Dragoon Guards, aide-de-camp
to Colonel Hamilton, joined him, and these two, passing unscathed across
the shot-torn slopes, found Lord Ava lying sorely wounded, but still
alive, where Boer bullets were falling thickest about the Imperial Light
Horse. They carried him to a place of less danger, and there Colonel
Rhodes bandaged the wound, while a skilful surgeon's aid was being
summoned. By that time Majors Julian, of the Royal Army Medical Corps,
and Davis, medical officer of the Imperial Light Horse, had their hands
full, having rendered aid to many wounded men under the heaviest fire,
utterly regardless of danger to themselves. The first operation, without
which recovery would have been hopeless, was, however, performed there,
while Mauser bullets whistled through the air, and Lord Ava, still
unconscious, was borne from the field.

The few bluejackets, Gordons, Imperial Light Horse, and Engineers, under
Lieutenant Digby-Jones, R.E., were still holding their ground manfully
on the extreme westerly crest of Waggon Hill. The Boers were within
point-blank range of them on two sides, while beyond the crest and down
into Bester's Valley hundreds of others were waiting for the first sign
of panic among our men to rush the position, but held in check by a
company of the 60th Rifles and a few Light Horse occupying a small
sangar on that side. The ridge, however, was being shelled by the
enemy's guns from Middle Hill and Blaauwbank with such accuracy that
many of our men were wounded by that fire, but not a Boer was hit,
though the fighting lines were less than 100 yards apart. The 21st
Battery Field Artillery, out in comparatively open ground beyond Range
Post, swept with shrapnel the slopes and kloofs of Mounted Infantry Hill
on one side, and Major Goulburn's battery, the 42nd, searched the
reverse slope of that knoll, smiting the head of a movement by which our
foes tried to strengthen their attack. The Natal artillery had done
similar service at an earlier stage against another body, and though
under heavy rifle fire they still stuck to their guns manfully. Our
naval 12-pounder mounted near this battery, but having double the range,
played upon Middle Hill, trying by rapid and accurate fire to silence
the big Creusot gun there, or baffle its aim.

This was the favourable opportunity seized by Colonel Hamilton for
sending forward Major Miller-Wallnutt with one company of Gordons to
reinforce the little group of bluejackets, Light Horse, Engineers, and
Highlanders who were fighting so desperately hard to beat the Boers
back. A little later Major Campbell reached Waggon Hill with four
companies of the "Second Sixtieth," but their fire failed to dislodge
the Boers, and the Gordons, under Miller-Wallnutt, were being sorely
pressed, the Boers having a number of picked shots among the rocks on
two sides whence they could bring a deadly fire to bear on the flanks of
any force that might attempt to cross the open ground between. General
Hamilton, however, seeing that risks must be taken, or the Gordons would
be in perilous plight, sent two companies of Rifles forward in
succession, but smitten in front by artillery fire from Middle Hill and
Blaauwbank, while their flanks were raked by rifle bullets, they halted
and took such cover as could be found among small stones. A company
being then called upon to rush the open space, Lieutenant Todd asked for
permission to try first with a small body, and this being granted he led
a mere handful of ready volunteers forward. The gallant young officer,
however, had not gone many yards before he was shot dead, and the men
fell back disheartened by the loss of one whom they would have followed
anywhere, because they recognised in him the qualities of a born leader.

After that there were moments of humiliation when it seemed as if the
possibility of holding Waggon Hill hung upon a mere chance. Once
surprised by finding Boers within fifty yards, the whole forward line of
Rifles and Highlanders gave way, retiring over the crest with a
precipitancy that threatened to sweep back supports and all in a general
confusion. But it was no more than a momentary panic, such as the best
troops in the world may be subject to, and our men were quick to rally
when they heard themselves called upon for another effort, and saw
officers springing up the hill again towards that shot-fretted crest
where several Engineers and bluejackets, with the Imperial Light Horse,
still clung as if they had looked on Medusa's head, and become part of
the rocks among which they lay, only that their forefingers were playing
about the triggers, ready in a moment to give back shot for shot to the
Boers. And when deeds of heroism were being performed by Major
Miller-Wallnutt; Lieutenant Digby-Jones, R.E., Gunner Sims of the Royal
Navy, and Lieutenant Fitzgerald, 11th Hussars, who met their enemies
face to face, the irregular troopers were not slow to take their part in
fighting at close quarters. Trooper Albrecht, of the Imperial Light
Horse, especially distinguished himself by shooting two of the Boers who
were at that moment within a few yards of Digby-Jones with rifles
levelled, and the young Engineer lieutenant, whose repeated acts of
bravery might have merited the Victoria Cross, accounted for the other
before he in turn was mortally wounded. Many tough old Free State Boers,
who took all the brunt of fighting on this hill, behaved with the
greatest intrepidity, winning admiration from foes who were yet eager to
try a death-grip with them.

Here Hendrick Truiter fought as he did at Majuba in the forefront, and
got off scot-free, though he presents a target many cubits broad;
gigantic John Wessels of Van Reenan's; Commandants De Jaagers and Van
Wyck, both killed; Wepenaar, who seemed to exercise authority above them
all; and Japic de Villiers, Commandant of the Wetzies Hoek district, a
man among men in his disregard of danger. When he fell dead, after
making his way close up to our sangar and shooting Major
Miller-Wallnutt, the Orange Free State lost one of its foremost citizens
and bravest fighters. If the supports swarming thickly in Bester's
Valley and the kloofs behind Mounted Infantry Hill had come on with
anything like the determination shown by the intrepid 500 who first
seized Waggon Hill, there must have been many anxious moments for our
General. As it was we had regained and still held the position, but
without driving the Boers from their hiding-places within fifty yards of
the crest.

But now it is time that we should turn our attention to a post three
miles eastward, where an equally stubborn fight had been waged about
Intombi Spur, and the fringes of a plateau, 800 yards wide, in front of
the Manchester Battalion sangars on Cæsar's camp. There the pickets had
been surprised, just about the time of relief, half an hour before dawn.
There are differences of opinion, and some acrimonious discussions as to
the means by which 500 Boers of the Heidelberg Commando, under Greyling,
had succeeded in getting to a position which commanded much of that
plateau before anybody had the slightest suspicion that enemies were
near. At the outset I suggested an explanation which seems to be
strengthened by every fact that I can gather. They came barefooted up
the cliff-like face of Intombi Spur on its southern side, and crept
round near its crest until they had command of the whole shoulder,
practically cutting off the Manchester sentries from their pickets, but
taking care to raise no premature alarm. Their rule apparently was to
wait for the sound of firing on Waggon Hill, whereby our attention
might be diverted that way, and then to begin their own attack on a
weakened flank.

This is nearly what happened, except that the Manchesters were put on
the alert by signs of an attack about Waggon Hill more serious than any
preceding it, and made preparations for strengthening their own outpost
line. But it was then too late. The Boers were upon them, ready to open
fire from behind rocks. As Lieutenant Hunt-Grubbe was coming forward to
examine the sentries, shadowy forms sprang out of the darkness and
surrounded him. Then one who was in the uniform of a Border Mounted
Rifleman called to the picket, "We are the Town Guard! surrender!" The
sergeant, however, was not to be caught in that trap, but replied, "We
surrender to nobody," and then ordered his men to fire. In a moment the
air was torn by bullets from all sides, and the picket fell back
fighting towards its own supports, not knowing then that the young
officer had been left a prisoner in the enemy's hands. He was well
treated by his captors, except that they kept him under fire from his
own men so long as a forward position could be maintained, and when that
became too hot they forced him to creep back with them to the cover of
other rocks. He did not want much forcing, being glad enough to wriggle
across the intervening space, where bullets fell unpleasantly thick, as
fast as possible. There he lay close, but kept his eyes open, and saw
something that may furnish a key to the success of Transvaal Boers in
scaling a difficult height that must have been quite strange to them.

Prominent in one group was a young man whom Hunt-Grubbe thought he
recognised. For a long time the face puzzled him, but at last he
remembered having seen a counterfeit presentment of it, or one very
similar, in a photographic group of the Bester family. A Bester would
know every rock and cranny of that hill with a familiarity which would
make light or darkness indifferent to him. Lieutenant Hunt-Grubbe made
mental notes also of Boer tactics, by which they gave a great impression
of numbers. A group would gather at one point and keep up rapid firing
for some time, then double under cover to some rocks thirty yards off,
and discharge their rifles there, but always taking care not to throw
any shots away.

In spite of these dodges and good shooting, however, the Boers could
make no headway against the Manchesters, who were by this time extended
across the stony plateau under fire from Boer guns posted among trees on
the far side of Bester's Valley. Neither side in fact could move either
to advance or retire without exposing itself on open ground. Therefore
they stayed blazing away at each other until the grey dawn gave place to
swift sunrise. Then the Boers, who had a heliograph with them behind
Intombi Spur, flashed to Bulwaan the signal "Maak Vecht," and our friend
"Puffing Billy"--as the big 6-inch Creusot is called--promptly made
fight in a way that was astonishing in a weapon whose grooves must be
worn nearly smooth by frequent firing. He threw shell after shell with
vicious rapidity and remarkable accuracy on to the plateau of Cæsar's
Camp, but the shells fortunately did not fall among our men or burst
well.

Just as Colonel Metcalfe arrived at Cæsar's Camp, with four companies of
the Rifle Brigade to reinforce and prolong our fighting line, the Boer
gunners turned their attention to another point, where, in the low
ground among trees by Klip River, Major Abdy was bringing the 53rd Field
Battery into action. This proved to be the turning-point of the fight on
the eastern spur of Bester's Ridge.

Those six guns began throwing time-shrapnel with beautiful precision
just where Boers were thickest. Not a shell seemed to be misplaced, so
far as one could judge, and successive bursts and showers of shrapnel
seemed to wither the immense thickets near Intombi's crest. "Puffing
Billy" turned with an angry growl on Abdy's battery, and this was
followed by many shells fired so rapidly that one began to think the gun
must split under that strain. It went on firing, however, and shell
after shell dropped close to our battery when it was unlimbered on an
open space among mimosa trees. At last a shell burst under one of the
guns, shrouding it and the gunners in a cloud of mingled smoke and mud.
Everybody watched anxiously to see who was hit or what had happened. The
gun, they thought, must surely be disabled, but just as they were saying
so there came a flash out from that cloud. The artillerymen had coolly
taken aim while splinters were flying round them or hitting comrades,
and we saw the shell, aimed under those conditions, burst exactly in the
right place. It was a splendid example of nerve and steadiness under
difficulties, and some spectators, at least, cheered it with cries of
"Well done, gunners." So the 53rd Battery remained in action, doing
splendid service by shelling the Boers on Intombi Spruit and beating
back all attempts of Boer supports to scale the height that way.
"Puffing Billy" went on firing from Bulwaan all this while, and is said
to have got off over 120 rounds during the fight, but its shooting
became very erratic and totally ineffective, while our guns were doing
great execution.

[Illustration: THE BRITISH POSITION AT LADYSMITH, LOOKING EASTWARD]

It was from smaller Boer guns and Mauser rifles that the four companies
of the Rifle Brigade suffered heavily in their attempt to drive the
enemy from Cæsar's Camp plateau into Bester's Valley. One party was
smitten heavily while moving forward in a gallant advance to get within
charging distance. The shattered remnant took cover behind a small ridge
of stones, beyond which there was a little open ground, where Lieutenant
Hall and another wounded officer lay. --APPARATUS USED BY PROFESSOR
W.F. MAGIE IN TAKING A SKIAGRAPH OF A HAND.

The Ruhmkorff coil in the background; the Crookes tube in front of
it; under the hand is the photographic plate in its plate-holder.]

THE USE OF THE RÖNTGEN X RAYS IN SURGERY.

BY W.W. KEEN, M.D., LL.D.

The nineteenth century resembles the sixteenth in many ways. In or about
the sixteenth we have the extensive use of the mariner's compass
and of gunpowder, the discovery of printing, the discovery and exploration
of America, and the acquisition of territory in the New World by various
European states. In the nineteenth century we have the exploration of
Africa and the acquisition of territory in its interior, in which the
various nations of Europe vie with each other again as three centuries
before; the discovery of steam, and its ever-growing application
to the transportation of goods and passengers on sea and land; of
the spectroscope, and through it of many new elements, including
helium in the sun, and, later, on the earth; of argon in the earth's
atmosphere; of anæsthetics and of the antiseptic methods in surgery,
and, lastly, the enormous recent strides in electrical science.

Not only has electricity been applied to transportation and the
development of light and power; but the latest discovery by Professor
Röntgen of the X rays seems destined, possibly, not only to revolutionize
our ideas of radiation in all its forms on the scientific side,
but also on the practical side to be of use in the domain of medicine.
It is, therefore, with great pleasure that I accede to the request of
the editor of this Magazine to state briefly what has been achieved
in the department of medicine up to the present time.

The method of investigating the body by means of the X rays is
very simple, as is shown in Figure 1. The Crookes tube, actuated from
a storage battery or other source of electricity through a Ruhmkorff
coil, is placed on one side of the body. If need be, instead of using
the entire tube, the rays from the most effective portion of it
only are allowed to impinge upon the part of the body to be
investigated, through an opening in a disk of lead interposed between
the Crookes tube and the body.

On the other side of the part to be investigated is placed a quick
photographic plate shut up in its plate-holder, and is exposed to the
rays emanating from the tube for a greater or less length of time. The
parts of the plate not protected by the body are acted upon by the rays,
through the lid of the plate-holder (to which the rays are pervious),
while the tissues of the body act, feebly or strongly, as the case may
be, as obstacles to the rays. Hence, the part of the plate thus protected
is less acted upon than the rest, and a shadow is produced upon the plate.
The soft tissues of the body form but a very slight obstacle to the
passage of the rays, and, hence, throw very faint shadows on the plate.
The more dense portions, presenting a greater obstacle to the passage
of the rays, throw deeper shadows; hence the bones are seen as
dark shadows, the soft parts as lighter ones. That the flesh or soft
parts are not wholly permeable to the rays is well shown in the
skiagraph--i.e., a "shadow picture"--of a foot. (Figure 2.) Where
two toes overlap, it will be observed that there is a deeper shadow,
like the section of a biconvex lens.

[Illustration: FIGURE 2.--SKIAGRAPH OF A FOOT, SHOWING AN EXTRA BONE IN
THE GREAT TOE, WHICH WAS REMOVED BY PROFESSOR MOSETIG.

(From the "British Medical Journal.")]
When we attempt to skiagraph the thicker portions of the body, for
example, the shoulder, the thigh, or the trunk, even the parts consisting
only of flesh obstruct the rays to such an extent, by reason of their
thickness, that the shadows of the still more dense tissues, like the
thigh bone, the arm bone, or the bones of the trunk, cannot be distinguished
from the shadows of the thicker soft parts. Tesla ("Electrical Review,"
March 11, 1896) has to some extent overcome these difficulties by his
improved apparatus, and has skiagraphed, though rather obscurely, the
shoulder and trunk, and Rowland has been able to do the same. Doubtless
when we are able to devise apparatus of greater penetration, and to
control the effect of the rays, we shall be able to skiagraph clearly
even through the entire thickness of the body.

It might be supposed that clothing or surgical dressings would prove
an obstacle to this new photography, but all our preconceived notions
derived from the ordinary photograph must be thrown aside. The bones
of the forearm or the hand can be as readily skiagraphed through a
voluminous surgical dressing or through the ordinary clothing, as when
the parts are entirely divested of any covering. Even bed-ridden
patients can be skiagraphed through the bed-clothes, and, therefore,
without danger from exposure.

     [Illustration: FIGURE 3.--SKETCH OF A BABY'S FOOT AS SEEN
     THROUGH THE SKIASCOPE.
     
     (From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March,
     1896.)]
     [Illustration: FIGURE 4.--SKETCH OF A BABY'S KNEE AS SEEN
     THROUGH THE SKIASCOPE.
     
     (From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March,
     1896.)]
     One of the principal difficulties of the method at present is the
     time ordinarily required to obtain a good picture. Usually this
     time may be stated at in the neighborhood of an hour, though many
     good skiagraphs have been taken in a half hour or twenty minutes.
     It is stated that Messrs. McLeennan, Wright, and Keele of Toronto
     have reduced the necessary time to one second, and that Mr. Edison
     has taken even instantaneous pictures; but I am not aware of
     the publication of any pictures showing how perfect these results
     are. Undoubtedly, as a result of the labors of so many scores of
     physicists and physicians as are now working at the problem,
     before long we shall be able to skiagraph at least the thinner parts
     of the body in a very brief interval. The brevity of the
     exposure will also better the pictures in another way. At present,
     if the attempt is made to skiagraph the shoulder or parts of the
     trunk, we have to deal with organs which cannot be kept motionless,
since the movements incident to breathing produce a constant to and
fro movement of the shoulder, the lungs, the heart, the stomach,
the liver, and other organs which, hereafter, may be made accessible
to this process.

There is no serious discomfort excepting the somewhat irksome necessity
of remaining absolutely still.

Another method of seeing the denser tissues of the body is by direct
observation. A means of seeing through the thinner parts of the body,
such as the fingers or the toes, has been devised simultaneously by
Salvioni of Italy, and Professor Magie of Princeton. Their instruments
are practically identical, consisting of a hollow cylinder a few inches
long, one end of which is applied to the eye, the other end, instead
of having a lens, being covered by a piece of paper smeared with a
phosphorescent salt, the double cyanide of platinum and barium.

When the hand is held before a Crookes tube, and is looked at through the
cylinder, we can see the bones of the hand or foot almost as clearly
as is shown in Figure 2. It has not yet, I believe, been applied
to thicker parts of the body.

Figures 3 and 4 show a baby's foot and knee as seen through this
tube. The partial development of the bones accounts for the peculiar
appearance. There is no bony knee-pan, or patella, at birth, and the bones
of the toes consist only of cartilage, which is translucent, and
therefore not seen.

The name given by Professor Salvioni to this sort of "spy-glass"--if
one may apply this term to an instrument which has no glass--is
that of "cryptoscope" (seeing that which is hidden).

The name suggested by Professor Magie is "skiascope" (seeing a
shadow.)

     This leads me to say a word in reference to the nomenclature. The
     very unfortunate name "shadowgraph" has been suggested and
     largely used in the newspapers, and even in medical journals.
     It has only the merit of clearness as to its meaning to
     English-speaking persons. It is, however, an abominable
     linguistic crime, being an unnatural compound of English
     and Greek. "Radiograph" and its derivatives are equally
     objectionable as compounds of Latin and Greek. The Greek word for
     shadow is "skia," and the proper rendering, therefore, of shadowgraph
     is "skiagraph," corresponding to photograph.

     The first question that meets us in the use of the method in medicine
     is what normal constituents of the body are permeable or
     impermeable to the X rays. It may be stated, in a general way, that
     all of the fleshy parts of the body are partially permeable to
     the rays in a relatively short time; and if the exposure is long
     enough, they become entirely permeable, so that no shadow is cast.
     Even the bones, on _prolonged_ exposure, do not present a sufficient
     obstacle to the passage of the rays, and the shadow originally
     cast becomes obliterated.
     Hence, skiagraphs of the same object exposed to the rays for
     varying times may be of value in showing the different tissues. The
     most permeable of the normal tissues are cartilage or gristle,
     and fat. A kidney (out of the body) is stated by Dr. Reid of Dundee
     to show the difference between the rind, or secreting portion, which
     is more transparent, and the central portion, consisting chiefly
     of conducting tubes, which is less transparent. On the contrary,
     in the brain the gray cortex, or rind, is less transparent
     than the white nerve tubules in the centre.
     
     The denser fibrous tissues, such as the ligaments of joints and the
     tendons or sinews of muscles, cast very perceptible shadows, so
that when we come to a thick tendon like the tendo Achillis, the
shadow approaches even the density of the shadow cast by bone.

     I presume that it is for the same reason (the dense fibrous envelope,
     or sclerotic coat) that the eye-ball is not translucent to the
     rays, as is seen in Figure 5, of a bullock's eye.
     
     [Illustration: FIGURE 5.--SKIAGRAPH OF A BULLOCK'S EYE.
     
     (From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March
     1896.)]
     Mr. Arthur H. Lea has ingeniously suggested that the translucency of
     the soft parts of the living and of those of the dead body might
     show a difference, and that, if such were the case, it might
     be used as a definite test of death. Unfortunately Figure 6, of a
     dead hand, when contrasted with Figure 11, of a living hand, shows
     virtually no difference, and the method cannot be used as a positive
     proof of death.
     
     That we are not able at present to skiagraph the soft parts of the
     body, does not imply that we shall not be able to do it hereafter;
     and should this be possible, especially with our increasing
     ability to penetrate thick masses of tissue, it is evident, without
     entering into details, that the use of the X rays may be of immense
importance in obstetrics.

The bones, however, as is seen in nearly all of the skiagraphs illustrating
this paper, cast well-defined shadows. This is at once an
advantage and a hindrance. To illustrate the latter first, even one
thickness of bone is difficult to penetrate, so that the attempt to
skiagraph the opening which had been made in a skull of a living person
by a trephine entirely failed, since the bone upon the opposite side
of the skull formed so dense an obstacle that not the slightest
indication of the trephine opening appeared. To take, therefore, a
skiagraph of a brain through two thicknesses of skull, with our
present methods, is an impossibility. Even should the difficulty be
overcome, it is very doubtful whether there would be any possibility
of discovering diseases of the brain, since diseased tissues, such as
cancer, sarcoma, etc., are probably as permeable to the X rays as the
normal tissues. Thus Reid ("British Medical Journal," February 15,
1896) states that a cancerous liver showed no difference in permeability
to the rays through its cancerous and its normal portions.

Foreign bodies, such as bullets, etc., in the brain may be discovered when
our processes have become perfected. Figure 7 shows two buck-shot
skiagraphed inside of a baby's skull, and therefore through two
thicknesses of bone. It must be remembered, however, that not only are
the bones of a baby's skull much less thick than those of an adult's
skull, but they are much less densely ossified, and so throw far
less of a shadow.

The dense shadows cast by bone are, at least at present, an insuperable
obstacle to skiagraphing the soft translucent organs of the body which
are enclosed within a more or less complete bony case, as the rays
will be intercepted by the bones. Efforts, therefore, to skiagraph the
heart, the lungs, the liver, and stomach, and all the pelvic organs,
probably will be fruitless to a greater or less extent until our
methods are improved. While a stone in a bladder outside the body
would undoubtedly be perceptible, in the body the bones of the
pelvis prevent any successful picture being taken.

[Illustration: FIGURE 6.--SKIAGRAPH OF A DEAD HAND AND WRIST, SHOWING TWO
BUCK-SHOT AND A NEEDLE EMBEDDED IN THE FLESH.

("American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March, 1896.)]
To turn from the hindrances to the advantages of the application
of the method to the bones, one of the most important uses will be
in diseases and injuries of bones.

In many cases it is very difficult to determine, even under ether, by
the most careful manipulations, whether there is a fracture or a
dislocation, or both combined. When any time has elapsed after the
accident, the great swelling which often quickly follows such injuries
still further obscures the diagnosis by manipulation. The X rays,
however, are oblivious, or nearly so, of all swelling, and the bones
can be skiagraphed in the thinner parts of the body at present, say up
to the elbow and the ankle, with very great accuracy. Thus, Figure 8
shows the deformity from an old fracture of the ulna (one of the
bones of the forearm) very clearly.

By this means we shall be able to distinguish between fracture and dislocation
in obscure cases. Thus Mr. Gray ("British Medical Journal," March
7, 1896), in a case of injury to an elbow, was enabled to diagnosticate
and successfully to replace a very rare dislocation, which could not
be made out by manipulation, but was clearly shown by the X rays. We
may also possibly be able to determine when the bones are properly
adjusted after a fracture; and all the better, since the skiagraph
can be taken through the dressings, even if wooden splints have been
employed. If plaster of Paris is used (and it is often the best "splint")
this is impermeable to the rays.

That this method will come into general use, however, is very
unlikely, since the expense, the time, and the trouble will be so great
that it will be impracticable to use it in every case, especially
in hospitals or dispensaries, where crowds of patients have to be
attended to in a relatively brief time.

In the surgical dispensary alone of the Jefferson Medical College
Hospital, about one hundred patients are in attendance between
twelve and two o'clock every day, and all the time of a
large number of assistants is occupied with dressing the cases. It
would be manifestly an utter impossibility to skiagraph the many fractures
which are seen there daily, considering that it would take from half
an hour to an hour of the time of not less than two or three assistants
skilled not only in surgery, but also in electricity, to skiagraph a
single fracture.

Now and then, in obscure cases, however, the method will be undoubtedly
of great service, as in the case above described.

[Illustration: FIGURE 7.--SKIAGRAPH OF A BABY'S SKULL, SHOWING TWO BUCK-SHOT
PLACED UNDER THE SKULL.

("American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March, 1896.)]
Too hasty conclusions, especially in medico-legal cases, may
easily be reached. We do not yet know, by skiagraphs of successful results
after fracture, just how such bones look during the process of healing,
and, therefore, we cannot yet be sure that the skiagraph of an unsuccessful
case is an evidence of unskilfulness on the part of the surgeon.

In diseases of bone, which are obscure, it has already proved of
great advantage, as in a case related by Mr. Abrahams ("British
Medical Journal," February 22, 1896). A lad of nineteen, who had
injured his little finger in catching a cricket ball, had the last
joint of the finger bent at a slight angle, and he could neither
flex nor extend it.
Any attempt to do so caused great pain. The diagnosis was made of
a fracture extending into the joint, and that the joint having
become ossified, nothing short of amputation would give relief. Mr.
Sydney Rowland skiagraphed the hand, and showed that there was only
a bridge of bone uniting the last two joints of the finger. An
anaesthetic was administered, and with very little force the bridge
of bone was snapped, the finger saved, and the normal use of the
hand restored.

Deformities of bone can be admirably shown.The shelling of heights with Lyddite and shrapnel went on hour
after hour, and towards evening some thought they heard a faint sound
as of rifle volleys. The Boers came hurrying down in groups from Spion
Kop's crest, their waggons were trekking from laagers across the plain
towards Van Reenan's, and men could be seen rounding up cattle as if for
a general rearward movement. To us watching it seemed as if the Boers
were beaten and knew it.

_January 25._--The Boer trek continued for several hours this morning
and well on into the afternoon, when it slackened. Then we saw some
horsemen turn back to make for the cleft ridge of Doorn Kloof, where one
of the big Creusots had opened fire, Buller's naval guns or howitzers
replying with Lyddite shells. The roar of our field-guns has died away
instead of drawing nearer, and we look in vain for any sign of British
cavalry on the broad plain, where they should be by now if Sir Redvers
Buller's infantry attack had succeeded.

_January 26._--The Boers are back in their former laagers. There is no
sound of fighting this side of the Tugela, only a few shells falling on
Spion Kop, where Boer tents can be seen once more whitening the steep.
We need no heliograph signal to tell us the meaning of all this. For us
there is to be another sickening period of hope deferred; but we try to
hide our dejection, and persuade the anxious townsfolk that it is only a
necessary pause while General Buller brings up his big guns and
transport.

_January 28._--It is now no longer possible to conceal the fact that the
fight on Spion Kop ended in another reverse for General Buller, though
from our side it seemed as if he had the enemy beaten and demoralised.
It is now published in orders that he captured the heights with part of
one brigade which, however, retired after General Woodgate was wounded,
when the Boers retook it. From Kaffir runners we hear another version
which makes out that our troops were complete masters of the situation
if there had been any one in command at that moment, with a soldier's
genius, prompt to take advantage of the enemy's discomfiture. Had
reinforcements been sent up in time Spion Kop need never have been
abandoned, and Buller might have kept the key to Ladysmith which was
then in his hands. Not another position between him and us remained for
the Boers to make a stand on. He would then have outflanked and made
untenable the entrenched heights facing Colenso. But perhaps he was
anxious about his own line of communications. We only know that he has
gone back, and the work accomplished at much sacrifice of life must be
done over again from some other point.

_January 30._--In spite of all we know, there are still persistent
rumours rosy-hued but all equally improbable. According to these
Kimberley has been relieved, and Lord Roberts is marching on
Bloemfontein. Sir Redvers Buller has retaken Spion Kop. He has gained a
victory at some other point, but where or when nobody knows. Four
hundred Boers are surrounded south of the Tugela with no chance of
escape. A similar rumour reached us weeks ago. Those four hundred Boers
must be getting short of food by this time. And yet another story makes
out that numbers of the enemy attempting to fall upon Buller's supply
column at Skiet's Drift were completely annihilated. The _Standard and
Diggers' News_ could hardly beat this for imaginative ingenuity. It does
not reassure us. On the contrary a general feeling of depression seems
to have set in, caused perhaps by the ennervating weather. A deluge of
rain has drenched the land, from which mephitic vapours rise to clog our
spirits. The knowledge that rations are running short may also have some
effect. We have not felt the strain severely yet. There is no reduction
in the issue of meat or bread, but luxuries drop out of the list one by
one, and the quantities of tea, sugar, coffee, and similar things
diminish ominously. Vegetables were exhausted long ago, and a daily
ration of vinegar has been ordered for every man, whose officer must see
that he gets it, as a precaution against scurvy.

_February 1._--It has come at last. Horseflesh is to be served out for
food, instead of being buried or cremated. We do not take it in the
solid form yet, or at least not consciously, but Colonel Ward has set up
a factory, with Lieutenant McNalty as managing director, for the
conversion of horseflesh into extract of meat under the inviting name
of Chevril. This is intended for use in hospitals, where nourishment in
that form is sorely needed, since Bovril and Liebig are not to be had.
It is also ordered that a pint of soup made from this Chevril shall be
issued daily to each man. I have tasted the soup and found it excellent,
prejudice notwithstanding. We have no news from General Buller beyond a
heliogram, warning us that a German engineer is coming with a plan in
his pocket for the construction of some wonderful dam which is to hold
back the waters of the Klip River and flood us out of Ladysmith.

_February 3._--Horseflesh was placed frankly on the bill of fare to-day
as a ration for troops and civilians alike, but many of the latter
refused to take it. Hunger will probably make them less squeamish, but
one cannot help sympathising with the weakly, who are already suffering
from want of proper nourishment, and for whom there is no alternative.
Market prices have long since gone beyond the reach of ordinary purses.

_February 4._--One pathetic incident touched me nearly this morning, as
a forerunner of many that may come soon. I found sitting on a doorstep,
apparently too weak to move, a young fellow of the Imperial Light
Horse--scarcely more than a boy--his stalwart form shrunken by illness.
He was toying with a spray of wild jasmine, as if its perfume brought
back vague memories of home. I learned that he had been wounded at
Elandslaagte and again on Waggon Hill. Then came Intombi and malaria. He
had only been discharged from hospital that morning. His appetite was
not quite equal to the horseflesh test, so he had gone without food. I
took him to my room and gave him such things as a scanty store could
furnish, with the last dram of whisky for a stimulant, and I never felt
more thankful than at that moment for the health and strength that give
an appetite robust enough for any fare.

_February 5._--Just now one could not be wakened by a more welcome sound
than the boom of Buller's guns. It stirred the hazy stillness at dawn
this morning like sweet music. It grew louder and apparently nearer as
the morning advanced, until in imagination one could mark the positions
of individual batteries pounding away opposite Colenso and Skiet's
drift. At last the roar died away in sullen growls, giving us the hope
that a position had been gained.

_February 6._--Again at daybreak we hear the guns of our relieving force
at work in a vigorous cannonade away to the south-west, where Skiet's
Drift lies. They quicken at times to twenty shots a minute, the field
batteries chiming in faintly between the rounds of heavier artillery.
From Observation Hill we can see the enemy's Creusot on a notched ridge
by Doom Kloof replying. Soon after seven o'clock a lyddite shell bursts
there. Its red glare is followed by flame that does not come from
lyddite. Above this darts a black dense cloud speckled with solid
fragments that shoot into the air like bombs. Before we have time to
think that a magazine has been blown up a double report, merging into a
low rumble, reaches our ears. Something has happened to the Boer
battery, and the big gun there remains silent. Buller's artillery
continues firing, more slowly but steadily, at the rate of eight shots a
minute, and rifle fire can be heard rolling nearer all the afternoon.
Boers are reported to be inspanning their teams and collecting cattle on
the plains. The distance is dulled by mists, and the Drakensberg peaks
are only dimly visible, but there are clouds of dust winding that way,
and we know that the Boer waggons are trekking on the off-chance that a
general retirement may be forced upon them. Is this hundredth day of
siege to be the last, or shall we wake to-morrow to hear that the Boer
laagers are back again, and the relieving force once more south of the
Tugela?

_February 7._--Sir Redvers Buller evidently finds that the new key of
the road to Ladysmith fits no better than the old, and we begin to doubt
whether he will be able to force the lock yet. Skiet's Drift is a
difficult way, leading through a bushy country scarred with dongas and
commanded by successive ridges, of which the Boers, with their great
mobility and rapidity of concentration, know how to make the most. They
still hold Monger's Hill, and their big gun has opened again from the
notched ridge by Doom Kloof. Buller's guns are hammering at these
positions, but apparently with little effect, for to every salvo from
them the big Creusot makes reply. Nor is there any sign now of a Boer
movement towards the rear. On the contrary, they have a new camp,
possibly of hospital tents, where Long Valley merges into Doom Kloof,
and almost within range of our naval guns if we had them mounted on
Waggon Hill.

While the fight rages near Tugela heights we are left in comparative
peace here. "Puffing Billy" has not opened to-day, and his twin brother
of Telegraph Hill has been silent many days. Probably he was taken away
to reinforce the artillery now opposing General Buller's advance. If
relief does not come soon we shall have something worse than privation
to dread, for scurvy has broken out at Intombi camp, where medical
comforts are scarce, having been frittered away by the negligence or
dishonesty of hospital attendants, over whom nobody seems to exercise
proper control. The mismanagement of affairs there and the whole system
of hospital administration at Ladysmith will have to be investigated
after the siege. At noon to-day we had hopes that the Boer right flank
was being hard pressed. That is the only practicable way in, but the
effort has apparently not been pushed far. The heliograph has begun to
blink out a long message, and that is always a bad sign.

_February 8._--Small things assume an importance altogether out of
proportion just now, and one worries about a last pipe of tobacco when
issues of vital moment to us are being fought out ten miles off. I have
come to the end of mine, and there is no more to be got for love or
money. A ton of Kaffir leaf has just been requisitioned from coolies,
who were selling it at twelve shillings the pound to soldiers, and who
have now to accept a twelfth of that price. There are thus thirty-six
thousand ounces for distribution, but even that quantity will not last
long. Nobody would have the heart to take any of it from soldiers who
have been reduced for weeks past to smoking dried sun-flower leaves and
even tea-leaves. Six shots were fired from Bulwaan battery this
afternoon after a silence of nearly two days. We generally accept such
sudden outbursts as indicating that something has gone wrong with our
enemies elsewhere, but we can see no signs of hurried movement among
them, and though General Buller's guns have been active half the day
they sound no nearer. A long message was heliographed through just
before sunset, and rumours of ill news are whispered about with bated
breath by people who wish to establish a reputation for early knowledge,
but at the risk of being charged before a court-martial with the
dissemination of news calculated to cause despondency. We had a case of
that kind the other day when Foss, the champion swimmer of South Africa,
was rightly convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for deprecating the
skill of our generals in conversation with soldiers. Tommy may hold his
own opinions on that point, but he resents hearing them expressed for
him through a pro-Boer mouthpiece, and this man may consider himself
lucky to escape summary chastisement as a preliminary to the durance
vile which is intended to be a wholesome warning for others of like
tendency.

     And indeed the garrison and civilians of Ladysmith, who now began
     to feel the sharp pinch of hunger, had need to silence any whose
     voices might be raised to rob them of their attenuated hopes. No
     official statement had yet been made on the subject, but it was
     already becoming evident that they had yet a time of painful
     waiting before relief could come. To the hundred days which they
     had trusted might complete the period of their trial a score were
     to be added before their sufferings could be forgotten in the joy
     of deliverance.


CHAPTER XII

AFTER ONE HUNDRED DAYS

     Boer pæan of victory--Rations cut down--Sausage without
     mystery--The "helio" moves east--Sick and dying at Intombi--Famine
     prices at market--Laughter quits the camps--A kindly thing by the
     enemy--Good news at last--Heroes in tatters--The distant tide of
     battle--Pulse-like throb of rifles--Two sons for the
     Empire--British infantry on Monte Cristo--Boer ambulances moving
     north--"'Ave you 'eard the noos?"--Rations increased--Bulwaan
     strikes his tents--"With a rifle and a red cross"--Buller "going
     strong"--Cronje's surrender--A sorry celebration--"A beaten army in
     full retreat"--"Puffing Billy" dismantled--General Buller's
     message--Relief at hand.


     Sir Redvers Buller's third attempt to force his way through to
     Ladysmith failed on 8th February, when he withdrew his forces from
     Vaalkranz to the south side of the Tugela. Their success was
     announced by the Boers about Ladysmith in their own way. At
     half-past two on the morning of 9th February, night was rent by the
     sudden glare of a search-light from Bulwaan, and soon came the
     scream of shells hurtling over the town. It was the Boer pæan of
     victory, and it sent the people hurrying to their underground
     refuges, to which the unco' guid had given the name of
     "funk-holes," but did no damage. Its purport was half-divined by
     the defenders. The news was still said to be good, but there were
     head-shakings, and even the stoutest optimism found itself unequal
     to the strain when it was announced that rations were to be cut
     down. If things were going well, "Why, in the name of success,"
     asks Mr. Pearse in his notes for 9th February, "should our
     universal provider, Colonel Ward, take this occasion to reduce
     rations? We are now down to 1 lb. of meat, including horse, four
     ounces of mealie meal, four ounces of bread, with a sausage ration
     daily 'as far as possible.' Sausages may be mysteries elsewhere,
     but we know them here to be horse-flesh, highly spiced, and nothing
     more. Bread is a brown, 'clitty' mixture of mealie meal, starch,
     and the unknown. Vegetables we have none, except a so-called wild
     spinach that overgrew every neglected garden, and could be had for
     the taking until people discovered how precious it was. Tea is
     doled out at the rate of one-sixth of an ounce to each adult daily,
     or in lieu thereof, coffee mixed with mealie meal."

     February 10 was the day which had been looked forward to as the one
     on which relief would arrive. It did not come, and though the
     messages flashed over the hills from the beleaguered town at the
     time were full of an heroic cheerfulness, the disappointment was
     hard to bear. For with rations reduced, with disease harvesting for
     death where fire and steel had failed, the defenders were now face
     to face with the grimmer realities of war. Yet hope was never
     absent, and never at any time did the stern determination to bid
     the enemy defiance to the last flicker or grow fainter. Mr.
     Pearse's diary for this period gives many details of the highest
     interest of the position in the town, and suggests the sufferings,
     while it does justice to the splendid spirit of the  garrison:--

_February 10._--Heliograph signals have been twinkling spasmodically,
but their language is written in a sealed book. We only know that these
"helios" come not from kopjes this side of Tugela, nor from the former
signal-station south of Potgieter's and Skiet's Drifts, as they did a
few days ago, but from hills near Weenen, as in the months before Buller
crossed the Tugela, thus indicating a retrograde movement. --PASSAGES
FROM HIS CONVERSATION.

BY WILL H. LOW.

These papers, disclaiming any other authority than that which appertains
to the conclusions of a practising painter who has thought deeply on the
subject of his art, have nevertheless avoided the personal equation as
much as possible. A conscientious endeavor has been made to consider the
work of each painter in the place which has been assigned him by
the concensus of opinion in the time which has elapsed since his
work was done.

In the consideration of Jean François Millet, however, I desire for
the nonce to become less impersonal, for the reason that it was my
privilege to know him slightly, and in the case of one who as a man and
as a painter occupies a place so entirely his own, the value of
recorded personal impressions is greater, at least for purposes of record,
than the registration of contemporary opinion concerning him.

I must further explain that, as a young student who received at his
hands the kindly reception which the master, stricken in health,
and preoccupied with his work, vouchsafed, I could only know him
superficially.

It may have been the spectacle of youthful enthusiasm, or the
modest though dignified recognition of the reverence with which I
approached him, that made this grave man unbend; but it is certain
that the few times when I was permitted to enter the rudely built studio
at Barbizon have remained red-letter days in my life, and on each
occasion I left Millet with an impression so strong and vital that now,
after a lapse of twenty years, the work which he showed me, and the words
which he uttered, are as present as though it all had occurred yesterday.
The reverence which I then felt for this great man was born of his
works, a few of which I had seen in 1873 in Paris; and their constant
study, and the knowledge of his life and character gained since
then, have intensified this feeling.

[Illustration: THE SHEEP-SHEARERS. FROM A PAINTING BY JEAN FRANÇOIS
MILLET.

Reproduced by permission of Braun, Clement & Co.

A replica of Millet's picture in the Salon of 1861, which is now owned
by Mr. Quincy Shaw, Boston, Massachusetts. Charles Jacque, who had
quarrelled with Millet, after seeing this picture, went to
him and said: "We cannot be friends; but I have come to say that you have
painted a masterpiece."]
Jean François Millet was born October 4, 1814, in the hamlet of Gruchy,
a mere handful of houses which lie in a valley descending to the sea,
in the department of the Manche, not far from Cherbourg. He was
the descendant of a class which has no counterpart in England or America,
and which in his native France has all but disappeared. The rude
forefathers of our country may have in a degree resembled the French
peasant of Millet's youth; but their Protestant belief made them more
independent in thought, and the problems of a new country, and the
lack of stability inherent to the colonist, robbed them of the
fanatical love of the earth, which is perhaps the strongest trait
of the peasant.

Every inch of the ground up to the cliffs above the sea, in Millet's
country, represented the struggle of man with nature; and each
parcel of land, every stone in the walls which kept the earth from
being engulfed in the floods beneath, bore marks of his handiwork.

     Small wonder, then, that this rude people should engender the
     painter who has best expressed the intimate relation between
     the man of the fields and his ally and foe, the land which he
     subjugates, and which in turn enslaves him. The inherent, almost
     savage, independence of the peasant had kept him freer and of a
     nobler type than the English yokel even in the time before the
     Revolution, and in the little hamlet where Millet was born, the
     great upheaval had meant but little. Remote from the capital,
     cultivating land which but for their efforts would have been abandoned
     as worthless, every man was a land-owner in a small degree, and
the patrimony of Millet sufficed for a numerous family of which he
was the eldest son.

Sufficed, that is, for a Spartan subsistence, made up of unrelaxing toil,
with few or no comforts, save those of a spiritual nature which
came in the guise of religion.

[Illustration: PEASANT REPOSING.
Amid all this strain, intent upon vital issues, one hardly takes note of
trivialities. Even the daily bombardment seems of little importance, and
nobody cares how many shots "Puffing Billy" fired yesterday. For me the
strain is tightened by news heliographed this morning that another son
has come round from Bulawayo and joined the relieving force as a
lieutenant of Thorneycroft's Mounted Infantry. I don't know whether
pride or anxiety is paramount when I think of these two boys fighting
their way towards me. Both are with Lord Dundonald's Irregular Horse, of
which we have heard much from Kaffirs, who tell us that Thorneycroft's
Rifles and the "Sakkabulu boys," who are now identified as the South
African Light Horse, have been in the front of every fight. It may seem
egotistical to let this personal note stand, but I take the incident to
be an illustration of the spirit that animates English youth at this
moment.

On Saturday (February 17) the artillery fire sounded far off on the
other side of the Tugela. Next morning we could see shells bursting
along the nearer crest of Monte Cristo, and up to eleven o'clock the
fierce cannonade was ceaseless. How the action had ended we could only
judge by Boer movements. From Observation Hill I saw their ambulance
waggons trekking heavy across the plain behind Rifleman's Ridge, then a
bigger waggon, uncovered, drawn by a large span of oxen. There may have
been a long gun in that waggon, its movements were so slow and
cumbersome. Two ambulance waggons passed in the opposite direction,
light and moving at a gallop.

Yesterday came news of General Buller's success in the capture of
Cingolo Hill, but before it was signalled we had seen from Cæsar's Camp
British infantry crowning the nearer ridge of Monte Cristo. They came up
in column, and deployed with a steadiness that showed them to be masters
of the position. In the evening I met Sir George White, who told me that
he believed Sir Redvers had gained another success. To-day, again,
shells from the southern guns have been bursting about ridges south of
Cæsar's Camp, where the Boers are still in force. This afternoon, and
well on to evening, we could hear the busy hum of field guns in action
firing very rapidly, as if a fresh attack were about to develop. Sir
Redvers is evidently resolved not to give the enemy any rest or time for
fortifying other positions.

     The above was written on 20th February. General Buller had captured
     Hlangwane Hill, the real key of the enemy's position, and on the
     following day the whole of Warren's Division crossed the Tugela by
     a pontoon bridge thrown across by the Royal Engineers. The
     significance of the fact was at once recognised at Ladysmith, and
     that day saw the last of the hated horse-flesh ration. Events were
     now moving fast. The Boers were preparing for flight, hope began to
     beat high in the town, and already the memory of past sufferings
     and the irk of those still being borne seemed little in the light
     of oncoming deliverance. Mr. Pearse's notes at this last stage in
     the long stand for the Empire are interesting  reading:--

_February 22._--Trivialities are supreme after all. Yesterday we were
all more jubilant at the announcement that horse-flesh would not be
issued as rations again than on the score of General Buller's signal
telling us he had driven the Boers from all their positions across the
Tugela. To-day soldiers greeted each other with a cheery "'Ave you 'eard
the noos? They say there'll be full rations to-day." An extra half-pound
of meat, five biscuits instead of one and a quarter, and a few
additional ounces of mealie meal, were more to them at that moment than
a British victory.

_February 23._--For several days past the naval 12-pounder on Cæsar's
Camp has shelled Boers at work on the dam below Intombi Camp, causing
much consternation. One result of this is that Bulwaan tries to keep
down the 12-pounder's fire and leaves the town in comparative quiet.
This afternoon there was another surprise for the Boers. "Lady Anne,"
one of the big twin sisters of the naval armament to which we owe so
much, had not fired for just a month until she astonished the gunners on
Bulwaan by planting a shell in their works to-day. They ran in all
directions, not knowing where to hide, and at the second shot bolted
back across the hill. Their tents have disappeared from Bulwaan now.
To-day a Boer, or rather a German fighting for the Boers, was caught by
our patrols. He had a rifle, a bandolier, pockets full of cartridges,
and a red-cross badge, concealed, but ready for use when fighting might
be inconvenient.

_February 26._--Yesterday numbers of Boers were seen retiring from
Pieter's Station across the ridges towards Bester's Valley, but no sign
of a general retreat yet beyond the report of scouts, who say that
several guns have been seen going back at a gallop behind Bulwaan,
followed by nearly two hundred waggons. Last night we heard rifle-firing
on the ridges south of Cæsar's Camp and Waggon Hill. It sounded so near
that for a time we thought our own outposts were engaged with the enemy.
Kaffirs say this was a Boer attack on Pieter's Station, but their story
is not confirmed. General Buller heliographs that he is still going
strong, but the country is difficult and progress slow. Lord Roberts,
according to another helio-signal, has Cronje surrounded. Two attempts
to relieve him have been frustrated. All this puts new life into the
garrison here. A newspaper telegram was also heliographed announcing
that Cronje had surrendered with 6000 men, after losing 1700 killed and
wounded. This is probably a bit of journalistic enterprise in
anticipation of events.

_February 27._--Majuba Day. We expected the Boers to celebrate it at
daybreak or before by a salute of shotted guns, but they are silent,
apparently watching as we watch, and awaiting the issue of events
elsewhere. We know that a fierce fight is raging not twelve miles
distant. Of my complete triumph when we left there was no doubt,
though one of my friends rather begged the question by insisting that
I had taken an unfair advantage; and that, as he expressed it, "it was
not in the game, in an ordinary discussion, between gentlemen, concerning
minor poets, to drag in Shakespeare in that manner."
I saw Millet but once after this, when late in the autumn I was returning
to Paris, and went, out of respect, to bid him farewell. He was already
ill, and those who knew him well, already feared for his life. Not
knowing this, it was a shock to learn of his death a few months
after--January 20, 1875. The news came to me in the form of the ordinary
notification and convocation to the funeral, which, in the form of
a _lettre de faire part_, is sent out on the occasion of a death
in France, not only to intimate friends, but to acquaintances.

Determined to pay what honor I could, I went to Barbizon, to find, as
did many others gone for the same sad purpose, that an error in the
notices sent, discovered too late to be rectified, had placed the
date of the funeral a day later than that on which it actually
occurred.

Millet rests in the little cemetery at Chailly, across the plain from
Barbizon, near his lifetime friend, Theodore Rousseau, who is buried
there. I will never forget the January day in the village of Barbizon.
Though Millet had little part in the village life, and was known to
few, a sadness, as though the very houses felt that a great man
had passed away, had settled over the place.

I sought out a friend who had been Millet's friend for many years and was
with him at the last, and as he told me of the last sad months, tears
fell from his eyes.

CHAPTERS FROM A LIFE.

BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS,
Author of "The Gates Ajar," "A Singular Life," etc.

"THE GATES AJAR" WITH THE CRITICS AND THE PUBLIC.--THE AUTHOR'S FIRST
STUDY.--READING REVIEWS OF ONE'S OWN BOOKS.--CORRESPONDENCE
WITH READERS OF "THE GATES AJAR."

As was said in the last paper, "The Gates Ajar" was written without hope
or expectation of any especial success, and when the happy storm broke
in truth, I was the most astonished girl in North America.

From the day when Mr. Fields's thoughtful note reached the Andover
post-office, that miracle of which we read often in fiction, and sometimes
in literary history, touched the young writer's life; and it began over
again, as a new form of organization.

As I look back upon them, the next few years seem to have been a series
of amazing phantasmagoria. Indeed, at the time, they were scarcely
more substantial. A phantom among phantoms, I was borne along. Incredulous
of the facts, and dubious of my own identity, I whirled through readjustments
of scene, of society, of purposes, of hopes, and now, at last, of
ambitions; and always of hard work, and plenty of it. Really, I
think the gospel of work then, as always, and to all of us, was
salvation from a good deal of nonsense incident to the situation.
I have been told that the American circulation of the book, which
has remained below one hundred thousand, was rather more than that
in Great Britain. Translations, of course, were manifold. The French,
the German, the Dutch, the Italian have been conscientiously sent
to the author; some others, I think, have not. More applications
to republish my books have reached me from Germany than from any
other country. For a while, with the tenderness of a novice in such
experience, I kept all these foreign curiosities on my book-shelves;
but the throes of several New England "movings" have scattered their
ashes.After that a steady fire was kept up
on the battery to prevent, if possible, the Boers from moving their
guns.

Afternoon sunshine enabled General Buller to heliograph the reassuring
message for which Ladysmith had been waiting so anxiously. He said: "I
beat the enemy thoroughly yesterday, and am sending my cavalry on as
fast as very bad roads will admit to ascertain where they are going. I
believe the enemy to be in full retreat."

     It was even so. General Buller and his gallant army, by dint of
     heroic qualities, with an unshakable determination which faltered
     before nothing; with a patient endurance which bore all things
     unmurmuringly; with a sublime courage face to face with the enemy
     which has earned them the often unwilling praise of the world, had
     overcome at last. On the night of 28th February, when the above
     note was written, the head of the relief column, under Lord
     Dundonald, arrived in the town.


CHAPTER XIII

RELIEF AT LAST

     The beginning of the end--Buller's last advance--Heroic
     Inniskillings--The coming of Dundonald--A welcome at Klip River
     Drift--A weather-stained horseman--The Natal troopers--Cheers and
     tears--A grand old General--Sir George White's address--"Thank God,
     we have kept the flag flying!"--"God save the Queen"--Arrival of
     Buller--Looking backward--Within four days of
     starvation--Horseflesh a mere memory--Eight hundred sick and
     wounded--A word in tribute--Conclusion.


     The beginning of the end had come on 13th February, when General
     Buller's army of relief had opened the attack on Hussar Hill. From
     that day fighting had been fierce and practically continuous, the
     enemy giving way only after the most stubborn resistance, and
     taking advantage of every opportunity to make a stand. During that
     fortnight over 2000 officers and men of General Buller's force paid
     the price of their dauntless courage; and in all the glorious story
     no page is brighter than that which puts on undying record the
     devoted gallantry of the Inniskillings, who were, to all practical
     intents, wiped out in attacking Pieter's Hill, the last bar across
     the road to Ladysmith, on the 23rd. Wounded and dying and dead lay
     out together uncomforted, uncared for throughout the long hours of
     Saturday until Sunday morning, when a truce was agreed to. Still
     the hill was not won, and was to be held by the enemy until the
     27th, the nineteenth anniversary of Majuba, a day no longer to be
     held in shameful memory. On the following day the Boers were in
     full retreat; and Lord Dundonald, with a small body of mounted
     troops, made a dash across the hills to Ladysmith. Their coming was
     hailed by the long-isolated town with the wildest outbursts of
     delight. Its effect is graphically suggested by Mr. _ (There!)"
     was all he said.

The panel represented three golden juicy pears, their fat sides relieved
one against the other, forming a compact group which, through the
magic of color, told of autumn sun, and almost gave the odor of
ripened fruit.Ladysmith, so
quiet and undemonstrative in its patient endurance of a long siege, goes
wild at the sound. Everybody divines its meaning. Our friends from the
victorious army of the south are coming! All the town rushes out to meet
them, where they must cross a drift. The voices of strong men break into
childish treble as they try to cheer, women laugh and cry by turns, and
all crowd about the troopers of Lord Dundonald's escort, giving them
such a welcome as few victors from the battlefield have ever known. The
hour of our deliverance has come. After a hundred and twenty-two days of
bombardment--a hundred and nineteen of close investment--the Siege of
Ladysmith is at an end. What a hero our gallant old General is to all of
us, when he rides forward to greet Lord Dundonald, and how voices
tremble with deep thankfulness while we sing "God Save the Queen"!

     In a letter written on the following day, Mr. Pearse describes in
     greater detail the arrival of relief, and summarises his
     impressions at the  time:--

LADYSMITH, _March 1._--The relieving force joined hands with us last
night, and Ladysmith gave itself away to an outburst of wild enthusiasm
at the sight of troops so long expected and so often heard fighting in
the distance, that some despondent people had almost begun to think they
would never come. After the roar of battle ceased on Tuesday, we knew by
signs that could not be mistaken that Sir Redvers Buller had gained a
great victory even before the heliograph flashed to us the glad tidings
in his own words. And what reporter can reach that sweet seclusion
across the distant housemaid's wily and experienced art?
What autograph or lion hunter can ruin your best chapter by bombardment
in mid-morning?

In the farm-house study I remember one of my earliest callers from the
publishing world, that seems always to stand with clawing fingers
demanding copy of the people least able to give it. He was an
emissary from the "Youth's Companion," who threatened or cajoled me into
a vow to supply him with a certain number of stories. My private suspicion
is that I have just about at this present time completed my share
in that ancient bargain, so patient and long-suffering has this
pleasant paper been with me.Our artillery of the Naval Brigade, to which Ladysmith owes a deep
debt of gratitude, tried to prevent the guns from being carried off, but
apparently their admirably aimed and accurate fire was too late to
effect that object.

Just before nightfall Sir Redvers Buller's cavalry were reported in
sight. The first token of their coming were loud cheers away on the
plain towards Intombi neutral camp, where some of Colonel Dartnell's
Frontier Police, with Border Mounted Rifles and Natal Carbineers, had
been patrolling since early morning. With joy on their faces, and many
with tears in their eyes, the people rushed towards a drift by which the
Klip River must be crossed. There General Brocklehurst was waiting, and
as a horseman, weather-stained and begrimed by days of bivouacking,
floundered from deep water on to the slippery bank, he was received with
a hearty hand-grip and welcomed to Ladysmith. Then loud cheers went up
for Lord Dundonald, commander of the Second Cavalry Brigade, whose
irregular horsemen have made for themselves a great name as scouts. 
Let's see;" and taking the book I sat down to look at it. It was
a slim old book, bound in calfskin. The Greek was written in an
antique style; it was verse. I turned to the title-page. "Hullo, this
is rather interesting," I exclaimed. "It's about the death of old
Stefanopoulos--the man they sing that song about, you know."
In fact, I had got hold of the poem which One-eyed Alexander composed.

Its length was about three hundred lines, exclusive of the refrain
which the islanders had chanted, and which was inserted six times, occurring
at the end of each fifty lines. The rest was written in rather barbarous
iambics; and the sentiments were quite as barbarous as the verse.
It told the whole story, and I ran rapidly over it, translating
here and there for the benefit of my companions.They had pushed
forward after the last feeble resistance of the Boer rearguard was
overcome, and Lord Dundonald brought to Sir George White the good news
that Ladysmith's relief was accomplished.

The crowd of soldiers and civilians shouted itself hoarse in cheering
Sir George White when he came with the object of meeting Lord Dundonald.
He could not get through this crowd outside the gaol, where Boer
prisoners were standing on the balcony curious to know what all this
commotion might mean. When a lull gave him an opportunity of speaking,
he said in a voice trembling with emotion, but clear and soldierly for
all that:--

"I thank you men, one and all, from the bottom of my heart, for the help
and support you have given to me, and I shall always acknowledge it to
the end of my life. It grieved me to have to cut your rations, but I
promise you that I will not do it again. I thank God we have kept the
flag flying."

Three cheers were given for Sir Redvers Buller and General Sir Archibald
Hunter, and then the whole crowd joined in singing "God Save the Queen,"
with an effect that was strangely impressive in the circumstances. This
morning, after a reconnaissance had been sent out to watch the enemy's
retirement, and if possible intercept convoys, Sir Redvers Buller with
his staff rode into town and met Sir George White before any
demonstration could be made in his honour, and after remaining at
headquarters a short time only, he rode back to camp, or rather bivouac,
with the troops who had fought so heroically under him for the honour of
England.

Only those who have been under siege and so closely invested that all
communications with the outer world, except through Kaffir runners, were
cut off for 119 days, can imagine what the first sight of a relieving
column means to the beleaguered garrison. Happily such experiences have
been rare in the history of British campaigns, and nobody here would
care to repeat them, though all are proud enough now of having seen it
through. Those who went away while they had a chance in the first rush
for safety, when shells began to burst in the town, may claim credit for
foresight, but we do not envy them. All hardships, dangers, and
privations seem light now that they are things of the past. Our
enthusiasm in welcoming the first detachment of the relieving force has
swept away the impression of discomforts, and, for a time at least,
induced us to forget everything except the reflected honour that is ours
in having suffered with British troops.

     Relief had come none too soon. Mr. While such cheerful recollections
     were running through my mind I noticed that we were no longer
     ascending, and that Couttet, whom I had not troubled with questions
     as long as he showed no hesitation, was bearing now this way and now
     that, and occasionally stopping and peering about with spread
     nostrils, like a dog seeking a trail. Clearly we were on the top
     of the highest elevation in our neighborhood, for the wind now
     came point blank in our faces out of the white abyss of the
     atmosphere, and almost blew me off my feet.
     
     "Have you lost the way?" I asked.
     "I'll find it," Couttet replied.

"Where are we?"
"Near the Bosses." 
"Isn't there a refuge hut on the Bosses?"
"Yes." 
"Can we reach it?"Pearse wrote the following in his  diary:--

In this moment I want to place it on record how cordially we all
recognise the fact that Sir George White has done everything that an
able commander could do, not only for the defence of a town whose
inhabitants are entrusted to his charge, but also for the larger issues
of a campaign that might have been seriously jeopardised by any false
move on his part. In many respects, when his critics, including myself,
thought he lacked the enterprise of a great leader, events have proved
that his more cautious course was right. If mistakes were made at the
outset they have been nobly atoned for.

     All who have so far followed Mr. Pearse through his brilliant pages
     will acclaim his words. Such a commander was worthy of such troops,
     and they no less worthy. During the whole dreary four months of the
     siege they had proved themselves men in whom any General in the
     world and any people might feel an exultant pride. she scoffed.
     
     He drew her to him by one end of the long braid, and solemnly
     kissed her. Then he went into the hall and took something from
     the pocket of his mackintosh which he placed in his wife's hand--a
     little wooden dish covered with a paper, through which shone a
     bright yellow substance--the pound of butter, a lump of gleaming
     fairy gold, the quest of which had changed a poor, commonplace
     existence into one scintillating with magic possibilities.
     Fairy gold, indeed, cannot be coined into marketable eagles.On the rocky ridges of Waggon
     Hill and Cæsar's Camp, when the burghers in one supreme effort
     dashed against them the pick and pride of the commandos, they
     fought through the hours of night till dawn gave place to day, and
     the daylight waxed and waned, with a dogged, half-despairing
     courage that laughed to scorn even the regardless valour of a
     worthy foeman. Who shall do justice to soldiers like these?
     Wherever, and as long as, the fame of the British arms is
     cherished, so long, and as widely, will the story of the defence of
     Ladysmith be held in glorious memory.




THE END


_Printed by_ R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, _Edinburgh_


[Illustration: MILITARY MAP OF LADYSMITH]