The evils which we have already seen arising from the earlier issues
were now aggravated; but the most curious thing evolved out of all
this chaos was a _new system of political economy_.  In speeches,
newspapers and pamphlets about this time, we begin to find it declared
that, after all, a depreciated currency is a blessing; that gold and
silver form an unsatisfactory standard for measuring values: that it
is a good thing to have a currency that will not go out of the kingdom
and which separates France from other nations: that thus shall
manufacturers be encouraged; that commerce with other nations may be a
curse, and hindrance thereto may be a blessing; that the laws of
political economy however applicable in other times, are not
applicable to this particular period, and, however operative in other
nations, are not now so in France; that the ordinary rules of
political economy are perhaps suited to the minions of despotism but
not to the free and enlightened inhabitants of France at the close of
the eighteenth century; that the whole state of present things, so far
from being an evil is a blessing.  All these ideas, and others quite
as striking, were brought to the surface in the debates on the various
new issues.[39]

Within four months came another report to the Assembly as ingenious as
those preceding.  It declared: "Your committee are thoroughly
persuaded that the amount of the circulating medium before the
Revolution was greater than that of the _assignats_ today: but at that
time the money circulated slowly and now it passes rapidly so that one
thousand million _assignats_ do the work of two thousand millions of
specie."  The report foretells further increase in prices, but by some
curious jugglery reaches a conclusion favorable to further inflation.
Despite these encouragements the _assignats_ nominally worth 100
_livres_ had fallen, at the beginning of February, 1792, to about 60
_livres_, and during that month fell to 53 _livres_.[40]

In March, Clavière became minister of financ.  He was especially
proud of his share in the invention and advocacy of the _assignats_,
and now pressed their creation more vigorously than ever, and on April
30th, of the same year, came the fifth great issue of paper money,
amounting to three hundred millions: at about the same time Cambon
sneered ominously at public creditors as "rich people, old financiers
and bankers."  The woman saith but reason, Master Arthur, And therefore
give her licence to depart.

O. LUS. Here is dry justice, not to bid us drink!
Hark thee, my friend, I prythee lend thy cup; Now, Master Justice, hear
me but one word; You think this woman hath had little wrong,
But, by this wine which I intend to drink--
JUS. Nay, save your oath, I pray you do not swear; Or if you swear,
take not too deep an oath.

O. LUS. Content you, I may take a lawful oath Before a Justice; therefore,
by this wine--
Y. LUS. A profound oath, well-sworn, and deeply took; 'Tis better thus
than swearing on a book.

O. LUS. My daughter hath been wronged exceedingly.

JUS. O, sir, I would have credited these words Without this oath: but
bring your daughter hither, That I may give her counsel, ere you
go.

O. LUS. Marry, God's blessing on your heart for that!
Daughter, give ear to Justice Reason's words.

JUS. Good woman, or good wife, or mistress, if you have done amiss,
it should seem you have done a fault; and making a fault, there's
no question but you have done amiss: but if you walk uprightly, and
neither lead to the right hand nor the left, no question but you have
neither led to the right hand nor the left; but, as a man should
say, walked uprightly; but it should appear by these plaintiffs
that you have had some wrong: if you love your spouse entirely, it
should seem you affect him fervently; and if he hate you monstrously,
it should seem he loathes you most exceedingly, and there's the
point at which I will leave, for the time passes away: therefore,
to conclude, this is my best counsel: look that thy husband so fall
in, that hereafter you never fall out.

O. LUS. Good counsel, passing good instruction; Follow it, daughter.
Now, I promise you, I have not heard such an oration This many a
day. What remains to do?

Y. LUS. Sir, I was call'd as witness to this matter, I may be gone
for aught that I can see.
JUS. Nay, stay, my friend, we must examine you.As the mania for paper money ran its course, even
the _sous_, obtained by melting down the church bells, were more and
more driven out of circulation and more and more parchment notes from
twenty _four_ to five were issued, and at last pieces of one _sou_, of
half a _sou_ and even of one-quarter of a _sou_ were put in
circulation.[42]

But now another source of wealth was opened to the nation.  There came
a confiscation of the large estates of landed proprietors who had fled
the country.  An estimate in 1793 made the value of these estates
three billions of _francs_.  As a consequence, the issues of paper
money were continued in increased amounts, on the old theory that they
were guaranteed by the solemn pledge of these lands belonging to the
state.  Under the Legislative Assembly through the year 1792 new
issues were made virtually every month, so that at the end of January,
1793, it was more and more realized that the paper money actually in
circulation amounted close upon three thousand millions of _francs_.
All this had been issued publicly, in open sessions of the National
and Legislative Assemblies; but now under the National Convention, the
two Committees of Public Safety and of Finance began to decree new
issues privately, in secret session.

As a result, the issues became larger still, and four hundred workmen
were added to those previously engaged in furnishing this paper money,
and these were so pressed with work from six o'clock in the morning
until eight in the evening that they struck for higher wages and were
successful.[43]

The consequences of these overissues now began to be more painfully
evident to the people at large.  Articles of common consumption became
enormously dear and prices were constantly rising.  Orators in the
Legislative Assembly, clubs, local meetings and elsewhere now
endeavored to enlighten people by assigning every reason for this
depreciation save the true one.  They declaimed against the corruption
of the ministry, the want of patriotism among the Moderates, the
intrigues of the emigrant nobles, the hard-heartedness of the rich,
the monopolizing spirit of the merchants, the perversity of the
shopkeepers,---each and all of these as causes of the difficulty.[44]

This decline in the government paper was at first somewhat masked by
fluctuations.  For at various times the value of the currency _rose_.
The victory of Jemappes and the general success of the French army
against the invaders, with the additional security offered by new
confiscations of land, caused, in November, 1792, an appreciation in
the value of the currency; the franc had stood at 57 and it rose to
about 69; but the downward tendency was soon resumed and in September,
1793, the _assignats_ had sunk below 30.  Then sundry new victories
and coruscations of oratory gave momentary confidence so that in
December, 1793, they rose above 50.  But despite these fluctuations
the downward tendency soon became more rapid than ever.[45]

The washerwomen of Paris, finding soap so dear that they could hardly
purchase it, insisted that all the merchants who were endeavoring to
save something of their little property by refusing to sell their
goods for the wretched currency with which France was flooded, should
be punished with death; the women of the markets and the hangers-on of
the Jacobin Club called loudly for a law "to equalize the value of
paper money and silver coin."  It was also demanded that a tax be laid
especially on the rich, to the amount of four hundred million
_francs_, to buy bread.  Marat declared loudly that the people, by
hanging shopkeepers and plundering stores, could easily remove the
trouble.  The result was that on the 28th of February, 1793, at eight
o'clock in the evening, a mob of men and women in disguise began
plundering the stores and shops of Paris.  At first they demanded only
bread; soon they insisted on coffee and rice and sugar; at last they
seized everything on which they could lay their hands--cloth,
clothing, groceries and luxuries of every kind.  Two hundred such
places were plundered.  She answers to the purpose; what's your
will?
O zounds, that I were there to answer her.

ANS. Mistress, my will is not so soon express'd Without your special
favour, and the promise Of love and pardon, if I speak amiss.

FUL. O ass! O dunce! O blockhead! that hath left The plain broad
highway and the readiest path, To travel round about by circumstance:

He might have told his meaning in a word, And now hath lost his
opportunity.

Never was such a truant in love's school; I am asham'd that e'er I
was his tutor.

MRS ART. Sir, you may freely speak, whate'er it be, So that your
speech suiteth with modesty.

FUL. To this now could I answer passing well.

ANS. Mistress, I, pitying that so fair a creature--
FUL. Still fair, and yet I warn'd the contrary.

ANS. Should by a villain be so foully us'd, As you have been--

FUL. _As you have been_--ay, that was well put in!

ANS. If time and place were both convenient[9]-- Have made this
bold intrusion, to present My love and service to your sacred self.

FUL. Indifferent, that was not much amiss.

MRS ART. Sir, what you mean by service and by love, I will not
know; but what you mean by villain, I fain would know.

ANS. That villain is your husband, Whose wrongs towards you are bruited
through the land.
O, can you suffer at a peasant's hands, Unworthy once to touch this
silken skin, To be so rudely beat and buffeted?

Can you endure from such infectious breath, Able to blast your
beauty, to have names Of such impoison'd hate flung in your face?

FUL. O, that was good, nothing was good but that; That was the
lesson that I taught him last.

ANS. O, can you hear your never-tainted fame Wounded with words of shame
and infamy?
O, can you see your pleasures dealt away, And you to be debarr'd all
part of them, And bury it in deep oblivion?
Shall your true right be still contributed 'Mongst hungry bawds,
insatiate courtesans?
And can you love that villain, by whose deed Your soul doth sigh, and
your distress'd heart bleed?

FUL. All this as well as I could wish myself.

MRS ART. Sir, I have heard thus long with patience; If it be me you
term a villain's wife, In sooth you have mistook me all this while,
And neither know my husband nor myself; Or else you know not man
and wife is one.
If he be call'd a villain, what is she, Whose heart and love, and
soul, is one with him?
'Tis pity that so fair a gentleman Should fall into such villains'
company.
O, sir, take heed, if you regard your life, Meddle not with a villain
or his wife. [_Exit_.
FUL. O, that same word villain hath marr'd all.
ANS. Now where is your instruction? where's the wench?
Where are my hopes? where your directions?
FUL. Why, man, in that word villain you marr'd all.
To come unto an honest wife, and call Her husband villain! were
he[10] ne'er so bad, Thou might'st well think she would not brook
that name For her own credit, though no love to him.
But leave not thus, but try some other mean; Let not one way thy
hopes make frustrate clean.
ANS. I must persist my love against my will; He that knows all
things, knows I prove this will.

_Exeunt_.

ACT II., SCENE I.
_A School_.
_Enter_ AMINADAB, _with a rod in his hand, and_ BOYS _with their
books_.
AMIN. Come, boys, come, boys, rehearse your parts, And then, _ad
prandium; jam, jam, incipe_!
1ST BOY. Forsooth, my lesson's torn out of my book.
AMIN. _Quae caceris chartis deseruisse decet_.
Torn from your book! I'll tear it from your breech.All that Cambon, the great leader of finance at that
time, could secure was a clause claiming to protect the poor, to the
effect that this demonetization should not extend to notes below a
hundred _francs_ in value; and it was also agreed that any of the
notes, large or small, might be received in payment of taxes and for
the confiscated property of the clergy and nobility.  To all the
arguments advanced against this breach of the national faith Danton,
then at the height of his power, simply declared that only aristocrats
could favor notes bearing the royal portrait, and gave forth his
famous utterance: "Imitate Nature, which watches over the preservation
of the race but has no regard for individuals."  The decree was passed
on the 31st of July, 1793, yet its futility was apparent in less than
two months, when the Convention decreed that there should be issued
two thousand millions of _francs_ more in _assignats_ between the
values of ten _sous_ and four hundred _francs_, and when, before the
end of the year, five hundred millions more were authorized.[47]

The third outgrowth of the vast issue of fiat money was the _Maximum_.
As far back as November, 1792, the Terrorist associate of Robespierre,
St. Just, in view of the steady rise in prices of the necessaries of
life, had proposed a scheme by which these prices should be
established by law, at a rate proportionate to the wages of the
working classes.  This plan lingered in men's minds, taking shape in
various resolutions and decrees until the whole culminated on
September 29, 1793, in the Law of the _Maximum_.

While all this legislation was high-handed, it was not careless.  Even
statesmen of the greatest strength, having once been drawn into this
flood, were borne on into excesses which, a little earlier, would have
appalled them.  Committees of experts were appointed to study the
whole subject of prices, and at last there were adopted the great
"four rules" which seemed to statesmen of that time a masterly
solution of the whole difficulty.[48]

_First_, the price of each article of necessity was to be fixed at one
and one-third its price in 1790.  Y. ART. O, that my wife were dead!
here would I make My second choice: would she were buried!
From out her grave this marrigold should grow, Which, in my nuptials,
I would wear with pride.
Die shall she, I have doom'd her destiny. [_Aside_.]Great was the jubilation.  The report was
presented and supported by Barrère,--"the tiger monkey,"--then in all
the glory of his great orations: now best known from his portrait by
Macaulay.  Nothing could withstand Barrère's eloquence.  I pray you,
where's your husband?

MRS ART. Not within.

ANS. Who, Master Arthur? him I saw even now At Mistress Mary's, the
brave courtesan's.
MRS ART. Wrong not my husband's reputation so; I neither can nor
will believe you, sir.

FUL. Poor gentlewoman!He exulted in the fact that "France alone enjoys such
a commerce,--that it exists in no other nation."  He poured contempt
over political economy as "that science which quacks have corrupted,
which pedants have obscured and which academicians have depreciated."
France, he said, has something better, and he declared in conclusion,
"The needs of the people will no longer be spied upon in order that
the commercial classes may arbitrarily take advantage."[49]

