    "We are not ignorant what arts and industry have been employed to
    draw you out of the retirement and quiet you were well disposed to
    remain in. We are sensible you were imposed upon by those already
    embarked; and it will acquit you before God and every sober man, if
    you no longer keep measures with those who have deceived you in a
    matter of such moment, when your life and fortune were at stake. My
    lord, I have impartially laid before you the present circumstance
    you are in, as far as my abilities enable me to judge, that you may
    have it under your Lordship's consideration; I shall next take the
    freedom to suggest what to me appears the safest and most prudent
    part now left to you to act, and which I likeways submit to your
    Lordship's own judgment, without taking upon me to decide. What I
    mean is this, that your Lordship should, without loss of time,
    surrender your person to the Governor of Carlisle, and acquaint him
    you came to throw yourself upon the clemency of the Government; at
    the same time, your Lordship would, by express, have some proper
    friend at London advised of your intention, and one of some weight
    and interest, and who was fitt to put your conduct in the most
    favourable light. You will easily perceive that this confidence in
    the Government, and voluntary surrender of your person, and your
    preventing all others in an early repentance must distinguish you,
    in the eyes of the Government, from every other person who has
    embarked, and entitle you to its favour and protection: whereas, if
    you wait till you are apprehended, or leave the kingdom, your case,
    tho' quite different, will be ranked with those who have gone the
    greatest lengths. If your Lordship approve of this, if you think
    proper to lett me know by a line to-morrow, I shall not faill to be
    in town on Tuesday; and as I have a friend at London who I know is
    very capable and well disposed to serve you, if it be agreeable to
    you, shall, with the Doctor, concert the letter proper to be sent."

The answer of Lord Nithisdale contains a curious summary of some of the
motives which actuated the Jacobites of 1745.


LETTER FROM LORD NITHISDALE TO MR. CRAIK.

    "Dear Sir,

    "I have both yours, giving your opinion on the present affairs,
    without assigning your reasons, and as I take it, urging an answer
    from me, whether I am determined to take a share in the present
    enterprise, which you seem to think I should not. I shall answer the
    last first, by telling you that I have not yet fully digested my
    thoughts on that matter; only be assured I'll do nothing
    rashly--that's only for desperados. As to the other, I'm ready to
    believe you agree in opinion with me, that as matters are come this
    length, it's now greatly the interest of Scotland to wish success
    to the undertaking; and that nothing but the improbability of
    success should hinder every Scotsman to join in it; and indeed I
    don't think there's great reason to fear that either, unless vast
    numbers of foreign forces are poured into the country for support of
    the party in possession.

    "The Militia of England are little to be feared, nor do I believe
    they'll be trusted with arms, as there's a chance what way they may
    be used, particularly by that part of the country who only know how
    to handle them. As to the Dutch who are come over, there's now
    greater reason to believe they'll be recalled, and it may be some
    time before others are sent in their place, if at all. I do believe
    the United States, if they dare, will give all the support they can;
    but if France shall really prove in earnest, I imagine they'll
    consider it necessary to be quiet. Other foreign forces may be sent
    in, but on the other hand there's a very great improbability; thir
    people will likewise get aid, and here there's assembling a very
    numerous resolute army. The prospect of the situation of the country
    for some time to come, must affect every well-wisher to it, and the
    consequences to this part, if the undertaking shall misgive, appear
    to me terrible; if it succeed, what have we to fear? You'll answer,
    the introduction of Popery and arbitrary government; but I don't
    imagine, considering the success and fate of his grandfather and
    uncle, that will be attempted; and as to any fear that we may be
    made dependant and tributary to the foreign powers giving aid to the
    present adventure, that I'm not apprehensive of, nor do I imagine
    it would be in his power to accomplish, tho' inclinable to it. I
    shall say no more on the subject; only it's easier preventing an
    evil than remedying, and that may be applyed to both sides; only
    this one further I observe, that I think it's the interest of the
    nation to have a sovereign settled whose title is unquestionable: we
    see the inconveniencys attending the other. You'll perhaps answer,
    there will still be a Pretender; but I reply, not so dangerous an
    one, if at all. You write, in your letter, that people may, without
    meaning, be treated and led away with popular arguments. I assure
    you I'm none of these--what I have said now, is on a Sunday
    forenoon. However, I should wish you communicate my mind to nobody.
    If any material news occur before the bearer leave Edinburgh, you
    shall have them; and to-morrow I'll mind your commission, and any
    other you shall give with respect to your nursery, &c., which I hope
    you're still carrying on, and that your garden-wall is now
    completed. If you had some pieces of cannon to place in it, would it
    not keep out against an army not provided with battering-pieces,
    seeing it's at a sufficient distance from the thundering of any
    castle? Were it not for fear of your horses, I should wish you came
    in here and saw the fortifications made on our city-wall, and the
    army against which they were intended; the last is worth your while.
    No Court in Europe is filled with such a set of well-look'd brave
    fellows.

    "I hope my dykers are going on, and beg you'll acquaint the tenants
    to have the rents ready, in regard I'm to be soon in the country,
    and won't make any stay above a day or two; this to you, but to
    yourself I can yet fix no time for coming out as I can't think of
    leaving Edinburgh till I see how matters turn, and it's also
    necessary to stay and take care of my house, furniture, papers, &c.
    I believe I shall eat my Christmas goose with you, if I don't go
    into England, which I would incline for sake of a jaunt, if I
    thought it safe and had a right set with me. I ever am, dear Sir,

                                                        "Your's &c."

Another letter from a kinsman of Lord Nithisdale's shews that he was not
alone in his inclination to join in the Insurrection of 1745.


LETTER FROM MR. MAXWELL OF CARRUCHAN.

                                                      "October 13th.

    "Dr. Distributed Proofreaders
A SELECT COLLECTION OF OLD ENGLISH PLAYS, VOL.

    VII
    Fourth Edition
    Originally published by Robert Dodsley in the Year 1744.
    
    Now first chronologically arranged, revised and enlarged with the Notes
    of all the Commentators, and new Notes.
    
    1876.
    
    
    CONTENTS:
    
    Tancred And Gismunda The Wounds Of Civil War Mucedorus The Two
    Angry Women Of Abington Look About You
    

                                              EDITION

    The Tragedie of Tancred and Gismund.

    Compiled by the Gentlemen of the Inner Temple, and by them presented
before her Maiestie.

Newly reuiued and polished according to the decorum of these daies.
By R.W. London, Printed by Thomas Scarlet, and are to be solde by R.
Robinson, 1591, 4to.

[Some copies are dated 1592; but there was only a single edition. Of
the original text, as written in 1568, there is no printed copy;
but MSS. of it are in MS.

Lansdowne 786, and Hargrave MS. 205, neither of which appears to present
any evidence of identity with the copy mentioned by Isaac Reed below
as then in private hands. Both these MSS. have now been collated with the
text of 1591, and the conclusion must be, that Wilmot, though he
unquestionably revived, did not do so much, as he might wish to
have it inferred, in _polishing_ the play.

The production was formed on a classical model, and bears marks of resemblance
in tone and style to the "Jocasta" of Euripides, as paraphrased by
Gascoigne in 1566. The Lansdowne MS. of "Tancred and Gismunda" was
written, about 1568-70, while the Hargrave is much more modern.]
INTRODUCTION.
It appears from William Webbe's Epistle prefixed to this piece,
that after its first exhibition it was laid aside, and at some
distance of time was new-written by R. Wilmot. The reader, therefore,
may not be displeased with a specimen of it in its original dress.
It is here given from the fragment of an ancient MS. taken out of
a chest of papers formerly belonging to Mr Powell, father-in-law
to the author of "Paradise Lost," at Forest Hill, about four miles
from Oxford, where in all probability some curiosities of the same
kind may remain, the contents of these chests (for I think there
are more than one) having never yet been properly examined.Her Ladyship would have inherited the Barony of
Herries, of Terregles, but for the attainder of her grandfather. The
estates of Lord Nithisdale were inherited by her son, Marmaduke William
Constable, Esq., of Everingham Park, in the county of York; who, on the
death of his mother, assumed, by royal licence, the surname of Maxwell.
The title of Nithisdale, except for the attainder, would have descended
upon the next heir, Mr. Maxwell of Carruchan.[36]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] There is no statement of the date of Lord Nithisdale's birth in any
of the usual authorities, neither can his descendant, William Constable
Maxwell, Esq., of Terregles, supply the deficient information.

[2] Secret History of Colonel Hooke's Negotiations, by himself, p. 175.
London, 1740.

[3] Patten's History of the Rebellion, of 1715, p. 234.

[4] Service of the Earl of Eglintoun, as heir male of the Earl of
Wintoun. Printed for the family. Extract from "Peerage Law by Riddell,"
p. 201. Published in 1825.

[5] Service of the Earl of Eglintoun, p. 8.

[6] Buchan's Account of the Earls Marischal, p. 125.

[7] Eglinton Case.

[8] Patten, p. 52.

[9] Patten, p. 54. Life of the Earls Marischal, p. 130.

[10] Reay's History of the Late Rebellion. Dumfries, 1718.

[11] Reay, p. 139.

[12] Now of Sir Charles Stuart Menteath, Bart.

[13] Reay, p. 184.

[14] Id.

[15] Id. p. 211.

[16] Reay, p. 257.

[17] Patten, pp. 224-235. Colonel Hooke's Negotiations.

[18] In the Life of Lord Derwentwater.

[19] Reay, p. 326.

[20] See Letters in the State Paper Office from Lord Widdrington, and
many others of inferior rank, No. 3. 1715.

[21] State Papers, 1716, No. 3.

[22] State Papers, No. 3, July 26, 1715.

[23] Reay, p. 355.

[24] Reay, p. 359.

[25] A Faithful Register of the Late Rebellion, London, p. 65, 1718.

[26] Faithful Register, p. 86.

[27] Her picture, painted in the bloom of her youth, is still at
Terregles, in Dumfriesshire, the seat of William Constable Maxwell,
Esq., the descendant of Lord Nithisdale. To Mrs. Constable Maxwell, of
Terregles, I am indebted for the following interesting description of
the portrait of Lady Nithisdale, to which I have referred. "Her hair is
light brown, slightly powdered, and she is represented with large soft
eyes, regular features, and fair, rather pale complexion. Her soft
expression and delicate appearance give little indication of the
strength of mind and courage which she displayed. Her dress is blue
silk, with a border of cambric, and the drapery a cloak of brown silk."

[28] His son was restored to his father's honours. The title of Marquis
of Powis became extinct; but the estates devolved on Lord Herbert of
Cherbury, husband to the last Marquis's niece; and ultimately to Lady
Henrietta Herbert, who married Lord Clive, created Earl of
Powis.--_Burke's Extinct Peerage_.

[29] Faithful Register, p. 84.

[30] Faithful Register, p. 86.

[31] Burke's History of the Commoners of Great Britain and Ireland, vol.
i. p. 329.

[32] See Letters and Petitions in the State Papers, No. iii. p. 1716.

[33] See Burke's Commoners, vol. i. p. 333.

[34] See Burke's Commoners, vol. i. p. 334.

[35] I am indebted to the present Mr. Craik, of Arbigland, for this
correspondence.

[36] I am indebted for some of these particulars to the courtesy of
William Constable Maxwell, Esq., present owner of Terregles,
Carlaverock, and also of the beautiful hereditary property of Lincluden.


WILLIAM GORDON, VISCOUNT KENMURE.


The origin of the distinguished surname of Gordon is not clearly
ascertained: "some," says Douglass, "derive the Gordons from a city of
Macedonia, named Gordonia; others from a manor in Normandy called
Gordon, possessed by a family of that name. The territory of Gordon in
Berwickshire was, according to another account, conferred by David the
First upon an Anglo-Norman settler, who assumed from it the name of
Gordon."

William Gordon, sixth Earl of Kenmure, was descended from a younger son
of the ducal house of Gordon; in 1633 Sir John Gordon of Lochinvar was
created Viscount Kenmure and Lord of Lochinvar; and the estates
continued in an unbroken line until they descended to William, the sixth
Viscount, who was the only Scottish peer in 1715 who suffered capital
punishment.

This unfortunate nobleman succeeded his father in 1698; and possessed,
up to the period of his taking the command of the army in the south, the
estates belonging to his family in the Stuartry of Kirkcudbright.
Kenmure Castle, still happily enjoyed by the family of Gordon, stands
upon an eminence overlooking the meadows, at that point where the river
Ken expands into a lake. The Castle was originally a single tower, to
which various additions have been made according to the taste of
different owners. The Castle Keep is now ruinous and unroofed, but the
body of the house is in good repair. A fine prospect over the scenery of
the Glenhens is commanded by the eminence on which the castle stands. An
ancient avenue of lime-trees constitutes the approach to the fortress
from the road.

In this abode dwelt the Viscount Kenmure until the summons of Lord Mar
called him from the serene tenour of a course honoured by others, and
peaceful from the tranquillity of the unhappy nobleman's own
disposition; for his was not the restless ambition of Mar, nor the blind
devotion of the Duke of Perth; nor the passion for fame and ascendancy
which stimulated Lord George Murray in his exertions. Lord Kenmure was,
it is true, well acquainted with public business, and an adept in the
affairs of the political world, in which he had obtained that insight
which long experience gives. His acquaintance with books and men was
said to be considerable; he is allowed, even by one who had deserted the
party which Lord Kenmure espoused, to be of a "very extraordinary
knowledge."[37] But his calm, reflective mind, his experience, his
resources of learning, rather indisposed than inclined this nobleman
from rising when called upon to lend his aid to the perilous enterprise
of James Stuart. Beloved in private life, of a singularly good temper,
calm, mild, of simple habits, and plain in his attire, he was as it was
generally observed, the last man whom one might have expected to rush
into the schemes of the Jacobite party.

That one so skilled in human affairs should venture, even in a
subordinate degree, to espouse so desperate a cause as that of James was
generally reputed to be, might seem to prove that even the wise were
sanguine, or that they were carried away by the enthusiasm of the hour.
Neither of these circumstances appear to bear any considerable weight in
revolving the conduct of Lord Kenmure.

You remember the machinery which the federalists played off, about
that time, to beat down the friends to the real principles of our
constitution, to silence by terror every expression in their favor,
to bring us into war with France and alliance with England, and
finally to homologize our constitution with that of England. Mr. Adams,
you know, was overwhelmed with feverish addresses, dictated by the
fear, and often by the pen of the _bloody buoy_, and was seduced by them
into some open indications of his new principles of government, and in
fact, was so elated as to mix with his kindness a little superciliousness
towards me. Even Mrs. Adams, with all her good sense and prudence, was
sensibly flushed. And you recollect the short suspension of our intercourse,
and the circumstance which gave rise to it, which you were so good as
to bring to an early explanation, and have set to rights, to the cordial
satisfaction of us all. The nation at length passed condemnation on
the political principles of the federalists, by refusing to continue
Mr.
Adams in the Presidency. On the day on which we learned in Philadelphia
the vote of the city of New York, which it was well known would decide
the vote of the State, and that, again, the vote of the Union, I called
on Mr. Adams on some official business. He was very sensibly affected,
and accosted me with these words. 'Well, I understand that you are to
beat me in this contest, and I will only say that I will be as faithful
a subject as any you will have.'

'Mr. Adams,' said I, 'this is no personal contest between you and me.
Two systems of principles on the subject of government divide our
fellow-citizens into two parties. With one of these you concur, and I
with the other.

As we have been longer on the public stage than most of those now living,
our names happen to be more generally known. One of these parties,
therefore, has put your name at its head, the other mine. Were we both
to die to-day, to-morrow two other names would be in the place of ours,
without any change in the motion of the machine. Its motion is
from its principle, not from you or myself.''I believe you are right,'
said he, 'that we are but passive instruments, and should not
suffer this matter to affect our personal dispositions.' But he did
not long retain this just view of the subject. I have always believed
that the thousand calumnies which the federalists, in bitterness
of heart, and mortification at their ejection, daily invented against
me, were carried to him by their busy intriguers, and made some
impression.

When the election between Burr and myself was kept in suspense by the
federalists, and they were meditating to place the President of the Senate
at the head of the government, I called on Mr. Adams with a view to
have this desperate measure prevented by his negative. He grew warm in
an instant, and said with a vehemence he had not used towards me before,
'Sir, the event of the election is within your own power.

You have only to say you will do justice to the public creditors, maintain
the navy, and not disturb those holding offices, and the government
will instantly be put into your hands. We know it is the wish of the
people it should be so.''Mr. Adams,' said I, 'I know not what part of
my conduct, in either public or private life, can have authorized a doubt
of my fidelity to the public engagements.
I say, however, I will not come into the government by capitulation. I
will not enter on it, but in perfect freedom to follow the dictates
of my own judgment.'Lord Kenmure took with him three hundred men to the field.[38]

At the siege of Preston, in which those who fell dead upon the field
were less to be compassionated than the survivors, Lord Kenmure was
taken prisoner. His brother-in-law, the Earl of Carnwath, shared the
same fate. They were sent with the principal state prisoners to London.
The same circumstances, the same indignities, attended the removal of
Lord Kenmure to his last earthly abode, as those which have been already
related as disgracing the humanity of Englishmen, when the Earl of
Derwentwater was carried to the Tower.

The subsequent sufferings of these brave men were aggravated by the
abuses which then existed in the state prisons of England. The condition
of these receptacles of woe, at that period, beggars all description.
Corruption and extortion gave every advantage to those who could command
money enough to purchase luxuries at an enormous cost. Oppression and an
utter carelessness of the well-being of the captive, pressed hardly upon
those who were poor. No annals can convey a more heartrending
description of the sufferings of the prisoners confined in county gaols,
than their own touching and heartfelt appeals, some of which are to be
found in the State Paper Office.

In the Tower, especially, it appears from a diary kept by a gentleman
who was confined there, that the greatest extortion was openly
practised. Mr. Forster and a Mr. Anderton, who were allowed to live in
the Governor's house, were charged the sum of five pounds a-week for
their lodging and diet,--a demand which, more than a century ago, was
deemed enormous. Several of the Highland chiefs, and among them the
celebrated Brigadier Mackintosh, were "clapped up in places of less
accommodation, for which, nevertheless, they were charged as much as
would have almost paid the rent of the best houses in St. James's Square
and Piccadilly." Mr. Forster, it must be added, was obliged to pay sixty
guineas for his privilege of living in the governor's house; and Mr.
Anderton to give a bribe of twenty-five guineas for having his irons
off. A similar tax was made upon every one who entered, and who could
pay, and they were thankful to proffer the sum of twenty guineas, the
usual demand, to be free from irons. It was, indeed, not the mere
freedom from chains for which they paid, but for the power of effecting
their escape. Upon every one who did not choose to be turned over to the
common side, a demand was made of ten guineas fee, besides two guineas
weekly for lodging, although in some rooms men lay four in a bed.
Presents were also given privately, so that in three or four months'
time, three or four thousand pounds were paid by the prisoners to their
jailers.

Many of the prisoners being men of fortune, their tables were of the
most luxurious description; forty shillings was often paid for a dish of
peas and beans, and thirty shillings for a dish of fish; and this fare,
so unlike that of imprisonment, was accompanied by the richest French
wines. The vicious excesses and indecorums which went on in the Tower,
among the state prisoners, are said to have scandalized the graver
lookers on.[39] The subsequent distress and misery which ensued may, of
course, be traced, in part to this cause.

Lord Derwentwater, ever decorous and elevated in his deportment, was
shocked at the wayward and reckless conduct of some of the Jacobites on
their road to London, told one of the King's officers at Barnet that
these prisoners "were only fit for Bedlam." To this it was remarked,
that they were only fit for Bridewell. Whilst hopes of life continued,
this rebuke still applied. The prisoners were aided in their excesses by
the enthusiasm of the fair sex. The following extract from another
obscure work, "The History of the Press-yard," is too curious to be
omitted. "That while they [the prisoners] flattered themselves with
hopes of life, which they were made to believe were the necessary
consequences of a surrender at discretion, they did, without any
retrospect to the crimes they were committed for, live in so profuse a
manner, and fared so voluptuously, through the means of daily visitants
and helps from abroad, that money circulated very plentifully; and while
it was difficult to change a guinea almost at any house in the street,
nothing was more easy than to have silver for gold to any quantity, and
gold for silver, in the prison,--those of the fair sex, from persons of
the first rank to tradesmen's wives and daughters, making a sacrifice of
their husbands' and parents' rings, and other precious moveables, for
the use of those prisoners; so that, till the trial of the condemned
lords was over, and that the Earl of Derwentwater and Viscount Kenmure
were beheaded, there was scarce anything to be seen amongst them but
flaunting apparel, venison pasties, hams, chickens, and other costly
meats, with plenty of wine."

Meantime the trial of the attainted lords took place, and checked, like
the sudden appearance of a ghostly apparition, this horrible
merriment,--with which, however, few names which one desires to cherish
and to respect are connected. The same forms that attended the
impeachment and trial of his companions, were carried on at the trial of
Lord Kenmure. The unhappy nobleman replied in few and touching words,
and, in a voice which could not be heard, pleaded guilty; an
inconsistency, to express it in the mildest terms, of which he
afterwards sincerely repented.

At the end of the trial, to the question "What have you to say for
yourself why judgment should not be passed upon you according to law?"
"My lords," replied Lord Kenmure, "I am truly sensible of my crime, and
want words to express my repentance. God knows I never had any personal
prejudice against his Majesty, nor was I ever accessory to any previous
design against him. I humbly beg my noble Peers and the honourable House
of Commons to intercede with the King for mercy to me, that I may live
to show myself the dutifullest of his subjects, and to be the means to
keep my wife and four small children from starving; the thoughts of
which, with my crime, makes me the most unfortunate of all gentlemen."

After the trial, great intercessions were made for mercy, but without
any avail, as far as Lord Derwentwater and Lord Kenmure were concerned.
They were ordered for execution on the 24th of February, 1716.

The intelligence of the condemnation of these two lords, produced the
greatest dismay among their fellow sufferers in the Tower; and the
notion of escape, a project which was singularly successful in some
instances, was resorted to, in the despair and anguish of the moment, by
those who dreaded a cruel and ignominious death.

Lord Kenmure, meantime, prepared for death. A very short interval was,
indeed, allowed for those momentous considerations which his situation
induced. He was sentenced on the ninth of February, and in a fortnight
afterwards was to suffer. Yet the execution of that sentence was, it
seems, scarcely expected by the sufferer, even when the fatal day
arrived.

The night before his execution, Lord Kenmure wrote a long and affecting
letter to a nobleman who had visited him in prison a few days
previously. There is something deeply mournful in the fate of one who
had slowly and unwillingly taken up the command which had ensured to him
the severest penalties of the law. There is an inexpressibly painful
sentiment of compassion and regret, excited by the yearning to live--the
allusion to a reprieve--the allusion to the case of Lord Carnwath as
affording more of hope than his own--lastly, to what he cautiously calls
"an act of indiscretion," the plea of guilty, which was wrung from this
conscientious, but sorrowing man, by a fond value for life and for the
living. So little did Lord Kenmure anticipate his doom, that, when he
was summoned to the scaffold the following day, he had not even prepared
a black suit,--a circumstance which he much regretted, since he "might
be said to have died with more decency."

The following is the letter which he wrote, and which he addressed to a
certain nobleman.

    "My very good Lord,

    "Your Lordship has interested yourself so far in mine, and the
    lords, my fellow prisoners' behalf, that I should be the greatest
    criminal now breathing, should I, whether the result of your
    generous intercession be life or death, be neglectful of paying my
    acknowledgments for that act of compassion.

    "We have already discoursed of the motives that induced me to take
    arms against the Prince now in possession of the throne, when you
    did me the honour of a visit three days since in my prison here; I
    shall therefore wave that point, and lament my unhappiness for
    joining in the rest of the lords in pleading guilty, in the hopes of
    that mercy, which the Generals Wills and Carpenter will do us the
    justice to say was promised us by both of them. Mr. Piggot and Mr.
    Eyres, the two lawyers employed by us, advised us to this plea, the
    avoiding of which might have given us further time for looking after
    the concerns of another life, though it had ended in the same
    sentence of losing this which we now lie under. Thanks be to the
    Divine Majesty, to whose infinite mercy as King of Kings, I
    recommend myself in hopes of forgiveness, tho' it shall be my fate
    to fail of it here on earth. Had the House of Commons thought fit to
    have received our petition with the same candour as yours has done,
    and recommended us to the Prince, we might have entertained some
    hopes of life; but the answer from St. James's is such as to make us
    have little or no thoughts of it.

    "Under these dismal apprehensions, then, of approaching dissolution,
    which, I thank my God for his holy guidance, I have made due
    preparation for, give me leave to tell you, that howsoever I have
    been censured on account of the family of the Gordons, which I am an
    unhappy branch of, that I have ever lived and will die in the
    profession of the Protestant religion, and that I abhor all
    king-killing doctrines that are taught by the church of Rome as
    dangerous and absurd. And though I have joined with some that have
    taken arms, of that persuasion, no other motive but that of
    exercising to the person called the Pretender, whom I firmly believe
    to be the son of the late King James the Second, and in defence of
    whose title I am now going to be a sacrifice, has induced me to it.
    Your Lordship will remember the papers I have left with you, and
    deliver them to my son. They may be of use to his future conduct in
    life, when these eyes of mine are closed in death, which I could
    have wished might have stolen upon me in the ordinary course of
    nature, and not by the hand of the executioner. But as my blessed
    Saviour and Redeemer suffered an ignominious and cruel death, and
    the Son of God, made flesh, did not disdain to have his feet nailed
    to the Cross for the sins of the world; so may I, poor miserable
    sinner, as far as human nature will allow, patiently bear with the
    hands of violence, that I expect suddenly to be stretched out
    against me.

    "Your Lordship will also, provided there is no hopes of a reprieve
    this night, make me acquainted with it as soon as possible, that I
    may meet that fate with readiness which, in a state of uncertainty,
    I expect with uneasiness. I must also be pressing with your Lordship
    that if, in case of death, any paper under my name should come out
    as pretended to have been written by me, in the manner or form of a
    speech, you will not believe it to be genuine; for I, that am
    heartily sorry for disowning my principles in one spoken before your
    Lordship and the rest of my peers, will never add to that act of
    indiscretion by saying anything on the scaffold but my prayers for
    the forgiveness of my poor self and those that have brought me to be
    a spectacle to men and angels, especially since I must speak in my
    last moments according to the dictates of my conscience, and not
    prevaricate as I did before the Lords, for which I take shame to
    myself. And such a method of proceeding might do injury to my
    brother Carnwath, who, I am told, is in a much fairer way than I am
    of not being excluded from grace. I have nothing farther than to
    implore your Lordships to charge your memory with the
    recommendations I gave you to my wife and children, beseeching God
    that he will so sanctify their afflictions, that after the pains and
    terrors of this mortal life they may with me be translated to the
    regions of everlasting joy and happiness, to which blessed state of
    immortality your Lordship shall also, while I am living, be
    recommended in the prayers of, my very good Lord, your most
    affectionate kinsman,

                                                           Kenmure."

    "From my prison, in the Tower of London, Feb. 23, 1715."

The following paper, the original of which is still in the hands of his
descendants, was written by Lord Kenmure the night before his
execution:--

    "It having pleased the Almighty God to call me now to suffer a
    violent death, I adore the Divine Majesty, and cheerfully resign my
    soul and body to His hands, whose mercy is over all His works. It is
    my very great comfort that He has enabled me to hope, through the
    merits and by the blood of Jesus Christ, He will so purifie me how
    that I perish not eternally. I die a Protestant of the Church of
    England, and do from my heart forgive all my enemies. I thank God I
    cannot accuse my selfe of the sin of rebellion, however some people
    may by a mistaken notion think me guilty of it for all I did upon a
    laite occasione; and my only desire ever was to contribute my small
    endeavour towards the re-establishing my rightfull Sovereigne and
    the constitutione of my countrie to ther divine rights and loyall
    setlment; and by pleading guilty I meant no more then ane
    acknowledgment of my having been in armes, and (not being bred to
    the law) had no notion of my therby giving my assent to any other
    thing contained in that charge. I take God to wittnes, before whom I
    am very soon to apear, that I never had any desire to favour or to
    introduce Popery, and I have been all along fully satisfied that the
    King has given all the morall security for the Church of England
    that is possible for him in his circumstances. I owne I submitted
    myselfe to the Duck of Brunswick, justly expecting that humantity
    would have induced him to give me my life, which if he had done I
    was resolved for the future to have lived peaceably, and to have
    still reteaned a greatfull remembrance of so greatt a favour, and I
    am satisfied the King would never have desired me to have been in
    action for him after; but the caice is otherways. I pray God forgive
    those who thirst after blood. Had we been all putt to the sword
    immediatly upon our surrender, that might have born the construction
    of being don in the heatt and fury of passion; but now I am to die
    in cold blood, I pray God it be not imputed to them. May Almighty
    God restore injured right, and peace, and truth, and may He in mercy
    receave my soull.

                                                       Kenmure."[40]

It was decreed that the Earl of Derwentwater and the Viscount Kenmure
should suffer on the same day. On the morning of the twenty-fourth of
February, at ten o'clock, these noblemen were conducted to the Transport
Office on Tower Hill, where they had separate rooms for their private
devotions, and where such friends as desired to be admitted to them
could take a last farewell. It had been settled that the Earl of
Nithisdale should also suffer at the same time, but during the previous
night he had escaped. Whether the condemned lords, who were so soon to
exchange life for immortality, were made aware of that event or not, has
not transpired. What must have been their emotions, supposing that they
were conscious that one who had shared their prison, was likely to be
restored to his liberty and to his family!

Lord Kenmure conducted himself with a manly composure and courage during
this last trial of his submission and fortitude. His reserve, however,
on the scaffold was remarkable. It proceeded from a fear, incidental to
a conscientious mind, of saying anything inconsistent with his loyalty
and principles; and from an apprehension, natural in the dying husband
and father, of injuring the welfare of those whom he was to leave at the
mercy of Government.

Lord Derwentwater suffered first: his last ejaculation, "Sweet Jesus be
merciful unto me!" was cut short by the executioner severing his head
from his body. Then, after the body and the head had been carried away,
the scaffold was decently cleared, and fresh baize laid upon the block,
and saw-dust strewed, that none of the blood might appear to shock the
unhappy man who was to succeed the young and gallant Derwentwater in
that tragic scene.

Lord Kenmure then advanced. He was formally delivered from the hands of
one sheriff to those of the other, who had continued on the stage on
which the scaffold was erected all the time, and who then addressed the
condemned man. The first question related to the presence of clergy, and
of other friends; and Lord Kenmure stated, in reply, that he had the
assistance of two clergymen, and desired the presence of some friends
who were below. These persons were then called up, and Lord Kenmure
retired with his friends and the two clergymen to the south side of the
stage, where they joined in penitential prayers, some of them written
for the occasion, and others out of a printed book, not improbably the
Book of Common Prayer, since Lord Kenmure was a Protestant and an
Episcopalian. Lord Kenmure employed himself for some time in private
supplications; and afterwards a clergyman, in a prayer, recommended the
dying man to the mercy of God. A requiem completed the devotions of the
unfortunate Kenmure.

Sir John Fryer, one of the sheriffs, then inquired if his Lordship had
had sufficient time; and expressed his willingness to wait as long as
Lord Kenmure wished. He also requested to know if Lord Kenmure had
anything to say in private; to these questions a negative was returned.

The executioner now came forward. Lord Kenmure was accompanied by an
undertaker, to whom the care of his body was to be entrusted; he was
also attended by a surgeon, who directed the executioner how to perform
his office, by drawing his finger over that part of the neck where the
blow was to be given. Lord Kenmure then kissed the officers and
gentlemen on the scaffold, some of them twice and thrice; and being
again asked if he had anything to say, answered, "No." He had specified
the Chevalier St. George in his prayers, and he now repeated his
repentance for having pleaded guilty at his trial. He turned to the
executioner, who, according to the usual form, asked forgiveness. "My
Lord," said the man, "what I do, is to serve the nation; do you forgive
me?" "I do," replied Lord Kenmure; and he placed the sum of eight
guineas in the hands of the headsman. The final preparations were
instantly made. Lord Kenmure pulled off, unassisted, his coat and
waistcoat: one of his friends put a white linen cap on his head; and the
executioner turned down the collar of his shirt, in order to avoid all
obstacles to the fatal stroke. Then the executioner said, "My Lord, will
you be pleased to try the block?" Lord Kenmure, in reply, laid down his
head on the block, and spread forth his hands. The headsman instantly
performed his office. The usual words, "This is the head of a traitor!"
were heard as the executioner displayed the streaming and ghastly sight
to the multitude.

The body of Lord Kenmure, after being first deposited at an undertaker's
in Fleet Street, was carried to Scotland, and there buried among his
ancestors. A letter was found in his pocket addressed to the Chevalier,
recommending to him the care of his children; but it was suppressed.[41]

Thus died one of those men, whose honour, had his life been spared,
might have been trusted never again to enter into any scheme injurious
to the reigning Government; and whose death inspires, perhaps, more
unmitigated regret than that of any of the Jacobite lords. Lord
Kenmure's short-lived authority was sullied by no act of cruelty; and
his last hours were those of a pious, resigned, courageous Christian. He
was thrust into a situation as commander in the South, peculiarly
unfitted for his mild, reserved, and modest disposition: and he was thus
carried away from that private sphere which he was calculated to
adorn.[42]

After her husband's death, the energies of Lady Kenmure were directed to
secure the estates of Kenmure to her eldest son. She instantly posted
down to Scotland, and reached Kenmure Castle in time to secure the most
valuable papers. And praying you to accept it at only what it is worth,
I add the assurance of my constant and affectionate friendship and
respect.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXXVII.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, November 4, 1823

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Monticello, November 4, 1823.

My Dear Friend,
Two dislocated wrists and crippled fingers have rendered writing so
slow and laborious, as to oblige me to withdraw from nearly all
correspondence: not, however, from yours, while I can make a stroke with
a pen. We have gone through too many trying scenes together, to forget
the sympathies and affections they nourished.

Your trials have indeed been long and severe. When they will end,
is yet unknown, but where they will end, cannot be doubted.
Alliances, Holy or Hellish, may be formed, and retard the epoch
of deliverance, may swell the rivers of blood which are yet to
flow, but their own will close the scene, and leave to mankind the
right of self-government.

I trust that Spain will prove, that a nation cannot be conquered which
determines not to be so, and that her success will be the turning of the
tide of liberty, no more to be arrested by human efforts. Whether the
state of society in Europe can bear a republican government, I doubted,
you know when with you, and I do now. A hereditary chief, strictly
limited, the right of war vested in the legislative body, a rigid
economy of the public contributions, and absolute interdiction of all
useless expenses, will go far towards keeping the government honest and
unoppressive.
But the only security o£ all, is in a free press. The force of public
opinion cannot be resisted, when permitted freely to be expressed. The
agitation it produces must be submitted to. It is necessary to keep the
waters pure.

We are all, for example, in agitation even in our peaceful country.

For in peace as well as in war, the mind must be kept in motion.

Who is to be the next President, is the topic here of every
conversation.

My opinion on that subject is what I expressed to you in my last
letter.

The question will be ultimately reduced to the northernmost and southernmost
candidates.

The former will get every federal vote in the Union, and many republicans;
the latter, all those denominated of the old school; for you are
not to believe that these two parties are amalgamated, that the
lion and the lamb are lying down together.

The Hartford convention, the victory of Orleans, the peace of Ghent,
prostrated the name of federalism.

Its votaries abandoned it through shame and mortification; and now call
themselves republicans. But the name alone is changed, the principles are
the same.

For in truth, the parties of Whig and Tory are those of nature. They
exist in all countries, whether called by these names, or by those
of Aristocrats and Democrats, Cote Droite and Cote Gauche, Ultras
and Radicals, Serviles and Liberals.

The sickly, weakly, timid man, fears the people, and is a tory by
nature.

The healthy, strong, and bold, cherishes them, and is formed a whig
by nature. On the eclipse of federalism with us, although not its
extinction, its leaders got up the Missouri question, under the
false front of lessening the measure of slavery, but with the real
view of producing a geographical division of parties, which might
insure them the next President.The origin of the powerful family of Murray commences with Sir William
De Moraira, who was Sheriff in Perth in 1222, in the beginning of the
reign of King Alexander the Second. The lands of Tullibardine were
obtained by the Knight in 1282, by his marriage with Adda, the daughter
of Malise, Seneschal of Stratherio. After the death of William De
Moraira, the name of this famous house merged into that of Murray, and
its chieftains were for several centuries known by the appellation of
Murray of Tullibardine. It was not until the seventeenth century that
the family of Murray was ennobled, when James the Sixth created Sir John
Murray Earl of Tullibardine.

The unfortunate subject of this memoir was the son of one of the most
zealous promoters of the Revolution of 1688. His father, nearly
connected in blood with William the Third, was appointed to the command
of a regiment by that Monarch, and entrusted with several posts of
great importance, which he retained in the time of Queen Anne, until a
plot was formed to ruin him by Lord Lovat, who endeavoured to implicate
the Duke in the affair commonly known by the name of the Queensbury
plot. The Duke of Athole courted inquiry upon that occasion; but the
business having been dropped without investigation, he resigned the
office of Privy Seal, which he then held, and became a warm opponent of
the Act of Union which was introduced into Parliament in 1705.

After this event the Duke of Athole retired to Perthshire, and there
lived in great magnificence until, upon the Tories coming into power, he
was chosen one of the representatives of the Scottish peerage in 1710,
and afterwards a second time constituted Lord Privy Seal.

It is singular that, beholding his father thus cherished by Government,
the Marquis of Tullibardine should have adopted the cause of the
Chevalier: and not, as it appears, from a momentary caprice, but, if we
take into consideration the conduct of his whole life, from a fixed and
unalienable conviction. At the time of the first Rebellion, the Marquis
was twenty-seven years of age; he may therefore be presumed to have been
mature in judgment, and to have passed over the age of wild enthusiasm.
The impulses of fanaticism had no influence in promoting the adoption of
a party to which an Episcopalian as well as a Roman Catholic might
probably be peculiarly disposed. Lord Tullibardine had been brought up a
Presbyterian; his father was so firm and zealous in that faith, as to
excite the doubts of the Tory party, to whom he latterly attached
himself, of his sincerity in their cause. According to Lord Lovat, the
arch-enemy of the Athole family, the Duke had not any considerable
portion of that quality in his character, which Lord Lovat represents as
one compound of meanness, treachery, and revenge, and attributes the
hatred with which Athole persecuted the brave and unfortunate Duke of
Argyle, to the circumstance of his having received a blow from that
nobleman before the whole Court at Edinburgh, without having the spirit
to return the insult.[44]

It appears, from the same authority, that the loyalty which the Duke of
Athole professed towards King William was of a very questionable
description. It becomes, indeed, very difficult to ascertain what were
really the Duke of Athole's political tenets. Under these conflicting
and unsettled opinions the young Marquis of Tullibardine was reared.

There seems little reason to doubt that his father, the Duke of Athole,
continued to act a double part in the troublous days which followed the
accession of George the First. It was, of course, of infinite importance
to Government to secure the allegiance of so powerful a family as that
of Murray, the head of whom was able to bring a body of six thousand men
into the field. It nevertheless soon appeared that the young heir of the
house of Athole had imbibed very different sentiments to those with
which it was naturally supposed a nobleman, actually in office at that
time, would suffer in his eldest son. The first act of the Marquis was
to join the Earl of Mar with two thousand men, clansmen from the
Highlands, and with fourteen hundred of the Duke of Athole's
tenants;[45] his next, to proclaim the Chevalier King. Almost
simultaneously, and whilst his tenantry were following their young
leader to the field, the Duke of Athole was proclaiming King George at
Perth.[46] The Duke was ordered, meantime, by the authorities, to remain
at his Castle of Blair to secure the peace of the county, of which he
was Lord-Lieutenant.

The Marquis of Tullibardine's name appears henceforth in most of the
events of the Rebellion. There exists little to shew how he acquitted
himself in the engagement of Sherriff Muir, where he led several
battalions to the field; but he shewed his firmness and valour by
remaining for some time at the head of his vassals, after the unhappy
contest of 1715 was closed by the ignominious flight of the Chevalier.
All hope of reviving the Jacobite party being then extinct for a time,
the Marquis escaped to France, where he remained in tranquillity for a
few years; but his persevering endeavours to aid the Stuart cause were
only laid aside, and not abandoned.

During his absence, the fortunes of the house of Athole sustained no
important change. The office of Privy Seal was, it is true, taken from
the Duke and given to the Marquis of Annandale; but by the favour of
Government the estates escaped forfeiture, and during the very year in
which the Rebellion occurred, the honours and lands which belonged to
the unfortunate Tullibardine were vested, by the intercession of his
father, in a younger son, Lord James Murray. The effect of this may have
been to render the Marquis still more determined in his adherence to the
Stuart line. He was not, however, the only member of the house of Murray
who participated in the Jacobite cause.

No less consistent in his opinions than the Marquis of Tullibardine,
William, the second Lord Nairn, came forward to espouse the cause of the
Stuarts. This nobleman was the uncle of Lord Tullibardine, and bore,
before his marriage with Margaret, only daughter of the first Lord
Nairn, the appellation of Lord William Murray. The title was, however,
settled by patent upon him and his heirs; and this obligation, conferred
by Charles the Second, was bestowed upon one whose gratitude and
devotion to the line of Stuart ceased only with his life. Lord Nairn had
been educated to the naval service, and had distinguished himself for
bravery. He refused the oaths at the Revolution, and consequently did
not take his seat in Parliament. His wife, Margaret, appears to have
shared in her husband's enthusiasm, and to have resembled him in
courage. In the Earl of Mar's correspondence frequent allusion is made
to her under the name of Mrs. Mellor. "I wish," says the Earl on one
occasion, "our men had her spirit." And the remembrances which he sends
her, and his recurrence to her, show how important a personage Lady
Nairn must have been. Aided by these two influential relations, the
Marquis of Tullibardine had engaged in the dangerous game which cost
Scotland so dear. Upon the close of the Rebellion, Lord Nairn was not so
fortunate as to escape to France with his relation. He was taken
prisoner, tried, and condemned to be executed. At his trial he pleaded
guilty; but he was respited, and afterwards pardoned. His wife and
children were eventually provided for out of the forfeited estate; but
neither punishment nor favour prevented his sons from sharing in the
Rebellion of 1745.

Another individual who participated in the Rebellion of 1715 was Lord
Charles Murray, the fourth surviving son of the Duke of Athole, and one
of those gallant, fine-tempered soldiers, whose graceful bearing and
good qualities win upon the esteem even of their enemies. At the
beginning of the Rebellion, Lord Charles was an officer on half-pay in
the British service; he quickly joined the insurgent army, and obtained
the command of a regiment. Such was his determination to share all
dangers and difficulties with his troops, that he never could be
prevailed upon to ride at the head of his regiment, but went in his
Highland dress, on foot, throughout the marches. This young officer
crossed the Forth with General Mackintosh, and joined the Northumbrian
insurgents in the march to Preston. At the siege of that town Lord
Charles defended one of the barriers, and repelled Colonel Dormer's
brigade from the attack. He was afterwards made prisoner at the
surrender, tried by a court-martial, and sentenced to be shot as a
deserter from the British army. He was, however, subsequently reprieved,
but died only five years afterwards.[47]

The Marquis of Tullibardine was not, however, the only Jacobite member
of the family who had been spared after the Rebellion of 1715, to renew
his efforts in the cause. His brother, the celebrated Lord George
Murray, was also deeply engaged in the same interests. In 1719, the
hopes of the party were revived by the war with Spain, and their
invasion of Great Britain was quietly planned by the Duke of Ormond, who
hastened to Madrid to hold conferences with Alberoni. Shortly afterwards
the Chevalier was received in that capital, and treated as King of
England. In March, 1719, the ill-fated expedition under the Duke of
Ormond was formed, and a fleet, destined never to reach its appointed
place of rendezvous, sailed from Cadiz.

The enterprise met with the usual fate of all the attempts formed in
favour of the Stuarts. With the exception of two frigates, none of the
ships proceeded farther than Cape Finisterre, where they were disabled
by a storm. These two vessels reached the coast of Scotland, having on
board of them the Earl of Seaforth, the Earl Marischal, the Marquis of
Tullibardine,[48] three hundred Spaniards, and arms for two thousand
men. They landed at the island of Lewes, but found the body of the
Jacobite party resolved not to move until all the forces under Ormond
should be assembled. During this interval of suspense, disputes between
the Marquis of Tullibardine and the Lord Marischal, which should have
the command, produced the usual effects among a divided and factious
party, of checking exertion by diminishing confidence.

--TO [ANONYMOUS], January 21, 1826

Monticello, January 21, 1826.

Dear Sir,
Your favor of January the 15th is received, and I am entirely sensible
of the kindness of the motives which suggested the caution it recommended.
But I believe what I have done is the only thing I could have
done with honor or conscience. Mr. Giles requested me to state a fact
which he knew himself, and of which he knew me to be possessed.

What use he intended to make of it I knew not, nor had I a right to
inquire, or to indicate any suspicion that he would make an unfair
one.
That was his concern, not mine, and his character was sufficient to
sustain the responsibility for it. I knew, too, that if an uncandid
use should be made of it, there would be found those who would so prove
it.

Independent of the terms of intimate friendship on which Mr. Giles and
myself have ever lived together, the world's respect entitled him to
the justice of my testimony to any truth he might call for; and how
that testimony should connect me with whatever he may do or
write hereafter, and with his whole career, as you apprehend, is not
understood by me.
With his personal controversies I have nothing to do.

I never took any part in them, or in those of any other person. Add to
this, that the statement I have given him on the subject of Mr. Adams,
is entirely honorable to him in every sentiment and fact it contains.
There is not a word in it which I would wish to recall. It is one which
Mr. Adams himself might willingly quote, did he need to quote any
thing. It was simply, that during the continuance of the embargo, Mr.
Adams informed me of a combination (without naming any one
concerned in it), which had for its object a severance of the Union,
for a time at least. That Mr.
Adams and myself not being then in the habit of mutual consultation
and confidence, I considered it as the stronger proof of the purity
of his patriotism, which was able to lift him above all party
passions when the safety of his country was endangered.

Nor have I kept this honorable fact to myself. During the late canvass,
particularly, I had more than one occasion to quote it to persons
who were expressing opinions respecting him, of which this was a
direct corrective. I have never entertained for Mr. Adams any but
sentiments of esteem and respect; and if we have not thought alike on
political subjects, I yet never doubted the honesty of his opinions,
of which the letter in question, if published, will be an additional
proof. Still, I recognise your friendship in suggesting a review of
it, and am glad of this, as of every other occasion, of repeating
to you the assurance of my constant attachment and respect.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXCI.--TO JAMES MADISON, February 17,1826

TO JAMES MADISON.

Monticello, February 17,1826.

Dear Sir,
Immediately on seeing the overwhelming vote of the House of
Representatives against giving us another dollar, I rode to the
University and desired Mr. Brockenbrough to engage in nothing new,
to stop every thing on hand which could be done without, and to employ
all his force and funds in finishing the circular room for the
books, and the Anatomical theatre. These cannot be done without; and for
these and all our debts, we have funds enough. But I think it
prudent then to clear the decks thoroughly, to see how we shall stand,
and what we may accomplish further. In the mean time, there have arrived
for us in different ports of the United States, ten boxes of
books, from Paris, seven from London, and from Germany I know not
how many; in all, perhaps, about twenty-five boxes.

Not one of these can be opened until the book-room is completely finished,
and all the shelves ready to receive their charge directly from the
boxes, as they shall be opened.
This cannot be till May. I hear nothing definitive of the three
thousand dollars duty of which we are asking the remission from Congress.
In the selection of our Law Professor, we must be rigorously attentive
to his political principles. You will recollect, that, before the
Revolution, Coke Littleton was the universal elementary book of law
students, and a sounder whig never wrote, nor of profounder learning in
the orthodox doctrines of the British constitution, or in what were
called English liberties. You remember also that our lawyers were
then all whigs. But when his black-letter text, and uncouth but cunning
learning got out of fashion, and the honied Mansfieldism of
Blackstone became the students' hornbook, from that moment, that
profession (the nursery of our Congress) began to slide into toryism,
and nearly all the young brood of lawyers now are of that hue.

They suppose themselves, indeed, to be whigs, because they no longer
know what whigism or republicanism means.
It is in our seminary that that vestal flame is to be kept alive; it is
thence it is to spread anew over our own and the sister States. If
we are true and vigilant in our trust, within a dozen or twenty years a
majority of our own legislature will be from our school, and many
disciples will have carried its doctrines home with them to their several
States, and will have leavened thus the whole mass. New York has taken
strong ground in vindication of the constitution; South Carolina had
already done the same. Although I was against our leading, I am equally
against omitting to follow in the same line, and backing them firmly; and
i hope that yourself or some other will mark out the track to
be pursued by us.

You will have seen in the newspapers some proceedings in the legislature,
which have cost me much mortification. My own debts had become considerable,
but not beyond the effect of some lopping of property, which would
have been little felt, when our friend ---- gave me the coup de
grace. Ever since that I have been paying twelve hundred dollars a year
interest on his debt, which, with my own, was absorbing so much of
my annual income, as that the maintenance of my family was making
deep and rapid inroads on my capital, and had already done it.
Still, sales at a fair price would leave me competently provided. Had
crops and prices for several years been such as to maintain a
steady competition of substantial bidders at market, all would
have been safe.

But the long succession of years of stunted crops, of reduced prices, the
general prostration of the farming business, under levies for the support
of manufacturers, &c, with the calamitous fluctuations of value in our
paper medium, have kept agriculture in a state of abject
depression, which has peopled the western States by silently
breaking up those on the Atlantic, and glutted the land-market, while
it drew off its bidders. In such a state of things, property has lost
its character of being a resource for debts. Highland in Bedford,
which, in the days of our plethory, sold readily for from fifty to one
hundred dollars the acre (and such sales were many then), would not now
sell for more than from ten to twenty dollars, or one quarter or one
fifth of its former price. Reflecting on these things, the practice
occurred to me, of selling, on fair valuation, and by way of
lottery, often resorted to before the Revolution to effect large
sales, and still in constant usage in every State for individual
as well as corporation purposes.

If it is permitted in my case, my lands here alone, with the mills, he,
will pay every thing, and leave me Monticello and a farm free. If
refused, I must sell every thing here, perhaps considerably in Bedford,
move thither with my family, where I have not even a log hut to put my
head into, and whether ground for burial, will depend on the
depredations which, under the form of sales, shall have been
committed on my property. The question then with me was, _Utrum
horum?_ But why afflict you with these details? Indeed, I cannot tell,
unless pains are lessened by communication with a friend. The
friendship which has subsisted between us, now half a century, and the
harmony of our political principles and pursuits, have been sources of
constant happiness to me through that long period.

And if I remove beyond the reach of attentions to the University, or
beyond the bourne of life itself, as I soon must, it is a comfort
to leave that institution under your care, and an assurance that it
will not be wanting. It has also been a great solace to me, to believe
that you are engaged in vindicating to posterity the course we have
pursued for preserving to them, in all their purity, the blessings
of self-government, which we had assisted too in acquiring for them.
If ever the earth has beheld a system of administration conducted with
a single and steadfast eye to the general interest and happiness of
those committed to it, one which, protected by truth, can never know
reproach, it is that to which our lives have been devoted. To myself
you have been a pillar of support through life. Take care of me when
dead, and be assured that I shall leave with you my last affections.

Th: Jefferson.

[The following paper it is deemed proper to insert, as well because of
the explanation it contains of the reasons which led the author to ask
permission of the legislature to sell his property by lottery, as of its
otherwise interesting character.]

THOUGHTS ON LOTTERIES.

It is a common idea that games of chance are immoral. But what is
chance? Nothing happens in this world without a cause. If we
know the cause, we do not call it chance; but if we do not know it,
we say it was produced by chance.

If we see a loaded die turn its lightest side up, we know the cause,
and that it is not an effect of chance; but whatever side an unloaded
die turns up, not knowing the cause, we say it is the effect of chance.
Yet the morality of a thing cannot depend on our knowledge or ignorance
of its cause. Not knowing why a particular side of an unloaded die
turns up, cannot make the act of throwing it, or of betting on it, immoral.
If we consider games of chance immoral, then every pursuit of human
industry is immoral, for there is not a single one that is not subject
to chance; not one wherein you do not risk a loss for the chance of some
gain. The navigator, for example, risks his ship in the hope (if she
is not lost in the voyage) of gaining an advantageous freight. The merchant
risks his cargo to gain a better price for it. A landholder builds a
house on the risk of indemnifying himself by a rent.

The hunter hazards his time and trouble in the hope of killing game. In
all these pursuits, you stake some one thing against another which you
hope to win. But the greatest of all gamblers is the farmer. He risks the
seed he puts into the ground, the rent he pays for the ground itself, the
year's labor on it, and the wear and tear of his cattle and gear, to win
a crop, which the chances of too much or too little rain, and general
uncertainties of weather, insects, waste, &c.
often make a total or partial loss. These, then, are games of chance.
Yet so far from being immoral, they are indispensable to the existence
of man, and every one has a natural right to choose for his pursuit
such one of them as he thinks most likely to furnish him subsistence.
Almost all these pursuits of chance produce something useful to
society.

But there are some which produce nothing, and endanger the well-being
of the individuals engaged in them, or of others depending on them.

Such are games with cards, dice, billiards, &c. And although the pursuit
of them is a matter of natural right, yet society, perceiving the
irresistible bent of some of its members to pursue them, and the ruin
produced by them to the families depending on these individuals,
consider it as a case of insanity, _quoad hoc_, step in to protect the
family and the party himself, as in other cases of insanity, infancy,
imbecility, &c, and suppress the pursuit altogether, and the natural
right of following it. There are some other games of chance, useful
on certain occasions, and injurious only when carried beyond their
useful bounds. Such are insurances, lotteries, raffles, &tc. These
they do not suppress, but take their regulation under their own discretion.
The insurance of ships on voyages is a vocation of chance, yet
useful, and the right to exercise it therefore is left free. So
of houses against fire, doubtful debts, the continuance of a
particular life, and similar cases. Money is wanting for an useful
undertaking, as a school, &c. for which a direct tax would be
disapproved. It is raised therefore by a lottery, wherein the tax
is laid on the willing only, that is to say, on those who can risk the
price of a ticket without sensible injury, for the possibility of a higher
prize. An article of property, insusceptible of division at all, or
not without great diminution of its worth, is sometimes of so large value
as that no purchaser can be found, while the owner owes debts, has no
other means of payment, and his creditors no other chance of obtaining
it, but by its sale at a full and fair price. The lottery is here a
salutary instrument for disposing of it, where many run small risks
for the chance of obtaining a high prize.

In this way, the great estate of the late Colonel Byrd (in 1756)
was made competent to pay his debts, which, had the whole been
brought into the market at once, would have overdone the demand, would
have sold at half or quarter the value, and sacrificed the creditors,
half or three fourths of whom would have lost their debts. This method
of selling was formerly very much resorted to, until it was thought to
nourish too much a spirit of hazard. The legislature Were therefore
induced, not to suppress it altogether, but to take it under their own
special regulation.

This they did, for the first time, by their act of 1769, c.17.,
before which time, every person exercised the right freely; and since
which time, it is made unlawful but when approved and authorized by a
special act of the legislature.

Since then, this right of sale, by way of lottery, has been exercised only
under the discretion of the legislature. Let us examine the
purposes for which they have allowed it in practice, not looking
beyond the date of our independence.

1. It was for a long time an item of the standing revenue of the
State.

1813. c. 1. § 3 An act imposing taxes for the support of government,
and c. 2. § 10.
1814. Dec. c. 1. § 3. 1814. Feb. c. 1. § 3. 1818. c. 1. § 1. 1819.
c. 1.
1820. c. 1.
This then is a declaration by the nation, that an act was not
immoral, of which they were in the habitual use themselves as a
part of the regular means of supporting the government: the tax on
the vender of tickets was their share of the profits, and if their
share was innocent, his could not be criminal.
2. It has been abundantly permitted, to raise money by lottery for
the purposes of schools; and in this, as in many other cases, the
lottery has been permitted to retain a part of the money (generally
from ten to fifteen per cent.) for the use to which the lottery has
been applied.
So that while the adventurers paid one hundred dollars for tickets,
they received back eighty-five or ninety dollars only, in the form
of prizes, the remaining ten or fifteen being the tax levied on
them, with their own consent. Examples are.
1784. c. 34. Authorizing the city of Williamsburg to raise £2000
for a grammar school.

1789. c. 68. For Randolph Academy, £1000.
1789. c. 73. For Fauquier Academy, £500. c. 74. For the Fredericksburg
Academy, £4000.
1790. c. 46. For the Transylvania Seminary, £500. For the Southampton
Academy, £300.

1796. c. 82. For the New London Academy.
1803. c. 49. For the Fredericksburg Charity School. c» 50. For
finishing the Strasburg Seminary. c. 58. For William and Mary
College. c. 62.On attaining the top, a view of the
beautiful little Straith, fertile and wooded, with the river in the
middle, delights the beholder. The stream, after meandering in various
circles, suddenly swells into a lake that fills the vale from side to
side; this lake is about three miles long, and retains the name of the
river.

When Prince Charles visited Blair, it was a fortified house, and capable
of holding out a siege afterwards against his adherents. Its height was
consequently lowered, but the inside has been finished with care by the
ducal owner. The environs of this beautiful place are thus described by
the graphic pen of Pennant,[56] whose description of them, having been
written in 1769, is more likely to apply to the state in which it was
when Prince Charles beheld it, than that of any more modern traveller.

"The Duke of Athoel's estate is very extensive, and the country
populous; while vassalage existed, the chieftain could raise two or
three thousand fighting-men, and leave sufficient at home to take care
of the ground. The forests, or rather chases, (for they are quite
naked,) are very extensive, and feed vast numbers of stags, which range
at certain times of the year in herds of five hundred. Some grow to a
great size. The hunting of these animals was formerly after the manner
of an Eastern monarch. Thousands of vassals surrounded a great tract of
country, and drove the deer to the spot where the chieftains were
stationed, who shot them at their leisure.

"Near the house is a fine walk surrounding a very deep glen, finely
wooded, but in dry weather deficient in water at the bottom; but on the
side of the walk on the rock is a small crystalline fountain, inhabited
at that time by a pair of Naiads, in the form of golden fish.

"In a spruce-fir was a hang-nest of some unknown bird, suspended at the
four corners to the boughs; it was open at top an inch and a half in
diameter, and two deep; the sides and bottom thick, the materials moss,
worsted, and birch-bark, lined with hair and feathers. The stream
affords the parr,[57] a small species of trout seldom exceeding eight
inches in length, marked on the sides with nine large bluish spots, and
on the lateral line with small red ones. No traveller should omit
visiting Yorke Cascade, a magnificent cataract, amidst most suitable
scenery, about a mile distant from the house. This country is very
mountainous, has no natural woods, except of birch; but the vast
plantations that begin to cloath the hills will amply supply these
defects."[58]

With what sensations must the Marquis of Tullibardine have approached
this beautiful and princely territory, from which he had been excluded,
his vassals becoming the vassals of a younger brother, and he a
proscribed and aged man, visiting as an alien the home of his youth!

Sanguine hopes, however, perhaps mitigated the bitterness of the
reflections with which the faithful and disinterested Marquis of
Tullibardine once more found himself within the precincts of his proud
domain.

Several anecdotes are told of Prince Charles at Blair; among others,
"that when the Prince was at the Castle, he went into the garden, and
taking a walk upon the bowling-green, he said he had never seen a
bowling-green before; upon which Mrs. Robertson of Lude called for some
bowls that he might see them, but he told her that he had had a present
of bowls sent him, as a curiosity, to Rome from England."[59]

On the second of September, the Prince left Blair and went to the house
of Lude, where he was very cheerful, and took his share in several
dances, such as minuets and Highland reels; the first reel the Prince
called for was, "This is no' mine ain House;" he afterwards commanded a
Strathspey minuet to be danced.

On the following day, while dining at Dunkeld, some of the company
happened to observe what a thoughtful state his father would now be in
from the consideration of those dangers and difficulties which he had to
encounter, and remarked that upon this account he was much to be pitied,
because his mind must be much upon the rack. The Prince replied, that he
did not half so much pity his father as his brother;[60] "for," (he
said) "the King has been inured to disappointments and distresses, and
has learnt to bear up easily under the misfortunes of life; but, poor
Harry!--his young and tender years make him much to be pitied, for few
brothers love as we do."

On the fourth of September, Prince Charles entered Perth; the Marquis of
Tullibardine, as it appears from several letters addressed to him by
Lord George Murray, who wrote from Perth, remained at Blair, but only,
as it is evident from the following extract from a letter by Lord George
Murray, whilst awaiting the arrangement of active operations. On the
twenty-second of September he received a commission from the Prince,
constituting and appointing him Commander-in-Chief of the forces north
of the Forth; the active duties of the post were, however, fulfilled by
Lord George Murray, who writes in the character of a general:[61]

    "Dear Brother,

    "Things vary so much from time to time, that I can say nothing
    certain as yet, but refer you to the enclosed letter; but depend
    upon having another express from me with you before Monday night.
    But in the meantime you must resolve to be ready to march on Tuesday
    morning, by Keinacan and Tay Bridge, so as to be at Crieff on
    Wednesday, and even that way, if you do your best, you will be half
    a mark behind; but you will be able to make that up on Thursday,
    when I reckon we may meet at Dumblane, or Doun; but of this more
    fully in my next. It is believed for certain, that Cope will embark
    at Aberdeen.

    "I hope the meal was with you this day, thirty-five bolls,--for it
    was at Invar last night. It shall be my study to have more meal with
    you on Monday night, for you must distribute a peck a man; and cost
    what it will, there must be frocks made to each man to contain a
    peck or two for the men to have always with them.

    "Buy linen, yarn, or anything, for these frocks are of absolute
    necessity--nothing can be done without them. His Royal Highness
    desires you to acquaint Glenmoriston and Glenco, if they come your
    way of this intended march, so that they may go by Taybridge (if you
    please, with you), and what meal you can spare let them have. You
    may please tell your own people that there is a project to get arms
    for them. Yours. Adieu.

                                                    "George Murray."

From his age and infirmities, the Marquis was precluded from taking an
active part in the long course of events which succeeded the unfurling
of the standard at Glenfinnin. He appears to have exercised a gentle,
but certain sway over the conduct of others, and especially to have
possessed a control over the high-spirited Lord George Murray, whose
conduct he did not always approve.[62]

Whilst at Blair, the Marquis was saluted as Duke of Athole by all who
entered his house; but the honour was accompanied by some
mortifications. His younger brother, the Duke of Athole, had taken care
to carry away everything that could be conveyed, and to drive off every
animal that could be driven from his territory. The Marquis had
therefore great difficulty in providing even a moderate entertainment
for the Prince; whilst the army, now grown numerous, were almost
starving. "The priests," writes a contemptuous opponent, "never had a
fitter opportunity to proclaim a general fast than the present. No bull
of the Pope's would ever have been more certain of finding a most exact
and punctual obedience."

After the battle of Culloden had sealed the fate of the Jacobites, the
Marquis of Tullibardine was forced, a second time, to seek a place of
refuge. He threw himself, unhappily, upon the mercy of one who little
deserved the confidence which was reposed in his honour, or merited the
privilege of succouring the unfortunate. The following are the
particulars of his fate:--

About three weeks after the battle of Culloden the Marquis of
Tullibardine traversed the moors and mountains through Strathane in
search of a place of safety and repose: he had become a very infirm old
man, and so unfit for travelling on horseback, that he had a saddle made
on purpose, somewhat like a chair, in which he rode in the manner ladies
usually do.

On arriving in the vicinity of Loch Lomond he was quite worn out, and
recollecting that a daughter of the family of Polmain (who were
connected with his own) was married to Buchanan of Drumakiln, who lived
in a detached peninsula, running out into the lake, the fainting
fugitive thought, on these accounts, that the place might be suitable
for a temporary refuge. The Marquis was attended by a French secretary,
two servants of that nation, and two or three Highlanders, who had
guided him through the solitary passes of the mountains. Against the
judgment of these faithful attendants, he bent his course to the Ross,
for so the house of Drumakiln is called, where the Laird of Drumakiln
was living with his son. The Marquis, after alighting, begged to have a
private interview with his cousin, the wife of Drumakiln; he told this
lady he was come to put his life into her hands, and what, in some
sense, he valued more than life, a small casket,[63] which he delivered
to her, intreating her, whatever became of him, that she would keep that
carefully till demanded in his name, as it contained papers of
consequence to the honour and safety of many other persons. Whilst he
was thus talking, the younger Drumakiln rudely broke in upon him, and
snatching away the casket, he said he would secure it in a safe place,
and went out. Meantime the French secretary and the servants were
watchful and alarmed at seeing the father and son walking in earnest
consultation, and observing horses saddled and dispatched with an air
of mystery, whilst every one appeared to regard them with compassion.
All this time the Marquis was treated with seeming kindness; but his
attendants suspected some snare. They burst into loud lamentations, and
were described by some children, who observed them, to be 'greeting and
roaring like women.' This incident the lady of Drumakiln (who was a
person of some capacity) afterwards told her neighbours as a strange
instance of effeminacy in these faithful adherents.

At night the secretary went secretly to his master's bedside, and
assured him there was treachery. The Marquis answered he could believe
no gentleman capable of such baseness, and at any rate he was incapable
of escaping through such defiles as they had passed; he told him in that
case it could only aggravate his sorrow to see him also betrayed; and
advised him to go off immediately, which he did. Early in the morning a
party from Dumbarton, summoned for that purpose, arrived to carry the
Marquis away prisoner. He bore his fate with calm magnanimity. The fine
horses which he brought with him were detained, and he and one attendant
who remained were mounted on some horses belonging to Drumakiln. Such
was the general sentiment of disgust with Drumakiln, that the officer
who commanded the party taunted that gentleman in the bitterest manner,
and the commander of Dumbarton Castle, who treated his noble prisoner
with the utmost respect and compassion, regarded Drumakiln with the
coldest disdain. The following anecdotes of the odium which Drumakiln
incurred, are related by Mrs. Grant.[64]

"Very soon after the Marquis had departed, young Drumakiln mounted the
Marquis's horse, (the servant riding another which had belonged to that
nobleman,) and set out to a visit to his father-in-law Polmaise.

"When he alighted, he gave his horse to a groom who, knowing the Marquis
well, recognised him--'Come in poor beast (said he); times are changed
with you since you carried a noble Marquis, but you shall always be
treated well here for his sake.' Drumakiln ran in to his father-in-law,
complaining that his servant insulted him. Polmaise made no answer, but
turning on his heel, rang the bell for the servant, saying, 'That
gentleman's horses.'

"After this and several other rebuffs the father and son began to shrink
from the infamy attached to this proceeding. There was at that time only
one newspaper published at Edinburgh, conducted by the well-known
Ruddiman; to this person the elder Drumakiln addressed a letter or
paragraph to be inserted in his paper, bearing that on such a day the
Marquis surrendered to him at his house. This was regularly dated at
Ross: very soon after the father and son went together to Edinburgh, and
waiting on the person appointed to make payments for affairs of this
nature, demanded their reward. It should have been before observed,
that the Government were at this time not at all desirous to apprehend
the Marquis, though his name was the first inserted in the proclamation.
This capture indeed greatly embarrassed them, as it would be cruel to
punish, and partial to pardon him. The special officer desired Drumakiln
to return the next day for the money. Meanwhile he sent privately to
Ruddiman and examined him about the paragraph already mentioned. They
found it on his file, in the old Laird's handwriting, and delivered it
to the commissioner. The commissioner delivered the paragraph, in his
own handwriting, up to the elder, saying, '_There_ is an order to the
Treasury, which ought to satisfy you,' and turned away from him with
marked contempt."

"Soon after the younger laird was found dead in his bed, to which he had
retired in usual health. Of five children which he left, it would shock
humanity to relate the wretched lives, and singular, and untimely
deaths, of whom, indeed, it might be said,

    "On all the line a sudden vengeance waits,
    And frequent hearses shall besiege their gates."

And they were literally considered by all the neighbourhood as caitiffs,

               "Whose breasts the furies steel'd
    And curst with hearts unknowing how to yield."--POPE.

The blasting influence of more than dramatic justice, or of corroding
infamy, seemed to reach every branch of this devoted family. After the
extinction of the direct male heirs, a brother, who was a captain in
the army, came home to take possession of the property. He was a person
well-respected in life, and possessed some talent, and much amenity of
manners. The country gentlemen, however, shunned and disliked him, on
account of the existing prejudice. This person, thus shunned and
slighted, seemed to grow desperate, and plunged into the lowest and most
abandoned profligacy. It is needless to enter into a detail of crimes
which are hastening to desired oblivion. It is enough to observe that
the signal miseries of this family have done more to impress the people
of that district with a horror of treachery, and a sense of retributive
justice, than volumes of the most eloquent instruction could effect. On
the dark question relative to temporal judgments it becomes us not to
decide. Yet it is of some consequence, in a moral view, to remark how
much all generous emulation, all hope of future excellence, is quenched
in the human mind by the dreadful blot of imputed infamy."[65]

This account of the retributive justice of public opinion which was
visited upon Drumakiln, is confirmed by other authority.[66] It is
consolatory to reflect that the Marquis of Tullibardine, after a life
spent in an honest devotion to the cause which he believed to be just,
was spared, by a merciful release, from the horrors of a public trial,
and of a condemnation to the scaffold, which age and ill-health were not
sufficient pleas to avert. After remaining some weeks in confinement at
Dumbarton, he was carried to Edinburgh, where he remained until the
thirteenth of May, 1746. He was then put on board the Eltham man-of-war,
lying in the Leith Roads, bound for London. His health all this time was
declining, yet he had the inconvenience of a long sea voyage to sustain,
for the Eltham went north for other prisoners before it sailed for
London. But at length the Marquis reached his last home, the Tower,
where he arrived on the twenty-first of June. He survived only until the
ninth of July.

Little is known of this unfortunate nobleman, except what is honourable,
consistent, and amiable. He had almost ceased to be Scotch, except in
his attachments, and could scarcely write his own language. He seems to
have been generally respected; and he bore his reverses of fortune with
calmness and fortitude. In his last moments he is said to have declared,
that although he had been as much attached to the cause of James Stuart
as any of his adherents, if he might now advise his countrymen, it
should be never more to enter into rebellious measures, for, having
failed in the last attempt, every future one would be hopeless.[68]

The Marquis died in the fifty-eighth year of his age, and was buried in
the chapel in the Tower, which has received few more honest men, or
public characters more true to the principles which they have professed.

The following letter, written in March, 1746, during the siege of Blair
Castle, when it was commanded by a garrison under Sir Andrew Agnew, and
addressed to Lord George Murray, shows the strong sense which the
Marquis entertained of what was due to his country and his cause.

    "Brother George,

    "Since, contrary to the rules of right reason, you was pleased to
    tell me a sham story about the expedition to Blair, without further
    ceremony for me, you may now do what the gentlemen of the country
    think fit with the castle: I am in no concern about it. Our
    great-great-grandfather, grandfather, and father's pictures will be
    an irreparable loss on blowing up the house; but there is no
    comparison to be made with these faint images of our forefathers and
    the more necessary publick service, which requires we should
    sacrifice everything that can valuably contribute towards the
    country's safety, as well as materially advancing the royal cause.
    Pray give my kind service to all valuable friends, to which I can
    add nothing but that, in all events, you may be assured I shall ever
    be found with just regard, dear brother, your most affectionate
    brother and humble servant."

        "Inverness,
     "March 26, 1746."

    "PS. At the upper end of the door of the old stable, there was
    formerly a gate which had a portcullis into the castle; it is half
    built up and boarded over on the stable side, large enough to hold a
    horse at hack and manger. People that don't know the place imagine
    it may be much easier dug through than any other part of the wall,
    so as to make a convenient passage into the vaulted room, which is
    called the servants' hall."

Of the fate of this princely territory, and upon the fortunes of the
family of which the Marquis of Tullibardine was so respectable a member,
much remains to be related; but it appertains more properly to the life
of the warlike and ambitious brother of the Marquis, the celebrated Lord
George Murray.

FOOTNOTES:

[44] Lord Lovat's Memoirs, p. 39.

[45] Wood's Peerage.

[46] Reay, p. 78.

[47] Wood's Peerage.

[48] See Brown's History of the Highlands. But Home, in his History of
the Rebellion, speaks of Lords Tullibardine and Seaforth as coming from
a different quarter. "Most of these persons," he says, "came privately
from France."

[49] Athol Correspondence. Printed for the Abbotsford Club. App. 229.

[50] Home's History of the Rebellion, p. 19.

[51] Home, pp. 22, 23.

[52] Jacobite Memoirs.

[53] Glenfinnin is in the shire of Inverness, and the parish of Glenelg.
It is situated at the head of Loch Shiel.

[54] Jacobite Memoirs, p. 23.

[55] Introductory Notice, Athol Correspondence, p. ix.

[56] Pennant's Scotland, vol. i. p. 118.

[57] It has lately been proved, beyond doubt, that the parr is a young
salmon, not a distinct fish.

[58] Pennant, p. 119.

[59] Jacobite Memoirs, pp. 26, 27.

[60] Henry Benedict, afterwards Cardinal York.

[61] Jacobite Memoirs, p. 31.

[62] See Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 51.

[63] This casket was never more seen. It was supposed to contain family
jewels.

[64] Mrs. Grant's MS. For which I am indebted for the whole of this
account.

[65] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[66] Note in Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 3.

[67] Wood's Peerage.

[68] Athole Correspondence. Introductory Notice.


SIR JOHN MACLEAN.


The name Maclean, abbreviated from Mac Gillean, is derived from the
founder of the clan, "Gillean n'a Tuaidh," Gillean of the Battle-axe, so
called from his carrying with him as his ordinary weapon, a battle-axe.
From this hero are descended the three principal families who compose
the clan Maclean, who was also designated Gillean of Duart.

It is related of Gillean that, being one day engaged in a stag-hunt on
the mountain of Bein't Sheala, and having wandered away from the rest of
his party, the mountain became suddenly enveloped in a deep mist, and
that he lost his track. For three days he wandered about; and, at length
exhausted, threw himself under the shelter of a cranberry bush,
previously fixing the handle of his battle-axe in the earth. He was
discovered by his party, who had been vainly endeavouring to find him,
insensible on the ground, with his arm round the handle of the
battle-axe, whilst the head of the weapon rose above the bush. Hence,
probably, the origin of the crest used by the clan Maclean, the
battle-axe surrounded by a laurel-branch.[69]

To Gillean of the Battle-axe various origins have been ascribed; truly
is it observed, that "there is little wisdom in attempting to thread the
mazes of fanciful and traditionary genealogies."[70] Like other families
of importance, in feudal times, the Macleans had their seneachie, or
historian; and, by the last of these, Dr. John Beaton, the descent, in
regular order, from Aonaglius Turmi Teanebrach, a powerful monarch of
Ireland, to Fergus the First, of Scotland, is traced.

A tradition had indeed prevailed, that the founder, of the house of
Maclean was a son of Fitzgerald, an Earl of Kildare,--a supposition
which is contemptuously rejected by the historian of this ancient race.
"In fact," he remarks, "from various sources, Gillean can be proved to
have been in his grave, long before such a title as Earl of Kildare was
known, and nearly two hundred years before the name of Fitzgerald
existed."[71] It appears, indeed, undoubted, from ancient records and
well-authenticated sources, that the origin of Gillean was derived from
the source which has been stated.

When the lordship of the Isles was forfeited, the clan Maclean was
divided into four branches, each of which held of the Lords of the
Isles; these branches were the Macleans of Duart, the Macleans of
Lochbuy, the Macleans of Coll, and the Macleans of Ardgour. Of these,
the most important branch was the family of Duart, founded by Lachlan
Maclean, surnamed Lubanich. This powerful chief obtained such an
ascendant at the court of the Lord of the Isles, as to provoke the
enmity of the Chief of Mackinnon, who, on the occasion of a stag-hunt,
formed a plot to cut off Lachlan and his brother, Hector Maclean. But
the conspiracy was discovered by its objects; Mackinnon suffered death
at the hands of the two brothers for his design; and the Lord of the
Isles, sailing in his galley towards his Castle of Ardtorinsh in Morven,
was captured, and carried to Icolumb-kill, where he was obliged, sitting
on the famous black rock of Iona, held sacred in those days, to swear
that he would bestow in marriage upon Lachlan Lubanich his daughter
Margaret, granddaughter, by her mother's side, of Robert the Second,
King of Scotland: and with her, as a dowry, to give to the Lord of
Duart, Eriska, with all its isles. The dowry demanded consisted of a
towering rock, commanding an extensive view of the islands by which it
is surrounded, and occupying a central situation among those
tributaries.[72] From the bold and aspiring chief was Sir John Maclean
of Duart descended. The marriage of Lachlan Lubanich with Margaret of
the Isles took place in the year 1366.[73]

Between the time of Lachlan Lubanich and the birth of Sir John Maclean,
the house of Duart encountered various reverses of fortune. It has been
shown how the chief added the rock of Eriska to his possessions; in the
course of the following century, a great part of the Isles of Mull and
Tirey, with detached lands in Isla, Jura, Scarba, and in the districts
of Morven, Lochaber, and Knapdale, were included in the estates of the
chiefs of Duart, who rose, in the time of James the Sixth, to be among
the most powerful of the families of the Hebrides. The principal seats
of the chiefs of the Macleans were Duart and Aros Castles in Mull,
Castle Gillean in Kerrara, on the coast of Lorn, and Ardtornish Castle
in Morven. In 1632, on occasion of the visit of one of the chiefs,
Lachlan, to the Court of Charles the First, he was created a Baronet of
Nova Scotia, by the title of Sir Lachlan Maclean of Morven. But various
circumstances, and more especially the enmity of the Argyle family, and
the adherence of Maclean to the Stuarts, had contributed to the decline
of their pre-eminence before the young chief, whose destiny it was to
make his name known and feared at the court of England, had seen the
light.

The family of Maclean in all its numerous and complicated branches, had
been distinguished for loyalty and independence during the intervening
centuries between the career of Gillean and the birth of that chieftain
whose devotion to the Jacobite cause proved eventually the ruin of the
house of Duart. Throughout the period of the Great Rebellion, and of the
Protectorate, the chief of the Macleans had made immense sacrifices to
support the interests of the King, and to bring his clan into the field.
In the disgraceful transactions, by which it was agreed that Scotland
should withdraw her troops from England upon the payment of four hundred
thousand pounds, in full of all demands, the faithful Highland clans of
the north and west, the Grahams, Macleans, Camerons, and many others,
had no participation. One main actor in that bargain, by which a monarch
was bought and sold, was the Marquis of Argyle, the enemy and terror of
his Highland neighbours, the Macleans of Duart. Upon the suppression of
the royal authority, domestic feuds were ripened into hostilities during
the general anarchy; and few of the oppressed and harassed clans
suffered more severely, or more permanently than the Macleans of Duart.

Archibald, the first Marquis of Argyle, fixed an indelible stain upon
his memory by acts of unbridled licence and aggression, in relation to
his Highland neighbours; the unfortunate Macleans of Duart especially
experienced the effects of his wrath, and suffered from his
manoeuvres.[74]

In the time of Cromwell, Argyle having procured from the Lords of the
Treasury, a grant of the tithes of Argyleshire, with a commission to
collect several arrears of the feu-duty, cesses, taxation, and supply,
and some new contributions laid on the subject by Parliament, under the
names of ammunition and contribution money, the power which such an
authority bestowed, in days when the standard of right was measured by
the amount of force, may readily be conceived. On the part of Argyle,
long-cherished views on the territories of his neighbour, Maclean of
Duart, were now brought into co-operation with the most remorseless
abuse of authority.

Sir Lachlan Maclean of Duart, the great-grandfather of Sir John Maclean,
was then chief of the clan. The Marquis of Argyle directed that
application should be made to this unfortunate man for his quota of
these arrears, and also for some small sums for which he had himself
been security for the chief. Sir Lachlan was in no condition to comply
with this demand; for he had suffered more deeply in the royal cause
than any of his predecessors. During the rule of Argyle and Leslie in
Scotland, a rule which might aptly be denominated a reign of terror, the
possessions of the chief in Mull had been ravaged by the parliamentary
troops, without any resistance from the harmless inhabitants, who had
been instructed by their lord to offer no retaliation that could furnish
a plea for future oppression. The castle of Duart had been besieged, and
surrendered to Argyle and Leslie, upon condition that the defenceless
garrison, and eight Irish gentlemen, inmates of the hospitable
Highlander's home, should be spared. Still more, the infant son of Sir
Lachlan had been kidnapped from his school at Dumbarton by Argyle, and
was paraded by the side of the Marquis to intimidate the chief, who was
made to understand that any resistance from him would be fatal to his
child,--"an instrument," observes the seneachie, "which the coward well
knew might be used with greater effect upon the noble father of his
captive, than all the Campbell swords the craven lord could muster."
Under these circumstances, Sir Lachlan Maclean was neither in the temper
nor the condition to comply with the exactions of those whom he also
regarded as having usurped the sovereign authority. He refused; and his
refusal was exactly what his enemy desired.

The next step which Argyle took was to claim the amount due to him from
the chief, which, by buying up all the debts, public and private, of
Maclean, he swelled to thirty thousand pounds, before a court of law.
Such was the state of Scottish judicial proceedings in those days, that
the process was ended before Sir Lachlan had even heard of its
commencement. He hastened, when informed of it, to Edinburgh, in order
to make known his case before the "Committee of Estates," then acting
with sovereign authority in Scotland. But he was intercepted at
Inverary, cast into prison upon a writ of attachment, issued and signed
by Argyle himself, and immured in Argyle's castle of Carrick, for a debt
due to Archibald, Marquis of Argyle. It was there required of him that
he should grant a bond for fourteen thousand pounds Scots, and sign a
doqueted account for sixteen thousand pounds more, bearing interest.

For a time the unhappy chief refused to sign the bond thus demanded; for
a year he resisted the oppression of his enemy, and bore his
imprisonment, with the aggravation of declining health. At last his
friends, alarmed at his sinking condition, entreated him, as the only
means of release, to comply with the demand of Argyle. Sir Lachlan
signed the document, was set free, and returned to Duart, where he
expired in April, 1649. To his family he bequeathed a legacy of
contention and misfortune.

His successor, Sir Hector Maclean, the young hostage who had been
kidnapped from Dumbarton, was a youth of a warlike and determined
spirit, who resisted the depredations of the plundering clan of
Campbells in Lorn and Ardnamuchan, and, on one occasion, hung up two of
the invaders at his castle of Dunnin Morvern. Such, in spite of this
summary mode of proceeding, were Sir Hector's ideas of honour, that,
notwithstanding his doubts of the validity of the bond obtained from his
father, he conceived that the superscription of his father's name to it
rendered it his duty to comply with its conditions as he could. He is
declared by one authority to have paid ten thousand pounds of the
demand; by another that fact is doubted, since, when Sir John Maclean's
guardians investigated it, no receipts for sums alleged to have been
paid on account were to be found.[75] But this is again accounted for by
the seneachie or family historian.

Sir Hector Maclean fell in the battle of Inverkeithing, where, out of
eight hundred of his clan who fought against General Lambert, only forty
escaped. He was succeeded by his brother Allan, a child, subject to the
management of guardians. By their good care, a great portion of the debt
to Argyle was paid, but there still remained sufficient to afford the
insatiable enemy of his house a fair pretext of aggression. The case was
again brought before the Scottish Council; it was even referred to
Charles the Second; but, by the representations of the Duke of
Lauderdale, the Argyle influence prevailed. The famous Marquis of Argyle
was, indeed, no longer in existence; he had perished on the scaffold:
but his son still grasped at the possessions of his neighbour; and,
although King Charles desired that Lauderdale "should see that Maclean
had justice," the Duke, who was then Scottish Lord Commissioner, on his
return to Scotland, decided that the rents of the estates should be made
payable to Argyle on account of the bond, a certain portion of them
being reserved for the maintenance of the chief.

Sir Allan died a little more than a year after this decision had been
made, ignorant of the decree; and left, to bear the buffeting of the
storm, his son, Sir John Maclean, a child only four years of age, who
succeeded his father in 1677.[76] His estates had been placed under the
care of two of his nearest kinsmen, Lachlan Maclean of Brolas, and
Lachlan Maclean of Torloisk, men of profound judgment and of firm
character, from whose guardianship much was expected by the clan. But
the minor possessed a friend as true as any kinsman could be, and one of
undoubted influence and sagacity, in the celebrated Sir Ewan Cameron of
Lochiel. Against his interest, in despite of Argyle, that brave and
noble man espoused the cause of the weak and of the fatherless,
notwithstanding that he was himself a debtor to Argyle, of whose power
and will to injure he had shortly a proof. Finding that Lochiel was
resolved to protect and assist the young Maclean, the Earl of Argyle[77]
sent to demand from Sir Ewan the payment of the debt he owed, assuring
him that it was his intention to follow out the law with the greatest
rigour. Sir Ewan answered that he had not the money to pay, neither
would he act against his friends. This threat, however, obliged Sir Ewan
to continue in arms, contrary to proclamation, and also to obtain a
protection from the Privy Council in Edinburgh, against the vengeance of
Argyle.

But that which occasioned the greatest vexation to Sir Ewan, was an
opportunity which he conceived that the tutors or guardians of the young
Maclean had lost the power of emancipating their ward from the clutches
of Argyle's power. This, he thought, might have been effected upon the
forfeiture of the Marquis of Argyle to the Crown, when he considered
that an opportunity might have been afforded to Maclean's guardians to
release their ward from Argyle's hands, by a transaction with certain
creditors of that nobleman, to whom the sum claimed by Argyle from
Maclean had been promised, but never paid. Thus, by an unaccountable
oversight, the power of the Argyle family over the fortunes of the
Macleans was continued.

Under these adverse circumstances, Sir John Maclean succeeded to his
inheritance. His principal guardian, although bearing a high reputation
among the clan, was esteemed by Sir Ewan as "a person who seems to have
been absolutely unfitt for manageing his affairs att such a
juncture;"[78] and soon proved to be far too easy and credulous to
contest with the crafty Campbells. Full of compassion for the helpless
infant chief, Sir Ewan now resolved never to abandon the Macleans until
matters were adjusted between them. He passed the winter of the year in
Edinburgh, where he was, at one time, so much incensed against the Earl
of Argyle for his cruelty to the Macleans, and so indignant at his
conduct to himself, that the valiant chief of the Camerons was with
difficulty restrained by his servant from shooting Argyle as he stepped
into his coach to attend the council.[79]

Whilst the counsels of Sir Ewan Cameron prevailed with the guardians,
the Macleans remained merely on the defensive; but when the insinuations
of Lord Macdonald, who had much influence with one of the young heir's
guardians, were listened to, the Macleans were incited to reprisals and
plunder, to which it was at all times no difficult matter to stimulate
Highlanders.

At length the powerful and mortal foe succeeded to his heart's content
in his scheme of oppression. Argyle, in his capacity of Hereditary
Justiciary of the Isles, summoned the clan Maclean to appear and stand
their trials for treasonable convocations, garrisoning their houses and
castles, &c.; the unfortunate clansmen, knowing their enemy to be both
judge and evidence, did not obey. Immediately they were declared rebels
and outlaws, and a commission of fire and sword was issued against them.
All communication between them and the Privy Council, who might have
redressed their wrongs, was cut off: those who happened to fall into the
hands of the Campbells, were cruelly treated; and those who styled
themselves Maclean were blockaded in the Islands, and almost starved for
want of provisions. Reduced in strength by the battle of Inverkeithing,
the clan was but ill-prepared to resist so formidable a foe as Argyle,
whose men, therefore, landed without opposition, the people flying to
their mountains as the enemy approached. The young chief was sent, for
protection, first to the fortified island of Thernburg, and afterwards
to Kintail, under the care of the Earl of Seaforth, who had, not long
previously, acted as a sort of arbitrator in the affairs of the
family.[80]

While Sir John Maclean was thus, probably, unconscious of his wrongs and
dangers, secured from personal injury, the strong old Castle of Duart
was taken possession of by Argyle, who, finding it garrisoned, was
obliged to publish an indemnity, which he had obtained on purpose,
remitting all crimes committed by the Macleans since the eighteenth of
September, 1674, on condition that the castle should be delivered to
him,--a demand with which the islanders were forced to comply. But in
vain did Argyle endeavour to prevail upon the honest and simple clansmen
to renounce their allegiance to their chief, and to become his
vassals.[81] Every species of indignity and of plunder was inflicted
upon these hapless, but faithful Highlanders in vain; a "monster," as he
is termed, "bearing the stamp of human appearance, named Sir Neill
Campbell," in vain chased the poor inhabitants to the hills, and there
exhibited acts of cruelty too shocking to be related. A promise,
however, of payment of rents was at last obtained by Argyle, and he left
the island, after garrisoning the castles. But this tribute was never
paid. The Macleans could neither bear to see the halls of Duart and of
Aros Castle tenanted by their foes, nor would they submit to pay to them
their rents. A league of defence was again formed; letters of fire and
sword were, in consequence, issued; but Argyle was baffled by a
hurricane in his second invasion of Duart. Nature conspired with the
injured in their protection; and, after some time, the guardians of Sir
John Maclean, accompanied by Lord Macdonald, proceeded to London in
order to appeal to the Privy Council. The appeal thus made was prolonged
until the year 1680, when it was at last settled by the Scottish
Council; and the island of Tyrie was given to the Earl of Argyle, in
full payment of his claim upon the estates of Sir John Maclean.

The character of the young chief was, meantime, formed under the
influence of these events, of which, when he grew up, whilst yet the
storm raged, he could not be ignorant. One principle he inherited from
his ancestors--a determined fidelity to the Stuart cause. When he was
fifteen years of age, the death of his guardians threw the management of
his affairs into his own hands; this was in the years 1686 and 1687, one
of the most critical periods in English history. Having appointed
certain gentlemen his agents, or factors, the young chief went,
according to the fashion of his times, to travel. He first repaired to
the Court of England, at that time under the sway of James the Second;
he then crossed to France, and returned not to the British dominions
until he accompanied James into Ireland.

The character of Sir John Maclean, as he attained manhood, and entered
into the active business of life, has been drawn with great felicity by
the author of "The Memoirs of Lochiel."[82]

"He was," says this writer, "of a person and disposition more turned
for the court and the camp, than for the business of a private life.
There was a natural vivacity and politeness in his manner, which he
afterwards much improved by a courtly education; and, as his person was
well-made and gracefull, so he took care to sett it off by all the
ornaments and luxury of dress. He was of a sweet temper, and
good-natured. His witt lively and sparkeling, and his humour pleasant
and facetious. He loved books, and acquired the languages with great
facility, whereby he cultivated and enriched his understanding with all
manner of learning, but especially the belles lettres; add to this, a
natural elegancy of expression, and ane inexhaustible fancy, which, on
all occasions, furnished him with such a copious variety of matter, as
rendered his conversation allways new and entertaining. But with all
these shining qualitys, the natural indolence of his temper, and ane
immoderate love of pleasure, made him unsuiteable to the circumstances
of his family. No persons talked of affairs, private or publick, with a
better grace, or more to the purpose, but he could not prevail with
himself to be att the least trouble in the execution. He seemed to know
everything, and from the smallest hint so penetrated into the
circumstances of other people's buisiness, that he often did great
services by his excellent advice; and he was of a temper so kind and
obligeing, that he was fond of every occasion or doeing good to his
friends, while he neglected many inviteing opportunities of serveing
himself."

The first hostilities between France and England, after the Revolution,
broke out in Ireland, whence it was the design of James the Second to
incite his English and Scottish subjects to his cause. And there was,
apparently, ample grounds for hope; England was rent with factions, Lord
Dundee was raising a civil war in Scotland, and half Europe was in
contention with the other, whether the late King of England should be
supported.

"I will recover my own dominions with my own subjects," was the boast of
James, "or perish in the attempt." Unhappily, like his son, his
magnanimity ended in expressions.

Sir John Maclean accompanied James when he landed, on the twelfth of
March, 1689, in Ireland; after the siege of Derry, the chief returned to
Scotland, accompanied by Sir Alexander Maclean of Otter, and there very
soon showed his determination in favour of the insurrection raised by
Dundee.

Sir John Maclean's first step was to send Maclean of Lochbuy as his
lieutenant with three hundred men to join Dundee. His party encountered
a major of General Mackay's army at Knockbreak in Badenoch; a conflict
ensued, and Mackay's men were put to flight. This was the first blood
that was shed for James the Second in Scotland.

Sir John Maclean soon afterwards joined Dundee in person, leaving his
castle of Duart well defended. This fort, which had witnessed so many
invasions, was besieged during the absence of the chief by Sir George
Rooke, who cannonaded it several days without effect. Its owner,
meantime, had joined Dundee, and was appointed to the command of the
right wing of the army.

At the battle of Killicrankie, Sir John Maclean distinguished himself,
as became the descendant of a brave and loyal race, at the head of his
clan; he probably witnessed the death of Dundee. Few events in Scottish
history could have affected those who followed a General to the field so
severely. Lord Dundee had been foremost on foot during the action; he
was foremost on horseback, when the enemy retreated, in the pursuit. He
pressed on to the mouth of the Pass of Killicrankie to cut off the
escape. In a short time he perceived that he had overrun his men: he
stopped short: he waved his arm in the air to make them hasten their
speed. Conspicuous in his person he was observed; a musket-ball was
aimed at that extended arm; it struck him, and found entrance through an
opening in his armour. The brave General was wounded in the arm-pit. He
rode off the field, desiring that the mischance might not be disclosed,
and fainting, dropped from his horse. As soon as he was revived, he
desired to be raised, and looking towards the field of battle asked how
things went. "Well," was the reply. "Then," he said, "I am well," and
expired.

William the Third understood the merits of his brave opponent. An
express was sent to Edinburgh with an account of the action. "Dundee,"
said the King (and the _soldier_ spoke), "must be dead, or he would
have been at Edinburgh before the express." When urged to send troops to
Scotland, "It is needless," he answered; "the war ended with Dundee's
life." And the observation was just: a peace was soon afterwards
concluded.[83]

Sir John Maclean, nevertheless, continued in arms under the command of
Colonel Cannon, and lost several brave officers by the incapacity of
this commander. After the peace was signed, he returned to live upon his
estates, until Argyle, having procured a commission from William to
reduce the Macleans by fire or sword, invaded the island of Mull with
two thousand five hundred men. Sir John being unprepared to resist him,
after advising his vassals to accept protection from Argyle, again
retired to the island of Thernburg, whence he captured several of King
William's vessels which were going to supply the army in Ireland.[84]

The massacre of Glencoe operated in some respects favourably, after the
tragedy had been completed, upon the circumstances of the Jacobites.
Terrified at the odium incurred, a more lenient spirit was henceforth
shown to them by Government. Many persons were exempted from taking the
oaths, and were allowed to remain in their houses. Early in the year
1792, Sir John Maclean took advantage of this favourable turn of
affairs, and, after obtaining permission through the influence of
Argyle, and placing the castle of Duart under that nobleman's control,
he went to England.

He soon became a favourite at the Court of one who, if we except the
massacre of Glencoe, evinced few dispositions of cruelty to the Scottish
Jacobites. King William is said, nevertheless, to have had a real
antipathy to the Highlanders; and Queen Mary, whose heart turned to the
adherents of her forefathers, was obliged to conceal her partiality for
her Northern subjects. It had appeared, however, on several occasions,
during the absence of her consort, and was now evinced in her good
offices to the chief of the clan Maclean. That the chief was of a
deportment to confirm the kind sentiments thus shown towards him, the
character which has been given of him amply proves.

Sir John Maclean was, as the author of Sir Ewan Cameron's life relates,
"the only person of his party that went to Court, which no doubt
contributed much to his being so particularly observed by the Queen, who
received him most graciously, honoured him frequently with her
conversation, and said many kind and obliging things to him. Sir John on
his part acquitted himself with so much politeness and address, that her
Majesty soon began to esteem him. He took the proper occasions to inform
her of the misfortunes of his family, and artfully insinuated that he
and his predecessors had drawn them all upon themselves by the services
they had rendered to her grandfather, father, and uncle. She answered,
that the antiquity and merit of his family were no strangers to her
ears; and that, though she had taken a resolution never to interpose
betwixt her father's friends and the King her husband, yet, she would
distinguish him so far as to recommend his services to his Majesty by a
letter under her own hand; and that she doubted not but that it would
have some influence, since it was the first favour of that nature which
she had ever demanded."

Sir John is, however, declared by another authority to have declined the
commission thus offered to him. Although he had received King James's
permission to reconcile himself with the Government, he did not, it
appears, choose to bear arms in its defence. Such is the statement of
one historian.[86] By another it is said that "Sir John was much
caressed while he continued in the army,"[87]--a sentence which
certainly seems to imply that he had assented to King William's offer.
At all events, he managed to engage the confidence of the King so far,
that William "not only honoured him with his countenance, but told
Argyle that he must part with Sir John's estate, and that he himself
would be the purchaser."

The nobleman to whom William addressed this injunction was of a very
different temper from his father and grandfather, who had both died on
the scaffold. Archibald, afterwards created by William Duke of Argyle,
had in 1685 become the head of that powerful family; he was of a frank,
noble, and generous disposition. "He loved," says the same writer, "his
pleasures, affected magnificence, and valued money no further than as
it contributed to support the expence which the gallantry of his temper
daily put him to. He several times offered very easy terms to Sir John;
and particularly he made one overture of quitting all his pretentions to
that estate, on condition of submitting to be the Earl's vassall for the
greatest part of it, and paying him two thousand pounds sterling, which
he had then by him in ready money; but the expensive gayety of Sir
John's temper made him unwilling to part with the money, and the name of
a vassall suited as ill with his vanity, which occasioned that and
several other proposals to be refused. However, as the generous Earl was
noways uneasy to part with the estate, so he, with his usewall
frankness, answered King William that his Majesty might always command
him and his fortunes; and that he submitted his claim upon Sir John's
estate, as he did everything else, to his royal pleasure."

A tradition exists in the family, that when Argyle sent messengers with
his proposals to the Castle of Duart, Sir John pushed away the boat, as
it neared the shore, with his own hands. This was worthy the pride of a
Highland chieftain.

To such a height, in short, did William's favour amount, and so far did
he in this instance carry his usual policy of conciliating his enemies
by courtesy and aid, that he ordered Maclean to go as a volunteer in his
service, assuring him that he would see that no harm was done to his
property in his absence. Sir John, previous to his intended departure
from England, went to Scotland to put his affairs in order. On his
return he was told by Queen Mary that there were reports to his
prejudice; he denied them, and satisfied the Queen that all suspicions
of his fidelity were unfounded. Upon the strength of this assurance the
Queen wrote in Maclean's favour to the King, in Holland, whither Sir
John then proceeded to join his Majesty. But this profession of fidelity
to one monarch soon proved to be hollow. Maclean was truly one of the
politicians of the day, swayed by every turn of fortune, and cherishing
a deep regard for his own interest in his heart. To inspire dislike and
distrust wherever he desired to secure allegiance was the lot of
William, of whom it has been bitterly said, that in return for having
delivered three kingdoms from popery and slavery, he was, before having
been a year on the throne, repaid "with faction in one of them, with
rebellion in the other, and with both in the third." How expressive was
the exclamation wrung from him, "that he wished he had never been King
of Scotland." Sir John Maclean was one of those who added another proof
to the King's conviction, "that the flame of party once raised, it was
in vain to expect that truth, justice, or public interest could
extinguish it."[88]

On arriving at Bruges, Maclean heard of the battle of Landau, in which
the French army had proved victorious against the Confederates; and at
the same time a report prevailed that a counter revolution had taken
place in England, and that William was already dethroned. Sir John
changed his course upon this intelligence, and hastened to St. Germains,
where he was, as might be expected, coldly received. He remained there
until the death of William, and then he married the daughter of Sir
Enæas Macpherson of Skye.

Upon the accession of Anne, Sir John took advantage of the general
indemnity offered to those who had gone abroad with James the Second,
and resolved to avail himself of this opportunity of returning home;
but, unluckily, he was detained until a day after the act had specified,
by the confinement of his wife, who was taken ill at Paris, and there,
in November 1703, gave birth to a son, who afterwards succeeded to the
baronetcy. Although there was some risk in proceeding, yet Sir John,
trusting to the Queen's favourable disposition to the Jacobites,
embarked, and with his wife and child reached London. There he was
immediately committed to the Tower, but his imprisonment had a deeper
source than the mere delay of a few weeks. The Queensbury plot at that
time agitated the public, and produced considerable embarrassment in the
counsels of state.[89]

It appears that Sir John Maclean had taken no part in this obscure
transaction which could affect his honour, or impair his chance of
favour from Queen Anne; for, so soon as he was liberated, she bestowed
upon him a pension of five hundred pounds a-year, which he enjoyed
during the remainder of his life.

For some years Sir John Maclean continued to divide his time between
London and the Highlands, where he frequently visited his firm friend
Sir Ewan Cameron of Lochiel, at his Castle of Achnacarry. His estates
had not been materially benefited by the brief sunshine of King
William's favour. Upon finding that Maclean had gone to St. Germains,
that monarch had confirmed to the Duke of Argyle the former grant of the
island of Tyrie, which the successors of the Duke have since
uninterruptedly enjoyed until the present day. Its value was, at the
time of its passing into the hands of the Campbells, about three hundred
pounds sterling per annum.[90] The chief of the clan Maclean was certain
never to escape the suspicions of the Government, after the death of
Anne, during whose reign the Highlanders experienced an unwonted degree
of tranquillity. Upon her demise the whole state of affairs was changed;
and none experienced greater inconveniences from the vigilance of
Government than Sir Ewan Cameron and his friend Maclean. Lochiel, as his
biographer observes, "drank deeply of this bitter cup."[91]

It was during one of Maclean's visits to Achnacarry, when in company
with his now venerable friend, that the Governor of Fort William
attempted to take him and Sir Ewan prisoners, but they made their
escape. During the night of their flight, however, Sir Maclean caught a
severe cold, which ended afterwards fatally.

When the Earl of Mar raised the standard of the Chevalier in Scotland,
Sir John joined him at Achterarder, some days before the battle of
Sherriff Muir. In that engagement the clan Maclean distinguished
themselves, and some of their brave chieftains were killed in the
battle. After the day was over, Sir John retired to Keith, where he
parted from his followers, never to rejoin them. A consumption, incurred
from the cold caught in his escape, was then far advanced. He declined
an offer made to receive him on board the Chevalier's ship, bound for
France, and went to Gordon Castle, where, on the twelfth of March, 1716,
he expired.

Thus ended a life characterized by no ordinary share of vicissitude and
misfortune. If the fate of Sir John Maclean be less tragical than that
of other distinguished Jacobites, it was, it must be acknowledged, one
replete with anxiety and disappointment. He may be said to have been
peculiarly "born to trouble." To our modern notions of honour and
consistency, his conduct in becoming a courtier of William the Third,
appears to betray that unsoundness and hollowness of political principle
which, more or less, was the prevalent moral disease of the period, and
which was attributable to some of the most celebrated men of the day. It
undoubtedly forms an unfavourable contrast to the stern independence of
Sir Ewan Cameron of Lochiel, and of other Highland chieftains, and too
greatly resembles the code of politics adopted by the Earl of Mar. But
those who knew Sir John Maclean intimately, considered him a man of
straightforward integrity; they deemed him above dissimulation, and have
placed his name among those who despised every worldly advantage for the
sake of principle, and who loved the cause which he had espoused for its
own sake. The broken towers of Duart and of Aros, the ruins of those
once proud lords of the soil, attest the sacrifices which they made, and
form a melancholy commentary upon their history.

The castle of Aros, in the Island of Mull, "is interesting," says
Macculloch,[92] "from the picturesque object which it affords to the
artist; the more so, as the country is so devoid of scenes on which his
pencil can be exerted. Still more striking, from its greater magnitude
and more elevated position, is Duart Castle, once the stronghold of the
Macleans, and till lately garrisoned by a detachment from Fort William.
It is fast falling into ruin since it was abandoned as a barrack. When a
few years shall have passed, the almost roofless tenant will surrender
his spacious apartments to the bat and the owl, and seek shelter, like
his neighbours, in the thatched hovel which rises near him. But the
walls, of formidable thickness, may long bid defiance even to the storms
of this region; remaining to mark to future times the barbarous
splendour of the ancient Highland chieftains, and, with the opposite
fortress of Ardtornish, serving to throw a gleam of historical interest
over the passage of the Sound of Mull."

Hitherto Iona had received the last remains of the Lords of Duart; but
Sir John Maclean was not carried to the resting-place of his
forefathers. He was buried in the church of Raffin in Bamffshire, in the
family vault of the Gordons of Buckie. In Iona, that former "light of
the western world," are the tombs of the brave and unfortunate Macleans.
Their bones are interred in the vaults of the cathedral, which, after
coasting the barren rocks of Mull, buffeted by the waves, the traveller
beholds rising out of the sea, "giving," as it is finely expressed, "to
this desolate region an air of civilization, and recalling the
consciousness of that human society which, presenting elsewhere no
visible traces, seems to have abandoned these rocky shores to the
cormorant and the gull." On the tombs of the Highland warriors who
repose within St. Mary's Church in Iona, are sculptured ships, swords,
armorial bearings, appropriate memorials to the island lords, or, as the
Chevalier not inaptly called them, "little kings;" and,
undistinguishable from the graves of the chiefs, are the funereal
allotments of the Kings of Scotland, Iceland, and Norway.[93]

Sir John Maclean left one son and six daughters. His son Hector was born
in France, but brought to Scotland at the age of four, and placed under
the care of his kinsman, Maclean of Coll, where he remained until he was
eighteen years of age; when he repaired to Edinburgh, and in the college
made considerable progress in the usual course of studies in that
institution. After various journeys abroad, chiefly to Paris, Sir Hector
Maclean returned in 1745 to Edinburgh, intending again to lead his
clansmen to the standard of Prince Charles; but a temporary
imprisonment, occasioned by the treachery of a man in whose house he
lodged, prevented his appearance in the field. He was detained in
confinement until released as a subject of the King of France. He died
at Rome in the year 1758, in the forty-seventh year of his age. At his
death the title of Baronet devolved upon Allan of Brolas, great-grandson
of Donald, first Maclean of Brolas, and younger brother of the first
baronet.

Although the chief was thus prevented from following Prince Charles to
the field of Culloden, many of his clan distinguished themselves there;
Charles Maclean of Drimnin appeared at the head of five hundred of the
clan, and his regiment, which was under the command of the Duke of
Perth, was among those that broke forward with drawn swords from the
lines, and routed the left wing of the Duke of Cumberland's army. The
whole of the front line of this gallant regiment was swept away as they
presented themselves before their foes. They were afterwards overpowered
by numbers, and obliged to retire. Their leader, as he retreated,
inquired for one of his sons, who was missing. "I fear," said an
attendant to whom the inquiry was addressed, "that he has fallen." The
fate of the father is well told in these few words,[94] "If he has, it
shall not be for naught," was his reply; and he rushed forward to avenge
him.

Many of the clan fell in the massacre after the battle of Culloden Muir.
Hundreds of the Highlanders who escaped the inhumanity of their
conquerors, died of their wounds or of hunger, in the hills, at twelve
or fourteen miles' distance from the field of battle. "Their misery,"
says a contemporary writer, "was inexpressible." While the cannon was
sounding, and bells were pealing in the capital cities of England and
Ireland, for the united events of the Duke of Cumberland's birth and the
battle of Culloden Moor, fires were seen blazing in Morvern, in which
numerous villages were burned by order of the victorious Cumberland. The
Macleans who came from Mull, seem generally to have escaped; they made
off in one of the long boats for their island, the night after the
engagement, and were fortunate enough to carry with them a cargo of
brandy and some money.[95]

A calmer, though less interesting career has, since 1745, been the fate
of the chiefs of the clan Maclean.[96] Sir Allan, respected and
beloved, became a colonel in the British army. He retired eventually to
the sacred Isle of Inch Kenneth, in Mull, where he exercised the
hospitality characteristic, in ancient times, of the Lords of Duart. Dr.
Johnson has handed down the memory of the venerable chief, not only in a
few descriptive pages of a Tour to the Hebrides, but in a Latin poem,
translated by Sir Daniel Sandford.[97] In the lines he refers to Sir
Allan in these terms.

    "O'er glassy tides I thither flew,
    The wonders of the spot to view;
    In lowly cottage great Maclean
    Held there his high ancestral reign."[98]

Sir Allan Maclean died in 1783: he was succeeded by his nearest male
relation, Sir Hector Maclean, of the family of Brolas. The brother of
Sir Hector, Sir Fitzroy Grafton Maclean, a distinguished officer, and
formerly Governor of the island of St. Thomas, is now chief of the clan
Maclean. Two sons continue the line. Of these, the eldest, Colonel
Charles Fitzroy Maclean, has chosen, like his father, the profession of
arms. He commands the eighty-first foot: and has, by his marriage with
a daughter of the Hon. and Rev. Dr. Marsham, an heir to the ancestral
honours of the house. The youngest son of Sir Fitzroy Maclean is Donald
Maclean, of Witton Castle, Durham, the member for Oxford, married to
Harriet, daughter of General Frederick Maitland, a descendant of the
Duke of Lauderdale, whose former injustice to the clan Maclean has been
noticed in this work. It is remarkable, that the same fidelity, the same
loyalty, that sacrificed every possession to the cause of James Stuart,
has been, since the extinction of that cause, worthily employed, with
distinguished talent and success, in the service of Government. Such
instances are not uncommon in the history of the Jacobites.

FOOTNOTES:

[69] Historical and Genealogical Account of the Clan Maclean, by a
Seneachie.

[70] Brown's Highlands.

[71] Historical Account of the Clan Maclean, p. 4.

[72] "Eriska is interesting as having been the first place where Charles
Edward landed in Scotland. It is the boundary of Ottervore toward the
north, and is separated from South Uist by a narrow rocky sound. Upon a
detached and high rock at its southern end are to be seen the remains of
a square tower, the abode of some ancient chieftain."--_Macculloch_,
vol. i. p. 87.

[73] Hist. Account.

[74] Memoirs of Lochiel, p. 193. This account is preferable to that
given by the historian of the house of Maclean, as it is of course a
more dispassionate statement, although the facts stated are nearly the
same. See Hist. and Gen. Acct. pp. 140, 141.

[75] Memoir of Lochiel, p. 194.

[76] According to the Memoirs of Lochiel, it appears that Sir Allan must
have died in 1673 or 1674; since the author speaks, in 1674, of the
"late Sir Allan."

[77] Archibald, ninth Earl, was only restored to the Earldom.

[78] Memoirs of Lochiel, p. 196.

[79] Id. p. 198.

[80] Mem. of Lochiel, p. 195. Hist. Acct. of the Clan, p. 174.

[81] Memoirs of Lochiel.

[82] Supposed to be John Drummond of Balhaldy.

[83] Dalrymple's Memorials, p. 358.

[84] Hist. Acct. p. 198.

[85] Memoirs of Lochiel, p. 326.

[86] Hist. Account of the Maclean Family, p. 198.

[87] Memoirs of Lochiel, p. 326.

[88] Dalrymple, p. 383.

[89] Dalrymple's Memorials. See Collection of Original Papers, p. 31.
Sir John Maclean's Discovery, Part II. p. 4.

[90] Mem. of Locheil, p. 352.

[91] Id. p. 204.

[92] Macculloch's Western Islands of Scotland, vol. i. p. 535.

[93] Macculloch, vol. i. p. 13.

[94] Hist. Notices of the Macleans, p. 206.

[95] Hist. of the Rebellion, p. 199. From the Scots' Magazine. Aberdeen,
1745.

[96] An accomplished descendant of the Macleans of Lochbuy, Miss Moss,
of Edinburgh, has left a beautiful tribute to the valour of her clan in
a ballad of the forty-five. The following passage occurs in Dr. Brown's
History of the Highlands, vol. iv. part II. p. 493, relative to the
Macleans of Lochbuy, Coll, and Ardgour:--"Their estates being afterwards
restored, they listened to the persuasions of Professor Forbes, and
remained quiet until the subsequent insurrection of 1745, when a general
rising of the clans would most probably have placed the crown upon the
head of the descendant of their ancient line of kings." This reproach
rests only on the three houses just mentioned, and not on the Macleans
of Brolas, nor of Mull, who were at the battle of Culloden.

For a portion of the materials of the foregoing narrative I am greatly
indebted to the Historical and Genealogical Account of the Clan Maclean,
by a Seneachie. The work is compiled chiefly from the Duart Manuscripts.

[97] Hist. Notices, p. 209.

[98] See History of Iona by Lachlan Maclean, Esq., Glasgow.


ROB ROY MACGREGOR CAMPBELL.


"The Clan Gregiour," according to an anonymous writer of the seventeenth
century, "is a race of men so utterly infamous for thieving,
depredation, and murder, that after many Acts of the Council of Scotland
against them, at length in the reign of King Charles the First, the
Parliament made a strict Act suppressing the very name." Upon the
Restoration, when, as the same writer declares, "the reins were given to
all licentiousness, and loyalty, as it was called, was thought
sufficient to compound for all wickedness, the Act was rescinded. But,
upon the late happy Revolution, when the nation began to recover her
senses, some horrid barbarities having been committed by that execrable
crew, under the leading of one Robert Roy Macgregiour, yet living, the
Parliament under King William and Queen Mary annulled the said Act
rescissory, and revived the former penal statute against them."[99]

Such is the summary account of one who is evidently adverse to the
political creed, no less than to the daring violence, of the clan
Macgregor. Little can, it is true, be offered in palliation for the
extraordinary career of spoliation and outrage which the history of
this race of Highlanders presents; and which terminated only with the
existence of the clan itself.

The clan Gregor, anciently known by the name of clan Albin, dated their
origin from the ninth century, and assumed to be the descendants of King
Alpin, who flourished in the year 787: so great is its antiquity, that
an old chronicle asserts, speaking of the clan Macarthur, "that none are
older than that clan, except the hills, the rivers, and the clan Albin."

Among the conflicts which for centuries rendered the Highlands the
theatre of perpetual strife, the clan Albin, or, as in process of time
it was called, the clan Gregor, was marked as the most turbulent members
of the state. It was never safe to dispute with them, and was deemed
idle to inquire whether the lands which they occupied were theirs by
legal titles, or by the right of the sword. Situate on the confines of
Scotland, and protected by the inaccessible mountains which surrounded
them, they could defy even their most powerful neighbours, who were
always desirous of conciliating allies so dangerous in times of peace,
so prompt in war. The boundaries which they occupied stretched along the
wilds of the Trosaëhs and Balquhidder, to the northern and western
heights of Mannach and Glenurely, comprehending portions of the counties
of Argyle, Perth, Dumbarton, and Stirling, which regions obtained the
name of the country of the Mac Gregors. A part of these domains being
held by the _coir à glaive_, or right of the sword, exposed the clan
Gregor to the enmity of their formidable neighbours, the Earls of Argyle
and Breadalbane, who, obtaining royal grants of such lands, lost no
opportunity of annoying and despoiling their neighbours, under legal
pretexts. Hence many of the contests which procured for the Macgregors a
character of ferocity, and brought upon them 'letters of fire and
sword.' A commission was granted first in the reign of Queen Mary, in
1563, to the most powerful clansmen and nobles, to pursue, and
exterminate the clan Gregor, and prohibiting, at the same time, that her
Majesty's liege subjects should receive or assist any of the clan, or
give them meat, drink, or clothes. The effect which such an edict was
likely to produce upon a bold, determined, desperate people may readily
be conceived. Hitherto the clan Gregor had been a loyal clan. From the
house of Alpin had descended the royal family of Stewart, with whom the
Macgregors claimed kindred, bearing upon their shields, in Gaelic, the
words, 'My tribe is royal.' They had been also in favour with the early
Scottish monarchs, one of whom had ennobled the Macgregors of Glenurely,
who could cope with the most elevated families in Scotland, in
possessions and importance. But, after the edict of Mary, a palpable
decline in the fortunes of the clan Gregor was manifest, until it was
for ever extinguished in modern days. Henceforth the Macgregors
exhibited a contempt for those laws which had never afforded them
protection. They became, in consequence of the cruel proclamation
against them, dependent for subsistence upon their system of predatory
warfare. They grew accustomed to bloodshed, and could easily be
'_hounded out_,' as Sir Walter Scott expresses it, to commit deeds of
violence. Hence they were incessantly engaged in desperate feuds, in
which the vengeance of an injured and persecuted people was poured out
mercilessly upon the defenceless. Hence they became objects of hatred to
the community, until the famous contest of Glenfruin, between the
Macgregors and the Colquhouns of Luss, brought once more the royal
displeasure upon them in the reign of James the Sixth.

The sequestered valley, which obtained, from the memorable and tragical
events of the combat, the name of the Glen of Sorrow, is situated about
six miles from Loch Lomond, and is watered by the river Fruin which
empties itself into that lake. In the spring of the year 1603, Alexander
of Glenstrae, chief of the Macgregors, went from the country of Lennox
to Balquhidder, for the express purpose of conciliating the feuds which
subsisted between his brother and Sir Humphrey Colquhoun of Luss. After
a conference, apparently pacific, but well understood by the Macgregors
to augur no friendly intentions, the assembled members of that clan
prepared to return to their homes. They were followed by the Laird of
Luss, who was resolved to surprise them on their route. But his
treachery was secretly known by those whom he pursued.

The right bank of Loch Lomond is so steep and woody that before the
formation of roads, the Highlanders found it impossible to pass that
way. The way to Argyleshire, therefore, ran along the vale of Fruin in a
circuitous direction to the head of Loch Long, and again turned eastward
towards Loch Lomond. In the middle of the glen the Macgregors, who were
peacefully returning home, were attacked by the Colquhouns. The
assailants were four to one; but the valour of the Macgregors prevailed,
and two hundred Colquhouns were left dead on the field. The very name of
Colquhoun was nearly annihilated. The account of the battle was
transmitted by the Laird of Luss to James the Sixth, at Edinburgh; and
the message was accompanied by two hundred and twenty shirts, stained
with blood, which were presented to the King by sixty women, widows of
those slain in the Glen of Sorrow. These ladies rode on white poneys,
and carried in their hands long poles, on which were extended the
stained garments. But the shirts, it is said, were soiled by the way,
and the widows were hireling mourners, who comforted themselves with the
loved beverages of their country on their return, and were in many
instances obliged to be carried to their homes.[100]

The indignation of James the Sixth, unmitigated by any friendly
representations on behalf of the Macgregors, burst forth fatally for
the clan. The Macgregors were formally outlawed by Act of Parliament;
they were pursued with blood-hounds, and when seized, were put to death
without trial. Their chief, the unfortunate Alexander of Glenstrae
surrendered to his enemy the Earl of Argyle, with eighteen of his
followers, on condition that he might be taken safely out of Scotland.
But the severity of Government stopped not here. The very name of Gregor
was blotted out, by an order in Council, from the names of Scotland.
Those who had hitherto borne it were commanded to change it under pain
of death, and were forbidden to retain the appellations which they had
been accustomed from their infancy to cherish. Those who had been at
Glenfruin were also deprived of their weapons, excepting a pointless
knife to cut their victuals. They were never to assemble in any number
exceeding four; and by an Act of Parliament passed in 1617, these laws
were extended to the rising generation, lest as the children of the
proscribed parents grew up, the strength of the clan should be restored.

For these severe acts, the only apology that can be offered is the
unbridled fury and cruelty of the Macgregors, when irritated; of which
it is necessary to mention one instance, as an example of the many left
on record, of which the clan were convicted.

In the battle of Glenfruin, which James had visited so rigorously upon
the Macgregors, the greater part of those who bore the name of Colquhoun
were exterminated. Yet a still more savage act was perpetrated after
the day was won.

The town of Dumbarton contained, at that time, a seminary famous for
learning, where many of the Colquhouns, as well as the sons of the
neighbouring gentry, were sent for education. Upon hearing of the
encounter at Glenfruin, eighty of these high-spirited boys set off to
join their relatives; but the Colquhouns, anxious for the safety of
their young kinsfolk, would not permit them to join in the fight, but
locked them up in a barn for safety. Here they remained, until the event
of the day left the Macgregors masters of what might well be called "the
Glen of Sorrow." The boys, growing impatient for their release, became
noisy; when the Macgregors, discovering their hiding-place, and
thirsting for vengeance, set fire to the barn, and the young inmates
were consumed. According to another account, they were all put to the
sword by one of the guard, a Macgregor, whose distinctive appellation
was Ciar Mohr, "the mouse-coloured man." When the chief of the
Macgregor's clan repaired to the barn, and, knowing that the boys were
the sons of gentlemen, was desirous of ensuring their safety, he asked
their guards where they were. When told of what had occurred, Macgregor
broke out into the exclamation, that "his clan was ruined." The sad
event was commemorated, until the year 1757, by an annual procession of
the Dumbarton youths, to a field at some distance from their school,
where they enacted the melancholy ceremonial of a mock funeral, over
which they set up a loud lamentation. The site of the farm where this
scene was enacted is still pointed out; and near it runs a rivulet, the
Gaelic name of which signifies "the burn of the young ghosts:" so deep
was the memory of this horrible deed.[101]

A fearful retribution followed the clan for years. They had no friend at
Court to plead their cause; and the most cruel hardships became the lot
of the innocent, as well as the guilty, of their clan. The country was
filled with troops ready to destroy them, so that all who were able,
were forced to fly to rocks, caverns, and to hide themselves among the
woods. Few of the Macgregors, at this period of the Scottish history,
were permitted to die a natural death.

As an inducement to the murder of these wretched people, a reward was
offered for every head of a Macgregor that was conveyed to the Privy
Council at Edinburgh. Those who died a natural death were buried in
silence and secrecy by their kinsfolk, for the graves of the persecuted
clan were not respected; the bodies of the dead being exhumed, and the
heads cut off, to be sent to the Council. Never has there been, in the
history of mankind, a more signal instance of national odium than that
which pursued this brave, though violent race. The spirit in which they
were denounced has in it little of the character of justice, and reminds
us of the vengeance of the Jewish people upon the different hostile
tribes to whom they were opposed.

In process of time, the last remnant of the lands pertaining to the
Macgregors was bestowed upon Archibald, seventh Earl of Argyle, whose
family had profited largely by the destruction of the clan: for every
Macgregor whom they had destroyed, they had received a reward. In 1611,
the Earl was commanded to root out this thievish and barbarous race; a
commission which he executed remorselessly, dragging the parents to
death, and leaving their offspring to misery and to revenge; for the
deep consciousness of their wrongs grew up with the young, and prepared
them for deeds of violence and vengeance.

Notwithstanding the severities of the Stuarts towards the Macgregors,
the loyalty of the clan continued unimpeachable. It was appreciated by
one who is not celebrated for remembering benefits. Charles the Second
had, in 1663, the grace to remove the proscription from the Macgregors,
by an Act which was passed in the first Scottish Parliament after his
Restoration. He permitted them the use of their family name, and other
privileges of his liege subjects, assigning as a reason for this act of
favour, that the loyalty and affection of those who were once called
Macgregors, during the late troubles, might justly wipe off all former
reproach from their clan. This act of grace, according to the anonymous
writer quoted in the commencement of this memoir, was to be accounted
for by the prevalent licentiousness of that monarch's reign. It gave,
indeed, but little satisfaction to the nonconforming Presbyterians, who
saw with resentment that the penalties unjustly imposed upon themselves
were relaxed in favour of the Macgregors. But this dissatisfaction was
of short duration. After the Revolution, "an influence," says Sir Walter
Scott, "inimical to this unfortunate clan, said to be the same with that
which afterwards dictated the massacre of Glencoe, occasioned the
reaction of the penal statutes against the Macgregors."[102] It is,
however, consolatory to find that the proscription was not acted upon
during the reign of William. The name of Macgregor was again heard in
public halls, in parliament, and courts of justice. Still, however,
whilst the statutes remained, it could not legally be borne. Attempts
were made to restore the appellation of clan Alb, but nothing was
decided; when, at length, all necessity for such an alteration was done
away by an Act of Parliament abolishing forever the penal statutes
against the clan.

Whilst the Macgregors were still a proscribed race, Robert Macgregor
Campbell, or Robert Roy, so called among his kindred, in the adoption of
a Celtic phrase, expressive of his ruddy complexion and red hair,
appeared as their champion. At the time of his birth, to bear the name
of Macgregor was felony; and the descendant of King Alpin adopted the
maiden name of his mother, a daughter of Campbell of Fanieagle, in order
to escape the penalty of disobedience. His father, Donald Macgregor of
Glengyle, was a lieutenant-colonel in the King's service: his ancestry
was deduced from Ciar Mohr, "the mouse-coloured man," who had slain the
young students at the battle of Glenfruin.

After the death of Allaster Macgregor of Glenstrae, the last chieftain,
the office of chief had ceased to be held by any representative of the
scattered remnant of this hunted tribe. Various families had ranged
themselves under the guidance of chieftains, which, among Highlanders,
signifies the head of a branch of a tribe, in contradistinction to that
of chief, who is the leader of the whole name.[103] The chieftain of
Glengyle lived in the mountainous region between Loch Lomond and Loch
Katrine; his right to his territories there might or might not be legal;
it was far more convenient to his neighbours to waive the question with
any member of this fierce race, than to inquire too rigidly into the
tenure by which the lands were held.

Rob Roy, though he deduced his origin from a younger son of the Laird of
Macgregor, was one of a family who had, within the preceding century,
been of humble fortunes. His great-grandfather had been a cotter; from
his grandfather he inherited the generous temper and the daring spirit
which, more or less, characterized the clan. Callum, or Malcolm, had
been outlawed for an attempt to carry off an heiress, but obtained his
pardon for saving the life of his enemy, the Duke of Argyle. The date of
Rob Roy's birth is uncertain, but is supposed to have taken place about
the middle of the seventeenth century; consequently, after the period
when his clan had endured every variety of fortune, from the cruel
edicts of James the Sixth to the consolatory acts of Charles the Second.

The education of this extraordinary man was limited; and he is said not
to have exhibited in his youth any striking traits of the intrepidity
which distinguished him in after life. But he was endowed with a
vigorous intellect, and with an enthusiasm which had been deepened by
the peculiar circumstances of his clan and kinsfolk. It is impossible to
comprehend the character of Rob Roy, unless we look into the history of
his race, as we have briefly done, and consider how strong must have
been the impressions which hereditary feuds, and wrongs visited upon
father and child, had made upon a mind of no common order.

His youth was occupied in acquiring the rude accomplishments of the age.
In the management of the broadsword the ardent and daring boy soon
acquired proficiency; his frame was robust and muscular, and his arm of
unusual length. At an early age he is said by tradition to have tried
his powers in a predatory excursion, of which he was the leader. This
was in the year 1691, and it was called the herdship, or devastation of
Kippen, in the Lennox. No lives were sacrificed, but the marauding
system was carried to its extent.

The young Macgregor was educated in the Presbyterian faith. "He was
not," says his biographer,[104] "free from those superstitious notions
so prevalent in his country; and, although few men possessed more
strength of mind in resisting the operation of false and gloomy tenets,
he was sometimes led away from the principles he had adopted, to a
belief in supernatural appearances." Nor was it likely that it should be
otherwise; for the wildest dreams of fancy were cherished in the
seclusion of the region, then inconceivably retired and remote, in which
Rob Roy is said to have passed days in silent admiration of Nature in
her grandest aspects; for the man who afterwards appeared so stern and
rugged to his enemies, was accessible to the tenderest feelings, and to
the most generous sympathies.[105]

Although his father had succeeded in military life, Rob Roy was destined
to a far more humble occupation. The discrepancy between the Scottish
pride of ancestry and the lowly tracks which are occasionally chalked
out for persons of the loftiest pretensions to origin, is manifest in
the destination of Rob Roy. He became a dealer in cattle. It was, it is
true, the custom for landed proprietors, as well as their tenantry, to
deal in the trade of grazing and selling cattle. In those days, no
Lowlanders, nor any English drovers, had the audacity to enter the
Highlands.

"The cattle," says Sir Walter Scott, "which were the staple commodity of
the mountains, were escorted down to fairs, on the borders of the
Lowlands, by a party of Highlanders, with their arms rattling round
them; and who dealt, however, in all faith and honour with their
southern customers." After describing the nature of the affrays which
were the result of such collision, Sir Walter remarks, "A slash or two,
or a broken head, was easily accommodated, and as the trade was of
benefit to both parties, trifling skirmishes were not allowed to
interrupt its harmony."

For some time, the speculations in which Rob Roy engaged were
profitable; he took a tract of land in Balquhidder for the purpose of
grazing, and his success soon raised him in the estimation of the
county. But his cattle were often carried away by hordes of big robbers
from Inverness, Ross, and Sutherland, and he was obliged, in defence, to
maintain a party of men to repel these incursions. Hence the warlike
tastes which were afterwards more fully displayed.

The death of his father placed Rob Roy in an important situation in his
county; he became, moreover, guardian to his nephew, Gregor of Macgregor
of Glengyle,--a position which gave him great influence with the clan.
He had now become the proprietor of Craig Royston; but his ordinary
dwelling was at Inversnaid, from which place he took his appellation,
Macgregor of Inversnaid. These estates were of considerable extent, but
of small value: they extended from the head of Loch Lomond twelve miles
along its eastern border, and stretched into the interior of the
country, partly around the base of Ben Lomond. From these estates Rob
Roy assumed sometimes the title of Craig Royston, sometimes that of
Baron of Inversnaid,--a term long applied in Scotland to puisne
lairds.[106]

The influence of an energetic and powerful mind was now plainly
exhibited in the celebrity which Rob Roy soon acquired in the
neighbouring counties. The Macgregors had a peculiar constitution in
their clanship, which rendered them compact and formidable as a body. In
all the forays so common at that period, Rob Roy took little or no part;
yet the terror of his name caused him to receive all the credit of much
that occurred in the vicinity.

Three great noblemen, bitter enemies, sought his alliance; of these one
was James the first Duke of Montrose, and Archibald tenth Earl of
Argyle, who were opposed to each other not only in political opinions,
but from personal dislike. Montrose deemed it essential to conciliate
Rob Roy as a matter of speculation, and entered into a sort of
partnership with the far-famed drover in the buying and selling of
cattle, of which Rob Roy was considered an excellent judge. Argyle, on
the other hand, was conscious of the injuries which his ancestors had
inflicted on the Macgregors, and was inclined to befriend Rob Roy from
compassion, and a sense of justice. The Earl was also flattered by the
Laird's having assumed the name of Campbell, which he regarded as a
compliment to himself. But the overtures of Argyle were at first
spurned by Rob Roy, whose alliance with the Marquis of Montrose
increased his hatred of Argyle. He was afterwards won over to more
moderate sentiments, and a lasting friendship was eventually formed
between him and Argyle.

The friendship and patronage of Montrose were secure until money
transactions, the usual source of alienations and bickerings, produced
distrust on the one hand, and bitterness on the other. Montrose had
advanced Rob Roy certain sums to carry on his speculations: they were
successful until the defalcation of a third and inferior partner
prevented Rob Roy from repaying the Marquis the money due to him. He was
required to give up his lands to satisfy the demands upon him. For a
time he refused, but ultimately he was compelled by a law-suit to
mortgage his estates to Montrose with an understanding that they were to
be restored to him whenever he could pay the money. Some time afterwards
he made an attempt to recover his estate by the payment of his debts;
but he was at first amused by excuses, and afterwards deprived of his
property. Such is the simple statement of his partial biographer; but
Sir Walter Scott gives the story a darker colouring. In his preface to
Rob Roy he mentions that Rob Roy absconded, taking with him the sum of
one thousand pounds which he had obtained from different gentlemen in
Scotland for the purpose of buying cattle. In 1712 an advertisement to
that effect was put into the daily papers repeatedly; but the active
Highlander was beyond the reach of law. To this period we must assign a
total change in the habits and characteristics of Rob Roy, who now began
a lawless and marauding course of life. He went up into the Highlands
where he was followed by one whose character has been variously
represented--Mary Macgregor of Comar, his wife. According to one
account, she was by no means the masculine and cruel being whom Scott
has so powerfully described; yet, from several traits, it is obvious
that she was one of the most determined of her sex, and that her natural
boldness of spirit was exaggerated by an insult which was never
forgiven, either by herself or by her husband. This was the forcible
expulsion of herself and her family from their home at Inversnaid by
Graham of Killearn, one of Montrose's agents; and the cruel act was
accompanied by circumstances which nothing but death could blot from the
memory of the outraged and injured Macgregor. The loss of property was
nothing when compared with that one galling recollection.

The kind and once honourable Rob Roy was now driven to desperation. His
natural capacity for warlike affairs had been improved in the collection
of the black mail, or protection fees; a service of danger, in which
many a bloody conflict with freebooters had shown the Macgregors of what
materials their leader was composed. The black mail was a private
contribution, often compulsatory, for the maintenance of the famous
black watch, an independent corps of provincial militia, and so called
from the colour of their dress, in contradistinction to the red
soldiers, or _leidar dearag_. "From the time they were first embodied,"
writes General Stewart, "till they were regimented, the Highlanders
continued to wear the dress of their country. This, as it consisted so
much of the black, green, and blue tartan, gave them a dark and sombre
appearance in comparison with the bright uniform of the regulars, who,
at that time, had coats waistcoats, and breeches of scarlet cloth. Hence
the term _dhu_, or black, as applied to this corps."[107]

In collecting both the imposts laid on for the maintenance of this
corps, and in enforcing the black mail, Rob Roy had already gained the
confidence of the better classes, whilst, by his exploits, he had taught
the freebooter to tremble at his name. His journeys to England had not,
either, been unprofitable to him in gaining friends. By a strict regard
to his word, a true Highland quality, he had gained confidence; whilst
his open and engaging demeanour had procured him friends.

Soon after his expulsion from his property, Rob Roy travelled into
England to collect a sum of money which was due to him. On returning
through Moffat, his generous indignation was aroused by seeing the
penalty of the law inflicted upon a young girl for fanaticism: two of
her kinsmen had already suffered. As a party of soldiers were preparing
to carry the girl, bound hand and foot, to a river, Rob Roy interposed;
and, receiving an insolent reply, he sprang upon the soldiers and in an
instant released the young woman, by plunging eight of her guards into
the water. He then drew his claymore, and cut the cords which bound the
intended victim. A short skirmish left him master of the field.

Rob Roy now prepared to remove from his dwelling at Inversnaid, into one
more remote, and protected by its natural position. This was Craig
Royston, or, as it is sometimes spelt, Craigrostan, whither Rob Roy
removed his furniture and other effects. A tract, entitled "The Highland
Rogue," published during the lifetime of Rob Roy, contains a striking
description of this almost inaccessible retreat. It is situated on the
borders of Loch Lomond, and is surrounded with stupendous rocks and
mountains. The passages along these heights are so narrow, that two men
cannot walk abreast; "It is a place," adds the same writer, "of such
strength and safety, that one person well acquainted with it, and
supplied with ammunition, might easily destroy a considerable army if
they came to attack him, and he, at the same time, need not so much as
be seen by them." For this romantic scene, Rob Roy quitted Inversnaid;
henceforth his occupation as a grazier and drover, and his character as
a country gentleman, were lost in that of a freebooter. Many anecdotes
have been related of his feats in the dangerous course which he
henceforth adopted: but of these, some are so extraordinary, as to be
incredible; others are perfectly consistent with the daring spirit of a
man who had vowed to avenge his wrongs.

The Duke of Montrose was the first object of his wrath; accordingly,
hearing that the tenantry of the Duke had notice to pay their rents, he
mustered his men, and visiting these gentlemen, compelled them to pay
him the money, giving them, nevertheless receipts, which discharged them
of any future call from Montrose. This practice he carried on with
impunity for several years, until a more flagrant outrage drew down the
anger of his enemy.

This was no less than the abduction of the Duke's factor, Killearn, who
had formerly expelled the family of Rob Roy from Inversnaid. Killearn
had gone to Chapellaroch in Stirlingshire, for the purpose of collecting
rents; he anticipated, on this occasion, no interruption to his office,
because Rob Roy had caused it to be given out, by proclamation, some
days before, that he had gone to Ireland. Towards evening, nevertheless,
he made his appearance before the inn at Chapellaroch, his piper playing
before him; his followers were stationed in a neighbouring wood. The
rents had just been collected, when the sound of the bagpipes announced
to Killearn the approach of his enemy. The factor sprang up, and threw
the bags, full of money, into a loft. Rob Roy entered, with the usual
salutations, laid down his sword, and sat down to partake of the
entertainment. No sooner was the repast ended, than he desired his piper
to strike up a tune. In a few minutes, by this signal, six armed men
entered the room; when Rob Roy, taking hold of his sword, asked the
factor, "How he had prospered in his collection of the rents?" "I have
got nothing yet," replied the trembling Killearn; "I have not begun to
collect." "No, no, Chamberlain," cried Rob Roy, "falsehood will not do
for me. I demand your book." The book was produced, the money was found
and delivered to Rob Roy, who gave his usual receipt. After this, the
unfortunate factor was carried off to an island near the east of Loch
Katrine, where he was confined a considerable time; and when he was
released, was warned not to collect the rents of the country in future,
as Rob Roy intended to do so himself,--the more especially as the lands
had originally belonged to the Macgregors, and he was, therefore, only
reclaiming his own.[108]

This predatory war against the Duke of Montrose was carried on for a
considerable time. It was favoured by the nature of the country over
which the freebooter ruled triumphant, and by the secret good wishes of
the Highlanders who resided in the neighbourhood. No roads were at that
time formed in this region of singular beauty. Narrow valleys, thinly
inhabited, and surrounded by forests and wilds, and guarded by rocks,
passes, and other features of natural strength, afforded to Rob Roy all
those advantages which he, who knew every defence which Nature gave to
marauders in those retired haunts, could well appreciate.

The habits of the Highlanders were also, at this time, essentially
warlike. "The use of arms," to borrow a description from an anonymous
writer, "formed their common occupation, and the affairs of war their
ordinary pursuit. They appeared on all public occasions, at market, and
even at church, with their broadswords and their dirks; and, more
recently, when the use of fire-arms became general, they seldom
travelled without a musket and pistol." The clan Macgregor possessed
these military tastes in an inordinate degree; and the wars of the
foregoing century had accustomed them to a degree of union and
discipline not, at that period, common among the Highlanders, who were
considered, in those respects, as superior to their Lowland
brethren.[109] The vicinity of the rich districts of the Lowlands gave a
rich stimulus to the appetite for plunder natural to a martial and
impoverished people. Above all, their energies were inspired by an
undying sense of ancient and present injuries, and the remembrance of
their sufferings was never erased from their minds. At this time, the
most disturbed districts in Scotland were those nearest to the Lowlands;
the bitterness of political feelings was added to the sense of
injustice, and the loss of lands. Rob Roy knew well how to avail himself
of this additional incentive to violence; he avowed his determination to
molest all who were not of Jacobite principles; and he put that
resolution into active practice.

The character of the individual who exercised so singular a control over
his followers, and over the district in which he lived, had changed
since his early, dreamy days, or since the period of his honest
exertions as a drover. Rob Roy had become in repute with Robin Hood of
the Lowlands. His personal appearance added greatly to the impression of
his singular qualities. The author of "the Highland Rogue" describes him
as a man of prodigious strength, and of such uncommon stature as to
approach almost to a gigantic size. He wore a beard above a foot long,
and his face as well as his body was covered with dark red hair, from
which his nick-name originated. The description given by Sir Walter
Scott does not entirely correspond with this portraiture. "His stature,"
says that writer, "was not of the tallest, but his person was uncommonly
strong and compact." The great peculiarity of his frame was the great
length of his arms, owing to which he could, without stooping, tie the
garters of his Highland hose, which are placed two inches below the
knee. His countenance was sternly expressive in the hour of peril; but,
at calmer moments, it wore that frank and kindly aspect which wins upon
the affections of our species. His frame was so muscular, that his knee
was described as resembling that of a Highland bull, evincing strength
similar to that animal. His exercise of the broadsword was, even in
those days, superlative; and his intimate knowledge of the wild country
over which he may be said to have ruled, gave him as great an advantage
as his personal prowess. To these qualifications may be added another,
perhaps more important still,--that quick perception of character, and
that penetration into human motives, without which no mind can obtain a
mastery over another.

To these characteristics were added a fearless and generous spirit, a
hatred of oppression, and compassion for the oppressed. Although
descended from the dark murderer of the young students, Rob Roy had none
of the ferocity of his race in his composition. He was never the cause
of unnecessary bloodshed, nor the contriver of any act of cruel revenge.
"Like Robin Hood," says Scott, "he was a kind and gentle robber, and
while he took from the rich, he was liberal to the poor. This might in
part be policy, but the universal tradition of the country speaks it to
have arisen from a better motive. All whom I have conversed with, and I
have in my youth seen some who knew Rob Roy personally, gave him the
character of a benevolent, humane man, in his way."

That "way" was certainly not followed out on the most approved
principles of morality, and he is well described as resembling in his
code of morals an "Arab chief." But if ever man may be excused for a
predatory course of life, the chieftain, as he was now called, of the
Macgregors may be pardoned for actions which, in those who had suffered
less from wrong and oppression, would be deemed unpardonable.

The revival of that latent affection for the Stuarts which ever existed
in the Highlands, greatly favoured the success of Rob Roy in his
unsettled and exciting career. Many of the chieftains were now arraying
their people to follow them to the field upon a summons from their
rightful Prince; and even the Duke of Argyle, who had at first attached
himself to the Prince of Orange, was wavering in his resolutions, never
having been restored to his property and jurisdiction since the
attainder and death of his father. Under these circumstances the
assistance of Rob Roy became of infinite importance to Argyle. The most
deadly feuds raged between him and Montrose, who, upon hearing that Roy
was on friendly terms with Argyle, had sent to offer to the freebooter
not only that he would withdraw his claims on his estate, but also that
he would give him a sum of money if he would go to Edinburgh and give
information against Argyle for treasonable practices. But this base
overture was indignantly rejected by Rob Roy, who deigned not even to
reply to the letter, but contented himself with forwarding it to Argyle.
Hence the bitter enmity of Montrose towards the Macgregors, during the
whole course of his future life.[110]

From this time Rob Roy kept no measures with his enemies, and his
incursions were so frequent and so dreaded, that in 1713 a garrison was
established at Inversnaid to check the irruptions of his party. But Rob
Roy was too subtle and too powerful for his enemies. He bribed an old
woman of his clan, who lived within the garrison, to distribute whiskey
to the soldiers. Whilst they were in a state of intoxication, he set
fire to the fort. He was suspected of this outrage, but still it passed
with impunity, for no one dared to attack him; the affair was passed
over in silence, and the Government re-established the fort of
Inversnaid.

Numbers of the desperate and vagrant part of his clansmen now crowded
around Rob Roy at Craig Royston, and swore obedience to him as their
chieftain. The country was kept in continual awe by these marauders, who
broke into houses and carried off the inmates to Craig Royston, there to
remain until heavy ransoms were paid. Their chieftain, meantime, laughed
at justice, and defied even the great Montrose. He had spies in every
direction, who brought him intelligence of all that was going on. No
person could travel near the abode of this mountain bandit without risk
of being captured and carried to Craig Royston. In many instances the
treatment of the prisoners is said to have been harsh; in some it was
tempered by the relentings of Rob Roy. On one occasion, having seized
upon a gentleman whose means had been reduced by great losses, he not
only set him at liberty, but gave him money to pay his travelling
expenses, and sent him in one of his own boats as far as he could travel
by water.

The incursions of this Scottish Robin Hood were contrived with the
utmost caution and secrecy, and executed with almost incredible
rapidity. No one knew when he would appear, nor in what direction he
would turn his dreaded attention. He is even said to have threatened the
Duke of Montrose in his own residence at Buchanan. His enterprises were,
however, not always contrived for a serious end, but sometimes partook
of the love of a practical joke, which is a feature in the Scottish
character.

"The Highland Rogue" gives the following account of one of his
exploits:--[111]

"Rob Roy's creditors now grew almost past hopes of recovering their
money. They offered a large reward to any that should attempt it
successfully; but not an officer could be found who was willing to run
such a hazard of his life; till at length a bailiff, who had no small
opinion of his own courage and conduct, undertook the affair.

"Having provided a good horse and equipt himself for the journey, he set
out without any attendance, and in a few hours arrived at Craigroiston,
where, meeting with some of Rob Roy's men, he told them he had business
of great importance to deliver to their master in private. Rob Roy
having notice of it, ordered them to give him admittance. As soon as he
came in, the Captain demanded his business. 'Sir,' (says the other)
'tho' you have had misfortunes in the world, yet knowing you to be in
your nature an honourable gentleman, I made bold to visit you upon
account of a small debt, which I don't doubt but you will discharge if
it lies in your power.' Hawkins of Frankford, near Philadelphia, who
is now in England, turning it to good account. Knowing that you are
in the habit of writing much, I have flattered myself that I could add
acceptably to your daily convenience by presenting you with one of these
delightful machines. I have accordingly had one made, and to be certain
of its perfection I have used it myself some weeks, and have the
satisfaction to find it the best one I have ever tried; and in the
course of two years' daily use of them, I have had opportunities
of trying several.

As a secretary, which copies for us what we write without the power
of revealing it, I find it a most precious possession to a man in
public-business. I enclose directions for unpacking and using the machine
when you receive it; but the machine itself must await a special
and sure conveyance under the care of some person going to Paris. It
is ready packed, and shall go by the first proper conveyance.

As we heard two or three weeks ago of the safe arrival of the Hornet
at L'Orient, we are anxiously waiting to learn from you the first
impressions on her mission. If you can succeed in procuring us
Florida, and a good western boundary, it will fill the American mind with
joy.
It will secure to our fellow-citizens one of their most ardent wishes, a
long peace with Spain and France. For be assured, the object of war with
them and alliance with England, which, at the last session of Congress,
drew off from the republican band about half a dozen of its members,
is universally reprobated by our native citizens from north to south. I
have never seen the nation stand more firm to its principles, or rally
so firmly to its constituted authorities, and in reprobation of the
opposition to them. With England, I think we shall cut off the resource
of impressing our seamen to fight her battles, and establish the
inviolability of our flag in its commerce with her enemies.

We shall thus become what we sincerely wish to be, honestly neutral, and
truly useful to both belligerents. To the one, by keeping open a market
for the consumption of her manufactures, while they are excluded from
all the countries under the power of her enemy; to the other, by
securing for her a safe carriage of all her productions, metropolitan
or colonial, while her own means are restrained by her enemy, and may,
therefore, be employed in other useful pursuits. We are certainly more
useful friends to France and Spain as neutrals, than as allies. I
hope they will be sensible of it, and by a wise removal of all
grounds of future misunderstanding to another age, enable you to
present us such an arrangement, as will insure to our fellow-citizens
long and permanent peace and friendship with them.

With respect to our western boundary, your instructions will be your
guide. I will only add, as a comment to them, that we are attached
to the retaining the Bay of St. Bernard, because it was the first
establishment of the unfortunate La Sale, was the cradle of Louisiana,
and more incontestibly covered and conveyed to us by France, under that
name, than any other spot in the country. This will be secured to us
by taking for our western boundary the Guadaloupe, and from its head
around the sources of all waters eastward of it, to the highlands embracing
the waters running into the Mississippi.
However, all these things I presume will be settled before you receive
this; and I hope so settled as to give peace and satisfaction to us
all.

Our crops of wheat are greater than have ever been known, and are now
nearly secured. A caterpillar gave for a while great alarm, but did
little injury. Of tobacco, not half a crop has been planted for want of
rain; and even this half, with cotton and Indian corn, has yet many chances
to run.

This summer will place our harbors in a situation to maintain peace and
order within them. The next, or certainly the one following that, will
so provide them with gunboats and common batteries, as to be _hors
d'insulte_. Although our prospect is peace, our policy and purpose is
to provide for defence by all those means to which our resources
are competent.

I salute you with friendship, and assure you of my high respect
and consideration.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXXVI.--TO W. A. BURWELL, September 17, 1806

TO W. A. BURWELL.

Monticello, September 17, 1806.

Dear Sir,
Yours of August the 7th, from Liberty, never got to my hands till the 9th
instant. About the same time, I received the Enquirer in which Decius
was so judiciously answered.

The writer of that paper observed, that the matter of Decius consisted,
first of facts; secondly, of inferences from these facts: that he
was not well enough informed to affirm or deny his facts, and he therefore
examines his inferences, and in a very masterly manner shows that even
were his facts true, the reasonable inferences from them are very
different from those drawn by Decius. But his facts are far from
truth, and should be corrected. It happened that Mr. Madison and General
Dearborn were here when I received your letter. I therefore,
with them, took up Decius and read him deliberately; and our memories
aided one another in correcting his bold and unauthorized assertions.
I shall note the most material of them in the order of the paper.
1.

It is grossly false that our ministers, as is said in a note, had proposed
to surrender our claims to compensation for Spanish spoliations, or
even for French. Their instructions were to make no treaty in which
Spanish spoliations were not provided for; and although they were
permitted to be silent as to French spoliations carried into Spanish
ports, they were not expressly to abandon even them. 2. It is
not true that our ministers, in agreeing to establish the Colorado as
our western boundary, had been obliged to exceed the authority of
their instructions. Although we considered our title good as far as the
Rio Bravo, yet in proportion to what they could obtain east of the
Mississippi, they were to relinquish to the westward, and successive
sacrifices were marked out, of which even the Colorado was not the
last.
3. It is not true that the Louisiana treaty was antedated, lest Great
Britain should consider our supplying her enemies with money as a breach
of neutrality. After the very words of the treaty were finally agreed
to, it took some time, perhaps some days, to make out all the copies in
the very splendid manner of Bonaparte's treaties. Whether the 30th of
April, 1803, the date expressed, was the day of the actual compact,
or that on which it was signed, our memories do not enable us to
say.

If the former, then it is strictly conformable to the day of the compact;
if the latter, then it was postdated, instead of being antedated. The
motive assigned, too, is as incorrect as the fact. It was so far from
being thought, by any party, a breach of neutrality, that the
British minister congratulated Mr. King on the acquisition, and
declared that the King had learned it with great pleasure: and
when Baring, the British banker, asked leave of the minister to
purchase the debt and furnish the money to France, the minister
declared to him, that so far from throwing obstacles in the way,
if there were any difficulty in the payment of the money, it was
the interest of Great Britain to aid it.
4.

He speaks of a double set of opinions and principles; the one ostensible,
to go on the journals and before the public, the other efficient, and
the real motives to action. But where are these double opinions and
principles? The executive informed the legislature of the wrongs of
Spain, and that preparation should be made to repel them, by force,
if necessary. But as it might still be possible to negotiate a settlement,
they asked such means as might enable them to meet the negotiation,
whatever form it might take. The first part of this system was
communicated publicly, the second, privately; but both were equally
official, equally involved the responsibility of the executive, and were
equally to go on the journals. 5. That the purchase of the Floridas was
in direct opposition to the views of the executive, as expressed in the
President's official communication. It was not in opposition even to
the public part of the communication, which did not recommend war,
but only to be prepared for it. It perfectly harmonized with the private
part, which asked the means of negotiation in such terms as covered the
purchase of Florida as evidently as it was proper to speak it out. He
speaks of secret communications between the executive and members,
of backstairs influence, &tc..

But he never spoke of this while he and Mr. Nicholson enjoyed it almost
solely. But when he differed from the executive in a leading measure,
and the executive, not submitting to him, expressed their sentiments
to others, the very sentiments (to wit, for the purchase of Florida),
which he acknowledges they expressed to him, then he roars out upon
backstairs influence. 6. The committee, he says, forbore to
recommend offensive measures. Is this true? Did not they recommend the
raising ------- regiments? Besides, if it was proper for the committee
to forbear recommending offensive measures, was it not proper for the
executive and legislature to exercise the same forbearance? 7. He says
Monroe's letter had a most important bearing on our Spanish relations.
Monroe's letter related, almost entirely, to our British relations.
Of those with Spain he knew nothing particular since he left that
country. Accordingly, in his letter he simply expressed an opinion on
our affairs with Spain, of which he knew we had better information than
he could possess.

His opinion was no more than that of any other sensible man; and his
letter was proper to be communicated with the English papers, and with
them only. That the executive did not hold it up on account of any
bearing on Spanish affairs, is evident from the fact, that it was
communicated when the Senate had not yet entered on the Spanish affairs,
and had not yet received the papers relating to them from the other
House. The moment the Representatives were ready to enter on the
British affairs, Monroe's letter, which peculiarly related to them, and
was official solely as to them, was communicated to both Houses,
the Senate being then about entering on the Spanish affairs.
***** 
These, my dear Sir, are the principal facts worth correction.

Make any use of them you think best, without letting your source
of information be known. Can you send me some cones or seeds of the
cucumber-tree?
Accept affectionate salutations, and assurances of great esteem and
respect.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXXVII.--TO ALBERT GALLATIN, October 12, 1806
TO ALBERT GALLATIN.

Washington, October 12, 1806.

Dear Sir,
You witnessed, in the earlier part of the administration, the malignant
and long continued efforts which the federalists exerted in their
newspapers, to produce misunderstanding between Mr. Madison and
myself.
These failed completely. A like attempt was afterwards made, through other
channels, to effect a similar purpose between General Dearborn and
myself, but with no more success.

The machinations of the last session to put you at cross questions with
us all, were so obvious as to be seen at the first glance of every eye.
In order to destroy one member of the administration, the whole
were to be set to loggerheads to destroy one another. I observe in the
papers lately, new attempts to revive this stale artifice, and that
they squint more directly towards you and myself. I cannot, therefore,
be satisfied, till I declare to you explicitly, that my affections and
confidence in you are nothing impaired, and that they cannot be
impaired by means so unworthy the notice of candid and honorable minds.
I make the declaration, that no doubts or jealousies, which often
beget the facts they fear, may find a moment's harbor in either of
our minds.

I have so much reliance on the superior good sense and candor of all those
associated with me, as to be satisfied they will not suffer either friend
or foe to sow tares among us. Our administration now drawing towards
a close, I have a sublime pleasure in believing it will be distinguished
as much by having placed itself above all the passions which could
disturb its harmony, as by the great operations by which it will
have advanced the well-being of the nation.

Accept my affectionate salutations, and assurances of my constant and
unalterable respect and attachment.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXXVIII.--TO JOHN DICKINSON, January 13, 1807

TO JOHN DICKINSON.

Washington, January 13, 1807.

My Dear and Ancient Friend,
I have duly received your favor of the 1st instant, and am ever
thankful for communications which may guide me in the duties which I
wish to perform as well as I am able. It is but too true, that great
discontents exist in the territory of Orleans. Those of the French
inhabitants have for their sources, 1. the prohibition of importing
slaves. This may be partly removed by Congress permitting them to receive
slaves from the other States, which, by dividing that evil, would lessen
its danger. 2.
The administration of justice in our forms, principles, and language,
with all of which they are unacquainted, and are the more abhorrent,
because of the enormous expense, greatly exaggerated by the corruption
of bankrupt and greedy lawyers, who have gone there from the United
States and engrossed the practice. 3. The call on them by the land
commissioners to produce the titles of their lands.

The object of this is really to record and secure their rights. But as
many of them hold on rights so ancient that the title papers are lost,
they expect the land is to be taken from them wherever they cannot
produce a regular deduction of title in writing. In this they will be
undeceived by the final result, which will evince to them a liberal
disposition of the government towards them. Among the American inhabitants
it is the old division of federalists and republicans. The former, are
as hostile there as they are every where, and are the most numerous and
wealthy.
They have been long endeavoring to batter down the Governor, who has
always been a firm republican. There were characters superior to him,
whom I wished to appoint, but they refused the office: I know no
better man who would accept of it, and it would not be right to turn him
out for one not better. But it is the second cause, above mentioned,
which is deep seated and permanent. The French members of the legislature,
being the majority in both Houses, lately passed an act, declaring
that the civil, or French laws, should be the laws of their land, and
enumerated about fifty folio volumes, in Latin, as the depositories
of these laws.

The Governor negatived the act. One of the Houses thereupon passed
a vote for self-dissolution of the legislature as a useless body,
which failed in the other House by a single vote only. They
separated, however, and have disseminated all the discontent they could.
I propose to the members of Congress in conversation, the enlisting thirty
thousand volunteers, Americans by birth, to be carried at the public
expense, and settled immediately on a bounty of one hundred and sixty
acres of land each, on the west side of the Mississippi, on the condition
of giving two years of military service, if that country should be
attacked within seven years. The defence of the country would thus
be placed on the spot, and the additional number would entitle the
territory to become a State, would make the majority American, and
make it an American instead of a French State.

This would not sweeten the pill to the French; but in making that
acquisition we had some view to our own good as well as theirs, and
I believe the greatest good of both will be promoted by whatever will
amalgamate us together.

I have tired you, my friend, with a long letter. But your tedium will end
in a few lines more. Mine has yet two years to endure. I
am tired of an office where I can do no more good than many others, who
would be glad to be employed in it. To myself, personally, it brings
nothing but unceasing drudgery, and daily loss of friends. Every office
becoming vacant, every appointment made, _me donne un ingrat, et cent
ennemis_.
My only consolation is in the belief, that my fellow-citizens at large
give me credit for good intentions. I will certainly endeavor to
merit the continuance of that good will which follows well intended
actions, and their approbation will be the dearest reward I can
carry into retirement.
God bless you, my excellent friend, and give you yet many healthy
and happy years.

Th: Jefferson.
LETTER XXXIX,--TO WILSON C. NICHOLAS, February 28,1807
TO WILSON C. NICHOLAS.

Washington, February 28,1807.
Dear Sir,
Your letter of January the 20th was received in due time. But such
has been the constant pressure of business, that it has been out
of my power to answer it. Indeed, the subjects of it would be almost
beyond the extent of a letter, and as I hope to see you ere long
at Monticello, it can then be more effectually done verbally. Let
me observe, however, generally, that it is impossible for my friends
ever to render me so acceptable a favor, as by communicating to me,
without reserve, facts and opinions. I have none of that sort of
self-love which winces at it; indeed, both self-love and the desire
to do what is best strongly invite unreserved communication. There
is one subject which will not admit a delay till I see you. Mr. T.
M. Randolph is, I believe, determined to retire from Congress, and
it is strongly his wish, and that of all here, that you should take
his place. Never did the calls of patriotism more loudly assail you
than at this moment. After excepting the federalists, who will be
twenty-seven, and the little band of schismatics, who will be three
or four (all tongue), the residue of the House of Representatives
is as well disposed a body of men as I ever saw collected. But there
is no one whose talents and standing, taken together, have weight
enough to give him the lead. The consequence is, that there is no
one who will undertake to do the public business, and it remains
undone. Were you here, the whole would rally round you in an instant,
and willingly co-operate in whatever is for the public good.
Nor would it require you to undertake drudgery in the House. There
are enough, able and willing to do that. A rallying point is all
that is wanting. Let me beseech you then to offer yourself.Here they indulged
themselves in their usual marauding practices, "carrying off deer,
slaughtering cows, and other depredations." Soon afterwards they all
hurried away to the Earl of Mar's encampment at Perth; here they did not
long remain, but returned to Loch Lomond on the tenth of October.[114]

They now mustered their forces. Such was the terror of their name, that
both parties appear to have been afraid of the Macgregors, and to think
"it would be their wisdom to part peaceably with them, because, if they
should make any resistance, and shed the blood of so much as one
Macgregiour, they would set no bounds to their fury, but burn and slay
without mercy." This was the opinion held by some; by others resistance
was thought the more discreet as well as the more honourable part. A
body of volunteers was brought from Paisley, and it was resolved, if
possible, to retake the boats captured by the Macgregors, who could now
make a descent wherever they pleased. A singular spectacle was beheld on
the bosom of Loch Lomond: four pinnaces and seven boats, which had been
drawn by the strength of horses up the river Levin, which, next to the
Spey, is the most rapid stream in Scotland, were beheld, their sails
spread, cleaving the dark waters which reflected in their mirror a sight
of armed men, who were marching along the side of the loch, in order to
scour the coast. Never had anything been seen of the kind on Loch Lomond
before. "The men on the shore," writes an eyewitness, "marched with the
greatest ardour and alacrity. The pinnaces on the water discharging
their patararoes, and the men their small arms, made so very dreadful a
noise thro' the multiply'd rebounding echoes of the vast mountains on
both sides the loch, that perhaps there never was a more lively
resemblance of thunder." This little fleet was joined in the evening by
the enemy of the Macgregors, Sir Humphrey Colquhoun of Luss, followed by
"fourty or fifty stately fellows, in their short hose and belted plaids,
armed each of 'em with a well-fixed gun on his shoulder." At Luss a
report prevailed that the Macgregors were reinforced by Macdonald of
Glengarry, and had amounted to fifteen hundred strong: but this proved
to be an idle rumour; their numbers were only four hundred.

This falsehood did not dishearten the men of Paisley. "They knew," says
the chronicler of their feats, "that the Macgregiours and the devil are
to be dealt with after the same way; and that if they be resisted, they
will flee."

On the following morning the party from Paisley went on their
expedition, and arrived at Inversnaid. Here, in order to "arouse those
thieves and rebels from their dens," they fired a gun through the roof
of a house on the declivity of a mountain; upon which an old woman or
two came crawling out, and scrambled up the hill; but no other persons
appeared. "Whereupon," adds the narrator,[115] "the Paisley men, under
the command of Captain Finlason, assisted by Captain Scot, a half-pay
officer, of late a lieutenant of Colonel Kerr's regiment of dragoons,
who is indeed an officer, wise, stout, and honest; the Dumbarton men,
under the command of David Colquhoun and James Duncanson, of Garshark,
magistrates of the burgh, with several of the other companies, to the
number of an hundred men in all, with the greatest intrepidity leapt on
shore, got up to the top of the mountain, and drew up in order, and
stood about an hour, their drums beating all the while: but no enemie
appearing, they thereupon went in quest of the boats which the rebels
had seized; and having casually lighted on some ropes, anchors, and oars
hid among the shrubs, at length they found the boats drawn up a good
way on the land, which they hurled down to the loch. Such of them as
were not damaged, they carried off with them; and such as were, they
sunk or hewed in pieces. And that same night they return'd to Luss, and
thence next day, without the loss or hurt of so much as one man, to
Dumbarton, whence they had first set out altogether, bringing along with
them the whole boats they found in their way on either side the loch,
and in creeks of the isles, and moored them under the cannon of the
castle. And thus in a short time, and with little expense, the
M'Greigours were towed, and a way pointed how the Government might
easily keep them in awe."

The historian remarks, as a good augury, that a violent storm had raged
for three days before. In the morning, notwithstanding this much
magnified triumph on the part of his enemies, neither Rob Roy nor his
followers were in the least daunted, but went about "proclaiming the
Pretender," and carrying off plunder. "Yesternight,[116] about seven,"
writes the same historian, "we had ane accountt from one of our
townsmen, who had been five miles in the country, in the paroch of
Baldernock, that three or four hundred of the clans, forerunners of the
body coming, had at Drummen, near Dunkeld, proclaimed the Pretender; but
no accountt to us from these places, nor from Sterling. Our magistrates
sent fitt men at eight yesternight for information, and can hardly
return till afternoon, if they have access to the three garrisons, of
which they are I hear ordered to goe to to-day. I hear by report,
without sufficient authority, that it's the M'Grigors come with a party,
proclaimed the Pretender, tore the exciseman's book, and went away.

                                                              H. E."

       *       *       *       *       *

In a letter from Leslie, dated the twentieth of January, 1716, it is
stated that the country did not oppose the incursions of Rob Roy, being
mostly in his interest, or indifferent. Emboldened by this passive
conduct, Rob Roy marched to Falkland on the fourth of January, 1716, and
took possession of the palace for a garrison. He afterwards joined the
Earl of Mar's forces at Perth, yet, whether from indolence or caution,
took but little share in the signal events of the day. He hovered
sometimes in the Lowlands, uncertain whether to proclaim peace, or to
embark with his Macgregors in the war: some said he declined fighting
under Lord Mar, from the fear of offending the Duke of Argyle; at all
events he had the wiliness to make the belligerent powers each conceive
him as of their respective parties.

At the battle of Sherriff Muir, Macgregor had the address to make both
the Jacobites and Hanoverians conceive, that, had he joined them, the
glory of the day would have been secured.

The inhabitants of Leslie, who had heard, with dismay, the news of the
burning of Auchterarder and Blackford, were now affrighted by a rumour
that Rob Roy had a commission to burn Leslie, and all between that place
and Perth. But, whilst the burgesses of Leslie were daily looking for
this dreaded event, Rob Roy was forced to retreat to Dundee, by the
approach of the King's troops. He left behind him a character of
reckless rapacity, and of a determined will, notwithstanding some
generous and humane actions. He was, nevertheless, esteemed to be among
the fairest and discreetest of the party to whom he was attached,
notwithstanding his favourite speech, "that he desired no better
breakfast than to see a Whig's house burning." The people could not,
indeed, trust any man's assurances after the recent and cruel
devastation at Auchterarder.

When the fortune of the battle was decided, he was heard to say, in
answer to demands that he should send his forces to the attack, "If they
cannot do it without me, they cannot do it with me," and he immediately
left the field. Such is the popular account of his conduct on that
occasion.

The partizans of Rob Roy have, however, given a very different version
of his conduct. The Duke of Argyle was the patron and friend of
Macgregor; and he could neither, therefore, openly adopt a course which
the Duke disapproved, nor would he altogether retire from a cause to
which he was disposed to be favourable. With the true Gaelic caution Rob
Roy waited to see which side prevailed, and then hastened to avail
himself of an opportunity of that which had become the darling pursuit
of his existence--plunder.

He retired from Sherriff Muir to Falkland, carrying terror wherever he
passed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter, descriptive of his progress affords a curious
picture of the state of that harassed and wretched country:--

    "D. B.

    "I received yours this evening, but I find you have been quit
    mistaken about our condition. You datt our freedom and libertie from
    the rebels long befor its commencement, and for profe take the
    folowing accompt of what past heir these last ten days. Upon the
    fourth instant Rob Roey, with one hundred and fifty men, com to
    Falkland, and took possession of the place for a garrison, from
    which they came through the countrey side and robs and plunder,
    taking cloaths and victuals, and every thing that maks for them, nor
    to oposs them till this day eight days. The sixth instant there coms
    thirty-two Highland men (I had almost said devils) to Leslie; we saw
    them at Formand Hills and resolved to resist, and so man, wife, and
    child drew out.

    "The men went to the east end of the town, and met them in the green
    with drawn swords in the hands, and we askt them what they were for;
    they said they wanted cloaths and money; we answeared they should
    get neither of them heir, at which they stormed and swore terribly,
    and we told them if they were come for mischeif they should have
    thee fill of it; at which ther were some blows. But they seeing us
    so bold, they began to feear that we should fall upon them, and so
    they askt libertie to march through the town, which we granted, but
    withall told them if they went upon the least house in the town,
    ther should never a man go back to Fackland to tell the news, though
    we should die on the spot, and so they marsht through the town and
    got not so much as the rise of a cap. And they were so afraid that
    they did not return, but went down over the Hank Hill, and east to
    the minister's land; and their they faced about and fired twenty
    shots in upon the peple that were looking at them, but, glory to
    God, without doing the least hurt. And so they went off to the
    Formand Hils, and plundred all the could carry or drive, and
    threatned dreadfully they should be avenged on Leslie and burn it."

The pursuit of plunder was considered by Rob Roy as a far more venial
offence than if he had fought against Lord Mar, or offended Argyle, with
whom he continued on such convenient terms, that he did not leave Perth
until after the arrival of that General. He then retired with the spoils
he had acquired, and continued for some years in the practice of the
same marauding incursions which had already proved so troublesome and
distressing to his neighbours.

In the subsequent indemnity, or free pardon, the tribe of Macgregor was
specially excepted; and their leader, Robert Campbell, alias Macgregor,
commonly called Robert Roy, was attainted.

The severities which followed the Rebellion of 1715, drove Rob Roy to a
remote retreat in the Highlands, where he lived in a solitary hut, half
covered with copsewood, and seated under the brow of a barren mountain.
Here he resided in poverty, and what was worse to his restless spirit,
in idleness. Here he was in frequent dread of pursuit from the agents of
the law; and several anecdotes are told with what veracity it is
difficult to judge, of his dexterity in evading justice. Attainted,
disappointed, aged, and poor, he had one grievous addition to his
sorrows, which it required a cheerful and energetic mind to
sustain,--that of a family devoid of principle.

Among the five sons of Macgregor, Coll, James, Robert, Duncan, and
Ronald, four were known to be but too worthy of the name given by the
enemies of the Macgregors to the individuals of that tribe--"devils." Of
Coll, the eldest, little is ascertained. Robert, or Robbiq, or the
younger, as the Gaelic word signifies, inherited all the fierceness,
without the generosity, of his race. At sixteen years of age, he
deliberately shot at a man of the name of Maclaren, and wounded him so
severely that he died. His brothers were implicated in this murder. On
their trials, they were charged with being not only murderers, but
notorious thieves and receivers of stolen goods. Robert was proved to
have boasted of having drawn the first blood of the Maclarens; and the
brothers were all accused of having followed this murder by houghing and
killing forty head of young cattle belonging to a kinsman of the
deceased.

Robert Roy, the principal party in the crime, did not appear before the
High Court of Justiciary, to which he was summoned: he was therefore
outlawed. The other brothers were tried, and the prosecution was
conducted by the celebrated Duncan Forbes, of Culloden. The prisoners
were acquitted of being accessory to the murder of Maclaren; but the
jury were unanimous in thinking that the charge of being reputed thieves
was made out, and they were ordered to find caution for their good
behaviour.

Robert Roy was advised to retire to France: his brother James remained
in Scotland, and took an active part in the Rebellion of 1745; when,
with the assistance of his cousin Glengyle, he surprised the fort of
Inversnaid; he afterwards led to the battle of Preston Pans six
companies of his clan. His thigh-bone was broken in that battle; yet he
appeared again at Culloden, and was subsequently attainted.

The life of James Macgregor was spared only to present a tissue of
guilty schemes, and to end in infamy and exile. That of Rob Roy was dyed
yet deeper in crimes, of which a second trial and an ignominious death
were the dreadful result. He was hung in the Grass Market in Edinburgh,
in the year 1754. James, his brother, being reduced to the most
humiliating condition, died in France, after exhibiting in his conduct,
whilst in Scotland, if possible, almost a deeper shade of depravity than
that displayed by his brother.

Their father was, however, released from his existence before these
desperate men had sullied the name which he transmitted to them by their
transgressions.

As he declined in strength, Rob Roy became more peaceable in
disposition; and his nephew, the head of the clan, renounced the enmity
which had subsisted between the Macgregors and the Duke of Montrose. The
time of this celebrated freebooter's death is uncertain, but is
generally supposed to have occurred after the year 1738. "When he found
himself approaching his final change," says Sir Walter Scott, "he
expressed some contrition for particular parts of his life. His wife
laughed at these scruples of conscience, and exhorted him to die like a
man, as he had lived. In reply, he rebuked her for her violent passions
and the counsels she had given him. "You have put strife," he said,
"betwixt me and the best men of my country, and now you would place
enmity between me and my God.""

Although he had been educated in the Protestant faith, Rob Roy had
become a Catholic long before his death. "It was a convenient religion,"
he used to say, "which for a little money could put asleep the
conscience, and clear the soul from sin." The time and causes of his
conversion are only surmised; but when he had resolved on this
important step, the freebooter left his lovely residence in the
Highlands, and repairing to Drummond Castle, in Perthshire, sought an
old Catholic priest, by name Alexander Drummond. His confessions were
stated by himself to have been received by groans from the aged man to
whom he unburthened his heart, and who frequently crossed himself whilst
listening to the recital.

Even after this manifestation of penitence, Rob Roy returned to his old
practices, and accompanying his nephew to the Northern Highlands, he is
stated to have so greatly enriched himself, that he returned to the
Braes of Balquhidder, and began farming.

He is said in the decline of life to have visited London, and to have
been pointed out to George the Second by the Duke of Argyle, whilst
walking in the front of St. James's Palace. He still had an imposing and
youthful appearance, and the King is said to have declared that he had
never seen a handsomer man in the Highland garb.[117] But this, and
other anecdotes, rest on no better authority than tradition. His
strength, always prodigious, continued until a very late period; but at
last it was extinguished even before the spirit which had stimulated it
had died away. He is acknowledged, even by his partial biographer, to
have declined one duel, and to have been worsted in another; but
impaired eyesight, and decayed faculties are pleaded in defence of a
weakness which cast dishonour on Macgregor.

His deathbed was in character with his life: when confined to bed, a
person with whom he was at enmity proposed to visit him. "Raise me up,"
said Rob Roy to his attendants, "dress me in my best clothes, tie on my
arms, place me in my chair. It shall never be said that Rob Roy
Macgregor was seen defenceless and unarmed by an enemy." His wishes were
executed; and he received his guest with haughty courtesy. When he had
departed, the dying chief exclaimed: "It is all over now--put me to
bed--call in the piper; let him play '_Ha til mi tulidh_' (we return no
more) as long as I breathe." He was obeyed,--he died, it is said, before
the dirge was finished. His tempestuous life was closed at the farm of
Inverlochlarigbeg, (the scene, afterwards, of his son's frightful
crimes,) in the Braes of Balquhidder. He died in 1735, and his remains
repose in the parish churchyard, beneath a stone upon which some admirer
of this extraordinary man has carved a sword. His funeral is said to
have been attended by all ranks of people, and a deep regret was
expressed for one whose character had much to recommend it to the regard
of Highlanders.

He left behind him the memory of a character by nature singularly noble,
humane, and honourable, but corrupted by the indulgence of predatory
habits. That he had ever very deep religious impressions is doubted; and
his conversion to popery has been conjectured to have succeeded a
wavering and unsettled faith. When dying, he showed that he entertained
a sense of the practical part of Christianity, very consistent with his
Highland notions. He was exhorted by the clergyman who attended him to
forgive his enemies; and that clause in the Lord's prayer which enjoins
such a state of mind was quoted. Rob Roy replied: "Ay, now ye hae gien
me baith law and gospel for it. It's a hard law, but I ken it's gospel."
"Rob," he said, turning to his son, "my sword and dirk lie there: never
draw them without reason, nor put them up without honour. I forgive my
enemies; but see you to them,--or may"--the words died away, and he
expired.

Reason may disapprove of such a character as that of Rob Roy, but the
imagination and the feelings are carried away by so much generosity,
such dauntless exertion in behalf of the friendless, as were displayed
by the outlawed and attainted freebooter. He was true to his word,
faithful to his friends, and honourable in the fulfilment of his
pecuniary obligations. How many are there, who abide in the sunshine of
the world's good opinion, who have little claim to similar virtues!

FOOTNOTES:

[99] From the Wodrow MS. in the Advocate's Library.

[100] Macleay's History of the Macgregors, p. 110.

[101] Historical Memoir of the Clan Macgregor, by Dr. Macleay, p. 109.

[102] Preface to Rob Roy. Waverley Novels.

[103] Sir W. Scott.

[104] Macleay.

[105] Id.

[106] Macleay.

[107] Stewart's Sketches, vol. i. p. 224.

[108] Macleay, p. 188.

[109] Trials of the Macgregors, xxiv.

[110] Macleay, p. 181.

[111] See Trials, &c. p. 76.

[112] Tour to the Hebrides.

[113] Macleay.

[114] This account of what is called in history the "Loch Lomond
Expedition," is taken from the Wodrow MSS. in the Advocate's Library in
Edinburgh. Extracts from these MSS. have been printed by James
Dennistoun, Esq., to whose work I am indebted for this narrative of Rob
Roy's martial career.

[115] The Loch Lomond Expedition, p. 9.

[116] Loch Lomond Expedition. Wodrow Correspondence, p. 30. Also Reay's
History of the Rebellion, p. 286.

[117] Macleay, p. 279.


SIMON FRASER, LORD LOVAT.


The memoirs of Simon Fraser, Lord Lovat, have been written in various
forms, and with a great diversity of opinions. Some have composed
accounts of this singular, depraved, and unfortunate man, with the
evident determination to give to every action the darkest possible
tinge; others have waived all discussion on his demerits by insisting
largely upon the fame and antiquity of his family. He has himself
bequeathed to posterity an apology for his life, and from his word we
are bound to take so much, but only so much, as may accord with the
statements of others in mitigation of the heinous facts which blast his
memory with eternal opprobrium.

As far as the researches into the remote antiquity of Scotland may be
relied upon, it appears that the name of Fraser was amongst the first of
those which Scotland derived from Normandy, and the origin of this name
has been referred to the remote age of Charles the Simple. A nobleman of
Bourbon--such is the fable,--presented that monarch with a dish of
strawberries. The loyal subject, who bore the name of Julius De Berry,
was knighted on the spot, and the sirname of Fraize was given him in
lieu of that which he had borne. Hence the ancient armorial bearing of
the Frasers, a field azure, semé with strawberries: and hence the
widely-spreading connection of the Frasers with the noble family of
Frezeau, or Frezel, in France, a race connected with many of the royal
families in Europe. For a considerable period after the elevation of
Julius de Berry, the name was written Frezeau, or Frisil.

The period at which the Frasers left Normandy for Scotland has been
assigned to the days of Malcolm Canmore, where John, the eldest of three
brothers of the house, founded the fortunes of the Frasers of Oliver
Castle in Tweedale, by marrying Eupheme Sloan, heiress of Tweedale:
whilst another brother settled beyond the Forth, and became possessed of
the lands of Inverkeithing. Eventually those members of this Norman race
who had at first settled in Tweedale, branched off to Aberdeenshire, and
to Inverness-shire;[118] and it was in this latter county, at Beaufort,
a property which had been long held by his family, that the famous Lord
Lovat was born.

Such is the account generally received. According to others, the family
of Fraser is of Scandinavian origin. When the Scandinavians invaded the
eastern coast of Britain, and the northern coast of France, one branch
of the family of Frizell, or Fryzell, settled in Scotland; another in
Normandy, where the name has retained its original pronunciation.[119]

The castle of Beaufort, anciently a royal fortress, had been bestowed
upon the Frasers, in the year 1367. It is situated in the beautiful
neighbourhood of Inverness, in the district of the Aird; it was besieged
by the army of Edward the First during the invasion of Scotland by the
usual method of throwing stones from catapultæ, at a distance of seven
hundred yards. A subsidiary fortress, Lovat, heretofore inhabited by one
of the constables of the Crown, whom the lawlessness of the wild
inhabitants and the turbulence of their chieftains had rendered it
necessary to establish in the west of Scotland, also fell into the
possession of the Frasers.

The present seat of the family of Lovat, still called Beaufort, is built
on a part of the ground originally occupied by a fortress. It lies on a
beautiful eminence near the Beauly, and is surrounded by extensive
plantations.

The race, thus engrafted upon a Scottish stock, continued to acquire
from time to time fresh honours. It was distinguished by bravery and
fidelity. When Edward the First determined to subdue Scotland, he found
three Powers refuse to acknowledge his pretensions. These were, Sir
William Wallace, Sir Simon Fraser, commonly called the Patriot, and the
garrison of Stirling. When Bruce, with an inconsiderable force fought
the English army at Methven, near Perth, and was thrice dismounted, Sir
Simon Fraser thrice replaced him on his saddle; he was himself taken
prisoner and ordered to be executed. And then might be witnessed one of
those romantic instances of Highland devotion, which appear almost
incredible to the calmer notions of a modern era. A rumour went abroad
that the stay of the country, the gallant Fraser, was to suffer for his
fidelity to his country's interests. Herbert de Norham, one of his
followers, and Thomas de Boys, his armour-bearer, swore, that if the
report were true, they would not survive their master. They died
voluntarily on the day of his execution.

In 1431, the Frasers were ennobled; the head of the house was created a
Lord of Parliament by James the First, and the title was preserved in
regular succession, until, by the death of Hugh, the eleventh Lord
Lovat, it reverted, together with all the family estates, now of
considerable value and extent, to Thomas Fraser, of Beaufort, great
uncle of the last nobleman. This destination of the property and honours
was settled by a deed, executed by Hugh, Lord Lovat, in order to
preserve the male succession in the family. It was the cause of endless
heart-burnings and feuds. Hugh had married the Lady Emelia Murray,
daughter of John, Marquis of Athole, and had daughters by that
marriage. He had, in the first instance, settled upon the eldest of them
the succession, on condition of her marrying a gentleman of the name of
Fraser. But this arrangement agreed ill with the Highland pride; and
upon a plea of his having been prevailed on to give this bond, contrary
to the old rights and investments of the family, he being of an easy
temper, having been imposed on to grant this bond, he set it aside by a
subsequent will in favour of his great uncle, dated March 26th,
1696.[120]

The families of Murray and Fraser were, at the time that the title of
Lovat descended upon Thomas Fraser, united in what outwardly appeared to
be an alliance of friendship. Their politics, indeed, at times differed.
The late Lord Lovat had persisted in his adherence to James the Second
of England after his abdication, and had marshalled his own troops under
the banners of the brave Dundee. The Marquis of Athole, then Lord
Tullibardine, on the other hand, had adopted the principles of the
Revolution, and had received a commission of Colonel from William the
Third, to raise a regiment of infantry for the reigning monarch.[121]
Thus were the seeds of estrangement between these families, so nearly
united in blood, sown; and they were aggravated by private and jarring
interests, and by manoeuvres and intrigues, of which Lord Lovat, who has
left a recital of them, was, from his own innate taste for cabals, and
aptitude to dissimulation, calculated to be an incomparable judge.

Of the character of Thomas of Beaufort, the father of Simon, little idea
can be formed, except that he seems to have been chiefly guided by the
subtle spirit of his son Simon. The loss of an elder son, Alexander,
after whose death Simon was considered as the acknowledged heir of the
Frasers, may have increased the influence which a young, ardent temper
naturally exercises over a parent advanced in years. Of his father,
Simon, in his various memoirs and letters, always speaks with respect;
and he refers with pride and pleasure to his mother's lineage.

"His mother," he remarks, writing in the third person, "was Dame Sybilla
Macleod, daughter of the chief of the clan of the Macleods, so famous
for its inviolable loyalty to its princes."[122]

During his life-time his great nephew, Thomas Fraser of Beaufort, had
borne the title of Laird of Beaufort. "He now took possession," says his
biographer, "without opposition, of the honours and titles which had
descended to him, and enjoyed them until his death." And when done, they
avail little; because all military men agree, that wherever a
vessel may pass a fort without tacking under her guns, which is the
case at all our sea-port towns, she may be annoyed more or less,
according to the advantages of the position, but can never be
prevented.

Our own experience during the war proved this on different occasions. Our
predecessors have, nevertheless, proposed to go into this system, and
had commenced it. But, no law requiring us to proceed, we have suspended
it.

If we cannot hinder vessels from entering our harbors, we should turn
our attention to the putting it out of their power to lie, or
come to, before a town, to injure it. Two means of doing this may be
adopted in aid of each other. 1. Heavy cannon on travelling carriages,
which may be moved to any point on the bank or beach most convenient
for dislodging the vessel. A sufficient number of these should
be lent to each sea-port town, and their militia trained to them. The
executive is authorized to do this; it has been done in a smaller
degree, and will now be done more competently.

2.

Having cannon on floating batteries or boats, which may be so stationed
as to prevent a vessel entering the harbor, or force her after entering
to depart. There are about fifteen harbors in the United States,
which ought to be in a state of substantial defence. The whole of these
would require, according to the best opinions, two hundred and forty
gun-boats. Their cost was estimated by Captain Rogers at two
thousand dollars each; but we had better say four thousand dollars. The
whole would cost one million of dollars. But we should allow ourselves
ten years to complete it, unless circumstances should force it
sooner.
There are three situations in which the gun-boat may be. 1. Hauled up
under a shed, in readiness to be launched and manned by the seamen
and militia of the town on short notice. In this situation she
costs nothing but an enclosure, or a centinel to see that no
mischief is done to her.

2. Afloat, and with men enough to navigate her in harbor and take care
of her, but depending on receiving her crew from the town on short
warning. In this situation, her annual expense is about two thousand
dollars, as by an official estimate at the end of this letter. 3.

Fully manned for action. Her annual expense in this situation is about
eight thousand dollars, as per estimate subjoined. 'When there is
general peace, we should probably keep about six or seven afloat
in the second situation; their annual expense twelve to fourteen
thousand dollars; the rest all hauled up. When France and England are
at war, we should keep, at the utmost, twenty-five in the second situation,
their annual expense fifty thousand dollars. When we should be at war
ourselves, some of them would probably be kept in the third
situation, at an annual expense of eight thousand dollars; but how
many, must depend on the circumstances of the war. We now possess
ten, built and building. It is the opinion of those consulted, that
fifteen more would enable us to put every harbor under our view into a
respectable condition; and that this should limit the views of the
present year.

This would require an appropriation of sixty thousand dollars, and I
suppose that the best way of limiting it, without declaring the number,
as perhaps that sum would build more. I should think it best not
to give a detailed report, which exposes our policy too much. A bill,
with verbal explanations, will suffice for the information of the House.
I do not know whether General Wilkinson would approve the printing his
paper. If he would, it would be useful. Accept affectionate and
respectful salutations.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XX.--TO MR. VOLNEY, February 8, 1805

TO MR. VOLNEY.
Washington, February 8, 1805.

Dear Sir,
Your letter of November the 26th came to hand May the 14th; the
books some time after, which were all distributed according to
direction.
The copy for the East Indies went immediately by a safe conveyance.
The letter of April the 28th, and the copy of your work accompanying
that, did not come to hand till August. That copy was deposited in
the Congressional library. It was not till my return here from my
autumnal visit to Monticello, that I had an opportunity of reading
your work.His effrontery was
unconquerable: whilst conscious of the most venal motives, and even
after he had displayed to the world a shameless tergiversation, he had
the assurance always to claim for himself the merit of patriotism. "For
my part," he said on one occasion, in conversation with his friends, "I
die a martyr to my country."[124]

In after life, Lovat is described by a contemporary writer, "to have had
a fine comely head to grace Temple Bar." He was a man of lofty stature,
and large proportion; and in the later portion of his life, he grew so
corpulent, that "I imagined," says the same writer, "the doors of the
Tower must be altered to get him in."[125]

"Lord Lovat," says another writer, "makes an odd figure, being generally
more loaded with clothes than a Dutchman: he is tall, walks very
upright, considering his great age, and is tolerably well shaped; he has
a large mouth and short nose, with eyes very much contracted and
down-looking; a very small forehead, covered with a large periwig,--this
gives him a grim aspect, but on addressing any one, he puts on a smiling
countenance: he is near-sighted, and affects to be much more so than he
really is."

"His natural abilities," remarks the editor of the Culloden Papers,
"were excellent, and his address, accomplishments, and learning far
above the usual lot of his countrymen, even of equal rank. With the
civilized, he was the modern perfect fine gentleman; and in the North,
among his people, the feudal baron of the tenth century."[126]

It seems absurd to talk of the religious principles of a man who
violated every principle which religion inculcates; yet the mind is
naturally curious to know whether any bonds of faith, or suggestion of
conscience ever checked, even for an instant, the career of this base,
unprincipled man. After much deception, much shuffling, and perhaps much
self-delusion, Lord Lovat was, by his own declaration, a Roman Catholic:
his sincerity, even in this avowal, has been questioned. In politics, he
was in heart (if he had a heart) a Jacobite; and yet, on his trial, he
insisted strongly upon his affection for the reigning family.

Such were the characteristics of Simon Fraser, when, by the death of
Hugh Lord Lovat, his father and himself were raised from the
subservience of clansmen to the dignity of chieftains. To these traits
may be added a virtue rare in those days, and, until a long time
afterwards, rare in Highland districts;--he was temperate: when others
lost themselves by excesses, he preserved the superiority of sobriety;
and perhaps his crafty character, his never-ending designs, his
remorseless selfishness, were rendered more fatal and potent by this
singular feature in his deportment. There was another circumstance, less
rare in his country, the advantage of an admirable constitution. It was
this, coupled with his original want of feeling, which sustained him in
the imprisonment in the Tower, and enabled him to display, at eighty,
the elasticity of youth. Lord Lovat was never known to have had the
headache, and to the hour of his death he read without spectacles. A
very short time after the death of Hugh Lord Lovat elapsed, before those
relatives to whom he had bequeathed his estates were involved in the
deadliest quarrel with the family of Lord Tullibardine.

The family of Lord Tullibardine, at that time called Lord Murray,
furnish one of those numerous instances which occur in the reign of
William the Third, of an open avowal of Whig principles, joined to a
secret inclination to favour the Jacobite party. The Marquis of Athole,
the father of Lord Tullibardine, had been a powerful Royalist in the
time of Charles the First; but had, nevertheless, promoted the
Revolution, and had hastened, in 1689, to court the favour of the Prince
of Orange, with whom his lady claimed kindred.

Disappointed in his hopes of distinction, the Marquis returned to his
former views upon the subject of legitimacy; and finally retired into
private life, leaving the pursuit of fortune to his son, Lord John,
afterwards Earl Tullibardine, and Marquis of Athole. The disgust of the
old Marquis towards the government of William the Third, and the evident
determination which his son soon manifested to ingratiate himself with
that monarch, had, at the time when the death of Hugh Lord Lovat took
place, completely alienated the Marquis from his son, and produced an
entire separation of their interests.[127]

In his zeal for the King's service, Lord Tullibardine had endeavoured to
raise a regiment of infantry; and it happened, that at this time Simon
Fraser, as he expresses it, "by a most extraordinary stroke of
Providence, held a commission in that regiment." This commission had
been procured for him by his cousin, Lord Lovat, who looked upon it as
the best means of "bringing him out in the world," as he expressed
himself. The mode in which Simon was induced by Lord Murray to accept of
this commission, and the manner in which he was, according to his own
statement, induced to support a scheme which was adverse to the
interests of King James, is narrated in his own Memoirs. If we may
believe his account, he opposed the formation of this regiment by every
exertion in his power: he aided the Stewarts and Robinsons of Athole,
devoted Jacobites, and determined opposers of Lord Murray, whose claims
on them as their chieftain they refused to admit; and when Lord Murray,
on being appointed one of the Secretaries of State, resolved to give up
the colonelcy of the troop, he tried every means in his power to
dissuade his cousin, Hugh Lord Lovat, to whom it was offered, from
accepting the honour which it was inconsistent with his principles to
bear. This conduct, according to the hero of the tale, was highly
applauded by the old Marquis of Athole, who even engaged his young
relative, Simon, to pass the winter in the city of Perth with the
younger son of the Marquis, Lord Mungo Murray, in order that they might
there prosecute together the study of mathematics.

Simon accepted the invitation; and whilst he was at Perth, he was,
according to his own statement, cajoled by Lord Murray into accepting
the commission, which "he held by a stroke of Providence;" and which was
represented by Lord Murray, as Simon affirms, to be actually a regiment
intended for the service of King James, who, it was expected, would make
a descent into Scotland in the following summer. And it was observed
that since the Laird of Beaufort was so zealous in his service, he could
not do his Majesty a greater benefit than in accepting this commission.

Influenced by these declarations, Simon had not only accepted the
commission, but had used his influence to make up a complete company
from his own clan: nevertheless, the command of the company was long
delayed. His pride as a Highlander and a soldier was aggrieved by being
obliged to sit down content, for some time, as a lieutenant of
grenadiers; and, at last, the company was only given upon the payment of
a sum of money to the captain, who made room for the Laird of Beaufort.
Nor was this all; for upon the Lord Murray being made one of the
Secretaries of State, he insisted upon the regiment taking oath of
abjuration, which had never before been tendered to the Scottish
army.[128]

Such had been the state of affairs when Hugh Lord Lovat was taken ill,
and died at Perth. The manner in which Simon Fraser represents this
event, is far more characteristic of his own malignant temper, than
derogating to the family upon whom he wreaks all the luxury of vengeance
that words could give. Simon, it appears, had persuaded Lord Lovat to
go to Dunkeld, to meet his wife, the daughter of the Marquis of Athole,
in order to conduct her to Lovat. Lord Lovat, disgusted by the treachery
of the Earl of Tullibardine in respect to the regiment, had refused to
have anything more to do with "this savage family of Athole," as he
called them, "who would certainly kill him."[129] According to an
account more to be relied on than that of the scheming and perfidious
Simon, the aversion which Lord Lovat imbibed during his latter days to
his wife's kindred, was implanted in his mind by Simon Fraser, in order
to gain his weak-minded relative over to that plot which he had formed
in order to secure the estates of Lovat to his own branch of the
house.[130] This, however, is the account given by Fraser of his
kinsman's last illness:--

"In reality he had been only two days at Dunkeld, when he fell sick, and
the Atholes, not willing to be troubled with the care of an invalid, or
for some other reasons, sent him to an inn in the city of Perth, hard by
the house of Dr. James Murray, a physician, the relation or creature of
the Marquis of Athole, upon whom the care of Lord Lovat's person was
devolved.

"The moment the Laird of Beaufort heard the news that Lord Lovat had
been conducted, very ill, to the town of Perth, he set out to his
assistance. But before his arrival, in consequence of the violent
remedies that had been administered to him, he lost the use of his
reason, and lay in his bed in a manner incapable of motion,--abandoned
by his wife and the whole family of Athole, who waited for his
dissolution in great tranquillity, at the house of Dr. Murray, their
relation."

Lord Lovat, however, recollected his cousin, and embracing him said,
"Did not I tell you, my dear Simon, that these devils would certainly
kill me? See in what a condition I am!" Simon could not refrain from
tears at this melancholy spectacle. He threw himself on the bed beside
Lord Lovat, and did not quit him till he died the next morning in his
arms. Meanwhile, not an individual of the Athole family entered his
apartment after having once seen him in the desperate condition in which
he had been found by the Laird of Beaufort.

Such was the state of family discord when Lord Lovat died; and it was
discovered, to the consternation of the Marquis of Athole and his sons,
that he had made a will in favour of his relation Thomas of Beaufort,
and to the exclusion of his own daughter.

The right of Thomas of Beaufort was deemed incontestable; and not a man,
it was presumed, dreamed of disputing it. Yet it was soon obvious that
the Earl of Tullibardine, who had now acquired the title of Viceroy of
Scotland, was determined to support a claim in behalf of the daughter of
Lord Lovat, and to have her declared heiress to her father. This scheme
was coupled with a design of marrying the young lady also to one of Lord
Tullibardine's own sons,[131] of whom he had five, and, according to
Simon Fraser, without fortune to bestow on any of his children.

The Master of Lovat, Simon Fraser, as he rightfully was now,
communicated this scheme to his father, and entreated him to resist this
claim. Recourse was had to several of the most able lawyers of the
kingdom, and their opinion unanimously was, that Lord Tullibardine had
no more right to make his "niece heiress of Lovat than to put her in
possession of the throne of Scotland: that the right of Thomas of
Beaufort to those honours and estates was incontrovertible, and that the
King himself would not deprive him of them, except for high treason." It
appears that Lord Tullibardine was satisfied of the justice of the
opinion as far as the title was concerned, but he still considered that
the property of the last Lord Lovat ought to descend to his daughter and
heiress. The point was warmly viewed between the Earl and the Master of
Lovat; but the conference ended with no farther satisfaction to either
of the gentlemen than that of having each a full opportunity of reviling
the other: such, at least, is the account given by one of the parties;
no reasonable person will venture wholly to vouch for its accuracy, yet
the dialogue does not appear improbable. This firmness and spirit threw
the Lord Commissioner into a violent passion; he exclaimed in a furious
tone, "I have always known you for an obstinate, insolent rascal; I
don't know what should hinder me from cutting off your ears, or from
throwing you into a dungeon, and bringing you to the gallows, as your
treasons against the Government so richly deserve." Simon, having never
before been accustomed to such language, immediately stuck his hat on
his head, and laying his hand upon the hilt of his sword, was upon the
point of drawing it, when he observed that Lord Tullibardine had no
sword: upon this he addressed him in the following manner.

"I do not know what hinders me, knave and coward as you are, from
running my sword through your body. You are well known for a poltroon,
and if you had one grain of courage, you would never have chosen your
ground in the midst of your guards, to insult a gentleman of a better
house, and of a more honourable birth than your own; but I shall one day
have my revenge. As for the paltry company that I hold in your regiment,
and which I have bought dearer than ever any company was bought
before,--it is the greatest disgrace to which I was ever subject, to be
a moment under your command; and now, if you please, you may give it to
your footman."[132]

Such was the beginning of a long course of hostilities which were
thenceforth carried on between the Murrays and the clan of Fraser, and
which was productive of the deepest crimes on the part of the Master of
Lovat. That he was fully prepared to enter into any schemes, however
desperate, to ensure the succession of the estates of Lovat, cannot be
doubted. He prosecuted his designs without remorse or shame. The matter
of surprise must be, that he found partisans and followers willing to
aid him in crime, and that he possessed an influence over his followers
little short, on their part, of infatuation.

The first suggestion that occurred to the mind of this bold and reckless
man was, perhaps, a natural and certainly an innocent method of securing
tranquillity to the enjoyment of his inheritance. He resolved to engage
the affections of the young daughter of the late Lord Lovat, and, by an
union with that lady, to satisfy himself that no doubt could arise as to
his title to the estates, nor with regard to any children whom he might
have in that marriage; nor was the hand of the Master of Lovat, if we
put aside the important point of character, a proffer to be despised.
The estate of Beaufort had long been in the possession of his father, as
an appanage of a younger son; and had only been lent as a residence to
Hugh Lord Lovat, on account of the ruinous state of the castle of Lovat.
Downie Castle, another important fortress, also accrued to the father of
Simon Lovat; and the estate of Lovat itself was one of the finest and
best situated in Scotland.[133] In addition to these, the family owned
the large domain of Sthratheric, which stretches along the western banks
of the Ness, and comprises almost the whole circumference of that
extensive and beautiful lake. The pretensions of the Master were,
therefore, by no means contemptible; and as he was young, although,
according to dates, ten years older than he states himself to be, in his
Memoir of his life, he had every reason to augur success.

For a time, this scheme seemed to prosper. The young lady, Amelia
Fraser, was not averse to receive the Master of Lovat as her suitor; and
the intermediate party, Fraser, of Tenechiel, who acted as interpreter
to the wishes of the Master, actually succeeded in persuading the young
creature to elope with him, and to fix the very day of her marriage with
the Master, to whom Fraser promised to conduct her. But either she
repented of this clandestine step, or Fraser of Tenechiel, dreading the
power of the Athole family, drew back; for he reconducted her back to
her mother at Castle Downie, even after her assurance had been given
that she would marry her cousin.[134]

The circumstances of this elopement are obscurely stated by Lord Lovat
in his account of the affair; and he does not refer to the treachery or
remorse of his emissary Fraser of Tenechiel, nor does he dwell upon a
disappointment which must have gratified his mortal enemies of the house
of Athole. Yet it appears, from the long and early intimacy to which he
alludes as having subsisted between himself and the Dowager Lady Lovat,
that he may have had many opportunities of gaining the regard of the
young daughter of that lady,--an idea which accounts, in some measure,
for her readiness to engage in the scheme of the elopement. At all
events, he expresses his rage and contempt, and makes no secret of his
determined revenge on those who had, as he conceived, frustrated his
project.

The young lady was at first placed under the protection of her mother
at Castle Downie, the chief residence of the clan Fraser; but there it
was not thought prudent to allow her to abide, and she was therefore
carried, under an escort, to Dunkeld, the house of her uncle, the
Marquis of Athole. And here another match was very soon provided for
her, and again her consent was gained, and again the preliminaries of
marriage were arranged for this passive individual. The nobleman whom
her relations now proposed to her was William, afterwards eleventh Lord
Salton, also a Fraser, whose father was a man of great wealth and
influence, although referred to by the Master of Lovat as the
"representative of an unconsiderable branch of the Frasers who had
settled in the lowlands of the county of Aberdeen."[135] This match was
suggested to the Athole family by one Robert Fraser "an apostate
wretch," as the Master of Lovat calls him, a kinsman, and an advocate;
and he advised the Marquis of Athole, not only to marry the young lady
to the heir of Lord Salton, but also, by various schemes and manoeuvres,
to get Lord Salton declared head of the clan of Frasers. This plot was
soon divulged; disappointment, rage, revenge were raised to the height
in the breast of the Master of Lovat. His pride was as prominent a
feature in this bold and vindictive man, as his duplicity. Throughout
life, he could, it is true, bend for a purpose, as low as his designs
required him to bend; but the fierce exclusiveness of a Highland
chieftain never died away, but rankled in his heart to the last.

It must be admitted that he had just cause of irritation against the
Murrays, first for disputing the claim of his father to the Lovat title
and estates, a claim indisputably just; nor was their project for
constituting Lord Salton the head of the clan Fraser, either a wise or
an equitable scheme. It was heard with loud indignation in that part of
the country where the original stock of this time-honoured race were,
until their name was stained by the crimes of Simon Fraser, held in love
and reverence. It was heard by the Master of Lovat perhaps with less
expression of his feelings than by his followers; but the meditated
affront was avenged, and avenged by a scheme which none but a demon
could have devised. It was avenged; but it brought ruin on the head of
the avenger.

Perhaps in no other country, at the same period, could the wrongs of an
individual have been visited upon an aggressor with the same dispatch
and ruthless determination as in the Highlands. Until the year 1748,
when the spirit of clanship was broken, never to be restored, those
"hereditary monarchies founded on custom, and allowed by general consent
rather than established by laws,"[136] existed in their full vigour. The
military ranks of the clans was fixed and continual during the rare
intervals of local quiet, and every head of a family was captain of his
own tribe.[137] The spirit of rivalry between the clans kept up a taste
for hostility, and converted rapine into a service of honour. Revenge
was considered as a duty, and superstition aided the dictates of a
fiery and impetuous spirit. A people naturally humane, naturally
forbearing, had thus, by the habits of ages immemorial, become
remorseless plunderers and resolute avengers. When any affront was
offered to a chieftain, the clan was instantly summoned. They came from
their straths and their secluded valleys, wherein there was little
intercourse with society in general to tame their native pride, or to
weaken the predominant emotion of their hearts,--their pride in their
chieftain. They came fearlessly, trusting, not only in the barriers
which Nature had given them in their rocks and fastnesses, but in the
unanimity of their purpose. Each clan had its stated place of meeting,
and when it was summoned upon any emergency, the fiery cross, one end
burning, the other wrapt in a piece of linen stained with blood, was
sent among the aroused clansmen, traversing those wild moors, and
penetrating into the secluded glens of those sublime regions. It was
sent, by two messengers, throughout the country, and passed from hand to
hand, these messengers shouting, as they went, the war-cry of the clan,
which was echoed from rock to rock. And then arose the cry of the
coronach, that wail, appropriate to the dead, but uttered also by women,
as the fiery cross roused them from their peaceful occupations, and
hurried from them their sons and their husbands.

Never was the fiery cross borne throughout the beautiful country of
Invernessshire, never was the wail of the coronach heard on a more
ignoble occasion, than on the summons of the Master of Lovat, in the
September of the year 1698. After some fruitless negotiation, it is
true, with Lord Salton, and after availing himself of the power of his
father, as chieftain, to imprison Robert Fraser, and several other
disaffected clansmen whom that person had seduced from their allegiance,
the Master of Lovat prepared for action. The traitors to his cause had
escaped death by flight, but the clan were otherwise perfectly faithful
to their chieftain. Fear, as well as love, had a part in their
allegiance; yet it has been conjectured that the hereditary devotion of
the Highlanders must, originally, have had its origin in gratitude for
services and for bounty, which it was the interest of every chieftain to
bestow.

The Master of Lovat, or, as he was called by his people, the chieftain,
first assembled his people at their accustomed place, to the number of
sixty and seventy, and bade them be in readiness when called upon. He
thanked them for their prompt attendance, and then dismissed them.
During the next month, however, he was met, coming from Inverness, by
Lord Salton and Lord Mungo Murray, who were returning from Castle
Downie. Such was the preparation for the disgraceful scenes which
quickly followed. As soon as the Master of Lovat and his father were
informed of the flight of their treacherous clansmen, they wrote a
letter to Lord Salton, and conjured him, in the name of the clan, to
remain at home, and not to disturb their repose nor to interfere with
the interests of their chief; and they assured him, that though a
Fraser, he should, if he entered their country, pay for that act of
audacity by his head. Such is Lord Lovat's account: it is not borne out
by the statements of others; yet since the affair must have been
generally discussed among the clan, it is probable, that he would not
have given this version of it without foundation. Lord Salton, according
to the same statement, at first received this letter in good part; and
wrote to Lord Lovat and to the Master, giving his word that he would
only interfere to make peace; and that, for this reason, he would
proceed to the seat of the Dowager Lady Lovat, at Beaufort.[138] Upon
afterwards discovering that this courtesy was a mere feint, and that
this new claimant to the honours of chief was in close correspondence
with the Murrays, who were with him and the Dowager at Beaufort, the
Master of Lovat wrote to his father, who was at Sthratheric, to meet him
at Lovat, which was only three miles' distance from Beaufort, whilst he
should himself proceed to the same place by way of Inverness, where he
trusted that Lord Salton would grant him an interview for the purpose of
explaining their mutual differences.[139]

No sooner had the Master arrived at Inverness, than he found, as he
declares, so much reason to distrust the assurances of Lord Salton, that
he wrote him a letter, sent, as he says, "with all diligence by a
gentleman of his train, to adhere to his word passed to his father and
himself, and to meet him the next day at two in the afternoon, three
miles from Beaufort, either like a friend, or with sword and pistol, as
he pleasedA strict observance of the written laws, is doubtless one of the
high duties of a good citizen: but it is not the highest.

The laws of necessity, of self-preservation, of saving our country when
in danger, are of higher obligation. To lose our country by a
scrupulous adherence to written law, would be to lose the law itself,
with life, liberty, property, and all those who are enjoying them
with us; thus absurdly sacrificing the end to the means.

When, in the battle of Germantown, General Washington's army was
annoyed from Chew's house, he did not hesitate to plant his cannon against
it, although the property of a citizen. When he besieged Yorktown,
he leveled the suburbs, feeling that the laws of property must be
postponed to the safety of the nation. While the army was before York,
the Governor of Virginia took horses, carriages, provisions, and even
men, by force, to enable that army to stay together till it could
master the public enemy; and he was justified. A ship at sea in distress
for provisions, meets another having abundance, yet refusing a supply;
the law of self-preservation authorizes the distressed to take a supply
by force. In all these cases, the unwritten laws of necessity, of
self-preservation, and of the public safety, control the written laws of
_meum_ and _tuum_. Further to exemplify the principle, I will state
an hypothetical case.

Suppose it had been made known to the executive of the Union in the autumn
of 1805, that we might have the Floridas for a reasonable sum, that
that sum had not indeed been so appropriated by law, but that Congress
were to meet within three weeks, and might appropriate it on the first
or second day of their session. Ought he, for so great an advantage
to his country, to have risked himself by transcending the law and making
the purchase? The public advantage offered, in this supposed case,
was indeed immense: but a reverence for law, and the probability
that the advantage might still be legally accomplished by a delay of
only three weeks, were powerful reasons against hazarding the act. But
suppose it foreseen that a John Randolph would find means to protract
the proceeding on it by Congress, until the ensuing spring, by which
time new circumstances would change the mind of the other party. Ought
the executive, in that case, and with that foreknowledge, to have secured
the good to his country, and to have trusted to their justice for the
transgression of the law? I think he ought, and that the act would have
been approved. After the affair of the Chesapeake, we thought war a
very possible result. Our magazines were illy provided with some necessary
articles, nor had any appropriations been made for their purchase.

We ventured, however, to provide them, and to place our country in
safety; and stating the case to Congress, they sanctioned the act.

To proceed to the conspiracy of Burr, and particularly to General
Wilkinson's situation in New Orleans. In judging this case, we are bound
to consider the state of the information, correct and incorrect, which
he then possessed. He expected Burr and his band from above, a British
fleet from below, and he knew there was a formidable conspiracy
within the city.

Under these circumstances, was he justifiable, 1. In seizing notorious
conspirators? On this there can be but two opinions; one, of the guilty
and their accomplices; the other, that of all honest men.
2. In sending them to the seat of government, when the written law gave
them a right to trial in the territory? The danger of their rescue, of
their continuing their machinations, the tardiness and weakness of the
law, apathy of the judges, active patronage of the whole tribe of
lawyers, unknown disposition of the juries, an hourly expectation
of the enemy, salvation of the city, and of the Union itself, which would
have been convulsed to its centre, had that conspiracy succeeded;
all these constituted a law of necessity and self-preservation, and
rendered the _salus populi_ supreme over the written law.

The officer who is called to act on this superior ground, does indeed risk
himself on the justice of the controlling powers of the constitution,
and his station makes it his duty to incur that risk. But those
controlling powers, and his fellow-citizens generally, are bound to
judge according to the circumstances under which he acted. They are not
to transfer the information of this place or moment to the time and
place of his action; but to put themselves into his situation.
We knew here that there never was danger of a British fleet from
below, and that Burr's band was crushed before it reached the Mississippi.
But General Wilkinson's information was very different, and he could
act on no other.

From these examples and principles you may see what I think on the
question proposed.

They do not go to the case of persons charged with petty duties, where
consequences are trifling, and time allowed for a legal course, nor to
authorize them to take such cases out of the written law.But that lady was a Murray; one of a resolute family, and descended on
her mother's side from a Stanley. She was the grand-daughter of
Charlotte de la Tremouille, who defended Latham House against the
Parliamentary forces in 1644. Notwithstanding that armed men were placed
in the different apartments of the castle, she was undaunted. Attempts
were made by the Master of Lovat to compel her to sign certain deeds,
securing to him that certainty of the right to the estates, for which he
was ready to plunge in the deepest of crimes. She was firm--she refused
to subscribe her name. Her refusal was the signal, or the incentive, for
the completion of another plot, of a last resource,--a compulsory
marriage between the Master of Lovat and herself.

The awful and almost incredible details of that last act of infuriated
villany, prove Lady Lovat to have been a woman of strong resolution,
and of a deep sensibility. The ceremony of marriage was pronounced by
Robert Monro, Minister of Abertaaffe. The unhappy Lady Lovat's
resistance and prayers were heard in the very court-yard below, although
the sound of bagpipes were intended to drown her screams. Morning found
the poor wretched being, to make use of one of the expressions used by
an eye-witness, "out of her judgment; she spoke none, but gave the
deponent a broad stare." For several days reason was not restored to
her, until, greeted by one of her friends with the epithet "Madam," she
answered, "Call me not Madam, but the most miserable wretch alive." The
scene of this act of diabolical wickedness[143] is razed to the ground:
Castle Downie was burned by the royal troops, in the presence of him who
had committed such crimes within its walls, and of three hundred of his
clansmen, shortly after the battle of Culloden.

It appears from a letter written by Thomas Lovat, the father of the
Master, to the Duke of Argyle, that he and his son were shortly
"impeached for a convocation," and for making prisoners of Lord Salton
and Lord Mungo Murray, for which they were charged before him, were
fined, discharged their fines, and "gave security to keep the
peace."[144] So lightly was that gross invasion of the liberty that
threatened the lives of others at first treated! "We have many
advertisements," adds Thomas Lovat, "that Athole is coming here in
person, with all the armed men he is able to make, to compel us to duty,
and that without delay. If he come, so we are resolved to defend
ourselves; the laws of God, of nature, and the laws of all nations, not
only allowing, but obliging all men, _vim vi repellere_. And I should
wish from my heart, if it were consistent with divine and human laws,
that the estates of Athole and Lovat were laid as a prize, depending on
the result of a fair day betwixt him and me."[145] It was, perhaps, an
endeavour to avert the impending ruin and devastation that followed,
that the Master of Lovat gave their liberty to Lord Saltoun and Lord
Mungo Murray, although not until he had threatened them both with
hanging for interfering with his inheritance, and compelling Lord
Saltoun to promise that he would, on arriving at Inverness, send a
formal obligation for eight thousand pounds, never more to concern
himself with the affairs of the Lovat estate, and that neither he nor
the Marquis of Athole would ever prosecute either Lord Lovat or his son,
or their clan in general, for the disgrace they had received in having
been made prisoners, for any of the transactions of this affair.[146]

But it was evident that, in spite of this concession, the vengeance of
the Marquis of Athole never slept; and that he was resolved to wreak it
upon the head of the wretch who had for ever blasted the happiness of
his sister.

The Master of Lovat was shortly aware that it would no longer be
prudent to remain with his victim in the castle of Downie. His wife, as
it was then his pleasure to call her, remained in a condition of the
deepest despair. She would neither eat nor drink whilst she was in his
power; and her health appears to have suffered greatly from distress and
fear. In the dead of night she was summoned to leave Castle Downie, to
be removed to a more remote and a wilder region, where the unhappy
creature might naturally expect, from the desperate character of her
pretended husband, no mitigation of her sorrows. Since rumours were
daily increasing of the approach of Lord Athole's troops, the clan of
Fraser was again, when Lady Lovat was conveyed from the scene of her
anguish, called forth to assist their leader, and the wail of the
coronach was again heard in that dismal and portentous night: for
portentous it was. This crime, the first signal offence of Simon Fraser,
stamped his destiny. Its effects followed him through life: it entailed
others: it was the commencement of a catalogue of iniquities almost
unprecedented in the career of one man's existence.

Crushed, broken-spirited, afraid of returning to her kindred, whose high
fame she seems to have thought would be sullied by her misfortunes, Lady
Lovat was conducted by Fraser to the Island of Aigas. They stole thither
on horseback, attended by a single servant, and arriving at the
sea-shore, they there took a boat, and were carried to the obscure
island which Fraser had chosen for his retreat. Thomas Fraser of
Beaufort, the father of Simon, thus writes to the Duke of Argyle
respecting this singular and revolting union.

"We have gained a considerable advantage by my eldest son's being
married to the Dowager of Lovat; and if it please God they live together
some years, our circumstances will be very good. Our enemies are so
galled at it, that there is nothing malice or cruelty can invent but
they design and practice against us; so that we are forced to take to
the hills, and keep spies at all parts; by which, among many other
difficulties, the greatest is this,--that my daughter-in-law, being a
tender creature, fatigue and fear of bloodshed may put an end to her,
which would make our condition worse than ever."[147]

And now there took place, in the mind of Lady Lovat, one of those
singular revulsions which experience teaches us to explain rather than
induces us to believe as neither impossible nor uncommon. Lady Lovat, it
is said upon the grave authority of a reverend biographer, became
attached to the bonds which held her. "Here," says Mr. Arbuthnot, in his
Life of Lord Lovat,[148] "he continued a month or six weeks, and by this
time the captain had found means to work himself so effectually into the
good graces of the lady, that, as he reported, 'she doated on him, and
was always unhappy at his absence.'" However true or however false this
representation may be, the marriage service was again, as it was said,
solemnized, at the suggestion of the Master of Lovat, and with the free
consent of Lady Lovat.[149] On the twenty-sixth of October, 1697, we
find Simon Fraser writing in the following terms to the Laird of
Culloden. The answer is not given in the Culloden Papers, but it not
improbably contained a recommendation to repeat the marriage
ceremonials:--

                                  "Beaufort, the 26th of Oct., 1797.

    "Dear Sir,

    "Thir Lords att Inverness, with the rest of my implacable enemies,
    does so confound my wife, that she is uneasy till she see them. I am
    afraid that they are so madd with this disapointment, that they will
    propose something to her that is dangerous, her brother having such
    power with her; so that really, till things be perfectly
    accommodatt, I do nott desire they should see her, and I know not
    how to manage her. So I hope you will send all the advice you can to
    your oblidged humble servant,

                                                       SIM. FRASER."

    "I hope you will excuse me for not going your lenth, since I have
    such a hard task at home."


FROM SIMON FRASER TO THE LAIRD OF CULLODEN.

                                                   "Nov. 23rd, 1697.

    "Sir,

    "I pray you receive the inclosed acompt of my business, and see if
    your own conscience, in sight of God, doth not convince you that it
    is literally true. I hade sent it to you upon Saturday last, but you
    were not at home; however, I sent it that day to the Laird of
    Calder, who, I hope, will not sitt down on me, but transmitt it to
    my best friends; and I beseech you, Sir, for God's sak, that you do
    the like. I know the Chancellour is a just man, notwithstanding his
    friendship to my Lord Tilliberdine. I forgive you for betraying of
    me; but neither you, nor I, nor I hope God himself, will forgive him
    that deceived you, and caused you to do it. I am very hopeful in my
    dear wife's constancey, if they do not put her to death. Now I ad no
    more, but leaves myself to your discretion; and reste, Sir, your
    faithful friend and servant,

                                                       SIM. FRASER."

Lady Lovat lived to hear her husband deny that he had ever sought her in
marriage, and to see him married to two different wives; and he scrupled
not to represent the unfortunate Lady Lovat as the last possible object
of his regard--as a "widow, old enough to be his mother, dwarfish in her
person, and deformed in her shape."[150] This, as far as related to
disparity of years, was untrue; the Dowager was only four years older
than the Master of Lovat.

The way being now open for taking your station at Madrid, it is certainly
our wish you should do so, and that this may be more agreeable to you
than your return home, as is solicited in yours of May the 1st. It
is with real unwillingness we should relinquish the benefit of
your services. Nevertheless, if your mind is decidedly bent on that,
we shall regret, but not oppose your return. The choice, therefore,
remains with yourself. In the mean time, your place in the joint
commission being vacated by either event, we shall take the measures
rendered necessary by that. We have seen, with real grief, the
misunderstanding which has taken place between yourself and General
Armstrong. We are neither qualified nor disposed to form an opinion
between you. We regret the pain which must have been felt by persons,
both of whom hold so high a place in our esteem, and we have not
been without fear that the public interest might suffer by it.

It has seemed, however, that the state of Europe has been such as to admit
little to be done, in matters so distant from them.

The present alarm has had the effect of suspending our foreign commerce.

No merchant ventures to send out a single vessel; and I think it probable
this will continue very much the case till we get an answer from
England. Our crops are uncommonly plentiful. That of small grain
is now secured south of this, and the harvest is advancing here.

Accept my salutations, and assurances of affectionate esteem and
respect.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LVII.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, July 14, 1807

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Washington, July 14, 1807.

My Dear Friend,
I received last night your letters of February the 20th and April the
29th, and a vessel just sailing from Baltimore enables me hastily to
acknowledge them; to assure you of the welcome with which I receive
whatever comes from you, and the continuance of my affectionate esteem
for yourself and family. I learn with much concern, indeed, the
state of Madame de la Fayette's health. I hope I have the pleasure yet
to come of learning its entire re-establishment. She is too young not
to give great confidence to that hope.

Measuring happiness by the American scale, and sincerely wishing that of
yourself and family, we had been anxious to see them established on
this side of the great water. But I am not certain that any equivalent
can be found for the loss of that species of society, to which our habits
have been formed from infancy. Certainly had you been, as I wished,
at the head of the government of Orleans, Burr would never have given me
one moment's uneasiness.

His conspiracy has been one of the most flagitious of which history will
ever furnish an example. He meant to separate the western States from
us, to add Mexico to them, place himself at their head, establish what
he would deem an energetic government, and thus provide an example
and an instrument for the subversion of our freedom.
The man who could expect to effect this, with American materials,
must be a fit subject for Bedlam. The seriousness of the crime,
however, demands more serious punishment. Yet, although there is
not a man in the United States who doubts his guilt, such are the
jealous provisions of our laws in favor of the accused against the
accuser, that I question if he is convicted. Out of forty-eight
jurors to be summoned, he is to select the twelve who are to try
him, and if there be any one who will not concur in finding him
guilty, he is discharged of course. I am sorry to tell you that
Bollman was Burr's right hand man in all his guilty schemes. On
being brought to prison here, he communicated to Mr. Madison and
myself the whole of the plans, always, however, apologetically for
Burr as far as they would bear.An organized
resistance was planned; and the Master of Lovat intreated his father, as
he himself expressed it, with tears, "to retire into the country of his
kinsmen, the Macleods of Rye." The proposal was accepted, and Thomas of
Beaufort, for he never assumed the disputed title of Lord Lovat, took
refuge among that powerful and friendly clan.

The prosecution against the Master of Lovat was, in the mean time,
commenced in the Court of Justiciary; "the only case," so it has been
called, "since the Revolution, in which a person was tried in absence,
before the Court of Justiciary, a proof led, a jury inclosed, a verdict
returned, and sentence pronounced; forfeiting life, estate, honours,
fame, and posterity."[154] None of the parties who were summoned,
appeared. The jury returned a verdict finding the indictment proved, and
the Court adjudged Captain Fraser and the other persons accused, to be
executed as traitors; "their name, fame, memory, and honours, to be
extinct, and their arms to be riven forth and deleted out of the books
of arms; so that their posterity may never have place, nor be able
hereafter to bruite or enjoy any honours, offices, titles, or dignities;
and to have forfeited all their lands, heritages, and possessions
whatsoever."[155]

After this sentence, a severer one than that usually passed in such
cases, the Master of Lovat, for the period of four years, led a life of
skirmishes, escapes, and hardships of every description. He retired into
the remote Highlands, then almost impenetrable; and, followed by a small
band of his clansmen, he wandered from mountain to mountain, resolved
never to submit, nor yield himself up to justice. Since his father's
estates were forfeited, and he could draw no means of subsistence from
them, he was often obliged to the charity of the hospitable Highlanders
for some of their coarse fare; and when that resource failed, or when he
had lived too long on the bounty of a neighbourhood, he and his
companions made nightly incursions into the Lowlands, and, carrying off
cattle and provisions, retreated again to their caverns, there to
satisfy hunger with the fruits of their incursions.[156]

During the four years of misery and peril in which the Master of Lovat
continued to evade justice, his father died, among his relations in the
island of Skye. His decease was caused, according to the representation
of his son, by a hasty march made to escape the King's troops, who, he
heard, were coming to the islands to pursue him. Among the few humane
traits in the character of Simon Fraser, the habitual respect and
affection borne by the Highlanders to parents appears to have been
perceptible. He speaks of Thomas of Beaufort in his Life with regret and
regard; but seals those expressions of tenderness with an oath that he
"would revenge himself on his own and his father's enemies with their
blood, or perish in the attempt." Such were his notions of filial piety.

The Master of Lovat had now attained the rank for which he had made such
sacrifices of safety and of fame; and had the hollow satisfaction of a
disputed title, with an attainted estate, and a life over which the
sword of destiny was suspended.

A sentence of outlawry followed that of condemnation, and letters of
fire and sword were issued against him. He was forbidden all
correspondence or intercourse with his fellow subjects: he was cast off
and rejected by his friends, and in constant danger either of being
captured by the officers of justice, or assassinated by his enemies. The
commission for destroying the clan of Fraser was not, indeed, put into
execution; but that wild and beautiful district which owned him for its
lord, was ravaged by the King's troops stationed at Inverness, or
intimidated by the Highland army, commanded by Lord Lovat's early
companions, but now deadly foes,--Lord James and Lord Mungo Murray. At
length, after gaining a complete victory, according to his own account,
at Stratheric, over the tributaries of Lord Athole, and extracting from
the prisoners an oath by which they "renounced the claims on our
Saviour and their hopes in Heaven if ever they returned to the
territories of his enemy, the guilty and unfortunate man grew weary of
his life of wandering, penury, and disgrace."

He was always fertile in expedients, and audacious in proffering his
petitions for mercy. During his father's life, a petition in the form of
a letter, written by Thomas of Beaufort, and signed by seven Frasers,
had been addressed to the Duke of Argyle, appealing to his aid at Court,
upon the plea of that "entire friendship which the family of Lovat had
with, and dependence upon, that of Argyle, grounded upon an ancient
propinquity of blood, and zealously maintained by both through a tract
and series of many ages."[157] The Duke of Argyle had, it was well
understood, made some applications on behalf of the Frasers; and Lord
Lovat now resolved to push his interest in the same friendly quarter,
and to endeavour to obtain a remission of the sentence out against his
head.

His efforts were the more successful, because King William had by this
time begun to suspect the fidelity of Lord Tullibardine, and to place a
strong reliance upon the integrity and abilities of the Duke of Argyle.
The Duke represented to his Majesty not only the ancient friendship
subsisting between the house of Campbell and that of Fraser, but also
that the King might spend "a hundred times the value of the Fraser
estate before he could reduce it, on account of its inaccessible
situation and its connection with the neighbouring clans."[158] The
Duke's account of his success is given with characteristic good sense in
the following letter:--


THE EARL OF ARGYLE TO THE LAIRD OF CULLODEN.

                                          "Edinburgh, Sept. 5, 1700.

    "Sir,

    "In complyance with your desyre and a great many other gentlemen,
    with my own inclination to endeavour a piece of justice, I have made
    it my chief concern to obtain Beaufort's (now I think I may say Lord
    Lovatt's) pardon, and the other gentlemen concerned with him in the
    convocation and seizing of prisoners, which are crymes more
    immediately against his Majesty, which I have at last obtained and
    have it in my custody. I designe to-morrow for Argyllshire; and,
    there not being a quorum of Exchequer in town, am oblidged to delay
    passing the remission till next moneth. We have all had lyes enuf of
    his Majestie before: his goodness in this will, I hope, return my
    friend Culloden to his old consistency, and make E. Argyll appear to
    him as good a Presbiterian and a weel wisher to his country in no
    lesse a degree then Tullibardine, who plundered my land some tyme
    agoe, and Culloden's lately. Pray recover the same spiritt you had
    at the Revolution; let us lay assyde all resentments ill founded,
    all projects which may shake our foundation; let us follow no more
    phantasms (I may say rather divells), who, with a specious pretext
    leading us into the dark, may drownd us. I fynd some honest men's
    eyes are opened, and I shall be sorie if Culloden's continue dimm.
    You have been led by Jacobitt generales to fight for Presbiterie and
    the liberty of the country. Is that consistent? If not speedily
    remedied, remember I tell you the posteritie of such will curse
    them. Let me have a plain satisfactorie answer from you, that I may
    be in perfect charitie with Culloden. Adieu."

Accordingly, the Duke having obtained his pardon, Lord Lovat was
enjoined to lay down his arms, and to go privately to London. That
sentence, which had followed the prosecution on the part of Lady Lovat,
was not, at that time, remitted, for fear of disobliging the Athole
family. Upon arriving in London, Lord Lovat found that Lord Seafield,
the colleague of the Earl of Tullibardine, was disinclined to risk
incurring the displeasure of the Athole family. He put off the signing
of the pardon from time to time. He was even so much in awe of the Earl
of Tullibardine, that he endeavoured to get the King to sign the pardon
when he was at Loo; that Mr. Pringle, the other Secretary of State,
might bear the odium of presenting it for signature. During this delay,
Lord Lovat, not being able with safety to return to Scotland, resolved
to occupy the interval of suspense by a journey into France.

Whilst Lord Lovat's affairs were in this condition, the Marquis of
Athole, resolved for ever to put it out of Lord Lovat's power to gain
any ascendancy over the young heiress of Lovat, Amelia Fraser, was
employed in arranging a marriage for that lady to the son of Alexander
Mackenzie, Lord Prestonhall. It was agreed, by a marriage settlement,
that Mr. Mackenzie should take the name and title of Fraserdale, and
that the children of that marriage should bear the name of Fraser. The
estate of Lovat was settled upon Fraserdale in his life, with remainder
to his children by his wife.[159] It indeed appears, that the estate of
Lovat was never surrendered to Lord Lovat; that he bore in Scotland,
according to some statements, no higher title than that of Lord of
Beaufort; and that a regular receiver of the rents was appointed by the
guardians of Amelia Fraser:[160] so completely were the dark designs of
Simon Fraser defeated in their object! He was, however, graciously
received at St. Germains, whither he went whilst yet, James the Second,
in all the glory of a sanctified superstition, lived with his Queen, the
faithful partner of his misfortunes. Lord Lovat ascribes this visit to
St. Germains to his intention of dissipating the calumnious stories
circulated against him by the Marquis of Athole. The flourishing
statement which he gives in his memoirs of King James's reception, may,
however, be treated as wholly apocryphal. James the Second, with all his
errors, was too shrewd a man, too practised in kingcraft, to speak of
the "perfidious family of Athole," or to mention the head of that noble
house by the title of that "old traitor." Lord Lovat's incapacity to
write the truth, and his perpetual endeavour to magnify himself in his
narrative, cause us equally to distrust the existence of that document,
with the royal seal affixed to it, which he says the King signed with
his own hand, declaring that he would protect Lord Lovat from "the
perfidious and faithless family of Athole."[161]

The fact is, and it redounds to the credit of James the Second, that
monarch, eager as he ever remained to attach partisans to his interests,
never received Lord Lovat into his presence.[162] The infamy of the
exploits of the former Master of Lovat had preceded his visit to France:
the whole account of his own reception at St. Germains, written with
astonishing audacity, and most circumstantially worded, was a
fabrication.

Lord Lovat's usual readiness in difficulties did not fail him; he was a
ruined man, and it was puerile to shrink from expedients. He applied to
the Pope's nuncio, and expressed his readiness to become a Roman
Catholic. The suit was, of course, encouraged, and the arch hypocrite,
making a recantation of all his former errors, professed himself a
member of the holy Catholic Church, and acknowledged the Pope as its
head. This avowal cost him little, for he was by no means prejudiced in
favour of any specific faith; and it gained him for the time, some
little popularity in the gay metropolis in which he had taken refuge.

King James, indeed, to his honour, was still resolute in declining his
personal homage; but Louis the Fourteenth was less scrupulous, and the
Marquis de Torcy, the favourite and Minister of the French King,
presented the abjured of England and Scotland at the Palais of
Versailles. It is difficult to picture to oneself the savage and
merciless Fraser, the pillager, the destroyer, the outlaw, conversing,
as he is said to have done, with the saintly and sagacious Madame
Maintenon. It is scarcely possible to conceive elegant and refined women
of any nation receiving this depraved, impenitent man, with the rumour
of his recent crimes still fresh in their memory, into their polished
circles. Yet they made no scruple in that dissolute city, to associate
with the abandoned wretch who dared not return to Scotland, and who only
looked for a pardon for his crimes through the potent workings of a
faction.

Lord Lovat well knew the value of female influence. He dressed in the
height of fashion--he adapted his language and sentiments to the tone of
those around the Court. He was a man of considerable conversational
talents; "his deportment," says his biographer, "was graceful and
manly." When he was first presented to Louis the Fourteenth, who was
desirous of asking some questions concerning the invasion of Scotland,
he is said to have prepared an elaborate address, which he forgot in the
confusion produced by the splendour around him, but to have delivered an
able extempore speech, with infinite ease and good taste, upon the spur
of the moment, to the great amusement of Louis, who learned from De
Torcy the circumstance.[163]

His advancement at the Court of Versailles was interrupted by the
necessity of his return to England, in order to obtain at last a final
pardon from the King for his offences. It is singular that the
instrument by whom he sought to procure this remission was William
Carstairs, that extraordinary man, who had suffered in the reign of
James the Second the thumb-screw, and had been threatened with the iron
boot, for refusing to disclose the correspondence between the friends of
the Revolution. Mr. Carstairs was now secretary to King William, and he
little knew, when he counselled that monarch to pardon Lovat, what a
partisan of the Jacobite cause he was thus restoring to society.

His mediation was effectual, perhaps owing to a dislike which had arisen
in the mind of William against the Athole family; and a pardon was
procured for Lord Lovat. The affair was concluded at Loo, whither Lovat
followed the King from England. "He is a bold man," the Monarch is said
to have observed to Carstairs, "to come so far under sentence of death."
The pardon was unlimited, and that it might comprise the offence against
Lady Athole, it was now "a complete and ample pardon for every
imaginable crime." The royal seal was appended to it, and there remained
only to get that of Scotland also affixed.

Lovat entrusted the management of that delicate and difficult matter to
a cousin, a Simon Fraser also, by whose treachery it was suppressed; and
Lord Seafield caused another pardon to pass the great seal, in which the
treason against King William was alone specified; and other offences
were left unpardoned. Upon this, Lord Lovat cited the Marquis of Athole
before the Lords Justiciary in Edinburgh to answer before them for a
false accusation: but on the very day of supporting his charge, as the
biographer of his family relates, his patron the Duke of Argyle was
informed that the judges had been corrupted, and that "certain death
would be the result if he appeared."[164] This statement is taken from
Lord Lovat's own complication of falsehoods, his incomparably audacious
"Manifesto." Notwithstanding that Lovat had appeared with a retinue of a
hundred armed gentlemen, "as honorable as himself," with the intention
of intimidating the judges;--in spite of the Duke of Argyle's powerful
influence, the friends of the outlawed nobleman counselled him again to
retreat to England, and to suffer judgment to go by default. The Duke of
Argyle, he says, would not lose sight of him till he had seen him on
horseback, and had ordered his own best horse to be brought round to the
door. There was no remedy for what was called by Lord Lovat's friends,
the "rascality" of the judges:--and again this unworthy Highlander was
driven from his own country to seek safety in the land wherein his
offences had received their pardon. The inflexibility of the justiciary
lords, or their known integrity, form a fine incident in history; for
the Scottish nation was at this period, ridden by Court faction, and
broken down by recent oppression and massacre.

Lord Lovat, meeting the Duke of Argyle on the frontiers, accompanied his
Grace to London; and here, notwithstanding his boast, "that after his
arrival in London he was at the Duke's house every day," he appears,
about this time, to have been reduced to a state of miserable poverty,
and merited desertion.

In the following letter to Mr. Carstairs, he complains that nothing is
done for him--he applies to Mr. Carstairs for a little money to carry
him home, "having no other door open."


LORD LOVAT TO MR. CARSTAIRS,

                                           "London, June 20th, 1701.

    "Dear Sir,

    "I reckon myself very unhappy that my friends here do so much
    neglect me; and I believe my last journey to England has done me a
    vast prejudice; for if I had been at home, I would have got
    something done in my Lord Evelin's business, and would have got
    money before now, that might serve me to go a volunteer with the
    King, or maintain me anywhere; but my friend at home must have worse
    thoughts now of my affairs than ever, having staid so long here, and
    got nothing done. However, I now resolve to go to Scotland, not
    being able to subsist longer here. I have sent the inclosed note,
    that, according to your kind promise, I may have the little money
    which will carry me home, and it shall be precisely paid before two
    months; and I must say, it is one of the greatest favours ever was
    done me, not having any other door open, if you were not so generous
    as to assist me, which I shall alwise gratefully remember, and
    continue with all sincerity, Dear Sir, Your faithful and obliged
    servant,

                                                             LOVAT."

The death of William the Third revived the hopes of the Jacobite party;
and to that centre of attraction the ruined and the restless, the
aspiring and the profligate, alike turned their regards. Never was so
great a variety of character, and so great a diversity of motives
displayed in any cause, as in the various attempts which were made to
secure the restoration of the Stuarts. Have you ever turned your thoughts
to the plan of such an institution? I mean to a specification of the
particular sciences of real use in human affairs, and how they might
be so grouped as to require so many professors only, as might bring them
within the views of a just but enlightened economy? I should be happy
in a communication of your ideas on this problem, either loose or digested.
But to avoid my being run away with by another subject, and adding
to the length and ennui of the present letter, I will here present to
Mrs.

Adams and yourself, the assurance of my constant and sincere friendship
and respect.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXX.--TO COLONEL MONROE, January 1, 1815
TO COLONEL MONROE.

Monticello, January 1, 1815.

Dear Sir,

Your letters of November the 30th and December the 21st have been received
with great pleasure. A truth now and then projecting into the ocean of
newspaper lies, serves like headlands to correct our course.
Indeed, my scepticism as to every thing I see in a newspaper, makes
me indifferent whether I ever see one.

The embarrassments at Washington, in August last, I expected would be
great in any state of things; but they proved greater than expected.
I never doubted that the plans of the President were wise and
sufficient. Their failure we all impute, 1.
To the insubordinate temper of Armstrong: and, 2. To the indecision
of Winder. However, it ends well. It mortifies ourselves, and so
may check, perhaps, the silly boasting spirit of our newspapers,
and it enlists the feelings of the world on our side: and the
advantage of public opinion is like that of the weather-gage in a
naval action. In Europe, the transient possession of our Capital
can be no disgrace.This event was favourable to those of the Jacobite party
who wished to bring forward the interests of the young Prince of Wales.
James had long been infirm, and had laid aside all schemes of worldly
elevation. He had passed his time between the diversion of hunting and
the duties of religion. His widowed Queen retained, on the contrary, an
ardent desire to see her son restored to the throne of England. She
implanted that wish in his own breast; she nourished it by the society
of those whom she placed around him; and she passed her time in
constantly forming new schemes for the promotion of that restoration to
which her sanguine anticipations were continually directed.

The death of James was succeeded by two events: one, the avowed
determination of Louis the Fourteenth to take the exiled family of
Stuart under his protection, and the consequent proclamation of the
young Prince of Wales as King of England; the other, the bill for the
attainder of the pretended Prince of Wales, in the English Parliament,
with an additional clause of attainder against the Queen, Mary of
Modena, together with an oath of abjuration of the "Pretender." The
debates which impeded the progress of this measure, plainly prove how
deeply engrafted in the hearts of many of the higher classes were those
rights which they were thus enforced to abjure.[166]

This was one of the last acts of William. His death, in 1702, revived
the spirits of the Jacobites, for the partiality of Anne to her brother,
the young Prince, was generally understood; and it appears, from the
letters which have been published in later days to have been of a far
more real and sisterly character than has generally been supposed. The
death of the young Duke of Gloucester appeared, naturally, to make way
for the restoration of the Stuart family; and there is no doubt but that
Anne earnestly desired it; and that on one occasion, when her brother's
life was in danger from illness, her anxiety was considerable on his
account.

It is, therefore, no matter of reproach to the Jacobites, as an
infatuation, although it has frequently been so represented, that they
cherished those schemes which were ultimately so unfortunate, but which,
had it not been that "popery appeared more dreadful in England than even
the prospect of slavery and temporal oppression," would doubtless have
been successful without the disastrous scenes which marked the struggle
to bring them to bear.

Lord Lovat was at this time no insignificant instrument in the hands of
the Jacobite party. When he found that the sentence of outlawry was not
reversed; when he perceived that he must no longer hope for the
peaceable enjoyment of the Lovat inheritance, his whole soul turned to
the restoration of King James; and, after his death, to that of the
young Prince of Wales. Yet he seems, in the course of the extraordinary
affairs in which the Queen, Mary of Modena, was rash enough to employ
him, to have one eye fixed upon St. James's, another upon St. Germains,
and to have been perfectly uncertain as to which power he should
eventually dedicate his boasted influence and talents.

Lord Lovat may be regarded as the first promoter of the Insurrection of
1715 in Scotland. Whether his exertions proceeded from a real endeavour
to promote the cause of the Jacobites, or whether they were, as it has
been supposed, the result of a political scheme of the Duke of
Queensbury's, it is difficult to determine, and immaterial to decide;
because his perfidy in disclosing the whole to that nobleman has been
clearly discovered. Feeling no inconvenience from the expedition but
fatigue, I have more confidence in my _vis vitæ_ than I had before
entertained. The spring is remarkably backward.

No oats sown, not much tobacco seed, and little done in the gardens.
Wheat has suffered considerably. No vegetation visible yet but the red
maple, weeping-willow, and lilac. Flour is said to be at eight dollars
at Richmond, and all produce is hurrying down.

I feel great anxiety for the occurrences of the ensuing four or five
months. If peace can be preserved, I hope and trust you will have a
smooth administration.

I know no government which would be so embarrassing in war as ours.
This would proceed very much from the lying and licentious
character of our papers; but much, also, from the wonderful credulity
of the members of Congress in the floating lies of the day. And in
this no experience seems to correct them. I have never seen a Congress
during the last eight years, a great majority of which I would not
implicitly have relied on in any question, could their minds have
been purged of all errors of fact.

The evil, too, increases greatly with the protraction of the session,
and I apprehend, in case of war, their session would have a tendency to
become permanent. It is much, therefore, to be desired that war may be
avoided, if circumstances will admit. Nor in the present maniac state
of Europe, should I estimate the point of honor by the ordinary
scale.

Germains, and to his guidance Lovat confided himself.
By Maclean, Lovat was introduced to the Duke of Perth, as he was called,
who had been Chancellor of Scotland when James the Second abdicated, and
whose influence was now divided at the Court of St. Germains, by the
Earl of Middleton. For never was faction more virulent than in the Court
of the exiled Monarch, and during the minority of his son. The Duke of
Perth represented Lord Middleton as a "faithless traitor, a pensionary
of the English Parliament, to give intelligence of all that passes at
the Court of St. Germains." It was therefore agreed that this scheme of
the invasion should be carried on unknown to that nobleman, and to this
secrecy the Queen, it is said, gave her consent. She hailed the prospect
of an insurrection in Scotland with joy, and declared twenty times to
Lord Lovat that she had sent her jewels to Paris to be sold, in order to
send the twenty thousand crowns,[170] which Lord Lovat represented would
be necessary to equip the Highland forces. Hitherto the Court of St.
Germains had been contented merely to keep up a correspondence with
their friends, retaining them in their principles, though without any
expectation of immediate assistance. The offer of Lord Lovat was the
first step towards more active exertions in the cause of the Stuarts. It
is in this sense that he may almost be considered as the father of the
Rebellion of 1715. He first excited those ardent spirits to unanimity
and to action; and the project of restoration, which only languished
whilst Anne lived, was never afterwards abandoned until after the year
1746.

Either through the indiscretion of Queen Mary of Modena, or through some
other channel, the plot of the invasion became known to Lord Middleton.
Jealous of the family of Perth, his avowed enemies, Lord Middleton,
according to Lord Lovat, was enraged at the project, and determined to
ruin the projectors. It is very true that the antipathies between the
prevailing factions may have excited Lord Middleton's anger; but it is
evident, from his lordship's letters and memoranda, that his dislike had
a far deeper source--the profligacy of the agent Lovat; a profligacy
which had deterred, as it was afterwards found, many of the Highland
chiefs from lending their aid to the cause. Party fury, however, ran
high, and before the affair of the insurrection could be settled, Lord
Middleton, declaring that the last words of King James had made a
powerful impression on his mind, retired into the convent of
Benedictines at Paris, to be satisfied of some doubts, and to be
instructed in the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church. But this
temporary retirement rather revived than decreased the favour of the
Queen towards him. She trusted to his advice; and, as the statement
which Lord Lovat gave of the affairs of Scotland appeared too favourable
to the excluded family to be believed, Louis the Fourteenth counselled
the Court of St. Germains to send with Lord Lovat, or, as he is
invariably called in all contemporary documents, Simon Fraser, a person
who could be trusted to bring back a genuine account. Accordingly, James
Murray of Stanhope, the brother of Sir David Murray, was employed to
this effect. "He was," says Lord Lovat, "a spy of Lord Middleton's, his
sworn creature, and a man who had no other means of subsistence."[171]
From other accounts, however, Mr. Murray is shown to have been a man of
probity, although in great pecuniary difficulties, as many of the
younger members of old families were at that time.[172] Mr. James Murray
was sent forward into Scotland six weeks before Lord Lovat set out from
France; and the Court had the wisdom to send with the latter another
emissary in the person of Mr. The correspondence could not be found, indeed, because it had never
existed.

I do affirm, that there never passed a word, written or verbal,
directly or indirectly, between General Washington and myself on
the subject of that letter.Not being furnished with passports, and having no other pass
than the orders of the Marquis De Torcy to the commandants of the
different forts upon the coast, he was obliged also, to wait for an
entire month, the arrival of an English packet for the exchange of
prisoners,--the captain of the vessel having been bribed to take him and
his companions on board as English prisoners of war, and to put them on
shore during the night, in his boat, near Dover.

Through the interest of Louis the Fourteenth, Lovat had received the
commission from King James of major-general, with power to raise and
command forces in his behalf:[173] and thus provided, he proceeded to
Scotland, where he was met by the Duke of Argyle, his friend, and
conducted by that nobleman to Edinburgh. Such was the simple statement
of Lovat's first steps on this occasion. According to his memorial,
which he afterwards presented to Queen Mary, he received assurances of
support from the Catholic gentry of Durham, who, "when he showed them
the King's picture, fell down on their knees and kissed it."[174] This
flattering statement appeared, however, to resemble the rest of the
memorial of his proceedings, and met with little or no credence even in
the quarter where it was most likely to be well received.

From the Duke of Queensbury, Lord Lovat received a pass to go into the
Highlands, which was procured under feigned names, both for him and his
two companions, from Lord Nottingham, then Secretary of State. After
this necessary preliminary, Lord Lovat made a tour among some of the
principal nobility in the Lowlands. He found them, even according to
his own statement, averse to take up arms without an express commission
from the King. But he remarks, writing always as he does in the third
person, "My Lord Lovat pursued his journey to the Highlands, where they
were overjoyed to see him, because they believed him dead, having been
fourteen months in France, without writing any word to his country. 
Pickering, nor was it suspected that it would draw forth his
pen in justification of this infidelity, which he has, however,
undertaken in the course of his pamphlet, but more particularly in its
conclusion.

He arraigns me on two grounds, my actions, and my motives. The very
actions, however, which he arraigns, have been such as the great
majority of my fellow-citizens have approved. The approbation of
Mr.
Pickering, and of those who thought with him, I had no right to
expect.."[175] This statement, though possibly not wholly
untrue, must be taken with more than the usual degree of allowance for
the exaggeration of a partisan. Many of the Highland noblemen and
chieftains were, indeed, well disposed to the cause of which Lord Lovat
was the unfortunate and unworthy representative; but all regretted that
their young King, as they styled him, should repose trust in so bad a
character, and in many instances refused to treat with Lovat. And,
indeed, the partial success which he attained might be ascribed to the
credit of his companion Captain John Murray, a gentleman of good family,
whose brother, Murray of Abercairney, was greatly respected in his
county.

