The First Consul left Milan on the 24th; and we returned to France by the
route of Mont Cenis, traveling as rapidly as possible.  Everywhere the
Consul was received with an enthusiasm difficult to describe.  Arches of
triumph had been erected at the entrance of each town, and in each canton
a deputation of leading citizens came to make addresses to and compliment
him.  Long ranks of young girls, dressed in white, crowned with flowers,
bearing flowers in their hands, and throwing flowers into the carriage of
the First Consul, made themselves his only escort, surrounded him,
followed him, and preceded him, until he had passed, or as soon as he set
foot on the ground wherever he stopped.

The journey was thus, throughout the whole route, a perpetual fete; and
at Lyons it amounted to an ovation, in which the whole town turned out to
meet him.  He entered, surrounded by an immense crowd, amid the most
noisy demonstrations, and alighted at the hotel of the Celestins.  In the
Reign of Terror the Jacobins had spent their fury on the town of Lyons,
the destruction of which they had sworn; and the handsome buildings which
ornamented the Place Belcour had been leveled to the ground, the hideous
cripple Couthon,  at the head of the vilest mob of the clubs, striking
the first blow with the hammer.  The First Consul detested the Jacobins,
who, on their side, hated and feared him; and his constant care was to
destroy their work, or, in other words, to restore the ruins with which
they had covered France.  He thought then, and justly too, that he could
not better respond to the affection of the people of Lyons, than by
promoting with all his power the rebuilding of the houses of the Place
Belcour; and before his departure he himself laid the first stone.  The
town of Dijon gave the First Consul a reception equally as brilliant.

Between Villeneuve-le-Roi and Sens, at the descent to the bridge of
Montereau, while the eight horses, lashed to a gallop, were bearing the
carriage rapidly along (the First Consul already traveled like a king),
the tap of one of the front wheels came off.  The inhabitants who lined
the route, witnessing this accident, and foreseeing what would be the
result, used every effort to stop the postilions, but did not succeed,
and the carriage was violently upset.  The First Consul received no
injury; General Berthier had his face slightly scratched by the windows,
which were broken; and the two footmen, who were on the steps, were
thrown, violently to a distance, and badly wounded.  The First Consul got
out, or rather was pulled out, through one of the doors.  Ay, that _would_
be unfortunate. But the misfortune for this repartee was, that I,
for whose use it was intended, not being in the predicament of a _stranger_
to the dispute, having seen every page of the pleadings, knew all (except
Mr. Taylor's) to be false in their statements; after which their
arguments signified nothing.

THE ANTIGONE OF SOPHOCLES, AS REPRESENTED ON THE EDINBURGH STAGE.

Every thing in our days is new. _Roads_, for instance, which, being
formerly 'of the earth earthy,' and therefore perishable, are now iron,
and next door to being immortal; _tragedies_, which are so entirely new,
that neither we nor our fathers, through eighteen hundred and ninety odd
years, gone by, since Caesar did our little island the honor to sit upon
its skirts, have ever seen the like to this 'Antigone;' and, finally,
even more new are _readers_, who, being once an obedient race of men,
most humble and deferential in the presence of a Greek scholar, are now
become intractably mutinous; keep their hats on whilst he is addressing
them; and listen to him or not, as he seems to talk sense or nonsense.
Some there are, however, who look upon all these new things as being intensely
old. Yet, surely the railroads are new? No; not at all. Talus, the iron
man in Spenser, who continually ran round the island of Crete,
administering gentle warning and correction to offenders, by flooring
them with an iron flail, was a very ancient personage in Greek
fable; and the received opinion is, that he must have been a Cretan
railroad, called The Great Circular Coast-Line, that carried my
lords the judges on their circuits of jail-delivery.

The 'Antigone,' again, that wears the freshness of morning dew, and is so
fresh and dewy in the beautiful person of Miss Faucit, had really begun
to look faded on the Athenian stage, and even 'of a certain age,' about
the death of Pericles, whose meridian year was the year 444 before
Christ.
I turned my bridle, set off at a gallop, and, having found
the snuff-box on his desk, retraced my steps to overtake him, but did not
succeed in doing so till he had reached Ruelle.  Just as I drew near the
carriage my horse slipped on a stone, fell, and threw me some distance
into a ditch.  The fall was very severe; and I remained stretched on the
ground, with one shoulder dislocated, and an arm badly bruised.  The
First Consul ordered the horses stopped, himself gave orders to have me
taken up, and cautioned them to be very careful in moving me; and I was
borne, attended by-him, to the barracks of Ruelle, where he took pains
before continuing his journey to satisfy himself that I was in no danger.
The physician of his household was sent to Ruelle, my shoulder set, and
my arm dressed; and from there I was carried as gently as possible to
Malmaison, where, good Madame, Bonaparte had the kindness to come to see
me, and lavished on me every attention.

The day I returned to service, after my recovery, I was in the
antechamber of the First Consul as he came out of his cabinet.  He drew
near me, and inquired with great interest how I was.  I replied that,
thanks to the care taken of me, according to the orders of my excellent
master and mistress, I was quite well again.  "So much the better," said
the First Consul.  "Constant, make haste, and get your strength back.
Continue to serve me well, and I will take care of you.  Here," added he,
placing in my hand three little crumpled papers, "these are to replenish
your wardrobe;" and he passed on, without listening to the profuse thanks
which, with great emotion, I was attempting to express, much more for the
consideration and interest in me shown by him than for his present, for I
did not then know of what it consisted.  After he passed on I unrolled my
papers: they were three bank-bills, each for a thousand francs!  I was
moved to tears by so great a kindness.  We must remember that at this
period the First Consul was not rich, although he was the first
magistrate of the republic.  How deeply the remembrance of this generous
deed touches me, even to-day.  I do not know if details so personal to me
will be found interesting; but they seem to me proper as evidence of the
true character of the Emperor, which has been so outrageously
misrepresented, and also as an instance of his ordinary conduct towards
the servants of his house; it shows too, at the same time, whether the
severe economy that he required in his domestic management, and of which
I will speak elsewhere, was the result, as has been stated, of sordid
avarice, or whether it was not rather a rule of prudence, from which he
departed willingly whenever his kindness of heart or his humanity urged
him thereto.

I am not certain that my memory does not deceive me in leading me to put
in this place a circumstance which shows the esteem in which the First
Consul held the brave soldiers of his army, and how he loved to manifest
it on all occasions.  I was one day in his sleeping-room, at the usual
hour for his toilet, and was performing that day the duties of chief
valet, Hambard being temporarily absent or indisposed, there being in the
room, besides the body servants, only the brave and modest Colonel
Gerard Lacuee, one of the aides-de-camp of the First Consul.  Jerome
Bonaparte, then hardly seventeen years of age, was introduced.  This
young man gave his family frequent cause of complaint, and feared no one
except his brother Napoleon, who reprimanded, lectured, and scolded him
as if he had been his own son.  Ale, he may object, is an unclassical
tipple; but perhaps not. Xenophon, the most Attic of prose writers, mentions
pointedly in his _Anabasis_, that the Ten Thousand, when retreating
through snowy mountains, and in circumstances very like our General
Elphinstone's retreat from Cabul, came upon a considerable stock of
bottled ale. To be sure, the poor ignorant man calls it _barley wine_,
[Greek: _oitos chrithinos_:] but the flavor was found so perfectly classical
that not one man of the ten thousand, not even the Attic bee himself,
is reported to have left any protest against it, or indeed to have left
much of the ale.

But stop: perhaps I am intruding upon other men's space. Speaking,
therefore, now finally to the principal question, How far did this
memorable experiment succeed?On the day of which I have spoken, after some moments of
conversation and scolding, still on the subject of the navy, Jerome said
to his brother, "Instead of sending me to perish of ennui at sea, you
ought to take me for an aide-de-camp."--"What, take you, greenhorn,"
warmly replied the First Consul; "wait till a ball has furrowed your face
and then I will see about it," at the same time calling his attention to
Colonel Lacuee,  who blushed, and dropped his eyes to the floor like a
young girl, for, as is well known, he bore on his face the scar made by a
bullet.  This gallant colonel was killed in 1805 before Guntzbourg; and
the Emperor deeply regretted his loss, for he ways one of the bravest and
most skillful officers of the army.

It was, I believe, about this time that the First Consul conceived a
strong passion for a very intelligent and handsome young woman, Madame D.
Madame Bonaparte, suspecting this intrigue, showed jealousy; and her
husband did all he could to allay her wifely suspicions.  Before going to
the chamber of his mistress he would wait until every one was asleep in
the chateau; and he even carried his precautions so far as to go from his
room to hers in his night-dress, without shoes or slippers.  Once I found
that day was about to break before his return; and fearing scandal, I
went, as the First Consul had ordered me to do in such a case, to notify
the chambermaid of Madame D. to go to her mistress and tell her the hour.
It was hardly five minutes after this timely notice had been given, when
I saw the First Consul returning, in great excitement, of which I soon
learned the cause.  He had discovered, on his return, one of Madame
Bonaparte's women, lying in wait, and who had seen him through the window
of a closet opening upon the corridor.  The First Consul, after a
vigorous outburst against the curiosity of the fair sex, sent me to the
young scout from the enemy's camp to intimate to her his orders to hold
her tongue, unless she wished to be discharged without hope of return.
I do not know whether I added a milder argument to these threats to buy
her silence; but, whether from fear or for compensation, she had the good
sense not to talk.  Nevertheless, the successful lover, fearing another
surprise, directed me to rent in the Allee des Ireuves a little house
where he and Madame D. met from time to time.  Such were, and continued
to be, the precautions of the First Consul towards his wife.  He had the
highest regard for her, and took all imaginable care to prevent his
infidelities coming to her knowledge.  Besides, these passing fancies did
not lessen the tenderness he felt for her; and although other women
inspired him with love, no other woman had his confidence and friendship
to the same extent as Madame Bonaparte.  There have been a thousand and
one calumnies repeated of the harshness and brutality of the First Consul
towards women.  He was not always gallant, but I have never seen him
rude; and, however singular it may seem after what I have just related,
he professed the greatest veneration for a wife of exemplary conduct,
speaking in admiring terms of happy households; and he did not admire
cynicism, either in morals or in language.  When he had any liaisons he
kept them secret, and concealed them with great care.


CHAPTER VI.

The 3d Nivose, year IX.  (Dec.  21, 1800),

     [Under the Republican regime the years were counted from the
     proclamation of the Republic, Sept.  22, 1792.  of which were the grand
     prelude to the pathetic peroration--the dim outline of a
     female form, in the distance, riveted the eyes and absorbed the
     thoughts of Maltravers. The chapel was darkened, though it
     was broad daylight; and the face of the person that attracted
     Ernest's attention was concealed by her head-dress and veil. But
     that bend of the neck, so simply graceful, so humbly modest, recalled
     to his heart but one image.
     Every one has, perhaps, observed that there is a physiognomy (if
the bull may be pardoned) of _form_ as well as face, which it rarely
happens that two persons possess in common.

And this, with most, is peculiarly marked in the turn of the head,
the outline of the shoulders, and the ineffable something that characterises
the postures of each individual in repose. The more intently he gazed,
the more firmly Ernest was persuaded that he saw before him the long-lost,
the never-to-be-forgotten mistress of his boyish days, and his first
love.
On one side of the lady in question sat an elderly gentleman, whose
eyes were fixed upon the preacher; on the other, a beautiful little
girl, with long fair ringlets, and that cast of features which, from its
exquisite delicacy and expressive mildness, painters and poets call the
"angelic." These persons appeared to belong to the same party.
Maltravers literally trembled, so great were his impatience and agitation.
Yet still, the dress of the supposed likeness of Alice, the appearance of
her companions, were so evidently above the ordinary rank, that Ernest
scarcely ventured to yield to the suggestions of his own heart. Was it
possible that the daughter of Luke Darvil, thrown upon the wide world,
could have risen so far beyond her circumstances and station? At
length the moment came when he might resolve his doubts--the
discourse was concluded--the extemporaneous prayer was at an end--the
congregation broke up, and Maltravers pushed his way, as well as
he could, through the dense and serried crowd. But every moment some
vexatious obstruction, in the shape of a fat gentleman or three
close-wedged ladies, intercepted his progress. He lost sight of the
party in question amidst the profusion of tall bonnets and waving plumes.
He arrived at last, breathless and pale as death (so great was the
struggle within him), at the door of the chapel. He arrived in time to
see a plain carriage with servants in grey undress liveries, driving
from the porch--and caught a glimpse, within the vehicle, of the golden
ringlets of a child. He darted forward, he threw himself almost before
the horses. The coachman drew in, and with an angry exclamation,
very much like an oath, whipped his horses aside and went off. But
that momentary pause sufficed.--"It is she--it is!By a fortunate chance, the carriages of the suite, which
should have been immediately behind that of the First Consul, were some
distance in the rear, which happened in this way: Madame Bonaparte, after
dinner, had a shawl brought to wear to the opera; and when it came,
General Rapp jestingly criticised the color, and begged her to choose
another.  Madame Bonaparte defended her shawl, and said to the general
that he knew as much about criticising a toilet as she did about
attacking a fort.  This friendly banter continued for some moments; and
in the interval, the First Consul, who never waited, set out in advance,
and the miserable assassins and authors of the conspiracy set fire to the
infernal machine.  Had the coachman of the First Consul driven less
rapidly, and thereby been two seconds later, it would have been all over
with his master; while, on the other hand, if Madame Bonaparte had
followed her husband promptly, it would have been certain death to her
and all her suite.

It was, in fact, the delay of an instant which saved her life, as well as
that of her daughter, her sister-in-law, Madame Murat, and all who were
to accompany them, since the carriage of these ladies, instead of being
immediately behind that of the First Consul, was just leaving the Place
Carrousel, when the machine exploded.  The glass was shivered; and though
Madame Bonaparte received no injury except the terrible fright, Hortense
was slightly wounded in the face by a piece of glass, and Madame Caroline
Murat, who was then far advanced in pregnancy, was so frightened that it
was necessary to carry her back to the Tuileries.  This catastrophe had
its influence, even on the health of her child; for I have been told that
Prince Achille Muratz is subject, to this day, to frequent attacks of
epilepsy.  As is well known, the First Consul went on to the opera, where
he was received with tumultuous acclamations, the immobility  of his
countenance contrasting strongly with the pallor and  agitation of Madame
Bonaparte's, who had feared not so much for herself as for him.  The
coachman who had driven the First Consul with such good fortune was named
Germain.  He had followed  him in Egypt, and in a skirmish had killed an
Arab, with his own hand, under the eyes of the general-in-chief,  who,
struck with his courage, had cried out, "Diable! that's a brave man, he
is a Caesar."  The name had clung to him.  It has been said that this
brave man was drunk at the time of this explosion; but this is a mistake,
which his conduct under the circumstances contradicts in the most
positive manner.  When the First Consul, after he became Emperor, went
out, incognito, in Paris, it was Caesar who was his escort, without
livery.  It is said in the Memorial de Sainte Helene that the Emperor,
in speaking of Caesar, stated that he was in a complete state of
intoxication, and took the noise of the explosion for an artillery
salute, nor did he know until the next day what had taken place.  This is
entirely untrue, and the Emperor was incorrectly informed in regard to
his coachman.  Caesar drove the First Consul very rapidly because he had
been ordered to do so, and because he considered his honor interested in
not allowing the obstacle which the infernal machine placed in his way
before the explosion to delay him.  The evening of the event I saw
Caesar, who was perfectly sober, and he himself related to me part of the
details that I have just given.  A few days after, four or five hundred
hackney-coachmen clubbed together to honor him, and gave him a
magnificent dinner at twenty-four francs per head.

