The last house on the principal street is rather an ugly one, with
especially nice window curtains.  As I was taking my daily walk to the
post-office (an entirely unfruitful expedition thus far, as nobody has
taken the pains to write to me) I saw a nursemaid coming out of the gate,
wheeling a baby in a perambulator.  In Gaelic _dream_ or _dreim_ signifies
a family, a tribe, the people, a procession; and _qu tric_, frequently,
often, so that these words represent a frequent procession of the
people to the hill of worship under the greenwood tree.She gazed fixedly for a moment,
her eyes brightening and her cheeks flushing with pleasure,--whoever it
was, it was an unexpected arrival;--then she retraced her steps and,
running up the garden-path, opened the front door and held an excited
colloquy with somebody; a slender somebody in a nice print gown and
neatly-dressed hair, who came to the gate and peeped beyond the hedge
several times, drawing back between peeps with smiles and heightened
colour.  She did not run down the road, even when she had satisfied
herself of the identity of the traveller; perhaps that would not have
been good form in an English village, for there were houses on the
opposite side of the way.  She waited until he opened the gate, the
nursemaid took the bag and looked discreetly into the hedge, then the
mistress slipped her hand through the traveller's arm and walked up the
path as if she had nothing else in the world to wish for.  The nurse had
a part in the joy, for she lifted the baby out of the perambulator and
showed proudly how much he had grown.

It was a dear little scene, and I, a passer-by, had shared in it and felt
better for it.  I think their content was no less because part of it had
enriched my life, for happiness, like mercy, is twice blessed; it blesses
those who are most intimately associated in it, and it blesses all those
who see it, hear it, feel it, touch it, or breathe the same atmosphere.  A
laughing, crowing baby in a house, one cheerful woman singing about her
work, a boy whistling at the plough, a romance just suspected, with its
miracle of two hearts melting into one--the wind's always in the west
when you have any of these wonder-workers in your neighbourhood.

I have talks too, sometimes, with the old parson, who lives in a quaint
house with "_Parva Domus Magna Quies_" cut into the stone over the
doorway.  He is not a preaching parson, but a retired one, almost the
nicest kind, I often think.

He has been married thirty years, he tells me; thirty years, spent in the
one little house with the bricks painted red and grey alternately, and
the scarlet holly-hocks growing under the windows.  I am sure they have
been sweet, true, kind years, and that his heart must be a quiet,
peaceful place just like his house and garden.

"I was only eleven years old when I fell in love with my wife," he told
me as we sat on the seat under the lime-tree; he puffing cosily at his
pipe, I plaiting grasses for a hatband.

{Puffing cosily at his pipe: p77.jpg}

"It was just before Sunday-school.  Her mother had dressed her all in
white muslin like a fairy, but she had stepped on the edge of a puddle,
and some of the muddy water had bespattered her frock.  A circle of
children had surrounded her, and some of the motherly little girls were
on their knees rubbing at the spots anxiously, while one of them wiped
away the tears that were running down her pretty cheeks.  I looked!  It
was fatal!  I did not look again, but I was smitten to the very heart!  I
did not speak to her for six years, but when I did, it was all right with
both of us, thank God! and I've been in love with her ever since, when
she behaves herself!"

That is the way they speak of love in Barbury Green, and oh! how much
sweeter and more wholesome it is than the language of the town!  Who
would not be a Goose Girl, "to win the secret of the weed's plain heart"?
It seems to me that in society we are always gazing at magic-lantern
shows, but here we rest our tired eyes with looking at the stars.


CHAPTER XI


{A Hen Conference: p79.jpg}

July 16th.

Phoebe and I have been to a Hen Conference at Buffington.  It was for the
purpose of raising the standard of the British Hen, and our local
Countess, who is much interested in poultry, was in the chair.

It was a very learned body, but Phoebe had coached me so well that at the
noon recess I could talk confidently with the members, discussing the
various advantages of True and Crossed Minorcas, Feverels, Andalusians,
Cochin Chinas, Shanghais, and the White Leghorn.  A political song
in a manuscript of the time of King Henry the Sixth, concludes--
Let us all sing nowelle, Nowelle, nowelle, nowelle, nowelle, And
Christ save merry England and spede it well.

The modern Gaelic and Celtic for Christmas is _Nollaig_--a corruption
of the ancient Druidical name for holiday--from _naomh_, holy, and
_la_, day, whence "Naola!" the burden of a Druidical hymn, announcing
the fact that a day of religious rejoicing had arrived for the people.

A very remarkable example of the vitality of these Druidic chants is
afforded by the well-known political song of "_Lilli Burlero_" of which
Lord Macaulay gives the following account in his History of England:--
"Thomas Wharton, who, in the last Parliament had represented
Buckinghamshire, and who was already conspicuous both as a libertine
and as a Whig, had written a satirical ballad on the administration of
Tyrconnel. In his little poem an Irishman congratulates a brother Irishman
in a barbarous jargon on the approaching triumph of Popery and of the
Milesian race. The Protestant heir will be excluded. The Protestant officers
will be broken. The great charter and the praters who appeal to it will
be hanged in one rope.

The good Talbot will shower commissions on his countrymen, and will
cut the throats of the English.

These verses, which were in no respect above the ordinary standard of street
poetry, had for burden some gibberish which was said to have been used
as a watchword by the insurgents of Ulster in 1641. The verses and
the tune caught the fancy of the nation. From one end of England to the
other all classes were constantly singing this idle rhyme. It was
especially the delight of the English army. More than seventy years after
the Revolution a great writer delineated with exquisite skill a
veteran who had fought at the Boyne and at Namur. One of the
characteristics of the good old soldier is his trick of whistling
Lilliburllero. Wharton afterwards boasted that he had sung a king out of
three kingdoms. But, in truth, the success of Lilliburllero was the
effect and not the cause of that excited state of public feeling which
produced the Revolution."
The mysterious syllables which Lord Macaulay asserted to be gibberish,
and which in this corrupt form were enough to puzzle a Celtic scholar,
and more than enough to puzzle Lord Macaulay, who, like the still more
ignorant Doctor Samuel Johnson, knew nothing of the venerable language
of the first inhabitants of the British Isles, and of all Western Europe,
resolve themselves into _Li! Li Beur! Lear-a! Buille na la_, which signify,
"Light! Light! on the sea, beyond the promontory! 'Tis the stroke
(or dawn) of the day!"

Like all the choruses previously cited, these words are part of a
hymn to the sun, and entirely astronomical and Druidical.

The syllables _Fol de rol_ which still occur in many of the vulgarest
songs of the English lower classes, and which were formerly much more
commonly employed than they are now, are a corruption of _Failte
reul!_ or welcome to the star! _Fal de ral_ is another form of the corruption
which the Celtic original has undergone.

The French, a more Celtic people than the English, have preserved many
of the Druidical chants.Just as we were passing out the door we paused to hear the report of a
special committee whose chairman read the following resolutions:--

_Whereas_,--It has pleased the Almighty to remove from our midst our
greatest Rose Comb Buff Orpington fancier and esteemed friend, Albert
Edward Sheridain; therefore be it

_Resolved_,--That the next edition of our catalogue contain an
illustrated memorial page in his honour and

_Resolved_,--That the Rose Comb Buff Orpington Club extend to the
bereaved family their heartfelt sympathy.

{Not asked to the Conference: p84.jpg}

The handsome young farmer followed us out to our trap, invited us to
attend the next meeting of the R. C. B. O. Club, of which he was the
secretary, and asked if I were intending to "show."  I introduced Phoebe
as the senior partner, and she concealed the fact that we possessed but
one Buff Orpington, and he was a sad "invaleed" not suitable for
exhibition.  The farmer's expression as he looked at me was almost lover-
like, and when he pressed a bit of paper into my hand I was sure it must
be an offer of marriage.  It was in fact only a circular describing the
Banner Bone Breaker.  It closed with an appeal to Buff Orpington breeders
to raise and ever raise the standard, bidding them remember, in the midst
of a low-minded and sordid civilisation, that the rose comb should be
small and neat, firmly set on, with good working, a nice spike at the
back lying well down to head, and never, under any circumstances, never
sticking up.  This adjuration somewhat alarmed us as Phoebe and I had
been giving our Buff Orpington cockerel the most drastic remedies for his
languid and prostrate comb.

{Coming home: p85.jpg}

Coming home we alighted from the trap to gather hogweed for the rabbits.
I sat by the wayside lazily and let Phoebe gather the appetising weed,
which grows along the thorniest hedges in close proximity to nettles and
thistles.

Workmen were trudging along with their luncheon-baskets of woven
bulrushes slung over their shoulders.  Fields of ripening grain lay on
either hand, the sun shining on their every shade of green and yellow,
bronze and orange, while the breeze stirred the bearded barley into a
rippling golden sea.

Phoebe asked me if the people I had left behind at the Hydropathic were
my relatives.

"Some of them are of remote consanguinity," I responded evasively, and
the next question was hushed upon her awe-stricken tongue, as I intended.

"They are obeying my wish to be let alone, there's no doubt of that," I
was thinking.  "For my part, I like a little more spirit, and a little
less 'letter'!"

{Workmen were trudging home: p87.jpg}

As the word "letter" flitted through my thoughts, I pulled one from my
pocket and glanced through it carelessly.  It arrived, somewhat tardily,
only last night, or I should not have had it with me.  I wore the same
dress to the post-office yesterday that I wore to the Hen Conference to-
day, and so it chanced to be still in the pocket.  If it had been
anything I valued, of course I should have lost or destroyed it by
mistake; it is only silly, worthless little things like this that keep
turning up and turning up after one has forgotten their existence.

   "You are a mystery!" [it ran.]  "I can apprehend, but not comprehend
   you.  I know you in part.  I understand various bits of your nature;
   but my knowledge is always fragmentary and disconnected, and when I
   attempt to make a whole of the mosaics I merely get a kaleidoscopic
   effect.  Do you know those geographical dissected puzzles that they
   give to children?  You remind me of one of them.

   "I have spent many charming (and dangerous) hours trying to 'put you
   together'; but I find, when I examine my picture closely, that after
   all I've made a purple mountain grow out of a green tree; that my
   river is running up a steep hillside; and that the pretty milkmaid,
   who should be wandering in the forest, is standing on her head with
   her pail in the air

   "Do you understand yourself clearly?  Or is it just possible that when
   you dive to the depths of your own consciousness, you sometimes find
   the pretty milkmaid standing on her head?  I wonder!" . . .

Ah, well, it is no wonder that he wonders!   So do I, for that matter!


CHAPTER XII


{Along the highway: p89.jpg}

July 17th.

Thornycroft Farm seems to be the musical centre of the universe.

When I wake very early in the morning I lie in a drowsy sort of dream,
trying to disentangle, one from the other, the various bird notes,
trills, coos, croons, chirps, chirrups, and warbles.  Suddenly there
falls on the air a delicious, liquid, finished song; so pure, so mellow,
so joyous, that I go to the window and look out at the morning world,
half awakened, like myself.

There is I know not what charm in a window that does not push up, but
opens its lattices out into the greenness.  And mine is like a little
jewelled door, for the sun is shining from behind the chimneys and
lighting the tiny diamond panes with amber flashes.

A faint delicate haze lies over the meadow, and rising out of it, and
soaring toward the blue is the lark, flinging out that matchless matin
song, so rich, so thrilling, so lavish!  As the blithe melody fades away,
I hear the plaintive ballad-fragments of the robin on a curtsying branch
near my window; and there is always the liquid pipe of the thrush, who
must quaff a fairy goblet of dew between his songs, I should think, so
fresh and eternally young is his note.

It is marked with the maker's name, J. Bailey, Fishkill.

The New York Legislature, retiring before the approach of the
British, after the evacuation of the city, came at last to Fishkill,
and here the constitution of the State was printed, in 1777, on the
press of Samuel Loundon, the first book, Lossing says, ever printed
in the State.

   Some years after peace was
   restored, the Verplanck family appear to have occupied the Homestead
from time to time.

Philip Verplanck, a grandson of Gulian the original grantee, was a
native of the patent, but his public life was spent elsewhere. He was
an engineer and surveyor, and an able man. Verplanck's Point in
Westchester County, where Fort Lafayette stood during the Revolution, was
named for him, and he represented that Manor in the Colonial Assembly from
1734 to 1768. Finally, Daniel Crommelin Verplanck with his large family--one
of his sons being the well-known Gulian C. Verplanck, born here in 1786--came
to live in the old home permanently. He had led an active life in New
York, served in Congress and on the bench, and now retired to the
quiet of the country.

It was he who planted the fine old trees which now shade the lawn;
among them the coffee-tree so much admired.

About 1810 the north end, built of wood, was added to the old house.
Architects were not numerous, apparently, in those days, so the Dutch
type was lost in making this large addition, though the interior
is quaint, dignified and interesting. It was from under its roof that
Daniel C. Verplanck was carried to his last resting-place as his father
before him, and generations after him lived and still live in the
old Homestead.

For the above description, prepared with no little painstaking, of
an interesting house and demesne, as well as for the loan of the
photograph from which I made my pen-and-ink sketch of it, I am
wholly indebted to a member of the Verplanck family and a mutual
friend.

   A.J. BLOOR.
   
   * * *
   * *
   ROCK UPHEAVAL CAUSED
   BY HYDRAULIC PRESSURE.

--There was a remarkable occurrence at the mills of the Combined Locks
Paper Company at Combined Locks, Wis., on Saturday. From some unknown
cause there was an upheaval of rock upon which the mills are
located, throwing the mill walls out of place, cracking a great
wall of stone and cement twenty feet thick and making a saddle-back
several hundred feet long and six inches high in the bed rock beneath
the mill.

An artesian well two hundred feet away on the bluff has dried up.

The damage to the mill and machinery will probably amount to several thousand
dollars. The upheaval is supposed to have resulted from some hydraulic
pressure between the seams of rock beneath. A panic occurred among the
mill operatives at the time of the shake-up, but nobody was hurt in the
stampede from the mill.

--_Boston Transcript_, _September_ 10.

ELECTRICITY'S VICTIMS IN EUROPE.

[Illustration: Monument to Minine and Pojarsky, Russia.]
Although the greatest number of deaths from electricity have occurred in
this country--more than one hundred--of which twenty-two occurred
in this city, yet other countries have not been without such
"accidents," as has been erroneously stated by experts in the employ
of the companies interested in the deadly high-voltage currents,
and as the subjoined list, compiled by C.F.

Heinrichs, the electrical expert, shows.

The list is by no means exhaustive. Many European newspapers contain
articles advising stringent measures to stop the causes of those
accidents and the use of currents of electricity above six hundred
volts.

Following is a list of victims of electricity in Europe:

In February, 1880, Mr.
CHAPTER XIII


{Not particularly attracted by the poultry: p96.jpg}

I have been studying _The Young Poultry Keeper's Friend_ of late.  If
there is anything I dislike and deplore, it is the possession of
knowledge which I cannot put to practical use.  Having discovered an
interesting disease called Scaly Leg in the July number, I took the
magazine out into the poultry-yard and identified the malady on three
hens and a cock.  Phoebe joined me in the diagnosis and we treated the
victims with a carbolic lotion and scrubbed them with vaseline.

{Leaned languidly against the netting: p97.jpg}

As Phoebe and I grow wise in medical lore the case of Cannibal Ann
assumes a different aspect.  As the bibulous man quaffs more and more
flagons of beer and wine when his daily food is ham, salt fish, and
cabbage, so does the hen avenge her wrongs of diet and woes of
environment.  Cannibal Ann, herself, has, so far as we know, been raised
in a Christian manner and enjoyed all the advantages of modern methods;
but her maternal parent may have lived in some heathen poultry-yard which
was asphalted or bricked or flagged, so that she was debarred from
scratching in Mother Earth and was forced to eat her own shells in self-
defence.

* * * * *

The Square Baby is not particularly attracted by the poultry as a whole,
save when it is boiled with bacon or roasted with bread-sauce; but he is
much interested in the "invaleeds."  Whenever Phoebe and I start for the
hospital with the tobacco-pills, the tin of paraffin, and the bottle of
oil, he is very much in evidence.  Perhaps he has a natural leaning
toward the medical profession; at any rate, when pain and anguish wring
the brow, he is in close attendance upon the ministering angels.

{Staggered and reeled: p98.jpg}

Now it is necessary for the physician to have practice as well as theory,
so the Square Baby, being left to himself this afternoon, proceeded to
perfect himself in some of the healing arts used by country
practitioners.

{Caught her son red-handed: p99.jpg}

When discovered, he was seated in front of the wire-covered "run"
attached to a coop occupied by the youngest goslings.  A couple of
bottles and a box stood by his side, and I should think he had
administered a cup of sweet oil, a pint of paraffin, and a quarter of a
pound of tobacco during his clinic.  He had used the remedies
impartially, sometimes giving the paraffin internally and rubbing the
patient's head with tobacco or oil, sometimes the reverse.

Several goslings leaned languidly against the netting, or supported
themselves by the edge of the water-dish, while others staggered and
reeled about with eyes half closed.

{He was treated summarily and smartly: p100.jpg}

It was Mrs. Heaven who caught her son red-handed, so to speak.  She was
dressed in her best, and just driving off to Woodmucket to spend a day or
two with her married daughter, and soothe her nerves with the uproar
incident to a town of six hundred inhabitants.  She delayed her journey a
half-hour--long enough, in fact, to change her black silk waist for a
loose sacque which would give her arms full and comfortable play.  The
joy and astonishment that greeted the Square Baby on his advent, five
years ago, was forgotten for the first time in his brief life, and he was
treated precisely as any ordinary wrongdoer would have been treated under
the same circumstances, summarily and smartly; the "wepping," as Phoebe
would say, being Mrs. Heaven's hand.

All but one of the goslings lived, like thousands of others who recover
in spite of the doctors, but the Square Baby's interest in the healing
art is now perceptibly lessened.


CHAPTER XIV


July 18th.

The day was Friday; Phoebe's day to go to Buffington with eggs and
chickens and rabbits; her day to solicit orders for ducklings and
goslings.  The village cart was ready in the stable; Mr. and Mrs. Heaven
were in Woodmucket; I was eating my breakfast (which I remember was an
egg and a rasher) when Phoebe came in, a figure of woe.

The Square Baby was ill, very ill, and would not permit her to leave him
and go to market.  Would I look at him?  For he must have dowsed 'imself
as well as the goslings yesterday; anyways he was strong of paraffin and
tobacco, though he 'ad 'ad a good barth.

I prescribed for Albert Edward, who was as uncomfortable and feverish as
any little sinner in the county of Sussex, and I then promptly proposed
going to Buffington in Phoebe's place.

She did not think it at all proper, and said that, notwithstanding my
cotton gown and sailor hat, I looked quite, quite the lydy, and it would
never do.

"I cannot get any new orders," said I, "but I can certainly leave the
rabbits and eggs at the customary places.  I know Argent's Dining
Parlours, and Songhurst's Tea Rooms, and the Six Bells Inn, as well as
you do."

{The Six Bells found the last poultry somewhat tough: p103.jpg}

So, donning a pair of Phoebe's large white cotton gloves with open-work
wrists (than which I always fancy there is no one article that so
disguises the perfect lydy), I set out upon my travels, upborne by a
lively sense of amusement that was at least equal to my feeling that I
was doing Phoebe Heaven a good turn.

Prices in dressed poultry were fluctuating, but I had a copy of _The
Trade Review_, issued that very day, and was able to get some idea of
values and the state of the market as I jogged along.  The general
movement, I learned, was moderate and of a "selective" character.  Choice
large capons and ducks were in steady demand, but I blushed for my
profession when I read that roasting chickens were running coarse,
staggy, and of irregular value.  Old hens were held firmly at sixpence,
and it is my experience that they always have to be, at whatever price.
Geese were plenty, dull, and weak.  Old cocks,--why don't they say
roosters?--declined to threepence ha'penny on Thursday in sympathy with
fowls,--and who shall say that chivalry is dead?  Turkeys were a trifle
steadier, and there was a speculative movement in limed eggs.  All this
was illuminating, and I only wished I were quite certain whether the
sympathetic old roosters were threepence ha'penny apiece, or a pound.

{The gadabout hen: p105.jpg}

Everything happened as it should, on this first business journey of my
life, which is equivalent to saying that nothing happened at all.
Songhurst's Tea Rooms took five dozen eggs and told me to bring six dozen
the next week.  Argent's Dining Parlours purchased three pairs of
chickens and four rabbits.  The Six Bells found the last poultry somewhat
tough and tasteless; whereupon I said that our orders were more than we
could possibly fill, still I hoped we could go on "selling them," as we
never liked to part with old customers, no matter how many new ones there
were.  Privately, I understood the complaint only too well, for I knew
the fowls in question very intimately.  Two of them were the runaway
rooster and the gadabout hen that never wanted to go to bed with the
others.  The third was Cannibal Ann.  I should have expected them to be
tough, but I cannot believe they were lacking in flavour.

The only troublesome feature of the trip was that Mrs. Sowerbutt's
lodgers had suddenly left for London and she was unable to take the four
rabbits as she had hoped; but as an offset to that piece of ill-fortune
the Coke and Coal Yard and the Bicycle Repairing Rooms came out into the
street, and, stepping up to the trap, requested regular weekly deliveries
of eggs and chickens, and hoped that I would be able to bring them
myself.  And so, in a happy frame of mind, I turned out of the Buffington
main street, and was jogging along homeward, when a very startling thing
happened; namely, a whole verse of the Bailiff's Daughter of Islington:--

   "And as she went along the high road,
   The weather being hot and dry,
   She sat her down upon a green bank,
   And her true love came riding by."

That true lovers are given to riding by, in ballads, I know very well,
but I hardly supposed they did so in real life, especially when every
precaution had been taken to avert such a catastrophe.  I had told the
Barbury Green postmistress, on the morning of my arrival, not to give the
Thornycroft address to anybody whatsoever, but finding, as the days
passed, that no one was bold enough or sensible enough to ask for it, I
haughtily withdrew my prohibition.  About this time I began sending
envelopes, carefully addressed in a feigned hand, to a certain person at
the Oxenbridge Hydro.  These envelopes contained no word of writing, but
held, on one day, only a bit of down from a hen's breast, on another, a
goose-quill, on another, a glossy tail-feather, on another, a grain of
corn, and so on.  These trifles were regarded by me not as degrading or
unmaidenly hints and suggestions, but simply as tests of intelligence.
Could a man receive tokens of this sort and fail to put two and two
together?  I feel that I might possibly support life with a domineering
and autocratic husband,--and there is every prospect that I shall be
called upon to do so,--but not with a stupid one.  Suppose one were
linked for ever to a man capable of asking,--"Did _you_ send those
feathers? . . . How was I to guess? . . . How was a fellow to know they
came from you? . . . What on earth could I suppose they meant? . . . What
clue did they offer me as to your whereabouts? . . . Am I a Sherlock
Holmes?"--No, better eternal celibacy than marriage with such a being!

{She was unable to take the four rabbits: p107.jpg}

These were the thoughts that had been coursing through my goose-girl mind
while I had been selling dressed poultry, but in some way they had not
prepared me for the appearance of the aforesaid true love.

To see the very person whom one has left civilisation to avoid is always
more or less surprising, and to make the meeting less likely, Buffington
is even farther from Oxenbridge than Barbury Green.  The creature was
well mounted (ominous, when he came to override my caprice!) and he
looked bigger, and, yes, handsomer, though that doesn't signify, and
still more determined than when I saw him last; although goodness knows
that timidity and feebleness of purpose were not in striking evidence on
that memorable occasion.  I had drawn up under the shade of a tree
ostensibly to eat some cherries, thinking that if I turned my face away I
might pass unrecognised.  It was a stupid plan, for if I had whipped up
the mare and driven on, he of course, would have had to follow, and he
has too much dignity and self-respect to shriek recriminations into a
woman's ear from a distance.

{The creature was well mounted: p109.jpg}

He approached with deliberation, reined in his horse, and lifted his hat
ceremoniously.  He has an extremely shapely head, but I did not show that
the sight of it melted in the least the ice of my resolve; whereupon we
talked, not very freely at first,--men are so stiff when they consider
themselves injured.  However, silence is even more embarrassing than
conversation, so at length I begin:--

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"It is a lovely day."

_True Love_.--"Yes, but the drought is getting rather oppressive, don't
you think?"

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"The crops certainly need rain, and the feed is
becoming scarce."

_True Love_.--"Are you a farmer's wife?"

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"Oh no! that is a promotion to look forward to; I
am now only a Goose Girl."

_True Love_.--"Indeed!  If I wished to be severe I might remark: that I
am sure you have found at last your true vocation!"

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"It was certainly through no desire to please
_you_ that I chose it."

_True Love_.--"I am quite sure of that!  Are you staying in this part?"

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"Oh no!  I live many miles distant, over an
extremely rough road.  And you?"

_True Love_.--"I am still at the Hydropathic; or at least my luggage is
there."

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"It must be very pleasant to attract you so long."

_True Love_.--"Not so pleasant as it was."

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"No?  A new proprietor, I suppose."

_True Love_.--"No; same proprietor; but the house is empty."

_Bailiff's Daughter_ (yawning purposely).--"That is strange; the hotels
are usually so full at this season.  Why did so many leave?"

_True Love_.--"As a matter of fact, only one left.  'Full' and 'empty'
are purely relative terms.  I call a hotel full when it has you in it,
empty when it hasn't."

_Bailiff's Daughter_ (dying to laugh, but concealing her feelings).When
the last wheel of the royal carriage was quite out of sight, we turned
to look at the palace that the Queen lived in, and Drinkwater pointed
out to me the funniest creature that ever I saw standing on a
pedestal by the gate.

He said it was a Unicorn, and that it was put there on purpose to
make the Queen laugh.

After we had counted the thousand and one windows in the front of the
Palace, we strolled along the pleasant path by the little lake,
and watched the children as they came with cakes in their hands to
feed those greedy geese, that seemed as if they would gobble up
cakes, and children, and all.

While we were resting ourselves on a seat under the trees, some distant
relations of ours, the Sparrowes of Evryware, passed by. It was well
they did not see us, for some of them know me, and I must confess
that I should not like to have been seen speaking to such shabby,
ill-looking fellows.

I wonder what their relations in the country would have said, had they
seen them in such wretched condition. Their coats were torn, one
of them had lost part of his tail, and their faces looked as if they
had not been washed since the last shower of rain.

Fearing lest the Sparrowes should return and discover us, I asked
Drinkwater to take the ferry-boat to the other side; and just as
we landed we had the pleasure of seeing the great Lord Bison introduce
his sister, Lady Dorothy Zebu, to the renowned Admiral Macaw.

You should have seen the polite bow of the admiral, and the delightful
curtsey of the lady. I was charmed beyond expression.

Lord Bison has a fine military air; they say he fought many battles
on the American prairies.

Lady Dorothy, who has just come from India, has, on the contrary, a mild,
benignant countenance, and, I am told, is very religious.

The admiral was covered with gold, and purple, and scarlet, and looked
for all the world like one of his namesakes in that beautiful place,
the Zoological Gardens.

This was one of my most eventful days in London, and I shall long
remember it.

But now I must tell you of that evening--shall I confess it? the
happiest evening of my life--when Drinkwater and I went to Lady
Chaffinch's ball.

My Aunt was too indisposed to accompany us; she therefore called
her son, and told him to take great care of me, as much as if I
were his own sister.

I have an idea that if my dear Aunt knew all, she would have said that
he rather exceeded his instructions; but never mind, he took great
care of me.

The carriage came for us at ten o'clock, when, had I been at Gorse
Bush, I should have been fast asleep on my perch,--as Drinkwater
says, for he loves to plague me about being a Linnet.

My Cousin was beautifully attired; he wore a most superb cravat,
of a deep ruby colour, and an under-waistcoat of the brightest
amber; but, in fact, he always attracts admiration; and I think,
without vanity, that I looked extremely well in the new brown dress
I took with me from home.

At a quarter past ten we entered Lady Chaffinch's ball-room, and, for a
moment, I was perfectly bewildered; indeed, Drinkwater had to
apologise to our hostess for my strange behaviour by saying I was
not quite well.

However, her ladyship, whom I had often seen in the country, was
very kind to me, led me to a seat, and began asking after her old
friends.

This soon brought me to my senses; and after a little while I could
bear to look at the dazzling chandeliers, the magnificent pier-glasses,
and the splendidly-dressed people, without being giddy at the sight.

Soon after our arrival, the band commenced playing, and some of the company
arranged themselves for a dance.

Old Sir Cayman Alligator, an East-Indian Director, led out the
graceful Lady Caroline Giraffe, who, I must say, deserved the praise
young Nightingale bestowed upon her, when he said, she was one of
"Nature's nobility."

I could not but admire her large, full eyes, which looked at you
so tenderly, and the gentle bending of her beautiful neck; and then,
what a contrast she was to her horrid-looking partner!

I suppose he must be very rich, or I cannot think why Lady Chaffinch
should have invited him.

Opposite to them stood young Lord Crowe, a younger brother of the
noble Earl of Ravenskind, and with him was the Honourable Miss
Pigeon.

Lord Crowe is a good-looking fellow, rather dark, it must be
confessed; but as he wears glasses, he looks very interesting.

They say that his brother, the Earl, has picked up his great wealth
in a most unaccountable manner, and that the whole family have a singular
want of discrimination in the meaning of the words _meum_ and
_tuum_.

His partner, who had a nice, dove-coloured dress on, appeared very
desirous of pleasing the young Lord, and I thought they seemed very
happy together.

All you would have to do is to
admit me; Heaven is full of twos.  If you shall swim on a crystal
lake--Phoebe told me what a genius you have for getting them out of the
muddy pond; she was sitting beside it when I called, her hand in that of
a straw-coloured person named Gladwish, and the ground in her vicinity
completely strewn with votive offerings.  You shall splash your silver
sea with an ivory wand; your hens shall have suburban cottages, each with
its garden; their perches shall be of satin-wood and their water dishes
of mother-of-pearl.  You shall be the Goose Girl and I will be the Swan
Herd--simply to be near you--for I hate live poultry.  Dost like the
picture?  It's a little like Claude Melnotte's, I confess.  The fact is I
am not quite sane; talking with you after a fortnight of the tabbies at
the Hydro is like quaffing inebriating vodka after Miffin's Food!  May I
come to-morrow?"

_Bailiffs Daughter_ (hedging).--"I shall be rather busy; the Crossed
Minorca hen comes off to-morrow."

_True Love_.--"Oh, never mind!  I'll take her off to-night when I escort
you to the farm; then she'll get a day's advantage."

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"And rob fourteen prospective chicks of a mother;
nay, lose the chicks themselves?  Never!"

_True Love_.--"So long as you are a Goose Girl, does it make any
difference whose you are?  Is it any more agreeable to be Mrs. Heaven's
Goose Girl than mine?"

_Bailiff's Daughter_.--"Ah! but in one case the term of service is
limited; in the other, permanent."

_True Love_.--"But in the one case you are the slave of the employer, in
the other the employer of the slave.  Why did you run away?"

_Bailiff's Daughter_._Noin_ or noon, the ninth hour was so called in the
Celtic, because at midsummer in our northern latitudes it was the
ninth hour after sunrise. With the Romans, in a more southern latitude,
noon was the ninth hour after sunrise, at six in the morning, answering
to our three o'clock of the afternoon. A song with this burden was sung
in England in the days of Charles the Second:--
I am a senseless thing, with a hey!

Men call me a king, with a ho?--"To-morrow, then; shall we
say before breakfast?  All, do!  Why not?  Well, then, immediately after
breakfast, and I breakfast at seven nowadays, and sometimes earlier.  Do
take off those ugly cotton gloves, dear; they are five sizes too large
for you, and so rough and baggy to the touch!"