My desire to remain concealed, in the character of the Author of
these Novels, subjected me occasionally to awkward embarrassments,
as it sometimes happened that those who were sufficiently intimate
with me would put the question in direct terms. In this case, only
one of three courses could be followed. Either I must have
surrendered my secret, or have returned an equivocating answer,
or, finally, must have stoutly and boldly denied the fact. _The
Published Prices of the above Picture Books can be obtained of all
Booksellers or from the illustrated Catalogue of the Publishers._

ENGRAVED AND PRINTED BY EDMUND EVANS, LTD., 154 CLERKENWELL ROAD,
LONDON, E.C. 1.

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN.The
alternative of rendering a doubtful answer must have left me open
to the degrading suspicion that I was not unwilling to assume the
merit (if there was any) which I dared not absolutely lay claim
to; or those who might think more justly of me must have received
such an equivocal answer as an indirect avowal. I therefore
considered myself entitled, like an accused person put upon trial,
to refuse giving my own evidence to my own conviction, and flatly
to deny all that could not be proved against me. In his history,
we can trace a kind of tacit protest against absolute despotism
and feudal oppression. He is the daring freeman of the soil, who
will not live under arbitrary law, and who, in consequence, ends
by setting all laws whatever at defiance.The real truth is, that I never expected or hoped to disguise my
connection with these Novels from any one who lived on terms of
intimacy with me. The number of coincidences which necessarily
existed between narratives recounted, modes of expression, and
opinions broached in these Tales and such as were used by their
Author in the intercourse of private life must have been far too
great to permit any of my familiar acquaintances to doubt the
identity betwixt their friend and the Author of Waverley; and I
believe they were all morally convinced of it. We have here not
only the consecutive series of ballads known as "The Lytell
Geste of Robin Hode," but every ballad, tale, and song,
relating to the famous outlaw; and the whole are beautifully
illustrated. Mr Gutch thoroughly understands the duty of an editor,
and has applied himself heart and soul to the task: in consequence,
he has given us by far the best collection of English ballads
which for years has issued from the press.

We have said that the English ballads, as a whole, are decidedly
inferior to the Scottish.I have been often asked concerning supposed cases, in which I was
said to have been placed on the verge of discovery; but, as I
maintained my point with the composure of a lawyer of thirty
years' standing, I never recollect being in pain or confusion on
the subject. In Captain Medwyn's Conversations of Lord Byron the
reporter states himself to have asked my noble and highly gifted
friend,' If he was certain about these Novels being Sir Walter
Scott's?' To which Lord Byron replied, 'Scott as much as owned
himself the Author of Waverley to me in Murray's shop. I was
talking to him about that Novel, and lamented that its Author had
not carried back the story nearer to the time of the Revolution.
Scott, entirely off his guard, replied, "Ay, I might have done so;
but--" there he stopped. It was in vain to attempt to correct
himself; he looked confused, and relieved his embarrassment by a
precipitate retreat.' Our Robin was a mysterious sort of
personage, something between an outlaw and an earl,--a kind
of Judge Lynch, who distributed arbitrary justice beneath the
shade of an enormous oak-tree, and who was perpetually confiscating
the moveables of abbots for the exclusive benefit of the poor.
Maid Marian we could never distinctly realise.
Sometimes she appeared to us as a soft flaxen-haired beauty, not
unlike a lay-figure, once the property of Mr Giannetti, which we
loved in our youth, and to whose memory we still are constant..