Only her dog kept her company. Sometimes she rose out of restlessness,
and moved about the room, and the dog's eyes would follow her, dumbly
dependent. The room was dimly lit; in the mirrors she saw now and then
the ghostly passage of some one who seemed herself and not herself. The
windows were open to a misty garden, waiting for moonrise; in the house
all was silence; only from the distant road and village came voices
sometimes of children, or the sounds of a barrel-organ, fragmentary
and shrill.

Loneliness ached in her heart--spoke to her from the future. And five
miles away Oliver, too, was lonely--and in pain. _Pain_!--the thought of
it, as of something embodied and devilish, clutching and tearing at a
man already crushed and helpless--gave her no respite. The tears ran
down her cheeks as she moved to and fro, her hands at her breast.

Yet she was helpless. What could she do? Even if he were free from
Alicia, even if he wished to recall her, how could he--maimed and
broken--take the steps that could alone bring her to his side? If their
engagement had subsisted, horror, catastrophe, the approach of death
itself, could have done nothing to part them. Now, how was a man in such
a plight to ask from a woman what yet the woman would pay a universe to
give? And in the face of the man's silence, how could the woman speak?

No!--she began to see her life as the Vicar saw it: pledged to large
causes, given to drudgeries--necessary, perhaps noble, for which the
happy are not meant. This quiet shelter of Beechcote could not be hers
much longer. If she was not to go to Oliver, impossible that she could
live on in this rose-scented stillness of the old house and garden,
surrounded by comfort, tranquillity, beauty, while the agony of the
world rang in her ears--wild voices!--speaking universal, terrible,
representative things, yet in tones piteously dear and familiar, close,
close to her heart. The thousands of miles of railroad tracts covering
this continent, facilitating the intercourse between distant
places, necessitate a uniform system to avoid confusion. It was, therefore,
natural that the United States and Canada should have taken the lead
in proposing such a reform, which would likewise benefit other
countries, as, for instance, the British Empire, Russia, and Germany.
But there are, at the same time, other countries, like France, Spain,
Italy, Scandinavia, etc., that may content themselves with a national
hour, owing to the small difference in time within their dominion. For
them, the adoption of a universal hour would only be of secondary
importance, because it would only affect their international relations.
Oliver!--No hope for him?--at thirty-six! His career broken--his
ambition defeated. Nothing before him but the decline of power and joy;
nights of barren endurance, separating days empty and tortured; all
natural pleasures deadened and destroyed; the dying down of all the
hopes and energies that make a man.

She threw herself down beside the open window, burying her face on her
knees. Would they never let her go to him?--never let her say to him:
"Oliver, take me!--you did love me once--what matters what came between
us? That was in another world. Take my life--crush out of it any drop of
comfort or of ease it can give you! Cruel, cruel--to refuse! It is mine
to give and yours to spend!"

Juliet Sparling's daughter. There was the great consecrating,
liberating fact! What claim had she to the ordinary human joys? What
could the ordinary standards and expectations of life demand from her?
Nothing!--nothing that could stem this rush of the heart to the
beloved--the forsaken and suffering and overshadowed beloved. Her
future?--she held it dross--apart from Oliver. Dear Sir James!--but he
must learn to bear it--to admit that she stood alone, and must judge for
herself. What possible bliss or reward could there ever be for her but
just this: to be allowed to watch and suffer with Oliver--to bring him
the invention, the patience, the healing divination of love? And if it
were not to be hers, then what remained was to go down into the arena,
where all that is ugliest and most piteous in life bleeds and gasps, and
throw herself blindly into the fight. Perhaps some heavenly voice might
still speak through it; perhaps, beyond its jar, some ineffable reunion
might dawn--

     "First a peace out of pain--then a light--then thy breast!..."

She trembled through and through. Restraining herself, she rose, and
went to her locked desk, taking from it the closely written journal of
her father's life, which had now been for months the companion of her
thoughts, and of the many lonely moments in her days and nights. She
opened on a passage tragically familiar to her:

     "It is an April day. Everything is very still and balmy.
     clouds are low, yet suffused with sun. They seem to be
     tangled among the olives, and all the spring green and
     flowering fruit trees are like embroidery on a dim yet
     shining background of haze, silvery and glistening in the
     sun, blue and purple in the shadows. The beach-trees in the
     olive garden throw up their pink spray among the shimmering
     gray leaf and beside the gray stone walls. Warm breaths
     steal to me over the grass and through the trees; the last
     brought with it a strong scent of narcissus. A goat tethered
     to a young tree in the orchard has reared its front feet
     against the stem, and is nibbling at the branches. His white
     back shines amid the light spring shade.

     "Far down through the trees I can see the sparkle of the
     waves--beyond, the broad plain of blue; and on the headland,
     a mile away, white foam is dashing.

     "It is the typical landscape of the South, and of spring, the
     landscape, with only differences in detail, of Theocritus or
     Vergil, or the Greek anthologists, those most delicate
     singers of nature and the South. From the beginning it has
     filled man with the same joy, the same yearning, the
     same despair.

     "In youth and happiness we _are_ the spring--the young
     green--the blossom--the plashing waves. No objection being
     made, Professor ADAMS continued: It is well known that Professor
Valentiner is an eminent practical astronomer, and I think that any
opinion coming from him on this subject, which interests astronomers
very much, will be considered of great weight.

     
     What
     does the breach mean?--the incurable dissonance and
     alienation? Are we greater than nature, or less? Is the
     opposition final, the prophecy of man's ultimate and hopeless
     defeat at the hands of nature?--or is it, in the Hegelian
     sense, the mere development of a necessary conflict, leading
     to a profounder and intenser unity? The old, old
     questions--stock possessions of the race, yet burned anew by
     life into the blood and brain of the individual.

     "I see Diana in the garden with her nurse. She has been
     running to and fro, playing with the dog, feeding the goat.
     Now I see her sitting still, her chin on her hands, looking
     out to sea. She seems to droop; but I am sure she is not
     tired. It is an attitude not very natural to a child,
     especially to a child so full of physical health and vigor;
     yet she often falls into it.

     "When I see it I am filled with dread. She knows nothing, yet
     the cloud seems to be upon her. Does she already ask herself
     questions--about her father--about this solitary life?

