All of this requires the kindly cooperation of the management, and
involves a much more elaborate organization and system than the
old-fashioned herding of men in large gangs. This organization
consisted, in this case, of one set of men, who were engaged in the
development of the science of laboring through time study, such as has
been described above; another set of men, mostly skilled laborers
themselves, who were teachers, and who helped and guided the men in
their work; another set of tool-room men who provided them with the
proper implements and kept them in perfect order, and another set of
clerks who planned the work well in advance, moved the men with the
least loss of time from one place to another, and properly recorded each
man's earnings, etc. And this furnishes an elementary illustration of
what has been referred to as cooperation between the management and the
workmen.

The question which naturally presents itself is whether an elaborate
organization of this sort can be made to pay for itself; whether such an
organization is not top-heavy. This question will best be answered by a
statement of the results of the third year of working under this plan.


                                   Old Plan           New Plan Task Work
  The number of yard laborers
  was reduced from between         400 & 600 down to about 140
  Average number of tons per
  man per day                      16                       59
  Average earnings per man
  per day                          $1.15                 $1.88
  Average cost of handling a
  ton of 2240 lbs                  $0.072               $0.033

And in computing the low cost of $0.033 per ton, the office and
tool-room expenses, and the wages of all labor superintendents, foremen,
clerks, time-study men, etc., are included.

During this year the total saving of the new plan over the old amounted
to $36,417.69, and during the six months following, when all of the work
of the yard was on task work, the saving was at the rate of between
$75,000 and $80,000 per year.

Perhaps the most important of all the results attained was the effect on
the workmen themselves. A careful inquiry into the condition of these
men developed the fact that out of the 140 workmen only two were said to
be drinking men. This does not, of course, imply that many of them did
not take an occasional drink. The fact is that a steady drinker would
find it almost impossible to keep up with the pace which was set, so
that they were practically all sober. Many, if not most of them, were
saving money, and they all lived better than they had before. These men
constituted the finest body of picked laborers that the writer has ever
seen together, and they looked upon the men who were over them, their
bosses and their teachers, as their very best friends; not as nigger
drivers, forcing them to work extra hard for ordinary wages, but as
friends who were teaching them and helping them to earn much higher
wages than they had ever earned before.

It would have been absolutely impossible for any one to have stirred up
strife between these men and their employers. And this presents a very
simple though effective illustration of what is meant by the words
"prosperity for the employee, coupled with prosperity for the employer,"
the two principal objects of management. It is evident also that this
result has been brought about by the application of the four fundamental
principles of scientific management.

As another illustration of the value of a scientific study of the
motives which influence workmen in their daily work, the loss of
ambition and initiative will be cited, which takes place in workmen when
they are herded into gangs instead of being treated as separate
individuals. A careful analysis had demonstrated the fact that when
workmen are herded together in gangs, each man in the gang becomes far
less efficient than when his personal ambition is stimulated; that when
men work in gangs, their individual efficiency falls almost invariably
down to or below the level of the worst man in the gang; and that they
are all pulled down instead of being elevated by being herded together.
For this reason a general order had been issued in the Bethlehem Steel
Works that not more than four men were to be allowed to work in a labor
gang without a special permit, signed by the General Superintendent of
the works, this special permit to extend for one week only. It was
arranged that as far as possible each laborer should be given a separate
individual task. As there were about 5000 men at work in the
establishment, the General Superintendent had so much to do that there
was but little time left for signing these special permits.

After gang work had been by this means broken up, an unusually fine set
of ore shovelers had been developed, through careful selection and
individual, scientific training. Each of these men was given a separate
car to unload each day, and his wages depended upon his own personal
work. The man who unloaded the largest amount of ore was paid the
highest wages, and an unusual opportunity came for demonstrating the
importance of individualizing each workman. Much of this ore came from
the Lake Superior region, and the same ore was delivered both in
Pittsburgh and in Bethlehem in exactly similar cars. There was a
shortage of ore handlers in Pittsburgh, and hearing of the fine gang of
laborers that had been developed at Bethlehem, one of the Pittsburgh
steel works sent an agent to hire the Bethlehem men. The Pittsburgh men
offered 4 9/10 cents a ton for unloading exactly the same ore, with the
same shovels, from the same cars, that were unloaded in Bethlehem for 3
2/10 cents a ton. After carefully considering this situation, it was
decided that it would be unwise to pay more than 3 2/10 cents per ton
for unloading the Bethlehem cars, because, at this rate, the Bethlehem
laborers were earning a little over $1.85 per man per day, and this
price was 60 per cent more than the ruling rate of wages around
Bethlehem.

A long series of experiments, coupled with close observation, had
demonstrated the fact that when workmen of this caliber are given a
carefully measured task, which calls for a big day's work on their part,
and that when in return for this extra effort they are paid wages up to
60 per cent beyond the wages usually paid, that this increase in wages
tends to make them not only more thrifty but better men in every way;
that they live rather better, begin to save money, become more sober,
and work more steadily. When, on the other hand, they receive much more
than a 60 per cent increase in wages, many of them will work irregularly
and tend to become more or less shiftless, extravagant, and dissipated.
Our experiments showed, in other words, that it does not do for most men
to get rich too fast.

After deciding, for this reason, not to raise the wages of our ore
handlers, these men were brought into the office one at a time, and
talked to somewhat as follows:

"Now, Patrick, you have proved to us that you are a high-priced man. You
have been earning every day a little more than $1.85, and you are just
the sort of man that we want to have in our ore-shoveling gang. A man
has come here from Pittsburgh, ho is offering 4 9/10 cents per ton for
handling ore while we can pay only 3 9/10 cents per ton. I think,
therefore, that you had better apply to this man for a job. Of course,
you know we are very sorry to have you leave us, but you have proved
yourself a high-priced man, and we are very glad to see you get this
chance of earning more money. Just remember, however, that at any time
in the future, when you get out of a job, you can always come right back
to us. There will always be a job for a high-priced man like you in our
gang here."

Almost all of the ore handlers took this advice, and went to Pittsburgh,
but in about six weeks most of them were again back in Bethlehem
unloading ore at the old rate of 3 2/10 cents a ton. The writer had the
following talk with one of these men after he had returned:

"Patrick, what are you doing back here? I thought we had gotten rid of
you."

"'Well, Sir, I'll tell you how it was. When we got out there Jimmy and I
were put on to a car with eight other men. We started to shovel the ore
out just the same as we do here. After about half an hour I saw a little
devil alongside of me doing pretty near nothing, so I said to him, 'Why
don't you go to work? Unless we get the ore out of this car we won't get
any money on pay-day.' He turned to me and said, 'Who in ------ are
you?'

"'Well,' I said, 'that's none of your business'; and the little devil
stood up to me and said, 'You'll be minding your own business, or I'll
throw you off this car!'  'Well, I could have spit on him and drowned
him, but the rest of the men put down their shovels and looked as if
they were going to back him up; so I went round to Jimmy and said (so
that the whole gang could hear it), 'Now, Jimmy, you and I will throw a
shovel full whenever this little devil throws one, and not another
shovel full.' So we watched him, and only shoveled when he shoveled.

"When pay-day came around, though, we had less money than we got here at
Bethlehem. After that Jimmy and I went in to the boss, and asked him for
a car to ourselves, the same as we got at Bethlehem, but he told us to
mind our own business. And when another pay-day came around we had less
money than we got here at Bethlehem, so Jimmy and I got the gang
together and brought them all back here to work again."

When working each man for himself, these men were able to earn higher
wages at 3 2/10 cents a ton than they could earn when they were paid 4
9/10 cents a ton on gang work; and this again shows the great gain which
results from working according to even the most elementary of scientific
principles. But it also shows that in the application of the most
elementary principles it is necessary for the management to do their
share of the work in cooperating with the workmen. The Pittsburgh
managers knew just how the results had been attained at Bethlehem, but
they were unwilling to go to the small trouble and expense required to
plan ahead and assign a separate car to each shoveler, and then keep an
individual record of each man's work, and pay him just what he had
earned.

Bricklaying is one of the oldest of our trades.

For hundreds of years there has been little or no improvement made in
the implements and materials used in this trade, nor in fact in the
method of laying bricks. In spite of the millions of men who have
practiced this trade, no great improvement has been evolved for many
generations. Here, then, at least one would expect to find but little
gain possible through scientific analysis and study. Mr. Frank B.
Gilbreth, a member of our Society, who had himself studied bricklaying
in his youth, became interested in the principles of scientific
management, and decided to apply them to the art of bricklaying. He made
an intensely interesting analysis and study of each movement of the
bricklayer, and one after another eliminated all unnecessary movements
and substituted fast for slow motions. He experimented with every minute
element which in any way affects the speed and the tiring of the
bricklayer.

He developed the exact position which each of the feet of the bricklayer
should occupy with relation to the wall, the mortar box, and the pile of
bricks, and so made it unnecessary for him to take a step or two toward
the pile of bricks and back again each time a brick is laid.

He studied the best height for the mortar box and brick pile, and then
designed a scaffold, with a table on it, upon which all of the materials
are placed, so as to keep the bricks, the mortar, the man, and the wall
in their proper relative positions. These scaffolds are adjusted, as the
wall grows in height, for all of the bricklayers by a laborer especially
detailed for this purpose, and by this means the bricklayer is saved the
exertion of stooping down to the level of his feet for each brick and
each trowel full of mortar and then straightening up again. Think of the
waste of effort that has gone on through all these years, with each
bricklayer lowering his body, weighing, say, 150 pounds, down two feet
and raising it up again every time a brick (weighing about 5 pounds) is
laid in the wall! And this each bricklayer did about one thousand times
a day.

As a result of further study, after the bricks are unloaded from the
cars, and before bringing them to the bricklayer, they are carefully
sorted by a laborer, and placed with their best edge up on a simple
wooden frame, constructed so as to enable him to take hold of each brick
in the quickest time and in the most advantageous position. In this way
the bricklayer avoids either having to turn the brick over or end for
end to examine it before laying it, and he saves, also, the time taken
in deciding which is the best edge and end to place on the outside of
the wall. In most cases, also, he saves the time taken in disentangling
the brick from a disorderly pile on the scaffold. This "pack" of bricks
(as Mr. Gilbreth calls his loaded wooden frames) is placed by the helper
in its proper position on the adjustable scaffold close to the mortar
box.

We have all been used to seeing bricklayers tap each brick after it is
placed on its bed of mortar several times with the end of the handle of
the trowel so as to secure the right thickness for the joint. Mr.
Gilbreth found that by tempering the mortar just right, the bricks could
be readily bedded to the proper depth by a downward pressure of the hand
with which they are laid. He insisted that his mortar mixers should give
special attention to tempering the mortar, and so save the time consumed
in tapping the brick.

Through all of this minute study of the motions to be made by the
bricklayer in laying bricks under standard conditions, Mr. Gilbreth has
reduced his movements from eighteen motions per brick to five, and even
in one case to as low as two motions per brick. He has given all of the
details of this analysis to the profession in the chapter headed "Motion
Study," of his book entitled "Bricklaying System," published by Myron C.
Clerk Publishing Company, New York and Chicago; E. F. N. Spon, of
London.

An analysis of the expedients used by Mr. Gilbreth in reducing the
motions of his bricklayers from eighteen to five shows that this
improvement has been made in three different ways:

First.  He has entirely dispensed with certain movements which the
bricklayers in the past believed were necessary, but which a careful
study and trial on his part have shown to be useless.

Second.  He has introduced simple apparatus, such as his adjustable
scaffold and his packets for holding the bricks, by means of which, with
a very small amount of cooperation from a cheap laborer, he entirely
eliminates a lot of tiresome and time-consuming motions which are
necessary for the brick-layer who lacks the scaffold and the packet.

Third.  He teaches his bricklayers to make simple motions with both
hands at the same time, where before they completed a motion with the
right hand and followed it later with one from the left hand.

