Distributed Proofreading Team


RUNNING WATER

by

A. E. W. MASON

Author of _The Four Feathers_, etc.

1907


CONTENTS

    I  SHOWS MRS. THESIGER IN HER HOME
   II  INTRODUCES ONE OF STROOD'S SUCCESSORS
  III  THE FINDING OF JOHN LATTERY
   IV  MR. JARVICE
    V  MICHEL REVAILLOUD EXPOUNDS HIS PHILOSOPHY
   VI  THE PAVILLON DE LOGNAN
  VII  THE AIGUILLE D'ARGENTIÈRE
 VIII  SYLVIA PARTS FROM HER MOTHER
   IX  SYLVIA MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF HER FATHER
    X  A LITTLE ROUND GAME OF CARDS
   XI  SYLVIA'S FATHER MAKES A MISTAKE
  XII  THE HOUSE OF THE RUNNING WATER
  XII  CHAYNE RETURNS
  XIV  AN OLD PASSION BETRAYS A NEW SECRET
   XV  KENYON'S JOHN LATTERY
  XVI  AS BETWEEN GENTLEMEN
 XVII  SYLVIA TELLS MORE THAN SHE KNOWS
XVIII  BOTH SIDES OF THE QUESTION
  XIX  THE SHADOW IN THE ROOM
   XX  ON THE DOWN
  XXI  CHAYNE COMES TO CONCLUSIONS
 XXII  REVAILLOUD REVISITED
XXIII  MICHEL REVAILLOUD'S _FÜHRBUCH_
 XXIV  THE BRENVA RIDGE
  XXV  A NIGHT ON AN ICE-SLOPE
 XXVI  RUNNING WATER


CHAPTER I

SHOWS MRS. THESIGER IN HER HOME


The Geneva express jerked itself out of the Gare de Lyons. For a few
minutes the lights of outer Paris twinkled past its windows and then with
a spring it reached the open night. The jolts and lurches merged into one
regular purposeful throb, the shrieks of the wheels, the clatter of the
coaches, into one continuous hum. And already in the upper berth of her
compartment Mrs. Thesiger was asleep. The noise of a train had no unrest
for her. Indeed, a sleeping compartment in a Continental express was the
most permanent home which Mrs. Thesiger had possessed for a good many
more years than she would have cared to acknowledge. She spent her life
in hotels with her daughter for an unconsidered companion. From a winter
in Vienna or in Rome she passed to a spring at Venice or at
Constantinople, thence to a June in Paris, a July and August at the
bathing places, a September at Aix, an autumn in Paris again. But always
she came back to the sleeping-car. It was the one familiar room which was
always ready for her; and though the prospect from its windows changed,
it was the one room she knew which had always the same look, the same
cramped space, the same furniture--the one room where, the moment she
stepped into it, she was at home.

Yet on this particular journey she woke while it was yet dark. A noise
slight in comparison to the clatter of the train, but distinct in
character and quite near, told her at once what had disturbed her. Some
one was moving stealthily in the compartment--her daughter. That was all.
But Mrs. Thesiger lay quite still, and, as would happen to her at times,
a sudden terror gripped her by the heart. She heard the girl beneath her,
dressing very quietly, subduing the rustle of her garments, even the
sound of her breathing.

"How much does she know?" Mrs. Thesiger asked of herself; and her heart
sank and she dared not answer.

The rustling ceased. A sharp click was heard, and the next moment through
a broad pane of glass a faint twilight crept into the carriage. The blind
had been raised from one of the windows. It was two o'clock on a morning
of July and the dawn was breaking. Very swiftly the daylight broadened,
and against the window there came into view the profile of a girl's head
and face. Seen as Mrs. Thesiger saw it, with the light still dim behind
it, it was black like an ancient daguerreotype. It was also as motionless
and as grave.

"How much does she know?"

The question would thrust itself into the mother's thoughts. She watched
her daughter intently from the dark corner where her head lay, thinking
that with the broadening of the day she might read the answer in that
still face. But she read nothing even when every feature was revealed in
the clear dead light, for the face which she saw was the face of one who
lived much apart within itself, building amongst her own dreams as a
child builds upon the sand and pays no heed to those who pass. And to
none of her dreams had Mrs. Thesiger the key. Deliberately her daughter
had withdrawn herself amongst them, and they had given her this return
for her company. They had kept her fresh and gentle in a circle where
freshness was soon lost and gentleness put aside.

Sylvia Thesiger was at this time seventeen, although her mother dressed
her to look younger, and even then overdressed her like a toy. It was of
a piece with the nature of the girl that, in this matter as in the rest,
she made no protest. She foresaw the scene, the useless scene, which
would follow upon her protest, exclamations against her ingratitude,
abuse for her impertinence, and very likely a facile shower of tears at
the end; and her dignity forbade her to enter upon it. She just let her
mother dress her as she chose, and she withdrew just a little more into
the secret chamber of her dreams. She sat now looking steadily out of the
window, with her eyes uplifted and aloof, in a fashion which had become
natural to her, and her mother was seized with a pang of envy at the
girl's beauty. For beauty Sylvia Thesiger had, uncommon in its quality
rather than in its degree. From the temples to the round point of her
chin the contour of her face described a perfect oval. Her forehead was
broad and low and her hair, which in color was a dark chestnut, parted in
the middle, whence it rippled in two thick daring waves to the ears, a
fashion which noticeably became her, and it was gathered behind into a
plait which lay rather low upon the nape of her neck. Her eyes were big,
of a dark gray hue and very quiet in their scrutiny; her mouth, small and
provoking. It provoked, when still, with the promise of a very winning
smile, and the smile itself was not so frequent but that it provoked a
desire to summon it to her lips again. It had a way of hesitating, as
though Sylvia were not sure whether she would smile or not; and when she
had made up her mind, it dimpled her cheeks and transfigured her whole
face, and revealed in her tenderness and a sense of humor. We had no
conveniences whatever, and the second morning out we were left without
even a wash-basin. As I was standing in the stern, I saw it swirling away
from us, and inquiring through a peep-hole, heard the perplexing
explanation of my boy. Gesticulating violently, he told us how, with
the wash-basin in his hand, he had been pushed by one of the crew, and
how, loosened from his grasp, my toilet ware had been gripped by
the river--and now appeared far down the stream like a large bead.

The Other Man was alarmed at the boy's discomfiture, ejaculated something
about the loss being quite irreparable, and with a loud laugh and quite
natural hilarity proceeded quietly to use a saucepan as a combined
shaving-pot and wash-basin. It did quite well for this in the morning,
and during the day resumed its duty as seat for me at the typewriter.

Our boy, apart from this small misfortune, comported himself pretty
well.

His English was understandable, and he could cook anything.

He dished us up excellent soup in enamelled cups and, as we had no
ingredients on board so far as we knew to make soup, and as The
Other Man had that day lost an old Spanish tam-o'-shanter, we
naturally concluded that he had used the old hat for the making of
the soup, and at once christened it as "consommé à la maotsi"--and
we can recommend it.

After we had grown somewhat tired of the eternal curry and rice, we asked
him quietly if he could not make us something else, fearing a
rebuff.

He stood hesitatingly before us, gazing into nothingness. His face was
pallid, his lips hard set, and his stooping figure looking curiously
stiff and lifeless on that frozen morning--the temperature below
freezing point, and our noses were red, too!

"God bless the man, you no savee! I wantchee good chow.

Why in the name of goodness can't you give us something decent! What on
earth did you come for?"

"Alas!" he shouted, for we were at a rapid, "my savee makee good chow.
No have got nothing!"
"No have got nothing! No have got nothing!" Mysterious words, what could
they mean? Where, then, was our picul of rice, and our curry, and
our sugar?

"The fellow's a swindler!" cried The Other Man in an angry semitone.
But that's all very well.

"No have got nothing!"

Ah, there lay the secret.

Presently The Other Man, head of the general commissariat, spoke again
with touching eloquence. He gave the boy to understand that we were
powerless to alter or soften the conditions of the larder, that we were
victims of a horrible destiny, that we entertained no stinging malice
towards him personally--but ... _could he do it?_ Either a great wrath
or a great sorrow overcame the boy; he skulked past, asked us to lie
down on our shelves, where we had our beds, to give him room, and
then set to work.

In twenty-five minutes we had a three-course meal (all out of the same
pot, but no matter), and onwards to our destination we fed royally. In
parting with the men after our safe arrival at Chung-king, we left with
them about seven-eighths of the picul--and were not at all regretful.

I should not like to assert--because I am telling the truth here--that
our boat was bewilderingly roomy.

As a matter of fact, its length was some forty feet, its width seven
feet, its depth much less, and it drew eight inches of water.

Yet in it we had our bed-rooms, our dressing-rooms, our dining-rooms,
our library, our occasional medicine-room, our cooking-room--and
all else.

If we stood bolt upright in the saloon amidships we bumped our heads on
the bamboo matting which formed an arched roof. On the nose of the boat
slept seven men--you may question it, reader, but they did; in the
stern, on either side of a great rudder, slept our boy and a friend
of his; and between them and us, laid out flat on the top of a
cellar (used by the ship's cook for the storing of rice, cabbage,
and other uneatables, and the breeding-cage of hundreds of rats,
which swarm all around one) were the captain and commodore--a fat,
fresh-complexioned, jocose creature, strenuous at opium smoking.

Through the holes in the curtain--a piece of sacking, but one would
not wish this to be known--dividing them from us, we could see him
preparing his globules to smoke before turning in for the night,
and despite our frequent raving objections, our words ringing with
vibrating abuse, it continued all the way to Chung-king: he certainly
gazed in disguised wonderment, but we could not get him to say
anything bearing upon the matter.

Temperature during the day stood at about 50 degrees, and at night went
down to about 30 degrees above freezing point. Rains were frequent.
Journalistic labors, seated upon the upturned saucepan aforesaid,
without a cushion, went hard. At night the Chinese candle, much wick
and little wax, stuck in the center of an empty "Three Castles" tin, which
the boy had used for some days as a pudding dish, gave us light.

We generally slept in our overcoats, and as many others as we happened
to have. Rats crawled over our uncurtained bodies, and woke us a dozen
times each night by either nibbling our ears or falling bodily from the
roof on to our faces. Our joys came not to us--they were made on
board.

The following are the Gorges, with a remark or two about each, to be
passed through before one reaches Kweifu:--
NAME OF GORGE LENGTH REMARKS
Ichang Gorge 16 miles First and probably one of the finest of the
Gorges.

Niu Kan Ma Fee 4 miles An hour's journey after (or Ox Liver coming out of
the Gorge) Ichang Gorge, if the breeze be favorable; an arduous day's
journey during high river, with no wind.

Mi Tsang (or Rice 2 miles Finest view is obtained Granary Gorge)
from western extremity; exceedingly precipitous.

Niu Kou (or Buffalo --- Very quiet in low-water Mouth Reach) season;
wild stretch during high river.

At the head of this reach H.M.S.
_Woodlark_ came to grief on her maiden trip.

Urishan Hsia (or --- Over thirty miles in Gloomy Mountain length. Grandest
Gorge) and highest gorge _en route to_ Chung-king.
Half-way through is the boundary between Hu-peh and Szech'wan.

Fang Hsian Hsia --- Last of the gorges; (or Windbox Gorge) just beyond
is the city of Kweifu.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote C: A _wu-pan_ (literally _wu_ of five and _pan_ of boards)
is a small boat, the smallest used by travelers on the Upper
Yangtze. They are of various shapes, made according to the nature of
the part of the river on which they ply.--E.J.D.]

CHAPTER III.

THE YANGTZE RAPIDS

The following is a rough list of the principal rapids to be negotiated on
the river upward from Ichang. One of the chief discomforts the
traveler first experiences is due to a total ignorance of the vicinity of
the main rapids, and often, therefore, when he is least expecting
it perhaps, he is called upon by the _laoban_ to go ashore.

He has then to pack up the things he values, is dragged ashore himself,
his gear follows, and one who has no knowledge of the language and does
not know the ropes is, therefore, never quite happy for fear of some
rapid turning up. By comparing the rapids with the Gorges the traveler
would, however, from the lists given, be able easily to trace the whereabouts
of the more dangerous rushes; which are distributed with alarming
frequency on the river between Ichang and Kweifu.

TA TONG T'AN (OTTER CAVE RAPID)
Low water rapid. Swirling volume of coffee and milk color; round about a
maze of rapids and races, in the Yao-cha Ho reach.

TONG LING RAPID
At the foot of the Ox Liver Gorge. An enormous black rock lies amid stream
some forty feet below, or perhaps as much above the surface, but
unless experienced at low water will not appeal to the traveler as a
rapid; passage dangerous, dreaded during low-water season. On Dec. 28th,
1900, the German steamer, _Sui-Hsiang_ was lost here. She foundered
in twenty-five fathoms of water, with an immense hole ripped in her
bottom by the black rock; all on board saved by the red boats, with
the exception of the captain.

HSIN T'AN RAPIDS (OR CHIN T'AN RAPIDS)
During winter quite formidable; the head, second and third rapids situated
in close proximity, the head rapid being far the worst to negotiate.
On a bright winter's day one of the finest spectacles on the Upper
Yangtze. Wrecks frequent.

Just at head of Ox Liver Gorge.

YEH T'AN (OR WILD RAPID)
River reduced suddenly to half its width by an enormous detritus of
boulders, taking the form of a huge jagged tongue, with curling on edges;
commonly said to be high when the Hsin T'an is low. At its worst during
early summer and autumn. Wrecks frequent, after Mi Tsang Gorge is
passed, eight miles from Kwei-chow.

NIU K'EO T'AN (BUFFALO MOUTH RAPID)
Situated at the head of Buffalo Mouth Reach, said to be more difficult
to approach than even the Yeh T'an, because of the great swirls in the
bay below. H.M.S. _Woodlark_ came to grief here on her maiden trip
up river.

HSIN MA T'AN (OR DISMOUNT HORSE RAPID)

Encountered through the Urishan Hsia or Gloomy Mountain Gorge,
particularly nasty during mid-river season. Just about here, in 1906, the
French gunboat _Olry_ came within an ace of destruction
by losing her rudder. Immediately, like a riderless horse, she dashed
off headlong for the rocky shore; but at the same instant her engines
were working astern for all they were worth, and fortunately succeeded
in taking the way off her just as her nose grazed the rocks, and she slid
back undamaged into the swirly bay, only to be waltzed round and tossed
to and fro by the violent whirlpools. However, by good luck and management
she was kept from dashing her brains out on the reefs, and eventually
brought in to a friendly sand patch and safely moored, whilst a wooden
jury rudder was rigged, with which she eventually reached her
destination.

HEH SHÏH T'AN (OR BLACK ROCK RAPID)
Almost at the end of the Wind Box Gorge.

HSIN LONG T'AN (OR NEW DRAGON RAPID)
Twenty-five miles below Wan Hsien. Sometimes styled Glorious Dragon
Rapid, it constitutes the last formidable stepping-stone during low river
onward to Chung-king; was formed by a landslip as recently as 1896,
when the whole side of a hill falling into the stream reduced its
breadth to less than a fourth of what it was previously, and produced
this roaring rapid.

This pent-up volume of water, always endeavoring to break away the rocky
bonds which have harnessed it, rushes roaring as a huge, tongue-shaped,
tumbling mass between its confines of rock and reef. Breaking into
swift back-wash and swirls in the bay below, it lashes back in a white
fury at its obstacles. Fortunately for the junk traffic, it improves
rapidly with the advent of the early spring freshets, and at mid-level
entirely disappears. The rapid is at its worst during the months of February
and March, when it certainly merits the appellation of "Glorious Dragon
Rapid," presenting a fine spectacle, though perhaps a somewhat fearsome
one to the traveler, who is about to tackle it with his frail barque. A
hundred or more wretched-looking trackers, mostly women and children,
are tailed on to the three stout bamboo hawsers, and amid a mighty din
of rushing water, beating drums, cries of pilots and boatmen, the
boat is hauled slowly and painfully over. According to Chinese myths,
the landslip which produced the rapid was caused by the following
circumstance. The ova of a dragon being deposited in the bowels of
the earth at this particular spot, in due course became hatched out in
some mysterious manner. The baby dragon grew and grew, but remained
in a dormant state until quite full grown, when, as is the habit of the
dragon, it became active, and at the first awakening shook down the
hill-side by a mighty effort, freed himself from the bowels of the
earth, and made his way down river to the sea; hence the landslip,
the rapid, and its name.

FUH T'AN RAPID (OR TIGER RAPID)
Eight miles beyond Wan Hsien. Very savage during summer months, but
does not exist during low-water season. Beyond this point river widens
considerably. Twenty-five miles further on travelers should look
out for Shïh Pao Chai, or Precious Stone Castle, a remarkable cliff
some 250 or 300 feet high. A curious eleven-storied pavilion, built up
the face of the cliff, contains the stairway to the summit, on which
stands a Buddhist temple. There is a legend attached to this remarkable
rock that savors very much of the goose with the golden eggs.

Once upon a time, from a small natural aperture near the summit, a
supply of rice sufficient for the needs of the priests flowed daily
into a basin-shaped hole, just large enough to hold the day's supply.

The priests, however, thinking to get a larger daily supply, chiselled
out the basin-shaped hole to twice its original size, since when the
flow of rice ceased.

KWAN ÏN T'AN (OR GODDESS OF MERCY RAPID)
Two miles beyond the town of Feng T'ou.

Like the Fuh T'an, is an obstacle to navigation only during the summer
months, when junks are often obliged to wait for several days for
a favorable opportunity to cross the rapid.

CHAPTER IV.

_Scene at the Rapid_. _Dangers of the Yeh T'an_. _Gear taken ashore_.

_Intense cold_. _Further preparation_.

_Engaging the trackers_. _Fever of excitement_. _Her nose is put
to it_. _Struggles for mastery_.
_Author saves boatman_. _Fifteen-knot current_. _Terrific labor on shore_.
_Man nearly falls overboard_.

_Straining hawsers carry us over safely_. _The merriment among the men_.
_The thundering cataract_.

_Trackers' chanting_. _Their life_.

_"Pioneer" at the Yeh T'an_. _The Buffalo Mouth Reach_. _Story of the
"Woodlark."_ _How she was saved_.

_Arrival at Kweifu_. _Difficulty in landing_.

_Laying in provisions_.

_Author laid up with malaria_.

_Survey of trade in Shanghai and Hong-Kong_. _Where and why the
Britisher fails_.

_Comparison with Germans_. _Three western provinces and
pack-horse traffic_.

_Advantages of new railway_.

_Yangtze likely to be abandoned_.

_East India Company.
French and British interests_. _Hint to Hong-Kong Chamber of Commerce._

Wild shrieking, frantic yelling, exhausted groaning, confusion and
clamor,--one long, deafening din.

A bewildering, maddening mob of reckless, terrified human beings rush
hither and thither, unseeingly and distractedly. Will she go? Yes! No!
Yes! Then comes the screeching, the scrunching, the straining, and
then--a final snap!

Back we go, sheering helplessly, swayed to and fro most dangerously by
the foaming waters, and almost, but not quite, turn turtle. The
red boat follows us anxiously, and watches our timid little craft bump
against the rock-strewn coast.

But we are safe, and raise unconsciously a cry of gratitude to the
deity of the river.

We were at the Yeh T'an, or the Wild Rapid, some distance on from the
Ichang Gorge, were almost over the growling monster, when the
tow-line, straining to its utmost limit, snapped suddenly with little
warning, and we drifted in a moment or two away down to last night's
anchorage, far below, where we were obliged to bring up the last of the
long tier of boats of which we were this morning the first.

And now we are ready again to take our turn.

Our gear is all taken ashore. Seated on a stone on shore, watching
operations, is The Other Man. The sun vainly tries to get through, and
the intense cold is almost unendurable. No hitch is to occur this time.
The toughest and stoutest bamboo hawsers are dexterously brought out, their
inboard ends bound in a flash firmly round the mast close down to
the deck, washed by the great waves of the rapid, just in front of
the 'midships pole through which I breathlessly watch proceedings.

I want to feel again the sensation.

The captain, in essentially the Chinese way, is engaging a crew of
demon-faced trackers to haul her over.

Pouring towards the boat, in a fever of excitement that rises higher
every moment, the natural elements of hunger and constant struggle
against the great river swell their fury; they bellow like wild
beasts, _they are like beasts_, for they have known nothing but
struggle all their lives; they have always, since they were tiny
children, been fighting this roaring water monster--they know none
else.

And now, as I say, they bellow like beasts, each man ravenously eager
to be among the number chosen to earn a few cash.[D] The arrangement
at last is made, and the discordant hubbub, instead of lessening, grows
more and more deafening.
It is a miserable, desperate, wholly panic-stricken crowd that then
harnesses up with their great hooks joined to a rough waist-belt, with
which they connect themselves to the straining tow-lines.

And now her nose is put into the teeth of this trough of treachery--a
veritable boiling cauldron, stirring up all past mysteries.

Waves rush furiously towards us, with the growl of a thousand demons,
whose anger is only swelled by the thousands of miles of her course
from far-away Tibet.

It seems as if they must instantly devour her, and that we must now
go under to swell the number of their victims. But they only
beat her back, for she rides gracefully, faltering timidly with
frightened creaks and groans, whilst the waters shiver her frail
bulwarks with their cruel message of destruction, which might mean
her very death-rattle.

I get landed in the stomach with the end of a gigantic bamboo boat-hook,
used by one of the men standing in the bows whose duty is to fend
her off the rocks.

He falls towards the river.

I grab his single garment, give one swift pull, and he comes up again with
a jerky little laugh and asks if he has hurt me--yelling through
his hands in my ears, for the noise is terrible.

To look out over the side makes me giddy, for the fifteen-knot
current, blustering and bubbling and foaming and leaping, gives one
the feeling that he is in an express train tearing through the sea.

On shore, far ahead, I can see the trackers--struggling forms of
men and women, touching each other, grasping each other, wrestling
furiously and mightily, straining on all fours, now gripping a
boulder to aid them forward, now to the right, now to the left,
always fighting for one more inch, and engaged in a task which to
one seeing it for the first time looks as if it were quite beyond
human effort.

Fagged and famished beings are these trackers, whose life day after day,
week in week out, is harder than that of the average costermonger's donkey.
They throw up their hands in a dumb frenzy of protest and futile
appeal to the presiding deity; and here on the river, depending
entirely upon those men on the shore, slowly, inch by inch, the
little craft, feeling her own weakness, forges ahead against the
leaping current in the gapway in the reef.

None come to offer assistance to our crowd, who are now turned facing us,
and strain almost flat on their backs, giving the strength of every
drop of blood and fibre of their being; and the scene, now lit up by
a momentary glimmer of feeble sunlight, assumes a wonderful and
terrible picturesqueness.

I am chained to the spot by a horrible fascination, and I find myself
unconsciously saying, "I fear she will not go. I fear--" But a man has
fallen exhausted, he almost fell overboard, and now leans against the
mast in utter weariness and fatigue, brought on by the morning's exertions.
He is instantly relieved by a bull-dog fellow of enormous strength.

Now comes the culminating point, a truly terrifying moment, the
very anguish of which frightened me, as I looked around for the
lifeboat, and I saw that even the commodore's cold and self-satisfied
dignity was disturbed.

The hawsers strain again. Creak, crack! creak, crack! The lifeboat watches
and comes nearer to us. There is a mighty yell. We cannot go! Yes, we
can! There is a mighty pull, and you feel the boat almost torn
asunder.

Another mighty pull, a tremendous quiver of the timbers, and you turn to
see the angry water, which sounds as if a hundred hounds are beating
under us for entry at the barred door.

There is another deafening yell, the men tear away like frightened
horses. Another mighty pull, and another, and another, and we slide
over into smooth water.

Then I breathe freely, and yell myself.

The little boat seems to gasp for breath as a drowning man, saved in the
nick of time, shudders in every limb with pain and fear.

As we tied up in smooth water, all the men, from the _laoban_ to the
meanest tracker, laughed and yelled and told each other how it was
done.
We baled the water out of the boat, and one was glad to pull
away from the deafening hum of the thundering cataract. A faulty tow-line,
a slippery hitch, one false step, one false maneuver, and the shore might
have been by that time strewn with our corpses. As it was, we were
safe and happy.

But the trackers are strange creatures. At times they are a quarter of a
mile ahead. Soft echoes of their coarse chanting came down the confines
of the gully, after the rapid had been passed, and in rounding a rocky
promontory mid-stream, one would catch sight of them bending their
bodies in pulling steadily against the current of the river.

Occasionally one of these poor fellows slips; there is a shriek,
his body is dashed unmercifully against the jagged cliffs in its
last journey to the river, which carries the multilated corpse away.

And yet these men, engaged in this terrific toil, with utmost danger to
their lives, live almost exclusively on boiled rice and dirty cabbage,
and receive the merest pittance in money at the journey's end.

Some idea of the force of this enormous volume of water may be given
by mentioning the exploits of the steamer _Pioneer_, which on three
consecutive occasions attacked the Yeh T'an when at its worst, and,
though steaming a good fourteen knots, failed to ascend.

She was obliged to lay out a long steel-wire hawser, and heave herself
over by means of her windlass, the engines working at full speed
at the same time.

Hard and heavy was the heave, gaining foot by foot, with a tension on
the hawser almost to breaking strain in a veritable battle against
the dragon of the river.

Yet so complete are the changes which are wrought by the great variation
in the level of the river, that this formidable mid-level rapid completely
disappears at high level.

After we had left this rapid--and right glad were we to get away--we came,
after a couple of hours' run, to the Niu K'eo, or Buffalo Mouth Reach,
quiet enough during the low-water season, but a wild stretch during
high river, where many a junk is caught by the violently gyrating swirls,
rendered unmanageable, and dashed to atoms on some rocky promontory or
boulder pile in as short a space of time as it takes to write it.

It was here that the _Woodlark_, one of the magnificent gunboats
which patrol the river to safeguard the interests of the Union Jack
in this region, came to grief on her maiden trip to Chung-king.

"I
think we must look for them on the western side of the pass, in the
crevasses of the Glacier des Nantillons."

"Surely not," cried Chayne. True, the Glacier des Nantillons in places
was steep. True, there were the séracs--those great slabs and pinnacles
of ice set up on end and tottering, high above, where the glacier curved
over a brow of rock and broke--one of them might have fallen. But Lattery
and he had so often ascended and descended that glacier on the way to the
Charmoz and the Grépon and the Plan. He could not believe his friend had
come to harm that way.

Michel, however, clung to his opinion.

"The worst part of the climb was over," he argued. "The very worst pitch,
monsieur, is at the very beginning when you leave the glacier, and then
it is very bad again half way up when you descend into a gully; but
Monsieur Lattery was very safe on rock, and having got so high, I think
he would have climbed the last rocks with his guide."

Michel spoke with so much certainty that even in the face of his
telegram, in the face of the story which Jules had told, hope sprang up
within Chayne's heart.

"Then he may be still up there on some ledge. He would surely not have
slipped on the Glacier des Nantillons."

That hope, however, was not shared by Michel Revailloud.

"There is very little snow this year," he said. "The glaciers are
uncovered as I have never seen them in all my life. Everywhere it is ice,
ice, ice. Monsieur Lattery had only one guide with him and he was not so
sure on ice. I am afraid, monsieur, that he slipped out of his steps on
the Glacier des Nantillons."

"And dragged his guide with him?" exclaimed Chayne. His heart rather than
his judgment protested against the argument. It seemed to him disloyal to
believe it. A man should not slip from his steps on the Glacier des
Nantillons. He turned toward the door.

"Very well," he said. "Send three guides up the Mer de Glace. We will go
up to the Glacier des Nantillons."

He went up to his room, fetched his ice-ax and a new club-rope with the
twist of red in its strands, and came down again. The rumor of an
accident had spread. A throng of tourists stood about the door and
surrounded the group of guides, plying them with questions. One or two
asked Chayne as he came out on what peak the accident had happened. He
did not reply. He turned to Michel Revailloud and forgetful for the
moment that he was in Chamonix, he uttered the word so familiar in the
High Alps, so welcome in its sound.

"_Vorwärts_, Michel," he said, and the word was the Open Sesame to a
chamber which he would gladly have kept locked. There was work to do
now; there would be time afterward to remember--too long a time. But in
spite of himself his recollections rushed tumultuously upon him. Up to
these last four years, on some day in each July his friend and he had
been wont to foregather at some village in the Alps, Lattery coming from
a Government Office in Whitehall, Chayne now from some garrison town in
England, now from Malta or from Alexandria, and sometimes from a still
farther dependency. Usually they had climbed together for six weeks,
although there were red-letter years when the six weeks were extended to
eight, six weeks during which they lived for the most part on the high
level of the glaciers, sleeping in huts, or mountain inns, or beneath
the stars, and coming down only for a few hours now and then into the
valley towns. _Vorwärts_! The months of their comradeship seemed to him
epitomized in the word. The joy and inspiration of many a hard climb
came back, made bitter with regret for things very pleasant and now done
with forever. Nights on some high ledge, sheltered with rocks and set in
the pale glimmer of snow-fields, with a fire of brushwood lighting up
the faces of well-loved comrades; half hours passed in rock chimneys
wedged overhead by a boulder, or in snow-gullies beneath a bulge of ice,
when one man struggled above, out of sight, and the rest of the party
crouched below with what security it might waiting for the cheery cry,
"_Es geht. Vorwärts_!"; the last scramble to the summit of a virgin
peak; the swift glissade down the final snow-slopes in the dusk of the
evening with the lights of the village twinkling below; his memories
tramped by him fast and always in the heart of them his friend's face
shone before his eyes. Chayne stood for a moment dazed and bewildered.
There rose up in his mind that first helpless question of distress,
"Why?" and while he stood, his face puzzled and greatly troubled, there
fell upon his ears from close at hand a simple message of sympathy
uttered in a whisper gentle but distinct:

"I am very sorry."

Chayne looked up. It was the overdressed girl of the Annemasse buffet,
the girl who had seemed to understand then, who seemed to understand now.
He raised his hat to her with a sense of gratitude. Then he followed the
guides and went up among the trees toward the Glacier des Nantillons.


CHAPTER III

THE FINDING OF JOHN LATTERY


The rescue party marched upward between the trees with the measured pace
of experience. Strength which would be needed above the snow-line was not
to be wasted on the lower slopes. But on the other hand no halts were
made; steadily the file of men turned to the right and to the left and
the zigzags of the forest path multiplied behind them. The zigzags
increased in length, the trees became sparse; the rescue party came out
upon the great plateau at the foot of the peaks called the Plan des
Aiguilles, and stopped at the mountain inn built upon its brow, just over
Chamonix. The evening had come, below them the mists were creeping along
the hillsides and blotting the valley out.

"We will stop here," said Michel Revailloud, as he stepped on to the
little platform of earth in front of the door. "If we start again at
midnight, we shall be on the glacier at daybreak. We cannot search the
Glacier des Nantillons in the dark."

Chayne agreed reluctantly. He would have liked to push on if only to lull
thought by the monotony of their march. Moreover during these last two
hours, some faint rushlight of hope had been kindled in his mind which
made all delay irksome. He himself would not believe that his friend John
Lattery, with all his skill, his experience, had slipped from his
ice-steps like any tyro; Michel, on the other hand, would not believe
that he had fallen from the upper rocks of the Blaitière on the far side
of the Col. From these two disbeliefs his hope had sprung. It was
possible that either Lattery or his guide lay disabled, but alive and
tended, as well as might be, by his companion on some insecure ledge of
that rock-cliff. A falling stone, a slip checked by the rope might have
left either hurt but still living. It was true that for two nights and a
day the two men must have already hung upon their ledge, that a third
night was to follow. Still such endurance had been known in the annals of
the Alps, and Lattery was a hard strong man.

A girl came from the chalet and told him that his dinner was ready.
Chayne forced himself to eat and stepped out again on to the platform. A
door opened and closed behind him. Michel Revailloud came from the
guides' quarters at the end of the chalet and stood beside him in the
darkness, saying nothing since sympathy taught him to be silent, and when
he moved moving with great gentleness.

"I am glad, Michel, that we waited here since we had to wait,"
said Chayne.

"This chalet is new to you, monsieur. It has been built while you
were away."

"Yes. And therefore it has no associations, and no memories. Its bare
whitewashed walls have no stories to tell me of cheery nights on the eve
of a new climb when he and I sat together for a while and talked eagerly
of the prospects of to-morrow."

The words ceased. Chayne leaned his elbows on the wooden rail. The mists
in the valley below had been swept away; overhead the stars shone out of
an ebony sky very bright as on some clear winter night of frost, and of
all that gigantic amphitheater of mountains which circled behind them
from right to left there was hardly a hint. Perhaps here some extra cube
of darkness showed where a pinnacle soared, or there a vague whiteness
glimmered where a high glacier hung against the cliff, but for the rest
the darkness hid the mountains. A cold wind blew out of the East and
Chayne shivered.

"You are cold, monsieur?" said Michel. "It is your first night."

"No, I am not cold," Chayne replied, in a low and quiet voice. "But I am
thinking it will be deadly cold up there in the darkness on the rocks of
the Blaitiere."

Michel answered him in the same quiet voice. On that broad open plateau
both men spoke indeed as though they were in a sick chamber.

"While you were away, monsieur, three men without food sat through a
night on a steep ice-sheltered ice-slope behind us, high up on the
Aiguille du Plan, as high up as the rocks of the Blaitiere. And not one
of them came to any harm."

"I know. I read of it," said Chayne, but he gathered little comfort from
the argument.

Michel fumbled in his pocket and drew out a pipe. "You do not smoke any
more?" he asked. "It is a good thing to smoke."

"I had forgotten," said Chayne.

He filled his pipe and then took a fuse from his match-box.

"No, don't waste it," cried Michel quickly before he could strike it. "I
remember your fuses, monsieur."

Michel struck a sulphur match and held it as it spluttered, and frizzled,
in the hollow of his great hands. The flame burnt up. He held it first to
Chayne's pipe-bowl and then to his own; and for a moment his face was lit
with the red glow. Its age thus revealed, and framed in the darkness,
shocked Chayne, even at this moment, more than it had done on the
platform at Chamonix. Not merely were its deep lines shown up, but all
the old humor and alertness had gone. The face had grown mask-like and
spiritless. Then the match went out.

Chayne leaned upon the rail and looked downward. A long way below him, in
the clear darkness of the valley the lights of Chamonix shone bright and
very small. Chayne had never seen them before so straight beneath him. As
he looked he began to notice them; as he noticed them, more and more they
took a definite shape. He rose upright, and pointing downward with one
hand he said in a whisper, a whisper of awe--

"Do you see, Michel? Do you see?"

The great main thoroughfare ran in a straight line eastward through the
town, and, across it, intersecting it at the little square where the
guides gather of an evening, lay the other broad straight road from the
church across the river. Along those two roads the lights burned most
brightly, and thus there had emerged before Chayne's eyes a great golden
cross. It grew clearer and clearer as he looked; he looked away and then
back again, and now it leapt to view, he could not hide it from his
sight, a great cross of light lying upon the dark bosom of the valley.

"Do you see, Michel?"

"Yes." The answer came back very steadily. "But so it was last night
and last year. Those three men on the Plan had it before their eyes
all night. It is no sign of disaster." For a moment he was silent, and
then he added timidly: "If you look for a sign, monsieur, there is a
better one."

Chayne turned toward Michel in the darkness rather quickly.

"As we set out from the hotel," Michel continued, "there was a young girl
upon the steps with a very sweet and gentle face. She spoke to you,
monsieur. No doubt she told you that her prayers would be with you
to-night."

"No, Michel," Chayne replied, and though the darkness hid his face,
Michel knew that he smiled. "She did not promise me her prayers. She
simply said: 'I am sorry.'"

Michel Revailloud was silent for a little while, and when he spoke again,
he spoke very wistfully. One might almost have said that there was a note
of envy in his voice.

"Well, that is still something, monsieur. You are very lonely to-night,
is it not so? You came back here after many years, eager with hopes and
plans and not thinking at all of disappointments. And the disappointments
have come, and the hopes are all fallen. Is not that so, too? Well, it is
something, monsieur--I, who am lonely too, and an old man besides, so
that I cannot mend my loneliness, I tell you--it is something that there
is a young girl down there with a sweet and gentle face who is sorry for
you, who perhaps is looking up from among those lights to where we stand
in the darkness at this moment."

But it seemed that Chayne did not hear, or, if he heard, that he paid no
heed. And Michel, knocking the tobacco from his pipe, said:

"You will do well to sleep. We may have a long day before us"; and he
walked away to the guides' quarters.

But Chayne could not sleep; hope and doubt fought too strongly within
him, wrestling for the life of his friend. At twelve o'clock Michel
knocked upon his door. Chayne got up from his bed at once, drew on his
boots, and breakfasted. At half past the rescue party set out, following
a rough path through a wilderness of boulders by the light of a lantern.
It was still dark when they came to the edge of the glacier, and they sat
down and waited. In a little while the sky broke in the East, a twilight
dimly revealed the hills, Michel blew out the lantern, the blurred
figures of the guides took shape and outline, and silently the morning
dawned upon the world.

The guides moved on to the glacier and spread over it, ascending as
they searched.

"You see, monsieur, there is very little snow this year," said
Michel, chipping steps so that he and Chayne might round the corner
of a wide crevasse.

"Yes, but it does not follow that he slipped," said Chayne, hotly, for
he was beginning to resent that explanation as an imputation against
his friend.

Slowly the party moved upward over the great slope of ice into the
recess, looking for steps abruptly ending above a crevasse or for signs
of an avalanche. They came level with the lower end of a long rib of
rock which crops out from the ice and lengthwise bisects the glacier.
Here the search ended for a while. The rib of rocks is the natural path,
and the guides climbed it quickly. They came to the upper glacier and
spread out once more, roped in couples. They were now well within the
great amphitheater. On their left the cliffs of the Charmoz overlapped
them, on the right the rocks of the Blaitière. For an hour they
advanced, cutting steps since the glacier was steep, and then from the
center of the glacier a cry rang out. Chayne at the end of the line upon
the right looked across. A little way in front of the two men who had
shouted something dark lay upon the ice. Chayne, who was with Michel
Revailloud, called to him and began hurriedly to scratch steps
diagonally toward the object.

"Take care, monsieur," cried Michel.

Chayne paid no heed. Coming up from behind on the left-hand side, he
passed his guide and took the lead. He could tell now what the dark
object was, for every now and then a breath of wind caught it and whirled
it about the ice. It was a hat. He raised his ax to slice a step and a
gust of wind, stronger than the others, lifted the hat, sent it rolling
and skipping down the glacier, lifted it again and gently dropped it at
his feet. He stooped down and picked it up. It was a soft broad-brimmed
hat of dark gray felt. In the crown there was the name of an English
maker. There was something more too. There were two initials--J.L.

Chayne turned to Michel Revailloud.

"You were right, Michel," he said, solemnly. "My friend has made the
first passage of the Col des Nantillons from the East."

The party moved forward again, watching with redoubled vigilance for some
spot in the glacier, some spot above a crevasse, to which ice-steps
descended and from which they did not lead down. And three hundred yards
beyond a second cry rang out. A guide was standing on the lower edge of a
great crevasse with a hand upheld above his head. The searchers converged
quickly upon him. Chayne hurried forward, plying the pick of his ax as
never in his life had he plied it. Had the guide come upon the actual
place where the accident took place, he asked himself? But before he
reached the spot, his pace slackened, and he stood still. He had no
longer any doubt. His friend and his friend's guide were not lying upon
any ledge of the rocks of the Aiguille de Blaitière; they were not
waiting for any succor.

On the glacier, a broad track, littered with blocks of ice, stretched
upward in a straight line from the upper lip of the crevasse to the great
ice-fall on the sky-line where the huge slabs and pinnacles of ice,
twisted into monstrous shapes, like a sea suddenly frozen when a tempest
was at its height, stood marshaled in serried rows. They stood waiting
upon the sun. One of them, melted at the base, had crashed down the
slope, bursting into huge fragments as it fell, and cleaving a groove
even in that hard glacier.

Chayne went forward and stopped at the guide's side on the lower edge
of the crevasse. Beyond the chasm the ice rose in a blue straight
wall for some three feet, and the upper edge was all crushed and
battered; and then the track of the falling sérac ended. It had
poured into the crevasse.

The guide pointed to the left of the track.

"Do you see, monsieur? Those steps which come downward across the glacier
and stop exactly where the track meets them? They do not go on, on the
other side of the track, monsieur."

Chayne saw clearly enough. The two men had been descending the glacier in
the afternoon, the avalanche had fallen and swept them down. He dropped
upon his knees and peered into the crevasse. The walls of the chasm
descended smooth and precipitous, changing in gradual shades and color
from pale transparent green to the darkest blue, until all color was lost
in darkness. He bent his head and shouted into the depths:

"Lattery! Lattery!"

And only his voice came back to him, cavernous and hollow. He shouted
again, and then he heard Michel Revailloud saying solemnly behind him:

"Yes, they are here."

Suddenly Chayne turned round, moved by a fierce throb of anger.

"It's not true, you see," he cried. "He didn't slip out of his steps and
drag his guide down with him. You were wrong, Michel."

Michel was standing with his hat in his hand.

"Yes, monsieur, I was quite wrong," he said, gently. He turned to a big
and strong man:

"François, will you put on the rope and go down?"

They knotted the rope securely about François' waist and he took his
ice-ax in his hand, sat down on the edge of the crevasse with his legs
dangling, turned over upon his face and said:

"When I pull the rope, haul in gently."

They lowered him carefully down for sixty feet, and at that depth the
rope slackened. François had reached the bottom of the crevasse. For a
few moments they watched the rope move this way and that, and then there
came a definite pull.

"He has found them," said Michel.

Some of the guides lined out with the rope in their hands. Chayne took
his position in the front, at the head of the line and nearest to the
crevasse. The pull upon the rope was repeated, and slowly the men began
to haul it in. It did not occur to Chayne that the weight upon the rope
was heavy. One question filled his mind, to the exclusion of all else.
Had François found his friend? What news would he bring of them when he
came again up to the light? François' voice was heard now, faintly,
calling from the depths. But what he said could not be heard. The line of
men hauled in the rope more and more quickly and then suddenly stopped
and drew it in very gently. For they could now hear what François said.
It was but one word, persistently repeated:

"Gently! Gently!"

And so gently they drew him up toward the mouth of the crevasse. Chayne
was standing too far back to see down beyond the edge, but he could hear
François' ax clattering against the ice-walls, and the grating of his
boots. Michel, who was kneeling at the edge of the chasm, held up his
hand, and the men upon the rope ceased to haul. In a minute or two he
lowered it.

"Gently," he said, "gently," gazing downward with a queer absorption.
Chayne began to hear François' labored breathing and then suddenly at the
edge of the crevasse he saw appear the hair of a man's head.

"Up with him," cried a guide; there was a quick strong pull upon the rope
and out of the chasm, above the white level of the glacier, there
appeared a face--not François' face--but the face of a dead man. Suddenly
it rose into the colorless light, pallid and wax-like, with open,
sightless eyes and a dropped jaw, and one horrid splash of color on the
left forehead, where blood had frozen. It was the face of Chayne's
friend, John Lattery; and in a way most grotesque and horrible it bobbed
and nodded at him, as though the neck was broken and the man yet lived.
When François just below cried, "Gently! Gently," it seemed that the dead
man's mouth was speaking.

Chayne uttered a cry; then a deathly sickness overcame him. He dropped
the rope, staggered a little way off like a drunken man and sat down upon
the ice with his head between his hands.

Some while later a man came to him and said:

"We are ready, monsieur."

Chayne returned to the crevasse. Lattery's guide had been raised from the
crevasse. Both bodies had been wrapped in sacks and cords had been fixed
about their legs. The rescue party dragged the bodies down the glacier to
the path, and placing them upon doors taken from a chalet, carried them
down to Chamonix. On the way down François talked for a while to Michel
Revailloud, who in his turn fell back to where at the end of the
procession Chayne walked alone.

"Monsieur," he said, and Chayne looked at him with dull eyes like a
man dazed.

"There is something which François noticed, which he wished me to tell
you. François is a good lad. He wishes you to know that your friend died
at once--there was no sign of a movement. He lay in the bottom of the
crevasse in some snow which was quite smooth. The guide--he had kicked a
little with his feet in the snow--but your friend had died at once."

"Thank you," said Chayne, without the least emotion in his voice. But he
walked with uneven steps. At times he staggered like one overdone and
very tired. But once or twice he said, as though he were dimly aware that
he had his friend's reputation to defend:

"You see he didn't slip on the ice, Michel. You were quite wrong. It was
the avalanche. It was no fault of his."

"I was wrong," said Michel, and he took Chayne by the arm lest he should
fall; and these two men came long after the others into Chamonix.


CHAPTER IV

MR. JARVICE


The news of Lattery's death was telegraphed to England on the same
evening. It appeared the next morning under a conspicuous head-line in
the daily newspapers, and Mr. Sidney Jarvice read the item in the Pullman
car as he traveled from Brighton to his office in London. He removed his
big cigar from his fat red lips, and became absorbed in thought. The
train rushed past Hassocks and Three Bridges and East Croydon. Mr.
Jarvice never once looked at his newspaper again. The big cigar of which
the costliness was proclaimed by the gold band about its middle had long
since gone out, and for him the train came quite unexpectedly to a stop
at the ticket platform on Battersea Bridge.

Mr. Jarvice was a florid person in his looks and in his dress. It was in
accordance with his floridness that he always retained the gold band
about his cigar while he smoked it. He was a man of middle age, with
thick, black hair, a red, broad face, little bright, black eyes, a black
mustache and rather prominent teeth. He was short and stout, and drew
attention to his figure by wearing light-colored trousers adorned with a
striking check. From Victoria Station he drove at once to his office in
Jermyn Street. A young and wizened-looking clerk was already at work in
the outer room.

"I will see no one this morning, Maunders," said Mr. Jarvice as he
pressed through.

"Very well, sir. There are a good number of letters," replied the clerk.

"They must wait," said Mr. Jarvice, and entering his private room he shut
the door. He did not touch the letters upon his table, but he went
straight to his bureau, and unlocking a drawer, took from it a copy of
the Code Napoleon. He studied the document carefully, locked it up again
and looked at his watch. It was getting on toward one o'clock. He rang
the bell for his clerk.

"Maunders," he said, "I once asked you to make some inquiries about a
young man called Walter Hine."

"Yes, sir."

"Do you remember what his habits were? Where he lunched, for instance?"

Maunders reflected for a moment.

"It's a little while ago, sir, since I made the inquiries. As far as I
remember, he did not lunch regularly anywhere. But he went to the
American Bar of the Criterion restaurant most days for a morning drink
about one."

"Oh, he did? You made his acquaintance, of course?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, you might find him this morning, give him some lunch, and bring
him round to see me at three. See that he is sober."

At three o'clock accordingly Mr. Walter Hine was shown into the inner
room of Mr. Jarvice. Jarvice bent his bright eyes upon his visitor. He
saw a young man with very fair hair, a narrow forehead, watery blue eyes
and a weak, dissipated face. Walter Hine was dressed in a cheap suit of
tweed much the worse for wear, and he entered the room with the sullen
timidity of the very shy. Moreover, he was a little unsteady as he
walked, as though he had not yet recovered from last night's
intoxication.

Mr. Jarvice noted these points with his quick glance, but whether they
pleased him or not there was no hint upon his face.

"Will you sit down?" he said, suavely, pointing to a chair. "Maunders,
you can go."

Walter Hine turned quickly, as though he would have preferred Maunders to
stay, but he let him go. Mr. Jarvice shut the door carefully, and,
walking across the room, stood over his visitor with his hands in his
pockets, and renewed his scrutiny. Walter Hine grew uncomfortable, and
blurted out with a cockney twang--

"Maunders told me that if I came to see you it might be to my advantage."

"I think it will," replied Mr. Jarvice. "Have you seen this
morning's paper?"

"On'y the 'Sportsman'."

"Then you have probably not noticed that your cousin, John Lattery, has
been killed in the Alps." He handed his newspaper to Hine, who glanced at
it indifferently.

"Well, how does that affect me?" he asked.

"It leaves you the only heir to your uncle, Mr. Joseph Hine, wine-grower
at Maçon, who, I believe, is a millionaire. Joseph Hine is domiciled in
France, and must by French law leave a certain portion of his property to
his relations, in other words, to you. I have taken some trouble to go
into the matter, Mr. Hine, and I find that your share must at the very
least amount to two hundred thousand pounds."

"I know all about that," Hine interrupted. "But as the old brute won't
acknowledge me and may live another twenty years, it's not much use
to me now."

"Well," said Mr. Jarvice, smiling suavely, "my young friend, that is
where I come in."

Walter Hine looked up in surprise. Suspicion followed quickly upon
the surprise.

"Oh, on purely business terms, of course," said Jarvice. He took a seat
and resumed gaily. "Now I am by profession--what would you guess? I am a
money-lender. Luckily for many people I have money, and I lend it--I lend
it upon very easy terms. I make no secret of my calling, Mr. Hine. On the
contrary, I glory in it. It gives me an opportunity of doing a great deal
of good in a quiet way. If I were to show you my books you would realize
that many famous estates are only kept going through my assistance; and
thus many a farm laborer owes his daily bread to me and never knows his
debt. Why should I conceal it?"

Mr. Jarvice turned toward his visitor with his hands outspread. Then his
voice dropped.

"There is only one thing I hide, and that, Mr. Hine, is the easiness of
the terms on which I advance my loans. I must hide that. I should have
all my profession against me were it known. But you shall know it, Mr.
Hine." He leaned forward and patted his young friend upon the knee with
an air of great benevolence. "Come, to business! Your circumstances are
not, I think, in a very flourishing condition."

"I should think not," said Walter Hine, sullenly. "I have a hundred and
fifty a year, paid weekly. Three quid a week don't give a fellow much
chance of a flutter."

"Three pounds a week. Ridiculous!" cried Mr. Jarvice, lifting up his
hands. "I am shocked, really shocked. But we will alter all that. Oh yes,
we will soon alter that."

He sprang up briskly, and unlocking once more the drawer in which he kept
his copy of the Code Napoleon, he took out this time a slip of paper. He
seated himself again, drawing up his chair to the table.

"Will you tell me, Mr. Hine, whether these particulars are correct? We
must be business-like, you know. Oh yes," he said, gaily wagging his head
and cocking his bright little eyes at his visitor. And he began to read
aloud, or rather paraphrase, the paper which he held:

"Your father inherited the same fortune as your uncle, Joseph Hine, but
lost almost the entire amount in speculation. In middle life he married
your mother, who was--forgive me if I wound the delicacy of your
feelings, Mr. Hine--not quite his equal in social position. The happy
couple then took up their residence in Arcade Street, Croydon, where you
were born on March 6, twenty-three years ago."

"Yes," said Walter Hine.

"In Croydon you passed your boyhood. You were sent to the public school
there. But the rigorous discipline of school life did not suit your
independent character." Thus did Mr. Jarvice gracefully paraphrase the
single word "expelled" which was written on his slip of paper. "Ah, Mr.
Hine," he cried, smiling indulgently at the sullen, bemused weakling who
sat before him, stale with his last night's drink. "You and Shelley!
Rebels, sir, rebels both! Well, well! After you left school, at the age
of sixteen, you pursued your studies in a desultory fashion at home. Your
father died the following year. Your mother two years later. You have
since lived in Russell Street, Bloomsbury, on the income which remained
from your father's patrimony. Three pounds a week--to be sure, here it
is--paid weekly by trustees appointed by your mother. And you have
adopted none of the liberal professions. There we have it, I think."

"You seem to have taken a lot of trouble to find out my history," said
Walter Hine, suspiciously.

"Business, sir, business," said Mr. Jarvice. It was on the tip of his
tongue to add, "The early bird, you know," but he was discreet enough to
hold the words back. "Now let me look to the future, which opens out in a
brighter prospect. It is altogether absurd, Mr. Hine, that a young
gentleman who will eventually inherit a quarter of a million should have
to scrape through meanwhile on three pounds a week. I put it on a higher
ground. It is bad for the State, Mr. Hine, and you and I, like good
citizens of this great empire, must consider the State. When this great
fortune comes into your hands you should already have learned how to
dispose of it."

"Oh, I could dispose of it all right," interrupted Mr. Hine with a
chuckle. "Don't you worry your head about that."

Mr. Jarvice laughed heartily at the joke. Walter Hine could not but think
that he had made a very witty remark. He began to thaw into something
like confidence. He sat more easily on his chair.

"You will have your little joke, Mr. Hine. You could dispose of it! Very
good indeed! I must really tell that to my dear wife. But business,
business!" He checked his laughter with a determined effort, and lowered
his voice to a confidential pitch. "I propose to allow you two thousand
pounds a year, paid quarterly in advance. Five hundred pounds each
quarter. Forty pounds a week, Mr. Hine, which with your three will make a
nice comfortable living wage! Ha! Ha!"

"Two thousand a year!" gasped Mr. Hine, leaning back in his chair. "It
ain't possible. Two thou--here, what am I to do for it?"

"Nothing, except to spend it like a gentleman," said Mr. Jarvice, beaming
upon his visitor. It did not seem to occur to either man that Mr. Jarvice
had set to his loan the one condition which Mr. Walter Hine never could
fulfil. Walter Hine was troubled with doubts of quite another kind.

"But you come in somewhere," he said, bluntly. "On'y I'm hanged if I
see where."

"Of course I come in, my young friend," replied Jarvice, frankly. "I or
my executors. For we may have to wait a long time. I propose that you
execute in my favor a post-obit on your uncle's life, giving me--well, we
may have to wait a long time. Twenty years you suggested. Your uncle is
seventy-three, but a hale man, living in a healthy climate. We will say
four thousand pounds for every two thousand which I lend you. Those are
easy terms, Mr. Hine. I don't make you take cigars and sherry! No! I
think such practices almost reflect discredit on my calling. Two thousand
a year! Five hundred a quarter! Forty pounds a week! Forty-three with
your little income! Well, what do you say?"

Mr. Hine sat dazzled with the prospect of wealth, immediate wealth,
actually within his reach now. But he had lived amongst people who never
did anything for nothing, who spoke only a friendship when they proposed
to borrow money, and at the back of his mind suspicion and incredulity
were still at work. Somehow Jarvice would be getting the better of him.
In his dull way he began to reason matters out.

"But suppose I died before my uncle, then you would get nothing,"
he objected.

"Ah, to be sure! I had not forgotten that point," said Mr. Jarvice. "It
is a contingency, of course, not very probable, but still we do right to
consider it." He leaned back in his chair, and once again he fixed his
eyes upon his visitor in a long and silent scrutiny. When he spoke again,
it was in a quieter voice than he had used. One might almost have said
that the real business of the interview was only just beginning.

"There is a way which will save me from loss. You can insure your life as
against your uncle's, for a round sum--say for a hundred thousand pounds.
You will make over the policy to me. I shall pay the premiums, and so if
anything were to happen to you I should be recouped."

He never once removed his eyes from Hine's face. He sat with his elbows
on the arms of his chair and his hands folded beneath his chin, quite
still, but with a queer look of alertness upon his whole person.

"Yes, I see," said Mr. Hine, as he turned the proposal over in his mind.

"Do you agree?" asked Jarvice.

"Yes," said Walter Hine.

"Very well," said Jarvice, all his old briskness returning. "The sooner
the arrangement is pushed through, the better for you, eh? You will begin
to touch the dibs." He laughed and Walter Hine chuckled. "As to the
insurance, you will have to get the company's doctor's certificate, and I
should think it would be wise to go steady for a day or two, what? You
have been going the pace a bit, haven't you? You had better see your
solicitor to-day. As soon as the post-obit and the insurance policy are
in this office, Mr. Hine, your first quarter's income is paid into your
bank. I will have an agreement drawn, binding me on my side to pay you
two thousand a year until your uncle's death."

Mr. Jarvice rose as if the interview was ended. He moved some papers on
his table, and added carelessly--"You have a good solicitor, I suppose?"

"I haven't a solicitor at all," said Walter Hine, as he, too, rose.

"Oh, haven't you?" said Mr. Jarvice, with all the appearance of surprise.
"Well, shall I give you an introduction to one?" He sat down, wrote a
note, placed it in an envelope, which he left unfastened, and addressed
it. Then he handed the envelope to his client.

"Messrs. Jones and Stiles, Lincoln's Inn Fields," he said. "But ask for
Mr. Driver. Tell him the whole proposal frankly, and ask his advice."

"Driver?" said Hine, fingering the envelope. "Hadn't I ought to see one
of the partners?"

Mr. Jarvice smiled.

"You have a business head, Mr. Hine, that's very clear. I'll let you into
a secret. Mr. Driver is rather like yourself--something of a rebel, Mr.
Hine. He came into disagreement with that very arbitrary body the
Incorporated Law Society, so,--well his name does not figure in the firm.
But he _is_ Jones and Stiles. Tell him everything! If he advises you
against my proposal, I shall even say take his advice. Good-morning." Mr.
Jarvice went to the door and opened it.

"Well, this is the spider's web, you know," he said, with the
good-humored laugh of one who could afford to despise the slanders of the
ill-affected. "Not such a very uncomfortable place, eh?" and he bowed Mr.
Fly out of his office.

He stood at the door and waited until the outer office closed. Then he
went to his telephone and rang up a particular number.

"Are you Jones and Stiles?" he asked. "Thank you! Will you ask Mr. Driver
to come to the telephone"; and with Mr. Driver he talked genially for the
space of five minutes.

Then, and not till then, with a smile of satisfaction, Mr. Jarvice turned
to the unopened letters which had come to him by the morning post.


CHAPTER V

MICHEL REVAILLOUD EXPOUNDS HIS PHILOSOPHY


That summer was long remembered in Chamonix. July passed with a
procession of cloudless days; valley and peak basked in sunlight. August
came, and on a hot starlit night in the first week of that month Chayne
sat opposite to Michel Revailloud in the balcony of a café which
overhangs the Arve. Below him the river tumbling swiftly amidst the
boulders flashed in the darkness like white fire. He sat facing the
street. Chamonix was crowded and gay with lights. In the little square
just out of sight upon the right, some traveling musicians were singing,
and up and down the street the visitors thronged noisily. Women in
light-colored evening frocks, with lace shawls thrown about their
shoulders and their hair; men in attendance upon them, clerks from Paris
and Geneva upon their holidays; and every now and then a climber with his
guide, come late from the mountains, would cross the bridge quickly and
stride toward his hotel. Chayne watched the procession in silence quite
aloof from its light-heartedness and gaiety. Michel Revailloud drained
his glass of beer, and, as he replaced it on the table, said wistfully:

"So this is the last night, monsieur. It is always sad, the last night."

"It is not exactly as we planned it," replied Chayne, and his eyes moved
from the throng before him in the direction of the churchyard, where a
few days before his friend had been laid amongst the other Englishmen who
had fallen in the Alps. "I do not think that I shall ever come back to
Chamonix," he said, in a quiet and heart-broken voice.

Michel gravely nodded his head.

"There are no friendships," said he, "like those made amongst the snows.
But this, monsieur, I say: Your friend is not greatly to be pitied. He
was young, had known no suffering, no ill-health, and he died at once. He
did not even kick the snow for a little while."

"No doubt that's true," said Chayne, submitting to the commonplace,
rather than drawing from it any comfort. He called to the waiter. "Since
it is the last night, Michel," he said, with a smile, "we will drink
another bottle of beer."

He leaned back in his chair and once more grew silent, watching the
thronged street and the twinkling lights. In the little square one of the
musicians with a very clear sweet voice was singing a plaintive song, and
above the hum of the crowd, the melody, haunting in its wistfulness,
floated to Chayne's ears, and troubled him with many memories.

Michel leaned forward upon the table and answered not merely with
sympathy but with the air of one speaking out of full knowledge, and
speaking moreover in a voice of warning.

"True, monsieur. The happiest memories can be very bitter--if one has no
one to share them. All is in that, monsieur. If," and he repeated his
phrase--"If one has no one to share them." Then the technical side of
Chayne's proposal took hold of him.

"The Col Dolent? You will have to start early from the Chalet de Lognan,
monsieur. You will sleep there, of course, to-morrow. You will have to
start at midnight--perhaps even before. There is very little snow this
year. The great bergschrund will be very difficult. In any season it is
always difficult to cross that bergschrund on to the steep ice-slope
beyond. It is so badly bridged with snow. This season it will be as bad
as can be. The ice-slope up to the Col will also take a long time. So
start very early."

As Michel spoke, as he anticipated the difficulties and set his thoughts
to overcome them, his eyes lit up, his whole face grew younger.

Chayne smiled.

"I wish you were coming with me Michel," he said, and at once the
animation died out of Michel's face. He became once more a sad,
dispirited man.

"Alas, monsieur," he said, "I have crossed my last Col. I have ascended
my last mountain."

"You, Michel?" cried Chayne.

"Yes, monsieur, I," replied Michel, quietly. "I have grown old. My eyes
hurt me on the mountains, and my feet burn. I am no longer fit for
anything except to lead mules up to the Montanvert and conduct parties on
the Mer de Glace."

Chayne stared at Michel Revailloud. He thought of what the guide's life
had been, of its interest, its energy, its achievement. More than one of
those aiguilles towering upon his left hand, into the sky, had been first
conquered by Michel Revailloud. And how he had enjoyed it all! What
resource he had shown, what cheerfulness. Remorse gradually seized upon
Chayne as he looked across the little iron table at his guide.

"Yes, it is a little sad," continued Revailloud. "But I think that toward
the end, life is always a little sad, if"--and the note of warning once
more was audible--"if one has no well-loved companion to share one's
memories."

The very resignation of Michel's voice brought Chayne to a yet deeper
compunction. The wistful melody still throbbed high and sank, and soared
again above the murmurs of the passers-by and floated away upon the clear
hot starlit night. Chayne wondered with what words it spoke to his old
guide. He looked at the tired sad face on which a smile of friendliness
now played, and his heart ached. He felt some shame that his own troubles
had so engrossed him. After all, Lattery was not greatly to be pitied.
That was true. He himself too was young. There would come other summers,
other friends. The real irreparable trouble sat there before him on the
other side of the iron table, the trouble of an old age to be lived out
in loneliness.

"You never married, Michel?" he said.

"No. There was a time, long ago, when I would have liked to," the guide
answered, simply. "But I think now it was as well that I did not get my
way. She was very extravagant. She would have needed much money, and
guides are poor people, monsieur--not like your professional cricketers,"
he said, with a laugh. And then he turned toward the massive wall of
mountains. Here and there a slim rock spire, the Dru or the Charmoz,
pointed a finger to the stars, here and there an ice-field glimmered like
a white mist held in a fold of the hills. But to Michel Revailloud, the
whole vast range was spread out as on a raised map, buttress and peak,
and dome of snow from the Aiguille d'Argentière in the east to the summit
of Mont Blanc in the west. In his thoughts he turned from mountain to
mountain and found each one, majestic and beautiful, dear as a living
friend, and hallowed with recollections. He remembered days when they had
called, and not in vain, for courage and endurance, days of blinding
snow-storms and bitter winds which had caught him half-way up some
ice-glazed precipice of rock or on some long steep ice-slope crusted
dangerously with thin snow into which the ax must cut deep hour after
hour, however frozen the fingers, or tired the limbs. He recalled the
thrill of joy with which, after many vain attempts, he, the first of men,
had stepped on to the small topmost pinnacle of this or that new peak. He
recalled the days of travel, the long glacier walks on the high level
from Chamonix to Zermatt, and from Zermatt again to the Oberland; the
still clear mornings and the pink flush upon some high white cone which
told that somewhere the sun had risen; and the unknown ridges where
expected difficulties suddenly vanished at the climber's approach, and
others where an easy scramble suddenly turned into the most difficult of
climbs. Michel raised his glass in the air. "Here is good-by to you--the
long good-by," he said, and his voice broke. And abruptly he turned to
Chayne with his eyes full of tears and began to speak in a quick
passionate whisper, while the veins stood out upon his forehead and his
face quivered.

"Monsieur, I told you your friend was not greatly to be pitied. I tell
you now something more. The guide we brought down with him from the
Glacier des Nantillons a fortnight back--all this fortnight I have been
envying him--yes, yes, even though he kicked the snow with his feet for a
little before he died. It is better to do so than to lead mules up to the
Montanvert."

"I am sorry," said Chayne.

The words sounded, as he spoke them, lame enough and trivial in the face
of Michel's passionate lament. But they had an astonishing effect upon
the guide. The flow of words stopped at once, he looked at his young
patron almost whimsically and a little smile played about his mouth.

"'I am sorry,'" he repeated. "Those were the words the young lady spoke
to you on the steps of the hotel. You have spoken with her, monsieur, and
thanked her for them?"

"No," said Chayne, and there was much indifference in his voice.

Women had, as yet, not played a great part in Chayne's life. Easy to
please, but difficult to stir, he had in the main just talked with them
by the way and gone on forgetfully: and when any one had turned and
walked a little of his road beside him, she had brought to him no
thought that here might be a companion for all the way. His indifference
roused Michel to repeat, and this time unmistakably, the warning he had
twice uttered.

He leaned across the table, fixing his eyes very earnestly on his
patron's face. "Take care, monsieur," he said. "You are lonely
to-night--very lonely. Then take good care that your old age is not one
lonely night like this repeated and repeated through many years! Take
good care that when you in your turn come to the end, and say good-by
too"--he waved his hand toward the mountains--"you have some one to share
your memories. See, monsieur!" and very wistfully he began to plead, "I
go home to-night, I go out of Chamonix, I cross a field or two, I come to
Les Praz-Conduits and my cottage. I push open the door. It is all dark
within. I light my own lamp and I sit there a little by myself. Take an
old man's wisdom, monsieur! When it is all over and you go home, take
care that there is a lighted lamp in the room and the room not empty.
Have some one to share your memories when life is nothing but memories."
He rose as he ended, and held out his hand. As Chayne took it, the guide
spoke again, and his voice shook:

"Monsieur, you have been a good patron to me," he said, with a quiet and
most dignified simplicity, "and I make you what return I can. I have
spoken to you out of my heart, for you will not return to Chamonix and
after to-night we shall not meet again."

"Thank you," said Chayne, and he added: "We have had many good days
together, Michel."

"We have, monsieur."

"I climbed my first mountain with you."

"The Aiguille du Midi. I remember it well."

Both were silent after that, and for the same reason. Neither could trust
his voice. Michel Revailloud picked up his hat, turned abruptly away and
walked out of the café into the throng of people. Chayne resumed his seat
and sat there, silent and thoughtful, until the street began to empty and
the musicians in the square ceased from their songs.

Meanwhile Michel Revailloud walked slowly down the street, stopping to
speak with any one he knew however slightly, that he might defer his
entrance into the dark and empty cottage at Les Praz-Conduits. He drew
near to the hotel where Chayne was staying and saw under the lamp above
the door a guide whom he knew talking with a young girl. The young girl
raised her head. It was she who had said, "I am sorry." As Michel came
within the circle of light she recognized him. She spoke quickly to the
guide and he turned at once and called "Michel," and when Revailloud
approached, he presented him to Sylvia Thesiger. "He has made many first
ascents in the range of Mont Blanc, mademoiselle."

Sylvia held out her hand with a smile of admiration.

"I know," she said. "I have read of them."

"Really?" cried Michel. "You have read of them--you, mademoiselle?"

There was as much pleasure as wonder in his tone. After all, flattery
from the lips of a woman young and beautiful was not to be despised, he
thought, the more especially when the flattery was so very well deserved.
Life had perhaps one or two compensations to offer him in his old age.

"Yes, indeed. I am very glad to meet you, Michel. I have known your name
a long while and envied you for living in the days when these mountains
were unknown."

Revailloud forgot the mules to the Montanvert and the tourists on the Mer
de Glace. He warmed into cheerfulness. This young girl looked at him with
so frank an envy.

"Yes, those were great days, mademoiselle," he said, with a thrill of
pride in his voice. "But if we love the mountains, the first ascent or
the hundredth--there is just the same joy when you feel the rough rock
beneath your fingers or the snow crisp under your feet. Perhaps
mademoiselle herself will some time--"

At once Sylvia interrupted him with an eager happiness--

"Yes, to-morrow," she said.

"Oho! It is your first mountain, mademoiselle?"

"Yes."

"And Jean here is your guide. Jean and his brother, I suppose?" Michel
laid his hand affectionately on the guide's shoulder. "You could not do
better, mademoiselle."

He looked at her thoughtfully for a little while. She was fresh--fresh as
the smell of the earth in spring after a fall of rain. Her eyes, the
alertness of her face, the eager tones of her voice, were irresistible to
him, an old tired man. How much more irresistible then to a younger man.
Her buoyancy would lift such an one clear above his melancholy, though it
were deep as the sea. He himself, Michel Revailloud, felt twice the
fellow he had been when he sat in the balcony above the Arve.

"And what mountain is it to be, mademoiselle?" he asked.

The girl took a step from the door of the hotel and looked upward. To the
south, but quite close, the long thin ridge of the Aiguille des Charmoz
towered jagged and black against the starlit sky. On one pinnacle of that
ridge a slab of stone was poised like the top of a round table on the
slant. It was at that particular pinnacle that Sylvia looked.

"L'Aiguille des Charmoz," said Michel, doubtfully, and Sylvia swung round
to him and argued against his doubt.

"But I have trained myself," she said. "I have been up the Brévent and
Flégère. I am strong, stronger than I look."

Michel Revailloud smiled.

"Mademoiselle, I do not doubt you. A young lady who has enthusiasm is
very hard to tire. It is not because of the difficulty of that rock-climb
that I thought to suggest--the Aiguille d'Argentière."

Sylvia turned with some hesitation to the younger guide.

"You too spoke of that mountain," she said.

Michel pressed his advantage.

"And wisely, mademoiselle. If you will let me advise you, you will sleep
to-morrow night at the Pavillon de Lognan and the next day climb the
Aiguille d'Argentière."

Sylvia looked regretfully up to the ridge of the Charmoz which during
this last fortnight had greatly attracted her. She turned her eyes from
the mountain to Revailloud and let them rest quietly upon his face.

"And why do you advise the Aiguille d'Argentière?" she asked.

Michel saw her eyes softly shining upon him in the darkness, and all the
more persisted. Was not his dear patron who must needs be helped to open
his eyes, since he would not open them himself, going to sleep to-morrow
in the Pavillon de Lognan? The roads to the Col Dolent and the Aiguille
d'Argentière both start from that small mountain inn. But this was hardly
the reason which Michel could give to the young girl who questioned him.
He bethought him of another argument, a subtle one which he fancied would
strongly appeal to her. Moreover, there was truth in it.

"I will tell you why, mademoiselle. It is to be your first mountain. It
will be a day in your life which you will never forget. Therefore you
want it to be as complete as possible--is it not so? It is a good
rock-climb, the Aiguille des Charmoz--yes. But the Argentière is more
complete. There is a glacier, a rock traverse, a couloir up a rock-cliff,
and at the top of that a steep ice-slope. And that is not all. You want
your last step on to the summit to reveal a new world to you. On the
Charmoz, it is true, there is a cleft at the very top up which you
scramble between two straight walls and you pop your head out above the
mountain. Yes, but you see little that is new; for before you enter the
cleft you see both sides of the mountain. With the Argentière it is
different. You mount at the last, for quite a time behind the mountain
with your face to the ice-slope; and then suddenly you step out upon the
top and the chain of Mont Blanc will strike suddenly upon your eyes and
heart. See, mademoiselle, I love these mountains with a very great pride
and I would dearly like you to have that wonderful white revelation of a
new strange world upon your first ascent."

Before he had ended, he knew that he had won. He heard the girl draw
sharply in her breath. She was making for herself a picture of the last
step from the ice-slope to summit ridge.

"Very well," she said. "It shall be the Aiguille d'Argentière."

Michel went upon his way out of Chamonix and across the fields. They
would be sure to speak, those two, to-morrow at the Pavillon de Lognan.
If only there were no other party there in that small inn! Michel's hopes
took a leap and reached beyond the Pavillon de Lognan. To ascend one's
first mountain--yes, that was enviable and good. But one should have a
companion with whom one can live over again the raptures of that day, in
the after time. Well--perhaps--perhaps!

Michel pushed open the door of his cottage, and lit his lamp, without
after all bethinking him that the room was dark and empty. His ice-axes
stood in a corner, the polished steel of their adz-heads gleaming in the
light; his _Rücksack_ and some coils of rope hung upon pegs; his book
with the signatures and the comments of his patrons lay at his elbow on
the table, a complete record of his life. But he was not thinking that
they had served him for the last time. He sat down in his chair and so
remained for a little while. But a smile was upon his face, and once or
twice he chuckled aloud as he thought of his high diplomacy. He did not
remember at all that to-morrow he would lead mules up to the Montanvert
and conduct parties on the Mer de Glace.


CHAPTER VI

THE PAVILLON DE LOGNAN


The Pavillon de Lognan is built high upon the southern slope of the
valley of Chamonix, under the great buttresses of the Aiguille Verte. It
faces the north and from the railed parapet before its door the path
winds down through pastures bright with Alpine flowers to the pine woods,
and the village of Les Tines in the bed of the valley. But at its eastern
end a precipice drops to the great ice-fall of the Glacier d'Argentière,
and night and day from far below the roar of the glacier streams enters
in at the windows and fills the rooms with the music of a river in spate.

At five o'clock on the next afternoon, Chayne was leaning upon the rail
looking straight down to the ice-fall. The din of the torrent was in his
ears, and it was not until a foot sounded lightly close behind him that
he knew he was no longer alone. He turned round and saw to his surprise
the over-dainty doll of the Annemasse buffet, the child of the casinos
and the bathing beaches, Sylvia Thesiger. His surprise was very
noticeable and Sylvia's face flushed. She made him a little bow and went
into the chalet.

Chayne noticed a couple of fresh guides by the door of the guides'
quarters. He remembered the book which he had seen her reading with so
deep an interest in the buffet. And in a minute or two she came out again
on to the earth platform and he saw that she was not overdressed to-day.
She was simply and warmly dressed in a way which suggested business. On
the other hand she had not made herself ungainly. He guessed her mountain
and named it to her.

"Yes," she replied. "Please say that it will be fine to-morrow!"

"I have never seen an evening of better promise," returned Chayne, with a
smile at her eagerness. The brown cliffs of the Aiguille du Chardonnet
just across the glacier glowed red in the sunlight; and only a wisp of
white cloud trailed like a lady's scarf here and there in the blue of the
sky. The woman of the chalet came out and spoke to him.

"She wants to know when we will dine," he explained to Sylvia. "There are
only you and I. We should dine early, for you will have to start early";
and he repeated the invariable cry of that year: "There is so very little
snow. It may take you some time to get off the glacier on to your
mountain. There is always a crevasse to cross."

"I know," said Sylvia, with a smile. "The bergschrund."

"I beg your pardon," said Chayne, and in his turn he smiled too. "Of
course you know these terms. I saw you reading a copy of the 'Alpine
Journal.'"

They dined together an hour later with the light of the sunset reddening
the whitewashed walls of the little simple room and bathing in glory the
hills without. Sylvia Thesiger could hardly eat for wonder. Her face was
always to the window, her lips were always parted in a smile, her gray
eyes bright with happiness.

"I have never known anything like this," she said. "It is all so strange,
so very beautiful."

Her freshness and simplicity laid their charm on him, even as they had
done on Michel Revailloud the night before. She was as eager as a child
to get the meal done with and to go out again into the open air, before
the after-glow had faded from the peaks. There was something almost
pathetic in her desire to make the very most of such rare moments. Her
eagerness so clearly told him that such holidays came but seldom in her
life. He urged her, however, to eat, and when she had done they went out
together and sat upon the bench, watching in silence the light upon the
peaks change from purple to rose, the rocks grow cold, and the blue of
the sky deepen as the night came.

"You too are making an ascent?" she asked.

"No," he answered. "I am crossing a pass into Italy. I am going away from
Chamonix altogether."

Sylvia turned to him; her eyes were gentle with sympathy.

"Yes, I understand that," she said. "I am sorry."

"You said that once before to me, on the steps of the hotel," said
Chayne. "It was kind of you. Though I said nothing, I was grateful"; and
he was moved to open his heart to her, and to speak of his dead friend.
The darkness gathered about them; he spoke in the curt sentences which
men use who shrink from any emotional display; he interrupted himself to
light his pipe. But none the less she understood the reality of his
distress. He told her with a freedom of which he was not himself at the
moment quite aware, of a clean, strong friendship which owed nothing to
sentiment, which was never fed by protestations, which endured through
long intervals, and was established by the memory of great dangers
cheerily encountered and overcome. It had begun amongst the mountains,
and surely, she thought, it had retained to the end something of their
inspiration.

"We first met in the Tyrol, eight years ago. I had crossed a mountain
with a guide--the Glockturm--and came down in the evening to the
Radurschal Thal where I had heard there was an inn. The evening had
turned to rain; but from a shoulder of the mountain I had been able to
look right down the valley and had seen one long low building about four
miles from the foot of the glacier. I walked through the pastures toward
it, and found sitting outside the door in the rain the man who was to be
my friend. The door was locked, and there was no one about the house, nor
was there any other house within miles. My guide, however, went on.
Lattery and I sat out there in the rain for a couple of hours, and then
an old woman with a big umbrella held above her head came down from the
upper pastures, driving some cows in front of her. She told us that no
one had stayed at her inn for fourteen years. But she opened her door,
lit us a great fire, and cooked us eggs and made us coffee. I remember
that night as clearly as if it were yesterday. We sat in front of the
fire with the bedding and the mattresses airing behind us until late into
the night. The rain got worse too. There was a hole in the thatch
overhead, and through it I saw the lightning slash the sky, as I lay in
bed. Very few people ever came up or down that valley; and the next
morning, after the storm, the chamois were close about the inn, on the
grass. We went on together. That was the beginning."

He spoke simply, with a deep quietude of voice. The tobacco glowed and
grew dull in the bowl of his pipe regularly; the darkness hid his face.
But the tenderness, almost the amusement with which he dwelt on the
little insignificant details of that first meeting showed her how very
near to him it was at this moment.

"We went from the Tyrol down to Verona and baked ourselves in the sun
there for a day, under the colonnades, and then came back through the
St. Gotthard to Göschenen. Do you know the Göschenen Thal? There is a
semicircle of mountains, the Winterbergen, which closes it in at the
head. We climbed there together for a week, just he and I and no guides.
I remember a rock-ridge there. It was barred by a pinnacle which stood
up from it--'a gendarme,' as they call it. We had to leave the arête and
work out along the face of the pinnacle at right angles to the mountain.
There was a little ledge. You could look down between your feet quite
straight to the glacier, two thousand feet below. We came to a place
where the wall of the pinnacle seemed possible. Almost ten feet above
us, there was a flaw in the rock which elsewhere was quite
perpendicular. I was the lightest. So my friend planted himself as
firmly as he could on the ledge with his hands flat against the rock
face. There wasn't any handhold, you see, and I climbed out on to his
back and stood upon his shoulders. I saw that the rock sloped back from
the flaw or cleft in quite a practicable way. Only there was a big
boulder resting on the slope within reach, and which we could hardly
avoid touching. It did not look very secure. So I put out my hand and
just touched it--quite, quite gently. But it was so exactly balanced
that the least little vibration overset it, and I saw it begin to move,
very slowly, as if it meant no harm whatever. But it was moving,
nevertheless, toward me. My chest was on a level with the top of the
cleft, so that I had a good view of the boulder. I couldn't do anything
at all. It was much too heavy and big for my arms to stop and I couldn't
move, of course, since I was standing on Jack Lattery's shoulders. It is
probable that never previously has a traveler actually walked across
China, if we except the Rev. J. McCarthy, of the China Inland Mission,
who some thirty years or so ago did walk across to Burma, although
he went through Kwei-chow province over a considerably easier
country. Not because it is by any means physically impossible,
but because the custom of the country--and a cursed custom too--is that
one has to keep what is called his "face." And to walk tends to make a
man lose "face."
A quiet jaunt through China on foot was, I was told, quite out of the
question; the uneclipsed audacity of a man mentioning it, and especially
a man such as I was, was marvelled at. Did I not know that the
foreigner _must_ have a chair? (This was corroborated by my boy, on
his oath, because he would have to pay the men.) Did I not know that
no traveler in Western China, who at any rate had any sense of self-respect,
would travel without a chair, not necessarily as a conveyance, but
for the honor and glory of the thing?

And did I not know that, unfurnished with this undeniable token of
respect, I should be liable to be thrust aside on the highway, to be
kept waiting at ferries, to be relegated to the worst inn's worst room,
and to be generally treated with indignity? This idea of mine of crossing
China on foot was preposterous!

Even Mr. Hudson Broomhall, of the China Inland Mission, who with Mrs.
Broomhall was extremely kind, and did all he could to fit me up for
the journey (it is such remembrances that make the trip one which
I would not mind doing again), was surprised to know that I was
walking, and tried to persuade me to take a chair.

But I flew in the face of it all.
These good people certainly impressed me, but I decided to run the gauntlet
and take the risk.

The question of "face" is always merely one of theory, never of fact, and
the principles that govern "face" and its attainment were wholly
beyond my apprehension.

"I shall probably be more concerned in saving my life than in saving my
face," I thought.

Therefore it was that when I reached a place called Fu-to-gwan I discarded
all superfluities of dress, and strode forward, just at that time in
the early morning when the sun was gilding the dewdrops on the hedgerows
with a grandeur which breathed encouragement to the traveler, in a flannel
shirt and flannel pants--a terrible breach of foreign etiquette, no doubt,
but very comfortable to one who was facing the first eighty li he
had ever walked on China's soil.

My three coolies--the typical Chinese coolie of Szech'wan, but very good
fellows with all their faults--were to land me at Sui-fu, 230 miles distant
(some 650 li), in seven days' time. They were to receive four hundred
cash per man per day, were to find themselves, and if I reached Sui-fu
within the specified time I agreed to _kumshaw_ them to the extent
of an extra thousand.[F] They carried, according to the arrangement, ninety
catties apiece, and their rate of pay I did not consider excessive until
I found that each man sublet his contract for a fourth of his pay, and
trotted along light-heartedly and merry at my side; then I regretted that
I had not thought twice before closing with them.

It is probable that the solidity of the great paved highways of China
have been exaggerated. I have not been on the North China highways, but
have had considerable experience of them in Western China, Szech'wan and
Yün-nan particularly, and have very little praise to lavish upon
them.

Certain it is that the road to Sui-fu does not deserve the nice things
said about it by various travelers.

The whole route from Chung-king to Sui-fu, paved with flagstones varying
in width from three to six or seven feet--the only main road, of
course--is creditably regular in some places, whilst other portions,
especially over the mountains, are extremely bad and uneven.

In some places, I could hardly get along at all, and my boy would
call out as he came along in his chair behind me--
"Master, I thinkee you makee catch two piecee men makee carry.

This b'long no proper road.

P'raps you makee bad feet come."

And truly my feet were shamefully blistered.

One had to step from stone to stone with considerable agility. In places
bridges had fallen in, nobody had attempted to put them into a
decent state of repair--though this is never done in China--and one
of the features of every day was the wonderful fashion in which the
mountain ponies picked their way over the broken route; they are
as sure-footed as goats.

As I gazed admiringly along the miles and miles of ripening wheat and
golden rape, pink-flowering beans, interspersed everywhere with the
inevitable poppy, swaying gently as in a sea of all the dainty colors
of the rainbow, I did not wonder that Szech'wan had been called the Garden
of China. Greater or denser cultivation I had never seen. The amphitheater-like
hills smiled joyously in the first gentle touches of spring and
enriching green, each terrace being irrigated from the one below
by a small stream of water regulated in the most primitive manner (the
windlass driven by man power), and not a square inch lost. Even the mud
banks dividing these fertile areas are made to yield on the sides
cabbages and lettuces and on the tops wheat and poppy. There are no
fences. You see before you a forest of mountains, made a dark leaden
color by thick mists, from out of which gradually come the
never-ending pictures of green and purple and brown and yellow and
gold, which roll hither and thither under a cloudy sky in indescribable
confusion.

The chain may commence in the south or the north in two or three
soft, slow-rising undulations, which trend away from you and form
a vapory background to the landscape.

From these (I see such a picture even as I write, seated on the
stone steps in the middle of a mountain path), at once united and
peculiarly distinct, rise five masses with rugged crests, rough,
and cut into shady hollows on the sides, a faint pale aureola from
the sun on the mists rising over the summits and sharp outlines.

Looking to the north, an immense curved line shows itself, growing ever
greater, opening like the arch of a gigantic bridge, and binding this
first group to a second, more complicated, each peak of which has
a form of its own, and does in some sort as it pleases without
troubling itself about its neighbor.

The most remarkable point about these mountains is the life they seem
to possess. It is an incredible confusion. Angles are thrown fantastically
by some mad geometer, it would seem.

Splendid banyan trees shelter one after toiling up the unending steps, and
dotted over the landscape, indiscriminately in magnificent
picturesqueness, are pretty farmhouses nestling almost out of sight
in groves of sacred trees.

Oftentimes perpendicular mountains stand sheer up for three thousand
feet or more, their sides to the very summits ablaze with color
coming from the smiling face of sunny Nature, in spots at times
where only a twelve-inch cultivation is possible.

A dome raises its head curiously over the leaning shoulder of a
round hill, and a pyramid reverses itself, as if to the music of
some wild orchestra, whose symphonies are heard in the mountain
winds.

Seen nearer and in detail, these mountains are all in delicious keeping
with all of what the imagination in love with the fantastic,
attracted by their more distant forms, could dream.

Valleys, gorges, somber gaps, walls cut perpendicularly, rough or polished
by water, cavities festooned with hanging stalactites and notched
like Gothic sculptures--all make up a strange sight which cannot
but excite admiration.

Every mile or so there are tea-houses, and for a couple of cash a
coolie can get a cup of tea, with leaves sufficient to make a dozen
cups, and as much boiling water as he wants.

Szech'wan, the country, its people, their ways and methods, and
much information thereto appertaining, is already in print.

It were useless to give more of it here--and, reader, you will thank me!
But the thirst of Szech'wan--that thirst which is unique in the
whole of the Empire, and eclipsed nowhere on the face of the earth,
except perhaps on the Sahara--one does not hear about.

Many an Englishman would give much for the Chinese coolie's thirst--so
very, very much.

I wonder whether you, reader, were ever thirsty?

Probably not. You get a thirst which is not insatiable. Yours is born of
nothing extraordinary; yours can be satisfied by a gulp or two of
water, or perhaps by a drink--or perhaps two, or perhaps three--of
something stronger.

The Chinese coolie's thirst arises from the grilling sun, from a
dancing glare, from hard hauling, struggling with 120 pounds slung
over his shoulders, dangling at the end of a bamboo pole.

I have had this thirst of the Chinese coolie--I know it well. It is
born of sheer heat and sheer perspiration. Every drop of liquid has
been wrung out of my body; I have seemed to have swum in my clothes,
and inside my muscles have seemed to shrink to dry sponge and my
bones to dry pith.

My substance, my strength, my self has drained out of me. I have
been conscious of perpetual evaporation and liquefaction. And I have
felt that I must stop and wet myself again. I really _must_ wet
myself and swell to life again. And here we sit at the tea-shop. People
come and stare at me, and wonder what it is. They, too, are thirsty, for
they are all coolies and have the coolie thirst.

I wet myself. I pour in cup after cup, and my body, my self sucks it
in, draws it in as if it were the water of life. Instantly it gushes
out again at every pore. I swill in more, and out it rushes again, madly
rushes out as quickly as it can. I swill in more and more, and out it
comes defiantly. I can keep none inside me.

Useless--I _cannot_ quench my thirst.

At last the thirst thinks its conquest assured, taking the hot tea
for a signal of surrender; but I pour in more, and gradually feel
the tea settling within me.

I am a degree less torrid, a shade more substantial.

And then here comes my boy.

"Master, you wantchee makee one drink brandy-and-soda. No can catchee soda
this side--have got water. Can do?"
Ah! shall I? Shall I? No! I throw it away from me, fling a bottle of cheap
brandy which he had bought for me at Chung-king away from me, and the
boy looks forlorn.

Tea is the best of all drinks in China; for the traveler unquestionably
the best.

Good in the morning, good at midday, good in the evening, good at night,
even after the day's toil has been forgotten.

To-morrow I shall have more walking, more thirsting, more tea.

China tea, thou art a godsend to the wayfarer in that great land!

I endeavored to get the details of the population of the province of
Szech'wan, the variability of the reports providing an excellent
illustration of the uncertainty impending over everything statistical
in China--estimates ranged from thirty-five to eighty millions.

The surface of this province is made up of masses of rugged mountains,
through which the Yangtze has cut its deep and narrow channel. The area
is everywhere intersected by steep-sided valleys and ravines. The
world-famed plain of Chen-tu, the capital, is the only plain of any
size in the province, the system of irrigation employed on it being one
of the wonders of the world. Every food crop flourishes in Szech'wan,
an inexhaustible supply of products of the Chinese pharmacopoeia enrich
the stores and destroy the stomachs of the well-to-do; and with
the exception of cotton, all that grows in Eastern China grows
better in this great Garden of the Empire.

Its area is about that of France, its climate is even superior--a
land delightfully _accidentée_.

Among the minerals found are gold, silver, cinnabar, copper, iron,
coal and petroleum; the chief products being opium, white wax, hemp,
yellow silk.
Szech'wan is a province rich in salt, obtained from artesian borings,
some of which extend 2,500 feet below the surface, and from which
for centuries the brine has been laboriously raised by antiquated
windlass and water buffalo.

The best conditions of Chinese inns are far and away worse than anything
the traveler would be called upon to encounter anywhere in the British
Isles, even in the most isolated places in rural Ireland. There can be no
comparison. And my reader will understand that there is much which the
European misses in the way of general physical comfort and cleanliness.
Sanitation is absent _in toto_. Ordinary decency forbids one putting
into print what the uninitiated traveler most desires to know--if he would
be saved a severe shock at the outset; but everyone has to go through
it, because one cannot write what one sees. All travelers who have had
to put up at the caravanseries in Central and Western China will bear
me out in my assertion that all of them reek with filth and are
overrun by vermin of every description.

The traveler whom misfortune has led to travel off the main roads of Russia
may probably hesitate in expressing an opinion as to which country
carries off the palm for unmitigated filth; but, with this exception,
travelers in the Eastern Archipelago, in Central Asia, in Africa
among the wildest tribes, are pretty well unanimous that compared
with all these for dirt, disease, discomfort, an utter lack of
decency and annoyance, the Chinese inn holds its own.

And in no part of China more than in Szech'wan and Yün-nan is greater
discomfort experienced.

The usual wooden bedstead stands in the corner of the room with the
straw bedding (this, by the way, should on no account be removed
if one wishes to sleep in peace), sometimes there is a table,
sometimes a couple of chairs.

If these are steady it is lucky, if unbroken it is the exception;
there are never more.

Over the bedstead (more often than not, by the way, it is composed of
four planks of varying lengths and thickness, placed across two
trestles) I used first to place my oilskin, then my _p'u-k'ai_, and
that little creeper which rhymes with hug did not disturb me much.

Rats ran round and over me in profusion, and, of course, the best
room being invariably nearest to the pigsties, there were the usual
stenches.

The floor was Mother Earth, which in wet weather became mud, and quite a
common thing it was for my joys to be enhanced during a heavy shower
of rain by my having to sleep, almost suffocated, mackintosh over
my head, owing to a slight break in the continuity of the roof--my
umbrella being unavailable, as one of my men dropped it over a precipice
two days out.

For many reasons a camp-bed is to Europeans an indispensable part
of even the most modest traveling equipment.

I was many times sorry that I had none with me.

The inns of Szech'wan, however, are by many degrees better than those of
Yün-nan, which are sometimes indescribable. Earthen floors are saturated
with damp filth and smelling decay; there are rarely the paper windows,
but merely a sort of opening of woodwork, through which the offensive
smells of decaying garbage and human filth waft in almost to choke
one; tables collapse under the weight of one's dinner; walls are always
in decay and hang inwards threateningly; wicked insects, which
crawl and jump and bite, creep over the side of one's rice bowl--and
much else.

Who can describe it? It makes one ill to think of it.

Throughout my journeyings it was necessary for my toileting, in fact,
everything, to be performed in absolute unalloyed publicity. Three
days out my boy fixed up a cold bath for me, and barricaded a room
which had a certain amount of privacy about it, owing to its secluded
position; but even grown men and women, anxious to see what _it_ was
like when it had no clothes on, came forward, poked their fingers through
the paper in the windows (of course, glass is hardly known in the
interior), and greedily peeped in. This and the profound curiosity the
people evince in one's every action and movement I found most trying.

It was my misfortune each day at this stage to come into a town or village
where market was in progress. Catching a sight of the foreign visage,
people opened their eyes widely, turned from me, faced me again
with a little less of fear, and then came to me, not in dozens, but
in hundreds, with open arms.

They shouted and made signs, and walking excitedly by my side, they
examined at will the texture of my clothes, and touched my boots with
sticks to see whether the feet were encased or not.

For the time I was their hero.

When I walked into an inn business brightened immediately. Tea was at a
premium, and only the richer class could afford nine cash instead of three
to drink tea with the bewildered foreigner. The most inquisitive came
behind me, rubbing their unshaven pates against the side of my head in
enterprising endeavor to see through the sides of my spectacles. They
would speak to me, yelling in their coarsest tones thinking my hearing
was defective. I would motion then to go away, always politely,
cleverly suppressing my sense of indignation at their conduct; and
they would do so, only to make room for a worse crowd.

The town's business stopped; people left their stalls and shops to glare
aimlessly at or to ask inane and unintelligible questions about
the barbarian who seemed to have dropped suddenly from the heavens.

When I addressed a few words to them in strongest Anglo-Saxon, telling
them in the name of all they held sacred to go away and leave me in
peace, something like a cheer would go up, and my boy would swear
them all down in his choicest.

When I slowly rose to move the crowd looked disappointed, but allowed
me to go forward on my journey in peace

.

* * * * *

Thus the days passed, and things were never dull.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote E: This refers to the main roads There are many places
in isolated and unsurveyed districts where it is extremely difficult
and often impossible to get along at all--E.J.D.]

[Footnote F: This rate of four hundred cash per day per man was
maintained right up to Tong-ch'uan-fu, although after Chao-t'ong
the usual rate paid is a little higher, and the bad cash in that
district made it difficult for my men to arrange four hundred "big"
cash current in Szech'wan in the Yün-nan equivalent.

After Tong-ch'uan-fu, right on to Burma, the rate of coolie pay
varies considerably.

Three tsien two fen (thirty-two tael cents) was the highest I paid
until I got to Tengyueh, where rupee money came into circulation,
and where expense of living was considerably higher.

--E.J.D.]

CHAPTER VI.

_Szech-wan people a mercenary lot_. _Adaptability to trading_.
_None but nature lovers should come to Western China_.

_The life of the Nomad_.
_The opening of China, and some impressions_. _China's position in the
eyes of her own people_.

_Industrialism, railways, and the attitude of the populace_. _Introduction
of foreign machinery_. _Different opinions formed in different
provinces_.

_Climate, and what it is responsible for_. _Recent Governor of Szech-wan's
tribute to Christianity_.

_New China and the new student_. _Revolutionary element in Yün-nan_.
_Need of a new life, and how China is to get it_. _Luchow, and a
little about it_.

_Fusong from the military_.

_Necessity of the sedan-chair_. _Cost of lodging_. _An impudent woman_.
_Choice pidgin-English_. _Some of the annoyances of travel_. _Canadian
and China Inland missionaries_.
_Exchange of yarns_. _Exasperating Chinese life, and its effects on Europeans_.
_Men refuse to walk to Sui-fu.

Experiences in arranging up-river trip_.

_Unmeaning etiquette of Chinese officials toward foreigners_. _Rude
awakening in the morning_.

_A trying early-morning ordeal_.

_Reckonings do not tally_. _An eventful day_. _At the China Inland
Mission_. _Impressions of Sui-fu. Fictitious partnerships_.

The people of Szech'wan, compared with other Yangtze provinces,
must be called a mercenary, if a go-ahead, one.

Balancing myself on a three-inch form in a tea-shop at a small town midway
between Li-shïh-ch'ang and Luchow, I am endeavoring to take in the scene
around me. The people are so numerous in this province that they must
struggle in order to live. Vain is it for the most energetic among them
to escape from the shadow of necessity and hunger; all are similarly
begirt, so they settle down to devote all their energies to trade. And
trade they do, in very earnest.

Everything is labeled, from the earth to the inhabitants; these primitives,
these blissfully "heathen" people, have become the most consummate
of sharpers.

I walk up to buy something of the value of only a few cash, and on
all sides are nets and traps, like spider-webs, and the fly that
these gentry would catch, as they see me stalk around inspecting
their wares, is myself.

They seem to lie in wait for one, and for an article for which a coolie
would pay a few cash as many dollars are demanded of the foreigner. My
boy stands by, however, magnificently proud of his lucrative and
important post, yelling precautions to the curious populace to stand
away. He hints, he does not declare outright, but by ungentle innuendo
allows them to understand that, whatever their private characters may
be, to him they are all liars and rogues and thieves. It is all so funny,
that one's fatigue is minimized to the last degree by the humor one
gets and the novel changes one meets everywhere.

Onward again, my men singing, perhaps quarreling, always swearing. Their
language is low and coarse and vulgar, but happily ignorant am I.

The country, too, is fascinating in the extreme. A man must not come to
China for pleasure unless he love his mistress Nature when she is
most rudely clad. Some of her lovers are fascinated most in by-places,
in the cool of forests, on the summit of lofty mountains, high up
from the mundane, in the cleft of cañons, everywhere that the
careless lover is not admitted to her contemplation.

It is for such that China holds out an inviting hand, but she offers
little else to the Westerner--the student of Nature and of man can
alone be happy in the interior.
Forgetting time and the life of my own world, I sometimes come to
inviolate stillnesses, where Nature opens her arms and bewitchingly
promises embraces in soft, unending, undulating vastnesses, where
even the watching of a bird building its nest or brooding over its
young, or some little groundling at its gracious play, seems to
hold one charmed beyond description.

It is, some may say, a nomadic life.

Yes, it is a nomadic life. But how beautiful to those of us, and
there are many, who love less the man-made comforts of our own small life
than the entrancing wonders of the God-made world in spots where nothing
has changed. Gladly did I quit the dust and din of Western life, the
artificialities of dress, and the unnumbered futile affectations of our
own maybe not misnamed civilization, to go and breathe freely and peacefully
in those far-off nooks of the silent mountain-tops where solitude was
broken only by the lulling or the roaring of the winds of heaven.
Thank God there are these uninvaded corners. The realm of silence is,
after all, vaster than the realm of noise, and the fact brought a
consolation, as one watched Nature effecting a sort of coquetry in masking
her operations.

And as I look upon it all I wonder--wonder whether with the "Opening
of China" this must all change?

The Chinese--I refer to the Chinese of interior provinces such as
Szech-wan--are realizing that they hold an obscure position.

I have heard educated Chinese remark that they look upon themselves
as lost, like shipwrecked sailors, whom a night of tempest has
cast on some lonely rock; and now they are having recourse to cries,
volleys, all the signals imaginable, to let it be known that they
are still there.

They have been on this lonely isolated rock as far as history can trace.
Now they are launching out towards progress, towards the making of things,
towards the buying and selling of things--launching out in trade and
in commerce, in politics, in literature, in science, in all that has spelt
advance in the West. The modern spirit is spreading speedily into the
domains of life everywhere--in places swiftly, in places slowly, but
spreading inevitably, _si sit prudentia_.

Nothing will tend, in this particular part of the country, to turn it
upside down and inside out more than the cult of industrialism.

Even at this hour when
the basin of the valley was filled with sunshine that one corner at the
head of the Glacier d'Argentière was still dead white, dead black. She
shivered once more as she looked at it--so grim and so menacing the
rock-wall seemed, so hard and steep the riband of ice. Then Chayne joined
her on the ridge. They sat down and ate their meal and lay for an hour
sunning themselves in the clear air.

"You could have had no better day," said Chayne.

Only a few white scarfs of cloud flitted here and there across the sky
and their shadows chased each other across the glittering slopes of ice
and snow. The triangle of the Aiguille Verte was over against her, the
beautiful ridges of Les Courtes and Les Droites to her right and beyond
them the massive domes and buttresses of the great white mountain. Sylvia
lay upon the eastern slope of the Argentière looking over the brow, not
wanting to speak, and certainly not listening to any word that was
uttered. Her soul was at peace. The long-continued tension of mind and
muscle, the excitement of that last ice-slope, both were over and had
brought their reward. She looked out upon a still and peaceful world,
wonderfully bright, wonderfully beautiful, and wonderfully colored. Here
a spire would pierce the sunlight with slabs of red rock interspersed
amongst its gray; there ice-cliffs sparkled as though strewn with jewels,
bulged out in great green knobs, showed now a grim gray, now a
transparent blue. At times a distant rumble like thunder far away told
that the ice-fields were hurling their avalanches down. Once or twice she
heard a great roar near at hand, and Chayne pointing across the valleys
would show her what seemed to be a handful of small stones whizzing down
the rocks and ice-gullies of the Aiguille Verte. But on the whole this
new world was silent, communing with the heavens. She was in the hushed
company of the mountains. Days there would be when these sunlit ridges
would be mere blurs of driving storm, when the wind would shriek about
the gullies, and dark mists swirl around the peaks. But on this morning
there was no anger on the heights.

"Yes--you could have had no better day for your first mountain,
mademoiselle," said Jean, as he stood beside her. "But this is not your
first mountain."

She turned to him.

"Yes, it is."

Her guide bowed to her.

"Then, mademoiselle, you have great gifts. For you stood upon that
ice-slope and moved along and up it, as only people of experience stand
and move. I noticed you. On the rocks, too, you had the instinct for the
hand-grip and the foothold and with which foot to take the step. And that
instinct, mademoiselle, comes as a rule only with practice." He paused
and looked at her perplexity.

"Moreover, mademoiselle, you remind me of some one," he added. "I cannot
remember who it is, or why you remind me of him. But you remind me of
some one very much." He picked up the _Rücksack_ which he had taken from
his shoulders.

It was half past eleven. Sylvia took a last look over the wide prospect
of jagged ridge, ice pinnacles and rock spires. She looked down once
more upon the slim snow peak of Mont Dolent and the grim wall of rocks
at the Col.

"I shall never forget this," she said, with shining eyes. "Never."

The fascination of the mountains was upon her. Something new had come
into her life that morning which would never fail her to the very end,
which would color all her days, however dull, which would give her
memories in which to find solace, longings wherewith to plan the future.
This she felt and some of this her friend understood.

"Yes," he said. "You understand the difference it makes to one's whole
life. Each year passes so quickly looking back and looking forward."

"Yes, I understand," she said.

"You will come back?"

But this time she did not answer at once. She stood looking thoughtfully
out over the bridge of the Argentière. It seemed to Chayne that she was
coming slowly to some great decision which would somehow affect all her
life. Then she said--and it seemed to him that she had made her decision:

"I do not know. Perhaps I never shall come back."

They turned away and went carefully down the slope. Again her leading
guide, who on the return journey went last, was perplexed by that
instinct for the mountain side which had surprised him. The technique
came to her so naturally. She turned her back to the slope, and thus
descended, she knew just the right level at which to drive in the pick of
her ax that she might lower herself to the next hole in their ice-ladder.
Finally as they came down the rocks by the great couloir to the glacier,
he cried out:

"Ah! Now, mademoiselle, I know who it is you remind me of. I have been
watching you. I know now."

She looked up.

"Who is it?"

"An English gentleman I once climbed with for a whole season many years
ago. A great climber, mademoiselle! Captain Chayne will know his name.
Gabriel Strood."

"Gabriel Strood!" she cried, and then she laughed. "I too know his name.
You are flattering me, Jean."

But Jean would not admit it.

"I am not, mademoiselle," he insisted. "I do not say you have his
skill--how should you? But there are certain movements, certain neat ways
of putting the hands and feet. Yes, mademoiselle, you remind me of him."

Sylvia thought no more of his words at the moment. They reached the
lateral glacier, descended it and crossed the Glacier d'Argentière. They
found their stone-encumbered pathway of the morning and at three o'clock
stood once more upon the platform in front of the Pavillon de Lognan.
Then she rested for a while, saying very little.

"You are tired?" he said.

"No," she replied. "But this day has made a great difference to me."

Her guides approached her and she said no more upon the point. But Chayne
had no doubt that she was referring to that decision which she had taken
on the summit of the peak. She stood up to go.

"You stay here to-night?" she said.

"Yes."

"You cross the Col Dolent to-morrow?"

"Yes."

She looked at him quickly and then away.

"You will be careful? In the shadow there?"

"Yes."

She was silent for a moment or two, looking up the glacier toward the
Aiguille d'Argentière.

"I thank you very much for coming with me," and again the humility in
her voice, as of one outside the door, touched and hurt him. "I am
very grateful," and here a smile lightened her grave face, "and I am
rather proud!"

"You came up to Lognan at a good time for me," he answered, as they shook
hands. "I shall cross the Col Dolent with a better heart to-morrow."

They shook hands, and he asked:

"Shall I see no more of you?"

"That is as you will," she replied, simply.

"I should like to. In Paris, perhaps, or wherever you are likely to be. I
am on leave now for some months."

She thought for a second or two. Then she said:

"If you will give me your address, I will write to you. I think I shall
be in England."

"I live in Sussex, on the South Downs."

She took his card, and as she turned away she pointed to the Aiguille
d'Argentière.

"I shall dream of that to-night."

"Surely not," he replied, laughing down to her over the wooden
balustrade. "You will dream of running water."

She glanced up at him in surprise that he should have remembered this
strange quality of hers. Then she turned away and went down to the pine
woods and the village of Les Tines.


CHAPTER VIII

SYLVIA PARTS FROM HER MOTHER


Meanwhile Mrs. Thesiger laughed her shrill laugh and chatted noisily in
the garden of the hotel. She picnicked on the day of Sylvia's ascent
amongst the sham ruins on the road to Sallanches with a few detached
idlers of various nationalities.

"Quite, quite charming," she cried, and she rippled with enthusiasm over
the artificial lake and the artificial rocks amongst which she seemed so
appropriate a figure; and she shrugged her pretty shoulders over the
eccentricities of her daughter, who was undoubtedly burning her
complexion to the color of brick-dust among those stupid mountains. She
came back a trifle flushed in the cool of the afternoon, and in the
evening slipped discreetly into the little Cercle at the back of the
Casino, where she played baccarat in a company which flattery could
hardly have termed doubtful. She was indeed not displeased to be rid of
her unsatisfactory daughter for a night and a couple of days.

"Sylvia won't fit in."

Thus for a long time she had been accustomed piteously to complain; and
with ever more reason. Less and less did Sylvia fit in with Mrs.
Thesiger's scheme of life. It was not that the girl resisted or
complained. Mrs. Thesiger would have understood objections and
complaints. She would not have minded them; she could have coped with
them. There would have been little scenes, with accusations of
ingratitude, of undutifulness, and Mrs. Thesiger was not averse to the
excitement of little scenes. But Sylvia never complained; she maintained
a reserve, a mystery which her mother found very uncomfortable. "She has
no sympathy," said Mrs. Thesiger. Moreover, she would grow up, and she
would grow up in beauty and in freshness. Mrs. Thesiger did her best. She
kept her dressed in a style which suited a younger girl, or rather, which
would have suited a younger girl had it been less decorative and extreme.
Again Sylvia did not complain. She followed her usual practice and shut
her mind to the things which displeased her so completely, that they
ceased to trouble her. But Mrs. Thesiger never knew that secret; and
often, when in the midst of her chatter she threw a glance at the
elaborate figure of her daughter, sitting apart with her lace skirts too
short, her heels too high, her hat too big and too fancifully trimmed,
she would see her madonna-like face turned toward her, and her dark eyes
thoughtfully dwelling upon her. At such times there would come an
uncomfortable sensation that she was being weighed and found wanting; or
a question would leap in her mind and bring with it fear, and the same
question which she had asked herself in the train on the way to Chamonix.

"You ask me about my daughter?" she once exclaimed pettishly to
Monsieur Pettigrat. "Upon my word, I really know nothing of her except
one ridiculous thing. She always dreams of running water. Now, I ask
you, what can you do with a daughter so absurd that she dreams of
running water?"

Monsieur Pettigrat was a big, broad, uncommon man; he knew that he was
uncommon, and dressed accordingly in a cloak and a brigand's hat; he saw
what others did not, and spoke in a manner suitably impressive.

"I will tell you, madame, about your daughter," he said somberly. "To me
she has a fated look."

Mrs. Thesiger was a little consoled to think that she had a daughter with
a fated look.

"I wonder if others have noticed it," she said, cheerfully.

"No," replied Monsieur Pettigrat. "No others. Only I."

"There! That's just like Sylvia," cried Mrs. Thesiger, in exasperation.
"She has a fated look and makes nothing of it."

But the secret of her discontent was just a woman's jealousy of a younger
rival. Men were beginning to turn from her toward her daughter. That
Sylvia never competed only made the sting the sharper. The grave face
with its perfect oval, which smiled so rarely, but in so winning a way,
its delicate color, its freshness, were points which she could not
forgive her daughter. She felt faded and yellow beside her, she rouged
more heavily on account of her, she looked with more apprehension at the
crow's-feet which were beginning to show about the corners of her eyes,
and the lines which were beginning to run from the nostrils to the
corners of her mouth.

Sylvia reached the hotel in time for dinner, and as she sat with her
mother, drinking her coffee in the garden afterward, Monsieur Pettigrat
planted himself before the little iron table.

He shook his head, which was what his friends called "leonine."

"Mademoiselle," he said, in his most impressive voice, "I envy you."

Sylvia looked up at him with a little smile of mischief upon her lips.

"And why, monsieur?"

He waved his arm magnificently.

"I watched you at dinner. You are of the elect, mademoiselle, for whom
the snow peaks have a message."

Sylvia's smile faded from her face.

"Perhaps so, monsieur," she said, gravely, and her mother
interposed testily:

"A message! Ridiculous! There are only two words in the message, my dear.
Cold-cream! and be sure you put it on your face before you go to bed."

Sylvia apparently did not hear her mother's comment. At all events she
disregarded it, and Monsieur Pettigrat once again shook his head at
Sylvia with a kindly magnificence.

"They have no message for me, mademoiselle," he said, with a sigh, as
though he for once regretted that he was so uncommon. "I once went up
there to see." He waved his hand generally to the chain of Mont Blanc and
drifted largely away.

Mrs. Thesiger, however, was to hear more definitely of that message two
days later. It was after dinner. She was sitting in the garden with her
daughter on a night of moonlight; behind them rose the wall of
mountains, silent and shadowed, in front were the lights of the little
town, and the clatter of its crowded streets. Between the town and the
mountains, at the side of the hotel this garden lay, a garden of grass
and trees, where the moonlight slept in white brilliant pools of light,
or dripped between the leaves of the branches. It partook alike of the
silence of the hills and the noise of the town, for a murmur of voices
was audible from this and that point, and under the shadows of the trees
could be seen the glimmer of light-colored frocks and the glow of cigars
waxing and waning. A waiter came across the garden with some letters for
Mrs. Thesiger. There were none for Sylvia and she was used to none, for
she had no girl friends, and though at times men wrote her letters she
did not answer them.

A lamp burned near at hand. Mrs. Thesiger opened her letters and read
them. She threw them on to the table when she had read them through.
But there was one which angered her, and replacing it in its envelope,
she tossed it so petulantly aside that it slid off the iron table and
fell at Sylvia's feet. Sylvia stooped and picked it up. It had fallen
face upward.

"This is from my father."

Mrs. Thesiger looked up startled. It was the first time that Sylvia had
ever spoken of him to her. A wariness come into her eyes.

"Well?" she asked.

"I want to go to him."

Sylvia spoke very simply and gently, looking straight into her mother's
face with that perplexing steadiness of gaze which told so very little of
what thoughts were busy behind it. Her mother turned her face aside. She
was rather frightened. For a while she made no reply at all, but her face
beneath its paint looked haggard and old in the white light, and she
raised her hand to her heart. When she did speak, her voice shook.

"You have never seen your father. He has never seen you. He and I parted
before you were born."

"But he writes to you."

"Yes, he writes to me," and for all that she tried, she could not
altogether keep a tone of contempt out of her voice. She added with some
cruelty: "But he never mentions you. He has never once inquired after
you, never once."

Sylvia looked very wistfully at the letter, but her purpose was
not shaken.

"Mother, I want to go to him," she persisted. Her lips trembled a little,
and with a choke of the voice, a sob half caught back, she added: "I am
most unhappy here."

The rarity of a complaint from Sylvia moved her mother strangely. There
was a forlornness, moreover, in her appealing attitude. Just for a moment
Mrs. Thesiger began to think of early days of which the memory was at
once a pain and a reproach. A certain little village underneath the great
White Horse on the Dorsetshire Downs rose with a disturbing vividness
before her eyes. She almost heard the mill stream babble by. In that
village of Sutton Poyntz she had herself been born, and to it she had
returned, caught back again for a little while by her own country and her
youth, that Sylvia might be born there too. These months had made a kind
of green oasis in her life. She had rested there in a farm-house, after a
time of much turbulence, with the music of running water night and day in
her ears, a high-walled garden of flowers and grass about her, and the
downs with the shadow-filled hollows, and brown treeless slopes rising up
from her very feet. She could not but think of that short time of peace,
and her voice softened as she answered her daughter.

"We don't keep step, Sylvia," she said, with an uneasy laugh. "I know
that. But, after all, would you be happier with your father, even if he
wants to keep you! You have all you want here--frocks, amusement,
companions. Try to be more friendly with people."

But Sylvia merely shook her head.

"I can't go on any longer like this," she said, slowly. "I can't, mother.
If my father won't have me, I must see what I can do. Of course, I can't
do much. I don't know anything. But I am too unhappy here. I cannot
endure the life we are living without a home or--respect,--" Sylvia had
not meant to use that word. But it had slipped out before she was aware.
She broke off and turned her eyes again to her mother. They were very
bright, for the moonlight glistened upon tears. But the softness had gone
from her mother's face. She had grown in a moment hard, and her voice
rang hard as she asked:

"Why do you think that your father and I parted? Come, let me hear!"

Sylvia turned her head away.

"I don't think about it," she said, gently. "I don't want to think about
it. I just think that he left you, because you did not keep step either."

"Oh, he left me? Not I him? Then why does he write to me?"

The voice was growing harder with every word.

"I suppose because he is kind"; and at that simple explanation Sylvia's
mother laughed with a bitter amusement. Sylvia sat scraping the gravel
with her slipper.

"Don't do that!" cried her mother, irritably. Then she asked suddenly a
question which startled her daughter.

"Did you meet any one last night on the mountain, at the inn?"

Sylvia's face colored, but the moonlight hid the change.

"Yes," she said.

"A man?"

"Yes."

"Who was it?"

"A Captain Chayne. He was at the hotel all last week. It was his friend
who was killed on the Glacier des Nantillons."

"Were you alone at the inn, you and he?"

"Yes."

"Did he know your father?"

Sylvia stared at her mother.

"I don't know. I suppose not. How should he?"

"It's not impossible," replied Mrs. Thesiger. Then she leaned on the
table. "It was he who put these ideas into your head about going away,
about leaving me." She made an accusation rather than put a question, and
made it angrily.

"No, mother," Sylvia replied. "He never spoke of you. The ideas have been
growing in my mind for a long time, and to-day--" She raised her head,
and turning slightly, looked up to where just behind her the ice-peaks of
the Aiguilles du Midi and de Blaitière soared into the moonlit sky.
"To-day the end came. I became certain that I must go away. I am very
sorry, mother."

"The message of the mountains!" said her mother with a sneer, and Sylvia
answered quietly:

"Yes."

"Very well," said Mrs. Thesiger. She had been deeply stung by her
daughter's words, by her wish to go, and if she delayed her consent, it
was chiefly through a hankering to punish Sylvia. But the thought came to
her that she would punish Sylvia more completely if she let her go. She
smiled cruelly as she looked at the girl's pure and gentle face. And,
after all, she herself would be free--free from Sylvia's unconscious
rivalry, free from the competition of her freshness and her youth, free
from the grave criticism of her eyes.

"Very well, you shall go to your father. But remember! You have made your
choice. You mustn't come whining back to me, because I won't have you,"
she said, brutally. "You shall go to-morrow."

She took the letter from its envelope but she did not show it to
her daughter.

"I don't use your father's name," she said. "I have not used it
since"--and again the cruel smile appeared upon her lips--"since he left
me, as you say. He is called Garratt Skinner, and he lives in a little
house in Hobart Place. Yes, you shall start for your home to-morrow."

Sylvia stood up.

"Thank you," she said. She looked wistfully at her mother, asking her
pardon with the look. But she did not approach her. She stood sadly in
front of her. Mrs. Thesiger made no advance.

"Well?" she asked, in her hard, cold voice.

"Thank you, mother," Sylvia repeated, and she walked slowly to the door
of the hotel. She looked up to the mountains. Needle spires of rock,
glistening pinnacles of ice, they stood dreaming to the moonlight and the
stars. The great step had been taken. She prayed for something of their
calm, something of their proud indifference to storm and sunshine,
solitude and company. She went up to her room and began to pack her
trunks. And as she packed, the tears gathered in her eyes and fell.

Meanwhile, her mother sat in the garden. So Sylvia wanted a home; she
could not endure the life she lived with her mother. Afar off a band
played; the streets beyond were noisy as a river; beneath the trees of
the garden here people talked quietly. Mrs. Thesiger sat with a little
vindictive smile upon her face. Her rival was going to be punished. Mrs.
Thesiger had left her husband, not he her. She read through the letter
which she had received from him this evening. It was a pressing request
for money. She was not going to send him money. She wondered how he would
appreciate the present of a daughter instead.


CHAPTER IX

SYLVIA MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF HER FATHER


Sylvia left Chamonix the next afternoon. It was a Saturday, and she
stepped out of her railway-carriage on to the platform of Victoria
Station at seven o'clock on the Sunday evening. She was tired by her long
journey, and she felt rather lonely as she waited for her trunks to be
passed by the officers of the custom-house. It was her very first visit
to London, and there was not one person to meet her. Other travelers were
being welcomed on all sides by their friends. No one in all London
expected her. She doubted if she had one single acquaintance in the whole
town. Her mother, foreseeing this very moment, had with a subtlety of
malice refrained from so much as sending a telegram to the girl's father;
and Sylvia herself, not knowing him, had kept silence too. Since he did
not expect her, she thought her better plan was to see him, or rather,
since her thoughts were frank, to let him see her. Her mirror had assured
her that her looks would be a better introduction than a telegram.

She had her boxes placed upon a cab and drove off to Hobart Place. The
sense of loneliness soon left her. She was buoyed up by excitement. The
novelty of the streets amused her. Moreover, she had invented her father,
clothed him with many qualities as with shining raiment, and set him high
among the persons of her dreams. Would he be satisfied with his daughter?
That was her fear, and with the help of the looking-glass at the side of
her hansom, she tried to remove the traces of travel from her young face.

The cab stopped at a door in a narrow wall between two houses, and she
got out. Over the wall she saw the green leaves and branches of a few
lime trees which rose from a little garden, and at the end of the garden,
in the far recess between the two side walls, the upper windows of a
little neat white house. Sylvia was charmed with it. She rang the bell,
and a servant came to the door.

"Is Mr. Skinner in?" asked Sylvia.

"Yes," she said, doubtfully, "but--"

Sylvia, however, had made her plans.

"Thank you," she said. She made a sign to the cabman, and walked on
through the doorway into a little garden of grass with a few flowers on
each side against the walls. A tiled path led through the middle of the
grass to the glass door of the house. Sylvia walked straight down,
followed by the cabman who brought her boxes in one after the other. The
servant, giving way before the composure of this strange young visitor,
opened the door of a sitting-room upon the left hand, and Sylvia,
followed by her trunks, entered and took possession.

"What name shall I say?" asked the servant in perplexity. She had had no
orders to expect a visitor. Sylvia paid the cabman and waited until she
heard the garden door close and the jingle of the cab as it was driven
away. Then, and not till then, she answered the question.

"No name. Just please tell Mr. Skinner that some one would like to see
him."

The servant stared, but went slowly away. Sylvia seated herself firmly
upon one of the boxes. In spite of her composed manner, her heart was
beating wildly. She heard a door open and the firm tread of a man along
the passage. Sylvia clung to her box. After all she was in the house, she
and her baggage. The door opened and a tall broad-shouldered man, who
seemed to fill the whole tiny room, came in and stared at her. Then he
saw her boxes, and he frowned in perplexity. As he appeared to Sylvia, he
was a man of about forty-five, with a handsome, deeply-lined aquiline
face. He had thick, dark brown hair, a mustache of a lighter brown and
eyes of the color of hers--a man rather lean but of an athletic build.
Sylvia watched him intently, but the only look upon his face was one of
absolute astonishment. He saw a young lady, quite unknown to him, perched
upon her luggage in a sitting-room of his house.

"You wanted to see me?" he asked.

"Yes," she replied, getting on to her feet. She looked at him gravely. "I
am Sylvia," she said.

A smile, rather like her own smile, hesitated about his mouth.

"And--

"Who is Sylvia? What is she?
Her trunks do not proclaim her!"

he said. "Beyond that Sylvia has apparently come to stay, I am rather in
the dark."

"You are Mr. Garratt Skinner?"

"Yes."

"I am your daughter Sylvia."

"My daughter Sylvia!" he exclaimed in a daze. Then he sat down and held
his head between his hands.

"Yes, by George. I _have_ got a daughter Sylvia," he said, obviously
recollecting the fact with surprise. "But you are at Chamonix."

"I was at Chamonix yesterday."

Garratt Skinner looked sharply at Sylvia.

"Did your mother send you to me?"

"No," she answered. "But she let me go. I came of my own accord. A letter
came from you--"

"Did you see it?" interrupted her father. "Did she show it you?"

"No, but she gave me your address when I told her that I must come away."

"Did she? I think I recognize my wife in that kindly act," he said, with
a sudden bitterness. Then he looked curiously at his daughter.

"Why did you want to come away?"

"I was unhappy. For a long time I had been thinking over this. I hated it
all--the people we met, the hotels we stayed at, the life altogether.
Then at Chamonix I went up a mountain."

"Oho," said her father, sitting up alertly. "So you went up a mountain?
Which one?"

"The Aiguille d'Argentière. Do you know it, father?"

"I have heard of it," said Garratt Skinner.

"Well, somehow that made a difference. It is difficult to explain. But I
felt the difference. I felt something had happened to me which I had to
recognize--a new thing. Climbing that mountain, staying for an hour upon
its summit in the sunlight with all those great still pinnacles and
ice-slopes about me--it was just like hearing very beautiful music." She
was sitting now leaning forward with her hands clasped in front of her
and speaking with great earnestness. "All the vague longings which had
ever stirred within me, longings for something beyond, and beyond, came
back upon me in a tumult. There was a place in shadow at my feet far
below, the only place in shadow, a wall of black rock called the Col
Dolent. It seemed to me that I was living in that cold shadow. I wanted
to get up on the ridge, with the sunlight. So I came to you."

It seemed to Sylvia, that intently as she spoke, her words were and must
be elusive to another, unless that other had felt what she felt or were
moved by sympathy to feel it. Her father listened without ridicule,
without a smile. Indeed, once or twice he nodded his head to her words.
Was it comprehension, she wondered, or was it only patience?

"When I came down from that summit, I felt that what I had hated before
was no longer endurable at all. So I came to you."

Her father got up from his chair and stood for a little while looking out
of the window. He was clearly troubled by her words. He turned away with
a shrug of his shoulders.

"But--but--what can I do for you here?" he cried. "Sylvia, I am a very
poor man. Your mother, on the other hand, has some money."

"Oh, father, I shan't cost you much," she replied, eagerly. "I might
perhaps by looking after things save you money. I won't cost you much."

Garratt Skinner looked at her with a rueful smile.

"You look to me rather an expensive person to keep up," he said.

"Mother dressed me like this. It's not my choice," she said. "I let her
do as she wished. It did not seem to matter much. Really, if you will let
me stay, you will find me useful," she said, in a pathetic appeal.

"Useful?" said Garratt Skinner, suddenly. He again took stock of her, but
now with a scrutiny which caused her a vague discomfort. He seemed to be
appraising her from the color of her hair and eyes to the prettiness of
her feet, almost as though she was for sale, and he a doubtful purchaser.
She looked down on the carpet and slowly her blood colored her neck and
rose into her face. "Useful," he said, slowly. "Perhaps so, yes, perhaps
so." And upon that he changed his tone. "We will see, Sylvia. You must
stay here for the present, at all events. Luckily, there is a spare room.
I have some friends here staying to supper--just a bachelor's friends,
you know, taking pot-luck without any ceremony, very good fellows, not
polished, perhaps, but sound of heart, Sylvia my girl, sound of heart."
All his perplexity had vanished; he had taken his part; and he rattled
along with a friendly liveliness which cleared the shadows from Sylvia's
thoughts and provoked upon her face her rare and winning smile. He rang
the bell for the housemaid.

"My daughter will stay here," he said, to the servant's astonishment.
"Get the spare room ready at once. You will be hostess to-night, Sylvia,
and sit at the head of the table. I become a family man. Well, well!"

He took Sylvia up-stairs and showed her a little bright room with a big
window which looked out across the garden. He carried her boxes up
himself. "We don't run to a butler," he said. "Got everything you want?
Ring if you haven't. We have supper at eight and we shan't dress.
Only--well, you couldn't look dowdy if you tried."

Sylvia had not the slightest intention to try. She put on a little frock
of white lace, high at the throat, dressed her hair, and then having a
little time to spare she hurriedly wrote a letter. This letter she gave
to the servant and she ran down-stairs.

"You will be careful to have it posted, please!" she said, and at that
moment her father came out into the passage, so quickly that he might
have been listening for her approach.

She stopped upon the staircase, a few steps above him. The evening was
still bright, and the daylight fell upon her from a window above the
hall door.

"Shall I do?" she asked, with a smile.

The staircase was paneled with a dark polished wood, and she stood out
from that somber background, a white figure, delicate and dainty and
wholesome, from the silver buckle on her satin slipper to the white
flower she had placed in her hair. Her face, with its remarkable
gentleness, its suggestion of purity as of one unspotted by the world,
was turned to him with a confident appeal. Her clear gray eyes rested
quietly on his. Yet she saw his face change. It seemed that a spasm of
pain or revolt shook him. Upon her face there came a blank look. Why was
he displeased? But the spasm passed. He shrugged his shoulders and threw
off his doubt.

"You are very pretty," he said.

Sylvia's smile just showed about the corners of her lips and her
face cleared.

"Yes," she said, with satisfaction.

Garratt Skinner laughed.

"Oh, you know that?"

"Yes," she replied, nodding her head at him.

He led the way down the passage toward the back of the house, and
throwing open a door introduced her to his friends.

"Captain Barstow," he said, and Sylvia found herself shaking hands with a
little middle-aged man with a shiny bald head and a black square beard.
He had an eye-glass screwed into his right eye, and that whole side of
his face was distorted by the contraction of the muscles and drawn upward
toward the eye. He did not look at her directly, but with an oblique and
furtive glance he expressed his sense of the honor which the introduction
conferred on him. However, Sylvia was determined not to be disappointed.
She turned to the next of her father's guests.

"Mr. Archie Parminter."

He at all events looked her straight in the face. He was a man of
moderate height, youthful in build, but old of face, upon which there sat
always a smirk of satisfaction. He was of those whom no beauty in others,
no grace, no sweetness, could greatly impress, so filled was he with
self-complacency. He had no time to admire, since always he felt that he
was being admired, and to adjust his pose, and to speak so that his
words, carried to the right distance, occupied too much of his attention.
He seldom spoke to the person he talked with but generally to some other,
a woman for choice, whom he believed to be listening to the important
sentences he uttered. For the rest, he had grown heavy in jaw and his
face (a rather flat face in which were set a pair of sharp dark eyes)
narrowed in toward the top of his head like a pear.

He bowed suavely to Sylvia, with the air of one showing to the room how a
gentleman performed that ceremony, but took little note of her.

But Sylvia was determined not to be disappointed.

Her father took her by the elbow and turned her about.

"Mr. Hine."

Sylvia was confronted with a youth who reddened under her greeting and
awkwardly held out a damp coarse hand, a poor creature with an insipid
face, coarse hair, and manner of great discomfort. He was as tall as
Parminter, but wore his good clothes with Sunday air, and having been
introduced to Sylvia could find no word to say to her.

"Well, let us go in to supper," said her father, and he held open the
door for her to pass.

Sylvia went into the dining-room across the narrow hall, where a cold
supper was laid upon a round table. In spite of her resolve to see all
things in a rosy light, she grew conscious, in spite of herself, that she
was disappointed in her father's friends. She was perplexed, too. He was
so clearly head and shoulders above his associates, that she wondered at
their presence in his house. Yet he seemed quite content, and in a most
genial mood.

"You sit here, Sylvia, my dear," he said, pointing to a chair.
"Wallie"--this to the youth Hine--"sit beside my daughter and keep her
amused. Barstow, you on the other side; Parminter next to me."

He sat opposite Sylvia and the rest took their places, Hine sidling
timidly into his chair and tortured by the thought that he had to amuse
this delicate being at his side.

"The supper is on the table," said Garratt Skinner. "Parminter, will you
cut up this duck? Hine, what have you got in front of you? Really, this
is so exceptional an occasion that I think--" he started up suddenly, as
a man will with a new and happy idea--"I certainly think that for once in
a way we might open a bottle of champagne."

Surprise and applause greeted this brilliant idea, and Hine cried out:

"I think champagne fine, don't you, Miss Skinner?"

He collapsed at his own boldness. Parminter shrugged his shoulders to
show that champagne was an every-day affair with him.

"It's drunk a good deal at the clubs nowadays," he said.

Meanwhile Garratt Skinner had not moved. He stood looking across the
table to his daughter.

"What do you say, Sylvia? It's an extravagance. But I don't have such
luck every day. It's in your honor. Shall we? Yes, then!"

He did not wait for an answer, but opened the door of a cupboard in the
sideboard, and there, quite ready, stood half a dozen bottles of
champagne. A doubt flashed into Sylvia's mind--a doubt whether her
father's brilliant idea was really the inspiration which his manner had
suggested. Those bottles looked so obviously got in for the occasion.
But Garratt Skinner turned to her apologetically, as though he divined
her thought.

"We don't run to a wine cellar, Sylvia. We have to keep what little stock
we can afford in here."

Her doubt vanished, but in an instant it returned again, for as her
father came round the table with the bottle in his hand, she noticed that
shallow champagne glasses were ready laid at every place. Garratt Skinner
filled the glasses and returned to his place.

"Sylvia," he said, and, smiling, he drank to her. He turned to his
companions. "Congratulate me!" Then he sat down.

The champagne thawed the tongues of the company, and as they spoke
Sylvia's heart sank more and more. For in word and thought and manner her
father's guests were familiar to her. She refused to acknowledge it, but
the knowledge was forced upon her. She had thought to step out of a world
which she hated, against which her delicacy and her purity revolted, and
lo! she had stepped out merely to take a stride and step down into it
again at another place.

The obsequious attentiveness of Captain Barstow, the vanity of Mr.
Parminter and his affected voice, suggesting that he came out of the
great world to this little supper party, really without any sense of
condescension at all, and the behavior of Walter Hine, who, to give
himself courage, gulped down his champagne--it was all horribly familiar.
Her one consolation was her father. He sat opposite to her, his strong
aquiline face a fine contrast to the faces of the others; he had an ease
of manner which they did not possess; he talked with a quietude of his
own, and he had a watchful eye and a ready smile for his daughter.
Indeed, it seemed that what she felt his guests felt too. For they spoke
to him with a certain deference, almost as if they spoke to their master.
He alone apparently noticed no unsuitability in his guests. He sat at his
ease, their bosom friend.

Meanwhile, plied with champagne by Archie Parminter, who sat upon the
other side of him, "Wallie" Hine began to boast. Sylvia tried to check
him, but he was not now to be stopped. His very timidity pricked him on
to extravagance, and his boasting was that worst form of boasting--the
vaunt of the innocent weakling anxious to figure as a conqueror of women.
With a flushed face he dropped his foolish hints of Mrs. This and Lady
That, with an eye upon Sylvia to watch the impression which he made, and
a wise air which said "If only I were to tell you all."

Garratt Skinner opened a fresh bottle of champagne--the supply by now was
getting low--and came round the table with it. As he held the neck of the
bottle to the brim of Hine's glass he caught an appealing look from his
daughter. At once he lifted the bottle and left the glass unfilled. As he
passed Sylvia, she said in a low voice:

"Thank you," and he whispered back:

"You are quite right, my dear. Interest him so that he doesn't notice
that I have left his glass empty."

Sylvia set herself then to talk to Wallie Hine. But he was intent on
making her understand what great successes had been his. He _would_ talk,
and it troubled her that all listened, and listened with an air of
admiration. Even her father from his side of the table smiled
indulgently. Yet the stories, or rather the hints of stories, were
certainly untrue. For this her wanderings had taught her--the man of many
successes never talks. It seemed that there was a conspiracy to flatter
the wretched youth.

"Yes, yes. You have been a devil of a fellow among the women, Wallie,"
said Captain Barstow. But at once Garratt Skinner interfered and sharply:

"Come, come, Barstow! That's no language to use before my daughter."

Captain Barstow presented at the moment a remarkable gradation of color.
On the top was the bald head, very shiny and white, below that a face
now everywhere a deep red except where the swollen veins stood out upon
the surface of his cheeks, and those were purple, and this in its turn
was enclosed by the black square beard. He bowed at once to Garratt
Skinner's rebuke.

"I apologize. I do indeed, Miss Sylvia! But when I was in the service we
still clung to the traditions of Wellington by--by George. And it's hard
to break oneself of the habit. 'Red-hot,'" he said, with a chuckle.
"That's what they called me in the regiment. Red-hot Barstow. I'll bet
that Red-hot Barstow is still pretty well remembered among the boys at
Cheltenham."

"Swearing's bad form nowadays," said Archie Parminter, superciliously.
"They have given it up at the clubs."

Sylvia seized the moment and rose from the table. Her father sprang
forward and opened the door.

"We will join you in a few minutes," he said.

Sylvia went down the passage to the room at the back of the house in
which she had been presented by her father to his friends. She rang the
bell at once and when the servant came she said:

"I gave you a letter to post this evening. I should like to have it
back."

"I am sorry, miss, but it's posted."

"I am sorry, too," said Sylvia, quietly.

The letter had been written to Chayne, and gave him the address of this
house as the place where he might find her if he called. She had no
thought of going away. She had made her choice for good or ill and must
abide by it. That she knew. But she was no longer sure that she wished
Captain Chayne to come and find her there.


CHAPTER X

A LITTLE ROUND GAME OF CARDS


Sylvia sat down in a chair and waited. She waited impatiently, for she
knew that she had almost reached the limits of her self-command, and
needed the presence of others to keep her from breaking down. But her
native courage came to her aid, and in half an hour she heard the steps
of her father and his guests in the passage. She noticed that her father
looked anxiously toward her as he came in.

"Do you mind if we bring in our cigars?" he asked.

"Not at all," said she; and he came in, carrying in his hand a box of
cigars, which he placed in the middle of the table. Wallie Hine at
once stumbled across the room to Sylvia; he walked unsteadily, his
features were more flushed than before. She shrank a little from him.
But he had not the time to sit down beside her, for Captain Barstow
exclaimed jovially:

"I say, Garratt, I have an idea. There are five of us here. Let us have a
little round game of cards."

Sylvia started. In her heart she knew that just some such proposal as
this she had been dreading all the evening. Her sinking hopes died away
altogether.

This poor witless youth, plied with champagne; the older men who
flattered him with lies; the suggestion of champagne made as though it
were a sudden inspiration, and the six bottles standing ready in the
cupboard; and now the suggestion of a little round game of cards made in
just the same tone! Sylvia had a feeling of horror. She had kept herself
unspotted from her world, but not through ignorance. She knew it. She
knew those little round games of cards and what came of them, sometimes
merely misery and ruin, sometimes a pistol shot in the early morning. She
turned very pale, but she managed to say:

"Thank you. I don't play cards."

And then she heard a sudden movement by her father, who at the moment
when Barstow spoke had been lighting a fresh cigar. She looked up.
Garratt Skinner was staring in astonishment at Captain Barstow.

"Cards!" he cried. "In my house? On a Sunday evening?"

With each question his amazement grew, and he ended in a tone of
remonstrance.

"Come, Barstow, you know me too well to propose that. I am rather hurt. A
friendly talk, and a smoke, yes. Perhaps a small whisky and soda. I don't
say no. But cards on a Sunday evening! No indeed."

"Oh, I say, Skinner," objected Wallie Hine. "There's no harm in a
little game."

Garratt Skinner shook his head at Hine in a grave friendly way.

"Better leave cards alone, Wallie, always. You are young, you know."

Hine flushed.

"I am old enough to hold my own against any man," he cried, hotly. He
felt that Garratt Skinner had humiliated him, and before this wonderful
daughter of his in whose good favors Mr. Hine had been making such
inroads during supper. Barstow apologized for his suggestion at once, but
Hine was now quite unwilling that he should withdraw it.

"There's no harm in it," he cried. "I really think you are too
Puritanical, isn't he, Miss--Miss Sylvia?"

Hine had been endeavoring to pluck up courage to use her Christian name
all the evening. His pride that he had actually spoken it was so great
that he did not remark at all her little movement of disgust.

Garratt Skinner seemed to weaken in his resolution.

"Well, of course, Wallie," he said, "I want you to enjoy yourselves. And
if you especially want it--"

Did he notice that Sylvia closed her eyes and really shivered? She could
not tell. But he suddenly spoke in a tone of revolt:

"But card-playing on Sunday. Really no!"

"It's done nowadays at the West-End Clubs," said Archie Parminter.

"Oh, is it?" It must be remembered that duelling is a social
institution in Germany.
It is not necessary here to enter into a discussion of the merits of
the system; it is enough to recall the late Emperor's speech in
regard to it, in which he declared that he would punish any officer
who fought a duel, but would dismiss from the army any one who
refused to do so.

The first clause of this apparent paradox restrains the practice from
becoming an abuse or a general evil; the second imposes it as a
necessity in serious cases.

The penalty consists in a longer or shorter period of arrest, fixed within
certain limits, and in case of the death of one of the combatants the
survivor is confined in a fortress for three years, provided that the
duel has taken place with the consent of the superior officers of
the regiment sitting officially as a council of honour, and that
the encounter has been conducted in accordance with the requirements
of the law.

Any informality is most severely visited.
The regimental council takes charge of the officer's reputation,
and if it declares that there need be no meeting, honour is satisfied.

In private life any individual may appeal to the decision of a court of
honour chosen by himself and his adversary, and such decisions are
considered final. But if any person refuses either to fight or to appeal
to such arbitration, he is mercilessly excluded from all polite
society wherever the facts are known.

The customs of the country being of this nature, the existence of fighting
associations among students can be both explained and defended. That
some other nations consider the practice of duelling as altogether
barbarous and antiquated, has nothing to do with the case in hand.

An individual cannot change the conditions of the society in which he is
obliged to live, and must either conform to them or be excluded from
intercourse with his fellows. To learn to fight is, in Germany, as
necessary as learning to eat decently is in England, and the schools
of fighting are the Korps and other University unions.

As a direct consequence, they are also schools of life, and in some degree
of etiquette. A man learns there exactly what sort of language is
courteous, what words may be spoken without giving offence, and in what
an insult really consists.
By this means a vast amount of trouble is saved for society, and a uniform
standard of behaviour is secured which is universally respected and
adhered to by all who call themselves gentlemen.

The council of the Korps represents the council of the regiment,
or the social court of honour appealed to by civilians.

The conversation of the members with each other, though familiar
in the extreme, is regulated by rigid rules.

The slightest approach to discourtesy between members of the same Korps
must be followed by an instant apology, the refusal of which entails
the immediate ejection of the offender with ignominy, and what is
more, the announcement of the fact by circular letter within the
month to every Korps student in every one of the numerous Universities
of the empire.

A dishonourable action of any kind is visited in the same way.

The publicity of such a scandal is enormous. Seven or eight thousand young
men are simultaneously informed that one of their number is disgraced,
and at the end of the year all those older men who have been Korps students
in their youth, are also informed of the fact.

This amounts to warning some thirty or forty thousand gentlemen,
chiefly in the higher ranks of society, against an individual, who,
in one circumstance or another, is almost certain to be brought
into contact with some of them.

Such an institution cannot be laughed at, and its censure is no
joke.

But even a Korps student's life is not made up merely of fighting
and study. There is a very jovial side to it, and if its jollity
is sometimes made the subject of reproach this is due to the fact
that the few thoroughly lazy students are of necessity the very
ones who are most seen.

It cannot be denied that beer plays a considerable part in the life of
German students. It is also an important element in the existence of the
nation. German beer, however, is not English ale, any more than it is to
be confounded with the nauseous concoctions sold under its name
in other countries.

German beer is protected by law, and unoppressed by taxation. To adulterate
it is a crime, an attempt to tax it would bring about a convulsion of the
empire.

Its use, in quantities that amaze the understanding, does not appear
to have made Germans cowards in war, nor laggards in commerce; still
less does it seem to have stupefied the national intellect, or dulled
the Teutonic keenness in the race of nations. The first military power
in the world drinks as much beer as all the rest of the universe together,
and probably a little more. The commercial nation that undersells
Englishmen in England, Frenchmen in France, Italians in Italy and
Turks in Turkey, consumes more malt liquor than they drink of all
other liquors.

The intellectual race that has produced Kant, Goethe and Helmholtz,
Bismarck, Moltke, Mommsen, and Richard Wagner in a century, swallows
Homeric draughts of beer at breakfast, dinner and supper.

That other nations do not follow their example, and laugh at their potations
is of little consequence. Even if the Germans do not to some extent
owe their national characteristics to their national drink, it cannot
be asserted with any show of reason that beer has swamped their
intelligence, damped their military ardour or drowned their
commercial genius.

Beer is the natural irrigator of conservative principles and intellectual
progress. A little of it is good, much is better, and too much of it can
never produce delirium tremens. Can more be said of any potable
concoction manufactured by humanity for its daily use?

The Korps student drinks beer, therefore, and as though he felt a sort of
religious reverence for the drink of his fathers, he has invented laws
and rules for the ceremony, from which no departure is allowable.
Every meeting of the Korps begins and ends with a 'Salamander.' At the
president's word the glasses or stone jugs are moved rhythmically upon
the oaken board. Another word of command, and each student empties his
beaker. Then the vessels are rattled on the table, while he slowly counts
three, with the precision of a military drum, then struck sharply again
three times, so that they touch the table all together, and the meeting
is opened or closed, as the case may be. The same ceremony is performed
when the health of any one is drunk by the whole Korps. The principle is
that on peaceful occasions the drinking-cup takes the place of the
rapier, and is used for saluting and for combat, as the sword is
used in the duel.

To give as much as is received is the object of both. As much as one
student drinks to another's health, so much must the others drink in
return. If two fall out in a discussion, the one may challenge the
other to a beer duel. The weapons are full glasses, there is an umpire
who gives the word, and he who empties his glass the first is the conqueror.
The president can order any one to drink a certain quantity _pro poena_,
as a penalty for breaking a known rule, and the fellows have the same
privilege in regard to the novices.

There is another element, and a very important one, in the conduct of the
jovial meetings. Singing is a traditional and indispensable business at
every regular Kneipe. Every student has a standard song- book at his
place, containing both the words and music. As singing at sight is
taught in every common school throughout the country, the result
is not so cacophonous as might be expected.

The voices are young, fresh and manly, the tunes full of life and of an
easy nature, the verses simple and often grand, for they are selected
from the writings of celebrated poets. The spirit of the poetry is generally
patriotic or fraternal, always essentially national. The whole effect
is fine and elevating, and those who have sat as young men at the table
of a numerous Korps do not easily forget the sensations evoked by
the strains in which they have joined. Song holds a large place in German
life, and an essentially good one. As a means of strengthening popular
patriotism no one has ever denied its efficacy, and as a mere pastime it
is probably the most pacific and harmless that could be named. It may
even be believed that the capacity and willingness among young men to
amuse themselves with chorus singing indicates to some extent a national
love of law and order.

Italians are soloists, in music and in principles. Germans are born
chorus singers, and their great men do not sing themselves, but conduct
the singing of others.

The University of which Greif was a student, and which shall be
called for convenience Schwarzburg, was one of the oldest in the
country.

The town in which it was situated possessed in a high degree the
associations and the architectural features which throw a mediaeval
shadow over many northern cities, causing even the encroaching
paint- brush of modern progress to move in old-fashioned lines of
subdued colour.

In northern lands antiquity is not associated with the presence of dirt,
as it is in the south. Nuremberg does not look modern because its streets
are clean and there are no beggars, nor does the ancient seat of the
Teutonic Knights at Marienburg look like a hotel because its lofty corridors
and graceful halls, with their cross vaults springing from central columns,
are carefully swept and free from dust.
It would be interesting to examine the causes which produce this odd
artistic phenomenon. In Italy the process of cleansing is destroying
altogether the associations of antiquity and the artistic beauty which
once charmed the traveller. Heidelberg, Nuremberg, and most places
in Germany seem to have gained rather than lost in outward appearance by
the advance of civilisation. Possibly, the Germans of to-day resemble their
ancestors of the fourteenth century more closely than a modern Florentine
resembles Lorenzo De' Medici.

Possibly, in Germany such restorations as are necessary are executed with
a keener perception of beauty in the model. Possibly, too, German
conservatism, Gothic, thoughtful, stern, expresses itself in all it does;
even as the Italian's queer love of change and fetish worship of what, in
other lands, was called progress thirty years ago, shows itself in all
his visible works.

Architecture exhibits a nation's feeling far more exactly than
literature or any other branch of art or science.

People may, or may not, read the books that fill the market, and nobody
cares whether they do or not except the author and the publisher.

But people must live in houses of some sort, and, if they are rich
enough to choose, they will not live in houses they do not like,
nor worship in temples of which the architecture irritates their
nerves.

Now architects are placed in the same position towards the house
builders of the nation, in which authors stand towards the reading
public.

If people are conservative, and like old-fashioned buildings, the architect
must satisfy his customer's love of tradition, just as the professional
writer must write what is wanted, or starve. The difference in the result
is that houses last some time whereas books do not.

Greif was deeply attached to the University town. He had spent many
happy hours within its walls, and had passed through many exciting
moments of his young life amidst its high, narrow streets and
ancient buildings.

Such a place naturally exercised a greater influence over him than over
most men of his age. Born and bred in the heart of the Black Forest,
brought up in the house that had sheltered his race for centuries,
he would have felt uneasy and out of his element if he had been all at
once transported to a modern capital.

But in Schwarzburg he felt that he was at home. The huge cathedral
with its spires and arches and rich fretwork of dark stone, seemed to
him the model of what all cathedrals should be. The swift river that ran
between overhanging buildings, and beneath old bridges that were carved
with armorial bearings and decorated with the rare ironwork of cunning
smiths, famous long ago, bore in its breast the legends of his own
forest home, and was impersonated in many a verse he had learned to sing
with his comrades. The shady nooks and corners, the turns in the crooked
streets, the dark archways of old inns, the swinging signs with their
rich deep colour and Gothic characters, the projecting balconies,
glazed with round bull's eyes of blown glass set in heavy lead, the
marvellously wrought weathercocks of iron and gold on the corners of the
houses, every outward detail of the time-honoured and time-mellowed town
spoke to his heart in accents he not only understood but loved.
Even the modern note did not jar upon him. There were few officers in
the streets, few soldiers in bright uniforms. Occasionally a troop of
white cuirassiers rode slowly through the main thoroughfare, looking more
like mediaeval knights than Prussian soldiers. Their enormous
stature, their bronzed faces, their snow-white dress and gleaming corslets,
the stately, solemn tramp of their great horses, their straight broad
blades without curve or bend erect at their sides, all made them utterly
unlike the ordinary soldiery of present times, and rendered their
appearance perfectly harmonious with their surroundings.
Even the students in their long boots and coloured caps did not look
modern, as they strolled along in knots of three and four from the
University to the mess at dinner-time, or thronged the pavements of
the high street towards evening, when the purple light was on the
cathedral spires and the shadows were deepening below.

Greif loved it all, and to some extent his affection was returned. He was
certainly the most popular student who had ever trod the stones of
Schwarzburg, as he was by nature one of the most thoroughly German.
He had his quarrels, no doubt, but the way he settled them only
served to increase his reputation. He was pointed out as the man of forty
duels, who had never received a serious wound, and it was said to
his credit that he never wantonly provoked any man, and that his
victories had been chiefly gained over adversaries from neighbouring
Universities.

He was looked upon as the natural representative of Schwarzburg in
all great affairs, and when he presided, in the turn of his Korps,
over one of the periodical festivities, his appearance was the
occasion for a general ovation.

The feeling that he was to be warmly welcomed was pleasant to Greif
as he got out upon the platform and shook hands with a dozen who
awaited him, but the remembrance that this was probably his last
return as a student among his comrades gave him a passing sensation
of sadness.

He was approaching the end of a very happy period in his life, and though
there was much happiness in the future, he was young enough to regret
what he must leave so soon. Few men know what it is to be the central
figure at a great University, and those who have been so fortunate
know well enough how painful is the leavetaking and how hard the
last goodbye to the scene of their triumphs.

That moment had not yet come for Greif, but he could not help seeing
how very near it was.

The students led him home to his lodgings over the river, and installed
themselves as they could, all smoking and talking at once, while
he opened his boxes and disposed some of his belongings in their
places.

They told him all the news, with the vivacity of men who have twenty-
four hours the start of a friend.

The Rhine Korps had increased its numbers considerably and seemed
already inclined to show its teeth to the Westphalia Korps.

The Saxon Korps had lost one of their best fighters, who had suddenly
gone to another University.

Hardly any of the Prussian Korps had arrived, and it was doubtful
whether they could renew the lease of their old drinking-hall.

They themselves--their yellow caps showed that they were Swabians--were
already on the look- out for new 'foxes' to enlist, and believed
that they had secured a couple of excellent novices.

The fencing-master of the Prussians had declared his intention of fighting
a pitched battle--sabres and no bandages--with the fencing-master
of the Rhiners.

It was to be hoped that neither would be badly hurt, as they were
both good teachers and worth their salaries.

I don't want to see you grow pale, and for myself I haven't had
a holiday for a long time. You see there is not much temptation for a
lonely man to go away by himself."

For the second time that day he appealed to her on the ground of his
loneliness; and not in vain. She began even to feel remorseful that she
had left him to his loneliness so long. There rose up within her an
almost maternal feeling of pity for her father. She did not stop to think
that he had never sent for her; had never indeed shown a particle of
interest in her until they had met face to face.

"But since you are here," he continued, "well--I have been doing fairly
well in my business lately, and I thought we might take a little holiday
together, at some quiet village by the sea. You know nothing of England.
I have been thinking it all out this morning. There is no country more
beautiful or more typical than Dorsetshire. Besides, you were born there.
What do you say to three weeks or so in Dorsetshire? We will stay at an
hotel in Weymouth for a few days and look about for a house."

"Father!" exclaimed Sylvia, leaning forward with shining eyes. "It will
be splendid. Just you and I!"

"Well, not quite," he answered, slowly; and as he saw his daughter sink
back with a pucker of disappointment on her forehead, he knocked the ash
off his cigar and in his turn leaned forward over the table.

"Sylvia, I want to talk to you seriously," he said, and glanced around to
make sure that no one overheard him. "I should very much like one person
to come and stay with us."

Sylvia made no answer. Her face was grave and very still, her eyes dwelt
quietly upon him and betrayed nothing of what she thought.

"You have guessed who the one person is?"

Again Sylvia did not answer.

"Yes. It is Wallie Hine," he continued.

Her suspicions were stirring again from their sleep. She waited in fear
upon his words. She looked out, through the opening at the mouth of the
court into the glare of the Strand. The bright prospect which her vivid
fancies had pictured there a minute since, transforming the dusky street
into fields of corn and purple heather, the omnibuses into wagons drawn
by teams of great horses musical with bells, had all grown dark. A real
horror was gripping her. But she turned her eyes quietly back upon her
father's face and waited.

"His presence will spoil our holiday a little," Garratt Skinner continued
with an easy assurance. "You saw, no doubt, what Wallie Hine is, last
night--a weak, foolish youth, barely half-educated, awkward, with graces
of neither mind nor body, and in the hands of two scoundrels."

Sylvia started, and she leaned forward with a look of bewilderment plain
to see in her dark eyes.

"Yes, that's the truth, Sylvia. He has come into a little money, and he
is in the hands of two scoundrels who are leading him by the nose. My
poor girl," he cried, suddenly breaking off, "you must have found
yourself in very strange and disappointing company last night. I was very
sorry for you, and sorry for myself, too. All the evening I was saying to
myself, 'I wonder what my little girl is thinking of me.' But I couldn't
help it. I had not the time to explain. I had to sit quiet, knowing that
you must be unhappy, certain that you must be despising me for the
company I kept."

Sylvia blushed guiltily.

"Despising you? No, father," she said, in a voice of apology. "I saw how
much above the rest you were."

"Blaming me, then," interrupted Garratt Skinner, with an easy smile. He
was not at all offended. "Let us say blaming me. And it was quite natural
that you should, judging by the surface. And there was nothing but the
surface for you to judge by."

While in this way defending Sylvia against her own self-reproach, he only
succeeded in making her feel still more that she had judged hastily where
she should have held all judgment in abeyance, that she had lacked faith
where by right she should have shown most faith. But he wished to spare
her from confusion.

"I was so proud of you that I could not but suffer all the more. However,
don't let us talk of it, my dear"; and waving with a gesture of the hand
that little misunderstanding away forever, he resumed:

"Well, I am rather fond of Wallie Hine. I don't know why, perhaps because
he is so helpless, because he so much stands in need of a steady mentor
at his elbow. There is, after all, no accounting for one's likings. Logic
and reason have little to do with them. As a woman you know that. And
being rather fond of Wallie Hine, I have tried to do my best for him. It
would not have been of any use to shut my door on Barstow and Archie
Parminter. They have much too firm a hold on the poor youth. I should
have been shutting it on Wallie Hine, too. No, the only plan was to
welcome them all, to play Parminter's game of showing the youth about
town, and Barstow's game of crude flattery, and gradually, if possible,
to dissociate him from his companions, before they had fleeced him
altogether. So you were let in, my dear, for that unfortunate evening. Of
course I was quite sure that you would not attribute to me designs upon
Wallie Hine, otherwise I should have turned them all out at once."

He spoke with a laugh, putting aside, as it were, a quite incredible
suggestion. But he looked at her sharply as he laughed. Sylvia's face
grew crimson, her eyes for once wavered from his face, and she lowered
her head. Garratt Skinner, however, seemed not to notice her confusion.

"You remember," he continued, "that I tried to stop them playing cards at
the beginning. I yielded in the end, because it became perfectly clear
that if I didn't they would go away and play elsewhere, while I at all
events could keep the points down in my own house. I ought to have stayed
up, I suppose, until they went away. I blame myself there a little. But I
had no idea they would stay so late. Are you sure it was their voices you
heard and not the servants moving?"

He asked the question almost carelessly, but his eyes rather belied his
tone, for they watched her intently.

"Quite sure," she answered.

"You might have made a mistake."

"No; for I saw them."

Garratt Skinner covered his mouth with his hand. It seemed to Sylvia that
he smiled. A suspicion flashed across her mind, in spite of herself. Was
he merely testing her to see whether she would speak the truth or not?
Did he know that she had come down the stairs in the early morning? She
thrust the suspicion aside, remembering the self-reproach which suspicion
had already caused her at this very luncheon table. If it were true that
her father knew, why then Barstow or Parminter must have told him this
very morning. And if he had seen either of them this morning, all his
talk to her in this cool and quiet place was a carefully prepared
hypocrisy. No, she would not believe that.

"You saw them?" he exclaimed. "Tell me how."

She told him the whole story, how she had come down the staircase,
what she had seen, as she leaned over the balustrade, and how
Parminter had turned.

"Do you think he saw you?" asked her father.

Sylvia looked at him closely. But he seemed really anxious to know.

"I think he saw something," she answered. "Whether he knew that it was I
whom he saw, I can't tell."

Garratt Skinner sat for a little while smoking his cigar in short,
angry puffs.

"I wouldn't have had that happen for worlds," he said, with a frown. "I
have no doubt whatever that the slips of paper on which poor Hine was
trying to write were I.O.U's. Heaven knows what he lost last night."

"I know," returned Sylvia. "He lost £480 last night."

"Impossible," cried Garratt Skinner, with so much violence that the
people lunching at the tables near-by looked up at the couple with
surprise. "Oh, no! I'll not believe it, Sylvia." And as he lowered his
voice, he seemed to be making an appeal to her to go back upon her words,
so distressed was he at the thought that Wallie Hine should be jockeyed
out of so much money at his house.

"Four hundred and eighty pounds," Sylvia repeated.

Garratt Skinner caught at a comforting thought.

"Well, it's only in I.O.U's. That's one thing. I can stop the redemption
of them. You see, he has been robbed--that's the plain English of
it--robbed."

"Mr. Hine was not writing an I.O.U. He was writing a check, and Mr.
Parminter was guiding his hand as he wrote the signature."

Garratt Skinner fell back in his chair. He looked about him with a dazed
air, as though he expected the world falling to pieces around him.

"Why, that's next door to forgery!" he whispered, in a voice of horror.
"Guiding the hand of a man too drunk to write! I knew Archie Parminter
was pretty bad, but I never thought that he would sink to that. I am not
sure that he could not be laid by the heels for forgery." And then he
recovered a little from the shock. "But you can't be sure, Sylvia! This
is guesswork of yours--yes, guesswork."

"It's not," she answered. "I told you that the floor was littered with
slips of the paper on which Mr. Hine had been trying to write."

"Yes."

There came an indefinable change in Garratt Skinner's face. He leaned
forward with his mouth sternly set and his eyes very still. One might
almost have believed that for the first time during that luncheon he was
really anxious, really troubled.

"Well, this morning the carpet had been swept. The litter had gone. But
just underneath the hearth-rug one of those crumpled slips of paper lay
not quite hidden. I picked it up. It was a check."

"Have you got it? Sylvia, have you got it?" and Garratt Skinner's voice
in steady quietude matched his face.

"Yes."

Sylvia opened the little bag which she carried at her wrist and took out
the slip of paper. She unfolded it and spread it on the table before her.
The inside was pink.

"A check for £480 on the London and County Bank, Victoria Street," she
said.

Garrett Skinner looked over the table at the paper. There was Wallie
Hine's wavering, unfinished signature at the bottom right-hand corner.
Parminter had guided his hand as far as the end of the Christian name,
before he tore the check out and threw it away. The amount of the body of
the check had been filled in in Barstow's hand.

"You had better give it to me, Sylvia," he said, his fingers moving
restlessly on the table-cloth. "That check would be a very dangerous
thing if Parminter ever came to hear of it. Better give it to me."

He leaned over and took it gently from before her, and put it carefully
away in his pocket.

"Now, you see, there's more reason ever why we should get Wallie Hine
away from those two men. He is living a bad life here. Three weeks in the
country may set his thoughts in a different grove. Will you make this
sacrifice, Sylvia? Will you let me ask him? It will be a good action. You
see he doesn't know any geography."

"Very well; ask him, father."

Garrett Skinner reached over the table and patted her hand.

"Thank you, my dear! Then that's settled. I propose that you and I go
down this afternoon. Can you manage it? We might catch the four o'clock
train from Waterloo if you go home now, pack up your traps and tell the
housemaid to pack mine. I will just wind up my business and come home in
time to pick you and the luggage up."

He rose from the table, and calling a hansom, put Sylvia into it. He
watched the cab drive out into the Strand and turn the corner. Then he
went back to the table and asked for his bill. While he waited for it, he
lit a match and drawing from his pocket the crumpled check, he set fire
to it. He held it by the corner until the flame burnt his fingers. Then
he dropped it in his plate and pounded it into ashes with a fork.

"That was a bad break," he said to himself. "Left carelessly under the
edge of the hearth-rug. A very bad break."

He paid his bill, and taking his hat, sauntered out into the Strand. The
carelessness which had left the check underneath the hearth-rug was not,
however, the only bad break made in connection with this affair. At a
certain moment during luncheon Garratt Skinner had unwisely smiled and
had not quite concealed the smile with his hand. Against her every wish,
that smile forced itself upon Sylvia's recollections as she drove home.
She tried to interpret it in every pleasant sense, but it kept its true
character in her thoughts, try as she might. It remained vividly a very
hateful thing--the smile of the man who had gulled her.


CHAPTER XII

THE HOUSE OF THE RUNNING WATER


A week later, on a sunlit afternoon, Sylvia and her father drove
northward out of Weymouth between the marshes and the bay. Sylvia was
silent and looked about her with expectant eyes.

"I have been lucky, Sylvia," her father had said to her. "I have secured
for our summer holiday the very house in which you were born. It cost me
some trouble, but I was determined to get it if I could, for I had an
idea that you would be pleased. However, you are not to see it until it
is quite ready."

There was a prettiness and a delicacy in this thought which greatly
appealed to Sylvia. He had spoken it with a smile of tenderness.
Affection, surely, could alone have prompted it; and she thanked him very
gratefully. They were now upon their way to take possession. A little
white house set back under a hill and looking out across the bay from a
thick cluster of trees caught Sylvia's eye. Was that the house, she
wondered? The carriage turned inland and passed the white house, and half
a mile further on turned again eastward along the road to Wareham,
following the valley, which runs parallel to the sea. They ascended the
long steep hill which climbs to Osmington, until upon their left hand a
narrow road branched off between hawthorn hedges to the downs. The road
dipped to a little hollow and in the hollow a little village nestled. A
row of deep-thatched white cottages with leaded window-panes opened on to
a causeway of stone flags which was bordered with purple phlox and raised
above the level of the road. Farther on, the roof of a mill rose high
among trees, and an open space showed to Sylvia the black massive wheel
against the yellow wall. And then the carriage stopped at a house on the
left-hand side, and Garratt Skinner got out.

"Here we are," he said.

It was a small square house of the Georgian days, built of old brick,
duskily red. You entered it at the side and the big level windows of the
living rooms looked out upon a wide and high-walled garden whence a
little door under a brick archway in the wall gave a second entrance on
to the road. Into this garden Sylvia wandered. If she had met with but
few people who matched the delicate company of her dreams, here, at all
events, was a mansion where that company might have fitly gathered. Great
elms and beeches bent under their load of leaves to the lawn; about the
lawn, flowers made a wealth of color, and away to the right of the house
twisted stems and branches, where the green of the apples was turning to
red, stood evenly spaced in a great orchard. And the mill stream
tunneling under the road and the wall ran swiftly between green banks
through the garden and the orchard, singing as it ran. There lingered,
she thought, an ancient grace about this old garden, some flavor of
forgotten days, as in a room scented with potpourri; and she walked the
lawn in a great contentment.

The house within charmed her no less. It was a place of many corners and
quaint nooks, and of a flooring so unlevel that she could hardly pass
from one room to another without taking a step up or a step down. Sylvia
went about the house quietly and with a certain thoughtfulness. Here she
had been born and a mystery of her life was becoming clear to her. On
this summer evening the windows were set wide in every room, and thus in
every room, as she passed up and down, she heard the liquid music of
running water, here faint, like a whispered melody, there pleasant, like
laughter, but nowhere very loud, and everywhere quite audible. In one of
these rooms she had been born. In one of these rooms her mother had slept
at nights during the weeks before she was born, with that music in her
ears at the moment of sleep and at the moment of her waking. Sylvia
understood now why she had always dreamed of running water. She wondered
in which room she had been born. She tried to remember some corner of the
house, some nook in its high-walled garden; and that she could not awoke
in her a strange and almost eery feeling. She had come back to a house in
which she had lived, to a scene on which her eyes had looked, to sounds
which had murmured in her ears, and everything was as utterly new to her
and unimagined as though now for the first time she had crossed the
threshold. Yet these very surroundings to which her memory bore no
testimony had assuredly modified her life, had given to her a particular
possession, this dream of running water, and had made it a veritable
element of her nature. She could not but reflect upon this new knowledge,
and as she walked the garden in the darkness of the evening, she built
upon it, as will be seen.

As she stepped back over the threshold into the library where her father
sat, she saw that he was holding a telegram in his hand.

"Wallie Hine comes to-morrow, my dear," he said.

Sylvia looked at her father wistfully.

"It is a pity," she said, "a great pity. It would have been pleasant if
we could have been alone."

The warmth of her gladness had gone from her; she walked once more in
shadows; there was in her voice a piteous appeal for affection, for love,
of which she had had too little in her life and for which she greatly
craved. She stood by the door, her lips trembling and her dark eyes for a
wonder glistening with tears. She had always, even to those who knew her
to be a woman, something of the child in her appearance, which made a
plea from her lips most difficult to refuse. Now she seemed a child on
whom the world pressed heavily before her time for suffering had come;
she had so motherless a look. Even Garratt Skinner moved uncomfortably in
his chair; even that iron man was stirred.

"I, too, am sorry, Sylvia," he said, gently; "but we will make the best
of it. Between us"--and he laughed gaily, setting aside from him his
momentary compassion--"we will teach poor Wallie Hine a little geography,
won't we?"

Sylvia had no smile ready for a reply. But she bowed her head, and into
her face and her very attitude there came an expression of patience. She
turned and opened the door, and as she opened it, and stood with her back
toward her father, she said in a quiet and clear voice, "Very well," and
so passed up the stairs to her room.

It might, after all, merely be kindness in her father which had led him
to insist on Wallie Hine's visit. So she argued, and the more
persistently because she felt that the argument was thin. He could be
kind. He had been thoughtful for her during the past week in the small
attentions which appeal so much to women. Because he saw that she loved
flowers, he had engaged a new gardener for their stay; and he had shown,
in one particular instance, a quite surprising thoughtfulness for a class
of unhappy men with whom he could have had no concern, the convicts in
Portland prison. That instance remained for a long time vividly in her
mind, and at a later time she spoke of it with consequences of a
far-reaching kind. She thought then, as she thought now, only of the
kindness of her father's action, and for the first week of Hine's visit
that thought remained with her. She was on the alert, but nothing
occurred to arouse in her a suspicion. There were no cards, little wine
was drunk, and early hours were kept by the whole household. Indeed,
Garratt Skinner left entirely to his daughter the task of entertaining
his guest; and although once he led them both over the great down to
Dorchester and back, at a pace which tired his companions out, he
preferred, for the most part, to smoke his pipe in a hammock in the
garden with a novel at his side. The morning after that one expedition,
he limped out into the garden, rubbing the muscles of his thigh.

"You must look after Wallie, my dear," he said. "Age is beginning to find
me out. And after all, he will learn more of the tact and manners which
he wants from you than from a rough man like me," and it did not occur to
Sylvia, who was of a natural modesty of thought, that he had any other
intention of throwing them thus together than to rid himself of a guest
with whom he had little in common.

But a week later she changed her mind. She was driving Walter Hine
one morning into Weymouth, and as the dog-cart turned into the road
beside the bay, and she saw suddenly before her the sea sparkling in
the sunlight, the dark battle-ships at their firing practice, and
over against her, through a shimmering haze of heat, the crouching
mass of Portland, she drew in a breath of pleasure. It seemed to her
that her companion gave the same sign of enjoyment, and she turned to
him with some surprise. But Walter Hine was looking to the wide
beach, so black with holiday makers that it seemed at that distance a
great and busy ant-heap.

"That's what I like," he said, with a chuckle of anticipation. "Lot's o'
people. I've knocked about too long in the thick o' things, you see, Miss
Sylvia, kept it up--I have--seen it right through every night till three
o'clock in the morning, for months at a time. Oh, that's the real thing!"
he broke off. "It makes you feel good."

Sylvia laughed.

"Then if you dislike the country," she said, and perhaps rather eagerly,
"why did you come to stay with us at all?"

And suddenly Hine leered at her.

"Oh, you know!" he said, and almost he nudged her with his elbow. "I
wouldn't have come, of course, if old Garratt hadn't particularly told
me that you were agreeable." Sylvia grew hot with shame. She drew
away, flicked the horse with her whip and drove on. Had she been used,
she wondered, to lure this poor helpless youth to the sequestered
village where they stayed?--and a chill struck through her even on
that day of July. The plot had been carefully laid if that were so;
she was to be hoodwinked no less than Wallie Hine. What sinister thing
was then intended?

She tried to shake off the dread which encompassed her, pleading to
herself that she saw perils in shadows like the merest child. But
she had not yet shaken it off when Walter Hine cried out excitedly
to her to stop.

"Look!" he said, and he pointed toward an hotel upon the sea-front which
at that moment they were passing.

Sylvia looked, and saw obsequiously smirking upon the steps of the hotel,
with his hat lifted from his shiny head, her old enemy, Captain Barstow.
Fortunately she had not stopped. She drove quickly on, just acknowledging
his salute. It needed but this meeting to confirm her fears. It was not
coincidence which had brought Captain Barstow on their heels to Weymouth.
He had come with knowledge and a definite purpose.

"Oh, I say," protested Wallie Hine, "you might have stopped, Miss Sylvia,
and let me pass the time of day with old Barstow."

Sylvia stopped the trap at once.

"I am sorry," she said. "You will find your own way home. We lunch at
half past one."

Hine looked doubtfully at her and then back toward the hotel.

"I didn't mean that I wanted to leave you, Miss Sylvia," he said. "Not by
a long chalk."

"But you must leave me, Mr. Hine," she said, looking at him with serious
eyes, "if you want to pass the time of day with your 'red-hot' friend."

There was no hint of a smile about her lips. She waited for his answer.
It came accompanied with a smile which aimed at gallantry and was
merely familiar.

"Of course I stay where I am. What do _you_ think?"

Sylvia hurried over her shopping and drove homeward. She went at once to
her father, who lay in the hammock in the shade of the trees, reading a
book. She came up from behind him across the grass, and he was not aware
of her approach until she spoke.

"Father!" she said, and he started up.

"Oh, Sylvia!" he said, and just for a second there was a palpable
uneasiness in his manner. He had not merely started. He seemed also to
her to have been startled. But he recovered his composure.

"You see, my dear, I have been thinking of you," he said, and he pointed
to a man at work among the flower-beds. "I saw how you loved flowers,
how you liked to have the rooms bright with them. So I hired a new
gardener as a help. It is a great extravagance, Sylvia, but you are to
blame, not I."

He smiled, confident of her gratitude, and had it been but yesterday he
would have had it offered to him in full measure. To-day, however, all
her thoughts were poisoned by suspicion. She knew it and was distressed.
She knew how much happiness so simple a forethought would naturally have
brought to her. She did not indeed suspect any new peril in her father's
action. She barely looked toward the new gardener, and certainly
neglected to note whether he worked skilfully or no. But the fears of the
morning modified her thanks. Moreover the momentary uneasiness of her
father had not escaped her notice and she was wondering upon its cause.

"Father," she resumed, "I saw Captain Barstow in Weymouth this morning."

Though her eyes were on his face, and perhaps because her eyes were
resting there with so quiet a watchfulness, she could detect no
self-betrayal now. Garratt Skinner stared at her in pure astonishment.
Then the astonishment gave place to annoyance.

"Barstow!" he said angrily. He lay back in the hammock, looking up to the
boughs overhead, his face wrinkled and perplexed. "He has found us out
and followed us, Sylvia. I would not have had it happen for worlds. Did
he see you?"

"Yes."

"And I thought that here, at all events, we were safe from him. I wonder
how he found us out! Bribed the caretaker in Hobart Place, I suppose."

Sylvia did not accept this suggestion. She sat down upon a chair in a
disconcerting silence, and waited. Garratt Skinner crossed his arms
behind his head and deliberated.

"Barstow's a deep fellow, Sylvia," he said. "I am afraid of him."

He was looking up to the boughs overhead, but he suddenly glanced toward
her and then quietly removed one of his hands and slipped it down to the
book which was lying on his lap. Sylvia took quiet note of the movement.
The book had been lying shut upon his lap, with its back toward her.
Garratt Skinner did not alter its position; but she saw that his hand now
hid from her the title on the back. It was a big, and had the appearance
of an expensive, book. She noticed the binding--green cloth boards and
gold lettering on the back. She was not familiar with the look of it, and
it seemed to her that she might as well know--and as quickly as
possible--what the book was and the subject with which it dealt.

Meanwhile Garratt Skinner repeated:

"A deep fellow--Captain Barstow," and anxiously Garratt Skinner debated
how to cope with that deep fellow. He came at last to his conclusion.

"We can't shut our doors to him, Sylvia."

Even though she had half expected just that answer, Sylvia flinched as
she heard it uttered.

"I understand your feelings, my dear," he continued in tones of
commiseration, "for they are mine. But we must fight the Barstows with
the Barstows' weapons. It would never do for us to close our doors. He
has far too tight a hold of Wallie Hine as yet. He has only to drop a
hint to Wallie that we are trying to separate him from his true friends
and keep him to ourselves--and just think, my dear, what a horrible set
of motives a mean-minded creature like Barstow could impute to us! Let us
be candid, you and I," cried Garratt Skinner, starting up, as though
carried away by candor. "Here am I, a poor man--here are you, my
daughter, a girl with the charm and the beauty of the spring, and here's
Wallie Hine, rich, weak, and susceptible. Oh, there's a story for a
Barstow to embroider! But, Sylvia, he shall not so much as hint at the
story. For your sake, my dear, for your sake," cried Garratt Skinner,
with all the emphasis of a loving father. He wiped his forehead with his
handkerchief.

"I was carried away by my argument," he went on in a calmer voice. Sylvia
for her part had not been carried away at all, and no doubt her watchful
composure helped him to subdue as ineffective the ardor of his tones.
"Barstow has only to drop this hint to Wallie Hine, and Wallie will be
off like a rabbit at the sound of a gun. And there's our chance gone of
helping him to a better life. No, we must welcome Barstow, if he comes
here. Yes, actually welcome him, however repugnant it may be to our
feelings. That's what we must do, Sylvia. He must have no suspicion that
we are working against him. We must lull him to sleep. That is our only
way to keep Wallie Hine with us. So that, Sylvia, must be our plan of
campaign."

The luncheon bell rang as he ended his oration. He got out of the hammock
quickly, as if to prevent discussion of his plan; and the book which he
was carrying caught in the netting of the hammock and fell to the ground.
Sylvia could read the title now. She did read it, hastily, as Garratt
Skinner stooped to pick it up. It was entitled "The Alps in 1864."

She knew the book by repute and was surprised to find it in her father's
hands. She was surprised still more that he should have been at so much
pains to conceal the title from her notice. After all, what could it
matter? she wondered.

Sylvia lay deep in misery that night. Her father had failed her utterly.
All the high hopes with which she had set out from Chamonix had fallen,
all the rare qualities with which her dreams had clothed him as in
shining raiment must now be stripped from him. She was not deceived.
Parminter, Barstow, Garratt Skinner--there was one "deep fellow" in that
trio, but it was neither Barstow nor Parminter. It was her father. She
had but to set the three faces side by side in her thoughts, to remember
the differences of manner, mind and character. Garratt Skinner was the
master in the conspiracy, the other two his mere servants. It was he who
to some dark end had brought Barstow down from London. He loomed up in
her thoughts as a relentless and sinister figure, unswayed by affection,
yet with the power to counterfeit it, long-sighted for evil, sparing no
one--not even his daughter. She recalled their first meeting in the
little house in Hobart Place, she remembered the thoughtful voice with
which, as he had looked her over, he had agreed that she might be
"useful." She thought of his caresses, his smile of affection, his
comradeship, and she shuddered. Walter Hine's words had informed her
to-day to what use her father had designed her. She was his decoy.

She lay upon her bed with her hands clenched, repeating the word in
horror. His decoy! The moonlight poured through the open window, the
music of the stream filled the room. She was in the house in which she
had been born, a place mystically sacred to her thoughts; and she had
come to it to learn that she was her father's decoy in a vulgar
conspiracy to strip a weakling of his money. The stream sang beneath her
windows, the very stream of which the echo had ever been rippling through
her dreams. Always she had thought that it must have some particular
meaning for her which would be revealed in due time. She dwelt bitterly
upon her folly. There was no meaning in its light laughter.

In a while she was aware of a change. There came a grayness in the room.
The moonlight had lost its white brilliance, the night was waning. Sylvia
rose from her bed, and slowly like one very tired she began to gather
together and pack into a bag such few clothes as she could carry. She had
made up her mind to go, and to go silently before the house waked.
Whither she was to go, and what she was to do once she had gone, she
could not think. She asked herself the questions in vain, feeling very
lonely and very helpless as she moved softly about the room by the light
of her candle. Her friend might write to her and she would not receive
his letter. Still she must go. Once or twice she stopped her work, and
crouching down upon the bed allowed her tears to have their way. When she
had finished her preparations she blew out her candle, and leaning upon
the sill of the open window, gave her face to the cool night air.

There was a break in the eastern sky; already here and there a blackbird
sang in the garden boughs, and the freshness, the quietude, swept her
thoughts back to the Chalet de Lognan. With a great yearning she recalled
that evening and the story of the great friendship so quietly related to
her in the darkness, beneath the stars. The world and the people of her
dreams existed; only there was no door of entrance into that world for
her. Below her the stream sang, even as the glacier stream had sung,
though without its deep note of thunder. As she listened to it, certain
words spoken upon that evening came back to her mind and gradually began
to take on a particular application.

"What you know, that you must do, if by doing it you can save a life or
save a soul."

That was the law. "If you can save a life or save a soul." And she _did_
know. Sylvia raised herself from the window and stood in thought.

Garratt Skinner had made a great mistake that day. He had been misled by
the gentleness of her ways, the sweet aspect of her face, and by a look
of aloofness in her eyes, as though she lived in dreams. He had seen
surely that she was innocent, and since he believed that knowledge must
needs corrupt, he thought her ignorant as well. But she was not ignorant.
She had detected his trickeries. She knew of the conspiracy, she knew of
the place she filled in it herself; and furthermore she knew that as a
decoy she had been doing her work. Only yesterday, Walter Hine had been
forced to choose between Barstow and herself and he had let Barstow go.
It was a small matter, no doubt. Still there was promise in it. What if
she stayed, strengthened her hold on Walter Hine and grappled with the
three who were ranged against him?

Walter Hine was, of course, and could be, nothing to her. He was the mere
puppet, the opportunity of obedience to the law. It was of the law that
she was thinking--and of the voice of the man who had uttered it. She
knew--by using her knowledge, she could save a soul. She did not think at
this time that she might be saving a life too.

Quietly she undressed and slipped into her bed. She was comforted. A
smile had come upon her lips. She saw the face of her friend in the
darkness, very near to her. She needed sleep to equip herself for the
fight, and while thinking so she slept. The moonlight faded altogether,
and left the room dark. Beneath the window the stream went singing
through the lawn. After all, its message had been revealed to her in its
due season.


CHAPTER XIII

CHAYNE RETURNS


"Hullo," cried Captain Barstow, as he wandered round the library after
luncheon. "Here's a scatter-gun."

He took the gun from a corner where it stood against the wall, opened the
breech, shut it again, and turning to the open window lifted the stock to
his shoulder.

"I wonder whether I could hit anything nowadays," he said, taking careful
aim at a tulip in the garden. "Any cartridges, Skinner?"

"I don't know, I am sure," Garratt Skinner replied, testily. The
newspapers had only this moment been brought into the room, and he did
not wish to be disturbed. Sylvia had never noticed that double-barreled
gun before; and she wondered whether it had been brought into the room
that morning. She watched Captain Barstow bustle into the hall and back
again. Finally he pounced upon an oblong card-box which lay on the top of
a low book-case. He removed the lid and pulled out a cartridge.

"Hullo!" said he. "No. 6. The very thing! I am going to take a pot at the
starlings, Skinner. There are too many of them about for your
fruit-trees."

"Very well," said Garratt Skinner, lazily lifting his eyes from his
newspaper and looking out across the lawn. "Only take care you don't wing
my new gardener."

"No fear of that," said Barstow, and filling his pockets with cartridges
he took the gun in his hand and skipped out into the garden. In a moment
a shot was heard, and Walter Hine rose from his chair and walked to the
window. A second shot followed.

"Old Barstow can't shoot for nuts," said Hine, with a chuckle, and in his
turn he stepped out into the garden. Sylvia made no attempt to hinder
him, but she took his place at the window ready to intervene. A flight of
starlings passed straight and swift over Barstow's head. He fired both
barrels and not one of the birds fell. Hine spoke to him, and the gun at
once changed hands. At the next flight Hine fired and one of the birds
dropped. Barstow's voice was raised in jovial applause.

"That was a good egg, Wallie. A very good egg. Let me try now!" and so
alternately they shot as the birds darted overhead across the lawn.
Sylvia waited for the moment when Barstow's aim would suddenly develop a
deadly precision, but that moment did not come. If there was any betting
upon this match, Hine would not be the loser. She went quietly back to a
writing-desk and wrote her letters. She had no wish to rouse in her
father's mind a suspicion that she had guessed his design and was
setting herself to thwart it. She must work secretly, more secretly than
he did himself. It appeared impossible, so far as he could see,
that anything should arise out of the gloom of Greifenstein to trouble
his serenity in Sigmundskron. Every effort had been made by him and Rex
together to discover some clue to the mystery, which for Rex was no mystery
any longer, and nothing had been found which could cast the smallest
light upon what had happened. Rex suggested the possibility of a
sudden madness having overtaken one or more of the party, and Greif was
so easily satisfied, and so glad to bury the past, that he accepted the
idea without defining it.

He reflected, indeed, that under no imaginable circumstances could his
present be touched or disturbed by the true explanation of the
tragedy, should it ever be found, and he was content to let the tide
of years flow silently over the place those terrible deeds held in his
own life.

It is no wonder that he was happy now, since all his hopes were attained
and all his desires satisfied. Being also of a faithful and persistent
nature, his satisfaction was solid and permanent. Apart from the one
dark spot which was so rapidly fading into the dim distance, he had no
regrets; no dreams of what might have been sent rays of false light
through his present, no images of disappointed desires haunted
him in the silent night, no shadows of a lost joy, still madly anticipated
in the distorted anachronisms of a wounded heart, came between him and
Hilda's glorious beauty.

That misery of humanity was unknown to him, in which the soul still
looks forward with a beating, throbbing hope to what the memory
knows is buried in the depth and dust of twenty years.

All was real, present, glorious, happy and complete.

If any one had asked him what he most dreaded, he would have said
that he dreaded death alone, death for Hilda, death for the sturdy
little child that was to bear the name now his, death for himself,
though for himself the fear was less than for the other two.

That anything but death could bring back those days and nights of
agony through which he had once passed, he did not and he could not
believe.

Even as he sat beneath the shadow of the tower on that summer's morning
he asked himself the question, and the answer was the same as ever. Why,
indeed, should he not be left in peace? Why should he even expect the
possibility of evil?

Evil might come, assuredly, but it must come in some sudden, violent
and unexpected shape out of the present, by accident, by illness,
by death.

The terrors of the past were with the past, and Greif was too strong,
and young, and happy to expect misfortune in the present.

He sat there, peacefully gazing at the green feathers of the firs and
at the circling swallows, and almost laughing to scorn the possibility
of a pain that was already near him, that was with him now, as
Hilda's graceful figure emerged from the door of the tower and stood
beside him.

Her face was still a little pale, but she looked almost supernaturally
beautiful in her gravity.

It is possible that if she had been transported into the midst of the
world, of that company of half- morbid, half-enthusiastic beings
which we define commonly as society, she might not have pleased
those tired critics altogether as well as one of themselves, though
she would assuredly have surprised them exceedingly, and perhaps
when she began to grow old they would remember that they had never
seen anything like her.

But here, in her natural surroundings, she was magnificent. She was dressed
all in white, and the delicate shades of her colouring did not
suffer by the contrast, but seemed more perfect and harmonious,
blended as all the tints were by the all-pervading light of the
clear mountain air in the thin, vapoury blue shadows of the old
tower.

And the rough grey stone was a harmonious background for her beauty
and its rugged surface showed more completely the exquisite outlines
of her face and figure.

Greif saw her beside him, and could not repress his admiration.

'Hilda--how beautiful you are!' he exclaimed, springing to his feet and
putting his arms about her.

It seemed as though her perfection had suddenly become visible out of the
dream of his cloudless happiness. She smiled faintly as she kissed
him, so faintly that he was surprised and drew back, looking into
her face.

'Has anything happened, sweetheart?' he asked anxiously. 'Is anything the
matter? You are pale, darling, tell me--'
'Something has happened, Greif, and I will tell you,' she said, sitting
down upon the long stone seat that ran round the base of the tower,
and touching the spot beside her with the palm of her hand, as
though bidding him do likewise.

His face grew grave as he took his place at her side, still looking
into her eyes.

'It is something that pains you, dear--is it not?' he asked tenderly.

'Because it will pain you,' she answered. 'You must listen to my story
patiently, Greif, for it is not easy to tell, and it is not easy to hear.
But I will do my best, for it is best to tell it all quite plainly from
beginning to end, is it not?'
'Yes,' answered Greif nervously. 'Please tell me all quite frankly.'
'It is about your father, Greif--about all that happened on that
dreadful night at Greifenstein.

Yes, darling, I will try and be quick.

You know when--after they were dead, my mother went over, and did what she
could until you came. You know, too, that the house was full of
servants, whom your father was always changing--you sent them all
away last year.

Well, one of those wretches stole--had the heart to steal at that fearful
time--a coat--one that belonged to your father--indeed--' she
hesitated.

'And you have found it,' asked Greif, whose face relaxed suddenly. He
thought it was but a common theft, and was immensely relieved.

'Yes, we have found it,' continued Hilda. 'But it was not a common coat,
dear--it was the very one in which--the one he had on, I mean,
when--' 
'I understand,' Greif said in a low voice.

Hilda looked away, and clasped her hands upon her knee, making an
effort to tell her story connectedly.

She knew that it would be far better that Greif should be prepared
by the knowledge of the details which it would be hard to communicate
to him afterwards.

'Yes,' she continued, 'and the wretched servant took it to a Jew and sold
it, and the Jew hid it--I suppose because he knew it was stolen-- and
long afterwards, only a very few days ago, he sold it to Wastei--
and Wastei gave it to Berbel, and Berbel showed it to me.'

'Is it safe?' asked Greif, almost under his breath.

'Yes--quite safe.'
'Then I do not want to see it--'
'I have not told you all, dear. There is more. If it had been only
that--but there is something else. The coat was torn inside, above the
pocket, so that something that had been meant for the pocket had slipped
down inside. It was very strange!'
'Something of his?'
'Of his--for you. Oh, Greif--it is the letter you searched for so
long and could never find!'

Greif's face turned white and his voice was thick and indistinct.

'Give it to me,' he tried to say, and he held out his hand to receive
it.

Without another word Hilda drew the sealed envelope from the bosom of her
frock and gave it to him, not daring to look at him. Then she rose and
would have left him alone, but with one hand he caught hers and held her
back.

'Together, dear,' he almost whispered.

Greif was stunned and shocked. It seemed as though the dead man had risen
from his grave to deliver his message himself, to tell his own story
and reveal his own secret.

With trembling fingers Greif turned the envelope over and over,
scarcely able to read the superscription at first, then glancing
curiously at the impress on the seal, doubting, as Hilda had doubted,
that it was perhaps not genuine.

But his memory told him the truth. He knew the paper well, and
as trivial details come before the mind in the most appalling
moments of life, so he remembered instantly the whole appearance
of the library at Greifenstein, the table with the huge old silver
inkstand, the rack that had held that very writing paper, the heavy,
clumsy seal that had sealed that envelope, and which always lay
beside the blotter and next to the sealing wax.

It all came back to him so vividly that, even if the letter had
been a forgery, he would have believed it genuine, from the mere
force of the associations it evoked.

He held it in his hands and hesitated.

Within that narrow bit of folded paper was contained the secret of his
father's death, of his mother's sudden end, of Rieseneck's suicide.

He had not a doubt of it, though he had not realised it at first. A sort
of mist veiled his eyes and darkened the glorious day.

It seemed so strange that such a poor scrap of perishable rag should hold
the key to so great a mystery, the solution to such a fearful question.
Within that cover was a sheet of paper and on it he should see characters
traced in a familiar hand. He closed his eyes and fancied that he already
saw the writing, for he had often imagined how it would look, during
his long search. Again and again in his dreams, he had laid his hand
upon that envelope, and had broken the seal and had read those short
words of tender farewell which he felt must have been in his father's heart
at the supreme moment. And now he held the reality and yet he shut
out the light of day in order to call up the fancy that had so often
consoled his imagination. But the reality was not one with the
dreamland shadow. In the one there had been only words of love and sad
regret, in this real letter was written the secret whose effects had so
nearly ruined his life, a secret so terrible, that had Hilda guessed
it she would have thrust the cruel message from the dead into the
flames, rather than allow it to live and stab Greif to the heart.

Hilda did not understand his hesitation, though she knew as well as he
himself that the yet unread words contained the solution of the
great problem. But she sat patiently by his side, her white hand resting
on his shoulder, her anxious face turned towards his, her lips
already parted, as though but awaiting her breath to speak words
of consolation for the suffering that had not yet begun.

Greif roused himself, as though ashamed of the emotion he had shown,
though indeed he had seemed outwardly calm enough. He pressed his lips
together and ran his finger through the upper side of the envelope, so as
not to break the seal.

His hands did not tremble any longer, and with the action all his dreams
vanished in the broad light of the summer morning. Carefully he
withdrew the sheet and spread it out.

'Shall I go, sweetheart?

Would you rather be alone?' Hilda asked once more.

'No, darling. Read it with me--let us read it together,' he answered
quietly, as though he were speaking in some sacred presence.

Hilda bent her golden head forward until it was close to his, and their
cheeks touched as they read together the contents.

'My dear Greif, my beloved son--first of all, I remind you that you
are a man and a brave one, and I solemnly enjoin upon you to act
like one, and to put your trust in God.

A great misfortune has befallen you, and at the moment of death I
look to you to bear its burden in a manner worthy of a German
gentleman.

Heaven will certainly atone to you for the injustice of a cruel destiny.
Your mother was the lawful wife of my brother Rieseneck. She has
deceived me for five and twenty years, until his sudden coming revealed
to me all her crimes within an hour.

You are therefore illegitimate and nameless, and not one penny of my
fortune is yours. I am utterly dishonoured by this enormous wickedness.
My brother and I have done justice upon the woman Clara Kurtz,
Freiherrin von Rieseneck, after receiving her full confession, and
nothing remains for us but to die decently.

As for you, I need not point out your course.
You will declare the truth to my cousin Therese von Sigmundskron, who is
the sole heir to all my fortune and estates, being next of kin in
the line of the Greifensteins. You will renounce your engagement to
marry Hilda von Sigmundskron. You will enter the ranks and serve
your king as a private soldier, which is the only course open to a
penniless gentleman.

I know you too well to think you will hesitate a moment. My brother
leaves a son by his wife, who goes by the name of Rex, and to whom he
is now writing.

Perhaps it is the student of whom you have spoken often to me lately.

He is your brother as Rieseneck is mine, and he is rich by his father's
death. But you will accept nothing from him, nor from any one else except
your sovereign, who, if he learns your story, may help you if he be
graciously pleased to do so.

'My son, I am about to die. I have taken the law into my own hands and I
must pay the penalty by the only hand to which I can submit.

If I have been at fault towards you, if I have been deceived by this woman
through any carelessness of mine, I, your father, implore your
forgiveness at this final moment. And so I leave you.

May the God of our fathers protect and bless you, and bring you to a nobler
end than mine. Though you are nameless and penniless, you can yet be a
Christian man; you can be true, you can be brave, and you can give your
life, which is all you have to give, to your king and your country.
Farewell.
Your father,

'HUGO VON GREIFENSTEIN.'
Strange as it may seem, both Hilda and Greif read this long letter
to the end before they paused, almost before they understood what
it meant.

Their two faces were livid, as they sat in the shadow of the tower,
and gazed at each other with wild and staring eyes.

The cold sweat of horror stood upon Greif's forehead, like the drops of
moisture on a marble statue when the south wind blows.

But there was a vast difference between Greif's condition now and his
state when he had broken down under the burden of his emotions
eighteen months earlier. The calm and peaceful life had strengthened his
character and fortified his nerves, and though Hilda expected every
moment that he would sink down as he had done on that memorable day,
almost unconscious with pain, he nevertheless sat upright in his seat,
bracing himself, as it were, against the huge wave of his misfortunes,
which had risen from the depths of the tomb to overtake him and
annihilate his happiness in a single moment.

His comprehension seemed to grow clearer, and he grasped the whole
frightful hopelessness of his enormous calamity.

Hilda understood it too, in a measure, but she thought only of his
suffering, and not of any possible consequences to herself.

With womanly tenderness, she took her handkerchief, and pressed the
cool linen to his wet brow, while she could see his broad chest
heaving and hear the dull, short sound of his breath between his
grinding teeth.

Her arms went round him, and tried to draw him to her, but he sat upright
like a figure of stone, unbending as a block of granite.

'Greif!' she cried at last. 'Speak to me, dear one--'
'How can I speak to you, whom I have dishonoured?' he asked, slowly turning
his head towards her and yet trying to draw back from her embrace.

'Dishonoured me! Ah, Greif--'

'Yes--Hilda, I am no more your husband, than my wretched father was
husband to the creature who bore me--who ruined him and me--'
'Greif--sweetheart, beloved, are you mad?'

'Mad? No! The merciful unhinging of that rack of torture which should be
my mind, God has denied me. Mad?

It were better, for your sake. Mad?
I know not what I say. You are not my wife, nor Sigmund, Sigmund, nor I
Sigmundskron, nor Greifenstein, nor Hilda's husband, nor anything that I
wot of--save a nameless vagabond who has dishonoured Hilda--'
'Greif--for the love of Heaven--'
'Ay, I must speak, and quickly. It is better that you should know all the
truth from these lips, foul from their birth--that have kissed
yours, though they be not worthy to eat the dust in your path--these
lips that kissed that vile thing they called my mother, and that
spoke words of sorrow, and uttered cries of grief, at a death too
decent for such a being--no, let me speak, take your pure hands
from me--I am not your husband!

By a name that was never mine, I took your name--thank God you have it
still! Your marriage is no marriage, your child is nameless as I am--do
you know how the law would call me?

One Greif, the bastard son of a certain Herr von Greifenstein and of
a woman known as Clara Kurtz--that is the designation of all my honours,
that is the description of your child's father, of the man you
have called husband for twelve months and one day!

The curse of God in Heaven on that wretch--she was not woman--may the
furies of hell not tire of tormenting her accursed soul throughout all
ages--yes--I mean my mother, I mean every word I say--I would say more if
I knew how!

She has done all this--she brought my father to his death, my brave
old father, whom I loved, and she has brought me to shame worse
than death; and worse than shame or death to me, she has brought
dishonour upon the only creature left me to love--oh, death was
made too easy for her by those merciful men, they were a thousand
times too pitiful, too kind!'

He paused, trembling in every limb with the wrathful passion for which
words alone were no satisfaction. Hilda was startled at the violence of
his language, and alarmed by the furious look in his eyes, but
actual fear was too foreign to her nature to influence her. She
understood, now, however, what had escaped her before, namely that
he believed their marriage to have been no marriage at all in law. Then
her love spoke out, softly at first and with a gentle accent.

'Greif, my beloved--let them rest in their graves!

They cannot harm us.'

'Not harm us?' he cried. 'Do you know that every word I have
told you is true--that the curse of that dead woman will pursue
us to the end?

Do you understand that we are not married man and wife?'
'That is not true,' answered Hilda. 'God made us man and wife--'
'Ay--but the law--'
'What is the law to us? Do we not love?

Is not that law?'
'It may be in heaven--'
'And it is on earth. It is love that has made us what we are, by Heaven's
help. It is neither man nor law, for my love is beyond all laws or
men, save you! And this thing, what is it? A voice from the dead
cries in our ears that we are not what we are, what I know we are,
because a deed of shame was done long years ago of which we knew nothing,
nor guessed anything until this moment.

Is that justice; is that the law you fear and respect, the law you
will allow to come between you and me?

There is a better law than that, my beloved, the law that binds me
to you with bands of steel, for good or ill, for shame or fame,
for honour or dishonour--'
'Ah--the dishonour of it, Hilda, the dishonour!'

'The dishonour of what? Of a bit of paper, of a dead woman's sin and
miserable death? Is that all?

Or is it for name, or no name?

And if it be that, what then?

Do you think that if you were but a trooper in the ranks, calling
yourself by any meaningless syllables that it crossed your mind
to choose, if you were the poorest soldier that ever drew sword, do you
think that I would not follow you, and work for you and slave for you,
and live as I could, or starve, rather than leave you for one day, a
thousand times rather than be Hilda von Sigmundskron and heir to all the
wealth of the Greifensteins, as that thing says I am?
Could all the laws you talk of prevent me from doing that? And you talk
of my dishonour through you! I would beg for you, I would toil
for you, I would wear out my body and my soul to get you bread--oh, I
would almost sell the hope of heaven for your dear sake! And you say
that because you have found this paper I am not your wife! A bit of paper,
Greif, between you and me--a bit of paper on the one hand and my love
on the other, with all it means, with all that harm or pain to you
could make it mean, does make it mean, now and for ever! Oh, my beloved,
my beloved, have you loved me so long without knowing what love means?'

She would have twined her arm about his neck, but he hid his face in his
hands and would not move. To himself, he seemed the basest of mankind,
absolutely innocent as he was of every thought or intention of evil. He
cursed his weakness in having yielded long ago, in having broken down
into unconsciousness, to wake again, weak and enfeebled by his
illness, no longer able to break through the spell that drew him towards
her. He called himself, in his heart, a traitor, a coward, a weakling,
a miserable wretch without strength, or faith, or honour.
There were no bounds to his self-abasement, no depths to which he did
not sink in his self-judgment. He recalled that morning eighteen
months ago when he had come over to Sigmundskron to fight the battle of
honour, he remembered the agony of that bitter struggle, the triumph
of his heart when he had made the last desperate effort and had
gone forth victorious, though the fever was already on him, and he
could scarcely see the road under his feet.

He reproached himself bitterly with having yielded after winning
such a fight, with having stooped to do the bidding of love, after having
trampled down every loving instinct and every tender thought within
him, in the proud consciousness of doing right for right's sake only.
If he had but been brave still when his body was so weak, all that now was
could not have been. He would have cared for neither name nor fame, still
less for fortune, without Hilda.
But he had yielded, he had grafted the infamy of his birth upon the
spotless line of her he loved, and fate had done the rest. The relentless
destiny which had overtaken his father, his mother and his brother,
had tracked him down and struck him within the boundaries of the false
paradise his weakness had built up. He said to himself that he, too,
must die, for he was the last and the lowest of living men.

'Will you not be persuaded, Greif?' asked Hilda, after a long pause.
'Do you not see that I am right, and that you are wrong--wrong only in
this?'
'I see nothing,' he answered, 'unless it be that I have brought
the most irretrievable dishonour upon all I love, as dishonour was
brought upon me by him who loved me best.'
'And if I refuse to be dishonoured, what then?'
'What then? I do not know what then,' he answered half absently, not
understanding her thoughts.

'Will you dishonour me in spite of yourself, in spite of my love?'
He did not answer this time, but buried his face in his hands once more,
as though trying to shut out the sight of her from his aching eyes.

The tones of Hilda's voice rose and fell faintly, as if they reached
him through some thick substance that dulled their distinctness.

At first he scarcely knew what she was saying, and he hardly cared.

'And if my love will not move you, then, I will tell you more,' she said,
with a strong and rising intonation. 'I tell you that you have not dishonoured
me, because I will not be dishonoured. You and I have done right before
God, and before man until this day, and if there be wrong now it shall
be right and I will make it right. I, Hilda von Sigmundskron, am
your wife. I, Hilda von Sigmundskron, will not have it told to the world
that I am a disgraced woman, that I am married to a nameless being, the
mother of a nameless child.
It is only in the wisdom of middle age that we lose
heart. In youth we lose our hearts--a very different thing."

"I propose still to come to this house."

"As often as you will, Captain Chayne," said Garratt Skinner, gaily. "My
doors are always open to you. I am not such a fool as to give you a
romantic interest by barring you out."

Garratt Skinner had another reason for his hospitality which he kept to
himself. He was inclined to believe that a few more visits from Captain
Chayne would settle his chances without the necessity of any
interference. It was Garratt Skinner's business, as that of any other
rogue, to play with simple artifices upon the faults and vanities of men.
He had, therefore, cultivated a habit of observation; he had become
naturally attentive to trifles which others might overlook; and he was
aware that he needed to go very warily in the delicate business on which
he was now engaged. He was fighting Sylvia for the possession of Walter
Hine--that he had recognized--and Chayne for the possession of Sylvia. It
was a three-cornered contest, and he had in consequence kept his eyes
alert. He had noticed that Chayne was growing importunate, and that his
persistence was becoming troublesome to Sylvia. She gave him a less warm
welcome each time that he came to the house. She made plans to prevent
herself being left alone with him, and if by chance the plans failed she
listened rather than talked and listened almost with an air of boredom.

"Come as often as you please!" consequently said Garratt Skinner from his
hammock. "And now let us talk of something else."

He talked of nothing for a while. But it was plain that he had a subject
in his thoughts. For twice he turned to Chayne and was on the point of
speaking; but each time he thought silence the better part and lay back
again. Chayne waited and at last the subject was broached, but in a
queer, hesitating, diffident way, as though Garratt Skinner spoke rather
under a compulsion of which he disapproved.

"Tell me!" he said. "I am rather interested. A craze, an infatuation
which so masters people must be interesting even to the stay-at-homes
like myself. But I am wrong to call it a craze. From merely reading books
I think it a passion which is easily intelligible. You are wondering what
I am talking about. My daughter tells me that you are a famous climber.
The Aiguille d'Argentière, I suppose, up which you were kind enough to
accompany her, is not a very difficult mountain."

"It depends upon the day," said Chayne, "and the state of the snow."

"Yes, that is what I have gathered from the books. Every mountain may
become dangerous."

"Yes."

"Each mountain," said Garratt Skinner, thoughtfully, "may reward its
conquerors with death"; and for a little while he lay looking up to the
green branches interlaced above his head. "Thus each mountain on the
brightest day holds in its recesses mystery, and also death."

There had come a change already in the manner of the two men. They found
themselves upon neutral ground. Their faces relaxed from wariness; they
were no longer upon their guard. It seemed that an actual comradeship had
sprung up between them.

"There is a mountain called the Grépon," said Skinner. "I have seen
pictures of it--a strange and rather attractive pinnacle, with its
knife-like slabs of rock, set on end one above the other--black rock
splashed with red--and the overhanging boulder on the top. Have you
climbed it?"

"Yes."

"There is a crack, I believe--a good place to get you into training."

Chayne laughed with the enjoyment of a man who recollects a stiff
difficulty overcome.

"Yes, to the right of the Col between the Grépon and the Charmoz. There
is a step half way up--otherwise there is very little hold and the crack
is very steep."

They talked of other peaks, such as the Charmoz, where the first lines of
ascent had given place to others more recently discovered, of new
variations, new ascents and pinnacles still unclimbed; and then Garratt
Skinner said:

"I saw that a man actually crossed the Col des Nantillons early this
summer. It used to be called the Col de Blaitière. He was killed with
his guide, but after the real dangers were passed. That seems to happen
at times."

Chayne looked at Garratt Skinner in surprise.

"It is strange that you should have mentioned John Lattery's death," he
said, slowly.

"Why?" asked Garratt Skinner, turning quietly toward his companion. "I
read of it in 'The Times.'"

"Oh, yes. No doubt it was described. What I meant was this. John Lattery
was my great friend, and he was a distant kind of cousin to your friend
Walter Hine, and indeed co-heir with him to Joseph Hine's great fortune.
His death, I suppose, has doubled your friend's inheritance."

Garratt Skinner raised himself up on his elbow. The announcement was
really news to him.

"Is that so?" he asked. "It is true, then. The mountains hold death too
in their recesses--even on the clearest day--yes, they hold death too!"
And letting himself fall gently back upon his cushions, he remained for a
while with a very thoughtful look upon his face. Twice Chayne spoke to
him, and twice he did not hear. He lay absorbed. It seemed that a new and
engrossing idea had taken possession of his mind, and when he turned his
eyes again to Chayne and spoke, he appeared to be speaking with reference
to that idea rather than to any remarks of his companion.

"Did you ever ascend Mont Blanc by the Brenva route?" he asked. "There's
a thin ridge of ice--I read an account in Moore's 'Journal'--you have to
straddle across the ridge with a leg hanging down either precipice."

Chayne shook his head.

"Lattery and I meant to try it this summer. The Dent du Requin as well."

"Ah, that is one of the modern rock scrambles, isn't it? The last two or
three hundred feet are the trouble, I believe."

And so the talk went on and the comradeship grew. But Chayne noticed that
always Garratt Skinner came back to the great climbs of the earlier
mountaineers, the Brenva ascent of Mont Blanc, the Col Dolent, the two
points of the Aiguille du Dru and the Aiguille Verte.

"But you, too, have climbed," Chayne cried at length.

"On winter nights by my fireside," replied Garratt Skinner, with a smile.
"I have a lame leg which would hinder me."

"Nevertheless, you left Miss Sylvia and myself behind when you led us
over the hills to Dorchester."

It was Walter Hine who interrupted. He had come across the grass from
behind, and neither of the two men had noticed his approach. But the
moment when he did interrupt marked a change in their demeanor. The
comradeship which had so quickly bloomed as quickly faded. It was the
flower of an idle moment. Antagonism preceded and followed it. Thus, one
might imagine, might sentries at the outposts of opposing armies pile
their arms for half an hour and gossip of their homes or their children,
or of something dear to both of them and separate at the bugle sound.
Garratt Skinner swung himself out of his hammock.

"Where's Sylvia, Wallie?"

"She went up to her room."

Chayne waited for ten minutes, and for another ten, and still Sylvia did
not appear. She was avoiding him. She could spend the afternoon with
Walter Hine, but she must run to her room when he came upon the scene.
Jealousy flamed up in him. Every now and then a whimsical smile of
amusement showed upon Garratt Skinner's face and broadened into a grin.
Chayne was looking a fool, and was quite conscious of it. He rose
abruptly from his chair.

"I must be going," he said, over loudly, and Garratt Skinner smiled.

"I'm afraid she won't hear that," he said softly, measuring with his eyes
the distance between the group and the house. "But come again, Captain
Chayne, and sit it out."

Chayne flushed with anger. He said, "Thank you," and tried to say it
jauntily and failed. He took his leave and walked across the lawn to the
garden, trying to assume a carriage of indifference and dignity. But
every moment he expected to hear the two whom he had left laughing at his
discomfiture. Neither, however, did laugh. Walter Hine was, indeed,
indignant.

"Why did you ask him to come again?" he asked, angrily, as the garden
door closed upon Chayne.

Garratt Skinner laid his hand on Walter Hine's arm.

"Don't you worry, Wallie," he said, confidentially. "Every time Chayne
comes here he loses ten marks. Give him rope! He does not, after all,
know a great deal of geography."


CHAPTER XV

KENYON'S JOHN LATTERY


Chayne returned to London on the following day, restless and troubled.
Jealousy, he knew, was the natural lot of the lover. But that he should
have to be jealous of a Walter Hine--there was the sting. He asked the
old question over and over again, the old futile question which the
unrewarded suitor puts to himself with amazement and a despair at the
ridiculous eccentricities of human nature. "What in the world can she see
in the fellow?" However, he did not lose heart. It was not in his nature
to let go once he had clearly set his desires upon a particular goal.
Sooner or later, people and things would adjust themselves to their
proper proportions in Sylvia's eyes. Meanwhile there was something to be
done--a doubt to be set at rest, perhaps a discovery to be made.

His conversation with Garratt Skinner, the subject which Garratt Skinner
had chosen, and the knowledge with which he had spoken, had seemed to
Chayne rather curious. A man might sit by his fireside and follow with
interest, nay almost with the passion of the mountaineer, the history of
Alpine exploration and adventure. That had happened before now. And very
likely Chayne would have troubled himself no more about Garratt Skinner's
introduction of the theme but for one or two circumstances which the more
he reflected upon them became the more significant. For instance: Garratt
Skinner had spoken and had asked questions about the new ascents made,
the new passes crossed within the last twenty years, just as a man would
ask who had obtained his knowledge out of books. But of the earlier
ascents he had spoken differently, though the difference was subtle and
hard to define. He seemed to be upon more familiar ground. He left in
Chayne's mind a definite suspicion that he was speaking no longer out of
books, but from an intimate personal knowledge, the knowledge of actual
experience. The suspicion had grown up gradually, but it had strengthened
almost into a conviction.

It was to the old climbs that Garratt Skinner's conversation perpetually
recurred--the Aiguille Verte, the Grand and the Petit Dru and the
traverse between them, the Col Dolent, the Grandes Jorasses and the
Brenva route--yes, above all, the Brenva route up Mont Blanc. Moreover,
how in the world should he know that those slabs of black granite on the
top of the Grépon were veined with red--splashed with red as he described
them? Unless he had ascended them, or the Aiguille des Charmoz
opposite--how should he know? The philosophy of his guide Michel
Revailloud flashed across Chayne's mind. "One needs some one with whom to
exchange one's memories."

Had Garratt Skinner felt that need and felt it with so much compulsion
that he must satisfy it in spite of himself? Yet why should he practise
concealment at all? There certainly had been concealment. Chayne
remembered how more than once Garratt Skinner had checked himself before
at last he had yielded. It was in spite of himself that he had spoken.
And then suddenly as the train drew up at Vauxhall Station for the
tickets to be collected, Chayne started up in his seat. On the rocks of
the Argentière, beside the great gully, as they descended to the glacier,
Sylvia's guide had spoken words which came flying back into Chayne's
thoughts. She had climbed that day, though it was her first mountain, as
if knowledge of the craft had been born in her. How to stand upon an
ice-slope, how to hold her ax--she had known. On the rocks, too! Which
foot to advance, with which hand to grasp the hold--she had known.
Suppose that knowledge _had_ been born in her! Why, then those words of
her guide began to acquire significance. She had reminded him of some
one--some one whose name he could not remember--but some one with whom
years ago he had climbed. And then upon the rocks, some chance movement
of Sylvia's, some way in which she moved from ledge to ledge, had
revealed to him the name--Gabriel Strood.

Was it possible, Chayne asked? If so, what dark thing was there in the
record of Strood's life that he must change his name, disappear from the
world, and avoid the summer nights, the days of sunshine and storm on the
high rock-ledges and the ice-slope?

Chayne was minded to find an answer to that question. Sylvia was in
trouble; that house under the downs was no place for her. He himself was
afraid of what was being planned there. It might help him if he knew
something more of Garratt Skinner than he knew at present. And it seemed
to him that there was just a chance of acquiring that knowledge.

He dined at his club, and at ten o'clock walked up St. James' Street.
The street was empty. It was a hot starlit night of the first week in
August, and there came upon him a swift homesickness for the world above
the snow-line. How many of his friends were sleeping that night in
mountain huts high up on the shoulders of the mountains or in bivouacs
open to the stars with a rock-cliff at their backs and a fire of pine
wood blazing at their feet. Most likely amongst those friends was the
one he sought to-night.

"Still there's a chance that I may find him," he pleaded, and
crossing Piccadilly passed into Dover Street. Half way along the
street of milliners, he stopped before a house where a famous scholar
had his lodging.

"Is Mr. Kenyon in London?" he asked, and the man-servant replied to his
great relief:

"Yes, sir, but he is not yet at home."

"I will wait for him," said Chayne.

He was shown into the study and left there with a lighted lamp. The
room was lined with books from floor to ceiling. Chayne mounted a
ladder and took down from a high corner some volumes bound simply in
brown cloth. They were volumes of the "Alpine Journal." He had chosen
those which dated back from twenty years to a quarter of a century. He
drew a chair up beside the lamp and began eagerly to turn over the
pages. Often he stopped, for the name of which he was in search often
leaped to his eyes from the pages. Chayne read of the exploits in the
Alps of Gabriel Strood. More than one new expedition was described,
many variations of old ascents, many climbs already familiar. It was
clear that the man was of the true brotherhood. A new climb was very
well, but the old were as good to Gabriel Strood, and the climb which
he had once made he had the longing to repeat with new companions. None
of the descriptions were written by Strood himself but all by
companions whom he had led, and most of them bore testimony to an
unusual endurance, an unusual courage, as though Strood triumphed
perpetually over a difficulty which his companions did not share and of
which only vague hints were given. At last Chayne came to that very
narrative which Sylvia had been reading on her way to Chamonix--and
there the truth was bluntly told for the first time.

Chayne started up in that dim and quiet room, thrilled. He had the proof
now, under his finger--the indisputable proof. Gabriel Strood suffered
from an affection of the muscles in his right thigh, and yet managed to
out-distance all his rivals. Hine's words drummed in Chayne's ears:

"Nevertheless he left us all behind."

Garratt Skinner: Gabriel Strood. Surely, surely! He replaced the volumes
and took others down. In the first which he opened--it was the autumn
number of nineteen years ago--there was again mention of the man; and the
climb described was the ascent of Mont Blanc from the Brenva Glacier.
Chayne leaned back in his chair fairly startled by this confirmation. It
was to the Brenva route that Garratt Skinner had continually harked back.
The Aiguille Verte, the Grandes Jorasses, the Charmoz, the
Blaitière--yes, he had talked of them all, but ever he had come back,
with an eager voice and a fire in his eyes, to the ice-arête of the
Brenva route. Chayne searched on through the pages. But there was nowhere
in any volume on which he laid his hands any further record of his
exploits. Others who followed in his steps mentioned his name, but of the
man himself there was no word more. No one had climbed with him, no one
had caught a glimpse of him above the snow-line. For five or six seasons
he had flashed through the Alps. Arolla, Zermatt, the Montanvert, the
Concordia hut--all had known him for five or six seasons, and then just
under twenty years ago he had come no more.

Chayne put back the volumes in their places on the shelf, and sat down
again in the arm-chair before the empty grate. It was a strange and a
haunting story which he was gradually piecing together in his thoughts.
Men like Gabriel Strood _always_ come back to the Alps. They sleep too
restlessly at nights, they needs must come. And yet this man had stayed
away. There must have been some great impediment. He fell into another
train of thought. Sylvia was eighteen, nearly nineteen. Had Gabriel
Strood married just after that last season when he climbed from the
Brenva Glacier to the Calotte. The story was still not unraveled, and
while he perplexed his fancies over the unraveling, the door opened, and
a tall, thin man with a pointed beard stood upon the threshold. He was a
man of fifty years; his shoulders were just learning how to stoop; and
his face, fine and delicate, yet lacking nothing of strength, wore an
aspect of melancholy, as though he lived much alone--until he smiled. And
in the smile there was much companionship and love. He smiled now as he
stretched out his long, finely-molded hand.

"I am very glad to see you, Chayne," he said, in a voice remarkable for
its gentleness, "although in another way I am sorry. I am sorry because,
of course, I know why you are in England and not among the Alps."

Chayne had risen from his chair, but Kenyon laid a hand upon his shoulder
and forced him down again with a friendly pressure. "I read of Lattery's
death. I am grieved about it--for you as much as for Lattery. I know just
what that kind of loss means. It means very much," said he, letting his
deep-set eyes rest with sympathy upon the face of the younger man. Kenyon
put a whisky and soda by Chayne's elbow, and setting the tobacco jar on a
little table between them, sat down and lighted his pipe.

"You came back at once?" he asked.

"I crossed the Col Dolent and went down into Italy," replied Chayne.

"Yes, yes," said Kenyon, nodding his head. "But you will go back next
year, or the year after."

"Perhaps," said Chayne; and for a little while they smoked their pipes in
silence. Then Chayne came to the object of his visit.

"Kenyon," he asked, "have you any photographs of the people who went
climbing twenty to twenty-five years ago? I thought perhaps you might
have some groups taken in Switzerland in those days. If you have, I
should like to see them."

"Yes, I think I have," said Kenyon. He went to his writing-desk and
opening a drawer took out a number of photographs. He brought them back,
and moving the green-shaded lamp so that the light fell clear and strong
upon the little table, laid them down.

Chayne bent over them with a beating heart. Was his suspicion to be
confirmed or disproved?

One by one he took the photographs, closely examined them, and laid
them aside while Kenyon stood upright on the other side of the table.
He had turned over a dozen before he stopped. He held in his hand the
picture of a Swiss hotel, with an open space before the door. In the
open space men were gathered. They were talking in groups; some of them
leaned upon ice-axes, some carried _Rücksacks_ upon their backs, as
though upon the point of starting for the hills. As he held the
photograph a little nearer to the lamp, and bent his head a little
lower, Kenyon made a slight uneasy movement. But Chayne did not notice.
He sat very still, with his eyes fixed upon the photograph. On the
outskirts of the group stood Sylvia's father. Younger, slighter of
build, with a face unlined and a boyish grace which had long since
gone--but undoubtedly Sylvia's father.

The contours of the mountains told Chayne clearly enough in what valley
the hotel stood.

"This is Zermatt," he said, without lifting his eyes.

"Yes," replied Kenyon, quietly, "a Zermatt you are too young to know,"
and then Chayne's forefinger dropped upon the figure of Sylvia's father.

"Who is this?" he asked.

Kenyon made no answer.

"It is Gabriel Strood," Chayne continued.

There was a pause, and then Kenyon confirmed the guess.

"Yes," he said, and some hint of emotion in his voice made Chayne lift
his eyes. The light striking upward through the green shade gave to
Kenyon's face an extraordinary pallor. But it seemed to Chayne that not
all the pallor was due to the lamp.

"For six seasons," Chayne said, "Gabriel Strood came to the Alps. In his
first season he made a great name."

"He was the best climber I have ever seen," replied Kenyon.

"He had a passion for the mountains. Yet after six years he came back no
more. He disappeared. Why?"

Kenyon stood absolutely silent, absolutely still. Perhaps the trouble
deepened a little on his face; but that was all. Chayne, however, was
bent upon an answer. For Sylvia's sake alone he must have it, he must
know the father into whose clutches she had come.

"You knew Gabriel Strood. Why?"

Kenyon leaned forward and gently took the photograph out of Chayne's
hand. He mixed it with the others, not giving to it a single glance
himself, and then replaced them all in the drawer from which he had taken
them. He came back to the table and at last answered Chayne:

"John Lattery was your friend. Some of the best hours of your life were
passed in his company. You know that now. But you will know it still
more surely when you come to my age, whatever happiness may come to you
between now and then. The camp-fire, the rock-slab for your floor and
the black night about you for walls, the hours of talk, the ridge and
the ice-slope, the bad times in storm and mist, the good times in the
sunshine, the cold nights of hunger when you were caught by the
darkness, the off-days when you lounged at your ease. You won't forget
John Lattery."

Kenyon spoke very quietly but with a conviction, and, indeed, a certain
solemnity, which impressed his companion.

"No," said Chayne, gently, "I shall not forget John Lattery." But his
question was still unanswered, and by nature he was tenacious. His eyes
were still upon Kenyon's face and he added: "What then?"

"Only this," said Kenyon. "Gabriel Strood was my John Lattery," and
moving round the table he dropped his hand upon Chayne's shoulder. "You
will ask me no more questions," he said, with a smile.

"I beg your pardon," said Chayne.

He had his answer. He knew now that there was something to conceal, that
there was a definite reason why Gabriel Strood disappeared.

"Good-night," he said; and as he left the room he saw Kenyon sink down
into his arm-chair. There seemed something sad and very lonely in the
attitude of the older man. Once more Michel Revailloud's warning rose up
within his mind.

"When it is all over, and you go home, take care that there is a lighted
lamp in the room and the room not empty. Have some one to share your
memories when life is nothing but memories."

At every turn the simple philosophy of Michel Revailloud seemed to obtain
an instance and a confirmation. Was that to be his own fate too? Just for
a moment he was daunted. He closed the door noiselessly, and going down
the stairs let himself out into the street. The night was clear above his
head. How was it above the Downs of Dorsetshire, he wondered. He walked
along the street very slowly. Garratt Skinner was Gabriel Strood. There
was clearly a dark reason for the metamorphosis. It remained for Chayne
to discover that reason. But he did not ponder any more upon that problem
to-night. He was merely thinking as he walked along the street that
Michel Revailloud was a very wise man.


CHAPTER XVI

AS BETWEEN GENTLEMEN


"Between gentlemen," said Wallie Hine. "Yes, between gentlemen."

He was quoting from a letter which he held in his hand, as he sat at the
breakfast table, and, in his agitation, he had quoted aloud. Garratt
Skinner looked up from his plate and said:

"Can I help you, Wallie?"

Hine flushed red and stammered out: "No, thank you. I must run up to town
this morning--that's all."

"Sylvia will drive you into Weymouth in the dog-cart after breakfast,"
said Garratt Skinner, and he made no further reference to the journey.
But he glared at the handwriting of the letter, and then with some
perplexity at Walter Hine. "You will be back this evening, I suppose?"

"Rather," said Walter Hine, with a smile across the table at Sylvia; but
his agitation got the better of his gallantry, and as she drove him into
Weymouth, he spoke as piteously as a child appealing for protection. "I
don't want to go one little bit, Miss Sylvia. But between gentlemen. Yes,
I mustn't forget that. Between gentlemen." He clung to the phrase,
finding some comfort in its reiteration.

"You have given me your promise," said Sylvia. "There will be no
cards, no bets."

Walter Hine laughed bitterly.

"I shan't break it. I have had my lesson. By Jove, I have."

Walter Hine traveled to Waterloo and drove straight to the office of
Mr. Jarvice.

"I owe some money," he began, bleating the words out the moment he was
ushered into the inner office.

Mr. Jarvice grinned.

"This interview is concluded," he said. "There's the door."

"I owe it to a friend, Captain Barstow," Hine continued, in desperation.
"A thousand pounds. He has written for it. He says that debts of honor
between gentlemen--" But he got no further, for Mr. Jarvice broke in upon
his faltering explanations with a snarl of contempt.

"Barstow! You poor little innocent. I have something else to do with my
money than to pour it into Barstow's pockets. I know the man. Send him to
me to-morrow, and I'll talk to him--as between gentlemen."

Walter Hine flushed. He had grown accustomed to deference and flatteries
in the household of Garratt Skinner. The unceremonious scorn of Mr.
Jarvice stung his vanity, and vanity was the one strong element of his
character. He was in the mind hotly to defend Captain Barstow from Mr.
Jarvice's insinuations, but he refrained.

"Then Barstow will know that I draw my allowance from you, and not from
my grandfather," he stammered. There was the trouble for Walter Hine.
If Barstow knew, Garratt Skinner would come to know. There would be an
end to the deference and the flatteries. He would no longer be able to
pose as the favorite of the great millionaire, Joseph Hine. He would
sink in Sylvia's eyes. At the cost of any humiliation that downfall
must be avoided.

His words, however, had an immediate effect upon Mr. Jarvice, though for
quite other reasons.

"Why, that's true," said Mr. Jarvice, slowly, and in a voice suddenly
grown smooth. "Yes, yes, we don't want to mix up my name in the affair at
all. Sit down, Mr. Hine, and take a cigar. The box is at your elbow.
Young men of spirit must have some extra license allowed to them for the
sake of the promise of their riper years. I was forgetting that. No, we
don't want my name to appear at all, do we?"

Publicity had no charms for Mr. Jarvice. Indeed, on more than one
occasion he had found it quite a hindrance to the development of his
little plans. To go his own quiet way, unheralded by the press and
unacclaimed of men--that was the modest ambition of Mr. Jarvice.

"However, I don't look forward to handing over a thousand pounds to
Captain Barstow," he continued, softly. "No, indeed. Did you lose any of
your first quarter's allowance to him besides the thousand?"

Walter Hine lit his cigar and answered reluctantly:

"Yes."

"All of it?"

"Oh no, no, not all of it."

Jarvice did not press for the exact amount. He walked to the window and
stood there with his hands in his pockets and his back toward his
visitor. Walter Hine watched his shoulders in suspense and apprehension.
He would have been greatly surprised if he could have caught a glimpse at
this moment of Mr. Jarvice's face. There was no anger, no contempt,
expressed in it at all. On the contrary, a quiet smile of satisfaction
gave to it almost a merry look. Mr. Jarvice had certain plans for Walter
Hine's future--so he phrased it with a smile for the grim humor of the
phrase--and fate seemed to be helping toward their fulfilment.

"I can get you out of this scrape, no doubt," said Jarvice, turning back
to his table. "The means I must think over, but I can do it. Only there's
a condition. You need not be alarmed. A little condition which a loving
father might impose upon his only son," and Mr. Jarvice beamed paternally
as he resumed his seat.

"What is the condition?" asked Walter Hine.

"That you travel for a year, broaden your mind by visiting the great
countries and capitals of Europe, take a little trip perhaps into the
East and return a cultured gentleman well equipped to occupy the high
position which will be yours when your grandfather is in due time
translated to a better sphere."

Mr. Jarvice leaned back in his chair, and with a confident wave of his
desk ruler had the air of producing the startling metamorphosis like some
heavy but benevolent fairy. Walter Hine, however, was not attracted by
the prospect.

"But--" he began, and at once Mr. Jarvice interrupted him.

"I anticipate you," he said, with a smile. "Standing at the window there,
I foresaw your objection. But--it would be lonely. Quite true. Why should
you be lonely? And so I am going to lay my hands on some pleasant and
companionable young fellow who will go with you for his expenses. An
Oxford man, eh? Fresh from Alma Mater with a taste for pictures and
statuettes and that sort of thing! Upon my word, I envy you, Mr. Hine. If
I were young, bless me, if I wouldn't throw my bonnet over the mill, as
after a few weeks in La Ville Lumière you will be saying, and go with
you. You will taste life--yes, life."

And as he repeated the word, all the jollity died suddenly out of the
face of Mr. Jarvice. He bent his eyes somberly upon his visitor and a
queer inscrutable smile played about his lips. But Walter Hine had no
eyes for Mr. Jarvice. He was nerving himself to refuse the proposal.

"I can't go," he blurted out, with the ungracious stubbornness of a weak
mind which fears to be over-persuaded. Afraid lest he should consent, he
refused aggressively and rudely.

Mr. Jarvice repressed an exclamation of anger. "And why?" he asked,
leaning forward on his elbows and fixing his bright, sharp eyes on Walter
Hine's face.

Walter Hine shifted uncomfortably in his chair but did not answer.

"And why can't you go?" he repeated.

"I can't tell you."

"Oh, surely," said Mr. Jarvice, with a scarcely perceptible sneer. "Come
now! Between gentlemen! Well?"

Walter Hine yielded to Jarvice's insistence.

"There's a girl," he said, with a coy and odious smile.

Mr. Jarvice beat upon his desk with his fists in a savage anger. His
carefully calculated plan was to be thwarted by a girl.

"She's a dear," cried Walter Hine. Having made the admission, he let
himself go. His vanity pricked him to lyrical flights. "She's a dear,
she's a sob, she would never let me go, she's my little girl."

Such was Sylvia's reward for engaging in a struggle which she loathed for
the salvation of Walter Hine. She was jubilantly claimed by him as his
little girl in a money-lender's office. Mr. Jarvice swore aloud.

"Who is she?" he asked, sternly.

A faint sense of shame came over Walter Hine. He dimly imagined what
Sylvia would have thought and said, and what contempt her looks would
have betrayed, had she heard him thus boast of her goodwill.

"You are asking too much, Mr. Jarvice," he said.

Mr. Jarvice waved the objection aside.

"Of course I ask it as between gentlemen," he said, with an ironical
politeness.

"Well, then, as between gentlemen," returned Walter Hine, seriously. "She
is the daughter of a great friend of mine, Mr. Garratt Skinner. What's
the matter?" he cried; and there was reason for his cry.

It had been an afternoon of surprises for Mr. Jarvice, but this simple
mention of the name of Garratt Skinner was more than a surprise. Mr.
Jarvice was positively startled. He leaned back in his chair with his
mouth open and his eyes staring at Walter Hine. The high color paled in
his face and his cheeks grew mottled. It seemed that fear as well as
surprise came to him in the knowledge that Garratt Skinner was a friend
of Walter Hine.

"What is the matter?" repeated Hine.

"It's nothing," replied Mr. Jarvice, hastily. "The heat, that is all."
He crossed the room, and throwing up the window leaned for a few moments
upon the sill. Yet even when he spoke again, there was still a certain
unsteadiness in his voice. "How did you come across Mr. Garratt
Skinner?" he asked.

"Barstow introduced me. I made Barstow's acquaintance at the Criterion
Bar, and he took me to Garratt Skinner's house in Hobart Place."

"I see," said Mr. Jarvice. "It was in Garratt Skinner's house that you
lost your money, I suppose."

"Yes, but he had no hand in it," exclaimed Walter Hine. "He does not know
how much I lost. He would be angry if he did."

A faint smile flickered across Jarvice's face.

"Quite so," he agreed, and under his deft cross-examination the whole
story was unfolded. The little dinner at which Sylvia made her
appearance and at which Walter Hine was carefully primed with drink; the
little round game of cards which Garratt Skinner was so reluctant to
allow in his house on a Sunday evening, and from which, being an early
riser, he retired to bed, leaving Hine in the hands of Captain Barstow
and Archie Parminter; the quiet secluded house in the country; the new
gardener who appeared for one day and shot with so surprising an
accuracy, when Barstow backed him against Walter Hine, that Hine lost a
thousand pounds; the incidents were related to Mr. Jarvice in their
proper succession, and he interpreted them by his own experience.
Captain Barstow, who was always to the fore, counted for nothing in the
story as Jarvice understood it. He was the mere creature, the servant.
Garratt Skinner, who was always in the background, prepared the swindle
and pocketed the profits.

"You are staying at the quiet house in Dorsetshire now, I suppose. Just
you and Garratt Skinner and the pretty daughter, with occasional visits
from Barstow?"

"Yes," answered Hine. "Garratt Skinner does not care to see much
company."

Once more the smile of amusement played upon Mr. Jarvice's face.

"No, I suppose not," he said, quietly. There were certain definite
reasons of which he was aware, to account for Garratt Skinner's
reluctance to appear in a general company. He turned back from the window
and returned to his table. He had taken his part. There was no longer
either unsteadiness or anger in his voice.

"I quite understand your reluctance to leave your new friends," he said,
with the utmost friendliness. "I recognize that the tour abroad on which
I had rather set my heart must be abandoned. But I have no regrets. For I
think it possible that the very object which I had in mind when proposing
that tour may be quite as easily effected in the charming country house
of Garratt Skinner."

He spoke in a quiet matter-of-fact voice, looking benevolently at his
visitor. If the words were capable of another and a more sinister meaning
than they appeared to convey, Walter Hine did not suspect it. He took
them in their obvious sense.

"Yes, I shall gain as much culture in Garratt Skinner's house as I should
by seeing picture-galleries abroad," he said eagerly, and then Mr.
Jarvice smiled.

"I think that very likely," he said. "Meanwhile, as to Barstow and his
thousand pounds. I must think the matter over. Barstow will not press you
for a day or two. Just leave me your address--the address in
Dorsetshire."

He dipped a pen in the ink and handed it to Hine. Hine took it and drew a
sheet of paper toward him. asked Frau von Sigmundskron very softly.

'Yes. To-morrow morning.

I would it were to-night.

And then--' he stopped and passed his hand wearily across his
forehead, letting it drop nerveless by his side almost immediately.

'And then?'

'Then I must see Hilda before I go.'

His eyelids quivered, and his lips shut themselves closely.

'Yes,' answered the baroness in a tone of hesitation.

'Yes, I must see Hilda,' Greif repeated. 'And when I am gone--then--
then--'

This time Frau von Sigmundskron said nothing, for she saw that he was
suffering, though she dared not guess what was passing in his mind. He
seemed to be trying to speak.

'When I am gone--' he began, but the words died on his lips.

'Do not talk of this now, dear Greif.'
He roused himself and sat straight in his chair. There was something of
his father's look in his face, and his companion noticed that his
fingers were strained as he grasped the carved wood in the effort to
steady himself.

'I must say it now,' he answered firmly. 'To-morrow I shall not be
able to talk much, and it may happen that we shall never have
another opportunity.'

'Never?'
'Perhaps never. It is to be good-bye. You must find another husband for
Hilda, for I may not come back. That is what I wanted to say.'
The baroness turned a startled look upon him and leant forwards toward him
from her seat. She had not expected such a turn in the drama.

'You do not suppose that I, an honourable man, would expect you to give
your daughter to the son of a murderer?'

The question was put so sharply and concisely that Frau von Sigmundskron
was taken unawares. The thought had been painful enough when it had passed
unspoken through the confusion of her reflexions, but Greif's statement
gave it a new and horrible vividness. With a single sharp sob, she hid her
face in her hands, and Greif saw that they trembled. His own heart
was beating violently, for he had nerved himself to make the effort,
but he had not anticipated the reaction that followed closely upon it. He
felt as though, in pronouncing the detested word, he had struck
his father's dead face with his hand.

'God knows how I loved him,' he said, under his breath. 'But he did the
deed.'
Frau von Sigmundskron did not distinguish the words he spoke, but she
felt that she must say something. Her hands dropped from her strained
and tearless eyes and fell upon her knees.

'Oh, Greif! Greif!' she almost moaned, as she stared at the blazing
logs.

'That is what it comes to in the end,' he answered, summoning all his
courage. 'I cannot marry Hilda. It was bad enough to be
half disgraced by my father's brother--you were kind enough to set that
aside. It is worse now, for the stain is on the name itself. I cannot
give it to Hilda. Would you have her called Greifenstein?'
The baroness could not speak. Half an hour earlier she would not have
dared to hope that Greif would himself renounce her daughter, but it
was different now. She could not look upon his agonised face, and listen
to the tones that came from his tortured heart, as he gave up all
he held dear for the sake of acting honourably, she could not see his
suffering and hear his words, and yet brutally admit that he was right,
and that his sacrifice was a necessity. And yet her own conscience told
her that her first thought must be for her own child, and not for him.
She stared at the fire and answered nothing.

'Would you have her write her name "Hilda von Greifenstein"?' he asked,
forcing the words sternly from his lips. 'Would you have her angel
purity darkened with the blood that is on my house?'
'But you, Greif--what will become of you?'
'It matters little enough, so that I do no harm to those I love,'
he answered.

'It does matter,' said the baroness gently.

'It is not right or just that an innocent man should suffer for the deeds
of others.'
'It is right that he should suffer anything, rather than injure those who
are not only innocent but free from inherited reproach.'
There was a sudden energy in his manner which surprised his companion.
His white face was illuminated by a sort of radiance from within, his
voice was full and firm, the glance of his eyes piercing and determined.

'It is right,' he continued, 'and I will do it, come what may.

Indeed I must, for in spite of your kind heart and words you would not
give her to me. But even if you would, I would not take her, I would
not make her the mother of more Greifensteins. Ay--you look at me--I
love her too much.

That is the reason. If I loved her less--oh, then, I would take her. I
would take my beautiful Hilda for my own sake, and in her love I would
try and forget the horrors of my younger years. I would forget, for
my own sake, that my father was a murderer and a suicide, my father's
brother a shameful traitor, myself a man clothed in the infamy of
others, until the world can hardly distinguish between my innocence
and their guilt.

I could live with Hilda, somewhere in this lonely forest, and with
her I might bury memory and talk lightly of love beside its very
grave.

And Hilda would be willing, too, and if I did not love her as I do,
I would take her--whether you would let her go or not--no, forgive
me--I should not speak so to you, who are the best of women--but
you would consent, for you are so kind.

But the thing is impossible. She would remember, and I should remember
also, when our sons grew up and had to meet the world with the brand
of our name upon their faces. Look at Rex. He is my best friend. Yesterday
I learnt that he is my cousin. Even he has hidden his father's deeds under
a common, meaningless name. How much more should I hide my head!
How much less right have I, than he had yesterday, to make an innocent
girl, or any woman, the wife of a Greifenstein! No--go to Hilda, tell her
the truth, let me see her once, and I will rid you of myself
when I have said good-bye.

You are her mother, and you alone can tell her all-- all except the last
word, and when I have spoken that word, I will go away, Rex and I
together, and you will not hear of me any more.'
Greif ceased speaking. He had risen from his chair to pace the room while
he spoke and he now stood with folded arms before the baroness, his
eyes fixed on hers as though waiting for her answer.

He was very young, and it was perhaps the first time in his life
that he had spoken out before any one. He was too much excited to
think whether his speech would sound theatrical and exaggerated or
not. He meant every word of what he had said, and that was enough for
him. He meant to do what was right and honourable, and that is enough
for any man.

Frau von Sigmundskron's gentle eyes fell before his fixed gaze. Feeling
as she did, and remembering what she had felt when she had come to
him, she was ashamed to meet his earnest glance. There were few better
women in the world, few whose goodness showed itself so clearly
both in deeds and intentions, and yet she was conscious, rightly
or wrongly, that Greif was outdoing her in generosity.

To her the words he had spoken had a ring of heroism in them, and he himself
seemed to grow in dignity and strength as he stood before her. She
hesitated, the speech came to her lips, failed, took courage and came
again. Once more she raised her head and looked into his eyes.

'Greif--you are a brave man, and you will understand me,' she said.

'When I came here, I felt all that you have said.

I felt it in the long night, before you were in the house. I meant to tell
you what you have told me, as kindly as I could, not now, but later. It
would have been hard, for I am more than fond of you.'
'It would have been your duty, and it would have been right,' answered
Greif calmly.

The baroness laid her hand upon his folded arms.

'It would not have been right, Greif,' she said in a low voice that trembled
a little. 'It might have seemed so, for I did not know you as I know you
now. You have done all that a man can do, more, perhaps, than almost
any man would have done.

I did not wrong you in what I felt, nor in what I meant to say, but I could
never say it now. Take Hilda, and call yourself as you will, for you are
worthy of her and neither you nor she will ever regret it.'
Greif looked at her for a moment, and then knelt beside her and kissed her
hands.

'You will,' she said, and there were tears in her eyes.

'I cannot,' he answered, in heartbroken accents.

Then, rising, he stood and leaned against the chimney-piece and bowed his
head against the carved wood.

He could not feel as she did, and his nature was incapable of such a
sudden revulsion as had taken place in her heart.

He knew how bravely generous she had been, but her kindness changed
nothing in the situation, beyond awakening in him a sense of heartfelt
gratitude for which he had expected no such cause as she had given.

The fear of doing an injury to Hilda was still foremost in his mind.

He had said that even if her mother would consent, he would not take her,
and what he felt when that consent was so unexpectedly thrust upon him
was a measure of his earnestness.

'Nothing is spared me,' he said, almost under his breath. 'Not even your
generosity!'
His action was to depend wholly upon his own free will, and he knew that
it would have been far easier to renounce his love if Hilda's mother had
helped him with her opposition.

There she sat, offering him what he must not take, thrusting upon
him that which his whole nature craved, and which his honour alone
bid him refuse.

Her sweet voice sounded like the soft music of temptation.

'Do not say so, Greif,' she said. 'Remember that you are wholly innocent,
and that Hilda loves you with all her heart and soul. Why must you force
yourself to do what will make her and me so unspeakably wretched? After
all--I take the most worldly argument--it is for her and for me
to decide.

You have concealed nothing, and I know all, and if I say that your
goodness and your heroism outweigh the rest, should you not be satisfied?
And besides, you are young. You do not know how very quickly the world
forgets. A score of years hence, who will remember the evil deeds of
last night? They were not even done in a city, those who did them had
hardly any acquaintances, and perhaps no friends. You yourself are not
old enough to be known to many, and you can live here until your children
are grown up. It seems to me that I was wrong even to have thought of
separating you two, wholly wrong and mistaken and that I ought to
ask your forgiveness for my intention.' Thus she pleaded the cause of
his own heart, giving many and good reasons why he should yield, while
he stood struggling with himself and wishing that he could stop
his ears against her persuasion.

To him the horror was more vivid than to her, and she could not understand
his dread of associating Hilda with the curse that had fallen upon his
house.

'I cannot,' he said firmly, when she had ceased speaking.

She rose and stood beside him.

'Think of it, Greif,' she answered. 'You must not break her heart for a
scruple of honour.'
Then she went out softly, wondering at herself, but sure that she
had done the best.

CHAPTER XVI

Frau von Sigmundskron was too conscientious a person to omit a
mental review of what had passed.

She knew, indeed, that she had acted kindly and generously, if not
wisely, and she believed that in some cases kindness might be better
than wisdom.

She was struck by one point in Greif's language. He assumed as a certainty
that old Greifenstein had killed Clara, whereas the baroness had been
inclined to attribute the crime to Rieseneck alone. At first she did not
understand Greif's readiness to believe that this evil deed had been his
father's, but presently, as she thought over the whole matter, it struck
her that she had no reason for acquitting the one rather than the other,
so far as evidence was concerned, but that she had wished Greif's father
innocent for Greif's own sake. The good lady was much disturbed on finding
that her wishes had been strong enough to bias her mental view without
her knowledge, and she grew more and more satisfied with the course she
had pursued after Greif had spoken. She saw clearly, now, that Greif was
indispensable to her for Hilda's happiness, and she comprehended
that he was worthy of the girl.

In the wicked world which surrounded the Black Forest on all sides,
persons would have been found malicious enough to suspect that Greif
really wished to be free from his engagement with Hilda.

He himself, had he been less excited, would have hesitated before
speaking as he had done, lest such a motive should be attributed
to him.

He would have acted and talked with more diplomacy and less outward energy,
though with the same inward conviction, and it is by no means impossible
that Frau von Sigmundskron's first intention might in such a case have
remained unchanged, and that she would have gently acquiesced in
Greif's proposal to give up the marriage.

But there was no guile in the baroness, and but little in Greif himself.
He had been carried away in his speech by the sincerity of what he
felt, the more easily because his whole nature was unstrung by grief;
and Hilda's mother had seen in him only the hero, ready to sacrifice
everything for her he loved, and womanlike, she had felt irresistibly
impelled to reward him on the spot by a generous sacrifice of those
convictions which his real or fancied eloquence had already destroyed.

So simple was she, that it did not strike her that Greif's own position
was changed, that he was all at once his own master, possessed of a large
fortune and perhaps of tastes which he had concealed during his father's
life. If the aforesaid wicked world had been acquainted with the
circumstances, it would assuredly have taken this view into
consideration.

But that portion of mankind in which are included so many of our
acquaintance, but in whose numbers we ourselves are never found, were
very far from Greifenstein, and the Lady of Sigmundskron knew little of
their modes of thought.

She saw that Greif was honest and she sought no malicious explanation
of his intentions. On the contrary, the longer she reflected upon the
interview, the more she admired him, and strange to say, the nearer she
came to accepting his opinion of his father's guilt.

She had meant to see Rex, and she had not been altogether decided to wait
and allow the natural course of events to bring her the information she
desired about his letter. She remembered with some surprise that her
decision in the matter of the marriage was to have depended upon the
knowledge of old Greifenstein's culpability or innocence which she had
hoped to gain from Rex.

It was evident that her mind was tired, and she resolved at last to
rest. It was her duty, however, to see Rex before sleeping, if only
to inquire about his state. She would certainly not ask him any
questions.

She found him reading still, or pretending to read, by the light
of a shaded student's lamp.

Upon another table there was a tray with a couple of covered dishes
upon it.

His older and tougher nature showed itself there, she thought, for he
must have given the order himself. He rose politely as she entered, and
offered her a chair. His manner contrasted so strongly with Greif's,
as to make her wonder whether he were in reality much affected or
not.

'I will not stay,' she said. 'I only came to see how you were, and
whether I could do anything for you.'

'You are very kind. I have all I need, and more. Have you seen
Greif?'

'Yes. He has slept and I think he is safe. At first I feared lest his mind
should be affected. He is younger than you, Herr von--Herr Rex-- and
perhaps he is more sensitive.'

'Perhaps,' replied Rex thoughtfully.

'Would he care to see me?'
'I have no doubt--that is--he may possibly be tired--' she hesitated.

Rex's stony eyes examined her face attentively.

'You have had an interview with him,' he said in a tone of conviction,
'and you have talked about this dreadful matter. I have a communication
to make to you, Frau von Sigmundskron. It will not take long.'

The baroness started and looked at him earnestly.

'What is it? she asked.

'You gave me a letter this morning. I will tell you frankly that you ought
to have given it to the representatives of the law, for in such cases
the law has a right to all letters of the deceased and can even
cause them to be intercepted in the post-office.'
'I did not know,' she replied, in some perturbation.

'I did, but as no one asked me for the letter, I did not offer it.

I cannot tell you all it contained, nor shall I tell Greif. But this I will
tell you. My father arrived here last night, and almost immediately
afterwards he and Herr von Greifenstein, jointly, killed Frau von
Greifenstein, and then committed suicide.'
'Is there no doubt!' asked the baroness nervously. She turned white
at the thought of the scene his words recalled.

'The last confessions of men about to die are generally trustworthy,'
remarked Rex rather drily.

'Of course--of course.'

She wondered what other communication the letter had contained. 'Exactly,
and you may rely upon the exactness of what I tell you.

My poor father had no reason for deceiving me, nor was he a man to deceive
any one. He had been a fanatic and an enthusiast in his youth, and if
his fanaticism led him too far, he paid the penalty in forty years of
exile.'
'But what could have induced him--or Greifenstein--'
'Madam,' said Rex courteously, but firmly, 'I regret my inability to
answer your question.

It must be supposed that two such men had some cause for acting as
they did, which seemed to them sufficient.'

'Forgive me!' exclaimed the baroness. 'I did not mean to ask you. I thank
you for having told me what you have. Am I to tell Greif? I think--indeed
I know that what he believes coincides with your account.'
'Then you had better say nothing. I could not show him the letter, and if
he knew that there was one, he might naturally enough reproach me with a
want of confidence in him. I should be sorry to be placed in such a
position, at such a time.'

For a few moments neither spoke.

The baroness was formulating another question, which must be put to her
companion.

'Herr Rex,' she said at last, 'it is necessary that the last act of
this tragedy should be completed to-morrow. You have a voice in the
matter--' she hesitated.

'Whatever you do will be well done,' answered Rex. He seemed to think the
question over quickly. 'If you have any objections to his resting here,'
he said presently, 'I will take him away. Do not let any feeling of
delicacy prevent you from being frank.'
'Let them lie together,' replied Frau von Sigmundskron.

'It would be Greif's wish. You are very thoughtful, Herr Rex, but you
must not think that any such unkind feeling can exist any longer now.
Though there is no real tie of blood, you are one of us. You and Greif
should be as brothers.'
A momentary light flashed in Rex's impenetrable eyes.

'I will be a brother to him, if he will let me,' he answered
steadily.

'I thank you very much for what you have done and for what you say.'

Frau von Sigmundskron bade him good-night and went away. She was a woman,
and her curiosity was strong, though her conscience was stronger. She
felt that she was in the presence of some extraordinary mystery, and that
Rex himself was a somewhat mysterious personage. His eyes haunted her and
disturbed her peace, and yet she could not deny that she was
attracted by him.

His quiet dignity pleased her, as well as the tone of his voice. She
liked his face and its expression, and her deep-rooted prejudices of caste
were satisfied, for she recognised in him a man essentially of her own
class. There was something very manly, too, about his bearing, which
could not fail to impress a womanly woman, no matter of what age. But his
eyes followed her and seemed to stare stonily at her out of the dark
corners of the room. She was too much exhausted, however, to resist
very long the oppression of sleep that came over her, and she was
far too tired to dream, or at least to be conscious of dreaming.

With the following morning came the last trial of her strength, and
those who saw her wondered how a thin, pale woman, whose hair was
already white could show such constant energy, forethought and
endurance.

She had led a hard life, however, harder than any one there suspected,
and she could have borne even more than was thrust upon her, without
flinching or bending under the burden.

On foot she walked in the mournful procession through the snow and the
bitter wind, leaning but lightly on Greif's arm, and sometimes
feeling that she was helping him rather than accepting his assistance.

It was nearly a quarter of a mile from the castle to the spot where the
burial-place of the Greifensteins was built in the depth of the
forest, and the road was bad in many parts, though an attempt had
been made to clear it, and the footsteps of those who bore the dead
smoothed the path for the living who came after.

At last it was over.

The last short prayer was said.

The great stone slab, green with the mould of centuries, was raised
by twenty strong arms and was made to slide back into its place
above the yawning steps that led down into the earth, the heavy
doors of the mausoleum swung slowly upon their hinges, the huge,
rusty lock was secured and the unwieldy key was solemnly placed in
the hands of the new master of Greifenstein.

With slow steps, two and two together, all went back through the
dim shadows of the trees, while the icy wind whistled and roared
upon them from every giant stem, and the trodden snow creaked beneath
their feet.

Two and two they re-entered the low gateway of the castle, till the
iron-studded oak clanged behind the last pair, sending rolling echoes
along the dark, vaulted way.

An hour later Greif and Rex sat together in sad silence before the big
blazing logs in Greif's room, faintly conscious of the comforting warmth,
looking at each other from time to time without speaking, each
absorbed by the pain of his own thoughts. It seemed as though several
hours had passed in this way when Greif at last broke the silence.

'I will ride to Sigmundskron to-morrow,' he said, 'and then we will
go away.'

Rex looked at him, nodded gravely and answered nothing.

'We must go together, Rex,' said Greif after another long pause. 'Will
you come?'
'I will go with you wherever you will. If we part it shall not be my fault.'
'Thank you.'
The great logs crackled and blazed, sending up leaping flames and
showers of sparks into the wide chimney and reflecting a warm red
glare which contrasted oddly with the cold and sunless light of the
winter's afternoon. The sound and the sight of the fire supplied
the place of conversation and animated the stillness.
'Rex, did you know that I was to have been married next month?'
Greif asked the question suddenly, as though he had come to an
unexpected decision.
'I thought it possible that you would marry soon,' answered his
companion.
'I was to have been married to my cousin Hilda in January. How far
away that seems!' 
'The daughter of Frau von Sigmundskron?'
'Yes. We have been engaged for years.'But there was no invitation to him to
return, and turning away again he walked on.

Sylvia went up-stairs to her room. She unclenched her hand at last. In
its palm there lay a little phial containing a colorless solution. But
there was a label upon the phial, and on the label was written "cocaine."
It was that which had struck at her influence over Walter Hine. It was to
introduce this drug that Archie Parminter had been brought down from
London and the West End clubs.

"It's drunk a good deal in a quiet way," Archie had said, as he made a
pretence himself to drink it.

"You leave such drugs to the aristocracy, Walter," Garratt Skinner had
chimed in. "Just a taste if you like. But go gently."

Sylvia had not been present. But she conjectured the scene, and her
conjecture was not far from the truth. But why? she asked, and again fear
took hold of her. "What was to be gained?" There were limits to Sylvia's
knowledge of the under side of life. She did not guess.

She turned to her mirror and looked at herself. Yes, she looked tired,
she looked ill. But she was not grateful for having the fact pointed out
to her. And while she still looked, she heard her father's voice calling
her. She shivered, as though her fear once more laid hold on her. Then
she locked the bottle of cocaine away in a drawer and ran lightly down
the stairs.


CHAPTER XVIII

BOTH SIDES OF THE QUESTION


Chayne's house stood high upon a slope of the Sussex Downs. Built of
stone two centuries ago, it seemed gradually to have taken on the brown
color of the hill behind it, subduing itself to the general scheme, even
as birds and animals will do; so that strangers who searched for it in
the valley discovered it by the upward swirl of smoke from its wide
chimneys. On its western side and just beneath the house, there was a
cleft in the downs through which the high road ran and in the cleft the
houses of a tiny village clustered even as at the foot of some old castle
in Picardy. On the east the great ridge with its shadow-holding hollows,
its rounded gorse-strewn slopes of grass, rolled away for ten miles and
then dipped suddenly to the banks of the River Arun. The house faced the
south, and from its high-terraced garden, a great stretch of park and
forest land was visible, where amidst the green and russet of elm and
beach, a cluster of yews set here and there gave the illusion of a black
and empty space. Beyond the forest land a lower ridge of hills rose up,
and over that ridge one saw the spires of Chichester and the level flats
of Selsea reaching to the sea.

Into this garden Chayne came on the next afternoon, and as he walked
along its paths alone he could almost fancy that his dead father paced
with the help of his stick at his side, talking, as had been his wont, of
this or that improvement needed by the farms, pointing out to him a
meadow in the hollow beneath which might soon be coming into the market,
and always ending up with the same plea.

"Isn't it time, Hilary, that you married and came home to look after it
all yourself?"

Chayne had turned a deaf ear to that plea, but it made its appeal to him
to-night. Wherever his eyes rested, he recaptured something of his
boyhood; the country-side was alive with memories. He looked south, and
remembered how the perished cities of history had acquired reality for
him by taking on the aspect of Chichester lying low there on the flats;
and how the spires of the fabled towns of his storybooks had caught the
light of the setting sun, just as did now the towers of the cathedral.
Eastward, in the dip between the shoulder of the downs, and the trees of
Arundel Park, a long black hedge stood out with a remarkable definition
against the sky--the hedge of which he had spoken to Sylvia--the great
dark wall of brambles guarding the precincts of the Sleeping Beauty. He
recalled the adventurous day when he had first ridden alone upon his pony
along the great back of the downs and had come down to it through a
sylvan country of silence and ferns and open spaces; and had discovered
it to be no more than a hedge waist-high. The dusk came upon him as he
loitered in that solitary garden; the lights shone out in cottage and
farm-house; and more closely still his memories crowded about him weaving
spells. Some one to share them with! Chayne had no need to wait for old
age before he learnt the wisdom of Michel Revailloud. For his heart
leaped now, as he dreamed of exploring once more with Sylvia at his side
the enchanted country of his boyhood; gallops in the quiet summer
mornings along that still visible track across the downs, by which the
Roman legions had marched in the old days from London straight as a die
to Chichester; winter days with the hounds; a rush on windy afternoons in
a sloop-rigged boat down the Arun to Littlehampton. Chayne's heart leaped
with a passionate longing as he dreamed, and sank as he turned again to
the blank windows of the empty house.

He dined alone, and while he dined evoked Sylvia's presence at the
table, setting her, not at the far end, but at the side and close, so
that a hand might now and then touch hers; calling up into her face her
slow hesitating smile; seeing her still gray eyes grow tender; in a word
watching the Madonna change into the woman. He went into the library
where, since the night had grown chilly, a fire was lit. It was a place
of comfort, with high bookshelves, deep-cushioned chairs, and dark
curtains. But, no less than the dining-room it needed another presence,
and lacking that lacked everything. It needed the girl with the tired
and terror-haunted face. Here, surely the fear would die out of her
soul, the eyes would lose their shadows, the feet regain the lightness
of their step.

Chayne took down his favorite books, but they failed him. Between the
pages and his eyes one face would shape itself. He looked into the fire
and sought as of old to picture in the flames some mountain on which his
hopes were set and to discover the right line for its ascent. But even
that pastime brought no solace for his discontent. The house oppressed
him. It was empty, it was silent. He drew aside the curtains and looking
down into the valley through the clear night air watched the lights in
cottage and farm with the envy born of his loneliness.

In spite of the brave words he had used, he wondered to-night whether the
three-foot hedge was not after all to prove the unassailable wall. And it
was important that he should know. For if it were so, why then he had not
called at the War Office in vain. A proposal had been made to him--that
he should join a commission for the delimitation of a distant frontier. A
year's work and an immediate departure--those were the conditions. Within
two days he must make up his mind--within ten days he must leave England.

Chayne pondered over the decision which he must make. If he had lost
Sylvia, here was the mission to accept. For it meant complete severance,
a separation not to be measured by miles alone, but by the nature of the
work, and the comrades, and even the character of the vegetation. He went
to bed in doubt, thinking that the morning might bring him counsel. It
brought him a letter from Sylvia instead.

The letter was long; it was written in haste, it was written in great
distress, so that words which were rather unkind were written down. But
the message of the letter was clear. Chayne was not to come again to the
House of the Running Water; nor to the little house in London when she
returned to it. They were not to meet again. She did not wish for it.

Chayne burnt the letter as soon as he had read it, taking no offence at
the hasty words. "I seem to have worried her more than I thought," he
said to himself with a wistful smile. "I am sorry," and again as the
sparks died out from the black ashes of the letter he repeated: "Poor
little girl. I am very sorry."

So the house would always be silent and empty.

Sylvia had written the letter in haste on the very evening of Chayne's
visit, and had hurried out to post it in fear lest she might change her
mind in the morning. But in the morning she was only aware of a great
lightness of spirit. She could now devote herself to the work of her
life; and for two long tiring days she kept Walter Hine at her side. But
now he sought to avoid her. The little energy he had ever had was gone,
he alternated between exhilaration and depression; he preferred, it
seemed, to be alone. For two days, however, Sylvia persevered, and on the
third her lightness of spirit unaccountably deserted her.

She drove with Walter Hine that morning, and something of his own
irritability seemed to have passed into her; so that he turned to her
and asked:

"What have I done? Aren't you pleased with me? Why are you angry?"

"I am not angry," she replied, turning her great gray eyes upon him. "But
if you wish to know, I miss something."

So much she owned. She missed something, and she knew very well what it
was that she missed. Even as Chayne in his Sussex home had ached to know
that the house lacked a particular presence, so it began to be with
Sylvia in Dorsetshire.

"Yet he has been absent for a longer time," she argued with herself, "and
I have not missed him. Indeed, I have been glad of his absence." And the
answer came quickly from her thoughts.

"At any time you could have called him to your side, and you knew it. Now
you have sent him away for always."

During the week the sense of loss, the feeling that everything was
unbearably incomplete, grew stronger and stronger within her. She had no
heart for the losing battle in which she was engaged. A dangerous
question began to force itself forward in her mind whenever her eyes
rested upon Walter Hine. "Was he worth while?" she asked herself: though
as yet she did not define all that the "while" connoted. The question was
most prominent in her mind on the seventh day after the letter had been
sent. She had persuaded Walter Hine to mount with her on to the down
behind the house; they came to the great White Horse, and Hine, pleading
fatigue, a plea which during these last days had been ever on his lips,
flung himself down upon the grass. For a little time Sylvia sat idly
watching the great battle ships at firing-practice in the Bay. It was an
afternoon of August; a light haze hung in the still air softening the
distant promontories; and on the waveless sparkling sea the great ships,
coal-black to the eye, circled about the targets, with now and then a
roar of thunder and a puff of smoke, like some monstrous engines of
heat--heat stifling and oppressive. By sheer contrast, Sylvia began to
dream of the cool glaciers; and the Chalet de Lognan suddenly stood
visible before her eyes. She watched the sunlight die off the red rocks
of the Chardonnet, the evening come with silent feet across the snow, and
the starlit night follow close upon its heels; night fled as she dreamed.
She saw the ice-slope on the Aiguille d'Argentière, she could almost hear
the chip-chip of the axes as the steps were cut and the perpetual hiss as
the ice-fragments streamed down the slope. Then she looked toward Walter
Hine with the speculative inquiry which had come so often into her eyes
of late. And as she looked, she saw him furtively take from a pocket a
tabloid or capsule and slip it secretly into his mouth.

"How long have you been taking cocaine?" she asked, suddenly.

Walter Hine flushed scarlet and turned to her with a shrinking look.

"I don't," he stammered.

"Yet you left a bottle of the drug where I found it."

"That was not mine," said he, still more confused. "That was Archie
Parminter's. He left it behind."

"Yes," said Sylvia, finding here a suspicion confirmed. "But he left
it for you?"

"And if I did take it," said Hine, turning irritably to her, "what can it
matter to you? I believe that what your father says is true."

"What does he say?"

"That you care for Captain Chayne, and that it's no use for any one else
to think of you."

Sylvia started.

"Oh, he says that!"

She understood now one of the methods of the new intrigue. Sylvia was in
love with Chayne; therefore Walter Hine may console himself with cocaine.
It was not Garratt Skinner who suggested it. Oh, no! But Archie Parminter
is invited for the night, takes the drug himself, or pretends to take it,
praises it, describes how the use of it has grown in the West End and
amongst the clubs, and then conveniently leaves the drug behind, and no
doubt supplies it as it is required.

Sylvia began to dilate upon its ill-effects, and suddenly broke off. A
great disgust was within her and stopped her speech. She got to her feet.
"Let us go home," she said, and she went very quickly down the hill. When
she came to the house she ran up-stairs to her room, locked the door and
flung herself upon her bed. Walter Hine, her father, their plots and
intrigues, were swept clean from her mind as of no account. Her struggle
for the mastery became unimportant in her thoughts--a folly, a waste. For
what her father had said was true; she cared for Chayne. And what she
herself had said to Chayne when first he came to the House of the Running
Water was no less true. "If I loved, I think nothing else would count at
all except that I loved."

She had judged herself aright. She knew that, as she lay prone upon
her bed, plunged in misery, while the birds called upon the boughs in
the garden and the mill stream filled the room with its leaping music.
In a few minutes a servant knocked upon the door and told her that tea
was ready in the library; but she returned no answer. And in a few
minutes more--or so it seemed, but meanwhile the dusk had come--there
came another knock and she was told that dinner had been served. But
to that message again she returned no answer. The noises of the busy
day ceased in the fields, the birds were hushed upon the branches,
quiet and darkness took and refreshed the world. Only the throbbing
music of the stream beat upon the ears, and beat with a louder
significance, since all else was still. Sylvia lay staring wide-eyed
into the darkness. To the murmur of this music, in perhaps this very
room, she had been born. "Why," she asked piteously, "why?" Of what
use was it that she must suffer?

Of all the bad hours of her life, these were the worst. For the yearning
for happiness and love throbbed and cried at her heart, louder and
louder, just as the music of the stream swelled to importance with the
coming of the night. And she learned that she had had both love and
happiness within her grasp and that she had thrown them away for a
shadow. She thought of the letter which she had written, recalling its
phrases with a sinking heart.

"No man could forgive them. I must have been mad," she said, and she
huddled herself upon her bed and wept aloud.

She ran over in her mind the conversations which she and Hilary Chayne
had exchanged, and each recollection accused her of impatience and paid a
tribute to his gentleness. On the very first day he had asked her to go
with him and her heart cried out now:

"Why didn't I go?"

He had been faithful and loyal ever since, and she had called his
faithfulness importunity and his loyalty a humiliation. She struck a
match and looked at her watch and by habit wound it up. And she drearily
wondered on how many, many nights she would have to wind it up and
speculate in ignorance what he, her lover, was doing and in what corner
of the world, before the end of her days was reached. What would become
of her? she asked. And she raised the corner of a curtain and glanced at
the bright picture of what might have been. And glancing at it, the
demand for happiness raised her in revolt.

She lit her candle and wrote another letter, of the shortest. It
contained but these few words:

"Oh, please forgive me! Come back and forgive. Oh, you must!--SYLVIA."

And having written them, Sylvia stole quietly down-stairs, let herself
out at the door and posted them.

Two nights afterward she leaned out of her window at midnight, wondering
whether by the morrow's post she would receive an answer to her message.
And while she wondered she understood that the answer would not come that
way. For suddenly in the moonlit road beneath her, she saw standing the
one who was to send it. Chayne had brought his answer himself. For a
moment she distrusted her own eyes, believing that her thoughts had
raised this phantom to delude her. But the figure in the road moved
beneath her window and she heard his voice call to her:

"Sylvia! Sylvia!"


CHAPTER XIX

THE SHADOW IN THE ROOM


Sylvia raised her hand suddenly, enjoining silence, and turned back into
the room. She had heard a door slam violently within the house; and now
from the hall voices rose. Her father and Walter Hine were coming up
early to-night from the library, and it seemed in anger. At all events
Walter Hine was angry. His voice rang up the stairway shrill and violent.

"Why do you keep it from me? I will have it, I tell you. I am not a
child," and an oath or two garnished the sentences.

Sylvia heard her father reply with the patronage which never failed to
sting the vanity of his companion, which was the surest means to provoke
a quarrel, if a quarrel he desired.

"Go to bed, Wallie! Leave such things to Archie Parminter! You are
too young."

His voice was friendly, but a little louder than he generally used, so
that Sylvia clearly distinguished every word; so clearly indeed, that had
he wished her to hear, thus he would have spoken. She heard the two men
mount the stairs, Hine still protesting with the violence which had grown
on him of late; Garratt Skinner seeking apparently to calm him, and
apparently oblivious that every word he spoke inflamed Walter Hine the
more. She had a fear there would be blows--blows struck, of course, by
Hine. She knew the reason of the quarrel. Her father was depriving Hine
of his drug. They passed up-stairs, however, and on the landing above she
heard their doors close. Then coming back to the window she made a sign
to Chayne, slipped a cloak about her shoulders and stole quietly down the
dark stairs to the door. She unlocked the door gently and went out to her
lover. Upon the threshold she hesitated, chilled by a fear as to how he
would greet her. But he turned to her and in the moonlight she saw his
face and read it. There was no anger there. She ran toward him.

"Oh, my dear," she cried, in a low, trembling voice, and his arms
enclosed her. As she felt them hold her to him, and knew indeed that it
was he, her lover, whose lips bent down to hers, there broke from her a
long sigh of such relief and such great uplifting happiness as comes but
seldom, perhaps no more than once, in the life of any man or woman. Her
voice sank to a whisper, and yet was very clear and, to the man who heard
it, sweet as never music was.

"Oh, my dear, my dear! You have come then?" and she stroked his face, and
her hands clung about his neck to make very sure.

"Were you afraid that I wouldn't come, Sylvia?" he asked, with a low,
quiet laugh.

She lifted her face into the moonlight, so that he saw at once the tears
bright in her eyes and the smile trembling upon her lips.

"No," she said, "I rather thought that you would come," and she laughed
as she spoke. Or did she sob? He could hardly tell, so near she was to
both. "Oh, but I could not be sure! I wrote with so much unkindness," and
her eyes dropped from his in shame.

"Hush!" he said, and he held her close.

"Have you forgiven me? Oh, please forgive me!"

"Long since," said he.

But Sylvia was not reassured.

"Ah, but you won't forget," she said, ruefully. "One can forgive, but one
can't forget what one forgives," and then since, even in her remorse,
hope was uppermost with her that night, she cried, "Oh, Hilary, do you
think you ever will forget what I wrote to you?"

While the cause of their action was a total mystery to every one
except Frau von Sigmundskron, the steps of it were singularly clear.

It was evident that they had killed Clara deliberately and had then
killed themselves. Even the baroness was obliged to admit to herself
that the mere fact of the exile returning suddenly was wholly
inadequate to account for the three deaths.

She was a brave woman, and though she was profoundly horrified and
grieved by what had happened she was conscious that she had not
suffered any great personal loss.

She had never known Rieseneck, she had never liked Clara, and her
friendship for Greifenstein had not been great.

Greif himself was safe, the only one of the family for whom she felt any
affection, and in whom all her hopes for her daughter's happiness
were centred.

But for him, she would have refused the occasional hospitality of the
castle as she had once refused the tardy assistance of its possessors.
It is due to the memory of Greifenstein to repeat here that he never at
any time realised the extremity of her need, and that it had been long
before he had learned that she was really poor.

But the Lady of Sigmundskron did not know this, and she could not
comprehend how completely her penury had been hidden from her
relations by her own wonderful management and indomitable pride.

At present, her thoughts were absorbed by the necessity of meeting Greif
when he arrived, which must be within a few hours, and she sat
calmly in her chair under the light of the candles that illuminated
the chamber of death, trying vainly to frame some consoling speech
which might break the violence of his sorrow.

She knew how he had loved his father, and during his last visit she had
noticed his increasing affection for his mother. She knew that he was
aware of Rieseneck's existence, and she tortured her weary brain in the
attempt to find some explanation that would not pain him needlessly,
and which might nevertheless seem to account in some measure for the
calamity that had overtaken him. But her trouble was thrown away, and many
a cunning lawyer might have laboured in vain to frame out of the facts
a consistent narrative. As the morning approached, the intensity of her
thoughts was diminished by her bodily fatigue, and she dreamed of other
things, wondering somewhat vaguely whether it were right to marry
her child to the son of the murderer and suicide whose dead body
lay beside that of his victim under the yellow light of the tall
candles, to the nephew of the traitor, whose tall figure was stretched
upon a couch in the room beyond.

To most women the situation would have been infinitely more painful than
it was to Therese von Sigmundskron. She was more like a sister of a
religious order than a woman of the world.

Years of ascetic practices, of constant self-sacrifice, of unswerving
devotion had refined her nature from the fear of death, or the dread
of its presence.

We ask in vain why an existence of painful labour elevates some
characters and debases others, inspires courage in some and in some
destroys the power to face the inevitable.

We search our experience and we know that the fact exists, we apply our
intelligence to the study of it and we admit that the cause of the
fact escapes us.
The seekers after explanations are bold with big words which tell us nothing,
and call themselves physiological psychologists, or if that definition
fails they say that they are psychological physiologists, and establish
a difference in meaning between the one title and the other.
And on the ceiling the shadow moved, and
changed its shape, now dwindling, now growing larger again, now
disappearing altogether as though the intruder stooped below the level of
the lamp; and once there was flung on the white plaster the huge image of
an arm which had something in its hand. Was the arm poised above the
lamp, on the point of smashing it with the thing it held? Chayne waited,
with a cry upon his lips, expecting each moment that the room would be
plunged in darkness. But the cry was not uttered, the arm was withdrawn.
It had not been raised to smash the lamp, the thing which the hand held
was for some other purpose. And once more the shadow appeared moving and
changing as the intruder crept nearer to the window. Sylvia stood
motionless. She had thought to cry out, now she was fascinated. A spell
of terror constrained her to silence. And then, suddenly, behind Walter
Hine there stood out clearly in the light the head and shoulders of
Garratt Skinner.

"My father," said Sylvia, in relief. Her clasp upon Chayne's arm relaxed;
her terror passed from her. In the revulsion of her feelings she laughed
quietly at her past fear. Chayne looked quickly and curiously at her.
Then as quickly he looked again to the window. Both men in the room were
now lit up by the yellow light; their attitudes, their figures were very
clear but small, like marionettes upon the stage of some tiny theater.
Chayne watched them with no less suspense now that he knew who the
intruder was. Unlike Sylvia he had betrayed no surprise when he had seen
Garratt Skinner's head and shoulders rise into view behind Walter Hine;
and unlike Sylvia, he did not relax his vigilance. Suddenly Garratt
Skinner stepped forward, very quickly, very silently. With one step he
was close behind his friend; and then just as he was about to move
again--it seemed to Sylvia that he was raising his arm, perhaps to touch
his friend upon the shoulder--Chayne whistled--whistled sharply, shrilly
and with a kind of urgency which Sylvia did not understand.

Walter Hine leaned forward out of the window. That was quite natural. But
on the other hand Garratt Skinner did nothing of the kind. To Sylvia's
surprise he stepped back, and almost out of sight. Very likely he thought
that he was out of sight. But to the watchers in the road his head was
just visible. He was peering over Walter Hine's shoulder.

Again Chayne whistled and, not content with whistling, he cried out in a
feigned bucolic accent:

"I see you."

At once Garratt Skinner's head disappeared altogether.

Walter Hine peered down into the darkness whence the whistle came,
curving his hands above his forehead to shut out the light behind him;
and behind him once more the shadow appeared upon the ceiling and the
wall. A third time Chayne whistled; and Walter Hine cried out:

"What is it?"

And behind him the shadow vanished from the ceiling and the door began to
close, softly and stealthily, just as softly and stealthily as it had
been opened.

Again, Hine cried out:

"Who's there? What is it?"

And Chayne laughed aloud derisively, as though he were some yokel
practising a joke. Hine turned back into the room. The room was empty,
but the door was unlatched. He disappeared from the window, and the
watchers below saw the door slammed to, heard the sound of the slamming
and then another sound, the sound of a key turning in the lock.

It seemed almost that Chayne had been listening for that sound. For he
turned at once to Sylvia.

"We puzzled them fairly, didn't we?" he said, with a smile. But the smile
somehow seemed hardly real, and his face was very white.

"It's the moonlight," he explained. "Come!"

They walked quietly through the silent village where the thick eaves of
the cottages threw their black shadows on the white moonlit road, past
the mill and the running water, to a gate which opened on the down.
They unlatched the gate noiselessly and climbed the bare slope of
grass. Half way up Chayne turned and looked down upon the house. There
was no longer any light in any window. He turned to Sylvia and slipped
his arm through hers.

"Come close," said he, and now there was no doubt the smile was real.
"Shall we keep step, do you think?"

"If we go always like this, we might," said Sylvia, with a smile.

"At times there will be a step to be cut, no doubt," said he.

"You once said that I could stand firm while the step was being cut," she
answered. Always at the back of both their minds, evident from time to
time in some such phrase as this, was the thought of the mountain upon
which their friendship had been sealed. Friendship had become love here
in the quiet Dorsetshire village, but in both their thoughts it had
another background--ice-slope and rock-spire and the bright sun over all.


CHAPTER XX

ON THE DOWN


Sylvia led the way to a little hollow just beneath the ridge of the
downs, a sheltered spot open to the sea. On the three other sides bushes
grew about it and dry branches and leaves deeply carpeted the floor. Here
they rested and were silent. Upon Sylvia's troubled heart there had
fallen a mantle of deep peace. The strife, the fears, the torturing
questions had become dim like the small griefs of childhood. Even the
incident of the lighted window vexed her not at all.

Here it was stifling. Cattle stood in stagnant water, ducks were envied,
my room with the sun on it became intolerable, and I sought refuge by the
river; my butter was too liquid to spread; coolies were tired as
they rested outside the tea-houses, having not a cash to spend; my
pony stood wincing, giving sharp shivers to his skin, and moving
his tail to clear off the flies and his hind legs to clear off men.

As for myself, I could have done with an iced soda or a claret cup.

Very early in the morning, despite malaria shivers, I made my way over
the beautiful suspension bridge which here graces the Niu Lan,[X] a
tributary of the Yangtze, up to the high hills beyond.

This bridge at Kiang-ti is one hundred and fifty feet by twelve, protected
at one end by a couple of monkeys carved in stone, whilst the opposite end
is guarded by what are supposed to be, I believe, a couple of lions--and
not a bad representation of them either, seeing that the workmen had no
original near at hand to go by.

From here the ascent over a second range of mountains is made by tortuous
paths that wind along the sides of the hills high above the stream below,
and at other times along the river-bed. The river is followed in a steep
ascent, a sort of climbing terrace, from which the water leaps in
delightful cascades and waterfalls.

A four-hour climb brings one, after terrific labor, to the mouth
of the picturesque pass of Ya-ko-t'ang at 7,500 feet.

In the quiet of the mountains I took my midday meal; there was about
the place an awe-inspiring stillness.

It was grand but lonely, weird rather than peaceful, so that one was
glad to descend again suddenly to the river, tracing it through long
stretches of plain and barren valley, after which narrow paths
lead up again to the small village of Yi-che-shïn, considerably
below Ya-ko-t'ang.

It is the sudden descents and ascents which astonish one in traveling in
this region, and whether climbing or dropping, one always reaches a plain
or upland which would delude one into believing that he is almost at
sea-level, were it not for the towering mountains that all around keep
one hemmed in in a silent stillness, and the rarefied air.
Yi-che-shïn, for instance, standing at this altitude of considerably
over 6,000 feet, is in the center of a tableland, on which are
numerous villages, around which the fragrance of the broad bean in
flower and the splendid fertility now and again met with makes it
extremely pleasant to walk--it is almost a series of English cottage
gardens.

Here the weather was like July in England--or what one likes to
imagine July should be in England--dumb, dreaming, hot, lazy,
luxurious weather, in which one should do as he pleases, and be
pleased with what he does.

As I toiled along, my useless limb causing me each day more trouble, I
felt I should like to lie down on the grass, with stones 'twixt head and
shoulders for my pillow, and repose, as Nature was reposing, in
sovereign strength.

But I was getting weaker!

I saw, as I passed, gardens of purple and gold and white splendor; the
sky was at its bluest, the clouds were full, snowy, mountainous.

Then on again to varying scenes.

Inns were not frequent, and were poor and wretched. The country was all
red sandstone, and devoid of all timber, till, descending into a lovely
valley, the path crossed an obstructing ridge, and then led out
into a beautiful park all green and sweet.

The country was full of color. It put a good taste in one's mouth, it
impressed one as a heaven-sent means of keeping one cheerful in
sad dilemma.

The gardens, the fields, the skies, the mountains, the sunset, the
light itself--all were full of color, and earth and heaven seemed
of one opinion in the harmony of the reds, the purples, the drabs,
the blacks, the browns, the bright blues, and the yellows.

Birds were as tame as they were in the Great Beginning; they came under
the table as I ate, and picked up the crumbs without fear. Peasant people
sat under great cedars, planted to give shade to the travelers,
and bade one feel at home in his lonely pilgrimage. Then one felt a
peculiar feeling--this feeling will arise in any traveler--when,
surmounting some hill range in the desert road, one descries, lying
far below, embosomed in its natural bulwarks, the fair village, the
resting-place, the little dwelling-place of men, where one is to
sleep.

But when towards nightfall, as the good red sun went down, I was led, weary
and done-up, into one of the worst inns it had been my misfortune
to encounter, a thousand other thoughts and feelings united in
common anathema to the unenterprising community.

Tea was bad, rice we could not get, and all night long the detestable
smells from the wood fires choked our throats and blinded our eyes;
glad, therefore, was I, despite the heavy rain, to take a hurried
and early departure the next morning, descending a thousand feet
to a river, rising quite as suddenly to a height of 8,500 feet.

Oh, please! Don't go away from me now!"

Her voice, her words, went to Chayne's heart. He knew that pride and a
certain reticence were her natural qualities. That she should throw aside
the one, break through the other, proved to him indeed how very much she
cared, how very much she needed him.

"Sylvia," he cried, "it will only be for a little while"; and again
silence followed upon his words.

Since bad news was to be imparted, strength was needed to bear it; and
habit had long since taught Sylvia that silence was the best nurse of
strength. She did not turn her face toward her lover; but she drooped her
head and clenched her hands tightly together upon her knees, nerving
herself for the blow. The movement, slight though it was, stirred Chayne
to pity and hurt him with an intolerable pain. It betrayed so
unmistakably the long habit of suffering. She sat silent, motionless,
with the dumb patience of a wounded animal.

"Oh, Sylvia, why did you not come with me on that first day?" he cried.

"Tell me your bad news, dear," she replied, gently.

"I cannot help it," he began in broken tones. "Sylvia, you will see that
there is no escape, that I must go. An appointment was offered to me--by
the War Office. It was offered to me, pressed on me, the day after I last
came here, the day after we were together in the library. I did not know
what to do. I did not accept it. But it seemed to me that each time I
came to see you we became more and more estranged. I was given two days
to make up my mind, and within the two days, my dear, your letter came,
telling me you did not wish to see me any more."

"Oh, Hilary!" she whispered.

"I accepted the appointment at once. There were reasons why I welcomed
it. It would take me abroad!"

"Abroad!" she cried.

"Yes, I welcomed that. To be near you and not to see you--to be near you
and know that others were talking with you, any one, every one except
me--to be near you and know that you were unhappy and in trouble, and
that I could not even tell you how deeply I was sorry--I dreaded that,
Sylvia. And yet I dreaded one thing more. Here, in England, at each turn
of the street, I should think to come upon you suddenly. To pass you as a
stranger, or almost as a stranger. No! I could not do it!"

"Oh, Hilary!" she whispered, and lifting his hand she laid it against
her cheek.

"So for a week I was glad. But this morning I received your second
letter, Sylvia. It came too late, my dear. There was no time to obtain a
substitute."

Sylvia turned to him with a startled face.

"When do you go?"

"Very soon."

"When?"

The words had to be spoken.

"To-morrow morning. I catch the first train from Weymouth to Southampton.
We sail from Southampton at noon."

Habit came again to her assistance. She turned away from him so that he
might not see her face, and he went on:

"Had there been more time, I could have made arrangements. Some one else
could have gone. As it is--" He broke off suddenly, and bending toward
her cried: "Sylvia, say that I must go."

But she could not bring herself to that. She was minded to hold with both
hands the good thing which had come to her this night. She shook her
head. He sought to turn her face to his, but she looked stubbornly away.

"And when will you return?" she asked.

"In a few months, Sylvia."

"When?"

"In June." And she counted off the months upon her fingers.

"So after to-night," she said, in a low voice, "I shall not see you any
more for all these months. The winter must pass, and the spring, too. Oh,
Hilary!" and she turned to him with a quivering face and whispered
piteously: "Don't go, my dear. Don't go!"

"Say that I must go!" he insisted, and she laughed with scorn. Then the
laughter ceased and she said:

"There will be danger?"

"None," he cried.

"Yes--from sickness, and--" her voice broke in a sob--"I shall not be
near."

"I will take great care, Sylvia. Be sure of that," he answered. "Now that
I have you, I will take great care," and leaning toward her, as she sat
with her hands clasped upon her knees, he touched her hair with his lips
very tenderly.

"Oh, Hilary, what will I do? Till you come back to me! What will I do?"

"I have thought of it, Sylvia. I thought this. It might be better if, for
these months--they will not pass quickly, my dear, either for you or me.
They will be long slow months for both of us. That's the truth, my dear.
But since they must be got through, I thought it might be better if you
went back to your mother."

Sylvia shook her head.

"It would be better," he urged, with a look toward the house.

"I can't do that. Afterward, in a year's time--when we are together, I
should like very much for us both to go to her. But my mother forbade it
when I went away from Chamonix. I was not to come whining back to her,
those were her words. We parted altogether that night."

She spoke with an extreme simplicity. There was neither an appeal for
pity nor a hint of any bitterness in her voice. But the words moved
Chayne all the more on that account. He would be leaving a very lonely,
friendless girl to battle through the months of his absence by herself;
and to battle with what? He was not sure. But he had not taken so lightly
the shadow on the ceiling and the opening door.

"If only you had come with me on that first day," he cried.

"I will have to-night to look back upon, my dear," she said. "That will
be something. Oh, if I had not asked you to come back! If you had gone
away and said nothing! What would I have done then? As it is, I will know
that you are thinking of me--" and suddenly she turned to him, and held
him away from her in a spasm of fear while her eyes searched his face.
But in a moment they melted and a smile made her lips beautiful. "Oh,
yes, I can trust you," she said, and she nestled against him contentedly
like a child.

For a little while they sat thus, and then her eyes sought the garden and
the house at her feet. It seemed that the sinister plot was not, after
all, to develop in that place of quiet and old peace without her for its
witness. It seemed that she was to be kept by some fatality
close-fettered to the task, the hopeless task, which she would now gladly
have foregone. And she wondered whether, after all, she was in some way
meant to watch the plot, perhaps, after all, to hinder it.

"Hilary," she said, "you remember that evening at the Chalet de Lognan?"

"Do I remember it?"

"You explained to me a law--that those who know must use their knowledge,
if by using it they can save a soul, or save a life."

"Yes," he said, vaguely remembering that he had spoken in this strain.

"Well, I have been trying to obey that law. Do you understand? I want you
to understand. For when I have been unkind, as I have been many times, it
was, I think, because I was not obeying it with very much success. And I
should like you to believe and know that. For when you are away, you will
remember, in spite of yourself, the times when I was bitter."

Her words made clear to him many things which had perplexed him during
these last weeks. Her friendship for Walter Hine became intelligible, and
as though to leave him no shadow of doubt, she went on.

"You see, I knew the under side of things, and I seemed to see the
opportunity to use the knowledge. So I tried to save"; and whether it was
life or soul, or both, she did not say. She did not add that so far she
had tried in vain; she did not mention the bottle of cocaine, or the
dread which of late had so oppressed her. She was careful of her lover.
Since he had to go, since he needs must be absent, she would spare him
anxieties and dark thoughts which he could do nothing to dispel. But even
so, he obtained a clearer insight into the distress which she had
suffered in that house, and the bravery with which she had borne it.

"Sylvia," he said, "I had no thought, no wish, that what I said should
stay with you."

"Yet it did," she answered, "and I was thankful. I am thankful even now.
For though I would gladly give up all the struggle now, if I had you
instead; since I have not you, I am thankful for the law. It was your
voice which spoke it, it came from you. It will keep you near to me all
through the black months until you come back. Oh, Hilary!" and the brave
argument spoken to enhearten herself and him ended suddenly in a most
wistful cry. Chayne caught her to him.

"Oh, Sylvia!" and he added: "The life is not yet saved!"

"Perhaps I am given to the summer," she answered, and then, with a
whimsical change of humor, she laughed tenderly. "Oh, but I wish I
wasn't. You will write? Letters will come from you."

"As often as possible, my dear. But they won't come often."

"Let them be long, then," she whispered, "very long," and she leaned her
head against his shoulder.

"Lie close, my dear," said he. "Lie close!"

For a while longer they talked in low voices to one another, the words
which lovers know and keep fragrant in their memories. The night, warm
and clear, drew on toward morning, and the passage of the hours was
unremarked. For both of them there was a glory upon the moonlit land and
sea which made of it a new world. And into this new world both walked for
the first time--walked in their youth and hand in hand. Each for the
first time knew the double pride of loving and being loved. In spite of
their troubles they were not to be pitied, and they knew it. The gray
morning light flooded the sky and turned the moon into a pale white disk.

"Lie close, my dear," said he. "It is not time."

In the trees in the garden below the blackbirds began to bustle amongst
the leaves, and all at once their clear, sweet music thrilled upward to
the lovers in the hollow of the down.

"Lie close, my dear," he repeated.

They watched the sun leap into the heavens and flash down the Channel in
golden light.

"The night has gone," said Chayne.

"Nothing can take it from us while we live," answered Sylvia, very
softly. She raised herself from her couch of leaves.

Then from one of the cottages in the tiny village a blue coil of smoke
rose into the air.

"It is time," said Chayne, and they rose and hand in hand walked down the
slope of the hill to the house. Sylvia unlatched the door noiselessly and
went in. Chayne stepped in after her; and in the silent hall they took
farewell of one another.

"Good-by, my dear," she whispered, with the tears in her eyes and in her
voice, and she clung to him a little and so let him go. She held the door
ajar until the sound of his footsteps had died away--and after that. For
she fancied that she heard them still, since, she so deeply wished to
hear them. Then with a breaking heart she went up the stairs to her room.


CHAPTER XXI

CHAYNE COMES TO CONCLUSIONS


"Six weeks ago I said good-by to the French Commission on the borders of
a great lake in Africa. A month ago I was still walking to the rail head
through the tangle of a forest's undergrowth," said Chayne, and he looked
about the little restaurant in King Street, St. James', as though to make
sure that the words he spoke were true. The bright lights, the red
benches against the walls, the women in their delicate gowns of lace, and
the jingle of harness in the streets without, made their appeal to one
who for the best part of a year had lived within the dark walls of a
forest. June had come round again, and Sylvia sat at his side.

"You shall tell me how these months have gone with you while we dine,"
said he. "Your letters told me nothing of your troubles."

"I did not mean them to," replied Sylvia.

"I guessed that, my dear. It was like you. Yet I would rather have
known."

Only a few hours before he had stood upon the deck of the Channel packet
and had seen the bows swing westward of Dover Castle and head toward the
pier. Would Sylvia be there, he had wondered, as he watched the cluster
of atoms on the quay, and in a little while he had seen her, standing
quite alone, at the very end of the breakwater that she might catch the
first glimpse of her lover. Down below all was already dark. A cold wind
blew the trees bending wearily towards the Valley.

And still we plodded on

.

* * * * *
We had come to Siao-p'ing-ho, 115 li instead of the 140 I had been led to
believe my men would cover. Every room in the hut was full, we were
told, but the next place (with some unpronounceable name), fifteen li
farther down, would give us good housing for the night.

Lao Chang and I resolved to go on, tired though we were. Before I resolved
on this plan I stopped to take a careful survey of the exact situation
of the sheltering hollow in which we meant to pass the night.

The sun was fast sinking; the dust of the road lay grey and thick about
my feet; above me the heavens were reddening in sunset glory; the
landscape had no touch of human life about it save our own two
solitary figures; and the place, fifteen li away, lay before me as
a dream of a good night rather than a reality.

Then on again we plodded, and yelled our intentions to the men
behind.

From the brow of the hill we descended with extreme rapidity--down,
down into a valley which sent up a damp, oppressive atmosphere.

Through the trees I could see one lovely ball of deep, rich red,
painting the earth as it sank in a beauty exquisite beyond all else.

Four men met us, stared suspiciously, thought we were deaf, and
yelled that the place was twenty li away, and that we had better
return to the brow of the hill.

But we left them, and went still farther down.

In the hush that prevailed I was unaccountably startled to see the form
of a woman gliding towards me in the twilight. She came out of the valley
carrying firewood. She spoke kindly to my man, and invited me to spend the
night in her house near by.

He might have been wrong; if so, he would have added to Sylvia's
burden of troubles yet another, and one more terrible than all the rest.
He might have been right; and if so, he might have enabled Sylvia to
avert a tragedy. Thus the argument had revolved in a circle and left him
always in the same doubt. Now he understood that his explanation of the
incident had been confirmed. The loud whistle from the darkness of the
road, the yokel's cry, which had driven Garratt Skinner from the room, as
noiselessly as he had entered it, had done more than that--they had
driven him from the neighborhood altogether. Some one had seen him--had
seen him standing just behind Walter Hine in the lighted room--and on the
next day he had fled!

"I was right," he said, absently, "right to keep silent." For here was
Sylvia at his side and the dreaded peril unfulfilled. "Well, you returned
to London?" he added, hastily.

"Yes. There is something of which I did not tell you, that night when we
were together on the downs. Walter Hine had begun to take cocaine."

Chayne started.

"Cocaine!" he cried.

"Yes. My father taught him to take it."

"Your father," said Chayne, slowly, trying to fit this new and astounding
fact in with the rest. "But why?"

"I think I can tell you," said Sylvia. "My father knew quite well that he
had me working against him, trying to rescue Walter Hine out of his
hands. And I was beginning to get some power. He understood that, and
destroyed it. I was no match for him. I thought that I knew something of
the under side of life. But he knew more, ever so much more, and my
knowledge was of no avail. He taught Walter Hine the craving for cocaine,
and he satisfied the craving--there was his power. He provided the drug.
I do not know--I might perhaps have fought against my father and won. But
against my father and a drug I was helpless. My father obtained it in
sufficient quantity, withheld it at times, gave it at other times, played
with him, tantalized him, gratified him. You can understand there was
only one possible result. Walter Hine became my father's slave, his dog.
I no longer counted in his thoughts at all. I was nothing."

"Yes," said Chayne.

The device was subtle, diabolically subtle. But he wondered whether it
was only to counterbalance and destroy Sylvia's influence that Garratt
Skinner had introduced cocaine to Hine's notice; whether he had not had
in view some other end, even still more sinister.

"I saw very little of Mr. Hine after our return to London," she
continued. "He did not come often to the house, but when he did come,
each time I saw that he had changed. He had grown nervous and violent of
temper. Even before we left Dorsetshire the violence had become
noticeable."

"Oh!" said Chayne, looking quickly at Sylvia. "Before you left
Dorsetshire?"

"Yes; and my father seemed to me to provoke it, though I could not guess
why. For instance--"

"Yes?" said Chayne. "Tell me!"

He spoke quietly enough, but once again there was audible a certain
intensity in his voice. There had been an occasion when Sylvia had given
to him more news of Garratt Skinner than she had herself. Was she to do
so once more? He leaned forward with his eyes on hers.

"The night when you came back to me. Do you remember, Hilary?" and a
smile lightened his face.

"I shall forget no moment of that night, sweetheart, while I live," he
whispered; and blushes swept prettily over her face, and in a sweet
confusion she smiled back at him.

"Oh, Hilary!" she said.

"Oh, Sylvia!" he mimicked; and as they laughed together, it seemed there
was a danger that the story of the months of separation would never be
completed. But Chayne brought her back to it.

"Well? On that night when I came back?"

"I saw you in the road from my window, and then motioning you to be
silent, I disappeared from the window."

"Yes, I remember," said Chayne, eagerly. He began to think that the
cocaine was after all going to fit in with the incidents of that night.

"Walter Hine and my father were going up to bed. I heard them on the
stairs. They were going earlier than usual."

"You are sure?" interrupted Chayne. "Think well!"

"Much earlier than usual, and they were quarreling. At least, Walter Hine
was quarreling; and my father was speaking to him as if he were a child.
That hurt his vanity and made him worse."

"Your father was provoking him?"

Sylvia's forehead puckered.

"I could not say that, and be sure of it. But I can say this. If my
father had wished to provoke him to a greater anger, it's in that way
that he would have done it."

"Yes. I see."

"They were speaking loudly--even my father was--more loudly than
usual--especially at that time. For when they went up-stairs, they
usually went very quietly"; and again Chayne interrupted her.

"Your father might have wanted you to hear the quarrel?" he suggested.

Sylvia turned to him curiously.

"Why should he wish that?" she asked, and considered the point. "He might
have. Only, on the other hand, they were earlier than usual. They would
not be so careful to go quietly; I was likely to be still awake."

"Exactly," said Chayne.

For in the probability that Sylvia would be still awake, would hear the
violent words of Hine, and would therefore be an available witness
afterward, Chayne found the reason both of the loudness of Garratt
Skinner's tones and his early retirement for the night.

"Did you hear what was said? Can you repeat the words?" he asked.

"Yes. My father was keeping something from Mr. Hine which he wanted. I
have no doubt it was the cocaine," and she repeated the words.

"Yes," said Chayne. "Yes," in the tone of one who is satisfied. The
incident of the lighted room and the shadow on the ceiling were clear to
him now. A quarrel of which there was a witness, a quarrel all to the
credit of Garratt Skinner since it arose from his determination to hinder
Walter Hine from poisoning himself with drugs--at least, that is how the
evidence would work out; the quarrel continued in Walter Hine's bedroom,
whither Garratt Skinner had accompanied his visitor, a struggle begun for
the possession of the drug, begun by a man half crazy for want of it, a
blow in self-defence delivered by Garratt Skinner, perhaps a fall from
the window--that is how Chayne read the story of that night, as fashioned
by the ingenuity of Garratt Skinner.

But on one point he was still perplexed. The story had not been told out
to its end that night: there had come an unexpected shout, which had
interrupted it, and indeed forever had prevented its completion on that
spot. But why had it not been completed afterward, during the next few
months, somewhere else? It had not been completed. For here was Sylvia
with all her fears allayed, continuing the story of those months.

"But violence was not the only change in Walter Hine. There were some
physical alterations which frightened me. Mr. Hine, as I say, came very
seldom to our house, though my father saw a great deal of him. Otherwise
I should have noticed them before. But early this year he came and--you
remember he was fair--well, his skin had grown dark, quite dark, his
complexion had changed altogether. And there was something else which
shocked me. His tongue was black, really black. I asked him what was the
matter? He grew restless and angry and lied to me, and then he broke down
and told me he could not sleep. He slept for a few minutes only at a
time. He really was ill--very ill."

Was this the explanation, Chayne asked himself? Having failed at the
quick process, the process of the lighted room and the open window, had
Garratt Skinner left the drug to do its work slowly and surely?

"He was so weak, so broken in appearance, that I was alarmed. My father
was not in the house. I sent for a cab and I took Mr. Hine myself to a
doctor. The doctor knew at once what was amiss. For a time Mr. Hine said
'No,' but he gave in at the last. He was in the habit of taking thirty
grains of cocaine a day."

"Thirty grains!" exclaimed Chayne.

"Yes. Of course it could not go on. Death or insanity would surely
follow. He was warned of it, and for a while he went into a home. Then he
got better, and he determined to go abroad and travel."

"Who suggested that?" asked Chayne.

"I do not know. I know only that he refused to go without my father, and
that my father consented to accompany him."

Chayne was startled.

"They are away together now?" he cried. A look of horror in his eyes
betrayed his fear. He stared at Sylvia. Had she no suspicion--she
who knew something of the under side of life? But she quietly
returned his look.

"I took precautions. I told my father what I knew--not merely that Mr.
Hine had acquired the habit of taking cocaine, but who had taught him the
habit. Yes, I did that," she said simply, answering his look of
astonishment. "It was difficult, my dear, and I would very much have
liked to have had you there to help me through with it. But since you
were not there, since I was alone, I did it alone. I thought of you,
Hilary, while I was saying what I had to say. I tried to hear your voice
speaking again outside the Chalet de Lognan. 'What you know, that you
must do.' I warned my father that if any harm came to Walter Hine from
taking the drug again, any harm at all which I traced to my father, I
would not keep silent."

Chayne leaned back in his seat.

"You said that--to Garratt Skinner, Sylvia!" and the warmth of pride and
admiration in his voice brought the color to her cheeks and compensated
her for that bad hour. "You stood up alone and braved him out! My dear,
if I had only been there! And you never wrote to me a word of it!"

"It would only have troubled you," she answered. "It would not have
helped me to know that you were troubled!"

"And he--your father?" he asked. "How did he receive it?"

Sylvia's face grew pale, and she stared at the table-cloth as though she
could not for the moment trust her voice. Then she shuddered and said in
a low and shaking voice--so vivid was still the memory of that hour:

"I thought that I should never see you again."

She said no more. From those few words, and from the manner in which she
uttered them, Chayne had to build up the terrible scene which had taken
place between Sylvia and her father in the little back room of the house
in Hobart Place. He looked round the lighted room, listened to the ripple
of light voices, and watched the play of lively faces and bright eyes.
There was an incongruity between these surroundings and the words which
he had heard which shocked him.

"My dear, I'll make it up to you," he said. "Trust me, I will! There
shall be good hours, now. I'll watch you, till I know surely without
a word from you what you are thinking and feeling and wanting. Trust
me, dearest!"

"With all my heart and the rest of my life," she answered, a smile
responding to his words, and she resumed her story:

"I extracted from my father a promise that every week he should write to
me and tell me how Mr. Hine was and where they both were. And to that--at
last--he consented. They have been away together for two months, and
every week I have heard. So I think there is no danger."

Chayne did not disagree. But, on the other hand, he did not assent.

"I suppose Mr. Hine is very rich?" he said, doubtfully.

"No," replied Sylvia. "That's another reason why--I am not afraid." She
chose the words rather carefully, unwilling to express a deliberate
charge against her father. "I used to think that he was--in the
beginning when Captain Barstow won so much from him. But when the bets
ceased and no more cards were played--I used to puzzle over why they
ceased last year. But I think I have hit upon the explanation. My
father discovered then what I only found out a few weeks ago. I wrote
to Mr. Hine's grandfather, telling him that his grandson was ill, and
asking him whether he would not send for him. I thought that would be
the best plan."

"Yes, well?"

"Well, the grandfather answered me very shortly that he did not know his
grandson, that he did not wish to know him, and that they had nothing to
do with one another in any way. It was a churlish letter. He seemed to
think that I wanted to marry Mr. Hine," and she laughed as she spoke,
"and that I was trying to find out what we should have to live upon. I
suppose that it was natural he should think so. And I am so glad that I
wrote. For he told me that although Mr. Hine must eventually have a
fortune, it would not be until he himself died and that he was a very
healthy man. So you see, there could be no advantage to any one--" and
she did not finish the sentence.

But Chayne could finish it for himself. There could be no advantage to
any one if Walter Hine died. But then why the cocaine? Why the incident
of the lighted window?

"Yes," he said, in perplexity, "I can corroborate that. It happened that
my friend John Lattery, who was killed in Switzerland, was also
connected with Joseph Hine. He also would have inherited; and I knew
from him that the old man did not recognize his heirs. But--but Walter
Hine had money--some money, at all events. And he earned none. From whom
did he get it?"

Sylvia shook her head.

"I do not know."

"Had he no other relations, no friends?"

"None who would have made him an allowance."

Chayne pondered over that question. For in the answer to it he was
convinced he would find the explanation of the mystery. If money was
given to Walter Hine, who had apparently no rich relations but his
grandfather, and certainly no rich friends, it would have been given with
some object. To discover the giver and his object--that was the problem.

"Think! Did he never speak of any one?"

Sylvia searched her memories.

"No," she said. "He never spoke of his private affairs. He always led us
to understand that he drew an allowance from his grandfather."

"But your father found that that was untrue when you were in Dorsetshire,
ten months ago. For the card-playing and the bets ceased."

"Yes," Sylvia agreed thoughtfully. Then her face brightened. "I
remember a morning when Mr. Hine was in trouble. Wait a moment! He had
a letter. We were at breakfast and the letter came from Captain
Barstow. There was some phrase in the letter which Mr. Hine repeated.
'As between gentlemen'--that was it! I remember thinking at the time
what in the world Captain Barstow could know about gentlemen; and
wondering why the phrase should trouble Mr. Hine. And that morning Mr.
Hine went to London."

"Oh, did he?" cried Chayne. "'As between gentlemen.' Had Hine been losing
money lately to Captain Barstow?"

"Yes, on the day when you first came."

"The starlings," exclaimed Chayne in some excitement. "That's it--Walter
Hine owes money to Captain Barstow which he can't pay. Barstow writes for
it--a debt of honor between gentlemen--one can imagine the letter. Hine
goes up to London. Well, what then?"

Sylvia started.

"My father went to London two days afterward."

"Are you sure?"

It seemed to Chayne that they were getting hot in their search.

"Quite sure. For I remember that after his return his manner changed.
What I thought to be the new plot was begun. The cards disappeared, the
bets ceased, Mr. Parminter was brought down with the cocaine. I remember
it all clearly. For I always associated the change with my father's
journey to London. You came one evening--do you remember? You found me
alone and afraid. My father and Walter Hine were walking arm-in-arm in
the garden. That was afterward."

"Yes, you were afraid because there was no sincerity in that friendship.
Now let me get this right!"

He remained silent for a little while, placing the events in their due
order and interpreting them, one by the other.

"This is what I make of it," he said at length. "The man in London who
supplies Walter Hine with money finds that Walter Hine is spending too
much. He therefore puts himself into communication with Garratt Skinner,
of whom he has doubtless heard from Walter Hine. Garratt Skinner travels
to London, has an interview, and a concerted plan of action is agreed
upon, which Garratt Skinner proceeds to put in action."

He spoke so gravely that Sylvia turned anxiously toward him.

"What do you infer, then?" she asked.

"That we are in very deep and troubled waters, my dear," he replied, but
he would not be more explicit. He had no doubt in his mind that the
murder of Walter Hine had been deliberately agreed upon by Garratt
Skinner and the unknown man in London. But just as Sylvia had spared him
during his months of absence, so now he was minded to spare Sylvia. Only,
in order that he might spare her, in order that he might prevent shame
and distress greater than she had known, he must needs go on with his
questioning. He must discover, if by any means he could, the identity of
the unknown man who was so concerned in the destiny of Walter Hine.

"Of your father's friends, was there one who was rich? Who came to the
house? Who were his companions?"

"Very few people came to the house. There was no one amongst them who
fits in"; and upon that she started. "I wonder--" she said, thoughtfully,
and she turned to her lover. "After my father had gone away, I found a
telegram in a drawer in one of the rooms. There was no envelope, there
was just the telegram. So I opened it. It was addressed to my father. I
remember the words, for I did not know whether there was not something
which needed attention. It ran like this: 'What are you waiting for?
Hurry up.'"

"Was it signed?" asked Chayne.

"Yes. 'Jarvice,'" replied Sylvia.

"Jarvice," Chayne repeated; and he spoke it yet again, as though in some
vague way it was familiar to him. "What was the date of the telegram?"

"It had been sent a month before I found it. So I put it back into
the drawer."

"'What are you waiting for? Hurry up. Jarvice,'" said Chayne, slowly, and
then he remembered how and when he had come across the name of Jarvice
before. His face grew very grave.

"We are in deep waters, my dear," he said.

There had been trouble in his regiment, some years before, in which the
chief figures had been a subaltern and a money-lender. Jarvice was the
name of the money-lender--an unusual name. Just such a man would be
likely to be Garratt Skinner's confederate and backer. Chayne ran over
the story in his mind again, by this new light. It certainly strengthened
the argument that the Mr. Jarvice who sent the telegram was Mr. Jarvice,
the money-lender. Thus did Chayne work it out in his thoughts:

"Jarvice, for some reason unknown, pays Walter Hine an allowance. Walter
Hine gives it out that he receives it from his grandfather, whose heir
he undoubtedly is, and being a vain person much exaggerates the amount.
He falls into Garratt Skinner's hands, who, with the help of Barstow and
others, proceeds to pluck him. Walter Hine loses more than he has and
applies to Jarvice for more. Jarvice elicits the facts, and instead of
disclosing who Garratt Skinner is, and the obvious swindle of which Hine
is the victim, takes Garratt Skinner into his confidence. What happened
at the interview between Mr. Jarvice and Garratt Skinner in London the
subsequent facts make plain. At Jarvice's instigation the plot to
swindle Walter Hine becomes a cold-blooded plan to murder him. That plan
has been twice frustrated, once by me in Dorsetshire, and a second time
by Sylvia."

So far the story worked out naturally, logically. But there remained two
questions. For what reason did Mr. Jarvice make Walter Hine an allowance?
And how would Walter Hine's death profit him? Chayne pondered over those
two questions and then the truth flashed upon him. He remembered how the
subaltern had been extracted from his difficulties. Money had been raised
by a life insurance. Again Chayne ranged his facts in order.

"Walter Hine is the heir to great wealth. But he has no money now. Mr.
Jarvice makes him an allowance, the money to be repaid with a handsome
interest on the grandfather's death. But in order to insure Jarvice
from loss, if Walter Hine should die first, Walter Hine's life is
insured for a large sum. Thus Mr. Jarvice makes his position tenable
should his conduct be called in question. Having insured Walter Hine's
life, he arranges with Garratt Skinner to murder him. The attempt
failed the first time, the slower method is then adopted by Garratt
Skinner, and as a result comes the impatient telegram: 'What are you
waiting for? Hurry up!'"

The case was thus so far clear. But anxiety remained. Was the plan
abandoned altogether, now that Sylvia had stood bravely up and warned her
father that she would not keep silent? So certainly Sylvia thought. But
then she did not know all that Chayne knew. It seemed that she had not
understood the incident of the lighted window. Nor was Chayne surprised.
For she was unaware of what was in Chayne's eyes the keystone of the
whole argument. She did not know that her father had worked as a convict
in the Portland quarries.

"So they are abroad together, your father and Walter Hine," said
Chayne, slowly.

"Yes!" replied Sylvia, with a smile. "Guess where they are now!" and she
turned to him with a tender look upon her face which he did not
understand.

"I can't guess."

"At Chamonix!"

She saw her lover flinch, his face grow white, his eyes stare in horror.
And she wondered. For her the little town, overtopped by its tumbled
glittering fields of snow and tall rock spires was a place apart. She
cherished it in her memories, keeping clear and distinct the windings of
its streets, where they narrowed, where they broadened into open spaces;
yet all the while her thoughts transformed it, and made of its mere
stones and bricks a tiny city magical with light and grace. For while she
stayed in it her happiness had dawned and she saw it always roseate with
that dawn. It seemed to her that plots and thoughts of harm could there
hardly outlive one starlit night, one sunlit day. Had she mapped out her
father's itinerary, thither and nowhere else would she have sent him.

"You are afraid?" she asked. "Hilary, why?"

Chayne did not answer her question. He was minded to spare her, even as
she had spared him. He talked of other things until the restaurant grew
empty and the waiters began to turn out the lights as a hint to these two
determined loiterers. Then in the darkness, for now there was but one
light left, and that at a little distance from their table, Chayne leaned
forward and turning to Sylvia, as they sat side by side:

"You have been happy to-night?"

"Very," she answered, and there was a thrill of joyousness in her clear,
low voice, as though her heart sang within her. Her eyes rested on his
with pride. "No man could quite understand," she said.

"Well then, why should we wait longer, Sylvia?" he said. "We have waited
long enough, my dear. We have after all no one but ourselves to please. I
should like our marriage to take place as soon as possible."

Sylvia answered him without affectation.

"I, too," she whispered.

"To-morrow then! I'll get a special license to-morrow morning, and make
the arrangements. We can go away together at once."

Sylvia smiled, and the smile deepened into a laugh.

"Where shall we go, Hilary?" she cried. "To some perfect place."

"To Chamonix," he answered. "That was where we first met. There could be
no better place. We can just go and tell your father what we have done
and then go up into the hills."

It was well done. He spoke without wakening Sylvia's suspicions. She had
never understood the episode of the lighted window; she did not know
that her father was Gabriel Strood, of whose exploits in the Alps she
had read; she believed that all danger to Walter Hine was past. Chayne
on the other hand knew that hardly at any time could Hine have stood in
greater peril. To Chamonix he must go; and to Chamonix he must take
Sylvia too. For by the time when he could reach Chamonix, he might
already be too late. There might be publicity, inquiries, and for
Garratt Skinner ruin, and worse than ruin. Would Sylvia let her lover
share the dishonor of her name? He knew very surely she would not.
Therefore he would have the marriage.

"By the way," he said, as he draped her cloak about her shoulders. "You
have that telegram from Jarvice?"

"Yes."

"That's good," he said. "It might be useful."


CHAPTER XXII

REVAILLOUD REVISITED


Never that familiar journey across France seemed to Chayne so slow. Would
he be in time? Would he arrive too late? The throb of the wheels beat out
the questions in a perpetual rhythm and gave him no answer. The words of
Jarvice's telegram were ever present in his mind, and grew more sinister,
the more he thought upon them. "What are you waiting for? Hurry up!"
Once, when the train stopped over long as it seemed to him he muttered
the words aloud and then glanced in alarm at his wife, lest perchance she
had overheard them. But she had not. She was remembering her former
journey along this very road. Then it had been night; now it was day.
Then she had been used to seek respite from her life in the shelter of
her dreams. Now the dreams were of no use, since what was real made them
by comparison so pale and thin. The blood ran strong and joyous in her
veins to-day; and looking at her, Chayne sent up his prayers that they
might not arrive in Chamonix too late. To him as to her Walter Hine was a
mere puppet, a thing without importance--so long as he lived. But he must
live. Dead, he threatened ruin and dishonor, and since from the beginning
Sylvia and he had shared--for so she would have it--had shared in the
effort to save this life, it would be well for them, he thought that they
should not fail.

The long hot day drew to an end, and at last from the platform at the end
of the electric train they saw the snow-fields lift toward the soaring
peaks, and the peaks purple with the after glow stand solitary and
beautiful against the evening sky.

"At last!" said Sylvia, with a catch in her breath, and the clasp of her
hand tightened upon her husband's arm. But Chayne was remembering certain
words once spoken to him in a garden of Dorsetshire, by a man who lay
idly in a hammock and stared up between the leaves. "On the most sunny
day, the mountains hold in their recesses mystery and death."

"You know where your father is staying?" Chayne asked.

"He wrote from the Hôtel de l'Arve," Sylvia replied.

"We will stay at Couttet's and walk over to see him this evening," said
Chayne, and after dinner they strolled across the little town. But at
the Hôtel de l'Arve they found neither Garratt Skinner nor his friend,
Walter Hine.

"Only the day before yesterday," said the proprietor, "they started for
the mountains. Always they make expeditions."

Chayne drew no satisfaction from that statement. Garratt Skinner and his
friend would make many expeditions from which both men would return in
safety. Garratt Skinner was no blunderer. And when at the last he
returned alone with some flawless story of an accident in which his
friend had lost his life, no one would believe but that here was another
mishap, and another name to be added to the Alpine death-roll.

"To what mountain have they gone?" Chayne asked.

"To no mountain to-day. They cross the Col du Géant, monsieur, to
Courmayeur. But after that I do not know."

"Oh, into Italy," said Chayne, in relief. So far there was no danger. The
Col du Géant, that great pass between France and Italy across the range
of Mont Blanc, was almost a highway. There would be too many parties
abroad amongst its ice séracs on these days of summer for any deed which
needed solitude and secrecy.

"When do you expect them back?"

"In five days, monsieur; not before." And at this reply Chayne's fears
were all renewed. For clearly the expedition was not to end with the
passage of the Col du Géant. There was to be a sequel, perhaps some
hazardous ascent, some expedition at all events which Garratt Skinner had
not thought fit to name.

"They took guides, I suppose," he said.

"One guide, monsieur, and a porter. Monsieur need not fear. For Monsieur
Skinner is of an excellence prodigious."

"My father!" exclaimed Sylvia, in surprise. "I never knew."

"What guide?" asked Chayne.

Torrents foamed noisily down the gorges, veiled by the curtain of great
trees; sometimes, on a ridge, a field of buckwheat, shining in the
sun, looked like the beginning of the eternal snows.

Food was at famine rates. Eggs there were in abundance, pork also;
but it was not to be wondered at that the traveler, having seen the
conditions under which the pigs are reared, refrained from the
luxury of Yün-nan roast pig.

My men fed on maize. The faces of the people were pinched and wan,
unpleasant to look upon, bearing unmistakable signs of poverty and misery,
and they seemed too concerned in keeping the wolf from the door to attend
to me. At Ta-kwan they treated themselves to a _sheng_ of rice apiece--here
the _sheng_ is 1.8 catties, as against 11 catties in the capital of the
province.

At Wuchai, the last stage before reaching Chao-t'ong-fu, the room of the
inn had three walls only, and two of these were composed of kerosene tins,
laced together with bamboo stripping. (Probably the oil tins had been
stolen from the mission premises at Chao-t'ong.) Through the whole night
it rained as it had never rained before, but, instead of feeling miserable,
I tried to see the humor of the situation. One can get humor from the
most embarrassing circumstances, and my chief amusement arose from a small
business deal between one of my coolies, who had sublet his contract
to a poor fellow returning in the rain, who had arranged to carry the
ninety catties ninety li for a fourth of the original price arranged
between my coolie and myself. For one full hour they argued at a terrible
speed as to the rate of exchange in the Szech'wan large and the
Yün-nan small cash, and this was only interrupted when a poor man,
deaf and dumb, and of hideous appearance, seeing the foreigner in
his contemptible town, rushed in with a carrying pole and felled
his grumbling townsman at my feet.

My intervention probably averted murder--at any rate, it seemed as
though murder would have taken place very soon but for my
interference.

The whole populace gathered, of course, and the fight waged fiercely
until well on into the night. But wrapping myself in my mackintosh, and
putting my paper umbrella at the right angle, I went to sleep with
the rain dripping on me as they were indulging in final pleasantries
regarding each other's ancestry.

The first thing I saw at Chao-t'ong the next day was the foreign
cigarette, sold at a wayside stall by a vendor of monkey nuts and
marrow seeds.

No trade has prospered in Yün-nan during the past two years more than
the foreign cigarette trade, and the growing evil among the children
of the common people, both male and female, is viewed with alarm.
From Tachien-lu to Mengtsz, from Chung-king to Bhamo, one is rarely out
of sight of the well-known flaring posters in the Chinese characters
advertising the British cigarette. Some months ago a couple of Europeans
were sent out to advertise, and they stuck their poster decorations
on the walls of temples, on private houses and official residences,
with the result that the people were piqued so much as to tear down
the bills immediately.

In Yün-nan, especially since the exit of opium, this common
cigarette is smoked by high and low, rich and poor.

I have been offered them at small feasts, and when calling upon high
officials at the capital have been offered a packet of cigarettes instead
of a whiff of opium, as would have been done formerly. One is not, of
course, prepared to say whether such a trade is desirable or not,
but it merely needs to be made known that towards the middle of
the present year (1910) a proclamation was issued from the Viceroy's
_yamen_ at Yün-nan-fu speaking in strongest terms against the
increasing habit of smoking foreign cigarettes, to show the trend
of official opinion on the subject.

After having referred to the enormous advances made in the imports
of cigarettes, the proclamation deplored the general tendency of
the people to support such an undesirable trade, and exhorted the
citizens to turn from their evil ways.

We cannot stop the importation of cigarettes, it read, but there
is no need for our people to buy.

* * * * *

At Chao-t'ong I stayed with the Rev. Dr. Savin, and spent a very pleasant
two days' rest here in his hospitable hands.

It was in this district I first came across goitre, the first time
I had seen it in my life.

It is a terrible disfigurement.

Poor indeed is the whole of this neighborhood. Poverty, thin and wanting
food to eat, stalks abroad dressed in a rag or two, armed with a
staff to keep away the snarling dogs, and a broken bowl to gather
garbage.

Even the better class, who manage to afford their maize and bean curds,
are to be praised for the extreme simplicity which everywhere vividly
marks their monotonous lives. Indeed, this is true of the whole area
through which I have traveled. No furniture brings confusion to their
rooms, no machinery distresses the ear with its groaning or the eye
with its unsightliness, no factories belch out smoke and blacken the
beauty of the sky, no trains screech to disturb sleepers and frighten
babies.

The simplest of simple beds--in most cases merely a few boards with a straw
mattress placed thereon--the straw sandal on the foot, wooden chopsticks
in place of knives and forks, the small variety of foods and of
cooking utensils, the simple homespun cotton clothing--much of this
finds favor in the eye of the English traveler. The Chinese, of all
Orientals, teach us how to live without furniture, without impedimenta,
with the least possible amount of clothing in the case of the poorer
classes, and I could not fail to be impressed by the advantage thus
held by this great nation in the struggle of life.

It may serve them in good stead in the struggle of the Yellow Man
against the White Man, to which I refer at a later period in this
book; also does it incidentally show up the real character of some
of the weaknesses of our own civilization, and when one is in China,
living near the people, one is forced to reflect upon the useless
multiplicity of our daily wants.

We must have our daily stock of bread and butter and meats, glass
windows and fires, hats, white shirts and woolen underwear, boots and
shoes, trunks, bags and boxes, bedsteads, mattresses, sheets and
blankets--most of which a Chinese can do without, and indeed is
actually better off without.

[J]
This is not true in every class, however; for whilst there is no denying
the charm of the simpler civilization, many of the Chinese of
Szech'wan and Yün-nan glory in goods of foreign manufacture, no
matter if to them is not disclosed the proper purpose of any
particular article adopted.

Rice will not grow here in great quantities, owing to the scarcity of
water; therefore the people feed on maize, and are thankful to get
it.

Chao-t'ong is the centre of a large district devastated by recurring
seasons of plague, rebellion and famine, when thousands die annually from
starvation in the town and on the level uplands surrounding it.

The beggars on one occasion, becoming so numerous, were driven from
the streets, confined within the walls of the temple and grounds
beyond the South Gate, and there fed by common charity.

Huddled together in disease and rags and unspeakable misery, they died
in thousands, and the Chinese say that of five thousand who crossed
the temple threshold two thousand never came out alive.

This happened some twenty years ago. The unfortunate victims had for their
food a rice porridge, mixed with which was a subtance alleged to
have been lime, the common belief being that the majority of those who
perished died from the effect of poisoning. Outside the city boundary
hundreds of the dead were flung into huge pits, and even now the
inhabitants refer to the time when children were exchanged _ad
libitum_ for a handful of rice or even less.

During my stay in this city, I heard on all hands some of the most
blood-curdling stories of the dire distress which, like a dark
cloud, still menaces the people, some of which are too dreadful for
public print.

But I suppose these poor people are content. If they are, they possess a
virtue which produces, in some measure at all events, all those effects
which the alchemist usually ascribes to what he calls the philosopher's
stone; and if their content does not bring riches, it banishes the
desire for them. Years ago the people could entertain some small hope
of prosperity now and again.

If the opium crop were good, money was plentiful. But now no opium is grown,
and the misery-stricken people have lost all hope of better times, and
seem to have sunk in many instances to the lowest pangs of distressful
poverty.[K]
Reader, alarm not yourself!

I am not here to lead you into a long harangue on opium--it presents
too thorny a subject for me to handle.

I am not a partisan in the opium traffic; my mission is not essentially
to denounce it; I am not impelled by an irresistible desire to
investigate facts and put them before you. There is practically no opium
in Yün-nan to talk about.

This is absolute fact--not a Chinese fact, but good old British truth
(although British truth when it touches upon opium has been very,
very perverted since we first commenced to transact opium trade
with this great country).

With the exception of one small patch, some ten miles away
from the main road between Yün-nan-fu and Tali-fu, I saw no poppy
whatever in the province.

This does not mean, however, that no opium is to be had.

During the past three weeks[L] no less than five cases of attempted
suicide by opium poisoning have come under my personal notice in the
town in which I am residing, and there have doubtless been fifty more
which have not. If there is no opium, where do the people so easily
secure it in endeavors to take their lives upon the slightest provocation?
Last year the price of opium here on the streets, although its sale was
"illegal," was over three tsien (about nine-pence) the Chinese ounce of
prepared opium. At the present time, in the same city, many men would
be willing to do a deal for any quantity you like for less than
two tsien.

Cases of smuggling are frequent. One gets accustomed to hear of large
quantities being smuggled through in most cunning ways, and it all goes
to show that the _people_ of Yün-nan are not, as some of China's enlightened
statesmen and some of the ranting faddists of England and America would
have us believe, falling over one another in their zeal to free the
province from the drug.

The other day some men passed through several towns, on the way to
the capital, carrying three coffins.

In the first was a corpse, the other two were packed with opium.
Being suspected at Yün-nan-fu, the first coffin was opened, and the
carriers, making as much row as they could because their coffin had been
burst open, secured a fair "squeeze" to hold their tongues, and the
second and third coffins were passed unexamined.

Quite common is it for men to travel in armed bands from the province of
Kwei-chow, traveling by night over the mountains by lantern-light,
and hiding by day from any possible official searchers.

Opium, which is and always has been so heavily taxed, does not in
general follow the ordinary trade routes on which _likin_ stations
are numerous, but is carried by these armed bands over roads where
the native Customs stations are few, and so poorly equipped as to
yield readily to superior force, where the men are compelled to
accept a composition much below the official rate.

Opium smoking is still common in Western China among people who can
afford it. At the time of the crusade against it, wealthy people laid
in stocks enough to last them for years; and, so long as there
is smuggling from other provinces, which do grow it, into those which
do not, there will be no danger of the absolute extermination being carried
successfully into effect. Kwei-chow, in common with the western
provinces, has undeservedly secured the credit for having practically
abolished the poppy; but at the present moment (December, 1909) she
is at a loss to know what to do with her supply, and that is the
reason why people of Yün-nan are making bargains in opium smuggled
over the border.

Much has yet to be done. To prevent the growth of a plant which has
been in China for at least twelve centuries, which has had medicinal
uses for nine, and whose medicinal properties have been put in the
capsule for six, is not an easy matter, far more difficult, in fact,
than the average Englishman and even those who rant so much about
the whole business upon little knowledge can imagine.

Opium has been made in China for four centuries, and although used
then with tobacco, has been smoked since the middle of the seventeenth
century.

[M]
A few years ago Yün-nan had only two articles of importance with
which to pay for extra provincial products consumed, namely, opium
and tin.

The latter came from a spot twenty miles from Mengtsz, and the value of
the output now runs to approximately three million taels. Opium came
from all parts of the province and went in all directions, that portion
sent to the Opium Regie at Tonkin sometimes being close to three
thousand piculs, and the quantity going by land into China being very
much greater. Yün-nan opium was known at Canton and Chin-kiang in 1863.
In 1879, the production was variously estimated at from twelve
thousand to twenty-two thousand piculs; in 1887 it had risen to
approximately twenty-seven thousand piculs, and since then to the
time of the reform no less certainly than thirty thousand piculs.

One afternoon, in November of 1909, the execution ground of Yün-nan-fu
was the scene of a remarkably daring proceeding by the officials
in the campaign for the total suppression of opium in the province.

No less than 20,040 ounces of prepared opium were publicly destroyed
by fire in the presence of an enormous crowd of people.

The officials of the city were present in person, and everywhere the event
was looked upon as the greatest public demonstration that the people
had ever seen.

The missionary of whom I inquired denied that the infanticide at Chao-t'ong
was very great--things must be improving!

Previous to my arrival at the city I had instructed my English-speaking
boy to make inquiries in the city, and to let me know afterwards, whether
girls were still sold publicly.

"Have got plenty," he exclaimed, in describing this wholesale selling of
female children into slavery. "I know, I know; you wantchee makee buy.

Can do! You wantchee catch one piecee small baby, can catchee two, three
tael. Wantchee one piecee very much tall, big piecee, can catch
fifty dollar."
Continuing, he told me that prices were fairly high, a girl who could
boast good looks and who had reached an age when her charms were
naturally the strongest fetching the alarming amount of three hundred
taels.

This was the highest figure reached, whilst small children could be had
for anything up to twenty.

This wholesale disposal of young girls, although the traffic was in
some quarters emphatically denied to exist--a denial, however, which
was all moonshine--is one of the chief sorrows of the district. And well
it might be; for thousands of children are disposed of in the course
of a year for a few taels by heartless parents, who watch them being
carried away, like so much merchandise, to be converted into silver, in
many cases in this poverty-stricken district merely to satisfy the
craving for opium of some sodden wretch of a man who calls himself a
father. Time and time again, long after I myself passed through Chao-t'ong,
did I see little girls from three to ten years of age being conveyed
by pack-horse to the capital, balanced in baskets on either side
of the animal.

This and the terrible infanticide which exists in all poor districts of
China menaces the lives of all well-wishers of the entire province
of Yün-nan.

In the particular district of which I speak it is not an uncommon sight
to see little children being torn to pieces by dogs, the scavengers
of the Empire, perhaps by the very dogs that had been their playmates
from birth.

I have been riding many times and found that my horse had stepped
on a human skull, and near by were the bones the dogs had left as
the remains of the corpse

.

* * * * *
NOTE.--I should mention that, since the above was written, I have lived and
travelled a good deal around Chao-t'ong-fu, being the only European
traveller who has ever penetrated the country to the east of the
main road, by which I had now come down.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote J: Anyone who contemplates a tramp across China must not
get the idea that he can still continue the uses of civilization.

For the most part he will have to live pretty well as a Chinese the
whole time, and he will find, as I found, that it is easy to give
up a thing when you know the impossibility of getting it.

--E.J.D.]

[Footnote K: This was written later. I have altered my views since I
have traveled from end to end of Yün-nan. The disappearance of opium,
on the contrary, apart from the moral advantage to the people, has
done much to place them in a better position financially. In Tali-fu
I found not a single shop on the main street "to let," and the trade of
the place had gone ahead considerably, and this was a city which people
generally supposed would suffer most on account of the non-growth of
opium.--E.J.D.]
[Footnote L: May, 1910. As a matter of fact the date makes no difference,
because unfortunately the number of suicides from opium does not seem to
have decreased materially in Western China since the opium crusade
was started. Upon the slightest provocation a Chinese woman in Yün-nan
will take her life, and it is probable that for the five cases which
came to my notice through the mission house there were treble that number
which did not--E.J.D.]
[Footnote M: This was written at the end of 1909 Now, in July, 1910,
things are changed wonderfully.

The rapidity with which China is driving out the poppy from province after
province is truly remarkable.

In Szech'wan, in April, 1909, I passed through miles and miles of poppy
along the main road--to-day there is none to be seen It is to be
hoped that Great Britain will do her part as faithfully as China
is doing hers.]

CHAPTER IX.

THE CHAO-T'ONG REBELLION OF 1910 
_Digression from travel_.

_How rebellions start in China_. _Famous Boxer motto_.

Somewhere on that long and difficult climb the accident
was to take place. The very choice of a guide was in itself a
confirmation of Chayne's fears. It was a piece of subtlety altogether in
keeping with Garratt Skinner. He had taken a bad and untrustworthy guide
on one of the most difficult expeditions in the range of Mont Blanc. Why,
he would be asked? And the answer was ready. He had confused Pierre
Delouvain with Joseph, his cousin, as no doubt many another man had done
before. Did not Pierre live on that very confusion? The answer was not
capable of refutation.

Chayne was in despair. Garratt Skinner had started two days before from
Chamonix, was already, now, at this moment, asleep, with his unconscious
victim at his side, high up on the rocks of the upper Brenva glacier.
There was no way to hinder him--no way unless God helped. He asked
abruptly of Michel:

"Have you climbed this season, Michel?"

Michel laughed grimly.

"Indeed, yes, to the Montanvert, monsieur. And beyond--yes, beyond, to
the Jardin."

Chayne broke in upon his bitter humor.

"I want the best guide in Chamonix. I want him at once. I must start by
daylight."

Michel glanced up in surprise. But what he saw in Chayne's face stopped
all remonstrance.

"For what ascent, monsieur?" he asked.

"The Brenva route."

"Madame will not go!"

"No, I go alone. I must go quickly. There is very much at stake. I beg
you to help me."

In answer Michel took his hat down from a peg, and while he did so Chayne
turned quickly to his wife. She had risen from her chair, but she had not
interrupted him, she had asked no questions, she had uttered no prayer.
She stood now, waiting upon him with a quiet and beautiful confidence
which deeply stirred his heart.

"Thank you, sweetheart!" he said, quietly. "You can trust. I thank you,"
and he added, gravely: "Whatever happens--you and I--there is no
altering that."

Michel opened the door.

"I will walk with you into Chamonix, and I will bring the best guides I
can find to your hotel."

They passed out, and crossed the fields quickly to Chamonix.

"Do you go to your hotel, monsieur," said Revailloud, "and leave the
choice to me. I must go about it quietly. If you were to come with me, we
should have to choose the first two guides upon the rota and that would
not do for the Brenva climb."

He left them at the door of the hotel and went off upon his errand.
Sylvia turned at once to Hilary; her face was very pale, her voice shook.

"You will tell me everything now. Something terrible has happened. No
doubt you feared it. You came to Chamonix because you feared it, and now
you know that it has happened."

"Yes," said Chayne. "I hid it from you even as you spared me your bad
news all this last year."

"Tell me now, please. If it is to be 'you and I,' as you said just now,
you will tell me."

Chayne led the way into the garden, and drawing a couple of chairs apart
from the other visitors told her all that he knew and she did not. He
explained the episode of the lighted window, solved for her the riddle of
her father's friendship for Walter Hine, and showed her the reason for
this expedition to the summit of Mont Blanc.

She uttered one low cry of horror. "Murder!" she whispered.

"To think that we are two days behind, that even now they are sleeping on
the rocks, _he_ and Walter Hine, sleeping quite peacefully and quietly.
Oh, it's horrible!" he cried, beating his hands upon his forehead in
despair, and then he broke off. He saw that Sylvia was sitting with her
hands covering her face, while every now and then a shudder shook her and
set her trembling.

"I am so sorry, Sylvia," he cried. "Oh, my dear, I had so hoped we should
be in time. I would have spared you this knowledge if I could. Who knows?
We may be still in time," and as he spoke Michel entered the garden with
one other man and came toward him.

"Henri Simond!" said Michel, presenting his companion. "You will know
that name. Simond has just come down from the Grépon, monsieur. He will
start with you at daylight."

Chayne looked at Simond. He was of no more than the middle height, but
broad of shoulder, deep of chest, and long of arm. His strength was well
known in Chamonix--as well known as his audacity.

"I am very glad that you can come, Simond," said Chayne. "You are the
very man;" and then he turned to Michel. "But we should have another
guide. I need two men."

"Yes," said Michel. "Three men are needed for that climb," and Chayne
left him to believe that it was merely for the climb that he needed
another guide. "But there is André Droz already at Courmayeur," he
continued. "His patron was to leave him there to-day. A telegram can be
sent to him to-morrow bidding him wait. If he has started, we shall meet
him to-morrow on the Col du Géant. And Droz, monsieur, is the man for
you. He is quick, as quick as you and Simond. The three of you together
will go well. As for to-morrow, you will need no one else. But if you do,
monsieur, I will go with you."

"There is no need, Michel," replied Chayne, gratefully, and thereupon
Sylvia plucked him by the sleeve.

"I must go with you to-morrow, Hilary," she pleaded, wistfully. "Oh, you
won't leave me here. Let me come with you as far as possible. Let me
cross to Italy. I will go quick. If I get tired, you shall not know."

"It will be a long day, Sylvia."

"It cannot be so long as the day I should pass waiting here."

She wrung her hands as she spoke. The light from a lamp fixed in the
hotel wall fell upon her upturned face. It was white, her lips trembled,
and in her eyes Chayne saw again the look of terror which he had hoped
was gone forever. "Oh, please," she whispered.

"Yes," he replied, and he turned again to Simond. "At two o'clock then.
My wife will go, so bring a mule. We can leave it at the Montanvert."

The guides tramped from the garden. Chayne led his wife toward the hotel,
slipping his arm through hers.

"You must get some sleep, Sylvia."

"Oh, Hilary," she cried. "I shall bring shame on you. We should never
have married," and her voice broke in a sob.

"Hush!" he replied. "Never say that, my dear, never think it! Sleep! You
will want your strength to-morrow."

But Sylvia slept little, and before the time she was ready with her
ice-ax in her hand. At two o'clock they came out from the hotel in the
twilight of the morning. There were two men there.

"Ah! you have come to see us off, Michel," said Chayne.

"No, monsieur, I bring my mule," said Revailloud, with a smile, and he
helped Sylvia to mount it. "To lead mules to the Montanvert--is not that
my business? Simond has a rope," he added, as he saw Chayne sling a coil
across his shoulder.

"We may need an extra one," said Chayne, and the party moved off upon
its long march. At the Montanvert hotel, on the edge of the Mer de
Glace, Sylvia descended from her mule, and at once the party went down
on to the ice.

"Au revoir!" shouted Michel from above, and he stood and watched them,
until they passed out of his sight. Sylvia turned and waved her hand to
him. But he made no answering sign. For his eyes were no longer good.

"He is very kind," said Sylvia. "He understood that there was some
trouble, and while he led the mule he sought to comfort me," and then
between a laugh and a sob she added: "You will never guess how. He
offered to give me his little book with all the signatures--the little
book which means so much to him."

It was the one thing which he had to offer her, as Sylvia understood, and
always thereafter she remembered him with a particular tenderness. He had
been a good friend to her, asking nothing and giving what he had. She saw
him often in the times which were to come, but when she thought of him,
she pictured him as on that early morning standing on the bluff of cliff
by the Montanvert with the reins of his mule thrown across his arm, and
straining his old eyes to hold his friends in view.

Later during that day amongst the séracs of the Col du Géant, Simond
uttered a shout, and a party of guides returning to Chamonix changed
their course toward him. Droz was amongst the number, and consenting
at once to the expedition which was proposed to him, he tied himself
on to the rope.

"Do you know the Brenva ascent?" Chayne asked of him.

"Yes, monsieur. I have crossed Mont Blanc once that way. I shall be very
glad to go again. We shall be the first to cross for two years. If only
the weather holds."

"Do you doubt that?" asked Chayne, anxiously. The morning had broken
clear, the day was sunny and cloudless.

"I think there may be wind to-morrow," he replied, raising his face and
judging by signs unappreciable to other than the trained eyes of a guide.
"But we will try, eh, monsieur?" he cried, recovering his spirits. "We
will try. We will be the first on the Brenva ridge for two years."

But there Chayne knew him to be wrong. There was another party somewhere
on the great ridge at this moment. "Had _it_ happened?" he asked himself.
"How was it to happen?" What kind of an accident was it to be which could
take place with a guide however worthless, and which would leave no
suspicion resting on Garratt Skinner? There would be no cutting of the
rope. Of that he felt sure. That method might do very well for a
melodrama, but actually--no! Garratt Skinner would have a better plan
than that. And indeed he had, a better plan and a simpler one, a plan
which not merely would give to any uttered suspicion the complexion of
malignancy, but must even bring Mr. Garratt Skinner honor and great
praise. But no idea of the plan occurred either to Sylvia or to Chayne as
all through that long hot day they toiled up the ice-fall of the Col du
Géant and over the passes. It was evening before they came to the
pastures, night before they reached Courmayeur.

There Chayne found full confirmation of his fears. In spite of effort to
dissuade them, Garratt Skinner, Walter Hine and Pierre Delouvain had
started yesterday for the Brenva climb. They had taken porters with them
as far as the sleeping-place upon the glacier rocks. The porters had
returned. Chayne sent for them.

"Yes," they said. "At half past two this morning, the climbing party
descended from the rocks on to the ice-fall of the glacier. They should
be at the hut at the Grands Mulets now, on the other side of the
mountain, if not already in Chamonix. Perhaps monsieur would wish for
porters to-morrow."

"No," said Chayne. "We mean to try the passage in one day"; and he turned
to his guides. "I wish to start at midnight. It is important. We shall
reach the glacier by five. Will you be ready?"

And at midnight accordingly he set out by the light of a lantern. Sylvia
stood outside the hotel and watched the flame diminish to a star, dance
for a little while, and then go out. For her, as for all women, the bad
hour had struck when there was nothing to do but to sit and watch and
wait. Perhaps her husband, after all, was wrong, she said to herself,
and repeated the phrase, hoping that repetition would carry conviction
to her heart.

But early on that morning Chayne had sure evidence that he was right. For
as he, Simond and André Droz were marching in single file through the
thin forest behind the chalets of La Brenva, a shepherd lad came running
down toward them. He was so excited that he could hardly tell the story
with which he was hurrying to Courmayeur. Only an hour before he had
seen, high up on the Brenva ridge, a man waving a signal of distress.
Both Simond and Droz discredited the story. The distance was too great;
the sharpest eyes could not have seen so far. But Chayne believed, and
his heart sank within him. The puppet and Garratt Skinner--what did they
matter? But he turned his eyes down toward Courmayeur. It was Sylvia upon
whom the blow would fall.

"The story cannot be true," cried Simond.

But Chayne bethought him of another day long ago, when a lad had burst
into the hotel at Zermatt and told with no more acceptance for his story
of an avalanche which he had seen fall from the very summit of the
Matterhorn. Chayne looked at his watch. It was just four o'clock.

"There has been an accident," he said. "We must hurry."


CHAPTER XXIV

THE BRENVA RIDGE


The peasant was right. He _had_ seen a man waving a signal of distress on
the slopes of Mont Blanc above the great buttress. And this is how the
signal came to be waved.

An hour before Chayne and Sylvia set out from Chamonix to cross the Col
du Géant, and while it was yet quite dark, a spark glowed suddenly on an
island of rocks set in the great white waste of the Brenva glacier. The
spark was a fire lit by Pierre Delouvain. For Garratt Skinner's party had
camped upon those rocks. The morning was cold, and one by one the
porters, Garratt Skinner, and Walter Hine, gathered about the blaze.
Overhead the stars glittered in a clear, dark sky. It was very still; no
sound was heard at all but the movement in the camp; even on the glacier
a thousand feet below, where all night long the avalanches had thundered,
in the frost of the early morning there was silence.

Garratt Skinner looked upward.

"We shall have a good day," he said; and then he looked quickly toward
Walter Hine. "How did you sleep, Wallie?"

"Very little. The avalanches kept me awake. Besides, I slipped and fell a
hundred times at the corner of the path," he said, with a shiver. "A
hundred times I felt emptiness beneath my feet."

He referred to a mishap of the day before. On the way to the gîte after
the chalets and the wood are left behind, a little path leads along the
rocks of the Mont de la Brenva high above the glacier. There are one or
two awkward corners to pass where rough footsteps have been hewn in the
rock. At one of these corners Walter Hine had slipped. His side struck
the step; he would have dropped to the glacier, but Garratt Skinner had
suddenly reached out a hand and saved him.

Garratt Skinner's face changed.

"You are not afraid," he said.

"You think we can do it?" asked Hine, nervously, and Garratt
Skinner laughed.

"Ask Pierre Delouvain!" he said, and himself put the question. Pierre
laughed in his turn.

"Bah! I snap my fingers at the Brenva climb," said he. "We shall be
in Chamonix to-night"; and Garratt Skinner translated the words to
Walter Hine.

Breakfast was prepared and eaten. Walter Hine was silent through the
meal. He had not the courage to say that he was afraid; and Garratt
Skinner played upon his vanity.

"We shall be in Chamonix to-night. It will be a fine feather in your cap,
Wallie. One of the historic climbs!"

Walter Hine drew a deep breath. If only the day were over, and the party
safe on the rough path through the woods on the other side of the
mountain! But he held his tongue. Moreover, he had great faith in his
idol and master, Garratt Skinner.

"You saved my life yesterday," he said; and upon Garratt Skinner's face
there came a curious smile. He looked steadily into the blaze of the fire
and spoke almost as though he made an apology to himself.

"I saw a man falling. I saw that I could save him. I did not think. My
hand had already caught him."

He looked up with a start. In the east the day was breaking, pale and
desolate; the lower glacier glimmered into view beneath them; the
gigantic amphitheater of hills which girt them in on three sides loomed
out of the mists from aerial heights and took solidity and shape,
westward the black and rugged Peuteret ridge, eastward the cliffs of Mont
Maudit, and northward sweeping around the head of the glacier, the great
ice-wall of Mont Blanc with its ruined terraces and inaccessible cliffs.

"Time, Wallie," said Garratt Skinner, and he rose to his feet and called
to Pierre Delouvain. "There are only three of us. We shall have to go
quickly. We do not want to carry more food than we shall need. The rest
we can send back with our blankets by the porters."

Pierre Delouvain justified at once the ill words which had been spoken of
him by Michel Revailloud. He thought only of the burden which through
this long day he would have to carry on his back.

"Yes, that is right," he said. "We will take what we need for the day.
To-night we shall be in Chamonix."

And thus the party set off with no provision against that most probable
of all mishaps--the chance that sunset might find them still upon the
mountain side. Pierre Delouvain, being lazy and a worthless fellow, as
Revailloud had said, agreed. But the suggestion had been made by Garratt
Skinner. And Garratt Skinner was Gabriel Strood, who knew--none
better--the folly of such light traveling.

The rope was put on; Pierre Delouvain led the way, Walter Hine as the
weakest of the party was placed in the middle, Garratt Skinner came last;
the three men mounted by a snow-slope and a gully to the top of the rocks
which supported the upper Brenva glacier.

"That's our road, Wallie," said Garratt Skinner. He pointed to a great
buttress of rock overlain here and there with fields of snow, which
jutted out from the ice-wall of the mountain, descended steeply, bent to
the west in a curve, and then pushed far out into the glacier as some
great promontory pushes out into the sea. "Do you see a hump above the
buttress, on the crest of the ridge and a little to the right? And to the
right of the hump, a depression in the ridge? That's what they call the
Corridor. Once we are there our troubles are over."

But between the party and the buttress stretched the great ice-fall of
the upper Brenva glacier. Crevassed, broken, a wilderness of towering
séracs, it had the look of a sea in a gale whose breakers had been frozen
in the very act of over toppling.

"Come," said Pierre.

"Keep the rope stretched tight, Wallie," said Garratt Skinner; and they
descended into the furrows of that wild and frozen sea. The day's work
had begun in earnest; and almost at once they began to lose time.

Now it was a perilous strip of ice between unfathomable blue depths along
which they must pass, as bridge-builders along their girders, yet without
the bridge-builders' knowledge that at the end of the passage there was a
further way. Now it was some crevasse into which they must descend,
cutting their steps down a steep rib of ice; now it was a wall up which
the leader must be hoisted on the shoulders of his companions, and even
so as likely as not, his fingers could not reach the top, but hand holds
and foot holds must be hewn with the ax till a ladder was formed. Now it
was some crevasse gaping across their path; they must search this way and
that for a firm snow-bridge by which to overpass it. It was difficult, as
Pierre Delouvain discovered, to find a path through that tangled
labyrinth without some knowledge of the glacier. For, only at rare times,
when he stood high on a sérac, could he see his way for more than a few
yards ahead. Pierre aimed straight for the foot of the buttress, working
thus due north. And he was wrong. Garratt Skinner knew it, but said not a
word. He stood upon insecure ledges and supported Delouvain upon his
shoulders, and pushed him up with his ice-ax into positions which only
involved the party in further difficulties. He took his life in his hands
and risked it, knowing the better way. Yet all the while the light
broadened, the great violet shadows crept down the slopes and huddled at
the bases of the peaks. Then the peaks took fire, and suddenly along the
dull white slopes of ice in front of them the fingers of the morning
flashed in gold. Over the eastern rocks the sun had leaped into the sky.
For a little while longer they advanced deeper into the entanglement, and
when they were about half way across they came to a stop. They were on a
tongue of ice which narrowed to a point; the point abutted against a
perpendicular ice-wall thirty feet high. Nowhere was there any break in
that wall, and at each side of the tongue the ice gaped in chasms.

"We must go back," said Pierre. "I have forgotten the way."

He had never known it. Seduced by a treble fee, he had assumed an
experience which he did not possess. Garratt Skinner looked at his watch,
and turning about led the party back for a little while. Then he turned
to his right and said:

"I think it might go in this direction," and lo! making steadily across
some difficult ground, no longer in a straight line northward to Mont
Blanc, but westward toward the cliffs of the Peuteret ridge under Garratt
Skinner's lead, they saw a broad causeway of ice open before them. The
causeway led them to steep slopes of snow, up which it was just possible
to kick steps, and then working back again to the east they reached the
foot of the great buttress on its western side just where it forms a
right angle with the face of the mountain. Garratt Skinner once more
looked at his watch. It had been half-past two when they had put on the
rope, it was now close upon half-past six. They had taken four hours to
traverse the ice-fall, and they should have taken only two and a half.
Garratt Skinner, however, expressed no anxiety. On the contrary, one
might have thought that he wished to lose time.

"There's one of the difficulties disposed of," he said, cheerily. "You
did very well, Wallie--very well. It was not altogether nice, was it? But
you won't have to go back."

Walter Hine had indeed crossed the glacier without complaint. There had
been times when he had shivered, times when his heart within him had
swelled with a longing to cry out, "Let us go back!" But he had not
dared. He had been steadied across the narrow bridge with the rope,
hauled up the ice-walls and let down again on the other side. But he had
come through. He took some pride in the exploit as he gazed back from the
top of the snow-slope across the tumult of ice to the rocks on which he
had slipped. He had come through safely, and he was encouraged to go on.

"We won't stop here, I think," said Garratt Skinner. They had already
halted upon the glacier for a second breakfast. The sun was getting hot
upon the slopes above, and small showers of snow and crusts of ice were
beginning to shoot down the gullies of the buttress at the base of which
they stood. "We will have a third breakfast when we are out of range." He
called to Delouvain who was examining the face of the rock-buttress up
which they must ascend to its crest and said: "It looks as if we should
do well to work out to the right I think."

The rocks were difficult, but their difficulty was not fully appreciated
by Walter Hine. Nor did he understand the danger. There were gullies in
which new snow lay in a thin crust over hard ice. He noticed that in
those gullies the steps were cut deep into the ice below, that Garratt
Skinner bade him not loiter, and that Pierre Delouvain in front made
himself fast and drew in the rope with a particular care when it came to
his turn to move. But he did not know that all that surface snow might
peel off in a moment, and swish down the cliffs, sweeping the party from
their feet. There were rounded rocks and slabs with no hold for hand or
foot but roughness, roughness in the surface, and here and there a
wrinkle. But the guide went first, as often as not pushed up by Garratt
Skinner, and Walter Hine, like many another inefficient man before him,
came up, like a bundle, on the rope afterward. Thus they climbed for
three hours more. Walter Hine, nursed by gradually lengthening
expeditions, was not as yet tired. Moreover the exhilaration of the air,
and excitement, helped to keep fatigue aloof. They rested just below the
crest of the ridge and took another meal.

"Eat often and little. That's the golden rule," said Garratt Skinner. "No
brandy, Wallie. Keep that in your flask!"

Pierre Delouvain, however, followed a practice not unknown amongst
Chamonix guides.

"Absinthe is good on the mountains," said he.

When they rose, the order of going was changed. Pierre Delouvain, who
had led all the morning, now went last, and Garratt Skinner led. He led
quickly and with great judgment or knowledge--Pierre Delouvain at the
end of the rope wondered whether it was judgment or knowledge--and
suddenly Walter Hine found himself standing on the crest with Garratt
Skinner, and looking down the other side upon a glacier far below, which
flows from the Mur de la Côte on the summit ridge of Mont Blanc into the
Brenva glacier.

"That's famous," cried Garratt Skinner, looking once more at his watch.
He did not say that they had lost yet another hour upon the face of the
buttress. It was now half past nine in the morning. "We are twelve
thousand feet up, Wallie," and he swung to his left, and led the party up
the ridge of the buttress.

As they went along this ridge, Wallie Hine's courage rose. It was narrow
but not steep, nor was it ice. It was either rock or snow in which steps
could be kicked. He stepped out with a greater confidence. If this were
all, the Brenva climb was a fraud, he exclaimed to himself in the vanity
of his heart. Ahead of them a tall black tower stood up, hiding what lay
beyond, and up toward this tower Garratt Skinner led quickly. He no
longer spoke to his companions, he went forward, assured and inspiring
assurance; he reached the tower, passed it and began to cut steps. His ax
rang as it fell. It was ice into which he was cutting.

This was the first warning which Walter Hine received. But he paid no
heed to it. He was intent upon setting his feet in the steps; he found
the rope awkward to handle and keep tight, his attention was absorbed in
observing his proper distance. Moreover, in front of him the stalwart
figure of Garratt Skinner blocked his vision. He went forward. The snow
on which he walked became hard ice, and instead of sloping upward ran
ahead almost in a horizontal line. Suddenly, however, it narrowed; Hine
became conscious of appalling depths on either side of him; it narrowed
with extraordinary rapidity; half a dozen paces behind him he had been
walking on a broad smooth path; now he walked on the width of the top of
a garden wall. His knees began to shake; he halted; he reached out
vainly into emptiness for some support on which his shaking hands might
clutch. And then in front of him he saw Garratt Skinner sit down and
bestride the wall. Over Garratt Skinner's head, he now saw the path by
which he needs must go. He was on the famous ice-ridge; and nothing so
formidable, so terrifying, had even entered into his dreams during his
sleep upon the rocks where he had bivouacked. It thinned to a mere sharp
edge, a line without breadth of cold blue ice, and it stretched away
through the air for a great distance until it melted suddenly into the
face of the mountain. On the left hand an almost vertical slope of ice
dropped to depths which Hine did not dare to fathom with his eyes; on
the right there was no slope at all; a wall of crumbling snow descended
from the edge straight as a weighted line. On neither side could the
point of the ax be driven in to preserve the balance. Walter Hine
uttered a whimpering cry:

"I shall fall! I shall fall!"

Garratt Skinner, astride of the ridge, looked over his shoulder.

"Sit down," he cried, sharply. But Walter Hine dared not. He stood, all
his courage gone, tottering on the narrow top of the wall, afraid to
stoop, lest his knees should fail him altogether and his feet slip from
beneath him. To bend down until his hands could rest upon the ice, and
meanwhile to keep his feet--no, he could not do it. He stood trembling,
his face distorted with fear, and his body swaying a little from side to
side. Garratt Skinner called sharply to Pierre Delouvain.

"Quick, Pierre."

There was no time for Garratt Skinner to return; but he gathered himself
together on the ridge, ready for a spring. Had Walter Hine toppled over,
and swung down the length of the rope, as at any moment he might have
done, Garratt Skinner was prepared. He would have jumped down the
opposite side of the ice-arête, though how either he or Walter Hine could
have regained the ridge he could not tell. Would any one of the party
live to return to Courmayeur and tell the tale? But Garratt Skinner knew
the risk he took, had counted it up long before ever he brought Walter
Hine to Chamonix, and thought it worth while. He did not falter now. All
through the morning, indeed, he had been taking risks, risks of which
Walter Hine did not dream; with so firm and yet so delicate a step he had
moved from crack to crack, from ice-step up to ice-step; with so obedient
a response of his muscles, he had drawn himself up over the rounded rocks
from ledge to ledge. He shouted again to Pierre Delouvain, and at the
same moment began carefully to work backward along the ice-arête. Pierre,
however, hurried; Walter Hine heard the guide's voice behind him, felt
himself steadied by his hands. He stooped slowly down, knelt upon the
wall, then bestrode it.

"Now, forward," cried Skinner, and he pulled in the rope. "Forward. We
cannot go back!"

Hine clung to the ridge; behind him Pierre Delouvain sat down and held
him about the waist. Slowly they worked themselves forward, while Garratt
Skinner gathered in the rope in front. The wall narrowed as they
advanced, became the merest edge which cut their hands as they clasped
it. Hine closed his eyes, his head whirled, he was giddy, he felt sick.
He stopped gripping the slope on both sides with his knees, clutching the
sharp edge with the palms of his hands.

"I can't go on! I can't," he cried, and he reeled like a novice on the
back of a horse.

Garratt Skinner worked back to him.

"Put your arms about my waist, Wallie! Keep your eyes shut! You
shan't fall."

Walter Hine clung to him convulsively, Pierre Delouvain steadied Hine
from behind, and thus they went slowly forward for a long while. Garratt
Skinner gripped the edge with the palms of his hands--so narrow was the
ridge--the fingers of one hand pointed down one slope, the fingers of the
other down the opposite wall. Their legs dangled.

At last Walter Hine felt Garratt Skinner loosening his clasped fingers
from about his waist. Garratt Skinner stood up, uncoiled the rope,
chipped a step or two in the ice and went boldly forward. For a yard
or two further Walter Hine straddled on, and then Garratt Skinner
cried to him:

"Look up, Wallie. It's all over."

Hine looked and saw Garratt Skinner standing upon a level space of snow
in the side of the mountain. A moment later he himself was lying in the
sun upon the level space. The famous ice-arête was behind them. Walter
Hine looked back along it and shuddered. The thin edge of ice curving
slightly downward, stretched away to the black rock-tower, in the bright
sunlight a thing most beautiful, but most menacing and terrible. He
seemed cut off by it from the world. They had a meal upon that level
space, and while Hine rested, Pierre Delouvain cast off the rope and went
ahead. He came back in a little while with a serious face.

"Will it go?" asked Garratt Skinner.

"It must," said Delouvain. "For we can never go back"; and suddenly
alarmed lest the way should be barred in front as well as behind, Walter
Hine turned and looked above him. His nerves were already shaken; at the
sight of what lay ahead of him, he uttered a cry of despair.

"It's no use," he cried. "We can never get up," and he flung himself upon
the snow and buried his face in his arms. Garratt Skinner stood over him.

"We must," he said. "Come! Look!"

Walter Hine looked up and saw his companion dangling the face of his
watch before his eyes.

GREIFENSTEIN

BY

F. MARION CRAWFORD

CHAPTER I

Frau von Sigmundskron was not really much past middle age, though the
people in the village generally called her the old baroness.

Her hair was very white and she was thin and pale; her bold features,
almost emaciated, displayed the framework of departed beauty, and if her
high white forehead and waxen face were free from lines and wrinkles,
it must have been because time and grief could find no plastic material
there in which to trace their story. She was a very tall woman, too, and
carried her head erect and high, walking with a firmness and
elasticity of step such as would not have been expected in one whose
outward appearance conveyed so little impression of strength. It is
true that she had never been ill in her life and that her leanness was
due to the most natural of all causes; but these facts were not patent
to the observer, and for reasons which will presently appear she herself
would have been the last to mention them. There was something, too,
in the look of her blue eyes, shaded by long brown lashes which had
retained their colour, that forbade any expression of sympathy. The least
experienced of mankind would have seen at a glance that she was the proudest
of women, and would have guessed that she must be one of the most
reticent. She moved and spoke as though Sigmundskron were still what it
had been in former days, and she had brought up her only child to be as
much like herself, as it was possible that anything so young and
fair could resemble what was already a type of age and gravity.

Poverty is too insignificant a word to describe the state in which
the mother and daughter lived, and had lived for many years.

They had no means of subsistence whatever beyond the pension accorded
to the widow of Lieutenant von Sigmundskron, 'fallen on the field
of honour,' as the official report had expressed it, in the murderous
war with France.

He had been the last of his name and at the time of his death had no relations
living; two years earlier he had married a girl as penniless and as
noble as himself, and had lived to see a daughter born, destined to
inherit his nobility, his penury, and the bare walls of his ancestral
home.

Sigmundskron had been a very grand castle in its day, and the half- ruined
walls of the old stronghold still rose majestically from the summit
of the crag.

Indeed the ruin was more apparent than real as yet, and a few
thousands judiciously expended upon the masonry would have
sufficed to restore the buildings to their original completeness.

Many a newly enriched merchant or banker would have paid a handsome
price for the place, though the land was gone and the government
owned the forest up to the very foot of the rock. But the Lady of
Sigmundskron would rather have starved to death in her vaulted chamber
than have taken half the gold in Swabia to sign away her dead husband's
home.
Moreover, there was Greif, and Greif was to marry Hilda, after which all
would be well again. Greif, with his money, would build and restore and
furnish the old castle, and bring back the breath of life into the
ancient halls and corridors.

But in order that Greif might marry Hilda, it was necessary that
Hilda should grow up beautiful, and to grow up at all, it was
necessary that Hilda should be fed.

It had come to that, to the very question of food, of mere bread
to eat.

There was not enough for two, but Hilda must not starve. That was the
secret which no one, not even Hilda herself must ever understand.

During the first years, it had not been so hard to live. There had been
a few poor jewels to sell, a few odds and ends that had brought a
little money.

While Hilda was a little child it had been easier, for she had
needed but few clothes and, being little, had needed to eat less.

But at last there had come a day when Frau von Sigmundskron, not so thin
nor so pale as now, had seen a hungry look stealing into the eyes of the
fair-haired girl. It was little enough that they had between them, but
the mother said to herself that she could keep alive with less. The
careful economy which bought nothing not capable of sustaining
life and strength could go no further.

There were but so many pence a day for food, and to expend more to-day was
to starve tomorrow. From that moment Frau von Sigmundskron began to
complain of headache, and especially of loss of appetite. She could not
eat, she said. She did not think there was anything the matter, and
she would doubtless be better in a few days. But the days ran on to
weeks, the weeks to months, and the months to years, and Hilda grew tall
and fair, unconsciously eating her mother's portion of the daily bread.
No hermit ever lived upon so little as sufficed for the baroness;
no perishing, shipwrecked wretch ever measured out so carefully the
ounce of biscuit that must maintain life from day to day; no martyr
ever submitted more patiently and silently to his sufferings.

But Hilda grew, and the years sped on, and Greif would come in
time.

Greif, upon whom such great hopes were centred, was a distant cousin
as well as a neighbour.

The relationship was on the side of Hilda's mother, whose grandfather
had been a Greifenstein, and who might have been expected to accept some
assistance from her rich connexions, especially as she was quite willing
that her daughter should marry their only son. But the baroness was
a woman whose pride forbade her to accept under the pressure of
necessity what had not been offered freely in other times.

It must be admitted also that the Greifensteins, though well aware that
the Sigmundskrons were extremely poor, were far from suspecting that
they were in need of bread. They knew that the castle was still the
unhampered property of the two ladies, and they supposed that if things
were really in a bad state, the baroness would raise money upon it. She
never alluded to her affairs when she was with her relations, and excused
herself from asking them to stay with her, on the ground of her poor
health. On rare occasions Greifenstein and his wife drove over to the
castle, and were invariably admitted by the same soberly-dressed,
middle-aged woman, who showed them into the same old- fashioned room,
whence, having made their visit, they returned to the outer gate
by the way they had come.

That is all they ever saw of Sigmundskron.

Twice in the year, also, Hilda and her mother were invited to stay
a fortnight at Greifenstein, but no one would have supposed from their
behaviour that the luxury of the latter place surprised them, or
seemed in any way preferable to what they enjoyed at home.

Hilda's education had not been neglected.

Among her earliest recollections was her mother's constant injunction
never to make remarks upon what she saw in other houses.

The child was not long in learning what the warning meant, and as she had
inherited a plentiful share of her mother's pride she almost
unconsciously imitated her mother's behaviour.

Greif himself was the only person who might have known something of the
true state of the case; but as he had been accustomed to be in
love with his cousin ever since they had been children he would have
feared to hurt her feelings by asking questions.

For Hilda was reticent even with him, not from any shame at the idea
of being thought poor, but because she was too proud to have it thought
that either she or her mother could ever need the help of the
Greifensteins.

Furthermore, if the baroness's reluctance to ask for assistance has not
been sufficiently explained, there is one more consideration which might
alone have sufficed to account for her conduct. Between her and Greif's
mother there existed a great and wholly insurmountable antipathy.

She could not understand how Greifenstein could have married such a
woman. There was a mystery about it which she had never fathomed.
Greifenstein himself was a stern, silent man of military appearance, a
mighty hunter in the depths of the forest, a sort of grizzled monument
of aristocratic strength, tough as leather, courteous in his manner,
with that stiff courtesy that never changes under any circumstances,
rigid in his views, religious, loyal, full of the prejudices that
make the best subjects in a kingdom and the bitterest opponents of
all change.

In appearance and manner Frau von Greifenstein presented the most
complete contrast to her husband. She had been pretty, fair and sprightly
in her youth, she was now a faded blonde, full of strange affectations
and stilted sentiments. Possessing but indifferent taste, she nevertheless
devoted much time to the adornment of her person. She was small of
stature, but delicately made, and if her nervous desire to please
had granted to her outward personality a moment's repose during the
day, she might still have passed muster as a fairly good-looking
woman.

Unfortunately she was animated by an unceasing activity in trivial
matters, and was rarely silent.

Some women make one think of a printed page in which there are too many
italics, and too many useless marks of exclamation. At first, their
constant cries of admiration and outbursts of enthusiasm produce a vague
sense of uneasiness in the listener, which soon develops to a feeling of
positive distress and generally ends in a real and deep-rooted dislike.
At the beginning one looks about anxiously for the object which
could produce so grotesque a smile.

There is nothing, for the conversation has been as lead, but the
smile does not subside; it only passes through the endless variations
that succeed each other from the inane grin to the affected simper
which is meant to be tender.

The whole face moves perpetually, as the facial muscles of a corpse, excited
by an electric current, seem to parody all the expression of living
human sentiment.

But Frau von Greifenstein was not in reality so foolish as might have
been thought.

Her silliness was superficial.

One part of her life had been full of strange circumstances, and
if the whole truth were told it would appear that she had known how
to extract a large amount of personal advantage from situations
which to many persons would have seemed hopeless.

She and her husband rarely left their castle in the Black Forest, and it
might naturally be supposed that their life there was exceedingly dull
and monotonous. In her own heart Clara von Greifenstein recognised that
her present luxurious retirement was a paradise compared with the
existence she must have led if she had not known how to help herself
at the right moment. During the earlier years of her marriage, the
recollection of her antecedents had been so painful as to cause her
constant anxiety, and at one time she had even gone so far as to
keep a sum of money about her, as though expecting to make a sudden
and unexpected journey. But five and twenty years and more had passed,
without bringing any untoward incident, and she felt herself very secure
in her position. Moreover a son had been born to her and was growing
up to be very like his father. Without Greif there is no knowing what
turn affairs might have taken, for although Clara's husband maintained
towards her the same stiffly considerate behaviour which had always
characterised him in their relations to each other, he certainly admitted
to himself that she was not growing old gracefully; and it is even possible
that, in some remote glen of the forest, his grave features may have
occasionally allowed themselves a look of sorrowful regret, or even
of actual repugnance, when he thought of his wife's spasmodic
smiles and foolish talk.

Possibly, too, he may have sometimes speculated upon her probable condition
before she had married her first husband, for he himself had found her a
widow of apparently little more than five and twenty years of age. But
if any suggestion at all derogatory to Greifenstein had presented itself
to his mind, his pride would assuredly have lost no time in smothering
the thought. Was she not the mother of Greif? And besides, if all were
to be told, was there not an unpleasantly dark spot in his own family,
in the shape of his half-brother, Kuno von Rieseneck? Indeed the existence
of Kuno von Rieseneck, concerning whom Clara knew nothing,
was the reason why Greifenstein had lived for so many years in the
country, only travelling outside of Germany when he travelled at all.
He wondered that his wife, being ignorant of the story, should be
willing to share the solitude of the Black Forest without a murmur,
and her submission in itself suggested that she, too, might have
some good cause for preferring a retired life.

But if he had been satisfied with what he knew of her five and twenty
years ago, he was not the man to allow himself any dissatisfaction
now that Clara was the mother of that stalwart young fellow who was
heir to all the Greifenstein property.

In the month of July Greif was to come home from the University, and
immediately afterwards Hilda and her mother were to come over for
their half-yearly visit.

The ancient place where this family meeting was convened was so
unlike most castles as to deserve a word of description.

The Swabian Black Forest is literally black, save when the winter snow
is heavy on the branches of the huge trees and lies in drifts beneath
them, covering the soft carpet of fir needles to the depth of many feet.
The landscape is extremely melancholy and in many parts is absolutely
monotonous.

At intervals of several miles the rock juts suddenly out of the forest,
generally at places where the Nagold, more a torrent than a river,
makes a sharp bend.

Many of these steep and stony promontories are crowned by ancient
strongholds, chiefly in ruins, though a very few are still in
repair and are inhabited by their owners.

The name of Greifenstein will not be found on any map of the district,
but those who know that wild and unfrequented country will recognise the
spot. The tumbling stream turns upon itself at a sharp angle,
swirling round the base of a precipitous and wedge-like cliff.
So steep are the sides that they who chose the summit for a fortress
saw no need of building any protection, save one gigantic wall which
bestrides the wedge of rock, thus cutting off a triangular platform,
between the massive bulwark and the two precipices that meet at the
apex of the figure.

This single fortification is a solid piece of masonry, enormously
thick and of great height; its two extremities being surmounted
by pointed towers, connected by a covered walk along the top of the
wall, which, even at that height, is fully six feet wide and nearly
a hundred in length.

This was the rampart behind which the Greifensteins had dwelt in security
through many generations, in the stormy days of the robber barons. So sure
were they of their safety, that they had built their dwelling-place on the
other side of the bulwark in a manner that offered no suggestion
of war or danger.

The house was Gothic in style, full of windows and ornamented with
spacious balconies and much fine stonework.

The three-cornered platform was converted into a flower-garden, surrounded
by a parapet.

Protected on the north side by the huge wall, and fully exposed to the
southern sun, the plants throve in an almost artificial spring, and in the
summer jets of water played in the marble basins and cooled the
hot, pine-scented air.

One narrow gate, barely wide enough for two persons to pass abreast,
gave access to this paradise through the grey, window-less mass of
masonry by which it was separated from the melancholy forest without.

Thus would Garratt Skinner have bidden his friends leave
him, only in tones less tremulous, and very likely with a laugh, turning
back, as it were, to snap his fingers as he stepped out of the world.
Thus, therefore, Walter Hine sought to bear himself.

"Curious," said Garratt Skinner with interest, but with no stronger
feeling at all. "Are you in pain, Wallie?"

"Dreadful pain."

"We must wait. Perhaps help will come!"

The day wore on, but what the time was Garratt Skinner could not tell.
His watch and Hine's had both stopped with the cold, and the dull,
clouded sky gave him no clue. The last of the food was eaten, the last
drop of the brandy drunk. It was bitterly cold. If only the snow would
hold off till morning! Garratt Skinner had only to wait. The night would
come and during the night Walter Hine would die. And even while the
thought was in his mind, he heard voices. To his amazement, to his alarm,
he heard voices! Then he laughed. He was growing light-headed.
Exhaustion, cold and hunger were telling their tale upon him. He was not
so young as he had been twenty years before. But to make sure he rose to
his knees and peered down the slope. He had been mistaken. The steep
snow-slopes stretched downward, wild and empty. Here and there black
rocks jutted from them; a long way down four black stones were spaced;
there was no living thing in that solitude. He sank back relieved. No
living thing except himself, and perhaps his companion. He looked at Hine
closely, shook him, and Hine groaned. Yes, he still lived--for a little
time he still would live. Garratt Skinner gathered in his numbed palm the
last pipeful of tobacco in his pouch and, spilling the half of it--his
hands so shook with cold, his fingers were so clumsy--he pressed it into
his pipe and lit it. Perhaps before it was all smoked out--he thought.
And then his hallucination returned to him. Again he heard voices, very
faint, and distant, in a lull of the wind.

It was weakness, of course, but he started up again, this time to his
feet, and as he stood up his head and shoulders showed clear against the
white snow behind him. He heard a shout--yes, an undoubted shout. He
stared down the slope and then he saw. The four black stones had moved,
were nearer to him--they were four men ascending. Garratt Skinner turned
swiftly toward Walter Hine, reached for his ice-ax, grasped it and raised
it, Walter Hine looked at him with staring, stupid eyes, but raised no
hand, made no movement. He, too, was conscious of an hallucination. It
seemed to him that his friend stood over him with a convulsed and
murderous face, in which rage strove with bitter disappointment, but that
he held his ax by the end with the adz-head swung back above his head to
give greater force to the blow, and that while he poised it there came a
cry from the confines of the world, and that upon that cry his friend
dropped the ax, and stooping down to him murmured: "There's help quite
close, Wallie!"

Certainly those words were spoken--that at all events was no
hallucination. Walter Hine understood it clearly. For Garratt Skinner
suddenly stripped off his coat, passed it round Hine's shoulders and
then, baring his own breast, clasped Hine to it that he might impart to
him some warmth from his own body.

Thus they were found by the rescue party; and the story of Garratt
Skinner's great self-sacrifice was long remembered in Courmayeur.

Garratt Skinner watched the men mounting and wondered who they were. He
recognized his own guide, Pierre Delouvain, but who were the others, how
did they come there on a morning so forbidding? Who was the tall man who
walked last but one? And as the party drew nearer, he saw and understood.
But he did not change from his attitude. He waited until they were close.
Then he and Hilary Chayne exchanged a look.

"You?" said Garratt Skinner.

"Yes--" Chayne paused. "Yes, Mr. Strood," he said.

And in those words all was said. Garratt Skinner knew that his plan was
not merely foiled, but also understood. He stood up and looked about him,
and even to Chayne's eyes there was a dignity in his quiet manner, his
patience under defeat. For Garratt Skinner, rogue though he was, the
mountains had their message. All through that long night, while he sat by
the side of his victim, they had been whispering it. Whether bound in
frost beneath the stars, or sparkling to the sun, or gray under a sky of
clouds, or buried deep in flakes of whirling snow, they spoke to him
always of the grandeur of their indifference. They might be traversed and
scaled, but they were unconquered always because they were indifferent.
The climber might lie in wait through the bad weather at the base of the
peak, seize upon his chance and stand upon the summit with a cry of
triumph and derision. The mountains were indifferent. As they endured
success, so they inflicted defeat--with a sublime indifference, lifting
their foreheads to the stars as though wrapt in some high communion.
Something of their patience had entered into Garratt Skinner. He did not
deny his name, he asked no question, he accepted failure and he looked
anxiously to the sky.

"It will snow, I think."

They made some tea, mixed it with wine and gave it first of all to Walter
Hine. Then they all breakfasted, and set off on their homeward journey,
letting Hine down with the rope from step to step.

Gradually Hine regained a little strength. His numbed limbs began to come
painfully to life. He began to move slowly of his own accord, supported
by his rescuers. They reached the ice-ridge. It had no terrors now for
Walter Hine.

"He had better be tied close between Pierre and myself," said Garratt
Skinner. "We came up that way."

"Between Simond and Droz," said Chayne, quietly.

"As you will," said Garratt Skinner with a shrug of the shoulders.

Hour after hour he paced his lonely room, asking himself the meaning
of what was happening in his brain. It seemed to him that he was
suffering from an extraordinary hallucination, which he had indulged
until it had taken possession of his whole being.

Again and again he went back to the first beginnings of his fancy,
recalling the time when he had begun to construct out of nothing a
love for himself in the past, imagining for Hilda an imaginary
mother, who should have been his own imaginary wife.

He cursed the puerility of the thought, and yet returned to it again and
again in search of the sweet, sad peace he had so often found in his
fancied memories. But that was gone. The scenes he had created grew dull
and lost their colour, he forgot the very points which had most pleased
him once. And yet he was conscious of acute suffering. It was but a few
hours since he had lifted that empty goblet to his lips, and had seen
distinctly before him the shadow he loved so well. How was it possible?
There was a chair--he had lifted his hand thus--and she had been there.
Suddenly his arm was arrested in the very act of the gesture, he
grew icy cold, and his stony eyes set themselves in a horrified
stare.

A cry of despair burst from his lips.

'Great God in Heaven--I love Hilda!'
That was all, and there was silence in the lonely chamber for many
hours.

CHAPTER XXVI

Day had dawned when Rex staggered to his feet, scarcely conscious of where
he was, nor of what had happened, knowing only that he had spent many hours
in utmost agony. The sight of the familiar objects in the room recalled
the whole train of thought which had preceded the shock he had
received.

Slowly and painfully he began to walk up and down as he had done
during the night.

It was not possible for his strong nature to remain for any great length
of time in a state of stupor, nor was there any danger of his being again
affected as he had been at first.
After a little while he grew calm and collected, and he realised that
something must be done immediately.

He had found the key to all his vain imaginings, to all his varied
moods, to the strange disturbance of his faculties in Hilda's
presence.
He loved his brother's wife, and he knew it. He sought for a remedy, as
though he had been assailed by the plague.

There was a medicine close by, in the drawer of his desk, which
would cure love or anything else.

He knew that. It would be the affair of a moment, the pulling of a
trigger, an explosion he should scarcely hear, and there would be
no more Rex.

The temptation was strong, and moreover there was a tendency in his
nature towards suicide which he knew was inherited. It would be a
fitting end to the useless life he had led, the son of such a father
and of such a mother."Hine slipped at a corner as we
came up"; and Chayne glanced quickly at him. There were one or two
awkward corners above the lower glacier where rough footsteps had been
hewn. On one of these Walter Hine had slipped, and Garratt Skinner had
saved him--had undoubtedly saved him. At the very beginning of the climb,
the object for which it was undertaken was almost fulfilled, and would
have been fulfilled but that instinct overpowered Garratt Skinner, and
since the accident was unexpected, before he had had time to think he had
reached out his hand and saved the life which he intended to destroy.

Along that path Hine was carefully brought to the chalets of La Brenva.
The peasants made him as comfortable as they could.

"He will recover," said Simond. "Oh yes, he will recover. Two of us will
stay with him."

"No need for that," replied Garratt Skinner. "Thank you very much, but
that is my duty since Hine is my friend."

"I think not," said Chayne, standing quietly in front of Garratt Skinner.
"Walter Hine will be safe enough in Simond's hands. I want you to return
with me to Courmayeur. My wife is there and anxious."

"Your wife?"

"Yes, Sylvia."

Garratt Skinner nodded his head.

"I see," he said, slowly. "Yes."

He looked round the hut. Simond was going to watch by Hine's side. He
was defeated utterly, and recognized it. Then he looked at Chayne, and
smiled grimly.

"On the whole, I am not sorry that you have married my daughter," he
said. "I will come down to Courmayeur. It will be pleasant to sleep
in a bed."

And together they walked down to Courmayeur, which they reached soon
after midnight.


CHAPTER XXVI

RUNNING WATER


In two days' time Walter Hine was sufficiently recovered to be carried
down to Courmayeur. He had been very near to death upon the Brenva ridge,
certainly the second night upon which Garratt Skinner had counted would
have ended his life; he was frostbitten; and for a long while the shock
and the exposure left him weak. But he gained strength with each day, and
Chayne had opportunities to admire the audacity and the subtle skill with
which Garratt Skinner had sought his end. For Walter Hine was loud in his
praises of his friend's self-sacrifice. Skinner had denied himself his
own share of food, had bared his breast to the wind that he might give
the warmth of his own body to keep his friend alive--these instances lost
nothing in the telling. And they were true! Chayne could not deny to
Garratt Skinner a certain criminal grandeur. He had placed Hine in no
peril which he had not shared himself; he had taken him, a man fitted in
neither experience nor health, on an expedition where inexperience or
weakness on the part of one was likely to prove fatal to all. There was,
moreover, one incident, not contemplated by Garratt Skinner in his plan,
which made his position absolutely secure. He had actually saved Walter
Hine's life on the rocky path of the Mont de la Brenva. There was no
doubt of it. He had reached out his hand and saved him. Chayne made much
of this incident to his wife.

"I was wrong you see, Sylvia," he argued. "For your father could have let
him fall, and did not. I have been unjust to him, and to you, for you
have been troubled."

But Sylvia shook her head.

"You were not wrong," she answered. "It is only because you are very kind
that you want me to believe it. But I see the truth quite clearly"; and
she smiled at him. "If you wanted me to believe, you should never have
told me of the law, a year ago in the Chalet de Lognan. My father obeyed
the law--that was all. You know it as well as I. He had no time to think;
he acted upon the instinct of the moment; he could not do otherwise. Had
there been time to think, would he have reached out his hand? We both
know that he would not. But he obeyed the law. What he knew, that he did,
obeying the law upon the moment. He could save, and knowing it he _did_
save, even against his will."

Chayne did not argue the point. Sylvia saw the truth too clearly.

"Walter Hine is getting well," he said. "Your father is still at another
hotel in Courmayeur. There's the future to be considered."

"Yes," she said, and she waited.

"I have asked your father to come over to-night after dinner,"
said Chayne.

And into their private sitting-room Garratt Skinner entered at eight
o'clock that evening. It was the first time that Sylvia had seen him
since she had learned the whole truth, and she found the occasion one of
trial. But Garratt Skinner carried it off.

There was nothing of the penitent in his manner, but on the other hand he
no longer affected the manner of a pained and loving parent. He greeted
her from the door, and congratulated her quietly and simply upon her
marriage. Then he turned to Chayne.

"You wished to speak to me? I am at your service."

"Yes," replied Chayne. "We--and I speak for Sylvia--we wish to suggest to
you that your acquaintanceship with Walter Hine should end
altogether--that it should already have ended."

"Really!" said Garratt Skinner, with an air of surprise. "Captain Chayne,
the laws of England, revolutionary as they have no doubt become to
old-fashioned people like myself, have not yet placed fathers under the
guardianship of their sons-in-law. I cannot accept your suggestion."

"We insist upon its acceptance," said Chayne, quietly.

Garratt Skinner smiled.

"Insist perhaps! But how enforce it, my friend? That's another matter."

"I think we have the means to do that," said Chayne. "We can point out to
Walter Hine, for instance, that your ascent from the Brenva Glacier was
an attempt to murder him."

"An ugly word, Captain Chayne. You would find it difficult of proof."

"The story is fairly complete," returned Chayne. "There is first of all a
telegram from Mr. Jarvice couched in curious language."

Garratt Skinner's face lost its smile of amusement.

"Indeed?" he said. He was plainly disconcerted.

"Yes." Chayne produced the telegram from his letter case, read it aloud
with his eyes upon Garratt Skinner, and replaced it. "'What are you
waiting for? Hurry up! Jarvice.' There is no need at all events to ask
Mr. Jarvice what he was waiting for, is there? He wanted to lay his hands
upon the money for which Hine's life was insured."

Garratt Skinner leaned back in his chair. His eyes never left Chayne's
face, his face grew set and stern. He had a dangerous look, the look of a
desperate man at bay.

"Then there is a certain incident to be considered which took place in
the house near Weymouth. You must at times have been puzzled by
it--perhaps a little alarmed too. Do you remember one evening when a
whistle from the shadows on the road and a yokel's shout drove you out of
Walter Hine's room, sent you creeping out of it as stealthily as you
entered--nay, did more than that, for that whistle and that shout drove
you out of Dorsetshire. Ah! I see you remember."

Garratt Skinner indeed had often enough been troubled by the recollection
of that night. The shout, the whistle ringing out so suddenly and
abruptly from the darkness and the silence had struck upon his
imagination and alarmed him by their mystery. Who was the man who had
seen? And what had he seen? Garratt Skinner had never felt quite safe
since that evening. There was some one, a stranger, going about the world
with the key to his secret, even if he had not guessed the secret.

"It was I who whistled. I who shouted."

"You!" cried Garratt Skinner. "You!"

"Yes. Sylvia was with me. You thought to do that night what you thought
to do a few days ago above the Brenva ridge. Both times together we were
able to hinder you. But once Sylvia hindered you alone. There is the
affair of the cocaine."

Chayne looked toward his wife with a look of great pride for the bravery
which she had shown. She was sitting aloof in the embrasure of the window
with her face averted and a hand pressed over her eyes and forehead.
Chayne looked back to Garratt Skinner, and there was more anger in his
face than he had ever shown.

"I will never forgive you the distress you have caused to Sylvia," he
said.

But Garratt Skinner's eyes were upon Sylvia, and in his face, too, there
was a humorous look of pride. She had courage. As it was, he had given up
the thought, for the love of her, and he knew that there was
happiness in store for him.

In order to accept it, however, he must be no longer Greifenstein.

It was strange that each of the three in turn, Rex, the baroness, and
lastly, Hilda herself, should have suggested the advisability of his
taking the name of Sigmundskron in place of his own. Clearly, it was the
only course open to him, but it was a curious coincidence that they should
all have had the same thought. On the whole he was ready to follow
their advice, but as he drew near to his destination he realised
that it must be the first point settled.

He did not exactly know how to formulate his request, for he had never
known anybody who had asked another for his name. He almost wished
that Hilda could manage it for him, which was a proof that he had not
yet altogether recovered his strength.

He was glad that Rex had not come, after all. It was one of those errands
which he preferred to accomplish alone. Moreover, for some reason which
he could not guess, Rex seemed to avoid the Sigmundskrons as much
as he could.

That he should never remain long in conversation with Hilda, Greif
thought natural; his cousin's action might proceed from delicacy, of a
curiously unusual kind, or it might be the result of Rex's constant
wish to leave the two together as much as possible.
In either case it was not altogether surprising. But Greif often wished
that Rex would take the trouble to talk to the baroness, so that
she might not be left so much alone.

It would have completed the party and made every one feel more easy;
after all, Rex was a man forty years of age, and might reasonably
be expected to devote his attention with a good grace to a lady who
was not much older than himself, though her white hair contrasted
oddly with his uncommonly youthful appearance.

But Rex hardly ever failed to find some excuse for staying at home
when Greif went to Sigmundskron, and when the ladies came to
Greifenstein he generally made his appearance as late as possible.

Nevertheless Greif believed that his cousin did not dislike the
Sigmundskrons, and it was certain that both mother and daughter
thought extremely well of him.
Greif could not explain Rex's coldness, and was obliged to ascribe
it to some uncommon bias of a remarkable character which he had
never wholly understood.

Being full of such thoughts, the time that had elapsed, between the present
day and the memorable visit three months earlier, seemed to Greif to
have dropped away with all it had contained. He felt as though he
had refused the marriage but yesterday and were going to take back his
refusal to-day.

Only the weather had changed between then and now.
On that morning the ground had been covered with snow, and a bitter
wind that cut like a knife had been blowing across the road.

It was even yet not spring, but the snow was all gone, and the frost
was thawing out of the ground under the warm sun.

In a few days the white thorn would begin to bud, and fresh green
violet leaves would come out along the borders of the woods.

A few birds were already circling in the air above the fir-tops as though
expecting to find the flies there already.
When you are asleep, this dream comes to you. It is as much a part of you
as a limb."

And again Sylvia answered: "Yes."

"Well, you are not responsible for it," and Sylvia leaned forward.

"Ah!" she said. She had been wondering whether it was to this point that
he was coming.

"You know now why you hear it, why it's part of you. You were born to the
sound of running water in that old house in Dorsetshire. Before you were
born, in the daytime and in the stillness of the night your mother heard
it week after week. Perhaps even when she was asleep the sound rippled
through her dreams. Thus you came by it. It was born in you."

"Yes," she answered, following his argument step by step very carefully,
but without a sign of the perplexity which was evident in Hilary Chayne.
Chayne stood a little aloof, looking from Sylvia's face to the face of
her father, in doubt whither the talk was leading. Sylvia, on the other
hand, recognized each sentence which her father spoke as the embodiment
of a thought with which she was herself familiar.

Nothing was distinct, save his love for Hilda on the one side, and
upon the other, the black shadow of his awful disgrace.

'Think, my beloved, if you will,' said Hilda softly. 'You will but
think what I have thought already.'Well, it is a pleasant and a
pretty quality--this dream of yours, Sylvia--yes, a very pleasant one to
be born with. But suppose that instead of that dream you had been born
with a vice, an instinct of crime, of sin, would you have been any the
more responsible for it? If you are not responsible for the good thing,
are you responsible for the bad? An awkward question, Sylvia--awkward
enough to teach you to go warily in your judgments."

"Yes," said Sylvia. "I was amongst the fortunate. I don't deny it."

"But that's not all," and as Chayne moved restively, Garratt Skinner
waved an indulgent hand.

"I don't expect you, Captain Chayne, to take an interest in these
problems. For a military man, discipline and the penal code are the
obvious unalterable solutions. But it is possible that I may never see my
daughter again and--I am speaking to her"; and he went back to the old
vexed question.

"It's not only that you are born with qualities, definite
characteristics, definite cravings, for which you are no more responsible
than the man in the moon, and which are part of you. But there's
something else. How much of your character, how much of all your life to
come is decided for you during the first ten or fifteen years of your
life--decided for you, mind, not by you? Upon my soul, I think the whole
of it. You don't agree? Well, it's an open question. I believe that at
the age of fifteen the lines along which you will move are already drawn,
your character formed, your conduct for the future a settled thing."

To that Sylvia gave no assent. But she did not disagree. She only looked
at her father with a questioning and a troubled face. If it were so, she
asked, why had she hated from the first the circle in which her mother
and herself had moved. And the answer--or at all events _an_ answer--came
as she put the question to herself. She had lived amongst her dreams. She
was in doubt.

"Well, hear something of my boyhood, Sylvia!" cried her father, and for
the first time his voice became embittered. "I was brought up by a
respectable father. Yes, respectable," he said, with a sneer. "Everything
about us was respectable. We lived in a respectable house in a
respectable neighborhood, and twice every Sunday we went to church and
listened to a respectable clergyman. But!--Well, here's a chapter out of
the inside. I would go to bed and read in bed by a candle. Not a very
heinous offence, but contrary to the rule of the house. Sooner or later I
would hear a faint scuffling sound in the passage. That was my father
stealing secretly along to listen at my door and see what I was doing. I
covered the light of the candle with my hand, or perhaps blew it out--but
not so quickly but that he would see the streak of light beneath the
door. Then the play would begin. 'You are not reading in bed, are you?'
he would say. 'Certainly not,' I would reply. 'You are sure?' 'What is
your name?' asked Rex while the servant was gone for the drink.

'Wastei.'
'Sebastian, I suppose?'
The man shrugged his shoulders, as though to say that he did not care for
such a civilised appellation. Rex took out his purse and gave him a gold
piece, a generosity elicited by his admiration for the fellow's powers.

'Take that, Wastei, and here is your liquor.'
Wastei nodded carelessly, slipped the money into his waistcoat pocket,
drank a quarter of the bottle of cherry spirits at a draught, and
touching his cap was out of the door before Rex could speak again.

'Did you ever see that fellow before?' Rex asked of the servant.

'No, sir,' the man answered rather stiffly.

'I am not from these parts.'

Rex returned to Greif's room with a heavy heart, and found the physician
standing where he had left him, waiting for the sunrise. They both sat
down in silence, watching the face of the dying man, and listening to
his breathing. There was nothing to be done, save to try and make him
swallow some nourishment once in a quarter of an hour.

The dawn brightened slowly, until a soft pink light was reflected from the
snow outside upon the ceiling of the room. It was mid-winter still and
the nights were long and the days short, the sun rising almost as late as
possible and setting suddenly again when the day seemed only half
over. When at last the level eastern rays shot into the chamber,
Rex and the doctor rose and looked at their patient. He was breathing
still, very faintly, and apparently without pain.
'There is a possibility still,' said Rex in a low voice.
The physician glanced at him, and suppressed a professional shrug
of the shoulders.
'We shall see what happens at noon,' he answered, but the tone of
his voice was sceptical.And Sylvia, hearing the cry, remembered that on the Sunday evening
when she had first come to the house in Hobart Place, her father had
shown a particular hesitation, had felt some of that remorse of which she
heard the full expression now, in welcoming her to his house and adapting
her to his ends. She raised her downcast eyes and with outstretched hands
took a step forward.

"Father!" she said. But her father was already gone. She heard his step
upon the stairs.

Chayne, however, followed her father from the room and caught him up as
he was leaving the hotel.

"I want to say," he began with some difficulty, "that, if you are pressed
at all for money--"

Garratt Skinner stopped him. He pulled some sovereigns out of one pocket
and some banknotes out of another.

"You see, I have enough to go on with. In fact--" and he looked northward
toward the mountains. Dimly they could be seen under the sickle of a new
moon. "In fact, I propose to-morrow to take your friend Simond and cross
on the high-level to Zermatt."

"But afterward?" Hilda!'

His voice was faint but clear. One moment longer he gazed into her
face and then sank quietly back upon her arm, with a smile upon
his parted lips, his fingers seeking her hand until they lay quite
still in hers.

He was so quiet that Hilda was terrified.
And with a cheery good-night Garratt Skinner betook himself down the
road.