XL.  He frequently appeared so careless in what he said, and so
inattentive to circumstances, that it was believed he never reflected who
he himself was, or amongst whom, or at (328) what time, or in what place,
he spoke.  In a debate in the senate relative to the butchers and
vintners, he cried out, "I ask you, who can live without a bit of meat?"
And mentioned the great plenty of old taverns, from which he himself used
formerly to have his wine.  Among other reasons for his supporting a
certain person who was candidate for the quaestorship, he gave this: "His
father," said he, "once gave me, very seasonably, a draught of cold water
when I was sick."  Upon his bringing a woman as a witness in some cause
before the senate, he said, "This woman was my mother's freedwoman and
dresser, but she always considered me as her master; and this I say,
because there are some still in my family that do not look upon me as
such."  The people of Ostia addressing him in open court with a petition,
he flew into a rage at them, and said, "There is no reason why I should
oblige you: if any one else is free to act as he pleases, surely I am."
The following expressions he had in his mouth every day, and at all hours
and seasons: "What! do you take me for a Theogonius?" [541]  And in Greek
lalei kai mae thingane, "Speak, but do not touch me;" besides many other
familiar sentences, below the dignity of a private person, much more of
an emperor, who was not deficient either in eloquence or learning, as
having applied himself very closely to the liberal sciences.

XLI.  By the encouragement of Titus Livius [542], and with the assistance
of Sulpicius Flavus, he attempted at an early age the composition of a
history; and having called together a numerous auditory, to hear and give
their judgment upon it, he read it over with much difficulty, and
frequently interrupting himself.  For after he had begun, a great laugh
was raised amongst the company, by the breaking of several benches from
the weight of a very fat man; and even when order was restored, he could
not forbear bursting out into violent fits of laughter, at the
remembrance of the accident.  After he became emperor, likewise, he wrote
several things (329) which he was careful to have recited to his friends
by a reader.  He commenced his history from the death of the dictator
Caesar; but afterwards he took a later period, and began at the
conclusion of the civil wars; because he found he could not speak with
freedom, and a due regard to truth, concerning the former period, having
been often taken to task both by his mother and grandmother.  Of the
earlier history he left only two books, but of the latter, one and forty.
He compiled likewise the "History of his Own Life," in eight books, full
of absurdities, but in no bad style; also, "A Defence of Cicero against
the Books of Asinius Gallus," [543] which exhibited a considerable degree
of learning.  He besides invented three new letters, and added them to
the former alphabet [544], as highly necessary.  He published a book to
recommend them while he was yet only a private person; but on his
elevation to imperial power he had little difficulty in introducing them
into common use; and these letters are still extant in a variety of
books, registers, and inscriptions upon buildings.

XLII.  He applied himself with no less attention to the study of Grecian
literature, asserting upon all occasions his love of that language, and
its surpassing excellency.  A stranger once holding a discourse both in
Greek and Latin, he addressed him thus; "Since you are skilled in both
our tongues."  And recommending Achaia to the favour of the senate, he
said, "I have a particular attachment to that province, on account of our
common studies."  In the senate he often made long replies to ambassadors
in that language.  De Vere; Nathan H. Dole; William C. Gannett; Dr.
Silas W. Mitchell; Mrs. Sarah M. Piatt; Walt Whitman_ (H. Traubel,
Literary Executor).

    * * * * *
    

AN INTERPRETER OF LIFE.

BY LYMAN ABBOTT.

Poetry, music, and painting are three correlated arts, connected not
merely by an accidental classification, but by their intrinsic
nature.

For they all possess the same essential function, namely, to interpret the
uninterpretable, to reveal the undiscoverable, to express the
inexpressible. They all attempt, in different forms and through
different languages, to translate the invisible and eternal into sensuous
forms, and through sensuous forms to produce in other souls experiences
akin to those in the soul of the translator, be he poet, musician, or
painter. That they are three correlated arts, attempting, each in its own
way and by its own language, to express the same essential life, is
indicated by their co-operation in the musical drama.
This is the principle which Wagner saw so clearly, and has used to such
effective purpose in his so-called operas, whose resemblance to the
Italian operas which preceded them is more superficial than real. In the
drama Wagner wishes you to consider neither the music apart from
the scenery, nor the scenery apart from the acting, nor the three
apart from the poetry.

Poetry, music, and art combine with the actor to interpret truths of
life which transcend philosophic definition. Thus in the first act of
"Parsifal," innocence born of ignorance, remorse born of the
experience of temptation and sin, and reverence bred in an atmosphere not
innocent yet free from the experience of great temptation, mingle in
a drama which elevates all hearts, because in some one of these
three phases it touches every heart. And yet certain of the clergy
condemned the presentation as irreverent, because it expresses reverence
in a symbolism to which they were unaccustomed.

But while it is true that these three arts are correlative and co-operative,
they do not duplicate one another. Each not only speaks in a language of
its own, but expresses in that language a life which the others cannot
express. As color and fragrance combine to make the flower, but the
color expresses what the fragrance cannot express, and the fragrance
expresses what the color cannot express, so in the musical drama,
music, poetry, and painting combine, not by duplicating but by
supplementing each other.

One may describe in language a symphony; but no description will produce
the effect which the symphony produces. One may describe a painting;
but no description will produce the effect which the painting will
produce. So neither music, nor painting, nor both combined, can produce
the same effect on the soul as poetry. The "Midsummer Night's
Dream" enacted in pantomime, with Mendelssohn's music, would no more
produce the same effect on the auditors which would be produced by
the interpretation of the play in spoken words, than would the reading
of the play at home produce the same effect as the enacting of the
play with what are miscalled the accessories of music and scenery.

The music and scenery are no more accessories to the words than the words
are accessories to the music and scenery. The three combine in a triple
language to express and produce one life, and it can be expressed and
produced in no other way than by the combination of the three arts in
harmonious action. This is the reason why no parlor readings can ever take
the place of the theatre, and no concert performance can ever take the
place of the opera. This is the reason why all attempts to suppress
the theatre and opera are and always will be in vain. They are
attempts to suppress the expression and awakening of a life which can
neither be expressed nor awakened in any other way; and suppression of
life, however successfully it may be accomplished for a time, is
never permanently possible.

     These arts do not truly create, they interpret.

Man is not a creator, he is only a discoverer. The imagination is not
creative, it is only reportorial. Ideals are realities; imagination
is seeing. The musician, the artist, the poet, discover life which others
have not discovered, and each with his own instrument interprets that
life to those less sensitive than himself. Observe a musician composing.
He writes; stops; hesitates; meditates; perhaps hums softly to
himself; perhaps goes to the piano and strikes a chord or two. What
is he doing?By an accident the most
fortuitous, a man devoid of all pretensions to personal merit, so weak in
understanding as to be the common sport of the emperor's household, and
an object of contempt even to his own kindred; this man, in the hour of
military insolence, was nominated by the soldiers as successor to the
Roman throne.  Not yet in possession of the public treasury, which
perhaps was exhausted, he could not immediately reward the services of
his electors with a pecuniary gratification; but he promised them a
largess of fifteen thousand sesterces a man, upwards of a hundred and
forty pounds sterling; and as we meet with no account of any subsequent
discontents in the army, we may justly conclude that the promise was soon
after fulfilled.  This transaction laid the foundation of that military
despotism, which, through many succeeding ages, convulsed the Roman
empire.

Besides the interposition of the soldiers upon this occasion, it appears
that the populace of Rome were extremely clamorous for the government of
a single person, and for that of Claudius in particular.  This partiality
for a monarchical government proceeded from two causes.  The commonalty,
from their obscure situation, were always the least exposed to
oppression, under a tyrannical prince.  They had likewise ever been
remarkably fond of stage-plays and public shows, with which, as well as
with scrambles, and donations of bread and other victuals, the preceding
emperor had frequently gratified them.  They had therefore less to fear,
and more to hope, from the government of a single person than any other
class of Roman citizens.  With regard to the partiality for Claudius, it
may be accounted for partly from the low habits of life to which he had
been addicted, in consequence of which many of them were familiarly
acquainted with him; and this circumstance likewise increased their hope
of deriving some advantage from his accession.  Exclusive of all these
considerations, it is highly probable that the populace were instigated
in favour of Claudius by the artifices of his freedmen, persons of mean
extraction, by whom he was afterwards entirely governed, and who, upon
such an occasion, would exert their utmost efforts to procure his
appointment to the throne.  From the debate in the senate having
continued during (333) two days, it was evident that there was still a
strong party for restoring the ancient form of government.  That they
were in the end overawed by the clamour of the multitude, is not
surprising, when we consider that the senate was totally unprovided with
resources of every kind for asserting the independence of the nation by
arms; and the commonalty, who interrupted their deliberations, were the
only people by whose assistance they ever could effect the restitution of
public freedom.  To this may be added, that the senate, by the total
reduction of their political importance, ever since the overthrow of the
republic, had lost both the influence and authority which they formerly
enjoyed.  The extreme cruelty, likewise, which had been exercised during
the last two reigns, afforded a further motive for relinquishing all
attempts in favour of liberty, as they might be severely revenged upon
themselves by the subsequent emperor: and it was a degree of moderation
in Claudius, which palliates the injustice of his cause, that he began
his government with an act of amnesty respecting the public transactions
which ensued upon the death of Caligula.

Claudius, at the time of his accession, was fifty years of age; and
though he had hitherto lived apparently unambitious of public honours,
accompanied with great ostentation, yet he was now seized with a desire
to enjoy a triumph.  As there existed no war, in which he might perform
some military achievement, his vanity could only be gratified by invading
a foreign country, where, contrary to the advice contained in the
testament of Augustus, he might attempt to extend still further the
limits of the empire.  Either Britain, therefore, or some nation on the
continent, at a great distance from the capital, became the object of
such an enterprize; and the former was chosen, not only as more
convenient, from its vicinity to the maritime province of Gaul, but on
account of a remonstrance lately presented by the Britons to the court of
Rome, respecting the protection afforded to some persons of that nation,
who had fled thither to elude the laws of their country.  Considering the
state of Britain at that time, divided as it was into a number of
principalities, amongst which there was no general confederacy for mutual
defence, and where the alarm excited by the invasion of Julius Caesar,
upwards of eighty years before, had long since been forgotten; a sudden
attempt upon the island could not fail to be attended with success.
Accordingly, an army was sent over, under the command of Aulus Plautius,
an able general, who defeated the natives in several engagements, and
penetrated a considerable way into the country.  Preparations for the
emperor's voyage now being made, Claudius set sail from Ostia, at the
mouth of (334) the Tiber; but meeting with a violent storm in the
Mediterranean, he landed at Marseilles, and proceeding thence to Boulogne
in Picardy, passed over into Britain.  In what part he debarked, is
uncertain, but it seems to have been at some place on the south-east
coast of the island.  He immediately received the submission of several
British states, the Cantii, Atrebates, Regni, and Trinobantes, who
inhabited those parts; and returning to Rome, after an absence of six
months, celebrated with great pomp the triumph, for which he had
undertaken the expedition.

It contains some fine thinking and some bad writing (the phrase telling
of the middle-aged smart woman who "waved her foot impatiently" gives a
just idea of the author's occasional inability to say what she means),
some quite extraneous incidents and some scenes very well touched in. The
people, with a few exceptions, are of the race which inhabits this sort
of book, and, as we have long agreed with our novelists that "the county"
is just like that, I don't see why Miss MACMAHON should be blamed for
it.

* * * * *
Mr. COSMO HAMILTON lays the scene of _His Friend and His Wife_ (HURST
AND BLACKETT) in the Quaker Hill Colony of Connecticut, the members of
which were typically "nice" and took themselves very seriously. So when
one of them brought a divorce suit against her husband there was a
feeling that the colony's reputation had been irremediably besmirched.
Mr. HAMILTON can be trusted to create tense situations out of the
indiscretions of an erring couple, but he also contrives, in spite of its
artificial atmosphere, to make us believe in this society, though he
tried me rather hard with a scandalmongress of the type we happily
meet less often in life than in fiction.

I hope he will not be quite so dental in his next book. I didn't so much
mind _Mrs. Hopper's_ teeth, which "flashed like an electric advertisement,"
but when he made two golfers also flash "triumphant teeth" I
recoiled.

* * * * *
_The Golden Bird_ of Miss DOROTHY EASTON (HEINEMANN) is indeed lucky
to set out on its flight with a favouring pat from Mr. JOHN GALSWORTHY.
He asserts that these short studies of people and things in England
and France are very well done indeed; that moreover, though the short
sketch may look, and the bad short sketch may be, one of the easiest of
literary feats, the good short sketch is in fact one of the most
difficult. Now who should know this if not Mr. GALSWORTHY, and who am I
that I should presume to disagree?

As a matter of fact I don't. Quite the contrary. But naturally I shall get
no credit for that. I will only add that Miss EASTON has not a majority
mind, that she sees the sad thing more easily than the gay, that I like
her work best in her more objective moods, and that, like so many
writers of perception, she finds the quintessence of England's beauty
in happy Sussex.

* * * * * 
[Illustration: IN OLD VERSAILLES.
_Mother._ "GOOD NEWS, MY SON! EVEN AS I PONDERED WHETHER I SHOULD
EAT OUR LAST CRUST THE EVER-KIND ABBÉ CALLED TO SAY HE HAD FOUND
THEE A HIGHLY-PAID APPOINTMENT AT COURT."
_Son._ "YES--BUT DID HE TELL YOU IT WAS AS FOOD-TASTER TO HIS
MAJESTY, WHO DAILY EXPECTS TO BE POISONED?"]History has preserved no account of Caractacus after this period; but it
is probable, that he returned in a short time to his own country, where
his former valour, and the magnanimity, which he had displayed at Rome,
would continue to render him illustrious through life, even amidst the
irretrievable ruin of his fortunes.

The most extraordinary character in the present reign was that of Valeria
Messalina, the daughter of Valerius Messala Barbatus.  She was married to
Claudius, and had by him a son and a daughter.  To cruelty in the
prosecution of her purposes, she added the most abandoned incontinence.
Not confining her licentiousness within the limits of the palace, where
she committed the most shameful excesses, she prostituted her person in
the common stews, and even in the public streets of the capital.  As if
her conduct was already not sufficiently scandalous, she obliged C.
Silius, a man of consular rank, to divorce his wife, that she might
procure his company entirely to herself.  Not contented with this
indulgence to her criminal passion, she next persuaded him to marry her;
and during an excursion which the emperor made to Ostia, the ceremony of
marriage was actually performed between them.  The occasion was
celebrated with a magnificent supper, to which she invited a large
company; and lest the whole should be regarded as a frolic, not meant to
be consummated, the adulterous parties ascended the nuptial couch in the
presence of the astonished spectators.  Great as was the facility of
Claudius's temper in respect of her former behaviour, he could not
overlook so flagrant a violation both of public decency and the laws of
the country.  Silius was condemned to death for the adultery which he had
perpetrated with reluctance; and Messalina was ordered into the emperor's
presence, to answer for her conduct.  Terror now operating upon her mind
in conjunction with remorse, she could not summon the resolution to
support such an interview, but retired into the gardens of Lucullus,
there to indulge at last the compunction which she felt for her crimes,
and to meditate the entreaties by which she should endeavour to soothe
the resentment (336) of her husband.  In the extremity of her distress,
she attempted to lay violent hands upon herself, but her courage was not
equal to the emergency.  Her mother, Lepida, who had not spoken with her
for some years before, was present upon the occasion, and urged her to
the act which alone could put a period to her infamy and wretchedness.
Whittier. In almost every line are erasures and interlineations. In some
cases the careful poet has written a new line and pasted it over the
rejected one.
What does this mean? It means that he has discovered a truth of moral
beauty and is attempting to interpret his discovery to the world.

    His first interpretation of his vision did not suit him, nor his
second, nor his third, and he has revised and re-revised in the
attempt to make his verse a true interpretation of the truth which
he had seen.It has been already observed, that Claudius was entirely governed by his
freedmen; a class of retainers which enjoyed a great share of favour and
confidence with their patrons in those times.  They had before been the
slaves of their masters, and had obtained their freedom as a reward for
their faithful and attentive services.  Of the esteem in which they were
often held, we meet with an instance in Tiro, the freedman of Cicero, to
whom that illustrious Roman addresses several epistles, written in the
most familiar and affectionate strain of friendship.  As it was common
for them to be taught the more useful parts of education in the families
of their masters, they were usually well qualified for the management of
domestic concerns, and might even be competent to the superior
departments of the state, especially in those times when negotiations and
treaties with foreign princes seldom or never occurred; and in arbitrary
governments, where public affairs were directed more by the will of the
sovereign or his ministers, than by refined suggestions of policy.

He is trying to express to himself a beauty which he has heard in the
world of infinite phenomena, and to reproduce it as well as sensuous
sounds can reproduce it, that those with duller hearing than himself may
hear it also.
Observe a painter before his easel.Besides history, Suetonius informs us that he wrote a Defence of
Cicero against the Charges of Asinius Gallus.  I.

American poems in this volume within the legal protection of copyright are
used by the courteous permission of the owners,--either the
publishers named in the following list or the authors or their
representatives in the subsequent one,--who reserve all their rights.Marrying Vipsania after she had been divorced by Tiberius, he incurred
the displeasure of that emperor, and died of famine, either voluntarily,
or by order of the tyrant.  He wrote a comparison between his father and
Cicero, in which, with more filial partiality than justice, he gave the
preference to the former.


FOOTNOTES:


[465]  A.U.C. 714.

Rogers_: "The Shadow Rose."
Messrs. CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, New York.--_R. Bridges (Droch)_: "The
Unillumined Verge;" _Mary Mapes Dodge_: "The Two Mysteries;" _Julia
C.R.

Dorr_: "Hush" (Afterglow).

II.

American poems in this volume by the authors whose names are given
below are the copyrighted property of the authors, or of their
representatives named in parenthesis, and may not be reprinted
without their permission, which for the present work has been
courteously granted.They were always
hung up in the Temple of Jupiter Feretrius.  Those spoils had been
obtained only thrice since the foundation of Rome; the first by Romulus,
who slew Acron, king of the Caeninenses; the next by A. Cornelius Cossus,
who slew Tolumnius, king of the Veientes, A.U. 318; and the third by M.
Claudius Marcellus, who slew Viridomarus, king of the Gauls, A.U. 330.

[469]  A.U.C. 744.

[470]  This epistle, as it was the habit of Augustus, is interspersed
with Greek phrases.

