We knelt down beside the child's bed, but the noise of the storm almost
drowned his voice. At the end of the prayer the child began once more to
cry for his father, so piteously, so beseechingly, that at last I could
bear it no longer, but ran downstairs, to be out of the sound of that
touching little voice. Mr. Christie soon followed me, and we went out
together in the grey light of that terrible morning.

'The child is dying, Jack,' he said.

'Oh, don't say so, Mr. Christie!' I answered; 'dying before his father
comes back.'

'God grant he _may_ come back!' he said; 'look at the sea, Jack.'

The sea was dashing wildly against the rocks, and the noise of the wind
was so great we could hardly hear our own voices. In the dim uncertain
light we could at length distinguish a group of anxious watchers on the
shore. Some old fishermen were there trying to hold a telescope steady
in the gale, that they might look across the water for any sign of a
boat, and mothers and wives and sweethearts of the absent fishermen were
there also, with shawls tied over their heads, and with troubled and
tear-stained faces, peering out into the dismal light of that sorrowful
morning.

Mr. Christie and I stood near them, and he spoke from time to time a
word of encouragement and hope to the anxious women beside him. As the
light increased the wind dropped somewhat, and the gale seemed to have
spent its violence. We were thankful to notice, that although the sea
was still very rough, and would be so for hours, the wind was gradually
subsiding; instead of howling and shrieking, as it had done the whole
night long, it was dying away with gentle moans, like a child weary with
passion who is crying himself to sleep. But still there was no sign of
the boats.

The women on the shore were wet through, and Mr. Christie tried to
persuade them to go home. Their men would want good fires and hot tea on
their return, he told them, and they ought to make ready for them. I was
glad to notice that one by one they followed his advice, and turned to
climb the hill towards their cottages. Then we turned also, and went
back to my lodging. We crept into the room, and found old Betty asleep
in her chair, and Polly holding the little hand in hers as the child
slept.

'Have the boats come, sir?' she said as we went in.

'Not yet, Polly; but please God they will come soon.'

We sat down beside her for a little time, but we presently heard a shout
from the shore.

'Thank God,' said Polly, 'he's come!'

The child seemed in some strange way to have heard that shout, and to
have understood its meaning, for he opened his eyes and said, 'Come,
daddy, come to little John.'

We hurried down to the shore, where a large crowd had already collected.
The whole of Runswick Bay seemed to have gathered together in that short
space of time. We could distinctly see the boats far out at sea, but
wind and tide were with them, and they, were coming rapidly nearer. What
a night they must have had, and what a welcome they would receive from
the watchers on the shore!

'How many boats went out last night, Bob?' said one man as they drew
nearer.

'There was eight, Jem,' he said--'the Jane Ann one, Lady Hilda two, the
Susan three, the Mary Ann four, Princess Alice five, the Lightning six,
the Eliza seven, the Alert eight.'

'Are you sure, Bob?'

'Quite sure, I saw them start.'

'Well, there's one missing, Jem,' he said; 'catch hold of this glass,
and just you count.'

'One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.'

There _was_ one missing, and I felt that I knew which it was before
they came in sight.

It was the Mary Ann.

[Illustration]


[Illustration]


Chapter IX

ASK WHAT YE WILL


We had run down the hill as quickly as we possibly could, but we were in
no haste to return. We waited until the boats were drawn in, and the
worn-out fishermen had come on shore. They knew nothing of the Mary Ann;
they had lost sight of her soon after the beginning of the gale. They
told us they had had an awful night, and had thought they would never
reach home in safety.

'However shall we tell Polly?' I groaned.

But a cold hand was laid on mine at that instant, and I turned round to
see Polly herself just behind me. She could wait no longer, but had run
down to the shore to hasten her husband up the hill. She was trembling
from head to foot, and seemed ready to faint. The kind-hearted fishermen
crowded round her with words of cheer and comfort.

'He'll be all right, my lass, never fear. He's put into Saltburn or
Staithes maybe; these gales they drive so far. He'll be home all safe
and sound afore night.'

But Polly did not seem to hear them. She stretched out her hands feebly
to Mr. Christie and to me as she said:

'Take me home; I can bear it better there.'

The fishermen turned away sorrowfully, and there were very few dry eyes
amongst the group which we left on the shore.

When we reached the house again all was quite still, and as we entered
the bedroom I thought the little soul had passed away, but I bent over
him to listen and to my relief I found he was still breathing.

As I look back, I hardly know how we lived through that sorrowful day.
The doctor came, and did nothing but shake his head in the ominous way
which doctors have when they feel a case is beyond their power. I think
Polly had so little hope herself that she did not care to ask him what
his real opinion was.

I went out for a short walk in the afternoon, to get a little fresh air
to strengthen me for the coming night, when I had determined to watch
with Polly beside little John, if he was still living. My young friends,
Bob and Harry, joined me, and we were pacing up and down together
watching the tide come in when we thought we saw a dark speck far out to
sea.

There were others who saw it also. The coastguard was looking at it
through his telescope, and before very long the shore was covered with
fishermen and their wives, all gazing in the same direction. Whatever
the object was, it was coming rapidly shoreward; wind and tide were both
with it, and it was being borne swiftly along. After a little time we
could distinguish, even without the help of a telescope, what it was,
and I do not think there was anything which we could have been more
aghast to see, for the floating object was a boat bottom upwards, and
being driven rapidly before the tide.

A groan came from the group of fishermen who were watching, and as the
capsized boat neared shore they ran into the water to meet it. I do not
think it was necessary to look at the name upon it as it was dragged out
of the water: we all did look, however, and we found there the name
which we knew we should see before we looked. It was the Mary Ann.

I shall never forget the piercing shriek which came from the wife of one
of Duncan's mates, who was standing just behind me, when she read the
name on the boat. I thought the shock and the sorrow had driven her mad,
for she ran screaming up the hill; indeed, I firmly believe that for the
time she was quite out of her mind.

Poor Polly heard the shrieks of the woman as she ran under her window,
and looking out, she saw the boat on the shore, and guessed the truth at
once. _She_ did not scream nor cry, but she looked as if she had
been turned into stone. No word escaped her lips, not a tear was in her
eye; but she looked as if all her youth had gone in a moment, and as if
she had suddenly become an old and worn-out woman.

She never looked up as we went in, but bent over little John, moistening
his lips from time to time, and watching his every movement. We tried to
say a few words of comfort, but she did not seem even to hear our
voices. Yet no moan, no sigh from the child was unheard by her; she
seemed to be listening to every breath he drew, as if it might be his
last.

I thought that terrible day would never have an end. Mr. Christie stayed
with us until dark, and then he took me home with him to supper, that I
might get a little change and rest before my night watch. I think they
knew how tired I was, worn out more by feeling than by want of sleep,
and they were very good to me. I do not think my own mother could have
been more kind to me than Mrs. Christie was that night. She told me that
she would have had a boy nearly as old as I was if he had lived, but he
had died when he was very young; and then they had had no children for
many years, not until Marjorie was born.

'Your mother was so good to me when my baby died,' she said. 'I thought
I should never be happy again, but she came and talked to me, and made
me look from my sorrow to my little boy's gain, and I think her kindness
to me and the loving words she spoke made me love her more than ever.'

I felt much better for the good supper, and for the kind words of these
dear people, and I went back determined to do all I could for poor Polly
and her child through that sorrowful night. I felt so grateful to the
Lord Jesus Christ for all He had done for me, and I was very glad to be
able to do any little thing to show my love to Him. It seemed to me
then, and it seems to me still, that the way in which we can please Him
best is by showing kindness to His children. I remembered a verse about
a cup of cold water being noticed by Him, if given for His sake, and I
thought to myself, 'Polly is not in need of cold water, for she is too
cold already, but I might make her a cup of tea.'

The fire was out, and the little kitchen, which was usually so neat, was
all in confusion. I lighted the lamp that I might see what I was about,
and then I tried to put the little place in order. First I found sticks
and coal, and lighted a fire; then, whilst my fire was burning up, I
cleared the table, carried the dirty plates and cups into the small back
kitchen, found a tablecloth and a clean cup and saucer, and filled the
kettle. As soon as the fire was hot enough I put the kettle on, and
cutting a slice from the loaf I made some nice crisp toast, such as my
aunt used to like when she was ill. Then I heated a plate, and buttered
the toast, and set it down by the fire. By this time the kettle was
boiling and I made the tea, and I said in my heart when all was
finished, 'Lord Jesus, I do this for Thee.'

Then I went upstairs to my hardest task of all, namely, to persuade
Polly to come down to eat the little meal I had prepared.

Polly was, as I had expected, most unwilling to leave the child, and at
first she firmly declined to move, and would not listen to my pleading
words. Yet I could see that she was almost fainting, and I knew that she
would need all the strength that she could muster for the night which
lay before us. Who knew what that night would bring?

I therefore spoke to her very firmly, telling her that I was willing and
anxious to help her in her trouble, but that, if I was to be any use to
her, she must not refuse to go downstairs for a few minutes at least,
and I promised her to watch little John very carefully, and to call her
at once if I saw any change in the child. She obeyed me at last, and I
heard her weary footsteps descending the steep stairs.

When I was left alone, I saw that Polly's Bible was lying open by the
little oil-lamp which stood on the table, upon which had been placed the
medicine and milk for little John's use. I went up to it, and my eye
fell upon these words:--

'If ye abide in Me, and My words abide in you, ye shall ask _what ye
will_, and _it shall be done unto you_.'

It seemed to me as if that verse was God's direct message to me that
night. I saw it as clearly and distinctly as if the page had been
lighted with electric light. 'Two conditions and a promise,' I said to
myself; 'if only the conditions are fulfilled, the promise is sure.'

What are the two conditions? (1) 'If ye abide in Me.' I asked myself if
I was fulfilling _that_ condition. I humbly hoped I was; for, oh, I
longed to be in Christ, saved by Him, more than I longed for anything
else in this world.

(2) 'If My words abide in you.' Was I fulfilling the
second condition? Again I humbly hoped that I was;
for I felt that if Christ told me to go to the North
Pole, or to an African desert, I would obey gladly. I
would go anywhere, I would do anything, to show Him
how grateful I was for His love to me.

Then might I claim the promise? I believed that I might.

I laid Polly's Bible on the bed. I knelt down beside little John. I put
my finger on the promise, and I prayed, as I had never prayed before,
for help in this time of need. I felt very strongly that all power was
in the hands of Christ, and that He who healed the sick on earth had
lost none of His power, now that He was exalted to the throne of God. I
besought Him to come into that room that very night, and to touch and
heal little John. And as I rose from my knees I felt that my prayer was
heard.

Polly had not returned, so I went to the top of the stairs and listened,
and I heard the sound of sobbing. I was thankful to hear it; the tears
had come at last, and they would relieve the poor, weary, over-strained
heart.

Little John was very quiet, so I crept downstairs. I found to my joy
that Polly had eaten most of the toast, and had drunk the tea, and now
she was sitting with her feet on the fender and her head in her hands,
sobbing as if her heart would break. What was it that had brought the
tears? She had not cried when the empty boat had come ashore; she had
shed no tear when the doctor's face had told her that he had no hope for
the child; what was it that had helped her to give way to the tears
which were such a relief to her? It was a very simple thing. She had
picked up from the floor a little toy, a tiny roughly-shaped boat, which
Duncan had made for the child, and which had been little John's greatest
treasure. There had come over her such a rush of memories of the happy
days of the past, gone, as she believed, for ever, of the father whose
fingers had so busily carved the boat for his boy, but who would never
come back to her again, and of the little lad passing away from her
also, and leaving his treasured toy behind him. All these sad but lovely
memories came before her, as she took up the little boat and pressed it
to her lips. They came so strongly and with such power, that the tears
which had refused to come before came with them, and brought, as I felt
sure they would, wonderful relief to her over-strained heart.

No food or medicine should he left in the room. Soiled dishes or clothing
should be removed as soon as possible and, in cases of infectious
diseases, placed in water containing a disinfectant.

All excreta should be taken away immediately and, if necessary, disinfected
before being emptied.

METHODS OF DISINFECTING

1. Dishes or clothing.--(1) Make a solution using one part of carbolic
acid to twenty parts of water (six teaspoonfuls to a pint of water) and
let it stand for half an hour.

Soak the articles in this for two hours.
(2) Use formalin according to directions. (3) Use bichloride tablets
according to directions. (This turns clothes yellow.)
NOTE.--These solutions must be renewed every twenty-four hours, if
exposed to the air.

2.I was glad to see that Polly herself at length fell
asleep in her chair; little John's hand lay in hers, and I knew she
would wake with his least movement; but I was pleased to see it, for I
felt sure that even a light sleep would soothe and strengthen her.

I had just looked at my watch, and had seen that it was nearly half-past
two, when I thought I heard footsteps outside, and a moment afterwards
there came a gentle knock at the door. It seemed a strange time for a
visitor, but I thought probably it was some neighbour come to offer to
help Polly in her long night watch, or perhaps it was Mr. Christie come
to see how we were getting on. I crept softly downstairs, lest either
Polly or the child should wake, and carefully unfastening the bolts I
opened the door.

I nearly yelled with joy when I saw who was standing there. Never in all
my life have I been more glad to see any man than I was that night to
see Duncan, alive and uninjured, whilst all day long I had been
picturing him being driven backwards and forwards by the waves, a
drowned corpse at the mercy of the relentless sea.

He grasped my hand and came in to the fire, but at first he could not
speak.

'Sir,' he said at last, in a broken voice, 'am I too late? Tell me the
truth, sir; don't hide it over like; is little John dead?'

'No, Duncan,' I said, 'he still lives, and he is asleep; and, Duncan, I
believe he will be given back to you.'

'Thank God!' he said; 'thank God for that!'

For just a moment a doubt crossed my mind as to whether I ought to give
him this hope, and yet I rebuked myself for this doubt, for I was
clinging to the promise, and the word of the Lord was sure, and I
believed that if what I asked was good for these poor souls it
_must_ be granted to me.

Duncan had now sat down in his arm-chair, and by the light of the fire I
could see that he was faint and exhausted. He leant back wearily for
some time and seemed unable to speak. I had left the kettle on the fire,
and I hastened to give him a cup of tea and something to eat.

Then I crept upstairs to see what was going on, but finding Polly and
little John were still both fast asleep, I came back to him. He was
better for the tea, and able to talk to me.

'I've had an awful time, sir,' he said, in answer to my inquiry. 'Many
and many's the time since I was a boy that I've been near the dark
valley, but this time, why, I think I've been half-way down it, sir.
How's my poor lass, sir?'

'Very cut up, Duncan,' I said. 'She thinks you are dead. Your boat came
up with last night's tide.'

'Poor Polly, poor lass!' he said; 'I'll go to her.'

'Wait a little, Duncan,' I said; 'she is asleep now, and she will bear
the joy better when she wakes.'

'And my little lad?' he asked.

'Sleeping too, Duncan, so peacefully and quietly.'

'Well, it's hard not to go up, sir, but may be you're right.'

He waited very patiently for an hour, and when I crept up again at the
end of that time Polly and the child were both awake, and she was giving
him some milk. Little John was quite conscious, and looked more like
himself than he had done since his illness began. He had no sooner
finished his milk, however, than he began his old weary cry, 'Come,
daddy, come to little John.'

Polly burst into tears again when she heard him calling for the father
whom she believed to be dead; but I bent over the child and said, 'Yes,
little John, daddy will come to you.'

I believe Polly fancied that I thought the child was dying, and that I
meant his father's spirit was coming to fetch him, for she only cried
the more bitterly and said, 'Oh, little John, little John!'

But when I added, 'Shall I fetch daddy, little John?' she sprang to her
feet and looked at me wildly, but without speaking a word.

There was no need for me to say more, for she heard the sound of a
well-known footstep on the stairs, and in another moment she was in her
husband's arms.

I felt then that my work was over, and that the best thing that I could
do would be to go to bed. But I glanced back from the door as I went
out, and I saw the little hands held out, and I heard Duncan sob like a
child as he cried, 'Oh, my little lad, my own little John, I never
thought to see you again!'


Stir the boiling water into the mixture, then set it over a gentle
heat.

3.

Keep stirring until the mixture bubbles, then boil gently for about
three minutes.

4.

Stir in the milk and heat it until it steams, but do not boil it.

5.

Serve the cocoa hot or ice-cold.

RECIPES
In connection with a recipe, the pupils should be taught to look for
three parts:

1. The name 
2. The list and amount of ingredients 
3. The method.
In carrying out a recipe, they should, from the first, be taught
to work in the following systematic order:

1.'At that time,' said Duncan, 'I
just trusted my soul again to Christ, for I expected the next wave would
sweep us to the bottom.'

'Was I frightened, sir, did you say? No, I think not; I felt more awed
like, if you understand, and in them few moments all sorts of thoughts
seemed to be running through my head, but through them all was the
thought of my poor lass, of Polly and little John. Yes, sir, of Polly
and little John, and I cried to Him as alone could help me, "O God," I
said, "save me, for Polly and little John want me so bad!" And He heard
my prayer, sir. I've often thought how them fishermen cried to Him in
the storm that day, "Master, save us, we perish!" they said; and He
heard their cry, didn't He, sir? And He heard mine. Yes, He heard mine,
for when the wave did come which carried us over, the Mary Ann was
driven right past where we were struggling in the water, and we caught
hold on her. We clung on for dear life, sir, but we couldn't have clung
there many minutes, for the sea was that cold and icy our hands was
well-nigh frozen. But God Almighty knew how to save us, and He sent a
steamer to pick us up, in less than ten minutes after we went overboard.
And they _were_ good to us, sir, for all they were foreign folk
aboard. They warmed us, and gave us hot coffee, and lent us dry clothes,
and they ran into the Hull docks in the afternoon and landed us there.
Well, sir, you may be sure I came home as quick as ever I could, for I
thought maybe I should never see my little lad again. Hasn't God been
good to us, now hasn't He, sir?' he concluded, as he gently patted his
little boy's hand.

The doctor gave a much better report of little John that day, although
he said he was not yet out of danger. But from that time he improved
slowly but steadily, and before very long he was able to lie once more
in his father's arms, and to stroke his face with his little thin hand.

It was very touching to see the love and the gratitude of both Duncan
and Polly; they could not say enough about the help and comfort I had
given them in their time of trouble, small though I felt these to have
been. If I had been a prince, I think they could not have made more of
me, and I believe I should have been altogether spoiled if I had stayed
in Runswick Bay much longer.

I had not touched my picture the whole of that week, for whilst our
anxiety lasted I had no heart or desire to paint. On Saturday I saw
Marjorie and little Jack giving out their pink papers, and I went to
meet them.

'One for you, big Mr. Jack,' said the merry little rogue, as he threw it
up in the air for me to catch.

The subject for the following day I saw was to be these two words--WE
KNOW. I thought, as I put the paper in my pocket, how much had passed
since last Sunday, and I thought also how differently I felt with regard
to the service on the shore, from what I had done when I received the
last pink paper. I had certainly no wish to run away to Kettleness, to
be out of the way when it took place.

Sunday morning was bright and beautiful, and little John was so much
better that his father was able to leave him and to take his place in
the choir. I stood close to the old boat, and Jack put his hand in mine,
and let me look at his hymn-book as he sang.

There was a large congregation, the fine day had tempted them out, and I
think the danger of their companions and their narrow escape from death
had stirred the hearts of the fishermen, and had made many of them feel
that 'it is not all of life to live, nor all of death to die.'

'My mates are here to-day, sir,' whispered Duncan, as he went forward to
take his place in the boat; 'it's the first time I've been able to
persuade them to come. They see the good of it now, sir, you see.'

Never have I heard any man pray more earnestly for a blessing than Mr.
Christie did that day, but I do not think even he prayed more earnestly
than I did. My whole heart went out to God that day, for was it not my
first Sunday on the right side of the line?

And then came the address, and I never noticed a congregation more
attentive than was that one gathered on the shore that September
morning. I can remember even now a good deal of the sermon.

'WE KNOW,' he said; 'those are strong words, confident words. It is not,
_We imagine_, or _We think_. It is not even _We hope_, that would be
wonderful; but it is something clearer and far more distinct than that;
it is WE KNOW.

'If I were to ask you fishermen, you visitors, you mothers, you little
children, this question, "Do you _imagine_ you are on the shore
now? Do you _think_ you are here to-day? Do you _hope_ you are
listening to me?" what would you answer me?

'You would say, "Mr. Christie, it is not a case of imagining, or
thinking, or hoping; we _know_ we are here; we are sure of it."

'Now notice, that is the strong, confident word used in my text to-day.
The holy apostle John stands side by side with all of us who have come
to Christ, and he bids us join with him in these glad, happy, thankful
words, "We know that we have passed from death unto life." We know, we
are persuaded, we are sure, that we are on the right side of the line.
We know that we have left the company of the servants of sin, and are
now the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ.

'Dear friends, I would now ask each of you very earnestly, Can you say
that? Can you take your stand by the apostle John, and say, "_I
know_ that _I_ have passed from death unto life?"

'I think I hear some one answer in his heart, "Well, that's a great deal
for any man to say, and I don't see that any man can know in this life
if he is saved or not; when he gets to heaven he'll know he is all
right, but not till then."

'Now look again at my text. It does not say, "We _shall_ know"; it
does not say, "We hope soon to know"; but it speaks in the present. It
runs thus: "We _know_ that we have passed from death unto life." So
you see it _is_ possible, nay, it is right, that you and I should,
one by one, take up the words and say, "_I know_."

'Do I hear some one saying in his heart, "I do wish I could say that? I
should be a happier man if I could. When I go out in my boat, and the
storm rages, and I don't know whether I shall ever see land again, it
would be a good thing if I could look up through the wind and tempest,
and could say gladly, I know that I have passed from death unto life."'

I thought I heard a groan when he said this, and I looked round, and saw
one of Duncan's mates burying his face in his hands.

'Do I hear one of you mothers say, "When I lie awake at night, and the
baby will not let me sleep, and I get out and look from my window at the
stars shining down upon me, I would give a great deal to say, as I think
of the heaven above those stars, 'I know that I have passed from death
unto life'"?

'And you, my friend, when the day comes, as come it will, when you lie
on your bed, and you see by the doctor's face that you will never get
out of it again; when you say to yourself, as the neighbours sit round,
"This is my dying bed, and they are watching to see me die," oh, what
would you not give at that solemn time to be able to say, "I know that I
have passed from death unto life"?

'Do you want to be able to say it? You cannot want it more than God
wants to hear you say it. The Christ stands on the shore beside us
to-day, and He yearns with unutterable longing, that each man, each
woman, each child here present, should be able to take up the words of
my text, and say, "I know that I have passed from death unto life."'

Then he went on to tell us that it was not a long, weary, toilsome
journey which we had to travel to reach the Christ. He was present
amongst us now. He was very near to each one of us; His arms were wide
open. He was waiting to receive each one who was willing to cross the
line; one step would be sufficient, one step into those open arms. Then
we ended by singing a hymn, which seemed to me a very beautiful one:--

  'Only a step to Jesus!
    Believe, and thou shalt live:
  Lovingly now He's waiting,
    And ready to forgive.

  Only a step to Jesus!
    A step from sin to grace:
  What has thy heart decided?
    The moments fly apace.

  Only a step to Jesus!
    Oh, why not come and say,
  "Gladly to Thee, my Saviour,
    I give myself away?"
    Only a step, only a step,
    Come, He waits for thee;
    Come, and thy sin confessing,
    Thou shalt receive a blessing:
    Do not reject the mercy
    He freely offers thee.'


I was glad to see at the end of the service that Duncan's mate was still
sitting under the old boat with his hands over his face. He had
evidently felt the sermon very much, and when he rose to go home after
the others had dispersed, I saw Mr. Christie walking by his side.

That was a lovely Sunday evening. The storm of the week before seemed to
have cleared the air, and there was a golden light over everything,
until the sun went down behind the hill. I spent the evening at Mrs.
Christie's, for Polly was still fully occupied with the child, and was
not able to attend to much of the work downstairs. Duncan did the
cooking now, and the washing up and the cleaning, and I never saw a more
handy man. He waited on me hand and foot, as if I was a lord; but I felt
that I was giving the dear fellow a great deal of trouble, and was glad,
therefore, to accept Mrs. Christie's invitation to have tea and supper
at their house.

Little Jack welcomed me with the greatest joy. He was so delighted to
have me at tea, and contemplated me with so much delight and interest
from his high chair by my side, that he quite forgot to eat his own tea,
and had to be recalled from his admiration of me, time after time, by
his mother. After tea he told her he had a great secret to confide to
her; he dragged her from the room and led her upstairs, and then with
closed doors, and in a whisper so low that she could scarcely
distinguish the words, he told her solemnly, 'I do love big Mr. Jack
very much,' which secret his faithless mother was treacherous enough to
reveal to me, after we had been upstairs that evening to see little Jack
in bed.

After we came down, Mrs. Christie lighted the lamp, and we were sitting
cosily round the fire talking of my mother, when suddenly there came a
knock at the outer door.

'Who can it be?' said Mrs. Christie hastily; 'some one must be ill, I
think, so few people come on Sunday.'

She was going to the door, but her little maid had already opened it,
and coming into the parlour she announced,--

'There's a gentleman, sir, at the door, says as how he wants Mr.
Villiers, sir.'

'A gentleman!' I repeated in astonishment, 'wanting me!'

'Yes, sir, he says he wants you very pertickler, he does.'

I went quickly to the door, wondering very much who could be there, and
to my great astonishment I found my friend Tom Bernard, with a black bag
in his hand, eagerly awaiting my approach.

'Found at last, old chap,' he cried when he saw me; 'why, I've been
hunting for you all over in this rabbit-warren of a place, till at last
some of these fisher-lads told me you were in here.'

'And what are you doing here, Tom?' I exclaimed.

'Doing here! Why, I've come to see you, of course, old fellow; what else
should I have come for? I set off early this morning, and I thought I
would give you a bit of a surprise. Are these your diggings?'

'No,' I said, 'I'm only spending the evening here; but I'll come back
with you at once.'

I went in for a moment to explain my sudden departure to Mr. and Mrs.
Christie, and then I went with Tom to my lodgings. He looked vastly
amused when he saw Duncan's house, and when I told him that I had been
there all the time he seemed to think it a capital joke.

'There's no room for me, I'm afraid,' he said, as he looked with an
amused smile round my bedroom.

'No, indeed, Tom,' I said, 'and, joking apart, I would not ask you to
come here if there was room; the hotel at the top of the hill will suit
you better.'

Polly was sitting beside little John, but I tapped at the door, and told
her a friend of mine had just arrived from London, and asked her if she
thought it would be possible to get him some tea. Just at this moment
Duncan came in, and the two good souls did all in their power to do
honour to my guest. We may say that _food builds the tissues of the
body_.

Think of some persons who have taken food every day, and yet as
long as you have known them they have not increased in size.

What has food done for their tissues? The class must be told that the
tissues of our bodies wear out through use, and that food has furnished
the material to replace the worn-out parts. What do we say we are
doing to clothes when we replace the worn parts? We are mending or
repairing them. What does food do for our worn-out tissues?He was in high spirits, and was
much looking forward to the time we were to have there together, and to
all the walks we should take to the places round.

Was I glad that he had come? I asked myself this question many times
that night. I was fond of Tom; he had been like a brother to me, and
yet--and yet--I wished he had not come to Runswick Bay.

Why was this? Why would I have kept him away if I could? I asked myself
this question many times, as I came slowly down the hill that night.

Was it because it would be a hindrance to my work? No, for my picture
had made good progress, and I could work it up even better in my studio
at home. Besides which, Tom was a good-natured fellow, and would sit
smoking and chatting in the old boat whilst I painted.

Was it that I wanted to be quiet, and to enjoy my present surroundings
without interruption? No, surely, for Tom's company had always been
pleasant to me, and I could not look upon him as a stranger.

Why was it, then, that I felt almost sorry that he had followed me here?
I had a suspicion of the right answer to that question, but I did not
own it, even to myself, till I entered my lodging.

Duncan was reading a chapter aloud to Polly, as he always did before
going to bed. He stopped when he saw me come in, but I said, 'Go on,
Duncan, never mind me; I shall like to listen.' And the very first words
that Duncan read seemed to me to contain the answer to my question.

'He that is ashamed of Me and of My words, of him shall the Son of Man
be ashamed.'

Yes, that was the reason. I was sorry that Tom had come, because I was
ashamed of my Master. Since I had seen him last I had changed my
service. I used to be a servant of sin, living for self, pleasing self
in all things. Now, I had crossed the line, I had joined the company of
Christ's servants, and I was afraid of Tom finding it out.

In London I thought I should have seen less of him, and it would have
dawned on him gradually; but here he would discover it at once. And I
dreaded his doing so. Yes, I was a downright coward, ashamed of the One
who had died for me. This was not a comfortable reflection, but I was
convinced that it was the truth.

What would be the best thing to do? Should I say anything to Tom about
it in the morning? I thought at first that I would speak, and I made up
several sentences with which I meant to begin; but the more I thought of
it so much the more my heart failed me, and I decided at length that my
best plan would be to let Tom find it out for himself.


Chapter XI

LITTLE JACK AND BIG JACK


I think Tom very much enjoyed that week at Runswick Bay. The more he saw
of the place the more he liked it. He and Duncan got on famously
together. They smoked together on a seat above the house, and Duncan
told him stories of shipwrecks and storms, whilst I sat painting just
below them.

One night he even persuaded Duncan to let him go out with him fishing,
and Duncan confided to me afterwards, 'That there friend of yours, sir,
he's a real handy chap; knows how to use his fingers, sir, and isn't
afraid of a drop of salt water neither.'

We came across Mr. Christie on the shore the very first time that we
went out together, and I introduced him as a friend of my mother whom I
had been delighted to find in this out-of-the-way place; and Tom talked
very pleasantly to him, and I think liked him.

'What is he doing here, Jack?' he said. 'He does not look like the rest
of them.'

'He is a lay-preacher,' I said.

'Whatever in the world is a lay-preacher?' said Tom laughing.

I did not answer, but called his attention to little Jack, who was
running along the shore after his red cap, which had been carried off by
a gust of wind.

'That's his little boy,' I said, 'and my namesake; they lived in my
father's parish in London, and Mr. Christie and his wife adored my
mother. It was seeing her photograph on the wall of their room which
made them discover who I was.'

'What a splendid little fellow!' said Tom as the child came up to us.
'So you are Jack, are you?'

'Yes, I'm little Jack, and he's big Jack,' said the boy roguishly,
looking at me.

I was not surprised that Tom made friends very quickly with my little
favourite, for he was wonderfully fond of children, and many were the
games which he and the two children had together whilst I was at work.

Every evening Tom and I walked together, and we explored all the country
for miles around. Sometimes we went by train and walked back by the
cliffs. The train seemed to land us at each station in the midst of
fresh beauty, and I came to the conclusion that Yorkshire was indeed,
what I had always been told by my mother, the most beautiful county in
England.

'Now, Jack,' said Tom on Saturday morning, 'we'll have a really good day
to-morrow. You won't want to paint, will you?'

'No,' I said hurriedly, 'I don't paint on Sundays.'

'All right,' he said, 'it's much the best plan; you come fresher to it
on Monday. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." That old
couplet must have been made for you, Jack. Well, then, let's see, where
shall we go? Suppose we make a long day of it, and go to Scarborough. We
must see Scarborough before we go home, must we not? We will go by the
early train, and come back as late as we can. The worst of it is there
are not so many trains to choose from on Sunday, but I daresay we shall
find one that will suit'; and, without saying another word, he went off
to my lodging for a _Bradshaw_.

