We mounted our horses and rode down to the site of Herod's
Jericho, on the banks of the little stream that issues from
the gorge of the Wady Kelt. How lovely, and how desolate, it
was. The stream overhung with trees and bordered with
oleanders and shrubs of which I have forgotten the names, and
crossed by old arches still; and around, the desolate tokens
of what once was. Foundation lines, and ruined aqueducts. Mr.
Dinwiddie made us remark the pavement of the road leading up
to the Kelt, the old road to Jerusalem, the road by which
Jesus went when the blind men called him, and over which,
somewhere on its way, stretched the sycamore tree into which
Zaccheus climbed. Ah how barren and empty the way looked now!
- with Him no longer here. For a moment, so looked my own path
before me, - the dusty, hot road; the desolate pass; the
barren mountain top. It was only a freak of fancy; I do not
know what brought it. I had not felt so a moment before, and I
did not a moment after.

"Where His feet lead now, the green pastures are not wanting,
-" Mr. Dinwiddie said; I suppose reading my look.

"Never, Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"Never!"

"But it _seems_, often, to people, that they are wanting."

"Their eyes are so blinded by tears that they cannot see them,
sometimes. Even then, they can lie down and feel them, - feel
that they are in them."

"Are there any sycamore trees here now?" my father asked.

"Two or three poor old specimens; just enough to show for the
story. Those sycamore figs belong to the low and warm
situations; this is the proper place for them."

Papa felt so well that we determined to push on to the Jordan.
It was a hot, long ride, over a shadeless and barren plain;
and when we came to the river papa declared himself very much
disappointed. But I was not. Narrow and muddy as the stream
was, it was also powerful in its rapid flood; no one could
venture to bathe in it. The river was much swollen and had
been yet more so; the tracks of wild animals which the floods
had disturbed were everywhere to be seen. Papa and Mr.
Dinwiddie reasoned and argued, while I sat and meditated; in a
deep delight that I should see the Jordan at all. We took a
long rest there, on its banks. The jungle was a delicious
study to me, and when the deep talk of the gentlemen subsided
enough to give me a chance, I got Mr. Dinwiddie to enlighten
me as to the names and qualities of the various trees and
plants. They were of fine luxuriant growth. Poplars and
sycamores and other trees, willows, I think, and exquisite
tamarisks in blossom; and what I specially admired, the canes.
I understood then how people might go into the plain to see "a
reed shaken with the wind." Growing twelve to fifteen feet
high, with graceful tufts of feathery bloom which they bow and
sway to the breeze in a manner lovely to see.

Another day we rode down to the shore of the Dead Sea; papa
being none the worse for his Jordan excursion. Then the rain
visited us, and for two or three days we were kept in our
tents. With some difficulty I then persuaded papa to go
further south, to the shore of the Dead Sea, to some pleasant
camping ground by one of its western springs; there rain falls
almost never. So, first at Ain Feshkah and then at Ain Jidi,
we spent another couple of weeks; without Mr. Dinwiddie it
would have been impossible, but his society kept papa from
wearying and made everything as enjoyable as could be to both
of us. It was the middle of February when we returned to
Jerusalem.

The rainy season was not of course at an end yet; but a change
of beauty had come over the land. We found fruit trees in
blossom, almond and peach; and apricots just ready to bloom.
Corn up and green; and flowers coming and come. I had my own
plans, made up from the experience and counsels of my English
friends; but papa wanted to see Jerusalem, and I waited. Of
course I wanted to see Jerusalem too; and here again Mr.
Dinwiddie was our excellent friend and guide and instructor.
Papa was quite in earnest now; and went about the city
examining walls and churches and rock-tombs and all the
environs, with a diligent intentness almost equal to mine; and
he and Mr. Dinwiddie had endless talks and discussions, while
I mused. The words, "Constantine," "Byzantine," "Crusaders,"
"Helena", "Saracenic," "Herod," "Josephus;" with modern names
almost as well known; echoed and re-echoed in my ears.

"Daisy!" said papa suddenly in one of these talks, - "Daisy!
you are not interested in this."

"Papa, it is so uncertain."

Mr. Dinwiddie laughed.

"But the question, child; don't you care about the question?
how is it ever to be made certain? I thought this question
would engage all your attention."

"How can it ever be made certain, papa? After those hundred
and fifty years when there were no Jews allowed here, who was
to remember the spot of the Sepulchre? Few but Christians knew
it, in the first place."

"Oh, you _have_ thought about it!" said papa. "But are you not
interested in a _probable_ site, Daisy?"

"No, papa."

"All these old churches and relics then do not concern you?"

"Papa, I only go to see them for your sake."

"Well," said papa, "now I will go to the Mount of Olives for
your sake."

That was my plan; following the advice of the English party,
who said they had enjoyed it. We hired for a time a little
stone dwelling on the Mount of Olives, from which we had a
fine view of the city; and to this new home papa and I moved,
and took up our quarters in it. Of all my days in the Holy
Land, excepting perhaps the time spent at Jericho and Engedi,
these days were the best. They are like a jewel of treasure in
my memory.

The little dwelling to which we had come was rougher in
accommodation than our tents; but the season was still early,
and it gave better shelter to papa. It was a rude stone house,
with a few small rooms at our service; which I soon made
comfortable with carpets and cushions. The flat roof above
gave us a delightful view of the country and abundant chance
to examine and watch all its points and aspects. I spent the
hours up here or at the window of our little sitting-room;
using my eyes all the time, to take in and feast upon what was
before them. Only when papa would go out with me, I left my
post; to take up the survey from some new point of view. I had
a great deal to think of, those days; a certain crisis in my
life had come, or was coming; I was facing it and getting
ready for it; and thinking and looking seemed to help and
stimulate each other. It was wonderful to watch the lights
change on Jerusalem; from the first sunbeam that came over the
hills of Moab and touched the city, to the full glare of the
midday, and then the sunset colours on land and rock and
building, transforming the dull greys and whites with a flush
of rosy beauty and purple splendour. The tints that hovered
then upon the red hills of Moab were never to be forgotten. I
watched it, this change of light and shade and colour, from
day to day. I learned to know Jerusalem and her surrounding
hills and her enclosing valleys; and the barrier wall of Moab
became a familiar line to me. All this while, as I said, I had
a great deal to think of, and was thinking. Past, present and
future chased each other in and out of my head; or rather, it
seems to me, dwelt there together.

"Daisy!" - papa called to me when I was on the roof one day. I
ran down.

"What are you doing up there?"

"I was looking, papa. I was studying topography."

"Let us go out and study it a little by actual survey. I think
a walk would do me good."

We went down first to the valley of the Kedron, and wandered
about there; sometimes sitting down under the shade of the
olive trees to rest; speculating upon localities, recalling
scenes of history; wondering at the path which descends into
the valley from St. Stephen's gate and goes on over the Mount
of Olives to Bethany. Above all things, that path held my
eyes. No doubt the real path that was travelled eighteen
centuries ago lay deep beneath many feet of piled-up rubbish;
but the rubbish itself told a tale; and the path was there.
After a long stay in the valley, we mounted the hill again,
where our temporary home was; and passing that, went on to the
height of the hill. There we sat down. The westering sun was
casting lines of light all over the landscape, which would be
soon floods of colour. Papa and I sat down to look and wait.

"It certainly is worth coming for," said papa. "Our journey
realises more than all I had hoped from it, Daisy."

"I am so glad, papa!"

"But you, Daisy, how is it with you? You seem to me a little,
and not a little, _distraite_."

"I have so much to think of, papa."

"More than I have?"

"Why, yes, papa," I said, half laughing. "I think so."

"You must have fields of speculation unknown to me, Daisy."

"Yes, papa. Some time I want to talk to you about them."

"Isn't now a good time?" said papa, carelessly.

I was silent a while, thinking how to begin. It was a good
time, I knew, and I dared not let it pass. I had been waiting
till Mr. Dinwiddie should have left us and papa and I be quite
alone; and he was to join us again as soon as we started on
our northward journey. Now was my best opportunity. All the
more, for knowing that, my heart beat.

"Papa," I began, "may I ask you a few questions, the better to
come at what I want?"

"Certainly. Your questions, Daisy, I have always found
stimulating."

"Then first, what is it you think of most, in looking over
from this place to Jerusalem?"

"Of course," said papa, rousing himself, "the prominent
thought must be the wonderful scene that was acted there
eighteen hundred years ago; not the course of history before
or after. Is that what you mean?"

"I mean that, papa. I mean the death of Christ. Papa, what was
that for?"

"Why, as I understand it, Daisy, it was a satisfaction to the
justice of God for the sins of the world. Are you going to put
me through a course of theology, Daisy?"

"No, papa. But do you think it was for all the world, or only
for a part of them?"

"For all, of course. The Bible words I take to be quite clear
on that point, even if it were possible that it should have
been otherwise."

"Then it was for you and me, papa?"

"Yes."

"And for those ignorant Moslems that live in the city now?"

"Yes, of course it was; though I think they will not have much
good of it, Daisy."

"Never mind that, papa. Then it was for my old June, and for
Maria and Darry and Pete and Margaret, and all the rest of our
people at Magnolia?"

"Yes," said papa, rousing up a little. I did not look at him.

"Papa, don't you think the Lord Jesus loves the people for
whom He died?"

"Certainly. It is inconceivable that He should have died for
them if He did not love them. Though that is also a great
mystery to me, Daisy."

"Papa, don't you think that, having died for them, He holds
them precious?"

"I suppose so," said papa slowly.

"Every one?"

"Yes."

"Do you think He loves one man less than another because his
skin is darker?"

"Certainly not, Daisy."

"Then papa - should we?"

"I do not know that we do," papa said, after a pause.

"Papa, think. What would you say to our, or anybody's, holding
white men in slavery - making them work without wages - and
forcing them to obey under the lash?"

"They are an inferior race, Daisy," papa answered again after
a pause. His voice showed he did not enjoy the conversation;
but it was needful for me to go on.

"Papa, they have been kept down. But suppose they were
inferior, - since Christ died for them, does He not love
them?"

"I have no doubt of it."

"Then, papa, what will He say to us, for keeping those whom He
loves and died for, at arms' length or under our feet? and
what will He say to us for keeping them out of the good He
died to give them?"

"We do not, Daisy! They have their religious privileges."

"Papa, I have lived among them as you never did. They may not
meet together to pray, on pain of the lash. They cannot have
Bibles, for they are not allowed to read. They have no family
life; for husbands and wives and parents and children are
parted and torn from each other at the will or for the
interest of their owners. They live like the animals."

"Not on my estates!" said papa, rousing himself again. "There
is no selling and buying of the people there."

"Pete's wife was forcibly taken from him, papa, and then sent
South."

"By whom?"

"By Edwards. And the rest of the hands were in mortal fear of
him; utterly cowed. They dared not move without his pleasure."

"Abuses," papa muttered; - "nothing to do with the system."

"What must the system be where such things are possible? where
one such thing is possible? And oh, papa, they suffer! there
is no such thing as real comfort of life; there is no scope or
liberty for the smallest upward tendency. Nothing is their
own, not their own time; they have no chance to be anything
but inferior."

"They have all the essentials of comfortable living, and they
are comfortable," said my father.

"Papa, they do not think so."

"Few people do think so," said papa. "It is a vice of
humanity."

I was silent a little bit, and then I ventured to say, -

"Papa, the Lord Jesus loved them well enough to die for them."

"Well," said papa, rather growlingly, "what then?"

"I am thinking, what will He say to us for handling them so."

"What would you do for them, Daisy?"

"All I could, papa," I said softly.

"How much could you, do you suppose?"

"Papa, I would not stop as long as there was anything more to
be done."

"I suppose you would begin by setting them all free?"

"Wouldn't you wish it, papa, for yourself and me, if we were
two of them? - and for mamma and Ransom, if they were two
more?"

"You are mistaken in thinking it is a parallel case. They do
not wish for liberty as we should."

"Then it only shows how much harm the want of liberty has done
them already. But they wish for it quite enough, papa; quite
enough. It breaks my heart to think how much they do wish for
it."

"My child, you do not know what you are talking about!" papa
answered; half worried, I thought, and half impatient. "In the
first place, they would not be better off if they were set
free; though you think they would; and in the second place, do
you know how it would affect our own condition?"

"Papa," I said low, - "it has nothing to do with the question.
I do not care."

"You would care."

"I care for this other more, papa."

"Daisy, understand. Instead of being well off, you would be
poor; you would be poor. The Southern estates would be worth
nothing without hands to cultivate them; and my Northern
estates will go to your brother."

"I should never be rich in the way you think, papa."

"How so?"

"I would never be rich in that way."

"What would you do?"

"I would be poor."

"It is not so easy to do as to talk about," said my father.
"At the present time, Daisy, - I suppose, if you had your
will, you would set at liberty at once all the people on the
Magnolia plantations?"

"Indeed I would, papa."

"Then we should be reduced to a present nothing. The Melbourne
property brings in very little, nothing, in fact, without a
master on the spot to manage it. I dare say some trifling rent
might be obtained for it; and the sale of Magnolia and its
corresponding estates would fetch something if the times
admitted of sale. You know it is impossible now. We should
have scarce anything to live upon, my child, to satisfy your
philanthropy."

