'May I ask the question,' said the Bishop, rather as if taking a
liberty, 'why did you not call up Mr. Stokes?'

'We couldn't, my Lord, for it was all Mr. Shapcote's swans' eggs. He
caught them--three of our least fellows, I mean--jumping at the
branches that hung over the river wall, and he blackguar--abused them
so that they got into a rage and vowed he shouldn't have a plum left
on the tree. We seniors knew nothing about it; but they got over the
wall at dark, and one ate eighty-five and the other eighty-one; but,
little Dick--one of them, I mean--could only get down nineteen, and
brought the rest in his pockets. It was the first time such a thing
had happened, and it put me in a proper rage. The little one was the
one I found out first; and I thought he was sulky, so I licked him
till he howled, so that I was afraid I'd done him some dreadful harm,
like a regular brute; and when I found it was his inside instead of
his outside, I was so glad, I could have done anything for him. But
we couldn't call Stokes, or the poor little chap would have suffered
for it three times over.'

'That would have been hard measure! And did your remedy succeed?'

'Yes; I think a good deal was fright. He went to sleep on the brandy,
and was all right next day.'

'And the gentlemen with 'the eighty-five and eighty-one suffered no
inconvenience, of course!' said his Lordship, much amused. 'May I
hear how you got out?'

'With Mr. Harewood's key,' said Lance. 'He used to keep it on a nail
inside the study door, which opens into the passage leading into this
court, and is never locked.'

'That is the key of the Cathedral library.'

'Yes, my lord; it unlocks the outer door, and the door into the north
transept.'

'And after that--'

'You can shoot the bolt on the inside of the little side-door at the
west front, and climb over the railing.'

'Boys are animals not to be kept in, that is certain! So you were
pioneer! But you had nothing to do with those cards?'

'No, my Lord. But I ought not to have told how I got out, for there
were some who would do it afterwards. However, those cards were none
of ours.'

'Whose were they!'

'Walter Shapcote's, my Lord. He is gone now, so it does not signify.'

'That nephew Mr. Shapcote had in his office?'

'Yes, my Lord; he had got the command of poor Gus, because he had
lent him money for some debt that Gus was afraid to let his father
know of, and made him get the key, and let him out and in.'

'You all knew of this?'

'Yes, my Lord; but poor Gus was sure that his father would be so
dreadful, that we durst not let out a word. Mr. Shapcote makes every
soul afraid of him.'

'The young man is gone?'

'Yes, my Lord, to London.'

'And there is no danger of the like with Gus?'

'Oh no, my Lord. He's too like a sheep! and now his debt is paid--
after the last concert--he's sure not to get into the same scrape
again.'

'Thank you very sincerely,' said the Bishop. 'It is a great relief to
me to know all this; and it is safe with me. I am only afraid I have
made you talk more than is good for you.'

'And may I keep this, my Lord?' he wistfully asked.

'Indeed you may, my dear boy. If you have transgressed the letter of
discipline, you have kept the spirit of charity. I am glad to keep
you, as well as your voice. But I have tired you out.'

And laying a hand of blessing on his brow, the Bishop took leave,
Wilmet going to the door with him, to answer his fears that the
interview had been too much for her patient, with assurances that the
relief and gratification must do good in the end.

He told her that the threat of the withholding of the prize had not
been made by his authority, and that he had much regretted it. Just
as the tidings of the sun-stroke and its cause had reached him, he
had been with Mr. Nixon, the former Precentor, who had spoken warmly
of Lance, saying that the whole tone of the boys had improved since
his coming, though he was too much of a pickle ever to get the
credit. Wilmet's pleasure was great; but before she could get back,
Lance was nervously calling for her. The excitement was still great,
his head was aching violently, and yet he could not leave off eager
talking, which, as feverishness came on, began to degenerate into
such rambling as terribly frightened Clement lest a relapse should be
coming on. He wanted to hurry off to the doctor at once; but Wilmet,
well knowing he would not be at home, repressed him, and quietly said
she had some draughts ready, and knew what to do. While she was out
of sight, preparing them, a great alarm came over the patient lest
she should have left him; and all the rest of those noonday hours
were spent in a continual restless desire to keep her in view, hold
her hand, and elicit her assurances that she was not going home, nor
going to leave him--no, not on any account. The very presence of his
brother seemed to increase the uneasiness; and in the deepest
humiliation and despair, Clement allowed himself to be invited away
by Captain Harewood to see the process of ice-making, and be so far
comforted that the Bishop's visit was probably far more likely to
have done the mischief than his own rash suggestion, and that there
was no reason to fear it would last many hours. In fact, Lance was
recovering favourably, and had had few drawbacks. 'So I tell
everybody,' said John Harewood, 'especially poor Bill, who is still
ready to break his heart every time Lance has a headache, and would
chatter him to death when he is better. And that's the way with them
all! There seems no one that can be tender and reasonable both at
once, except your sister.'

Clement did full justice to that tenderness, when, out of sight
himself, he had watched Wilmet's soothing firmness and patient
reassuring softness, at last calming the feverish agitation into a
sleep, which he was allowed to see for himself was gentle and
wholesome. Only then--towards four o'clock--could Captain Harewood
persuade her to let him keep guard, while she went to take the food
that had been long waiting for her, and over which she could hear
Clement's penitent explanation of his own unlucky proposal.

'I thought he seemed so well--able to get up and all; and they do
think me a good nurse at St. Matthew's. I nursed Fred Somers almost
entirely when he had the scarlet fever.' (Wilmet looked as if she
pitied St. Matthew's.) 'But of course I see now that it is out of the
question.'

'Entirely so,' said Wilmet, too kind to remind him of the
qualifications he had evinced.

'And you cannot guess when he can come home?'

'Not in the least. Even if he could be moved, think of the noisiness
of our house!'

Clement groaned. 'It was very wrong in me to speak to him before you,
Wilmet,' he said; 'but I should be thankful if you could tell me what
is to be done! Cherry was thoroughly chilled that evening of the
thunderstorm, and has been very poorly ever since.'

'She always feels changes of weather.'

'That's what Alda tells you. She won't believe there is anything the
matter; but poor Cherry has had rheumatic pain all over her, and her
bad ankle seems to have a bit of bone coming out. Sibby thinks so.
Now, ought she not to have her doctor?'

'Well! if--I wish I could be quite sure! It is such an unlucky thing
that she has that dislike to Mr. Rugg.'

'Wilmet! You are as bad as Alda!'

'Clement,' she answered gently, 'you do not know what it is to have
to reckon the expense. There is Felix's journey; and what this
illness may cost, I cannot guess; and now Cherry! It is not that I
grudge it; but I don't see what is to become of any of us if we spend
unnecessarily--or necessarily either, for that matter.'

'I thought her doctor didn't charge.'

'He did not when she was at St. Faith's, but at home it is a
different thing; but, of course, if it be really needful it cannot be
helped.'

'And you couldn't come home and see--even for one hour?'

'Not yet, most certainly.'

'I think I had better write to Sister Constance!'

'If you really do find it impossible to get on, and Cherry is more
than just ailing, and--and fractious' (the word came out at last); 'I
don't like always calling for help, it seems presuming on kindness,
and Robina will be helpful when she comes home; but no doubt Alda
does not know what to do,' she added, in a deliberating tone.

'Then you authorise me?'

'I don't know what you mean by authorising.'

'Only that Alda will neither do anything herself, nor let any one
else do it.'

'Poor Alda! It is a hard time for her, and she is not used to it. I
am afraid she is out of her element among you all. Don't be vexed,
Clem; you all ought to make allowances for her.'

'I make allowances from morning to night,' said Clement. 'I wonder
how many Travis will have to make!'

Wilmet had finished her hasty meal, and wanted to get back to her
patient, so she only protested by a reproving look and shake of the
head; while Clement stood disconcerted, but less surprised than if he
had not been familiar with the part of the family Cassandra.


CHAPTER XVIII

BY THE RIVER


'And Lancelot look'd, and was perplext in mind;
 And being weak in body, said no more.'
                                  TENNYSON.


It was a lovely afternoon, and the sun shone outside the green
tracery of a hornbeam alley in the Deanery garden, leading from the
cloister to the river. Here lay Lancelot, on the long cushion of a
sofa, while Wilmet sat stitching at the last of the set of collars
that would always bring so many recollections. For this was a
Saturday afternoon, and on the Monday Lance was to go to Ewmouth to
join Felix, who was to have his holiday extended another month on
that account. Alda, who had had a quarter's allowance from her uncle,
had made this possible; and Wilmet was doubly gratified by its having
been her twin's gift and thought.

Wilmet would of course go home, and she found herself almost
regretting the close of a time that had of late been very pleasant.
She had not felt, as Geraldine would have done, the romance of living
in the old monastic buildings, in the calm shadow of the grand old
minster; yet something of the soothing of the great solemn quiet
rested upon the spirit that had--since six years old--never known
freedom from responsibility, and--since fifteen--had borne the
burthen of household economies and of school teaching. It was a
strange novelty to have meals provided without care of her own, no
shortcomings of servants to make up, no claimant for her attention
save a solitary patient, and that one with Lance's temper. Wilmet had
undergone a good deal from Alda's clashes with the rest, even Felix's
was only a temper well in hand, and alternate fretfulness and
penitence were regarded by her as part and parcel of Geraldine's
ailments; so that it was almost a surprise that her present
convalescent never visited his discomforts upon her, but was always
patient and good-humoured, smiling whenever he could, like his father
before him, as if, according to the pretty Spanish saying, the sun
had shone on his cradle at his birth. His unselfish nature had made
him a little uneasy when with cooler senses he remembered Clement's
hint, while love and instinct alike made him feel utterly unable to
dispense with his motherly sister, but when she had assured him that
nothing could make him leave him as yet, and when Sister Constance
was known to be at Bexley, he threw it from his mind, and was
perfectly happy and contented.

