Produced by Jake Jaqua


THE NATIONAL BEING Some Thoughts on an Irish Polity--A.E. [George
William Russell]


To The Right Hon. Sir Horace Plunkett

A good many years ago you grafted a slip of poetry on your economic
tree.  I do not know if you expected a hybrid.  This essay may not be
economics in your sense of the word.  It certainly is not poetry in my
sense.  The Marriage of Heaven and Earth was foretold by the ancient
prophets.  I have seen no signs of that union taking place, but I have
been led to speculate how they might be brought within hailing distance
of each other.  In my philosophy of life, we are all responsible for the
results of our actions and their effects on others.  This book is a
consequence of your grafting operation, and so I dedicate it to you.--
A.E.


I.


In the year nineteen hundred and fourteen Anno Domini, amid a world
conflict, the birth of the infant State of Ireland was announced. Almost
unnoticed this birth, which in other times had been cried over the earth
with rejoicings or anger.  Mars, the red planet of war, was in the
ascendant when it was born.  Like other births famous in history, the
child had to be hidden away for a time, and could not with pride be
shown to the people as royal children were wont to be shown.  Its
enemies were unforgiving, and its friends were distracted with mighty
happenings in the world.  Hardly did they know whether it would not be
deformed if it survived:  whether this was the Promised, or another
child yet to be conceived in the womb of the Mother of Parliaments.
Battles were threatened between two hosts, secular champions of two
spiritual traditions, to decide its fate.  That such a conflict
threatened showed indeed that there was something of iron fibre in the
infant, without which in their make-up individuals or nations do nothing
worthy of remembrance. Hercules wrestled with twin serpents in his
cradle, and there were twin serpents of sectarianism ready to strangle
this infant State of ours if its guardians were not watchful, or if the
infant was not itself strong enough to destroy them.

It is about the State of Ireland, its character and future, I have here
written some kind of imaginative meditation.  The State is a physical
body prepared for the incarnation of the soul of a race. The body of the
national soul may be spiritual or secular, aristocratic or democratic,
civil or militarist predominantly. One or other will be most powerful,
and the body of the race will by reflex action affect its soul, even as
through heredity the inherited tendencies and passions of the flesh
affect the indwelling spirit.  Our brooding over the infant State must
be dual, concerned not only with the body but the soul.  When we essay
self-government in Ireland our first ideas will, in all probability, be
borrowed from the Mother of Parliaments, just as children before they
grow to have a character of their own repeat the sentiments of their
parents.  After a time, if there is anything in the theory of Irish
nationality, we will apply original principles as they are from time to
time discovered to be fundamental in Irish character. A child in the
same way makes discoveries about itself.  The mood evoked by picture or
poem reveals a love of beauty;  the harsh treatment of an animal
provokes an outburst of pity;  some curiosity of nature draws forth the
spirit of scientific inquiry, and so, as the incidents of life reveal
the innate affinities of a child to itself, do the adventures of a
nation gradually reveal to it its own character and the will which is in
it.

For all our passionate discussions over self-government we have had
little speculation over our own character or the nature of the
civilization we wished to create for ourselves.  Nations rarely, if
ever, start with a complete ideal.  Certainly we have no national
ideals, no principles of progress peculiar to ourselves in Ireland,
which are a common possession of our people.  National ideals are the
possession of a few people only.  Yet we must spread them in wide
commonalty over Ireland if we are to create a civilization worthy of our
hopes and our ages of struggle and sacrifice to attain the power to
build.  We must spread them in wide commonalty because it is certain
that democracy will prevail in Ireland.  The aristocratic classes with
traditions of government, the manufacturing classes with economic
experience, will alike be secondary in Ireland to the small farmers and
the wage-earners in the towns.  We must rely on the ideas common among
our people, and on their power to discern among their countrymen the
aristocracy of character and intellect.

Civilizations are externalizations of the soul and character of races.
They are majestic or mean according to the treasure of beauty,
imagination, will, and thought laid up in the soul of the people.  That
great mid-European State, which while I write is at bay surrounded by
enemies, did not arrive at that pitch of power which made it dominant in
Europe simply by militarism.  That military power depended on and was
fed by a vigorous intellectual life, and the most generally diffused
education and science existing perhaps in the world.  The national being
had been enriched by a long succession of mighty thinkers.  A great
subjective life and centuries of dream preceded a great objective
manifestation of power and wealth.  The stir in the German Empire which
has agitated Europe was, at its root, the necessity laid on a powerful
soul to surround itself with equal external circumstance.  That
necessity is laid on all nations, on all individuals, to make their
external life correspond in some measure to their internal dream.  A
lover of beauty will never contentedly live in a house where all things
are devoid of taste.  An intellectual man will loathe a disordered
society.

We may say with certainty that the external circumstances of people are
a measure of their inner life.  Our mean and disordered little country
towns in Ireland, with their drink-shops, their disregard of cleanliness
or beauty, accord with the character of the civilians who inhabit them.
Whenever we develop an intellectual life these things will be altered,
but not in priority to the spiritual mood. House by house, village by
village, the character of a civilization changes as the character of the
individuals change.  When we begin to build up a lofty world within the
national soul, soon the country becomes beautiful and worthy of respect
in its externals.  That building up of the inner world we have
neglected.  

* * * * *

"TRY OUR BEST SYMPATHY."
It is a fact, when the deputation of the distressed manufacturers
waited upon Sir Robert Peel to represent to him their destitute
condition, that the Right Honourable Baronet declared he felt the
deepest sympathy for them. This is all very fine--but we fear
greatly, if Sir Robert should be inclined to make a commercial speculation
of his _sympathy_, that he would go into the market with
[Illustration: A VERY SMALL STOCK-IN(G) TRADE.]
* * * * *

THE MAN OF HABIT.

I meet with men of this character very frequently, and though I believe
that the stiff formality of the past age was more congenial than
the present to the formation and growth of these peculiar beings,
there are still a sufficient number of the species in existence for
the philosophical cosmopolite to study and comment upon.

A true specimen of a _man of habit_ should be an old bachelor,--for matrimony
deranges the whole clock-work system upon which he piques himself.
He could never endure to have his breakfast delayed for one second
to indulge "his soul's far dearer part" with a prolonged morning dream;
and he dislikes children, because the noisy urchins make a point
of tormenting him wherever he goes. The Man of Habit has a certain
hour for all the occupations of his life; he allows himself twenty minutes
for shaving and dressing; fifteen for breakfasting, in which time he
eats two slices of toast, drinks two cups of coffee, and swallows two
eggs boiled for two and a half minutes by an infallible chronometer.
After breakfast he reads the newspaper, but lays it down in the very
heart and pith of a clever article on his own side of the question, the
moment his time is up.
He has even been known to leave the theatre at the very moment of the
_dénouement_ of a deeply-interesting play rather than exceed his
limited hour by five minutes. He will be out of temper all day, if he
does not find his hat on its proper nail and his cane in its allotted
corner. He chooses a particular walk, where he may take his prescribed
number of turns without interruption, for he would prefer suffering a
serious inconvenience rather than be obliged to quicken or slacken his
pace to suit the speed of a friend who might join him. My uncle Simon
was a character of this cast. I could take it on my conscience to assert
that, every night for the forty years preceding his death, he had one
foot in the bed on the first stroke of 11 o'clock, and just as the
last chime had tolled, that he was enveloped in the blankets to his chin.
I have known him discharge a servant because his slippers were placed
by his bed-side for contrary feet; and I have won a wager by betting
that he would turn the corner of a certain street at precisely three
minutes before ten in the morning. My uncle used to frequent a club
in the City, of which he had become the oracle. Precisely at eight
o'clock he entered the room--took his seat in a leather-backed easy
chair in a particular corner--read a certain favourite journal--drank
two glasses of rum toddy--smoked four pipes--and was always in the act
of putting his right arm into the sleeve of his great-coat, to return
home, as the clock struck ten. The cause of my uncle's death was as
singular as his life was whimsical. He went one night to the club, and
was surprised to find his seat occupied by a tall dark-browed man, who
smoked a _meerschaum_ of prodigious size in solemn silence. Numerous
hints were thrown out to the stranger that the seat had by
prescriptive right and ancient custom become the property of my uncle;
he either did not or would not understand them, and continued to keep
his possession of the leather-backed chair with the most imperturbable
_sang-froid_. My uncle in despair took another seat, and endeavoured
to appear as if nothing had occurred to disturb him,--but he could
not dissimulate. He was pierced to the heart,--and
[Illustration: "I SAW THE IRON ENTER HIS SOLE."]
My uncle left the club half-an-hour before his time; he returned
home--went to bed without winding his watch--and the next morning
he was found lifeless in his bed.

* * * * *
PUNCH'S POLITICAL ECONOMY.Men who
love Ireland ignobly brawl about her in their cups, quarrel about her
with their neighbor, allow no freedom of thought of her or service of
her other than their own, take to the cudgel and the rifle, and join
sectarian orders or lodges to ensure that Ireland will be made in their
own ignoble image.  Those who love Ireland nobly desire for her the
highest of human destinies.  They would ransack the ages and accumulate
wisdom to make Irish life seem as noble in men's eyes as any the world
has known.  The better minds in every race, eliminating passion and
prejudice, by the exercise of the imaginative reason have revealed to
their countrymen ideals which they recognized were implicit in national
character.  It is such discoveries we have yet to make about ourselves
to unite us to fulfill our destiny.  We have to discover what is
fundamental in Irish character, the affections, leanings, tendencies
towards one or more of the eternal principles which have governed and
inspired all great human effort, all great civilizations from the dawn
of history.  A nation is but a host of men united by some God-begotten
mood, some hope of liberty or dream of power or beauty or justice or
brotherhood, and until that master idea is manifested to us there is no
shining star to guide the ship of our destinies.

Our civilization must depend on the quality of thought engendered in the
national being.  We have to do for Ireland--though we hope with less
arrogance--what the long and illustrious line of German thinkers,
scientists, poets, philosophers, and historians did for Germany, or what
the poets and artists of Greece did for the Athenians:  and that is, to
create national ideals, which will dominate the policy of statesmen, the
actions of citizens, the universities, the social organizations, the
administration of State departments, and unite in one spirit urban and
rural life.   Unless this is done Ireland will be like Portugal, or any
of the corrupt little penny-dreadful nationalities which so continually
disturb the peace of the world with internal revolutions and external
brawlings, and we shall only have achieved the mechanism of nationality,
but the spirit will have eluded us.

What I have written hereafter on the national being, my thoughts on an
Irish polity, are not to be taken as an attempt to deal with more than a
few essentials.  I offer it to my countrymen, to start thought and
discussion upon the principles which should prevail in an Irish
civilization.  If to readers in other countries the thought appears
primitive or elementary, I would like them to remember that we are at
the beginning of our activity as a nation, and we have yet to settle
fundamentals.  Races hoary with political wisdom may look with disdain
on the attempts at political thinking by a new self-governing
nationality, or the theories of civilization discussed about the cradle
of an infant State.  To childhood may be forgiven the elemental
character of its thought and its idealistic imaginations. They may not
persist in developed manhood;  but if youth has never drawn heaven and
earth together in its imaginations, manhood will ever be
undistinguished.  This book only begins a meditation in which, I hope,
nobler imaginations and finer intellects than mine will join hereafter,
and help to raise the soul of Ireland nigher to the ideal and its body
nigher to its soul.


II.


The building up of a civilization is at once the noblest and the most
practical of all enterprises, in which human faculties are exalted to
their highest, and beauties and majesties are manifested in multitude as
they are never by solitary man or by disunited peoples. In the highest
civilizations the individual citizen is raised above himself and made
part of a greater life, which we may call the National Being.  He enters
into it, and it becomes in oversoul to him, and gives to all his works a
character and grandeur and a relation to the works of his fellow-
citizens, so that all he does conspires with the labors of others for
unity and magnificence of effect.  So ancient Egypt, with its temples,
sphinxes, pyramids, and symbolic decorations, seems to us as if it had
been created by one grandiose imagination;  for even the lesser
craftsmen, working on the mummy case for the tomb, had much of the
mystery and solemnity in their work which is manifest in temple and
pyramid.  So the city States in ancient Greece in their day were united
by ideals to a harmony of art and architecture and literature.  Among
the Athenians at their highest the ideal of the State so wrought upon
the individual that its service became the overmastering passion of
life, and in that great oration of Pericles, where he told how the
Athenian ideal inspired the citizens so that they gave their bodies for
the commonwealth, it seems to have been conceived of as a kind of
oversoul, a being made up of immortal deeds and heroic spirits,
influencing the living, a life within their life, molding their spirits
to its likeness.  It appears almost as if in some of these ancient
famous communities the national ideal became a kind of tribal deity,
that began first with some great hero who died and was immortalized by
the poets, and whose character, continually glorified by them, grew at
last so great in song that he could not be regarded as less than a demi-
god.  We can see in ancient Ireland that Cuchulain, the dark sad man of
the earlier tales, was rapidly becoming a divinity, a being who summed
up in himself all that the bards thought noblest in the spirit of their
race;  and if Ireland had a happier history no doubt one generation of
bardic chroniclers after another would have molded that half-mythical
figure into the Irish ideal of all that was chivalrous, tender, heroic,
and magnanimous, and it would have been a star to youth, and the thought
of it a staff to the very noblest.  Even as Cuchulain alone at the ford
held it against a host, so the ideal would have upheld the national soul
in its darkest hours, and stood in many a lonely place in the heart.
The national soul in a theocratic State is a god;  in an aristocratic
age it assumes the character of a hero;  and in a democracy it becomes a
multitudinous being, definite in character if the democracy is a real
social organism. But where the democracy is only loosely held together
by the social order, the national being is vague in character, is a mood
too feeble to inspire large masses of men to high policies in times of
peace, and in times of war it communicates frenzy, panic, and delirium.

None of our modern States create in us such an impression of being
spiritually oversouled by an ideal as the great States of the ancient
world.  The leaders of nations too have lost that divine air that many
leaders of men wore in the past, and which made the populace rumor them
as divine incarnations.  It is difficult to know to what to attribute
this degeneration.  Perhaps the artists who create ideals are to blame.
In ancient Ireland, in Greece, and in India, the poets wrote about great
kings and heroes, enlarging on their fortitude of spirit, their chivalry
and generosity, creating in the popular mind an ideal of what a great
man was like;  and men were influenced by the ideal created, and strove
to win the praise of the bards and to be recrowned by them a second time
in great poetry. So we had Cuchulain and Oscar in Ireland;  Hector of
Troy, Theseus in Greece;  Yudisthira, Rama, and Arjuna in India, all
bard-created heroes molding the minds of men to their image.  It is the
great defect of our modern literature that it creates few such types.
How hardly could one of our modern public men be made the hero of an
epic.  It would be difficult to find one who could be the subject of a
genuine lyric.  Whitman, himself the most democratic poet of the modern
world, felt this deficiency in the literature of the later democracies,
and lamented the absence of great heroic figures. The poets have dropped
out of the divine procession, and sing a solitary song.  They inspire
nobody to be great, and failing any finger-post in literature pointing
to true greatness our democracies too often take the huckster from his
stall, the drunkard from his pot, the lawyer from his court, and the
company promoter from the director's chair, and elect them as
representative men.  We certainly do this in Ireland.  It is--how many
hundred years since greatness guided us?  In Ireland our history begins
with the most ancient of any in a mythical era when earth mingled with
heaven.  The gods departed, the half-gods also, hero and saint after
that, and we have dwindled down to a petty peasant nationality, rural
and urban life alike mean in their externals.  Yet the cavalcade, for
all its tattered habiliments, has not lost spiritual dignity.  There is
still some incorruptible spiritual atom in our people.  We are still in
some relation to the divine order;  and while that uncorrupted spiritual
atom still remains all things are possible if by some inspiration there
could be revealed to us a way back or forward to greatness, an Irish
polity in accord with national character.


III.


In formulating an Irish polity we have to take into account the change
in world conditions.  A theocratic State we shall have no more.  Every
nation, and our own along with them, is now made up of varied sects, and
the practical dominance of one religious idea would let loose
illimitable passions, the most intense the human spirit can feel.  The
way out of the theocratic State was by the drawn sword and was lit by
the martyr's fires.  The way back is unthinkable for all Protestant
fears or Catholic aspirations. Aristocracies, too, become impossible as
rulers.  The aristocracy of character and intellect we may hope shall
finally lead us, but no aristocracy so by birth will renew its authority
over us.  The character of great historic personages is gradually
reflected in the mass.  The divine right of kings is followed by the
idea of the divine right of the people, and democracies finally become
ungovernable save by themselves.  They have seen and heard too much of
pride and greatness not to have become, in some measure, proud and
defiant of all authority except their own.  It may be said the history
of democracies is not one to fill us with confidence, but the truth is
the world has yet to see the democratic State, and of the yet untried we
may think with hope.  Beneath the Athenian and other ancient democratic
States lay a substratum of humanity in slavery, and the culture, beauty,
and bravery of these extraordinary peoples were made possible by the
workers in an underworld who had no part in the bright civic life.

We have no more a real democracy in the world today.  Democracy in
politics has in no country led to democracy in its economic life. We
still have autocracy in industry as firmly seated on its throne as
theocratic king ruling in the name of a god, or aristocracy ruling by
military power;  and the forces represented by these twain, superseded
by the autocrats of industry, have become the allies of the power which
took their place of pride.  Religion and rank, whether content or not
with the subsidiary place they now occupy, are most often courtiers of
Mammon and support him on his throne.  For all the talk about democracy
our social order is truly little more democratic than Rome was under the
Caesars, and our new rulers have not, with all their wealth, created a
beauty which we could imagine after-generations brooding over with
uplifted heart.

SERMON LVI.

STRONG CHRISTIANS.

(Twenty-first Sunday after Trinity.)
EPHESIANS vi. 10.

"My brethren, be strong in the Lord,"

A weak and cowardly soldier is a pitiful object, but a weak-kneed,
cowardly Christian is still more so. S. Paul told the Ephesian
Christians to be _strong_ in the Lord, and in these days especially we
need strong Christians, strong Churchmen. I do not mean that
we want men to presume on their strength, to repeat the sin of the Pharisee
of old, and talk of their righteousness, or condemn their neighbours.
I do not mean that we must be noisy and violent, and quarrelsome
in our religion. None of these things are a proof of strength. A giant
of power is ever the gentlest, having the hand of steel in the glove of
silk. So the stronger a Christian is the more humbly he bears himself.

A writer of the day says very truly, "if the world wants iron dukes,
and iron men, God wants iron saints." Much of the unbelief and indifference
of these days is caused by the weakness of professing Christians. When
a man can point to a soldier of Christ who has deserted his post, and
fled from the battle, it is no wonder that he hesitates to join an army
which has such weak and cowardly warriors.
When the enemies of the Church can show us unprincipled Churchmen, who
have no firm faith in the doctrines which they profess, who have
drifted away from their moorings, and, like ships without ballast, are
blown about by every wind, it is not surprising if these enemies
still remain outside the Church. Can we marvel that some should sneer
at Holy Baptism, when they can name those who have tried to wash out the
sign of the Cross with every kind of sin? Can we marvel that they
make light of Confirmation, when we have so many who have been confirmed
going back from holiness, forsaking their Church, and joining
the world, the flesh, and the devil? Or need we wonder that they neglect
the Blessed Sacrament of the Altar, and try to keep others from it,
if they lay their finger on the Communicant whose life is bad? My
brothers, we need to set our own house in order, we of the Church are as
a city on a hill, men look at us, and woe unto us if the light within
us be darkness. What we want are strong Christians to set a strong
example. Teaching, argument, may do much with a careless world, but the
example of a consistent, holy, life will do far more.

Brethren, be ye strong, first of all, in _Faith_. Be quite sure that
you _do_ believe; be quite clear _what_ you believe, and then show
your faith _strongly_. Our faith is not built on sand, but on a rock.
It is not founded on such words as--perhaps, I suppose, I hope. No,
the Creed of the Church says, _I believe_. There are crowds of
people outside who will all tell you what they do _not_ believe. There
is the infidel who says he does not believe in God. There is the man who
says he believes in God, but not in the Blessed Trinity. There is
one who tells you that he believes in Jesus Christ, but not as God,
only as Man.

Then comes another and declares that he does not believe in eternal
punishment.

One says that he does not believe we are born again in Holy Baptism, another
will not believe in the Baptism of infants. Some will not believe in
Bishops, and others refuse to credit any sect but their own. But
the Church says plainly and boldly, I _believe_. The Faith once delivered
to the saints, the Faith which Jesus taught to the first Apostles,
the Faith which S. Paul preached, and for which he died, is ours. Let
us hold fast to it in unity of spirit, in the bond of peace, and
in righteousness of life. Be ready to give a reason for the faith that
is in you. There are mysteries which none of us can understand, but,
thank God, we can believe. And we must show this faith of ours not
only by believing in the doctrines of the Church, but by putting
our full trust and confidence in the mercies of God. Where is the use of
talking about our faith if we are poor, fearful, unhappy people? If
our faith is not strong enough to let us trust God for to-morrow
it is not worth having.

It is the melancholy, over-anxious, troubled about many things
Christian, who is always anticipating misfortunes, who does so much harm.
Brethren, trust God all in all, be strong in the Lord, be strong in your
faith.

Next, brethren, be ye strong in _your language_. Now, do not misunderstand
me. I do not mean that you are to copy those who, in pulpit and on platform,
declare their favourite views and theories in words of the most violent
and intemperate kind. But I _do_ mean that when the time comes to
speak out, you should speak boldly and plainly.
Let the world know that you _do_ believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and
the doctrines of His Church, and that you are not ashamed to own
it.
Never be afraid to show your colours, or to declare the name of your
Leader. When Lord Nelson was going into his last battle, they wished
him to cover, or lay aside, the glittering orders of victory which adorned
his breast. But the hero refused, and perhaps his refusal cost him
his life. Well, let us never hide the marks of our profession as
Christian soldiers, even if we have to suffer, let men know that we bear
about in our bodies the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh! we want
these strong Christians in shop, and factory, in omnibus, and
railway carriage, in soldiers' barrack-room, in schoolboys' dormitory,
in servants' bed-chamber,--Christians who speak out strongly for
Jesus.

Again, brethren, be strong in _self-sacrifice for Jesus_. We must not
forget our cross. The surest mark of a Christian is a willingness to deny
ourselves for the sake of others. Let me tell you the stories of two
simple servant maids who, under very different circumstances, gave up
their life for the life of little children. The scene of the first story
was in America, nearly five and twenty years ago; that of the second
story was in London, only a few weeks since. A young English girl
had taken service in a family going to America, and her special duty
was the charge of the three motherless children of her widowed master.
One cold day in December they all embarked in a great Mississippi
steamboat bound for the far North West. Day after day they steamed through
the swollen river, where pieces of ice were already showing, past dark
and gloomy shores, lined with lonely forest. One night, near the
end of their voyage, the girl had seen her charges, two girls and a boy,
safely asleep, and now, when all the other passengers had retired,
she was reading in the saloon. Suddenly the silence was broken by a
terrible cry, which told the frightened passengers that the steamboat was
on fire. The captain instantly ran the vessel for the shore, and ordered
the people to escape as best they could, without waiting to dress. The
faithful servant had called her master, and then carried the
children from their beds to the crowded deck.

Quickly the blazing vessel touched the muddy bank, and the father
placed the shivering children and the servant on one of the huge branches
which overhung the river. A few other passengers, fifteen in all, reached
other branches, the rest went down with the burning steamer. But
what hope could there be for the children, just snatched from their
warm beds, and now exposed unclad to the bitter December night? Their
father had no clothing to cover them, and, as he spoke of another steamer
which would pass by in the morning, he had little hope of his children
holding out. Then the servant maid declared that if possible she would
keep the little ones alive. Clinging in the darkness to the icy branches,
she stripped off her own clothing, all but the thin garment next her
body, and wrapped up the shivering children. Thus they passed the long,
dark hours of that terrible night. I know not what prayers were spoken,
but I know that Jesus, who suffered cold and hunger for our sakes,
made that servant girl strong to sacrifice herself. During the night
one of the children died, but in the morning, when the first light
came, the little girls were still alive.
Then, when her work was done, the freezing limbs of the brave girl relaxed
their hold, a deadly sleep fell on her, and she dropped silently
into the rushing river below. Presently a steamer came in sight, and the
two children, for whom she had died, were safe.

Only quite lately there was a great fire in London. In the burning house
were a husband and wife, their children, and a servant maid. The
parents perished in the flames, but the servant appeared to the sight
of the crowd below, framed, as it were, in fire, at a blazing
window.
Loudly shouted the excited crowd, bidding the girl to save herself.

But she was thinking of others. Throwing a bed from the window, she
signalled to those below to stretch it out. Then, darting into the burning
room, she brought one of the children of her employers, and dropped it
safely on to the bed. Fiercer grew the flames, but again this humble
heroine faced the fire, and saved the other children. Then the spectators,
loudly cheering, begged her to save herself. But her strength was
exhausted, she faltered in her jump, and was so injured that death
soon came to her.

My brothers, no one will raise a grand monument to Emma Willoughby, and
Alice Ayres, who passed, the one through water, the other through fire,
for Christ's dear sake. But surely in God's great Home of many mansions
their names are written in letters of gold.

Lastly, brethren, be strong in _fighting the battle_. You know that
life is a great battle-field. And you know, too, that as Christians
yours is the _good_ fight. Put on, then, the whole armour of God.
Do not trust to any newly-invented weapons. Take the same armour
in which S. Paul, and many another veteran soldier of Christ, fought and
conquered. "We wrestle not against flesh and blood." No, our battle
is with Satan and his hosts. One of old says that we must strip if we
would wrestle with the devil. We must cast aside every weight, strip
us of all the hinderances, and worldly cares, which weigh us down; and
be clad in the spiritual armour of God. Hold fast to the old armour,
the shield of faith, the breastplate of righteousness, the sword of the
Spirit. Be strong in the strength of the Holy Ghost, for your strength
shall be made perfect in weakness. Stand, as Christ's soldiers, side by
side, shoulder to shoulder, with your faces to the foe. When Napoleon
retreated from Moscow, and the main body had passed by, the mounted
Cossacks hovered around the stragglers, who, overcome by cold and
fatigue, could only force their way slowly through the snow. Many
a weary Frenchman thus fell beneath the Cossack lances. Presently a band
of these fierce horsemen saw a dark object on the snowy plain, and
dashed towards it. They were face to face with a small body of French
who had formed into a square to resist them, their bayonets at the
charge. The Cossacks rode round and round, seeking for a weak place for
attack, and finding none. At length they charged the square, and found
it formed of frozen corpses. The Frenchmen had died whilst waiting for
the foe. Brothers, may death find us fighting the good fight.
"Be strong in the Lord."

SERMON LVII.

THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS.

(Twenty-second Sunday after Trinity.)
S. MATTHEW xviii. 28,
"Pay me that thou owest."

The Gospel shows us in a parable a picture of a king who called his
servants to a reckoning. That King is the Lord God Almighty. We are His
servants, and He calls us to account every day. All we possess we owe as
a debt to God. Day by day He gives us our food, and supplies our wants
by His good Providence.

On every hour of our existence is written, Jehovah-Jireh--The Lord will
provide. Day by day God takes care of us, and shields us from danger. He
provides for our souls as well as for our bodies, and gives us the
ministry of His Church, the grace of His Sacraments, the teaching of His
Bible, the blessing of prayer. And all these blessings are a debt which
we owe to God, and He is ever saying to us. "Pay Me that thou owest."
And how can we pay?
By doing what God bids us. By using our gifts in His service. We can give
Him _worship_, not only worship in Church, but in all our everyday life
and work, "doing all unto the glory of God." We can show forth His praise
not only with our lips but in our lives. God has given us hands and brains
to work with; and He says, "Pay Me that thou owest." That means that
we must do good work, honest work, unselfish work, because we owe our
power to labour as a debt to God. He has given us a voice, and He says,
"Pay Me that thou owest." That means that we must use our voice to
sing God's praise, to maintain His honour, to spread the truth of
His Gospel, to comfort His people. We must devote our voice to speaking
good words, and never defile it with vile language in the devil's
service, because it is a debt which we owe to God. So with our health,
our strength, our time, for all these God reckons with His servants. If
we are misusing these things, wasting our time, devoting our strength
to mere selfish, worldly pursuits, neglecting our opportunities, terrible
will be the final day of reckoning when God will say for the last
time, "Pay Me that thou owest."
We read in the parable of to-day's Gospel that one of the king's servants
owed him ten thousand talents. This was so vast a sum that no man could
possibly pay it. In that servant we see ourselves. We owe a debt to
God which we cannot pay. The wages of sin is death, and as sinners we
are like the servant, we owe a vast debt, and we have not wherewithal
to pay. Nothing that we can do will put away our sin, or excuse us
from the penalty. That servant in the parable prayed his lord to have
patience, saying that he would pay all. We may think foolishly that we
can pay the debt of old sins by leading good lives now. But it may not
be. If a man owes money he is not excused the debt because now he pays
his way. Our sins are the great debt of ten thousand talents. God's
law is written in the ten commandments, and we have broken them a
thousand times. We cannot pay. The king in his mercy forgave the servant.
So God forgives us through the merits and mediation of Jesus Christ. He
paid the debt which we cannot pay, He bore our sins, the sin of
Adam born with us, and the actual sins of our lives, on the Cross of
Calvary. His Blood was the price which paid the debt. When we are
baptised we are baptised into His Death, and the sin of Adam is forgiven.
When we repent truly of a sin of our own committing, we are made partakers
in the benefits of His Passion. When we come devoutly to Holy
Communion our sinful bodies are made clean by Christ's Body, and
our souls washed in His most Precious Blood, and our sins are
forgiven us.

But the parable not only teaches us our need of pardon, and the fulness
of God's mercy, but the necessity of forgiving each other. The
servant who owed the vast debt was pardoned. Yet he would not forgive
his fellow servant who owed him a trifling sum. The story of the
unmerciful servant is being repeated everywhere around us.
We see men crying to God for mercy--poor, sinful, debtors, bankrupts, who
have not wherewithal to pay. Every day we are obliged to confess that
we owe a debt to God, and cannot pay it. And every day the Lord of mercy
and love forgives us our debt. Yes, but only on certain conditions. God
has Himself taught us to say, Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our
debtors. If we are unmerciful servants, refusing to our fellow men
what God gives us, He will treat us as He treated the servant of the
parable. He had forgiven him all, but now He withdraws His pardon, and
delivers him to the tormentors. A man with an unforgiving spirit,
who nourishes hatred and revenge against a neighbour, is already
possessed by a devil, and his future must be spent in the society
of devils.

And now bring the matter home to your own individual cases.

Are you nourishing bitter, unforgiving feelings against anyone who has
injured you? Is there anyone whose success annoys you, and whose
misfortune would give you pleasure? Are you thinking of some wrong done
to you, some hard word spoken about you, some unjust judgment passed
on you; and are you hoping that a day may come when the person who
has so acted, or spoken, may suffer for it? My brothers, if so, you
are just so many unmerciful servants, going through the world, and seizing
your brother-sinners by the throat, and saying--"Pay me that thou owest."
Give up calling yourselves Christians, give up asking God to pardon
you, unless you can freely and fully forgive your brethren the little
debts of this little world. A certain king of France said that nothing
smelt so sweet as the dead body of an enemy. And there are people
among us now who tell us that revenge is sweet. But it is false. To
forgive is sweet, is blessed, to hate brings only the remorse of devils.
But you tell me it is so hard to forgive sometimes. So it is, but the
greater the pardon given the greater the blessing. And remember
that forgiveness must not be measured, and stinted, but free,
and full. We must not say, "I will forgive him this once, but never
more." S. Peter asked Jesus how often he should pardon a brother's
sin, and suggested seven times.

The Jewish teachers said that after three faults men need not forgive.
S. Peter was in advance of them, but the Lord's answer must have astonished
him,--"until seventy times seven," that meant _always_, without
stint, or measure. And remember also, that forgiveness must be real and
true. We may not forgive with our lips, and bear malice in our hearts.
Such sham forgiveness is only too common. A man was lying on his sick
bed, and the clergyman by his side was urging him to be reconciled
to some one who had injured him.
After much persuasion the man said, "If I die I will forgive him, but
if I live he had better keep out of my way." And again, our forgiveness
must be willing, not forced from us. As says our greatest poet--
"the quality of mercy is not strain'd; It droppeth, as the gentle rain
from Heaven, Upon the place beneath: it is twice blessed; It blesseth
him that gives, and him that takes:
Tis mightiest in the mightiest."

A boy, nearly broken-hearted with grief, stood by his mother's coffin.

"Oh! let me see my dear mother once more, only once more," he pleaded.

A man who was about to screw down the coffin-lid thrust him aside with
brutal violence, and even struck the orphan child. Years afterwards
that man stood in the dock, to be tried for his life as a murderer.
He had no counsel to defend him, but just as the case commenced a young
barrister rose in court, and offered his services to the prisoner.

His speech for the defence was so eloquent, and so convincing, that the
prisoner was acquitted. Outside the court he turned to thank his
preserver. The stranger looked at him steadily, and said, "Do you
remember years ago, driving a poor, broken-hearted boy from his mother's
coffin with a curse and a blow? I was that boy." The man was overwhelmed
with shame and confusion. "Why have you given me my life?" he
asked. "To show you," answered the other, "that I can forgive."
Oh! my brothers, if we would find pardon for our many sins, let us ask
Him who prayed for His murderers to teach us how to forgive.

"Walk with care 'mid human spirits, Walk for blessing, not for
ban; 'Twere better never to have lived, Than lived to curse a
deathless man.

SERMON LVIII.

THE FREEDOM OF THE CITY.

(Twenty-third Sunday after Trinity.)
PHIL. iii. 20.

"Our conversation is in Heaven."

People often fail to get at the meaning of this glorious text because
they mistake that word _conversation_. Really the text means--our
citizenship is in Heaven, we belong to the Eternal City. Once S. Paul
declared with pride that he was a Roman citizen; and when the Chief
Captain in surprise declared that he himself had purchased that privilege
at a great price, the Apostle answered, "but I was free born."
Every Christian has the right to call himself a citizen of Heaven, and
to declare that he is free born. When in Holy Baptism we were born again
of water, and of the Holy Ghost, the freedom of the City was given to
us, and we were made a peculiar people, citizens of the Heavenly
Jerusalem, with all the privileges, and all the responsibilities, belonging
to such a position. Get this glorious fact into your minds, brethren,
not that you are _going_ to belong to Heaven, but that you _do_
belong to it now. Here in earth you are foreigners, strangers and pilgrims.
Here God's Israel is in exile by the waters of Babylon, Jerusalem on
high, the Heavenly Sion, is yonder, and that is home. Heaven is
yours now, if you forfeit it, if you lose your inheritance, it will
be from your own fault, your own sin.
First, I think that the fact of Heaven being our home should make
us _love_ it. Sometimes we find people who have willingly settled
in a foreign country, and done their best to forget the manners and
language of their native land. But such cases are very rare. If you
meet with an Englishman out in the Colonies, he always speaks of
the old country as home. Even colonists who have been born in our
foreign settlements, and have never seen England, speak of _going
home_ when they visit it.
In many an Australian hut, or New Zealand farm, there is a swelling
of the heart, or a glistening in the eyes, as the faded flowers
drop from the home letter. The flowers are poor enough, and dead
enough, but they once grew in a home garden, or blossomed in an
English meadow.
One of our great novelists tells us how two men in Australia walked
many weary miles only to listen to the song of the skylark. That
homely bird was precious in their eyes because it reminded them of
home. I have read that when Swiss soldiers are abroad, they are not
allowed to play, or listen to, their national airs. The music reminds
them of their cow-bells ringing among the fair valleys and mountains
of their native land, and under its influence some have deserted
the army, and some even died of grief. The German loves to talk of
the _Fatherland_, and has a word in his language which very strongly
expresses home-sickness. Talk to a Scotsman about the beauties of
Venice, or Rome, and he will tell you that you should see Edinburgh,
or Aberdeen. Speak to an Irishman of the wonders of the tropics,
and he will at once begin the praises of the Green Isle. The love
of home is the very root and core of our nature. Well, if we love
our earthly home, where we stay for so short a time, where, after
all, we are but strangers and pilgrims, we ought still more to love
Heaven, whose citizens we are. A child was once asked where his
home was, and answered with eyes full of love--"Where mother is."
Brothers, our home is where Jesus is.
Next, I think we ought to be _proud_ of being citizens of so fair
a city as Heaven. A Greek of old was proud to belong to a country
which could boast of the learning of Athens, the wisdom of Plato,
the courage of Leonidas.Yet statesmen who have devoted so much thought
to the constitution of empires and the organization of great cities, who
have studied their psychology, have almost always treated the rural
problem purely as an economic problem, as if agriculture was a business
only and not a life.

Our great nations and widespread empires arose in a haphazard fashion
out of city States and scattered tribal communities.  The fusion of
these into larger entities, which could act jointly for offence or
defense, so much occupied the thoughts of their rulers that everything
else was subordinated to it.  As a result, the details of our modern
civilizations are all wrong.  There is an intensive life at a few great
political or industrial centres, and wide areas where there is
stagnation and decay.  Stagnation is most obvious in rural districts.
It is so general that it has been often assumed that there was something
inherent in rural life which made the countryman slow in mind as his own
cattle.  But this is not so, as I think can be shown.  There is no
reason why as intense, intellectual, and progressive a life should not
be possible in the country as in the towns.  The real reason for the
stagnation is that the country population is not organized.  We often
hear the expression, "the rural community," but where do we find rural
communities?  There are rural populations, but that is altogether a
different thing. The word "community" implies an association of people
having common interests and common possessions, bound together by laws
and regulations which express these common interests and ideals, and
define the relation of the individual to the community.  Our rural
populations are no more closely connected, for the most part, than the
shifting sands on the seashore.  Their life is almost entirely
individualistic.  There are personal friendships, of course, but few
economic or social partnerships.  Everybody pursues his own occupation
without regard to the occupation of his neighbors.  If a man emigrates
it does not affect the occupation of those who farm the land all about
him.  They go on ploughing and digging, buying and selling, just as
before.  They suffer no perceptible economic loss by the departure of
half-a-dozen men from the district. A true community would, of course,
be affected by the loss of its members.  A co-operative society, if it
loses a dozen members, the milk of their cows, their orders for
fertilizers, seeds, and feeding-stuffs, receives serious injury to its
prosperity.  There is a minimum of trade below which its business cannot
fall without bringing about a complete stoppage of its work and an
inability to pay its employees.  That is the difference between a
community and an unorganized population.  In the first the interests of
the community make a conscious and direct appeal to the individual, and
the community, in its turn, rapidly develops an interest in the welfare
of the member.  In the second, the interest of the individual in the
community is only sentimental, and as there is no organization the
community lets its units slip away or disappear without comment or
action.  We had true rural communities in ancient Ireland, though the
organization was rather military than economic. But the members of a
clan had common interests.  They owned the land in common.  It was a
common interest to preserve it intact. It was to their interest to have
a numerous membership of the clan, because it made it less liable to
attack.  Men were drawn by the social order out of merely personal
interests into a larger life. In their organizations they were
unconsciously groping, as all human organizations are, towards the final
solidarity of humanity--the federation of the world.

Well, these old rural communities disappeared.  The greater
organizations of nation or empire regarded the smaller communities
jealously in the past, and broke them up and gathered all the strings of
power into capital cities.  The result was a growth of the State, with a
local decay of civic, patriotic, or public feeling, ending in
bureaucracies and State departments, where paid officials, devoid of
intimacy with local needs, replaced the services naturally and
voluntarily rendered in an earlier period.  The rural population, no
longer existing as a rural community, sank into stagnation. There was no
longer a common interest, a social order turning their minds to larger
than individual ends.  Where feudalism was preserved, the feudal chief,
if the feeling of noblesse oblige was strong, might act as a centre of
progress, but where this was lacking social decay set in.  The
difficulty of moving the countryman, which has become traditional, is
not due to the fact that he lives in the country, but to the fact that
he lives in an unorganized society.  If in a city people want an art
gallery or public baths or recreation grounds, there is a machinery
which can be set in motion;  there are corporations and urban councils
which can be approached.  If public opinion is evident--and it is easy
to organize public opinion in a town--the city representatives will
consider the scheme, and if they approve and it is within their power as
a council, they are able to levy rates to finance the art gallery,
recreation grounds, public gardens, or whatever else.  Now let us go to
a country district where there is no organization.  It may be obvious to
one or two people that the place is perishing and the intelligence of
its humanity is decaying, lacking some centre of life.  They want a
village hall, but how is it to be obtained? They begin talking about it
to this person or that.  They ask these people to talk to their friends,
and the ripples go out weakening and widening for months, perhaps for
years.  I know of districts where this has happened.  There are hundreds
of parishes in Ireland where one or two men want co-operative societies
or village halls or rural libraries.  They discuss the matter with their
neighbors, but find a complete ignorance on the subject, and consequent
lethargy. There is no social organism with a central life to stir.
Before enthusiasm can be kindled there must be some knowledge.  The
countryman reads little, and it is a long and tedious business before
enough people are excited to bring them to the point of appealing to
some expert to come in and advise.

More changes often take place within a dozen years after a co-operative
society is first started than have taken place for a century previous.
I am familiar with a district--in the northwest of Ireland.  It was a
most wretchedly poor district.  The farmers were at the mercy of the
gombeen traders and the agricultural middlemen.  Then a dozen years ago
a co-operative society was formed. I am sure that the oldest inhabitant
would agree with me that more changes for the better for farmers have
taken place since the co-operative society was started than he could
remember in all his previous life.  The reign of the gombeen man is
over.  The farmers control their own buying and selling.  Their
organization markets for them the eggs and poultry.  It procures seeds,
fertilizers, and domestic requirements.  It turns the members' pigs into
bacon. They have a village hall and a woman's organization.  They sell
the products of the women's industry.  They have a co-operative band,
social gatherings, and concerts.  They have spread out into half-a-dozen
parishes, going southward and westward with their propaganda, and in
half-a-dozen years, in all that district, previously without
organization, there will be well-organized farmers' guilds,
concentrating in themselves the trade of their district, having meeting-
places where the opinion of the members can be taken, having a
machinery, committees, and executive officers to carry out whatever may
be decided on:  and having funds, or profits, the joint property of the
community, which can be drawn upon to finance their undertakings.  It
ought to be evident what a tremendous advantage it is to farmers in a
district to have such organizations, what a lever they can pull and
control.  I have tried to indicate the difference between a rural
population and a rural community, between a people loosely knit together
by the vague ties of a common latitude and longitude, and people who are
closely knit together in an association and who form a true social
organism, a true rural community, where the general will can find
expression and society is malleable to the general will.  I assert that
there never can be any progress in rural districts or any real
prosperity without such farmers' organizations or guilds.  Wherever
rural prosperity is reported of any country inquire into it, and it will
be found that it depends on rural organization.  Wherever there is rural
decay, if it is inquired into, it will be found that there was a rural
population but no rural community, no organization, no guild to promote
common interests and unite the countrymen in defense of them.


VI.


It is the business of the rural reformer to create the rural community.
It is the antecedent to the creation of a rural civilization.  We have
to organize the community so that it can act as one body.  It is not
enough to organize farmers in a district for one purpose only--in a
credit society, a dairy society, a fruit society, a bacon factory, or in
a co-operative store.  All these may be and must be beginnings; but if
they do not develop and absorb all rural business into  their
organization they will have little effect on character.  No true social
organism will have been created.  If people unite as consumers to buy
together they only come into contact on this one point; there is no
general identity of interest.  If co-operative societies are specialized
for this purpose or that--as in Great Britain or on the Continent--to a
large extent the limitation of objects prevents a true social organism
from being formed.  The latter has a tremendous effect on human
character.  The specialized society only develops economic efficiency.
The evolution of humanity beyond its present level depends absolutely on
its power to unite and create true social organisms.  Life in its higher
forms is only possible because of the union of myriads of tiny lives to
form a larger being, which manifests will, intelligence, affection, and
the spiritual powers. The life of the amoeba or any other unicellular
organism is low compared with the life in more complex organisms, like
the ant or bee. Man is the most highly developed living organism on the
globe;  yet his body is built up of innumerable cells, each of which
might be described as a tiny life in itself.  But they are built up in
man into such a close association that what affects one part of the body
affects all.  The pain which the whole being feels if a part is wounded,
if one cell in the human body is hurt, should prove that to the least
intelligent.  The nervous system binds all the tiny cells together, and
they form in this totality a being infinitely higher, more powerful,
than the cells which compose it. They are able to act together and
achieve things impossible to the separated cells.  Now humanity today
is, to some extent, like the individual cells.  It is trying to unite
together to form a real organism, which will manifest higher qualities
of life than the individual can manifest.  But very few of the organisms
created by society enable the individual to do this.  The joint-stock
companies or capitalist concerns which bring men together at this work
or that do not yet make them feel their unity.  Existence under a common
government effects this still less.  Our modern states have not yet
succeeded in building up that true national life where all feel the
identity of interest;  where the true civic or social feeling is
engendered and the individual bends all his efforts to the success of
the community on which his own depends;  where, in fact, the ancient
Greek conception of citizenship is realized, and individuals are created
who are ever conscious of the identity of interest between themselves
and their race.  In the old Greek civilizations this was possible
because their States were small, indeed their ideal State contained no
more citizens than could be affected by the voice of a single orator.
Such small States, though they produced the highest quality of life
within themselves, are no longer possible as political entities.  We
have to see whether we could not, within our widespread nationalities,
create communities by economic means, where something of the same sense
of solidarity of interest might be engendered and the same quality of
life maintained.  I am greatly ambitious for the rural community.  But
it is no use having mean ambitions.  Unless people believe the result of
their labors will result in their equaling or surpassing the best that
has been done elsewhere, they will never get very far.  We in Ireland
are in quest of a civilization. It is a great adventure, the building up
of a civilization--the noblest which could be undertaken by any persons.
It is at once the noblest and the most practical of all enterprises, and
I can conceive of no greater exaltation for the spirit of man than the
feeling that his race is acting nobly;  and that all together are
performing a service, not only to each other, but to humanity and those
who come after them, and that their deeds will be remembered. It may
seem a grotesque juxtaposition of things essentially different in
character, to talk of national idealism and then of farming, but it is
not so.  They are inseparable.  The national idealism which will not go
out into the fields and deal with the fortunes of the working farmers is
false dealism.  Our conception of a civilization must include, nay, must
begin with the life of the humblest, the life of the average man or
manual worker, for if we neglect them we will build in sand.  The
neglected classes will wreck our civilization.  The pioneers of a new
social order must think first of the average man in field or factory,
and so unite these and so inspire them that the noblest life will be
possible through their companionship.  If you will not offer people the
noblest and best they will go in search of it.  Unless the countryside
can offer to young men and women some satisfactory food for soul as well
as body, it will fail to attract or hold its population, and they will
go to the already overcrowded towns;  and the lessening of rural
production will affect production in the cities and factories, and the
problem of the unemployed will get still keener.  The problem is not
only an economic problem.  It is a human one.  Man does not live by cash
alone, but by every gift of fellowship and brotherly feeling society
offers him.  The final urgings of men and women are towards humanity.
Their desires are for the perfecting of their own life, and as Whitman
says, where the best men and women are there the great city stands,
though it is only a village.  It is one of the illusions of modern
materialistic thought to suppose that as high a quality of life is not
possible in a village as in a great city, and it ought to be one of the
aims of rural reformers to dissipate this fallacy, and to show that it
is possible--not indeed to concentrate wealth in country communities as
in the cities--but that it is possible to bring comfort enough to
satisfy any reasonable person, and to create a society where there will
be intellectual life and human interests.  We will hear little then of
the rural exodus.  The country will retain and increase its population
and productiveness. Like attracts like.  Life draws life to itself.
Intellect awakens intellect, and the country will hold its own tug for
tug with the towns.

Now it may be said I have talked a long while round and round the rural
community, but I have not suggested how it is to be created. I am coming
to that.  It really cannot be created.  It is a natural growth when the
right seed is planted.  Co-operation is the seed. Let us consider
Ireland.  Twenty-five years ago there was not a single co-operative
society in the country.  Individualism was the mode of life.  Every
farmer manufactured and sold as seemed best in his eyes.  It was
generally the worst possible way he could have chosen.  Then came Sir
Horace Plunkett and his colleagues, preaching co-operation.  A creamery
was established here, an agricultural society there, and having planted
the ideas it was some time before the economic expert could decide
whether they were planted in fertile soil.  But that question was
decided many years ago.  The co-operative society, started for whatever
purpose originally, is an omnivorous feeder, and it exercises a magnetic
influence on all agricultural activities;  so that we now have societies
which buy milk, manufacture and sell butter, deal in poultry and eggs,
cure bacon, provide fertilizers, feeding-stuffs, seeds, and machinery
for their members, and even cater for every requirement of the farmer's
household.  This magnetic power of attracting and absorbing to
themselves the various rural activities which the properly constituted
co-operative societies have, makes them develop rapidly, until in the
course of a decade or a generation there is created a real social
organism, where the members buy together, manufacture together, market
together, where finally their entire interests are bound up with the
interests of the community.  I believe in half a century the whole
business of rural Ireland will be done co-operatively.  This is not a
wild surmise, for we see exactly the same process going on in Denmark,
Germany, Italy, and every country where the co-operative seed was
planted.  Let us suppose that in a generation all the rural industries
are organized on co-operative lines, what kind of a community should we
expect to find as the result?  How would its members live?  What would
be their relations to one another and their community?  The agricultural
scientist is making great discoveries.  The mechanical engineer goes
from one triumph to another.  The chemist already could work wonders in
our fields if there was a machinery for him to work through.  We cannot
foretell the developments in each branch, but we can see clearly that
the organized community can lay hold of discoveries and inventions which
the individual farmer cannot.  It is little for the co-operative society
to buy expensive threshing sets and let its members have the use of
them, but the individual farmer would have to save a long time before he
could raise several hundred pounds. The society is a better buyer than
the individual.  It can buy things the individual cannot buy.  It is a
better producer also. The plant for a creamery is beyond the individual
farmer;  but our organized farmers in Ireland, small though they are,
find it no trouble to erect and equip a creamery with plant costing two
thousand pounds.  The organized rural community of the future will
generate its own electricity at its central buildings, and run not only
its factories and other enterprises by this power, but will supply light
to the houses of its members and also mechanical power to run machinery
on the farm.  One of our Irish societies already supplies electric light
for the town it works in.  In the organized rural community the eggs,
milk, poultry, pigs, cattle, grain, and wheat produced on the farm and
not consumed, or required for further agricultural production, will
automatically be delivered to the co-operative business centre of the
district, where the manager of the dairy will turn the milk into butter
or cheese, and the skim milk will be returned to feed the community's
pigs.  The poultry and egg department will pack and dispatch the fowl
and eggs to market. The mill will grind the corn and return it ground to
the member, or there may be a co-operative bakery to which some of it
may go.  The pigs will be dealt with in the abattoir, sent as fresh pork
to the market or be turned into bacon to feed the members.  We may be
certain that any intelligent rural community will try to feed itself
first, and will only sell the surplus.  It will realize that it will be
unable to buy any food half as good as the food it produces. The
community will hold in common all the best machinery too expensive for
the members to buy individually.  The agricultural laborers will
gradually become skilled mechanics, able to direct threshers, binders,
diggers, cultivators, and new implements we have no conception of now.
They will be members of the society, sharing in its profits in
proportion to their wages, even as the farmer will in proportion to his
trade.  The co-operative community will have its own carpenters, smiths,
mechanics, employed in its workshop at repairs or in making those things
which can profitably be made locally.  There may be a laundry where the
washing--a heavy burden for the women--will be done:  for we may be sure
that every scrap of power generated will be utilized.  One happy
invention after another will come to lighten the labor of life.  There
will be, of course, a village hall with a library and gymnasium, where
the boys and girls will be made straight, athletic, and graceful. In the
evenings, when the work of the day is done, if we went into the village
hall we would find a dance going on or perhaps a concert. There might be
a village choir or band.  There would be a committee-room where the
council of the community would meet once a week; for their enterprises
would have grown, and the business of such a parish community might
easily be over one hundred thousand pounds, and would require constant
thought.  There would be no slackness on the part of the council in
attending, because their fortunes would depend on their communal
enterprises, and they would have to consider reports from the managers
and officials of the various departments.  The co-operative community
would be a busy place. In years when the society was exceptionally
prosperous, and earned larger profits than usual on its trade, we should
expect to find discussions in which all the members would join as to the
use to be made of these profits:  whether they should be altogether
divided or what portion of them should be devoted to some public
purpose. We may be certain that there would be animated discussions,
because a real solidarity of feeling would have arisen and a pride in
the work of the community engendered, and they would like to be able to
outdo the good work done by the neighboring communities.

One might like to endow the village school with a chemical laboratory,
another might want to decorate the village hall with reproductions of
famous pictures, another might suggest removing all the hedges and
planting the roadsides and lanes with gooseberry bushes, currant bushes,
and fruit trees, as they do in some German communes today. There would
be eloquent pleadings for this or that, for an intellectual heat would
be engendered in this human hive, and there would be no more illiterates
or ignoramuses.  The teaching in the village school would be altered to
suit the new social order, and the children of the community would, we
may be certain, be instructed in everything necessary for the
intelligent conduct of the communal business.  The spirit of rivalry
between one community and another, which exists today between
neighboring creameries, would excite the imagination of the members, and
the organized community would be as swift to act as the unorganized
community is slow to act.  Intelligence would be organized as well as
business. The women would have their own associations, to promote
domestic economy, care of the sick and the children.  The girls would
have their own industries of embroidery, crochet, lace, dress-making,
weaving, spinning, or whatever new industries the awakened intelligence
of women may devise and lay hold of as the peculiar labor of their sex.
The business of distribution of the produce and industries of the
community would be carried on by great federations, which would attend
to export and sale of the products of thousands of societies.  Such
communities would be real social organisms.  The individual would be
free to do as he willed, but he would find that communal activity would
be infinitely more profitable than individual activity.  We would then
have a real democracy carrying on its own business, and bringing about
reforms without pleading to, or begging of, the State, or intriguing
with or imploring the aid of political middlemen to get this, that, or
the other done for them.  They would be self-respecting, because they
would be self-helping above all things.  The national councils and
meetings of national federations would finally become the real
Parliament of the nation;  for wherever all the economic power is
centered, there also is centered all the political power.  And no
politician would dare to interfere with the organized industry of a
nation.

There is nothing to prevent such communities being formed.  They would
be a natural growth once the seed was planted.  We see such communities
naturally growing up in Ireland, with perhaps a little stimulus from
outside from rural reformers and social enthusiasts. If this ideal of
the organized rural community is accepted there will be difficulties, of
course, and enemies to be encountered. The agricultural middleman is a
powerful person.  He will rage furiously.  He will organize all his
forces to keep the farmers in subjection, and to retain his peculiar
functions of fleecing the farmer as producer and the general public as
consumer.  But unless we are determined to eliminate the middleman in
agriculture we will fall to effect anything worth while attempting.  I
would lay down certain fundamental propositions which, I think, should
be accepted without reserve as a basis of reform.  First, that the
farmers must be organized to have complete control over all the business
connected with their industry.  Dual control is intolerable. Agriculture
will never be in a satisfactory condition if the farmer is relegated to
the position of a manual worker on his land;  if he is denied the right
of a manufacturer to buy the raw materials of his industry on trade
terms;  if other people are to deal with his raw materials, his milk,
cream, fruit, vegetables, live stock, grain, and other produce;  and if
these capitalist middle agencies are to manufacture the farmers' raw
material into butter, bacon, or whatever else are to do all the
marketing and export, paying farmers what they please on the one hand,
and charging the public as much as they can on the other hand.  The
existence of these middle agencies is responsible for a large proportion
of the increased cost of living, which is the most acute domestic
problem of modern industrial communities.  They have too much power over
the farmer, and are too expensive a luxury for the consumer.  It would
be very unbusinesslike for any country to contemplate the permanence in
national life of a class whose personal interests are always leading
them to fleece both producer and consumer alike. So the first
fundamental idea for reformers to get into their minds is that farmers,
through their own co-operative organizations, must control the entire
business connected with agriculture.  There will not be so much
objection to co-operative sale as to co-operative purchase by the
farmers.  But one is as necessary as the other.  We must bear in mind,
what is too often forgotten, that farmers are manufacturers, and as such
are entitled to buy the raw materials for their industry at wholesale
prices.  Every other kind of manufacturer in the world gets trade terms
when he buys.  Those who buy--not to consume, but to manufacture and
sell again--get their requirements at wholesale terms in every country
in the world. If a publisher of books is approached by a bookseller he
gives that bookseller trade terms, because he buys to sell again.  If I,
as a private individual, want one of those books I must pay the full
retail price.  Even the cobbler, the carpenter, the solitary artist, get
trade terms.  The farmer, who is as much a manufacturer as the
shipbuilder, or the factory proprietor, is as much entitled to trade
terms when he buys the raw materials for his industry.  His seeds,
fertilizers, ploughs, implements, cake, feeding-stuffs are the raw
materials of his industry, which he uses to produce wheat, beef, mutton,
pork, or whatever else;  and, in my opinion, there should be no
differentiation between the farmer when he buys and any other kind of
manufacturer.  Is it any wonder that agriculture decays in countries
where the farmers are expected to buy at retail prices and sell at
wholesale prices?  We must not, to save any friction, sell the rights of
farmers.  The second proposition I lay down is that this necessary
organization work among the farmers must be carried on by an organizing
body which is entirely controlled by those interested in agriculture--
farmers and their friends. To ask the State or a State Department to
undertake this work is to ask a body influenced and often controlled by
powerful capitalists, and middle agencies which it should be the aim of
the organization to eliminate.  The State can, without obstruction from
any quarter, give farmers a technical education in the science of
farming;  but let it once interfere with business, and a horde of angry
interests set to work to hamper and limit by every possible means and
compromises on matters of principle, where no compromise ought to be
permitted, are almost inevitable.

A voluntary organizing body like the Irish Agricultural Organization
Society, which was the first to attempt the co-operative organization of
farmers in these islands, is the only kind of body which can pursue its
work fearlessly, unhampered by alien interests.  The moment such a body
declares its aims, its declaration automatically separates the sheep
from the goats, and its enemies are outside and not inside.  The
organizing body should be the heart and centre of the farmers' movement,
and if the heart has its allegiance divided, its work will be poor and
ineffectual, and very soon the farmers will fall away from it to follow
more single-hearted leaders.  No trades union would admit
representatives of capitalist employers on its committee, and no
organization of farmers should allow alien or opposing interest on their
councils to clog the machine or betray the cause.  This is the best
advice I can give reformers.  It is the result of many years' experience
in this work.  An industry must have the same freedom of movement as an
individual in possession of all his powers.  An industry divided against
itself can no more prosper than a household divided against itself.  By
the means I have indicated the farmers can become the masters of their
own destinies, just as the urban workers can, I think, by steadfastly
applying the same principles, emancipate themselves.  It is a battle in
which, as in all other battles, numbers and moral superiority united are
irresistible;  and in the Irish struggle to create a true democracy
numbers and the power of moral ideas are with the insurgents.


VII.


It would be a bitter reproach on the household of our nation if there
were any unconsidered, who were left in poverty and without hope and
outside our brotherhood.  We have not yet considered the agricultural
laborer--the proletarian of the countryside.  His is, in a sense, the
most difficult problem of any.  The basis of economic independence in
his industry is the possession of land, and that is not readily to be
obtained in Ireland.  The earth does not upheave itself from beneath the
sea and add new land to that already above water in response to our need
for it.  Yet I would not pass away from the rural laborer without,
however inadequately, indicating some curves in his future evolution.
These laborers are not in Ireland half so numerous as farmers, for it is
a country of small holdings, where the farmer and his family are
themselves laborers. Labor is badly paid, and, owing to the lack of
continuous cropping of the land, it is often left without employment at
seasons when employment is most needed.  No class which is taken up
today and dropped tomorrow will in modern times remain long in a
country. Employers often act as if they thought labor could be taken up
and laid down again like a pipe and tobacco.  None have contributed so
to thicken the horde of Irish exiles as the rural laborers.  Three
hundred thousand of them in less than my lifetime have left the fields
of Ireland for the factories of the new world.  Yet I can only rejoice
if Irishmen, who are badly dealt with in their motherland, find an
ampler life and a more prosperous career in another land. A wage of ten
or eleven shillings a week will bind none but the unaspiring lout to his
country.  But I would like to make Ireland a land which, because of the
human kindness in it, few would willingly leave.  The agricultural
proletarian, like all other labor, should be organized in a national
union.  That is bound to come.  But the agricultural laborer should, I
think, no more than labor in the cities, make the raising of wages his
main or only object.  He should rather strive to make himself
economically independent;  or, in the alternative, seek for status by
integration into the co-operative communities of farmers by becoming a
member, and by pressing for permanent employment by the community rather
than casual employment by the individual.  Agricultural labor
undoubtedly will have to struggle for better remuneration.  Yet it has
to be remembered that agriculture is a protean industry.  It is not like
mining, where the colliery produces coal and nothing but coal, and where
the miners have a practical monopoly of supply.  If miners are
dissatisfied with wages and are well organized they can enforce their
terms, and the colliery owners may almost be indifferent, because they
can charge the increased cost of working to the public. But agriculture,
as I said, is protean and changes its forms perpetually.  If tillage
does not pay this year, next year the farmer may have his land in grass.
He reverts to the cheapest methods of farming when prices are low, or
labor asks a wage which the farmer believes it would be unprofitable to
pay.  In this way pressure on the farmer for extra wages might result in
two men being employed to herd cows where a dozen men were previously
employed at tillage.  The farmer cannot easily--as the mine-owner--
unload his burden on the general public by the increase of prices. There
are many difficulties, which seem almost insoluble, if we propose to
ourselves to integrate the rural laborer into the general economic life
of the country by making him a partner in the industry he works on.  But
what I hope for most is first that the natural evolution of the rural
community, and the concentration of individual manufacture, purchase and
sale, into communal enterprises, will lead to a very large co-operative
ownership of expensive machinery, which will necessitate the communal
employment of labor.  If this takes place, as I hope it will, the rural
laborer, instead of being a manual worker using primitive implements,
will have the status of a skilled mechanic employed permanently by a
cooperative community. He should be a member of the society which employs
him, and in the division of profits receive in proportion to his wage,
as the farmers in proportion to their trade.

A second policy open to agricultural labor when it becomes organized is
the policy of collective farming.  This I believe will and ought to
receive attention in the future.  Co-operative societies of agricultural
laborers in Italy, Roumania, and elsewhere have rented land from
landowners.  They then reallotted the land among themselves for
individual cultivation, or else worked it as a true co-operative
enterprise with labor, purchase and sale all communal enterprises, with
considerable benefit to the members.  We can well understand a landowner
not liking to divide his land into small holdings, with all the
attendant troubles which in Ireland beset a landlord with small farmers
on his estate.  But I think landowners in Ireland could be found who
would rent land to a co-operative society of skilled laborers who
approached the owner with a well-thought-out scheme.  Oh, speak not
on't!

_Lydia_. You that have saved me from mine enemy--
_Wal_. I pray you to forget it.

_Lydia_. From a foe More dire than he that putteth life in peril--
_Wal_. Sweet Lydia, I beseech you spare me.

_Lydia_. No!
I will not spare you.--You have brought me to safety, You whom I fear worse
than that baleful foe.

[Rises to go.]
_Wal_. [Kneeling and snatching her hand.] Lydia!

_Lydia_. Now, make thy bounty perfect. Drop My hand. That posture which
dishonours thee, Quit!--for 'tis shame on shame to show respect Where
we do feel disdain. Throw ope thy gate And let me pass, and never seek
with me, By look, or speech, or aught, communion more!

_Wal_. Thou saidst thou lovedst me?

_Lydia_. Yes! when I believed My tongue did take of thee its last
adieu, And now that I do know it--for be sure It never bids adieu
to thee again-- Again, I tell it thee! Release me, sir!
Rise!--and no hindrance to my will oppose.
That would be free to go.

_Wal_. I cannot lose thee!

_Lydia_. Thou canst not have me!

_Wal_. No!

_Lydia_. Thou canst not. I Repeat it.--Yet I'm thine--thine every way,
Except where honour fences!--Honour, sir, Not property of gentle blood
alone; Of gentle blood not always property!
Thou'lt not obey me. Still enforcest me!
Oh, what a contradiction is a man!

What in another he one moment spurns, The next--he does himself
complacently!

_Wal_. Wouldst have me lose the hand that holds my life?

_Lydia_. Hear me and keep it, if thou art a man!
I love thee--for thy benefit would give The labour of that hand!--wear out
my feet Rack the invention of my mind!--the powers Of my heart in one
volition gather up!
My life expend, and think no more I gave Than he who wins a priceless
gem for thanks!

For such goodwill canst thou return me wrong?

_Wal_. Yet, for awhile, I cannot let thee go.
Propound for me an oath that I'll not wrong thee!
An oath, which, if I break it, will entail Forfeit of earth and heaven.
I'll take it--so Thou stay'st one hour with me.

_Lydia_. No!--Not one moment!
Unhand me, or I shriek!--I know the summons Will pierce into the street,
and set me free!
I stand in peril while I'm near thee! She Who knows her danger, and
delays escape, Hath but herself to thank, whate'er befalls!
Sir, I may have a woman's weakness, but I have a woman's resolution, too,
And that's a woman's strength!
One moment more!--
_Wal_. Lo! Thou art free to go!

[Rises and throws himself distractedly into a chair.]
[LYDIA approaches the door--her pace slackens--she pauses with her
hand upon the lock--turns, and looks earnestly on WALLER.]
_Lydia_. I have a word To say to thee; if by thy mother's honour,
Thou swear'st to me thou wilt not quit thy seat.
_Wal_. I swear as thou propound'st to me.
_Lydia_. [After a pause, bursting into tears.] Oh, why-- Why have
you used me thus? See what you've done!
Essayed to light a guilty passion up, And kindled in its stead a
holy one!
For I do love thee! Know'st thou not the wish To find desert doth
bring it oft to sight Where yet it is not? so, for substance, passes
What only is a phantasm of our minds!
I feared thy love was guilty--yet my wish To find it honest, stronger
than my fear, My fear with fatal triumph overthrew!
Now hope and fear give up to certainty, And I must fly thee--yet
must love thee still!

_Wal_. Lydia! by all--
_Lydia_. I pray you hear me out!
Was 't right? was 't generous? was 't pitiful?
One way or other I might be undone:
To love with sin--or love without a hope!
_Wal_. Yet hear me, Lydia!-- 
_Lydia_. Stop! I'm undone!
A maid without a heart--robbed of the soil, Wherein life's hopes
and wishes root and spring, And thou the foe that did me so much
hate, And vowed me so much love!--but I forgive thee!
Yea, I do bless thee!
[Rushing up and sinking at his feet.]
Recollect thy oath!-- Or in thy heart lodged never germ of honour,
But 'tis a desert all!
[She kisses his hand--presses it to her heart, and kisses it again.]
Farewell then to thee!

[Rises.]
Mayst thou be happy. [Going.]
_Wal_. Wouldst ensure the thing Thou wishest?
[She moves towards the door with a gesture that prohibits further
converse.]
Stop! [She continues to move on.] Oh, sternly resolute! [She still
moves.] I mean thee honour!
[She stops and turns towards him.]
Thou dost meditate-- I know it--flight. Give me some pause for
thought, But to confirm a mind almost made up.
If in an hour thou hearest not from me, then Think me a friend far
better lost than won!It is necessary for the creation of citizens,
for the building up of a noble national life, that the social order
should be so organized that this sense of interdependence will be
constantly felt.  It is also necessary for the preservation of the
physical health and beauty of our race that our people should live more
in the country and less in the cities.  I believe it would be an
excellent thing for humanity if its civilization could be based on rural
industry mainly and not on urban industry.  More and more men and women
in our modern civilization drift out of Nature, out of sweet air,
health, strength, beauty, into the cities, where in the third generation
there is a rickety population, mean in stature, vulgar or depraved in
character, with the image of the devil in mind and matter more than the
image of Deity.  Those who go like it at first;  but city life is like
the roll spoken of by the prophet, which was sweet in the mouth but
bitter in the belly. The first generation are intoxicated by the new
life, but in the third generation the cord is cut which connected them
with Nature, the Great Mother, and life shrivels up, sundered from the
source of life.  Is there any prophet, any statesman, any leader, who
will--as Moses once led the Israelites out of the Egyptian bondage--
excite the human imagination and lead humanity back to Nature, to
sunlight, starlight, earth-breath, sweet air, beauty, gaiety, and
health?  Is it impossible now to move humanity by great ideas, as
Mahomet fired his dark hosts to forgetfulness of life;  or as Peter the
Hermit awakened Europe to a frenzy, so that it hurried its hot chivalry
across a continent to the Holy Land?  Is not the earth mother of us all?
Are not our spirits clothed round with the substance of earth?  Is it
not from Nature we draw life?  Do we not perish without sunlight and
fresh air?  Let us have no breath of air and in five minutes life is
extinct.  Yet in the cities there is a slow poisoning of life going on
day by day.  The lover of beauty may walk the streets of London or any
big city and may look into ten thousand faces and see none that is
lovely.  Is not the return of man to a natural life on the earth a great
enough idea to inspire humanity?  Is not the idea of a civilization amid
the green trees and fields under the smokeless sky alluring?  Yes, but
men say there is no intellectual life working on the land.  No
intellectual life when man is surrounded by mystery and miracle! When
the mysterious forces which bring to birth and life are yet
undiscovered;  when the earth is teeming with life, and the dumb brown
lips of the ridges are breathing mystery!  Is not the growth of a tree
from a tiny cell hidden in the earth as provocative of thought as the
things men learn at the schools?  Is not thought on these things more
interesting than the sophistries of the newspapers?  It is only in
Nature, and by thought on the problems of Nature, that our intellect
grows to any real truth and draws near to the Mighty Mind which laid the
foundations of the world.

Our civilizations are a nightmare, a bad dream.  They have no longer the
grandeur of Babylon or Nineveh.  They grow meaner and meaner as they
grow more urbanized.  What could be more depressing than the miles of
poverty-stricken streets around the heart of our modern cities?  The
memory lies on one "heavy as frost and deep almost as life."  It is
terrible to think of the children playing on the pavements;  the
depletion of vitality, with artificial stimulus supplied from the
flaring drink-shops.  The spirit grows heavy as if death lay on it while
it moves amid such things.  And outside these places the clouds are
flying overhead snowy and spiritual as of old, the sun is shining, the
winds are blowing, the fields are green, the forests are murmuring leaf
to leaf, but the magic that God made is unknown to these poor folk.  The
creation of a rural civilization is the greatest need of our time.  It
may not come in our days, but we can lay the foundations of it,
preparing the way for the true prophet when he will come.  The fight now
is not to bring people back to the land, but to keep those who are on
the land contented, happy, and prosperous.  And we must begin by
organizing them to defend what is left to them;  to take back, industry
by industry, what was stolen from them.  We must organize the country
people into communities, for without some kind of communal life men hold
no more together than the drifting sands by the seashore.  There is a
natural order in which men have instinctively grouped themselves from
the dawn of time.  It is as natural to them to do so as it is for bees
to build their hexagonal cells.  If we read the history of civilization
we will find people in every land forming little clans co-operating
together.  Then the ambition of rulers or warriors breaks them up;  the
greed of powerful men puts an end to them.  But, whether broken or not,
the moment the rural dweller is left to himself he begins again, with
nature prompting him, to form little clans--or nations rather--with his
fellows, and it is there life has been happiest.  We did this in ancient
Ireland.  The baronies whose names are on Irish land today and the
counties are survivals of these old co-operative colonies, where the men
owned the land together and elected their own leaders, and formed their
own social order and engendered passionate loyalties and affections.  It
was so in every land under the sun.  It was so in ancient India and in
ancient Peru. The European farmers, and we in Ireland along with them,
are beginning again the eternal task of building up a civilization in
nature--the task so often disturbed, the labor so often destroyed. And
it is with the hope that we in Ireland will build truly and nobly that I
have put together these thoughts on the rural community.


VIII.


We may now consider the proletarian in our cities.  The worker in our
modern world is the subject of innumerable unapplied doctrines. The
lordliest things are predicated of him, which do not affect in the least
the relationship with him of those who employ his labor. The ancient
wisdom, as it is recounted to him on God's day, assures him of his
immortality:  that the divine signature is over all his being, that in
some way he is co-related with the Eternal, that he is fashioned in a
likeness to It.  He is a symbol of God Himself. He is the child of
Deity.  His life is Its very breath.  The Habitations of Eternity await
his coming, and the divine event to which he moves is the dwelling
within him of the Divine Mind, so that Deity may become his very self.
So proud a tale is told of him, and when he wakens on the morrow after
the day of God he finds that none will pay him reverence.  He, the
destined comrade of Seraphim and Cherubim, is herded with other Children
of the King in fetid slum and murky alleys, where the devil hath his
many mansions, where light and air, the great purifiers, are already
dimmed and corrupted before they do him service.  He is insecure in the
labor by which he lives.  He works today, and tomorrow he may be told
there is no further need for him, and his fate and the fate of those
dependent on him are not remembered by those who dismissed him.  If he
dies, leaving wife or children, the social order makes but the most
inhuman provision for them.  How ghastly is the brotherhood of the State
for its poor the workhouses declare, and our social decrees which turn
loving-kindness into official acts and make legal and formal what should
be natural impulse and the overflow of the heart.  So great a disparity
exists between spiritual theory and the realities of the social order
that it might almost be said that spiritual theory has no effect at all
on our civilization, and its inhuman contours seem softened at no point
where we could say, "Here the Spirit has mastery.  Indeed, a heap, or
none!

I'd wager on the heap!

_Sir Wil_. Ay!--Do you think These discords, as in the musicians' art,
Are subtle servitors to harmony?
That all this war's for peace? This wrangling but A masquerade
where love his roguish face Conceals beneath an ugly visor!--Well?

_True_. Your guess and my conceit are not a mile Apart. Unlike to other
common flowers, The flower of love shews various in the bud; 'Twill
look a thistle, and 'twill blow a rose!
And with your leave I'll put it to the test; Affect myself, for thy fair
daughter, love-- Make him my confidant--dilate to him Upon the
graces of her heart and mind, Feature and form--that well may comment
bear-- Till--like the practised connoisseur, who finds A gem of
heart out in a household picture The unskilled owner held so cheap
he grudged Renewal of the chipped and tarnished frame, But values
now as priceless--I arouse him Into a quick sense of the worth of that
Whose merit hitherto, from lack of skill, Or dulling habit of
acquaintanceship, He has not been awake to.

_Con_. [Without.] Neighbour Wildrake!

_Sir Wil_. Hither they come. I fancy well thy game!
O to be free to marry Widow Green!
I'll call her hence anon--then ply him well.

[SIR WILLIAM goes out.]
_Wild_. [Without.] Nay, neighbour Constance!

_True_. He is high in storm.

[Enter WILDRAKE and CONSTANCE.]
_Wild_. To Lincolnshire, I tell thee.

_Con_. Lincolnshire!
What, prithee, takes thee off to Lincolnshire?

_Wild_. Too great delight in thy fair company.

_True_. Nay, Master Wildrake, why away so soon?
You are scarce a day in town!--Extremes like this, And starts of purpose,
are the signs of love.
Though immatured as yet. [Aside.]
_Con_. He's long enough In town! What should he here? He's lost in
town:
No man is he for concerts, balls, or routs!
No game he knows at cards, save rare Pope Joan!
He ne'er could master dance beyond a jig; And as for music, nothing to
compare To the melodious yelping of a hound, Except the braying of
his huntsman's horn!
Ask _him_ to stay in town!

_Sir Wil_. [Without.] Hoa, Constance!

_Con_. Sir!-- Neighbour, a pleasant ride to Lincolnshire!
Good-bye!

_Sir Wil_.

[Without.] Why, Constance!

_Con_. Coming, sir. Shake hands!
Neighbour, good-bye! Don't look so woe-begone; 'Tis but a two-days' ride,
and thou wilt see Rover, and Spot, and Nettle, and the rest Of thy dear
country friends!

_Sir Wil_. [Without.] Constance! I say.

_Con_. Anon!--Commend me to the gentle souls, And pat them for me!--Will
you, neighbour Wildrake?

_Sir Wil_. [Without.] Why, Constance! Constance!

_Con_. In a moment, sir!
Good-bye!--I'd cry, dear neighbour--if I could!
Good-bye!--A pleasant day when next you hunt!
And, prithee, mind thy horse don't balk his leap!
Good-bye!--and, after dinner, drink my health!
"A bumper, sirs, to neighbour Constance!"--Do!-- And give it with a
speech, wherein unfold My many graces, more accomplishments, And virtues
topping either--in a word, How I'm the fairest, kindest, best of
neighbours!

[They go out severally.--TRUEWORTH trying to pacify WILDRAKE--CONSTANCE
laughing.]

ACT II.

SCENE I.--A Room in Sir William's House.

[Enter TRUEWORTH and WILDRAKE.]
_Wild_. Nay, Master Trueworth, I must needs be gone!
She treats me worse and worse! I am a stock, That words have none to
pay her. For her sake I quit the town to-day. I like a jest, But hers
are jests past bearing. I am her butt, She nothing does but practise on!
A plague!-- Fly her shafts ever your way?

_True_. Would they did!

_Wild_. Art mad?--or wishest she should drive thee so?

_True_. Thou knowest her not.

_Wild_. I know not neighbour Constance?
Then know I not myself, or anything Which as myself I know!

_True_. Heigh ho!

_Wild_. Heigh ho!
Why what a burden that for a man's song!
Would fit a maiden that was sick for love.
Heigh ho! Come ride with me to Lincolnshire, And turn thy "Heigh ho!"
into "hilly ho!"
_True_. Nay, rather tarry thou in town with me.
Men sometimes find a friend's hand of avail, When useless proves their
own. Wilt lend me thine?

_Wild_. Or may my horse break down in a steeple-chase!

_True_. A steeple-chase. What made thee think of that?
I'm for the steeple--not to ride a race, Only to get there!--nor alone,
in sooth, But in fair company.

_Wild_. Thou'rt not in love!

_True_. Heigh ho!

_Wild_. Thou wouldst not marry!

_True_. With your help.

_Wild_. And whom, I prithee?

_True_. Gentle Mistress Constance!

_Wild_. What!--neighbour Constance?--Never did I dream That mortal man
would fall in love with her. [Aside.] In love with neighbour Constance!--I
feel strange At thought that she should marry!--[Aside.] Go to church
With neighbour Constance! That's a steeple-chase I never thought of. I
feel very strange!
What seest in neighbour Constance?

_True_. Lovers' eyes See with a vision proper to themselves; Yet
thousand eyes will vouch what mine affirm.
First, then, I see in her the mould express Of woman--stature,
feature, body, limb-- Breathing the gentle sex we value most, When most
'tis at antipodes with ours!

_Wild_. You mean that neighbour Constance is a woman.
Why, yes; she is a woman, certainly.

_True_. So much for person. Now for her complexion.
What shall we liken to her dainty skin?

Her arm, for instance?

--
_Wild_. Snow will match it.

_True_. Snow!
It is her arm without the smoothness on't; Then is not snow transparent.
'Twill not do.

_Wild_. A pearl's transparent!

_True_. So it is, but yet Yields not elastic to the thrilled touch!
I know not what to liken to her arm Except her beauteous fellow! Oh!
to be The chosen friend of two such neighbours!

_Wild_. Would His tongue would make a halt. He makes too free With neighbour
Constance! Can't he let her arms Alone! I trust their chosen friend
Will ne'er be he!

I'm vexed. [Aside.]
_True_. But graceful things Grow doubly graceful in the graceful use!
Hast marked her ever walk the drawing-room?

_Wild_. [Snappishly.] No.

_True_. No! Why, where have been your eyes?

_Wild_. In my head!
But I begin to doubt if open yet. [Aside.]
_True_. Yet that's a trifle to the dance; down which She floats as though
she were a form of air; The ground feels not her foot, or tells not
on't; Her movements are the painting of the strain, Its swell, its
fall, its mirth, its tenderness!
Then is she fifty Constances!--each moment Another one, and each,
except its fellow, Without a peer! You have danced with her!

_Wild_. I hate To dance! I can't endure to dance!--Of course You have
danced with her?

_True_. I have.

_Wild_. You have?

_True_. I have.

_Wild_. I do abominate to dance!--could carve Fiddlers and company! A
dancing man To me was ever like a dancing dog!

Save less to be endured.--Ne'er saw I one But I bethought me of the
master's whip.

_True_. A man might bear the whip to dance with her!

_Wild_. Not if I had the laying of it on!

_True_. Well; let that pass. The lady is the theme.

_Wild_. Yes; make an end of it!--I'm sick of it. [Aside.]
_True_. How well she plays the harpsichord and harp!
How well she sings to them! Whoe'er would prove The power of song, should
hear thy neighbour sing, Especially a love-song!

_Wild_. Does she sing Such songs to thee?

_True_. Oh, yes, and constantly.
For such I ever ask her.

_Wild_. Forward minx! [Aside.] Maids should not sing love-songs to
gentlemen!
Think'st neighbour Constance is a girl to love?

_True_. A girl to love?--Ay, and with all her soul!

_Wild_. How know you that?

_True_. I have studied close the sex.

_Wild_. You town-rakes are the devil for the sex! [Aside.]
_True_. Not your most sensitive and serious maid I'd always take for
deep impressions. Mind The adage of the bow. The pensive brow I
have oft seen bright in wedlock, and anon O'ercast in widowhood;
then, bright again.
Ere half the season of the weeds was out; While, in the airy one, I
have known one cloud Forerunner of a gloom that ne'er cleared up--
So would it prove with neighbour Constance. Not On superficial
grounds she'll ever love; But once she does, the odds are ten to
one Her first love is her last!
_Wild_. I wish I ne'er Had come to town! I was a happy man Among
my dogs and horses. [Aside.] Hast thou broke Thy passion to
her?

_True_. Never.

_Wild_. Never?

_True_. No.
I hoped you'd act my proxy there.

_Wild_. I thank you.
_True_. I knew 'twould be a pleasure to you.
_Wild_. Yes; A pleasure!--an unutterable pleasure!
_True_. Thank you! You make my happiness your own.
_Wild_. I do.

_True_. I see you do. Dear Master Wildrake!
Oh, what a blessing is a friend in need!
You'll go and court your neighbour for me?

_Wild_. Yes.
_True_. And says she "nay" at first, you'll press again?
_Wild_. Ay, and again!
_True_. There's one thing I mistrust--yea, most mistrust, That of
my poor deserts you'll make too much.
_Wild_. Fear anything but that.
_True_. 'Twere better far You slightly spoke of them.
_Wild_. You think so?

_True_. Yes.
Or rather did not speak of them at all.

_Wild_. You think so?
_True_. Yes.

_Wild_. Then I'll not say a word About them.
_True_. Thank you! A judicious friend Is better than a zealous: you
are both!
I see you'll plead my cause as 'twere your own; Then stay in town,
and win your neighbour for me; Make me the envy of a score of men
That die for her as I do. Make her mine, And when the last "Amen!"
declares complete The mystic tying of the holy knot, And 'fore the
priest a blushing wife she stands, Be thine the right to claim the
second kiss She pays for change from maidenhood to wifehood.
[Goes out.] 
_Wild_. Take that thyself! The first be mine, or none!
A man in love with neighbour Constance! Never Dreamed I that such
a thing could come to pass!
Such person, such endowments, such a soul!
I never thought to ask myself before If she were man or woman!
Suitors, too, Dying for her! I'll e'en make one among 'em!
Woo her to go to church along with him, And for my pains the privilege
to take The second kiss? I'll take the second kiss, And first one
too--and last! No man shall touch Her lips but me. I'll massacre
the man That looks upon her! Yet what chance have I With lovers of
the town, whose study 'tis To please your lady belles!--who dress,
walk, talk, To hit their tastes--what chance, a country squire Like
me? Yet your true fair, I have heard, prefers The man before his
coat at any time; And such a one may neighbour Constance be.
I'll show a limb with any of them! Silks I'll wear, nor keep my
legs in cases more.
I'll learn to dance town-dances, and frequent Their concerts! Die
away at melting strains, Or seem to do so--far the easier thing,
And as effective quite; leave naught undone To conquer neighbour
Constance.

[Enter LASH.] 
_Lash_. Sir.

_Wild_. Well, sir?
_Lash_. So please you, sir, your horse is at the door.
_Wild_. Unsaddle him again and put him up.
And, hark you, get a tailor for me, sir-- The rarest can be
found.
_Lash_. The man's below, sir, That owns the mare your worship thought
to buy.

_Wild_. Tell him I do not want her, sir.
_Lash_. I vow You will not find her like in Lincolnshire.
_Wild_. Go to! She's spavined.

_Lash_. Sir!
_Wild_. Touched in the wind.
_Lash_. I trust my master be not touched in the head!
I vow, a faultless beast! [Aside.]
_Wild_. I want her not, And that's your answer. Go to the hosier's,
sir, And bid him send me samples of his gear, Of twenty different
kinds.

_Lash_. I will, sir.--Sir!

_Wild_. Well, sir.
_Lash_. Squire Brush's huntsman's here, and says His master's kennel
is for sale.

_Wild_. The dogs Are only fit for hanging!--
_Lash_. Finer bred--
_Wild_. Sirrah, if more to me thou talkest of dogs, Horses, or aught
that to thy craft belongs, Thou mayst go hang for me!--A cordwainer
Go fetch me straight--the choicest in the town.
Away, sir! Do thy errands smart and well As thou canst crack thy
whip! [LASH goes out.] Dear neighbour Constance, I'll give up horses,
dogs, and all for thee!

[Goes out.] 

SCENE II.
[Enter WIDOW GREEN and LYDIA.]
_W. Green_. Lydia, my gloves. If Master Waller calls, I shall be
in at three; and say the same To old Sir William Fondlove. Tarry
yet!-- What progress, think you, make I in the heart Of fair young
Master Waller? Gods, my girl, It is a heart to win and man as
well!
How speed I, think you? Didst, as I desired, Detain him in my absence
when he called, And, without seeming, sound him touching me?
_Lydia_. Yes.
_W. Green_. And effects he me, or not? How guess you?
What said he of me? Looked he balked, or not, To find me not at
home? Inquired he when I would be back, as much he longed to see
me?
What did he--said he? Come!--Is he in love, Or like to fall into
it? Goes well my game, Or shall I have my labour for my pains?
_Lydia_. I think he is in love.--O poor evasion!
O to love truth, and yet not dare to speak it! [Aside.]
_W. Green_. You think he is in love--I'm sure of it.
As well have asked you has he eyes and ears, And brain and heart
to use them? Maids do throw Trick after trick away, but widows know
To play their cards! How am I looking, Lydia?
_Lydia_. E'en as you ever look.

_W. Green_. Handsome, my girl?
Eh? Clear in my complexion? Eh?--brimful Of spirits? not too much
of me, nor yet Too little?--Eh?--A woman worth a man?
Look at me, Lydia! Would you credit, girl, I was a scarecrow before
marriage?

_Lydia_. Nay!--
_W. Green_. Girl, but I tell thee "yea." That gown of thine-- And
thou art slender--would have hung about me!
There's something of me now! good sooth, enough!
Lydia, I'm quite contented with myself; I'm just the thing, methinks,
a widow should be.
So, Master Waller, you believe, affects me?
But, Lydia, not enough to hook the fish; To prove the angler's
skill, it must be caught; And lovers, Lydia, like the angler's
prey-- Which, when he draws it near the landing-place, Takes warning
and runs out the slender line, And with a spring perchance jerks
off the hold When we do fish for them, and hook, and think They are
all but in the creel, will make the dart That sets them free to
roam the flood again!

_Lydia_. Is't so?
_W. Green_. Thou'lt find it so, or better luck Than many another
maid! Now mark me, Lydia:
Sir William Fondlove fancies me. 'Tis well!
I do not fancy him! What should I do With an old man?--Attend upon
the gout, Or the rheumatics! Wrap me in the cloud Of a darkened
chamber--'stead of shining out, The sun of balls, and routs, and
gala-days!
But he affects me, Lydia; so he may!
Now take a lesson from me--Jealousy Had better go with open, naked
breast, Than pin or button with a gem. Less plague, The plague-spot;
that doth speedy make an end One way or t'other, girl. Yet, never
love Was warm without a spice of jealousy.
Thy lesson now--Sir William Fondlove's rich, And riches, though
they're paste, yet being many, The jewel love we often cast away
for.
I use him but for Master Waller's sake.
Dost like my policy?

_Lydia_. You will not chide me?
_W. Green_. Nay, Lydia, I do like to hear thy thoughts, They are
such novel things--plants that do thrive With country air! I marvel
still they flower, And thou so long in town! Speak freely,
girl!
_Lydia_. I cannot think love thrives by artifice, Or can disguise
its mood, and show its face.
I would not hide one portion of my heart Where I did give it and
did feel 'twas right, Nor feign a wish, to mask a wish that was,
Howe'er to keep it. For no cause except Myself would I be loved.
What were't to me, My lover valued me the more, the more He saw me
comely in another's eyes, When his alone the vision I would show
Becoming to? I have sought the reason oft, They paint Love as a
child, and still have thought, It was because true love, like
infancy, Frank, trusting, unobservant of its mood, Doth show its
wish at once, and means no more!

_W. Green_.I do not deny that the strike is a powerful weapon in the hand of labor,
but it is one with which it is difficult to imagine labor dealing a
knock-out blow to the present social order.  I believe in an orderly
evolution of society, at least in Ireland, and doubt whether by
revolution people can be raised to an intelligence, a humanity, or a
nobility of nature greater than they formerly possessed.  Nobody can
remain standing on tiptoe.  After a little time disorder subsides and
some strong man leads the inevitable reaction.  In France people
revolted against a decadent monarchy, and in a dozen years they had a
new emperor.  In England they beheaded a king as a protest against
tyranny, and they got a dictator in his place who took little or no
account of parliaments; and finally a second Charles, rather worse than
the first, came to the throne.  The everlasting battle between light and
darkness goes on stubbornly all the time, and the gain of the Hosts of
Light is inch by inch.  Extraordinary efforts, impetuous charges, which
seem to win for a moment, too often leave the attacking force tired and
exhausted, and the forces of reaction set in and overwhelm them. I am
the friend of revolt if people cannot stand the conditions they live
under, and if they can see no other way.  It is better to be men than
slaves.  The French Revolution was a tragic episode in history, but when
people suffer intolerably and are insulted in their despair it is
inevitable blood will be shed.  One can only say with Whitman:

Pale, silent, stern, what could I say to that long-accrued retribution?
Could I wish humanity different Could I wish the people made of wood and
stone, or that there be no justice in destiny or time?

There is danger in revolution if the revolutionary spirit is much more
advanced than the intellectual, and moral qualities which alone can
secure the success of a revolt.  These intellectual and moral qualities
--the skill to organize, the wisdom to control large undertakings, are
not natural gifts but the results of experience. They are evolutionary
products.  The emancipation of labor, I believe, will not be gained by
revolution but by prolonged effort, continued month by month and year by
year, in which first this thing is adventured, then that:  each
enterprise brings its own gifts of wisdom and experience, and there is
no reaction, because, instead of the violent use of certain powers, the
whole being is braced:  experience, intellect, desire, all strong and
working harmoniously, press forward and support each other, and no
enterprise is undertaken where the intellect to carry it out is not
present together with the desire.  It requires great intellectual and
moral qualities to bring about a revolution.  A rage at present
conditions is not enough.


XI.


Our farmers are already free.  The problem with them is not now
concerned with freedom, but how they may be brought into a solidarity
with each other and the nation.  To make our proletarians free and
masters of their own energies, in unison with each other and the
national being, is the most pressing labor of the many before us.
Unless there be economic freedom there can be no other freedom.  The
right of no individual to subsistence should be at the good will of any
other individual.  More than mere comfort depends on it.  There are
eternal and august rights of the soul to be safeguarded, and the
economic position of men should be protected by organization and
democratic law.  I have already discussed some of the avenues through
which workers in our time have looked with hope.  I have little belief
that these roads lead anywhere but back to the old City of Slavery,
however they may seem to curve away at the outset.  The strike, on
whatever scale, is no way to freedom, though the strike--or the threat
of it--may bring wages nearer to subsistence level.  The art of warfare
is too much in the hands of specialists for trust to be placed in
revolution. A machine-gun with a few experts behind it is worth a
thousand revolutionary workers, however maddened they may be.  Does
political action, on which so many rely, promise more?  I do not believe
it does.  I believe that to appeal to legislatures is to appeal to
bodies dominated by those interested in maintaining the present social
order, although they may act so as to redress the worst evils created by
it.  In Ireland, for this generation at least, it would be impossible to
secure in a legislative assembly majorities representative of the class
we wish to see emancipated. It may seem as if I had closed all the paths
out of the social labyrinth;  but the way to emancipation has, I think,
already been surveyed by pioneers.  A policy of social reconstruction is
practical, and needs but steady persistence for its realization.  That
policy--I refer to co-operative action--has been adopted in various
forms by workers in many countries;  and what is needed here is to study
and coordinate these applications of co-working, and to form a general
staff of labor who will, on behalf of the workers, examine the weapons
fashioned by their class elsewhere, and who will draw up a plan of
campaign as the staff of an army do previous to military operations.  It
will be found that economic action along co-operative lines has, in one
country, barriers placed before its expansion which could be set aside
by supplementing this action by methods elaborated by the genius of
workers elsewhere.

It is not my purpose here to repeat in detail methods of organization,
partly technical, which can be found fully described in many admirable
books, but rather to indicate the order of advance, the methods of
coordination of these, and their final absorption and transformation in
the national being.  There is a great deal of ignorance about things
essential to safe action.  When men are filled with enthusiasm they are
apt to apply their new principles rashly in schemes which are bound to
fall, just as over-confident soldiers will in battle sometimes rush a
position prematurely which they cannot hold, because the general line of
their army has not advanced sufficiently to support them.  Sacrifices
are made with no permanent result, and the morale of the army is
injured.

In the rural districts the advance must, in the nature of things, be
from production to consumption, and with urban workers inversely from a
control over distribution to a mastery over production.  I have often
wondered over the blindness of workers in towns in Ireland, who have
made so little use in the economic struggle of the freedom they have to
spend their wage where they choose.  They speak of this struggle as the
class war;  but they carry on the conflict most energetically where it
is most difficult for them to succeed, and hardly at all where it would
be comparatively easy for them to weaken the resources of their
antagonists.  In warfare much use is made of flanking movements, which
aim at cutting the enemy's communication with his base of supply.
Frontal attacks are dangerous.  It is equally true in economic warfare.
The strike is a frontal attack, and those they fight are entrenched
deeply with all the artillery of the State, the press, science, and
wealth on their side.  What would we think of an army which, at the
close of each week's fighting, voluntarily surrendered to the enemy the
ground, guns, ammunition, and prisoners captured through the previous
six days?  Yet this is what our workers do.  The power opposed to them
is mainly economic, though there is an intellectual basis for it also.
But the wages of the workers, little for the individual, yet a large
part of the national income if taken for the mass, goes back to
strengthen the system they protest against through purchases of domestic
requirements.  The creation of co-operative stores ought to be the first
constructive policy adopted by Irish labor.  It ought to be as much a
matter of class honor with them to be members of stores as to be in the
trade union of their craft.  The store may be regarded as the
commissariat department of the army of labor.  Many a strike has failed
of its object, and the workers have gone back defeated, because their
neglect of the commissariat made them unable to hold out for that last
week when both sides are desperate and at the end of their resources.
But it is not mainly as an aid to the strike that I advocate
democratizing the distributive trade, but because control over
distribution gives a large measure of control over production.  The
history of co-operative workshops indicates that these have rarely been
successful unless worked in conjunction with distributive stores.  The
retail trader is not sympathetic with co-operative production.  As the
cat is akin to the tiger, so is the individual trader--no matter on how
small a scale he operates--a kinsman of the great autocrats of industry,
and he will sympathize with his economic kinsmen and will retail their
goods in preference to those produced in co-operative workshops.

The control of agencies of distribution by the workers at a certain
stage in their development enables them to start productive enterprises
with more safety and less expense in regard to advertisement than the
capitalist can.  In fact the co-operative store, properly organized,
creates a tied trade for the output of co-operative workshops.  It is a
source of financial aid to these, and will invest funds in them and
assist trades unions gradually to transform themselves into co-operative
guilds of producers which should be their ultimate ideal.  As I shall
show later on, the store will enable the urban worker to enter into
intimate alliance with the rural producer.  Their interests are really
identical.  In every town in Ireland efforts should be made to
democratize the distributive agencies, and the workers will have many
allies in this, driven by the increased cost of living to search out the
most economical agencies of purchase.  If the proletarians are not in a
majority in Ireland--a nation where the farmers are the most numerous
single class--they certainly form the majority in the cities;  and the
co-operative store, while admitting to membership all who will apply,
ought to be and would be sympathetic with the efforts of labor to
emancipate itself, and would be a powerful lever in its hands.  As the
stores increase in number, an analysis of their trade will reveal year
by year in what directions co-operative production of particular
articles may safely be attempted.  More and more by this means the
producing power and the capital at the disposal of the worker will be
placed at the service of democracy.  The first steps are the most
difficult. In due time the workers will have educated a number of their
members, and will have attached to themselves men of proved capacity to
be the leaders in fresh enterprises, manufactures of one kind or
another, democratic banking institutions, all supporting each other and
leaning on each other and playing into each other's hands.

The extent to which this may be carried, and the opportunities for
making Ireland a co-operative democracy, I shall presently explain.  I
do not regard any of these forms of co-operative organization as ideal
or permanent.  The co-operative movement must be regarded rather as a
great turning movement on the part of humanity towards the ideal.  The
co-operative organizations now being formed in Ireland and over the
world will, I am certain, persist and outlast this generation and the
next, and will grow into vaster things than we dream of;  but the really
important change they will bring about in the minds of men will be
psychological. Men will become habituated to the thought of common
action for the common good.  To get so far in civil life is a great
step.  Today our civil life is a tangle of petty personal interests and
competitions.  The co-operative movement is, as I have said, a vast
turning movement of humanity heavenwards, or, at least, to bring them
face round to the Delectable City.  When this psychological change takes
place the democratic associations--which have grown up haphazard as the
workers found it easiest to create them--will be changed and remodeled
by men who will have the mass of people behind them in their efforts to
make a more majestic structure of society for the enlargement of the
lives and spirits of men.


XII.


We have descended from the national soul to the material plane, and we
must still continue here for a time, because the doctrine that a sane
mind can only manifest through a sane body is as true in reference to
the State as to the individual, and necessitates a study of social
fabrics.  The soul creates tendencies and habits in the body, and the
body repeats these vibrations automatically and infects the soul again
with its old desires.  Our religious hatreds created sectarian
organizations, and these react again in the national soul, which would,
I believe, willingly pass away from that mood, but finds itself
incarnated in organizations habituated to sectarian action, and its
energies are turned into these hateful channels unwillingly.  So a
drunkard who now realizes that intemperance is rotting his nature is
conquered by the appetites he set up in the past, and with his soul in
rebellion he yet satisfies the craving in the body.  The individualism
in our economic life reacts on the national being, and prevents
concerted action for the general good.  We have yet to create harmony of
purpose in our economic life, and to bring together interests long
separated and unmindful of each other, and make them realize that their
interests are identical.  It is one of the commonplaces of economics
that urban and rural interests are identical:  but in truth the townsman
and the countryman have always acted as if their interests were opposed,
and they know very little of each other.  I never like to let these
commonplaces of economics pass my frontiers unless they give the
countersign to the challenge for truth.  People declare in the same way
that the interests of labor and capital are identical, and implore them
not to fight with one another.  But the truth of that statement seems to
me to depend largely on whether capital owns labor or labor owns
capital.  As an abstract proposition it is one of the economic formulae
I would leave instructions at my frontiers to have detained until
further inquiry as to its antecedents.  All these statements may be
true, but to make them operative, to give them a dynamic rather than a
static character, we must convince people they are true by close
argument and still more so by realistic illustration.

To bring about a high nobility in the national soul we must make harmony
in its economic life, and the two main currents of economic energy--the
agricultural and urban--must be made to flow so that their action will
not defeat each other.  Let us take the farmer first.  How ought he to
wish to see life in the towns develop? Should he wish for the triumph of
labor or capital:  the success of the co-operative movement, the triumph
of the multiple shop or the private trader, of guilds of workers or
autocrats of industry? Economic desires generally depend on the nature
of the industry men are engaged in.  The jeweler would probably desire
the permanence of the social order which created most wealthy people who
could afford to buy his wares.  The farmer's industry, if we consider it
closely, is the most democratic of any in its application to society.
The produce of the farm, in its final distribution, is divided into
portions more or less equal and conditioned in quantity by the digestive
powers of an individual.  The wealthiest millionaire cannot eat more
bread, butter, meat, vegetables, or fruit than the manual laborer would
eat if the latter could afford to get such things.  In fact he would eat
rather less, because the manual worker has a much better appetite,
indeed requires more food.  It appears to be the interest of the farmer
to support any urban movement whose object it is to see that every
worker in the towns is remunerated so that he, his wife, and his
children can procure as much food as they require.  Any underpaid worker
in the towns is a wrong to the farmer--a willing customer who yet cannot
buy.  If there is, let us say, a sum of fifteen hundred pounds a week to
be paid away in a town, it is to the interest of farmers that that sum
should be paid to a thousand men at the rate of thirty shillings a week
rather than to fifty men at thirty pounds a week.  In the case of the
workers a greater part of the money will be spent on food.  But if fifty
men have thirty pounds a week each, it will be spent to satisfy the
appetites of a much smaller number of people. A larger proportion will
be spent on furniture, pictures, motor-cars and what not.  It may be
spent so as to give some kind of employment, but it will not be a
division of the money so much to the interests of the farmer.  However
we analyze the problem it appears to be to the farmer's interests to
support democratic movements in the cities, certainly up to the point
where every worker in the towns has a wage which enables himself and his
family to eat all they require for health.  It is also to the interests
of farmers to support any system of distribution of goods which
eliminates the element of profit in the sale.  After the farmer gets his
price it is to his interests that food should be increased in cost as
little as possible when the article is transferred to the consumer,
because if farm produce has to bear too many profits it will be
expensive for the consumer, and there will be a lessened demand. So
associations like the co-operative stores, which aim at the elimination
of the element of profit in distribution, should be approved of by the
farmers.

Now we come to the townsman again.  Is it his interest to support the
farmers in his own country or to regard the world as his farm? The
argument on the economic side is not so clear, but it is, I think, just
as sound.  If agriculture is neglected in any country the rural
population pour into the towns.  The country becomes a fountain of
blackleg labor.  Rural labor has no traditions of trade unionism, and
takes any work at any price.  There are fewer people engaged in
producing food, and its cost rises.  Food must be imported from abroad;
and there is national insecurity, as in times of war their is always the
danger of the trade routes overseas being blocked by an enemy, and this
again has to be provided against by heavy expenditure for militarist
purposes.  The farther away an army is from its base the more insecure
is its position, and the same thing is true in the industrial life of
nations.  International trade there must always be.  It is one of the
means by which the larger solidarity of humanity is to be achieved;  but
that will never come about until there is a nobler and more human life
within the states, and we must begin by perfecting national life before
we consider empires and world federations.  So in this essay only the
national being is considered.

I desire to unite countryman and townsman in one movement, and to make
the co-operative principle the basis of a national civilization. How are
we to prevent them fighting the old battle between producer and
consumer?  I think that this can best be brought about by co-operative
federations, which will act for both in manufacture, purchase, and sale,
and with which both rural and urban associations will find it to their
interest to be affiliated.  Now the townsman cannot to any extent supply
food for his stores by buying farms. To control agricultural production
in that way would necessitate a financial operation which the State
would shrink from, and which it would be impossible for urban
cooperators to finance.  We had better make up our minds to let farmers
be syndicalists, controlling entirely the processes of agricultural
production themselves.  They will do it better than the townsman could,
more efficiently and more economically.  They will never be able, with
the world in competition, to put up prices artificially.  How can the
two main divisions of national life be brought together in a national
solidarity?  We can find an answer if we remember that farmers are not
only producers but consumers.  They do not go about naked in the fields.
They require clothes, furniture, tea, coffee, sugar, oil, soap, candles,
pots and pans--in fact the farmer's wife needs nearly all the things the
townsman's wife needs, except that she purchases a little less food.
But even here modern conditions are driving the farmer to buy food in
the shops rather than to produce it for himself on the farm.  Country
bread is made in the bakery more and more.  Butter, cheese, and bacon
are made in factories, and the farmer's tendency is to buy what bread,
bacon, and butter he requires, selling the milk to be made into butter
to a creamery, the grain to make the bread to a miller, and the pigs to
a factory. Co-operative distribution would be as advantageous to the
country as in the town.  Already in Ireland a considerable number of
farmers' societies are enlarging their objects, and are turning what
originally were purely agricultural associations into general purposes
societies, where the farmer's wife can purchase her d omestic
requirements as well as her man his machinery, fertilizers, feeding-
stuffs, and seeds.  It would be to the interest of rural societies to
deal with co-operative wholesales just as much as it is in the interest
of urban stores to do so.  It would be to their interest to take shares
in these wholesales and productive federations, and see that they cater
for the farmer's interests as much as for the townsman's.

The urban co-operators, on their side, will see the opportunities for
productive co-operation the union of rural and urban movements would
create.  They naturally will desire to employ as many people as possible
in co-operative production.  Farmers are surrounded by rings of all
kinds:  machinery manufacturers who will not sell to their societies,
manure manufacturers' alliances who keep up prices.  It is a great
industry, this of supplying the farmer with his fertilizers, feeding-
stuffs, cake, machinery.  These rural co-operative societies are
increasing in number year by year. Farmers want clothes, hats, and
boots:  and the necessary machinery for their industry is almost
entirely of urban manufacture--ploughs, binders, separators, harrows,
and many other implements of tillage. It is an immense industry and yet
to be co-operatively exploited. In the towns some progress has been made
in distribution.  But a nation depends upon its wealth producers and not
upon its consumers. Co-operators might double, treble, or quadruple the
distributive trade, and still occupy only a very secondary position in
national life unless they enter more largely upon production.  We will
never make the co-operative idea the fundamental one in the civilization
of Ireland until we employ a very large part of the population in
production.  Now we have at present, thanks to the energy of the
pioneers of agricultural co-operation, a new market opening in the
country for things which the townsman can produce.  Does not this
suggest new productive urban enterprises?  Does it not favor an
evolution of manufacturing industry, so that democratic control may
finally replace the autocratic control of the capitalist?  The trades
unions cannot do this alone by following up any of their traditional
policies.  They cannot go into trade on their own account with any
guarantee of success unless they are associated with agencies of
distribution.  But if co-operators--urban and rural--through their
federations invade more and more the field of production they will draw
to themselves the hearts and hopes of the workers and idealists in the
nation.  People are really more concerned about the making of an income
than about the spending of it.  It is a necessity of our policy if it is
to bring about the co-operative commonwealth, that co-operators must
adventure much more largely into production than they have hitherto
done.

Now let us see what we have come to. There is a country movement which
is not merely one for agricultural production.  It is rapidly taking up
the distribution of goods.  There is an urban movement not merely
concerned with distribution but entering upon production. They can be
brought into harmony if the same federations act for both branches of
the movement.  The meeting-place of the two armies should be there.  If
this policy is adopted there will gradually grow-up that unity of
purpose between country and urban workers which is the psychological
basis and necessary precedent for national action for the common good.
The policy of identity of interest must be real, and it can only be real
when the identity of interest is obvious, and it can only be made
obvious when the symbols of that unity and identity are visible day by
day in buildings and manufactures, things which are handled and seen,
and in transactions which daily bring that unity to mind.  The old
poetic ideal of a United Ireland was and could only be a geographical
expression, and not a human reality, so long as men were individualist
in economics and were competing and struggling with each other for
mastery.

By the co-operative commonwealth more is meant than a series of
organizations for economic purposes.  We hope to create finally, by the
close texture of our organizations, that vivid sense of the identity of
interest of the people in this island which is the basis of citizenship,
and without which there can be no noble national life.  Our great
nation-states have grown so large, so myriad are their populations, so
complicated are their interests, that most people in them really feel no
sense of brotherhood with each other.  We have yet to create inside our
great nation-states social and economic organizations, which will make
this identity of interest real and evident, and not seem merely a
metaphor, as it does to most people today.  The more the co-operative
movement does this for its members, the more points of contact they find
in it, the more will we tend to make out of it and its branches real
social organisms, which will become as closely knit psychically as
physically the cells in a human body are knit together.  Our Irish
diversities of interest have made us world-famous;  but such industrial
and agricultural organizations would swallow up these antagonisms, as
the serpents created by the black art of the Egyptian magicians were
swallowed up by the rod Aaron cast on the floor, and which was made
animate by the white magic of the Lord.


XIII.


It will appear to the idealist who has contemplated the heavens more
closely than the earth that the policy I advocate is one which only
tardily could be put into operation, and would be paltry and inadequate
as a basis for society.  The idealist with the Golden Age already in his
heart believes he has only to erect the Golden Banner and display it for
multitudes to array themselves beneath its folds;  therefore he
advocates not, as I do, a way to the life, but the life itself.  I am
sympathetic with idealists in a hurry, but I do not think the world can
be changed suddenly by some heavenly alchemy, as St. Paul was smitten by
a light from the overworld.  Such light from heaven is vouchsafed to
individuals, but never to nations, who progress by an orderly evolution
in society.  Though the heart in us cries out continually, "Oh, hurry,
hurry to the Golden Age," though we think of revolutions, we know that
the patient marshalling of human forces is wisdom.  We have to devise
ways and means and light every step clearly before the nation will leave
its footing in some safe if unattractive locality to plant itself
elsewhere. The individual may be reckless.  The race never can be so,
for it carries too great a burden and too high destinies, and it is only
when the gods wish to destroy or chastise a race that they first make it
mad.  Not by revolutions can humanity be perfected.  I might quote from
an old oracle, "The gods are never so turned away from man as when he
ascends to them by disorderly methods."  Our spirits may live in the
Golden Age, but our bodily life moves on slow feet, and needs the
lantern on the path and the staff struck carefully into the darkness
before us to see that the path beyond is not a morass, and the light not
a will o' the wisp.

Other critics may say I would destroy the variety of civilization by the
inflexible application of a single idea.  Well, I realize that the net
which is spread for Leviathan will not capture all the creatures of the
deep;  and the complexity of human nature is such that it is impossible
to imagine a policy, however fitting in certain spheres of human
activity, which could be applied to the whole of life.  What I think we
should aim at is making the co-operative idea fundamental in Irish life.
But to say fundamental is not to say absolute.  Always there will be
enter rising persons--men of creative minds--who will break away from
the mass and who will insist, perhaps rightly, on an autocratic control
of the enterprises they found, which were made possible alone by their
genius, and which would not succeed unless every worker in the
enterprise was malleable by their will.  It is unlikely that State
action will cease, or that any Government we may have will not respond
to the appeal of the people to do this, that, or the other for them
which they are too indolent to do for themselves, or which by the nature
of things only governments can undertake.  For a principle to be
fundamental in a country does not mean that it must be absolute.  I hope
society in Ireland will be organized that the idea of democratic control
of its economic life will so pervade Irish thought that it will be in
the body politic what the spinal column is to the body--the pillar on
which it rests, the strongest single factor in the body.  Another
illustration may make still clearer my meaning.  In a red sunsetting the
glow is so powerful that green hills, white houses, and blue waters,
touched by its light, assume a ruddy color, partly a local color, and
partly a reflected light from the sun.  Now in the same way, what is
most powerful in society multiplies images and shadows of itself, and
produces harmonies with itself which are yet not identities.  It is by a
predominating idea that nations achieve the practical unity of their
citizens, and national progress becomes possible. In the future
structure of society I have no doubt there will be elements to which the
socialist, the syndicalist, the capitalist, and the individualist will
have contributed.  By degrees it will be discovered what enterprises are
best directed by the State, by municipalities, by groups, or by
individuals.   But if the idea of democratic control is predominant,
those enterprises which are otherwise directed will yet meet the
prevalent mood by adopting the ideas of the treatment of the workers
enforced in democratically controlled enterprises, and will in every
respect, except control, make their standards equal.  All the needles of
being point to the centres where power is most manifested.  The effects
of the French revolution--a democratic upheaval--invaded men's minds
everywhere.  Even the autocratically ruled States, hitherto careless
about the people in their underworlds, had to make advances to
democracy, and give it some measure of the justice democracy threatened
to deal to itself.  Without demanding absolutism I do desire a
predominant democratic character in our national enterprises, rather
than a confused muddle or struggle of interests where nothing really
emerges except the egoism of those who struggle.

It will be noticed that in all that has preceded I have referred little
to action by government, though it is on governments that democracies
over the world are now fixing all their hopes.  They believe the State
is the right agency to bring about reforms and changes in society.  And
I must here explain why I do not share their hopes.  My distrust of the
State in economic reform is based on the belief that governments in
great nation-states, even representative governments, are not malleable
by the general will. They are too easily dominated by the holders of
economic power, are, in fact, always dominated by aristocracies with
land or by the aristocracies of wealth.  It is the hand at the helm
guides the ship. The larger the State is the more easily do the holders
of economic power gain political power.  The theory of representative
government held good in practice, I think, so long as parliaments were
engaged in formulating general rights, the right, for example, of the
individual to think or profess any religion he pleased;  his right not
to be deprived of liberty or life without open trial by his fellow-
citizens.  So long as legislatures were affirming or maintaining these
rights, which rich and poor equally desired, they were justified.  But
when legislatures began to intervene in economic matters, in the
struggles between rich and poor, between capital and labor, it became at
once apparent the holders of economic power had also political power;
and that the institution which operated fairly where universal rights
were considered did not operate fairly when there was a conflict between
particular interests.

The jury of the nation was found to be packed.  At least nine-tenths of
the population in Great Britain, for example, belong to the wage-earning
class.  At least nine-tenths of the members of legislatures belong to
the classes possessing land or capital.  Now, why any member of the
wage-earning class should look with hope to such assemblies I cannot
understand.  Their ideal is, or should be, economic freedom, together
with democratic control of industries, an ideal in every way opposed to
the ideal of the majority of the members of the legislatures.  The
fiction that representative assemblies will work for the general good is
proclaimed with enthusiasm;  but the moment we examine their actions we
see it is not so, and we discover the cause.  Where the nation is
capitalist and capitalism is the dominant economic factor, legislatures
invariably act to uphold it, and legislation tends to fix the system
more securely.  We see in Great Britain that wage-earners are now openly
regarded by the legislatures as a class who must not be allowed the same
freedom in life as the wealthy.  They must be registered, inspected, and
controlled in a way which the wealthy would bitterly resent if the
legislation referred to themselves. After economic inferiority has been
enforced on them by capital, the stigma of human inferiority is attached
to the wage-earners by the legislature.  But I must not be led away from
my theme by the bitter reflections which arise in one who lives in the
Iron Age and knows it is Iron, who feels at times like the lost wanderer
on trackless fields of ice, which never melt and will not until earth
turns from its axis.

I wish to see society organized so that it shall be malleable to the
general will.  But political and economic progress are obstructed
because existing political and economic organizations are almost
entirely unmalleable by the general will.  Public opinion does not
control the press.  The press, capitalistically controlled, creates
public opinion.  Our legislators have grown so secure that they confess
openly they have passed measures which they knew would be hateful to the
majority of citizens, and which, if they had been voted on, would never
have been passed.  The theory of representative government has broken
down.  To tell the truth, the life of the nation is so complicated that
it is difficult for the private citizen to have any intelligent opinion
about national policies, and we can hardly blame the politician for
despising the judgment of the private citizen.  Government departments
are still less malleable by public opinion than the legislature.  For an
individual to attack the policy of a Government department is almost as
hopeless a proceeding as if a laborer were to take pickaxe and shovel
and determine to level a mountain which obstructed his view.  Yet
Government departments are supposed to be under popular control.  The
Castle in Ireland, theoretically, was under popular control, but it was
adamantine in policy.  If the cant about popular control of legislation
and Government departments is obviously untrue, how much more is it in
regard to public services like railways, gas works, mines, the
distribution of goods, manufacture, purchase and sale, which are almost
entirely under private control and where public interference is bitterly
resented and effectively opposed. What chance has the individual who is
aggrieved against the great carrying companies?  To come lower down, let
us take the farmer in the fairs.  What way has he of influencing the
jobbers and dealers to act honestly by him--they who have formed rings
to keep down the prices of cattle?  Are they malleable to public
opinion?  The farmers who have waited all day through a fair know they
are not.

When we consider the agencies through which people buy we find the same
thing.  The increase of multiple shops, combines, and rings makes the
use of the limited power a man had to affect a dealer by transferring
his custom to another merchant to dwindle yearly. Everywhere we turn we
find this adamantine front presented by the legislature, the State
departments, by the agencies of production, distribution, or credit, and
it is the undemocratic organization of society which is responsible for
nine-tenths of our social troubles. All the vested interests backed up
by economic and political power conflict with the public welfare, and
the general will, which intends the good of all, can act no more than a
paralyzed cripple can walk. We would all choose the physique of the
athlete, with his swift, unfettered, easy movements, rather than the
body of the cripple if we could, and we have this choice before us in
Ireland.

If we concentrate our efforts mainly on voluntary action, striving to
make the co-operative spirit predominant, the general will would
manifest itself through organizations malleable to that will, flexible
and readily adjusting themselves to the desires of the community.  To
effect reforms we have not first to labor at the gigantic task of
affecting national opinion and securing the majorities necessary for
national action.  In any district a hundred or two hundred men can at
any time form co-operative societies for production, purchase, sale, or
credit, and can link themselves by federation with other organizations
like their own to secure greater strength and economic efficiency.  By
following this policy steadily we simplify our economic system, and
reduce to fewer factors the forces in conflict in society.  We beget the
predominance of one principle, and enable that general will for good,
which Rousseau theorized about, to find agencies through which it can
manifest freely, so changing society from the static condition begot by
conflict and obstruction to a dynamic condition where energies and
desires manifest freely.

The general will, as Rousseau demonstrated, always intends the good, and
if permitted to act would act in a large and noble way.  The change from
static to dynamic, from fixed forms to fluid forms, has been coming
swiftly over the world owing to the liberation of thought, and this in
spite of the obstruction of a society organized, I might almost say,
with egomania as the predominant psychological factor.  The ancient
conception of Nature as a manifestation of spirit is incarnating anew in
the minds of modern thinkers, and Nature is not conceived of as
material, but as force and continual motion;  and they are trying to
identify human will with this arcane energy, and let the forces of
Nature have freer play in humanity. We begin to catch glimpses of
civilizations as far exceeding ours as ours surpasses society in the
Stone Age.  In all our democratic movements, in these efforts towards
the harmonious fusion of human forces, humanity is obscurely intent on
mightier collective exploits than anything conceived of before.  The
nature of these energies manifesting in humanity I shall try to indicate
later on.  But to let the general will have free play ought to be the
aim of those who wish to build up national organizations for whatever
purpose; and to let the general will have free play we require something
better than the English invention of representative government, which,
as it exists at present, is simply a device to enable all kinds of
compromises to be made on matters where there should be no compromise,
as if right and wrong could come to an agreement honestly to let things
be partly right and partly wrong.  We are importing into Ireland some
political machinery of this antiquated pattern.  I have written the
foregoing because I dread Irish people becoming slaves of this machine.
I fear the importers of this machinery will desire to make it do things
it can only do badly, and will set it to work with the ferocity of the
new broom and will make it an obstruction, so that the real genius of
the Irish people will be unable freely to manifest itself.  The less we
rely on this machinery at present, and the more we desire a machinery of
progress, at once flexible and efficient, the better will it be for us
later on.  What must be embodied in State action is the national will
and the national soul, and until that giant being is manifested it is
dangerous to let the pygmies set powers in motion which may enchain us
for centuries to come.


XIV.


It may seem I have spoken lightly of that infant whose birth I referred
to with more solemnity in the opening pages of this book, and indeed I
am a little dubious about that infant.  The signature of the Irish mind
is nowhere present in it, and I look upon it with something of the
hesitating loyalty the inhabitant of a new Balkan State night feel for
his imported prince, doubtful whether that sovereign will reflect the
will of his new subjects or whether his policy will not constrain
national character into an alien mould. The signature of the Irish mind
is not apparent anywhere in this new machinery for self-government.  Our
politicians seem to have been unaware that they had any wisdom to learn
from the more obvious failures of representative government as they knew
it.  So far, as I have knowledge, no Irishman during the past century of
effort for political freedom took the trouble to think out a form of
government befitting Irish circumstance and character.  We left it
absolutely to those whom we declared incapable of understanding us or
governing us to devise for us a system by which we might govern
ourselves.  I do not criticize those who devised the new machinery of
self-government, but those who did not devise it, and who discouraged
the exercise of political imagination in Ireland. It is said of an
artist that it was his fantasy first to paint his ideal of womanly
beauty, and, when this was done, to approximate it touch by touch to the
sitter, and when the sitter cried, "Ah, now it is growing like!" the
artist ceased, combining the maximum of ideal beauty possible with the
minimum of likeness.  Now if we had thought out the ideal structure of
Irish government we might have offered it for criticism by those in
whose power it was to accept or reject, and have gradually approximated
it until a point was reached where the compromise left at least
something of our making and imagination in it.  There is nothing of us
in the Act which is in abeyance as I write.  I am less concerned with it
than with the creation of a social order, for the social order in a
country is the strong and fast fortress where national character is
created and preserved.  A legislature may theoretically allow self-
government, but by its constitution may operate against national
character and its expression in a civilization.  We have accepted the
principle of representative government, and that, I readily concede, is
the ideal principle, but the method by which a representative character
is to be given to State institutions we have not thought out at all.  We
have committed the error our neighbors have committed of assuming that
the representative assembly which can legislate for general interests
can deal equally with particular interests;  that the body of men who
will act unitedly so as to secure the liberty of person or liberty of
thought, which all desire for themselves, will also act wisely where
class problems and the development of particular industries are
concerned.  The whole history of representative assemblies shows that
the machinery adequate for the furtherance and protection of general
interests operates unjustly or stupidly in practice against particular
interests.  The long neglect of agriculture and the actual condition of
the sweated are instances.  I agree that representative government is
the ideal, but how is it to operate in the legislature and still more in
administration?  Are government departments to be controlled by
Parliament or by the representatives of the particular class to promote
whose interests special departments were created.  I hold that the
continuous efficiency of State departments can only be maintained when
they are controlled in respect of policy, not by the casual politician
whom the fluctuations of popular emotion places at their head, but by
the class or industry the State institution was created to serve.  A
department of State can conceivably be preserved from stagnation by a
minister of strong will, who has a more profound knowledge of the
problems connected with his department than even his permanent
officials. He might vitalize them from above.  But does the party system
yield us such Ministers?  In practice is not high position the reward of
service to party?  Is special knowledge demanded of the controller of a
Board of Trade or a Board of Agriculture?  Do we not all know that the
vast majority of Ministers are controlled by the permanent officials of
their department.  Failing great Ministers, the operations of a
department may be vitalized by control over its policy exercised, not by
a general assembly like Parliament, but by a board elected from the
class or industry the department ostensibly was created to serve.  An
agricultural department controlled by a council or board composed solely
of those making their livelihood out of agriculture and elected solely
by their own class, would, we may be certain, be practical in its
methods. It would receive perpetual stimulus from those engaged in
making their living by the industry.  Parliaments or senates should
confine themselves to matters of general interest, leaving particular or
special interests to those who understand them, to the specialists, and
only intervene when national interests are involved by a clashing of
particular interests.  Our State institutions will never fulfill their
functions efficiently until they are subject in respect of policy not to
general control, but the control of the class they were created to
serve.

That ideal can only be realized fully when all industries are organized.
But we should work towards it.  Parliament may act as a kind of guardian
of the unorganized, but, once an industry is organized, once it has come
of age, it must resent domination by bodies without the special
knowledge of which it has the monopoly within itself.  It should not
tolerate domination by the unexpert outsider, whatever may be his repute
in other spheres.  It is only when industries are organized that the
democratic system of election can justify itself by results in
administration.  When a county, let us say, chooses a member of
Parliament to represent every interest, only too often it chooses a man
who can represent few interests except his own.  The greatest common
denominator of the constituents is as a rule some fluent utterer of
platitudes.  But if the farmers in a county, or the manufacturers in a
county, or the workers in a county, had each to choose a man to
represent them, we may be certain the farmers would choose one whom they
regarded as competent to interpret their needs, the manufacturers a man
of real ability, and labor would select its best intelligence.  Persons
engaged in special work rarely fall to recognize the best men in their
own industry.  Then they judge somewhat as experts, whereas they are by
no means experts when they are asked to select a representative to
represent everybody in every industry.  To secure good government I
conceive we must have two kinds of representative assemblies running
concurrently with their spheres of influence well defined.  One, the
supreme body, should be elected by counties or cities to deal with
general interests, taxation, justice, education, the duties and rights
of individual citizens as citizens. The other bodies should be elected
by the people engaged in particular occupations to control the policy of
the State institutions created to foster particular interests.  The
average man will elect people to his mind whose deliberations will be in
a sphere where the ideas of the average man ought to be heard and must
be respected.  The specialists in their department of industry will
elect experts to work in a sphere where their knowledge will be
invaluable, and where, if it is not present, there will be muddle.

The machinery of government ought never to be complicated, and ought to
be easily understood by the citizens.  In Ireland, where we have at
present no thought of foreign policy, no question of army or navy,
departments of State should fall naturally into a few divisions
concerned with agriculture, education, local government, justice,
police, and taxation.  The administration of some of these are matters
of national concern, and they should and must be under parliamentary
control, and that control should be jealously protected. Others are
sectional, and these should be controlled in respect of policy by
persons representative of these sections, and elected solely by them.  I
think there should also be a department of Labor. I am not sure that the
main work of the Minister in charge ought not to be the organization of
labor in its proper unions or guilds. It is a work as important to the
State as the organization of agriculture, and indeed from a humanitarian
point of view more urgent.  Nothing is more lamentable, nothing fills
the heart more with despair, than the multitude of isolated workers,
sweated, unable to fix a price for their work, ignorant of its true
economic value;  connected with no union, unable to find any body to
fall back on for help or advice in trouble, neglected altogether by
society, which yet has to pay a heavy price in disease, charity, poor
rates, and in social disorder for its neglect.  Was not the last Irish
rising largely composed of those who were economically neglected and
oppressed?  Society bears a heavier burden for its indifference than it
would bear if it accepted responsibility for the organization of labor
in its own defense.  The State in these islands recommends farmers to
organize for the protection of their interests and assists in the
organization, and leaves the organized farmers free to use their
organizations as they will.  As good a case could be made for the State
aiding in the organization of labor for the protection of its own
interests.  A ministry of labor should seek out all wage-earners;  where
there is no trade union one should be organized, and, where one exists,
all workers should be pressed to join it.  Such a ministry ought to be
the city of refuge for the proletarian, and the Minister be the Father
of Labor, fighting its battles for an entry into humanity and its
rightful place in civilization.

If we consider the problem of representation, it should not be
impossible to devise a system of which the foundation might be the
County Councils, where there would be as sub-divisions, committees for
local government, agriculture, and technical instruction or trade to
deal with local administration in these matters.  These committees
should send representatives to general councils of local government,
agriculture, and trade.  The election should not be by the County
Council as a body, but by the committees, so that traders would have no
voice in choosing a representative for farmers, nor farmers interfere in
the choice of manufacturers or traders selecting a representative on a
general Council of Trade, and it should be regarded as ridiculous any
such intervention as for a War Office to claim it should have a voice
along with the Admiralty in the selection of captains and commanders of
vessels of war.  At these general councils, which might meet twice a
year for whatever number of days may be expedient, general policies
would be decided and boards elected to ensure the carrying out by the
officials of the policies decided upon.  By this process of selection
men who had to control Boards of Agriculture, Trade, or Local Government
would be three times elected, each time by a gradually decreasing
electorate, with a gradually increasing special knowledge of the matters
to be dealt with.  A really useless person may contrive to be chosen as
representative by a thousand electors.  It requires an able man to
convince a committee of ten persons, themselves more or less
specialists, that his is the best brain among them.  Where national
education, a thorny subject in Ireland, is concerned, I think the
educationalists in provinces might be asked to elect representatives
from their own profession on a Council of Education to act as an
advisory body to the Minister of Education.  County Council elections
are not exactly means by which miracles of culture are discovered.  A
man who came to be member of a board of control would at least have
proved his ability to others engaged on work like his own who have
special knowledge of it and of his capacity to deal with it.  If this
system was accepted, we would not have traders on our Council of
Agriculture protesting against the farmers organizing their industry,
because none but persons concerned with agriculture would be a owed to
be members of agricultural committees, and this would, of course,
involve the concentration of merchants and manufacturers upon the work
of a Board of Trade and the control of a policy of technical instruction
suitable for industrial workers, where agricultural advisers in their
turn would be out of place.  Control so exercised over the policy of
State institutions would vitalize them, and tend to make them enter more
intimately into the department of national effort they were created to
foster.  The stagnation which falls on most Government departments is
due to this, that the responsible heads rarely have a knowledge great
enough to enable them to inaugurate new methods, that parliamentary
control is never adequate, is rarely exercised with knowledge, and there
is always a party in power to defend the policy of their Minister, for
if one Minister is successfully attacked a whole party goes out of
power.  We, in Ireland, should desire above all things efficiency in our
public servants.  They will stagnate in their offices unless they are
continually stimulated by intimate connection with the class they work
for and who have a power of control.  First, let us guard against the
_unkind word_ of every class. This world is full of sunshine, and
flowers, and singing birds, because God is full of kindness.
So, if we would find sunshine in our life, and flowers about
our path, we must be kindly affectioned one to another, pitiful,
courteous, in our words. The man who goes through life saying cruel
things is like a musical instrument out of tune, whose only sounds are
discord. It is the kindly tongue which makes "the music of men's lives."
Think what an unkind word can do! It can, and has, parted husband and
wife, parent and child, for ever. It has driven a man from the
Paradise of home, to the cold, outer world of lonely misery. It has
blighted a young life as a cruel frost kills the budding may. It has
embittered a parent's declining years, and brought down grey hairs
with sorrow to the grave.

Of all miseries, surely one of the greatest must be to stand by the
open grave of some friend, and to feel that the poor heart, lying cold
and still beneath us, has been wounded by our cruel and unkindly words.
O sons and daughters, take heed to your words, lest when you lay
father or mother in the grave there comes the sad accusing whisper,
"my angry temper, and my thoughtless tongue, saddened my parent's last
days on earth." A great English writer said sadly, "What would I give to
call my mother back to earth for one day, to ask her pardon upon my knees
for all those things by which I gave her gentle spirit pain." Watch
and pray against unkind words, they never did, or can do, good. They
never softened a hard heart, or convinced an unbeliever, or converted
a sinner. You cannot shape lives into beauty by hard words, as you can a
stone by hard blows. Say a kindly word whenever you have the opportunity,
and you will be like one sowing the seed of a fragrant flower, which
will bring sweetness to others, and most surely to yourself. One
of the best lessons we can learn is to be silent at the right time. One
of the greatest of the old Greek philosophers condemned each of his
pupils to five years' silence, that he might learn self-control;
and Holy Writ tells us plainly that a man full of words shall not
prosper upon the earth.

Another which we must guard against is the _discontented word_.
Everywhere around we hear people murmuring, and finding fault. Nearly
everyone whom we meet has some complaint. It is almost a miracle to
find a man who says, "I am well, very happy, and quite contented."
Let the skies be ever so blue, the eyes of the murmurer can discover
a rising cloud. Let to-day be ever so bright and prosperous, the
discontented forsees trouble to-morrow. The greatest and the best of
men appear in his eyes to be full of faults and weaknesses. Everyone
has his price, he says, no man serves God for nought. In a word, he
can see no good in God's world, no beauty in God's creatures, no blessings
in his own life. He can tell you all his misfortunes, but ask him
what good things God has done for him, and he cannot remember.
My brothers, guard against the discontented tongue. It is a grievous
sin against God, and it makes its owner and all around him wretched.
Let the praises of God be in your mouth, and the two-edged sword
of faith in your hand, and you will make your way through all
difficulties, and triumph over all troubles.

Count up God's mercies and blessings every day, and you _cannot_
murmur.

Sing the _Te Deum_ oftener, and you will have no time for the miserable
ditties of the discontented. Imitate the bees, who gather sweetness
from the common things of life. Look up to God's bright sky, and not
down into the gloomy cavern of your own heart. Pray to be lifted
out of self, and filled with thoughts of God's love and mercy, then
you will be able to say--
"My heart leaps up when I behold The rainbow in the sky!
So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I
shall grow old, Or let me die."
And next, let us guard against the _untruthful word_ of every kind.
There are hundreds of ways in which men sin against the truth, and
yet the world does not call them by the terrible name, the most shameful
of all names--a liar. The world is very fond of giving wrong names to
certain sins. A man appears in the morning with pale face, and shaking
hand, and lack-lustre eye, and the world says he has been spending a
festive evening, whereas the _truth_ is he has been drunk. The man who
leads an unclean life is pleasantly styled by the world a _fast man_.

God in the Bible calls him by a very different name.

Let us learn to call things by their right names. If what we say is not
quite true it is a lie, neither more nor less. If we go about with
idle tales of our neighbour, tales which have some truth in them, but
not all the truth, then we are verily guilty concerning our brother;
since the truths which are only half truths "are ever the worst of
lies." If in our business we say more than the truth, or less than the
truth, we are verily guilty. A lie is no less a lie because it is
printed in a prospectus, or written up in a shop window. A tradesman
who sells a pair of boots which fall to pieces, or a garment which
will not wear, and tells us that they are good and genuine articles, is
just as false as Ananias himself. I have heard traders declare that they
cannot afford to be honest. This is an utter mistake. Every Christian
man is bound by the vows of his Baptism both to speak and act the
truth. Well says a preacher of our day, "we have dethroned the Most
High in the realm of commerce, and in the place of the Heavenly Majesty
have erected unclean and pestiferous idols; we have put into the holy
place the foul little gods, named Trickery and Cunning. We have tried
to lock God up in the Church, and have shut upon Him the iron gates
of the marketplace."
My brothers, if you would prosper you must have God with you in your
business, guiding your plough, blessing your farm, ruling your trade.

You must have God with you behind the counter of your shop, or your
office, and if God is to be there you _must speak_ the truth. A Christian
man must have nothing to do with an unjust balance, or a false
weight. He must refuse to adulterate his wares, for these things are
lies. The Chinese are in the habit of adulterating some of their tea
for the market, but they are honest enough to call it in their language
_lie tea_. I only wish our traders would do the same when they offer
us false articles under the name of genuine wares.

The time would fail me to tell one quarter of the ways in which
God's law of truth is broken. I may not stay to speak of the false
advertisement, of the highly-coloured description, of the quack medicine,
which we are solemnly told will cure any kind of disease. I would
only say, take the matter home to your own hearts. Whoever you are, make
up your mind that as Christians you must speak the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth. And may the God of all truth give your
strength.

SERMON XLI.

ALIVE UNTO GOD.

(Sixth Sunday after Trinity.)
ROMANS vi. 11.

"Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive
unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord."

Every baptised person belongs to God. He is His absolute property, marked
with the sign of the great King. As the broad arrow is the mark that
certain property belongs to the British Government, so the Cross of Holy
Baptism is the sign and pledge that we are God's. Think of that, my
brothers, you are not free to choose your own way, your own masters;
you belong absolutely to Jesus Christ. He made you His property by taking
your flesh, by suffering in it, by dying in it, by rising with it in
triumph. In Baptism you are made partakers of all these benefits. You
are baptised into the Death of Christ that your old sinful nature may
die and be buried. You are baptised too in His Resurrection, that you
may after Baptism begin a new and higher life, with Jesus as your Ruler
and Guide. From this fact come two others; first that we are
not free to sin, because if we do wrong, we sin not against ourselves,
but against Jesus Christ, "whose we are, and whom we serve." I do not
say that sin will not come in our way, will not tempt us. We must, in
passing through the world, encounter foul smells, hideous sights,
dirty roads. But we can turn away from the foul smell, we can shut
our eyes to the bad sight, we can pick our way carefully over the dirty
road. So if sin meets us, we must turn aside from it, we must stop our
eyes and our ears to the evil sight, or sound, we must try to keep in a
clean path. The strength which our Master, Jesus, gives us in the
Sacraments will be sufficient for us. And the second fact is that, as
baptised people, we are never alone, never forsaken.
A great part of our life, and our work, must be solitary, and yet
we are not alone, for God is with us. We must _do our work alone_.
No one can tread the path of duty for us, or fight the good fight on our
behalf. Like the solitary sower in the fields, we are all sent into
this world to sow some seed, to do some work, _alone_. There may
be crowds around us, and yet each of us has his thoughts, and hopes, and
feelings, with which others cannot intermingle; no two men think or
feel exactly in the same way, each of us is alone. We know that
we must fight the battle of life and duty alone, we know that we bear
our sorrows and bereavements alone, we know that alone we must die,
and be judged, and yet, as Christians, we know that Jesus will never
leave us, nor forsake us, that He is with us even unto the end of the
world, and that when most solitary we are _alone with God_.

It is this thought that has strengthened the bravest and best of
God's people in their hour of trial. It was this which enabled
Abraham to leave home and friends, and to seek a land of strangers;
he was not alone, for God was with him.

It was this which comforted Joseph in the Egyptian prison, and enabled
him to feel as many another captive has felt--
"Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage; Minds
innocent and quiet take That for a hermitage."
It was this which nerved Daniel to dare the den of lions, and Shadrach
and his brethren to brave the fiery furnace; they were not alone, for God
was with them. This cheered David when he walked through the valley
of the shadow in his deep repentance; this gave courage to S.
Peter, and S. Paul, and all the noble army of martyrs, to speak
boldly in Christ's Name, and to meet death with a smiling face. This
carried Moses through the desert, and Columbus to the new world, the
thought that in their loneliest hour God was with them.

Yes, and it was the same thought which supported the dead hero, for
whom all England weeps. Day after day passed over Gordon in his lonely
exile far away. Day after day he saw the sunrise flash on the white walls
and fair palm trees of Khartoum, and the sunset redden the desert sand.
Cut off from home, and comrades, and countrymen, far from
the sound of English voices, and of English prayers; there is no more
lonely figure than that of the martyr of duty. Day by day he strained
his eyes to see the rescue which never came, and yet in all this lonely
waiting we cannot believe that the heart of Gordon failed, for he could
say to his God, "I am not alone, I will fear no evil, for Thou art with
me."
Thus, in one sense, every man must stand alone, and yet the Christian man
knows that he is a child of God, and that his Father will never
forsake him.

Every one of us must _labour alone_ in the great workshop of the world.
Each of us has his corner where God has placed him to weave in his
little bit of the pattern of this world's history, to add his little
portion of colour to the picture called Life. For each of us there is
the day's work, wherein we can labour, or idle, as we choose, and
for each there comes the night when no man can work. And what we have
to do we must do _alone_. The majority of men who live the life of
duty do so unnoticed and uncared for. They are like those stars which
our eyes never see, but they shine all the same. Such men work and
suffer, and wait till their time comes to join
"The crowd untold of men, By the cause they served unknown, Who moulder
in myriad graves of old, Never a story, never a stone."
But such men have the comfort of knowing that they have not run in
vain, neither laboured in vain; they have lived unto God in this
world, and if solitary, they have been alone with God. Again, _we must
all suffer alone_. However kind and sympathetic our friends may be,
they cannot enter into our pains and agonies. They can be sorry for
us, but they cannot feel as we feel. When the body is racked by
severe pangs of suffering, even the presence of friends is too much
for us. We want to be alone, _alone with God_. And this is specially true
of the sorrows of the mind. "The heart knoweth its own bitterness." No
one, not even our nearest and dearest, can go with us to the
Gethsemane, where we suffer, or the Calvary, where we endure our
cross.

But it is in these hours of bitterest suffering that the Christian
feels that he is not forsaken. He remembers that his Master, Jesus, trod
the winepress of sorrow alone, and that of the people there was
none with Him.

He knows that he is permitted to walk the same lonely path as Jesus trod
before him. He knows that as he kneels in the darkened room with his
solitary sorrow, with his breaking heart, with his sinful soul bowed
down in penitence, that Jesus is with him--he is alone with God.
And again, _we must all die alone_. The moment of death is the most
solitary of all our life. The Prince, with his armies, and crowds
of friends and courtiers, is, at his death, as much alone as the beggar
who drops and dies by the roadside. Loving hands may clasp ours fondly,
but we must let them go. Husband, mother, wife, or child may cling
to us in close embrace, but they cannot detain us, or go with us, we
must die alone. And yet in that most solitary moment the Christian who
is dead unto sin, and living unto God, knows that he is not alone.
He knows that when he has heard the sound of the last voice on
earth, he shall hearken to other voices, never listened to before.
When the last farewell is spoken, and the last hand clasped on earth,
there will come the meeting with a new and glorious company, and the touch
of those dear Hands once wounded for our transgressions. Be sure that
God, who is with us in life, is specially with us in the moment
of death; we die alone, but we are alone with God. My brothers, we are
tempted sometimes to murmur because our life and its work are dull,
monotonous and solitary.

Let this thought help us to check the rebellious sigh, the thought that
if we are trying to do our duty, God is with us, and He that seeth in
secret, shall Himself reward us openly. We may be tempted to cry sometimes
in our darkest hours, "My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me;"
but the loving Hand has not gone from us, though we cannot feel its touch.
Those dark hours often bring out the light of Christ's great love
most clearly. I have seen a famous picture of the Crucifixion, which
shows its sad beauty best when the window is darkened. Then there
seems to shine a light of hope and splendour behind the Cross, and
the face of the Saviour beams with tenderest love. So when the windows
of our life are darkened, when bereavement, or ill-health, or
disappointment come upon us, let us turn our eyes to the Crucified, and
see a new light, a new meaning in our Saviour's sorrow, and our own.
Let us learn that the trouble has come to lead us apart from the world
and its selfish ways, that we may be alone--alone with God.

SERMON XLII.

SERVANTS OF SIN.

(Seventh Sunday after Trinity.)
ROMANS vi. 20.

"The servants of sin."

There is no existence in the world so sad as that of a slave; and there
is no slavery so hard as that of sin, no taskmaster so bitter as
the devil. There was a tyrant in the old times who ordered one of his
subjects to make an iron chain of a certain length, in a given time.
The man brought the work, and the tyrant bade him make it longer
still.
And he continued to add link to link, till at length the cruel
taskmaster ordered his servants to bind the worker with his own chain,
and cast him into the fire.

That hardest of tyrants, the devil, treats his slaves in like manner. At
first the chain of sin is light, and could easily be cast off.
But day by day Satan bids his victims add another link. The servant
of sin grows more hardened, more daring, more reckless in his evil way.
He adds sin to sin, link to link, and then the end comes, and the
tyrant binds him hand and foot with his own chain, and casts him into
outer darkness, where there is weeping, and gnashing of teeth. Very
often the slaves of sin do not know that they _are_ slaves. They talk
about their freedom from restraint, they tell us they are their own
masters, they would have us believe that the godly, who try to keep
the commandments, and walk in the narrow way, are slaves, but _they_
are free! Oh! fools, and slow of heart! As well might a prisoner
cover his irons with a cloak, and try to pass as a free man. We can _hear
the clank of the chains_. So is it with the slave of sin. Once I visited
a madhouse, and talked with some of the poor patients. Some had one
delusion, some another. One thought he was a king, another fancied himself
the heir to a fortune. But one thing they all believed, that they were
in their right minds.

My brothers, the slaves of sin are like these poor mad folk, they
do not understand that what they call freedom is slavery, that what
they style pleasure is misery, that instead of being the clever,
reckless, free people they think themselves, they are only mad
people possessed of the devil. First, then, we have seen that the
servants of sin do not know that they are slaves. The tyrant, Satan,
blinds their eyes before he binds them in the fetters of his prison
house, even as the Philistines blinded the strong man of old. Next,
the servants of sin bear about the marks of their master I have
seen gangs of convicts working on Dartmoor. You could not mistake
them for anything else if they were dressed in the best of clothing.
The word _convict_ is stamped upon every grey face, as plainly as
the Government mark is stamped upon their clothing. The servants
of sin have their marks also. Look at the shifty eyes, and downward
glance of the knave and the false man; mark the flushed brow and
cruel eyes of the angry man; see the weak lips and trembling hand
of the drunkard; they bear the marks of their slavery very plainly.
So, too, the sensualist who lives for his body, the impure man, the
slave of lust, the criminal, haunted by a guilty secret, the selfish
worldling, who cares only for this life; these all bear the traces
of their sin upon them, these show whose they are, and whom they
serve. Again, the servants of sin have their so-called enjoyments,
these are the baits with which the tyrant gets them into his power.When nations at war call up their reserves
of humanity to the last man capable of bearing arms, their leaders begin
also to summon up those bodiless moods and national sentiments which are
the souls of races, and their last and most profound sources of
inspiration and deathless courage.  The war then becomes a conflict of
civilizations and of spiritual ideals, the aspirations and memories
which constitute the fundamental basis of those civilizations. Without
the inspiration of great memories or of great hopes, men are incapable
of great sacrifices.  They are rationalists, and the preservation of the
life they know grows to be a desire greater than the immortality of the
spiritual life of their race.  A famous Japanese general once said it
was the power to hold out for the last desperate quarter of an hour
which won victories, and it is there spiritual stamina reinforces
physical power.  It is a mood akin to the ecstasy of the martyr through
his burning.  Though in these mad moments neither spiritual nor material
is consciously differentiated, the spiritual is there in a fiery fusion
with all other forces.  If it is absent, the body unsupported may take
to its heels or will yield.  It has played its only card, and has not
eternity to fling upon the table in a last gamble for victory.

A military organization may strengthen the national being, but if it
dominates it, it will impoverish its life.  How little Sparta has given
to the world compared with Attica.  Yet when national ideals have been
created they assume an immeasurably greater dignity when the citizens
organize themselves for the defense of their ideals, and are prepared to
yield up life itself as a sacrifice if by this the national being may be
preserved.  A creed always gains respect through its martyrs.  We may
grant all this, yet be doubtful whether a militarist organization should
be the main support of the national being in Ireland.  The character of
the ideal should, I believe, be otherwise created, and I am not certain
that it could not be as well preserved and defended by a civil
organization, such as I have indicated, as by armed power.  Our
geographical position and the slender population of our country also
make it evident that the utmost force Ireland could organize would make
but a feeble barrier against assault by any of the greater States.  We
have seen how Belgium, a country with a population larger than that of
Ireland, was thrust aside, crushed and bleeding, by one stroke from the
paw of its mighty neighbor.*  The military and political institutions of
a small country are comparatively easy to displace, but it would be a
task infinitely more difficult to destroy ideals or to extinguish a
national being based on a social order, democratic and co-operative in
character, the soul of the country being continually fed by institutions
which, by their very nature, would be almost impossible to alter unless
destruction of the whole humanity of the country was aimed at. National
ideals, based on a co-operative social order, would have the same power
of resistance almost as a religion, which is, of all things, most
unconquerable by physical force, and, when it is itself militant, the
most powerful ally of military power. The aim of all nations is to
preserve their immortality.  I do not oppose the creation of a national
army for this purpose.  There are occasions when the manhood of a nation
must be prepared to yield life rather than submit to oppression, when it
must perish in self-contempt or resist by force what wrong would be
imposed by force.  But I would like to point out that for a country in
the position of Ireland the surest means of preserving the national
being by the sacrifice and devotion of the people are economic and
spiritual.

------------------* Since this book was written Ireland has had a tragic
illustration of the truth of what is urged in these pages. -------------


Our political life in the past has been sordid and unstable because we
were uncultured as a nation.  National ideals have been the possession
of the few in Ireland, and have not been diffused.  That is the cause of
our comparative failure as a nation.  If we would create an Irish
culture, and spread it widely among our people, we would have the same
unfathomable sources of inspiration and sacrifice to draw upon in our
acts as a nation as the individual has who believes he is immortal, and
that his life here is but a temporary foray into time out of eternity.

Yet we have much to learn from the study of military organization. The
great problem of all civilizations is the creation of citizens: that is,
of people who are dominated by the ideal of the general welfare, who
will sink private desire and work harmoniously with their fellow-
citizens for the highest good of their race.  While we may all agree
that war brings about an eruption of the arcane and elemental forces
which lie normally in the pit of human life, as the forces which cause
earthquakes lie normally asleep in the womb of the world, none the less
we must admit that military genius has discovered and applied with
mastery a law of life which is of the highest importance to
civilization--far more important to civil even than to military
development--and that is the means by which the individual will forget
his personal danger and sacrifice life itself for the general welfare.
In no other organization will men in great masses so entirely forget
themselves as men will in battle under military discipline.  What is the
cause of this?  Can we discover how it is done and apply the law to
civil life?

The military discipline works miracles.  The problem before the captains
of armies is to take the body of man, the most naturally egoistic of all
things, which hates pain and which will normally take to its legs in
danger and try to save itself, and to dominate it so that the body and
the soul inhabiting it will stand still and face all it loathes.  And
the problem is solved in the vast majority of cases.  After military
training the civilians who formerly would fly before a few policemen
will manfully and heroically stand, not the blows of a baton, but a
whole hail of bullets, a cannonade lasting through a day;  nay, they
will for weeks and months, day by day, risk and lose life for a cause,
for an idea, at a word of command.  They may not have half as good a
cause to lose life for as they had as a mob of angry civilians, but they
will face death now, and the chances of mutilation and agony worse than
death.  Can we inspire civilians with the same passionate self-
forgetfulness in the pursuit of the higher ideals of peace?  Men in a
regiment have to a large extent the personal interests abolished.  The
organization they now belong to supports them and becomes their life.
By their union with it a new being is created.  Exercise, drill,
maneuver, accentuate that unity, and esprit de corps arises, so that
they feel their highest life is the corporate one;  and that feeling is
fostered continually, until at last all the units, by some law of the
soul, are as it were in spite of themselves, in spite of the legs which
want to run, in spite of the body which trembles with fear, constrained
to move in obedience to the purpose of the whole organism expressed by
its controlling will;  and so we get these devoted masses of men who
advance again and again under a hail more terrible than Dante imagined
falling in his vision of the fiery world.

There is nothing like it in civilian life, but yet the aim of the higher
minds in all civilizations is to create a similar devotion to civic
ideals, so that men will not only, as Pericles said, "give their bodies
for the commonwealth," but will devote mind, will, and imagination with
equal assiduity and self-surrender to the creation of a civilization
which will be the inheritance of all and a cause of pride to every one,
and which will bring to the individual a greater beauty and richness of
life than he could finally reach by the utmost private efforts of which
he was capable.

I believe that an organization of society, such as I have indicated,
would evolve gradually a similar passion for the general zeal, having,
without the stern restraint militarism imposes on its units, a like
power of turning the thoughts to the general good.

I may say also that to create a militarist organization, before the
natural principles to be safe-guarded are well understood and a common
possession of all the people in the country, would be a danger akin to
the peril of allowing children to play with firearms. We may find it a
bad business to create natural ideals as they are required, just as it
is a perilous business to try to create an army when a country is in a
state of war.  If we do not rapidly create a national culture embodying
the fundamental ideas we wish to see prevailing in society our volunteer
armies will be subject to influences from the baser sort of politicians
who would force party aims on the country.  We shall have a wretched
future unless the soul of the country can dominate the physical forces
in it, unless ideals of national conduct, liberty of speech and thought,
of justice and brotherhood, exist to inspire and guide it, and are
recognized by all and appealed to by all parties equally.

We are standing on the threshold of nationhood, and it is problems like
these we should be setting ourselves to solve, unless we are to be an
unimportant province of the world, a mere administrative area inhabited
by a quite undistinguished people.


XVII.


But there are other methods of devotion to the national being possible
to us through collective action, and I was moved to imagine one, having
once received a letter from a bloodthirsty correspondent--one of that
rather numerous class whose minds are always loaded with ball cartridge,
whose fingers are always on the trigger, and who are always calling on
the authorities not to hesitate to shoot.  He wrote to me during a
railway strike, advocating military conscription in order that railway
men who went out on strike could be called up by the military
authorities, as the French railway strikers were, and who were subject
to martial law if they disobeyed.  I do not think with those who believe
the venerable remedy of blood-letting is the best cure for social
maladies;  and I would have thought no more about that stern
disciplinarian, but my mind went playing about the idea of conscription,
and there came to me some thoughts which I wish to put on record in the
hope that our people in some future, when the social order will create
public spirit and the passion for the State more plentifully than it
does today, may recur to the idea and apply it.  Nearly every State in
the world demands from youth a couple of years' service in the army.
There they are trained to defend their country--even, if necessary, to
slay their own countrymen.  There is much that is abhorrent to the
imagination in the idea of war, and I am altogether with that noble body
of men who are trying, by means of arbitration treaties, to solve
national differences by reason rather than by force.  Typed by
Sameer Parekh (zane@ddsw1.MCS.COM)

On the Duty of Civil Disobedience

by Henry David Thoreau

[1849, original title: Resistance to Civil Government]

I heartily accept the motto, "That government is best which governs least";
and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically.
Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--"That
government is best which governs not at all"; and when men are prepared
for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have.
Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually,
and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient.

The objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they
are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought
against a standing government.
The standing army is only an arm of the standing government.
The government itself, which is only the mode which the people
have chosen to execute their will, is equally liable to be abused
and perverted before the people can act through it. Witness the present
Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few individuals using the
standing government as their tool; for in the outset, the people would
not have consented to this measure.

This American government--what is it but a tradition, though a recent
one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity,
but each instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality
and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his
will. It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves. But it is
not the less necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated
machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government
which they have.
Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed upon, even
impose on themselves, for their own advantage.
It is excellent, we must all allow. Yet this government never of itself
furthered any enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out
of its way. _It_ does not keep the country free. _It_ does not
settle the West. _It_ does not educate. The character inherent in the
American people has done all that has been accomplished; and it would
have done somewhat more, if the government had not sometimes got
in its way. For government is an expedient, by which men would fain
succeed in letting one another alone; and, as has been said, when it
is most expedient, the governed are most let alone by it. Trade and
commerce, if they were not made of india-rubber, would never manage
to bounce over obstacles which legislators are continually putting
in their way; and if one were to judge these men wholly by the
effects of their actions and not partly by their intentions, they
would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievious
persons who put obstructions on the railroads.
But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who call
themselves no-government men, I ask for, not _at once_ no government,
but at once a better government.
Let every man make known what kind of government would command his
respect, and that will be one step toward obtaining it.Where there is no
national sacrifice there is no national pride.  Because there is no
national pride our modern civilizations show meanly compared with the
titanic architecture of the cities and majestic civilizations of the
past. We know from the ruins of these proud cities that he who walked
into ancient Rome, Athens, Thebes, Memphis and Babylon, walked amid
grandeurs which must have exalted the spirit.  To walk into Manchester,
Sheffield, or Liverpool is to feel a weight upon the soul.  There is no
national feeling for beauty in our industrial civilizations.

Let us suppose Ireland had through industrial conscription about fifty
thousand young men every year at its disposal under a national works
department.  What could be done?  First of all it would mean that every
young man in the country would have received an industrial training of
some kind.  The work of technical instruction could be largely carried
on in connection with this industrial army.  People talk of the benefit
of discipline and obedience secured by military service.  This and much
more could be secured by a labor conscription. Every man in the island
would have got into the habit of work at a period of life when it is
most necessary, and when too many young men have no serious occupation.
Parents should welcome the training and discipline for their children,
and certificates of character and intelligence given by the department
of national works should open up prospects of rapid employment in the
ordinary industrial life of the country when the period of public
service was closed.  For those engaged there would be a true comradeship
in labor, and the phrase, "the dignity of labor," about which so much
cant has been written, would have a real significance where young men
were working together for the public benefit with the knowledge that any
completed work would add to the health, beauty, dignity, and prosperity
of the State.  In return for this labor the State should feed and clothe
its industrial army, educate them, and familiarize them with some branch
of employment, and make them more competent after this period of service
was over to engage in private enterprise. Two years of such training
would dissipate all the slackness, lack of precision, and laziness which
are so often apparent in young men who have never had any strict
discipline in their homes, and whom parental weakness has rendered unfit
for the hard usiness of life.

The benefit to those undergoing such a training would of itself justify
civil conscription;  but when we come to think of the nation--what might
not be done by a State with a national labor army under its control?
Public works might be undertaken at a cost greatly below that which
would otherwise be incurred, and the estimates which now paralyze the
State, when it considers this really needed service or that, would
assume a different appearance, as it would be embracing in one
enterprise technical education and the accomplishment of beneficial
works.  With such an army under skilled control the big cities could
have playgrounds for the children of the cities; public gardens, baths,
gymnasiums, recreation rooms, hospitals, and sanatoriums might be built;
waste land reclaimed and afforested, and the roadsides might be planted
with fruit trees.  National schools, picture-galleries, public halls,
libraries, and a thousand enterprises which now hang fire because at
present labor for public service is the most expensive labor, all could
be undertaken.  If the State becomes very poor, as indeed it is certain
to be, it may be forced into some such method of fulfilling its
functions.  Are we, with enormous burdens of debt, to hang up every
useful public work because of the expense, and spend our lives in paying
State debts while the body for whom we work is unable, on account of the
expense, to do anything for us in return?  If the State is to continue
its functions we shall have to commandeer people for its service in
times of peace as is done in times of war.  There is hardly an argument
which could be used to defend military conscription which could not be
equaled with as powerful an argument for civil conscription.  I am not
at all sure that if the State in Ireland decided to utilize two years of
every young man's life for State purposes that we could not disband most
of our expensive constabulary and make certain squads of our civil
recruits responsible for the keeping of public law and order, leaving
only the officers as permanent professionals, for of course there must
be expert control of the conscripts.  The postal service might also be
carried on largely by conscripted civilians.

This may appear a fantastic programme, but I would like to see it argued
out.  It would create a real brotherhood in work, just as the army
creates in its own way a brotherhood between men in the same regiments.
The nation adopting civil conscription could clean itself up in a couple
of generations, so that in respect of public services it would be
incomparable.  The alternative to this is to starve all public services,
to make the State simply the tax-collector, to pay the interest on a
huge debt, and so get it hated because it can do nothing except collect
money to pay the interest on a colossal national debt.  Obviously the
State as an agency to bring about civilization cannot perform both
services--pay interest on huge public loans, and continue an expensive
service.  It must find out some way in which public services can be
continued, and if possible improved, and the open way to that is civil
conscription and the assertion of a claim to two or three years of the
work of every citizen for civil purposes, just as it now asserts a claim
on the services of citizens for the defense of the State.  As national
debts are more and more piled up, it has seemed to many that here must
be an end to what was called social reform, that we were entering on a
black era, and no dawn would show over Europe for another century.
There is always a way out of troubles if people are imaginative enough
and brotherly enough to conceive of it and bold enough to take action
when they have found the way. The real danger for society is that it may
become spiritless and hidebound and tamed, and have none of those high
qualities necessary in face of peril, and the more people get accustomed
to thinking of bold schemes the better.  They will get over the first
shock, and may be ready when the time comes to put them into action.
When a country is poor like Ireland and yet is ambitious of greatness;
when the aspect of its civilization is mean and when it yet aspires to
beauty;  when its people are living under unsanitary conditions and yet
the longing is there to give health to all;  when Ireland is like this,
its public men and its citizens might do much worse than brood over the
possibilities of industrial conscription, and of revising the character
of the purposes for which nations have hitherto claimed service from
their young citizens on behalf of the State.  "To know the love of
Christ which passeth knowledge."

THE PRISON-HOUSE (_Seventeenth Sunday after Trinity_) EPHESIANS iv. 1.
"The prisoner of the Lord."

FIRM TO THE END (_Eighteenth Sunday after Trinity_) 1 COR. i. 8.

"Who also shall confirm you unto the end."

SCHOLARS OF CHRIST (_Nineteenth Sunday after Trinity_) EPHESIANS iv.
20.
"Ye have not so learned Christ."

WARY WALKING (_Twentieth Sunday after Trinity_) EPHESIANS v. 15.
"See then that ye walk circumspectly."

STRONG CHRISTIANS (_Twenty-first Sunday after Trinity_) EPHESIANS vi.
10.
"My brethren, be strong in the Lord."

THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS (_Twenty-second Sunday after Trinity_) S. MATTHEW
xviii. 28.
"Pay me that thou owest."

THE FREEDOM OF THE CITY (_Twenty-third Sunday after Trinity_) PHIL. iii.
20.
"Our conversation is in Heaven."

THANKFUL SERVICE (_Twenty-fourth Sunday after Trinity_) COL. i. 12.
"Giving thanks."

GATHERING THE FRAGMENTS (_Twenty-fifth Sunday after Trinity_) S.
JOHN vi. 12.
"Gather up the fragments that remain."

WHAT THE FLOWERS SAY (_Children's Flower Service_) PSALM ciii. 15.

"As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth."

DAILY BREAD (_Harvest Thanksgiving_) PSALM lxv. 9.
"Thou preparest them corn."

GOD'S JEWELS (_Schools_) MALACHI iii. 17.
"They shall be Mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day when I make up
My jewels."

MUTUAL HELP (_Female Friendly Society)_ S. MARK iii. 35.
"Whosoever shall do the Will of God, the same is My brother, and
My sister, and My Mother."

SERMON XXXV.

THE OPEN DOOR.

(Trinity Sunday.)
REV. iv. 1.

"A door was opened in Heaven."

When Dante had written his immortal poems on Hell and Purgatory, the people
of Italy used to shrink back from him with awe, and whisper, "see the man
who has looked upon Hell." To-day we can in fancy look on the face
of the beloved Apostle, who saw Heaven opened, and the things which
shall be hereafter. We have summed up the great story of the Gospel,
and have trodden the path of salvation from Bethlehem to Calvary.
We have seen Jesus, the only Son of God, dying for our sins, and
rising again for our justification, and ascending into Heaven to
plead for us as our eternal great High Priest. We have heard of the
coming of God the Holy Ghost, the gift of the Father, sent in the
name of the Son. To-day, the Festival of the Blessed Trinity, Three
Persons, yet one God, we are permitted to gaze for a moment through
the open door, on the Home of God, yes, and the Home of God's people,
who are redeemed with the Precious Blood of Christ.
Now, there are many people who never think of Heaven at all, and
many who think of it in a wrong way. When we were baptised, the
door was opened for us in Heaven, and Jesus said to us, "Behold, I
set before you an open door." From that day we were permitted to
look with the eye of faith upon those good things which pass man's
understanding.
But some of us would not look up. We were like travellers going
along a muddy road on a starlight night, and who look down on the
foul, dirty path, and never upwards to the bright sky above. My
brother, turn your eyes from this world's dirty ways, look away
from your selfish work, and your selfish pleasure, look up from the
things which are seen and are temporal, from the fashion of this
world which passeth away, and gaze through the open door of Revelation
at the things which shall be hereafter. I said that many people
never think of Heaven at all.
These are they who love this world too well to think of the world
to come, they are of the earth, earthy. "As is the earthy, such are
they that are earthy, and as is the Heavenly, such also are they
that are Heavenly."
I said, too, that many think of Heaven in a wrong way, as did the
lady of fashion, who fancied Heaven would be like the London season,
only better, as there would be no disagreeable people. Now, if we
are to think rightly of Heaven, we must do as S. John did.Where there is a fierce economic
competition between citizen and citizen then in war with another nation,
the object of the war is to destroy the trade of the enemy.  If the
citizens in any country could develop harmonious life among themselves
they would manifest the friendliest feelings towards the people of other
countries.  We find that it is just among groups of people who aim at
harmonious life, co-operators and socialists, that the strongest
national impulses to international brotherhood arise;  and wars of
domination are brought about by the will of those who within a State are
dominant over the fortunes of the rest.  Ireland, a small country, can
only maintain its national identity by moral and economic forces.
Physically it must be overmastered by most other European nations.
Moral forces are really more powerful than physical forces.  One Christ
changed the spiritual life of Europe;  one Buddha affected more myriads
in Asia.

The co-operative ideal of brotherhood in industry has helped to make
stronger the ideal of the brotherhood of humanity, and no body of men in
any of the countries in the great War of our time regarded it with more
genuine sorrow than those who were already beginning to promote schemes
for international co-operation.  It must be mainly in movements inspired
with the ideal of the brotherhood of man, that the spirit will be
generated which, in the future, shall make the idea of war so detestable
that statesmen will find it is impossible to think of that solution of
their disputes as they would think now of resorting to private
assassination of political opponents. The great tragedy of Europe was
brought about, not by the German Emperor, nor by Sir Edward Grey, nor by
the Czar, nor by any of the other chiefs ostensibly controlling foreign
policy, but by the nations themselves.  "Good Heavens!" ejaculates
_Ollivarez_, "You have made yourself a criminal, and me--a Duke! Horrible!"

By the way, this same _Henrico_, as performed by that excellent swimmer
(in the water-piece), Mr. Spencer Forde, forms a very entertaining
character.Emperors, foreign secretaries,
ambassadors, cabinet ministers are not really powerful to move nations
against their will.  On the whole, they act with the will of the
nations, which they understand.  Let any one ruler try, for example, to
change by edict the religion of his subjects, and a week would see him
bereft of place and power.  They could not do this, because the will of
the nation would be against it.  They resort to war and prepare for it
because the will of the nation is with them, and this throws us back on
the private citizens, who finally are individually and collectively
responsible for the actions of the State.  In the everlasting battle
between good and evil, private soldiers are called upon to fight as well
as the captains, and it is only through the intensive cultivation by
individuals and races of the higher moral and intellectual qualities,
until in intensity they outweigh the mood and passion of the rest, that
war will finally become obsolete as the court of appeal.  When there is
a panic of fire in a crowded building men are suddenly tested as to
character.  Some will become frenzied madmen, fighting and trampling
their way out.  Others will act nobly, forgetting themselves.  They have
no time to think.  What they are in their total make up as human beings,
overbalanced either for good or evil, appears in an instant.  Even so,
some time in the heroic future, some nation in a crisis will be weighed
and will act nobly rather than passionately, and will be prepared to
risk national extinction rather than continue existence at the price of
killing myriads of other human beings, and it will oppose moral and
spiritual forces to material forces, and it will overcome the world by
making gentleness its might, as all great spiritual teachers have done.
It comes to this, we cannot overcome hatred by hatred or war by war, but
by the opposites of these.  Evil is not overcome by evil but by good;
and any race like the Irish, eager for national life, ought to learn
this truth--that humanity will act towards their race as their race acts
towards humanity.  The noble and the base alike beget their kin.
Empires, ere they disappear, see their own mirrored majesty arise in the
looking-glass of time.  Opposed to the pride and pomp of Egypt were the
pride and pomp of Chaldaea. Echoing the beauty of the Greek city state
were many lovely cities made in their image.  Carthage evoked Rome.  The
British Empire, by the natural balance and opposition of things, called
into being another empire with a civilization of coal and steel, and
with ambitions for colonies and for naval power, and with that image of
itself it must wrestle for empire.  The great armadas that throng the
seas, the armed millions upon the earth betray the fear in the minds of
races, nay, the inner spiritual certitude the soul has, that pride and
lust of power must yet be humbled by their kind. They must at last meet
their equals face to face, called to them as steel to magnet by some
inner affinity.  This is a law of life both for individuals and races,
and, when this is realized, we know nothing will put an end to race
conflicts except the equally determined and heroic development of the
spiritual, moral, and intellectual forces which disdain to use the force
and fury of material powers.

We may be assured that the divine law is not mocked, and it cannot be
deceived.  As men sow so do they reap.  The anger we create will rend
us;  the love we give will return to us.  Biologically, everything
breeds true to its type:  moods and thoughts just as much as birds and
beasts and fishes.  When I hear people raging against England or Germany
or Russia I know that rage will beget rage, and go on begetting it, and
so the whole devilish generation of passions will be continued.  There
are no nations to whom the entire and loyal allegiance of man's spirit
could be given.  It can only go out to the ideal empires and
nationalities in the womb of time, for whose coming we pray.  Those
countries of the future we must carve out of the humanity of today, and
we can begin building them up within our present empires and
nationalities just as we are building up the co-operative movement in a
social order antagonistic to it.  The people who are trying to create
these new ideals in the world are outposts, sentinels, and frontiersmen
thrown out before the armies of the intellectual and spiritual races yet
to come into being.  We can all enlist in these armies and be comrades
to the pioneers.  I hope many will enlist in Ireland.  I would cry to
our idealists to come out of this present-day Irish Babylon, so filled
with sectarian, political, and race hatreds, and to work for the future.
I believe profoundly, with the most extreme of Nationalists, in the
future of Ireland, and in the vision of light seen by Bridget which she
saw and confessed between hopes and tears to Patrick, and that this is
the Isle of Destiny and the destiny will be glorious and not ignoble,
and when our hour is come we will have something to give to the world,
and we will be proud to give rather than to grasp.  Throughout their
history Irishmen have always wrought better for others than for
themselves, and when they unite in Ireland to work for each other, they
will direct into the right channel all that national capacity for
devotion to causes for which they are famed.  And attitudes of tender
languishment!
Nor can I get from him the name of her Hath turned him from a stock
into a fool.
He hems and haws, now titters, now looks grave!
Begins to speak and halts! takes off his eyes To fall in contemplation on
a chair, A table, or the ceiling, wall, or floor!
I'll plague him worse and worse! O, here he comes!

[Enter WILDRAKE.]
_Wild_. Despite her spiteful usage I'm resolved To tell her now. Dear
neighbour Constance!

_Con_. Fool!
Accost me like a lady, sir! I hate The name of neighbour!

_Wild_. Mistress Constance, then-- I'll call thee that.

_Con_. Don't call me anything!
I hate to hear thee speak--to look at thee, To dwell in the same
house with thee!

_Wild_.

In what Have I offended?

_Con_. What!--I hate an ape!

_Wild_. An ape!

_Con_. Who bade thee ape the gentleman?
And put on dress that don't belong to thee?
Go! change thee with thy whipper-in or huntsman, And none will doubt
thou wearest thy own clothes.

_Wild_. A pretty pass! Mocked for the very dress I bought to pleasure
her! Untoward things Are women! [Aside. Walks backwards and forwards.]

_Con_. Do you call that walking? Pray What makes you twist your body so,
and take Such pains to turn your toes out? If you'd walk, Walk thus!
Walk like a man, as I do now!

[Walking]
Is yours the way a gentleman should walk?
You neither walk like man nor gentleman!
I'll show you how you walk. [Mimicking him.] Do you call that
walking?

_Wild_. My thanks, for a drill-sergeant twice a day For her
sake! [Aside.]
_Con_. Now, of all things in the world, What made you dance last
night?

_Wild_. What made me dance?

_Con_. Right! It was anything but dancing! Steps That never came from
dancing-school--nor English, Nor Scotch, nor Irish! You must try to
cut, And how you did it! [Cuts.] That's the way to cut!
And then your chasse! Thus you went, and thus.
[Mimicking him.]
As though you had been playing at hop, step, And jump!--and yet you
looked so monstrous pleased, And played the simpleton with such a
grace, Taking their tittering for compliment!
I could have boxed you soundly for't. Ten times Denied I that I
knew you.
_Wild_. Twenty guineas Were better in the gutter thrown than gone
To fee a dancing-master! [Aside.]
_Con_. And you're grown An amateur in music!--What fine air Was
that you praised last night?--"The Widow Jones!" A country jig they
turned into a song.
You asked "If it had come from Italy?" The lady blushed and held
her peace, and then You blushed and said, "Perhaps it came from
France!" And then when blushed the lady more, nor spoke, You said,
"At least it came from Germany!" The air was English!--a true English
air; A downright English air!--a common air; Old as "When Good King
Arthur." Not a square, Court, alley, street, or lane about the town,
In which it is not whistled, played, or sung!
But you must have it come from Italy, Or Germany, or France. Go
home! Go home!
To Lincolnshire, and mind thy dog and horn!
You'll never do for town! "The Widow Jones" To come from Italy!
Stay not in town, Or you'll be married to the Widow Jones, Since
you've forsworn, you say, the Widow Green!
And morn and night they'll din your ears with her!
"Well met, dear Master Wildrake. A fine day!
Pray, can you tell whence came the Widow Jones?" They love a jest
in town! To Lincolnshire!
You'll never do for town! To Lincolnshire; "The Widow Jones" to
come from Italy!

[Goes out.]
_Wild_. Confound the Widow Jones! 'Tis true! The air Well as the
huntsman's triple mort I know, But knew not then indeed, 'twas so
disguised With shakes and flourishes, outlandish things, That mar,
not grace, an honest English song!
Howe'er, the mischief's done!To be without a State is to prowl backwards from the divinity
before us to the beast behind us.

The power the State exerts is a spiritual power, acting on or through
the will of man.  The volunteer armies do not really march to die with
more readiness than the conscript armies.  The sacrifice is not readily
explicable by material causes.  There is no material reason why the
proletarian--who has no property to defend, who is more or less sure as
a skilled craftsman of employment under any ruler--should concern
himself whether his ruler be King, Kaiser, or President.  But not one in
a hundred proletarians really thinks like that.  It is not the hope of
personal profit works upon men to risk life.  Let some exploiter of
industry desire to employ a thousand men at dangerous work, with the
risks of death or disablement equal to those of war;  let it be known
that one in six will be killed and another be disabled, and what sum
will purchase the service of workers?  They will risk life for the
State, though given a bare subsistence or a pay which they would
describe as inhuman if offered by one of the autocrats of industry.  Men
working for the State will make the most extraordinary sacrifices; but
they stand stubbornly and sullenly as disturbers and blockers of all
industry which is run for private profit.  Is it not clear of the two
policies for the State to adopt, to promote personal interests among its
citizens or to unite men for the general good, that the first path is
full of danger to the State, while through the other men will march
cheerfully, though it be to death, in defense of the State. Something, a
real life above the individual, acts through the national being, and
would almost suggest to us that Heaven cannot fully manifest its will to
humanity through the individual, but must utter itself through
multitudes.  There must be an orchestration of humanity ere it can echo
divine melodies. In real truth we are all seeking in the majesties we
create for union with a greater Majesty.

I wrote in an earlier page that the ancient conception of Nature as a
manifestation of spirit was incarnating anew in the minds of modern
thinkers;  that Nature was no longer conceived of as material or static
in condition, but as force and continual motion;  that they were trying
to identify human will with this arcane energy, and let the forces of
Nature manifest with more power in society. The real nature of these
energies manifesting in humanity I do not know, but they have been
hinted at in the Scriptures, the oracles of the Oversoul, which speak of
the whole creation laboring upwards and the entry of humanity into the
Divine Mind, and of the re-introcession of That Itself with all Its
myriad unity into Deity, so that God might be all in all.  I believe
profoundly that men do not hold the ideas of liberty or solidarity,
which have moved them so powerfully, merely as phantasies which are
pleasant to the soul or make ease for the body;  but because, whether
they struggle passionately for liberty or to achieve a solidarity, in
working for these two ideals, which seem in conflict, they are divinely
supported, in unison with the divine nature, and energies as real as
those the scientist studies--as electricity, as magnetism, heat or
light--do descend into the soul and reinforce it with elemental energy.
We are here for the purposes of soul, and there can be no purpose in
individualizing the soul if essential freedom is denied to it and there
is only a destiny.  Wherever essential freedom, the right of the spirit
to choose its own heroes and its own ideals, is denied, nations rise in
rebellion.  But the spirit in man is wrought in a likeness to Deity,
which is that harmony and unity of Being which upholds the universe;
and by the very nature of the spirit, while it asserts its freedom, its
impulses lead it to a harmony with all life, to a solidarity or
brotherhood with it.

All these ideals of freedom, of brotherhood, of power, of justice, of
beauty, which have been at one time or another the fundamental idea in
civilizations, are heaven-born, and descended from the divine world,
incarnating first in the highest minds in each race, perceived by them
and transmitted to their fellow-citizens;  and it is the emergence or
manifestation of one or other of these ideals in a group which is the
beginning of a nation;  and the more strongly the ideal is held the more
powerful becomes the national being, because the synchronous vibration
of many minds in harmony brings about almost unconsciously a psychic
unity, a coalescing of the subconscious being of many.  It is that inner
unity which constitutes the national being.

The idea of the national being emerged at no recognizable point in our
history in Ireland.  It is older than any name we know.  It is not
earth-born, but the synthesis of many heroic and beautiful moments, and
these, it must be remembered, are divine in their origin.  Every heroic
deed is an act of the spirit, and every perception of beauty is vision
with the divine eye, and not with the mortal sense.  The spirit was
subtly intermingled with the shining of old romance, and it is no mere
phantasy which shows Ireland at its dawn in a misty light thronged with
divine figures, and beneath and nearer to us demi-gods and heroes fading
into recognizable men.  The bards took cognizance only of the most
notable personalities who preceded them, and of these only the acts
which had a symbolic or spiritual significance;  and these grew thrice
refined as generations of poets in enraptured musings along by the
mountains or in the woods brooded upon their heritage of story, until,
as it passed from age to age, the accumulated beauty grew greater than
the beauty of the hour.  The dream began to enter into the children of
our race, and turn their thoughts from earth to that world in which it
had its inception.

It was a common belief among the ancient peoples that each had a
national genius or deity who presided over them, in whose all-embracing
mind they were contained, and who was the shepherd of their destinies.
We can conceive of the national spirit in Ireland as first manifesting
itself through individual heroes or kings, and as the history of famous
warriors laid hold of the people, extending its influence until it
created therein the germs of a kindred nature.

An aristocracy of lordly and chivalrous heroes is bound in time to
create a great democracy by the reflection of their character in the
mass, and the idea of the divine right of kings is succeeded by the idea
of the divine right of the people.  If this sequence cannot be traced in
any one respect with historical regularity, it is because of the
complexity of national life, its varied needs, the vicissitudes of
history, and its infinite changes of sentiment. But the threads are all
taken up in the end;  and ideals which were forgotten and absent from
the voices of men will be found, when recurred to, to have grown to a
rarer and more spiritual beauty in their quiet abode in the heart.  The
seeds which were sown at the beginning of a race bear their flowers and
fruits towards its close, and already antique names begin to stir us
again with their power, and the antique ideals to reincarnate in us and
renew their dominion over us.

If you bother a poor devil who is dying of want, and speak to him about
_consumption_, it is probably "political economy" that you will have
addressed to him. If you talk to a man sinking with hunger about
_floating_ capital, you will no doubt have given him the benefit of
a few hints in "political economy:" while, if to a wretch in tattered
rags you broach the theory of _rent_, he must be an ungrateful beast
indeed if he does not appreciate the blessings of "political economy."
That "labour is wealth" forms one of the most refreshing axioms of
this delicious science; and if brought to the notice of a man breaking
stones on the road, he would perhaps wonder where his wealth might be
while thinking of his labour, but he could not question your proficiency
in "political economy." In fact, it is the most political and most
economical science in the world, if it can only be made to achieve its
object, which is to persuade the hard-working classes that they are the
richest people in the universe, for their labour gives value, and value
gives wealth; but who gets the value and the wealth is a consideration
that does not fall within the province of "political economy."
There is another branch of the subject at which we shall merely
glance; but one hint will open up a wide field of observation to the
student. The branch to which we allude is the tremendous extent
to which political economy is carried by those who interfere so much in
politics with so very little political knowledge, and who consequently
display a most surprising share of "political economy,"
As a very little goes a great way, and particularly as the most
diminutive portion of knowledge communicated by ourselves is, like the
"one small pill constituting a dose," much more efficacious than
the 40 Number Ones and 50 Number Twos of the mere quacks, we close
for the present our observations on _Political Economy_

.

* * * * *

ON THE KEY-VIVE.

There can be no doubt as to the _primâ facie_ evidence of the hostile
intentions of the destroyed American steamer, with respect to the
disaffected on Navy Island, as, from the acknowledged inquisitiveness
of the gentler sex, there can be no doubt that _Caroline_ would
have a natural predilection for
[Illustration: PRIVATE (H)EERING.]
* * * * *

LAST NEW SAYINGS.

_Come, none of your raillery_; as the stage-coach indignantly said to the
steam-engine.
_That "strain" again_; as the Poor-law Commissioner generously said
to the water-gruel sieve.
_I paid very dear for my whistle_; as the steam-engine emphatically
said to the railroad.
_Peel for ever!_ as the church bells joyously said to Conservative
hearts.

* * * * *
There is at present a man in New York whose temper is so exceedingly
hot that he invariably reduces all his shirts to tinder.
* * * * * 

PUNCH'S THEATRE.

THE MAID OF HONOUR.That should be the labor of the poets, artists, musicians, and of the
heroic and aristocratic characters who provide by their life an image to
which life can be modeled.  Therefore I beseech audience not only of the
churches, but of the poets, writers, and thinkers of Ireland for their
aid in this labor.  They alone can create in wide commonalty the ideals
which can dominate society. It is the work of the artist to create for
us images of desirable life, to manifest to us the ideal humanity, and
to prefigure that vaster entity which I have called the national being.
I said in an earlier page that part of the failure of Ireland must be
laid to the poets who had dropped out of the divine procession and sang
a solitary song;  to the writers who had turned from contemplating the
great to the portrayal of the little in human nature.  I know how
difficult it is to constrain the spirit, and how futile it is to ask
artists or poets to create what they are not inspired to create.  But we
can ask all men--artists, poets, litterateurs, and scientists--to be
citizens, and if they realize imaginatively the spiritual conception of
the State, we may assume that this imaginative realization of the State
will influence the labors of the mind, and what is done will,
consciously or unconsciously, have reference to that collective being
which must dominate society more and more, which will dominate it as a
tyranny if we fail in our labors, or liberate and make more majestical
the spirit of man if we imagine rightly.  All greatness is brought about
by a conspiracy of the imagination and the will.  Our literature
certainly manifests beauty, but not greatness or majesty, for majesty
only arises where there is an orchestration of humanity by some mighty
conductor;  and as a people we shall never manifest the highest
qualities in literature or life until we are under the dominion of one,
at least, of the great fundamental ideas which have been the inspiration
of races.  Our feebleness arises from our economic individualism.  We
continually neutralize each other's efforts.  Yet there is no less power
in humanity today than there ever was.  We see now clearly what untamed
elemental fires lay underneath the seeming placidity of the world.
There was a feeling in society that, just as the earth itself had
settled down to be a habitable globe, and was forgetting its ancient
ferocities of earthquake that opened up gulfs between land and land and
rended sea from sea, so, too, humanity was losing those wilder energies
we surmised in the cave-dweller or the hunters of mastodon, mammoth, and
cave-tiger.  But it was all a dream--a dream, we suspect, about the
earth as well as about humanity.  While we indulged in these pleasing
speculations on society, the scientists of our generation were placing
beyond question or argument the doctrine of the indestructibility of
energy and matter and we may be sure that while there is immortal life
there must be immortal energies as its companions through time, and they
will never be less powerful than they are today or were in the morning
of the world.  There will be no weakening of that mighty God-begotten
brotherhood of elemental powers;  and, while we cannot hope that by the
wastage of time these powers will be feebler, we may hope that by an
understanding of them we may get mastery over them.  The wild elephant
of the woods, with a greater strength than man's, has yet been trained
to be his servant, and that arcane power we call electricity, which, if
it shoots out of its channel, shrivels up the body of man, is now our
servant.  So we may hope, too, that the elemental energies in humanity
itself, which break out in wars and Armageddons, will come under
control.  We should not hope that man will ever be a less powerful
being.  To hope that would be to wish for his degradation.  We should
wish him to become ever more and more powerful by understanding himself,
and by the unity of the spiritual faculties and the elemental energies
in him into one harmonious whole.  At present he is feeble because he
is, to use the scriptural illustration, a house divided against itself.

Our feebleness is due to the conflict of powers in us and our conflict
with each other.  Get the two mightiest bulls in a herd, put them
opposing each other in a narrow passage, and they, being of equal
strength, will reduce each other to feebleness.  Neither will make
headway.  Let them unite together in their charge, and what will oppose
them?  Men at conflict in their own hearts, opposing each other in the
world, reduce themselves and each other to wretchedness.  The race which
could eliminate the factors which promote internal conflict in society
and could organize human energies in harmony, would be powerful beyond
our wildest dreams. Every now and then in world-history we come across
instances of what organized humanity could accomplish.  There are
fragments of an architecture so majestic that they awe us as the high
rocks of nature do, and they seem almost like portions of nature itself,
and truly they are so, being portions of nature remade by man, who is
also a nature energy of divine origin.  Europe by its conflicts today is
reducing itself to barbarism and powerlessness, and these conflicts
arose out of the internal conflicts in society, for individuals and
nations act outside themselves as they act inside themselves.  The
problem for Europe is to create a harmonious life, and it is the problem
for us in Ireland, and we will have to work this out for ourselves.  The
creation of a harmonious life among a people must come from within.  It
can never come by the imposition of an external law imposed by another
people:  Never did master and slave work in true unison, no matter how
benevolent the master or how yielding the slave, for there is in every
man, no matter what his condition, a spark of divine life, and it will
always be ready to stir him out of subjection, as the fires of
earthquake lie below the cultivated plain.  Man is a creature who has
free will, and it is by self-devised and self-checked efforts he will
attain his full human stature.  So the problem of creating an organic
life in Ireland, a harmony of our people, a union of their efforts for
the common good and for the manifestation of whatever beauty, majesty,
and spirituality is in us, must be one we ourselves must solve for
ourselves.

To be indifferent to the possibilities of human life, to ignore the
problem, is to turn our back on heaven, which fashioned the spirit of
man in its image.  I have quite given o'er the chase.

_Con_. You say not so!

_Wild_. Forsworn, indeed, the sportsman's life, and grown, As you may
partly see, town-gentleman.
I care not now to mount a steed, unless To amble 'long the street; no
paces mind, Except my own, to walk the drawing-room, Or in the
ball-room to come off with grace; No leap for me, to match the light
coupe; No music like the violin and harp, To which the huntsman's dog
and horn I find Are somewhat coarse and homely minstrelsy:
Then fields of ill-dressed rustics, you'll confess, Are well exchanged
for rooms of beaux and belles In short, I've ta'en another thought of
life-- Become another man!

_Con_. The cause, I pray?

_Wild_. The cause of causes, lady.

_Con_. He's in love! [Aside.]
_Wild_. To you, of women, I would name it last; Yet your frank
bearing merits like return; I, that did hunt the game, am caught myself
In chase I never dreamed of!

[Goes out.]
_Con_. He is in love!
Wildrake's in love! 'Tis that keeps him in town, Turns him from sportsman
to town-gentleman.
I never dreamed that he could be in love!
In love with whom?--I'll find the vixen out!
What right has she to set her cap at him?
I warrant me, a forward, artful minx; I hate him worse than ever.
I'll do all I can to spoil the match. He'll never marry-- Sure he
will never marry! He will have More sense than that! My back doth ope
and shut-- My temples throb and shoot--I am cold and hot!
Were he to marry, there would be an end To neighbour Constance--neighbour
Wildrake--why, I should not know myself!

[Enter TRUEWORTH.]
Dear Master Trueworth, What think you!--neighbour Wildrake is in
love!
In love! Would you believe it, Master Trueworth?
Ne'er heed my dress and looks, but answer me.
Knowest thou of any lady he has seen That's like to cozen him?

_True_. I am not sure-- We talked to-day about the Widow Green!

_Con_. Her that my father fancies. Let him wed her!
Marry her to-morrow--if he will, to-night.
I can't spare neighbour Wildrake--neighbour Wildrake!
Although I would not marry him myself, I could not hear that other married
him!

Go to my father--'tis a proper match!
He has my leave! He's welcome to bring home The Widow Green. I'll give
up house and all!
She would be mad to marry neighbour Wildrake; He would wear out her
patience--plague her to death, As he does me. She must not marry
him!

[They go out.] 

ACT III.
SCENE I.--A Room in Widow Green's.
[Enter MASTER WALLER, following LYDIA.]
_Wal_. But thou shalt hear me, gentle Lydia.
Sweet maiden, thou art frightened at thyself!
Thy own perfections 'tis that talk to thee.
Thy beauty rich!--thy richer grace!--thy mind, More rich again than
that, though richest each!
Except for these, I had no tongue for thee, Eyes for thee!--ears!--had
never followed thee!-- Had never loved thee, Lydia! Hear me!--
_Lydia_. Love Should seek its match. No match am I for thee.
_Wal_. Right! Love should seek its match; and that is, love Or
nothing! Station--fortune--find their match In things resembling
them. They are not love!
Comes love (that subtle essence, without which Life were but leaden
dulness!--weariness!
A plodding trudger on a heavy road!) Comes it of title-deeds which
fools may boast?
Or coffers vilest hands may hold the keys of?
Or that ethereal lamp that lights the eyes To shed the sparkling
lustre o'er the face, Gives to the velvet skin its blushing glow,
And burns as bright beneath the peasant's roof As roof of palaced
prince? Yes, Love should seek Its match--then give my love its match
in thine, Its match which in thy gentle breast doth lodge So rich--so
earthly, heavenly fair and rich, As monarchs have no thought of on
their thrones, Which kingdoms do bear up.

_Lydia_.Let us remember the most scornful condemnation in Scripture
was not given to the evil but to the indifferent:  "Because thou art
neither hot nor cold I will spew thee out of my mouth."  Let us not be
the Laodiceans of Europe, listless and indifferent to human needs,
swallowing our whisky and our porter, stupefying our souls, while our
poor are sweated; letting the children of our cities die with more
carelessness about life than the people of any other European country,
with sectarian organization's crawling in secrecy like poisonous
serpents through the undergrowth of swamps and forests.  The co-
operative movement is at least open and ideal in its aims and objects.
It is national and not sectional.  It seeks the triumph of no section
but the unity of our people, where unity alone is possible.  Our
intransigents and extremists of all parties are not hurt or wounded by
their adhesion to the co-operative ideal.  Paul tells us, as he told the
Ephesians, some of the marks of this change. We shall learn to speak,
and act, the truth. "Putting away lying, speak every man truth with
his neighbour." We shall learn to control our temper,--"be ye angry,
and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath." We shall learn
to work, and to work honestly,--"let him that stole steal no more;
but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is
good."At it is
the fashion to comprehend nothing, but to have a smattering of everything,
we beg leave to smatter our readers with a very thin layer of political
economy. In the first place, "political" means "political," and "economy"
signifies "economy," at least when taken separately; but put them
together, and they express all kinds of extravagance. Political economy
contemplates the possibility of labouring without work, eating without
food, and living without the means of subsistence.THE END