This latter supposition seemed probable; but the head-waiter was so
confident of what she ought to do that the girl could think of no excuse.
After all, it would do little harm to wait and "see what happened." As
Mr. Smith was apparently not living at the Savoy (he had merely asked her
to meet him there), he might have had an accident in train or taxi.
Annesley had made her plans to be away from home for two hours, so she
could give him the benefit of the doubt.

A moment of hesitation, and she was seating herself in a chair offered by
the head-waiter. It was one of a couple drawn up at a small table for
two. Sitting thus, Annesley could see everybody who came in, and--what
was more important--could be seen. By what struck her as an odd
coincidence, the table was decorated with a vase of white roses whose
hearts blushed faintly in the light of a pink-shaded electric lamp.

A quarter of an hour, twenty minutes, dragged along, and no Mr. Smith.
Annesley could follow the passing moments on her wrist-watch in its
silver bracelet, the only present Mrs. Ellsworth had ever given her,
with the exception of cast-off clothes, and a pocket handkerchief each
Christmas.

Every nerve in the girl's body seemed to prickle with embarrassment. She
played with a dinner roll, changed the places of the flowers and the
lamp, trying to appear at ease, and not daring to look up lest she should
meet eyes curious or pitying.

"What if they make me pay for dinner after I've kept the table so long?"
she thought in her ignorance of hotel customs. "And I've got only a
shilling!"

Half an hour now, all but two minutes! There was nothing more to hope or
fear. But there was the ordeal of getting away.

"I'll sit out the two minutes," she told herself. "Then I'll go. Ought I
to tip the waiter?" Horrible doubt! And she must have been dreaming to
touch that roll! Better sneak away while the waiter was busy at a
distance.

Frightened, miserable, she was counting her chances when a man, whose
coming into the room her dilemma had caused her to miss, marched
unhesitatingly to her table.


CHAPTER II

SMITHS AND SMITHS


Annesley glanced up, her face aflame, like a fanned coal. The man was
tall, dark, lean, square-jawed, handsome in just that thrilling way which
magazine illustrators and women love; the ideal story-hero to look at,
even to the clothes which any female serial writer would certainly have
described as "immaculate evening dress."

It was too good--oh, far too wonderfully good!--to be true that this
man should be Mr. Smith. Yet if he were not Mr. Smith why should
he----Annesley got no farther in the thought, though it flashed through
her mind quick as light. Before she had time to seek an answer for her
question the man--who was young, or youngish, not more than thirty-three
or four--had bent over her as if greeting a friend, and had begun to
speak in a low voice blurred by haste or some excitement.

"You will do me an immense service," he said, "if you'll pretend to know
me and let me sit down here. You sha'n't regret it, and it may save my
life."

"Sit down," answered something in Annesley that was newly awake. She
found her hand being warmly shaken. Then the man took the chair reserved
for Mr. Smith, just as she realized fully that he wasn't Mr. Smith. Her
heart was beating fast, her eyes--fixed on the man's face, waiting for
some explanation--were dilated.

"Thank you," he said, leaning toward her, in his hand a menu which the
waiter had placed before the girl while she was still alone. She noticed
that the hand was brown and nervous-looking, the hand of a man who might
be a musician or an artist. He was pretending to read the menu, and to
consult her about it. "You're a true woman, the right sort--brave. I
swear I'm not here for any impertinence. Now, will you go on helping me?
Can you keep your wits and not give me away, whatever happens?"

"I think so," answered the new Annesley. "What do you want me to do?" She
took the pitch of her tone from his, speaking quietly, and wondering if
she would not wake up in her ugly brown bedroom at Mrs. Ellsworth's, as
she had done a dozen times when dreaming in advance of her rendezvous at
the Savoy.

"It will be a shock when I tell you," he answered. "But for Heaven's
sake, don't misunderstand. I shouldn't ask this if it weren't absolutely
necessary. In case a man comes to this table and questions you, you must
let him suppose that you are my wife."

"Oh!" gasped Annesley. Her eyes met the eyes that seemed to have been
waiting for her look, and they answered with an appeal which she could
not refuse.

She did not stop to think that if the dark eyes had not been so handsome
they might have been easier to resist. She--the suppressed and timid
girl, never allowed to make up her mind--let herself go with the wave
of strong emotion carrying her along, and reached a resolve.

"It means trusting you a great deal," she answered. "But you say you're
in danger, so I'll do what you ask. I think you can't be wicked enough to
pay me back by trying to hurt me."

"You think right," the man said, and it struck her that his accent was
not quite English. She wondered if he were Canadian or American. Not that
she knew much about either. "A woman like you _would_ think right!" he
went on. "Only one woman out of ten thousand would have the nerve and
presence of mind and the humanity to do what you're doing. When I came
into this room and saw your face I counted on you."

Annesley blushed again in a rush of happiness. She had always longed to
do something which would really matter to another soul. She had even
prayed for it. Now the moment seemed to have come. God would not let her
be the victim of an ignoble trick!

"I'm glad," she said, her face lit by a light from within. And at that
moment, bending toward each other, they were a beautiful couple. A seeker
of romance would have taken them for lovers.

"Tell me what you want me to do," Annesley said once more.

"The worst of it is, I can't tell you exactly. Two men may come into this
restaurant looking for me. One or both will speak to me. They'll call me
a certain name, and I shall say they've made a mistake. You must say so,
too. You must tell them I'm your husband, and stick to that no matter
what the man, or men, may tell you about me. The principal thing now is
to choose a name. But--by Jove--I forgot it in my hurry! Are you
expecting any one to join you? If you are, it's awkward."

"I was expecting someone, but I've given him up."

"Was this table taken in his name or yours? Or, perhaps--but no, I'm sure
you're _not_!"

"Sure I'm not what?"

"Married. You're a girl. Your eyes haven't got any experience of life in
them."

Annesley looked down; and when she looked down her face was very sweet.
She had long, curved brown lashes a shade or two darker than her hair.

"I'm not married," she said, rather stiffly. "I thought a table had been
engaged in the name of Mr. Smith, but there was a misunderstanding. The
head waiter put me at this table in case Mr. Smith should come. I've
given him up now, and was going away when----"

"When you took pity on a nameless man. But it seems indicated that he
should be Mr. Smith, unless you have any objection!"

"No, I have none. You'd better take the name, as I mentioned it to the
waiter."

"And the first name?"

"I don't know. The initial I gave was N."

"Very well, I choose Nelson. Where do we live?"

Annesley stared, frightened.

"Forgive me," the man said. "I ought to have explained what I meant
before asking you that, or put the question another way. Will you go on
as you've begun, and trust me farther, by letting me drive with you to
your home, if necessary, in case of being followed? At worst, I'll need
to beg no more than to stand inside your front door for a few minutes if
we're watched, and--but I see that this time I have passed the limit. I'm
expecting too much! How do you know but I may be a thief or a murderer?"

"I hadn't thought of such a thing," Annesley stammered. "I was only
thinking--it isn't _my_ house. It doesn't even belong to my people. I
live with an old lady, Mrs. Ellsworth. I hope she'll be in bed when I get
back, and the servants, too. I have a key because--because I told a fib
about the place where I was going, and consequently Mrs. Ellsworth
approved. If she hadn't approved, I shouldn't have been allowed out. I
could let you stand inside the door. But if any one followed us to the
house, and saw the number, he could look in the directory, and find out
that it belonged to Mrs. Ellsworth, not Mr. Smith."

"He couldn't have a directory in his pocket! By the time he got hold of
one and could make any use of his knowledge, I'd be far away."

"Yes, I suppose you would," Annesley thought aloud, and a little voice
seemed to add sharply in her ear: "Far away out of my life."

This brought to her memory what she had in her excitement forgotten:
the adventure she had come out to meet had faded into thin air! The
unexpected one which had so startlingly taken its place would end
to-night, and she would be left to the dreary existence from which she
had tried to break free.

She was like a pebble that had succeeded in riding out to sea on a wave,
only to be washed back into its old place on the shore. The thought that,
after all, she had no change to look forward to, gave the girl a
passionate desire to make the most of this one living hour among many
that were born dead.

"Mrs. Ellsworth's house," she said, "is 22-A, Torrington Square."

"Thank you." Only these two words he spoke, but the eager dark eyes
seemed to add praise and blessings for her confidence.

"My name is Annesley Grayle," she volunteered, as if to prove to the man
and to herself how far she trusted him; also perhaps as a bid for his
name in payment of that trust. So at least he must have understood, for
he said: "If I don't tell you mine, it's for your own protection. I'm not
ashamed of it; but it's better that you shouldn't know--that if you heard
it suddenly, it should be strange to you, just like any other name. Don't
you see I'm right?"

"I dare say you are."

"Then we'll leave it at that. But we can't go on pretending to study
this menu for ever! You came to dine with Mr. Smith. You'll dine with
his understudy instead. You'll let me order dinner? It's part of the
programme."

"Very well," Annesley agreed.

The man nodded to the head-waiter, who had been interested in the little
drama indirectly stage-managed by him. Instead of sending a subordinate,
he came himself to take the order. With wonderful promptness, considering
that Mr. Smith's thoughts had not been near the menu under his eyes,
several dishes were chosen and a wine selected.

"Madame is glad now that I persuaded her not to go?" the waiter could not
resist, and Annesley replied that she was glad. As the man turned away,
"Mr. Smith" raised his eyebrows with rather a wistful smile.

"I'm afraid you're sorry, really," he said. "If I'd come a minute later
than I did, you'd have been safe and happy at home by this time."

"Not happy," amended the girl. "Because it isn't home. If it were, I
shouldn't have told fibs to Mrs. Ellsworth to-night."

"That sounds interesting," remarked her companion.

"It's _not_ interesting!" she assured him. "Nothing in my life is. I
don't want to bore you by talking about my affairs, but if you think we
may be--interrupted, perhaps, I'd better explain one or two things while
there's time. I wanted to come here this evening to keep an engagement
I'd made, but it's difficult for me to get out alone. Mrs. Ellsworth
doesn't like to be left, and she never lets me go anywhere without her
except to the house of some friends of mine, the only real friends I
have. It's odd, but _their_ name is Smith, and that saved my telling
a direct lie. Not that a half-lie isn't worse, it's so cowardly!

"Mrs. Ellsworth likes me to go to Archdeacon and Mrs. Smith's
because--I'm afraid because she thinks they're 'swells.' Mrs. Smith has a
duke for an uncle! Mrs. Ellsworth said 'yes' at once, when I asked, and
gave me her key and permission to stop out till half-past ten, though
everyone in the house is supposed to be in bed by ten. She's almost sure
to be in bed herself, but if she gets interested in one of the books I
brought from the library to-day, it's possible she may be sitting up to
read, and to ask about my evening.

"Our bedrooms are on the ground floor at the back of an addition to the
house. What if she should hear the latchkey (it's old fashioned and hard
to work), and what if she should come to the swing door at the end of the
corridor where she'd see you with me? What would you say or do?"

"H'm! It would be awkward. But--isn't there a _young_ Smith in your
Archdeacon's family?"

"There is one, but I haven't seen him since I was a little girl. He's a
sailor. He's away now on an Arctic expedition."

"Then it wasn't _that_ Mr. Smith you came to meet at the Savoy?"

"No. They're not related." As Annesley returned in thought to the Mr.
Smith who had thrown her over, she took from her bodice the white rose
which was to have identified her for him, and found it a place in the
vase with the other white roses. She had a special reason for doing this.
The real Mr. Smith, if by any chance he appeared now, would be a
complication. Without the rose he could not claim her acquaintance.

"Why do you do that?" her companion broke the thread of his questioning
to ask.

The girl was tempted to tell some easy fib that the rose was faded, or
too fragrant; but somehow she could not. They both seemed so close to the
deep-down things of life at this moment that to speak the truth was the
one possible thing.

"I arranged to wear a white rose for Mr. Smith to recognize me. We--have
never seen each other," she confessed.

"Yet you say there's nothing interesting in your life!"

"It's true! _This_ thing was--was dreadful. It could happen only to a
girl whose life was not interesting."

"Now I understand why you put away the rose--for my sake, in case
Mr. Smith should turn up, after all. Will you give it to me? I won't
flaunt it in my buttonhole. I'll hide it sacredly, in memory of this
evening--and of you. Not that I shall need to be reminded of anything
which concerns this night--you especially, and your generosity, your
courage. But it may be that the men I spoke of won't find me here. If
they don't, the worst of your ordeal is over. It will only be to finish
dinner, and let me put you into a taxi. To-morrow you can think that you
dreamed the wretch who appealed to you, and be glad that you will never
see him again."

Annesley selected her white rose from its fellows, dried its stem
daintily with her napkin, and gave the flower to "Mr. Smith." Already it
looked refreshed, as she herself felt refreshed, after five years of
"stuffiness," by these few throbbing moments.

Their hands touched, and through Annesley's darted a little tingle of
electricity that flashed up her arm to her heart, where it caught like a
hooked wire. She was surprised, almost frightened by the sensation, and
ashamed because she didn't find it disagreeable.

"It must be that people who're really _alive_, as he is, give out
magnetism," she thought. And the thrill lingered as the man thanked her
with eyes and voice.

When he had looked at the rose curiously, as if expecting to learn from
it the secret of its wearer, he put the flower away in a letter-case in
an inner breast pocket of his coat.

For once Annesley was face to face with romance, and even though she
would presently go back to the old round (since the adventure she came
out to meet had failed), she was stirred to a wild gladness in this
other adventure. The _hors d'oeuvres_ appeared; then soup, and wine,
which Mr. Smith begged her to taste.

"Drink luck for me," he insisted. "You and you alone can bring it."

Annesley drank. And the champagne filliped colour to her cheeks.

"Now we'll go on and think out the problem of what may happen at your
door--if Fate takes me there," the man said. "Your old friend's sailor
son is no use to me. He can't be whisked back from the North Pole to
London for my benefit. Perhaps I may be an acquaintance of Archdeacon
Smith's, mayn't I, if worst comes to worst? I've been dining there, and
brought you back in a taxi. Will that do? If there are fibs to tell, I'll
tell them myself and spare you if possible."

"After all I've told to-night, one or two more can't matter," said
Annesley. "They won't hurt Mrs. Ellsworth. It's the other danger that's
more worrying--the danger from those men. I've thought of something that
may help if they follow us to Torrington Square. They may ask a policeman
whose house we've gone into, and find out it's Mrs. Ellsworth's, before
you can get away. So it will be better not to tell them it's _yours_. You
can be visiting. There is a Mr. Smith who comes sometimes from America,
where he lives, though he's not American. Even the policemen who have
that beat may have heard of him from Mrs. Ellsworth's servants. There's
a room kept always ready for him, and called 'Mr. Smith's room.'"

"That does help," said the man. "It's clever and kind of you to rack your
brains for me. A Mr. Smith from America! It's easy for me to play that
part, I'm from America. Perhaps you've guessed that?"

"But you're very different from Mrs. Ellsworth's Mr. Smith," Annesley
warned him, hastily. "He's middle-aged, eccentric, and not good-looking.
He comes to England for his 'nerves' when he has worked too hard and
tired himself out. I think he's rich; and once he was robbed in some big
hotel, so he likes to stay at a plain sort of house where there's no
danger. He has a horror of burglars, and won't even stop at the
Archdeacon's since they had a burglary a few years ago. He pays Mrs.
Ellsworth for his room, I believe. A funny arrangement!--it came about
through me. But that's not of importance to you."

"It may be. We can't tell. Better let me know as much as possible about
these Smiths. There's Mrs. Ellsworth's Smith, and the Smith you came to
meet----"

"We needn't talk of _him_, anyway!"

There was a hint of anger in the girl's protest; but her resentment was
for the man who had humiliated her by breaking his appointment--_such_ an
appointment!

She hurried on, trying to hide all signs of agitation. "You see, Mrs.
Ellsworth once hoped to have Archdeacon Smith and his wife for friends.
They didn't care for her, but they loved my father--oh, long ago in the
country, where we lived. When he died and I hadn't any money or training
for work, they were nice to Mrs. Ellsworth for my sake--or, rather, for
my father's sake--and persuaded her to take me as her companion. She was
glad to do it to please them; but soon she realized that they didn't mean
to reward her by being intimate.

"Poor woman, I was almost sorry for her disappointment! You see, she's
a snob at heart, and though 'Smith' sounds a common name, both the
Archdeacon and his wife have titled relations. So have I--and that was
another reason for taking me. She adores a title. Doesn't that sound
pitiful? But she has few interests and no real friends, so she's never
given up hope of 'collecting' the Smiths.

"That's why she lets me visit them. And when I happened to mention, for
something to say, that the Archdeacon had an eccentric cousin in America
who was afraid of hotels and even of visiting at their house because of a
fad about burglars, she offered to give him the better of her two spare
rooms whenever he came to England. I never thought he'd accept, but he
did, only he would insist on paying.

"That's the story, if you can call it a story, for Mr. Ruthven Smith
isn't a bit exciting nor interesting. When he appears--generally quite
suddenly--he finds his room ready. He has his breakfast sent up, and
lunches out at his club or somewhere. He mostly dines out, too, but he
has a standing invitation to dine with Mrs. Ellsworth, and we always have
good dinners when he is staying, to be ready in case of the worst."

The man smiled, rather a charming smile, Annesley could not help
noticing.

"In case of the worst!" he repeated. "He must be deadly if his
society bores you more than that of an old lady on whom, I suppose,
you dance attendance morning, noon, and night. Now, my situation is
so--er--peculiar that I ought to be thankful to exchange identities
with any man. But I wouldn't with Mr. Ruthven Smith for all his money
and jewels."

Annesley opened her eyes. "Did I say anything about jewels?" she asked.

"No, you didn't," the man assured her, "except in mentioning the name of
Ruthven Smith. Anybody who has lived in America as long as I have,
associates jewels with the name of Ruthven Smith. His 'Ruthven' lifts him
far above the ruck of a _mere_ Smith--like myself, for instance"; and he
smiled again.

Annesley began curiously to feel as if she knew him well. This made her
more anxious to give him help--for it would not be helping a stranger: it
would be helping a friend.

"I've heard, of course, that he's something--I'm not sure what--in a firm
of jewellers," she said. "But I'd no idea of his being so important."

"He's third partner with Van Vreck & Co.," her companion explained. "I've
heard he joined at first because of his great knowledge of jewels and
because he's been able to revive the lost art of making certain
transparent enamels. The Van Vrecks sent for him from England years ago.
He buys jewels for the firm now, I believe. No doubt that's why he's in
such a funk about burglars."

"Fancy your knowing more about Mr. Smith than I know! Perhaps more than
Mrs. Ellsworth knows!" exclaimed Annesley, forgetting the strain of
expectation--the dread that a pair of mysterious, nightmare men might
break up the dreamlike dinner-party for two.

"I don't know more about him than half America and Europe knows," laughed
the man. "It's lucky I _do_ know something, though, as I may have to be
mistaken for Ruthven Smith, and add an 'N' to his initials. I suppose
he's not in England now by any chance?"

"No. It must be six or seven months since he was here last," said
Annesley. "I don't think Mrs. Ellsworth has heard from him. She hardly
ever does until a day or two before he's due to arrive; neither do his
cousins."

"A peculiar fellow, it would seem," remarked her companion. And then, out
of a plunge into thought, "You say you've never seen the Mr. Smith you
came to meet at the Savoy? How can you be sure it isn't old 'R. S.' as
they call him at Van Vreck's, wanting to play you a trick--give you a
surprise?"

Annesley shook her head. "If you knew Mr. Ruthven Smith, you'd know that
would be impossible. Why, I don't believe he remembers when I'm out of
sight that I exist."

"Still more peculiar! Miss Grayle, I haven't any right to ask you
questions. But I shouldn't be a man if I weren't forgetting my own
affairs--in--in curiosity, if you want to call it that (I don't!), about
yours. No! I won't let it pass for ordinary curiosity. Can't you
understand you're doing for me more than any woman ever has done, or any
man would do? That does make a bond between us. You can't deny it. Tell
me about this Mr. Smith whom you don't know and never saw, yet came to
the Savoy Hotel to meet."


CHAPTER III

WHY SHE CAME


Surprised by the abruptness of his question, Annesley's eyes dropped
from the eyes of her host, which tried to hold them. She felt that she
ought to be angry with him for taking advantage of her generosity--for
it amounted to that! Yet anger would not come, only shame and the desire
to hide a thing which would change his gratitude to contempt.

"Don't let's waste time talking about me," she said. "We haven't
arranged----"

"We've arranged everything as well as we can. For the rest, I must trust
to luck--and you. Do tell me why you came here, why you _thought_ you
came here, I mean; for I'm convinced you were sent for my sake by any
higher powers there may be. I felt that, the minute I saw you. I feel it
ten times more strongly now. I know that whatever your reason was, it's
nothing to be ashamed of."

"I _am_ ashamed," Annesley was led on to confess. "You'd despise me if I
told you, for you can't realize what my life's been for five years. And
that's my one excuse."

"Only a fool would want a woman like you to excuse herself for
anything. I swear I wouldn't despise you. I couldn't. If you should tell
me--knowing you as little, or as well, as I do, that you'd been plotting
a murder, I'd be certain you were justified, and my first thought would
be to save you, as you're saving me now."

Annesley felt again the man's intense magnetism. Suddenly she wanted to
tell him everything. It would be a relief. She would watch his face and
see how it changed. It would be like having the verdict of the world on
what she had done--or meant to do.

"I saw an advertisement in the _Morning Post_," she said with a kind of
breathless violence, "from a man who--who wanted to meet a girl with--a
'view to marriage.'"

The words brought a blush so painful that the mounting blood forced tears
to her eyes. But she looked her _vis-à-vis_ unwaveringly in the face.

That did not change at all, unless the interest in his eyes grew warmer.
The sympathy she saw there gave Annesley a new and passionate desire to
defend herself. If he had shown disgust, she would not have cared to try,
she thought.

"I told you it was horrid, and not interesting or romantic," she
dashed on. "But I was desperate. Mrs. Ellsworth is awful! I don't
suppose you ever met such a woman. She's not cruel about starving my
body. It's only my soul she starves. What business have _I_ with a soul,
except in church, where it's proper to think about such things? But she
nags--_nags_! She makes my hair feel as if it were turning gray at the
roots, and my face drying up--like an apple.

"I wasn't nineteen when I came to her. I'm twenty-three now, and I feel
_old_--desiccated, thanks to those piling-up hundreds of days with her.
They've killed my spirit. I used to be different. I can feel it. I can
see it in the mirror. It isn't only the passing days, but having nothing
better to look forward to. I'm too cowardly--or too religious or
something, to kill myself, even if I knew how to, decently. But the
deadliness of it all, the airlessness of her house and her heart!

"A man couldn't imagine it. She's made me forget not only my own youth,
but that there's youth in the world. Why, at first I was so wild I should
have loved to say dreadful things, or strike her. But now I haven't the
spirit left to feel like that. My blood's turning white. The other day
when I was reading aloud to Mrs. Ellsworth (I read a lot: the stupidest
parts of the papers and the silliest books, that turn my brain to fluff)
I caught sight of an advertisement in the Personal Column.

"I stopped just in time and didn't read it out. Only a glimpse I had, for
I was in the midst of something else when my eyes wandered. But when Mrs.
Ellsworth was taking her nap after luncheon I got the _Post_ again and
read the advertisement through carefully. The reason I was interested was
because even the glance I took showed that the girl who was 'wanted'
seemed in some ways rather like me. The advertisement said she must be
from twenty-one to twenty-six; needn't be a beauty, but of pleasant
appearance; money no object; the essentials were that she must have a
fair education and be of good birth and manners, so as to command a
certain position in society.

"I believe those were the very words. And it didn't seem too conceited
to think that I answered the description. I'm not bad-looking, and my
mother's father was an earl--an Irish one. I couldn't get the
advertisement out of my head. It fascinated me."

"No wonder!" exclaimed Mr. Smith. He had been listening intently, and
though she had paused, panting a little, more than once, he had not
broken in with a word.

"Do you _honestly_ think it no wonder?" Annesley flashed at him.

"It was like a prisoner seeing a key sticking in a door that has always
been locked," he said.

"How strange you should think of that!" she cried. "It was the thought
which came into my mind, and seemed to excuse me if anything could."
Annesley felt grateful to the man. She was sure she could never have
explained herself in this way or pleaded her own cause with the real Mr.
Smith. A man cold-blooded enough to advertise for a wife "well-born and
able to command a certain position in society" would have frozen her into
an ice-block of reserve.

She might possibly have accepted his "proposition" (one couldn't speak of
it in the ordinary way as a "proposal"), provided that, on seeing her, he
had judged her suitable for the place; but she could never have talked
her heart out to him as she was led on to do by this other man, equally
a stranger, yet sympathetic because of his own trouble and the mystery
which made of him a figure of romance.

"It isn't strange I should think of the prison door and the key," her
companion said. "That was the situation. 'N. Smith' was rather clever in
his way. There must be many girls of good family and good looks who are
in prison, pining to escape. He must have had a lot of answers, that
fellow; but none of the girls could have come within a mile of you. I'm
selfish! I bless my lucky stars he didn't turn up here."

"I dare say it's the best thing that could happen," Annesley agreed with
a sigh. "Probably he's horrible. But there was one thing: I thought,
though he must be a snob and vulgar, advertising as he did for a wife of
good birth, that very thing looked as if he were no _worse_ than a snob.
Not a villain, I mean. Otherwise, I shouldn't have dared answer. But I
did answer the same day, while I had the courage. I posted a letter with
some of Mrs. Ellsworth's, which she sent me out to drop into the box. His
address was 'N. S., the _Morning Post_'; and I told him to send a reply,
if he wrote, to the stationery shop and library where Mrs. Ellsworth
makes me go every day to change her books."

"And the answer? What was it like? What impression did it give you?"
questioned the man who sat in Mr. Smith's place.

"Oh, it was written in a good hand. But it was a stiff, commonplace sort
of letter, except that it asked me to wear a white rose. White roses
happen to be the ones I like best."

"So do I," said Mr. Smith. "Did he tell you to come to a table here and
wait for him?"

"Not exactly. He was to meet me in the foyer. But if he did not, I was
to understand he'd been delayed; and in that case I must come to the
restaurant and inquire for a table engaged by Mr. N. Smith. Lots of times
I decided not to do anything. But you see I came, and this is my reward."

"A poor one," her companion finished.

"I don't mean that! I mean he hasn't come at all. Maybe he never meant
to. Maybe he got some letter he liked better than mine, and arranged to
meet the girl somewhere else. A man of that sort wouldn't write to tell
the straight truth in time, and save the unwanted one from humiliation."

"Are you very sorry he didn't?"

"No," Annesley said, frankly. "I'm not sorry. It's good to be able to
help someone. I'm glad I came."

"So am I," Mr. Smith answered with a sudden change in his voice from calm
to excitement. "And now the moment isn't far off, I think, for the help
to be given. The men I spoke of are here. They're in the restaurant. You
can't see them without turning your head, which would not be wise.
They're speaking to a waiter. They haven't seen me yet, but they're sure
to look soon. They're pointing to a table near us. It's free. The
waiter's leading them to it. In an instant you'll have a better view
of them than I shall. Now ... but don't look up yet."

From under her lashes Annesley saw--in the way women do see without
seeming to use their eyes--two men conducted to a table directly in front
of her. As she sat on her host's right, at the end of the table, not
opposite to him, this gave her the advantage--or disadvantage--of
facing the newcomers fully, while Mr. Smith, who had faced them as they
entered, would have his profile turned toward their table.

The pair seated themselves in the same way that Annesley and her
companion were placed, one at the right hand of the other. This caused
the first man to face the girl fully and gave her the second in profile.
One table only intervened between Mr. Smith's and that selected by the
late arrivals, and the latter had hardly sat down when the party of four
at the intermediate table rose to go.

Under cover of their departure, bowing of waiters and readjustment of
ladies' sable or ermine stoles, Annesley ventured a lightning glance at
the men. She saw that both were black-haired and black-bearded, with dark
skins and long noses. There was a slight suggestion of resemblance
between them. They might be brothers. They were in evening dress, but
did not look, Annesley thought, like gentlemen.

Mr. Smith was eating _blennes au caviar_ apparently with enjoyment. He
called a waiter and told him to put more whipped cream on the caviare as
yet untouched in the middle of Annesley's pancake.

"That's better, I think," he said, genially. And as the waiter went away,
"What are they doing now?"

Annesley lifted her champagne glass as an excuse to raise her eyes. "I'm
afraid they've seen us and are talking about you. Can't we--hadn't we
better go?"

"Certainly not," replied Mr. Smith. "At least, _I_ can't. But if you
repent----"

"I don't," Annesley broke in. "I was thinking of you, of course."

"Bless you!" said her host. His tone was suddenly gay. She glanced at him
and saw that his face was gay also, his eyes bright and challenging, his
look almost boyish. She had taken him for thirty-three or four; now she
would have guessed him younger.

Annesley could not help admiring his pluck, for he had said that the
arrival of these men meant danger. She ought to be sorry as well as
frightened because they had come, but at that moment she was neither. Her
companion's example was contagious. Her spirits rose. And the thought
flashed through her head, "This adventure won't end here!" If she had had
time she would have been ashamed of her gladness; but there was no time.
Smith was talking again in a suppressed yet cheerful tone.

"You won't forget that we're Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Smith?"

"No--no. I sha'n't forget."

"You may have to call me Nelson, and I--to call you Annesley. It's a
pretty name, odd for a woman to have. How did you get it?"

"Oh, you don't want to hear that now!"

"Why not?--unless you'd rather not tell me. We can't do anything more
till the blow falls, except enjoy ourselves and go on with our dinner.
How did you come to be Annesley?"

"It was part of my mother's maiden name. She was an Annesley-Seton."

"There's a Lord Annesley-Seton, isn't there?"

"Yes."

"Related to you?"

"A cousin. But Grayle isn't a name in their set. He and his wife have
forgotten my existence. I'm not likely to remind them of it."

"His wife was an American girl, wasn't she?"

"How odd that you should know!"

"Not very. I remember there being a lot in the papers about the wedding
six or seven years ago. The girl was very rich--a Miss Haverstall. Her
father's lost his money since then."

"How _can_ you keep such uninteresting things in your mind--just now?"

"They're not uninteresting. They concern you!"

"Lord Annesley-Seton's affairs don't concern me, and never will."

"I wonder?" said Smith, looking thoughtful; and the girl wondered, too:
not about her future or her relatives, but what the next few minutes
would do with this strange young man, and how at such a time he could
bear to talk commonplaces.

"If you're trying to keep me from being nervous," she whispered, "it's
not a bit of use! I can't think of anything or any one except those men.
They've stopped whispering. But they're looking at you. Now--they're
getting up. They're coming toward us!"


CHAPTER IV

THE GREAT MOMENT


The men were staring so keenly at "Mr. N. Smith" that it seemed to
Annesley he must feel the stab of eyes, sharp as pin-pricks, in his back.
He had the self-control, however, not to look round, not even to change
expression. No man in the restaurant appeared more calmly at ease than
he.

The couple had accompanied their stare with eager whisperings. Then,
as if on some hasty decision, they pushed back their chairs and got up.
Taking a few steps they separated, approaching Smith on right and left.
One, therefore, stood between him and Annesley as if to prevent an
exchange of words or glances. There was something Eastern and oddly
alien about them in spite of their conventional clothes.

"Mr. Michael Varcoe!" said the bigger and older, he who stood on the left
of Smith. The other kept in the background, not to crowd with conspicuous
rudeness between Annesley and her host. The man who spoke had a thick
voice and a curious accent which the girl, with her small experience, was
unable to place.

"No," answered "Smith," in a puzzled tone. "You mistake me for someone
else."

"I think not," insisted the bearded man, in a hostile drawl. "I _think_
not!"

"I'm _sure_ not," echoed the other. "You are Michael Varcoe. There's no
getting away from that."

The emphasis seemed to add, "And no getting away from _us_."

Excitement stirred Annesley to courage. "Why, how horrid!" she exclaimed,
bending past the human obstacle; "people taking you for some _foreigner_!
I'm sure you can't be like a man with such a name as--Michael Varcoe!
Tell them who we are."

"My name is Nelson Smith," said her official husband. "My wife is
not----"

"Your wife!" repeated the man standing opposite Annesley. He stared with
insolent incredulity. "'Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Smith.' A good name to
take."

"It happens to have been given me." Slight sharpness broke the tolerance
of Smith's tone.

"I don't believe you!" exclaimed the other.

Smith's black brows drew together. "It doesn't matter whether you believe
or not," he said. "What does matter is that you should annoy us. I tell
you I'm not Michael Varcoe, and never heard the name. If you're not
satisfied, and if you don't go back to your dinner and let us finish ours
in peace, I'll appeal to the management."

"Well!" grumbled the taller of the pair. "If you're not the man I want,
you're his image--minus moustache and beard. You _must_ be Varcoe!"

"Of course he's Varcoe," insisted the other.

"Of course he's not!" said Annesley, with just the right amount of
irritation. "Our name is Smith. Nelson, do tell this--person to ask the
head-waiter who engaged the table, and not stay here making a fuss."

