This was the first American train I had been on since I arrived in
France, and it certainly was a great relief to me to know that we were
not to be crowded into one of those uncomfortable, stuffy and tiresome
French trains. _--Martial law proclaimed. I have decided to be The
Strong Man of England. Force may be no remedy, but it is much esteemed
by the Unionist Party, and I don't see why WINSTON should be the only
popular member of the Cabinet.

_Wednesday._--Excellent. CARSON has been safely smuggled out of the
country. He travelled from Belfast to Liverpool in a packing-case
labelled "Oranges," and was then embarked in a whaler for Greenland.
The ship, I understand, has no wireless installation and will not stop
at any port on the way.

As he had to leave Belfast rather hurriedly, without packing, I have
lent him a spare suit of WEDGWOOD BENN'S clothes. The authorities
have orders to deal with the other leading members of the Ulster
Provisional Government in the same way.

_Thursday._--The Ulster leaders have been safely deported. Unfortunately,
there was no ship immediately available for them, and at the present
moment they are in a pantechnicon labelled "Theatrical Troupe" (a tip
from BOTHA) touring the Cromwell Road. They go up and down twice in
a day, I am told, stopping nowhere on the way. Without their
leaders the Ulstermen are weakening, and they may be expected to accept
the Home Rule Act peaceably in the course of a few days. Martial law
is certainly an extraordinary solvent of the most difficult
situation, and I can only wonder that I never thought of it before.

_Saturday._--However hard one tries one can never please everybody.
In a fierce speech at Bootle last night, BONAR denounced me as (among
other things) a Tyrant, a Dictator, and an Autocrat! (The other
things were not so polite.) By an exhibition of the strong hand I
have practically stifled the Ulster Revolution, and this is all the
thanks I get from the Unionist Party.However, we were soon
doomed to disappointment, for orders were changed, and we were taken
to the Carry On Hospital, just out of Brest. The ride to the hospital
was a disagreeable one, as it had been raining and the streets were
muddy and wet. The ambulance rocked more like a boat than a motor car.
We were assigned quarters and given food. We met a number of boys in
the various wards who were awaiting their time of departure. We asked
them about how long it was after arriving at Brest before soldiers
were embarked for home, and they said the time varied all the way from
three to thirty days. That was not very encouraging and we were hoping
that in our case it would be three days. The very next morning,
however, a number of our boys received orders to get ready to depart.
I was not included among them, to my sorrow, and had no idea how long
I might be kept at Brest. It was only a day or two later when we were
made happy by the news that our time to depart had come. It was joyful
news and made our hearts beat with the joy that only a returning
soldier knows.

We were loaded on the hospital ship "La France," which is a beautiful,
four-funnel French liner, 796 feet in length. It was the third largest
liner in use in transporting troops at that time. We took our places
on the boat about noon, but the big ship laid in the harbor all
afternoon, and it was not until about sundown that she started to pull
out and we bade "good-bye" to "la belle France." One might think that
there was a lot of cheering when the boat pulled out on the eventful
afternoon of December 17, 1918, but there was not. Some of the boys,
it is true, cheered heartily. Most of us, however, were too full of
emotion to become wildly demonstrative. Our thoughts were on home, the
folks that are dear to us, and our beloved native land, and our
emotions were too strained for expression in cheers.

