"I'm Phil Boldrick's pal from Danger Mountain."  Roscoe held out his
hand, and the man took it, saying: "You're The Padre, I suppose, and Phil
was soft on you.  Didn't turn religious, did he?  He always had a streak
of God A'mighty in him; a kind of give-away-the-top-of-your-head chap;
friend o' the widow and the orphan, and divvy to his last crust with a
pal.  I got your letter, and come over here straight to see that he's
been tombed accordin' to his virtues; to lay out the dollars he left me
on the people he had on his visitin' list; no loafers, no gophers, not
one; but to them that stayed by him I stay, while prog and liquor last."

I saw Roscoe looking at him in an abstracted way, and, as he did not
reply, I said: "Phil had many friends and no enemies."  Then I told him
the tale of his death and funeral, and how the valley mourned for him.

While I spoke he stood leaning against a tree, shaking his head and
listening, his eyes occasionally resting on Roscoe with a look as
abstracted and puzzled as that on Roscoe's face.  When I had finished he
drew his hand slowly down his beard and a thick sound came from behind
his fingers.  But he did not speak.

Then I suggested quietly that Phil's dollars could be put to a better use
than for prog and liquor.

He did not reply to this at all; but after a moment's pause, in which he
seemed to be studying the gambols of a squirrel in a pine tree, he rubbed
his chin nervously, and more in soliloquy than conversation said: "I
never had but two pals that was pals through and through.  And one was
Phil and the other was Jo--Jo Brackenbury."

Here Roscoe's hand, which had been picking at the bark of a poplar,
twitched suddenly.

The man continued: "Poor Jo went down in the 'Fly Away' when she swung
with her bare ribs flat before the wind, and swamped and tore upon the
bloody reefs at Apia. . . .  God, how they gnawed her!  And never a
rag holdin' nor a stick standin', and her pretty figger broke like a tin
whistle in a Corliss engine.  And Jo Brackenbury, the dandiest rip, the
noisiest pal that ever said 'Here's how!' went out to heaven on a tearing
sea."

"Jo Brackenbury--" Roscoe repeated musingly.  His head was turned away
from us.

"Yes, Jo Brackenbury; and Captain Falchion said to me" (I wonder that I
did not start then) "when I told him how the 'Fly Away' went down to Davy,
and her lovers went aloft, reefed close afore the wind--'Then,' says he,
'they've got a damned sound seaman on the Jordan, and so help me! him
that's good enough to row my girl from open sea, gales poundin' and
breakers showin' teeth across the bar to Maita Point, is good enough for
use where seas is still and reefs ain't fashionable.'"

Roscoe's face looked haggard as it now turned towards us.  "If you will
meet me," he said to the stranger, "to-morrow morning, in Mr. Devlin's
office at Viking, I will hand you over Phil Boldrick's legacy."

The man made as if he would shake hands with Roscoe, who appeared not to
notice the motion, and then said: "I'll be there.  You can bank on that;
and, as we used to say down in the Spicy Isles, where neither of you have
been, I s'pose, Talofa!"

He swung away down the hillside.

Roscoe turned to me.  "You see, Marmion, all things circle to a centre.
The trail seems long, but the fox gets killed an arm's length from his
hole."

"Not always.  You take it too seriously," I said.  "You are no fox."

"That man will be in at the death," he persisted.

"Nonsense, Roscoe. He does not know you.  What has he to do with you?
This is overwrought nerves.  You are killing yourself with worry."

He was motionless and silent for a minute.  Then he said very quietly:
"No, I do not think that I really worry now.  I have known"--here he laid
his hand upon my shoulder and his eyes had a shining look--"what it is to
be happy, unspeakably happy, for a moment; and that stays with me.  I am
a coward no longer."

He drew his finger tips slowly across his forehead.  Then he continued:
"To-morrow I shall be angry with myself, no doubt, for having that
moment's joy, but I cannot feel so now.  I shall probably condemn myself
for cruel selfishness; but I have touched life's highest point this
afternoon, Marmion."

I drew his hand down from my shoulder and pressed it.  It was cold.
He withdrew his eyes from the mountain, and said: "I have had dreams,
Marmion, and they are over.  I lived in one: to expiate--to wipe out--
a past, by spending my life for others.  The expiation is not enough.
I lived in another: to win a woman's love; and I have, and was caught up
by it for a moment, and it was wonderful.  But it is over now, quite
over. . . .  And now for her sake renunciation must be made, before
I have another dream--a long one, Marmion."

I had forebodings, but I pulled myself together and said firmly: "Roscoe,
these are fancies.  Stop it, man.  You are moody.  Come, let us walk, and
talk of other things."

"No, we will not walk," he said, "but let us sit there on the coping and
be quiet--quiet in that roar between the hills."  Suddenly he swung
round, caught me by the shoulders and held me gently so.

"I have a pain at my heart, Marmion, as if I'd heard my death sentence;
such as a soldier feels who knows that Death looks out at him from iron
eyes.  You smile: I suppose you think I am mad."

I saw that it was best to let him speak his mind.  So I answered: "Not
mad, my friend.  Say on what you like.  Tell me all you feel.  Only, for
God's sake be brave, and don't give up until there's occasion.  I am sure
you exaggerate your danger, whatever it is."

"Listen for a minute," said he: "I had a brother Edward, as good a lad
as ever was; a boisterous, healthy fellow.  We had an old nurse in our
family who came from Irish hills, faithful and kind to us both.  There
came a change over Edward.  He appeared not to take the same interest in
his sports.  What is needed is that the correspondent should drink as
little fluid as possible and pay close attention to the condition of his
digestive mechanism. If the organs are dilated or misplaced he should
wear a belt and take suitable gentle Osteopathic exercises.

TREATMENT FOR STAMMERING.

A.M.D. writes:--Could you kindly give in _The Healthy Life_ magazine
some suggestions as to the best method to follow in a case of
stammering (slight) in a boy of ten or eleven years who has been
rather left to himself, the hesitancy in speech being regarded as
incurable?

This boy should be trained by someone who understands how to cure stammering.
The correspondent would do well to consult Miss Behncke of 18 Earl's
Court Square, S.W., who makes a speciality of treating such cases.

WHY THE RED CORPUSCLES ARE DEFICIENT IN ANÆMIA.

A.M.D. writes:--Is there any way, independent of diet, of increasing the
red corpuscles in the blood? I have tried walking nine miles a day, thus
getting up free perspirations. What of this method? I did imagine that
this resulted in a better condition of the skin, the latter losing in a
measure the white and parched appearance.

A deficiency of red corpuscles in the blood, which shows in anæmia, is
usually caused by self-poisoning. When food ferments or putrifies in the
colon, owing to faulty diet and other causes, certain toxins are created.
These become absorbed into the blood and there destroy the red
corpuscles. Walking is a good form of exercise, but it will not suffice
alone to remedy this type of anæmia unless the diet and general
habits of the patient are so arranged that the unsanitary condition
of the colon is also remedied.

The correspondent will find, if she studies the replies to others in
this magazine, many details as to diet, etc., for rectifying bad
conditions in the bowels.

THE CORRECT BLENDING OF FOODS.

T.B.W. writes:--Is it inadvisable for a dyspeptic (and sufferer
from constipation) to eat salad, or cooked vegetables, and stewed
fruit at the same meal; also, do I do right in eating bread and
butter (preferably crust) or hard biscuits with stewed fruit or
soft vegetables, etc.?

Would you please inform me the best Still that I can obtain--preferably
one that does not require much attention, and is fairly portable,
and that does not cost much to work?

I do not believe that it is right to mix salads or cooked vegetables with
stewed fruits. It is better to take them at separate meals.

It is, in my view, equally bad to take cereals (_i.e._ bread, biscuits,
etc.) with stewed fruits. The reason is that cereals call for an alkaline
form of digestion in the mouth which the acid fruits or the added
sugar greatly retard.

I believe strongly in the all-fruit breakfast or all-fruit supper, when
fresh, dried, or even stewed dried fruits (possibly with some fresh
cream) can be taken alone, without either cereals or vegetables.

Cereals go best with salads and cooked vegetables, because of the
alkalinity of the latter which harmonises with the salivary secretion
intended for the digestion of grains.

The Gem Still is the best to buy. It is well made and does not need much
attention. The large automatic commercial size is, however, the best
if any quantity is needed, as it works throughout the day with practically
no attention when properly adjusted.

DIFFICULTIES IN CHANGING TO NON-FLESH DIET.

F.C.W. writes:--I shall be glad if you will inform me from your
experience whether, after one has broken from the customary meat
diet and adopted a "reform" diet, there is any real difficulty in
reverting to the former state.

But it's a long way from Apia
to the Rockies, and it's funny to meet here."

"When did you come here--and from where?"

"I come to-day from the Hudson's Bay post at Danger Mountain.  I'm Phil
Boldrick's pal."

"Ah," she said again, with a look in her eyes not pleasant to see, "and
what brings you up here in the hills?"  Hers was more than an ordinary
curiosity.

"I come to see the Padre who was with Phil--when he left.  And the
Padre's a fair square sort, as I reckon him, but melancholy, almighty
melancholy."

"Yes, melancholy, I suppose," she said, "and fair square, as you say.
And what did you say and do?"

"Why, we yarned about Phil, and where I'd get the legacy to-morrow; and
I s'pose I had a strong breeze on the quarter, for I talked as free as if
we'd grubbed out of the same dough-pan since we was kiddies."

"Yes?"

"Yes siree; I don't know how it was, but I got to reelin' off about Jo--
queer, wasn't it?  And I told 'em how he went down in the 'Fly Away', and
how the lovely ladies--you remember how we used to call the whitecaps
lovely ladies--fondled him out to sea and on to heaven."

"And what did--the Padre--think of that?"

"Well, he's got a heart, I should say, and that's why Phil cottoned to
him, maybe,--for he looked as if he'd seen ghosts.  I guess he'd never
had a craft runnin' 'tween a sand-bar and a ragged coral bank; nor seen a
girl like the 'Fly Away' take a buster in her teeth; nor a man-of-war
come bundlin' down upon a nasty glacis, the captain on the bridge,
engines goin' for all they're worth, every man below battened in, and
every Jack above watchin' the fight between the engines and the
hurricane. . . .  Here she rolls six fathoms from the glacis that'll
rip her copper garments off, and the quiverin' engines pull her back; and
she swings and struggles and trembles between hell in the hurricane and
God A'mighty in the engines; till at last she gets her nose at the neck
of the open sea and crawls out safe and sound. . . .  I guess he'd
have more marble in his cheeks, if he saw likes o' that, Miss Falchion?"

Kilby paused and wiped his forehead.

She had listened calmly.  She did not answer his question.  She said:
"Kilby, I am staying at the summer hotel up there.  Will you call on me--
let me see . . . . say, to-morrow afternoon?--Some one will tell you the
way, if you do not know it. . . .  Ask for MRS. Falchion, Kilby, not
Miss Falchion. . . .  You will come?"

"Why, yes," he replied, "you can count on me; for I'd like to hear of
things that happened after I left Apia--and how it is that you are Mrs.
Falchion, for that's mighty queer."

"You shall hear all that and more."  She held out her hand to him and
smiled.  He took it, and she knew that now she was gathering up the
strings of destiny.

They parted.

The two passed on, looking, in their cool elegance, as if life were the
most pleasant thing; as though the very perfume of their garments would
preserve them from that plague called trouble.

"Justine," said Mrs. Falchion, "there is one law stranger than all; the
law of coincidence.  Perhaps the convenience of modern travel assists it,
but fate is in it also.  Events run in circles.  People connected with
them travel that way also.  We pass and re-pass each other many times,
but on different paths, until we come close and see each other face to
face."

She was speaking almost the very words which Roscoe had spoken to me.
But perhaps there was nothing strange in that.

"Yes, madame," replied Justine; "it is so, but there is a law greater
than coincidence."

"What, Justine?"

"The law of love, which is just and merciful, and would give peace
instead of trouble."

Mrs. Falchion looked closely at Justine, and, after a moment, evidently
satisfied, said: "What do you know of love?"

Justine tried hard for composure, and answered gently: "I loved my
brother Hector."

"And did it make you just and merciful and--an angel?"

"Madame, you could answer that better.  But it has not made me be at war;
it has made me patient."

"Your love--for your brother--has made you that?"  Again she looked
keenly, but Justine now showed nothing but earnestness.

"Yes, madame."

Mrs. Falchion paused for a moment, and seemed intent on the beauty of the
pine-belted hills, capped by snowy peaks, and wrapped in a most hearty
yet delicate colour.  The red of her parasol threw a warm soft ness upon
her face.  She spoke now without looking at Justine.

"Justine, did you ever love any one besides your brother?--I mean another
man."

Justine was silent for a moment, and then she said: "Yes, once."  She was
looking at the hills now, and Mrs. Falchion at her.

"And you were happy?"  Here Mrs. Falchion abstractedly toyed with a piece
of lace on Justine's arm.  Such acts were unusual with her.

"I was happy--in loving."

"Why did you not marry?"

"Madame--it was impossible--quite."  This, with hesitation and the
slightest accent of pain.

"Why impossible?  You have good looks, you were born a lady; you have a
foolish heart--the fond are foolish."  She watched the girl keenly, the
hand ceased to toy with the lace, and caught the arm itself--"Why
impossible?"

"Madame, he did not love me, he never could."

"Did he know of your love?"

"Oh no, no!"  This with trouble in her voice.

"And you have never forgotten?"

The catechism was merciless; but Mrs. Falchion was not merely malicious.
She was inquiring of a thing infinitely important to her.  She was
searching the heart of another, not only because she was suspicious, but
because she wanted to know herself better.

"It is easy to remember."

"Is it long since you saw him?"

The question almost carried terror with it, for she was not quite sure
why Mrs. Falchion questioned her.  She lifted her eyes slowly, and there
was in them anxiety and joy.  "It seems," she said, "like years."

"He loves some one else, perhaps?"

"Yes, I think so, madame."

"Did you hate her?"

"Oh no; I am glad for him."

Here Mrs. Falchion spoke sharply, almost bitterly.  Even through her soft
colour a hardness appeared.  "You are glad for him?  You would see
another woman in his arms and not be full of anger?"

"Quite."

"Justine, you are a fool."

"Madame, there is no commandment against being a fool."

"Oh, you make me angry with your meekness!"  Here Mrs. Falchion caught a
twig from a tree by her, snapped it in her fingers, and petulantly threw
its pieces to the ground.  "Suppose that the man had once loved you, and
afterwards loved another--then again another?"

"Madame, that would be my great misfortune, but it might be no wrong in
him."

"How not a wrong in him?"

"It may have been my fault.  There must be love in both--great love, for
it to last."

"And if the woman loved him not at all?"

"Where, then, could be the wrong in him?"

"And if he went from you,"--here her voice grew dry and her words were
sharp,--"and took a woman from the depths of--oh, no matter what! and
made her commit--crime--and was himself a criminal?"

"It is horrible to think of; but I should ask myself how much I was to
blame. . . .  What would you ask yourself, madame?"

"You have a strain of the angel in you, Justine.  You would forgive Judas
if he said, 'Peccavi.'  I have a strain of Satan--it was born in me--
I would say, You have sinned, now suffer."

"God give you a softer heart," said Justine, with tender boldness and
sincerity.

At this Mrs. Falchion started slightly, and trouble covered her face.
She assumed, however, a tone almost brusque, artificially airy and
unimportant.

"There, that will do, thank you. . . .  We have become serious and
incomprehensible.  Let us talk of other things.  I want to be gay. . . .
Amuse me."

Arrived at the hotel, she told Justine that she must not be disturbed
till near dinner-time, and withdrew to her sitting-room.  There she sat
and thought, as she had never done in her life before.  She thought upon
everything that had happened since the day when she met Galt Roscoe on
the 'Fulvia'; of a certain evening in England, before he took orders,
when he told her, in retort to some peculiarly cutting remark of hers,
that she was the evil genius of his life: that evening when her heart
grew hard, as she had once said it should always be to him, and she
determined again, after faltering many times, that just such a genius she
would be; of the strange meeting in the rapids at the Devil's Slide, and
the irony of it; and the fact that he had saved her life--on that she
paused a while; of Ruth Devlin--and here she was swayed by conflicting
emotions; of the scene at the mill, and Phil Boldrick's death and
funeral; of the service in the church where she meant to mock him, and,
instead, mocked herself; of the meeting with Tonga Sam; of all that
Justine had said to her: then again of the far past in Samoa, with which
Galt Roscoe was associated, and of that first vow of vengeance for a
thing he had done; and how she had hesitated to fulfil it year after year
till now.

This is due not so much to the difficulty in digesting it as to the violent
stimulation and grossening of the body which it induces.

I have never heard of any food reformer who discarded meat for ethical
or humane reasons who willingly returned to meat so that he could
if necessary be in a position to digest it.

With regard to the loss of energy and nerve power the correspondent
must distinguish between real weakness and absence of stimulation.

The first effects of discarding meat show a deficient energy due to the
absence of stimulation. When this has passed it gives place to a
feeling of buoyancy and energy which is permanent.

The dental weakness is aggravated, if indeed it is not actually _caused_,
by the milk puddings, porridge, cake and sugared beverages which are
a feature of this correspondent's diet, and to the absence of salad
vegetables. If he amended his diet somewhat as follows he should make
steady progress in energy and general fitness:--

_On rising._--Tumblerful of cold water.

_Breakfast_ (7.15).--One lightly boiled, baked or poached egg; Veda bread
and butter, a little watercress or other salad. A small cup of Hygiama
in place of the sugared cocoa.

_Lunch_ (12.45).--Nut or cheese savoury and one vegetable; baked pudding
by preference for second course, or simply a nut and fruit cake; no
dates.

_Or_ salad with grated cheese or cream cheese, or flaked pine nuts;
followed by a piece of the excellent wholemeal cake supplied at the
restaurant this correspondent frequents.

_Tea meal.

_--One cup of Salfon cocoa (unsweetened), preferably without other
food.

_Supper_ (6 to 7) (This meal is at present far too mushy).--Cream cheese,
Veda bread with fresh butter or nut butter, salad, tomatoes,
cucumber, etc., with dressing of pure oil and lemon juice.

_Or_ simply fresh ripe fruit, with dried fruit and cream; no cereals.

_On retiring._--Cupful of hot unsweetened lemon water, or weak barley
water; no milk.

H. VALENTINE KNAGGS.

CORRESPONDENCE.

_All Correspondence should be addressed (and all contributions submitted)
to the Editors, _THE HEALTHY LIFE_, 3 Tudor Street, London, E.C._

COTTAGE CHEESE.

WILDERTON, BOURNEMOUTH.
BOURNEMOUTH.

_To the Editors_,

DEAR SIRS,
_Re_ Mrs C.E.J.'

s letter and the reply thereto: I should be inclined to doubt the wisdom
of making this from unboiled or uncooked milk unless one had it from one's
own cows and could supervise the dairy oneself. The average milk
that comes into towns from country farms is--well, it's unthinkable.
There's a saying that what the eye doesn't see the heart doesn't
grieve over, but that doesn't alter the fact that the average cow
is none too clean, the average milker's hands and clothes (to say
nothing of his face, hat and head) none too clean, the milking-place
none too clean, and the circumstances of transit such as don't make
for cleanliness. I have put it very moderately, as those who know
country dairy farms will admit.
Those who particularly want clean cheese from uncooked milk should
buy it from a County Council dairy farm or similar institution.
Yours truly, 
B.C. FORDER.

WILL OTHER READERS DO LIKEWISE?
Mrs E. BUMPUS writes (7th October 1913):--
I am ordering two copies each month from my local newsagent.... I
thought he might be induced to show copies of your publication in
his window.
[An attractive blue poster is supplied each month free by the
Publishers to all genuine agents who apply for the same.--EDS.]
_THE HEALTHY LIFE_ IN THE LIBRARIES.
Mr C.H. GRINLING writes (25th October 1913):--
I note the suggestion on p. 580 of the October number of _The Healthy
Life_. A friend enables me to ask you to send _The Healthy Life_
regularly for one year to the Woolwich Public Library, William
Street, Woolwich. I enclose 2s. The librarian will see that it
appears on the magazine-room table regularly.
[There is every reason why _The Healthy Life_ should be known and
read in every public library in the United Kingdom. In this we are
entirely dependent upon those readers who are ready to follow the
excellent example of the above and other correspondents. A year's
subscription--2s.--is a very small price to pay for bringing the
message of this magazine before the public in this way. We should
like to hear from readers in all parts.--EDS.]
FRUIT-OILS AND NUTS.

WESTCLIFF-ON-SEA, 22nd Oct. 1913.Some one in the next room was playing the piano idly yet expressively.
The notes of Il Trovatore kept up a continuous accompaniment to their
talk, varying, as if by design, with its meaning and importance, and yet
in singular contrast at times to their thoughts and words.  It was almost
sardonic in its monotonous persistence.

"Travel is not all, believe me, Miss Devlin," was the indolent reply.
"Perhaps the simpler life is the happier.  The bandbox is not the worst
that may come to one--when one is born to it.  I am not sure but it is
the best.  I doubt that when one has had the fever of travel and the
world, the bandbox is permanently habitable again."

Mrs. Falchion was keen; she had found her opportunity.

On the result of this duel, if Ruth Devlin but knew it, depends her own
and another's happiness.  It is not improbable, however, that something
of this was in her mind.  She shifted her chair so that her face was not
so much in the light.  But the belt of sunlight was broadening from Mrs.
Falchion's feet to her dress.

"You think not?" Ruth asked slowly.

The reply was not important in tone.  Mrs. Falchion had picked up a paper
knife and was bending it to and fro between her fingers.

"I think not.  Particularly with a man, who is, we will say, by nature,
adventurous and explorative.  I think if, in some mad moment, I
determined to write a novel, it should be of such a man.  He flies wide
and far; he sees all; he feeds on novelty; he passes from experience to
experience--liberal pleasures of mind and sense all the way.  Well, he
tires of Egypt and its flesh-pots.  He has seen as he hurried on--I hope
I am not growing too picturesque--too much of women, too many men.  He
has been unwise--most men are.  Perhaps he has been more than unwise;
he has made a great mistake, a social mistake--or crime--less or more.
If it is a small one, the remedy is not so difficult.  Money, friends,
adroitness, absence, long retirement, are enough.  If a great one, and he
is sensitive--and sated--he flies, he seeks seclusion.  He is afflicted
with remorse.  He is open to the convincing pleasures of the simple and
unadorned life; he is satisfied with simple people.  The snuff of the
burnt candle of enjoyment he calls regret, repentance.  He gives himself
the delights of introspection, and wishes he were a child again--yes,
indeed it is so, dear Miss Devlin."

Ruth sat regarding her, her deep eyes glowing.  Mrs. Falchion
continued: "In short, he finds the bandbox, as you call it, suited to his
renunciations.  Its simplicities, which he thinks is regeneration, are
only new sensations.  But--you have often noticed the signification of
a 'but,'" she added, smiling, tapping her cheek lightly with the ivory
knife--"but the hour arrives when the bandbox becomes a prison, when the
simple hours cloy.  Then the ordinary incident is merely gauche, and
expiation a bore.

"I see by your face that you understand quite what I mean. . . .
Well, these things occasionally happen.  The great mistake follows the
man, and, by a greater misery, breaks the misery of the bandbox; or the
man himself, hating his captivity, becomes reckless, does some mad thing,
and has a miserable end.  Or again, some one who holds the key to his
mistake comes in from the world he has left, and considers--considers,
you understand!--whether to leave him to work out his servitude, or,
mercifully--if he is not altogether blind--permit him the means of escape
to his old world, to the life to which he was born--away from the bandbox
and all therein. . . .  I hope I have not tired you--I am sure I have."

Ruth saw the full meaning of Mrs. Falchion's words.  She realised that
her happiness, his happiness--everything--was at stake.  All Mrs.
Falchion's old self was battling with her new self.  She had determined
to abide by the result of this meeting.  She had spoken in a half gay
tone, but her words were not everything; the woman herself was there,
speaking in every feature and glance.  Ruth had listened with an
occasional change of colour, but also with an outward pride to which she
seemed suddenly to have grown.  But her heart was sick and miserable.
How could it be otherwise, reading, as she did, the tale just told her in
a kind, of allegory, in all its warning, nakedness, and vengeance?  But
she detected, too, an occasional painful movement of Mrs. Falchion's
lips, a kind of trouble in the face.  She noticed it at first vaguely
as she listened to the music in the other room; but at length she
interpreted it aright, and she did not despair.  She did not then follow
her first impulse to show that she saw the real meaning of that speech,
and rise and say, "You are insulting," and bid her good-day.

After all, where was the ground for the charge of insult?  The words had
been spoken impersonally.  So, after a moment, she said, as she drew a
glove from a hand slightly trembling: "And you honestly think it is the
case: that one having lived such a life as you describe so unusually,
would never be satisfied with a simple life?"

"My dear, never--not such a man as I describe.  I know the world."

"But suppose not quite such an one; suppose one that had not been so--
intense; so much the social gladiator; who had business of life as well,"
--here the girl grew pale, for this was a kind of talk unfamiliar and
painful to her, but to be endured for her cause,--"as well as 'the flesh-
pots of Egypt;' who had made no wicked mistakes--would he necessarily end
as you say?"

"I am speaking of the kind of man who had made such mistakes, and he
would end as I say.  Few men, if any, would leave the world for--the
bandbox, shall I still say?  without having a Nemesis."

"But the Nemesis need not, as you say yourself, be inevitable.  The
person who holds the key of his life, the impersonation of his mistake--"

"His CRIMINAL mistake," Mrs. Falchion interrupted, her hand with the
ivory knife now moveless in that belt of sunlight across her knees.

"His criminal mistake," Ruth repeated, wincing--"might not it become
changed into mercy, and the man be safe?"

"Safe?  Perhaps.  But he would tire of the pin-hole just the same. . . .
My dear, you do not know life."

"But, Mrs. Falchion," said the girl, now very bravely, "I know the
crude elements of justice.  That is one plain thing taught here in the
mountains.  We have swift reward and punishment--no hateful things called
Nemesis.  The meanest wretch here in the West, if he has a quarrel,
avenges himself openly and at once.  Actions are rough and ready,
perhaps, but that is our simple way.  Hate is manly--and womanly too--
when it is open and brave.  But when it haunts and shadows, it is not
understood here."

Mrs. Falchion sat during this speech, the fingers of one hand idly
drumming the arm of her chair, as idly as when on board the 'Fulvia' she
listened to me telling that story of Anson and his wife.  Outwardly her
coolness was remarkable.  But she was really admiring, and amazed at
Ruth's adroitness and courage.  She appreciated fully the skilful duel
that had kept things on the surface, and had committed neither of them
to anything personal.  It was a battle--the tragical battle of a drawing-
room.

When Ruth had ended, she said slowly: "You speak very earnestly.  You do
your mountains justice; but each world has its code.  It is good for some
men to be followed by a slow hatred--it all depends on themselves.  There
are some who wish to meet their fate and its worst, and others who would
forget it.  Will you be kind enough to tell me in what proportion these should
be mixed, as, of course, if not in a proper mixture, the hair would
become so clogged.

And will you also kindly tell me how one is to extract the juice
from the onions, whether they are to be boiled or squeezed when raw.

With regard to the use of a mixture of onion juice and honey as a
hair restorative the reader of my little book must remember that it is
largely a compilation of quotations from old herbal books, and it gives
the history, use and folklore of these interesting edibles. I am not
responsible for this recipe and cannot therefore vouch for its utility.
We know, however, that onions contain a wonderful sulphured oil and that
sulphur in one form or another is an important ingredient of most hair
preparations which restore colour. The raw juice evidently should be used,
and this can be extracted either by pounding and grating and then
extracting the juice under pressure, or it can be readily obtained in
any quantity by putting onions through the Enterprise Juice Press.

The amount of honey, I think, to be added to this juice should be very
small, otherwise, as our correspondent surmises, the preparation would
be very sticky and objectionable.
Would any reader care to try this and report upon it?

[21] _Onions and Cress_, 6d. net (postage 1d).

SCIATICA.

Mrs M.G. writes:--My husband is a sufferer from sciatica; has had
it for some years, on and off, but just lately he seems is to get
it constantly--sometimes a little, sometimes a lot.

He has been taking some salicylate of soda, and I have tried to persuade
him to give it up. His age is 42. For his meals he takes, on rising,
an apple or a cup of apple tea; an hour afterwards his breakfast, which
consists of two tablespoonfuls of a proteid food mixed with distilled
water, and a hard biscuit, two slices of whole meal brown bread, nut
butter, and watercress or lettuce. During the morning he drinks barley
water. For dinner, a salad and a few ground nuts and hard biscuits and
an apple; sometimes home-made nut meat and spinach, hard biscuits and
dried or fresh fruit.
For tea, a salad or lettuce, tomatoes, onions and cress, and Shredded
Wheat and wholemeal bread.

Last thing at night, a few steamed onions and distilled water. His bowels
are in good condition, very regular, but he has this constant gnawing
pain.
If you can help me in any way as to a change in his diet, it will be a
relief to me. I do not mind the trouble of preparing things for him.
It is about two months ago that he has taken to drinking distilled water,
which I make myself. His occupation is very sedentary, with long hours,
sometimes from six in the morning till nine at night. He has a bicycle,
and gets as much exercise as possible.

From the description given one would assume that the sedentary
occupation and long hours of work have caused this correspondent
to fall into bad postural habits of sitting and standing, coupled
with excessive depletion of his nervous energy. The diet given is on good
lines and, with the addition of home-made curd cheese and eggs as proteid,
might certainly be continued as it stands, especially as the bowel action
is regular.

What the correspondent does need is less hours of work; more physical
exercises of a brisk back-stretching nature, and certain spinal stretching
manipulations of an Osteopathic nature.

Full deep breathing in fresh air will also be beneficial. The lower part
of the spine, from which the sciatic nerves originate, needs the most
attention.

REFINED PARAFFIN AS A CONSTIPATION REMEDY.

Mr E.H. writes:--Will Dr Knaggs very kindly say whether Refined Paraffin,
now being given so generally for the relief of constipation, may be
regarded as a harmless method of overcoming this trouble or whether its
use might lead to harmful results. I am told that this preparation
of oil is not assimilated, and is therefore harmless, but I should
much appreciate Dr Knaggs' opinion on this matter.

The use of refined paraffin as a remedy for constipation is just now all
the rage with the orthodox medical profession. There is nothing really
to be said against its right use, provided it is made to serve as
one of the means to an end.

It has been proved that this paraffin, which is quite tasteless,
odourless and easy to swallow, is not absorbed by the system but
passes unchanged and unaltered through it.

It acts therefore as a mere mechanical lubricant. The one thing to
remember is that its use should be combined with a curative diet, so
that it need not be taken indefinitely.

(1) DRY THROAT; (2) SACCHARINE; (3) DILATED HEART.The girl was surprised, but she replied without comment: "Yes, madame;
where do we go?"

There was a pause; then: "I do not know.  I want to go where I shall get
rested.  A village in Italy or--" she paused.

"Or France, madame?"  Justine was eager.

Mrs. Falchion made a gesture of helplessness.  "Yes, France will do. . . .
The way around the world is long, and I am tired."  Minutes passed, and
then she slowly said: "Justine, we will go to-morrow night."

"Yes, madame, to-morrow night--and not next Monday."

There was a strange only half-veiled melancholy in Mrs. Falchion's next
words: "Do you think, Justine, that I could be happy anywhere?"

"I think anywhere but here, madame."

Mrs. Falchion rose to a sitting posture, and looked at the girl fixedly,
almost fiercely.  A crisis was at hand.  The pity, gentleness, and honest
solicitude of Justine's face conquered her, and her look changed to one
of understanding and longing for companionship: sorrow swiftly welded
their friendship.

Before Mrs. Falchion slept that night, she said again: "We will leave
here to-morrow, Justine, for ever."

And Justine replied: "Yes, madame, for ever."


CHAPTER XIX

THE SENTENCE

The next morning Roscoe was quiet and calm, but he looked ten years older
than when I had first seen him.  After breakfast he said to me: "I have
to go to the valley to pay Phil Boldrick's friend the money, and to see
Mr. Devlin.  I shall be back, perhaps, by lunchtime.  Will you go with
me, or stay here?"

"I shall try to get some fishing this morning, I fancy," I said.
"And possibly I shall idle a good deal, for my time with you here is
shortening, and I want to have a great store of laziness behind me for
memory, when I've got my nose to the grindstone."

He turned to the door, and said: "Marmion, I wish you weren't going.  I
wish that we might be comrades under the same roof till--" He paused and
smiled strangely.

"Till the finish," I added, "when we should amble grey-headed, sans
everything, out of the mad old world?  I imagine Miss Belle Treherne
would scarcely fancy that. . . .  Still, we can be friends just the
same.  Our wives won't object to an occasional bout of loafing together,
will they?"

I was determined not to take him too seriously.  He said nothing, and in
a moment he was gone.

I passed the morning idly enough, yet thinking, too, very much about my
friend.  I was anxiously hoping that the telegram from Winnipeg would
come.  About noon it came.  As the result of a nervous breakdown I had
five years ago I suffer from a dilated heart, consequently--I suppose--I
have palpitation occasionally, oftener when in bed. I don't think my
heart is really normal since my breakdown five years ago.

4.

Falchion and make a bold bid
for his peace.  I had promised Madras never to let her know that he was
alive, but I would break the promise if Madras himself did not come.
After considerable hesitation I started.  It must be remembered that the
events of the preceding chapter were only known to me afterwards.

