Upon the farmers of this country, therefore, in large measure rests
the fate of the war and the fate of the nations.  May the nation not
count upon them to omit no step that will increase the production of
their land or that will bring about the most effectual co-operation in
the sale and distribution of their products?  The time is short.  It is
of the most imperative importance that everything possible be done,
and done immediately, to make sure of large harvests.  I call upon
young men and old alike and upon the able-bodied boys of the land to
accept and act upon this duty--to turn in hosts to the farms and make
certain that no pains and no labor is lacking in this great matter.

I particularly appeal to the farmers of the South to plant abundant
foodstuffs, as well as cotton.  They can show their patriotism in no
better or more convincing way than by resisting the great temptation
of the present price of cotton and helping, helping upon a great
scale, to feed the nation and the peoples everywhere who are fighting
for their liberties and for our own.  The variety of their crops will
be the visible measure of their comprehension of their national duty.

The Government of the United States and the Governments of the several
States stand ready to co-operate.  They will do everything possible to
assist farmers in securing an adequate supply of seed, an adequate
force of laborers when they are most needed, at harvest-time, and the
means of expediting shipments of fertilizers and farm machinery, as
well as of the crops themselves when harvested.  The course of trade
shall be as unhampered as it is possible to make it, and there shall
be no unwarranted manipulation of the nation's food-supply by those
who handle it on its way to the consumer.  This is our opportunity to
demonstrate the efficiency of a great democracy, and we shall not fall
short of it!


THE DUTY OF MIDDLEMEN

This let me say to the middlemen of every sort, whether they are
handling our foodstuffs or the raw materials of manufacture or the
products of our mills and factories: The eyes of the country will be
especially upon you.  This is your opportunity for signal service,
efficient and disinterested.  The country expects you, as it expects
all others, to forego unusual profits, to organize and expedite
shipments of supplies of every kind, but especially of food, with an
eye to the service you are rendering and in the spirit of those who
enlist in the ranks, for their people, not for themselves.  I shall
confidently expect you to deserve and win the confidence of people of
every sort and station.


THE MEN OF THE RAILWAYS

To the men who run the railways of the country, whether they be
managers or operative employees, let me say that the railways are the
arteries of the nation's life and that upon them rests the immense
responsibility of seeing to it that those arteries suffer no
obstruction of any kind, no inefficiency or slackened power.  To the
merchant let me suggest the motto, "Small profits and quick service,"
and to the shipbuilder the thought that the life of the war depends
upon him.  The food and the war supplies must be carried across the
seas, no matter how many ships are sent to the bottom.  The places of
those that go down must be supplied, and supplied at once.  To the
miner let me say that he stands where the farmer does: the work of the
world waits on him.  If he slackens or fails, armies and statesmen are
helpless.  He also is enlisted in the great Service Army.  The
manufacturer does not need to be told, I hope, that the nation looks
to him to speed and perfect every process; and I want only to remind
his employees that their service is absolutely indispensable and is
counted on by every man who loves the country and its liberties.

