By the next morning the widening of ripples caused by the dropping of a
high-grade invalid into the still pool of Kennedy Square, spread with
such force and persistency that one wavelet overflowed Kate's
dressing-room. Indeed, it came in with Mammy Henny and her coffee.

"Marse George home, honey--Ben done see Todd. Got a mis'ry in his back
dat bad it tuk two gemmens to tote him up de steps."

"Uncle George home, and ill!"

That was enough for Kate. She didn't want any coffee--she didn't want
any toast or muffins, or hominy--she wanted her shoes and stockings
and--Yes everything, and quick!--and would Mammy Henny call Ben and
send him right away to Mr. Temple's and find out how her dear Uncle
George had passed the night, and give him her dearest love and tell him
she would come right over to see him the moment she could get into her
clothes; and could she send anything for him to eat; and did the doctor
think it was dangerous--? Yes--and Ben must keep on to Dr. Teackle's and
find out if it was dangerous--and say to him that Miss Seymour wanted to
know IMMEDIATELY, and-- (Here the poor child lost her breath, she was
dressing all the time, Mammy Henny's fingers and ears doing their best)
"and tell Mr. Temple, too," she rushed on, "that he must send word by
Ben for ANYTHING and EVERYTHING he needed" (strong accent on the two
words) ... all of which was repeated through the crack of the door to
patient Ben when he presented himself, with the additional assurance
that he must tell Mr. Temple it wouldn't be five minutes before she
would be with him--as she was nearly dressed, all but her hair.

She was right about her good intentions, but she was wrong about the
number of minutes necessary to carry them out. There was her morning
gown to button, and her gaiters to lace, and her hair to be braided and
caught up in her neck (she always wore it that way in the morning) and
the dearest of snug bonnets--a "cabriolet" from Paris--a sort of hood,
stiffened with wires, out of which peeped pink rosebuds quite as they do
from a trellis--had to be put on, and the white strings tied "just
so"--the bows flaring out and the long ends smoothed flat; and then the
lace cape and scarf and her parasol;--all these and a dozen other little
niceties had to be adjusted before she could trip down her father's
stairs and out of her father's swinging gate and on through the park to
her dear Uncle George.

But when she did--and it took her all of an hour--nothing that the
morning sun shone on was quite as lovely, and no waft of air so
refreshing or so welcome as our beloved heroine when she burst in upon
him.

"Oh!--you dear, DEAR thing!" she cried, tossing her parasol on Pawson's
table and stretching out her arms toward him sitting in his chair. "Oh,
I am so sorry! Why didn't you let me know you were ill? I would have
gone down to Wesley. Oh!--I KNEW something was the matter with you or
you would have answered my letters."

He had struggled to his feet at the first sound of her footsteps in the
hall, and had her in his arms long before she had finished her
greeting;--indeed her last sentence was addressed to the collar of his
coat against which her cheek was cushioned.

"Who said I was ill?" he asked with one of his bubbling laughs when he
got his breath.

"Todd told Ben--and you ARE!--and it breaks my heart." She was holding
herself off now, scanning his pale face and shrunken frame--"Oh, I am so
sorry you did not let me know!"

"Todd is a chatterer, and Ben no better; I've only had a bad cold--and
you couldn't have done me a bit of good if you had come--and now I am
entirely well, never felt better in my life. Oh--but it's good to get
hold of you, Kate,--and you are still the same bunch of roses. Sit down
now and tell me all about it. I wish I had a better chair for you, my
dear, but the place is quite dismantled, as you see. I expected to stay
the winter when I left."

She had not given a thought to the chair or to the changes--had not even
noticed them. That the room was stripped of its furniture prior to a
long stay was what invariably occurred in her own house every summer: it
was her precious uncle's pale, shrunken face and the blue veins that
showed in the backs of his dear transparent hands which she held between
her own, and the thin, emaciated wrists that absorbed her.

"You poor, dear Uncle George!" she purred--"and nobody to look after
you." He had drawn up Pawson's chair and had placed her in it beside the
one he sat in, and had then dropped slowly into his own, the better to
hide from her his weakness--but it did not deceive her. "I'm going to
have you put back to bed this very minute; you are not strong enough to
sit up. Let me call Aunt Jemima."

St. George shook his head good-naturedly in denial and smoothed her
hands with his fingers.

"Call nobody and do nothing but sit beside me and let me look into your
face and listen to your voice. I have been pretty badly shaken up; had
two weeks of it that couldn't have been much worse--but since then I
have been on the mend and am getting stronger every minute. I haven't
had any medicine and I don't want any now--I just want you and--" he
hesitated, and seeing nothing in her eyes of any future hope for Harry,
finished the sentence, with "and one or two others to sit by me and
cheer me up; that's better than all the doctors in the, world. And now,
first about your father and then about yourself."

"Oh, he's very well," she rejoined absently. "He's off somewhere, went
away two days ago. He'll be back in a week. But you must have something
to eat--GOOD things!"--her mind still occupied with his condition. "I'm
going to have some chicken broth made the moment I get home and it will
be sent fresh every day: and you must eat every bit of it!"

Again St. George's laugh rang out. He had let her run on--it was music
to his ears--that he might later on find some clue on which he could
frame a question he had been revolving in his mind ever since he heard
her voice in the hall. He would not tell her about Harry--better wait
until he could read her thoughts the clearer. If he could discover by
some roundabout way that she would still refuse to see him it would be
best not to embarrass her with any such request; especially on this her
first visit.

"Yes--I'll eat anything and everything you send me, you dear Kate--and
many thanks to you, provided you'll come with it--you are the best broth
for me. But you haven't answered my question--not all of it. What have
YOU been doing since I left?"

"Wondering whether you would forgive me for the rude way in which I left
you the last time I saw you,--the night of Mr. Horn's reading, for one
thing. I went off with Mr. Willits and never said a word to you. I wrote
you a letter telling you how sorry I was, but you never answered it, and
that made me more anxious than ever."

"What foolishness, Kate! I never got it, of course, or you would have
heard from me right away. A number of my letters have gone astray of
late. But I don't remember a thing about it, except that you walked off
with your--" again he hesitated--"with Mr. Willits, which, of course,
was the most natural thing for you to do in the world. How is he, by the
way?"

Kate drew back her shoulders with that quick movement common to her when
some antagonism in her mind preceded her spoken word.

"I don't know--I haven't seen him for some weeks."

St. George started in his chair: "You haven't! He isn't ill, is he?"

"No, I think not," she rejoined calmly.

"Oh, then he has gone down to his father's. Yes, I remember he goes
quite often," he ventured.

"No, I think he is still here." Her gaze was on the window as she spoke,
through which could be seen the tops of the trees glistening in the
sunlight.

"And you haven't seen him? Why?" asked St. George wonderingly--he was
not sure he had heard her aright.

"I told him not to come," she replied in a positive tone.

St. George settled back in his chair. Had there been a clock in the room
its faintest tick would have rung out like a trip-hammer.

"Then you have had a quarrel: he has broken his promise to you and got
drunk again."

"No, he has never broken it; he has kept it as faithfully as Harry kept
his."

"You don't mean, Kate, that you have broken off your engagement?"

She reached over and picked up her parasol: "There never was any
engagement. I have always felt sorry for Mr. Willits and tried my best
to love him and couldn't--that is all. He understands it perfectly; we
both do. It was one of the things that couldn't be."

All sorts of possibilities surged one after the other through the old
diplomat's mind. A dim light increasing in intensity began to shine
about him. What it meant he dared not hope. "What does your father say?"
he asked slowly, after a pause in which he had followed every expression
that crossed her face.

"Nothing--and it wouldn't alter the case if he did. I am the best judge
of what is good for me." There was a certain finality in her cadences
that repelled all further discussion. He remembered having heard the
same ring before.

"When did all this happen?--this telling him not to come?" he persisted,
determined to widen the inquiry. His mind was still unable to fully
grasp the situation.

"About five weeks ago. Do you want to know the very night?" She turned
her head as she spoke and looked at him with her full, deep eyes.

"Yes, if you wish me to."

"The night Mr. Horn read 'The Cricket on the Hearth,'" she answered in a
tone of relief--as if some great crisis had marked the hour, the passing
of which had brought her infinite peace. "I told him when I got home,
and I have never seen him since."

For some seconds St. George did not move. He had turned from her and sat
with his head resting on his hand, his eyes intent on the smouldering
fire: he dare not trust himself to speak; wide ranges opened before him;
the light had strengthened until it was blinding. Kate sat motionless,
her hands in her lap, her eyes searching St. George's face for some
indication of the effect of her news. Then finding him still silent and
absorbed in his thoughts, she went on:

"There was nothing else to do, Uncle George. I had done all I could to
please my father and one or two of my friends. There was nothing against
him--he was very kind and very considerate--but somehow I--" She paused
and drew a long breath.

"Somehow what?" demanded St. George raising his head quickly and
studying her the closer. The situation was becoming vital now--too vital
for any further delay.

"Oh, I don't know--I couldn't love him--that's all. He has many
excellent qualities--too many maybe," and she smiled faintly. "You know
I never liked people who were too good--that is, too willing to do
everything you wanted them to do--especially men who ought really to be
masters and--" She stopped and played with the top of her parasol,
smoothing the knob with her palm as if the better to straighten out the
tangle in her mind. "I expect you will think me queer, Uncle George, but
I have come to the conclusion that I will never love anybody again--I am
through with all that. It's very hard, you know, to mend a thing when
it's broken. I used to say to myself that when I grew to be a woman I
supposed I would love as any other woman seemed content to love; that no
romance of a young girl was ever realized and that they could only be
found in love stories. But my theories all went to pieces when I heard
Mr. Horn that night. Dot's love for John the Carrier--I have read it so
often since that I know the whole story by heart--Dot's love for John
was the real thing, but May Fielding's love for Tackleton wasn't. And it
seemed so wonderful when her lover came home and--it's foolish, I
know--very silly--that I should have been so moved by just the reading
of a story--but it's true. It takes only a very little to push you over
when you are on the edge, and I had been on the edge for a long time.
But don't let us talk about it, dear Uncle George," she added with a
forced smile. "I'm going to take care of you now and be a charming old
maid with side curls and spectacles and make flannel things for the
poor--you just wait and see what a comfort I will be." Her lips were
trembling, the tears crowding over the edges of her lids.

St. George stretched out his hand and in his kindest voice said:

"Was it the carrier and his wife, or was it the sailor boy who came back
so fine and strong, that affected you, Kate?--and made you give up Mr.
Willits?" He would go to the bottom now.

"It was everything, Uncle George--the sweetness of it all--her pride in
her husband--his doubts of her--her repentance; and yet she did what
she thought was for the best; and then his forgiveness and the way he
wanted to take her in his arms at last and she would not until she
explained. And there was nothing really to explain--only love, and
trust, and truth--all the time believing in him--loving him. Oh, it is
cruel to part people--it's so mean and despicable! There are so many
Tackletons--and the May Fieldings go to the altar and so on to their
graves--and there is often such a very little difference between the
two. I never gave my promise to Mr. Willits. I would not!--I could not!
He kept hoping and waiting. He was very gentle and patient--he never
coaxed nor pleaded, but just--Oh, Uncle George!--let me talk it all
out--I have nobody else. I missed you so, and there was no one who
could understand, and you wouldn't answer my letters." She was crying
softly to herself, her beautiful head resting on her elbow pillowed on
the back of his chair.

He leaned forward the closer: he loved this girl next best to Harry. Her
sorrows were his own. Was it all coming out as he had hoped and prayed
for? He could hardly restrain himself in his eagerness.

"Did you miss anybody else, Kate?" There was a peculiar tenderness in
his voice.

She did not raise her head nor did she answer. St. George waited and
repeated the question, Slipping his hand over hers, as he spoke.

"It was the loneliness, Uncle George," she replied, evading his
inference. "I tried to forget it all, and I threw open our house and
gave parties and dances--hardly a week but there has been something
going on--but nothing did any good. I have been--yes--wretchedly
unhappy and--No, it will only distress you to hear it--don't let's talk
any more about it. I won't let you go away again. I'll go away with you
if you don't get better soon, anywhere you say. We'll go down to the
White Sulphur--Yes--we'll go there. The air is so bracing--it wouldn't
be a week before all the color would come back to your cheeks and you be
as strong as ever."

He was not listening. His mind was framing a question--one he must ask
without committing himself or her. He was running a parallel,
really--reading her heart by a flank movement.

"Kate, dear?" He had regained his position although he still kept hold
of her hand.

"Yes, Uncle George."

"Did you write to Harry, as I asked you?"

"No, it wouldn't have done any good. I have had troubles enough of my
own without adding any to his."

"Were you afraid he would not answer it?"

She lifted her head and tightened her fingers about his own, her wet
eyes looking into his.

"I was afraid of myself. I have never known my own mind and I don't know
it now. I have played fast and loose with everybody--I can't bind up a
broken arm and then break it again."

"Wouldn't it be better to try?" he said softly.

"No, I don't think so."

St. George released her hand and settled back in his chair; his face
grew grave. What manner of woman was this, and how could he reach the
inner kernel of her heart? Again he raised his head and leaning forward
took both her hands between his own.

"I am going to tell you a story, Kate--one you have never heard--not all
of it. When I was about your age--a little older perhaps, I gave my
heart to a woman who had known me from a boy; with whom I had played
when she was a child. I'm not going into the whole story, such things
are always sad; nor will I tell you anything of the beginning of the
three happy months of our betrothal nor of what caused our separation. I
shall only tell you of the cruelty of the end. There was a
misunderstanding--a quarrel--I begging her forgiveness on my knees. All
the time her heart was breaking. One little word from her would have
healed everything. Some years after that she married and her life still
goes on. I am what you see."

Kate looked at him with swimming eyes. She dimly remembered that she had
heard that her uncle had had a love affair in his youth and that his
sweetheart had jilted him for a richer man, but she had never known that
he had suffered so bitterly over it. Her heart went out to him all the
more.

"Will you tell me who it was?" She had no right to ask; but she might
comfort him the better if she knew.

"Harry's mother."

Kate dropped his hands and drew back in her seat.

"You--loved--Mrs.--Rutter--and she--refused you for--Oh!--what a cruel
thing to do! And what a fool she was. Now I know why you have been so
good to Harry. Oh, you poor, dear Uncle George. Oh, to think that you of
all men! Is there any one whose heart is not bruised and broken?" she
added in a helpless tone.

"Plenty of them, Kate--especially those who have been willing to stoop a
little and so triumph. Harry has waited three years for some word from
you; he has not asked for it, for he believes you have forgotten him;
and then he was too much of a man to encroach upon another's rights.
Does your breaking off with Mr. Willits alter the case in any way?--does
it make any difference? Is this sailor boy always to be a wanderer
--never to come home to his people and the woman he loves?"

"He'll never come back to me, Uncle George," she said with a shudder,
dropping her eyes. "I found that out the day we talked together in the
park, just before he left. And he's not coming home. Father got a letter
from one of his agents who had seen him. He was looking very well and
was going up into the mountains--I wrote you about it. I am sorry you
didn't get the letter--but of course he has written you too."

"Suppose I should tell you that he would come back if he thought you
would be glad to see him--glad in the old way?"

Kate shook her head: "He would never come. He hates me, and I don't
blame him. I hate myself when I think of it all."

"But if he should walk in now?"--he was very much afraid he would, and
he was not quite ready for him yet. What he was trying to find out was
not whether Kate would be glad to see Harry as a relief to her
loneliness, but whether she really LOVED him.

Some tone in his voice caught her ear. She turned her head quickly and
looked at him with wondering gaze, as if she would read his inmost
thoughts.

"You mean that he is coming, Uncle George--that Harry IS coming home!"
she exclaimed excitedly, the color ebbing from her cheeks.

"He is already here, Kate. He slept upstairs in his old room last night.
I expect him in any minute."

"Here!--in this room!" She was on her feet in an instant, her face
deathly pale, her whole frame shaking. Which way should she turn to
escape? To meet him face to face would bring only excruciating pain.
"Oh, why didn't you tell me, Uncle George!" she burst out. "I won't see
him! I can't!--not now--not here! Let me go home--let me think! No--
don't stop me!" and catching up her cape and parasol she was out the
door and down the steps before he could call her back or even realize
that she had gone.

Once on the pavement she looked nervously up and down the street,
gathered her pretty skirts tight in her hand and with the fluttered
flight of a scared bird darted across the park, dashed through her
swinging gate, and so on up to her bedroom.

There she buried her face in Mammy Henny's lap and burst into an agony
of tears.


While all this had been going on upstairs another equally important
conference was taking place in Pawson's office below, where Harry at
Pawson's request had gone to meet Gadgem and talk over certain plans for
his uncle's future welfare. He had missed Kate by one of those trifling
accidents which often determine the destiny of nations and of men. Had
he, after attending to the business of the morning--(he had been down to
Marsh Market with Todd for supplies)--mounted the steps to see his
uncle instead of yielding to a sudden impulse to interview Pawson first
and his uncle afterward, he would have come upon Kate at the very moment
she was pouring out her heart to St. George.

But no such fatality or stroke of good fortune--whatever the gods had
in store for him--took place. On the contrary he proceeded calmly to
carry out the details of a matter of the utmost importance to all
concerned--one in which both Pawson and Gadgem were interested--(indeed
he had come at Pawson's suggestion to discuss its details with the
collector and himself):--all of which the Scribe promises in all honor
to reveal to his readers before the whole of this story is told.

Harry walked straight up to Gadgem:

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Gadgem," he said in his manly, friendly
way. "You have been very good to my uncle, and I want to thank you both
for him and for myself," and he shook the little man's hand heartily.

Gadgem blushed. St. George's democracy he could understand; but why this
aristocrat--outcast as he had once been, but now again in favor--why
this young prince, the heir to Moorlands and the first young blood of
his time, should treat him as an equal, puzzled him; and yet, somehow,
his heart warmed to him as he read his sincerity in his eyes and voice.

"Thank you, sir--thank you very much, sir," rejoined Gadgem, with a
folding-camp-stool-movement, his back bent at right angles with his
legs. "I really don't deserve it, sir. Mr. Temple is an EXtraordinary
man, sir; the most EXtraordinary man I have ever met, sir. Give you the
shirt off his back, sir, and go NAked himself."

"Yes, he gave it to me," laughed Harry, greatly amused at the
collector's effusive manner: He had never seen this side of Gadgem.
"That, of course, you know all about--you paid the bills, I believe."

"PREcisely so, sir." He had lengthened out now with a spiral-spring,
cork-screw twist in his body, his index finger serving as point. "Paid
every one of them. He never cared, sir--he GLOried in it--GLOried in
being a pauper. UNaccountable, Mr. Rutter--Enormously unaccountable.
Never heard of such a case; never WILL hear of such a case. So what was
to be done, sir? Just what I may state is being done this minute over
our heads UPstairs": and out went the index finger. "Rest and
REcuperation, sir--a slow--a very slow use of AVAILable assets until new
and FURther AVAILable assets could become visible. And they are here,
sir--have arRIVED. You may have heard, of course, of the Patapsco where
Mr. Temple kept the largest part of his fortune."

"No, except that it about ruined everybody who had anything to do with
it."

"Then you have heard nothing of the REsuscitation!" cried Gadgem, all
his fingers opened like a fan, his eyebrows arched to the roots of his
hair. "You surPRISE me! And you are really ignorant of the PHOEnix-like
way in which it has RISen from its ashes? I said RISen, sir, because it
is now but a dim speck in the financial sky. Nor the appointment of Mr.
John Gorsuch as manager, ably backed by your DIStinguished father--the
setting of the bird upon its legs--I'm speaking of the burnt bird, sir,
the PHOEnix. I'm quite sure it was a bird--Nor the payment on the first
of the ensuing month of some eighty per cent of the amounts due the
ORIGinal depositors and another twenty per cent in one year
thereafter--The cancelling of the mortgage which your most BEnevolent
and HONorable father bought, and the sly trick of Gorsuch--letting
Fogbin, who never turned up, become the sham tenant--and the joy--"

"Hold on Mr. Gadgem--I'm not good at figures. Give me that over again
and speak slower. Am I to understand that the bank will pay back to my
uncle, within a day or so, three-quarters of the money they stole from
him?"

"STOLE, sir!" chided Gadgem, his outstretched forefinger wig-wagging a
Fie! Fie! gesture of disapproval--"STOLE is not a pretty
word--actionable, sir--DANgerously actionable--a question of the
watch-house, and, if I might be permitted to say--a bit of COLD lead--
Perhaps you will allow me to suggest the word 'maNIPulated,' sir--the
money the bank maNIPulated from your confiding and inexperienced
uncle--that is safer and it is equally EXpressive. He! He!"

"Well, will he get the money?" cried Harry, his face lighting up, his
interest in the outcome outweighing his amusement over Gadgem's antics
and expressions.

"He WILL, sir," rejoined Gadgem decisively.

"And you are so sure of it that you would be willing to advance one-half
the amount if the account was turned over to you this minute?" cried
Harry eagerly.

"No sir--not one-half--ALL of it--less a TRIfling commission for my
services of say one per cent. When you say 'this minute,' sir, I must
reply that the brevity of the area of action becomes a trifle ACUTE,
yes, ALARMingly acute. I haven't the money myself, sir--that is, not
about my person--but I can get it in an hour, sir--in less time, if Mr.
Temple is willing. That was my purpose in coming here, sir--that was why
Mr. Pawson sent for me, sir; and it is but fair to say that you can
thank your DIStinguished father for it all, sir--he has worked night and
day to do it. Colonel Rutter has taken over--so I am inFORMED--I'm not
sure, but I am inFORMED--taken over a lot of the securities himself so
that he COULD do it. Another EXtraordinary combination, if you will
permit me to say so--I refer to your father--a man who will show you his
door one minute and open his pocketbook and his best bottle of wine for
you the next," and he plunged himself down in his seat with so
determined a gesture that it left no question on Harry's mind that he
intended sitting it out until daylight should there be the faintest
possibility of his financial proposition being accepted.

Harry walked to the window and gazed out on the trees. There was no
doubt now that Mr. Temple was once more on his feet. "Uncle George will
go now to Moorlands," he said, decisively, in a low tone, speaking to
himself, his heart swelling with pride at this fresh evidence of his
father's high sense of honor--then he wheeled and addressed the
attorney:

"Shall I tell Mr. Temple this news, about the Patapsco Bank, Mr.
Pawson?"

"Yes, if you think best, Mr. Rutter. And I have another piece of good
news. This please do not tell Mr. Temple, not yet--not until it is
definitely settled. That old suit in Chancery has been decided, or will
be, so I learned this morning and decided in favor of the heir. You may
not have heard of it before, Gadgem," and he turned to the collector,
"but it is one of old General Dorsey Temple's left-overs. It has been in
the courts now some forty years. When this decision is made binding,"
here he again faced Harry--"Mr. Temple comes in for a considerable
share."

Gadgem jumped to his feet and snapped his fingers rapidly. Had he sat on
a tack his rebound could not have been more sudden. This last was news
to him.

"SHORN lamb, sir!" he cried gleefully, rubbing his palms together, his
body tied into a double bow-knot. "Gentle breezes; bread upon the
waters! By jiminy, Mr. Rutter, if Mr. Temple could be born
again--figuratively, sir--and I could walk in upon him as I once did,
and find him at breakfast surrounded by all his comforts with Todd
waiting upon him--a very good nigger is Todd, sir--an exCEPtionally good
nigger--I'd--I'd--damn me, Mr. Rutter, I'd--well, sir, there's no
word--but John Gadgem, sir--well, I'll be damned if he wouldn't--" and
he began skipping about the room, both feet in the air, as if he was a
boy of twenty instead of a thin, shambling, badly put together bill
collector in an ill-fitting brown coat, a hat much the worse for wear,
and a red cotton handkerchief addicted to weekly ablutions.

As for Harry the glad news had cleared out wide spaces before him, such
as he had not looked through in years; leafy vistas, with glimpses of
sunlit meadows; shadow-flecked paths leading to manor-houses with summer
skies beyond. He, too, was on his feet, walking restlessly up and down.

Pawson and Gadgem again put their heads together, Harry stopping to
listen. Such expressions as "Certainly," "I think I can": "Yes, of
course it was there when I was last in his place," "Better see him
first," caught his ear.

At last he could stand it no longer. Dr. Teackle or no Dr. Teackle, he
would go upstairs, open the door softly, and if his uncle was awake
whisper the good news in his ear. If anybody had whispered any such
similar good news in his ear on any one of the weary nights he had lain
awake waiting for the dawn, or at any time of the day when he sat his
horse, his rifle across the pommel, it would have made another man of
him.

If his uncle was awake!

He was not only awake, but he was very much alive.

"I've got a great piece of news for you, Uncle George!" Harry shouted in
a rollicking tone, his joy increasing as he noted his uncle's renewed
strength.

"So have I got a great piece of news for you!" was shouted back. "Come
in, you young rascal, and shut that door behind you. She isn't going to
marry Willits. Thrown him over--don't want him--don't love him--can't
love him--never did love him! She's just told me so. Whoop--hurrah! I
Dance, you dog, before I throw this chair at you!!"

There are some moments in a man's life when all language
fails;--pantomime moments, when one stares and tries to speak and stares
again. They were both at it--St. George waiting until Harry should
explode, and Harry trying to get his breath, the earth opening under
him, the skies falling all about his head.

"She told you so! When!" he gasped.

"Two minutes ago--you've just missed her! Where the devil have you been?
Why didn't you come in before?"

"Kate here--two minutes ago--what will I do?" Had he found himself at
sea in an open boat with both oars adrift he could not have been more
helpless.

"DO! Catch her before she gets home! Quick!--just as you are--sailor
clothes and all!"

"But how will I know if--?"

"You don't have to know! Away with you, I tell you!"

And away he went--and if you will believe it, dear reader--without even
a whisper in his uncle's ears of the good news he had come to tell.


CHAPTER XXX


Ben let him in.

He came as an apparition, the old butler balancing the door in his hand,
as if undecided what to do, trying to account for the change in the
young man's appearance--the width of shoulders, the rough clothes, and
the determined glance of his eye.

"Fo' Gawd, it's Marse Harry!" was all he said when he could get his
mouth open.

"Yes, Ben--go and tell your mistress I am here," and he brushed past him
and pushed back the drawing-room door. Once inside he crossed to the
mantel and stood with his back to the hearth, his sailor's cap in his
hand, his eyes fixed on the door he had just closed behind him. "Say,
that hurt some, I tell you, Ralph. I never expected to be cut by
Minnie Cuthbert, that's sure," he said, between his set teeth.

Ralph was sorely puzzled.

He remembered that Minnie really owed her life to the wonderful presence
of mind of Frank, when a runaway horse had threatened to bring disaster
down upon her.

"What's happened?" he asked, eyeing his friend.

"You know as much as I do.

It's a mystery to me," returned Frank.

"Perhaps Lef Seller could tell; he's just back of us, and I heard
him laugh as he saw Minnie drive past without speaking," suggested
the other, meaningly.

"I wonder now if history has a habit of repeating itself," ventured
Frank.

"But what can I do but grin and bear it? Sooner or later she'll find out
the truth. I'll never ask for an explanation, knowing that I've done
nothing to make her act so. Now, forget it, and let's talk about your
affairs, Ralph."

CHAPTER III
THE STRANGE HISTORY OF RALPH

"If you don't mind, Frank, I'd like to go out of my way a few steps, so
as to stop at the post-office. There's a late mail comes in after the
last delivery by carrier," observed Ralph, after they had reached
town.

"Why, certainly," returned the other, quickly, as he glanced at
Ralph, who smiled half sadly and nodded.

"I keep hoping to hear something from your Uncle Jim. It may come
any day now, unless the very worst has happened, and they're all lost
over in that big wild country," said Ralph, drawing a long
breath.

"When did you hear from him last?" asked his friend, as they turned the
corner into the main street of Columbia.

"A month ago. You know, from England they had gone to India. He wrote
me from there that he had just missed Mr. Arnold Musgrove and his
widowed sister, Mrs. John Langworthy, who had sailed for China."

"Yes, I remember all that. The lady has always been a very great
traveler, and something of an explorer. You told me she was intending
to do something that few strong men had ever attempted," remarked
Frank, wonderfully interested in all that pertained to the strange
history of this boy friend.

Ralph had been brought up as the son of the Wests, living in the village
of Paulding. Then there had come a letter by mail, accompanying bank notes
to the extent of fifty dollars, and telling him that a friend,
knowing of his great ambition to get an education above what the
little country school could afford, wished him to accept this gift,
which would be duplicated every month.

Ralph, with the assistance of his good friend, Frank, had learned that
the money came through a lawyer in New York, really an uncle of
young Allen.

Then, later on, it was found that Ralph was only an adopted son of
the Wests, who had taken him from a poorhouse.

By degrees, it came out that the man who had left this sum with the lawyer,
Mr. Arnold Musgrove, must be an uncle of the boy, who was, in all
probability, a son of the rich widow.

Judge Jim had immediately set out for Europe, to confront Musgrove,
and tell the lady that her child was not dead, as she believed, but
could be restored to her. And, as Ralph had just said, the legal
gentleman soon found that he was going to have the time of his
life overtaking the energetic couple.

"Well," remarked Ralph, in answer to the inquiry of his chum, "she and
her brother actually started with a caravan overland across China,
skirting Thibet, and aiming to head northeast, so as to pass through
a portion of Siberia, and after that reach Russia.

They have been gone a long time now, and I wonder if I will ever see her
face. Sometimes it seems too good to be true."

There was no letter at the post-office for Ralph. He was getting used
to this daily disappointment.

Still, Frank could see the look of pain that flashed across Ralph's fine
face, though he tried to conceal it with a little laugh.

Arrived at his boarding place, the boys entered. It did not take Ralph
long to take a bath, and get into his ordinary clothes, after which
they hurried to the Allen home, where Frank followed suit.

Although Frank said nothing more about the strange actions of Minnie, it
was very plain to his friend that he felt the snub deeply.

"If I thought he wouldn't be mad with me, I'd be tempted to try and find
out from Minnie what she meant," Ralph was saying to himself, as
he sat opposite his chum at the table, and noticed the little frown
that occasionally came upon the open countenance of the one he had
in mind.

But he knew Frank's ways, and that the other would not like any
meddling in his own private affairs.

"Better let him settle it in his own fashion," was the conclusion Ralph
reached. "But if Lef Seller has had anything to do with it, I'm
sorry for him, that's all. Once Frank makes up his mind that these pranks
of Lef have reached a limit, he's going to give him an _awful_
licking; and I know it."

Frank had been watching his sister Helen at supper. He knew that
there was something worrying her, too, and the strange thought came
that perhaps it might be along the same lines as his own vexation.

"I wonder, now, could that be possible?" was the question that kept
confronting him.

Having once given way to this suspicion, he could not refrain from
trying to find out the truth.

Helen had gone upstairs, on some small excuse. He was surprised to find
her in her room, and with traces of tears in her beautiful eyes.

"Why, what's the matter, sister mine? Has anyone been abusing you?

I wonder if I could guess.

Is it about Minnie?" he asked, gently, for Frank was very fond of his only
sister, but two years younger than himself.

She looked at him in surprise.

"Why, Frank, however did you guess?" she exclaimed.

"Because," he replied, steadily, "she gave me the cut direct when Ralph
and myself were heading home from the athletic field this evening.

She and Dottie Warren were in the carriage, and Minnie looked right through
me when I bowed. Whew! it gave me a shock, I tell you."
"The mean thing, to carry it to you! I suppose I've said something or
other to give her offense, although I tried in vain to remember any
cause; but since she chooses to include all my family in her resentment,
I'm not going to do the least thing in the way of an apology," exclaimed
Helen, warmly.

"I'm of the impression that it's me who's to blame, though I don't know
what I've done," said Frank, immediately. "If I did, I'd apologize
decently, and have it over with, whether she accepted it or not. But
Ralph suggests that perhaps it's the work of some outsider, who wants to
make trouble between Minnie and the Allens."
"Oh, how mean! And from the way you talk, I can imagine who it is you have
in mind.

That wouldn't be the first time Lef Seller has been guilty of
meddling!"

exclaimed the girl, indignantly.

"It was Ralph who said that. He heard Lef laugh when she cut me, as if it
tickled him.

If I could only get proof that he's been telling yarns about me, I'd
soon settle old scores with him. But you won't try to make up,
will you Helen?"

"Certainly not! I'm the innocent party. Minnie chose to give me to
understand that she'd prefer to go out with Dottie this afternoon.
I just turned away and came straight home. I think she called out after
me, but I wouldn't turn my head an inch. I shall decline to ever speak
to her again until the time comes when she apologizes.
There!" and Helen stamped her little foot on the floor, for
emphasis.

Frank sighed, and went back to the library, where Ralph was chatting
with Mr. Allen, always deeply interested in the strange life story
of the boy from Paulding.

Three times that evening Frank went to the telephone and held a
little confab with some unknown parties. Each time when he came back
he would be smiling in a way that mystified his friend, who wondered
what the particular business could be that took up so much of his
time.

But then, a captain of a school football eleven, on the eve of a
great struggle, must have no end of difficulties to straighten
out; and doubtless Frank found much to talk about with the various
members of his team.

Helen had come down again, and showed nothing of the dreadful shock
her feelings had sustained when her one particular chum so basely
deserted her.

She sang for Ralph, and the three of them also joined their voices in
many of the school songs dear to the heart of all Columbia
students.

"Ten o'clock, and time I was getting away to my little den," remarked
Ralph, at last; for even the best of evenings must come to an end.

"Wait just a few minutes," said Frank, mysteriously.

"What's all this? You're up to something or other," laughed the other.

"I'm waiting, that's all," returned Frank, calmly.

"Waiting for what?"
"To hear the signal--there it is!" as three distinct knocks sounded on
the outside of the house.

"Why, whatever does it mean, Frank," asked the visitor, as he arose to
get his cap: for they were again in the little den Frank called
his sanctum, where he kept all his beloved traps connected with the
sports he delighted in, most of them decorating the walls.

"They're all on deck, thank goodness! And now it's
safe for you to go home," was the rather startling remark of the
other.

Ralph looked at the speaker a moment, and then, as a light dawned upon
his comprehension, he burst out into a genuine, hearty, boyish
laugh.

"Say, you don't mean to tell me you've gone and got a bodyguard to escort
me to my own dear little home, do you, Frank? Well, of all the pranks,
this certainly takes the cake! What do you think, that they're already
getting down to their fine little work, and mean to kidnap me?" he
exclaimed, greatly amused.

"No, but I know that crowd better than you do. When two sneaks like Tony
Gilpin and Asa Barnes make up their minds to gather a bunch of
skunks after their own stripe, and waylay a fellow they hate, they
lose no time about it.

There's only one more day between now and Saturday, when we play Clifford;
and I saw them turning to notice whether we kept on together.

They know you are here, sure."
"But I might slip out the back way, and give them the merry ha!
ha!" suggested Ralph; "though I hate to crawl that way from such cowards,
not one of them willing to face me outright."
"But that isn't it. We have talked it over, and come to the conclusion
that half of the fun would be lost unless those whelps were treated to
a dose of their own medicine.

They need a good sound licking, and I give you my word for it, they're due
for one if they try to tackle you on the road home to-night," and
Frank, as he spoke, brought his fist down sharply on his knee.

"Who did you invite to the party?" inquired Ralph, still laughing at the
absurdity of his requiring a bodyguard.

"Let me see," replied Frank. "There's Lanky Wallace, for one; Buster
Billings, for the second, and Paul Bird, for the third."
"Three good men, and true. I see that I'll be well protected on my
journey of half a dozen blocks!" cried Ralph.

"Oh, that's only a beginning. Each one of them agreed to get two other
fellows belonging to the team, if possible; for they want all the
practice they can get. So there will be nine in the bunch that
follows after you; ten, counting myself!"
"Oh, splash! That's an army! Why so many, Frank, when I'd be willing
to go anywhere with just you along for company," demanded the
other.

"Thanks for the compliment; but, you see, everybody wanted to go, and
bring others, and so I had to let 'em have their way. Now, you'll
probably never see a sign of our crowd as you walk along, whistling and
seeming to be unsuspicious. But at the first sign of trouble, lift your
sweet voice and sing out the rallying cry we all know, 'Columbiad!'
That will fetch us on the jump, Ralph. Hold them off as best you can
for a dozen seconds, and then prepare to laugh."
"All right, seeing that it's your joke.

Honestly, I don't think they'll pay any attention to poor me; but since
Coach Willoughby believes I ought to play with the regulars, and any
hurt to one is an injury to all, I'll accept the guard of honor; only
_please_ don't tell anyone about it to-morrow, unless you want me
to be the butt of ridicule for the whole school."

"Wait and see," was all Frank would say; and with this Ralph had to be
content.

The two friends separated at the door. Frank rather ostentatiously
bade his visitor good-night, and Ralph sauntered down the walk to the
gate, as the door closed.

Although he looked around once or twice, and thought he caught a
fleeting glimpse of several flitting figures, Ralph walked bravely
on his way, whistling merrily, as though he had not a care or trouble
in the wide world.

When he had gone a couple of blocks, he came to a portion of the
road when the shadows were densest.

Here the trees grew close to the thoroughfare, and this fact made it a
splendid hiding place for anyone so inclined. There was a legend told of
a peddler who had, once upon a time, been set upon by tramps at this
point, and robbed and beaten, so that he died of his hurts.

Even bold people were wont to hurry their steps a trifle when passing
this ill-omened place. Ralph, however, kept on at his customary pace,
still whistling one of the songs he had so lately sung with Frank and
Helen Allen.

Just as he was half-way past the shadowy spot, he heard a sudden shrill
sound, not unlike a referee's whistle on the football gridiron.
Dark figures immediately sprang up close by, and the rush of many
feet told that the danger anticipated by Frank was about to
materialize.

Ralph at once threw himself into a position of self defense, and at the
same time shouted out the call for assistance so well known to all
the sons of Columbia High.

CHAPTER IV

TREACHERY IN THE CAMP

"Columbiad! Columbiad!"

It was the call for assistance, known to, and respected by, every boy who
loved the name of Columbia High School--a rallying cry in time of
emergency, when the enemy had carried the ball down close to the
home goal, and almost supernatural efforts were needed, in order
to beat back the rising tide.

Never did the old familiar yell of "Hey, Rube!"

appeal more positively to canvasmen connected with a traveling circus,
when set upon by rowdies in some wayside town, than did this shout.

Ralph had no time for more. From three sides he found himself attacked
by unknown foes. Some had their hats drawn far over their faces, in
order to conceal their identity, while others had gone still
further, and tied handkerchiefs over the lower half, with the same
purpose in view.

A jargon of angry cries arose, each assailant seeming desirous of venting
his especial method for showing dislike.

"Down him, boys!"

"Spank the cub!"
"Send him back where he belongs; we don't want poorhouse brats here!"

"Do him up! Butt in, fellows! Make a clean sweep of it now!"
Among all these outcries, only that one concerning the "poorhouse"
stung the ears of the boy at bay.

It was so cruel, so mean, so utterly uncalled for, that his whole body
seemed to quiver with indignation, and a burning fire shot through
his veins.

He had thrown himself into an attitude of self defense, with his back
against a tree.

In this way he was able to avoid considerable punishment, since
the attacking force could not completely surround him, the tree being
an unusually big one.

[Illustration: HE HAD THROWN HIMSELF INTO AN ATTITUDE OF SELF-DEFENSE.]

So far as he could see, there were at least half a dozen opposed to him.
Evidently Tony and Asa did not mean to take any chances when
trying to put the new candidate for honors on the regular team out
of the running.

What with all the row connected with their rush, the cowardly assailants
were themselves unable to hear the patter of swiftly-approaching footsteps,
coming from the rear. They evidently shouted, in order to keep their
courage up, and prevent Ralph from recognizing any one particular
voice.

The beleaguered boy was himself fighting like a cat at bay. He had no
positive assurance that friends were near, and with so many eager hands
striving to reach his face and body, he had to retaliate, giving blow
for blow.

Once he managed to dash his clenched fist into the face of a fellow who,
in his eagerness, had rushed in too close.

"Wow!" bellowed the stricken party, and somehow it seemed to Ralph that
the voice was that of Tony Gilpin.

More than once he was himself the recipient of blows, some severe
and others of a glancing nature. For a brief period of time there was
a constant maelstrom of hands flying back and forth, accompanied
with shouts, jeers and grunts.

"Oh, you cowards!" called Ralph, as a blow struck him on the back
of the head, and almost stunned him for a second; one of the crowd,
not daring to face the boy at bay, having crept alongside the tree
to watch his chance.

He could easily believe that this was Asa Barnes. Immediately a mad
desire possessed him to pounce upon that sneak and return the blow
with interest.

Despite the array of threatening fists that formed a half-circle in
front, Ralph threw himself around to one side of the tree, eager
to come in contact with the object of his especial contempt.

So speedy were his movements that the treacherous one could not get out
of the way, nor was he, anticipating such a bold act on the part of the
boy who had been held up on the road.

Just as Ralph pounced vigorously upon him, he caught sight of a number
of dark figures jumping into the fray. At the same instant new shouts
arose, a volume of sound that made the welkin ring, and brought
satisfaction to the heart of the one in peril.

He knew then that his call for assistance had been heard--that Frank and
his football comrades had reached the spot, and were in the act of
practicing their gridiron tactics upon the unfortunates who
had fallen into the very trap they had themselves set.

"Help! help! fellows, take him off!" shrieked the one against whom the
angry Ralph had collided; for both of them had gone down in a scrambling,
kicking heap.

Fear caused the under dog to make frantic efforts to escape; and
while Ralph was able to get a little satisfaction out of his attack,
he found it utterly impossible to hang on to the squirming figure,
which, eluding his grasp, presently rolled over and over, bounded
to his feet, and fled like the wind.

Meanwhile there was taking place a furious fight. The disguised crowd
found itself outnumbered two to one, and while they struck back whenever
possible, the one thought in their minds was escape.

"Cut it!" shouted the one who seemed to be a leader.

"Don't let them get away! Take 'em prisoners!" whooped a tall lad, who
was doing his share of the mauling.

But that was easier said than done.

The now sadly demoralized enemy scattered in every direction, some running
wildly down the road, and others vanishing in the darkness of the
wood.

"They're gone!" cried Lanky Wallace, in disgust, as he found that
the fellow he had embraced was no other than his fat friend, Buster
Billings.

"Let me go, hang it! You've squeezed the last breath out of me!
I'd had that dub, only for your interference. Such rotten luck!" gasped
the stout one, as he shook himself free from Lanky's encircling
arms.

Frank was at the side of the boy they had rescued just in time.

"How is it, Ralph, did they pummel you hard?" he asked, solicitously.

"I gave 'em more than I took; but my head sings a bit from the nasty
knock that sneak Asa Barnes gave me from behind!" replied the other.

"From behind!" echoed Lanky, indignantly; "well, wouldn't that jar you
some now? But what else could you expect from that snake in the
grass? He never fought fair in all his life.

I hope you got one or two in back on him, Ralph."
"Didn't you hear him howl for help?" replied the other, quickly.
"That was when I nailed him. I guess his head rings about as much
as mine does. But, boys, you came just in time. I was in a tight
box. And I'm ever so much obliged for the help."
"Don't mention it, old chap. We really needed the exercise, and the
only thing I complain of is that it all happened too fast.
Why, I don't believe I really got my windmill working freely when
I was threshing the air. Zip! and they were gone," and Paul Bird
laughed heartily at the hasty way in which the enemy had
vanished.

"You're sure they didn't get you?" persisted Frank.
"I guess I'm all right," laughed the other, as he swung both arms
back and forth, and bent his body to test his muscles; "you see,
there wasn't time enough for them to do much damage. And they were
all so mighty anxious to reach me they really interfered with each
other."
"As we came up on the run, I thought I heard one fellow give a whoop
of pain, as if he had run up against something. Was that your fault,
Ralph?" demanded Lanky.
"Sure. And what's more, I expect it was Tony. If he shows a black
eye to-morrow, give me credit for one goal kicked, boys," replied
the party addressed.

Bones Shadduck was lighting a match.
"Hello! What's that for?" asked Jack Eastwick.
"I picked up a hat just now, and the idea struck me that possibly
there might be some more headgear lying around. We'd like to know
who these pirates are, you see, and here's a chance to get a line
on 'em," explained the other, as he bent low to scan the ground in
the immediate vicinity.
"Matches--who's got any? Pass 'em around, fellows!" called
Buster.
Immediately there was quite an illumination around that part of the
road, half a dozen tiny torches burning at once, as eager eyes
scanned the ground. Twice cries of satisfaction announced that a
find had rewarded the search, but the supply of matches gave out,
and, besides, it seemed that there were no more hats or caps to be
gathered in.
"Three times, and out, boys! Now we'll be able to learn who some
of the crowd must have been. I think I ought to nail this gay old
cap. Nobody but Bill Klemm ever dared wear such a screamer as that,"
announced Lanky, holding the object of his derision aloft.
"And this looks like the hat I turned over to Jay Tweedle the time
I accidentally knocked his off in the river, and it sank. I know
it is, fellows!" exclaimed Frank, who had been one of the lucky
discoverers.
"Well, we're getting a line on the bunch, all right," laughed
Jack.
"If only Ralph marked both Tony and Asa, and we've got the hats of
three more, it looks good to me," chirped Lanky.
"Fall in, fellows!" called Bones Shadduck, assuming the air of a
drum major, as he waved an imaginary baton in the air.
With considerable talking and laughter, the squad gathered around
Ralph.
"Here, what's all this mean?" laughed Ralph. "Want to make me a
high muckamuck, a grand sachem surrounded by his valiant bodyguard?
I object. I'm only a common worm, like the rest of you, and not fit
for these great honors.George's account of Kate's confession and Harry's sudden exit, Rutter's
face brightening as it had not done for years when he learned that Harry
had not yet returned from the Seymours', the day's joy being capped by
the arrival of Dr. Teackle, who had given his permission with an "All
right--the afternoon is fine and the air will do Mr. Temple a world of
good," and so St. George was bundled up and the reader knows the rest.

Later on--at Moorlands of course--the colonel, whose eyes were getting
better by the day and Gorsuch whose face was now one round continuous
smile, got to work, and had a heart-to-heart--or rather a
pocket-to-pocket talk--which was quite different in those days from what
it would be now--after which both Kate and Harry threw to the winds all
thoughts of Rio and the country contiguous thereto, and determined
instead to settle down at Moorlands. And then a great big iron door sunk
in a brick vault was swung wide and certain leather-bound books were
brought out--and particularly a sum of money which Harry duly handed
over to Pawson the next time he drove to town--(twice a week now)--and
which, when recounted, balanced to a cent the total of the bills which
Pawson had paid three years before, with interest added, a list of which
the attorney still kept in his private drawer with certain other
valuable papers tied with red tape, marked "St. G. W. T." And still
later on--within a week--there had come the news of the final settlement
of the long-disputed lawsuit with St. George as principal residuary
legatee--and so our long-suffering hero was once more placed upon his
financial legs: the only way he could have been placed upon them or
would have been placed upon them--a fact very well known to every one
who had tried to help him, his philosophy being that one dollar borrowed
is two dollars owed--the difference being a man's self-respect.

And it is truly marvellous what this change in his fortunes
accomplished. His slack body rounded out; his sunken cheeks plumped up
until every crease and crack were gone, his color regained its
freshness, his eyes their brilliancy; his legs took on their old-time
spring and lightness--and a wonderful pair of stand-bys, or stand-ups,
or stand-arounds they were as legs go--that is legs of a man of
fifty-five.

And they were never idle, these legs: there was no sitting cross-legged
in a chair for St. George: he was not constructed along those lines.
Hardly a week had passed before he had them across Spitfire's mate; had
ridden to hounds; danced a minuet with Harry and Kate; walked half-way
to Kennedy Square and back--they thought he was going to walk all the
way and headed him off just in time; and best of all--(and this is
worthy of special mention)--had slipped them into the lower section of a
suit of clothes--and these his own, although he had not yet paid for
them--the colonel having liquidated their cost. These trousers, it is
just as well to state, had arrived months before from Poole, along with
a suit of Rutter's and the colonel had forwarded a draft for the whole
amount without examining the contents, until Alec had called his
attention to the absurd width of the legs--and the ridiculous spread of
the seat. My Lord of Moorlands, after the scene in the Temple Mansion,
dared not send them in to St. George, and they had accordingly lain ever
since on top of his wardrobe with Alec as chief of the Moth Department.
St. George, on his arrival, found them folded carefully and placed on a
chair--Todd chief valet. Whereupon there had been a good-natured row
when our man of fashion appeared at breakfast rigged out in all his
finery, everybody clapping their hands and saying how handsome he looked
--St. George in reply denouncing Talbot as a brigand of a Brummel who
had stolen his clothes, tried to wear them, and then when out of fashion
thrown them back on his hands.

All these, and a thousand other delightful things, it would, I say, be
eminently worth while to dilate upon--(including a series of whoops and
hand-springs which Todd threw against the rear wall of the big kitchen
five seconds after Alec had told him of the discomfiture of "dat
red-haided gemman," and of Marse Harry's good fortune)--were it not that
certain mysterious happenings are taking place inside and out of the
Temple house in Kennedy Square--happenings exciting universal comment,
and of such transcendent importance that the Scribe is compelled, much
against his will--for the present installment is entirely too short--to
confine their telling to a special chapter.


CHAPTER XXXII


For some time back, then be it said, various strollers unfamiliar with
the neighbors or the neighborhood of Kennedy Square, poor benighted folk
who knew nothing of the events set down in the preceding chapters, had
nodded knowingly to each other or shaken their pates deprecatingly over
the passing of "another old landmark."

Some of these had gone so far as to say that the cause could be found in
the fact that Lawyer Temple had run through what little money his father
and grandmother had left him; additional wise-acres were of the opinion
that some out-of-town folks had bought the place and were trying to prop
it up so it wouldn't tumble into the street, while one, more facetious
than the others, had claimed that it was no wonder it was falling down,
since the only new thing Temple had put upon it was a heavy mortgage.

The immediate neighbors, however,--the friends of the house--had smiled
and passed on. They had no such forebodings. On the contrary nothing so
diverting--nothing so enchanting--had happened around Kennedy Square in
years. In fact, when one of these humorists began speaking about it,
every listener heard the story in a broad grin. Some of the more
hilarious even nudged each other in the waist-coats and ordered another
round of toddies--for two or three, or even five, if there were that
number of enthusiasts about the club tables. When they were asked what
it was all about they invariably shook their heads, winked, and kept
still--that is, if the question were put by some one outside the magic
circle of Kennedy Square.

All the general public knew was that men with bricks in hods had been
seen staggering up the old staircase with its spindle banisters and
mahogany rail; that additional operatives had been discovered clinging
to the slanting roof long enough to pass up to further experts grouped
about the chimneys small rolls of tin and big bundles of shingles; that
plasterers in white caps and aprons, with mortar-boards in one hand and
trowels in the other, had been seen chinking up cracks; while any number
of painters, carpenters, and locksmiths were working away for dear life
all over the place from Aunt Jemima's kitchen to Todd's bunk under the
roof.

In addition to all this curious wagons had been seen to back up to the
curb, from which had been taken various odd-looking bundles; these were
laid on the dining-room floor, a collection of paint pots, brushes, and
wads of putty being pushed aside to give them room--and with some haste
too, for every one seemed to be working overtime.

As to what went on inside the mansion itself not the most inquisitive
could fathom: no one being permitted to peer even into Pawson's office,
where so large a collection of household goods and gods were sprawled,
heaped, and hung, that it looked as if there had been a fire in the
neighborhood, and this room the only shelter for miles around. Even
Pawson's law books were completely hidden by the overflow and so were
the tables, chairs, and shelves, together with the two wide
window-sills.

Nor did it seem to matter very much to the young attorney as to how or
at what hours of the day or night these several articles arrived. Often
quite late in the evening--and this happened more than once--an old
fellow, pinched and wheezy, would sneak in, uncover a mysterious object
wrapped in a square of stringy calico, fumble in his pocket for a scrap
of paper, put his name at the bottom of it, and sneak out again five,
ten, or twenty dollars better off. Once, as late as eleven o'clock, a
fattish gentleman with a hooked nose and a positive dialect, assisted
another stout member of his race to slide a very large object from out
the tail of a cart. Whereupon there had been an interchange of wisps of
paper between Pawson and the fatter of the two men, the late visitors
bowing and smiling until they reached a street lantern where they
divided a roll of bank-notes between them.

And the delight that Pawson and Gadgem took in it all!--assorting,
verifying, checking off--slapping each other's backs in glee when some
doubtful find was made certain, and growing even more excited on the
days when Harry and Kate would drive or ride in from Moorlands--almost
every day of late--tie the horse and carry-all, or both saddle-horses,
to St. George's tree-boxes, and at once buckle on their armor.

This, rendered into common prose, meant that Harry, after a prolonged
consultation with Pawson and Gadgem, would shed his outer coat, the
spring being now far advanced, blossoms out and the weather warm--and
that Kate would tuck her petticoats clear of her dear little feet and go
pattering round, her sleeves rolled up as far as they would go, her
beautiful arms bare almost to her shoulders--her hair smothered in a
brown barege veil to keep out the dust--the most bewitching parlor-maid
you or anybody else ever laid eyes on. Then would follow such a carrying
up of full baskets and carrying down of empty ones; such a spreading of
carpets and rugs; such an arranging of china and glass; such a placing
of andirons, fenders, shovels, tongs, and bellows; hanging of pictures,
curtains, and mirrors--old and new; moving in of sofas, chairs, and
rockers; making up of beds with fluted frills on the pillows--a silk
patchwork quilt on St. George's bed and cotton counterpanes for Jemima
and Todd!

And the secrecy maintained by everybody! Pawson might have been stone
deaf and entirely blind for all the information you could twist out of
him--and a lot of people tried. And as to Gadgem--the dumbest oyster in
Cherrystone Creek was a veritable magpie when it came to his giving the
precise reason why the Temple Mansion was being restored from top to
bottom and why all its old furniture, fittings, and trappings--
(brand-new ones when they couldn't be found in the pawn shops or
elsewhere)--were being gathered together within its four walls. When
anybody asked Kate--and plenty of people did--she would throw her head
back and laugh so loud and so merrily and so musically, that you would
have thought all the birds in Kennedy Square park were still welcoming
the spring. When you asked Harry he would smile and wink and perhaps
keep on whispering to Pawson or Gadgem whose eyes were glued to a list
which had its abiding place in Pawson's top drawer.

Outside of these four conspirators--yes, six--for both Todd and Jemima
were in it, only a very few were aware of what was really being done.
The colonel of course knew, and so did Harry's mother--and so did old
Alec who had to clap his hand over his mouth to keep from snickering out
loud at the breakfast table when he accidentally overheard what was
going on--an unpardonable offence--(not the listening, but the
laughing). In fact everybody in the big house at Moorlands knew, for
Alec spread it broadcast in the kitchen and cabins--everybody EXCEPT
ST. GEORGE.

Not a word reached St. George--not a syllable. No one of the house
servants would have spoiled the fun, and certainly no one of the great
folks. It was only when his visit to Moorlands was over and he had
driven into town and had walked up his own front steps, that the true
situation in all its glory and brilliancy dawned upon him.

The polished knobs, knocker, and the perfect level and whiteness of the
marble steps first caught his eye; then the door swung open and Jemima
in white apron and bandanna stood bowing to the floor, Todd straight as
a ramrod in a new livery and a grin on his face that cut it in two, with
Kate and Harry hidden behind them, suffocating from suppressed laughter.

"Why, you dear Jemima! Howdy--... Why, who the devil sent that old
table back, Todd, and the hall rack and--What!" Here he entered the
dining-room. Everything was as he remembered it in the old days. "Harry!
Kate!--Why--" then he broke down and dropped into a chair, his eyes
still roaming around the room taking in every object, even the loving
cup, which Mr. Kennedy had made a personal point of buying back from the
French secretary, who was gracious enough to part with it when he
learned the story of its enforced sale--each and every one of
them--ready to spring forward from its place to welcome him!

"So this," he stammered out--"is what you have kept me up at Moorlands
for, is it? You never say a word to me--and--Oh, you children!--you
children! Todd, did you ever see anything like it?--my guns--and the
loving cup--and the clock, and--Come here you two blessed things and
let me get my arms around you! Kiss me, Kate--and Harry, my son--give
me your hand. No, don't say a word--don't mind me--I'm all knocked out
and--"

Down went his face in his hands and he in a heap in the chair; then he
stiffened and gave a little shiver to his elbows in the effort to keep
himself from going completely to pieces, and scrambled to his feet
again, one arm around Kate's neck, his free hand in Harry's.

Take me everywhere and show me everything. Todd, go and find Mr. Pawson
and see if Mr. Gadgem is anywhere around; they've had something to do
with this--" here his eyes took in Todd--"You damned scoundrel, who the
devil rigged you out in that new suit?"

"Marse Harry done sont me to de tailor. See dem buttons?--but dey ain't
nuthin' to what's on the top shelf--you'll bust yo'self wide open
a-laughin', Marse George, when ye sees what's in dar--you gotter come
wid me--please Mistis an' Marse Harry, you come too. Dis way--"

Todd was full to bursting. Had his grin been half an inch wider his ears
would have dropped off.

"An' fore ye look at dem shelves der's annuder thing I gotter tell
ye;--an' dat is dat the dogs--all fo' oh em is comin' in the mawnin'.
Mister Floyd's coach-man done tole me so," and with a jerk and a whoop,
completely ignoring his master's exclamation of joy over the return of
his beloved setters, the darky threw back the door of the little
cubby-hole of a room where the Black Warrior and his brethren had once
rested in peace, and pointed to a row of erect black bottles backed by
another of recumbent ones.

"Look at dat wine, will ye, Marse George," he shouted, "all racked up on
dern shelves? Dat come f'om Mister Talbot Rutter wid dis yere cyard--"
and he handed it out.

St. "Yes, Lanky, but _such_ a dog! He thinks the world of me.

Why, I could hardly tear myself away from him this morning, he wanted
to come with me so bad. After this you needn't ever think of giving me
a guard; Kaiser can fill that position up to the limit," said Bones,
proudly, as became the owner of such a wonderful canine.

"Time's nearly up. Are we going to bring any new horse out of the
stable? Did any fellow make serious blunders? Is anyone hurt?" asked
Lanky.

"If they are, they keep it to themselves. But there's Shay coming out,
while Eastwick goes to the seats. I was a little afraid that Jack
might prove too light as a tackler. Why, twice he failed to bring
his man down, and was carried more than a few yards before another
fellow caught on. Shay ought to be an improvement."
"What do you think, so far, Bones?"
"We've about held our own, that's comforting," was the reply.

"But the score isn't as big as I hoped it would be," expostulated
Lanky.

"Yes, but we owe that first touchdown and goal to the fact that Clifford
was confused with the signals you called. They thought they meant the
old version, and rushed to meet the play. That gave us almost a clear
field."
"I guess you're right," returned Lanky, thoughtfully.

"Now, see where we stand. They got a clear touchdown, and were over our
fifteen-yard line when play was called. I tell you, we're going to
have our work cut out to score again, and you can see that every
fellow of the opposition is out for blood. To be licked by Bellport
hurt; a second drubbing is next to unthinkable with them. Mark my words,
they'll die hard!"
"Bones, you're right. We've got to do our level best in the second
half. Once let us develop a weak spot, and they'll aim for that every
rush. There's Frank calling to me again. Five minutes more, and we'll
be at it, hammer and tongs," and Lanky hurried away to where the captain
stood, with the very last word in the way of orders.

The line of play had been decided on long before. This had been arranged
in accordance with what they knew about Clifford's line-up.
Just as Lanky had declared, once let a weak place show, and from that
minute on the opposition bends every effort toward pushing the ball
in that quarter, until, finally, the defense gives way, and the oval is
carried triumphantly across the line.
Gradually the players began to take their places again. Clifford,
too, showed a new face; Hollingsworth being substituted in place
of Evans, as right end, the other having been injured in a scrimmage,
thought not enough to get out at the time.
It was Columbia's kick-off this time, and Jack Comfort was the one
to do the honors which would inaugurate the second half of the game.
Just as he stood there ready to make the first move, the picture
was one that would never be forgotten by the thousands who witnessed
it.
Every breath seemed hushed. A mighty silence hung over the wide
field, as eyes were riveted on the crouching figures, whose faces,
so far as seen, because of the disfiguring head harness, showed the
earnestness that possessed each soul.As the echo of Todd's steps faded away and he began to realize that he
was alone, there crept over him for the first time in years the
comforting sense that he was once more under his own roof--his again and
all that it covered--all that he loved; even his beloved dogs. He left
his chair and with a quick indrawing of his breath, as if he had just
sniffed the air from some open sea, stretched himself to his full
height. There he stood looking about him, his shapely fingers patting
his chest; his eyes wandering over the room, first with a sweeping
glance, and then resting on each separate object as it nodded to him
under the glow of the candles.

He had come into his possessions once more. Not that the very belongings
made so much difference as his sense of pride in their ownership. They
had, too, in a certain way regained for him his freedom--freedom to go
and come and do as he pleased untrammelled by makeshifts and humiliating
exposures and concealments. Best of all, they had given him back his
courage, bracing the inner man, strengthening his beliefs in his
traditions and in the things that his race and blood stood for.

Then as a flash of lightning reveals from out black darkness the
recurrent waves of a troubled sea, there rushed over him the roll and
surge of the events which had led up to his rehabilitation. Suddenly a
feeling of intense humiliation and profound gratitude swept through him.
He raised his arms, covered his face with his hands, and stood swaying;
forcing back his tears; muttering to himself: "How good they have
been--how good, how good! All mine once more--wonderful--wonderful!"
With a resolute bracing of his shoulders and a brave lift of his chin,
he began a tour of the room, stopping before each one of his beloved
heirlooms and treasures--his precious gun that Gadgem had given up--(the
collector coveted it badly as a souvenir, and got it the next day from
St. George, with his compliments)--the famous silver loving cup with an
extra polish Kirk had given it; his punch bowl--scarf rings and
knick-knacks and the furniture and hangings of various kinds. At last he
reached the sideboard, and bending over reread the several cards affixed
to the different donations--Mrs. spelled out the quarter.

Instantly after the last letter was given, there was a sudden
movement. The center had flashed the ball to Allen, who started
furiously around the outside of the Clifford line. West was running
diagonally, and passed him.George, that last bottle of old
Madeira, the Black Warrior of 1810--the one you gave me and which we
were to share together. I hadn't the heart to drink my half without you
and so here is the whole and my warmest congratulations on your
home-coming and long life to you!"

Picking up the quaint bottle, he passed his hand tenderly over its
crusted surface, paused for an instant to examine the cork, and held it
closer to the light that he might note its condition. There he stood
musing, his mind far away, his fingers caressing its sides. All the
aroma of the past; all the splendor of the old regime--all its
good-fellowship, hospitality, and courtesy--that which his soul
loved--lay imprisoned under his hand. Suddenly one of his old-time
quizzical smiles irradiated his face: "By Jove!"I feel the same way,"
said Frank, "but, all the same, I'll be better satisfied when the
game has been played.

There's many a slip, you know. An accident might mar the finest
play the gridiron ever knew.

And then the treachery of these fellows always annoys me.

"Todd, here's the last bottle of the 1810. Lay it flat on the top shelf
with the cork next the wall. We'll open it at Mr. Harry's wedding."

[THE END]