 It was the first time in history that
     the Colonies of Great Britain had come to the Mother Country to
     consult on great National questions. He had read nearly the whole
     of the large Blue Book which contained the reports of the
     Conference, and all he could say was that he challenged any
     assembly of public men to meet together and show more ability and
     statesmanlike thought in the discussion of the questions submitted
     to them than was shown by that Conference during its short reign.
     He was delighted with the noble words of Lord Salisbury, when he
     expressed his satisfaction, and said he hoped this would be only
     the first of many similar Conferences, but Lord Salisbury, like
     other public men, sometimes saw occasion to change his views,
     because not long ago he said, on a public occasion, that all he
     knew about Federation was, that it was a word spelt with ten
     letters, which was somewhat of a wet blanket to some of those who
     had reckoned upon Lord Salisbury as an ardent supporter. More
     recently he said, in reply to a question put to him at a public
     meeting at the East End of London, that geographical considerations
     would prevent the realization of such a scheme; but his allusions
     to geographical difficulties vanished before modern science. Was it
     not in their cognizance that in South Africa, through the medium of
     the telegraph, they were able to know what was taking place in
     England within twenty-four hours? Geographical considerations,
     indeed! that might have been all very well some years ago, when it
     took three or four months to reach the Cape, but now it took only
     two or three weeks, and that time would even be probably reduced as
     time wore on. Such being the case, geographical considerations had
     nothing whatever to do with the matter. He had no desire to speak
     unfairly of the gentleman who occupied the position of Prime
     Minister of the Empire, but he felt sure the time would come when
     Lord Salisbury would think that Imperial Federation was something
     more than a word of ten letters; and that his geographical
     considerations would vanish also, as having no reason in them. In
     contrast to Lord Salisbury, he would read a short extract from a
     speech, made only a few months ago at Leeds by Lord Rosebery, when
     he said: "For my part, if you will forgive me this little bit of
     egotism, I can say from the bottom of my heart that it is the
     dominant passion of my public life. Ever since I traversed those
     great regions which own the sway of the British Crown outside these
     islands, I have felt that there was a cause, which merited all the
     enthusiasm and energy that man could give to it. It is a cause for
     which any one might be content to live; it is a cause for which, if
     needs be, any one might be content to die." Lord Rosebery was at
     this moment the President of the Imperial Federation League, and
     only recently he addressed a letter, on behalf of the League, to
     Lord Salisbury, asking that the Government would summon another
     Conference like the one which took place with such wonderful
     results two years ago, and which Lord Salisbury had said he hoped
     would be the first of many more. The answer he gave, however, was
     something to the effect that he did not think it desirable that the
     Government should move in the matter, but that the Colonies should
     take the initiative.