Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


COLONEL CARTER'S CHRISTMAS

THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD-FASHIONED GENTLEMAN

BY

F. HOPKINSON SMITH

ILLUSTRATED BY

F. C. YOHN and A. I. KELLER

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
NEW YORK:::::::::::::::::::::1911


 COLONEL CARTER'S CHRISTMAS

 COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY
 CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

 THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD-FASHIONED
 GENTLEMAN

 COPYRIGHT, 1907, BY
 CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS


[Illustration: Katy dropped her head on his shoulder again.]


_To my Readers:_


It will be remembered, doubtless, that the chronicles of my very dear
friend, Colonel Carter (published some years ago), make mention of but
one festival of importance--a dinner given at Carter Hall, near
Cartersville, Virginia; the Colonel's ancestral home. This dinner, as
you already know, was to celebrate two important events--the sale to
the English syndicate of the coal lands, the exclusive property of the
Colonel's beloved aunt, Miss Nancy Carter; and the instantaneous
transfer by that generous woman of all the purchase money to the
Colonel's slender bank account: a transaction which, to quote his own
words as he gallantly drank her health in acknowledgment of the gift,
"enabled him to provide for one of the loveliest of her sex--she who
graces our boa'd--and to enrich her declining days not only with all
the comforts, but with many of the luxuries she was bawn to enjoy."

Sailors and soldiers had no such comfort, it was forbidden to sleep
under any cover, even finishing his fourth, to be carried by hand
if the time suddenly. [70] [Note 70: _Disquisiciones náuticas_, volume
VI, p. 173. ] They had the mats of the advantage of serving petate of
shrouds if necessary: Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo tell that person
to be quality had no exemption in the rule, in these terms [71]: "We
want to take advantage of a sailor Serón esparto that there was under
a mattress when I was gone, the servant told him: 'do not take the
Serón, now you see that the master is dying, and dead, that there is
no wrapping and miss out at sea; 'which I heard very well and
sitting on the bed very angry, I said:' Get the Serón, I do not
have to die at sea, or that God wants me missing burial ground.

"Indeed, since then started to improve, reacted with outrage to
want to inherit this place alive. [Note 71: _Historia general Indias_,
lib. L. _Infortunios And naufragios._] Cervantes gave to the
practice known as speaking in _The extremeño_ jealous of resolution
of that gentleman in need of money and even with not many friends
who hosted the choice to move to India, referred to as having been
accommodated with Admiral _aderezó its shroud of esparto_ and
embarked on Cadiz.

Fitzpatrick, he was then trying
to finance. Not content with thus slandering the road itself,
characterizing it as "beginning nowhere and ending nowhere," Mr.
Klutchem had even gone so far as to attack the good name of its
securities, known as the "Garden Spot" Bonds, and to state boldly that
he would not "give a yellow dog" for "enough of 'em to paper a
church." The Colonel's immediate resentment of this insult; his prompt
challenge to Mr. Klutchem to meet him in mortal duel; Mr. Klutchem's
refusal and the events which followed, are too well known to you to
need further reference here.

The death of this Mr. Klutchem some years ago decided me again to seek
the Colonel's permission to lay before my readers a succinct account,
first of what led up to this most important celebration, and then some
of the details of the celebration itself--one of the most delightful,
if not the most delightful, of all the many delightful festivals held
in the Colonel's cosy quarters on Bedford Place.

My communication drew from Colonel Carter the following characteristic
letter:

                         CARTER HALL, CARTERSVILLE, VA.,

     MY DEAR MAJOR:

     I have your very kind and welcome letter, and am greatly
     impressed by the views you hold. I was averse at the time to
     any reference being made to the matter to which you so
     kindly refer, for the reason that some men are often more
     sensitive over their virtues than they are over their
     faults.

     Mr. Klutchem's death, of course, completely alters the
     situation, and you can make what use you please of the
     incidents. In this decision I have been helped by my dear
     Fitz, who spent last Sunday with us on his way South to
     investigate a financial matter of enormous magnitude and
     which only a giant intellect like his own can grasp. Fitz's
     only fear--I quote his exact words, my dear Major,--is that
     "you will let Klutchem down easy instead of roasting him
     alive as he deserves," but then you must not mind Fitz, for
     he always uses intemperate language when speaking of this
     gentleman.

     Your room is always ready for you, and if you will run down
     to us now, we can smother you in roses. Chad is over his
     cold, but the old man seems feeble at times. Aunt Nancy is
     out in her coach paying some visits, and doesn't know I am
     writing or she would certainly send you her love.

     I thanked you, did I not, for all your kindness about the
     double sets of harness? But I must tell you again how well
     the leaders look in them. The two sorrels are particularly
     splendid. Go into Wood's some day this week and write me
     what you think of a carriage he has just built for me,--a
     small affair in which Aunt Nancy can drive to Warrentown, or
     I can send to the depot for a friend.

     All my heart to you, my dear Major. An open hand and a warm
     welcome is always yours at Carter Hall.

     Your ever obedient servant and honored friend,

                         GEORGE FAIRFAX CARTER.

With the Colonel's permission, then, I am privileged to usher you into
his cosy dining-room in Bedford Place, there to enjoy the Virginian's
rare hospitality.

                         F. HOPKINSON SMITH.

September 30, 1903.


ILLUSTRATIONS


 _Katy dropped her head on his shoulder again_      _Frontispiece_

                                                            FACING
                                                             PAGE

 "_Take them upstairs and put them on my dressin'-table_"       4

 _Each guest had a candle alight_                              84

 _And so the picture was begun_                               104

 "_Promise me that you will stop the whole business_"         172

 "_It is all her doing, Phil_"                                205


 COLONEL CARTER'S
 CHRISTMAS


I


"What am I gwine to do wid dese yere barkers, Colonel?" asked Chad,
picking up his master's case of duelling pistols from the mantel. "I
ain't tetched der moufs since I iled 'em up for dat Klutchem man."

No, no day of life, the pain of my soft, the last still kills me, and
her memory will stay with me, with me live and die, the memories
of the undignified - oh, my friend!

if I should speak from the heart - certainly not the whole undignified!

Their status, their fates, they have a thousand excuses for me. I
have been cruel to, you have me in your cold, ruthless in your
hardness inaugurated, my shattered sense captured and prevented me,
for them and for me to do what both of us, I was guilty.

Who knows in what condition I've moved them, and gradually falls
over me's conscience, in which despair in which they Hülflosigkeit I
left!

Was it not possible that they could be excused? Was it not possible? How
many misunderstandings can confuse the world, what circumstances
may the biggest mistake forgiveness crave! - How often I think they,
in the silence for sitting on their elbows Having .-- "That is," she
says, "the fidelity , love, me zuschwur! With this rough blow to the
beautiful life termination, which we combined !""

-- He broke into a stream of tears, as he is with the face on the table
and threw the papers on surviving wetted. Werner stood in the greatest
embarrassment here. He had this rapid blaze of passion is not suspected.
Etlichemal he wanted his friends in the speech fall etlichemal steer
the conversation elsewhere, in vain!

he resisted the currents are not. Again, the persistent friendship back
her post.

He was the fiercest attack of the pain temporarily, by his silent
presence of a sincere, pure participants had seen the best, and so
they remained this evening; Wilhelm into silent after feeling the
pain and the other was supposed to be scared by the new outbreaks
of passion, which he long bemeistert good advice and by coaxing
overwhelmed and eager to have believed.

Book II, Chapter 3 Chapter After such relapses Wilhelm mostly
used only the more eager to shops and activities to devote, and
it was the best way out of the mazes, which sought to attract him
to escape.

His good nature, opposed to strangers is its lightness, almost all living
languages Correspondence to lead, gave his father and his
friends always trade more hope and comforted they have the disease,
whose cause they had not known, and on the break, the their plan
was interrupted. Wilhelms We decided departure for the second time,
and we find him on his horse, the mantle sac behind it, exhilarated
by fresh air and exercise , the mountains are closer, where he should
focus some of orders.

He durchstrich slowly valleys and mountains with the greatest
sensation of pleasure. overhang of rocks, rushing water streams,
vegetated walls, deep reasons he saw for the first time here, and
yet had his earliest youth have dreams in such areas geschwebt.

He felt at this sight again tapers, all endured pain were washed
away from his soul, and with complete serenity, he said that authorities
from different poems, especially from the "Pastor fido", which in these
lonely places scharenweis his memories accruing. Also, he points
to some of his own songs, which he recited a special satisfaction.
I was in Fitz's office this morning, and I hear that
Klutchem and his Boston crowd have got about every share of
Consolidated Smelting issued, and the boys are climbing for it. Fitz
told me it went up fifteen points in an hour. By the by, Fitz is
coming up to-night."

"I am not surprised, suh,--I am not surprised at anything these
Yankees do. A man who could not appreciate a gentleman's feelin's
placed as I was would never feel for a creditor, suh. He thinks of
nothin' but money and what it buys him, and it buys him nothin' but
vulgaarity, suh."

The Colonel was in the saddle now; I never interrupt him in one of
these moods. He had risen from his chair and was standing on the mat
before the fire in his favorite attitude, thumbs in his armholes, his
threadbare, well-brushed coat thrown wide.

"They've about ruined our country, suh, these money-grubbers. I saw
the workin' of one of their damnable schemes only a year or so ago, in
my own town of Caartersville. Some Nawthern men came down there, suh,
and started a Bank. Their plan was to start a haalf dozen mo' of them
over the County, and so they called this one the Fust National. They
never started a second, suh. Our people wouldn't permit it, and befo'
I get through you'll find out why. They began by hirin' a buildin' and
movin' in an iron safe about as big as a hen-coop. Then they sent out
a circular addressed to our prominent citizens which was a model of
style, and couched in the most co'teous terms, but which, suh, was
nothin' mo' than a trap. I got one and I can speak by the book. It
began by sayin' that eve'y accommodation would be granted to its
customers, and ended by offerin' money at the lowest rates of
interest possible. This occurred, suh, at a time of great financial
depression with us, following as it did the close of hostilities, and
their offer was gladly accepted. It was the fust indication any of us
had seen on the part of any Yankee to bridge over the bloody chasm,
and we took them at their word. We put in what money we had, and
several members of our oldest families, in order to give chaaracter to
the enterprise, had their personal notes discounted and used the money
they got for them for various private purposes--signin' as a gaarantee
of their good faith whatever papers the bank people requi'ed of them.
Now, suh, what do you think happened--not to me, for I was not in need
of financial assistance at the time, Aunt Nancy havin' come into
possession of some funds of her own in Baltimo',--but to one of my
personal friends, Colonel Powhatan Tabb, a near neighbor of mine and a
gentleman of the highest standin'? Because, suh"--here the Colonel
spoke with great deliberation--"his notes had not been paid on the
vehy day and hour--a thing which would have greatly inconvenienced
him--Colonel Tabb found a sheriff in charge of his home one mornin'
and a red flag hangin' from his po'ch. Of co'se, suh, he demanded an
explanation of the outrage, and some words followed of a blasphemous
nature which I shall not repeat. I shall never forget my feelin's,
suh, as I stood by and witnessed that outrage. Old family plate that
had been in the Tabb family for mo' than a century was knocked down to
anybody who would buy; and befo' night, suh, my friend was stripped
of about eve'ything he owned in the world. Nothin' escaped, suh, not
even the po'traits of his ancestors!"

"What became of the bank, Colonel?" I asked in as serious a tone as I
could command.

"What became of it? What _could_ become of it, Major? Our people were
aroused, suh, and took the law into their own hands, and the last I
saw of it, suh, the hen-coop of a safe was standin' in the midst of a
heap of smokin' ashes. I heard that the Bank people broke it open with
a sledge-hammer when it cooled off, put the money they had stolen from
our people in a black caarpet-bag, and escaped. Such pi'acies, suh,
are not only cruel but vulgaar. Mr. Klutchem's robries are quite in
line with these men. He takes you by the throat in another way, but he
strangles you all the same."

The Colonel stroked his goatee in a meditative way, reached over my
chair, picked up his half-emptied wine-glass, sipped its contents
absent-mindedly and said in an apologetic tone:

"Forgive me, Major, for mentionin' Mr. Klutchem's name, I have no
right to speak of him in this way behind his back. I promise you, suh,
that it will not occur again."

As the Colonel ceased I caught sight of Fitz's round, good-natured
face, ruddy with the cold of the snowy December night, his shoe-button
eyes sparkling behind his big-bowed spectacles peering around the edge
of the open door. The King's voice, the author ran The boy came,
the king cried, "Bring him in, the ancients!"

Gegrüßet are their high Lord, greeted her, beautiful ladies!

What a rich sky! Stern at Stern! Who Kennet their name? The hall full
of pomp and glory Closes, eyes, you, here is no time to marvel at
the singer expresses delight 'eyes and full, the sounds, the knight
looked Dreiner brave, And in the lap of the beautiful.

The King, liked the song, Did he, as a reward for his game, A golden
chain here.

"The golden chain give me not to give the chain the knights, on their
face, the bold enemy lances shatter. Give it to the Registrar, the
thou hast, And let him have the golden burden to burden others. I
sing like a bird sings, The lives in the branches. The song, which
penetrates from the throat, actual salary, plenty of lohnet; But
may I ask I ask this: Let a drink of the best wine in pure Glase
bring.

"He continues" there, he drank it out: "O sweet potion of Labe! Oh!
three hochbeglücktes house, Where is the little gift! Where's
you probably think of me, And so warm thanks to God, when I draft you
for this thank you.

"As the singer geendigtem songs after a glass of wine poured for him
stood, and took it with a friendly countenance, against his benefactor
immediately, austrank, was a general joy in the Assembly.

They clapped and cried to him, it might this glass to his health, to
strengthen his old limbs disadvantage.

He sang a few romances and attracted more and more playfulness in the
company. "Can you find the melody, old age," said Philine, "" The
shepherd is cleaned to the dance? "" Oh, yes, "returned he," if you
sing the song and want to perform, to me it should not be missed.
"Philine stood up and stayed ready. The old man began the melody, and
they sang a song that our readers, we can not communicate because
they are perhaps abgeschmackt indecent or probably even could find.

In the meantime had The company, which had become more serene, yet
some ausgetrunken bottle of wine and began to be very loud.

But as our friends the evil consequences of their lust still floated
in fresh memory, he looked off, put the old man for his effort a
wide reward in hand, the others were doing something, you let him
rest and wear, and promised to the night a repeated pleasure from
his skill.

When he was out, said Wilhelm to Philine: "I may be singing in your
body is neither a poetic moral merit, or find, but if you ebender
Naivetät, character and decency daintiness something in the theater
ever run, it will be of general, loud applause certainly be given.
"" Yes, "said Philine," it should be quite a pleasant sensation to
be themselves on the ice to warm up. "" ever, "said Wilhelm," how
very ashamed of this man some actor.

Have you noticed how the really dramatic expression was his romances?
Certainly, there lived more show in his singing as rigid in our characters
on stage, you should consider some more pieces for a story, and
these musical narratives a sensuous presence attribute. "" You are
unjust!

"Exclaimed Laertes," I give me neither a great actor or singer, but
I know that if the music the movements of the body forward, gives them
life and they also prescribes the extent, if declamation and expression
of the already Kompositeur be transferred to me: so I am a man
else, as if I am in the prosaic drama only created everything, and
tact and I only invent declamation is what I would like to disrupt
Each player can. "" As far as I know, "said Melina," that we have
this man certainly points in a shame, but at the main points.

The strength of his talent is reflected in the benefits that he prefers.
Us, we may soon be in a predicament where we have a meal hernehmen,
he moves, our meal with him to share.

He knows us the money we could use to us in some constitution to
put a song out of his pocket to lure. It seems so pleasant to
be the money to verschleudern, which we and others could provide a
living. "The conversation was by this remark is not the most pleasant
twist. Wilhelm, on the accusation actually was, replied with some
passion, and Melina, who's not the greatest delicacy zeal, brought his
complaints as with rather dry words before. "There are now fourteen
days," he said, "that we pledged this theater and the Wardrobe have
seen, and we could both for a very reasonably have sum. They told me
then hope that you would credit me as much, and until now I still
have not seen that you consider the matter further or to a decision
would have approached. Griffen you were to, we would be now in
progress. Your intention to travel, you have not yet executed, and
money seems to me this time not to have saved, at least there are people
who always give the opportunity to know that it is quickly go away.
"This is not entirely unjust accusation met our friend. He returned it
with some liveliness, so with ferocity and took, as the company
aufstund and scattered, the door, he is not indistinct to recognize
was that he was not so long in more hostile and ungrateful people
wanted to stay.

He morose rushed down on a stone bank to put before the gates of his
inn stood, and not noticed that he made like half and half from more
than usual annoyances had drunk. Book II, 12 Twelfth Chapter After
Chapter short time, he, alarmed by some thoughts, and before sitting
down looking to persuade had strolled to the door Philine singing
out, sat down with him, one almost expected him to say, so they
moved close to him, leaned on his shoulders, playing with his curls,
stroked him and gave him the best words in the world.

She asked him, he wants to stay and they are not in society let
alone in front of Langer while they would die, she could no longer
Melina with endurance under one roof and did so herüberquartiert.
In vain, he dismissed them, to make her understand that he could
stay no longer be allowed. It was not with the request, as well
unexpectedly wrapped her arm around his neck and kissed him
with the liveliest expressions of desire. "Are you a toll, Philine?"
said Wilhelm, as he sought to loszumachen, "the public street to witness
such cuddled to make, which I in no way deserve! Let me go, I can not
and I will not stay. "" And I'll hold on, "she said," and I'll here
on the public street as long kiss, till you promise me what I want.
I laugh myself to death, "she continued," to maintain confidentiality
of these people certainly me for your wife of four weeks, and the
husbands, a scene so lovely to see their women to be me as a specimen
of a childlike tenderness unbiased praise ". Just a few people went
over, and she caressed him on the most charming, and he, in order
not to give scandal, was forced to the role of patient husband to play.
Then they cut the faces of people in the back and drove all kinds
of high spirits fully naughtiness until his last promise had, today
and tomorrow and the day to stay.

"You have a right stock," said she to this by his abließ, "and I Törin
that I am as much a waste of your kindness." She was sullen and went a
few steps, then she returned back and said laughingly: "I just think
that I matter to you'm infatuated, I just want to go and fetch my
knitting stocking that I had something to do. Remain so, so I
stone the man on the stony bank think again. "This time, she did him
wrong: he sosehr because it sought to contain, he would but in this
moments, he would have with her in a secluded bower found Caresses
its probably not have left unrequited.

She went after him a reckless zugeworfen view in the house. He had no
profession to follow her, but her demeanor was a reluctance in him
excited, but stressed he is, even without right to know why, by the
Bank to pursue her. He was just in the process in the door to
kick, as Melina herbeikam him humble and anredete him because of
some change in the word too harsh outspoken expressions begged for
forgiveness. "You make me not bad, "he continued," if I live in
the states where I am, maybe I am anxious to indicate, but
the concern for a woman, perhaps soon for a child, prevents me
from one day to another, quiet life and my time with the added benefit
pleasant sensations, such as you is still permitted. think about you,
and if you can, so put me in possession of the theatrical equipment,
which find here. I will not be long your debtor and you will remain
eternally grateful for. "Wilhelm, who reluctantly halted on the
threshold of seeing him on an irresistible tendency in this moments
Philine hinüberzog said with a surprised and dispersal eilfertigen
benevolence:" If I They thus make happy and satisfied, so I will
no longer remember.

You go out, make everything right. I am ready to have this evening or
tomorrow morning to pay the money. "He gave this Melinan hand to confirm
his promise and was very happy as he hurried across the street
looked away, but unfortunately he was by his intrusion into the
house and the second on an unpleasant way, held back.

A young man with a bundle on his back came rushing to her street
and went to Wilhelm, the same for him Friedrich recognized. "Since
I'm back," cried he, by his great blue eyes joyfully around and all
the windows up to let go, "where is Mamsell? The executioner, it may
be longer in the world to endure without it to see!" The landlord,
who just dazugetreten was returned: "She's Up, and with a few
jumps, he was the stairs, and William remained on the threshold are
as entrenched.

He had in the first moments of the boys in the back hair may pull down
the stairs, and then inhibited the violent convulsions of a violent
jealousy of the race once his spirits and his ideas, and as he
gradually recovered from his paralysis, attacked him a restlessness,
a feeling of discomfort, like his life had not yet felt.

He went to his room and found a letter Mignon employed. The child had
some time ago with great diligence tries, everything it knew by
heart, to write, and had his master and friend, have written to
correct. unermüdet She was seized and good, but the letters were
uneven, and crooked lines.

Here, too, seemed her body to the spirit to oppose. Wilhelm, the
attention of the child when he was quiet sense, made great joy, this
little attention to what they showed him, and she felt it afflicted
only about the more than they thought , this time its pretty good
thing to have made.

Wilhelms restlessness drove him to the corridors of the house to and
fro, and soon returned to the door.

A rider sprinkled, which had a good look at the compound and years
much vivacity betrayed.

The host hastened to meet him, gave him as a familiar friend's hand
and cried: "Oh, Mr. equerry, one sees you once again!" "I just
want to feed here," returned the stranger, "I shall over the Gut
in order to speed up all kinds of it.

The Count ways; the point tomorrow with his wife, they will have some
time over there staying at the Prince of *** on the best to entertain,
to be published in this area probably aufschlägt his headquarters. ""
It is a pity that you do not stay with us can, "returned the
landlord," we have a good society.

"The Reitknecht, the nachsprengte, the equerry took the horse, which
is under the door with the landlord and Wilhelm maintained from
the side installations. This, because he realized that of his speech
was, went away and walked a few streets up and down. Book II, Chapter
13, Chapter Thirteenth In sullen unrest, in which he found himself,
he remembered that the elderly reside, where the harp to scare away
evil spirits hoped.

It showed him as the man after he asked at a bad inn in a remote corner
of the town and in the same way up the stairs to the ground, where he
received the sweet sound of a harp chamber entgegenschallte. There
were herzrührende, plaintive tones, from a sad and fearful vocal support.
Wilhelm tiptoed to the door, and since the good old kind of
imagination and a few stanzas vortrug sometimes singing, sometimes
rezitierend always repeated, the eavesdropper could after a short
attention understand about the following Who never to eat bread
with tears, Who never kummer full nights crying on his bed sat, the
know you not, her heavenly powers. carries into your life inside
us, you let the poor are guilty, then überlaßt him of Agony; Because
all the blame to take revenge on Earth.

The melancholic, heartfelt plea penetrated deep into the soul of the
listener. It seemed to him as if the old man sometimes tears prevented
would continue, and then sounded the strings alone, and again the
voice quietly in broken Lutes dareinmischte.

Wilhelm was at the pole, his soul was deeply stirred, the grief of
the unknown closed his uneasy at heart, he does not withstood the
compassion and wanted to and could not hold back tears, the heartfelt
pleas of the Old eventually made his eyes hervorlockte .

All the pain, the pressure on his soul, broke away at the same time,
he gave them throughout, pushed the chamber and stood before the
old man, a bad bed, the only house of this wretched apartment to
his seat to take forced been.

"What hast thou me made for lively feelings, good old man!"

he exclaimed, "everything in my heart faltered, have you divorced,
you do not disturb, but proceed by your suffering linderst a friend
happy."

The old man wanted to stand up and talk about something, Wilhelm
prevented him out because he had noticed at lunch that the man
reluctantly said he was much more to him on the straw bag down.

The old man wiped his tears and asked with a friendly smile: " How
to get here?

I wanted to wait again this evening. "" We are quiet here, "returned
Wilhelm," sing me what you want, what fits for your situation, and
do just as if I were not here.

It seems to me as if you could not go wrong today.

I find you very happy that you are in solitude as pleasant
company and can entertain and, since you're a stranger everywhere, in
your heart will find the most pleasant acquaintance. "The old man
looked at his strings, and after he had gently präludiert, he agreed
to and sang: Who is the solitude, Ah! he is soon alone; Everyone lives,
everyone loves him and makes his pain. Yes! I let my pain And I can
only right once lonely, Then I'm not alone.

It sneaks a loving warding eavesdropping, whether his girlfriend alone?
überschleicht Sun by day and night I am lonely the torment, the
agony I'm lonely Oh werd I first Alone in his grave, since it leaves
me alone, we would be too wide and yet the strange charm of the
interview can not express to our friend with the adventurous strangers
stopped. On everything that the young man said to him, replied the old
man with the purest of compliance by echoes, all related and did
brisk sensations of the imagination opened up a wide field. If an
assembly of pious people who, aside from the Church, pure, warm and
witty to build believe beigewohnt, is also a term from the current
scene can make, he will recall how his words of liturgical verse singing
adapt a white, the soul then rises, while the speaker wants that they
should take their flight, as soon thereafter from another
congregation in another verse to the melody of another song and
add it back to a third a third followed, making the related ideas
of the songs from which they are borrowed, while excited , and every
body but through the new connection and individually, as if they
are in the moments would have been invented, so as from a known
circle of ideas, from well-known songs and sayings of this particular
society, for this moment is a separate whole , where they benefit
from revitalized, strengthened and refreshed.

This was built in the old man his guest, by by known and unknown
songs, and places near and distant feelings, waking and sleeping,
pleasant and painful sensations brought into circulation, from
where current state of our friend, the best hope was II.

Paper, 14 Chapter Four Tenth chapter because it really caught on the
way back on its location livelier than previously done, to think,
and was with the intent to withdraw from the same out as arrived
home, the landlord as he immediately opened with confidence that
at Mademoiselle Philine the equerry of the Count had made a conquest,
which, after completing his contract at the best designed, highest
in a hurry come back, and a good dinner on top of her room with her
eating.

In this very moment with Melina joined in. Notarius, they went
Wilhelms room together, where this, though with some hesitation,
made his promise sufficeth, three hundred thalers to change at
Melina paid off, which of these once the Notarius over and against
the document on the purchase of the entire closed theatrical equipment
was sent to them tomorrow morning should be passed. auseinandergegangen
Hardly were they, as an appalling Wilhelm screams heard in the house.

He heard a young voice, the angry and menacing with a inordinate
crying and wailing through. He heard this lament from the top down
on his desk after passing the House seats hurry.

As the curiosity of our friend herunterlockte, he found Frederick in a
kind of frenzy.

       The boy wept, gritted, stamped, threatened with fists and concentrated
totally turned unruly rage and annoyances, Mignon stood over and
watched with astonishment, and the landlord reasonably explained
this phenomenon.

The boy was after his return, as well it Philine recorded, happy, funny
and frisky been've sung and jumped up to the time when the equerry
with Philine made acquaintance.

Why the Colonel should have
suddenly dropped Consolidated Smelting to speak of the "Garden Spots"
was another mystery.

"And I have a right to transfer this order to any one I please?"

"Of course, Colonel." The mystery was now impenetrable.

"You have no objection to my takin' this letter, Fitz?"

"Not the slightest."

The Colonel walked to the window, looked out for a moment into the
street, walked back to Fitz's desk, and with a tinge of resignation in
his voice as if he had at last nerved himself for the worst, laid his
hand on Fitz's shoulder:

"I should never have a moment's peace, Fitz, if I did not exhaust
every means in my power to ward off this catastrophe from you. Kindly
give me a pen."

I moved closer. Was the Colonel going to sign his check for a million,
or was there some unknown friend who, at a stroke of his pen, would
come to Fitz's rescue?

The Colonel smoothed out the letter containing the proposition of the
Engraving Company, tried the pen on his thumbnail, dipped it carefully
in the inkstand, poised it for an instant, and in a firm round hand
wrote across its type-written face the words:

     "Accepted.
           GEORGE FAIRFAX CARTER,
                         of Cartersville."

Then he folded the paper carefully and slipped it into his inside
pocket.

This done, he shook Fitz's hand gravely, nodded to me with the air of
a man absorbed in some weighty matter, picked up his cane and hat and
left the office.

"What in the name of common-sense is he going to do with that,
Fitz?" I asked.

"I give it up," said Fitz. "Ask me an easy one. Dear old soul, isn't
he lovely? He's as much worried over the market as if every dollar at
stake was his own. Now you've got to excuse me, Major. I've got a
land-office business on hand to-day."

The Colonel's manner as he left the room had been so calm and
measured, his back so straight, the swing of his cane so rhythmical,
his firm military tread so full of courage and determination, that I
had not followed him. When he is in these moods it is best to let him
have his own way. Fitz and I had discovered this some days before,
when we tried to dissuade him from planting into Klutchem's rotundity
the bullets which Chad had cast with so much care.

Had I questioned him as he walked out this morning he would doubtless
have said, "I do not expect you Nawthern men, with yo'r contracted
ideas of what constitutes a man's personal honor, to understand the
view I take of this mattuh, Major, but my blood requires it. I never
forget that I am a Caarter, suh,--and you must never forget it
either."

Moreover, had I gone with him the visit might have assumed an air of
undue importance. There was nothing therefore for me to do but to
wait. So I buried my self in an arm-chair, picked up the morning
papers, and tried to possess my soul in patience until the Colonel
should again make his appearance with a full report of his mission.

Twice during my long wait Fitz burst in, grabbed up some papers from
his desk and bounded out again, firing some orders to his clerks as he
disappeared through the door. He was too absorbed to more than nod to
me, and he never once mentioned the Colonel's name.

About noon a customer in the outer office--there were half a dozen of
them watching the ticker--handed an "extra" to the clerk, who brought
it to me. Consolidated Smelting was up ten points; somebody had got
out an injunction, and two small concerns in Broad Street had struck
their colors and sent word to the Exchange that they could not meet
their contracts.

Still no Colonel!

Had he failed to find Klutchem; had he been thrown out of the office
or had he refrained from again visiting Fitz until he had accomplished
something definite for his relief?

With the passing of the hours I became uneasy. The Colonel, I felt
sure, especially in his present frame of mind, would not desert Fitz
unless something out of the common had happened. I would go to
Klutchem's office first, and not finding him there, I would keep on to
Bedford Place and interview Chad.

"Been here?" growled Klutchem's clerk in answer to my question. "Well,
I should think so. Tried to murder Mr. Klutchem. They're all up at the
police station. Nice day for a muss like this when everything's
kitin'! You don't know whether you're a-foot or a-horseback! These
fire-eaters ought to be locked up!"

"Arrested!"

"Well, you'd a-thought so if you'd been here half an hour ago. He
kept comin' in callin' for Mr. Klutchem, and then he sat down and
said he'd wait. Looked like a nice, quiet old fellow, and nobody took
any notice of him. When Mr. Klutchem came in--he'd been to the
Clearing-house--they both went into his private office and shut the
door. First thing we heard was some loud talk and then the thump of a
cane, and when I got inside the old fellow was beatin' Mr. Klutchem
over the head with a stick thick as your wrist. We tried to put him
out, or keep him quiet, but he wanted to fight the whole office. Then
a cop heard the row and came in and took the bunch to the station. Do
you know him?"

This last inquiry coming at the end of the explosion showed me how
vivid the scene still was in the clerk's mind and how it had
obliterated every other thought.

"Know him! I should think I did," I answered, my mind in a whirl.
"Where have they taken him?"

"Where have they taken 'em, Billy?" asked the clerk, repeating my
question to an assistant.

"Old Slip. You can't miss it. It's got a lamp over the door."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Sergeant smiled when I stepped up to the desk and made the
inquiry.

Yes; a man named Klutchem had made a charge of assault against one
George Carter. Carter was then locked up in one of the cells and could
not be interviewed without the consent of the Captain of the Precinct
who would be back in a few minutes.

"Guess it ain't serious," the Sergeant added. "Couple of old sports
got hot, that's all, and this old feller--" and he hunched his
shoulder towards the cells--"pasted the other one over the nut with
his toothpick. Step one side. Next!"

I sat down on a bench. The dear Colonel locked up in a cell like a
common criminal. What would Chad say; what would Aunt Nancy say; what
would Fitz say; what would everybody say? And then the mortification
to him; the wounding of his pride; the disgrace of it all.

Men and women came and went; some with bruised heads, some with
blackened eyes, one wearing a pair of handcuffs--a sneak thief,
caught, with two overcoats. Was the Colonel sharing a cell with such
people as these? The thought gave me a shiver.

A straightening-up of half a dozen policemen; a simultaneous touching
of caps, and the Captain, a red-faced, black-moustached, blue-coated
chunk of a man, held together at the waist by a leather belt and
be-decked and be-striped with gilt buttons and gold braid, climbed
into the pulpit of justice and faced the room.

I stepped up.

He listened to my story, nodded his head to a doorman and I followed
along the iron corridor and stood in front of a row of cells. The
Turnkey looked over a hoop of keys, turned one in a door, threw it
wide and said, waving his finger:

"Inside!" These men use few words.

The Colonel from the gloom of the cell saw me first.

"Why, you dear Major!" he cried. "You are certainly a good Sama'itan.
In prison and you visited me. I am sorry that I can't offer you a
chair, suh, but you see that my quarters are limited. Fortunately so
far I have been able to occupy it alone. Tell me of Fitz----"

"But Colonel!" I gasped. "I want to know how this happened? How was it
possible that you----"

"My dear Major, that can wait. Tell me of _Fitz_. He has not been out
of my thoughts a moment. Will he get through the day? I did eve'ything
I could, suh, and exhausted eve'y means in my power."

"Fitz is all right. They've got out an injunction and the market is
steadier----"

"And will he weather the gale?"

"I think so."

"Thank God for that, suh!" he answered, his lips quivering. "When you
see him give him my dea'est love and tell him that I left no stone
unturned."

"Why you'll see him in an hour yourself. You don't suppose we are
going to let you stay here, do you?"

"I don't know, suh. I am not p'epared to say. I have violated the laws
of the State, suh, and I did it purposely, and I'm willin' to abide
the consequences and take my punishment. I should have struck Mr.
Klutchem after what he said to me if I had been hanged for it in an
hour. I may be released, suh, but it will not be with any taint on my
honor. And now that my mind is at rest about Fitz, I will tell you
exactly what occurred and you can judge for yo'self.

"When Mr. Klutchem at last arrived at his office--I had gone there
several times--I said to him:

"'Don't start, Mr. Klutchem, I have come in the interest of my
friend, Mr. Fitzpatrick. And diff'ences between you and me can wait
for a mo' convenient season.'

"'Come in,' he said, and he looked somewhat relieved, 'what do you
want?' and we entered his private office and sat down. I then, in the
most co'teous manner, went into the details of the transaction, and
asked him in the name of decency that he would not crowd Fitz to the
wall and ruin him, but that he would at least give him time to make
good his obligations.

"'He can have it,' he blurted out, 'have all the time he wants--all of
'em can have it.' You know how coarse he can be, Major, and can
understand how he said this. 'But'--and here Mr. Klutchem laid his
finger alongside his nose--a vulgaar gesture, of co'se, but quite in
keepin' with the man--'we want some collateral that are
copper-fastened and gilt-edged all the way through'--I quote his exact
words, Major.

"'I have expected that, suh,' I said, 'and I came p'epared,' and I
unbuttoned my coat, took out the document you saw me sign in Fitz's
office, and laid it befo' him.

"'What is this?' he said.

"'My entire interest in the Caartersville and Warrenton Air Line
Railroad,' I answered. 'The whole issue of the Gaarden Spots, as you
have no doubt heard them familiarly and very justly called, suh.'

"He looked at me and said:

"'Why these are not bonds--it is only an offer to print 'em,' he said.

"'I am aware of that,' I answered, 'but look at my signature, suh. I
shall on your acceptance of my proposition, transfer the whole issue
to you--then they become yo' absolute property.'

"'For what?' he interrupted.

"'As an offerin' for my friend, suh.'

"'What! As margin for Consolidated Smeltin'?'

"'True, suh. They are, of co'se, largely in excess of yo' needs, but
Mr. Fitzpatrick is one of my dea'est friends. You, of co'se, realize
that I am left penniless myself if my friend's final obligation to you
should exceed their face value.'

"He got up, opened the door of a safe and said, 'Do you see that tin
box?'

"'I do, suh.'

"'Do you know what is in it?'

"'I do not, suh.'

"'Full of stuff that will sell under the hammer above par. Tell Mr.
Fitzpatrick if he and his customers have anythin' like that to bring
it in--and look here'--and he pulled out a small drawer. 'See that
watch?' I looked in and saw a gold watch, evidently a gentleman's,
Major. 'That watch belonged to a customer who got short of our stock
last week. It's wiped out now and a lot of other things he brought in.
That's what we call _collateral_ down here.'

"'I am not surprised, suh,' I answered. 'If men of yo' class can fo'ce
themselves into our county; divest a man of his silver-plate and
family po'traits, as was done to a gentleman friend of mine of the
highest standin' in my own State by a Nawthern caarpet-bag Bank, I am
not astonished that you avail yo'self of a customer's watch.' I said
'_divest_' and '_avail_,' Major. I intended to say '_steal_' and
'_rob_' but I checked myself in time.

"'Do you think that's any worse than yo' comin' down here and tryin'
to bunco me with a swindle like that'--and he picked up the document
and tossed it on the flo'.

"You know me well enough, Major, to know what followed. Befo' the
words were out of his mouth he was flat on his back and I standin'
over him with my cane. Then his clerks rushed in and separated us. My
present situation is the result."

The Colonel stopped and looked about the prison corridor. "Strange and
interestin' place, isn't it, Major? I shall be reasonably comfo'table
here, I s'pose"--and he raised his eyes towards the white-washed
ceiling. "There is not quite so much room as I had at City Point when
I was a prisoner of war, but I shall get along, no doubt. I have not
inqui'ed yet whether they will allow me a servant, but if they do I
shall have Chad bring me down some comfo'ts in the mornin'. I think I
should like a blanket and pillow and perhaps an easy-chair. I can tell
better after passin' the night here. By the way, Major, on yo' way
home you might stop and see Chad. Tell him the facts exactly as I have
stated them to you. He will understand; he was with me, you remember,
when I was overpow'ed and captured the last year of the War."

The Turnkey, who had been pacing up and down the corridor, stopped in
front of the gate. The Colonel read the expression on his face, and
shaking my hand warmly, said with the same air that a captured general
might have had in taking leave of a member of his staff:

"The officer seems impatient, Major, and I must, therefo', ask you to
excuse me. My dear love to Fitz, and tell him not to give my
imprisonment a thought. Good-by," and he waved his hand majestically
and stepped back into the cell.


III


The arrival of Fitz in a cab at the police-station half an hour
later--just time enough for me to run all the way to his office--the
bailing out of the Colonel much against his protest, his consent being
gained only when Fitz and I assured him that such things were quite
within the limit of our judicial code, and that no stain on his honor
would or could ensue from any such relief; the Colonel's formal
leave-taking of the Captain, the Sergeant and the Turnkey, each of
whom he thanked impressively for the courtesies they had shown him;
our driving--the Colonel and I--post-haste to Bedford Place, lest by
any means Chad might have heard of the affair and so be frightened
half out of his wits; the calm indifference of that loyal darky when
he ushered us into the hall and heard the Colonel's statement, and
Chad's sententious comment: "In de Calaboose, Colonel! Well, fo' Gawd!
what I tell ye 'bout dis caanin' bis'ness. Got to git dem barkers
ready jes' I tol' ye; dat's de only thing dat'll settle dis
muss,"--these and other incidents of the day equally interesting form
connecting links in a story which has not only become part of the
history of the Carter family but which still serve as delightful
topics whenever the Colonel's name is mentioned by his many friends in
the Street.

More important things, however, than the arrest and bailing out of the
Colonel were taking place in the Street. One of those financial bombs
which are always lying around loose--a Pacific Mail, or Erie, or N.
P.--awaiting some fool-match to start it, sailed out from its
hiding-place a few minutes before the Exchange closed--while Fitz was
bailing out the Colonel, in fact--hung for an instant trembling in
mid-air, and burst into prominence with a sound that shook the Street
to its foundations. In five minutes the floor of the Exchange was a
howling mob, the brokers fighting, tearing, yelling themselves hoarse.
Money went up to one per cent and legal interest over night, and
stocks that had withstood every financial assault for years tottered,
swayed and plunged headlong. Into the abyss fell Consolidated
Smelting. Not only were the ten points of the day's rise wiped out,
but thirty points besides. Shares that at the opening sold readily at
55 went begging at 30. Klutchem and his backers were clinging to the
edges of the pit with ruin staring them in the face, and Fitz was
sailing over the crater thousands of dollars ahead of his obligations.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following morning another visitor--a well-dressed man with a
diamond pin in his scarf--walked up and down Fitz's office awaiting
his arrival--a short, thick-set, large-paunched man with a heavy jaw,
a straight line of a mouth, two little restless eyes wobbling about in
a pulp of wrinkles, flabby cheeks, a nose that was too small for the
area it failed to ornament, and a gray stubbly beard shaven so
closely at its edges that it looked as if its owner might either wear
it on his chin or put it in his pocket at his pleasure.

"Down yet?" asked the visitor in a quick, impatient voice.

"Not yet, Mr. Klutchem. Take a seat." Then the clerk passed his hand
over his face to straighten out a rebellious smile and hid his head in
the ledger.

"I'll wait," retorted the banker, and stepping inside Fitz's private
office he settled himself in a chair, legs apart, hands clasped across
his girth.

Fitz entered with an air that would have carried comfort to the
Colonel's soul--with a spring, a breeze, a lightness; a being at peace
with all the world; and best of all with a self-satisfied repose that
was in absolute contrast to the nervousness of the day before.

"Who?" he asked of his clerk.

"Klutchem."

"Where?"

The clerk pointed to the office door.

Fitz's face straightened out and grew suddenly grave, but he stepped
briskly into his sanctum and faced his enemy.

"Well, what is it, Mr. Klutchem?"

Before his visitor opened his mouth, Fitz saw that the fight was all
out of the Head Centre of Consolidated Smelting. A nervous,
conciliatory smile started from the line of Klutchem's mouth, wrinkled
the flesh of his face as far as his cheeks, and died out again.

"We got hit pretty bad yesterday, Fitzpatrick, and I thought we might
as well talk it over and see if we couldn't straighten out the
market."

"Then it isn't about Colonel Carter?" said Fitz coldly.

He had all the Consolidated he wanted and didn't see where Klutchem
could be of the slightest use in straightening out anything.

"I'll attend to him later," replied Klutchem, and a curious expression
overspread his face. "You heard about it, then?"

"Heard about it! I bailed him out. If you wanted to lock anybody up
why didn't you get after some one who knew the ropes, not a man like
the Colonel who never had a dishonest thought in his head and who is
as tender-hearted as a child."

"You don't know what you're talking about," flared Klutchem. "He came
down with a cock-and-bull story and wanted me to take----"

"I know the whole story, every word of it. He came down to offer you
every dollar of his interest in a scheme that is as real to him as if
the bonds were selling on the Exchange at par. They are all he has in
the world, and if some miracle should occur and they should be worth
their face value he would never touch a penny of the proceeds if he
was starving to death, because of the promise he made you. And in my
interest, too, not his own, and all for love of me, his friend."

"But it was only a letter from a concern offering to print----"

"Certainly. And across it he had written his name--both, I grant you,
not worth the paper they were written on. But why didn't you have the
decency to humor the dear old fellow as we all do, and treat him with
the same courtesy with which he treated you, instead of insulting him
by throwing the letter in his face. You'll excuse me, Mr. Klutchem,
when I say it gets me pretty hot when I think of it. I don't blame him
for cracking you over the head, and neither would you, if you
understood him as I do."

Klutchem looked out of the window and twisted his thumbs for an
instant as if in deep thought. The outcome of the interview was of the
utmost importance to him, and he did not want anything to occur which
would prejudice his case with the broker. Fitz sat in front of him,
bent forward, his hands on his knees, his eyes boring into Klutchem's.

Then a puzzled, and strange to say what appeared to be a more kindly
expression broke over Klutchem's face.

"I guess I was rough, but I didn't mean it, really. You know how it
was yesterday--regular circus all day. I wouldn't have made the charge
at the police-station--for he didn't hurt me much--if the policeman
hadn't compelled me. And then don't forget, this isn't the first time
I've come across him. He came to my house once when I was laid up with
the gout, and----"

"Yes," interrupted Fitz, "I haven't forgotten it, and what did he come
for? To apologize, didn't he? I should have thought you'd have seen
enough of him at that time to know what kind of a man he was. Down
here in the Street we've got to put things down on paper and we don't
trust anybody. We don't understand the kind of a man whose word is
literally as good as his bond, and who, to help any man he calls his
friend, would spend his last cent and go hungry the balance of his
life. I've lived round here a good deal in my time and I've seen all
kinds of men, but the greatest compliment I ever had paid me in my
life was when the Colonel offered you yesterday the scrap of paper
that you threw back in his face."

As Fitz talked on Klutchem's tightly knit brows began to loosen. He
hadn't heard such things for a good many years. Life was a scramble
and devil take the hindermost with him. If anybody but Fitz--one of
the level-headed men in the Street--had talked to him thus, he might
not have paid attention, but he knew Fitz was sincere and that he
spoke from his heart. The still water at the bottom of the banker's
well--the water that was frozen over or sealed up, or so deep that few
buckets ever reached it--began to be stirred. His anxiety over
Consolidated only added another length to the bucket's chain.

"Fitzpatrick, I guess you're right. What ought I to do?"

"You ought to go up to his house this very day and beg his pardon, and
then wipe out that idiotic charge you made at the police-station."

"I will, Fitzpatrick."

"You will?"

"Yes."

"There's my hand. Now bring out your Consolidated Smelting, and I'll
do what's decent."

At four o'clock that same day Fitz, with Mr. Klutchem beside him,
swung back the wicket-gate of the tunnel, traversed its gloom, crossed
the shabby yard piled high with snow heaped up by Chad's active
shovel, and rapped at the front door of the little house.

The Colonel was in his chair by the fire. I had just told him the good
news, and he and I were sampling a fresh bottle of the groceryman's
Madeira in celebration of the joyous turn in Fitz's affairs, when Chad
with eyes staring from his head announced:

"Misser Klutchem and Misser Fitzpatrick."

What the old darky thought was coming I do not know, but I learned
afterwards, that as soon as he had closed the door behind the
visitors, he mounted the stairs three steps at a time, grabbed up the
case of pistols from his master's dressing-table, pulled the corks
from their mouths, and hurrying down laid the case and its contents on
the hall table to be ready for instant use.

The announcement of Klutchem's name brought the Colonel to his feet as
straight as a ramrod.

"It's all right, Colonel," said Fitz, noting the color rise in his
friend's face. "Mr. Klutchem and I have settled all our differences.
He has just offered me a barrel of Consolidated, and at my own price.
That fight's all over, and I bear him no grudge. As to yourself, he
has come up to tell you how sorry he is for what occurred yesterday,
and to make any reparation to you in his power."

Klutchem had not intended to go so far as that, and he winced a little
under Fitz's allusion to the "barrel," but he was in for it now, and
would follow Fitz's lead to the end. Then again, the papers in the
Consolidated matter would not be signed until the morning.

"Yes, Carter, I'm sorry. Fact is, I misunderstood you. I was very
busy, you remember, and I'm sorry, too, for what occurred at the
police-station; that, however, you know I couldn't help."

The omission of the Virginian's title scraped the skin from the
Colonel's _amour propre_, but the words "I'm sorry" coming immediately
thereafter healed the wound.

The military bearing of our host began to relax.

"And you have come here with my friend Mr. Fitzpatrick to tell me
this?"

"I have."

"And you intended no reflection on my honor when you--when you--handed
me back my secu'ities?"

"No, I didn't. The stuff wasn't our kind, you know. If I had stopped
to hear what you had to say I'd----"

"Let it all pass, suh. I accept yo' apology in the spirit in which it
was given, suh. As to my imprisonment, that is a matter which is not
of the slightest consequence. We soldiers are accustomed to these
inconveniences, suh. It is part of the fortunes of war. Take that
chair, Mr. Klutchem, and let my servant relieve you of yo' coat and
hat."

The promptness with which that individual answered to his name left no
doubt in my mind that that worthy defender of the Colonel's honor had
been standing ready outside the door, which had been left partly open
for the purpose, his hand on the knob.

"Yes, sah. I heard ye, Colonel."

"And, Chad, bring some glasses for the gentlemen."

Klutchem settled his large frame in the chair that had been vacated by
the Colonel, and watched the glass being slowly filled from a decanter
held in his host's own hands. Fitz and I retired to the vicinity of
the sideboard, where he gave me in an undertone an account of the
events of the morning.

"Got a nice box of a place here, Colonel," remarked Mr. Klutchem. He
remembered the title this time--the surroundings had begun to tell
upon him. "Cost you much?" and the broker's eyes roamed about the
room, taking in the big mantel, the brass andirons, India blue china
and silver candlesticks.

"A mere trifle, suh," said the Colonel, stiffening. The cost of things
were never mentioned in this atmosphere. "To associate bargain and
sale with the appointments of yo' household is like puttin' yo'
hospitality up at auction," he would frequently say.

"A mere trifle, suh," he repeated. "My estates, as you probably know,
are in Virginia, near my ancestral town of Caartersville. Are you
familiar with that part of the country, suh?"

And thereupon, on the banker's expressing his entire ignorance of
Fairfax County and its contiguous surroundings, the Colonel, now that
his honor as a duellist had been satisfied by Klutchem's apologies;
his friend's ruin averted by the banker's generosity, as was attested
by his offering Fitz a barrel full of securities which the day
previous were worth their weight in gold; and especially because this
same philanthropist was his guest, at once launched forth on the
beauty of his section of the State. In glowing terms he described the
charms of the river Tench; the meadows knee-deep in clover; the
mountains filled with the riches of the Orient looming up into the
blue; the forests of hardwood, etc., etc., and all in so persuasive
and captivating a way that the practical banker, always on the lookout
for competent assistants, made a mental memorandum to consult Fitz in
the morning on the possibility of hiring the Colonel to work off an
issue of State bonds which at the moment were dead stock on his hands.

By this time Klutchem, warmed by his host's Madeira and cheery fire,
had not only become really interested in the man beside him, but had
lost to a certain extent something of his blunt Wall Street manner and
hard commercial way of looking at things. It was, therefore, not
surprising to either Fitz or myself, who had watched the gradual
adjustment of the two men, to hear the Colonel, who had now entirely
forgotten all animosity towards his enemy say to Klutchem with great
warmth of manner, and with the evident intention of not being outdone
in generosity at such a time:

"I would like to show you that gaarden, suh. Perhaps some time I may
have the pleasure of entertainin' you in my own home at
Caartersville."

Mr. Klutchem caught his breath. He saw the Colonel was perfectly
sincere, and yet he could not but admit the absurdity of the
situation. Invited to visit the private estate of a man who had caned
him the day before, and against whom he was expected in the morning to
make a complaint of assault and battery!

"Oh, that's mighty kind, Colonel, but I guess you'll have to excuse
me."

The banker, as he spoke, glanced at Fitz. He didn't want to do
anything to offend Fitz--certainly not until the papers in the
Consolidated Smelting settlement were complete and the documents
signed--and yet he didn't see how he could accept.

"But I won't take no for an answer, suh. Miss Caarter will be here in
a day or two, and I will only be too happy to discuss with her the
date of yo' visit."

Before Klutchem could refuse again Fitz stepped forward, and, standing
over Mr. Klutchem's chair, dug his knuckles into the broker's back.
The signal was unmistakable.

"Well, thank you, Colonel. I'll speak to my daughter about it, and
if----"

"Yo' daughter, suh? Then I am sure the last obstacle is removed. Miss
Caarter will be mo' than delighted, suh, to entertain her, too. I will
ascertain my aunt's plans as soon as she arrives, and will let you
know definitely when she will be best p'epared for yo' entertainment."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the party broke up, and Fitz and Mr. Klutchem had been helped on
with their coats by Chad, Klutchem remarked to Fitz as we all walked
through the tunnel:

"Queer old party, Fitzpatrick; queerest I ever saw. You were
right--not a crooked hair in his head. Glad I came. Of course I can't
go down to his place--haven't got the time--but I bet you he'd be glad
to see me if I did. Funny, too--poor as a rat and busted, and yet he
never said 'Garden Spots,' once."

On my re-entering the house,--Fitz had gone on with Klutchem--Chad,
who was waiting for me, took me into a corner of the hall and said in
a voice filled with disappointment:

"What I tell ye, Major? Ain't dat too bad? I ain't never gwine ter
forgib de Colonel for lettin' him git away. Gor-A-Mighty! Did ye see
de size of him--hardly git frough de gate! Why, der warn't no chance
o' missin' him. Colonel could a-filled him ful o' holes as a sieve."


IV


The Colonel's positive injunction that each one of his friends should
call on every one of his guests within forty-eight hours of their
arrival was never necessary in the case of Miss Ann Carter. One day
was enough for me--one hour would have been more to my liking. Only
consideration for her comfort, and the knowledge that she would be
somewhat fatigued by her journey from Carter Hall northward, ever kept
me away from her that long. Then, again, I knew that she wanted at
least one entire day in which to straighten out the various domestic
accounts of the little house in Bedford Place, including that
complicated and highly-prized pass-book of the "Grocerman."

And then Chad's delight when he opened the door with a sweep, his face
a sunburst of smiles and announced Miss Carter's presence in the
house! And the new note in the Colonel's voice--a note of triumph and
love and pride! And the touches here and there inside the cosy rooms;
touches that only a woman can give--a new curtain here, a pot of
flowers there: all joyous happenings that made a visit to Aunt Nancy,
as we loved to call her, one of the events to be looked forward to.

But it was not Chad who opened the door on this particular morning.
That worthy darky was otherwise occupied; in the kitchen, really,
plucking the feathers from the canvas-back ducks. They had been part
of the dear lady's impedimenta, not to mention a huge turkey, a box of
terrapin, and a barrel of Pongateague oysters, besides unlimited
celery, Tolman sweet potatoes, and a particular brand of hominy, for
which Fairfax County was famous.

I say it was not Chad at all who opened the door and took my card, but
a scrap of a pickaninny about three feet high, with closely-cropped
wool, two strings of glistening white teeth--_two_, for his mouth was
always open; a pair of flaring ears like those of a mouse, and two
little restless, wicked eyes that shone like black diamonds: the whole
of him, with the exception of his cocoanut of a head, squeezed into a
gray cloth suit bristling with brass buttons and worsted braid, a
double row over his chest, and a stripe down each seam of his
trousers.

Aunt Nancy's new servant!

The scrap held out a silver tray; received my card with a dip of his
head, threw back the door of the dining-room, scraped his foot with
the flourish of a clog dancer, and disappeared in search of his
mistress.

Chad stepped from behind the door, his face in a broad grin. He had
crept up the kitchen stairs, and had been watching the boy's
performance from the rear room. His sleeves were rolled up and some of
the breast feathers of the duck still stuck to his fingers.

"Don't dat beat de lan'! Major," he said to me. "Did ye see dem
buttons on him? Ain't he a wonder? Clar to goodness looks like he's
busted out wid brass measles. And he a-waitin' on de Mist'iss! I ain't
done nothin' but split myself a-laughin' ever since he come. MY!!!"
and Chad bent himself double, the tears starting to his eyes.

"What's his name, Chad?"

"Says his name's Jeems. _Jeems_, mind ye!" Here Chad went into another
convulsion. "Jim's his real name, jes' Jim. He's one o' dem Barbour
niggers. Raised down t'other side de Barbour plantation long side of
our'n. Miss Nancy's been down to Richmond an' since I been gone she
don't hab nobody to wait on her, an' so she tuk dis boy an' fixed him
up in dese Richmond clothes. He says he's free. _Free_, mind ye! Dat's
what all dese no count niggers is. But I'm watchin' him, an' de fust
time he plays any o' dese yer free tricks on me he'll land in a spell
o' sickness," and Chad choked himself with another chuckle.

The door swung back.

"Miss Caarter say dat she'll be down in a minute," said the scrap.

Chad straightened his face and brought it down to a semblance of
austerity; always a difficult task with Chad.

"Who did you say was yere?" he asked.

"I didn't say--I handed her de kerd."

"How did you carry it?"

"In my pan."

"What did ye do wid de pan?"

The boy's face fell.

"I lef' it in de hall, sah."

"Sah! sah! Don't you 'sah' me. Ain't nobody 'sah' round yere but de
Colonel. What I tell you to call me?"

"Uncle Chad."

"Dat's it, Uncle Chad. Now go 'long, honey, an' take yo' seat outside
wid yo' pan; plenty folks comin', now dey know de Mist'iss here. Dar
she is now. Dat's her step, on de stairs, Major. I doan' want her to
catch me lookin' like dis. Drap into de kitchen, Major, as ye go out,
I got sumpin' to show ye. Dem tarr'pins de Mist'iss fotch wid her make
yo' mouf water."

Some women, when they enter a room, burst in like a child just out of
school and overwhelm you with the joyousness of their greetings;
others come in without a sound, settle into a seat and regale you in
monotones with histories of either the attendant misery or the
expected calamity.

- "Who was your father ?"--" The big devil is dead" "Well, that's
strange enough!" Philine cried out. We asked her a lot, they gave their
answers in a broken English and with a strange kind of ceremony before,
while she laid hands on each breast and head and bowed deeply. Wilhelm
could not see enough.

His eyes and his heart were irresistible to the mysterious nature of
the dressed states. He estimated twelve to three ten years, her
body was well built, only that its members have promised a more
growth or held back announcing. Their formation was not regular,
but striking, and their mysterious forehead, her nose, extremely
beautiful, and the mouth, whether he was for her age seemed to be
very closed and sometimes with his lips twitched to one side, is
still honesty and irritating enough.

Their brownish complexion could hardly by Schminke recognize. This
figure coined Wilhelm very deeply and he saw them still, it
remained silent for the present and forgot about his observations.
Philine awakened him from his Halbtraume by something the child
remaining sugar factory and gave him a sign was to be removed. It made
its kipper as above and drove quickly to the door beyond. When the time
is now herbeikam that our new friend for this evening should be
separated, they talked before a trip on the morning day.

They wanted to once again to another places, hunters on a neighboring
home, taking her lunch. William said this evening, some of Philine
Lobe what Laertes only briefly and answered recklessly. The next morning,
when they are again a lesson in fencing had practiced, they went after
Philine inn, before which she ordered the carriage had already start
to see.

But how surprised was William, as the coach disappeared, and how much
more, as Philine not at home was encountered. She had so told you,
with a few strangers who had arrived this morning in the car and was
with them, drove them. Our friend, who in their society a pleasant
entertainment had promised, could not hide his annoyances. On the
other hand, laughed and cried Laertes: "So they like me That looks
very similar to her!

Let us just after the game go home, they may be where she wants,
we want her do not miss our promenade." When William on this
inconsistency of blameworthy conduct continued, Laertes said: "I
can not find inconsistent, if someone stays true to his character.

If they make something or someone promises something, it happens only
under the tacit condition that it also would be convenient, the
intent to execute or to keep their promise. verschenkt you like,
but you must always be ready to give her the gift of play. "" This
is a strange character, "returned William." nothing less than
strange, only that it is not Heuchlerin.

I love her so, yes I am her friend, because they told me the sex
of so pure that I hate to have so much cause.

It is to me the real Eva, the Stammutter of the female sex, so are
all those who only want it not say. "Among many conversations in which
Laertes his hatred against the female sex very vividly expressed,
but the cause of which indicate they were come into the forest,
in which Wilhelm very detuned occurred because the remarks of his
Laertes memory of his relationship with Mariana had made alive again.

They found not far from a shady source magnificent old trees Philine
alone on a stone table. She sang them a funny ditty contrary, and
as Laertes asked after their company, she exclaimed: "I have given
them beautiful, and I did the best they had, as it deserved.

Already I sat on their generosity to the test, and because I noticed
that they were the barren Näschern, took me like before, to punish them.
After our arrival they asked the waiter what was to have, with the
tongue of his usual fluency everything was there, and more as there
was hererzählte. I saw her embarrassment, she looked at each
other, stuttered and asked about the prices, "As long as you
remember," I cried out, "the board is the business of a women's
room, let me make sure.

"I started it, a nonsensical Mittagmahl to order, which still by some
messengers from the neighborhood should be fetched. The waiter, whom
I by a few crooked mouths to confidants that he had helped me finally,
and so we have them by the idea of a splendid banquet geängstigt so
that they are short and easy to take a walk in the forest, determined
by it probably be difficult to come back. I have a quarter of an hour
on my own hands and I will laugh laugh whenever I think of the faces.
"When tables remembered Laertes in similar cases, they came into
the aisle, funny stories, misunderstandings and Prellereien to tell. A
young man from her acquaintance from the city came through with a
beech forest geschlichen, sat down with them and praised the
beautiful place. He made it to the trickling of the source on the
movement of the branches, on the incident light and the singing
of the birds carefully. Philine sang a tune from the cuckoo, which
is not the arrival seemed to relish it recommended soon. "If I were
not only more natural and nature scenes should hear," cried Philine,
when he was away, "there is nothing more unbearable than vorrechnen
the pleasure to let you enjoy. If the weather is nice, you walk, how
to dance is when Requirements. Who likes but just a moment on the
music, who think to the beautiful weather? The dancers interested in
us, not the violin, and a pair of beautiful black eyes, does a
pair of blue eyes to do well.

What should be on the other hand, springs and wells and old, rotten
Linden!

"They saw that they said Wilhelm, who sat opposite her, with a look
into the eyes, which he could not resist, at least up to the door of
his heart ahead. "You are right," he returned with some embarrassment,
"the man is the man the most interesting and perhaps it should be
quite alone interested. Everything else that surrounds us, is only
element in which we live, or tool, which we operate.

The more we are staying, the more we remember it and take part in
it, the weaker is the feeling of our own values and feelings of
society.

The people who have a high value on gardens, buildings, clothes,
jewelry or any property set, are less sociable and complaisant,
they lose sight of the people, what to enjoy and to gather only a
very few succeed.

Sehn we do not also to the theater? A good actor makes us be a miserable,
unseemly decoration forget, then against the best theater for the
lack of good actors certainly makes palpable.

"Desserts Philine sat in the shaded high grass. Your two friends had
their flowers in quantity herbeischaffen. You walked a full circle
and put it on, it looked incredibly irritating. The flowers were to be
another way, they also wove by the two men sat next to her. When
he was under all sorts of jokes and innuendo was finished, pressed
Wilhelmer it with the greatest charm to the head, and moved him
more than once otherwise, until it seemed right to sit. "And I will,
as it seems empty," said Laertes.

"No way," returned Philine. "Ye shall no way you complain. "She took
off her ring from the head, and placed him on Laertes." If we were
rivals, "he said," we would argue very strongly to what both of you on
MFN.

"As it backwards right gates "returned she, turning towards him
and hinüberbog his mouth to kiss enough, but once umwendete, her arm
wrapped around Wilhelmer and a lively kiss on his lips pressed."
Which is best? "she asked teasingly." Wunderlich, "cried Laertes."

It seems as if such a thing never could wormwood taste. "" so little,
"said Philine," than any gift that someone without envy and Eigensinn
enjoys.

Now I would have, "she exclaimed," still want to take an hour to
dance, and then we have to probably return to see our jumpers.

"We went to the house and found music daselbst.

Philine, which was a good dancer, picked her two shareholders.

Wilhelm was not clumsy, but he missed it in an artificial exercise. His
two friends were in front of him to teach. It is late. Seiltänzer The
arts have had their starting to produce. The place had many viewers
appear , but it was our friends, when she exits, a curious
crowd, a large number of people after the gates of the inn, in
which William was entered, had drawn. Wilhelm jumped over to see what
it was, and saw with horror he, as he pushed through the people, the
Lord of the Seiltänzergesellschaft of the interesting child at the
hair out of the house had tried to haul with a whip handle relentlessly
on the small body losschlug. Wilhelm went like a flash on the man
and took him in the chest. "Let the baby go!" he cried like a
frenzied, "Or one of us left here on the spot." He also grabbed the
guy with a violence that is only the wrath of the question, in the
throat, that it believed to smother the baby and letting go against
the aggressor to defend examined. Some people involved with the child
felt pity, but the dispute had not dared to start, the tightrope
walker immediately fell into the arms, disarmed him and threatened him
with a lot of swear words. This, which is now only on the arms of his
mouth reduces saw terrible began to threaten and curse: the lazy,
useless creature would not do their duty, they refused, the egg
dance to dance, which he had promised the Publiko he they wanted
to kill, and it should not hinder him.

He sought to loszumachen to the child, among the crowd verkrochen had
kept.

Wilhelm held him back and cried: "Thou shalt not this creature
rather not see or touch you in court to give an account where you've
stolen it, I will drive you to the extreme; thou shalt not escape
me."

This speech, which Wilhelm in the heat, without thought and intent,
of a dark feeling, or, if you will, from inspiration had brought
the angry people at a time to rest.

He cried: "What did I do with the useless creature creating! Pay
me what her dress cost me, and you may retain them and we want
this evening, this can be done."

He rushed to the broken idea to continue and the restlessness of
the audience through some important tricks to satisfy. Wilhelm looked
at now, because it had become dormant after the child, but it never
took place. Some wanted it on the floor, others on the roofs of
neighboring houses have seen.

After it had searched everywhere, you had to calm down and wait,
whether it is not by itself herbeikommen wanted. Indes was Narziß
come home, what about the fate of Wilhelm and the origin of the child
inquired. It knew nothing of it because he was not long in the society,
on the other hand, told with great ease, and perhaps his own sense
fates. As Wilhelm him to the great applause of luck wish, which he
had to enjoy, said he was very indifferent about it. "We are usual,"
he said, "that you have us laughing our arts and admired, but we
are by the extraordinary applause nothing improved.

The entrepreneur pays us and likes to see how he zurechtekömmt." He
is to leave in a hurry and wanted to remove it.

When asked where he was so fast hinwolle, the young man smiled
and confessed that his character and his talents came to a solid applause
when the audience was great. He had some of Ms. rooms embassy, which
required very eager, to know him more closely, and he fear that
the visits which he had off, little before midnight to be ready. He
continued, with the greatest sincerity to tell his adventures, and
had the names, roads and houses displayed when William is not such
an indiscretion is rejected and would have dismissed him politely.

Landrinetten Laertes had nevertheless maintained and assured that it
was totally worthy of a wife to be and to remain.

Now, the sub-plot with the Entrepreneur of the child, which our friends
for thirty thalers was left against which the schwarzbärtige, violent
Italians his claims entirely abtrat, the origin of the child but
nothing else wanted to confess as such that he is following the
death of his brother, the man because of his extraordinary skill
mentioned the great devil, had taken to himself. The other morning we
were mostly with the prospect child. Forgiveness durchkroch all corners
of the house and the neighborhood, it was gone, and everyone feared
it would be a water jump or are otherwise suffering have appreciated.

Philine stimuli unrest could not derive our friend. He brought a sad,
contemplative day. Even the evening, as Springer and dancers of all
its forces aufboten to the Publiko the best to recommend that his
mind could not be allayed and exhilarated. The inflow from neighboring
towns had the extraordinary number of people increased, and so also
rushed the pyramid to the applause of an immense size. The
jump on the sword and by the barrel with soil paper made a big
sensation. The strong man was the general horror, horror and amazement,
he dealt with by the head and feet on a pair of chairs auseinandergeschobene
put on his body hohlschwebenden lift an anvil and at the same by
some brave journeymen blacksmiths forge a horseshoe ready. It was
also the so-called strength of Hercules, as a number of men, on the
shoulders of a first series of standing, again women and young men
to bear, so that last is a vibrant pyramid whose tip a child upside
down when a button and a weather vane adorns, in these areas still
never been seen and ends worthy of the whole spectacle.

Narcissus and Landrinette settled in Tragsesseln on the shoulders
of the other by the elegant streets of the city of joy with loud
cries of the people wear.

They threw their ribbons, flower bouquets and silk scarves, and forced
them to act in the face. Everyone seemed to be happy, and they
anzusehn of them involves looking to be appreciated.

"Which actor, writer, whatever, so what ever man would not be on the
summit of his wishes to see if he by any noble word or a good deed
such a general impression hervorbrächte what delicious sensation
it would be if you good, fine, decent human feelings just as quickly
by an electric shock to spread such a delight among the people could
get, as these people by their physical dexterity have done if you
the quantity of all human compassion, if they are with the idea of
happiness and unhappiness, of wisdom and folly, yes the nonsense
and the silliness ignite, and shake it in stock by Inner-free,
vibrant and pure motion could "Thus spoke our friend, and since
neither Philine Laertes still seemed to favor such a discourse to
continue, he amused themselves with such considerations favorite
when he was up late at night walking around the city and its ancient
desire, the good, noble, great drama to the versinnlichen, once
again with all the vivacity and of all freedom of a persecuted
losgebundenen Imagination II.

Paper, 5 Chapter Fifth Chapter The other day, when the tightrope
walker with a big noise was subtracted, was mignon once again and
took this as Wilhelm and Laertes sword their exercises on the Saale
continued.

"Where did you put?" Wilhelm asked kindly, "thou hast made us much
concern." The child said nothing and looked at him. "You are now our"
cried Laertes, "we have bought thee" - "What did you pay?" Asked the
child completely dry.

"A hundred ducats, transferees Laertes," if you wiedergibst, you can
be free ."--" That is probably much? "Asked the child. "Oh, yes,
you like you only perform well ."--" I will serve," she returned.

From the moment she noticed on exactly what the waiter for the two
friends to provide services had already suffered and the other
day, not more, that he came into the room.

She wanted to do everything themselves and made their stores,
although sometimes slow and unbehülflich, but accurately and with
great care.

She is often in a container with water and washed her face with
so much assiduity and ferocity that they have almost the jaws
aufrieb until Laertes teasing by asking questions and learned that
they make from their cheeks all the way to get rid of search and
on the zeal, which they did, the redness, which they had emerged
through the grating, for the most stubborn make-believe.

It meant they, and they did, and again after they had come to rest, was
a beautiful brown, although only few red rose complexion.

By sacrilegious Philine stimuli, through the mysterious presence
of the child more than he himself confess could have brought Wilhelm
several days in this strange society, and justified himself to
himself by a diligent exercise in fencing and dancing, which he is
not so easy to find once again opportunity believed.

Not little surprised and somewhat pleased he was when he one day
Mr and Mrs Melina arrive saw that right after the first joyful
greeting based on the Direct Rice and the other actors and
inquired with great horror heard that those are long distance and
have them until a few were scattered.

The young couple after they had connected to which, as we know, William
had to help, in some places after engagement around, found none
and was finally shown in this town, where some people who encountered
them on a good theater seen have wanted.

Philine wanted Madame Melina, Melina and the lively Mr. Laertes, when
she made the acquaintance, no way fallen. They wanted the new comers
like to be rid, and Wilhelm could not give them favorable attitudes
teach them the same whether he repeatedly assured that there were
fairly good people. It was also the past life of our three merry
adventurers through the expansion of the company on more ways than
one disrupted because Melina began at the inn (he had ebendemselben
in which Philine lived place) at the market and bitching at.

He wanted to for less money, better neighborhood, ample food and prompt
service have.

In a short time, host and waiter sullen faces, and when the others in
order to live happy, everything would have fallen swiftly and
only paid, if not longer to think about what has already been
eaten, it was the meal, Melina regularly immediately corrected at
any time from the front again durchgenommen, so that without him
Philine circumstances ruminant animal called.

Still hated Madame Melina was the funny girl. This young woman was not
without education, but it totally lacked the spirit and soul.

They declaimed not bad and always wanted to declaim; alone you noticed
soon that there was only one Wortdeklamation, which weighed on
individual agencies and the sensation of the whole is not expressed.
For all this, she was not someone easily, especially women, uncomfortable.
Rather, it wrote those who worked around with it, usually a good reason
to: she was, what I do with a word is a Anempfinderin would like
to mention, they knew a friend, whose respect for her to do, with a
special attention to flatter, in his ideas as long as possible to
meet as soon as they are entirely on their horizon were ecstatic
with such a new appearance record.

She understood to speak and to speak and whether they are equal no
treacherous mind was keep up with great caution, where the other side
wants to be weak.

II Paper, 6 Chapter Sixth Chapter Melina had, however, after the rubble
of the previous management just asked.

Both as a dressing room decorations were at several trade puts
people, and a Notarius was mandated by the Rice Direct, under certain
conditions if he were lovers in the sale of free-hand to willing.

Melina wanted things correctly and moved Wilhelmer with it. This felt
when they opened the room, a certain inclination to which he himself
but not admitted.

In such a poor state gekleckst the decorations were so few apparently
also Turkish and pagan dresses, skirts cartoon old for men and
women, habits Wizard, Jews and parsons be liked, so he could but
not help feeling that he happiest moments of his life in the vicinity
of a similar junk Krams had.

Had Melina in his heart can see, he would him eager added, a sum of
money to the relief, development and revitalization of these new
limbs scattered to a beautiful whole missions.

"What a lucky man," said Melina out, "I could be if I only had two
hundred thalers, in order to top the holding of this first theatrical
needs to obtain.

How soon do I get a small acting together, that we in this city in this
area should certainly eat immediately. " William was silent, and both
left the thoughtful re-imprisoned treasures.

Melina had by that time no discourse other than projects and proposals
on how to set up a theater and could be its advantage.

He looked Philine and Laertes to be interested, and we did Wilhelmer
proposals, money and security herzuschießen opposed to.

That was only right on this occasion, that he would not have to
linger, he apologized and wanted to make institutions, to continue
his journey.

Meanwhile, he Mignon shape and nature has become increasingly
irritating.

"Oh, no; on the contrary, it seemed to open a way for an important
settlement in a friend's affairs which may have the best and most
lastin' results. I believe I am quite within the mark, Major, when I
make that statement," added the Colonel, turning to me.

"No doubt of it, Colonel," I answered. "That same friend told me that
he hadn't enjoyed anything so much for years as Mr. Klutchem's visit
to his office that morning."

"Well, I am so glad," said Aunt Nancy--"so glad!" The "friend's" name
had been too obviously concealed by both the Colonel and myself for
her to press any inquiries in that direction. "And you have not seen
the daughter?" she continued.

"No, Mr. Klutchem was ill at a friend's house when I called on him
once befo', and his family were not in the room. I shall have that
pleasure for the first time when she arrives."

Chad now entered, bowed low to his Mistress, his invariable custom,
and began to light the candles on the mantelpiece and sideboard, and
then those in the two big silver candlesticks which decorated each end
of the table, with its covers for six. Little Jim still stood behind
his Miss Nancy's chair: he was not to be trusted with any of Chad's
important duties.

There came a knock at the door.

"That's dear Fitz," said the Colonel. "He promised to come early."

Chad looked meaningly at the scrap, and little Jim, in answer to the
sound of Fitz's knuckles, left the room, picking up his "pan" from the
hall table as he answered the summons.

At this moment the dear lady dropped her ball of yarn, and the Colonel
and I stooped down to recover it. This was a duty from which even Chad
was relieved when either of us was present. While we were both on our
knees groping around the legs of the sideboard, the door opened
softly, and a sweet, low voice said:

"Please, I'm Katy Klutchem, and I've come to the Christmas tree."

The Colonel twisted his head quickly.

A little girl of six or eight, her chubby cheeks aglow with the cold
of the winter twilight, a mass of brown curls escaping from her hat
framing a pretty face, stood looking at him--he was still on his
knees--with wide, wondering eyes. He had expected to welcome a young
woman of twenty, he told me afterwards, not a child. Aunt Nancy
inadvertently, perhaps, or because she supposed he knew, had omitted
any reference to her age. I, too, had fallen into the same error.

The dear lady without rising from her seat held out her two hands
joyously:

"Oh, you darling little thing! Come here until I take off your hat and
coat."

The Colonel had now risen to his feet, the ball of yarn in his hand,
his eyes still on the apparition. No child had ever stepped foot
inside the cosy quarters since his occupation. Katy returned his gaze
with that steadfast, searching look common to some children, summing
up by intuition the dangers and the man. Then, with her face breaking
into a smile at the Colonel, she started towards Aunt Nancy.

But the Colonel had come to his senses now.

"So you are not a grown-up lady at all," he cried, with a joyous note
in his voice, as he advanced towards her, "but just a dear little
girl."

"Why, did you think I was grown-up? I'm only seven. Oh, what a nice
room, and is the Christmas tree here?"

"It is not lighted yet, dearie," replied Aunt Nancy, her fingers busy
with the top button of the child's cloak, the eager, expectant face
twisted around as if she was looking for something. "It's over there
in the corner."

"Let me show it to you," said the Colonel, and he took her hand.
"Major, please bring one of the candles."

The child's eyes sought the Colonel's face. The first look she had
given him as she entered the room had settled all doubt in her mind;
children know at a glance whom they can trust.

"Please do," she answered simply, and her grasp closed over his. The
cloak and hat were off now, and Jim was bearing them upstairs to be
laid on Miss Nancy's bed.

As the small, frail hand touched his own I saw a strange look come
into the Colonel's eyes. It was evidently all he could do to keep from
stooping down and kissing her.

Instinctively my mind went back to a night not long before when I had
found him sitting by his fire. "There is but one thing in all the
world, Major," he said to me then, "sweeter than the song of a robin
in the spring, and that is the laughter of a child."

I knew therefore, as I looked at these two, what the little hand that
lay in his meant to him.

So I held the candle and the Colonel lighted the tip end of just one
tiny taper to show her how it burned, and what a pretty light it made
shining through the green; and Katy clapped her hands and said it was
beautiful, and such a darling little tree, and not at all like the
big one in the Sunday School that reached nearly to the ceiling, and
that nobody dared to touch. And then we all went back to the fire and
the Colonel's chair, and before I knew it he had her by his side with
his arm around her shoulders, telling her stories, while Aunt Nancy
and Jim and I sat listening.

And so absorbed was he in the new life, and so happy with the child,
that he only gave Fitz three fingers to shake when that friend of his
heart came in, and never once said he was glad to see him--an
unprecedented omission--and never once made the slightest allusion to
the expected guest of the evening, Mr. Klutchem, now that his daughter
had turned out to be a child of seven instead of a full-grown woman of
twenty.

The Colonel told her of the great woods behind Carter Hall, where the
Christmas tree had grown, and the fox with the white tail that lived
there, and that used to pop into his hole in the snow, and how you'd
pass right by and never see him because his tail, which was the
biggest part of him, was so white; and the woodpeckers that bored into
the bark with their long, sharp bills; and finally of the big turkeys
that strutted and puffed their feathers and spread their tails about
and ran so fast nothing could catch them.

"Not even a dog?" interrupted the child. She had crawled up into his
arms now and was looking up into his face with wondering eyes.

"Dogs!" answered the Colonel contemptuously, "why, these turkeys would
be up and gone befo' a dog could turn 'round."

"Tell me what they are like. Have they long--long legs--so?" and she
stretched out her arms.

"Oh, longer--terrible long legs--long as _this_"--and the Colonel's
arms went out to their full length.

Jim's eyes were now popping out of his head, but his place was behind
his Mistress's chair, ready for her orders, and he had had so many
scoldings that day that he thought it best not to move.

"And does he puff himself out like a real turkey in the picture
books?"

"Oh, worse than a real turkey,--big as _so_"--and the Colonel's arms
went round in a circle.

The child thought hard for a moment until she had the picture of the
strutting gobbler fastened in her mind, and said, cuddling closer to
the Colonel: "Tell me some more."

"About turkeys?"

"Yes, about turkeys."

"About wild ones or tame ones?"

"Was that a wild one that the dogs couldn't catch?"

"Yes."

"Then tell me about some tame ones. Do they live in the woods?"

"No, they live in the barnyard with the chickens, and the cows, and
the horses. Why, did you never see one?"

"Yes, but I want to hear you tell about them--that's better than
seeing."

Jim could hold in no longer. He had become so excited that he kept
rubbing one shoe against the other, twisting and squirming like an
eel. At last he burst out:

"An' one o' gobble-gobble was dat ornery, Mammy Henny shut him up in
de coop!"

Aunt Nancy turned in astonishment, and Chad, who had come in with some
dishes, was about to crush him with a look, when the Colonel said,
with a sly twinkle in his eye:

"What did he do, Jim?"

"Jes' trompled de li'l teeny chickens an' eat up all de corn an'
wouldn't let nobody come nigh him. An' he was dat swelled up!"

Katy laughed, and turning to the Colonel, said:

"Tell me about that one."

The Colonel ruminated for a moment, looked at Chad with a
half-humorous expression, and motioned to little Jim to come over and
stand by his chair so that he could hear the better, his own arm still
about Katy, her head on his shoulder.

"About that big gobbler, Katy, that was so bad they had to put him in
a coop?"

"Yes, that very one."

"Well, when I fust knew him he was a little teeny turkey--oh, not near
so high as Jim; 'bout up to Jim's knees, I reckon. He'd follow 'round
after his mammy and go where she wanted him to go and mind her like a
nice little turkey as he was. He didn't live on my plantation then--he
lived on Judge Barbour's plantation next to mine. Well, one day, Aunt
Nancy--that dear lady over there--wanted a fine young turkey, and
this little knee-high turkey was growin' to be a big turkey, and so
she brought him over and gave him the run of the barnyard.

"She was just as good to him as she could be. She made a nice clean
place for him to live in, so his feathers wouldn't get dirty any mo',
and he didn't have to run 'round lookin' for grasshoppers and beetles
and little worms as he did at home, but he had a nice bowl of mush
eve'y day and a place to go to sleep in all by himself, and Aunt Nancy
did everythin' she could to make him comfo'table.

"Well, what do you think happened? Just as soon as that turkey found
out he was bein' taken caare of better than the hens and the roosters
and all the other little turkeys he had left at home, he began to put
on airs. He breshed his feathers out and he strutted around same as if
he owned the whole barnyard, and he'd go down to the pond and look at
himself in the water; and he got so proud that whenever old Mrs. Hen
or old Mr. Rooster would say 'Good-mornin'' to him as kind and as nice
as could be, he wouldn't answer politely, but he'd stick up his head
and go 'Gobble-gobble-gobble!' and then he'd swell up again and puff
out his chest and march himself off. Pretty soon he got so sassy that
nobody could live with him. Why, he didn't care what he did and who he
stepped on. He trampled on two po' little chicks one day that were
just out of the shell and mashed them flat and did all sorts of
dreadful things."

"What an awful turkey! Poor little chickens," sighed Katy. "Go on."

"Next thing he did was to steal off and smoke cigarettes."

Katy raised her head and looked up into the Colonel's eyes.

"Why, turkeys can't smoke, can they?"

"Oh, no--of co'se not--I forgot. That's another story and I got them
mixed up. Where was I? Oh, yes, when he got so sassy."

Katy dropped her head on his shoulder again. Jim was now listening
with all his might, his only fear being that Chad or Miss Nancy or the
knocker on the front door would summon him before the story was ended.

"Well," continued the Colonel, "that went on and on and on till there
wasn't any livin' with him. Even dear Aunt Nancy couldn't get along
with him, which is a dreadful thing to say of anybody. So one
day"--here the Colonel's voice dropped to a tone of grave
importance--"one day--Mammy Henny--that's the wife of Chad over there
by the table, crep' up behind this wicked, sassy little turkey, when
he was swellin' around so big he couldn't see his feet, and she
grabbed him by the neck and two legs, and befo' he knew where he was,
plump he went into a big coop, and the door was shut tight. He
hollered and squawked and flapped his wings terrible, but that didn't
make any diff'ence; in he went and there he stayed. He pushed with his
long legs, and stuck his head out through the slats, and did all he
could to get out, but it was no use. Next day Mammy Henny got a great
big knife--oh, an awful long knife----"

"How long?" asked the child.

"Oh, a dreadful long knife--'most as long as Jim, here"--and the
Colonel laid his hand on the boy's shoulder--"and she sharpened it on
a big grindstone, and Mammy Henny put some corn in the little trough
outside the slats, and when this bad, wicked turkey poked his head
out--WHACK--went the knife, and off went his head, and he was
dead--dead--dead!"

As the solemn words fell from his lips, the Colonel broke into a
laugh, and in a burst of tenderness threw his arms around the child
and kissed her as if he would like to eat her up.

Katy was clapping her hands now.

"Oh, I'm just _too_ glad. And the poor little chickies--served him
just right. I was afraid he'd get out and run away."

The Colonel stole a look at Jim. The scrap stood looking into the
fire, a wondering expression on his face. How much of the story was
truth and how much fiction evidently puzzled Jim.

During the telling everybody in the room, Fitz, Miss Nancy--all of us,
in fact,--had been watching Katy's delight and Jim's eager brown face,
turned to the Colonel, the whites of his eyes big as saucers.
Watching, too, the Colonel's impartial manner to both of his
listeners--black and white alike--the only distinction being that the
black boy stood, while the white child lay nestled in his arms.

Chad, as the story progressed, had crept up behind the Colonel's
chair, where he could hear without being seen, and was listening as
eagerly as if he were a boy again. He had often told me that his old
master, the Colonel's father, used to tell him and the Colonel stories
when they were boys together, but I had never seen the Colonel in the
rôle before.

When the allusion to the cigarettes escaped the Colonel's lips a smile
overspread Chad's visage, and a certain triumphant look crept into his
eyes. With the child's laughter still ringing through the room, Chad
tapped Jim on the arm, led him to one side, held his lean, wrinkled
finger within an inch of the boy's nose and said in a sepulchral tone:

"Did ye hear dat? Do ye know who dat sassy, low-lived, mizzable,
no-count, ornery turkey was, dat kep' a-swellin' up, thinkin' he was
_free_ an' somebody great till dat caarvin' knife tuk his head off?
Dat's _you_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In the midst of this scene, Katy still in the Colonel's arms, Aunt
Nancy knitting quietly, talking to Fitz in an undertone, and I forming
part of the circle around the fire, watching the Colonel's delight and
joy over his new guest--the dining-room door was pushed open, and Mr.
Klutchem stepped in.

"I found the outside door ajar, Colonel," he blurted out, "and heard
you all laughing, and so I just walked in. Been here long, Katy?"

For an instant I was sorry he had come; it was like the dropping of a
stone into a still pool.

The child slid out from the Colonel's lap, with an expression on her
face as if she had been caught in some act she should be ashamed of,
and stood close to the Colonel's chair, as if for protection. Aunt
Nancy, Fitz, and I rose to our feet to welcome the newcomer. The
Colonel, having to pull himself out from the depths of his chair, was
the last to rise. He had been so absorbed in the child that he had
entirely forgotten both the father and the dinner. It, however, never
took the Colonel long to recover his equilibrium where a matter of
courtesy was concerned.

"My dear, Mr. Klutchem," he cried, throwing out his chest, and
extending his hand graciously. "This is, indeed, a pleasure. Permit me
to present you to my aunt, Miss Caarter, of Virginia, who has left her
home to gladden our Christmas with her presence. The gentlemen, of
co'se, you already know. Yo' little daughter, suh, is a perfect
sunbeam. She has so crept into our hearts that we feel as if we never
wanted her to leave us----" and he laid his hand on the child's head.

The banker shook hands with Aunt Nancy, remarked that he was sorry he
had not been at home when she called, extended the same five fingers
to me, and again in turn to Fitz, and sat down on the edge of a chair
which Jim had dragged up for him. Katy walked over and stood by her
father's knee. Her holiday seemed over.

"Rather sharp weather, isn't it?" Mr. Klutchem began, rubbing his
hands and looking about him. He had not forgotten the cheeriness of
the rooms the day of his first visit; in their holiday attire they
were even more delightful. "I suppose, Colonel, you don't have such
weather in your State," he continued.

The Colonel, who was waiting for a cue--any cue served the Colonel,
weather, politics, finance, everything but morals and gossip, these he
never discussed, launched out in his inimitable way describing the
varied kinds of weather indigenous to his part of the State: the late
spring frosts with consequent damage to the peach crop; the heat of
summer; the ice storms and the heavy falls of soft snow that were gone
by mid-day; the banker describing in return the severities of the
winters in Vermont, his own State, and the quality of the farming land
which, he said, with a dry laugh, often raised four stone fences to
the acre, and sometimes five.

Before the two had talked many minutes I saw to my delight that the
waters of the deep pool which I feared had become permanently troubled
by the sudden arrival of the broker, were assuming their former
tranquil condition. _Santa María_, Commander Victor Concas CFD. August
1892. COMMISSION [Illustration: NAVAL FESTIVAL HELD OUTSIDE THE BAR
SALT 3 August 1892] ANCILLARY STUDIES FOR COMMEMORATION OF THE SANTA
MARIA NAO BY RETIRED Captain D. CESAREAN FERNÁNDEZ DURO OF THE ROYAL
SCHOOLS OF FINE ARTS AND HISTORY OF WEAPONS OF SAN FERNANDO DE
CARABELAS COLÓN [Illustration: THE OWNER OF CARABELAS COLÓN] Indications
logbook of Admiral of the Indies are so shallow, not can make
them believe that even approximate the number, quality, shape and
disposition of the artillery pieces mounted on the caravels.

It is doubtful, however, these same signs, which bore artillery. On
October 7, 1492, Columbus noted that the caravel _Pinta threw a
lombarda_ a sign of land and erected a banner at the top of the mast.
"On December 18 he wrote in commemoration of the feast of the Virgin
tiráronse _muchos shots lombarda_ , put the flags and attire nao. The
chief came on board in Santo Domingo, and the fire did pull _muchas
lombardas_. Queriendo then that the Indians were healthy fear of
weapons of the Spaniards, after they lost the ship captain, "ordered
up _una lombarda_ ground and throwing the side of the ship.
Vido was passed and as far _The piedra_ by the sea. This was the
January 2 1493. Soon, the factory finished the fort named Christmas,
said that he left _mucha artillería_, gunpowder, ammunition and
_un artillero_.

That is what teaches the newspaper said, according to the extract retained
by the P. Las Casas and given birth by D. Martin Fernandez de Navarrete
in _Colección travel and discoveries made by the sea españoles_. To
fill what remains silent, it is necessary to attend the first
military treaty of the sixteenth century, collected by the
news of the above. Naval expeditions D. Alfonso V of Aragon to the
kingdom of Naples, the middle of the fifteenth, the war of Granada
taken by the Kings of Castile and Aragon, and in it the site of
Malaga, which were used in naval forces, the navy he went to Italy
with Gonzalo Fernandez of Cordova, which was available for the trip of
Mr Ferdinand to Naples in 1506, finally, the brackets that liberalized
á Barbary in 1505 and 1509, include the time in which the discovery
of the oceanic islands, and setting limits that were not among the
notable advances and changes in weapons provide some education.

They have studied a modern mode of being the militia of the sea
and land at the end of the Middle Ages, Capmany, Navarrete, the
Conde de Clonard, Pérez de Castro, Chambers, Barado and gather
some more cards, relationships, drawings and inventories of useful,
very enlarged and illustrated for the case at the site with the
special stamp issued by D.

Jose Sanz Arantegui and title of _Apuntes Historical Artillery
española_ in the XIV, XV and XVI. (Madrid, 1887-1891.) Contribution
by making the texts and more, new, which is emerging, warns: The
ships of the navy at the end of the century Aragonese XIV and XV of
the principles, no one took more than two Three to four Lombard, in
his note.

The King Alfonso V in 1418 was the year the actual hat that threw
two Lombard 9 and 7 pounds of stone ball, and only 10 shells per piece.
Galera real than the other that did D. Fernando on the same trip
to Naples in 1506, led a lombarda two blowguns and two pasavolantes.
That in the armed ships by the same time going to Italy and Barbary,
but not certainly ascertained when more iban, four each in Lombard.
appears from these data that the caravels from Palos undertake their
journey, the artillery was not in the large vessel, and a document
confirming the Catholic Monarchs, in the year 1505, sending 10
Lombard hand, both large and eight small for the ratchet of Iñigo
de Artieta, general of the Navy Biscay it was Columbus at Cadiz to
undertake the discovery, if necessary protected.

The two large stone _tiraban each seventy libras_ the others as
_ribadoquines_. In instructions that were given to D. Johan Manuel
to charter two boots ratchet 2,000 each, indicated that all rode _cient
Lombard calibres_, six of them 25 to 30 pounds, _tirando doors levadizas_
[18]. Conforms to some extent with this data that offered a view of
the relationships held Saona by Louis XII of France to our D. Fernando
year 1507. A historian of the first [19] reported that Admiral
Philippe de Ravestain wore a ratchet on the occasion named _The
Charente_, the best floating in the sea carrying 1,200 men of war and
sailors assembled 200 pieces of artillery, _de which 14 were ruedas_
and threw stones. [Note 18: Arantegui, work cit., t. II, pp. 316.]
[Note 19: D'Anton, _Histoire Louis XII_.] Not contradict these
references to the above: while trying to ratchet that the ships were
carrying, and higher capacity, and an exceptional view of the
grandeur and, _The Charente_ as to understand that the 14 separate
pieces overlap, the largest number and up the fork pinzote fixed in
the side, managed by a man, whether under the generic name of artillery
pieces, distinguished in particular with those of falconet, poems
and pasavolantes.

_mucha artillería_ The phrase used by Christopher Columbus to talk
about the left in the strong Christmas, it would be on or hyperbolic,
as it was referring to the salvos.

It should be understood that all the strength left to mount the lost
ship, as the only other obstacle was to serve. Having urged his story
in the peaceful and natural docility of the Indians, would mean that
the artillery was great, considering more than enough to hinder
access. The actual number in _The Santa María_ will not exceed that
of the ratchet was captain Iñigo of Artieta, and assuming the same,
ie, two and six falconet Lombard, would be well armed, as the time
and size.

Supports the hypothesis to be certain the ship one of those of Cantabria
for the trade with the states of Flanders, who reconciled with
possible safety measures with the greatest burden, and it is presumed
that they are altered to undertake a journey of exploration for which
it was important to have victuals and water in the outward and return;
victuals calculated according to some Marine said, for a year, though
exaggerated in double figures.

The cast bronze artillery was mantillas at the beginning of the reign
of Queen Elizabeth, was of wrought iron which was used for attack
and defense of places, and for the armament of the ships, especially
in the factory ferrero of Biscay, and a curious document archive Simancas
[20] on the committee that was given to Pedro Ruiz Ibarra and Juan
Perez de Tolosa, pastry chef for their Highnesses chamber, both
Vascongados to buy parts in the country that required the organization
issuing Mazalquivir in 1505 explains the dimensions, size and cost
of going to ship. [Note 20: Published by Arantegui, work cited,
vol II, pp. 312.] He said the first item of the bill: "That was done
(in Biscay) and four veynte Lombard throwing stone ten pounds (15
cm) of nine spans in length with three servers each with two corueñas,
which was equal each piece and one in twenty ducats.

"The other items specified changes, except that the length was the
same in all parts (the same nine spans Longor) as follows: 24
Lombard pulling 10 pounds, 25 ducats. 8 - 7 - 14 - 11-6 - A
12-20 - 5 - A 10-14 - 4 - to 8 - 12-3 - A 6-10 - 2 - 4-3 spans of ten
27 - to 30 - On the sliding scale of size is judged that the
caravels, ships as minors, which would cover the Lombard threw two
or three pounds of ball stone and wore it for Columbus.

Artillery Museum in Madrid retains a copy of lombarda small, those two
pounds, the dimensions of which correspond exactly to the relationship
Ruiz Ibarra and Perez de Tolosa and with inventory for the year 1500,
copied by Simancas Brigadier of Engineers Mr. Aparici. The discussion
has drawn to scale and the commander of artillery D. José Arantegui
[21]: it has nine spans in length and diameter by the formula P
== VxD or 920 == 4 18V 3x2, 40, gives the ball to the stone a little
more than 9 cm. [ Note 21: In the work cited, vol. 401 and lamps. 9.]

For the detailed examination it appears rational manufacturing method,
forming the first bore of the cylinder with staves or bars of iron,
6 cm. thick, covered with sleeves of 12 cm. too thick and from 55 to
65 in length, and covered by a union and another hoop wrapped with
5 cm. thick and 20 wide. The strengthening of the mouth are stretched
at the top forming a ridge parallel to the axis and determined by the
additional hoop wrapped in two-thirds, with two rings. Of these pieces
had _con servidor_ plate or chamber and also butt closed, making
the latter more plug cap, soldiers hurt hammer. The provision of
the cooker was then next to the plane of the cylinder head, ending
up in a small cup of 18 mm. amplitude. Trim the cap had to have this
piece 1m, 430 long. We used pieces of server outdoors because having
two and three are charged separately, was the fastest shot, of the
preferred stock closed below deck batteries. Diego Garcia del Palacio
explained the cause in his _Instrucción náutica_, writing: "All
the pieces are served with open houses must be on deck, because if
they are below, the smoke that is within sight to the deals that serve
them. [ Illustration] For these and so that the verses be put on
the stern and bow canopies and closed, which are cylinder head,
casting the smoke through the mouth, down ...»[ 22] [Note 22:
According to Mr.

EA release of Captain D'Alberti, from the bottom of the port of
Genoa had been shut out two Lombard, who was charged by the mouth,
similar to those described here: one is 1m, and 11 long 0m, 09 in
diameter at the mouth: the other 1m, 12 and the same caliber.]
The whole point is difficult to determine the shape and construction
of the assembly, according to the account extract from the years
1505 and were called by then _corueñas_.

This is one of the most obscure among the investigations pertaining to
the former artillery: there is nothing historically found so far,
as the drawings in place and pieces of the campaign in many cases
replace the lack of descriptions, can not see how will be placed
inside the ship such Lombard.

The speech must be guided by analogy with the square and mounts as
vague indications of that is the ratchet _The Charente_ they had some
pieces _con ruedas_. That García de Palacio said: "The Tern nao
portañuelas its two spans in Table bisagrones for their cerrallas
and abrillas when appropriate, and sides of each two iron argollones
strong, and a hook near the stump, and the rings to put their gear
Zalla parts, and the butt rings á each of its retained so long as
it is necessary to back the piece, noting that one is shorter than
the other, to take back the piece and inside the mouth, held by the
short half-back is long and stern forward so that the Lombardero
tornalla able to load without the portañuela you can do damage.

"As the construction is almost a century after the time of
Columbus' caravels and longer pieces of stumps and
portañuelas square serves only as a fact of progress in
certain details had been: but in the absence of others, and
tested against what is known mounting artillery site and campaign
helps conjecture is especially useful for knowledge of hardware
and guarnimientos the palanquin and truss with two arms, _corto and
largo_.

For logical presumption had to be mounted or the lombarda interrelated
on a solid piece of wood on that in the medium cane, had lowered
the rise place at the top of the cylinder head.

Sit on two boards back and forth long enough to give, as a base, and
greater stability to the whole so that the base not being in
continuous contact with the deck of the ship, space is no longer
possible and easy to make strong of lashing out or making the rope
lombarda and heal a body, and tesarlas or strengthened as required
to maintain the exercise restraint.

Well corueña could be achieved with the front axle with a small piece
wheels, but wheels are another advancement is not likely to be found
in circulation in the caravels, since as a new and rare thing it
was noted years later.

It is clear that this provision could not be changed in the pointing
task, and had to be shot rasando water , as the Portuguese chronicler
Garcia de Resende, however, remains as it was the short range and
therefore used only as a preliminary artillery of the approach,
such afuste comply with its purpose, serving the shooting of the
ball of stone, whose effect wood on the sides spoke Firrufino Julius
Caesar and Columbus gave the same idea at the time mentioned above,
counting as the projectile passed the death of her flimsy piece nao.

Justifica while the immobility of lombarda in assembly, because no
gates were open square on the sides.

A circular opening of slightly larger diameter than the mouth of the
piece was enough to fire over and protected the servants against
small arms rounds.

How to load the parts in bulk powder inserted with a spoon, is
indicated in the next Royal Charter, which recommends the replacement
of the Indian artillery wrought iron for the bronze. [23] [Note 23:
_Colecc. of docum. ined. of Indias_, t.

XXXI.] "The King .-- Commander couple, our general supplier of our
artillery.

Because the island is Spanish needed some pieces of artillery, which
I command you viéredes questa then, in that fagais facer cibdad of
Malaga sacabuches five cannon and a mason who has _una villa oxa
lantern (?)

_ Set in the attacker to attacking him, and ducientas and fifty
stones for him, and two stones ducientas falconet and lead, and a mold
for azofar falconet, _E linterna_ the other barrel, and is
particularly good because Yerro metal then there dapna to cabs
of soil moisture, the quale ansi date with all their gear, the
entregareís our officers of the House of Recruitment living in
Seville, or whose power ovier.

E command to Juan de Soria, my counter artillery, are yearning
FAGA then deliver his letter of payment, or who oviere power, as are
rescebidos. When the town of Medina del Campo on 30 September 1504
years .-- I .-- For the King commanded the King, Gaspar de Gricio.

'The falconet or be fixed
in the side pieces that amount to current draft fast, were of iron,
such as Lombard, manufactured in the same manner, differing in the
smaller size in throwing projectiles formed as iron coated with lead
and not taking cure because revolved horizontally and vertically
on stump on finished pinzote fork, had in the rear frame or a frame
with wedge to secure the server, Raber and was handling it with
the Lombardero.

No need to rebuild these discretionary items, as there are in the
Artillery Museum in Madrid two authentic copies from the bottom of
the sea and first described in _Museo of Spanish antigüedades_.

       One of them is 70-gauge and 23 mm thick in the curb, the bullet
would weigh 1500 grams iron seal.

The other is 45 mm in size and the ball must not weigh more than 360
grams. In the last staves are 5 mm, 17 sleeves and hoop wrapped 40. The
length of the rod is 750 mm in the frame, toward the axis 250 of the
340 Raber, so the total length reaches 1m, 340 [24].
I am really
dazed by these wonderful fruit-trees."

"Yes, we're going to have a good season," exclaimed the Judge--"best
we have had for years, peaches especially. We expect a----"

"Oh, I only meant the coloring," interrupted Gregg, his cheeks
flushing. "It's wonderfully lovely."

"And you don't have spring blossoms North?" asked Mrs. Colton. Her own
eyes had been drinking in the charm of his personality; no
color-schemes or palette-tones were interesting her. The straight,
lithe, figure, square shoulders, open, honest face, sunny brown eyes,
with the short, crisp hair that curled about the temples, meant
something alive and young: something that could laugh when she laughed
and be merry over little things.

"Yes, of course, but not this glorious rose-pink," the young painter
burst out enthusiastically. "If it will only last until I finish your
portrait! It's really your month to be painted in, Mrs. Colton. You
have all of Sully's harmonies in your coloring--pink, white, blue"--he
was still looking into her eyes--"The great Thomas should have seen
you first, I am only his humble disciple," and he shrugged his square
shoulders in a modest way.

"And what about Phil?" she laughed, catching the fire of his
enthusiasm as she drew the boy closer to her side.

"Well, I should try him in October. He has"--and he glanced at the
Judge--"his father's brown eyes and dark skin. Nuts and autumn leaves
and red berries go best with that," he added, as he ran his fingers
through the boy's short curls.

"And an old fellow like me, I suppose, you'd paint with a foot of snow
on the ground," laughed the Judge dryly. "Well--anything to please
Olivia. Come, all of you, dinner is waiting!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The warmth of the greeting was as great a surprise to the young
Northerner as the wealth of the out-of-door bloom. He had been
hospitably received in similar journeys in his own State, but never
quite like this. There it was a matter of business until he had become
"better acquainted," even when he stayed in the houses of his patrons.
He remembered one old farmer who wanted to put him in a room over the
stable with the hired man, and another, a mill-owner, who deducted the
sum of his board from the price of the picture, but here he had been
treated as one of the family from the moment his foot touched their
door-step. The Judge had not only placed him on his right hand at
table, but had sent old Bundy, the family butler, down into the
wine-cellar for a bottle of old Madeira, that had "rusted away in his
cellar," he said, for thirty years, and which he would open in
remembrance of his college days, when his guest's uncle was his chum
and classmate.

Several days had passed before he would even allow Adam to take out
his brushes and prepare his canvas for work; his explanation being
that as he was obliged to go on Circuit, he would like to enjoy his
visitor's society before he left. There would be plenty of time for
the picture while he was away. Then it too would come as a full
surprise on his return--not a half-completed picture showing the work
of days, but a finished portrait alive not only with the charm of the
sitter, but with the genius of the master. This was proclaimed with a
courteous wave of his hand to his wife and Adam, as if she, too, would
be held responsible for the success of the portrait.

The morning before his departure he called Olivia and Adam, and the
three made a tour of the rooms in search of a suitable place where his
easel could be set up and the work begun. All three admitted that the
study was too dark, and so was the library unless the vines were
cleared from the windows, which was, of course, out of the question,
the Judge's choice finally resting on one corner of the drawing-room,
where a large window let in a little more light. In acquiescence the
young painter drew back the curtains and placed his subject first on
the sofa and then in an arm-chair, and again standing by the sash, and
once more leaning over the window-sill; but in no position could he
get what he wanted.

"Suit yourselves, then," said the Judge, "and pick out your own place,
and make yourselves as comfortable as you can--only don't hurry over
it. I shall not be back for a month, and if that is not time enough,
why, we have all summer before us. As to your other comforts, my dear
Adam--and I rejoice to see you know a good bottle of wine when you
taste it--I have given Bundy express orders to decant for you some of
the old Tiernan of '28, which is a little dryer than even that special
bottle of the Madeira you liked so well. My only regret is that I
cannot share it with you. And now one word more before I say good-by,
and that is that I must ask you, my dear Gregg, to do all you can to
keep Mrs. Colton from becoming lonely. You will, of course, as usual,
accompany her in her afternoon rides, and I need not tell you that my
own horses are at your disposal. When I return I hope to be welcomed
by two Olivias; one which by your genius you will put on canvas, and
the other"--and he bowed grandiloquently to his wife--"I leave in your
charge."

The young painter took the first opportunity to discharge his duty--an
opportunity afforded him when the Judge, after kissing his wife and
shaking hands with Adam the morning he left, had stepped into his gig,
his servant beside him, and with a lifting of his hat in punctilious
courtesy, had driven down between the lilacs. It may have been
gallantry or it may have been the pathetic way in which she waved her
handkerchief in return that roused the boyish sympathy in his heart:

"Don't worry," he said in a voice full of tenderness. "He won't be
long gone--only a month, he says; and don't be unhappy--I'm going to
do everything to cheer you up."

"But I'm never lonely," she answered with an air of bravado, "and I
try never to be unhappy. I always have Phil. And now," and she broke
out into a laugh, "I have you, and that makes me feel just as I did as
a girl when one of the boys came over to play with me. Come upstairs,
right away, and let me show you the big garret. I'm just crazy to see
you begin work, and I really believe that's the best place, after all.
It's full of old trunks and furniture, but there's a splendid
window----"

"On which side of the house, north or south? I must have a north
light, you know."

"Yes--north; looking straight up into your freezing cold country, sir!
This way! Come along!" she cried joyously as she mounted the stairs,
little Phil, as usual, tumbling after them.

Adam entered first and stood in the middle of the floor looking about
him.

"Superb!" he cried. "Just the very place! What a magnificent light--so
direct, and not a reflection from anything."

It was, indeed, an ideal studio to one accustomed to the disorder of
beautiful things. Not only was there a hip roof, with heavy, stained
beams and brown shingles, but near its crotch opened a wide,
round-topped window which shed its light on the dilapidated relics of
two generations--old spinning-wheels, hair trunks, high-post,
uncoupled bedsteads; hair-cloth sofas, and faded curtains of yellow
damask, while near the door rested an enormous jar brought up from the
garden to catch the drip of a leaky shingle--all so much lumber to
Olivia, but of precious value to the young painter, especially the
water jar, which reminded him of those he had seen in Sicily when he
was tramping through its villages sketching.

"Just the place--oh, wonderful! Wonderful! Let me shout down for Bundy
and we'll move everything into shape right away."

"Are you going to take them out or push them back?" exclaimed Olivia,
her eyes growing wide with wonder as she watched him begin work.

"No, not going to move out one of them. You just wait--I'll show you!"
The boy in him was coming out now.

And Olivia did wait, uttering little cries of delight or inquiry
meanwhile, as she tripped after him, her skirts lifted above her
dainty ankles to keep them from the dust. "Oh, that ugly old bureau;
shan't we send it away?" followed by "Yes, I do think that's better."
And, "Oh, are you going to put that screen there!" gouty old Bundy
joining in with "Well, fo' de Lawd, Miss 'Livy, I neber did see no ol'
trunk come to life agin befo' by jes' shovin' it 'roun'."

"And now get a sheet!" cried Adam, when everything had been arranged
to his liking. "We'll tack it across the lower half of the window.
Then Bundy, please go down and bring up two buckets of water and pour
it into this jar. Now, Mrs. Colton, come along, you and I will bring
up blossoms enough to fill it," and the two dashed downstairs and out
into the orchard with a swoop of two swallows out for an airing.

Even Bundy had to admit to old Dinah, when he had returned to the
kitchen, that the transformation of a lumber-room into a cosy studio
was little less than miraculous.

"Dat painter gemman do beat de lan'," he chuckled. "Got dat ol' garret
lookin' like a parlor fixed up for comp'ny. Ye oughter see dem ol'
hair-backs wid de bottoms busted--got 'em kivered up wid dem patchwork
bedspreads an' lookin' like dey was fit for de ol' mist'ess's bedroom.
An' he's got dem ol' yaller cut'ains we useter hab in de settin'-room
hung on de fo'-posters as sort o' screens fencin' off one corner ob de
room jes' by de do'. Dat ol' carpet's spread out; dat one-legged
spinnin'-wheel's propped up and standin' roun'; dem ol' stable
lanterns is hung to de rafters. I clar' to goodness, ye wouldn't
believe! Now dey jes' sont me down for two buckets o' water to fill
dat ol' jar we useter hab settin' out here on de po'ch. He and de
young mist'ess is out now lookin' for peach blossoms to fill it. He's
a wonder, I tell ye!"

The masses of blossoms arranged in the big jar--the tops of their
branches reaching the water-stained roof; a canvas for a half-length
tacked on a stretcher and placed on an improvised easel, Adam began
prying into the dark corners for a seat for his model, Olivia
following his every movement, her eyes twice their usual size in her
ever-increasing astonishment and delight.

"Hello, here's just the thing!" he shouted, dragging out a high-back
chair with some of the lower rungs gone, and dusting it off with his
handkerchief. "Sit here and let me see how the light falls. No, that
isn't good; that dress won't do at all." (The gown came too far up on
her neck to suit this artistic young gentleman's ideas regarding the
value of curved lines in portraiture.) "That collar spoils everything.
Can't you wear something else? I'd rather see you in full dress. I
want the line of the throat ending in the sweep of the shoulder, and
then I want the long curl against the flesh tones. You haven't worn
your hair that way since I came; and where's the dress you had on the
day I arrived? The colors suited you perfectly. I shall never forget
how you looked--it was all blossoms, you and everything--and the
background of the dark door, and the white of the porch columns, with
just a touch of yellow ochre to break it--Oh, it was delicious!
Please, now, put that dress on again and wear a low-neck waist with
it. The flesh tones of the throat and shoulders will be superb and I
know just how to harmonize them with this background."

It was the picture, not the woman, that filled his soul. Flesh tones
heightened by a caressing, lingering curl, and relieved by green
leaves and flowers, were what had made the Munich picture a success.

"But I haven't any low-necked gowns. Those I had when I was married
are all worn out, and I've never needed any since. My nearest
neighbors are ten miles away, and half the time I dine with only
Phil."

"Well, but can't you fix something?" persisted Adam, bent on the
composition he had in his mind. "Everybody's been so good to me here I
want this portrait to be the very best I can do. What is in these
trunks? There must be some old dresses belonging to somebody's
grandmother or somebody's aunt. Do you mind my opening this one? It's
unlocked."

Adam lifted the lid. A faded satin gown belonging to the Judge's
mother lay on the top. The old lady had been born and brought up under
this roof, and was still alive when the Judge's first wife died.

"Here's the very thing."

"And you really want that old frock? All right, Mr. Autocrat, I'll run
down and put it on."

She was like a child dressing for her first party. Twice did her hair
fall about her shoulders and twice must she gather it up, fingering
carefully the long curl, patting it into place; hooking the bodice so
that all its modesty would be preserved and yet the line of the throat
show clear, shaking out the full, pannier-like skirt until it stood
out quite to her liking. Then with a mock curtsey to herself in the
glass, she dashed out of the room, up the narrow stairs and into the
garret again before he had had time to sort over his brushes.

"Lovely!" he burst out enthusiastically when she had whirled round so
he could see all sides of her. "It's more beautiful than the one I
first saw you in. Now you look like a bit of old Dresden china--No, I
think you look like a little French queen. No, I don't know what you
do look like, only you're the loveliest thing I ever saw!"

The gown fitted her perfectly; part of her neck was bare, the single
curl, just as he wanted it, straying over it. Then came the waist of
ivory-white flowered satin with elbow sleeves, and then the puffy
panniers drooped about the slender bodice. As he drank in her beauty
the blood went tingling through his veins. He had thought her lovely
that first morning when he saw her on the porch: then she was all
blossoms; now she was a vision of the olden time for whose lightest
smile brave courtiers fought and bled.

"That's it, keep your head up!" he cried, as with many steppings
backward and forward, he conducted her to the old chair, and with the
air of a grand chamberlain placed her upon it, adding in mock
gallantry:

"Sit there, fair lady mine, while your humble slave makes obeisance.
To touch the hem of your garment would be--Oh, but aren't you lovely!
And the tone of old ivory in the satin, and the exquisite flesh
notes--and the way the curl lies on the shoulder! You are adorable!"

And so the picture was begun.

The hours and the days that followed were hours and days of
never-ending joy and frolic. While it was still "Mr. Gregg" and "Mrs.
Colton," it was as often "Uncle Adam" by little Phil (the three were
never separated) and now and then "Marse Adam" by old Bundy, who
sought in this way to emphasize his master's injunction to "look after
Mr. Gregg's comfort."

[Illustration: And so the picture was begun.]

Nor did the supervision stop here. Under Olivia's instructions and
with Bundy's help, the big dining-room table, with the Judge's seat at
one end, hers at the other, and little Phil in his high chair in the
middle, was given up and moved out as being altogether too formal and
the seats too far apart, and a small one, sprinkled daily with fresh
damask roses that she herself had culled from the garden, was
substituted. The great window in the library, which had always been
kept closed by reason of a draught which carromed on the door of the
study and struck the Judge somewhere between his neck and his
shoulders, was now thrown wide and kept wide, and the porch chairs,
three of them, which had precise positions fixed for them between
the low windows, were dragged out under the big apple-tree shading
the lawn and moved up to another table that Bundy had carried down
from one of the spare rooms.

And then the joy of being for the first time the real head of the
house when "company" was present--free to pour out her hospitality in
her own way--free to fix the hours of breakfast, dinner, and supper,
and what should be cooked, and how served; free to roam the rooms at
her pleasure, in and out of the silent study without the
never-infringed formality of a knock.

And the long talks in the improvised studio, she sitting under the big
north window in the softened light of the sheet; the joy she took in
his work; the charm of his sympathetic companionship. Then the long
rides on horseback when the morning's work was over, she on Black
Bess, he on his own mare; the rompings and laughter in the cool woods;
the delight over the bursting of new blossoms; the budding of new
leaves and tendrils, and the ceaseless song of the birds! Were there
ever days like these!

And the swing and dash and freedom of it all! The perfect trust, each
in the other. The absence of all coquetry and allurement, of all
pretence or sham. Just chums, good fellows, born comrades; joining in
the same laugh, stilled by the same thoughts; absorbed in the same
incidents, no matter how trivial: the hiving of a swarm of bees, the
antics of a pair of squirrels, or the unfolding of a new rose. He
twenty-five, clean-souled, happy-hearted; lithe as a sapling and as
graceful and full of spring. She twenty-two, soft-cheeked as a summer
rose and as sweet and wholesome and as innocent of all guile as a
fawn, drinking in for the first time, in unknown pastures, the fresh
dew of the morning of life.

And the little comedy in the garret was played to the very end.

Each day my lady would dress herself with the greatest care in the
flowered satin and coax the stray curl into position, and each day
Adam would go through the ceremony of receiving her at the door with
his mahlstick held before him like a staff of state. Then, bowing like
a courtier, he would lead her past the yellow satin screen and big jar
of blossoms and place her in the high-back chair, little Phil acting
as page, carrying her train.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so the picture was finished!

On that last day, as he stood in front of it, the light softened by
the screening sheet falling full upon it, his heart swelled with
pride. He knew what his brush had wrought. Not only had he given the
exact pose he had labored for--the bent head, the full throat, the
slope of the gently falling line from the ear to the edge of the
corsage, the round of the white shoulders relieved by the caressing
curl; but he had caught a certain joyous light in the eyes--a light
which he had often seen in her face when, with a sudden burst of
affection, she had strained little Phil to her breast and kissed him
passionately.

"I'm not so beautiful as that," she had said to Adam with a
deprecatory tone in her voice, as the two stood before it. "It's only
because you think I am, and because you've kept on saying it over and
over until you believe it. It's the gown and the peach blossoms in the
jar behind my chair--not me."

The servants were none the less enthusiastic. Bundy screwed up his
toad eyes and expressed the opinion that it was "de 'spress image,"
and fat old Aunt Dinah, who had stumbled up the garret stairs from the
kitchen, the first time in years--her quarters being on the ground
floor of one of the cabins--put on her spectacles, and lifting up her
hands, exclaimed in a camp-meeting voice:

"De Lawd wouldn't know t'other from which if both on ye went to heaben
dis minute! Dat's you, sho' nuff, young mist'ess."

Only one thing troubled the young painter: What would the Judge say
when he returned in the morning? What alterations would he insist
upon? He had been compelled so many times to ruin a successful
picture, just to please the taste of the inexperienced, that he
trembled lest this, the best work of his brush, should share their
fate. Should the Judge disapprove Olivia's heart would well nigh be
broken, for she loved the picture as much as he did himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night before Judge Colton's return the two sat out on the porch in
the moonlight. The air was soft and full of the coming summer.
Fire-flies darted about; the croaking of tree-toads could be heard.
From the quarters of the negroes came the refrain of an old song:

     "Corn top's ripe and de meadow's in de bloom,
                 Weep no mo' me lady."

"I feel as if I had been dreaming and had just waked up," sighed
Olivia. "Is it all over?"

"Yes, I can't make it any better," he answered in a positive tone, his
thoughts on his picture.

"Must you go away after you finish Phil's?" Her mind was not on the
portrait.

"Yes, unless the Judge wants his own painted. I wish he would. I'd
love to stay with you--you've been so kind to me. Nobody has ever been
so good."

"And you've been very kind to me," Olivia sighed. "Oh, so kind!"

"And just think how beautiful it is here," he rejoined; "and the
wonderful weather; and the lovely life we have led. You ought to be
very contented in so beautiful a home, with everybody so good to you."

"It's all been very, very happy, hasn't it?" She had not listened, nor
had she answered him. It was the refrain of the old song that filled
her ears.

"Yes, the happiest of my life. If you'd been my own sister you
couldn't have been lovelier to me."

"Where shall you go?" She was not looking at him. Her eyes were fixed
on the group of trees breaking the sky line.

"Home, to my people," he answered slowly.

"How far away is it?"

"Oh, a long distance! It takes me three days' constant riding to get
home."

"And you love them?"

"Yes."

"Do they love you?"

"Yes."

Again the song rolled out:

     "Few mo' days to tote de weary load,
          Weep no mo' me lady."


II


The home-coming of the master brought everybody on the run to the
porch: the men in the neighboring field; the gardener, who came
bounding over his flower-beds; Aunt Dinah, drying her fat hands on her
apron, to grasp her master's; Bundy, who helped him to alight; half a
dozen pickaninnies and twice as many dogs, and last Adam and Olivia,
who came flying down the front stairs, followed by little Phil.

The Judge alighted from the gig with some difficulty, Bundy guiding
his foot so that it rested on the iron step, and helped him to the
ground. The ride had been a trying one, and the heat and dust had left
their marks on his face.

"And how about the portrait?" were his first words after kissing his
wife and child and shaking hands with Gregg. "Is it finished, and are
you pleased, my dear?"

"Yes, and it's lovely, only it's not me, I tell him."

"Not you? Who is it, then?"

"Oh, somebody twice as pretty!"

"No. It's not one-quarter, not one-tenth as beautiful!" There was a
ring in Adam's voice that showed the tribute came from his heart.

"But that's the dress and the background; and the lovely blossoms. Oh,
you'd never believe that old jar could look so well!"

"Background! Jar! Where did you sit?" He had changed his coat now, and
Bundy was brushing the dust from his trousers and shoes.

"Oh, up in the garret. You wouldn't know the place. Mr. Gregg pulled
everything round until it is the cosiest room you ever saw."

The Judge shot a quick, searching glance at Adam. Then his eye took in
the lithe, graceful figure of the young man, so buoyant with health
and strength.

"Up in the garret! Why didn't you paint it here, or in the front
room?"

"I needed a north light, sir."

"And you could only find that in a garret? I should have thought the
parlor was the place for a lady. And are you satisfied with the
result?" he asked in a more formal tone, as he dropped into a chair
and turned to Adam. The long ride had fatigued him more than he had
thought possible.

"Well, it certainly is the best thing I have ever done. The flesh
tones are purer, and the----"

The Judge looked up: "Of the face?"

"All the flesh tones--especially the tones around the curl where it
lies on the bare shoulder."

He was putting his best foot forward, arguing his side of the case.
Half of Olivia's happiness would be gone if her husband were
disappointed in the portrait.

"Let us go up and look at it," the Judge said, as if impelled by some
sudden resolve.

When he reached the garret--Adam and Olivia and little Phil had gone
ahead--he stopped and looked about him.

"Well, upon my soul! You _have_ turned things upside down," he
remarked in a graver tone. "And here's where you two have spent all
these days, is it?" Again his eye rested on Adam's graceful figure,
whose cheeks were flushed with his run upstairs. With the glance came
a certain feeling of revolt, as if the lad's very youth were an
affront.

"Only in the morning, sir, while the light lasted," explained Adam,
noticing the implied criticism in the coldness of the Judge's tones.

"Turn the picture, please, Mr. Gregg."

For a brief moment the Judge, with folded arms, gazed into the canvas;
then the straight lips closed, the brow tightened, and an angry glow
mounted to the very roots of his gray hair.

"Mr. Gregg," said the Judge in the same measured tone with which he
would have sentenced a criminal, "if I did not know you to be a
gentleman, and incapable of dishonor, I should ask you to leave my
house. You may not have intended it, sir, but you have abused my
hospitality and insulted my home. My wife is but a child, and easily
influenced, and you should have protected her in my absence, as I
would have protected yours. The whole thing is most disturbing,
sir--and I----"

"Why--why--what is the matter?" gasped Adam. The suddenness of the
attack had robbed him of his breath.

"Matter!" thundered the Judge. "Bad taste is the matter, if not worse!
No woman should ever uncover her neck to any man but her husband! You
have imposed upon her, sir, with your foreign notions. The picture
shall never be hung!"

"But it is your own mother's dress," pleaded Olivia, a sudden flush of
indignation rising in her face. "We found it in the trunk. It's on my
bed now--I'll go and get it----"

"I don't want to see it! What my mother wore at her table in the
presence of my father and his guests is not what she would have worn
in her garret day after day for a month with her husband away. You
should have remembered your blood, Olivia, and my name and position."

"Judge Colton!" cried Adam, stepping nearer and looking the Judge
square in the eyes--all the forces of his soul were up in arms
now--"your criticisms and your words are an insult! Your wife is as
unconscious as a child of any wrong-doing, and so am I. How ballast
and was willing to what was. 23. What kind of artillery mounted,
what shapes, sizes and dimensions of the parts and how they were
mounted. 24. If the guns were on the doors if portholes were used for
light and ventilation to the accommodation and whether they were
equipped with washers. 25.

How willing the needle of course and if you wore ballestillas for
astronomical observations. 26.

How had the helm and his cane, if it is handled directly by hand
or by guardines and how they worked. 27. If Beques wore, how they
were and how iban installed. 28. Which means bilge available in
the event of a leak. 29.

       If you had to gate and scale the bulwark Tojin or to climb to the
upper deck. 30.

What kind of small boats had, what their size and whether iban hung
on davits or block mounted on the cover. 31. If Garrison had tables
for rigging firm, bracers and curves in-band and davits for
cutwater tacks of most ratchet. 32. What kind of furniture and utensils
wearing, such as stove, bunk beds, mattresses, coys, chairs, banks,
boxes, packaging supplies, watercolor, etc.. 33. How were the
bullets, how the charges were prepared and how estiva were on board.
34. What number of men reflected the strength and how long it takes
for food and water sources. RIGGING 1. Many clubs and whether they
had or had not to fall towards the bow or stern. 2. If the bats were
in one piece and if fogonaduras wearing layers to keep out the
water inside the vessel. 3.

If topmasts wore for candles or just high gallop or extensions of
mast above the rigging of encapilladuras firm. 4. How were these
encapilladas rigging and were used for mustaches and lanyard Tesar
the obencadura. 5. If the tables wore flechastes rigging the shrouds
and carried sotrozos and purse line for the near strangulation
encapilladura. 6. If cacholas and carrying sticks and cross beams or
how willing this part of the rigging. 7. If subject to cross topmasts
were used obenquillos Tesar and if they can not twist or cross
the cofas sewn used entrenched in their lower extremities to the
rigging sotrozos firm. 8. If you wore crude, bradales, flyers
and stays. 9. What sort of gear used in each suit and how it was Guarnido.
10. If the cock of the round wore on Peñoles pockets for escotines of
candles immediately above them. 11. How was the cock and how these
were suspended and subject to the sticks, that is, if carried halyard
with gear, crowns, straps and logs. 12. If the topping lift wore
prepared in a manner similar to those of today. 13.

If the understanding of Latinas OSTS wore ruffles encapilladas to
the penalty and if the car is operated by the same means that are
used now. 14.

If you had to cock and feedlot or feedlot sobrecebadera alone and
it was hard to arritranco ó ó Raca that allowed runs along the
bowsprit or the boom. 15.

If the jib boom carried. 16.

If the square sails carried Bolinas and tacks and sheets as at
present and if the shape was rectangular or trapezoidal. 17.

If these candles wore girdles or sheaths, and in the headline and gratil
falls. 18. If you took the scale and curls arranged in bands now
are used or if wearing hats. 19. If the border were passed by pot
or otherwise. 20.

If the firm empuñiduras iban Garruchos sewn to the
headline, and relied on their laps in Tojin yards. 21.

If using strips of curls. 22.

If palanquin used for loading and chafaldetes square sails and Vehicle
for the other. 23. If used or Briol briolines in round candalizas in
Latinas. 24.

If the sails wore cloths ready now, and how wide they were, and if
carried batideros and sobresanos to prevent the throat-slitting
of the candles. 25. How iban wooded flags and insignia. 26.

If the guarnimientos blocks were used in the rigging and cuadernales
splice forms and similar to current levels, ie, cappuccinos for
escotines; basket or palanquin for chafaldetes, etc.. Etc.. 27. If
the Blanket of the firm and rigging work was like now and whether it
involved, whether sealed or aforraban rigging the dead in the same
way as now used. 28.

If the cock of the round wore guardamancebos or marchapiés and stirrups.
29. How is the passing arm, and if the cock wearing brazalotes. 30.

If the boom or bowsprit carried lashings, mustache and winds. _Respuesta
Given by Mr.

       Fernández Duro and Monleón._ CASCO 1.

Reunidas the few references that were found on the ships that
Christopher Columbus led and consulted the works of shipbuilding
more immediate in time, be surmised that the dimensions of _The Santa
María_ should be: Quilla = 34-1/2 Elbows = 69 feet villages 0m, 19m
== 28, 92. Length in flowering to 9 feet. Deck Length == 42 cubits
84 feet. Manga outside lining members 13 and 26 feet elbows == ==
7m, 34. Depth 12 feet 6 elbows == == 3m, 36. The cornerstone was measured
from the top of the sobrequilla to the underside of the central
plank of the deck.

Launch forward from the vertical of the outer cover of the song stem,
11 feet 5-1/2 == elbows. aft, from the outer edge of the yoke at
the foot of 2-1/2 cubits codaste == 5 feet.

Beam or width of the yoke and mirror afterdeck elbows = 8 = 16 feet.
Rasel stern high in the codaste 4-1/2 cubits == 9 feet.

Rasel bow, from the lower edge over external bearings == 5 cubits
10 feet.

Openwork 4-1/2 half cubits == 9 feet. Idem == 10 elbows up 5 feet. Idem
least 6 feet 3 elbows ==. Provides information on a particular
importance to the Journal of Columbus on his first trip, as says the
January 10th of 1493 that came into _The Pinta_ a river whose
bar was _dos fathoms agua_, ie 12 feet. _The Holy María_ was deeper.
The displacement can be estimated at 200 to 240 metric tons, because
most of the authors, notably Juan de Escalante say the ships of the
Admiral were little more than 100 tonnes and not reach 200. The indication
that some have believed concerning tonnage, is the most likely of the
burden that the ship could carry, and assuming that this would not
exceed the last male or 150 barrels of Cantabria and this figure
composed of 0, 35 of the total displacement, assuming that the
weight of the hull and rigging aloft with amounted to 0.6, the
anchors, gear, food and water sources would amount to 0.05, would
be: Offset == 0 + 0.35 d, 6 d 'd + 0.5 "or, load 150 + 257143 +
21429 == 428,572 barrels, and barrel as the male equivalent then
to 2 pipes 27-1/2 arrobas as Escalante, Palace and Veitia, or is
632 kg per tonne, is 270,858 kilograms, which divided by 1,000
metric ton today, giving a displacement of 271 tonnes. 2.

In the drawings as well as construction of the treaties cited warns
that the extremities were filled, but a lot of vacuum in the stern,
asleep formed on a design whose form indicates the attachment.
cuaderno The teacher was very flat from the waterline down a bit and
closed mouth. The plan would be about 12 feet without chipping
dead, because it is not invented until 1601, during the time of
innovation Diego Brochero D. 3..

I did not have doors or hatches of light rather than on the pacifier,
or upper house aft. The coamings of the hatches were very low, and
these are completely closed with solid quarters in bad times. 4. There
is no news that there was more accommodation than the stern, the
soothers, and it provides details on the special study entitled _The
life Colón_ of the caravels, which accompanies this report. 5. The
size and shapes of pieces of construction specified in specification
separately and are plotted in the following 6.. The frames
were simple in the naos of little note; soon as the clear width
of one and the solid was sometimes with masonry to serve as ballast
fixed. 7.

It expresses the distribution of traces in the specification of
dimensions. The seams were simple and many vessels were covered with
cover-boards table 8.. To the seventeenth century did not begin
to put the lining inside: only wore palmejares 9.. See the
specifications and drawings attached size 10.. Ditto, ditto 11.. Ditto,
ditto. 12. They had bulárcamas and sobreplanes: see drawings dimensions
and specifications. 13. There are no details to answer this question
with certainty: it is assumed that the seams were on the curve as the
original system. The size range in these specifications. 14.

Juan Escalante of the discuss the recommended iron nails of Biscay
with the exception of the wooden bars that used the nations of the
North, adding that the bronze is the best, but more expensive. It
certainly was used recently.

Must _The Holy María_ taken to the iron easier, given that its construction
was lightweight and economical. 15. They had very thick lids gives
form bordón outgoing. castles in bow and stern was formed in a castellated
table to defend archers or emblazoned Pavese hosts of combatants,
which came after the Pavese. 16. They had cherries at the foot of mast
and its associated cabillero bagpipes and to affirm the ropes to
maneuver. In the museum there is a model naval ship, guaranteed
authenticity, signed in the year 1523 and has been studying these and
many other details that can not be seen in the drawings and by omitting
insignificant commentators of shipbuilding. 17 . Windlass carried
forward in the center or to one side, to leave more space in the
opposite to placement of Batel. Escalante which is also indicated in
its time served winches, and if necessary levaban with real gear. 18.
Two were in the bow escobenes large lead-lined, with the outer lip
and two aft Gatera for passage of the elbow. As the mooring cables of
hemp were not needed nor estopores jaws.

Dábase back to cable or bollards in the Duotone and secured with
pineapple painters. To fire the anchors had no special mechanism:
servíanse out of a simple past by Chicote argáneo which is lowered. 19.
They were the anchor or anchors very long cane, thin arms, nails
triangular, very large stocks of wood with the edges ochava, hoop
wrapped iron, or by lashing out. The argáneo circular,
large, lined with heart or tissue that is not cool to rozara cable.
Escalante recognized rule that the ship was carrying 100 tonnes
of anchor cables and 10 quintals of another 10.

It is also written that the ships carried two or four anchors
ordinary, according to his habit, and another couple called _fornaresa_
forward and _esperanza_ Anclote of _atoar_ or a spy. For the reasons
Batel and canoe. The fornaresa should take 16 to 18 quintals of
weight, the reasons of Batel arrobas 6 and 4 of the boat. The two
anchors on the bow iban ordinary; fornaresa the inside, the hatch
against the foot of ram, about to use it if necessary. 20. They had
serviolas, davits, trigger, or anything equivalent to the service
of the anchors. 21.

Up with the casting of Penola cock ratchet and insured with the gift.
22. They used two types of ballast, and a constant and fixed amalgamated
thick stone mortar or cement, the other variable to replace the
cargo, which consisted of sand, gravel or boulder as offering his
hand.

Also iron ingots were used as ballast fixed, but it was not as common
as stone. 23 and 24. See special study entitled _Armamento of the
caravels of Colón_, insert in this report. 25. See also
_Instrumentos study that used in their viajes_ Col. 26. The rudder was
straight, wide blade of which is closer to the top two tiers. The
bulk of codaste was the same on the inside that iban males and flared
on the outside, with the wedge-shaped horizontal section. See the
list of dimensions. Are handled by embedding the cane head.
Guardines usually were not needed but if poníanse heavy seas or high
winds rices. Sometimes a simple mechanism governed from the awning.
For details of the plans. 27. Beques carried on the bow consisting of
a pierced labia. See _The study life in carabelas_. 28. Bombs were
made of wood. See the same study. 29. Not caring much for the convenience
to have scales outside of the ship as it lowers the board are
satisfied with making the necessary Tojin on the side. 30. Batel and
took canoe.

The first was the length measured from the leakage of the awning to the
castle afrizada: the capacity was calculated so that 50 boats could
load the ship which is to say that the ship bow 200 tons, had to
endure 4 Batel.

He had filled the bow and the bow strong and close. Under this rule, the
Batel of _The Santa María_ be 30 feet in length, 9 in breadth: 1-1/2
mainstay of 7 banks of oars parel. The third boat was smaller, the
final bow, the stern flat and wide in order to tend to it or weigh
anchor if necessary. 31. The naos of the habit of wearing only
_The Santa María_ tables garrison in the mast, supporting the bulárcamas.
The bracers cutwater had no curves or bands or davits-Amur. In the
sculptures of the church of San Nicolás de Burgos these details are
fully charged. 32. See special study of life in _The carabelas_. 33.
See study on _Armamento_. 34.

There is no certainty about the number of crew members by disagreement
of the writers of the time. Seems more acceptable for a total of 120
led the three caravels, of which 90 seamen. María_ In _The Santa
going 60 in all, 10 employees and 50 crew. Has been written
bearing food for a year and seems a lot. Columbus wrote in the
Journal only leaving Palos _muy sufficiency of mantenimientos_, checking
the result of having reached the cake, with other items for
return trips. You can guess that shipped food and water for six months
how much was in the barrels and pipes. See special study of the
crew. RIGGING 1. Is shown by various documents, including the Journal
of the Admiral, the ships of the expedition had three main styles. The
greatest in candela or slightly tilted toward the stern, had high
length of the keel over the bow of the launch, at least . Piece was
very thick and was reinforced in reat elbow elbow. Sometimes it was
the gallop or mastelerillo spliced by another piece of the layer of
iron or hoop wrapped with rope lashings. As a single stick of
performance and progress (the other served primarily to the
government) is assured and reinforced with care.

_The To Santa would María_ from 2 to 2-1/2 feet in diameter fogonadura
and 1 to 1-1/2 in the head, below the encapilladura. The ratchet,
slightly tilted forward measured soon half the total length of the
largest and third less thick, sometimes not taking no gallop down to
the keel, with the cockpit on the main deck. The mizzen,
something was dropped back slightly less than the ratchet with a
gallop and was in his cockpit the awning. more than three vertical poles
wore nao the bowsprit, one fifth lower than the mizzen in length;
engallado and very sharp at the tip. 2. Wearing layers of fabric in
fogonaduras to keep out the water inside the vessel. 3. This is the
topmast was ordinarily stick to the body and therefore should
rather be called a gallop. 4. Encapilladuras were very simple and
tesábanse the shrouds with mustaches and lanyard.

The model of the naval museum and sculptures of the church of Burgos
provide teaching these individuals as well as all of rigging, rigging
and maneuvering so that there is no need to run. 5. The tables of rigging
the mast had flechastes in the ratchet and mizzen had not because
the subject of the suits was estrellera equipment. 6. They had cacholas
sticks; bastábales a highlight that encapilladuras supported. In the
largest cat had COFA circular or cup-shaped, held in two or four cross
beams or cross canecillos with the ends and supported in the highlight
of the head of the club, passing above the encapilladura, which was
covered by the cat . It was lined with wooden frames and painted
leather; circumference should be equal to the mouth of the ship,
and she threw darts in combat, Venables and stone.

It reflected the candle GAVI. 7. Were not used for unnecessary obenquillos
or so powerful. 8. Ensured the mast with 6 to 8 thick shrouds; gear
with two crowns, two crude for canter and two stays. 9.

Mast in a sailing decamp treo Name box and papahigo whose surface was
increased at will by sewing footrope one or two hats.

On top of this candle was GAVI, with a trapezoidal central drop
equal to the width of its gratil, which was the breadth of the boat
and pujamen somewhat less than the greater of gratil.

The candle would ratchet block equivalent surface to a quarter of
the bigger hats; cock measuring 1-1/2 times the manga.

The mizzen was Latino area equivalent to half of the couple.

The bowsprit is long feedlot, sailing equivalent square to half of the
ratchet. In short, it is estimated to _The Santa María_ as
attachments drawings surface of most hats with 2496 square feet.
ratchet 1225 ---- ---- ---- 945 of the mizzen of GAVI 735 TOTAL 5401
--------- During the XV and XVI were often painted on the sails
prefer the decorative figures of the patron saints of Spain and
sailors, or the arms and crests, but the cross was the most common
and is manifested in the engraving of the caravels of Columbus who
was in Rome the year 1493. 10.

They had no pockets in the cock Peñoles, the GAVI escotines passed by a
two cuadernal eyes, the other to serve the topping lift. 11. These
yards, then appointed understanding, often of two spars spliced
by the cross.

The couple was suspended with two double halyard rigging and is
attached to the mast of vertellos Raca, help stop the topping lift
double thirds.

The ratchet also had two halyard and a GAVI and the mizzen. 12.

As already stated, most had two topping lift, and at Penola in the
third. 13.

Mizzen had a single crown and borriquetes osta the car. 14.

Had only been in the feedlot with bowsprit arritranco it allowed to
run outside and inside as it was. 15. Approaches did not wear, candles
taken back in time. 16. Were rectangular and trapezoidal sails
except aluno and directed by tacks, sheets and Bolinas. 17. In gratil
had a couple of pods of two fingers on each hand and falls and gratil,
five fingers there were opened pot half foot distance from each
other, we passed by the sheath and then a heart guarnecía gratil
by a thread after 12 with five fingers empalomaduras each other.

In fall and pujamen is guarnecía with a empalomaduras out of 45 threads
in descuello with his fists. The hats were headline 3-wire and made
to measure for the pot of papahigo some bazadas double, making a
longer, 10 and 10 in a letter to find the correspondence. Guarnecían
The other sails are in a similar way. 18 and 19 . Were the scale of
a snake, had no bands of curls candles. 20. The headline of the same
gratil, long, served empuñidura, saying the highlight of Penola. 21.
Is answered in the 17. 22.

Usábanse and chafaldetes palanquin, which is then called and aferravelas
Vehicle. 23. Briolines were also used to walk like a rooster. 24. It
was very aluno the headline and in the absence of friction with the
Gavia COFA, there was no need for batideros. 25.

It is difficult to determine this detail: apparently took the flags
and insignia scale in which izaban masts in the buffers. 26. Motonería
was all very different from that which now is used: the blocks were
almond-shaped and lacked gaza.

At the peak of the box, in the same direction of the axis of the
sheave was opened by a shot and passed it with a strap cazonete.

The sheaves cuadernales had no parallel, but one over another. 27.
We assume that the progress made in the factory rigging not differ
much from the former and that the firm was involved in the naos and
aforraban although coarsely.

You can, yes, it was argued that in general at the time of Columbus
over the rigging of ore now. 28. Candles are not clinging to high,
always cock arriábase, but anyway the sailors had to rely on a marchapié,
essential in the feedlot. 29. Brazalotes double arm and had the biggest
cock in the other yards were simple fathoms. 30. It would be tedious
to detail the working of the threads of maneuvers, like that of the
arms, remaining responsive to the needs.

In the model of the Naval Museum, above, can be seen changes made to
achieve greater ease and speed in the operation with less use of arms
in the fifteenth century. 31. Not only had the bowsprit and a lashing
to bobstay cutwater. [16] [Note 16: Do not insert the sheet size not
to be of interest to most readers. Was filed in the arsenal of
Carraca.]
As these thoughts filled his mind something of the spring and buoyancy
of his earlier youth came back to him. He could hardly restrain
himself from shouting out in glee as he had done in the old days when
they had scampered through the woods together. With each familiar spot
his enthusiasm increased. There was the brook where they fished that
morning for gudgeons, when little Phil came so near falling into the
water; and there was the turn of the road that led to the
school-house; and the little cabin near the spring. It would not be
long now before he looked into her eyes!

The few friends who knew him as a grave and thoughtful man of purpose
and achievement would never have recognized him could they have
watched his face as he sat astride his horse, his whole body quivering
with expectancy, the hope that had lain dormant so long awake once
more. Now it was his turn to be glad.

He had reached the hill. Another moment and he would pass the mass of
evergreens to the left, and then the quaint dormer-windows and
chimneys of Derwood Manor would greet him.

At the bend of the road, on the very verge of the hill, he checked
his horse so suddenly as almost to throw him back on his haunches. A
sudden chill seized him, followed by a rush that sent the blood
tingling to the roots of his hair. Then he stood up in his stirrups as
if to see the better.

Below, against the background of ragged trees, stood two gaunt
chimneys. All about was blackened grass and half-burned timbers.

Derwood Manor had been burned to the ground!

Staggered by the sight, almost reeling from the saddle, he drove the
spurs into his horse, dashed through the ruined gate, and drew rein at
the one unburned cabin. A young negro woman stood in the door.

For an instant he could hardly trust himself to speak.

"I am Mr. Gregg," he said in a choking voice, "and was here ten years
ago. When did this happen?" and he pointed to the blackened ruins. He
had thrown himself from his saddle and stood looking into her face,
the bridle in his hand.

"In de summer time--las' August, I think."

"Where's your mistress? Was she here when the house was burned?"

"I ain't got no mist'ess--not now. Oh, you mean de young mist'ess what
used to lib here? Aunt Dinah cooked for 'em--she b'longed to 'em."

"Yes, yes," urged Gregg.

"She's daid!"

"My God! Not when the house was burned?"

"No, she warn't here. She was down in Baltimo'--she went dar after de
Jedge died. But she's daid, fo' sho', 'cause Aunt Dinah was wid her,
and she tol' me."

Adam dropped upon a bench outside the door of the cabin and began
passing his hand nervously over his forehead as if he would relieve a
pain he could not locate. A cold sweat stood on his brow; his knees
shook.

The woman kept her eyes on him. Such incidents were not uncommon.
Almost every day strangers on their way South had passed her cabin,
looking for friends they would never see again--a woman for her
husband; a mother for her son; a father for his children. Unknown
graves and burned homes could be found all the way to the Potomac and
beyond. This strong man who seemed to be an officer, was like all the
others.

For some minutes Adam sat with his head in his hand; his elbows on his
knees, the bridle still hooked over his wrist. Hot tears trickled
between his closed fingers and dropped into the dust at his feet. Then
he raised his head, and with a strong effort pulled himself together.

"And the little boy--or rather the son--he must be grown now. Philip
was his name--what has become of him?" He had regained something of
his old poise--his voice and manner showed it.

"I ain't never yeard what 'come 'o him. Went in de army, I reck'n.
Daid, I spec'--mos' ev'ybody's daid dat was here when I growed up."

Adam turned his head and looked once more at the blackened ruins.
What further story was yet to come from their ashes?

"One more question, please. Were you here when the fire came?"

"Yes, suh, me and my husban' was both here. He ain't home to-day. We
was takin' care of de place when it ketched fire--dat's how we come to
save dis cabin. Dere warn't no water and nobody to help, and dis was
all we could do."

Again Adam bowed his head. Was there nothing left?--nothing to recall
even her smile? Then slowly, as if he feared the result:

"Was anything saved--any furniture, or--pictures--or----"

"Nothin' but dem two chairs inside dar--and dat bench what you's
settin' on. Dey was on de lawn and dat's how we come to git 'em."

For some minutes Adam sat looking into the ground at his feet, his
eyes blurred with tears.

"Thank you," was all he said.

And once more he turned his horse's head towards the North.


V


A thin, shabby little man, with stooping shoulders, hooked nose and
velvet tread, stood before the card rack in the lower corridor of the
old studio building on Tenth Street. He was scanning the names,
beginning at the top floor and going down to the basement. Suddenly
his eyes glistened:

"Second floor," he whispered to himself. "Yes, of course; I knew it
all the time--second floor," and "second floor" he kept repeating as
he helped his small body up the steps by means of the hand-rail.

The little man earned his living by obtaining orders for portraits
which he turned over to the several painters, fitting the price to
their reputations, and by hunting up undoubted old masters, rare
porcelains, curios and miniatures for collectors. He was reasonably
honest, and his patrons followed his advice whenever it was backed by
somebody they knew. He was also cunning--softly, persuasively
cunning--with all the patience and philosophy of his race.

On this morning the little man had a Gilbert Stuart for sale, and what
was more to the point he had a customer for the masterpiece: Morlon,
the collector, of unlimited means and limited wall space, would buy it
provided Adam Gregg, the distinguished portrait painter, Member of
the International Jury, Commander of the Legion of Honor, Hors
Concours in Paris and Munich, etc., etc., would pronounce it genuine.

The distinguished painter never hesitated to give his services in
settling such matters. He delighted in doing it. Just as he always
delighted in criticising the work of any young student who came to him
for counsel--a habit he had learned in his life abroad--and always
with a hand on the boy's shoulder and a twinkle in his brown eyes that
robbed his words of any sting.

When dealers sought his help he was not so gracious. He disliked
dealers--another of his foreign prejudices. Tender-hearted as he was
he generally exploded with dynamic force--and he could explode when
anything stirred him--whenever a dealer attempted to make him a party
to anything that looked like fraud. He had once cut an assumed Corot
into ribbons with his pocket-knife--and this since he had been home in
New York, fifteen years now--and had then handed the strips back to
the dealer with the remark:

"Down in the Treasury they brand counterfeits with a die; I do it with
a knife. Send me the bill."

The little man, with the cunning of his race, knew this peculiarity,
and he also knew that ten chances to one the great painter would
receive him with a frigid look, and perhaps bow him out of the door.
So he had studied out and arranged a little game. Only the day before
he had obtained an order for a portrait to be painted by the best
man-painter of his time. The picture was to be full length and to
hang in the directors' room of a great corporation. This order he had
in his pocket in writing, signed by the secretary of the board.
Confirmations were sometimes valuable.

As the little man's body neared the great painter's door a certain
pleasurable sensation trickled through him. To catch a painter on a
hook baited with an order, and then catch a great collector like
Morlon on another hook baited with a painter, was admirable fishing.

With these thoughts in his mind he rapped timidly on Adam Gregg's
door, and was answered by a strong, cheery voice calling:

"Come in!"

The door swung back, the velvet curtains parted, and the little man
made a step into the great painter's spacious studio.

"Oh, I have such a fine sitter for you!" he whispered, with his hand
still grasping the curtain. "Such a distinguished-looking man he
is--like a pope--like a doge. It will make a great Franz Hal; such a
big spot of white hair and black coat and red face. He's coming
to-morrow and----"

"Who is coming to-morrow?" asked Gregg. His tone would have swamped
any other man. He had recognized the dealer with a simple
"Good-morning," and had kept his place before his easel, the overhead
light falling on his upturned mustache and crisp gray hair.

The little man rubbed his soft, flabby hands together, and tiptoed to
where Gregg stood as noiseless as a detective approaching a burglar.

"The big banker," he whispered. "Did you not get my letter? The price
is no object. I can show you the order." He had reached the easel now
and was standing with bent head, an unctuous smile playing about his
lips.

"No, I don't want to see it," remarked Gregg, squeezing a tube on his
palette. "I can't reach it for some time, you know."

"Yes, I have told them so, but the young gentleman wants to have the
entry made on the minutes and have the money appropriated. I had great
confidence, you see, in your goodness," and the little man touched his
forehead with one skinny finger and bowed obsequiously.

"I thought you said he had white hair."

"So he has. The portrait is to hang up in the directors' room of one
of the big copper companies. The young gentleman is a member of the
banking firm that is to pay for the picture, and is quite a young man.
He buys little curios of me now and then, and he asked me whom I would
recommend to paint the director's portrait, and, of course, there is
but one painter--" and the dealer bowed to the floor. "He's coming
to-morrow afternoon at four o'clock and will stay but a moment, for
he's a very busy man. You will, I know, receive him."

Gregg made no reply. Rich directors did not appeal to him; they were
generally flabby and well fed and out of drawing. If this one had
some color in him--and the dealer knew--some of the sort of vigor and
snap that would have appealed to Franz Hal, the case might be
different. The little man waited a moment, saw that Gregg was absorbed
in some brush stroke, and stepped back a pace or two. Better wait
until the master's mind was free. Then again he could sweep his eyes
around the interior without being detected--there was no telling what
might happen: some day there might be a sale, and then it would be
just as well to know where things like these could be found. Again he
tiptoed across the spacious room, stopping to gaze at the rich
tapestries lining the walls, examining with eye-glass held close the
gold snuffboxes and rare bits of Sèvres and Dresden on the shelves of
the cabinet, and testing with his nervous fingers the quality of the
rich Utrecht velvet screening the door of an adjoining room.

Gregg kept at work, his square, strong shoulders, well-knit back and
straight limbs--a fulfilment of the promise of his youth--in
silhouette against the glare of the overhead light, its rays silvering
his iron-gray hair and the tips of his upturned mustache.

The tour of the room complete, the little man again bowed to the floor
and said in his softest voice:

"And you will receive him at four o'clock?"

"Yes, at four o'clock," answered Gregg, his eyes still on the canvas.

Again the little man's head bent low as he backed from the room. There
was no need of further talk. What Adam Gregg meant he said, and what
he said he meant. As he reached the velvet curtain through which he
had entered, he stopped.

"And now will you do something for me?"

Gregg lifted his chin with the movement of a big mastiff throwing up
his head when he scents danger. "I was waiting for that; then there is
a string to it?" he laughed.

The little man reddened to his eyebrows. The fish had not only seen
the hook under the bait, but knew who held the line.

"No, only that you come with me to Schenck's to see a portrait by
Gilbert Stuart," he pleaded. "I quite forgot--it is not often I do
forget; I must be getting old. It's to be sold to-morrow; Mr. Morlon
will buy it if you approve; he said so. I'm just from his house."

"I have a sitter at three."

"Yes, I know, but you always have a sitter. You must come--it means
something to me. I'll go and get a cab. It will not take half an hour.
It is such a beautiful Stuart. There's no doubt about it, not the
slightest; only you know Mr. Morlon, he's very exacting. He says, 'If
Mr. Gregg approves I will buy it.' These were his very words."

Gregg laid down his brushes. Little men like the one before him wasted
his time and irritated him. It was always this way--some underhand
business. Then the better side of him triumphed.

"All right!" he cried, the old sympathetic tone ringing out once more
in his voice. "Never mind about the cab; I need the air and the walk
will do me good; and then you know I can't see Mr. Morlon swindled,"
and he laughed merrily as he looked quizzically at the dealer.

       *       *       *       *       *

The entrance of the distinguished painter into the gallery of the
auctioneer with his quick, alert manner and erect, military bearing,
the Legion of Honor in his lapel, soon attracted attention. Schenck
came up and shook Gregg's hands cordially, repeating his name aloud so
that every one could hear it--especially the prospective buyers, some
of whom gazed after him, remarking to their fellows, as they shielded
their lips with their catalogues: "That's Gregg!"--a name which needed
no further explanation.

"I have come to look at a Stuart that Mr. Morlon wants to buy if it is
genuine," said Gregg. "Tell me what you know about it. Where did it
come from?"

"I don't know; it was left on storage and is to be sold for expenses."

"Is it to be sold to the highest bidder?"

"No, at private sale."

"Where is it?"

"There--behind you."

Gregg turned and caught his breath.

Before him was a portrait of a young woman in an old-fashioned gown,
her golden hair enshrining a face of marvellous beauty, one long curl
straying down a shoulder of exquisite mould and finish, the whole
relieved by a background of blossoms held together in a quaint
earthen jar.

Strong man as he was, the shock almost overcame him. He reached out
his hand and grasped the back of a chair. Tears welled up in his eyes.

The auctioneer had been watching him closely.

"You seem to like it, Mr. Gregg."

"Yes," answered Adam in restrained, measured tones. "Yes, very much.
But you have been misinformed; it is not by Gilbert Stuart. It is by a
man I know, I saw him paint it. Tell Mr. Morlon so. Send it to my
studio, please, and credit this gentleman with the commission--I'll
buy it for old association's sake."

That night, when it grew quite dark, he took the portrait from where
the cartman had left it in his studio with its face to the wall--never
again would it suffer that indignity--and placed it under his
skylight. He wanted to see what the fading light would do--whether the
changed colors would once more unlock the secrets of a soul. Again, as
in the dim shimmer of the dawn, there struggled out from the wonderful
eyes that same pleading look--the look he had seen on its face the
morning he had left Derwood Manor--as if she needed help and was
appealing to him for sympathy. Then he flashed up the circle of gas
jets, flooding the studio with light. Instantly all her joyousness
returned. Once more there shone out the old happy smile and laughing
eyes. Loosening the nails that held the canvas, he freed the portrait
from its gaudy frame, and with the remark--"It was unframed when I
kissed it last," placed it over the mantel moving some curios out of
the way so it would rest the more firmly; then he dropped into a chair
before it.

He was in the past again--twenty-five years before, living once more
the long hours in the garret with its background of blossoms; roaming
the woods; listening to the sound of her joyous laughter when she
caught little Phil to her breast. Then there rang in his ear that
terrible moan when Judge Colton denounced them both; and the sob in
her voice as she sank at his feet that night. He could catch the very
perfume of her hair and feel the hot tears on his hand. If only the
lips would open and once more whisper his name! What had sent her
back, to soothe him with her beauty?

His whole life passed in review--his hopes, his ambitions, his
struggles; the years of loneliness, of misunderstanding, and the final
triumph--a triumph made all the more bitter by a fate which had
prevented her sharing it with him. With this there arose in his mind
the picture of two gaunt chimneys outlined against a cold, gray sky;
the trees bare of leaves, the grass shrivelled and brown--and then,
like a refrain, came the long-forgotten song:

     "Weep no mo', me lady."

Raising himself to his feet he leaned over the mantel and looked long
and steadily into the eyes of the portrait.

"Olivia," he whispered--in a voice that was barely audible--"I did
not intend to be cruel. Forgive me, dear; there was nothing else to
do--it was the only way, my darling!"

He was still in his chair, the studio a blaze of light, when a brother
painter from the studio opposite, whose knock had been unheeded,
pushed open the door. Even then Gregg did not stir until the intruder
laid a hand upon his shoulder.


VI


By noon the next day half the occupants of the old studio building
came in to see the new portrait. He had not told of this one, but the
brother painter had spread the news of the "find" through the
building.

It was not the first time Adam Gregg's "finds" had been the subject of
discussion among his fellows. The sketch by Velasquez--now the pride
of the gallery that owned it--and which had been discovered by him in
a lumber-room over a market, and the Romney which had been doing duty
as a chimney-screen, had been the talk of the town for weeks.

"Looks more like a Sully than a Stuart," said the brother painter, his
eyes half closed to get the better effect. "Got all Sully's coloring."

"Stunning girl, anyway; doesn't make any difference who painted it,"
suggested another. "That kind seem to have died out. You read about
them in books, but I've never met one."

"Wonderful flesh," remarked a third with meaning in his voice. "If it
isn't by Sully it's by somebody who believed in him."

No one suspected Gregg's brush. His style had changed with the
years--so had his color: that palette had been set with the yellow,
red, and blue of sunshine, blossom and sky, and the paints had been
mixed with laughter. Nor did he tell them he himself had painted it.
This part of his life was guarded with the same care with which he
would have guarded his mother's secrets. Had he owned a shrine he
would have placed the picture over its altar that he might kneel
before it.

"These blue-eyed blondes," continued the first speaker meditatively
with his eyes on the portrait, "send a lot of men to the devil."

Gregg looked up, but made no reply. Both the tone of the man and his
words jarred on him.

"You can forget a brunette," he went on, "no matter how bewitching she
may be, but one of these peaches-and-cream girls--the blue-eyed,
red-lipped, white-skinned combination--takes hold of a fellow. This
man knew all about it--" and he waved his hand at the portrait.

"Is that all you see in it?" rejoined Gregg coldly. "Is there nothing
under the paint that appeals to you? Something of the soul of the
woman?"

"Yes, and that's just what counts in these blondes; that 'soul' you
talk about. That's what makes 'em dangerous. That's what captured
Hartman, I guess. Mrs. Bowdoin's got just that girl's coloring--not so
pretty," and he glanced at the canvas, "but along her lines. Old man
Bowdoin says he's ruined his home."

"Yes, and it's pretty rough I tell you on the old man," remarked a
third. "I saw him yesterday. The poor fellow is all broken up. There's
going to be a row, and a hot one, I hear. Pistols, divorce; the air's
blue; all sorts of things. Old fellow blusters, but he looks ten years
older."

Gregg had risen from his chair and stood facing the speaker, his brown
eyes flashing, his lips quivering. Look at the people who like them to
happiness and pleasure of racing!

Their desires, their effort, their money chasing restlessly, and that?
After what the poet by nature, has received, after the enjoyment of the
world, after his compassion, even in others, according to a harmonious
togetherness often incompatible with many things. What beunruhiget
people than that they are not terms with the things can combine, that
the benefit to them under the hands wegstiehlt that sought too
late, and that everything achieved and gained in her heart does not
have the effect that we desire in the distance suggests.

Almost like a god, the fate of the poet on this all hinübergesetzt. He
sees the tangle of passions, and rich families are futile move,
he sees the irresolvable enigma of misunderstandings, which often
only a monosyllable to the development is missing, causing untold
confusion perishable.

He feels the sad and the makers of every human being with a destiny.
If the human world in a melancholy emaciate big loss on his days
Hinsch in a suitable light or joy goes against his fate, then
progresses to susceptible, leichtbewegliche soul of the poet as the
sun changing from night to day, and with soft transitions agrees
with his harp for joy and suffering.

Indigenous at the bottom of his heart grow this beautiful flower
out of Wisdom, and when the others awake and dream of huge performances
from all their senses geängstiget, so he lives the dream of life
as a leveling, and the rarer, what happens is him both past and
future.

And so the poet is also fortunetellers teacher, friend of gods and humans.
How! wilt thou that he is a poor trade down?

He, like a bird is built around the world to float on high mountain
peaks to its nest and diet of buds and fruit, a branch with the
other confounding easy to take, he should at the same time as the bull
pull at the plow, as the dog is accustomed to a track or maybe even
on the chain closed a Meierhof by his barking secure? "
"Well, my dear Gregg, don't blame me," laughed the painter who had
borne the brunt of the outbreak and whom Adam had singled out to
listen to his attack. "I haven't run off with pretty Mrs. Bowdoin, or
made love to her either, have I?"

"But you still shake hands with Hartman, don't you?"

"Of course I do. I couldn't show him the door, could I? He's made an
ass of himself, but it's none of my business. They'll have to patch it
up between them. Don't get excited, Gregg, and don't forget that the
jury meets this afternoon at four o'clock in my studio."

"I will be there," replied Adam curtly, "but I cannot stay very long.
I have an appointment at four."

       *       *       *       *       *

The room was full of his brother painters when, some hours later, his
red Spanish _boina_ on his head--he always wore it when at work--Gregg
entered the studio on the floor below his own. It was the first
informal meeting of the Jury of the Academy, and an important one.
Some of the men were grouped about the fire, smoking, or lolling in
their chairs; others were stretched out on the lounges; two or three
were looking over some etchings that had been brought in by a
fellow-member. All had been awaiting Adam's arrival. Those who had
been gathered about the portrait were discussing Gregg's denunciation
of Hartman. All agreed that with their knowledge of the man's
universal kindness and courtesy that the outburst was as unaccountable
as it was astounding.

Gregg shook hands with the group, one by one, those who were reclining
rising to their feet and the others pressing forward to greet him;
then drawing out a chair at the end of the long table, he called the
meeting to order. As he took his seat a man of thirty in an overcoat,
his hat in his hand, walked hurriedly in through the open door, and
stood for a moment looking about him, a sickly, wavering expression on
his face, as if uncertain of his welcome. It was Hartman.

He was a member of the Council, and therefore privileged to attend any
meeting.

Gregg pushed back his chair and rose to his feet, a certain flash of
indignation in his eyes that few of his friends had ever seen.

"Stop where you are, Mr. Hartman," he said in low, cutting tones. "I
prefer to conduct this meeting without you."

"And I prefer to stay where I am," answered Hartman in an unsteady
voice, gazing about as if in search of some friendly eye. "I have as
much right to be at this meeting as you have," he continued, advancing
towards the pile of coats and hats.

Adam was in front of him now, his big, broad frame almost touching the
intruder. The quick, determined movement meant danger. No one had ever
seen Gregg so stirred.

"You will do as I tell you, sir! Leave the room--now--at once! Do you
hear me!"

Every man was on his feet. Those who had heard Gregg's outburst a few
hours before knew the reason. Others were entirely ignorant of the
cause of his wrath.

"You are not responsible for me or my actions. I'm a man who can----"

"Man! You are not a man, sir! You are a thief, one who steals into a
brother painter's home and robs him of everything he holds dear. Get
out of here! Go and hide yourself in the uttermost parts of the earth
where no man you ever saw will know you! Jump into the sea--destroy
yourself! Go, you leper! Savages protect their women!"

He had his fingers in Hartman's collar now and was backing him towards
the door. One or two men tried to stop him, but Gregg's voice rang out
clear:

"Keep your hands off! Out he goes, if I have to throw him downstairs.
Stand back, all of you--" and with a mighty effort he caught the
younger and apparently stronger man under the armpits and hurled him
through the open doorway.

For some seconds no one spoke. The suddenness of the attack, the
uncontrollable anger of the distinguished painter--so gentle and
forbearing always--the tremendous strength of the man; the cowering
look on Hartman's face--a look that plainly told of his guilt--had
stunned every one in the room.

Gregg broke the silence. He had locked the door on Hartman and was
again in his chair by the table, a flushed face and rumpled shirt the
only marks of the encounter.

"I owe you an apology, gentlemen," he said, adjusting his cuffs and
speaking in the same voice with which he would have asked for a match
to light his cigar. "I did not intend to disturb the meeting, but
there are some things I cannot stand. We have curs prowling around in
society, walking in and out of decent homes, trusted and believed in,
that are twice as dangerous as mad dogs. Hartman is one of them. When
they bite they kill. The only way is to shut your doors in their
faces. That I shall do whenever one crosses my path. And now, if you
will excuse me, I will ask one of you to fill my place and let me go
back to my studio. I have an appointment at four, as I told you this
morning, and I'm late."

Once in the corridor he stepped to the rail, looked over the banisters
as if in expectation of seeing the object of his wrath, and slowly
mounted the stairs to his studio. As he approached the velvet curtain
he heard through the half-closed door a heavy step. Some one was
walking about inside. Was Hartman waiting for him to renew the
conflict? he wondered. Pushing aside the curtain he stepped boldly in.

On the mat before the fire, with his back to the door, his eyes fixed
on Olivia's portrait, stood a young man he had never seen before. As
the overhead light fell on his glossy hair and over his clean-shaven
face and well-groomed body, Gregg noticed that he belonged to the
class of prosperous business men of the day. This was not only
apparent in the way his well-cut clothes fitted his slender
body--perfect in appointment, from the bunch of violets in his
button-hole to his polished shoes--but in his quick movements.

"Have I made a mistake?" the young man asked in a crisp, decisive
voice. "This is Mr. Adam Gregg, is it not? I found your door on a
crack and thought you were not far off."

"No, you haven't made a mistake," answered Adam courteously, startled
out of his mood by the bearing and kindly greeting of the stranger.
"My name is Gregg--what can I do for you?" All trace of his former
agitation was gone now.

"Well, I am here on behalf of my special partner, Mr. Eggleston, who
is also a director in one of our companies, and who had an appointment
with you at four o'clock. He is detained at the trust company's
office, and I came in his stead. The portrait, as I suppose that
little fellow--I forget his name--has told you, is to hang up in the
office of the Portage Copper Company--that's our company. We want a
full-sized portrait--big and important. Mr. Eggleston is a good deal
of a man, you know, and there's a business side to it--business side
to most everything in the Street," this came with a half-laugh. "I'll
tell you about that later. You never saw him, of course. No?--he's so
busy he doesn't get around much uptown. Fine, large, rather
imposing-looking--white hair, red face and big hands--lots of color
about him--ought to paint him, I suppose, with his hand on a globe, or
some books. I'm not posted on these things, but you'll know when you
see him. He'll be up any day next week that you say. We want it right
away, of course. Some business in that, too," and another faint laugh
escaped his lips.

All this time Gregg had been standing in front of the stranger waiting
for an opportunity to offer him his hand and tell how sorry he was to
have kept him waiting, explaining the meeting of the jury and his
being obliged to be present, but the flow of talk had continued
without a break and in a way that began to attract his attention.

"Got a nice place here," the young man rattled on, gazing about him as
he spoke; "first time I was ever in a studio, and first time, too, I
ever met a real painter in his workshop. I'm so tied down. Valuable,
these things you've got here, too--cost a lot of money. I buy a few
myself now and then. By the bye, while I was waiting for you to come
in I couldn't help looking at the pictures and things."

He had stepped closer now, his eyes boring into Gregg's as if he were
trying to read his mind. For an instant Gregg thought an extra
cocktail on the way uptown was the cause of his garrulousness.

"Of course I know it's all right, Mr. Gregg, or you wouldn't have
it--and you needn't tell me if you don't want to--maybe I oughtn't to
ask, been so long ago and everything lost track of--but you won't feel
offended if I do, will you?" He had his hand on Gregg's shoulder now,
his lips quivering, a peculiar look in his eyes. "Come across here
with me, please. No--this way, to the fireplace. Where did you get
that portrait?"

Gregg felt a sudden relief. The man wasn't drunk--it was the beauty of
the picture which had affected him. He could forgive him that,
although he felt sure the next move would be an offer to purchase it.
He had met his kind before.

"I bought it at private sale," he answered simply.

"When?"

"Yesterday."

"Who sold it to you?"

"Schenck, the auctioneer."

"Will you sell it to me?"

"No; I never sell anything of that kind."

"Not at a large price?"

"Not any price," Gregg replied in a decided tone. It was just as he
expected. These men of business gauge everything by their bank
accounts. One of them had had the impertinence to ask him to fill up a
blank check for the contents of his studio.

"Where did it come from?"

"Schenck told me he didn't know. It was held for storage. It seems to
interest you?" There was a slight tone of resentment in Gregg's voice.

"Yes, it does, more than I can tell you, more than you can
understand." His voice had lost its nervousness now.

"It reminds you of some one, perhaps?" asked Gregg. There might, after
all, be some spark of sentiment in the young man.

"Yes, it does," he continued, devouring it with his eyes. "I haven't
seen it since I was a child."

"You know it, then!" It was Gregg's turn to be surprised. "Where did
you see it, may I ask?"

"Down in Maryland, at Derwood Manor, before it was burned."

The blood mounted to Gregg's cheeks and he was about to speak. Then he
checked himself. He did not want to know of the portrait's
vicissitudes. That it was now where he could be locked up with it,
made up for everything it had come through.

"Yes, these memories are very curious," remarked Gregg in a more
gentle tone. "It reminds me also of some one I once knew. Don't you
think it is very beautiful?"

"Beautiful! _Beautiful!_ It's the most beautiful thing in the world to
me! Why, it's my own mother, Mr. Gregg!"

"You--your own mother! What's your name?"

"Philip Colton."


VII


The same poise that restrained Adam Gregg when he came suddenly upon
Olivia's portrait in the auction-room sustained him when he looked
into the eyes of the young man whom, years before, he had left as a
child at Derwood Manor.

"Are you sure?" he asked. He knew he was--he only wanted some fresh
light on the dark record. For years the book had been sealed.

"Am I sure? Why it used to be in the garret till my father died, and
then my mother brought it down into her room. I have seen her sit
before it for hours--she loved it. And once I found her kissing it.
Strange, isn't it, how a woman will regret her youth?--and yet I
always thought my mother beautiful even when her hair turned gray."

Gregg turned his head and tightened his fingers. For an instant he
feared his tears would unman him.

"If it is your mother's portrait," he said, "the picture belongs to
you, not to me. I bought it because it recalled a face I once knew,
and for its beauty. A man has but one mother, and if your own was like
this one she must be your most precious memory. I did not intend to
part with it, but I'll give it to you."

"Oh! you are very good, Mr. Gregg," burst out the young man, grasping
Adam's hand (Adam caught Olivia's smile now, flashing across his
features), "but I have no place for it--not yet. I may have later,
when I have a home of my own; that depends upon my business. I'll only
ask you to let me come in once in a while to see it."

Gregg returned the grasp heartily, declaring that his door was always
open to him at any time and the picture at his disposal whenever he
should claim it. He did not tell him he had painted it. He did not
tell him that he had known either Olivia or his father, or of his
visit ten years later. That part of his life had had a sad and bitter
end. Both of them were dead; the house in ruins--why rake among the
cinders?

       *       *       *       *       *

All that spring, in response to Adam's repeated welcomes, Philip
Colton made excuses to drop into Gregg's studio. At first to postpone
the time for Mr. Eggleston's sittings; then to invite Gregg to dinner
at his club to meet some brother financiers, which Gregg declined;
again to get his opinion on some trinkets he had bought, and still
again to bring him some flowers, he having noticed that the painter
was never without them--nor was the portrait, for that matter, Adam
always placing a cluster of blossoms or a bunch of roses near the
picture, either on the mantel beneath or on the table beside it.

Sometimes Adam when leaving his door on a crack would find that in his
absence in an adjoining studio, Colton had come and gone, the only
record of his visit being a mass of roses he himself had placed
beneath his mother's portrait. Once he surprised the young man
standing before it looking up into the eyes as if waiting for her to
speak. Incidents like these showed his better and more sympathetic
nature and drew Adam to him the closer.

And the growth of the friendship was not all on one side. Not only was
Gregg's type of man absolutely new to the young financier, but his
workshop was a never-ending surprise. The fact that neither bonds nor
stocks, nor anything connected with them, was ever discussed inside
its tapestried walls, opened up for him new vistas in life. The latest
novel might be gone into or a character in a recent play; or the
rendering of a symphony, or some fresh discovery in science, but
nothing of gain. What struck him as more extraordinary still was the
air of repose that was everywhere apparent, so different from his own
busy life, and at any hour of the day, too. This was apparent not only
in the voices, but in the attitude and bearing of the men who formed
the painter's circle of friends.

Sometimes he would find Macklin, the sculptor--up from his atelier in
the basement--buried in a chair and a book, pipe in mouth, before
Gregg's fire--had been there for hours when Phil entered. Again he
would catch the sound of the piano as he mounted the stairs, only to
discover Putney, the landscape painter, running his fingers over the
keys, while Adam stood before his easel touching his canvas here or
there; or he would interrupt old Sonheim, who kept the book-shop at
the corner, and who had known Adam for years--while he read aloud this
and that quotation from a musty volume, Adam stretched out at full
length on his divan, the smoke of his cigarette drifting blue in the
overhead light.

These restful contrasts to his own life interested and astonished him.
Since his father's death he had had few hours of real repose. While
not yet fifteen he had been thrown out into the world to earn his
bread. A successful earning, for he was already head of his firm, in
which his prospective father-in-law, Mr. Eggleston, the rich banker,
was special partner, and young Eggleston the junior member. An
honorable career, too, for the house stood high in the Street, and its
credit was above reproach in the commercial world, their company--the
Portage Copper Company, whose securities they financed--being one of
the many important mining properties in the great Northwest. All this
he owed to his own indomitable will and pluck, and to his untiring
industry--a quality developed in many another young Southerner the
victim of the war and its aftermath.

And he was always welcome.

Apart from the tie that bound them together--of which Philip was
unconscious--Adam's heart went out to the young fellow as many another
childless, wifeless man's has gone out to youth. He loved his
enthusiasms, his industry, his successes. Most of all he loved the
young man's frankness--the way in which he kept nothing back--even
his earlier escapades, many of which he should have been ashamed of.
Then again he loved the reverence with which Phil treated him, the
deference to his opinions, the acceptance of his standards. Most of
all he loved him for the memory of the long ago.

It was only when the overmastering power of money became the dominant
force--the one recognized and gloated over by Philip--that his face
grew grave. It was then that the older and wiser man, with his keen
insight into the human heart, trembled for the younger, fearing that
some sudden pressure, either of fortune or misfortune, might sweep him
off his feet. It was at these times--Philip's face all excitement with
the telling--that Adam's penetrating eyes, searching into the inner
places, would find the hard, almost pitiless lines which he remembered
so well in the father's face repeated in the son's.

There was, however, one subject which swept these lines out of his
face. That was when Phil would speak of Madeleine, the rich banker's
daughter--Madeleine with her sunny eyes and merry laugh--"Only up to
my shoulder--such a dear girl!" Then there would break over the young
man's face that joyous, irradiating smile, that sudden sparkle of the
eye and quiver of the lip that had made his own mother's face so
enchanting. On these occasions the Street and all it stood for, as
well as books and everything else, was forgotten and Madeleine would
become the sole topic. These two influences struggled for mastery in
the young man's heart; influences unknown to Philip, but clear as
print to the eye of the thoughtful man of the world who, day by day,
read his companion's mind the clearer.

As to Madeleine no subject could be more congenial.

When a young fellow under thirty has found a sympathetic old fellow of
fifty to listen to talks of his sweetheart, and when that old fellow
of fifty has found a companion with a look in his eyes of the woman he
loved and who carries in his face something of the joy he knew in
youth, it is no wonder that these two became still greater friends, or
that Philip's tread outside Adam Gregg's door was always followed by a
quick beat of the painter's heart and a warm grasp of his hand.

One afternoon Philip came in with a spring quite different from either
his nervous walk or his more measured tread--his "bank director's
step" Adam used to call it with a smile. This time he was on his toes,
his hands in the air tossing the velvet curtains aside with a swing as
he sprang inside.

"Madeleine's home from the West!" he burst out. "Now at last you'll
see her, and you've got to paint her, too. Oh, she knows all about the
portrait and how you found it; and this studio and the blossoms you
love, and everything. My letters have been full of nothing else all
winter. She's crazy to see you."

"Not any more crazy than I am to see her," laughed Adam, with his hand
on the young man's shoulder.

And so one spring morning--all beautiful things came to him on spring
mornings, Adam told her--Madeleine pushed her pretty little head
between the velvet curtains and peered in, Phil close behind her, a
bunch of violets in his button-hole.

"This is dear Adam Gregg, Madeleine," was her lover's introduction,
"and there's nobody like him, and never will be."

The girl stopped, the overhead light falling on her dainty hat and
trim figure; her black eyes in comprehensive glance taking in Adam
standing against a hazy background of beautiful things with both hands
outstretched.

"And I am so glad to be here and to know you," she said, walking
straight towards him and laying her little hands in his.

"And so am I," answered Adam. "And I know everything about you. Phil
says you can ride like the wind, and dance so that your toes never
touch the floor, and that you----"

"Yes, and so do I know every single thing about you"--here she looked
at him critically--"and you--yes, you are just as I hoped you would
be. Phil's letters have had nothing else in them since you bewitched
him and I've just been wild to get home and have him bring me here.
What a lovely place! Isn't it wonderful, Phil?... And is that the
portrait? Oh! what a beautiful, beautiful woman!"

She had left Gregg now--before he had had time to say another word in
praise of her--and was standing under the picture, her eyes gazing
into its depths. Adam kept perfectly still, completely charmed by her
dainty joyousness. He felt as if some rare bird had flown in which
would be frightened away if he moved a hair's breadth. Phil stood
apart watching every expression that crossed her happy face. He had
been waiting weeks for this moment.

"You haven't her eyes or her hair, Phil," she continued without
turning her head, "but you look at me that way sometimes. I don't know
what it is--she's happy, and she's not happy. She loved
somebody--that's it, she _loved_ somebody and her eyes follow you
so--they seem alive--and the lips as if they could speak.

"And now, Mr. Gregg, please show me every one of these beautiful
things." She had already, with her quick intuition, seen through
Adam's personality at a glance, and found out how thoroughly she could
trust him.

He obeyed as gallantly and as cheerfully as if he had been her own
age, pulling open the drawers of the cabinets, taking out this curio
and that, lifting the lid of the old Venetian wedding-chest that she
might herself pry among the velvets and embroideries; she dropping on
her knees beside it with all the fluttering joy of a child who had
come suddenly upon a box of toys; Phil following them around the room
putting in a word here and there, reminding Adam of something he had
forgotten, or calling her attention to some object hidden in a shadow
that even her quick absorbing glance had overlooked.

Once more she stopped before the portrait, her eyes drinking in its
beauty.

"Don't you love it, Mr. Gregg?"

"Yes, but I'm going to give it to your--to Philip."

"Oh! you know! do you? Yes, just say it out. We _are_ going to be
married just as soon as we can--next October is the very latest date.
I told father we were tired of waiting and he has promised me; we
would have been married this spring but for that horrid copper mine
that the deeper you go the less copper----"

"Oh, but Madeleine," protested Philip with a sudden flush in his face,
"that was some time ago; everything's all right now."

"Well, I don't know much about it; I only repeated what father said."

He called his wife of guilt, which was well pleased, the young man to
see, they assured his father that he is equal, and regretted that it
because of the many strangers the night could not accommodate. The
business was clear and soon corrected; Wilhelm holds a roll of
gold in his pocket and wished that his other businesses also want to
go so easily. The hour of the show came up, we expected only the upper
forest, which eventually is concerned, with some hunters arrived, and
with the greatest veneration to receive .

The company was now led into the theater, what we had set up a barn,
which stood at the garden. Home theater were not strange taste, frisky
and like enough. One of the painters who worked at the factory, had at
the theater in the residence and had now gehandlangt forest, street
and room, admittedly somewhat crude, made out to. The piece had a
wandering troupe of borrowed and after their own way cut. As it was,
it amused. The intrigue that two lovers are a girl and her guardians
alternately to wrest himself, brought out all sorts of interesting
situations. It was the first piece that our friend after such a long
time was, he made some observations. It was full of action, but without
a true depiction of characters. It enjoyed and feasted.

Thus, the beginnings of all dramatic art.

The man is raw satisfied if he just does proceed, the educated will
feel, and thinking is only the very educated pleasant. He had the
actors here and there like nachgeholfen, because it lacked little,
they could have done much better . In his quiet reflections
bothered him the tobacco steam, always has been stronger and stronger.
The upper forest master had soon after the beginning of the play his
pipe alight, and gradually took several out this freedom.

Also, the big dogs this terrible Mr appearances. Man, she is locked
out, but they soon found the way to the back door in, ran to the theater,
ran against the actor, and finally joined by jumping over the
orchestra to their Lord, who took first place on the ground had
received.

As a game became a sacrifices. A portrait, which the old groom in
his dress presented, stood on an altar, with curtain rings. All the
actor paid homage to him in humility full positions. The youngest
child came, dressed in white, clear and gave a speech in verse,
so the whole family and even the upper forest master who is reminded
of his children, was moved to tears. Thus ends the piece, and William
could not fail to ascend to the theater, the actress in the
vicinity of IS, due to their game and commend them on the future
of some advice. The other operations of our friend, after
which he and in large and small mountain towns to perform, not all went
as happy as ever so happily. Some borrowers asked for postponement,
some were rude, some denied. Following his orders, he should sue
some he had to advocate attention, these instructions, before the
court and what the like sullen shops were even more.

Ebensoschlimm gave it to him, if he wanted to honor erzeigen. Only
few people, he found the could teach him some, a few with whom he
is a useful trading relationship was hoping to come.

Now also, unfortunately einfielen rainy days and a trip on horseback
in those areas associated with intolerable symptoms, so he thanked
the heavens when he is flat ground again approached and at the foot
of the mountains in a beautiful and fertile plain, in a gentle
stream the sun shines a cheerful country towns are seeing what he
had had no operations, but it is decided, a few days to linger
daselbst to himself and his horses, by the way very bad had suffered,
to give some rest.

II Book, 4 Chapter - 1 The fourth chapter, when he at an inn on
the market abtrat, it was very funny, very lively at least. A large
company Seiltänzer, Springer and jugglers, a strong man with him were
with wife and children and have made them at a public appearance,
giving a mischief on the other.

Soon they fought with the landlords, will soon be himself, and if
their quarrel was unfortunate, as were the remarks of her pleasure
quite unbearable.

Undecided whether he should stay or go, he stood at the gates and saw
the workers at the place on the scaffolding aufzuschlagen began. A
girl, the roses and other flowers herumtrug, offered him her basket,
and he bought a beautiful bouquet, which he tied with another hobby
and looked with satisfaction, as the window of a at the side of the
square is another restaurant that auftat and a well-educated woman
in the same room showed.

He could say whatever the distance that a pleasant serenity on her face
animated. Their blond hair fell carelessly around her neck broken,
it seemed to be governed by the strangers around.

Some time it was a boy, a Frisierschürze umgegürtet and a white
jacket anhatte from the door of that house, and went on to Wilhelmer,
welcomed him and said: "The Women's Room at the window lets you ask
if you are not a part of the beautiful Flowers ?"

--" want to assign you to stand with all services, "returned Wilhelm,
by the light messenger handed the bouquet while for Fine made a
compliment, which she greeted with a friendly Gegengruß said and
retreated from the window.

After thinking about like this adventure, he went to his room, the
stairs, as a young creature entgegensprang him, his attention is
attracted.

A short West Seidner Chen Spanish with slit sleeves, tight dresses
with long leg buffer were indeed the child-like.

Long black hair was in braids and curls around the head wound and
crimped.

He saw the figure with astonishment and could not agree with, whether
it for a boy or a girl should explain.

But he soon decided for the last and held on as they passed him, gave
him a good day and asked them whom they belong, even if he could
easily see that they are a link in the jumping and dancing society
must be .

With a sharp black look, she saw him, they differ from him losmachte
and ran into the kitchen without having to answer.

When he hinaufkam the stairs, he found wide vestibule on the two
men who are put in fencing, or rather their skill together seemed to
try.

One was apparently from the company, which was in the house, the
other had a less rugged look.

Wilhelm saw them and had caused them both to be admired, and as
long as it is not the schwarzbärtige, annoying Streiter left the
battlefield, provided the other with many like Wilhelmer to the
Rapier.

"If you are a student," returned this, "in want to take the lesson, I
am well pleased with you some passages to dare. "They fought
together, and although the arrival of strangers far superior, so
he was polite enough to insure that everything arrived on exercise,
and Wilhelm also had really shown that he used from a good and
thorough German fencing master had been.

Their entertainment was by the noise stopped, which the colorful society
Forth from the inn to the town from their drama to be notified and
their arts eager to make. followed by a reel of Entrepreneur on horseback
behind him a dancer on a similar skeleton, which a child is held
before, with bands and Flint was probably herausgeputzt. Then came
the rest of troops on foot, some on their shoulders children, adventurous
positions, easy and convenient dahertrugen under which the young,
schwarzköpfige, dark shape Wilhelms attracted attention anew.

Pagliasso ran under the andringenden quantity funny back and forth and
announced understood very fun, he quickly kissed a girl, a
boy soon pritschte, his label, and gave the nation an insurmountable
desire, to know him more.

In the print ads were the varied arts of society, especially one
Monsieur and Narcissus the Demoiselle Landrinette edited which
both main characters had had the wisdom to turn away from the course
to be included, thus an elegant look and to give more to awaken
curiosity.

While the train was also the beautiful neighbor back to the window, and
Wilhelm had not failed to register with his partner to inquire
after her.

That which we call the meantime Laertes want to be offered, Wilhelm
over to her to accompany. "I and the women's room," he said smiling,
"are a few ruins of a society actors that have recently failed here.

The charm of the place has prompted a few times here to stay and a few
collected our cash to eat in peace, However, a friend is extended, a
child coming for you and we are looking for. "Laertes immediately
escorted to his new friend Philine door, where he for a moment stehenließ
to a nearby shop to get the sugar factory. "They will certainly be
thanking me," he said, he came back, "that I know you like it gave."
The Women's Room came to them on a pair of light slippers with
high heels from the bar challenged.

She had a black on a white Mantille Neglige thrown, which, precisely
because it was not quite clean, has a handsome and comfortable
home there, and their short Röckchen had the prettiest feet of the
world to see.

"He let me welcome!" Wilhelmer called them to, "and take you to express
my thanks for the beautiful flowers."

They took him with one hand into the room by the other with the
ostrich on the chest pressed.

When they had settled in and were just indifferent talks, which
it has a delightful twist to knew poured her Laertes burned almonds
in the womb from which they immediately began to nibble.
"Sehn you, what a child this young man is!" she exclaimed, "it is you
want to talk about that I am a great friend of such Näschereien was,
and he is the man can not live without something delicious to enjoy."
"Let's just gestehn" transferees Laertes, " that we are here, as in
several, mutually happy society. For example, "he said," there is
now a very beautiful day, I dächte, we lead a walk and deprive our
lunch at the mill right ."--" happy " , Philine said, "we have our
new friend make a small change."

Laertes jumped away, because he never went, and William wanted to go
home for a moment, to his hair, the trip still looked confused, in
order to leave. "You can do this!" said she cried her little servant,
urged the Wilhelmer like manner, his coat off, the powder coat
them and in their hair to be present.

"One must not waste time so missed," said she, "you do not know how
long we remain together. "The boy, more defiant and unwilling as
clumsy behaved not the best, raufte Wilhelm and as soon seemed not
to want to be ready.

Philine referred to him several times his bad habit, pushed him
across impatient and finally chased him out the door. Now they even
took the effort and curls the hair of our friend with great ease and
delicacy, if they do not like to rush this and soon appeared, and soon
that their work had to be suspended by it could not be avoided, with
his knees on the touching breasts and ostrich and so close to his
lips to make it more than once every temptation that was a kiss to
be pressing. As Wilhelm powder with a small knife had cleaned his
forehead, she said to him: "Put it on and I remember you there. "It was
a knife-like, the handle of pickled steel showed the kind words:"
Does my ". Wilhelm put it to himself, thanked her and asked for
permission to her a small gift counter failing to do so. Well, it
was finished. Laertes had brought the coach, and now began a very
fun ride.

Philine threw every poor, they anbettelte something to stroke out, by
giving him both a lively and friendly word zurief. They had
hardly arrived at the mill and had ordered a meal, as a musical
in front of the home itself had heard. There were miners, the zither
and triangle with a lively and vibrant voices like different songs
vortrugen. It was not long, it had a lot herbeiströmende a circle
around it is closed, and the society they nodded their applause
from the windows. When they seen this attention, they expanded their
circle and seemed to prepare for their most important pieces. After
a pause, a miner with a pickaxe, and pointed out, however, the
other a serious tune played, the act of prospecting before.

It was not long, it took a farmer from the crowd and gave that mime
threatening to understand that he is from here hinwegbegeben should.

The company was also surprised, and knew only the peasant clad in a
miner when he auftat the mouth and in a kind of recitative others
scolded, that he ventured on his farm to handle.

That came not from the text, but began to land the man to teach, that
he had legally, here indicated, and gave him the first notions of
mining.

The farmer, the foreign terminology did not understand, did all sorts
of silly questions, what the viewers who are wiser felt a warm
laughter aufschlugen. The miner was looking to report to him and showed
him the advantage of also flows to him, if the underground treasures
of the country would herausgewühlt.

The farmer, the first that was threatened with beatings, had gradually
pacify, and they left each other as good friends, but especially the
miners moved on from this kind honorabelste disputes.

"We have," Wilhelm said at table, "at this little dialogue, the liveliest
example of how useful all stands the theater could be, how many benefits
the state itself would have to draw when the acts, and industrial
enterprises of the people of their good, worthy of praise in the side
and points to the Theater would, from the state which they themselves
must honor and protect.

Now we are only the ridiculous side of the humans, the comedy writer
is almost gloating just a controller, based on the errors of his
fellow citizens over a watchful eye, and seems to be happy if he can
attach them one. If it is not a pleasant and decent work for a
country man, the natural, reciprocal influence of all the stands to
watch and a poet who would have enough humor in his work to manage?
I am convinced it could in this way some very entertaining, yet useful
and fun pieces to be invented. "" As far as I am, "said Laertes,"
anywhere where I'm herumgeschwärmt, may have noted, is known only
to prohibit, prevent and reject rare but , and, to promote and
reward.

It makes everything in the world go, until it is harmful, then
angry, and we propose Dreiner. "" Let the State and the State
people away, "said Philine," I can not unlike wigs imagine, and a
wig, she may wear it, because who wants to excite in my fingers
like a convulsive motion, I would like to be equal to the venerable
Lord down, jump around in the room and laugh at the bald head.

"With a few lively songs which they are very nice vortrug, Philine cut
the call and drove to a fast return, so that the arts of Acrobat on
evenings do not wish to miss. Droll to frolic, they continued their
generosity to the poor at home continues, they last, because her and
her traveling companions the money out, a girl her straw hat
and an old woman, her scarf to stroke hinauswarf. Philine companion
invited both to himself in their home, because, as she said, from their
windows, the public spectacle better than the others could see inn.
When they arrived, they found the skeleton and added the background
adorned with hanging carpets.

The momentum boards were already laid, which Schlappseil attached to
the pole and the rope tight on bucks withdrawn. The place was pretty
filled with people and the windows with some kind of audience reception.
Pagliaß prepared the first meeting with some silly, what the viewers
to laugh always maintain the attention and good humor before.
Some children, whose bodies were the strangest contortions which,
soon attracted admiration, sometimes horror, and Wilhelm was aware
of the deep pity not included, as the child in which he participated
at the first sights, the trouble with some weird positions saw spawn.
But soon the funny Springer excited a lively pleasure, if only singly,
then one after another and finally all together, forward and backward
in the air überschlugen. A loud clapping and cheer yell from across
the Assembly. But now the attention was on a whole other subject
turned. The children, one after another, had to enter the rope, and the
first trainees to enable them through their exercises, the prolonged
drama and difficulty of art put into the light.

There were also some men and woman adult persons with reasonable skill
alone it was not Monsieur Narziß not yet Demoiselle Landrinette.
Finally came also from a kind of tent aufgespannten behind red
curtains, and met with their pleasant shape and the delicate plaster
hitherto happily nourished hope the viewers. He desires a lively
stripling of medium size, black eyes and a strong braid of hair, they
are not less well-educated and strong, both were one after another on
the ropes with slight movements, jumps and a strange posture. Its
lightness, its boldness, accuracy, bringing both their feats said,
increased with each step and skip the general enjoyment.

The decency, so they were the apparent efforts of others around them
gave them the look, as if they are Lord and master of the whole
force would be, and everyone considered it worthy of any rank.
The enthusiasm of the people divided the spectators at the windows
with, the ladies looked after unrelated daffodils, the Lords after
Landrinetten.

The people jauchzte, and the finer the audience is not contained in
the clapping, that we hardly even on Pagliassen laughed.
Young Eggleston reached his desk a few minutes after his father. His
dress was as costly as his progenitor's, but a trifle more insistent.
The waistcoat was speckled with red; the scarf a brilliant scarlet
decorated with a horseshoe set in diamonds, and the shoes patent
leather. He was one size smaller than his father and had one-tenth of
his brains. With regard to every other measurement, however, there was
not the slightest doubt but that in a few years he would equal his
distinguished father's outlines, a fact already discernible in his
middle distance. In looking around for the missing nine-tenths of gray
matter his father had found it under Philip Colton's hat, and the
formation of the firm, with himself as special and his son as junior,
had been the result.

At half-past ten Mr. Eggleston began to be nervous. Every now and then
he would walk out into the main office, interview one of the clerks as
to his knowledge of Phil's whereabouts and return again to his private
office, where he occupied himself drumming on the desk with the end of
his gold pencil, and watching the clock. The junior had no such
misgivings--none of any kind. He had a game of polo that afternoon at
three, and was chiefly concerned lest the day's work might intervene.
The signing of similar papers had once kept him at the office until
five.

At eleven o'clock a messenger with a bank-book fastened to his waist
by a steel chain, brought a message. "The treasurer of the Seaboard,
with the company's attorney, would be at Mr. Eggleston's office," the
message read, "in half an hour, to sign the papers. Would he be sure
to have Mr. Philip Colton present." (The special's social and
financial position earned him this courtesy; most of the other
magnates had to go to the trust company to culminate such
transactions.)

The character of the message and Philip's continued delay only
increased Mr. Eggleston's uneasiness. The stock clerk was called in,
as well as one of the book-keepers. "What word, if any, had Mr. Colton
given the night before?" he asked impatiently. "What hour did he leave
the office? Did any one know of any business which could have detained
him? had any telegram been received and mislaid?"--the sum of the
replies being that neither word, letter nor telegram had been
received, to which was added the proffered information that judging
from Mr. Colton's instructions the night before that gentleman must
certainly be ill or he would have "showed up" before this.

A few minutes before half-past eleven the treasurer and his attorney
were shown into the firm's office, the former a man of sixty, with a
cold, smooth-shaven face, ferret eyes and thin, straight lips, thin as
the edges of a tight-shut clam, and as bloodless. He was dressed in
black and wore a white necktie which gave him a certain ministerial
air. His companion, the attorney, was younger and warmer looking, and
a trifle stouter, with bushy gray locks under his hat brim, and bushy
gray side-whiskers under two red ears that lay flat against his head.
He was anything but ministerial, either in deportment or language.
What he didn't know about corporation law wouldn't have been of the
slightest value to anybody--not even to a would-be attorney passing an
examination. Both men were short in their speech and incisively
polite, with a quick step-in and step-out air about them which showed
how thoroughly they had been trained in the school of Street
courtesy--the wasting of a minute of each other's valuable time being
the unpardonable sin.

"Glad to see you, Mr. Eggleston," exclaimed the treasurer, with one
finger extended, into which the special hooked his own. The official
did not see the junior partner; he dealt only with principals.

"Our attorney," he continued, nodding to his companion, "has got the
papers. Are you all ready? Where is Mr. Colton?" and he looked around.

"I'm expecting him every minute," replied the special in a nervous
tone; "but we can get along without him. My son is here to sign for
the firm."

"No, we can't get along. I want him. I have some questions to ask him;
these are President Stockton's directions."

Before Eggleston could reply the door of the private office was thrust
open and Philip stepped in.

Mr. Eggleston sprang from his chair, and a combination smile showing
urbanity, apology, and contentment, now that Phil had arrived,
overspread his features.

"We had begun to think you were ill, Colton," he said in a relieved
tone. "Anything the matter?"

"No, I stopped to see Mr. Gregg. I am on time, I believe, gentlemen,
half-past eleven, wasn't it?" and he consulted his watch. There was a
peculiar tremor in Phil's voice that made his prospective
father-in-law fasten his eyes upon him as if to learn the cause.
Colton looked as if he had been awake all night; he was pale, but
otherwise he was himself.

"Yes, you are on the minute," exclaimed the treasurer, picking up the
bundle of papers and loosening the tape that bound them together. "You
have just returned from the property, we hear. What do you think of
it?"

"We have the certificate of the mining engineer," interrupted Mr.
Eggleston in a bland tone, regaining his seat.

"Yes, I have it here," the treasurer answered, tapping the bundle of
papers. "It is your personal opinion, Mr. Colton, that we want. The
president insists upon this; he has a reason for it."

Colton stepped nearer and looked the treasurer square in the eyes.

"My personal opinion, sir," he answered in clear-cut tones, "is that
the deposit is practically exhausted. I came here to tell you so. The
engineer's report is, I think, too highly colored."

Both father and son started forward in their chairs, their eyes
glaring at Philip. They could hardly believe their senses.

"What!" burst out Mr. Eggleston--"you don't mean to say that----"

"One moment, please," interrupted the treasurer, with an impatient
wave of his hand towards Eggleston: "Do you think, Mr. Colton, that
the issue had better be deferred?"

"I do. Certainly until the mine makes a better showing."

Again Mr. Eggleston tried to interrupt and again he was waved into
silence.

"When did you arrive at this conclusion?"

"This morning. I thought differently yesterday, but I have changed my
mind. So much so that it would be impossible for me to go on with this
loan."

"Shall I take that message to the president?"

"Yes. If I have any cause to change my opinion I'll let him know. But
it is not likely I will--I'm sorry to have given you all this
trouble."

"Thank you," said the trust company's representative, rising from his
chair and extending his hand to Philip. "I might as well tell you that
we have heard similar reports and our president felt sure that you
would give him the facts. He has great confidence in you, Mr. Colton.
If he authorizes me to sign the papers after what you have said to me
I'll be back here in a few moments. Good-day, sir!" and with a grim
smile lighting his face, the treasurer nodded himself out.

Eggleston waited until the trust company's attorney had gathered up
his papers and had closed the door behind him--a mere matter of
routine with him; almost every day a transaction of this kind was
either deferred or culminated--then he swung himself around in his
revolving chair, his cheeks purple with rage, and faced Philip.

"Well, sir! what do you think of the mess you've made of this
morning's business! Do you for one instant suppose that Stockton will
go on with this deal after what you have told him?"

"If he did, sir, it would not be with my consent," answered Philip
coldly.

"Your consent! _Your consent!_ What do you know about it? Did you ever
mine a pound of copper in your life? Did you ever see a pound mined
until you made this last trip? And yet you have the effrontery to set
yourself up as an expert against one of the best men in his
profession! Do you not know that you have made not only the firm but
me ridiculous, by your stupid vacillation--and with the Seaboard, of
all trust companies! Why didn't you find out all this before you
brought these people down here?"

"It is never too late to be honest, sir."

"What do you mean by that!" snapped Eggleston.

"I mean just what I say." Philip's voice was without a tremor, low,
forceful and decisive. "The floating of these bonds on the present
condition of the mines would have been a fraud. I didn't see it in
that way at first, but I do see it now. It is done every day in the
Street, I grant you, but it will never be done again with my consent
so long as I am a member of this firm!"

Eggleston's lip curled. "You seem to have grown singularly honest
overnight, Mr. Colton," he sneered. "According to your ideas Bates,
Rankin & Co. were frauds when they floated the Imperial, and so were
Porter & King when they sold out the Morningside for two millions of
dollars."

"None of them are paying, sir, and it was dishonorable to float the
bonds." The same morning, and staying all day and not walk.
Day 30. Dawned clear, so we continue the march.

At nine we arrived at the foot of the mountains, having gone four
leagues: we observe, and S are in the latitude of 38 degrees 35
minutes; Two miles before reaching this site are good and fertile
pastures, a sign outside the bathed, as explained in the following
note: _NOTA_ .-- Part of the ground we walked from _Monton of
Huesos_ up to 6 miles before reaching the mountains, have found
some pieces of washed, but no consideration, and say the smart time
of ground water that is impassable for the short notice of the
mountains with the city.

At three p.m. recognize we went to the summit and saw the first
circunferiencia and Midway gave us a great downpour, so we pulled it.
Day 1. st December. The occasion to advance the Commission, lay down
(as they always did), divide the two to make recognition of the Volcan
Mountains, and one of the coast, which was reduced and the Jesuits.

The former, having succeeded, they seem here to stay on purpose, to
find good pasture, hills and large good and abundant water flows. If
people want can be done anywhere, separated from the mountains,
because in the vicinity there are large and rugged hills and valleys
with no field, where the youngest of them so deep, can hide the
number of flood of people without being seen or felt half a league.

The principal saw the volcano was recorded by the summit and its
circumference: elevation is 200 yards, is quite rough for being
full of rocks, whose cause is impassable to horse, just for the
entry that shows the plane.

Its summit is good for pasture, being flat and departures: the
recognition that we, in the others taking the same name, are the
inputs and outputs with their distances in everything we have
found no recorded road or path of Indians . Day 2. At four in the
afternoon reached the pilot of the coast, and having considered the
three and a ground, if we agree to love people, be the best place
where the Jesuits had the reduction, which is the ESE the Sierra del
Volcan, 7 miles away: achieve the benefits of good field for
planting, and stays with good and abundant water.

Also a mountain of peaches, and some pieces of its surrounding mountain
of elderberries and Chisco: but that whole area is so helpless as
before. Since this reduction to the coast, three leagues, and its
shores have seen plenty of sea lions. Day 3. At six o'clock we continued
the march of the N saws, and distance of a league, to go see him
and other circumstances. At twelve we stopped at a little stream of
water and poor, which leaves the hills: walked 10 miles by the
course of the fourth OR NOT, whose distance is going up and down
some big hills and gentle, but his tired horse repecho .

The three gave us a great squalls of heavy water and stone as nuts,
which was dreadful and shoot the horses: the seven ceased.

Day 4. At half past six remain, costs, and doing the same steps that
yesterday, until half past eleven it stopped at a small stream, having
walked nine miles on the course of the NO: some are good pastures and
streams well, look at the latitude 37 degrees 57 minutes.

The three continued the march, and the four stopped at another creek
in the same circumstances.

Walked a league for the same course, and at this distance are two
streams with little water, going to the NE. The pastures have been good,
and prove to be permanent in dry time, having seen the parties in
open ground, and all the high grass, green and fertile.

Day 5. At six we continue the march until we did the twelve high in
a little water and stream flow: walked nine miles on the course of NO
observed at 37 degrees 44 minutes.

       This land comprises the majority of bathing, and other great hills
and valleys, the pastures have been few, have two pilots and start
walking down the valleys, the pastures are few.

Between these hills have considered everything, and they say have
entered and exited where wanted, and turned over many lands. Day 6.
At half past six we continue the march, and the two pilots as their
day, until two in the afternoon we stopped at the Arroyo de la Tinta,
having walked 10 miles in the direction of ONO: grasses are very
few, only in the immediacy of this stream, which are fertile and
abundant.

At five in the afternoon arrived in the post Sergeant Major D. Bernardo
Lalinde, who goes to the Sierra de la Tinta with his people: pilots
get their recognition, and have seen and done the same thing as
yesterday.

You'll find my check-book in that desk at your elbow. I'll sign as
many checks in blank as you want and you can fill them up at your
leisure. We'll fight this thing out together and we'll win. Madeleine
stop loving you! I'll stake my head she won't!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Events move with great rapidity in the Street. When a tin case the
size of a candle-box can be brought in by two men and a million of
property dumped out on a table, an immediate accounting of assets is
not difficult. Once their value is fixed by the referee they can be
dealt to those interested as easily as a pack of cards.

By noon of the following day not only did the firm of Philip Colton &
Co. know exactly where they stood, but so did every one of the firm's
creditors: Seventy per cent cash and thirty per cent in sixty days was
the settlement. All their outside stocks had been closed out under the
rule. Philip's thorough business methods and the simplicity and
clearness with which his books had been kept made such an adjustment
not only possible, but easy. There are carved espingarderos in office.
Espingarda had a short barrel with flared mouth, subject to long
wooden box. Cargábase stick with carrying gunpowder in bulk and
bottled iron bullets in bag.
His father gave him the money; it helped the family
credit.

So far not a word had come from Madeleine. Philip had rung the bell of
the Eggleston mansion three times since that fatal morning and had
been told by the butler in frigid tones that Miss Eggleston "was not
at home." None of his notes were answered. That so sensible a girl as
Madeleine, one whose whole nature was frankness and love, could be so
cruel and so unjust was a disappointment more bitter than the failure.

"She has been lied to by somebody," broke out Philip as he paced up
and down Adam's studio, "or she is locked up where nothing can reach
her. All my notes come back unopened; the last redirected by Mr.
Eggleston himself. Neither he nor his son has been to the office
since the settlement. They leave me to sweep up after them--dirty
piece of business. Will there be any use in your seeing Mr.
Eggleston?"

Adam looked into space for a moment.

He had never met the senior. He had, out of deference to Phil, and
contrary to his habitual custom, given him preference over his other
sitters, but Eggleston had not kept his appointment and Gregg had
postponed the painting of the portrait until the following season.
Phil had made excuses, but Adam had only smiled and with the
remark--"Time enough next winter," had changed the subject.

"No. Let a young girl manage her own affairs," Adam answered in a
decided tone, "especially a girl like Madeleine." He had seen too much
misery from interfering with a young girl's heart.

"What do you advise then?"

"To let the storm blow over," Adam replied firmly.

"But you've said that for a week and I am no better off. I can't stand
it much longer, Old Gentleman. I _must_ see Madeleine, I tell you.
What can you do to help? Now--not to-morrow or next week?"

"Nothing that would be wise."

"But you promised me to go and see her the afternoon we went to
smash."

"So I did, and I'll go if you wish me to."

"When?"

"To-morrow morning. It is against my judgment to do anything until you
hear from her. A woman always finds the way. Madeleine is no
exception. Wilhelm had been the loss Marianas all frisky colors
stored.

He had the gray, the clothes of the shadow, used, and only about a
sky-blue lining and a small collar of this color enlivened somewhat
quiet those clothes. Mignon, eager to contribute to its color,
drove the tailor, in recent work to deliver promised.

       The sword dance and hours that our friend today with Laertes adopted,
would not the best succeed.

Also, they were soon replaced by Melinas arrival interrupted the awkward
showed how a small company that together with what you already
have enough pieces could perform.

He renewed his request that Wilhelm etablissement much money should
stretch, but this again showed his indecision.

Philine and the girls were soon laughing and with this noise inside.
They had again a ride out, because changing the place and the
property was a pleasure, after which she always yearned.

Every day at a different places to eat was her highest desire. This
should be a water ride.

The ship, which they mean curvatures of the pleasant river hinunterfahren
wanted was already ordered by the Pedant. Philine drove the company
zauderte not and was soon embarked. "What do we now?" Philine said
by all the banks were established. "The shortest would be" staggered
Laertes, "we extemporaneous a piece. Take any a role that his
character is most appropriate, and we want to see how we succeed."
"Fürtrefflich!" Wilhelm said, "because in a society in which there
is no movement, in which each item is only its meaning, grace and
satisfaction can not long live, and where one is always adjusted,
so they do not.

So it is not bad done, we'll give us the same control from the outset
and are then under the mask so sincerely, as we want. "" Yes, "said
Laertes," that is why it's so nice that with women, which never in
their natural shape see leave. "" That makes, "returned Madame
Melina," that they are not so vain as those men who imagine that
they were always gracious enough, as nature has produced.

"However, it was pleasant between bushes and hills between gardens
and vineyards hingefahren and the young woman room, but especially
Madame Melina, expressed her delight about the area from.

Letztre even began, a poem like the descriptive genus have a similar
nature scene solemnly herzusagen; Philine broke in alone and beat
it against a law that nobody should start at, from an inanimate
objects to speak, they put a lot more to the proposal of extemporaneous
comedy with zeal by.

The Old polternde should be a retired officer, Laertes vazierenden a
fencing master who Pedant a Jew imagine that they themselves want
a Tyrolean and left the rest, their roles should be selected.

It should be fake, as if a foreign company the world people are just
in a market ships zusammenkomme.

She began immediately with the Jews to play their role, and a general
merriment spread. It was not long there when the Schifferstadt
stillehielt, with permission of the company or einzunehmen someone
who stood on the shore and had gewinkt. "That is still what we needed,"
said Philine, a stowaway was still missing the travel company.

"wohlgebildeter A man climbed into the ship, the man on his clothes
and his venerable countenance well for a clergyman would take. He
welcomed the Society to him after their manner, and thanked him with
her joke soon made known.

He took on the role of a country clergyman, which he to the astonishment
of all like to enforce, he cautioned soon, soon Histörchen
told some pages look weak and had yet to receive in respect knew.

Her father, no doubt, would soon see things
differently, for success was the foot-rule by which he measured a
man, and Phil, with his energy and honesty, would gain this in time.
Phil must wait. Everything would come right once the boy got on his
legs again. The failure had in every way been an honest one. In this
connection he recalled the remark of a visitor who had dropped into
the studio the day before and who in discussing the failure had said
in the crisp vernacular of the Street: "Bitten off more than they
could chew, but square as a brick." It was an expression new to him
but he had caught its meaning. That his fellow-brokers had this
opinion of Philip meant half the battle won. Men who by a lift of
their fingers lose or make fortunes in a din that drowns their voices,
and who never lie or crawl, no matter what the consequences, have only
contempt for a man who hides his wallet. "Hands out and everything
you've got on the table," is their creed. This done their pockets are
wide open and every hand raised to help the other fellow to his feet.

All these thoughts raced through Adam's head as he continued to pace
the floor. Now and then he would stop in his walk and look intently at
some figure in the costly rug beneath his feet, as if the solution of
his problem lay in its richly colored surface. Two questions recurred
again and again: What could he do to help? and how could he get hold
of Madeleine?

As the hours wore on he became more restless. Early that
morning--before he had gone to Madeleine's--his brush, spurred by his
hopes, had worked as if it had been inspired. Not only had the
sitter's head been blocked in with masterly strokes, but with such
fulness and power that few of them need ever be retouched--a part of
his heart, in fact, had gone into the blending of every flesh tone.
But it was all over now; his enthusiasm and sureness had fled. In
fact, he had, on his return, dropped his brushes into his ginger-jar
for his servant to clean, and given up painting for the day.

Soon he began fussing about his studio, looking over a portfolio for a
pose he needed; replacing some books in his library; adding fresh
water to the roses that stood under Olivia's portrait--gazing up into
its eyes as if some help could be found in their depths--his
uneasiness increasing every moment as the hour of Phil's return
approached.

At the sound of a quick step in the corridor--how well he knew the
young man's tread--he threw open the door and pushed aside the velvet
curtain. Better welcome the poor fellow with a smile and a cheery
word.

"Come in, Phil!" he cried--"Come--_Why, Madeleine!_"

She stood just outside the door, a heavy brown veil tied over her hat,
her trim figure half concealed by a long cloak. For an instant she did
not speak, nor did she move.

"Yes, it's I, Mr. Gregg," she sobbed. "Are you sure there's nobody
with you? Oh, I'm so wretched! I had to come: Please let me talk to
you. Father told me you had been to see me. He was furious when you
went away, and I know how he must have behaved to you." She seemed
completely prostrated. Buoyant temperaments pendulate in extremes.

He had drawn her inside now, his arms about her, holding her erect as
he led her to a seat with the same tenderness of voice and manner he
would have shown his own daughter.

"You poor, dear child!" he cried at last. "Now tell me about it. You
know how I love you both."

"Oh, Mr. Gregg, it is so dreadful!" she moaned in piteous tone as she
sank upon the cushions of the divan, Adam sitting beside her, her hand
tight clasped in his own. "I didn't think Phil would bring all this
trouble on us. I would forgive him anything but the way in which he
deceived papa. He knew there was no copper in the mine, and he kept
saying there was, and went right on speculating and using up
everything they had, and then when it was all to be found out he
turned coward and ruined everybody--and broke my heart! Oh, the
cruel--cruel--" and again she hid her face in the cushions.

"What would you think, little girl, if I told you that I advised him
to do it?" he pleaded as he patted her shoulder to quiet her.

"You couldn't do it!" Madeleine burst out in an incredulous tone,
raising herself on her elbow to look the better into his eyes. "You
_wouldn't_ do it! You are too kind."

"But I did--as much for your sake and your father's and brother's as
for his own. All the firm has lost so far is money. On 18 October
1772. At four in the afternoon we took the exit: stop at six in
the Chaca D. Piège Juan Flores, the way we did two leagues.

On day 20 we reached the town of Lujan, having walked 12 miles: we
see this post, and is in latitude 34 degrees S to 28 minutes. Day 23.
We arrived at the Leaping Guard, having walked 26-1/2 leagues: here
we see the S of latitude 34 degrees 35 minutes. The 24th record
your stream as much as we could, and found its way to the east, with
some violence, and higher in some parag reason of unequal depth,
this being part of one and a half rods to the foot: about their water
is brackish, and other thick, cloudy and usual for cattle.

Its origin, they say, is emerging from several creeks, and their
background in more marshy, and its rocky shores quantity portion of
springs in it, with good water for the inhabitants. When there is
flooding, as we reported, the stream grows more than four sticks, and
leaves the drawers or gullies. Day 26. At eight went Leaping, preserved
by Captain D. Juan Antonio Hernandez, who said it followed the destination
Melincué. We came to stop at the lagoon of Salted, having walked 6
miles at the direction of O. We recognized the water that is brackish,
clear, and accidental in its shore are springs, making it more
true that a stream of men going out with the N: is marshy and low
background.

Day 27. At four o'clock we continued the march to the eleven to
observe. Egecutó is at latitude 34 degrees S to 16 minutes. The
three remain the same until half past five that we stopped at two
accidental Lagunita: walked 14 miles in the direction of the
fourth OR NOT: In this area we saw the grass regularly. Day 28. At
half past twelve we continue the march until six in the afternoon
we did in the high trees around creek Chañares callers.

We made 20 miles by road from the direction of NO, and consists of
equal number of grass and Lagunita accidental.

This is good ground for sowing by Lomitas comprise soft. Day 29. We
arrived at the post Melincué, having walked four miles in the direction
of N.

From this point on a distance of half the league is not a big
loophole that takes the name of this place: the acknowledged turning
his water are unfit for animals because Salitroso very little
substance and swampy.

We could not observe or do not allow other steps by several squalls
of wind and water.

Day 30.

Raise the level of Melincué in which the discripcion find this spot,
we could not observe. Day 31. S observed in the latitude of 33 degrees
36 minutes. At quarter past four we began the march to the Cerrito
Colorado.

A few stopped in the six girls accidental gaps, walked three miles
at the direction of S SE quarter.

The ground and grass are as before. Day 1. St November.

At three o'clock the march to continue to observe the eleven, and found
the latitude 34 degrees 9 minutes. The four continued the march to the
six and three quarters, which stopped at two Lagunita accidental:
we made 12 miles progress in the direction of SSE.

What had
evidently hurt the banker most was the wounding of his pride. He had
always stood well with Mr. Stockton--must continue to do so when he
realized how many of his other interests depended on his good-will and
the trust company's assistance. Phil had not told Adam this when he
went over the scene in the office the morning they closed up the
accounts, but Gregg had read between the lines. The one bright ray of
sunshine was Madeleine's refusal to break her word to her father. That
pleased him most of all.

A knock at the door interrupted his revery. It did not sound like
Phil's, but Adam had been deceived once before and he hurried to meet
him.

This time a messenger stood outside.

"A note for Mr. Adam Gregg," he said. "Are you the man?"

Adam receipted the slip, dismissed the boy and stepped to the middle
of the room under the skylight to see the better. It was from Phil.

     "I cannot reach you until late. Have just received a note
     from the Seaboard Trust Company saying Mr. Stockton wants to
     see me. More trouble for P. C. & Co., I guess. Hope for good
     news from Madeleine."

This last note filled his mind with a certain undefined uneasiness.
What fresh trouble had arisen? Had some other securities on which
money had been loaned--made prior to Phil's awakening--been found
wanting in value? He hoped the boy's past wasn't going to hurt him.

With this new anxiety filling his mind he laid down his brushes--he
had not yet touched his canvas--put on his hat and strode out into the
street. A breath of fresh air would clear his head--it always did.

For two hours he walked the pavements--up through the Park; out along
the edge of the river and back again. With every step there came to
him the realization of the parallels existing between his own life's
romance and that of Philip's. Some of these were mere creations of his
brain; others--especially those which ended in the sacrifice of a
man's career for what he considered to be right--had a certain basis
of fact. Then a shiver crept over him: For honor he had lost the woman
he loved: Was Phil to tread the same weary path and for the same
cause? And if fate should be thus cruel would he and Madeleine forget
in time and lead their lives anew and apart, or would their souls cry
out in anguish as his had done all these years, each day bringing a
new longing and each day a new pain: he in all the vigor of his
manhood and the full flower of his accomplishment and still alone and
desolate.

With these reflections, none of them logical--but all showing the
perturbed condition of his mind and his anxiety for those he loved, he
mounted the stairs of the building and pushed open the door of his
studio.

It had grown quite dark and the studio was filled with shadows. It is
believed that the lift developed by navigation of the cross is the
Cross which was imposed in the East. Zamorano and called _mortero_ á
cylindrical wooden box containing the pink _por have to make a big
escudilla_, recommends that if the needle is tilted is placed on the
opposite side a little bit of wax or a thin sheet of lead, and
made the instrument, called _aguja of marear_, sit in the stern,
where the log is on the line passing from the bowsprit through the
center of the increased mast.

Suddenly he stopped and swept his eyes rapidly around the room. Some
one beside himself was present. He had caught the sound of a slight
movement and the murmur of whispering voices. Then a low, rippling
laugh fell upon his ears--the notes of a bird singing in the dark, and
the next instant Madeleine sprang from behind a screen where she had
been hiding and threw her arms around his neck.

"Guess!" she cried, pressing his ruddy cheeks, fresh from his walk,
between her tiny palms. "Guess what's happened! Quick!"

The revulsion was so great that for the moment he lost his breath.

"No! you couldn't guess! Nobody could. Oh, I'm so happy!
_Father's--made--it--up--with--Phil!_"

"Made it up! How do you know?" he stammered.

"Phil's just left him. Come out, Phil!"

Phil's head now peered from behind the screen.

"What do you think of that, Old Gentleman?" he cried, clasping Adam's
outstretched hand.

"And there isn't any trouble, Phil, over Mr. Stockton's note?"
exclaimed Gregg in a joyous but baffled tone of voice: he was still
completely at sea over the situation.

"Trouble over what?" asked Phil, equally mystified.

"That's what I want to know. You wrote me that it meant more trouble
for your firm."

"Yes, but that was before I had seen Mr. Stockton. Then I ran across
Mr. Eggleston just as he was coming out of the trust company, and he
sent me to Madeleine--and we couldn't get here quick enough. She beat
me running up your stairs. Hasn't she told you? And you don't know
about Stockton's letter? No! Why, he has offered me the position of
head of the bond department of the trust company at a salary of ten
thousand a year, and I go to work to-morrow! Here's his letter. Let me
read you the last clause:"

"No, let me," cried Madeleine, reaching for the envelope.

[Illustration: "It is all her doing, Phil."]

At three o'clock we walked, and at eleven o'clock we arrived at the
Rio de las Flores, where he was camped Sergeant Major D.

Bernardo Lalinde: walked 10 miles in the course of the quarter E SE:
S look at latitude 35 degrees 20 minutes. This trail consists of large
plains, with some gentle hills, grass just to the river, and not
others and espartillo pajonal: many gaps are large, but completely
dry.

Day 15. This whole day was kept raining, so it could not make the
recognition of this post and its river. Day 16.

Dawned clear and we had the recognition that, to raise their level
as found in rivers and his explanation.

Day 17. At seven o'clock we started the march to go to the site of
Camarones: at twelve and a half was high (having passed the Salado
to ten), walk 8 miles in the direction of ESE, which are ground
bathed in parts, in other pajonal, and what other good pasture.

Day 18. At six we continue the march, at ten we stopped in a small pond
accident walked 6 miles at the direction of SE, we observed at 35
degrees 38 minutes S.

At three o'clock in the afternoon we continued the march until five
o'clock, which stopped at the Arroyo del Comandante, which is small.
Walked 4 miles at the direction of E. The terrain of this day consists
of large plains, rich fertile pastures, and many accidental Lagunita.
Day 19.

THE END




TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE:

Minor changes have been made to correct typesetters' errors; otherwise,
every effort has been made to remain true to the author's words and
intent.