Produced by An Anonymous Volunteeer


GREYFRIARS BOBBY

By Eleanor Atkinson


I.

When the time-gun boomed from Edinburgh Castle, Bobby gave a startled
yelp. He was only a little country dog--the very youngest and smallest
and shaggiest of Skye terriers--bred on a heathery slope of the Pentland
hills, where the loudest sound was the bark of a collie or the tinkle
of a sheep-bell. Macready at a farewell banquet given in his honor, London,
March 1, 1851, on the occasion of his retirement from the stage. Sir
Edward Bulwer-Lytton acted as chairman. He said:
"Gentlemen, I cannot better sum up all I would say than by the words
which the Roman orator applied to the actor of his day, and I ask
you if I may not say of our guest as Cicero said of Roscius, 'He is
a man who unites yet more of virtues than of talents, yet more of
truth than of art, and who, having dignified the scene by various
portraitures of human life, dignifies yet more this assembly by the
example of his own.' [Great applause.] Gentlemen, the toast I am
about to propose to you is connected with many sad associations,
but not to-day.In Bobby's day of youth, and that was in 1858, when Queen Victoria was a
happy wife and mother, with all her bairns about her knees in Windsor
or Balmoral, the Grassmarket of Edinburgh was still a bit of the Middle
Ages, as picturesquely decaying and Gothic as German Nuremberg. Beside
the classic corn exchange, it had no modern buildings. North and south,
along its greatest length, the sunken quadrangle was faced by tall, old,
timber-fronted houses of stone, plastered like swallows' nests to the
rocky slopes behind them.

Across the eastern end, where the valley suddenly narrowed to the
ravine-like street of the Cowgate, the market was spanned by the
lofty, crowded arches of George IV Bridge. This high-hung, viaduct
thoroughfare, that carried a double line of buildings within its
parapet, leaped the gorge, from the tall, old, Gothic rookeries on High
Street ridge, just below the Castle esplanade. It cleared the roofs
of the tallest, oldest houses that swarmed up the steep banks from the
Cowgate, and ran on, by easy descent, to the main gateway of Greyfriars
kirkyard at the lower top of the southern rise.

Greyfriars' two kirks formed together, under one continuous roof, a
long, low, buttressed building without tower or spire. The new kirk was
of Queen Anne's day, but the old kirk was built before ever the Pilgrims
set sail for America. It had been but one of several sacred buildings,
set in a monastery garden that sloped pleasantly to the open valley of
the Grassmarket, and looked up the Castle heights unhindered. I am asked
to-night to propose the "Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and
of the World," and I might, if the clock did not warn me against it--["Go
on!"] if my own temperament did not stand a little in the way--I might
say to you something very solemn on the subject of commerce. I might
say how commerce, if not a great civilizer in itself, had always been
a great intermediary and vehicle of civilization. I might say
that all the great commercial States have been centres of civilization,
and centres of those forces which keep civilization from becoming
stupid. I do not say which is the _post_ and which the _propter_
in this inference; but I do say that the two things have been almost
invariably associated.

One word as to commerce in another relation which touches me more
nearly. Commerce and the rights and advantages of commerce, ill
understood and ignorantly interpreted, have often been the cause of
animosities between nations. But commerce rightly understood is a great
pacificator; it brings men face to face for barter. It is the great
corrector of the eccentricities and enormities of nature and of the
seasons, so that a bad harvest and a bad season in England is a
good season for Minnesota, Kansas, and Manitoba.

But, gentlemen, I will not detain you longer. It gives me great
pleasure to propose, as the representative of the United States, the
toast of "The Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and of
the Whole World," with which I associate the names of Mr.

C. M. Norwood, M. P., vice-president of the Associated Chambers of the
United Kingdom, and the Hon. F. Strutt, president of the Derby Chamber.
[Cheers.]

* * * * *

AFTER-DINNER SPEAKING
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at a banquet given to Sir Henry Irving,
London, July 4, 1883, in view of his impending departure for a professional
tour of America. Lord Coleridge, Lord Chief Justice of England,
occupied the chair.

The toast, "Literature, Science, and Art," was proposed by Viscount Bury,
and Mr. Lowell was called upon to respond for Literature. Professor
Tyndall replied on behalf of Science, and Alma Tadema for Art.]

MY LORD COLERIDGE, MY LORDS, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--I confess that
my mind was a little relieved when I found that the toast to which
I am to respond rolled three gentlemen, Cerberus-like, into one
[laughter], and when I saw Science pulling impatiently at the leash
on my left, and Art on my right, and that therefore the responsibility
of only a third part of the acknowledgment has fallen to me.Low clouds were tangled
and torn on the Castle battlements. A few horses stood about, munching
oats from feed-boxes. Flocks of sparrows fluttered down from timbered
galleries and rocky ledges to feast on scattered grain. Swallows wheeled
in wide, descending spirals from mud villages under the cornices to
catch flies. Rats scurried out of holes and gleaned in the deserted corn
exchange. And 'round and 'round the empty market-place raced the frantic
little terrier in search of Auld Jock.

Bobby knew, as well as any man, that it was the dinner hour. With the
time-gun it was Auld Jock's custom to go up to a snug little restaurant;
that was patronized chiefly by the decent poor small shopkeepers,
clerks, tenant farmers, and medical students living in cheap
lodgings--in Greyfriars Place. There, in Ye Olde Greyfriars
Dining-Rooms, owned by Mr. John Traill, and four doors beyond the
kirkyard gate, was a cozy little inglenook that Auld Jock and Bobby
had come to look upon as their own. At its back, above a recessed oaken
settle and a table, a tiny paned window looked up and over a retaining
wall into the ancient place of the dead.

The view of the heaped-up and crowded mounds and thickets of old slabs
and throughstones, girt all about by time-stained monuments and vaults,
and shut in on the north and east by the backs of shops and lofty
slum tenements, could not be said to be cheerful. It suited Auld Jock,
however, for what mind he had was of a melancholy turn. From his place
on the floor, between his master's hob-nailed boots, Bobby could not see
the kirkyard, but it would not, in any case, have depressed his spirits.
He did not know the face of death and, a merry little ruffian of a
terrier, he was ready for any adventure.

On the stone gate pillar was a notice in plain English that no dogs were
permitted in Greyfriars. As well as if he could read, Bobby knew
that the kirkyard was forbidden ground. He had learned that by bitter
experience. Once, when the little wicket gate that held the two tall
leaves ajar by day, chanced to be open, he had joyously chased a cat
across the graves and over the western wall onto the broad green lawn of
Heriot's Hospital.

There the little dog's escapade bred other mischief, for Heriot's
Hospital was not a hospital at all, in the modern English sense of being
a refuge for the sick. Built and christened in a day when a Stuart king
reigned in Holyrood Palace, and French was spoken in the Scottish
court, Heriot's was a splendid pile of a charity school, all towers
and battlements, and cheerful color, and countless beautiful windows.
Endowed by a beruffed and doubleted goldsmith, "Jinglin' Geordie"
Heriot, who had "nae brave laddie o' his ain," it was devoted to the
care and education of "puir orphan an' faderless boys." There it
had stood for more than two centuries, in a spacious park, like the
country-seat of a Lowland laird, but hemmed in by sordid markets and
swarming slums. The region round about furnished an unfailing supply
of "puir orphan an' faderless boys" who were as light-hearted and
irresponsible as Bobby.

Hundreds of the Heriot laddies were out in the noon recess, playing
cricket and leap-frog, when Bobby chased that unlucky cat over the
kirkyard wall. He could go no farther himself, but the laddies took up
the pursuit, yelling like Highland clans of old in a foray across the
border. The unholy din disturbed the sacred peace of the kirkyard.
Bobby dashed back, barking furiously, in pure exuberance of spirits. He
tumbled gaily over grassy hummocks, frisked saucily around terrifying
old mausoleums, wriggled under the most enticing of low-set table tombs
and sprawled, exhausted, but still happy and noisy, at Auld Jock's feet.

It was a scandalous thing to happen in any kirkyard! The angry caretaker
was instantly out of his little stone lodge by the gate and taking Auld
Jock sharply to task for Bobby's misbehavior. The pious old shepherd,
shocked himself and publicly disgraced, stood, bonnet in hand, humbly
apologetic. Seeing that his master was getting the worst of it, Bobby
rushed into the fray, an animated little muff of pluck and fury, and
nipped the caretaker's shins. There was a howl of pain, and a "maist
michty" word that made the ancient tombs stand aghast. Master and dog
were hustled outside the gate and into a rabble of jeering slum gamin.

What a to-do about a miserable cat! To Bobby there was no logic at all
in the denouement to this swift, exciting drama. But he understood Auld
Jock's shame and displeasure perfectly. Good-tempered as he was gay and
clever, the little dog took his punishment meekly, and he remembered
it. Thereafter, he passed the kirk yard gate decorously. If he saw a cat
that needed harrying he merely licked his little red chops--the outward
sign of a desperate self-control. And, a true sport, he bore no malice
toward the caretaker.

During that first summer of his life Bobby learned many things. He
learned that he might chase rabbits, squirrels and moor-fowl, and
sea-gulls and whaups that came up to feed in plowed fields. Rats and
mice around byre and dairy were legitimate prey; but he learned that he
must not annoy sheep and sheep-dogs, nor cattle, horses and chickens.
And he discovered that, unless he hung close to Auld Jock's heels, his
freedom was in danger from a wee lassie who adored him. He was no lady's
lap-dog. From the bairnie's soft cosseting he aye fled to Auld Jock
and the rough hospitality of the sheep fold. Being exact opposites in
temperaments, but alike in tastes, Bobby and Auld Jock were inseparable.
In the quiet corner of Mr. Traill's crowded dining-room they spent the
one idle hour of the week together, happily. Bobby had the leavings of a
herring or haddie, for a rough little Skye will eat anything from smoked
fish to moor-fowl eggs, and he had the tidbit of a farthing bone to
worry at his leisure. Auld Jock smoked his cutty pipe, gazed at the fire
or into the kirk-yard, and meditated on nothing in particular.

In some strange way that no dog could understand, Bobby had been
separated from Auld Jock that November morning. The tenant of Cauldbrae
farm had driven the cart in, himself, and that was unusual. Immediately
he had driven out again, leaving Auld Jock behind, and that was quite
outside Bobby's brief experience of life. Beguiled to the lofty and
coveted driver's seat where, with lolling tongue, he could view this
interesting world between the horse's ears, Bobby had been spirited out
of the city and carried all the way down and up to the hilltop toll-bar
of Fairmilehead. It could not occur to his loyal little heart that this
treachery was planned nor, stanch little democrat that he was, that
the farmer was really his owner, and that he could not follow a humbler
master of his own choosing. He might have been carried to the distant
farm, and shut safely in the byre with the cows for the night, but for
an incautious remark of the farmer. With the first scent of the native
heather the horse quickened his pace, and, at sight of the purple slopes
of the Pentlands looming homeward, a fond thought at the back of the
man's mind very naturally took shape in speech.

"Eh, Bobby; the wee lassie wull be at the tap o' the brae to race ye
hame."

Bobby pricked his drop ears. Within a narrow limit, and concerning
familiar things, the understanding of human speech by these intelligent
little terriers is very truly remarkable. At mention of the wee lassie
he looked behind for his rough old friend and unfailing refuge. Auld
Jock's absence discovered, Bobby promptly dropped from the seat of honor
and from the cart tail, sniffed the smoke of Edinboro' town and faced
right about. To the farmer's peremptory call he returned the spicy
repartee of a cheerful bark. It was as much as to say:

"Dinna fash yersel'! I ken what I'm aboot."

After an hour's hard run back over the dipping and rising country road
and a long quarter circuit of the city, Bobby found the high-walled,
winding way into the west end of the Grassmarket. To a human being
afoot there was a shorter cut, but the little dog could only retrace
the familiar route of the farm carts. It was a notable feat for a small
creature whose tufted legs were not more than six inches in length,
whose thatch of long hair almost swept the roadway and caught at every
burr and bramble, and who was still so young that his nose could not be
said to be educated.

In the market-place he ran here and there through the crowd, hopefully
investigating narrow closes that were mere rifts in precipices of
buildings; nosing outside stairs, doorways, stables, bridge arches,
standing carts, and even hob-nailed boots. He yelped at the crash of the
gun, but it was another matter altogether that set his little heart to
palpitating with alarm. It was the dinner-hour, and where was Auld Jock?

Ah! A happy thought: his master had gone to dinner!

A human friend would have resented the idea of such base desertion
and sulked. But in a little dog's heart of trust there is no room for
suspicion. The thought simply lent wings to Bobby's tired feet. As
the market-place emptied he chased at the heels of laggards, up the
crescent-shaped rise of Candlemakers Row, and straight on to the
familiar dining-rooms. Through the forest of table and chair and human
legs he made his way to the back, to find a soldier from the Castle, in
smart red coat and polished boots, lounging in Auld Jock's inglenook.

Bobby stood stock still for a shocked instant. Then he howled
dismally and bolted for the door. Mr. John Traill, the smooth-shaven,
hatchet-faced proprietor, standing midway in shirtsleeves and white
apron, caught the flying terrier between his legs and gave him a
friendly clap on the side.

"Did you come by your ainsel' with a farthing in your silky-purse ear to
buy a bone, Bobby? Whaur's Auld Jock?"

A fear may be crowded back into the mind and stoutly denied so long as
it is not named. At the good landlord's very natural question "Whaur's
Auld Jock?" there was the shape of the little dog's fear that he had
lost his master. With a whimpering cry he struggled free. Out of the
door he went, like a shot. He tumbled down the steep curve and doubled
on his tracks around the market-place.

At his onslaught, the sparrows rose like brown leaves on a gust of wind,
and drifted down again. A cold mist veiled the Castle heights. From
the stone crown of the ancient Cathedral of St. Giles, on High Street,
floated the melody of "The Bluebells of Scotland." No day was too bleak
for bell-ringer McLeod to climb the shaking ladder in the windy tower
and play the music bells during the hour that Edinburgh dined. Bobby
forgot to dine that day, first in his distracted search, and then in his
joy of finding his master.

For, all at once, in the very strangest place, in the very strangest
way, Bobby came upon Auld Jock. A rat scurrying out from a foul and
narrow passage that gave to the rear of the White Hart Inn, pointed the
little dog to a nook hitherto undiscovered by his curious nose. Hidden
away between the noisy tavern and the grim, island crag was the old
cock-fighting pit of a ruder day. There, in a broken-down carrier's
cart, abandoned among the nameless abominations of publichouse refuse,
Auld Jock lay huddled in his greatcoat of hodden gray and his shepherd's
plaid. On a bundle of clothing tied in a tartan kerchief for a pillow,
he lay very still and breathing heavily.

Bobby barked as if he would burst his lungs. He barked so long, so loud,
and so furiously, running 'round and 'round the cart and under it and
yelping at every turn, that a slatternly scullery maid opened a door and
angrily bade him "no' to deave folk wi' 'is blatterin'." Auld Jock she
did not see at all in the murky pit or, if she saw him, thought him some
drunken foreign sailor from Leith harbor. When she went in, she slammed
the door and lighted the gas.

Whether from some instinct of protection of his helpless master in that
foul and hostile place, or because barking had proved to be of no use
Bobby sat back on his haunches and considered this strange, disquieting
thing. It was not like Auld Jock to sleep in the daytime, or so soundly,
at any time, that barking would not awaken him. A clever and resourceful
dog, Bobby crouched back against the farthest wall, took a running leap
to the top of the low boots, dug his claws into the stout, home knitted
stockings, and scrambled up over Auld Jock's legs into the cart. In an
instant he poked his little black mop of a wet muzzle into his master's
face and barked once, sharply, in his ear.

To Bobby's delight Auld Jock sat up and blinked his eyes. The old eyes
were brighter, the grizzled face redder than was natural, but such
matters were quite outside of the little dog's ken. It was a dazed
moment before the man remembered that Bobby should not be there.
He frowned down at the excited little creature, who was wagging
satisfaction from his nose-tip to the end of his crested tail, in a
puzzled effort to remember why.

"Eh, Bobby!" His tone was one of vague reproof. "Nae doot ye're fair
satisfied wi' yer ainsel'."

Bobby's feathered tail drooped, but it still quivered, all ready to wag
again at the slightest encouragement. Auld Jock stared at him stupidly,
his dizzy head in his hands. A very tired, very draggled little dog,
Bobby dropped beside his master, panting, subdued by the reproach, but
happy. His soft eyes, veiled by the silvery fringe that fell from his
high forehead, were deep brown pools of affection. Auld Jock forgot, by
and by, that Bobby should not be there, and felt only the comfort of his
companionship.

"Weel, Bobby," he began again, uncertainly. And then, because his
Scotch peasant reticence had been quite broken down by Bobby's shameless
devotion, so that he told the little dog many things that he cannily
concealed from human kind, he confided the strange weakness and
dizziness in the head that had overtaken him: "Auld Jock is juist fair
silly the day, bonny wee laddie."

Down came a shaking, hot old hand in a rough caress, and up a gallant
young tail to wave like a banner. All was right with the little dog's
world again. But it was plain, even to Bobby, that something had gone
wrong with Auld Jock. It was the man who wore the air of a culprit. A
Scotch laborer does not lightly confess to feeling "fair silly," nor
sleep away the busy hours of daylight. The old man was puzzled and
humiliated by this discreditable thing. A human friend would have
understood his plight, led the fevered man out of that bleak and fetid
cul-de-sac, tucked him into a warm bed, comforted him with a hot drink,
and then gone swiftly for skilled help. Bobby knew only that his master
had unusual need of love.

Very, very early a dog learns that life is not as simple a matter to his
master as it is to himself. There are times when he reads trouble, that
he cannot help or understand, in the man's eye and voice. Then he
can only look his love and loyalty, wistfully, as if he felt his own
shortcoming in the matter of speech. And if the trouble is so great that
the master forgets to eat his dinner; forgets, also, the needs of his
faithful little friend, it is the dog's dear privilege to bear neglect
and hunger without complaint. Therefore, when Auld Jock lay down again
and sank, almost at once, into sodden sleep, Bobby snuggled in the
hollow of his master's arm and nuzzled his nose in his master's neck.


II.

While the bells played "There Grows a Bonny Briarbush in Our Kale Yard,"
Auld Jock and Bobby slept. They slept while the tavern emptied itself
of noisy guests and clattering crockery was washed at the dingy,
gas-lighted windows that overlooked the cockpit. They slept while the
cold fell with the falling day and the mist was whipped into driving
rain. Almost a cave, between shelving rock and house wall, a gust of
wind still found its way in now and then. At a splash of rain Auld Jock
stirred uneasily in his sleep. Bobby merely sniffed the freshened air
with pleasure and curled himself up for another nap.

No rain could wet Bobby. Under his rough outer coat, that was parted
along the back as neatly as the thatch along a cottage ridge-pole, was
a dense, woolly fleece that defied wind and rain, snow and sleet to
penetrate. He could not know that nature had not been as generous in
protecting his master against the weather. Although of a subarctic
breed, fitted to live shelterless if need be, and to earn his living by
native wit, Bobby had the beauty, the grace, and the charming manners of
a lady's pet. Macready who had displayed considerable emotion during some
portions of his address, then resumed his seat amid enthusiastic
cheering.]

JUSTIN McCARTHY

IRELAND'S STRUGGLE
[Speech of Justin McCarthy at a dinner given in his honor, New York
City, October 2, 1886. When the speaking began, Judge Browne, who presided,
asked the audience to drink the health of Justin McCarthy, the guest
of the evening, with this quotation from Thomas Moore:--
"Here's the Poet who drinks; here's the warrior who fights; Here's
the statesman who speaks in the cause of men's rights; Charge! hip,
hip, hurrah! hurrah!"
Continuing, Judge Browne said: "We feel it a proud privilege to be
permitted to gather and do honor to one who has done honor to our
name and nation in a foreign land.

When the great leader of the Irish people was bidding you good-by
at the other side of the water, he said that the aid you had rendered
him and his colleagues had largely helped to advance the interests
of Ireland in her onward march to freedom. Our knowledge of you enables
us to indorse that statement.
[Applause.] What you have written in one of our city papers has shown
us step by step the progress of the Home Rule movement. That great
work has been accomplished by the Irish leader there can be no
doubt.
I witnessed it personally a few short weeks ago, when standing in the
strangers' gallery in the House of Commons, I saw a handful of Irish
members under the leadership of Parnell withstand the assaults of
six hundred English members.

[Applause.] It was an awe-inspiring sight.
When one remembers that within the four walls of that small building
that group of Englishmen were making laws for three hundred millions
of people, and that the representatives of a nation numbering only
five millions were enabled to keep them in check at the bidding of
Parnell, I was struck with astonishment. Not only have the Irish people
Parnell with them now, but they have Gladstone [applause], and more than
half of the English people; and we have in addition Justin McCarthy
[prolonged applause], and with this continuation of moral force we are
certain to win Home Rule for Ireland soon. Gentlemen, I give you the
health of our guest, Justin McCarthy."]

GENTLEMEN, FRIENDS, ALL:--I am very sure you will believe that I
speak with the utmost sincerity when I say that, although much in
the habit of addressing public meetings of various kinds, friendly
and hostile, I really do feel somewhat embarrassed in rising to
address this entirely friendly meeting to-night.

The warmth and the kindness of your reception, many of you Irishmen,
some of you Americans, does surprise and does, to a great extent,
overpower me. Judge Browne, your chairman, has regretted the absence of
Eugene Kelly. I myself regret his absence on personal and on public
grounds; on personal grounds for his sake, and still more, as I am rather
selfish, for my own sake. [Applause.] For his sake because ill health
keeps him away, and for my own sake because I have never yet had the
chance of meeting him, and had finally hoped that here to-night I should
have the pleasure of making his acquaintance.

I should not complain very much for myself after all, for the worthy
gentleman who fills the place of Mr. Kelly so ably--I mean Judge Browne
[applause]--has said more complimentary things of me than I really
deserve before a gathering so influential and so representative as
this.

Upon the great political questions which interest me, and which interest
you, I shall perhaps have occasion to say a few words, perhaps more than
a few words Monday night, and I hope to see many of the gentlemen who
are now here present then, and if they be wavering on the question
of Home Rule I am nearly certain they will go away stanch disciples
of justice to Ireland, in a legislative sense, at all events.

[Applause.] There may be some among you who do not entirely agree with
me upon my views regarding the relations between England and Ireland.
Some may regard me with more favor as a writer of books than as an
expounder of Home Rule for Ireland. [Cries of "No! No!"] I will therefore
regard this occasion as a welcome given by you to me personally, and
shall not go into any political question whatever. Regarding myself, I
may assume this much, at least, that the question of Home Rule for Ireland
is now universally regarded in America as one of those questions bound
up with the great cause of civilization and of progress, and I
entirely agree with the chairman when he said that the Irish people
in this struggle do not entertain any feelings of hate or enmity
for the English people.

[Applause.] I may say sincerely that I would not have joined the
agitation if it had been selfish and merely for the sake of Ireland
alone, and not, as it has been, a movement for the advancement of freedom
and enlightened ideas among other struggling nations of the earth.
[Applause.]
I have said over and over again, in England as well as in Ireland, that
the cause that I was advocating was one of interest and of the most vital
importance to England as well as to Ireland. [Applause.] Many years
ago I heard Mr. Bright deliver a great speech in the House of Commons
in favor of a French commercial treaty. He wound up that great speech by
saying that the adoption of that treaty would be a policy of justice
to England, and of mercy to France. I call the policy that I and my
colleagues in the English Parliament are identified with, a policy
of justice to Ireland and of mercy to England. [Applause.] I call it
a policy of mercy to England because it is a policy which shall bury
forever the rancor of centuries that has existed between Irishmen and
Englishmen; a policy which will change things so far that Ireland,
instead of being the enemy at the gate shall be the friend at the
gate, who, if need be, can speak with some effect to the enemy from
without.

After a long, a very long and a very bitter agitation, we now at last
are within reach of the consummation of our hopes. [Applause.]
I am glad indeed to receive from an audience in this city, composed
as it is of many nationalities, such a hearty endorsement of the
policy which I and my people have carried out in struggling to give
Ireland her rights.

I see here the Irish harp and the American stars and stripes.
Long and forever may these flags wave side by side. [Prolonged applause.]
How shall we distinguish between Irishmen and Americans? Are the echoes
which resound in this hall Irish or American echoes? [Cries of "Both!
Both!"]

The voices that speak are Irish certainly, but the roof, the walls
that give back the sound are American. [Applause.] May we not therefore
claim the indistinguishable unity of nationality, of sentiment, and
of feeling?

I should be ungrateful, indeed, gentlemen, did I not express my warm
acknowledgments for this greeting which you have given me--this hearty
Irish welcome. I shall never forget the words of warmth which you have
spoken to myself personally and the expressions of encouragement which
you have given to my people and my cause. I shall tell my friends when I
go back, that among the best supporters we have upon this side are
Americans and Irish-Americans who believe firmly in the justice of
Ireland's cause and of the determined yet peaceable, strictly peaceable,
character of the struggle which Ireland's representatives are
making for the re-establishment of her Parliament in College Green.

[Prolonged applause.]

ALEXANDER KELLY McCLURE

AN EDITORIAL RETROSPECT

[Speech of Colonel A. K.

McClure, editor of the "Philadelphia Times," delivered at a banquet at
Philadelphia, December 9, 1896, commemorating the fiftieth year of
his connection with the press of Pennsylvania. Governor Daniel H.
Hastings, in introducing the guest of the evening, concluded by saying:
"I said in the beginning that he is the Nestor of Pennsylvania
journalism.

Yes, like the King of Pylos, in Grecian legend of the siege of Troy,
he is the oldest of the living chieftains. Forney, Morton, McMichael
and most of the pioneers of our modern journalism are gone. McClure has
been to Pennsylvania what Horace Greeley was to New York journalism.

Dana, of the 'Sun,' and McClure, of the 'Times,' are the links connecting
the present with the past of American journalism.

To-night the roses of friendship and fraternity are growing upon
the walls that separate us in our life-work, and we are here to join
in our congratulations and good wishes to him in whose honor we meet--Colonel
Alexander K. McClure."]

MR. CHAIRMAN:--I cannot express the measure of my grateful appreciation
of this imposing greeting, so exceptional alike in welcome, in numbers,
and in distinction. I accept it as a tribute to the matchless progress
made by our newspapers during the present generation, rather than a
personal tribute to an humble member of the profession, whose half
century of editorial labor furnishes the occasion for leading men of State
and Nation to pay homage to American journalism, now the great forum
of our free institutions.

The duties and responsibilities of journalism are largely defined by
their environment, and there may be fitness in this occasion to refer
to the political, business, social and moral conditions under which the
Juniata "Sentinel" was founded fifty years ago, in contrast with
the greatly changed conditions which confront the journals of
to-day.

The people of Juniata county were a well-to-do class, adapted to the
primitive conditions in which they lived. The enervating blight of
luxury and the despair of pinching want were strangers in their midst.

They believed in the church, in the school, in the sanctity of home,
in integrity between man and man.

Christianity was accepted by them as the common law, sincerely by many
and with a respect akin to reverence by all; and that beautiful humanity
that springs from the mingled dependence and affection of rural neighborly
ties, ever taught that the bruised reed should not be broken. They had
no political convulsions such as are common in these days. Even a
sweeping political revolution would not vary the party majority over a
hundred in the few thousands of votes they cast, and excepting in
the white heat of national contests, their personal affections often
outweighed their duties to party.

Public vices and public wrongs in local administration were rarely
known, and there was little to invite the aggressive features which are
so conspicuous in modern journalism.

Ministers mingled freely with the every-day life of their flocks
and were exemplars of simplicity, frugality and integrity, and the
lawyer who hoped to be successful required first of all to command
the confidence of the community in his honesty.

The ballot and the jury-box were regarded as sacred as the sacrament
itself, and the criminal courts had usually little to do beyond the
cases of vagrant offenders.

Business was conducted as a rule without the formality of contracts,
and those whose lives justly provoked scandal were shunned on every side.
This community possessed the only real wealth the world can give--content;
and the local newspaper of that day, even under the direction of
a progressive journalist, could be little more than a commonplace
chronicler of current events.

The most satisfactory newspaper work I have ever done, I mean the most
satisfactory to myself, was during the first few months after I
founded the "Sentinel."

There was pardonable boyish pride in seeing my name given with studied
prominence as editor and proprietor, and the reading of my own
editorials was as soothing as the soft, sweet strains of music on
distant waters in summer evening time.

They were to my mind most exquisite in diction and logic, and it was a
source of keen regret that they were so "cabined, cribbed, and confined"
within the narrowest provincial lines, whereby the world lost so
much that it greatly needed.

I knew that there were others, like Chandler, Gales, Greeley, Ritchie,
Prentice, and Kendall, who were more read and heeded, but I was consoled
by the charitable reflection that entirely by reason of fortuitous
circumstance they were known and I was not. Then to me life was a song
with my generously self-admired newspaper as the chorus.
There came rude awakenings, of course, from those blissful dreams
as the shock of editorial conflict gradually taught me that journalism
was one unending lesson in a school that has no vacations.

I have pleasant memories also of the intimate personal relations
between the village editor and his readers.

Most of them were within a radius of a few miles of the publication
office, and all the influences of social as well as political ties
were employed to make them enduring patrons.

With many of them the question of sparing from their scant income three
cents a week for a county paper, was one that called for sober thought
from year to year, and it often required a personal visit and earnest
importunity to hold the hesitating subscriber.

I well remember the case of a frugal farmer of the Dunker persuasion who
was sufficiently public-spirited to subscribe for the "Sentinel"
for six months, to get the paper started, but at the end of that
period he had calculated the heavy expenses of gathering the ripening
harvest and decided to stop his paper for a while.

I need not say that he was enthusiastically confronted with many reasons
why a man of his intelligence and influence should not be without the
county newspaper, but he yielded only to the extent of further
considering the matter with his wife.

He returned in a few days and spread sunshine around the editorial chair
by saying that his wife had decided to continue for another six
months, as the paper would be very handy in the fall for tying up
her apple-butter crocks.

A few years after I had settled down in this quiet community to
devote my life to journalism, a shrill, weird voice was heard in
the beautiful valley of the Juniata as the iron horse made his first
visit to us with his train of cars.

It was welcome music as it echoed over the foothills of the Alleghenies,
and entirely new to nearly all who heard it. With the railway came the
telegraph, the express, and the advent of the daily newspaper among
the people.

In a single year the community was transformed from its sedate and quiet
ways into more energetic, progressive, and speculative life. It was
a new civilization that had come to disturb the dreams of nearly a
century, and it rapidly extended its new influences until it reached
the remotest ends of the little county, and with this beneficent
progress of civilization came also the vices which ever accompany
it, but against which the civilization itself is ever fortified by
the new factors called into requisition to strengthen its restraining
power.

While advancing the better attributes of mankind it has left unrest in the
shop, the field, the forest, and the mine, where there was content in
other days, but that unrest is the inevitable attendant of our matchless
strides in the most enlightened civilization of the age, and it
will ever present new problems for our statesmanship.

It should be remembered that while Philadelphia had then two journals
of national fame under the direction of such accomplished editorial
writers as Joseph R. Chandler and Morton McMichael, there was not a
daily newspaper in this city, or in the State, that had a circulation
of 5,000, excepting only the "Ledger," then a penny journal almost
unknown outside of the city.

Even the New York "Tribune" and the New York "Herald" then relatively
quite as distinguished as national journals as they are to-day, did
not have a daily circulation of over 15,000.

There are several daily journals now published in Philadelphia, each of
which circulates more newspapers every day than did all the great dailies
of New York and Pennsylvania combined, fifty years ago. There were then
successful penny papers in New York and Pittsburg as well as
Philadelphia, but the penny journal of that day was only a local
newspaper in its way, and was unfelt as a political factor.

Contrast the business, political, moral, and social conditions which
confront the journalism of this great city to-day, and none can
fail to appreciate the greatly magnified duties and responsibilities
of the journalist of this age.

In this City of Brotherly Love, with the highest standard of average
intelligence in any community of like numbers of the world, and the
only great city to be found on the continent that is distinctively
American in its policy, how sharp is the contrast between the civilization
met by the Juniata "Sentinel" fifty years ago and the civilization
that is met by the Philadelphia journalist of to-day?

Public wrongs ever appear like huge cancers on the body politic, and the
swarms of the idle and vicious, with the studied crimes of those who
would acquire wealth without earning it, are a constant menace to the
social order and the safety of person and property, and demand the utmost
vigilance on the part of the faithful public journal. Continued
political power under all parties becomes corrupt and demoralized,
and it is not uncommon for apparently reputable political leaders
of all parties and organized crime to make common cause for public
plunder.

The business and social conditions are also radically changed, and
with these the fearless journalists of to-day must deal with courage
and fidelity.

From what was many years ago regarded, and with some reason, as the
license of the public press, has grown up the well-defined duty
of reputable journalism to maintain with dignity and firmness its
mission as public censor, and to-day in Philadelphia, as in all the
leading centres of the country, American journalism is not only the
great educator of the people, but it is the faithful handmaid of
law and order and of public and private morals.

Like all great callings, from which even the sacredness of the
pulpit is not exempt, there are those who bring persistent dishonor
upon journalism, and pervert its powers to ambition and greed; but
discounted by all its imperfections, it is to-day the greatest of
our great factors in maintaining the best attributes of our
civilization and preserving social order and the majesty of law;
and the duties of the journalist to-day in our great cities have
reached a standard of dignity and magnitude of which even the wildest
enthusiast of fifty years ago could not have dreamed.

Such is the revolution wrought in journalism within a single active
lifetime. The newspaper is no longer a luxury. From being confined
to the few, as it was half a century ago, the daily newspaper is
now in almost every home in the great States of the Union, and the
grave responsibility of journalism may be appreciated when it is
remembered that the newspaper to-day is the greatest educator of
the people who are to maintain our free institutions.

Widely as our schools have extended until they are accessible to the
humblest of the land, the newspaper as an educator reaches vastly more
people than all the colleges and schools of the nation. It is read
not only by the men and women of mature years, but it begins its offices
as teacher in the home circle as soon as the child becomes a pupil in
the school, and it is constantly although imperceptibly moulding
the minds of millions of our youths of all classes and all conditions,
and it has no vacations in its great work.

It not only aids the more intelligent to a sound exercise of judgment
on questions of public interest, but it is ever quickening the impulses
and shaping the aims of those who are most easily impressed, and during
the important period of life when the character of men and women
is formed.

I have long held that the responsible direction of a widely read and
respected daily newspaper is the highest trust in our free
government. I do not thus speak of it to claim for it honors
which may be questioned, but I speak of it to present the oppressive
responsibilities which rest upon those who are to-day educating a
nation of 70,000,000 of people, under a government where every
citizen is a sovereign, and where the people hold in their own hands
the destiny of the greatest Republic of the world.

Presidents, Cabinets, Senators, and Representatives come and play
their parts on the public stage and pass away--the few to be
remembered, the many to be forgotten--and political parties are
created and perish as new necessities and new conditions arise in
the progress of our free institutions.

Lost in the romance, Mr. Traill
took no note of the passing time or of his quiet guests until he felt a
little tug at his trouser-leg.

"Eh, laddie?" he questioned. Up the little dog rose in the begging
attitude. Then, with a sharp bark, he dashed back to his master.

Something was very wrong, indeed. Auld Jock had sunk down in his seat.
His arms hung helplessly over the end and back of the settle, and his
legs were sprawled limply before him. The bonnet that he always wore,
outdoors and in, had fallen from his scant, gray locks, and his head had
dropped forward on his chest. His breathing was labored, and he muttered
in his sleep.

In a moment Mr. Traill was inside his own greatcoat, storm boots and
bonnet. At the door he turned back. The shop was unguarded. Although
Greyfriars Place lay on the hilltop, with the sanctuary of the kirkyard
behind it, and the University at no great distance in front, it was but
a step up from the thief-infested gorge of the Cowgate. The landlord
locked his moneydrawer, pushed his easy-chair against it, and roused
Auld Jock so far as to move him over from the settle. The chief
responsibility he laid on the anxious little dog, that watched his every
movement.

"Lie down, Bobby, and mind Auld Jock. And you're no' a gude dog if you
canna bark to waken the dead in the kirkyard, if ony strange body comes
about."

"Whaur are ye gangin'?" cried Auld Jock. He was wide awake, with
burning, suspicious eyes fixed on his host.

"Sit you down, man, with your back to my siller. I'm going for a
doctor." The noise of the storm, as he opened the door, prevented his
hearing the frightened protest:

"Dinna ging!"

The rain had turned to sleet, and Mr. Traill had trouble in keeping his
feet. He looked first into the famous Book Hunter's Stall next door, on
the chance of finding a medical student. The place was open, but it had
no customers. He went on to the bridge, but there the sheriff's court,
the Martyr's church, the society halls and all the smart shops were
closed, their dark fronts lighted fitfully by flaring gas-lamps. The
bitter night had driven all Edinburgh to private cover.

From the rear came a clear whistle. Some Heriot laddie who, being not
entirely a "puir orphan," but only "faderless" and, therefore, living
outside the school with his mother, had been kept after nightfall
because of ill-prepared lessons or misbehavior. Mr. Traill turned,
passed his own door, and went on southward into Forest Road, that
skirted the long arm of the kirkyard.

From the Burghmuir, all the way to the Grassmarket and the Cowgate, was
downhill. So, with arms winged, and stout legs spread wide and braced,
Geordie Ross was sliding gaily homeward, his knitted tippet a gallant
pennant behind. Here was a Mercury for an urgent errand.

"Laddie, do you know whaur's a doctor who can be had for a shulling or
two for a poor auld country body in my shop?"

"Is he so awfu' ill?" Geordie asked with the morbid curiosity of lusty
boyhood.

"He's a' that. He's aff his heid. Run, laddie, and dinna be standing
there wagging your fule tongue for naething."

Geordie was off with speed across the bridge to High Street. Mr. Traill
struggled back to his shop, against wind and treacherous ice, thinking
what kind of a bed might be contrived for the sick man for the night. In
the morning the daft auld body could be hurried, willy-nilly, to a bed
in the infirmary. As for wee Bobby he wouldn't mind if--

And there he ran into his own wide-flung door. A gale blew through the
hastily deserted place. Ashes were scattered about the hearth, and the
cruisey lamp flared in the gusts. Auld Jock and Bobby were gone.


III.

Although dismayed and self-accusing for having frightened Auld Jock into
taking flight by his incautious talk of a doctor, not for an instant did
the landlord of Greyfriars Dining-Rooms entertain the idea of following
him. The old man had only to cross the street and drop down the incline
between the bridge approach and the ancient Chapel of St. Magdalen to
be lost in the deepest, most densely peopled, and blackest gorge in
Christendom.

Well knowing that he was safe from pursuit, Auld Jock chuckled as he
gained the last low level. Fever lent him a brief strength, and the cold
damp was grateful to his hot skin. None were abroad in the Cowgate; and
that was lucky for, in this black hole of Edinburgh, even so old and
poor a man was liable to be set upon by thieves, on the chance of a few
shillings or pence.

Used as he was to following flocks up treacherous braes and through
drifted glens, and surefooted as a collie, Auld Jock had to pick his way
carefully over the slimy, ice-glazed cobble stones of the Cowgate. He
could see nothing. The scattered gas-lamps, blurred by the wet, only
made a timbered gallery or stone stairs stand out here and there or
lighted up a Gothic gargoyle to a fantastic grin. The street lay so deep
and narrow that sleet and wind wasted little time in finding it out,
but roared and rattled among the gables, dormers and chimney-stacks
overhead. Happy in finding his master himself again, and sniffing fresh
adventure, Bobby tumbled noisily about Auld Jock's feet until reproved.
And here was strange going. Ancient and warring smells confused and
insulted the little country dog's nose. After a few inquiring and
protesting barks Bobby fell into a subdued trot at Auld Jock's heels.

To this shepherd in exile the romance of Old Edinburgh was a sealed
book. It was, indeed, difficult for the most imaginative to believe
that the Cowgate was once a lovely, wooded ravine, with a rustic burn
babbling over pebbles at its bottom, and along the brook a straggling
path worn smooth by cattle on their driven way to the Grassmarket. Then,
when the Scottish nobility was crowded out of the piled-up mansions, on
the sloping ridge of High Street that ran the mile from the Castle to
Holyrood Palace, splendor camped in the Cowgate, in villas set in fair
gardens, and separated by hedge-rows in which birds nested.

In time this ravine, too, became overbuilt. Houses tumbled down both
slopes to the winding cattle path, and the burn was arched over to make
a thoroughfare. Laterally, the buildings were crowded together, until
the upper floors were pushed out on timber brackets for light and air.
Galleries, stairs and jutting windows were added to outer walls, and the
mansions climbed, story above story, until the Cowgate was an undercut
canon, such as is worn through rock by the rivers of western America.
Lairds and leddies, powdered, jeweled and satin-shod, were borne in
sedan chairs down ten flights of stone stairs and through torch-lit
courts and tunnel streets, to routs in Castle or Palace and to tourneys
in the Grassmarket.

From its low situation the Cowgate came in the course of time to smell
to heaven, and out of it was a sudden exodus of grand folk to the
northern hills. The lowest level was given over at once to the poor and
to small trade. The wynds and closes that climbed the southern slope
were eagerly possessed by divines, lawyers and literary men because of
their nearness to the University. Long before Bobby's day the well-to-do
had fled from the Cowgate wynds to the hilltop streets and open squares
about the colleges. A few decent working-men remained in the decaying
houses, some of which were at least three centuries old. But there
swarmed in upon, and submerged them, thousands of criminals, beggars,
and the miserably poor and degraded of many nationalities. Businesses
that fatten on misfortune--the saloon, pawn, old clothes and cheap food
shops-lined the squalid Cowgate. Palaces were cut up into honeycombs of
tall tenements. Every stair was a crowded highway; every passage a
place of deposit for filth; almost every room sheltered a half famished
family, in darkness and ancient dirt. Grand and great, pious and wise,
decent, wretched and terrible folk, of every sort, had preceded Auld
Jock to his lodging in a steep and narrow wynd, and nine gusty flights
up under a beautiful, old Gothic gable.

A wrought-iron lantern hanging in an arched opening, lighted the
entrance to the wynd. With a hand outstretched to either wall, Auld Jock
felt his way up. Another lantern marked a sculptured doorway that gave
to the foul court of the tenement. No sky could be seen above the open
well of the court, and the carved, oaken banister of the stairs had
to be felt for and clung to by one so short of breath. On the seventh
landing, from the exertion of the long climb, Auld Jock was shaken
into helplessness, and his heart set to pounding, by a violent fit of
coughing. Overhead a shutter was slammed back, and an angry voice bade
him stop "deaving folk."

The last two flights ascended within the walls. The old man stumbled
into the pitch-black, stifling passage and sat down on the lowest step
to rest. On the landing above he must encounter the auld wifie of a
landlady, rousing her, it might be, and none too good-tempered, from
sleep. Unaware that he added to his master's difficulties, Bobby leaped
upon him and licked the beloved face that he could not see.

"Eh, laddie, I dinna ken what to do wi' ye. We maun juist hae to sleep
oot." It did not occur to Auld Jock that he could abandon the little
dog. And then there drifted across his memory a bit of Mr. Traill's talk
that, at the time, had seemed to no purpose: "Sir Walter happed the
wee lassie in the pocket of his plaid--" He slapped his knee in silent
triumph. In the dark he found the broad, open end of the plaid, and the
rough, excited head of the little dog.

"A hap, an' a stap, an' a loup, an' in ye gang. Loup in, laddie."

Bobby jumped into the pocket and turned 'round and 'round. His little
muzzle opened for a delighted bark at this original play, but Auld Jock
checked him.

"Cuddle doon noo, an' lie canny as pussy." With a deft turn he brought
the weighted end of the plaid up under his arm so there would be no
betraying drag. "We'll pu' the wool ower the auld wifie's een," he
chuckled.

He mounted the stairs almost blithely, and knocked on one of the three
narrow doors that opened on the two-by-eight landing. It was opened a
few inches, on a chain, and a sordid old face, framed in straggling
gray locks and a dirty mutch cap, peered suspiciously at him through the
crevice.

Auld Jock had his money in hand--a shilling and a sixpence--to pay for a
week's lodging. He had slept in this place for several winters, and the
old woman knew him well, but she held his coins to the candle and bit
them with her teeth to test them. Without a word of greeting she shoved
the key to the sleeping-closet he had always fancied, through the crack
in the door, and pointed to a jug of water at the foot of the attic
stairs. On the proffer of a halfpenny she gave him a tallow candle,
lighted it at her own and fitted it into the neck of a beer bottle.

"Ye hae a cauld." she said at last, with some hostility. "Gin ye wauken
yer neebors yell juist hae to fecht it oot wi' 'em."

"Ay, I ken a' that," Auld Jock answered. He smothered a cough in his
chest with such effort that it threw him into a perspiration. In some
way, with the jug of water and the lighted candle in his hands and the
hidden terrier under one arm, the old man mounted the eighteen-inch
wide, walled-in attic stairs and unlocked the first of a number of
narrow doors on the passage at the top.

"Weel aboon the fou' smell," indeed; "weel worth the lang climb!" Around
the loose frames of two wee southward-looking dormer windows, that
jutted from the slope of the gable, came a gush of rain-washed air. Auld
Jock tumbled Bobby, warm and happy and "nane the wiser," out into the
cold cell of a room that was oh, so very, very different from the high,
warm, richly colored library of Sir Walter! This garret closet in the
slums of Edinburgh was all of cut stone, except for the worn, oaken
floor, a flimsy, modern door, and a thin, board partition on one side
through which a "neebor" could be heard snoring. Filling all of the
outer wall between the peephole, leaded windows and running-up to the
slope of the ceiling, was a great fireplace of native white freestone,
carved into fluted columns, foliated capitals, and a flat pediment of
purest classic lines. The ballroom of a noble of Queen Mary's day
had been cut up into numerous small sleeping closets, many of them
windowless, and were let to the chance lodger at threepence the night.
Here, where generations of dancing toes had been warmed, the chimney
vent was bricked up, and a boxed-in shelf fitted, to serve for a bed,
a seat and a table, for such as had neither time nor heart for dancing.
For the romantic history and the beauty of it, Auld Jock had no mind at
all. But, ah! he had other joy often missed by the more fortunate.

"Be canny, Bobby," he cautioned again.

The sagacious little dog understood, and pattered about the place
silently. Exhausting it in a moment, and very plainly puzzled and bored,
he sat on his haunches, yawned wide, and looked up inquiringly to his
master. Auld Jock set the jug and the candle on the floor and slipped
off his boots. He had no wish to "wauken 'is neebors." With nervous
haste he threw back one of the windows on its hinges, reached across
the wide stone ledge and brought in-wonder of wonders, in such a place a
tiny earthen pot of heather!

"Is it no' a bonny posie?" he whispered to Bobby. With this cherished
bit of the country that he had left behind him the April before in his
hands, he sat down in the fireplace bed and lifted Bobby beside him.
He sniffed at the red tuft of purple bloom fondly, and his old face
blossomed into smiles. It was the secret thought of this, and of the
hillward outlook from the little windows, that had ironed the lines
from his face in Mr. Traill's dining-room. Bobby sniffed at the starved
plant, too, and wagged his tail with pleasure, for a dog's keenest
memories are recorded by the nose.

Overhead, loose tiles and finials rattled in the wind, that was dying
away in fitful gusts; but Auld Jock heard nothing. In fancy he was away
on the braes, in the shy sun and wild wet of April weather. Shepherds
were shouting, sheepdogs barking, ewes bleating, and a wee puppy, still
unnamed, scampering at his heels in the swift, dramatic days of lambing
time. And so, presently, when the forlorn hope of the little pot had
been restored to the ledge, master and dog were in tune with the open
country, and began a romp such as they often had indulged in behind the
byre on a quiet, Sabbath afternoon.

They had learned to play there like two well-brought-up children, in
pantomime, so as not to scandalize pious countryfolk. Now, in obedience
to a gesture, a nod, a lifted eyebrow, Bobby went through all his pretty
tricks, and showed how far his serious education had progressed.. He
rolled over and over, begged, vaulted the low hurdle of his master's
arm, and played "deid." He scampered madly over imaginary pastures;
ran, straight as a string, along a stone wall; scrambled under a thorny
hedge; chased rabbits, and dug foxes out of holes; swam a burn, flushed
feeding curlews, and "froze" beside a rat-hole. When the excitement was
at its height and the little dog was bursting with exuberance, Auld
Jock forgot his caution. Holding his bonnet just out of reach, he cried
aloud:

"Loup, Bobby!"

Bobby jumped for the bonnet, missed it, jumped again and barked-the
high-pitched, penetrating yelp of the terrier.

Instantly their little house of joy tumbled about their ears. There was
a pounding on the thin partition wall, an oath and a shout "Whaur's
the deil o' a dog?" Bobby flew at the insulting clamor, but Auld Jock
dragged him back roughly. In a voice made harsh by fear for his little
pet, he commanded:

"Haud yer gab or they'll hae ye oot."

Bobby dropped like a shot, cringing at Auld Jock's feet. The most
sensitive of four-footed creatures in the world, the Skye terrier is
utterly abased by a rebuke from his master. The whole garret was soon in
an uproar of vile accusation and shrill denial that spread from cell to
cell.

Auld Jock glowered down at Bobby with frightened eyes. In the winters he
had lodged there he had lived unmolested only because he had managed to
escape notice. Timid old country body that he was, he could not "fecht
it oot" with the thieves and beggars and drunkards of the Cowgate. By
and by the brawling died down. In the double row of little dens this one
alone was silent, and the offending dog was not located.

But when the danger was past, Auld Jock's heart was pounding in his
chest. His legs gave way under him, when he got up to fetch the candle
from near the door and set it on a projecting brick in the fireplace.
By its light he began to read in a small pocket Bible the Psalm that had
always fascinated him because he had never been able to understand it.

"The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want."

So far it was plain and comforting. "He maketh me to lie down in green
pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters."

Nae, the pastures were brown, or purple and yellow with heather and
gorse. Rocks cropped out everywhere, and the peaty tarps were mostly
bleak and frozen. The broad Firth was ever ebbing and flowing with the
restless sea, and the burns bickering down the glens. The minister of
the little hill kirk had said once that in England the pastures were
green and the lakes still and bright; but that was a fey, foreign
country to which Auld Jock had no desire to go. He wondered, wistfully,
if he would feel at home in God's heaven, and if there would be room
in that lush silence for a noisy little dog, as there was on the rough
Pentland braes. And there his thoughts came back to this cold prison
cell in which he could not defend the right of his one faithful little
friend to live. He stooped and lifted Bobby into the bed. Humble, and
eager to be forgiven for an offense he could not understand, the
loving little creature leaped to Auld Jock's arms and lavished frantic
endearments upon him.

Lying so together in the dark, man and dog fell into a sleep that was
broken by Auld Jock's fitful coughing and the abuse of his neighbors.
It was not until the wind had long died to a muffled murmur at the
casements, and every other lodger was out, that Auld Jock slept soundly.
He awoke late to find Bobby waiting patiently on the floor and the
bare cell flooded with white glory. That could mean but one thing. He
stumbled dizzily to his feet and threw a sash aback. Over the huddle of
high housetops, the University towers and the scattered suburbs beyond,
he looked away to the snow-clad slopes of the Pentlands, running up to
heaven and shining under the pale winter sunshine.

"The snaw! Eh, Bobby, but it's a bonny sicht to auld een!" he cried,
with the simple delight of a child. He stooped to lift Bobby to the
wonder of it, when the world suddenly went black and roaring around in
his head. Staggering back he crumpled up in a pitiful heap on the floor.

Bobby licked his master's face and hands, and then sat quietly down
beside him. So many strange, uncanny things had happened within the
last twenty-four hours that the little dog was rapidly outgrowing his
irresponsible puppyhood. After a long time Auld Jock opened his eyes and
sat up. Bobby put his paws on his master's knees in anxious sympathy.
Before the man had got his wits about him the time-gun boomed from the
Castle. Panic-stricken that he should have slept in his bed so late, and
then lain senseless on the floor for he knew not how long, Auld Jock got
up and struggled into his greatcoat, bonnet and plaid. In feeling for
his woolen mittens he discovered the buns that Mr. Trail had dropped
into his pocket for Bobby.

The old man stared and stared at them in piteous dismay. Mr. Traill had
believed him to be so ill that he "wouldna be oot the morn." It was a
staggering thought.

The bells of St. Giles broke into "Over the Hills and Far Away." The
melody came to Auld Jock clearly, unbroken by echoes, for the garret was
on a level with the cathedral's crown on High Street. It brought to him
again a vision of the Midlothian slopes, but it reminded Bobby that it
was dinner-time. He told Auld Jock so by running to the door and back
and begging him, by every pretty wile at his command, to go. The old man
got to his feet and then fell back, pale and shaken, his heart hammering
again. Bobby ate the bun soberly and then sat up against Auld Jock's
feet, that dangled helplessly from the bed. The bells died away from
the man's ears before they had ceased playing. Both the church and the
University bells struck the hour of two then three then four. Daylight
had begun to fail when Auld Jock stirred, sat up, and did a strange
thing: taking from his pocket a leather bag-purse that was closed by a
draw-string, he counted the few crowns and shillings in it and the many
smaller silver and copper coins.

"There's eneugh," he said. There was enough, by careful spending, to pay
for food and lodging for a few weeks, to save himself from the charity
of the infirmary. By this act he admitted the humiliating and fearful
fact that he was very ill. The precious little hoard must be hidden from
the chance prowler. He looked for a loose brick in the fireplace, but
before he found one, he forgot all about it, and absent-mindedly heaped
the coins in a little pile on the open Bible at the back of the bed.

For a long time Auld Jock sat there with his head in his hands before
he again slipped back to his pillow. Darkness stole into the quiet room.
The lodgers returned to their dens one after one, tramping or slipping
or hobbling up the stairs and along the passage. Bobby bristled and
froze, on guard, when a stealthy hand tried the latch. Then there
were sounds of fighting, of crying women, and the long, low wailing
of-wretched children. The evening drum and bugle were heard from the
Castle, and hour after hour was struck from the clock of St. Giles while
Bobby watched beside his master.

All night Auld Jock was "aff 'is heid." When he muttered in his sleep or
cried out in the delirium of fever, the little dog put his paws upon the
bed-rail. He scratched on it and begged to be lifted to where he could
comfort his master, for the shelf was set too high for him to climb into
the bed. Unable to get his master's attention, he licked the hot hand
that hung over the side. Auld Jock lay still at last, not coughing any
more, but breathing rapid, shallow breaths. Just at dawn he turned his
head and gazed in bewilderment at the alert and troubled little creature
that was instantly upon the rail. After a long time he recognized the
dog and patted the shaggy little head. Feeling around the bed, he found
the other bun and dropped it on the floor. Presently he said, between
strangled breaths:

"Puir--Bobby! Gang--awa'--hame--laddie."

After that it was suddenly very still in the brightening room. Bobby
gazed and gazed at his master--one long, heartbroken look, then dropped
to all fours and stood trembling. Without another look he stretched
himself upon the hearthstone below the bed.

Morning and evening footsteps went down and came up on the stairs.
Throughout the day--the babel of crowded tenement strife; the crying of
fishwives and fagot-venders in the court; the striking of the hours; the
boom of the time gun and sweet clamor of music bells; the failing of the
light and the soaring note of the bugle--he watched motionless beside
his master.

Very late at night shuffling footsteps came up the stairs. The "auld
wifie" kept a sharp eye on the comings and goings of her lodgers. It was
"no' canny" that this old man, with a cauld in his chest, had gone up
full two days before and had not come down again. To bitter complaints
of his coughing and of his strange talking to himself she gave scant
attention, but foul play was done often enough in these dens to make
her uneasy. She had no desire to have the Burgh police coming about
and interfering with her business. She knocked sharply on the door and
called:

"Auld Jock!"

Bobby trotted over to the door and stood looking at it. In such a strait
he would naturally have welcomed the visitor, scratching on the panel,
and crying to any human body without to come in and see what had
befallen his master. But Auld Jock had bade him "haud 'is gab" there,
as in Greyfriars kirkyard. So he held to loyal silence, although the
knocking and shaking of the latch was insistent and the lodgers were
astir. The voice of the old woman was shrill with alarm.

"Auld Jock, can ye no' wauken?" And, after a moment, in which the
unlatched casement window within could be heard creaking on its hinges
in the chill breeze, there was a hushed and frightened question:

"Are ye deid?"

The footsteps fled down the stairs, and Bobby was left to watch through
the long hours of darkness.

Very early in the morning the flimsy door was quietly forced by
authority. The first man who entered--an officer of the Crown from the
sheriff's court on the bridge--took off his hat to the majesty that
dominated that bare cell. The Cowgate region presented many a startling
contrast, but such a one as this must seldom have been seen. The classic
fireplace, and the motionless figure and peaceful face of the pious old
shepherd within it, had the dignity and beauty of some monumental tomb
and carved effigy in old Greyfriars kirkyard. Only less strange was the
contrast between the marks of poverty and toil on the dead man and the
dainty grace of the little fluff of a dog that mourned him.

No such men as these--officers of her Majesty the Queen, Burgh
policemen, and learned doctors from the Royal Infirmary--had ever been
aware of Auld Jock, living. Dead, and no' needing them any more, they
stood guard over him, and inquired sternly as to the manner in which
he had died. There was a hysterical breath of relief from the crowd
of lodgers and tenants when the little pile of coins was found on the
Bible. There had been no foul play. Auld Jock had died of heart failure,
from pneumonia and worn-out old age.

"There's eneugh," a Burgh policeman said when the money was counted. He
meant much the same thing Auld Jock himself had meant. There was enough
to save him from the last indignity a life of useful labor can thrust
upon the honest poor--pauper burial. But when inquiries were made for
the name and the friends of this old man there appeared to be only "Auld
Jock" to enter into the record, and a little dog to follow the body to
the grave. It was a Bible reader who chanced to come in from the Medical
Mission in the Cowgate who thought to look in the fly-leaf of Auld
Jock's Bible.

"His name is John Gray."

He laid the worn little book on Auld Jock's breast and crossed the
work-scarred hands upon it. "It's something by the ordinar' to find
a gude auld country body in such a foul place." He stooped and patted
Bobby, and noted the bun, untouched, upon the floor. Turning to a wild
elf of a barefooted child in the crowd he spoke to her. "Would you share
your gude brose with the bit dog, lassie?"

She darted down the stairs, and presently returned with her own scanty
bowl of breakfast porridge. Bobby refused the food, but he looked at her
so mournfully that the first tears of pity her unchildlike eyes had ever
shed welled up. She put out her hand timidly and stroked him.

It was just before the report of the time-gun that two policemen cleared
the stairs, shrouded Auld Jock in his own greatcoat and plaid, and
carried him down to the court. There they laid him in a plain box of
white deal that stood on the pavement, closed it, and went away down the
wynd on a necessary errand. The Bible-reader sat on an empty beer keg to
guard the box, and Bobby climbed on the top and stretched himself above
his master. The court was a well, more than a hundred feet deep. What
sky might have been visible above it was hidden by tier above tier of
dingy, tattered washings. The stairway filled again, and throngs of
outcasts of every sort went about their squalid businesses, with only a
curious glance or so at the pathetic group.

Presently the policemen returned from the Cowgate with a motley
assortment of pallbearers. There was a good-tempered Irish laborer from
a near-by brewery; a decayed gentleman, unsteady of gait and blear-eyed,
in greasy frock-coat and broken hat; a flashily dressed bartender
who found the task distasteful; a stout, bent-backed fagot-carrier; a
drunken fisherman from New Haven, suddenly sobered by this uncanny
duty, and a furtive, gaol-bleached thief who feared a trap and tried to
escape.

"No, but it hurts _me_."
He bowed gravely.

"It shall not hurt you, again. Whom you love, you shall protect."

"Ah! M. Raoul!" Endymion Westcote hailed him from the doorway and crossed
the room with Narcissus in tow. "My brother is interested in your panel
of Bacchus and Ariadne; he will be glad to discuss it with you.
Br-r-r-!"--he shivered--"I have been down to the door, and it is
snowing viciously.

Some of our friends will hardly find their homes tonight. I hope, by the
way, you have brought a great-coat?"
Raoul ignored the question.

"I fear, sir, your learning will discover half-a-dozen mistakes," said
he, addressing Narcissus and leading the way towards the panel.

"But whilst I think of it," Endymion persisted, "I saw half-a-dozen old
baize chair-covers behind the cloak-room door.

Don't hesitate to take one; you can return it to-morrow or next day."
Dorothea being his only audience, he beamed a look on her which said:
"They come to us in a hurry, these prisoners--no time to collect a wardrobe;
but I think of these little things."

"Rest assured, sir, I will turn up my coat-collar," said Raoul; and
Dorothea could see him, a moment later, shaking his head good-
naturedly, though the Commissary still protested.

Dorothea, left to herself, watched them examining and discussing the
panel of Bacchus and Ariadne.

The orchestra started another _contre- danse_, but no partner approached
to claim her. The dance began. It was the "Dashing White Sergeant," and
one exuberant couple threatened to tread upon her toes. She stood up
and, for lack of anything better to do, began to study the panel behind
her.

A moment later her hand went up to her throat.

It was the panel on which M. Raoul had sketched an imaginary board
with his thumb-nail--the Garden of the Hesperides. But the Perseus
was different; he wore the face of M. Raoul himself. And beneath the
throat of the nymph on the right, half concealed in the folds about
her bosom, hung a locket--a small enamelled heart, edged with brilliants.
Just such a trinket--a brooch--had pinned the collar of her close
habit three days before, when she and M.

 Raoul had stood together discussing the panel. It was a
legacy from her mother.

Hastily she put out a hand and drew the edge of the orange curtain
over nymph and locket.

Soon after supper Endymion Westcote informed his sister that it was
hopeless to think of returning to Bayfield.

The barouche would convey her back to the Town House; but already
the snow lay a foot and a half deep, and was still falling.

He himself, after packing her off with Narcissus, would remain and
attend to the comfort of the guests, many of whom must bivouac at
"The Dogs" for the night as best they could.

At midnight, or a little later, the barouche was announced. It drew
up close to the porch, axle-deep in snow. Upstairs the orchestra
was sawing out the strains of "Major Malley's Reel," as Endymion lifted
his sister in and slammed the door upon her and Narcissus.

The noise prevented his hearing a sash-window lifted, immediately
above the porch.

"Right away!"
The inn-servant who had accompanied the Westcotes turned back to trim
a candle flaring in the draughty passage. But it so happened that, in
starting, the coachman entangled his off-rein in the trace-buckle.
Endymion, in his polished hessians, ran round to unhitch it.

On the window-sill above, two deft hands quickly scooped up and moulded
a snowball.

"He should turn up his coat-collar, the pig! _V'Ian pour le Commissaire!_"

Endymion Westcote did not hear the voice; but as the vehicle rolled
heavily forward, out of the darkness a snowball struck him accurately
on the nape of the neck.

CHAPTER IV

ENCOUNTER BETWEEN A HIGH HORSE AND A HOBBY

"Your chocolate will be getting cold, Miss."
Dorothea, refreshed with sleep but still pleasantly tired, lay in bed
watching Polly as she relaid and lit the fire in the massive Georgian
grate. These occasions found the service in the Town House short- handed,
and the girl (a cheerful body, with no airs) turned to and took her share
in the extra work.

"Have they sent for Mudge?" (Mudge was the Bayfield butler.)
"Lord, no, Miss! Small chance of getting to Mudge, or of Mudge getting
to us. Why, the snow is half-way up the front door!"
Bed was deliciously warm, and the air in the room nipping, as Dorothea
found when she stretched out her hand for the cup.

"I always like waking in this room.

It gives one a sort of betwixt and between feeling--between being at
home and on a visit. To be snowed-up makes it quite an adventure."
"Pretty adventure for the gentry at 'The Dogs'! Tom Ryder, the dairyman
there, managed to struggle across just now with the milk, and he says
that a score of them couldn't get beds in the town for love or money.
The rest kept it up till four in the morning, and now they're sleeping
in their fine dresses round the fire in the Orange Room."
Dorothea laughed. "They were caught like this just eighteen years ago--
let me see--yes, just eighteen. I remember, because it was my second
ball. But then there were no prisoners filling up the lodgings, so everyone
found a room."
"Some of the French gentlemen gave up their lodgings last night,
and are down at 'The Dogs' now keeping themselves warm.

There's that old Admiral, for one. I'm sure he never ought to be out of
bed, with his rheumatics. It's enough to give him his death. Sam Zeally
says that General Rochambeau is looking after him, as tender as a
mother with a babby."
Polly mimicked Sam's pronunciation, and laughed. She was Somerset-born
herself, but had seen service in Bath.

"Where is Mr. Endymion?"
"I heard him let himself in just as I was going upstairs after undressing
you. That would be about one, or a quarter past. But he was up again
at six, called for Mrs. Morrish to heat his shaving water, and had
a cup of coffee in his room.

He and Mr. Narcissus have gone out to see the roll called, and get the
volunteers and prisoners to clear the streets.

Leastways, that's what Mr. Narcissus is doing. I heard Mr. Endymion
say something about riding off to see what the roads are like."
By this time the fire was lit and crackling. Polly loitered awhile,
arranging the cinders. She had given up asking with whom her mistress
had danced; but Dorothea usually described the more striking gowns,
and how this or that lady had worn her hair.

"Tired, Miss?"
"Well, yes, Polly; a little, but not uncomfortably. I danced several
times last night."
Polly pursed her mouth into an O; but her face was turned to the
fire, and Dorothea did not see it.

"I hope, Miss, you'll tell me about it later on. But Mrs. Morrish is
downstairs declaring that no hen will lay an egg in this weather,
to have it snowed up the next moment.

'Not that I blame mun,' she says, 'for I wouldn't do it myself,'"--here
Polly giggled.

"What to find for breakfast she don't know, and never will until I go and
help her."

Polly departed, leaving her mistress cosy in bed and strangely
reluctant to rise and part company with her waking thoughts.

Yes; Dorothea had danced twice again with M.

Raoul since her discovery of his boldness. He had seen her draw the orange
curtain over his offence, had sought her again and apologised for,
it.

He had done it (he had pleaded) on a sudden impulse--to be a reminder
of one kind glance which had brightened his exile. 'No one but she was
in the least likely to recognise the trinket; in any case he would paint
it out at the first opportunity. And Dorothea had forgiven him. She
herself had a great capacity for gratitude, and understood the feeling
far too thoroughly to believe for an instant that M. Raoul could be
mightily grateful for anything she had said or done. No; whatever the
feeling which impels a young gentleman to secrete some little
private reminder of its object, it is not gratitude; and Dorothea
rejoiced inwardly that it was not.

But what then was it? Some attraction of sympathy, no doubt. To find
herself attractive in any way was a new experience and delightful. She
had forgiven him on the spot. And afterwards they had danced twice
together, and he had praised her dancing. Also, he had said something
about a pretty foot--but Frenchmen must always be complimenting.

A noise in the street interrupted her thoughts, and reminded her that
she must not be dawdling longer in bed. She shut her teeth, made a leap
for it, and, running to the window, peered over the blind. Some score
of the prisoners in a gang were clearing the pavement with shovels
and brushes, laughing and chattering all the while, and breaking off
to pelt each other with snowballs.

She had discussed these poor fellows with M. Raoul last night. Could
she not in some way add to their comfort, or their pleasure? He had
dwelt most upon their mental weariness, especially on Sundays. Of
material discomfort they never complained, but they dreaded Sundays worse
than they dreaded cold weather. Any small distraction now--.

The train of her recollections came to a sudden halt, before a tall
cheval-glass standing at an obtuse angle to the fireplace and on
the edge of its broad hearthrug.

She had been moving aimlessly from the window to the wardrobe in
which Polly had folded and laid away her last night's finery, and from
the wardrobe back to a long sofa at the bed's foot.

And now she found herself standing before the glass and holding her
nightgown high enough to display a foot and ankle on which she had slipped
an ash-coloured stocking and shoe.

A tide of red flooded her neck and face.

* * * * * * * * *
Mrs.

Morrish had laid the meal in the ground-floor room, once a library,
but now used as a bank-parlour--yet still preserving the d ignified
aspect of a private room: for banking (as the Westcote clients were
reminded by several sporting prints and a bust of the Medicean Venus)
was in those days of scarce money a branch of philanthropy rather than
of trade. The good caretaker was in tears over the breakfast. "And I'm
sure, Miss, I don't know what's to be done unless you can eat bacon."

"Which I can," Dorothea assured her.

"Well, Miss, I am sure I envy you; for ever since that poor French Captain
Fioupi hanged himself from Mary Odling's bacon-rack, two years ago the
first of this very next month, I haven't been able to look at a
bit."

"Poor gentleman! Why did he do it?"
"The Lord knows, Miss. But they said it was home-sickness."
From the street came the voices of Captain Fioupi's compatriots, merry
at their work. Dorothea had scarcely begun breakfast before her brothers
entered, and she had to pour out tea for them.

Narcissus took his seat at once. Endymion stood stamping his feet and
warming his hands by the fire. He bent and with his finger flicked out
a crust of snow from between his breeches and the tops of his riding-boots.
It fell on the hearthstone and sputtered.

"The roads," he announced, are not very bad beyond the bridge.
That is the worst spot, and I have sent down a gang to clear it. Our
guests ought to be able to depart before noon, though I won't answer for
the road Yeovil Way. One carrier--Allworthy--has come through to the
bridge, but says he passed Solomon's van in a drift about four miles
back, this side of the Cheriton oak. He reports Bayfield Hill safe enough;
but that I discovered for myself."
"It seems quite a treat for them," Dorothea remarked.

His eyebrows went up.

"The guests, do you mean?"
He turned to the fire and picked up the tongs.

She laughed.

"No, I mean the prisoners; I was listening to their voices. Just now they
were throwing snowballs."
Endymion dropped the tongs with a clatter; picked them up, set them
in place, and faced the room again with a flush which might have
come from stooping over the fire.

"Come to breakfast, dear," said Dorothea, busy with the tea-urn. "I have
a small plan I want your permission for, and your help. It is about the
prisoners. General Rochambeau and M.

Raoul--"

"Are doubtless prepared to teach me my business," snapped Endymion, who
seemed in bad humour this morning.

"No--but listen, dear! They praise you warmly. For whom but my brother
would these poor men have worked as they did upon the Orange Room--
and all to show their gratitude? But it appears the worst part of
captivity is its tedium and the way it depresses the mind; one
sees that it must be. They dread Sundays most of all. And I said I
would speak to you, and if any way could be found--"
"My dear Dorothea," Endymion slipped his hands beneath his coat-tails and
stood astraddle, "I have not often to request you, to mind your
own affairs; but really when it comes to making a promise in my
name--" 
"Not a promise."

"May I ask you if you seriously propose to familiarise Axcester with all
the orgies of a Continental Sabbath? Already the prisoners spend Sunday
in playing chess, draughts, cards, dominoes; practices which I connive
at, only insisting that they are kept out of sight, but from which I
endeavour to wean them--those at least who have a taste for music--by
encouraging them to, take part in our Church services."

"But I have heard you regret, dear, that only the least respectable
fall in with this. The rest, being strict Roman Catholics, think it
wrong."
"Are you quite sure last night did, not over-tire you? You are certainly
disposed to be argumentative this morning."

"I think," suggested Narcissus, buttering his toast carefully, "you might
at least hear what Dorothea has to say."
"Oh, certainly!

Indeed, if she has been committing me to her projects, I have a right to
know the worst."
"I haven't committed you--I only said I would ask your advice," poor
Dorothea stammered. "And I have no project." She caught Narcissus' eye,
and went on a little more firmly: "Only I thought, perhaps, that if you
extended their walks a little on Sundays--they are scrupulous in
keeping their _parole_.

And, once in a way, we might entertain them at Bayfield--late in the
afternoon, when you have finished your Sunday nap. Narcissus might
show them the pavement and tell them about Vespasian--not a regular
lecture, it being Sunday, but an informal talk, with tea afterwards.

And in the evening, perhaps, they might meet in the Orange Room for
some sacred music--it need not be called a 'concert'--" Dorothea
stopped short, amazed at her own inventiveness.

"H'm. I envy your simplicity, my dear soul, in believing that the--
ah--alleged _ennui_ of these men can he cured by a talk about
Vespasian.

But when you go on to talk of sacred music, I must be permitted to remind
you that a concert is none the less a concert for being called by another
name. We Britons do not usually allow names to disguise facts. A
concert--call it even a 'sacred' concert--in the Orange Room, amid
those distinctly--ah--pagan adornments! I can scarcely even term it the
thin end of the wedge, so clearly can I see it paving the way for
other questionable indulgences.

I don't doubt your good intentions, Dorothea, but you cannot, as a woman,
be expected to understand how easily the best intentions may convert
Axcester, with its French community, into a veritable hot-bed of vice.
And, by-the-by, you might tell Morrish I shall want the horse again in
half-an-hour's time."
Dorothea left the room on her errand. As she closed the door Narcissus
looked up from his toast.

"Hot-bed of fiddlesticks!" said he.

"I--ah--beg your pardon?"
Endymion, in the act of seating himself at table, paused to
stare.

"Hot-bed of fiddlesticks!" repeated Narcissus. "You needn't have
snapped Dorothea's head off. I thought her suggestions extremely
sensible."
"The concert, for instance?"
"Yes! you don't make sacred music irreverent by calling it a concert.
Moreover, I really don't see why, as intelligent men, they should not find
Vespasian interesting. His career in many respects resembled the
Corsican's."
Endymion smiled at his plate.

"Well, well, we will talk about it later on," said he.

He never quarrelled with Narcissus, whose foibles amused him, but
for whose slow judgment he had a more than brotherly respect

.

* * * * * * * * *
The Westcotes, though (at due intervals and with due notice given) they
entertained as handsomely as the Lord Lieutenant himself, were not a
household to be bounced (so to speak) into promiscuous or extemporised
hospitality.

For an ordinary dinner-party, Dorothea would pen the invitations three
weeks ahead, Endymion devote an hour to selecting his guests, and
Narcissus spend a morning in the Bayfield cellar, which he supervised
and in which he took a just pride. And so well was this inelasticity
recognised, so clearly was it understood that by no circumstances
could Endymion Westcote permit himself to be upset, that none of
the snowed-up company at "The Dogs" thought a bit the worse of him
for having gone home and left them to shift as best they could.

Dorothea, when at about half-past ten she put on her bonnet and cloak
and stepped down to visit them--the prisoners having by that time cleared
the pavement--found herself surrounded by a crew humorously apologetic
for their toilettes, profoundly envious of her better luck, but on
excellent terms with one another and the younger ones, at any rate, who
had borne the worst of the discomfort--enjoying the adventure
thoroughly.

"But the life and soul of it all was that M. Raoul," confessed Lady
Bateson's niece.

"By George!" echoed the schoolboy who had danced the "Soldier's Joy" with
Dorothea, "I wouldn't have believed it of a Frenchy."
For some reason Dorothea was not too well pleased.

"But I do not see M. Raoul."

"Oh, he's down by the bridge, helping the relief party.

One would guess him worn out. He ran from lodging to lodging, turning
the occupants out of their beds and routing about for fresh linen.
They say he even carried old Mrs. Kekewich pick-a-back through
the snow."
"And tucked her in bed," added the schoolboy. "And then he came back, wet
almost to the waist, and danced."
He looked roguishly at Lady Bateson's niece, and the pair exploded
in laughter.

They ran off as General Rochambeau, jaded and unshaven, approached
and saluted Dorothea.

"Until Miss Westcote appeared, we held our own against the face of
day.
Now, alas, the conspiracy can no longer be kept up."
"You had no compliment for me last night, General."

"Forgive me, Mademoiselle." He lowered his voice and spoke earnestly.
"I have a genuine one for you to-day--I compliment your heart.

M. Raoul has told me of your interest in our poor compatriots, and what
you intend--"
"I fear I can do little," Dorothea interrupted, mindful of her late
encounter and (as she believed) defeat.

"By all accounts, M. Raoul appears to have made himself agreeable to all,"
she added.

The old gentleman chuckled and took snuff.

"He loves an audience.

At about four in the morning, when all the elders were in bed--(pardon
me, Mademoiselle, if I claim to reckon myself among _les jeunes_;
my poor back tells me at what cost)--at about four in the morning
the young lady who has just left you spoke of a new dance she had
seen performed this season at Bath.

Well, it appears that M.

Raoul had also seen it a--valtz they called it, or some such name.
Whereupon nothing would do but they must dance it together. Such a
dance, Mademoiselle!

Roll, roll--round and round-- roll, roll--but _perpendicularly_,
you understand.

By-and-by the others began to copy them, and someone asked M. Raoul
where he had found this accomplishment. 'Oh, in my travels,' says he,
and points to one of the panels; and there, if you will believe me,
the fellow had actually painted himself as Perseus in the Garden
of the Hesperides."
Poor Dorothea glanced towards the panel.

"Ah, you remember it! But he must have painted in the face after showing
it to us the other day, or I should have recognised it at the time.

You must come and see it; really an excellent portrait!"
He led her towards it. The orange curtain no longer hid the third nymph.
But the blood which had left Dorothea's face rushed back as she
saw that the trinket had been roughly erased.

"It was quite a _coup_, but M. Raoul loves an audience."
Shortly before noon the road by the bridge was reported to be clear.
Carriages were announced, and the guests shook hands and were rolled
away--the elder glum, their juniors in boisterous spirits. As each
carriage passed the bridge, where M. Raoul stood among the workmen,
handkerchiefs fluttered out, and he lifted his hat gaily in
response.

CHAPTER V
BEGINS WITH ANCIENT HISTORY AND ENDS WITH AN OLD STORY
"_Ubicunque vicit Romanus habitat_,--Where the Roman conquered he
settled--and it is from his settlements that to-day we deduce his
conquests. Of Vespasian and his second legion the jejune page of
Suetonius records neither where they landed nor at what limit their
victorious eagles were stayed. Yet will the patient investigator
trace their footprints across many a familiar landscape of rural
England, led by the blurred imperishable impress he has learned to
recognise.
The invading host sweeps forward, and is gone; but behind it the
homestead arises and smiles upon the devastated fields, arms yield
to the implements and habiliments of peace, and the colonist, who
supersedes the legionary, in time furnishes the sole evidence of
his feverish and ensanguined transit . . ."
Narcissus was enjoying himself amazingly. His audience endured him
because the experience was new, and their ears caught the rattle
of tea-cups in the adjoining library.
Dorothea sat counting her guests, and assuring herself that the
number of teacups would suffice. She had heard the lecture many
times before, and with repetition its sonorous periods had lost
hold upon her, although her brother had been at pains to model them
upon Gibbon.
But the scene impressed her sharply, and she carried away a very
lively picture of it. The old Roman villa had been built about a
hollow square open to the sky, and this square now formed the great
hall of Bayfield. Deep galleries of two stories surrounded it, in
place of the old colonnaded walk. Out of these opened the principal
rooms of the house, and above them, upon a circular lantern of clear
glass, was arched a painted dome. Sheathed on the outside with green
weather-tinted copper, and surmounted by a gilt ball, this dome
(which could be seen from the Axcester High Street when winter
stripped the Bayfield elms) gave the building something of the
appearance of an observatory.
On the north side of the hall a broad staircase descended from the
gallery to the tiled floor, in the midst of which a fountain played
beneath a cupola supported by slender columns. On the west the
recess beneath the gallery had been deepened to admit a truly ample
fireplace, with a flat hearthstone and andirons. Here were screens
and rich Turkey rugs, and here the Bayfield household ordinarily
had the lamps set after dinner and gathered before the fire, talking
little, enjoying the long pauses filled with the hiss of logs and
the monotonous drip and trickle of water in the penumbra.
To-day the prisoners--two hundred in all--crowded the floor, the
stairs, even the deep gallery above; but on the south side, facing
the staircase, two heavy curtains had been looped back from the
atrium, and there a ray of wintry sunshine fell through the glass
roof upon the famous Bayfield pavement and the figure of Narcissus
gravely expounding it.After an
hour or so he worked himself up to the point of going out and slamming
the door.

At eight o'clock Mr. Traill found Bobby on the pavement outside the
locked gate. He was not sorry that the fortunes of unequal battle
had thrown the faithful little dog on his hospitality. Bobby begged
piteously to be put inside, but he seemed to understand at last that
the gate was too high for Mr. Traill to drop him over. He followed
the landlord up to the restaurant willingly. He may have thought this
champion had another solution of the difficulty, for when he saw the man
settle comfortably in a chair he refused to lie on the hearth. He ran to
the door and back, and begged and whined to be let out. For a long time
he stood dejectedly. He was not sullen, for he ate a light supper and
thanked his host with much polite wagging, and he even allowed himself
to be petted. Raoul!--to M. Raoul? I don't understand. Is M. Raoul--Oh,
for goodness sake speak, girl!

What is that? I see a piece of paper in your hand."
Polly twisted it in her fingers, and made a movement to hide it in her
pocket; but with the movement she seemed to reflect.

"He gave it to me; I don't understand anything about it.

I was shutting the window, when he whistled to me; he gave me this.
I--I think he meant it for you."
Polly's tone suddenly became saucy, but her voice shook.

Dorothea was shaking too, as her fingers closed on the note.

She vainly sought to read the girl's eyes. Her own cheeks were burning;
she felt the blood rushing into them and singing in her ears. Yet
in her abasement she kept her dignity, and, motioning Polly to
follow, stepped into the bedroom, unfolded the letter slowly, and read
it by the candle there.

_"My Angel,
"I have hungered now for a week. Be at your window this evening and
let me, at least, be fed with a word. See what I risk for you.

"Yours devotedly and for ever."_
There was no signature, but well enough Dorothea knew the handwriting.
A wave of anger swelled in her heart--the first she had ever felt towards
him. He had behaved selfishly. "See what I risk for you!"-- but to what
risk was he exposing her! He was breaking their covenant too; demanding
that which he must know her conscience abhorred. She had not believed he
could understand her so poorly, held her so cheap.

Cheap indeed, since he had risked her secret in Polly's hand!

She turned the paper over, noting its creases. Suddenly--"You have opened
and read this!" she said.

Polly admitted it with downcast eyes.

The girl, after the first surprise, had demeaned herself admirably, and
now stood in the attitude proper to a confidential servant;
solicitous, respectful, prepared to blink the peccadillo, even to
sympathise discreetly at a hint given.

"I'm sorry, Miss, that I opened it; I ought to have told you, but you
took me by surprise. You know, Miss, that you gave me leave to run down
to my aunt's this evening; and on my way back--just as I was letting
myself in by the nursery gate, Mr.

Raoul comes tearing up the hill after me and slips this into my hand.
To tell you the truth, it rather frightened me being run after like
that. And he said something and ran back--for nine was just striking,
and in a moment the Ting-tang would be ringing and he must be back
to answer his name.

So in my fluster I didn't catch what he meant. When I got home and
opened it, I saw my mistake.

But you were downstairs at dinner--I couldn't get to speak with you
alone--I waited to tell you; and just now, when I was drawing the
blinds, I heard a whistle--" 
"M.

Raoul had no right to send me such a message, Polly. I cannot think
what he means by it. Nothing that I have ever said to him--"
"No, Miss," Polly assented readily. After a pause she added: "I suppose
you'd like me to go now? You won't be wanting your hair done to-night?"

"Certainly I wish you to stay. Is he--is M. Raoul outside?"
"I think so, Miss. Oh, yes--for certain he is."
"Then I must insist on your staying with me while I dismiss him."
"Very good, Miss. Would you wish me to stay here, or to come with
you?"
Dorothea felt herself blushing, and her temper rose again. "For the
moment, stay here.

I will leave the door open and call you when you are wanted."
She passed into the boudoir and bent to the open window. At this corner
the foundations of the house stood some feet lower than the slope
out of which they had been levelled, and she looked down upon a
glacis of smooth turf, capped by a glimmering parapet of Bath stone.

Beyond stretched the moonlit park.

"M. Raoul!" she called, but scarcely above a whisper.

A figure crept out from the dark angle below and climbed to the
parapet.

"Dorothea!

Forgive me! Another night and no word with you--I could not bear
it."

"You are mad. You are breaking your parole and risking shame for me.
Nay, you have shamed me already. Polly is here."
"Polly is a good girl; she understands. A word, then, if you must drive
me away."
"Your _parole!_"
"I can pass the sentries. No fear of the patrol hereabouts. Your
hand-- let down your hand to me. I can reach it from the parapet
here--with my fingers only, not with my lips, though even that you
never forbade!"

Weakly, she lowered her arm over the sill. He reached to touch it, and
she leaned her face towards his--hers in shadow, his pale in the
moonlight.

Before their fingers met, a yellow flame leapt from the angle to
the left; a loud report banged in her ears and echoed across the park;
and Raoul, after swaying a second, pitched forward with a sharp
cry and rolled to the foot of the glacis.

Dorothea forced herself back in the room, and stood there upright
and shook, with Polly beside her holding her two hands.

"They have shot him!"
The two women listened for a moment. All was still now. Polly stepped
to the window and, closed it softly.

"But why? What are you doing?" Dorothea asked, in a hoarse
whisper.

"They will find quite enough without that," said the practical girl,
but her voice quavered.

"Yet if they had seen--Ah, how selfish to think of that now! Hush-- that
was a groan!

He is alive still."

She moved towards the window, but Polly dragged her back by main
force.

"Listen, Miss!"
Below they heard the sudden unbarring of doors, and Endymion's voice
calling for Mudge, the butler. A bell pealed in the servants' hall,
stopped, and began ringing again in short and violent jerks.

"Let me go," commanded Dorothea. "They will never find him, under the
slope there.

He may be bleeding to death. I must tell--"
But Polly clung to her. "They'll find him safe enough, Miss Dorothea.
There's Sam, now--hark!--at the backdoor bell: he'll tell them."
"Sam!"

"Sam Zeally, Miss."
"But I don't understand," Dorothea stammered; with a sharp suspicion
of treachery, she pushed the girl from her.

"Was Zeally mounting guard tonight? If I thought--don't tell me it was
a trap!

Oh, you wicked girl!"
"No; it wasn't," answered Polly, sulkily.

"I don't know nothing of Sam's movements. But he might be hanging about
the house; and if he saw a man talking to me, he's just as jealous
as fire."

She broke off at the sound of voices below the window. The ray of a
lantern, as the search-party jolted it, flashed and danced on wall and
ceiling of the dim boudoir. A sharp exclamation announced that Raoul
was discovered. A confused muttering followed; and then Dorothea
heard Endymion's voice calling up to Mudge from the bottom of the
trench.

"Run to Miss Westcote's room and tell her we shall require lint
and bandages.

There is no cause for alarm, assure her; say there has been an
accident--a Frenchman overtaken out of bounds and wounded--I think,
not seriously.

If she be gone to bed, get the medicine chest and the key and bring them
into the kitchen."

Dorothea had charge of the Bayfield medicine chest, and kept it in a
cupboard of the boudoir.

She groped for it, pulled open drawer after drawer, rifled them for
lint and linen, and by the time Mudge tapped on the door, stood ready
with the chest under one arm and a heap of bandages in the other.

"In the kitchen, Mr. Endymion said. I am coming at once; take the chest,
run, and have as many candles lit as possible."
Mudge ran; Dorothea followed--with Polly behind her, trembling like
a leaf.

The two women reached the kitchen as the party entered with Raoul, and
supported him to a chair beside the dying fire. His face was
colourless, and he lay back and closed his eyes weakly as Endymion
stooped to examine the wounded leg, with Narcissus in close attendance,
and the others standing respectfully apart--Mudge, the two footmen
(in their shirt sleeves), an under-gardener named Best, one of the
housemaids, and Corporal Zeally by the door in regimentals, with his
japanned shako askew and his Brown Bess still in his hand. Behind his
shoulder, three or four of the women servants hung about the doorway
and peered in, between curiosity and terror.

It was a part of Endymion's fastidiousness that the sight of blood--
that is, of human blood--turned his stomach.

In her distress Dorothea could not help admiring how he conquered this
aversion; how he knelt in his spick-and-span evening dress, and, after
turning back his ruffles, unlaced the prisoner's soaked shoe and rolled
down the stocking.

He looked up gratefully as she entered. In such emergencies Narcissus
was worse than useless; but Dorothea had the nursing instinct, and her
brothers recognised it. The sight of a wound or a hurt steadied her
wits, and she became practical and helpful at once.

"A flesh wound only, I think; just above the ankle--the tendon cut, but
the bone apparently not broken."
"It may be splintered, though," said Dorothea.

"Has anyone thought of sending for Doctor Ibbetson? He must be fetched
at once. A towel, please--three or four--from the dresser there." A
footman brought the towels. She knelt, folded two on her lap, and,
resting Raoul's foot there, drew the stocking gently from the wound.
"A basin and warm water, not too hot. Polly, you will find a small
sponge in the, second drawer . . ."

She nodded towards the medicine chest. "One of you, make up a better
fire and set on a fresh kettle . . ."
She gave her orders in a low firm voice, and continued to direct everyone
thus, while she sponged the wound and drew off the stocking.
Neither towards them nor towards Raoul did she lift her eyes. The bare
foot of her beloved rested in her lap. She heard him groan twice, but
with no pain inflicted by her fingers; if their slightest pressure had
hurt him she would have known. She went on bathing the wound--she, who
could have bathed it with her tears. As time passed, and still the
doctor did not come, she began to bandage it. She called on Polly for
the bandages; then, still without looking up, she divined that Polly
was useless--was engaged in trying to catch Zeally's eye, and warn
him or get a word with him.

"He's pale as a ghost yet," said Endymion.

"Another dose of brandy might set him up. I gave him some from my flask
before bringing him in."
"He is not going to faint," she answered.

"Well, I won't bother him with questions until he comes round a bit.

You, Zeally, had better step into my room though, and give me your version
of the affair."
But as the Corporal saluted and took a step forward, the prisoner
opened his eyes.

"Before you examine Zeally, sir, let me save you what trouble I can."
He spoke faintly, but with deliberation.

"I wish to deny nothing. I was escaping, and he tracked me. He came
on me as I cut across the park, and challenged. I did not answer, but
ran around a corner of the house and jumped the parapet, thinking to
double along the trench there and put him off the scent--at least
to dodge the bullet, if he fired. But as I jumped for it, he winged
me. A very pretty shot, too. With your leave, sir, I 'd like to shake
hands with him on it. Shake hands, Corporal!" Raoul stretched out a hand,
sideways. "You're a smart fellow, and no malice between soldiers."
Dorothea heard Polly's gasp: it seemed to her that all the room must
hear it. Her own hand trembled on the bandage.

She had forgotten her danger--the all but inevitable scandal--until
Raoul brought it back to her, and in the same breath saved her by
his heroic lie. She could not profit by it, though. Her lips parted
to refute it, and for the first time she gazed up at him, her eyes
brimming with sudden love, gratitude, pride, even while they entreated
against the sacrifice. He was smiling down with an air of faint
amusement; yet beneath the lashes she read a command which mastered
her will, imposed silence.

He had taken on a new manliness, and for the first time in the story
of their loves she felt herself dominated by something stronger than
passion. He had swept her off her feet, before now, by boyish ardour:
her humility, the marvel of being loved, had aided him; but hitherto
in her heart she had always felt her own character to be the stronger.
Now he challenged her on woman's own ground--that of self-abnegation;
he commanded her to his own hurt, he towered above her. She had never
dreamed of a love like this. Beaten, despairing for him, yet proud
as she had never been in her life, she held her breath.

Corporal Zeally was merely bewildered. His was a deliberate mind and had
hatched out the night's catastrophe after incubating it for weeks.
Unconvinced by Polly's explanation of her meeting with M. Raoul at the
Nursery gate, he had nursed a dull jealousy and set himself to watch,
and had dogged his man down at length with the slow cunning of a yokel
bred of a line of poachers. Raoul's tribute to his smartness perplexed
him and almost he scented a trap.

"Beg your pardon, Squire," he began heavily, forgetting military forms
of address, "but the gentleman don't put it right."
"Oh, hang your British modesty!" put in Raoul with a wry laugh. "If
it pleases you to represent that the whole thing was accidental and
you don't deserve to be promoted sergeant for tonight's work, at least
you might respect my vanity."
Polly saw her opportunity. She crossed boldly and made as if to lay over
the Corporal's mouth the hand that would fain have boxed his ears.
"Reckon this is my affair," she announced, with an effrontery at which
one of the footmen guffawed openly. "Be modest as you please, my lad,
when I've married 'ee; but I won't put up with modesty from anyone
under a sergeant, and that I warn 'ee!"

The Corporal eyed his sweetheart without forgiveness. His mouth was open,
but upon the word "sergeant," he shut it again and began to digest the
idea.

"You know, of course, sir," Endymion Westcote addressed the prisoner
coldly, "to what such a confession commits you?

I do not see what other construction the facts admit, but it is so
serious in itself and in its consequences that I warn you--"
"I have broken my _parole_, sir," said Raoul, simply.

"Of the temptations you cannot judge. Of the shame I am as profoundly
sensible as you can be.

The consequences I am ready to suffer."
He sank back in his chair as Dr. Ibbetson entered.

An hour later Dorothea said goodnight to her brother in the great
hall.

He had lit his candle and was mixing himself a glass of brandy and
water.

"The sight of blood--" he excused himself.

"I am sorry for the fellow, though I never liked him. I suppose, now,
there was nothing between him and that girl Polly? For a moment--from
Zeally's manner--" He gulped down the drink.

"His confession was honest enough, anyhow. Poor fool!
he's safe in hospital for a week, and his friends, if he has any, and they
know what it means, will pray for that week to be prolonged."
"What does it mean?" Dorothea managed to ask.

"It means Dartmoor."
Dorothea's candlestick shook in her hand, and the extinguisher fell
on the floor.

Her brother picked it up and restored it.

"Naturally," he murmured with brotherly concern, "your nerves! It has
been a trying night, but you comported yourself admirably, Dorothea.
Ibbetson assures me he could not have tied the bandage better
himself.

I felt proud of my sister." He kissed her gallantly and pulled out his
watch. "Past twelve o'clock!--time they were round with the barouche.
The sooner we get Master Raoul down to the Infirmary and pack him in bed,
the better."
As Dorothea went up the stairs she heard the sound of wheels on the
gravel.

She could not accept his sacrifice. No; a way must be found to save
him, and in her prayers that night she began to seek it. But while
she prayed, her heart was bowed over a great joy. She had a hero for
a lover!

CHAPTER IX

DOROTHEA CONFESSES

She saw no more of him, and heard very little, before the Court
Martial met.

No one acquainted with the code of that age--so strait-laced in its
proprieties, so full-blooded in its vices--will need to be told that
she never dreamed of asking her brother's permission to visit the
Prisoners' Infirmary. He reported--once a day, perhaps, and casually--
that the patient was doing well. Dorothea ventured once to sound General
Rochambeau, but the old aristocrat answered stiffly that he took no
interest in _déclassés_, and plainly hinted that, in his judgment, M.
Raoul had sinned past pardon; which but added to her remorse. From time
to time she obtained some hearsay news through Polly; but Polly's chief
interest now lay in her approaching marriage.

For the Commissary, while accepting Raoul's version of his capture,
had an intuitive gift which saved him from wholly believing in it.

Indeed, his conduct of the affair, if we consider the extent of his
knowledge, was nothing less than masterly.

Corporal Zeally found himself a sergeant within forty-eight hours, and
within an hour of the announcement he and Polly were given an
audience in the Bayfield library, with the result that Parson
Milliton cried their banns in Axcester Church on the following
Sunday, and the bride-elect received a month's wages and three
weeks' notice of dismissal, with a hint that the reason for her
short retention--to instruct her successor in Miss Dorothea's
ways--was ostensible rather than real.

With Raoul's fate he declined to meddle.

"Here," he said in effect, "is my report, including the prisoner's
confession. I do my simple duty in presenting it. But the young
man was captured in my grounds; he was known to be a _protégé_ of my
brother's. Finding him wounded and faint with loss of blood, we naturally
did our best for him, and this again renders me perhaps too sympathetic.
The law is the law, however, and must take its course." No attitude could
have been more proper or have shown better feeling.

So Raoul, who made a rapid recovery--barring the limp which he carried
to the end of his days--was tried, condemned, and sentenced in the
space of two hours.

He stuck to his story, and the court had no alternative. Dartmoor or
Stapleton inevitably awaited the prisoner who broke parole and was
retaken.

The night after his sentence Raoul was marched past the Bayfield gates
under escort for Dartmoor. And Dorothea had not intervened.

This, of course, proves that she was of no heroical fibre. She knew
it.
Night after night she had lain awake, vainly contriving plans for
his deliverance; and either she lacked inventiveness or was too
honest, for no method could she discover which avoided confession
of the simple truth.

As the days passed without catastrophe and without news save that
her lover was bettering in hospital, she staved off the truth,
trusting that the next night would bring inspiration.

Almost she hoped--being quite unwise in such matters--that his
sufferings would be accepted as cancelling his offence. So she played
the coward.

The blow fell on the evening when Endymion announced, in casual
tones, that the Court Martial was fixed for the day after next.

That night, indeed, brought something like an inspiration; and on
the morrow she rode into Axcester and called upon Polly, now a bride
of six days' standing and domiciled in one of the Westcote cottages
in Church Street, a little beyond the bridge.

For a call of state this was somewhat premature, but it might
pass.

Polly appeared to think it premature.

Her furniture was topsy-turvy, and her hair in curl-papers; she
obviously did not expect visitors, and resented this curtailment of the
honeymoon. She showed it even when Dorothea, after apologies, came
straight to the point:

"Polly, I am very unhappy."
"Indeed, Miss?"

"You know that I must be, since M.

Raoul is going to that horrible war-prison rather than let the truth be
known."

"But since you didn't encourage him, Miss--"
"Of course I didn't encourage him to come," said Dorothea, quickly.

"Why then it was his own fault, and he broke his word by breaking bounds."

"Yes, strictly his parole was broken; but the meaning of parole is, that
a prisoner promises to make no attempt to escape. M. Raoul never dreamed
of escaping, yet that is the ground of his punishment."
"Well," said Polly, "if he chooses to say he was escaping, I don't
see how we--I mean, how you--can help."

"Why, by telling the truth; and that's what we ought to do, though it
was wrong of him to expose us to it."
"To be sure it was," Polly assented.

"But," urged Dorothea, "couldn't we tell the truth of what happened
without anyone's wanting to know more? He gave you a note, which
you took without guessing what it contained. He wished to have speech
with me.

Before you could give me the note and I could refuse to see him--
as I should certainly have done--he had arrived.

His folly deserves punishment, but no such punishment as being sent to
Dartmoor."

Polly eyed her ex-mistress shrewdly.

"Have you burnt the note?"

she asked.

Dorothea, blushing to the roots of her hair, stammered:

"No; I kept it--it was evidence for him, you see. I wish, now--"
She broke off as Polly nodded her head.

"I guessed you'd have kept it. And now you'll never make up your
mind to burn it. You're too honest."
"But, surely the note itself would not be called for?"
"I don't know. Folks ask curious questions in courts of law, I've always
heard. Beggin' your pardon, Miss, but your face tells too many tales,
and anyone but a fool would ask for that note before he'd been
dealing with you three minutes.

If he didn't, he'd ask you what was in it. And then you'd be forced to
tell lies--which you couldn't, to save your soul!"
Dorothea knew this to be true. She reflected a moment. "I should decline
to show it, or to answer."
Mrs. Zeally thought it about time to assert herself. "Very good, Miss.

And now, how about me?

They'd ask me questions, too; and I'd have you consider, Miss Dorothea,
that though not shaken down to it yet--not, as you might say, in a
state to expect callers or make them properly welcome--I'm a respectable
married woman. I don't mind confessing to you, Zeally isn't a comfortable
man. He's pleased enough to be sergeant, though he don't quite know
how it came about; and he's that sullen with brooding over it, that for
sixpence he'd give me the strap to ease his feelings. I ain't complaining.
Mr. Endymion chose to take me on the hop and hurry up the banns, and I'm
going to accommodate myself to the man. He's three-parts of a fool, and
you needn't fear but I'll manage him. But I ain't for taking no
risks, and that I tell you fair."
Dorothea was stunned. "You don't mean to say that Zeally suspects
you?"
"Why, of course he does!" said Polly. Prudence urged her to repeat
that Zeally was three-parts of a fool; but, being nettled, she spoke
the words uppermost: "Who d'ee think he'd suspect?"
Dorothea, however, was too desperately dejected to feel the prick
of this shaft. "You will not help me, then?" was all her reply to
it.
"Why, no, Miss! if you put it in that point-blank way. A married
woman's got to think of her reputation first of all."
Polly's attitude might be selfish, unfeeling; but the fundamental
incapacity for gratitude in girls of Polly's class will probably
surprise and pain their mistresses until the end of the world. After
all, Polly was right. An attempt to clear Raoul by telling the
superficial truth must involve terrible risks, and might at any
turn enforce a choice between full confession and falsehood.
Dorothea could not bring herself to lie, even heroically; and there
would be no heroism in lying to save herself. On the other hand,
the thought of a forced confession--it might he before a tribunal--was
too hideous. No, the suggestion had been a mad one, and Polly had
rightly thrown cold water on it. Also, it had demanded too much of
Polly, who could not be expected to jeopardise her matrimonial
prospects to right a wrong for which she was not in truth
responsible.
Dorothea loved a hero, but knew she was no heroine. She called
herself a pitiful coward--unjustly, because, nurtured as she had
been on the proprieties, surrounded all her days by men and women
of a class most sensitive to public opinion, who feared the breath
of scandal worse than a plague, confession for her must mean a shame
unspeakable. What!
Admit that she, Dorothea Westcote, had loved a French prisoner
almost young enough to be her son! that she had given him audience
at night!
that he had been shot and captured beneath her window!
Unjustly, too, she accused herself, because it is the decision, not
the terror felt in deciding, which distinguishes the brave from the
cowardly. If you doubt the event with Dorothea, the fault, must be
mine. She was timid, but she came of a race which will endure
anything rather than the conscious anguish of doing wrong.
Nor, had her conscience needed them, did it lack reminders. Narcissus
had been persuaded to send the drawings to London to be treated by
lithography, a process of which he knew nothing, but to which M.
Raoul, during his studies in Paris, had given much attention, and
apparently not without making some discoveries--unimportant perhaps,
and such as might easily reward an experimenter in an art not well
past its infancy.Bobby's nose sniffed liberty
long before he could squeeze his weasel-like body through the tunnel.
His back bruised and strained by the struggle through a hole too small,
he stood, trembling with exhaustion, in the windy dawn.

An opening door, a barking sheep-dog, the shuffle of the moving flock,
were signs that the farm day was beginning, although all the stars had
not faded out of the sky. A little flying shadow, Bobby slipped out of
the cow-yard, past the farm-house, and literally tumbled down the brae.
From one level to another he dropped, several hundred feet in a very few
minutes, and from the clear air of the breezy hilltop to a nether world
that was buried fathoms deep in a sea-fog as white as milk.

Hidden in a deep fold of the spreading skirts of the range, and some
distance from the road, lay a pool, made by damming a burn, and used, in
the shearing season, for washing sheep. Surrounded by brushy woods, and
very damp and dark, at other seasons it was deserted. Bobby found this
secluded place with his nose, curled up under a hazel thicket and fell
sound asleep. And while he slept, a nipping wind from the far, northern
Highlands swooped down on the mist and sent it flying out to sea. The
Lowlands cleared like magic. From the high point where Bobby lay the
road could be seen to fall, by short rises and long descents, all the
way to Edinburgh. From its crested ridge and flanking hills the city
trailed a dusky banner of smoke out over the fishing fleet in the Firth.

A little dog cannot see such distant views. Bobby could only read and
follow the guide-posts of odors along the way. He had begun the ascent
to the toll-bar when he heard the clatter of a cart and the pounding
of hoofs behind him. He did not wait to learn if this was the Cauldbrae
farmer in pursuit. Certain knowledge on that point was only to be gained
at his peril. He sprang into the shelter of a stone wall, scrambled over
it, worked his way along it a short distance, and disappeared into a
brambly path that skirted a burn in a woody dell.

Immediately the little dog was lost in an unexplored country. The narrow
glen was musical with springs, and the low growth was undercut with a
maze of rabbit runs, very distracting to a dog of a hunting breed. Bobby
knew, by much journeying with Auld Jock, that running water is a natural
highway. Sheep drift along the lowest level until they find an outlet
down some declivity, or up some foaming steep, to new pastures.

But never before had Bobby found, above such a rustic brook, a many
chimneyed and gabled house of stone, set in a walled garden and swathed
in trees. Today, many would cross wide seas to look upon Swanston
cottage, in whose odorous old garden a whey-faced, wistful-eyed laddie
dreamed so many brave and laughing dreams. It was only a farm-house
then, fallen from a more romantic history, and it had no attraction
for Bobby. He merely sniffed at dead vines of clematis, sleeping briar
bushes, and very live, bright hedges of holly, rounded a corner of its
wall, and ran into a group of lusty children romping on the brae, below
the very prettiest, thatch roofed and hill-sheltered hamlet within many
a mile of Edinboro' town. The bairns were lunching from grimy, mittened
hands, gypsy fashion, life being far too short and playtime too brief
for formal meals. Seeing them eating, Bobby suddenly discovered that he
was hungry. He rose before a well-provided laddie and politely begged
for a share of his meal.

Such an excited shouting of admiration and calling on mithers to come
and see the bonny wee dog was never before heard on Swanston village
green. Doors flew open and bareheaded women ran out. Then the babies had
to be brought, and the' old grandfaithers and grandmithers. Everybody
oh-ed and ah-ed and clapped hands, and doubled up with laughter, for,
a tempting bit held playfully just out of reach, Bobby rose, again and
again, jumped for it, and chased a teasing laddie. Then he bethought him
to roll over and over, and to go through other winsome little tricks,
as Auld Jock had taught him to do, to win the reward. All this had one
quite unexpected result. A shrewd-eyed woman pounced upon Bobby and
captured him.

"He's no' an ordinar' dog. Some leddy has lost her pet. I'll juist shut
'im up, an' syne she'll pay a shullin' or twa to get 'im again."

With a twist and a leap Bobby was gone. He scrambled straight up the
steep, thorn-clad wall of the glen, where no laddie could follow, and
was over the crest. It was a narrow escape, made by terrific effort.
His little heart pounding with exhaustion and alarm, he hid under a whin
bush to get his breath and strength. The sheltered dell was windless,
but here a stiff breeze blew. Suddenly shifting a point, the wind
brought to the little dog's nose a whiff of the acrid coal smoke of
Edinburgh three miles away.

Straight as an arrow he ran across country, over roadway and wall,
plowed fields and rippling burns. He scrambled under hedges and dashed
across farmsteads and cottage gardens. As he neared the city the hour
bells aided him, for the Skye terrier is keen of hearing. It was growing
dark when he climbed up the last bank and gained Lauriston Place. There
he picked up the odors of milk and wool, and the damp smell of the
kirkyard.

Now for something comforting to put into his famished little body. A
night and a day of exhausting work, of anxiety and grief, had used up
the last ounce of fuel. Bobby raced down Forest Road and turned the
slight angle into Greyfriars Place. The lamp lighter's progress toward
the bridge was marked by the double row of lamps that bloomed, one after
one, on the dusk. The little dog had come to the steps of Mr. Traill's
place, and lifted himself to scratch on the door, when the bugle began
to blow. He dropped with the first note and dashed to the kirkyard gate.

None too soon! Mr. Brown was setting the little wicket gate inside,
against the wall. In the instant his back was turned, Bobby slipped
through. After nightfall, when the caretaker had made his rounds, he
came out from under the fallen table-tomb of Mistress Jean Grant.

Lights appeared at the rear windows of the tenements, and families sat
at supper. It was snell weather again, the sky dark with threat of
snow, and the windows were all closed. But with a sharp bark beneath the
lowest of them Bobby could have made his presence and his wants known.
He watched the people eating, sitting wistfully about on his haunches
here and there, but remaining silent. By and by there were sounds of
crying babies, of crockery being washed, and the ringing of church
bells far and near. Then the lights were extinguished, and huge bulks of
shadow, of tenements and kirk, engulfed the kirkyard.

When Bobby lay down on Auld Jock's grave, pellets of frozen snow were
falling and the air had hardened toward frost.


VI.

Sleep alone goes far to revive a little dog, and fasting sharpens the
wits. Bobby was so tired that he slept soundly, but so hungry that he
woke early, and instantly alert to his situation. It was so very early
of a dark winter morning that not even the sparrows were out foraging in
the kirkyard for dry seeds. The drum and bugle had not been sounded from
the Castle when the milk and dustman's carts began to clatter over the
frozen streets. With the first hint of dawn stout fishwives, who had
tramped all the way in from the piers of Newhaven with heavily laden
creels on their heads, were lustily crying their "caller herrin'."
Soon fagot men began to call up the courts of tenements, where fuel was
bought by the scant bundle: "Are ye cauld?"

Many a human waif in the tall buildings about the lower end of
Greyfriars kirkyard was cold, even in bed, but, in his thick underjacket
of fleece, Bobby was as warm as a plate of breakfast toast. With a
vigorous shaking he broke and scattered the crust of snow that burdened
his shaggy thatch. Then he lay down on the grave again, with his nose
on his paws. Urgent matters occupied the little dog's mind. To deal with
these affairs he had the long head of the canniest Scot, wide and high
between the ears, and a muzzle as determined as a little steel trap.
Small and forlorn as he was, courage, resource and purpose marked him.

As soon as the door of the caretaker's lodge opened he would have to
creep under the fallen slab again. To lie in such a cramped position,
hour after hour, day after day, was enough to break the spirit of any
warm blooded creature that lives. It was an exquisite form of torture
not long to be endured. And to get his single meal a day at Mr. Traill's
place Bobby had to watch for the chance opening of the wicket to slip in
and out like a thief. The furtive life is not only perilous, it outrages
every feeling of an honest dog. It is hard for him to live at all
without the approval and the cordial consent of men. The human order
hostile, he quickly loses his self-respect and drops to the pariah
class. Already wee Bobby had the look of the neglected. His pretty coat
was dirty and unkempt. In his run across country, leaves, twigs and
burrs had become entangled in his long hair, and his legs and underparts
were caked with mire.

Instinctively any dog struggles to escape the fate of the outcast. By
every art he possesses he ingratiates himself with men. One that has his
usefulness in the human scheme of things often is able to make his own
terms with life, to win the niche of his choice. Bobby's one talent that
was of practical value to society was his hunting instinct for every
small animal that burrows and prowls and takes toll of men's labor.
In Greyfriars kirkyard was work to be done that he could do. For quite
three centuries rats and mice had multiplied in this old sanctuary
garden from which cats were chased and dogs excluded. Every breeze that
blew carried challenges to Bobby's offended nose. Now, in the crisp gray
dawn, a big rat came out into the open and darted here and there over
the powdering of dry snow that frosted the kirkyard.

A leap, as if released from a spring, and Bobby captured it. A snap of
his long muzzle, a jerk of his stoutly set head, and the victim hung
limp from his grip. And he followed another deeply seated instinct when
he carried the slain to Auld Jock's grave. Trophies of the chase were
always to be laid at the feet of the master.

"Gude dog! eh, but ye're a bonny wee fechter!" Auld Jock had always said
after such an exploit; and Bobby had been petted and praised until he
nearly wagged his crested tail off with happiness and pride. Then he had
been given some choice tidbit of food as a reward for his prowess. The
farmer of Cauldbrae had on such occasions admitted that Bobby might be
of use about barn and dairy, and Mr. Traill had commended his capture of
prowlers in the dining-room. But Bobby was "ower young" and had not been
"put to the vermin" as a definite business in life. He caught a rat,
now and then, as he chased rabbits, merely as a diversion. When he
had caught this one he lay down again. But after a time he got up
deliberately and trotted down to the encircling line of old courtyarded
tombs. There were nooks and crannies between and behind these along the
wall into which the caretaker could not penetrate with sickle, rake and
spade, that formed sheltered runways for rodents.

A long, low, weasel-like dog that could flatten himself on the ground,
Bobby squeezed between railings and pedestals, scrambled over fallen
fragments of sculptured urns, trumpets, angels' wings, altars, skull and
cross-bones, and Latin inscribed scrolls. He went on his stomach under
holly and laurel shrubs, burdocks, thistles, and tangled, dead vines.
Here and there he lay in such rubbish as motionless as the effigies
careen on marble biers. With the growing light grew the heap of the
slain on Auld Jock's grave.

Having done his best, Bobby lay down again, worse in appearance than
before, but with a stouter heart. He did not stir, although the shadows
fled, the sepulchers stood up around the field of snow, and slabs and
shafts camped in ranks on the slope. Smoke began to curl up from high,
clustered chimney-pots; shutters were opened, and scantily clad women
had hurried errands on decaying gallery and reeling stairway. Suddenly
the Castle turrets were gilded with pale sunshine, and all the little
cells in the tall, old houses hummed and buzzed and clacked with life.
The University bell called scattered students to morning prayers.
Pinched and elfish faces of children appeared at the windows overlooking
the kirkyard. The sparrows had instant news of that, and the little
winged beggars fluttered up to the lintels of certain deep-set
casements, where ill-fed bairns scattered breakfasts of crumbs.

Bobby watched all this without a movement. He shivered when the lodge
door was heard to open and shut and heavy footsteps crunched on the
gravel and snow around the church. "Juist fair silly" on his quaking
legs he stood up, head and tail drooped. But he held his ground bravely,
and when the caretaker sighted him he trotted to meet the man, lifted
himself on his hind legs, his short, shagged fore paws on his breast,
begging attention and indulgence. Then he sprawled across the great
boots, asking pardon for the liberty he was taking. At last, all in a
flash, he darted back to the grave, sniffed at it, and stood again, head
up, plumy tail crested, all excitement, as much as to say:

"Come awa' ower, man, an' leuk at the brave sicht."

If he could have barked, his meaning would have carried more
convincingly, but he "hauded 'is gab" loyally. And, alas, the caretaker
was not to be beguiled. Mr. Traill had told him Bobby had been sent
back to the hill farm, but here he was, "perseestent" little rascal, and
making some sort of bid for the man's favor. Mr. Brown took his pipe out
of his mouth in surprised exasperation, and glowered at the dog.

"Gang awa' oot wi' ye!"

But Bobby was back again coaxing undauntedly, abasing himself before
the angry man, insisting that he had something of interest to show. The
caretaker was literally badgered and cajoled into following him. One
glance at the formidable heap of the slain, and Mr. Brown dropped to a
seat on the slab.

"Preserve us a'!"

He stared from the little dog to his victims, turned them over with his
stout stick and counted them, and stared again. Bobby fixed his pleading
eyes on the man and stood at strained attention while fate hung in the
balance.

"Guile wark! Guile wark! A braw doggie, an' an unco' fechter. Losh! but
ye're a deil o' a bit dog!"

All this was said in a tone of astonished comment, so non-committal of
feeling that Bobby's tail began to twitch in the stress of his anxiety.
When the caretaker spoke again, after a long, puzzled frowning, it was
to express a very human bewilderment and irritation.

"Noo, what am I gangin' to do wi' ye?"

Ah, that was encouraging! A moment before, he had ordered Bobby out in
no uncertain tone. After another moment he referred the question to a
higher court.

"Jeanie, woman, come awa' oot a meenit, wull ye?"

A hasty pattering of carpet-slippered feet on the creaking snow, around
the kirk, and there was the neatest little apple-cheeked peasant woman
in Scotland, "snod" from her smooth, frosted hair, spotless linen mutch
and lawn kerchief, to her white, lamb's wool stockings.

"Here's the bit dog I was tellin' ye aboot; an' see for yersel' what
he's done noo."

"The wee beastie couldna do a' that! It's as muckle as his ain wecht in
fou' vermin!" she cried.

"Ay, he did. Thae terriers are sperity, by the ordinar'. Ane o' them,
let into the corn exchange a murky nicht, killed saxty in ten meenits,
an' had to be dragged awa' by the tail. Noo, what I am gangin' to do wi'
the takin' bit I dinna ken."

It is very certain that simple Mistress Jean Brown had never heard of
Mr. Dick's advice to Miss Betsy Trotwood on the occasion when young
David Copperfield presented himself, travel-stained and weary, before
his good aunt. But out of her experience of wholesome living she brought
forth the same wise opinion.

"I'd gie him a gude washin' first of a', Jamie. He leuks like some
puir, gaen-aboot dog." And she drew her short, blue-stuff gown back from
Bobby's grateful attentions.

Mr. Brown slapped his corduroy-breeked knee and nodded his grizzled
head. "Richt ye are. It's maist michty, noo, I wadna think o' that. When
I was leevin' as an under gairdener wi' a laird i' Argyleshire I was aye
aboot the kennels wi' the gillies. That was lang syne. The sma' terrier
dogs were aye washed i' claes tubs wi' warm water an' soap. Come awa',
Bobby."

The caretaker got up stiffly, for such snell weather was apt to give
him twinges in his joints. In him a youthful enthusiasm for dogs had
suddenly revived. Besides, although he would have denied it, he was
relieved at having the main issue, as to what was to be done with this
four-footed trespasser, side-tracked for a time. Bobby followed him to
the lodge at an eager trot, and he dutifully hopped into the bath that
was set on the rear doorstep. Mr. Brown scrubbed him vigorously,
and Bobby splashed and swam and churned the soapy water to foam. He
scrambled out at once, when told to do so, and submitted to being dried
with a big, tow-linen towel. This was all a delightful novelty to Bobby.
Heretofore he had gone into any convenient tam or burn to swim, and then
dried himself by rolling on the heather and running before the wind.
Now he was bundled up ignominiously in an old flannel petticoat, carried
across a sanded kitchen floor and laid on a warm hearth.

"Doon wi' ye!" was the gruff order. Bobby turned around and around on
the hearth, like some little wild dog making a bed in the jungle, before
he obeyed. He kept very still during the reading of a chapter and the
singing of a Psalm, as he had been taught to do at the farm by many
a reminder from Auld Jock's boot. And he kept away from the
breakfast-table, although the walls of his stomach were collapsed as
flat as the sides of an empty pocket.

It was such a clean, shining little kitchen, with the scoured deal
table, chairs and cupboard, and the firelight from the grate winked
so on pewter mugs, copper kettle, willow-patterned plates and diamond
panes, that Bobby blinked too. Flowers bloomed in pots on the casement
sills, and a little brown skylark sang, fluttering as if it would soar,
in a gilded cage. After the morning meal Mr. Brown lighted his pipe
and put on his bonnet to go out again, when he bethought him that Bobby
might be needing something to eat.

"What'll ye gie 'im, Jeanie? At the laird's, noo, the terriers were aye
fed wi' bits o' livers an' cheese an' moor fowls' eggs, an' sic-like,
fried."

"Havers, Jamie, it's no' releegious to feed a dog better than puir
bairns. He'll do fair weel wi' table-scraps."

She set down a plate with a spoonful of porridge on it, a cold potato,
some bread crusts, and the leavings of a broiled caller herrin'. It was
a generous breakfast for so small a dog, but Bobby had been without food
for quite forty hours, and had done an amazing amount of work in the
meantime. When he had eaten all of it, he was still hungry. As a polite
hint, he polished the empty plate with his pink tongue and looked up
expectantly; but the best-intentioned people, if they have had little to
do with dogs, cannot read such signs.

"Ye needna lick the posies aff," the wifie said, good humoredly, as she
picked the plate up to wash it. She thought to put down a tin basin of
water. Bobby lapped a' it so eagerly, yet so daintily, that she added:
"He's a weel-broucht-up tyke, Jamie."

"He is so. Noo, we'll see hoo weel he can leuk." In a shamefaced way he
fetched from a tool-box a long-forgotten, strong little currycomb, such
as is used on shaggy Shetland ponies. With that he proceeded to give
Bobby such a grooming as he had never had before. It was a painful
operation, for his thatch was a stubborn mat of crisp waves and knotty
tangles to his plumy tail and down to his feathered toes. He braced
himself and took the punishment without a whimper, and when it was done
he stood cascaded with dark-silver ripples nearly to the floor.

"The bonny wee!" cried Mistress Jeanie. "I canna tak' ma twa een aff o'
'im."

"Ay, he's bonny by the ordinar'. It wad be grand, noo, gin the
meenister'd fancy 'im an' tak' 'im into the manse."

The wifie considered this ruefully. "Jamie, I was wishin' ye didna hae
to--"

But what she wished he did not have to do, Mr. Brown did not stop to
hear. He suddenly clapped his bonnet on his head and went out. He had
an urgent errand on High Street, to buy grass and flower seeds and tools
that would certainly be needed in April. It took him an hour or more
of shrewd looking about for the best bargains, in a swarm of little
barnacle and cellar shops, to spend a few of the kirk's shillings. When
he found himself, to his disgust, looking at a nail studded collar for
a little dog he called himself a "doited auld fule," and tramped back
across the bridge.

At the kirkyard gate he stopped and read the notice through twice: "No
dogs permitted." That was as plain as "Thou shalt not." To the pious
caretaker and trained servant it was the eleventh commandment. He shook
his head, sighed, and went in to dinner. Bobby was not in the house, and
the master of it avoided inquiring for him. He also avoided the
wifie's wistful eye, and he busied himself inside the two kirks all the
afternoon.

Because he was in the kirks, and the beautiful memorial windows of
stained glass were not for the purpose of looking out, he did not see a
dramatic incident that occurred in the kirkyard after three o'clock in
the afternoon. The prelude to it really began with the report of the
timegun at one. Bobby had insisted upon being let out of the lodge
kitchen, and had spent the morning near Auld Jock's grave and in nosing
about neighboring slabs and thorn bushes. When the time-gun boomed he
trotted to the gate quite openly and waited there inside the wicket.

In such nipping weather there were no visitors to the kirkyard and the
gate was not opened. The music bells ran the gamut of old Scotch airs
and ceased, while he sat there and waited patiently. Once a man stopped
to look at the little dog, and Bobby promptly jumped on the wicket,
plainly begging to have it unlatched. But the passer-by decided that
some lady had left her pet behind, and would return for him. So he
patted the attractive little Highlander on the head and went on about
his business.

Discouraged by the unpromising outlook for dinner that day, Bobby went
slowly back to the grave. Twice afterward he made hopeful pilgrimages
to the gate. For diversion he fell noiselessly upon a prowling cat and
chased it out of the kirkyard. At last he sat upon the table-tomb. He
had escaped notice from the tenements all the morning because the view
from most of the windows was blocked by washings, hung out and dripping,
then freezing and clapping against the old tombs. It was half-past three
o'clock when a tiny, wizened face popped out of one of the rude little
windows in the decayed Cunzie Neuk at the bottom of Candlemakers Row.
Crippled Tammy Barr called out in shrill excitement,

"Ailie! O-o-oh, Ailie Lindsey, there's the wee doggie!"

"Whaur?" The lassie's elfin face looked out from a low, rear window of
the Candlemakers' Guildhall at the top of the Row.

"On the stane by the kirk wa'."

"I see 'im noo. Isna he bonny? I wish Bobby could bide i' the kirkyaird,
but they wadna let 'im. Tammy, gin ye tak' 'im up to Maister Traill,
he'll gie ye the shullin'!"

"I couldna tak' 'im by ma lane," was the pathetic confession. "Wad ye
gang wi' me, Ailie? Ye could drap ower an' catch 'im, an' I could come
by the gate. Faither made me some grand crutches frae an' auld chair
back."

Tears suddenly drowned the lassie's blue eyes and ran down her pinched
little cheeks. "Nae, I couldna gang. I haena ony shoon to ma feet."

"It's no' so cauld. Gin I had twa guile feet I could gang the bit way
wi'oot shoon."

"I ken it isna so cauld," Ailie admitted, "but for a lassie it's no'
respectable to gang to a grand place barefeeted."

That was undeniable, and the eager children fell silent and tearful. But
oh, necessity is the mother of makeshifts among the poor! Suddenly Ailie
cried: "Bide a meenit, Tammy," and vanished. Presently she was back,
with the difficulty overcome. "Grannie says I can wear her shoon. She
doesna wear 'em i' the hoose, ava."

"I'll gie ye a saxpence, Ailie," offered Tammy.

The sordid bargain shocked no feeling of these tenement bairns
nor marred their pleasure in the adventure. Presently there was a
tap-tap-tapping of crutches on the heavy gallery that fronted the Cunzie
Neuk, and on the stairs that descended from it to the steep and curving
row. The lassie draped a fragment of an old plaid deftly over her thinly
clad shoulders, climbed through the window, to the pediment of the
classic tomb that blocked it, and dropped into the kirkyard. To her
surprise Bobby was there at her feet, frantically wagging his tail,
and he raced her to the gate. She caught him on the steps of the dining
room, and held his wriggling little body fast until Tammy came up.

It was a tumultuous little group that burst in upon the astonished
landlord: barking fluff of an excited dog, flying lassie in clattering
big shoes, and wee, tapping Tammy. They literally fell upon him when he
was engaged in counting out his money.

"Whaur did you find him?" asked Mr. Traill in bewilderment.

Six-year-old Ailie slipped a shy finger into her mouth, and looked to
the very much more mature five-year old crippled laddie to answer,

"He was i' the kirkyaird."

"Sittin' upon a stane by 'is ainsel'," added Ailie.

"An' no' hidin', ava. It was juist like he was leevin' there."

"An' syne, when I drapped oot o' the window he louped at me so bonny,
an' I couldna keep up wi' 'im to the gate."

Wonder of wonders! It was plain that Bobby had made his way back from
the hill farm and, from his appearance and manner, as well as from this
account, it was equally clear that some happy change in his fortunes
had taken place. He sat up on his haunches listening with interest and
lolling his tongue! And that was a thing the bereft little dog had not
done since his master died. In the first pause in the talk he rose and
begged for his dinner.

"Noo, what am I to pay? It took ane, twa, three o' ye to fetch ane sma'
dog. A saxpence for the laddie, a saxpence for the lassie, an' a bit
meal for Bobby."

While he was putting the plate down under the settle Mr. Hear!"] Let
me assure him that the composer knows no greater delight than when he
is called upon to combine his art with that of the dramatic author,
even should our most divinely-inspired moments be but faintly conveyed
to the audience through the medium of the--otherwise excellent but still
metropolitan--under ground orchestras at our disposal.

My only regret is that none of us were permitted to accompany the fascinating
heroine of his latest work through the play.

Some correspondingly alluring music has doubtless been lost to the
world.

On the last occasion that the toast of Music was responded to in this
room, it was remarked that popularity was not without its drawbacks.
I fear, sir, there are not many of us who are actually groaning
under the oppressive weight of over-popularity--at least not to any
very alarming extent.

[Cheers.] But I may permit myself to say that while the popularity of music
itself is undeniable, it is not so equally obvious that the fact is
an absolutely unmixed blessing; perhaps the very familiarity which it
undoubtedly enjoys subjects it more than any other art to the fitful
temper of fashion--to rash and hastily-formed judgments--as well
as to the humors of self-complacent guides whose dicta all too
frequently prove the dangerous possession of a very small allowance
of real knowledge.

"Academic" is, I believe, sir, the winged word in daily use to mark
those of us who may still cling to the effete and obsolete belief
that music remains a science, difficult of acquirement and not
either a toy art, or a mere nerve titillater.

We are not, sir, by any means ashamed to bear the stigma of being academic;
on the contrary, we feel it a genuine compliment--gratifying
because, although perhaps unintentionally it implies that we have
acquired the possession of "that one thing" which (as Wilhelm Meister
was informed by the venerable Three) "no child brings into the world
with him,"--that is, "reverence"--reverence for our great past as
well as, I hope, a due estimation of the vigorous activity of the
present.

So our sweet-natured muse smiles benignly upon the impish gambols of the
"new boy" who has the supreme advantage of not having been to
school, for any appreciable length of time at least, and who seems
to derive considerable satisfaction from his endeavors to improve
the education of those who have never left it.

[Laughter.]
We are sometimes instructed that English Purcell (whose glorious memory
our musicians mean to honor in a few months), that German Bach ought
to be considerably touched up to suit the altered requirements of the
day, and that the rich hues of romantic Weber--nay, even of his
giantship the great Beethoven himself--are fading visibly and rapidly.
"Tammy," Ailie said, when her shyness had worn off, "it's like the grand
tales ye mak' up i' yer heid."

"Preserve me! Does the wee mannie mak' up stories?"

"It's juist fulish things, aboot haein' mair to eat, an' a sonsie doggie
to play wi', an' twa gude legs to tak' me aboot. I think 'em oot at
nicht when I canna sleep."

"Eh, laddie, do ye noo?" Mr. Traill suddenly had a terrible "cauld in
'is heid," that made his eyes water. "Hoo auld are ye?"

"Five, gangin' on sax."

"Losh! I thoucht ye war fifty, gangin' on saxty." Laughter saved the day
from overmoist emotions. And presently Mr. Traill was able to say in a
business-like tone:

"We'll hae to tak' ye to the infirmary. An' if they canna mak' yer legs
ower ye'll get a pair o' braw crutches that are the niest thing to gude
legs. An' syne we'll see if there's no' a place in Heriot's for a sma'
laddie that mak's up bonny tales o' his ain in the murky auld Cunzie
Neuk."

Now the gay little feast was eaten, and early dark was coming on. If Mr.
Traill had entertained the hope that Bobby had recovered from his grief
and might remain with him, he was disappointed. The little dog began to
be restless. He ran to the door and back; he begged, and he scratched
on the panel. And then he yelped! As soon as the door was opened he shot
out of it, tumbled down the stairway and waited at the foot impatiently
for the lower door to be unlatched. Because of him the Missouri and the
Mississippi go not unvexed to the sea, for they ripple with laughter
as they recall Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry Finn, poor Jim, and the Duke.

Europe, Asia Minor, and Palestine are open doors to the world, thanks to
this Pilgrim's Progress with his "Innocents Abroad." Purity, piety
and pity shine out from "Prince and Pauper" like the eyes of a wondering
deer on a torch-lighted night from a wooded fringe of mountain and of
lake.

But enough of what I fear is already too much.

In expressing my debt to him, I hope I express somewhat at least
of yours.

I cannot repay him in kind any more than I could rival him. None of us
can. But we can render to him a return he would like. With him we can get
our way to reality, and burn off pretence as acid eats its way to the
denuded plate of the engraver. We can strip the veneer of convention
from style, and strengthen our thought in his Anglo-Saxon well of English
undefiled. We can drop seeming for sincerity.

We can be relentless toward hypocrisy and tender to humanity. We can rejoice
in the love of laughter, without ever once letting it lead us to
libertinism of fancy. We can reach through humor the heart of man.
We can make exaggeration the scourge of meanness and the magnifier
of truth on the broad screen of life.

By study of him, the nothing new under the sun can be made fresh and
fragrant by the supreme art of putting things.

Though none of us can handle his wand, all of us can be transformed
by it into something different from and finer than our dull selves.
That is our delight, that is our debt, both due to him, and long
may he remain with us to brighten, to broaden and to better our
souls with the magic mirth and with the mirthful magic of his
incomparable spell.

[Applause.]
[Illustration: REPRODUCTIONS OF MURAL DECORATIONS FROM THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS, WASHINGTON
"_PATRIOTISM_"
_Photo-engraving in colors after an original painting by George W.

Maynard_

This is from a series of eight panels, representing "The Virtues"--Fortitude,
Justice, Patriotism, Courage, Temperance, Prudence, Industry, and Concord.
Each figure is about five and a half feet high clad in drapery, and
standing out on a solid red background. The style is Pompeiian, the
general tone is somewhat like marble, but relieved by a touch of color.
"Patriotism" is represented as feeding an eagle, the emblem of
America, from a golden bowl, symbolizing the nourishment given by
this Virtue to the spirit of the nation.]He
clung to the grave so desperately, and looked up so piteously, that the
caretaker surrendered. And there was snod Mistress Jeanie, forgetting
her spotless gown and kneeling in the snow.

"Puir Bobby, puir wee Bobby!" she cried, and her tears fell on the
little tousled head. The caretaker strode abruptly away and waited for
the wifie in the shadow of the auld kirk. Bobby lifted his muzzle and
licked the caressing hand. Then he curled himself up comfortably on the
mound and went to sleep.


VIII.

In no part of Edinburgh did summer come up earlier, or with more lavish
bloom, than in old Greyfriars kirkyard. Sheltered on the north and east,
it was open to the moist breezes of the southwest, and during all the
lengthening afternoons the sun lay down its slope and warmed the
rear windows of the overlooking tenements. Before the end of May the
caretaker had much ado to keep the growth in order. Vines threatened
to engulf the circling street of sepulchers in greenery and bloom, and
grass to encroach on the flower plots.

A half century ago there were no rotary lawnmowers to cut off clover
heads; and, if there had been, one could not have been used on these
dropping terraces, so populous with slabs and so closely set with turfed
mounds and oblongs of early flowering annuals and bedding plants. Mr.
Brown had to get down on his hands and knees, with gardener's shears,
to clip the turfed borders and banks, and take a sickle to the hummocks.
Thus he could dig out a root of dandelion with the trowel kept ever in
his belt, consider the spreading crocuses and valley lilies, whether
to spare them, give a country violet its blossoming time, and leave a
screening burdock undisturbed until fledglings were out of their nests
in the shrubbery.

Mistress Jeanie often brought out a little old milking stool on balmy
mornings, and sat with knitting or mending in one of the narrow aisles,
to advise her gude-mon in small matters. Bobby trotted quietly about,
sniffing at everything with the liveliest interest, head on this side or
that, alertly. His business, learned in his first summer in Greyfriars,
was to guard the nests of foolish skylarks, song-thrushes, redbreasts
and wrens, that built low in lilac, laburnum, and flowering currant
bushes, in crannies of wall and vault, and on the ground. It cannot
but be a pleasant thing to be a wee young dog, full of life and good
intentions, and to play one's dramatic part in making an old garden of
souls tuneful with bird song. A cry of alarm from parent or nestling
was answered instantly by the tiny, tousled policeman, and there was a
prowler the less, or a skulking cat was sent flying over tomb and wall.

His duty done, without noise or waste of energy, Bobby returned to lie
in the sun on Auld Jock's grave. Over this beloved mound a coverlet of
rustic turf had been spread as soon as the frost was out of the ground,
and a bonny briar bush planted at the head. Then it bore nature's own
tribute of flowers, for violets, buttercups, daisies and clover blossoms
opened there and, later, a spike or so of wild foxglove and a knot of
heather. Robin redbreasts and wrens foraged around Bobby, unafraid;
swallows swooped down from their mud villages, under the dizzy dormers
and gables, to flush the flies on his muzzle, and whole flocks of little
blue titmice fluttered just overhead, in their rovings from holly and
laurel to newly tasseled firs and yew trees.

The click of the wicket gate was another sort of alarm altogether. At
that the little dog slipped under the fallen table-tomb and lay hidden
there until any strange visitor had taken himself away. Except for two
more forced returns and ingenious escapes from the sheepfarm on the
Pentlands, Bobby had lived in the kirkyard undisturbed for six months.
The caretaker had neither the heart to put him out nor the courage to
face the minister and the kirk officers with a plea for him to remain.
The little dog's presence there was known, apparently, only to Mr.
Traill, to a few of the tenement dwellers, and to the Heriot boys. If
his life was clandestine in a way, it was as regular of hour and duty
and as well ordered as that of the garrison in the Castle.

When the time-gun boomed, Bobby was let out for his midday meal at Mr.
Traill's and for a noisy run about the neighborhood to exercise his
lungs and legs. On Wednesdays he haunted the Grassmarket, sniffing at
horses, carts and mired boots. Edinburgh had so many shaggy little
Skye and Scotch terriers that one more could go about unremarked. Bobby
returned to the kirkyard at his own good pleasure. In the evening he was
given a supper of porridge and broo, or milk, at the kitchen door of the
lodge, and the nights he spent on Auld Jock's grave. The morning drum
and bugle woke him to the chase, and all his other hours were spent in
close attendance on the labors of the caretaker. The click of the wicket
gate was the signal for instant disappearance.

A scramble up the wall from Heriot's Hospital grounds, or the patter
of bare feet on the gravel, however, was notice to come out and greet
a friend. Bobby was host to the disinherited children of the tenements.
Now, at the tap-tap-tapping of Tammy Barr's crutches, he scampered up
the slope, and he suited his pace to the crippled boy's in coming down
again. Tammy chose a heap of cut grass on which to sit enthroned and
play king, a grand new crutch for a scepter, and Bobby for a courtier.
At command, the little dog rolled over and over, begged, and walked on
his hind legs. He even permitted a pair of thin little arms to come near
strangling him, in an excess of affection. Then he wagged his tail and
lolled his tongue to show that he was friendly, and trotted away about
his business. Tammy took an oat-cake from his pocket to nibble, and
began a conversation with Mistress Jeanie.

"I broucht a picnic wi' me."

"Did ye, noo? An' hoo did ye ken aboot picnics, laddie?"

"Maister Traill was tellin' Ailie an' me. There's ilka thing to mak'
a picnic i' the kirkyaird. They couldna mak' my legs gude i' the
infairmary, but I'm gangin' to Heriot's. I'll juist hae to airn ma
leevin' wi' ma heid, an' no' remember aboot ma legs, ava. Is he no' a
bonny doggie?"

"Ay, he's bonny. An' ye're a braw laddie no' to fash yersel' aboot what
canna be helped."

The wifie took his ragged jacket and mended it, dropped a tear in an
impossible hole, and a ha'penny in the one good pocket. And by and by
the pale laddie slept there among the bright graves, in the sun. After
another false alarm from the gate she asked her gude-mon, as she had
asked many times before:

"What'll ye do, Jamie, when the meenister kens aboot Bobby, an' ca's ye
up afore kirk sessions for brakin' the rule?"

"We wullna cross the brig till we come to the burn, woman," he
invariably answered, with assumed unconcern. Well he knew that the
bridge might be down and the stream in flood when he came to it. But
Mr. Traill was a member of Greyfriars auld kirk, too, and a companion in
guilt, and Mr. Brown relied not a little on the landlord's fertile mind
and daring tongue. And he relied on useful, well-behaving Bobby to plead
his own cause.

"There's nae denyin' the doggie is takin' in 'is ways. He's had twa
gude hames fair thrown at 'is heid, but the sperity bit keeps to 'is ain
mind. An' syne he's usefu', an' hauds 'is gab by the ordinar'." He often
reinforced his inclination with some such argument.

With all their caution, discovery was always imminent. The kirkyard was
long and narrow and on rising levels, and it was cut almost across by
the low mass of the two kirks, so that many things might be going on at
one end that could not be seen from the other. On this Saturday noon,
when the Heriot boys were let out for the half-holiday, Mr. Brown
kept an eye on them until those who lived outside had dispersed. When
Mistress Jeanie tucked her knitting-needles in her belt, and went up
to the lodge to put the dinner over the fire, the caretaker went down
toward Candlemakers Row to trim the grass about the martyrs' monument.
Bobby dutifully trotted at his heels. Almost immediately a half-dozen
laddies, led by Geordie Ross and Sandy McGregor, scaled the wall from
Heriot's grounds and stepped down into the kirkyard, that lay piled
within nearly to the top. They had a perfectly legitimate errand there,
but no mission is to be approached directly by romantic boyhood.

"Hist!" was the warning, and the innocent invaders, feeling delightfully
lawless, stole over and stormed the marble castle, where "Bluidy"
McKenzie slept uneasily against judgment day. Light-hearted lads can do
daring deeds on a sunny day that would freeze their blood on a dark and
stormy night. So now Geordie climbed nonchalantly to a seat over the old
persecutor, crossed his stout, bare legs, filled an imaginary pipe, and
rattled the three farthings in his pocket.

"I'm 'Jinglin' Geordie' Heriot," he announced.

"I'll show ye hoo a prood goldsmith ance smoked wi' a'." Then, jauntily:
"Sandy, gie a crack to 'Bluidy' McKenzie's door an' daur the auld hornie
to come oot."

The deed was done amid breathless apprehensions, but nothing disturbed
the silence of the May noon except the lark that sprang at their feet
and soared singing into the blue. It was Sandy who presently whistled
like a blackbird to attract the attention of Bobby.

There were no blackbirds in the kirkyard, and Bobby understood the
signal. He scampered up at once and dashed around the kirk, all
excitement, for he had had many adventures with the Heriot boys at
skating and hockey on Duddingston Lock in the winter, and tramps over
the country and out to Leith harbor in the spring. The laddies prowled
along the upper wall of the kirks, opened and shut the wicket, to give
the caretaker the idea that they had come in decorously by the gate, and
went down to ask him, with due respect and humility, if they could take
Bobby out for the afternoon. They were going to mark the places where
wild flowers might be had, to decorate "Jinglin' Geordie's" portrait,
statue and tomb at the school on Founder's Day. Mr. Brown considered
them with a glower that made the boys nudge each other knowingly.
"Saturday isna the day for 'im to be gaen aboot. He aye has a washin'
an' a groomin' to mak' 'im fit for the Sabbath. An', by the leuk o' ye,
ye'd be nane the waur for soap an' water yer ainsel's."

"We'll gie 'im 'is washin' an' combin' the nicht," they volunteered,
eagerly.

"Weel, noo, he wullna hae 'is dinner till the time-gun."

Neither would they. At that, annoyed by their persistence, Mr. Brown
denied authority.

"Ye ken weel he isna ma dog. Ye'll hae to gang up an' spier Maister
Traill. He's fair daft aboot the gude-for-naethin' tyke."

This was understood as permission. As the boys ran up to the gate, with
Bobby at their heels, Mr. Brown called after them: "Ye fetch 'im hame
wi' the sunset bugle, an' gin ye teach 'im ony o' yer unmannerly ways
I'll tak' a stick to yer breeks."

When they returned to Mr. Traill's place at two o'clock the landlord
stood in shirt-sleeves and apron in the open doorway with Bobby, the
little dog gripping a mutton shank in his mouth.

"Bobby must tak' his bone down first and hide it awa'. The Sabbath in
a kirkyard is a dull day for a wee dog, so he aye gets a catechism of a
bone to mumble over."

'The landlord sighed in open envy when the laddies and the little dog
tumbled down the Row to the Grassmarket on their gypsying. His eyes
sought out the glimpse of green country on the dome of Arthur's Seat,
that loomed beyond the University towers to the east. There are times
when the heart of a boy goes ill with the sordid duties of the man.

Straight down the length of the empty market the laddies ran, through
the crooked, fascinating haunt of horses and jockeys in the street
of King's Stables, then northward along the fronts of quaint little
handicrafts shops that skirted Castle Crag. By turning westward into
Queensferry Street a very few minutes would have brought them to a bit
of buried country. But every expedition of Edinburgh lads of spirit of
that day was properly begun with challenges to scale Castle Rock from
the valley park of Princes Street Gardens on the north.

"I daur ye to gang up!" was all that was necessary to set any group of
youngsters to scaling the precipice. By every tree and ledge, by every
cranny and point of rock, stoutly rooted hazel and thorn bush and clump
of gorse, they climbed. These laddies went up a quarter or a third
of the way to the grim ramparts and came cautiously down again. Bobby
scrambled higher, tumbled back more recklessly and fell, head over heels
and upside down, on the daisied turf. He righted himself at once,
and yelped in sharp protest. Then he sniffed and busied himself with
pretenses, in the elaborate unconcern with which a little dog denies
anything discreditable. There were legends of daring youth having
climbed this war-like cliff and laying hands on the fortress wall, but
Geordie expressed a popular feeling in declaring these tales "a' lees."

"No' ony laddie could gang a' the way up an' come doon wi' 'is heid
no' broken. Bobby couldna do it, an' he's mair like a wild fox than an
ordinar' dog. Noo, we're the Light Brigade at Balaklava. Chairge!"

The Crimean War was then a recent event. Heroes of Sebastopol answered
the summons of drum and bugle in the Castle and fired the hearts of
Edinburgh youth. Cannon all around them, and "theirs not to reason why,"
this little band stormed out Queensferry Street and went down, hand
under hand, into the fairy underworld of Leith Water.

All its short way down from the Pentlands to the sea, the Water of Leith
was then a foaming little river of mills, twisting at the bottom of a
gorge. One cliff-like wall or the other lay to the sun all day, so that
the way was lined with a profusion of every wild thing that turns green
and blooms in the Lowlands of Scotland. And it was filled to the brim
with bird song and water babble.

A crowd of laddies had only to go inland up this gorge to find wild and
tame bloom enough to bury "Jinglin' Geordie" all over again every year.
But adventure was to be had in greater variety by dropping seaward with
the bickering brown water. These waded along the shallow margin, walked
on shelving sands of gold, and, where the channel was filled, they clung
to the rocks and picked their way along dripping ledges. Bobby missed no
chance to swim. If he could scramble over rough ground like a squirrel
or a fox, he could swim like an otter. Swept over the low dam at Dean
village, where a cup-like valley was formed, he tumbled over and over in
the spray and was all but drowned. As soon as he got his breath and his
bearings he struck out frantically for the bank, shook the foam from
his eyes and ears, and barked indignantly at the saucy fall. The white
miller in the doorway of the gray-stone, red-roofed mill laughed, and
anxious children ran down from a knot of storybook cottages and gay
dooryards. "I'll gie ye ten shullin's for the sperity bit dog," the
miller shouted, above the clatter of the' wheel and the swish of the
dam.

"He isna oor ain dog," Geordie called back. "But he wullna droon. He's
got a gude heid to 'im, an' wullna be sic a bittie fule anither time."

Indeed he had a good head on him! Bobby never needed a second lesson. At
Silver Mills and Canon Mills he came out and trotted warily around the
dam. Where the gorge widened to a valley toward the sea they all climbed
up to Leith Walk, that ran to the harbor, and came out to a wonder-world
of water-craft anchored in the Firth. Each boy picked out his ship to go
adventuring.

"I'm gangin' to Norway!"

Geordie was scornful. "Hoots, ye tame pussies. Ye're fleid o' gettin'
yer feet wat. I'll be rinnin' aff to be a pirate. Come awa' doon."

They followed the leader along shore and boarded an abandoned and
evil-smelling fishingboat. There they ran up a ragged jacket for a black
flag. But sailing a stranded craft palled presently.

"Nae, I'm gangin' to be a Crusoe. Preserve me! If there's no' a futprint
i' the sand Bobby's ma sma' man Friday."

Away they ran southward to find a castaway's shelter in a hollow on the
golf links. Soon this was transformed into a wrecker's den, and
then into the hiding-place of a harried Covenanter fleeing religious
persecution. Daring things to do swarmed in upon their minds, for
Edinburgh laddies live in a city of romantic history, of soldiers, of
near-by mountains, and of sea rovings. No adventure served them five
minutes, and Bobby was in every one. Ah, lucky Bobby, to have such gay
playfellows on a sunny afternoon and under foot the open country!

And fortunate laddies to have such a merry rascal of a wee dog with
them! To the mile they ran, Bobby went five, scampering in wide circles
and barking and louping at butterflies and whaups. He made a detour to
the right to yelp saucily at the red-coated sentry who paced before the
Gothic gateway to the deserted Palace of Holyrood, and as far to the
left to harry the hoofs of a regiment of cavalry drilling before the
barracks at Piershill. He raced on ahead and swam out to scatter the
fleet of swan sailing or the blue mirror of Duddingston Loch.

The tired boys lay blissfully up the sunny side of Arthur's Seat in
a thicket of hazel while Geordie carried out a daring plan for which
privacy was needed. Bobby was solemnly arraigned before a court on the
charge of being a seditious Covenanting meenister, and was required to
take the oath of loyalty to English King and Church on pain of being
hanged in the Grassmarket. The oath had been duly written out on paper
and greased with mutton tallow to make it more palatable. Bobby licked
the fat off with relish. Then he took the paper between his sharp little
teeth and merrily tore it to shreds. And, having finished it, he barked
cheerful defiance at the court. The lads came near rolling down the
slope with laughter, and they gave three cheers for the little hero.
Sandy remarked, "Ye wadna think, noo, sic a sonsie doggie wad be leevin'
i' the murky auld kirkyaird."

Bobby had learned the lay of the tipped-up and scooped-out and jumbled
auld toon, and he led the way homeward along the southern outskirts of
the city. He turned up Nicolson Street, that ran northward, past the
University and the old infirmary. To get into Greyfriars Place from the
east at that time one had to descend to the Cowgate and climb out again.
Bobby darted down the first of the narrow wynds.

Suddenly he turned 'round and 'round in bewilderment, then shot through
a sculptured door way, into a well-like court, and up a flight of stone
stairs. The slamming of a shutter overhead shocked him to a standstill
on the landing and sent him dropping slowly down again. What memories
surged back to his little brain, what grief gripped his heart, as he
stood trembling on a certain spot in the pavement where once a long deal
box had rested!

"What ails the bittie dog?" There was something here that sobered the
thoughtless boys. "Come awa', Bobby!"

At that he came obediently enough. But he trotted down the very
middle of the wynd, head and tail low, and turned unheeding into the
Saturday-evening roar of the Cowgate. He refused to follow them up
the rise between St. Magdalen's Chapel and the eastern parapet of the
bridge, but kept to his way under the middle arch into the Grassmarket.
By way of Candlemakers Row he gained the kirkyard gate, and when the
wicket was opened he disappeared around the church. When Bobby failed
to answer calls, Mr. Brown grumbled, but went after him. The little dog
submitted to his vigorous scrubbing and grooming, but he refused his
supper. Without a look or a wag of the tail he was gone again.

"Noo, what hae ye done to'im? He's no' like 'is ainsel' ava."

They had done nothing, indeed. They could only relate Bobby's strange
behavior in College Wynd and the rest of the way home. Mistress Jeanie
nodded her head, with the wisdom of women that is of the heart.

"Eh, Jamie, that wad be whaur 'is maister deed sax months syne." And
having said it she slipped down the slope with her knitting and sat on
the mound beside the mourning little dog.

When the awe-struck lads asked for the story Mr. Brown shook his head.
"Ye spier Maister Traill. He kens a' aboot it; an' syne he can talk like
a beuk."

Before they left the kirkyard the laddies walked down to Auld Jock's
grave and patted Bobby on the head, and they went away thoughtfully to
their scattered homes.

As on that first morning when his grief was new, Bobby woke to a
Calvinistic Sabbath. There were no rattling carts or hawkers crying
their wares. Steeped in sunshine, the Castle loomed golden into the
blue. Tenement dwellers slept late, and then moved about quietly.
Children with unwontedly clean faces came out to galleries and stairs to
study their catechisms. Only the birds were unaware of the seventh day,
and went about their melodious business; and flower buds opened to the
sun.

In mid-morning there suddenly broke on the sweet stillness that clamor
of discordant bells that made the wayfarer in Edinburgh stop his ears.
All the way from Leith Harbor to the Burghmuir eight score of warring
bells contended to be heard. Greyfriars alone was silent in that
babblement, for it had lost tower and bell in an explosion of gunpowder.
And when the din ceased at last there was a sound of military music. The
Castle gates swung wide, and a kilted regiment marched down High
Street playing "God Save the Queen." When Bobby was in good spirits the
marching music got into his legs and set him to dancing scandalously.
The caretaker and his wifie always came around the kirk on pleasant
mornings to see the bonny sight of the gay soldiers going to church.

To wee Bobby these good, comfortable, everyday friends of his must have
seemed strange in their black garments and their serious Sunday faces.
And, ah! the Sabbath must, indeed, have been a dull day to the little
dog. Polly was his game--the deceitful little slut! You must see it for
yourself. And after all, it's more natural. Immoral, I've no doubt--"

He paused in the middle of his harangue. A parliamentary candidate
(unsuccessful) for Axcester had once dared to poke fun at Endymion Westcote
for having asserted, in a public speech, that indecency was worse than
immorality.

For the life of him Endymion could never see where the joke came in;
but the fellow had illustrated it with such a wealth of humorous
instances, and had kept his ignorant audience for twenty minutes in
such fits of laughter, that he never afterwards approached the
antithesis but he skirted it with a red face.

And Dorothea?

The scourge might cut into her heart; it could not reach the image of
Raoul she shielded there.

She knew her lover too well, and that he was incapable of this baseness.
But the injurious charge, diverted from him, fell upon her own defences,
and, breaking them, let in the cruel light at length on her passion,
her folly. This was how the world would see it. . . . Yes! Raoul was
right--there is no enemy comparable with Time. Looks, fortune, birth,
breed, unequal hearts and minds--all these Love may confound and play
with; but Time which divides the dead from the living, sets easily between
youth and age a gulf which not only forbids love but derides:
Age, I do abhor thee; Youth, I do adore thee; O, my Love, my Love
is young!

She could give counsel, sympathy, care; could delight in his delights,
hope in his hopes, melt with his woes, and, having wept a little,
find comfort for them. She could thrill at his footsteps, blush
at his salutation, sit happily beside him and talk or be silent,
reading his moods.

He might fill her waking day, haunt her dreams, in the end pass into
prison for her sake, having crowned love with martyrdom.

And the world would laugh as Endymion had laughed! Her hands went up to
shut out the roar of it.

A coarse amour with Polly--that could be understood. Polly was
young. Polly . . .

"What will you do?" she heard herself asking, and could scarcely
believe the voice belonged to her.

"Do? Why, if my theory be right--and I hope I've convinced you--I
see no use in meddling. The girl is respectably married. It will cause
her quite unnecessary trouble if we rip this affair open again.

Her husband will have just ground for complaint, and it might--I need not
point out--be a little awkward, eh?"
For the first time in her life Dorothea regarded her brother with something
like contempt. But the flash gave way to a look of weary resolve.

"Then I must tell the truth--to others," she said.

It confounded him for a moment.

But although here was a new Dorothea, belying all experience, his
instinct for handling men and women told him at once what had happened.
He had driven her too far. He was even clever enough to foresee
that winning her back to obedience would be a ticklish, almost
desperate, business; and even sensitive enough to redden at his
blunder.

"You do not agree with my view?" he asked, tapping the table slowly.

"I disbelieve it. I have no right to believe it, even if I had the power.
He is in prison. You must help me to set him free. If not--"
"He cannot, possibly return to Axcester."

"Oh, what is that to me?" she cried with sudden impatience. Then her tone
fell back to its dull level.

"I have not been pleading for myself."
"No, no: I understand."

His brow cleared, as a man's who faces a bad business and resolves to go
through with it. "Well, there is only one way to spare you and everyone.
We must get him a cartel."
"A cartel?"
"Yes--get him exchanged, and sent home to his friends. The War Office
owes me something, and will no doubt oblige me in a small affair like
this without asking questions. Oh, certainly it can be managed. I will
write at once."

CHAPTER X
DARTMOOR

Dorothea had the profoundest faith in her brother's ability. That he hit
at once on this simple solution which had eluded her through many
wakeful nights did not surprise her in the least. Nor did she doubt for
a moment that he would manage it as he promised.

But she could not thank him. He had beaten her spirit sorely--so sorely,
that for days her whole body ached with the bruise. She did not accuse
him: her one flash of contempt had lasted for an instant only, and
the old habit of reverence quickly effaced it.

But he had exposed her weakness; had forced her to see it, naked and
pitiful, with no chivalry--either manly or brotherly--covering it; and
seeing it with nothing to depend upon, she learned for the first time
in her life the high, stern lesson of independence.

She learned it unconsciously, but she never forgot it. And it
is to Endymion's credit that he recognised the great alteration and
allowed for it. He had driven her too far.

She would never again be the same Dorothea. And never again by word or
look did he remind her of that hour of abasement.

An exchange of prisoners was not to be managed in a day, and would take
weeks, perhaps six weeks or a couple of months. He discussed this
with her, quietly, as a matter of business entrusted to him, explained
what steps he had taken, what letters he had written; when he expected
definite news from the War Office. She met him on the same ground.
"Yes, he could not have done better."

She trusted him absolutely.

And in fact he had been better than his word.

Ultimate success, to be sure, was certain. It were strange if Mr.
Westcote, who had opened his purse to support a troop of Yeomanry, who
held two parliamentary seats at the Government's service and two members
at call to bully the War Office whenever he desired, who might at any
time have had a baronetcy for the asking--it were strange indeed
if Mr.

Westcote could not obtain so trivial a favour as the exchange of a
prisoner.

He could do this, but he could not appreciably hurry the correspondence
by which Pall Mall bargained a Frenchman in the forest of Dartmoor against
an Englishman in the fortress of Briançon in the Hautes Alpes. Foreseeing
delays, he had written privately to the Commandant at Dartmoor--a Major
Sotheby, with whom he had some slight acquaintance--advising him
of his efforts and requesting him to show the prisoner meanwhile
all possible indulgence.

The letter contained a draft, for ten pounds, to be spent upon small
comforts at the Commandant's discretion; but M. Raoul was not to be
informed of the donor, or of his approaching liberty.

In theory--such was the routine--Raoul remained one of the Axcester
contingent of prisoners, and all reports concerning him must pass through
the Commissary's hands. In the last week of October, when brother and
sister daily expected the cartel, arrived a report that the prisoner
was in hospital with a sharp attack of pleurisy.

Major Sotheby added a private note:-
_"I feared yesterday that the exchange would come too late for him; but
to-day the Medical Officer, who has just left me, speaks hopefully.

I have no doubt, however, that a winter in this climate would be
fatal.

The fellow's lungs are breaking down, and even if they could stand the
fogs, the cold must finish him."_
Dorothea stood by a window in the library when Endymion read this out
to her; the very window through which she had been gazing that spring
morning when Raoul first kissed her. To-day the first of the winter's
snow fell gently, persistently, out of a leaden and windless sky.

She turned. "I must go to him," she said.

"But to what purpose--"
"Oh, you may trust me!"

"My dear girl, that was not in my mind." He spoke gently. "But until
the warrant arrives--"
"We will give it until to-morrow; by every account it should reach us
to-morrow. You shall take it with me. I must see him once more; only
once--in your presence, if you wish."
Next morning they rode into the town together, an hour before the mail's
arrival. Endymion alighted at the Town House to write a business letter
or two before strolling down to the post office. Dorothea cantered
on to the top of the hill, and then walked Mercury to and fro, while she
watched the taller rise beyond. The snow had ceased falling; but a crisp
north wind skimmed the drifts and powdered her dark habit.

Twice she pulled out her watch; but the coach was up to time in
spite of the heavy roads; and as it topped the rise she reined
Mercury to the right-about and cantered back to await it.

Already the street had begun to fill as usual; and, as usual, there was
General Rochambeau picking his way along the pavement to present himself
for the Admiral's letter--the letter which never arrived.

Would _her_ letter never arrive?

He halted on the kerb by her stirrup. She asked after the Admiral's
health.

"Ah, Mademoiselle, if ever he leaves his bed again, it will be a miracle."

She was not listening. Age, age again!--it makes all the
difference.
Here came the coach--did it hold a letter for Raoul? Raoul was young.

The coach rolled by with less noise than usual, on the carpet of
snow churned brown with traffic.

As it passed, the guard lifted his horn and blew cheerily. She followed,
telling herself it was a good omen. During the long wait outside the
post office she rebuked herself more than once for building a hope
upon it.

Name after name was called, and at each call a prisoner pushed forward
to the doorway for his letter. She caught sight of the General on the
outskirts of the crowd. Her brother would not come out until every
letter had been distributed.

But when he appeared in the doorway she read the good news in his
face.
He made his way briskly towards her, the prisoners falling back to
give passage.

"Right; it has come," he said. "Trot away home and have the valises packed,
while I run into 'The Dogs' and order the chaise."
Once clear of the town, she galloped. There was little need to hurry,
for her own valise had been packed overnight.

Having sent Mudge to attend to her brother's, she ran to Narcissus'
room--his scriptorium, as he called it.

Narcissus was at home to-day, busy with the cellar accounts. He took stock
twice a year and composed a report in language worthy of a survey of
the Roman Empire. Before he could look up, Dorothea had kissed him
on the crown of his venerable head.

"Such news, dear! Endymion has ordered a chaise from 'The Dogs,' and is
going to take me to Dartmoor!"
"Dartmoor--God bless my soul!" He rubbed his head, and added with
a twinkle: "Why, what have you been doing?"

"Endymion has a cartel of exchange for M. Raoul, and we are to carry
it."
"Ah, so that is what you two have been conspiring over? I smelt a rat
somewhere. But, really, this is delightful of you--delightful of you both.
Only, why on earth should you be carrying the release yourselves, in
this weather."
"He is very ill," said Dorothea, seriously.

"Indeed? Poor fellow, poor fellow.

Still, that scarcely explains--"
"And you will be good, and take your meals regularly when Mudge beats
the gong? And you won't sit up late and set fire to the house? But I
must run off and tell everyone to take care of you."

She kissed him again, and was half-way down the corridor before
he called after her:

"Dorothea, Dorothea!

the drawings!"

"Ah, to be sure; I forgot," she murmured, as he thrust the parcel into
her hand.

"Forgot? Forgot the drawings? But, God bless my soul!--"
He passed his hand over his grey hairs and stared down the corridor
after her.

The roads were heavy to start, with, and beyond Chard they grew heavier.
At Honiton, which our travellers reached at midnight, it was snowing; and
Dorothea, when the sleepy chamber-maid aroused her at dawn, looked out
upon a forbidding world of white. The postboys were growling, and she
half feared that Endymion would abandon the journey for the day.

But if he lacked her zeal, he had the true Englishman's hatred
of turning back. She, who had known him always for a master of men,
learned a new awe of her splendid brother. He took command; he cross-examined
landlord and postboys, pooh-poohed their objections, extracted from them
in half-a-dozen curt questions more information than, five minutes
before, they were conscious of possessing, to judge from the scratching
of heads which produced it; finally, he handed Dorothea into the
chaise, sprang in himself, and closed discussion with a slam of the
door.

They were driven off amid the salaams of ostler, boots, waiter, and two
chambermaids, among whom he had scattered largess with the lordliest
hand.

So the chaise ploughed through Exeter to Moreton Hampstead, where
they supped and rested for another night. But before dawn they were off
again.

Snow lay in thick drifts on the skirts of the great moor, and snow
whirled about them as they climbed, until day broke upon a howling
desert, across which Dorothea peered but could discern no features.

Not leagues but years divided Bayfield from this tableland, high
over all the world, uninhabited, without tree or gate or hedge. Her
eyes were heavy with lack of sleep, smarting with the bite of the north
wind, which neither ceased nor eased until, towards ten o'clock,
the carriage began to lumber downhill towards Two Bridges, under
the lee of Crockern Tor.

Beyond came a heavy piece of collar work, the horses dropping to a walk
as they heaved through the drifts towards a depression between two
tors closing the view ahead. Dorothea's eyes, avoiding the wind,
were fixed on the tor to the left, when Endymion touched her hand
and pointed towards the base of the other.

There, grey--almost black--against the white hillside, a mass of masonry
loomed up through the weather; the great circle of the War Prison.

The road did not lead them to it direct.

They must halt first at the bare village of Prince Town, and drink
coffee and warm themselves at the "Plume of Feathers Inn," before
facing the last few hundred yards beneath the lee of North Hessary.

But a little before noon, Dorothea-- still with a sense of being lifted
on a platform miles above the world she knew--alighted before a tremendous
archway of piled granite set in a featureless wall, and closed with a
sheeted gate of iron. A grey- coated sentry, pacing here in front of
his snow-capped box, challenged and demanded their business.

"Visitors for the Commandant!" The sentry tugged at an iron bellpull, and
a bell tolled twice within. Dorothea's feet were half-frozen in spite
of her wraps--she stamped them in the snow while she studied the
gateway and the enormous blocks which arched it, unhewn save for
two words carved in Roman capitals--"PARCERE SUBJECTIS."

A key turned in the wicket. "Visitors for the Commandant!" They stepped
through, and after pausing a moment while the porter shot the lock
again behind them, followed him across the yard to the Commandant's
quarters.

The outer wall of the great War Prison enclosed a circle of thirty acres;
within it a second wall surrounded an acre in which stood the five
rectangular blocks of the prison proper, with two slightly smaller
buildings--the one a hospital, the other set apart for the petty
officers; and between the inner and outer walls ran a _via militaris_,
close on a mile in circumference, constantly paraded by the guard,
and having raised platforms from which the sentinels could overlook
the inner wall and the area.

The area was not completely circular, since, where it faced the
great gate, a segment had been cut out of it for the Commandant's
quarters and outbuildings and the entrance yard, across which, our
travellers now followed their guide.

The Commandant hurried out from his office to welcome them--a bustling
little officer with sandy hair and the kindliest possible face; a
trifle self-important, obviously proud of his prison, and, after a
fashion, of his prisoners too; anxiously, elaborately polite in
his manner, especially towards Dorothea.

"Major Westcote!"--he gave Endymion his full title--"My dear sir,
this is indeed--And Miss Westcote?" he bowed as he was introduced,
"Delighted--honoured! But what a journey! You must be famished,
positively; you will be wanting luncheon at once--yes, really you
must allow me. No? A glass of sherry, then, and a biscuit at least
. . ."

He ran to the door, called to his orderly to bring some glasses, and
came back rubbing his hands. "It's an ill wind, as they say . . ."

"We have come with the order about which we have corresponded."
"For that poor fellow Raoul?"

The Commandant nodded gaily and smiled; and Dorothea, who had been
watching his face, felt the load dissolve and roll off her heart, as a
pile of snow slides from a bough in the sunshine. "He is better, I am
glad to report--out of bed and fairly convalescent indeed. But I hope my
message did not alarm you needlessly.

It was touch-and-go with him for twenty-four hours; still, he was
bettering when I wrote.

And to bring you all this way, and in such weather!"
"My sister and I," explained Endymion, "take a particular interest in his
case."
But the voluble officer was not so easily silenced.

"So, to be sure, I gathered." He bowed gallantly to Dorothea. "'O
woman!

in our hours of ease, Uncertain, coy, and hard to please'--not, of
course, that I attribute any such foibles to Miss Westcote, but for
the sake of the conclusion."

"Can we see him?"

"Eh? Before luncheon? Oh, most assuredly, if you wish it. He has been
transferred to the Convalescents' Ward.

We will step across at once." He drew from his pocket a small master-key,
attached by a steel chain to his belt, and blew into the wards
thoughtfully while he studied the paper handed to him by Endymion.
"Quite in order, of course.

No doubt, you and Miss Westcote would prefer to break the good news
to him in private? Yes, yes; I will have him sent up to the Consulting
Room. The Doctor has finished his morning rounds, and you will be
quite alone there."
He picked up his cap and escorted them out and across the court to the
gate of the main prison. Beyond this Dorothea found herself in a vast
snowy yard, along two sides of which ran covered ways or piazzas open
to the air, but faced with iron bars, and behind these bars flitted
the forms of the prisoners at exercise, stamping the flagged pavement
to keep their starved blood in circulation.

At a sight of the Commandant with his two visitors--so small a
spectacle had power to divert them-- all this movement, this stamping,
was hushed suddenly. Voices broke into chatter; faces appeared between
the bars and stared.

"Yes," said the Commandant, reading Dorothea's thought, "a large family
to be responsible for!

How many would you guess, now?"
"A thousand, at least," she murmured.

"Six thousand! Each of those blocks yonder will accommodate fifteen hundred
men. And then there is the hospital--usually pretty full at this season,
I regret to say. Come, I won't detain you; but really in passing you
must have a look at one of our dormitories."
He threw open a door, and she gazed in upon a long-drawn avenue of iron
pillars slung with double tiers of hammocks.

The place seemed clean enough: at the far end of the vista a fatigue
gang of prisoners was busy with pails and brushes; but either it had not
been thoroughly ventilated, or the dense numbers packed in it for
so many hours a day had given the building an atmosphere of its own,
warm and unpleasant, if not precisely foetid, after the pure, stinging
air of the moorland.

"We can sleep seven hundred here," said the Commandant; "and another
dormitory of the same size runs overhead. The top story they use as a
promenade and for indoor recreation." He pointed to a number of
grilles set in the wall at the back, at equal distances. "For air," he
explained, "and also for keeping watch on _messieurs_. Yes, we find
that necessary. Behind each is a small chamber, hollowed most
scientifically, quite a little temple of acoustics.

If Miss Westcote, now, would care to step into one and listen, while I
stand below with the Major and converse in ordinary tones--"
"No, no," Dorothea declined, hurriedly, and with a shiver.

It hurt her to think of Raoul herded among seven hundred miserables
in this endless barrack, his every movement overlooked, his smallest
speech overheard, by an eaves-dropping sentry.

"I think, Endymion chimed in, my sister feels her long journey, and
would be glad to get our business over."
"Ah, to be sure--a thousand pardons!"
The Commandant shut the door and piloted them across to the hospital
block.

Here on the threshold the same warm, acrid atmosphere assailed
Dorothea's nostrils, and almost choked her breathing. Their guide led
the way up a flight of stone steps to the first floor, and down a
whitewashed corridor, lit along one side with narrow barred casements.

A little more than half-way down the corridor the blank wall
facing these casements was pierced by a low arched passage. Into
this burrow the Commandant dived; and, standing outside, they heard
a key turned in a lock. He reappeared and beckoned to them.
"From the gallery here," he whispered, "you look right down into
the Convalescent Ward."
Through the iron bars of the gallery Dorothea caught a glimpse of
a long bare room, with twenty or thirty dejected figures in suits
and caps of greyish-blue flannel, huddled about a stove. Some were
playing at cards, others at dominoes. The murmur of their voices
ascended and hummed in the little passage.
"Hist! Your friend is below there, if you care to have a peep at
him."
But Dorothea had already drawn back. All this spying and listening
revolted her. The polite Commandant noted the movement.
"You prefer that he should be fetched at once?" He stepped past
them into the corridor. "Smithers!" he called. "Smithers!"
A hospital orderly appeared at a door almost opposite the passage,
and saluted.
"Run down to the Convalescent Ward and fetch up Number Two-six-seven-
two.--I know the number of each of my children. I never make a
mistake," he confided in Dorothea's ear. "As quick as you can,
please!
Stay; you may add that some visitors have called and wish to speak
with him." 
The orderly saluted again, and hurried off.
"You wish, of course, to see him alone together?"
"I think," answered Endymion, slowly, "my sister would prefer a
word or two with him alone."
"Certainly. Will you step into the surgery, Miss Westcote?" He
indicated the door at which the orderly had appeared. "Smithers
will not take two minutes in fetching the prisoner; and perhaps,
if you will excuse us, a visit to the hospital itself will repay
your brother.
We are rather proud of our sanitation here: a glance over our
arrangements--five minutes only--"
Endymion, at a nod from Dorothea, permitted himself to be led away
by the inexorable man.
She watched them to the end of the corridor, and had her hand on
the surgery door to push it open, when a voice from below smote her
ears.
"Number Two-six-seven-two to come to the surgery at once, to see
visitors!"
The voice rang up through the little passage behind her. She turned;
the door at the end of it stood half-open; beyond it she saw the
bars of the gallery, and through these a space of whitewashed wall
at the end of the ward.
She was turning again, when a babble of voices answered the orderly's
announcement. "Raoul! Raoul!""He's a student in the Medical College, Mr. Traill. He went by this
meenit to the Botanical Garden for herbs my grandmither has aye known
without books." Sandy grinned in appreciation of this foolishness,
but he added, with Scotch shrewdness, "It's gude for the book-prenting
beesiness."

"It is so," the landlord agreed, heartily. "But you must no' be
forgetting that the Chambers brothers war book readers and sellers
before they war publishers. You are weel set up in life, laddie, and
Heriot's has pulled the warst of the burrs from your tongue. I'm wanting
to see Glenormiston."

"Mr. William Chambers is no' in. Mr. Robert is aye in, but he's no'
liking to be fashed about sma' things."

"I'll no' trouble him. It's the Lord Provost I'm wanting, on ofeecial
beesiness." He requested Sandy to ask Glenormiston, if he came in, to
come over to the Burgh court and spier for Mr. Traill.

"It's no' his day to sit as magistrate, and he's no' like to go unless
it's a fair sairious matter."

"Ay, it is, laddie. It's a matter of life and death, I'm thinking!"
He smiled grimly, as it entered his head that he might be driven to do
violence to that meddling policeman. The yellow gas-light gave his face
such a sardonic aspect that Sandy turned pale.

"Wha's death, man?"

Mr. Traill kept his own counsel, but at the door he turned: "You'll no'
be remembering the bittie terrier that lived in the kirkyard?"

The light of boyhood days broke in Sandy's grin. "Ay, I'll no' be
forgetting the sonsie tyke. He was a deil of a dog to tak' on a holiday.
Is he still faithfu' to his dead master?"

"He is that; and for his faithfu'ness he's like to be dead himsel'. The
police are takin' up masterless dogs an' putting them out o' the way.
I'll mak' a gude fight for Bobby in the Burgh court."

"I'll fight with you, man." The spirit of the McGregor clan, though
much diluted and subdued by town living, brought Sandy down from a
three-legged stool. He called another clerk to take his place, and made
off to find the Lord Provost, powerful friend of hameless dogs. Mr.
Traill hastened down to the Royal Exchange, below St. Giles and on the
northern side of High Street.

Less than a century old, this municipal building was modern among
ancient rookeries. To High Street it presented a classic front of
four stories, recessed by flanking wings, around three sides of a
quadrangular courtyard. Near the entrance there was a row of barber
shops and coffee-rooms. Any one having business with the city offices
went through a corridor between these places of small trade to the
stairway court behind them. On the floor above, one had to inquire of
some uniformed attendant in which of the oaken, ante-roomed halls the
Burgh court was sitting. And by the time one got there all the pride of
civic history of the ancient royal Burgh, as set forth in portrait and
statue and a museum of antiquities, was apt to take the lime out of
the backbone of a man less courageous than Mr. Traill. What a car of
juggernaut to roll over one, small, masterless terrier!

But presently the landlord found himself on his feet, and not so ill at
ease. A Scottish court, high or low, civil or criminal, had a flavor all
its own. Law points were threshed over with gusto, but counsel, client,
and witness gained many a point by ready wit, and there was no lack of
dry humor from the bench. About the Burgh court, for all its stately
setting, there was little formality. The magistrate of the day sat
behind a tall desk, with a clerk of record at his elbow, and the officer
gave his testimony briefly: Edinburgh being quite overrun by stray and
unlicensed dogs, orders had recently been given the Burgh police to
report such animals. In Mr. Traill's place he had seen a small terrier
that appeared to be at home there; and, indeed, on the dog's going out,
Mr. Traill had called a servant lassie to fetch a bone, and to open the
door for him. He noticed that the animal wore no collar, and felt it his
duty to report the matter.

By the time Mr. Traill was called to answer to the charge a number of
curious idlers had gathered on the back benches. He admitted his name
and address, but denied that he either owned or was harboring a dog.
The magistrate fixed a cold eye upon him, and asked if he meant to
contradict the testimony of the officer.

"Nae, your Honor; and he might have seen the same thing ony week-day of
the past eight and a half years. But the bit terrier is no' my ain
dog." Suddenly, the memory of the stormy night, the sick old man and the
pathos of his renunciation of the only beating heart in the world that
loved him--"Bobby isna ma ain dog!" swept over the remorseful landlord.
He was filled with a fierce championship of the wee Highlander, whose
loyalty to that dead master had brought him to this strait.

To the magistrate Mr. Traill's tossed-up head had the effect of
defiance, and brought a sharp rebuke. "Don't split hairs, Mr. Traill.
You are wasting the time of the court. You admit feeding the dog. Who is
his master and where does he sleep?"

"His master is in his grave in auld Greyfriars kirkyard, and the dog has
aye slept there on the mound."

The magistrate leaned over his desk. "Man, no dog could sleep in the
open for one winter in this climate. Are you fond of romancing, Mr.
Traill?"

"No' so overfond, your Honor. The dog is of the subarctic breed of Skye
terriers, the kind with a thick under-jacket of fleece, and a weather
thatch that turns rain like a crofter's cottage roof."

"There should be witnesses to such an extraordinary story. The dog could
not have lived in this strictly guarded churchyard without the
consent of those in authority." The magistrate was plainly annoyed and
skeptical, and Mr. Traill felt the sting of it.

"Ay, the caretaker has been his gude friend, but Mr. Brown is ill
of rheumatism, and can no' come out. Nae doubt, if necessary, his
deposeetion could be tak'n. Permission for the bit dog to live in the
kirkyard was given by the meenister of Greyfriars auld kirk, but Doctor
Lee is in failing health and has gone to the south of France. The
tenement children and the Heriot laddies have aye made a pet of Bobby,
but they would no' be competent witnesses."

"You should have counsel. There are some legal difficulties here."

"I'm no' needing a lawyer. The law in sic a matter can no' be so
complicated, and I have a tongue in my ain head that has aye served
me, your Honor." The magistrate smiled, and the spectators moved to the
nearer benches to enjoy this racy man. The room began to fill by that
kind of telepathy that causes crowds to gather around the human drama.
One man stood, unnoticed, in the doorway. Mr. Traill went on, quietly:
"If the court permits me to do so, I shall be glad to pay for Bobby's
license, but I'm thinking that carries responsibeelity for the bit dog."

"You are quite right, Mr. Traill. You would have to assume
responsibility. Masterless dogs have become a serious nuisance in the
city."

"I could no' tak' responsibeelity. The dog is no' with me more than a
couple of hours out of the twenty-four. I understand that most of his
time is spent in the kirkyard, in weel-behaving, usefu' ways, but I
could no' be sure."

"But why have you fed him for so many years? Was his master a friend?"

"Nae, just a customer, your Honor; a simple auld shepherd who ate his
market-day dinner in my place. He aye had the bit dog with him, and
I was the last man to see the auld body before he went awa' to his
meeserable death in a Cowgate wynd. Bobby came to me, near starved,
to be fed, two days after his master's burial. I was tak'n by the wee
Highlander's leal spirit."

And that was all the landlord would say. He had no mind to wear his
heart upon his sleeve for this idle crowd to gape at.

After a moment the magistrate spoke warmly: "It appears, then, that the
payment of the license could not be accepted from you. Your humanity is
commendable, Mr. Traill, but technically you are in fault. The minimum
fine should be imposed and remitted."

At this utterly unlooked-for conclusion Mr. Traill seemed to gather
his lean shoulders together for a spring, and his gray eyes narrowed to
blades.

"With due respect to your Honor, I must tak' an appeal against sic a
deceesion, to the Lord Provost and a' the magistrates, and then to the
Court of Sessions."

"You would get scant attention, Mr. Traill. The higher judiciary have
more important business than reviewing dog cases. You would be laughed
out of court."

The dry tone stung him to instant retort. "And in gude company I'd
be. Fifty years syne Lord Erskine was laughed down in Parliament for
proposing to give legal protection to dumb animals. But we're getting a
bit more ceevilized."

"Tut, tut, Mr. Traill, you are making far too much of a small matter."

"It's no' a sma' matter to be entered in the records of the Burgh court
as a petty law-breaker. And if I continued to feed the dog I would be in
contempt of court."

The magistrate was beginning to feel badgered. "The fine carries the
interdiction with it, Mr. Traill, if you are asking for information."

"It was no' for information, but just to mak' plain my ain line of
conduct. I'm no' intending to abandon the dog. I am commended here for
my humanity, but the bit dog I must let starve for a technicality."
Instantly, as the magistrate half rose from the bench, the landlord
saw that he had gone too far, and put the court on the defensive. In an
easy, conversational tone, as if unaware of the point he had scored,
he asked if he might address his accuser on a personal matter. "We knew
each other weel as laddies. Davie, when you're in my neeborhood again on
a wet day, come in and dry yoursel' by my fire and tak' another cup o'
kindness for auld lang syne. You'll be all the better man for a lesson
in morals the bit dog can give you: no' to bite the hand that feeds
you."

The policeman turned purple. A ripple of merriment ran through the room.
The magistrate put his hand up to his mouth, and the clerk began to drop
pens. Before silence was restored a messenger laddie ran up with a note
for the bench. The magistrate read it with a look of relief, and nodded
to the man who had been listening from the doorway, but who disappeared
at once.

"The case is ordered continued. The defendant will be given time to
secure witnesses, and notified when to appear. The next case is called."

Somewhat dazed by this sudden turn, and annoyed by the delayed
settlement of the affair, Mr. Traill hastened from the court-room. As he
gained the street he was overtaken by the messenger with a second note.
And there was a still more surprising turn that sent the landlord off up
swarming High Street, across the bridge, and on to his snug little place
of business, with the face and the heart of a school-boy. When Bobby,
draggled by three days of wet weather, came in for his dinner, Mr.
Traill scanned him critically and in some perplexity. At the end of
the day's work, as Ailie was dropping her quaint curtsy and giving her
adored employer a shy "gude nicht," he had a sudden thought that made
him call her back.

"Did you ever give a bit dog a washing, lassie?"

"Ye mean Bobby, Maister Traill? Nae, I didna." Her eyes sparkled. "But
Tammy's hauded 'im for Maister Brown, an' he says it's sonsie to gie the
bonny wee a washin'."

"Weel, Mr. Brown is fair ill, and there has been foul weather. Bobby's
getting to look like a poor 'gaen aboot' dog. Have him at the kirkyard
gate at a quarter to eight o'clock the morn looking like a leddy's pet
and I'll dance a Highland fling at your wedding."

"Are ye gangin' to tak' Bobby on a picnic, Maister Traill?"

He answered with a mock solemnity and a twinkle in his eyes that
mystified the little maid. "Nae, lassie; I'm going to tak' him to a
meeting in a braw kirk."


IX

When Ailie wanted to get up unusually early in the morning she made
use of Tammy for an alarm-clock. A crippled laddie who must "mak'
'is leevin' wi' 'is heid" can waste no moment of daylight, and in the
ancient buildings around Greyfriars the maximum of daylight was to be
had only by those able and willing to climb to the gables. Tammy, having
to live on the lowest, darkest floor of all, used the kirkyard for a
study, by special indulgence of the caretaker, whenever the weather
permitted.

From a window he dropped his books and his crutches over the wall. Then,
by clasping his arms around a broken shaft that blocked the casement, he
swung himself out, and scrambled down into an enclosed vault yard.
There he kept hidden Mistress Jeanie's milking stool for a seat; and a
table-tomb served as well, for the laddie to do his sums upon, as it
had for the tearful signing of the Covenant more than two hundred
years before. Bobby, as host, greeted Tammy with cordial friskings and
waggings, saw him settled to his tasks, and then went briskly about his
own interrupted business of searching out marauders. Many a spring dawn
the quiet little boy and the swift and silent little dog had the shadowy
garden all to themselves, and it was for them the song-thrushes and
skylarks gave their choicest concerts.

On that mid-April morning, when the rising sun gilded the Castle turrets
and flashed back from the many beautiful windows of Heriot's Hospital,
Tammy bundled his books under the table-tomb of Mistress Jean Grant,
went over to the rear of the Guildhall at the top of the Row, and threw
a handful of gravel up to Ailie's window. Because of a grandmither,
Ailie, too, dwelt on a low level. Her eager little face, lighted by
sleep-dazzled blue eyes, popped out with the surprising suddenness of
the manikins in a Punch-and-Judy show.

"In juist ane meenit, Tammy," she whispered, "no' to wauken the
grandmither." It was in so very short a minute that the lassie climbed
out onto the classic pediment of a tomb and dropped into the kirkyard
that her toilet was uncompleted. Tammy buttoned her washed-out cotton
gown at the back, and she sat on a slab to lace her shoes. If the fun
of giving Bobby his bath was to be enjoyed to the full there must be no
unnecessary delay. This consideration led Tammy to observe:

"Ye're no' needin' to comb yer hair, Ailie. It leuks bonny eneugh."

In truth, Ailie was one of those fortunate lassies whose crinkly,
gold-brown mop really looked best when in some disorder; and of that
advantage the little maid was well aware.

"I ken a' that, Tammy. I aye gie it a lick or twa wi' a comb the nicht
afore. Ca' the wee doggie."

Bobby fully understood that he was wanted for some serious purpose, but
it was a fresh morning of dew and he, apparently, was in the highest of
spirits. So he gave Ailie a chase over the sparkling grass and under the
showery shrubbery. When he dropped at last on Auld Jock's grave
Tammy captured him. The little dog could always be caught there, in a
caressable state of exhaustion or meditation, for, sooner or later, he
returned to the spot from every bit of work or play. No one would have
known it for a place of burial at all. Mr. Brown knew it only by the
rose bush at its head and by Bobby's haunting it, for the mound had
sunk to the general level of the terrace on which it lay, and spreading
crocuses poked their purple and gold noses through the crisp spring
turf. But for the wee, guardian dog the man who lay beneath had long
lost what little identity he had ever possessed.

Now, as the three lay there, the lassie as flushed and damp as some
water-nymph, Bobby panting and submitting to a petting, Tammy took the
little dog's muzzle between his thin hands, parted the veil, and looked
into the soft brown eyes.

"Leak, Ailie, Bobby's wantin' somethin', an' is juist haudin' 'imsel'."

It was true. For all his gaiety in play and his energy at work Bobby's
eyes had ever a patient, wistful look, not unlike the crippled laddie's.
Ah, who can say that it did not require as much courage and gallant
bravado on the part of that small, bereft creature to enable him to live
at all, as it did for Tammy to face his handicapped life and "no' to
remember 'is bad legs"?

In the bath on the rear steps of the lodge Bobby swam and splashed, and
scattered foam with his excited tail. He would not stand still to be
groomed, but wriggled and twisted and leaped upon the children, putting
his shaggy wet paws roguishly in their faces. But he stood there at
last, after the jolliest romp, in which the old kirkyard rang with
laughter, and oh! so bonny, in his rippling coat of dark silver. No
sooner was he released than he dashed around the kirk and back again,
bringing his latest bone in his mouth. To his scratching on the stone
sill, for he had been taught not to scratch on the panel, the door
was opened by snod and smiling Mistress Jeanie, who invited these slum
bairns into such a cozy, spotless kitchen as was not possible in the
tenements. Mr. Brown sat by the hearth, bundled in blue and white
blankets of wonderfully blocked country weaving. Bobby put his fore paws
on the caretaker's chair and laid his precious bone in the man's lap.

"Eh, ye takin' bit rascal; loup!" Bobby jumped to the patted knee,
turned around and around on the soft bed that invited him, licked the
beaming old face to show his sympathy and friendliness, and jumped down
again. Mr. Brown sighed because Bobby steadily but amiably refused to be
anybody's lap-dog. The caretaker turned to the admiring children.

"Ilka morn he fetches 'is bit bane up, thinkin' it a braw giftie for an
ill man. An' syne he veesits me twa times i' the day, juist bidin' a
wee on the hearthstane, lollin' 'is tongue an' waggin' 'is tail,
cheerfu'-like. Bobby has mair gude sense in 'is heid than mony a man wha
comes ben the hoose, wi' a lang face, to let me ken I'm gangin' to dee.
Gin I keep snug an' canny it wullna gang to the heart. Jeanie, woman,
fetch ma fife, wull ye?"

Then there were strange doings in the kirkyard lodge. James Brown "wasna
gangin' to dee" before his time came, at any rate. In his youth, as
under-gardener on a Highland estate, he had learned to play the piccolo
flute, and lately he had revived the pastoral art of piping just because
it went so well with Bobby's delighted legs. To the sonsie air of
"Bonnie Dundee" Bobby hopped and stepped and louped, and he turned
about on his hind feet, his shagged fore paws drooped on his breast as
daintily as the hands in the portraits of early Victorian ladies. The
fire burned cheerily in the polished grate, and winked on every shining
thing in the room; primroses bloomed in the diamond-paned casement; the
skylark fluttered up and sang in its cage; the fife whistled as gaily as
a blackbird, and the little dog danced with a comic clumsiness that made
them all double up with laughter. The place was so full of brightness,
and of kind and merry hearts, that there was room for nothing else. Not
one of them dreamed that the shadow of the law was even then over this
useful and lovable little dog's head.

A glance at the wag-at-the-wa' clock reminded Ailie that Mr. Traill
might be waiting for Bobby.

Curious about the mystery, the children took the little dog down to the
gate, happily. They were sobered, however, when Mr. Traill appeared,
looking very grand in his Sabbath clothes. He inspected Bobby all over
with anxious scrutiny, and gave each of the bairns a threepenny-bit,
but he had no blithe greeting for them. Much preoccupied, he went off at
once, with the animated little muff of a dog at his heels. In truth, Mr.
Traill was thinking about how he might best plead Bobby's cause with the
Lord Provost. The note that was handed him, on leaving the Burgh court
the day before, had read:

"Meet me at the Regent's Tomb in St. Giles at eight o'clock in the
morning, and bring the wee Highlander with you.--Glenormiston."

On the first reading the landlord's spirits had risen, out of all
proportion to the cause, owing to his previous depression. But, after
all, the appointment had no official character, since the Regent's Tomb
in St. Giles had long been a sort of town pump for the retailing of
gossip and for the transaction of trifling affairs of all sorts. The
fate of this little dog was a small matter, indeed, and so it might be
thought fitting, by the powers that be, that it should be decided at the
Regent's Tomb rather than in the Burgh court.

To the children, who watched from the kirkyard gate until Mr. Traill and
Bobby were hidden by the buildings on the bridge, it was no' canny. The
busy landlord lived mostly in shirt-sleeves and big white apron, ready
to lend a hand in the rush hours, and he never was known to put on
his black coat and tall hat on a week-day, except to attend a funeral.
However, there was the day's work to be done. Tammy had a lesson
still to get, and returned to the kirkyard, and Ailie ran up to the
dining-rooms. On the step she collided with a red headed, freckle-faced
young man who asked for Mr. Traill.

"He isna here." The shy lassie was made almost speechless by
recognizing, in this neat, well-spoken clerk, an old Heriot boy, once as
poor as herself.

"Do you wark for him, lassie? Weel, do you know how he cam' out in the
Burgh court about the bit dog?"

There was only one "bit dog" in the world to Ailie. Wild eyed with alarm
at mention of the Burgh court, in connection with that beloved little
pet, she stammered: "It's--it's--no' a coort he gaed to. Maister
Traill's tak'n Bobby awa' to a braw kirk."

Sandy nodded his head. "Ay, that would be the police office in St.
Giles. Lassie, tell Mr. Traill I sent the Lord Provost, and if he's
needing a witness to ca' on Sandy McGregor."

Ailie stared after him with frightened eyes. Into her mind flashed that
ominous remark of the policeman two days before: "I didna ken ye had a
dog, John?" She overtook Sandy in front of the sheriff's court on the
bridge.

"What--what hae the police to do wi' bittie dogs?"

"If a dog has nae master to pay for his license the police can tak' him
up and put him out o' the way."

"Hoo muckle siller are they wantin'?"

"Seven shullings. Gude day, lassie; I'm fair late." Sandy was not really
alarmed about Bobby since the resourceful Mr. Traill had taken up
his cause, and he had no idea of the panic of grief and fright that
overwhelmed this forlorn child.

Seven shullings! It was an enormous sum to the tenement bairn, whose
half-blind grandmither knitted and knitted in a dimly lighted room, and
hoarded halfpennies and farthings to save herself from pauper burial.
Seven shullings would pay a month's rent for any one of the crowded
rooms in which a family lived. Ailie herself, an untrained lassie who
scarcely knew the use of a toasting-fork, was overpaid by generous Mr.
Traill at sixpence a day. Seven shullings to permit one little dog to
live! It did not occur to Ailie that this was a sum Mr. Traill could
easily pay. No' onybody at all had seven shullings all at once! But, oh!
everybody had pennies and halfpennies and farthings, and she and Tammy
together had a sixpence.

Darting back to the gate, to catch the laddie before he could be off to
school, she ran straight into the policeman, who stood with his hand on
the wicket. He eyed her sharply.

"Eh, lassie, I was gangin' to spier at the lodge, gin there's a bit dog
leevin' i' the kirkyaird."

"I--I--dinna ken." Her voice was unmanageable. She had left to her only
the tenement-bred instinct of concealment of any and all facts from an
officer of the law.

"Ye dinna ken! Maister Traill said i' the coort a' the bairns aboot
kenned the dog. Was he leein'?"

The question stung her into angry admission. "He wadna be leein'.
But--but--the bittie--dog--isna here noo."

"Syne, whaur is he? Oot wi' it!"

"I--dinna--ken!" She cowered in abject fear against the wall. She could
not know that this officer was suffering a bad attack of shame for his
shabby part in the affair. Satisfied that the little dog really did
live in the kirkyard, he turned back to the bridge. When Tammy came
out presently he found Ailie crumpled up in a limp little heap in the
gateway alcove. In a moment the tale of Bobby's peril was told. The
laddie dropped his books and his crutches on the pavement, and his head
in his helpless arms, and cried. He had small faith in Ailie's suddenly
conceived plan to collect the seven shullings among the dwellers in the
tenements.

"Do ye ken hoo muckle siller seven shullin's wad be? It's auchty-fower
pennies, a hundred an' saxty-aucht ha'pennies an'--an'--I canna think
hoo mony farthings."

"I dinna care a bittie bit. There's mair folk aroond the kirkyaird than
there's farthings i' twa, three times seven shullin's. An' maist ilka
body kens Bobby. An' we hae a saxpence atween us noo."

"Maister Brown wad gie us anither saxpence gin he had ane," Tammy
suggested, wistfully.

"Nae, he's fair ill. Gin he doesna keep canny it wull gang to 'is heart.
He'd be aff 'is heid, aboot Bobby. Oh, Tammy, Maister Traill gaed to
gie 'im up! He was wearin' a' 'is gude claes an' a lang face, to gang to
Bobby's buryin'."

This dreadful thought spurred them to instant action. By way of mutual
encouragement they went together through the sculptured doorway, that
bore the arms of the ancient guild of the candlemakers on the lintel,
and into the carting office on the front.

"Do ye ken Greyfriars Bobby?" Tammy asked, timidly, of the man in
charge.

He glowered at the laddie and shook his head. "Havers, mannie; there's
no' onybody named for an auld buryin' groond."

The children fled. There was no use at all in wasting time on folk who
did not know Bobby, for it would take too long to explain him. But,
alas, they soon discovered that "maist ilka body" did not know the
little dog, as they had so confidently supposed. He was sure to be known
only in the rooms at the rear that overlooked the kirkyard, and, as one
went upward, his identity became less and less distinct. He was such
a wee, wee, canny terrier, and so many of the windows had their views
constantly shut out by washings. [Cheers.] I could wish that my excellent
successor here as American Minister could fill my place to-night, for
I am sure that he is as fully inspired as I ever was with a desire to
draw closer the ties of friendship between the mother and the daughter,
and could express it in a more eloquent and more emphatic manner than
even I myself could do--at any rate in a more authoritative manner.

For myself, I have only to say that I come back from my native land
confirmed in my love of it and in my faith in it.

I come back also full of warm gratitude for the feeling that I find in
England; I find in the old home a guest-chamber prepared for me, and a
warm welcome.

[Cheers.] Repeating what his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief
has said, that every man is bound in duty, if he were not bound in
affection and loyalty, to put his own country first, I may be allowed
to steal a leaf out of the book of my adopted fellow-citizens in
America; and while I love my native country first, as is natural, I may
be allowed to say I love the country next best which I cannot say has
adopted me, but which, I will say, has treated me with such kindness,
where I have met with such universal kindness from all classes and
degrees of people, that I must put that country at least next in
my affection.

I will not detain you longer. I know that the essence of speaking here
is to be brief, but I trust that I shall not lay myself open to the
reproach that in my desire to be brief I have resulted in making
myself obscure.

[Laughter.] I hope I have expressed myself explicitly enough; but I would
venture to give another translation of Horace's words, and say that I
desire to be brief, and therefore I efface myself. [Laughter and cheers.]

* * * * *

INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at the dinner of the Incorporated
Society of Authors, London, July 25, 1888, given to the "American
Men and Women of Letters" who happened to be in London on that
date.]

MR.

CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--I confess that I rise under a certain
oppression. There was a time when I went to make an after-dinner speech
with a light heart, and when on my way to the dinner I could think over
my exordium in my cab and trust to the spur of the moment for the
rest of my speech.

But I find as I grow older a certain aphasia overtakes me, a certain
inability to find the right word precisely when I want it; and I
find also that my flank becomes less sensitive to the exhilarating
influences of that spur to which I have just alluded.

I had pretty well made up my mind not to make any more after-dinner
speeches.

I had an impression that I had made quite enough of them for a wise
man to speak, and perhaps more than it was profitable for other
wise men to listen to. [Laughter.] I confess that it was with some
reluctance that I consented to speak at all to-night.

I had been bethinking me of the old proverb of the pitcher and the well
which is mentioned, as you remember, in the proverb; and it was not
altogether a consolation to me to think that that pitcher, which
goes once too often to the well, belongs to the class which is taxed
by another proverb with too great length of ears.

[Laughter.] But I could not resist. I certainly felt that it was my
duty not to refuse myself to an occasion like this--an occasion which
deliberately emphasizes, as well as expresses, that good feeling
between our two countries which, I think, every good man in both
of them is desirous to deepen and to increase.

If I look back to anything in my life with satisfaction, it is to the
fact that I myself have, in some degree, contributed--and I hope I
may believe the saying to be true--to this good feeling. [Applause.]

You alluded, Mr. Chairman, to a date which gave me, I must confess, what
we call on the other side of the water "a rather large contract." I
am to reply, I am to answer to Literature, and I must confess that a
person like myself, who first appeared in print fifty years ago,
would hardly wish to be answerable for all his own literature, not
to speak of the literature of other people.

But your allusion to sixty years ago reminded me of something which
struck me as I looked down these tables.

Sixty years ago the two authors you mentioned, Irving and Cooper,
were the only two American authors of whom anything was known in
Europe, and the knowledge of them in Europe was mainly confined to
England.

It is true that Bryant's "Water-Fowl" had already begun its flight in
immortal air, but these were the only two American authors that could
be said to be known in England. And what is even more remarkable, they
were the only American authors at that time--there were, and had been,
others known to us at home--who were capable of earning their bread
by their pens. Another singular change is suggested to me as I look
down these tables, and that is the singular contrast they afford between
the time when Johnson wrote his famous lines about those ills that assail
the life of the scholar, and by the scholar he meant the author--
"Toil, envy, want, the patron, and the gaol."

And I confess when I remember that verse it strikes me as a singular
contrast that I should meet with a body of authors who are able to offer
a dinner instead of begging one; that I have sat here and seen "forty
feeding like one," when one hundred years ago the one fed like
forty when he had the chance. [Laughter.]
You have alluded also, in terms which I shall not qualify, to my
own merits.

You have made me feel a little as if I were a ghost revisiting the pale
glimpses of the moon, and reading with considerable wonder my own
epitaph. But you have done me more than justice in attributing so much
to me with regard to International Copyright. You are quite right
in alluding to Mr. Putnam, who, I think, wrote the best pamphlet
that has been written on the subject; and there are others you did
not name who also deserve far more than I do for the labor they
have expended and the zeal they have shown on behalf of International
Copyright, particularly the secretaries of our international
society--Mr.

Lathrop and Mr. G. W. Green. And since I could not very well avoid
touching upon the subject of International Copyright, I must say that
all American authors without exception have been in favor of it on
the moral ground, on the ground of simple justice to English authors. But
there were a great many local, topical considerations, as our ancestors
used to call them, that we were obliged to take into account, and
which, perhaps, you do not feel as keenly here as we did. But I think
we may say that the almost unanimous conclusion of American authors
latterly has been that we should be thankful to get any bill that
recognized the principle of international copyright, being confident
that its practical application would so recommend it to the American
people that we should get afterwards, if not every amendment of it
that we desire, at least every one that is humanly possible.

I think that perhaps a little injustice has been done to our
side of the question; I think a little more heat has been imported
into it than was altogether wise.

I am not so sure that our American publishers were so much more wicked
than their English brethren would have been if they had had the chance.
[Laughter.] I cannot, I confess, accept with patience any imputation
that implies that there is anything in our climate or in our form of
government that tends to produce a lower standard of morality than
in other countries. The fact is that it has been partly due to a
certain--may I speak of our ancestors as having been qualified by a
certain dulness? I mean no disrespect, but I think it is due to the
stupidity of our ancestors in making a distinction between literary
property and other property. That has been at the root of the whole
evil.

I, of course understand, as everybody understands, that all property is
the creature of municipal law.

But you must remember that it is the conquest of civilization, that when
property passes beyond the boundaries of that _municipium_ it is
still sacred.

It is not even yet sacred in all respects and conditions. Literature, the
property in an idea, has been something that it is very difficult for
the average man to comprehend. It is not difficult for the average man
to comprehend that there may be property in a form which genius or talent
gives to an idea. He can see it. It is visible and palpable, this property
in an idea when it is exemplified in a machine, but it is hardly so
apprehensible when it is subtly interfused in literature. Books have
always been looked on somewhat as _feræ naturæ_, and if you have ever
preserved pheasants you know that when they fly over your neighbor's
boundaries he may take a pot shot at them.

I remember that something more than thirty years ago Longfellow, my
friend and neighbor, asked me to come and eat a game pie with him.
Longfellow's books had been sold in England by the tens of thousands,
and that game pie--and you will observe the felicity of its being a
game pie, _feræ naturæ_ always you see--was the only honorarium he had
ever received from this country for reprinting his works.

I cannot help feeling as I stand here that there is something especially--I
might almost use a cant word and say monumentally--interesting in
a meeting like this. It is the first time that English and American
authors, so far as I know, have come together in any numbers, I was
going to say to fraternize, when I remembered that I ought perhaps to
add to "sororize." We, of course, have no desire, no sensible man in
England or America has any desire, to enforce this fraternization
at the point of the bayonet. Let us go on criticising each other; it is
good for both of us.

We Americans have been sometimes charged with being a little too sensitive;
but perhaps a little indulgence may be due to those who always have
their faults told to them, and the reference to whose virtues perhaps
is sometimes conveyed in a foot-note in small print. I think that both
countries have a sufficiently good opinion of themselves to have
a fairly good opinion of each other.

They can afford it; and if difficulties arise between the two countries,
as they unhappily may,--and when you alluded just now to what De
Tocqueville said in 1828 you must remember that it was only thirteen
years after our war,--you must remember how long it has been to get
in the thin end of the wedge of International Copyright; you must
remember it took our diplomacy nearly one hundred years to enforce
its generous principle of the alienable allegiance, and that the
greater part of the bitterness which De Tocqueville found in 1828
was due to the impressment of American seamen, of whom something
like fifteen hundred were serving on board English ships when at
last they were delivered.

These things should be remembered, not with resentment but for
enlightenment. But whatever difficulties occurred between the two
countries, and there may be difficulties that are serious, I do not think
there will be any which good sense and good feeling cannot settle.
[Applause.]

I think I have been told often enough to remember that my countrymen are
apt to think that they are in the right, that they are always in the
right; that they are apt to look at their side of the question
only.
Now, this conduces certainly to peace of mind and imperturbability
of judgment, whatever other merits it may have. I am sure I do not know
where we got it. Do you? I also sympathize most heartily with what has
been said by the chairman with regard to the increasing love for
England among my countrymen. I find on inquiry that they stop longer
and in greater numbers every year in the old home, and feel more deeply
its manifold charms. They also are beginning to feel that London is the
centre of the races that speak English, very much in the sense that Rome
was the centre of the ancient world.

And I confess that I never think of London, which I also confess
that I love, without thinking of that palace which David built, sitting
in hearing of a hundred streams--streams of thought, of intelligence, of
activity.

And one other thing about London, if I may be allowed to refer to
myself, impresses me beyond any other sound I have ever heard, and
that is the low, unceasing roar that one hears always in the air.
It is not a mere accident, like the tempest or the cataract, but it
is impressive because it always indicates human will and impulse and
conscious movement, and I confess that when I hear it I almost feel that
I am listening to the roaring loom of time. A few words more. I
will only say this, that we, as well as you, have inherited a common
trust in the noble language which, in its subtle compositiveness,
is perhaps the most admirable instrument of human thought and human
feeling and cunning that has ever been unconsciously devised by man.

May our rivalries be in fidelity to that trust. We have also inherited
certain traditions, political and moral, and in doing our duty
towards these it seems to me that we shall find quite enough
occupation for our united thought and feeling.

[Long-continued applause.]

JOHN LOWELL

HUMORS OF THE BENCH

[Speech of Judge John Lowell at a banquet given by the Boston Merchants'
Association in Boston, May 23, 1884, in his honor, upon his retirement
from the bench of the United States Circuit Court.]

GENTLEMEN:--I hardly know why I am here. I suppose I must have decided
some case in favor of our honored chairman. But, then, if every one
in whose favor I have decided a case should give me a dinner I should
have some thousands to eat, if I could live long enough.

I observe that in your invitation to me you say very little, if anything,
about any judicial qualities which I may have displayed in office, but
you do mention my courtesy and patience. You are right.

There are better judges here to-night than I ever was; but in courtesy
and consideration, which I learned at my mother's knee, I hope I have
not been surpassed. I have received several compliments of the same kind.
I will tell you one story about that.

I was sitting one day up in court. The jury had just gone out, when a
very nice looking young man came up. His hair was a little short, I
believe, but I didn't notice it particularly. Said he, "Good-morning,
Jedge." "Good morning."

"You don't remember me?" he said. "Your countenance is familiar to me,"
I said, "but it does not impress itself on my memory." Said he: "Four
years ago to-day you sentenced me to four years' imprisonment in
the State prison."

I suppose it ought to have been five, I don't know. He said: "I got out
to-day, and I thought I would make my first call on you." [Laughter. A
voice: "That was his courtesy."] True; and mine then came in. Said I:
"Many happy returns of the day."

[Great laughter and applause.] He took it very kindly and went off.

I haven't seen him since.

I might have resigned some time ago. I was waiting to be turned out.
[Laughter.] I got tired of waiting. I will tell you how that is now.
My great-grandfather was judge of the District Court, appointed by
Washington; then he was made circuit judge by Adams. Well, Adams
made a good many circuit judges, and they were all Federalists; and
when the Democrats--they called themselves Republicans--all the same,
you know [laughter]--when the Republicans came in they abolished the
court to get rid of the judges. They made a circuit court here about
nineteen years ago, and they appointed my friend Shepley the first
judge. I told him if the Democrats only got in soon enough he would
go the way of my grandfather. He admitted it.

When I was appointed I expected the same thing. In fact, some of
our prominent Democrats told me so. I said, "All right, bring on your
bear. Bring on your Democratic President." So I waited for that
Democratic President about eight years. I got tired of waiting. That
is the only reason I resign now. [Laughter and applause.]
You take things so good-naturedly I will tell you one or two more stories.
One of the principal difficulties we have is in serving on the jury. The
members of the Merchants' Association always presented me with a certificate
showing that they were members of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery
Company.[12] [Laughter.] But a man who was not a house guard came into
my private office one day just as the jury was about to be
impanelled.

Said he: "Judge, I hear you live out of town." Said I: "Yes." Said he:
"I guess you burn kerosene. You don't have electric lights or anything
of that kind? Well," said he, "if you will let me off this jury I will
give you the darnedest nice can of kerosene ever you see." Said I:
"Young man, I see in your mind the exact virtues which would be most
useful,--a justice and probity which will make you serve the country
most admirably as a juryman."

So he served. I don't know but that if it had been a barrel it might
have been different.

[Great laughter.]
Another tried the intimidation dodge. He says: "Jedge, I have been exposed
to the small-pox, and expect it to break out every minute."

Said I: "Break!" [Laughter.] He broke into the jury box and served his
country well, and had no incapacitating disease that I ever heard
of.

I don't know that there is much of anything else, except that I would
give some advice. I am going to draw up some rules for my successor,
and the first one will be: "Always decide in favor of the Merchants'
Association." When there are two Merchants' Associations together, in
different interests, then you must do like that jury in Kennebec
county.

There was a jury there which was very prompt and satisfactory.

When they got through, the judge said: "Gentlemen, I thank you very much
for the very satisfactory character of your verdicts, for the great
promptness with which they have been rendered, without a single
disagreement." The foreman returned thanks for the compliment, and
said that the jury had escaped the delays and disagreements to
which his Honor had referred, by always tossing up a copper as soon
as they had retired, and abiding by the result of the throw.

One word in a more serious vein. I wish to express, in closing, my
profound gratification that my efforts to do my duty simply and
industriously should have met with your approval, and my gratitude for
its public and spontaneous expression. [Applause.]

LORD LYTTON

(SIR EDWARD BULWER-LYTTON)

MACREADY AND THE ENGLISH STAGE
[Speech of Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton at a public dinner given to William
C. Macready, London, March 1, 1851, on the occasion of the tragedian's
withdrawal from the stage. Lord Lytton, in proposing the toast of the
evening, delivered the following speech.]

     GENTLEMEN:--When I glance through this vast hall, and feel how weak
and indistinct is my voice, I feel that I must frankly throw myself
upon your indulgence, and entreat your most patient and courteous
attention while I approach that subject which unites to-day an
assembly so remarkable for the numbers and distinction of those who
compose it.

    We are met to do honor to an eminent man, who retires into private
life after those services to the public which are most felt at the
moment we are about to lose them.

      There are many among you far better qualified than I am to speak
critically of the merits of Mr.

Macready as an actor, but placed as I am in this chair, I feel that I
should justly disappoint you if I did not seek to give some utterance
to those sentiments of admiration of which you have made me the
representative.

Gentlemen, this morning I read in one of the literary journals, some
qualifying remarks as to the degree of Mr. Macready's genius; and now,
as I recognize here many who are devoted to literature and art, I
will ask them if I am not right in this doctrine--that the true measure
of the genius of an artist is the degree of excellence to which he
brings the art that he cultivates. Judge of Mr. Macready by this test,
and how great is that genius that will delight us no more; for it
is because it has so achieved what I will call the symmetry of art
that its height and its breadth have been often forgotten.

We know that it is the uneven and irregular surface that strikes us as the
largest, and the dimensions of a genius, like those of a building,
are lost in the justness of its proportions; and therefore it is that
in recalling the surpassing excellence of our guest as an artistical
performer, one is really at a loss to say in what line of character
he has excelled the most.

The Titanic grandeur of Lear, the human debasement of Werner, the frank
vivacity of Henry V, the gloomy and timorous guilt of King John, or
that--his last--personation of Macbeth, in which it seemed to me that he
conveyed a more correct notion of what Shakespeare designed than I can
recollect to have read in the most profound of the German critics;
for I take it, what Shakespeare meant to represent in Macbeth was
the kind of character which is most liable to be influenced by a
belief in supernatural agencies--a man who is acutely sensitive to
all impressions, who has a restless imagination more powerful than
his will, who sees daggers in the air and ghosts in the banquet-hall,
who has moral weakness and physical courage, and who--as our guest
represented him--alternates perpetually between terror and daring--a
trembler when oppressed by his conscience, and a warrior when defied
by his foe.

But in this and in all that numberless crowd of characters which is too
fresh in your memories for me to enumerate, we don't so much say
"How well this was spoken," or "How finely that was acted," but we
feel within ourselves how true was the personation of the whole.

Gentlemen, there is a word that is often applied to artists and to
authors, and I think we always apply it improperly when we speak
of a superior intellect--I mean the word "versatile."

Now, I think the proper word is "comprehensive." The man of genius does
not vary and change, which is the meaning of the word versatile, but he
has a mind sufficiently expanded to comprehend variety and change.
If I can succeed in describing the circle, I can draw as many lines
as I please from the centre straight to the circumference, but it
must be upon the condition--for that is the mathematical law--that all
these lines shall be equal, one to the other, or it is not a circle that
I describe.

Now, I do not say our guest is versatile; I say that he is comprehensive;
and the proof that he has mastered the most perfect form of the comprehensive
faculty is this--that all the lines he has created within the range of
his art are equal the one to the other. And this, gentlemen, explains
to us that originality which even his detractors have conceded to
him.

Every great actor has his manner as every great writer has his style.
But the originality of our guest does not consist in his manner
alone, but in his singular depth of thought.

He has not only accomplished the obvious and essential graces of the
actor--the look, the gesture, the intonation, the stage play--but he
has placed his study far deeper. He has sought to penetrate into the
subtlest intentions of the poet, and made poetry itself the golden
key to the secrets of the human heart. He was original because he
never sought to be original but to be truthful; because, in a word, he
was as conscientious in his art as he is in his actions.
Five miles out of the city the halt was called, and the soldiers flung
themselves on the slope. Many experiences of route-marching had taught
Bobby that there was an interval of rest before the return, so, with
his nose to the ground, he started up the brae on a pilgrimage to old
shrines, just as in his puppyhood days, at Auld Jock's heels, there was
much shouting of men, barking of collies, and bleating of sheep all the
way up. Once he had to leave the road until a driven flock had passed.
Behind the sheep walked an old laborer in hodden-gray, woolen bonnet,
and shepherd's two-fold plaid, with a lamb in the pouch of it. Bobby
trembled at the apparition, sniffed at the hob-nailed boots, and then,
with drooped head and tail, trotted on up the slope.

Men and dogs were all out on the billowy pastures, and the farm-house
of Cauldbrae lay on the level terrace, seemingly deserted and steeped in
memories. A few moments before, a tall lassie had come out to listen
to the military music. A couple of hundred feet below, the coats of the
soldiers looked to her like poppies scattered on the heather. At the
top of the brae the wind was blowing a cold gale, so the maidie went up
again, and around to a bit of tangled garden on the sheltered side of
the house. "You say my brother is at 'The Dogs,' Monsieur? I think I
will go to him."
"You must allow me, then, to escort you."

"Oh, the street is quite safe. Your countrymen will not suspect
me of exulting over their misfortunes."
"Nevertheless--" he insisted, and walked beside her.

A mixed crowd of French and English still surrounded the chaise, to which
a couple of postboys were attaching the relay: the French no longer
furious, now that an apology had been offered and the flag hidden, but
silent and sulky yet; the English inclined to think the young lieutenant
hardly served, not to say churlishly. Frenchmen might be thin-skinned;
but war was war, and surely Britons had a right to raise three
cheers for a victory.

Besides he had begged pardon at once, and offered to shake hands like a
gentleman--that is, as soon as he discovered whose feelings were hurt;
for naturally the fisticuffs had come first, and in these Master
Raoul had taken as good as he brought.

As the Vicomte cleared a path for her to the porch, where Endymion
stood shaking hands and bidding adieu, Dorothea caught her first
and last glimpse of this traveller, who--without knowing it, without
seeing her face to remember it, or even learning her name--was to
deflect the slow current of her life, and send it whirling down a
strange channel, giddy, precipitous, to an end unguessed.

She saw a fresh-complexioned lad, somewhat flushed and red in the face,
but of frank and pleasant features; dressed in a three-cornered cocked-
hat, blue coat piped with white and gilt-buttoned, white breeches and
waistcoat, and broad black sword-belt; a youngster of the sort that
loves a scrimmage or a jest, but is better in a scrimmage than in
a jest when the laugh goes against him.

He was eying the chaise just now, and obviously cursing the hour in which
he had decorated it with laurel.

Yet on the whole in a trying situation he bore himself well.

"Ah, much obliged to you, Vicomte!" Endymion hailed the pair. "There
has been a small misunderstanding, my dear Dorothea; not the
slightest cause for alarm!

Still, you had better pass through to the coffee-room and wait for me."

Dorothea dismissed M. de Tocqueville with a bow, passed into the dark
passage and pushed open the coffee-room door.

Within sat a young man, his elbows on the table, and his face bowed upon
his arms. His fingers convulsively twisted a torn scrap of bunting;
his shoulders heaved. It was M. Raoul.

Dorothea paused in the doorway and spoke his name. He did not look
up.

She stepped towards him.

"M. Raoul!"
A sob shook him. She laid a hand gently on his bowed head, on the dark
wave of hair above his strong, shapely neck. She was full of pity, longing
to comfort . . .

"M. Raoul!"
He started, gazed up at her, and seized her hand.

His eyes swam with tears, but behind the tears blazed a light which
frightened her. Yet-- oh, surely!--she could not mistake it.

"Dorothea!"
He held both her hands now. He was drawing her towards him. She could not
speak. The room swam; outside the window she heard the noise of starting
hoofs, of wheels, of the English crowd hurrahing as the chaise
rolled away. Her head almost touched M. Raoul's breast. Then she
broke loose, as her brother's step sounded in the passage.
CHAPTER VII 
LOVE AND AN OLD MAID
I pray you be gentle with Dorothea. Find, if you can, something
admirable in this plain spinster keeping, at the age of thirty-seven,
a room in her breast adorned and ready for first love; find it
pitiful, if you must, that the blind boy should mistake his lodging;
only do not laugh, or your laughter may accuse you in the sequel.
She had a most simple heart. Wonder filled it as she rode home to
Bayfield, and by the bridge she reined up Mercury as if to take her
bearings in an unfamiliar country.Having to get
out very quickly, Bobby did a forbidden thing: swiftly and noisily he
dashed around the dark place, and there arose such wild squawkings and
rushings of wings as to bring the gude-wife out of the house in alarm.

"Lassie, I canna hae the bittie dog in wi the broodin' chuckies!"

She flung the door wide. Bobby shot through, and into Elsie's
outstretched arms. She held to him desperately, while he twisted and
struggled and strained away; and presently something shining worked into
view, through the disordered thatch about his neck. The mother had come
to the help of the child, and it was she who read the inscription on the
brazen plate aloud.

"Preserve us a'! Lassie, he's been tak'n by the Laird Provost an' gien
the name o' the auld kirkyaird. He's an ower grand doggie. Ma puir
bairnie, dinna greet so sair!" For the little girl suddenly released the
wee Highlander and sobbed on her mother's shoulder.

"He isna ma ain Bobby ony mair!" She "couldna thole" to watch him as he
tumbled down the brae.

On the outward march, among the many dogs and laddies that had
followed the soldiers, Bobby escaped notice. But most of these had gone
adventuring in Swanston Dell, to return to the city by the gorge of
Leith Water. Now, traveling three miles to the soldiers' one, scampering
in wide circles over the fields, swimming burns, scrambling under
hedges, chasing whaups into piping cries, barking and louping in
pure exuberance of spirits, many eyes looked upon him admiringly, and
discontented mouths turned upward at the corners. It is not the least
of a little dog's missions in life to communicate his own irresponsible
gaiety to men.

If the return had been over George IV Bridge Bobby would, no doubt, have
dropped behind at Mr. Traill's or at the kirkyard. But on the Burghmuir
the troops swung eastward until they rounded Arthur's Seat and met
the cavalry drilling before the barracks at Piershill. Such pretty
maneuvering of horse and foot took place below Holyrood Palace as quite
to enrapture a terrier. When the infantry marched up the Canongate and
High Street, the mounted men following and the bands playing at full
blast, the ancient thoroughfare was quickly lined with cheering
crowds, and faces looked down from ten tiers of windows on a beautiful
spectacle. Bobby did not know when the bridge-approach was passed; and
then, on Castle Hill, he was in an unknown region. There the street
widened to the great square of the esplanade. The cavalry wheeled and
dashed down High Street, but the infantry marched on and up, over the
sounding drawbridge that spanned a dry moat of the Middle Ages, and
through a deep-arched gateway of masonry.

The outer gate to the Castle was wider than the opening into many an
Edinburgh wynd; but Bobby stopped, uncertain as to where this narrow
roadway, that curved upward to the right, might lead. It was not a dark
fissure in a cliff of houses, but was bounded on the outer side by a
loopholed wall, and on the inner by a rocky ledge of ascending levels.
Wherever the shelf was of sufficient breadth a battery of cannon was
mounted, and such a flood of light fell from above and flashed
on polished steel and brass as to make the little dog blink in
bewilderment. And he whirled like a rotary sweeper in the dusty road and
yelped when the time-gun, in the half-moon battery at the left of the
gate and behind him, crashed and shook the massive rock.

He barked and barked, and dashed toward the insulting clamor. E-text
prepared by Guus van Baalen

Transcriber's Notes:

1. Words which may seem to be transcriber's typos, or otherwise suspect,
but which are reproduced faithfully (archaic spellings, printer's
typos--sometimes I couldn't tell):

Ch. I: befel, undigged Ch. III: chaperon Ch. IV: babby, mun, valtz
Ch.

V: zounded, dimpsey, after'n, ax'n, ax Ch. VI: picquet, damitol Ch.
XI: alwaies, Desarts, Eternitie
2. Diphthongs, given as single characters in the printed copy, are
transcribed as two separate characters.

THE WESTCOTES
by
ARTHUR THOMAS QUILLER-COUCH

DEDICATION

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES,
A spinster, having borrowed a man's hat to decorate her front hall,
excused herself on the ground that the house 'wanted a something.' By
inscribing your name above this little story I please myself at the risk
of helping the reader to discover not only that it wants a something,
but precisely what that something is. It wants--to confess and have
done with it--all the penetrating subtleties of insight, all the delicacies
of interpretation, you would have brought to Dorothea's aid, if
for a moment I may suppose her worth your championing.

So I invoke your name to stand before my endeavour like a figure outside
the brackets in an algebraical sum, to make all the difference by
multiplying the meaning contained.

But your consent gives me another opportunity even more warmly
desired.
And I think that you, too, will take less pleasure in discovering how
excellent your genius appears to one who nevertheless finds it a mystery
in operation, than in learning that he has not missed to admire, at
least, and with a sense almost of personal loyalty, the sustained and
sustaining pride in good workmanship by which you have set a common
example to all who practise, however diversely, the art in which
we acknowledge you a master.

A. T. QUILLER-COUCH
October 25th, 1901

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I THE WESTCOTES OF BAYFIELD
CHAPTER II THE ORANGE ROOM
CHAPTER III A BALL, A SNOWSTORM, AND A SNOWBALL
CHAPTER IV ENCOUNTER BETWEEN A HIGH HORSE AND A HOBBY
CHAPTER V BEGINS WITH ANCIENT HISTORY AND ENDS WITH AN OLD STORY
CHAPTER VI FATE IN A LAURELLED POST-CHAISE
CHAPTER VII LOVE AND AN OLD MAID
CHAPTER VIII CORPORAL ZEALLY INTERVENES
CHAPTER IX DOROTHEA CONFESSES
CHAPTER X DARTMOOR
CHAPTER XI THE NEW DOROTHEA

CHAPTER XII GENERAL ROCHAMBEAU TELLS A STORY; AND THE TING-TANG RINGS FOR
THE LAST TIME

CHAPTER I
THE WESTCOTES OF BAYFIELD

A mural tablet in Axcester Parish Church describes Endymion Westcote
as "a conspicuous example of that noblest work of God, the English Country
Gentleman."

Certainly he was a typical one.

In almost every district of England you will find a family which, without
distinguishing itself in any particular way, has held fast to the comforts
of life and the respect of its neighbours for generation after generation.
Its men have never shone in court, camp, or senate; they prefer
tenacity to enterprise, look askance upon wit (as a dangerous gift),
and are even a little suspicious of eminence. On the other hand
they make excellent magistrates, maintain a code of manners most
salutary for the poor in whose midst they live and are looked up
to; are as a rule satisfied, like the old Athenian, if they leave
to their heirs not less but a little more than they themselves
inherited, and deserve, as they claim, to be called the backbone
of Great Britain.
Many of the women have beauty, still more have an elegance which
may pass for it, and almost all are pure in thought, truthful,
assiduous in deeds of charity, and marry for love of those manly
qualities which they have already esteemed in their brothers.
Such a family were the Westcotes of Bayfield, or Bagvil, in 1810.
Their "founder" had settled in Axcester towards the middle of the
seventeenth century, and prospered--mainly, it was said, by usury.
A little before his death, which befel in 1668, he purchased Bayfield
House from a decayed Royalist who had lost his only son in the Civil
Wars; and to Bayfield and the ancestral business (exalted now into
Banking) his descendants continued faithful. One or both of the two
brothers who, with their half-sister, represented the family in
1810, rode in on every week-day to their Bank-office in Axcester
High Street,--a Georgian house of brick, adorned with a porch of
plaster fluted to the shape of a sea-shell, out of which a. Cupid
smiled down upon a brass plate and the inscription "WESTCOTE AND
WESTCOTE," and on the first floor, with windows as tall as the
rooms, so that from the street you could see through one the shapely
legs of Mr. Endymion Westcote at his knee-hole table, and through
another the legs of Mr.Bobby's guardian would have liked very well to have
sat before the canteen in the sun and gossiped about his small charge.
However, in the sergeant's sleeping-quarters above the mess-room, he had
the little dog all to himself, and Bobby had the liveliest interest
in the boxes and pots, brushes and sponges, and in the processes of
polishing, burnishing, and pipe-claying a soldier's boots and buttons
and belts. As he worked at his valeting, the man kept time with his foot
to rude ballads that he sang in such a hissing Celtic that Bobby
barked, scandalized by a dialect that had been music in the ears of his
ancestors. At that Private McLean danced a Highland fling for him, and
wee Bobby came near bursting with excitement. When the sergeant came up
to make a magnificent toilet for tea and for the evening in town, the
soldier expressed himself with enthusiasm.

"He iss a deffle of a dog, sir!"

He was thought to be a "deffle of a dog" in the mess, where the non-com
officers had tea at small writing and card tables. They talked and
laughed very fast and loud, tried Bobby out on all the pretty tricks he
knew, and taught him to speak and to jump for a lump of sugar balanced
on his nose. They did not fondle him, and this rough, masculine style of
pampering and petting was very much to his liking. It was a proud thing,
too, for a little dog, to walk out with the sergeant's shining boots
and twirled walkingstick, and be introduced into one strange place after
another all around the Castle.

From tea to tattoo was playtime for the garrison. Many smartly dressed
soldiers, with passes earned by good behavior, went out to find
amusement in the city. Visitors, some of them tourists from America,
made the rounds under the guidance of old soldiers. The sergeant
followed such a group of sight-seers through a postern behind the armory
and out onto the cliff. There he lounged under a fir-tree above St.
Margaret's Well and smoked a dandified cigar, while Bobby explored the
promenade and scraped acquaintance with the strangers.

On the northern and southern sides the Castle wall rose from the very
edge of sheer precipices. Except for loopholes there were no openings.
But on the west there was a grassy terrace without the wall, and below
that the cliff fell away a little less steeply. The declivity was
clothed sparsely with hazel shrubs, thorns, whins and thistles; and now
and then a stunted fir or rowan tree or a group of white-stemmed birks
was stoutly rooted on a shelving ledge. Had any one, the visitors asked,
ever escaped down this wild crag?

Yes, Queen Margaret's children, the guide answered. Their father dead,
in battle, their saintly mother dead in the sanctuary of her tiny
chapel, the enemy battering at the gate, soldiers had lowered the royal
lady's body in a basket, and got the orphaned children down, in safety
and away, in a fog, over Queen's Ferry to Dunfirmline in the Kingdom
of Fife. It was true that a false step or a slip of the foot would
have dashed them to pieces on the rocks below. A gentleman of the party
scouted the legend. Only a fox or an Alpine chamois could make that
perilous descent.

With his head cocked alertly, Bobby had stood listening. Hearing this
vague talk of going down, he may have thought these people meant to go,
for he quietly dropped over the edge and went, head over heels, ten feet
down, and landed in a clump of hazel. A lady screamed. Bobby righted
himself and barked cheerful reassurance. The sergeant sprang to his feet
and ordered him to come back.

Now, the sergeant was pleasant company, to be sure; but he was not a
person who had to be obeyed, so Bobby barked again, wagged his crested
tail, and dropped lower. The people who shuddered on the brink could see
that the little dog was going cautiously enough; and presently he looked
doubtfully over a sheer fall of twenty feet, turned and scrambled back
to the promenade. He was cried and exclaimed over by the hysterical
ladies, and scolded for a bittie fule by the sergeant. To this Bobby
returned ostentatious yawns of boredom and nonchalant lollings, for
it seemed a small matter to be so fashed about. At that a gentleman
remarked, testily, to hide his own agitation, that dogs really had very
little sense. The sergeant ordered Bobby to precede him through the
postern, and the little dog complied amiably.

All the afternoon bugles had been blowing. For each signal there was a
different note, and at each uniformed men appeared and hurried to new
points. Now, near sunset, there was the fanfare for officers' orders for
the next day. The sergeant put Bobby into Queen Margaret's Chapel, bade
him remain there, and went down to the Palace Yard. The chapel on the
summit was a convenient place for picking the little dog up on his way
to the officers' mess. Then he meant to have his own supper cozily at
Mr. Traill's and to negotiate for Bobby.

A dozen people would have crowded this ancient oratory, but, small as
it was, it was fitted with a chancel rail and a font for baptizing the
babies born in the Castle. Through the window above the altar, where the
sainted Queen was pictured in stained glass, the sunlight streamed and
laid another jeweled image on the stone floor. Then the colors faded,
until the holy place became an austere cell. The sun had dropped behind
the western Highlands.

Bobby thought it quite time to go home. By day he often went far
afield, seeking distraction, but at sunset he yearned for the grave in
Greyfriars. The steps up which he had come lay in plain view from the
doorway of the chapel. The sudden challenge, her sudden discovery that
he knew, made Dorothea gasp. She had not the smallest notion how to
answer him, or even what kind of answer he expected, and stood dumb,
gazing at his back. A workman, passing, apologised for having brushed
her skirt with the step-ladder he carried. She stammered some words of
pardon.

And just then, to her relief, her brother Endymion's voice rang out
from the doorway:

"Ah, there you are. Well, I declare!" He looked around him. "A Paradise,
a perfect Paradise! Indeed, General, your nation has its revenge of us
in the arts. You build a temple for us, and on Wednesday I hear you
are to provide the music. Tum-tum, ta-ta-ta . . ." He hummed a few
bars of Gluck's "Paride ed Elenna," and paused, with the gesture
of one holding a fiddle, on the verge of a reminiscence. "There was a
time--but I no longer compete.

And to whom, General, are we indebted for this--ah--treat?"
General Rochambeau indicated young Raoul, who stepped forward from the
wall and answered, with a respectful inclination:

"Well, M. le Commissaire, in the first place to Captain Seymour."
The General bit his moustache; Endymion frowned. The answer merely
puzzled Dorothea, who did not know that Seymour was the name of the
British officer to whom the _Thétis_ had struck her colours.

"Moreover," the young man went on imperturbably, "we but repay our
debt to M. le Commissaire--for the entertainment he affords us."
Dorothea looked up sharply now, even anxiously; but her brother took the
shot, if shot it were, for a compliment. He put the awkward idiom
aside with a gracious wave of the hand. His brow cleared.

"But we must do something for these poor fellows," he announced,-- sweeping
all the work-men in a gaze; "in mere gratitude we must. A stall, now,
at the end of the room under the gallery, with one or two salesmen whom
you must recommend to me, General.

We might dispose of quite a number of their small carvings and
_articles de Paris_, with which the market among the townspeople
is decidedly overstocked.

The company on Wednesday will be less familiar with them: they
will serve as mementoes, and the prices, I daresay, will not be
too closely considered."

"Sir, I beg of you--" General Rochambeau expostulated.

"Eh?"
"They have given their labour--such as it is--in pure gratitude for
the kindness shown to them by all in Axcester. That has been the whole
meaning of our small enterprise," the old gentleman persisted.

"Still, I don't suppose they'll object if it brings a little beef to
their _ragoûts_. Say no more, say no more. What have we here? Eh?
'Bacchus and Ariadne'? I am rusty in my classics, but Bacchus, Dorothea!
This will please Narcissus.

We have in our house, sir,"-- here he addressed Raoul,--"a Roman
pavement entirely--ah--concerned with that personage.

It is, I believe, unique. One of these days I must give you a permit to
visit Bayfield and inspect it, with my brother for _cicerone_. It
will repay you--"
"It will more than repay me," the young man interposed, with his
gaze demurely bent on the wall.

"I should have said, it will repay your inspection. You must jog my
memory."
It was clear Raoul had a reply on his tongue. But he glanced at Dorothea,
read her expression, and, turning to her brother, bowed again.

Her first feeling was of gratitude. A moment later she blamed herself for
having asked his forbearance by a look, and him for his confidence in
seeking that look. His eyes, during the moment they encountered hers,
had said, "We under-stand one another." He had no right to assume so
much, and yet she had not denied it.

Endymion Westcote meanwhile had picked up a small book which lay
face downward on one of the step-ladders.

"So here is the source of your inspiration? said he. An _Ovid_? How it
brings up old school-days At Winchester--old swishings, too, General,
hey?" He held the book open and studied the Ariadne on the wall.

"The source of my inspiration indeed, M. le Commissaire! But you will
not find Ariadne in that text, which contains only the _Tristia_."

"Ah, but, I told you my classics were a bit rusty," replied the
Commissary. He made the round of the walls and commended, in his
breezy way, each separate panel. "You must take my criticisms for
what they are worth, M. Raoul. But my grandmother was a Frenchwoman,
and that gives me a kind of--sympathy, shall we say? Moreover, I
know what I like."
Dorothea, accustomed to regard her brother as a demigod, caught
herself blushing for him.It was dark when he returned to the gate, and the Castle wore its
luminous crown. The lights from the street lamps flickered on the
up-turned, anxious faces. Some of the children had begun to weep. Women
offered loud suggestions. There were surmises that Bobby had been run
over by a cart in the street, and angry conjectures that he had been
stolen. Then Ailie wailed:

"Oh, Maister Traill, the bittie dog's deid!"

"Havers, lassie! I'm ashamed o' ye for a fulish bairn. Bobby's no' deid.
Nae doot he's amang the stanes i' the kirkyaird. He's aye scramblin'
aboot for vermin an' pussies, an' may hae hurt himsel', an' ye a' ken
the bonny wee wadna cry oot i' the kirkyaird. Noo, get to wark, an'
dinna stand there greetin' an' waggin' yer tongues. The mithers an'
bairns maun juist gang hame an' stap their havers, an' licht a' the
candles an' cruisey lamps i' their hames, an' set them i' the windows
aboon the kirkyaird. Greyfriars is murky by the ordinar', an' ye couldna
find a coo there wi'oot the lichts."

The crowd suddenly melted away, so eager were they all to have a hand in
helping to find the community pet. Then Mr. Traill turned to the boys.

"Hoo mony o' ye laddies hae the bull's-eye lanterns?"

Ah! not many in the old buildings around the kirkyard. These japanned
tin aids to dark adventures on the golf links on autumn nights cost a
sixpence and consumed candles. Geordie Ross and Sandy McGregor, coming
up arm in arm, knew of other students and clerks who still had these
cherished toys of boyhood. With these heroes in the lead a score or more
of laddies swarmed into the kirkyard.

The tenements were lighted up as they had not been since nobles held
routs and balls there. Enough candles and oil were going up in smoke
to pay for wee Bobby's license all over again, and enough love shone
in pallid little faces that peered into the dusk to light the darkest
corner in the heart of the world. Rays from the bull's-eyes were thrown
into every nook and cranny. Very small laddies insinuated themselves
into the narrowest places. They climbed upon high vaults and let
themselves down in last year's burdocks and tangled vines. It was all
done in silence, only Mr. Traill speaking at all. He went everywhere
with the searchers, and called:

"Whaur are ye, Bobby? Come awa' oot, laddie!"

But no gleaming ghost of a tousled dog was conjured by the voice of
affection. The tiniest scratching or lowest moaning could have been
heard, for the warm spring evening was very still, and there were, as
yet, few leaves to rustle. Sleepy birds complained at being disturbed
on their perches, and rodents could be heard scampering along their
runways. The entire kirkyard was explored, then the interior of the
two kirks. Mr. Traill went up to the lodge for the keys, saying,
optimistically, that a sexton might unwittingly have locked Bobby in.
Young men with lanterns went through the courts of the tenements, around
the Grassmarket, and under the arches of the bridge. Laddies dropped
from the wall and hunted over Heriot's Hospital grounds to Lauriston
market. Tammy, poignantly conscious of being of no practical use, sat
on Auld Jock's grave, firm in the conviction that Bobby would return to
that spot his ainsel' And Ailie, being only a maid, whose portion it
was to wait and weep, lay across the window-sill, on the pediment of the
tomb, a limp little figure of woe.

Mr. Traill's heart was full of misgiving. Nothing but death or stone
walls could keep that little creature from this beloved grave. But, in
thinking of stone walls, he never once thought of the Castle. Away over
to the east, in Broughton market, when the garrison marched away and at
Lauriston when they returned, Mr. Traill did not know that the soldiers
had been out of the city. Busy in the lodge Mistress Jeanie had not seen
them go by the kirkyard, and no one else, except Mr. Brown, knew the
fascination that military uniforms, marching and music had for wee
Bobby. A fog began to drift in from the sea. Suddenly the grass was
sheeted and the tombs blurred. A curtain of gauze seemed to be hung
before the lighted tenements. The Castle head vanished, and the sounds
of the drum and bugle of the tattoo came down muffled, as if through
layers of wool. The lights of the bull's-eyes were ruddy discs that cast
no rays. Then these were smeared out to phosphorescent glows, like the
"spunkies" that everybody in Scotland knew came out to dance in old
kirkyards.

It was no' canny. In the smother of the fog some of the little boys were
lost, and cried out. Mr. Traill got them up to the gate and sent them
home in bands, under the escort of the students. Mistress Jeanie was out
by the wicket. Mr. Brown was asleep, and she "couldna thole it to
sit there snug." When a fog-horn moaned from the Firth she broke into
sobbing. Mr. Traill comforted her as best he could by telling her a
dozen plans for the morning. By feeling along the wall he got her to the
lodge, and himself up to his cozy dining-rooms.

For the first time since Queen Mary the gate of the historic garden of
the Greyfriars was left on the latch. And it was so that a little dog,
coming home in the night might not be shut out.


XI.

It was more than two hours after he left Bobby in Queen Margaret's
Chapel that the sergeant turned into the officers' mess-room and tried
to get an orderly to take a message to the captain who had noticed the
little dog in the barracks. He wished to report that Bobby could not be
found, and to be excused to continue the search.

He had to wait by the door while the toast to her Majesty was proposed
and the band in the screened gallery broke into "God Save the Queen";
and when the music stopped the bandmaster came in for the usual
compliments.

The evening was so warm and still, although it was only mid-April, that
a glass-paneled door, opening on the terrace, was set ajar for air. In
the confusion of movement and talk no one noticed a little black mop of
a muzzle that was poked through the aperture. From the outer darkness
Bobby looked in on the score or more of men doubtfully, ready for
instant disappearance on the slightest alarm. Desperate was the
emergency, forlorn the hope that had brought him there. At every turn
his efforts to escape from the Castle had been baffled. He had been
imprisoned by drummer boys and young recruits in the gymnasium, detained
in the hospital, captured in the canteen.

Bobby went through all his pretty tricks for the lads, and then begged
to be let go. Laughed at, romped with, dragged back, thrown into the
swimming-pool, expected to play and perform for them, he rebelled at
last. He scarred the door with his claws, and he howled so dismally
that, hearing an orderly corporal coming, they turned him out in a rough
haste that terrified him. In the old Banqueting Hall on the Palace
Yard, that was used as a hospital and dispensary, he went through that
travesty of joy again, in hope of the reward.

Sharply rebuked and put out of the hospital, at last, because of his
destructive clawing and mournful howling, Bobby dashed across the
Palace Yard and into a crowd of good-humored soldiers who lounged in the
canteen. Rising on his hind legs to beg for attention and indulgence, he
was taken unaware from behind by an admiring soldier who wanted to romp
with him. Quite desperate by that time, he snapped at the hand of his
captor and sprang away into the first dark opening. Frightened by
the man's cry of pain, and by the calls and scuffling search for him
without, he slunk to the farthest corner of a dungeon of the Middle
Ages, under the Royal Lodging.

When the hunt for him ceased, Bobby slipped out of hiding and made his
way around the sickle-shaped ledge of rock, and under the guns of the
half-moon battery, to the outer gate. Only a cat, a fox, or a low,
weasel-like dog could have done it. There were many details that would
have enabled the observant little creature to recognize this barrier as
the place where he had come in. Certainly he attacked it with fury, and
on the guards he lavished every art of appeal that he possessed. But
there he was bantered, and a feint was made of shutting him up in the
guard-house as a disorderly person. With a heart-broken cry he escaped
his tormentors, and made his way back, under the guns, to the citadel.

His confidence in the good intentions of men shaken, Bobby took to
furtive ways. Avoiding lighted buildings and voices, he sped from shadow
to shadow and explored the walls of solid masonry. Again and again he
returned to the postern behind the armory, but the small back gate that
gave to the cliff was not opened. Once he scrambled up to a loophole in
the fortifications and looked abroad at the scattered lights of the city
set in the void of night. But there, indeed, his stout heart failed him.

It was not long before Bobby discovered that he was being pursued. A
number of soldiers and drummer boys were out hunting for him, contritely
enough, when the situation was explained by the angry sergeant. Wherever
he went voices and footsteps followed. Had the sergeant gone alone and
called in familiar speech, "Come awa' oot, Bobby!" he would probably
have run to the man. But there were so many calls--in English, in
Celtic, and in various dialects of the Lowlands--that the little dog
dared not trust them. From place to place he was driven by fear, and
when the calling stopped and the footsteps no longer followed, he lay
for a time where he could watch the postern. A moment after he gave up
the vigil there the little back gate was opened.

Desperation led him to take another chance with men. Slipping into the
shadow of the old Governor's House, the headquarters of commissioned
officers, on the terrace above the barracks, he lay near the open door
to the mess-room, listening and watching.

The pretty ceremony of toasting the bandmaster brought all the company
about the table again, and the polite pause in the conversation, on his
exit, gave an opportunity for the captain to speak of Bobby before the
sergeant could get his message delivered.

"Gentlemen, your indulgence for a moment, to drink another toast to
a little dog that is said to have slept on his master's grave in
Greyfriars churchyard for more than eight years. Sergeant Scott, of the
Royal Engineers, vouches for the story and will present the hero."

The sergeant came forward then with the word that Bobby could not be
found. He was somewhere in the Castle, and had made persistent and
frantic efforts to get out. Prevented at every turn, and forcibly held
in various places by well-meaning but blundering soldiers, he had been
frightened into hiding.

Bobby heard every word, and he must have understood that he himself was
under discussion. Alternately hopeful and apprehensive, he scanned
each face in the room that came within range of his vision, until one
arrested and drew him. Such faces, full of understanding, love and
compassion for dumb animals, are to be found among men, women and
children, in any company and in every corner of the world. Now, with
the dog's instinct for the dog-lover, Bobby made his way about the room
unnoticed, and set his short, shagged paws up on this man's knee.

"Bless my soul, gentlemen, here's the little dog now, and a beautiful
specimen of the drop-eared Skye he is. Why didn't you say that the
'bittie' dog was of the Highland breed, Sergeant? You may well believe
any extravagant tale you may hear of the fidelity and affection of the
Skye terrier."

And with that wee Bobby was set upon the polished table, his own silver
image glimmering among the reflections of candles and old plate. He
kept close under the hand of his protector, but waiting for the moment
favorable to his appeal. The company crowded around with eager interest,
while the man of expert knowledge and love of dogs talked about Bobby.

"You see he's a well-knit little rascal, long and low, hardy and strong.
His ancestors were bred for bolting foxes and wildcats among the rocky
headlands of the subarctic islands. The intelligence, courage and
devotion of dogs of this breed can scarcely be overstated. There is some
far away crossing here that gives this one a greater beauty and grace
and more engaging manners, making him a 'sport' among rough farm
dogs--but look at the length and strength of the muzzle. He's as
determined as the deil. You would have to break his neck before you
could break his purpose. For love of his master he would starve, or he
would leap to his death without an instant's hesitation."

All this time the man had been stroking Bobby's head and neck. Now,
feeling the collar under the thatch, he slipped it out and brought the
brass plate up to the light.

"Propose your toast to Greyfriars Bobby, Captain. His story is vouched
for by no less a person than the Lord Provost. The 'bittie' dog seems to
have won a sort of canine Victoria Cross."

The toast was drunk standing, and, a cheer given. The company pressed
close to examine the collar and to shake Bobby's lifted paw. Then,
thinking the moment had come, Bobby rose in the begging attitude,
prostrated himself before them, and uttered a pleading cry. His new
friend assured him that he would be taken home.

"Bide a wee, Bobby. Before he goes I want you all to see his beautiful
eyes. In most breeds of dogs with the veil you will find the hairs of
the face discolored by tears, but the Skye terrier's are not, and
his eyes are living jewels, as sunny a brown as cairngorms in pebble
brooches, but soft and deep and with an almost human intelligence."

For the third time that day Bobby's veil was pushed back. One shocked
look by this lover of dogs, and it was dropped. "Get him back to that
grave, man, or he's like to die. His eyes are just two cairngorms of
grief."

In the hush that fell upon the company the senior officer spoke sharply:
"Take him down at once, Sergeant. The whole affair is most unfortunate,
and you will please tender my apologies at the churchyard and the
restaurant, as well as your own, and I will see the Lord Provost."

The military salute was given to Bobby when he leaped from the table at
the sergeant's call: "Come awa', Bobby. I'll tak' ye to Auld Jock i' the
kirkyaird noo."

He stepped out onto the lawn to wait for his pass. Bobby stood at his
feet, quivering with impatience to be off, but trusting in the man's
given word. The upper air was clear, and the sky studded with stars.
Twenty minutes before the May Light, that guided the ships into the
Firth, could be seen far out on the edge of the ocean, and in every
direction the lamps of the city seemed to fall away in a shower of
sparks, as from a burst meteor. But now, while the stars above were as
numerous and as brilliant as before, the lights below had vanished. As
the sergeant looked, the highest ones expired in the rising fog. The
Island Rock appeared to be sinking in a waveless sea of milk.

A startled exclamation from the sergeant brought other men out on the
terrace to see it. The senior officer withheld the pass in his hand, and
scouted the idea of the sergeant's going down into the city. As the drum
began to beat the tattoo and the bugle to rise on a crescendo of lovely
notes, soldiers swarmed toward the barracks. Those who had been out in
the town came running up the roadway into the Castle, talking loudly of
adventures they had had in the fog. The sergeant looked down at anxious
Bobby, who stood agitated and straining as at a leash, and said that he
preferred to go.

"Impossible! A foolish risk, Sergeant, that I am unwilling you should
take. Edinburgh is too full of pitfalls for a man to be going about on
such a night. Our guests will sleep in the Castle, and it will be safer
for the little dog to remain until morning."

Bobby did not quite understand this good English, but the excited talk
and the delay made him uneasy. He whimpered piteously. He lay across
the sergeant's feet, and through his boots the man could feel the little
creature's heart beat. Then he rose and uttered his pleading cry. The
sergeant stooped and patted the shaggy head consolingly, and tried to
explain matters.

"Be a gude doggie noo. Dinna fash yersel' aboot what canna be helped. I
canna tak' ye to the kirkyaird the nicht."

"I'll take charge of Bobby, Sergeant." The dog-loving guest ran out
hastily, but, with a wild cry of reproach and despair, Bobby was gone.

The group of soldiers who had been out on the cliff were standing in the
postern a moment to look down at the opaque flood that was rising around
the rock. They felt some flying thing sweep over their feet and caught a
silvery flash of it across the promenade. I listened for the end of the
story, but your brother did not supply it.
Yet sooner or later one and the same dreadful fate must have overtaken
all these pleasant scattered homes--sack and fire and slaughter--
slaughter for all the men, for the women slavery and worse.

Does one hear of any surviving? Out of this warm life into silence--" He
paused and shivered. "Very likely they did not guess for a long while.
Look, Mademoiselle, at the Fosse Way, stretching yonder across the
hills:
figure yourself a daughter of the old Roman homestead standing
here and watching the little cloud of dust that meant the retreating
column, the last of your protection. You would not guess what it meant--you,
to whom each day has brought its restful round; who have lived
only to be good and reflect the sunshine upon all near you.

And I--your slave, suppose me, standing beside you--might guess as
little."
He took a step and touched her hand. His face was still turned to the
window.

"Time! time!" he went on in a low voice, charged with passion. "It eats
us all! Brr--how I hate it! How I hate the grave! There lies the sting,
Mademoiselle--the torture to be a captive: to feel one's best days
slipping away, and fate still denying to us poor devils the chance which
even the luckiest--God knows--find little enough." He laughed, and
to Dorothea the laugh sounded passing bitter.

"You will not understand how a man feels; how even so unimportant a
creature as I must bear a sort of personal grudge against his fate."

"I am trying to understand," said Dorothea, gently.

"But this you can understand, how a prisoner loves the sunshine: not
because, through his grating, it warms him; but because it is the sunshine,
and he sees it.

Mademoiselle, I am not grateful; I see merely, and adore. Some day you
shall pause by this window and see a cloud of dust on the Fosse Way--the
last of us prisoners as they march us from Axcester to the place of our
release; and, seeing it, you shall close the book upon a chapter, but not
without remembering"--he touched her hand again, but now his fingers
closed on it, and he raised it to his lips,--"not without remembering how
and when one Frenchman said, 'God bless you, Mademoiselle Dorothea!'"

Dorothea's eyes were wet when, a moment later, Narcissus came bustling
through the atrium with a roll of papers in his hand.

"Ah, this is luck!" he cried. "I was starting to search for you."
He either assumed that they had visited the tea-room or forgot all about
it; and M. Raoul's look implored Dorothea not to explain.

"Suppose we take the _triclinium_ first, on the north side of the house.
That, sir, will tell you whether I am right or wrong about the
climate of those days.

A summer parlour facing north, and with no trace of heating-flues!
. . ."
He led off his captive, and Dorothea heard his expository tones gather
volume as the pair crossed the great hall beneath the dome. Then she
turned the handle of the library door, and was instantly deafened by the
babel within.

The guests took their departure a little before sunset. M. Raoul was not
among the long train which shook hands with her and filed down the
avenue at the heels of M. de Tocqueville and General Rochambeau.
Twenty minutes later, while the servants were setting the hall in order,
she heard her brother's voice beneath the window of her boudoir,
explaining the system on which the Romans warmed their houses.

She had picked up a religious book, but found herself unable to
fix her attention upon it or even to sit still. Her hand still burned
where M. Raoul's lips had touched it. She recalled Endymion's prophecy
that these entertainments would throw the domestic mechanism--always
more delicately poised on Sundays than on weekdays--completely oft its
pivot. She had pledged herself to prevent this, and had made a private
appeal to the maidservants with whose Sunday-out they interfered. They
had responded loyally.

Still, this was the first experiment; she would go down to the hall again
and make sure that the couches were in position, the cushions shaken
up, the pot-plants placed around the fountain so accurately that
Endymion's nice eye for small comforts could detect no excuse for
saying, "I told you so."
As she passed along the gallery her eyes sought the pillar beside which
M. Raoul had stood during the lecture. By the foot of it a book lay
face downwards--a book cheaply bound between boards of mottled
paper.

She picked it up and read the title; it was a volume of Rousseau's
Confessions--a book of which she remembered to have heard. On the flyleaf
was written the owner's name in full--"Charles Marie Fabien de Raoul."

Dorothea hurried downstairs with it and past the servants tidying the
hall.

She looked to find M. Raoul still buttonholed and held captive by Narcissus
at the eastern angle of the house. But before she reached the front
door she happened--though perhaps it was not quite accidental-- to
throw a glance through the window by which he had stood and talked
with her, and saw him striding away down the avenue in the dusk.

She returned to her room and summoned Polly.

"You know M. Raoul? He has left, forgetting this book, which belongs
to him. Run down to the small gate, that's a good girl--you will overtake
him easily, since he is walking round by the avenue--and return it, with
my compliments."
Polly picked up her skirts and ran. A narrow path slanted down across
the slope of the park to the nurseries--a sheltered corner in which the
Bayfield gardener grew his more delicate evergreens--and here a small
wicket-gate opened on the high road.

The gate stood many feet above the road, which descended the hill between
steep hedges. She heard M. Raoul's footstep as she reached it, and,
peering over, saw him before he caught sight of her; indeed, he had
almost passed with-out when she hailed him.

"Holloa!" He swung almost rightabout and smiled up pleasantly.

"Is it highway robbery? If so, I surrender."
Polly laughed, showing a fine set of teeth.

"I'm 'most out of breath," she answered. "You've left your book behind,
and my mistress sent it after you with her compliments." She held it above
the gate.

He sprang up the bank towards her. "And a pretty book, too, to be found
in your hands! You haven't been reading it, I hope."
"La, no! Is it wicked?"
"Much depends on where you happen to open it.

Now if your sweetheart--"

"Who told you I had one?"
"Tut-tut-tut! What's his name?"

"Well, if you must know, I'm walking out with Corporal Zeally. But
what are you doing to the book?" For M. Raoul had taken out a penknife
and was slicing out page after page--in some places whole blocks of pages
together.

"When I've finished, I'm going to ask you to take it back to your
mistress; and then no doubt you'll be reading it on the sly. Here,
I must sit down: suppose you let me perch myself on the top bar
of the gate.

Also, it would be kind of you to put up an arm and prevent my
overbalancing."
"I shouldn't think of it."
"Oh, very well!" He climbed up, laid the book on his knee and went on
slicing. "I particularly want her to read M. Rousseau's reflections on
the Pont du Gard; but I don't seem to have a book marker, unless
you lend me a lock of your hair."

"Were you the gentleman she danced with, at 'The Dogs,' the night
of the snowstorm?"

"The Pont du Gard, my dear, is a Roman antiquity, and has nothing to do
with dancing. If, as I suppose, you refer to the 'Pont de Lodi,' that
is a totally different work of art."
"I'm sure I don't know what you mean."
"And I don't intend that you shall."
He cut a small strip of braid from his coat, inserted it for a
bookmarker, and began to fold away the excised pages.

"That's why I am keeping these back for my own perusal, and perhaps
Corporal Zeally's."
"Do you know him?" She reached up to take the book he was holding out in
his left hand, and the next instant his right arm was round her neck and
he had kissed her full on the lips. "Oh, you wretch!" she cried, breaking
free; and laughed, next moment, as he nearly toppled off the gate.

"Know him? Why of course I do." M. Raoul was reseating himself on his
perch, when he happened to throw a look down into the road, and at once
broke into immoderate laughter. "Talk of the wolf--"
Polly screamed and ran.

Below, at a bend of the road, stood a stoutish figure in the uniform
of the Axcester Volunteers--scarlet, with white facings.

It was Corporal Zeally, very slowly taking in the scene.

M.

Raoul skipped off the gate and stepped briskly past him. "Good- evening,
Corporal! We're both of us a little behind time, this evening!" said he
as he went by.

The Corporal pivoted on his heels and stared after him.

"Dang my living buttons!" he said, reflectively. "Couldn't even wait till
my back was turned, but must kiss the maid under my nose!"

He paused and rubbed his chin. "Her looked like Polly and her zounded like
Polly . . . Dang this dimpsey old light, I've got a good mind to run
after'n and ax'n who 'twas!" He took a step down the hill, but thought
better, of it. "No, I won't," he said; "I'll go and ax Polly."

CHAPTER VI
FATE IN A LAURELLED POST-CHAISE
All the tongues of Rumour agreed that the Bayfield entertainment
had been a success, and Endymion Westcote received many congratulations
upon it at the next meeting of magistrates.

"Nonsense, nonsense!" he protested lightly.

"One must do something to make life more tolerable to the poor devils,
and 'pon my word 'twas worth it to see their gratitude. They behaved
admirably. You see, two- thirds of them are gentlemen, after a fashion;
not, perhaps, quite in the sense in which we understand the word,
but then the--ah--modicum of French blood in my veins counteracts,
I dare say, some little insular prejudices."

"My dear fellow, about such men as de Tocqueville and Rochambeau there can
be no possible question."
"Ah! I'm extremely glad to hear you say so. I feared, perhaps, the way
they managed their table-napkins--" 
"Not at all.

I was thinking rather of your bold attitude towards Sunday observance.
What does Milliton say?"

Endymion's eyebrows went up. Mr. Milliton was the vicar of Axcester and
the living lay in the Westcotes' gift. I am not--ah--aware that I consulted
Milliton. On such questions I recognise no responsibility save to my own
conscience. He has not been complaining, I trust?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Ah!" Endymion looked as if Mr. Milliton had better not. "I take, you
must know, a somewhat broad view on such matters--may I, without offence,
term it a liberal one?

As a matter of fact I intend going yet farther in the direction and
granting permission for a small reunion on Sunday evenings at 'The
Dogs,' when selections of purely sacred music will be performed. I
shall, of course, deprecate the name 'concert '; and even 'performance'
may seem to carry with it some--ah-- suggestions of a theatrical nature.
But, as Shakespeare says, 'What's in a name?' Perhaps you can suggest a
more suitable one?"

"A broad-minded fellow," was the general verdict; and some admirers
added that ideas which in weaker men might seem to lean towards free
thought, and even towards Jacobinism, became Mr. Westcote handsomely
enough. He knew how to carry them off, to wear them lightly as flourishes
and ornaments of his robust common sense, and might be trusted not
to go too far.

Endymion, who had an exquisite flair for the approval of his own class,
soon learned to take an honest pride in his liberalism and to enjoy
its discreet display. 'The entertainment at Bayfield' was nothing--a
private experiment only; the unfamiliar must be handled gently; a good
rule to try it on your own household before tackling the world.

As a matter of fact, old Narcissus had enjoyed it.
But if the neighbouring families were really curious, and would promise
not to be shocked, they must come to "The Dogs" some Sunday evening:
No, not next Sunday, but in a week or two's time when the prisoners, as
intelligent fellows, would have grasped his notions.'
Sure enough, on the third Sunday he brought a round dozen of guests;
and the entrance of the Bayfield party (punctually five minutes
late), and their solemn taking of seats in the two front rows,
thereafter became a feature of these entertainments.

On the first occasion the musicians stopped, out of respect, in the
middle of a motet of Scarlatti's; but Endymion gave orders that in
future this was not to be.

"I have been something of an amateur myself," he explained, "and know what
is due to Art."

It vexed Dorothea to note that after the first two or three performances
some of her best friends among the prisoners absented themselves,
General Rochambeau for one. Indeed, the General had taken to declining
all invitations, and rarely appeared abroad. One March morning, meeting
him in the High Street, she made bold to tax him with the change and ask
his reasons.

The hour was eleven in the forenoon, the busiest of the day.

In twenty minutes the London coach would be due with the mails, and
this always brought the prisoners out into the street. The largest
crowd gathered in front of "The Dogs," waiting to see the horses changed
and the bags unloaded. But a second hung around the Post Office,
where the Commissary received and distributed the prisoners' letters,
while lesser groups shifted and moved about at the tail of the
butchers' carts, and others laden with milk, eggs, and fresh
vegetables from the country; for Axcester had now a daily market,
and in the few minutes before the mail's arrival the salesmen drove
their best trade.

General Rochambeau tapped his snuffbox meditatively, like a man in two
minds. But he kept a sidelong eye upon Dorothea, as she turned to
acknowledge a bow from the Vicomte de Tocqueville. The Vicomte, with
an air of amused contempt, was choosing a steak for his dinner,
using his gold-ferruled walking-stick to direct the butcher how to
cut it out, while his servant stood ready with a plate.

"To tell you the truth, Mademoiselle, I find a hand at picquet with the
Admiral less fatiguing for two old gentlemen than these public gaieties."

"In other words, you are nursing him. They tell me he has never been
well since that night of the snowstorm."

"Your informants may now add that he is better; these few Spring days
have done wonders for his rheumatism, and, indeed, he is dressed
and abroad this morning."
"Which explains why you are willing to stop and chat with me, instead
of hurrying off to the Post Office to ask for his letter--that
letter which never comes."
"So M. Raoul has been telling you all about us?" 
Dorothea blushed.
"He happened to speak of it, at one of my working parties--"
"He has a fine gift for the pathetic, that young man; oh, yes, and
a pretty humour too! I can fancy what he makes of us--poor old Damon
and Pythias--while he holds the skeins; with a smile for poor old
Pythias' pigtail, and a tremor of the voice for the Emperor's
_tabatière_, and a tear, no doubt, for the letter which never
comes.
M. Raoul is great with an audience."
"You do him injustice, General. An audience of half-a-dozen old
women!"
General Rochambeau had an answer to this on his tongue, but repressed
it.
"Ah, here comes the Admiral!" he cried, as the gaunt old man came
shuffling down the street towards them, with his stoop, his cross-
grained features drawn awry with twinges of rheumatism, his hands
crossed above his tall cane. All Axcester laughed at his long blue
surtout, his pigtail and little round hat. But Dorothea always found
him formidable, and wanted to run away. "Admiral, I was just about
to tell Miss Westcote that the time is come to congratulate her.And then he began to laugh. "Did you ever hear o'
sic a thing as poetic justice, Sergeant? Nae, it's no' the kind you'll
get in the courts of law. Weel, it's poetic justice for a birkie
soldier, wha claims the airth and the fullness thereof, to have to tak'
his orders from a sma' shopkeeper. Go up to the police office in St.
Gila now and ask for an officer to stand at the gate here to answer
questions, and to keep the folk awa' from the lodge."

He stood guard himself, and satisfied a score of visitors before the
sergeant came back, and there was another instance of poetic justice, in
the crestfallen Burgh policeman who had been sent with instructions to
take his orders from the delighted landlord.

"Eh, Davie, it's a lang lane that has nae turning. Ye're juist to stand
here a' the day an' say to ilka body wha spiers for the dog: 'Ay, sir,
Greyfriars Bobby's been leevin' i' the kirkyaird aucht years an' mair,
an' Maister Traill's aye fed 'im i' the dining-rooms. Ay, the case was
dismissed i' the Burgh coort. The Laird Provost gied a collar to the bit
Skye because there's a meddlin' fule or twa amang the Burgh police wha'd
be takin' 'im up. The doggie's i' the lodge wi' the caretaker, wha's
fair ill, an' he canna be seen the day. But gang aroond the kirk an' ye
can see Auld Jock's grave that he's aye guarded. There's nae stave to
it, but it's neist to the fa'en table-tomb o' Mistress Jean Grant. A
gude day to ye.' Hae ye got a' that, man? Weel, cheer up. Yell hae to
say it nae mair than a thousand times or twa, atween noo an' nichtfa'."

He went away laughing at the penance that was laid upon his foe. The
landlord felt so well satisfied with the world that he took another
jaunty crack at the sergeant: "By richts, man, you ought to go to gaol,
but I'll just fine you a shulling a month for Bobby's natural lifetime,
to give the wee soldier a treat of a steak or a chop once a week."

Hands were struck heartily on the bargain, and the two men parted good
friends. Now, finding Ailie dropping tears in the dish-water, Mr. Traill
sent her flying down to the lodge with instructions to make herself
useful to Mrs. Brown. Then he was himself besieged in his place of
business by folk of high and low degree who were disappointed by their
failure to see Bobby in the kirkyard. [Laughter.] Lord Lyttleton gave
our sisters good advice, as follows:--
"Seek to be good, but aim not to be great, A woman's noblest station
is Retreat, Her fairest virtues fly from public sight, Domestic
worth that shuns too strong a light."

Another English authority named "Howe," in his "Advice to Wives," says:--

"A wife, domestic, good and pure Like snail should keep within her door,
But not, like snail, with silver track Place all her wealth upon her
back."
But who in these latter days would preach the heresies of those
old-fashioned fellows to the hundreds of ladies present, plumed
in all the titles and distinctions of the hundred and one woman's
clubs of to-day, which they represent.

Perish the thought!

Woman is being emancipated. She is enthroned in the sun, crowned with
stars, and, trampling beneath her dainty feet the burnt-out moon, emblem
of a vanished despotism that denied her the companionship of her husband,
questioned her immortality, locked her up in the harem, or harnessed her
to the plough.

A hundred years from now, if she does a man's work, she will be
paid a man's wages [applause], and some of us will not have to work
for a living, but can go to our clubs in peace, take our afternoon
naps, and be ready in the evening to get Mamma's slippers ready
when she comes home from the office.

[Laughter.]
But the problem for to-night is how to consider the various relations
which women bear to us weak, frail men--as mother or mother-in-law, as
sweetheart or wife. We are somewhat in the predicament of the green
bridegroom at Delmonico's who said: "Waiter, we want dinner for two."
"Will ze lady and ze gentleman haf table d'hote or a la carte?" "Oh,
bring us some of both, with lots of gravy on 'em!" Oh, ye Knights!
Take the advice of the philosopher who is talking to you, and be
on the best of terms with your mother-in-law.

[Laughter.] Only get her on your side, and you have a haven to fly to
when all others fail to appreciate you, and when some one of the others
feels appointed a special agent to tell you about it. Now, it isn't
everybody that knows this, and I commend it to you. [Laughter.]
Traill carried the little dog around the kirk.

And there, ah! so belated, Auld Jock's grave bore its tribute of
flowers. Wreaths and nosegays, potted daffodils and primroses and
daisies, covered the sunken mound so that some of them had to be moved
to make room for Bobby. He sniffed and sniffed at them, looked up
inquiringly at Mr. Traill; and then snuggled down contentedly among
the blossoms. He did not understand their being there any more than
he understood the collar about which everybody made such a to-do. The
narrow band of leather would disappear under his thatch again, and would
be unnoticed by the casual passer-by; the flowers would fade and never
be so lavishly renewed; but there was another more wonderful gift, now,
that would never fail him.

At nightfall, before the drum and bugle sounded the tattoo to call the
scattered garrison in the Castle, there took place a loving ceremony
that was never afterward omitted as long as Bobby lived. Every child
newly come to the tenements learned it, every weanie lisped it among his
first words. Before going to bed each bairn opened a casement. Sometimes
a candle was held up--a little star of love, glimmering for a moment on
the dark; but always there was a small face peering into the melancholy
kirkyard. In midsummer, and at other seasons if the moon rose full and
early and the sky was clear, Bobby could be seen on the grave. And when
he recovered from these hurts he trotted about, making the circuit below
the windows. He could not speak there, because he had been forbidden,
but he could wag his tail and look up to show his friendliness. And
whether the children saw him or not they knew he was always there after
sunset, keeping watch and ward, and "lanely" because his master had gone
away to heaven; and so they called out to him sweetly and clearly:

"A gude nicht to ye, Bobby."


XII.

In one thing Mr. Traill had been mistaken: the grand folk did not forget
Bobby. At the end of five years the leal Highlander was not only still
remembered, but he had become a local celebrity.

Had the grave of his haunting been on the Pentlands or in one of the
outlying cemeteries of the city Bobby must have been known to few of his
generation, and to fame not at all. But among churchyards Greyfriars was
distinguished. One of the historic show-places of Edinburgh, and in
the very heart of the Old Town, it was never missed by the most hurried
tourist, seldom left unvisited, from year to year, by the oldest
resident. Names on its old tombs had come to mean nothing to those
who read them, except as they recalled memorable records of love,
of inspiration, of courage, of self-sacrifice. "I'm an Axcester man,"
he would declare in his public speeches, and in his own way he loved
and served the little borough. For its good he held its Parliamentary
representation in the hollow of his hand; and, as Overseer of the Poor,
had dared public displeasure by revising the Voters' List and defying a
mandamus of the Court of King's Bench rather than allow Axcester to
fail in its duty of returning two members to support Mr.

Percevall's Ministry. In 1800, when the price of wheat rose to 184s
a quarter, a poor woman dropped dead in the market place of starvation.
At once a mob collected, hoisted a quartern-loaf on a pole with the
label--"We will have Bread or Blood," and started to pillage the
shop's in High Street. It was Endymion Westcote who rode up single-handed,
(they, were carrying the only constable on their shoulders) and faced and
dispersed the rioters.
It was he who headed the subscription list, prevailed on the purchase
a wagon-load of potatoes and persuaded the people to plant them--for even
the seed potatoes had been eaten, and the gardens lay undigged.
It was he who met the immediate famine by importing large quantities
of rice.

Finally, it was he, through his influence with the county, who
brought back prosperity by getting the French prisoners sent to
Axcester.

We shall talk of these French prisoners by and by. To conclude this
portrait of Endymion Westcote. He was a handsome, fresh-complexioned
man, over six feet in height, and past his forty-fifth year; a bachelor
and a Protestant.

In his youth he had been noted for gallantry, and preserved some traces
of it in his address. His grandfather had married a French lady, and
although this union had not sensibly diluted the Westcote blood,
Endymion would refer to it to palliate a youthful taste for playing the
fiddle.

He spoke French fluently, with a British accent which, when appointed
Commissary, he took pains to improve by conversation with the prisoners,
and was fond of discussing heredity with the two most distinguished of
them--the Vicomte de Tocqueville and General Rochambeau.

Narcissus, the younger brother, had neither the height nor the good
looks nor the masterful carriage of Endymion, and made no pretence to
rival him as a man of affairs. He professed to be known as the student
of the family, dabbled in archaeology, and managed two or three local
societies and field clubs, which met ostensibly to listen to his
papers, but really to picnic.

An accident had decided this bent of his --the discovery, during
some repairs, of a fine Roman pavement beneath the floor of Bayfield
House, At the age of eighteen, during a Cambridge vacation,
Narcissus had written and privately printed a description of this
pavement, proving not only that its tessellae represented scenes
in the mythological story of Bacchus, but that the name "Bayfield," in
some old deeds and documents written "Bagvil" or "Baggevil," was neither
more nor less than a corruption of _Bacchi Villa_. Axcester and its
neighbourhood are rich in Roman remains--the town stands, indeed,
on the old Fosse Way--and, tempted by early success, Narcissus
rode his hobby further and further afield.

Now, at the age of forty-two, he could claim to be an authority on
the Roman occupation of Britain, and especially on the conquests
of Vespasian.

The circle of--the Westcotes' acquaintance gathered in the fine hall of
Bayfield--or, as Narcissus preferred to call it, the atrium--drank
tea, admired the pavement, listened to the alleged exploits of Vespasian,
and wondered when the brothers would marry. Time went on, repeating
these assemblies; and the question became, Will they ever marry?
Apparently they had no thought of it, no idea that it was expected of
them; and since they had both passed forty, the question might
be taken as answered.

But that so personable a man as Endymion Westcote would let the
family perish was monstrous to suppose. He kept his good looks and his
fresh complexion; even now some maiden would easily be found to
answer his Olympian nod; and a vein of recklessness sometimes cropped
up through his habitual caution, and kept his friends alert for
surprises.

In the hunting-field, for instance,--and he rode to hounds twice a week,--he
made a rule of avoiding fences; but the world quite rightly set
this down to a proper care for his person rather than to timidity,
since on one famous occasion, riding up to find the whole field
hesitating before a "rasper" (they were hunting a strange country
that day), he put his horse at it and sailed over with a nonchalance
relieved only by his ringing laugh on the farther side.

It was odds he would clear the fence of matrimony, some day, with
the same casual heartiness; and, in any case, he was masterful enough
to insist on Narcissus marrying, should it occur to him to wish it.

Oddly enough, the gossips who still arranged marriages for the brothers
had given over speculating upon their hostess, Miss Dorothea. She could
not, of course, perpetuate the name; but this by no means accounted
for all the difference in their concern. Dorothea Westcote was now thirty-
seven, or five years younger than Narcissus, whose mother had died
soon after his birth.

The widower had created one of the few scandals in the Westcote
history by espousing, some four years later, a young woman of quite
inferior class, the daughter of a wholesale glover in Axcester.
The new wife had good looks, but they did not procure her pardon;
and she made the amplest and speediest amends by dying within twelve
months, and leaving a daughter who in no way resembled her. The
husband survived her just a dozen years.

Dorothea, the daughter, was a plain girl; her brothers, though kind
and fond of her after a fashion, did not teach her to forget it.

She loved them, but her love partook of awe: they were so much cleverer,
as well as handsomer, than she. Having no mother or friend of her own
sex to imitate, she grow into an awkward woman, sensitive to charm in
others and responding to it without jealousy, but ignorant of what it
meant or how it could be acquired. She picked up some French from her
brother Endymion, and masters were hired who taught her to dance,
to paint in water colours, and to play with moderate skill upon the
harp.

But few partners had ever sought her in the ballroom; her only
drawings which anyone ever asked to see were half-a-dozen of the
Bayfield pavement, executed for Narcissus' monograph; and her harp
she played in her own room.

Now and then Endymion would enquire how she progressed with her
music, would listen to her report and observe: "Ah, I used to do a little
fiddling myself." But he never put her proficiency to the test.

Somehow, and long before the world came to the same conclusion, she
had resolved that marriage was not for her.

She adored babies, though they usually screamed at the sight of her, and
she thought it would be delightful to have one of her own who would
not scream; but apart from this vague sentiment, she accepted her
fate without sensible regret.

By watching and copying the mistresses of the few houses she visited she
learned to play the hostess at Bayfield, and, as time brought confidence,
played it with credit.

She knew that people laughed at her, and that yet they liked her;
their liking and their laughter puzzled her about equally. For the rest,
she was proud of Bayfield and content, though one day much resembled
another, to live all her life there, devoted to God and her garden.

Visitors always praised her garden.

Axcester lies on the western side and mostly at the foot of a low hill
set accurately in the centre of a ring of hills slightly higher-the
raised bottom of a saucer would be no bad simile. The old Roman road cuts
straight across this rise, descends between the shops of the High Street,
passes the church, crosses the Axe by a narrow bridge, and climbing
again passes the iron gates of Bayfield House, a mile above the
river.

So straight is it that Dorothea could keep her brothers in view from
the gates until they dismounted before their office door, losing
sight of them for a minute or two only among the elms by the bridge.
Her boudoir window commanded the same prospect; and every day as the
London coach topped the hill, her maid Polly would run with news of
it. The two would be watching, often before the guard's horn awoke the
street and fetched the ostlers out in a hurry from the "Dogs Inn" stables
with their relay of four horses. Miss Dorothea possessed a telescope,
too; and if the coach were dressed with laurels and flags announcing
a victory, mistress and maid would run to the gates and wave their
handkerchiefs as it passed.

Sometimes, too, Polly would announce a post-chaise, and the telescope
decide whether the postboys wore the blue or the buff. Nor were these
their only causes of excitement; for the great Bayfield elm, a rood below
the gates and in full view of them, marked the westward boundary of the
French prisoners on parole. Some of these were quite regular in their
walks for instance, Rear-Admiral de Wailly-Duchemin and General Rochambeau,
who came at three o'clock or thereabouts on Wednesdays and Saturdays,
summer and winter. At six paces on the far side of the elm-- such was
their punctilio--they halted, took snuff, linked arms again and turned
back.

(Dorothea had entertained them both at Bayfield, and met them at dinner
in one or two neighbouring houses.) On the same days, and on Mondays
as well, old Jean Pierre Pichou, ex-boatswain of the _Didon_ frigate,
would come along arm-in-arm with Julien Carales, alias Frap d'Abord,
ex-_marechal des logis_--Pichou, with his wooden leg, and Frap
d'Abord twisting a grey moustache and uttering a steady torrent
of imprecation--or so it sounded.

These could be counted on; but scores of others stopped and turned
at the Bayfield elm, and Polly had names for them all. Moreover, on one
memorable day Dorothea had watched one who did not halt precisely at the
elm.

A few paces beyond it, and on the side of the road facing the grounds,
straggled an old orchard, out of which her brother Endymion had
been missing, of late, a quantity of his favourite pippins--by name
(but it may have been a local one) Somerset Warriors. The month was
October, the time about half-past four, the light dusky. Yet Miss
Dorothea, lingering by the gate, saw a young man pass the Bayfield
elm and climb the hedge; and saw and heard him nail against an apple-tree
overhanging the road, a board with white letters on a black ground.

When it was fixed, the artist descended to the road and gazed up
admiringly at his work. In the act of departing he turned, and suddenly
stood still again. His face was toward the Bayfield gate. Dorothea
could not tell if he saw her, but he remained thus, motionless, for
almost a minute. Then he seemed to recollect himself and marched off
briskly down the road.
Early next morning she descended and read the inscription, which ran:
"Restaurant pour les Aspirants."
She said nothing about it, and soon after breakfast the board was
removed.

CHAPTER II
THE ORANGE ROOM

Some weeks later, on a bright and frosty morning in December, Dorothea
rode into Axcester with her brothers. She was a good horsewoman and showed
to advantage on horseback, when her slight figure took a grace of
movement which made amends for her face. To-day the brisk air and a
canter across the bridge at the foot of the hill had brought roses to
her cheeks, and she looked almost pretty. General Rochambeau happened
to pass down the street as the three drew rein before the Town House
(so the Westcotes always called the Bank-office), and, pausing to
help her dismount, paid her a very handsome compliment.

Dorothea knew, of course, that Frenchmen were lavish of compliments,
and had heard General Rochambeau pay them where she felt sure they
were not deserved.

Nevertheless she found this one pleasant--she had received so few--and
laughed happily. It may have come from the freshness of the morning,
but to-day her spirit sat light within her and expectant she could
not say of what, yet it seemed that something good was going to
happen.

"I have a guess," said the old General, "that Miss Westcote and I
are bound on the same errand.

Her's cannot be to inspect dull bonds and ledgers, bills of exchange or
rates of interest."
He jerked his head towards the house, and Dorothea shook hers.

"I am going to 'The Dogs,' General."
"Eh?" He scented the jest and chuckled.

"As you say, 'to the dogs' hein? Messieurs, I beg you to observe and
take warning that your sister and I are going to the dogs together."
He offered his arm to Dorothea. Her brothers had dismounted and handed
their horses over to the ostler who waited by the porch daily to lead
them to the inn stables.

"I will stable Mercury myself," said she, addressing Endymion. She
submitted her smallest plans to him for approval.

"Do so," he answered.

"After running through my letters, I will step down to the Orange
Room and join you. I entrust her to you, General-- the more confidently
because you cannot take her far."
He laughed and followed Narcissus through the porch.

Dorothea saw the old General wince. She slipped an arm through Mercury's
bridle-rein and picked up her skirt; the other arm she laid in her
companion's.

"You have not seen the Orange Room, Miss Dorothea?"
"Not since the decorations began." She paused and uttered the thought
uppermost in her mind. "You must forgive my brother; I am sorry he
spoke as he did just now."
"Then he is more than forgiven."
"He did not consider."

"Dear Mademoiselle, your brother is an excellent fellow, and not a bit
more popular than he deserves to be. Of his kindness to us prisoners--
I speak not of us privileged ones, but of our poorer brothers--I
could name a thousand acts; and acts say more than words."
Dorothea pursed her lips. "I am not sure. I think a woman would ask for
words too."
"Yes, that is so," he caught her up.

"But don't you see that we prisoners are--forgive me--just like
women? I mean, we have learned that we are weak. For a man that is
no easy lesson, Mademoiselle. I myself learned it hardly. And seeing
your brother admired by all, so strong and prosperous and confident,
can I ask that he should feel as we who have forfeited these things?"

Before she could find a reply he had harked back to the Orange Room.

"You have not seen it since the decorations began?

Then I have a mind to run and ask your brother to forbid your coming--to
command you to wait until Wednesday.

We are in a horrible mess, I warn you, and smell of turpentine most
potently. But we shall be ready for the ball, and then--! It will be
prodigious. You do not know that we have a genius at work on the
painting?"
"My brother tells me the designs are extraordinarily clever."
"They are more than clever, you will allow. The artist I discovered
myself--a young man named Charles Raoul. He comes from the South, a
little below Avignon, and of good family--in some respects." The General
paused and took snuff. "He enlisted at eighteen and has seen service;
he tells me he was wounded at Austerlitz. Unhappily he was shipped,
about two years ago, on board the _Thétis_ frigate, with a detachment and
stores for Martinique. The _Thétis_ had scarcely left L'Orient
before she fell in with one of your frigates, whose name escapes me;
and here he is in Axcester.

He has rich relatives, but for some reason or other they decline
to support him; and yet he seems a gentleman.

He picks up a few shillings by painting portraits; but you English are
shy of sitting--I wonder why? And we--well, I suppose we prefer to wait
till our faces grow happier."
Dorothea had it on the tip of her tongue to ask how the General had
discovered this genius; but the ring in his voice gave her pause.
Twice in the course of their short walk he had shown feeling; and she
wondered at it, having hitherto regarded him as a cynical old
fellow with a wit which cracked himself and the world like two dry
nuts for the jest of their shrivelled kernels.

She did not, know that a kind word of hers had unlocked his heart; and
before she could recall her question they had reached the stable-yard of
"The Dogs." And after stabling Mercury it was but a step across
to the inn.

The "Dogs Inn" took its name from two stone greyhounds beside its porch--
supporters of the arms of that old family from which the Westcotes had
purchased Bayfield; and the Orange Room from a tradition that William
of Orange had spent a night there on his march from Torbay. There
may have been truth in the tradition; the room at any rate preserved
in it window-hangings of orange-yellow, and a deep fringe of the same
hue festooning the musicians' gallery. While serving Axcester for ball,
rout, and general assembly-room, it had been admittedly dismal--its
slate-coloured walls scarred and patched with new plaster, and relieved
only by a gigantic painting of the Royal Arms on panel in a blackened
frame; its ceiling garnished with four pendants in plaster, like
bride- cake ornaments inverted.

To-day, as she stepped across the threshold, Dorothea hesitated between
stopping her ears and rubbing her eyes.

The place was a Babel.
Frenchmen in white paper caps and stained linen blouses were laughing,
plying their brushes, mixing paints, shifting ladders, and jabbering
all the while at the pitch of their voices.

For a moment the din bewildered her; the ferment had no more meaning,
no more method, than a schoolboy's game. But her eyes, passing over the
chaos of paint-pots, brushes, and step-ladders, told her the place had
been transformed.

The ceiling between the four pendants had become a blue heaven with filmy
clouds, and Cupids scattering roses before a train of doves and a
recumbent goddess, whom a little Italian, perched on a scaffolding and
whistling shrilly, was varnishing for dear life. Around the walls--
sky-blue also--trellises of vines and pink roses clambered around the old
panels.

The energy of the workmen had passed into their paintings, or perhaps
Dorothea's head swam; at any rate, the cupids and doves seemed to
be whirling across the ceiling, the vines, and roses mounting towards
it, and pushing out shoots and tendrils while they climbed.

But the panels themselves! They were nine in all: three down the long
black wall, two narrower ones at the far end, four between the orange-
curtained windows looking on the street. (The fourth wall had no panel,
being covered, by the musicians' gallery and the pillars supporting
it.)

In each, framed by the vines and roses, glowed a scene of classical or
pseudo-classical splendour; golden sunsets, pale yellow skies,
landscapes cleverly imitated from recollections of Claude Lorraine,
dotted with temples and small figures in flowing drapery, with here
and there a glimpse of naked limbs.

Here were Bacchus and Ariadne, with a company of dancing revellers;
Apollo and Marsyas; the Rape of Helen; Dido welcoming Aeneas. . . .

But not even
a tenement child or a London coster could be ill at ease with the Grand
Leddy for very long, and presently the three were in close conference in
the portico. Bobby welcomed them, and then dozed in the sun and visited
with the robin on Auld Jock's grave. Far from being tongue-tied, the
landlord was inspired. What did he not remember, from the pathetic
renunciation, "Bobby isna ma ain dog," down to the leal Highlander's
last, near tragic reminder to men that in the nameless grave lay his
unforgotten master.

He sketched the scene in Haddo's Hole, where the tenement bairns poured
out as pure a gift of love and mercy and self-sacrifice as had ever
been laid at the foot of a Scottish altar. He told of the search for the
lately ransomed and lost terrier, by the lavish use of oil and candles;
of Bobby's coming down Castle Rock in the fog, battered and bruised for
a month's careful tending by an old Heriot laddie. His feet still showed
the scars of that perilous descent. He himself, remorseful, had gone
with the Biblereader from the Medical Mission in the Cowgate to the
dormer-lighted closet in College Wynd, where Auld Jock had died. Now he
described the classic fireplace of white freestone, with its boxed-in
bed, where the Pentland shepherd lay like some effigy on a bier, with
the wee guardian dog stretched on the flagged hearth below.

"What a subject for a monument!" The Grand Leddy looked across the top
of the slope at the sleeping Skye. "I suppose there is no portrait of
Bobby."

"Ay, your Leddyship; I have a drawing in the dining rooms, sketched
by Mr. Daniel Maclise. He was here a year or twa ago, just before his
death, doing some commission, and often had his tea in my bit place. I
told him Bobby's story, and he made the sketch for me as a souvenir of
his veesit."

"I am sure you prize it, Mr. Traill. Mr. Maclise was a talented artist,
but he was not especially an animal painter. There really is no one
since Landseer paints no more."

"I would advise you, Baroness, not to make that remark at an Edinburgh
dinner-table." Glenormiston was smiling. "The pride of Auld Reekie just
now is Mr. Gourlay Stelle, who was lately commanded to Balmoral Castle
to paint the Queen's dogs."

"The very person! I have seen his beautiful canvas--'Burns and the Field
Mouse.' Is he not a younger brother of Sir John Stelle, the sculptor
of the statue and character figures in the Scott monument?" Her eyes
sparkled as she added: "You have so much talent of the right, sorts here
that it would be wicked not to employ it in the good cause."

What "the good cause" was came out presently, in the church, where
she startled even Glenormiston and Mr. Traill by saying quietly to the
minister and the church officers of Greyfriars auld kirk: "When Bobby
dies I want him laid in the grave with his master."

Every member of both congregations knew Bobby and was proud of his fame,
but no official notice had ever been taken of the little dog's presence
in the churchyard. The elders and deacons were, in truth, surprised that
such distinguished attention should be directed to him now, and they
were embarrassed by it. It was not easy for any body of men in the
United Kingdom to refuse anything to Lady Burdett-Coutts, because she
could always count upon having the sympathy of the public. But this,
they declared, could not be considered. To propose to bury a dog in
the historic churchyard would scandalize the city. To this objection
Glenormiston said, seriously: "The feeling about Bobby is quite
exceptional. I would be willing to put the matter to the test of heading
a petition."

At that the church officers threw up their hands. They preferred to
sound public sentiment themselves, and would consider it. But if Bobby
was permitted to be buried with his master there must be no notice taken
of it. Well, the Heriot laddies might line up along the wall, and the
tenement bairns look down from the windows. Would that satisfy her
ladyship?

"As far as it goes." The Grand Leddy was smiling, but a little tremulous
about the mouth.

That was a day when women had little to say in public, and she meant to
make a speech, and to ask to be allowed to do an unheard-of thing.

"I want to put up a monument to the nameless man who inspired such love,
and to the little dog that was capable of giving it. Ah gentlemen, do
not refuse, now." She sketched her idea of the classic fireplace bier,
the dead shepherd of the Pentlands, and the little prostrate terrier.
"Immemorial man and his faithful dog. Our society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals is finding it so hard to get people even to admit the
sacredness of life in dumb creatures, the brutalizing effects of abuse
of them on human beings, and the moral and practical worth to us of
kindness. To insist that a dog feels, that he loves devotedly and with
less calculation than men, that he grieves at a master's death and
remembers him long years, brings a smile of amusement. Ah yes! Here in
Scotland, too, where your own great Lord Erskine was a pioneer of pity
two generations ago, and with Sir Walter's dogs beloved of the literary,
and Doctor Brown's immortal 'Rab,' we find it uphill work.

"The story of Greyfriars Bobby is quite the most complete and remarkable
ever recorded in dog annals. His lifetime of devotion has been witnessed
by thousands, and honored publicly, by your own Lord Provost, with the
freedom of the city, a thing that, I believe, has no precedent. All
the endearing qualities of the dog reach their height in this loyal
and lovable Highland terrier; and he seems to have brought out the best
qualities of the people who have known him. Indeed, for fourteen years
hundreds of disinherited children have been made kinder and happier by
knowing Bobby's story and having that little dog to love."

She stopped in some embarrassment, seeing how she had let herself go, in
this warm championship, and then she added:

"Bobby does not need a monument, but I think we need one of him, that
future generations may never forget what the love of a dog may mean, to
himself and to us."

The Grand Leddy must have won her plea, then and there, but for the fact
that the matter of erecting a monument of a public character anywhere
in the city had to come up before the Burgh council. In that body the
stubborn opposition of a few members unexpectedly developed, and, in
spite of popular sympathy with the proposal, the plan was rejected.
Permission was given, however, for Lady Burdett-Coutts to put up a
suitable memorial to Bobby at the end of George IV Bridge, and opposite
the main gateway to the kirkyard.

For such a public place a tomb was unsuitable. What form the memorial
was to take was not decided upon until, because of two chance happenings
of one morning, the form of it bloomed like a flower in the soul of the
Grand Leddy. She had come down to the kirkyard to watch the artist at
work. Morning after morning he had sketched there. He had drawn Bobby
lying down, his nose on his paws, asleep on the grave. He had drawn him
sitting upon the table-tomb, and standing in the begging attitude in
which he was so irresistible. But with every sketch he was dissatisfied.

Bobby was a trying and deceptive subject. He had the air of curiosity
and gaiety of other terriers. He saw no sense at all in keeping still,
with his muzzle tipped up or down, and his tail held just so. He brushed
all that unreasonable man's suggestions aside as quite unworthy of
consideration. Besides, he had the liveliest interest in the astonishing
little dog that grew and disappeared, and came back, in some new
attitude, on the canvas. He scraped acquaintance with it once or twice
to the damage of fresh brush-work. He was always jumping from his pose
and running around the easel to see how the latest dog was coming on.

After a number of mornings Bobby lost interest in the man and his
occupation and went about his ordinary routine of life as if the artist
was not there at all. One morning the wee terrier was found sitting on
the table-tomb, on his haunches, looking up toward the Castle, where
clouds and birds were blown around the sun-gilded battlements.

His attitude might have meant anything or nothing, for the man who
looked at him from above could not see his expression. And all at once
he realized that to see Bobby a human being must get down to his level.
To the scandal of the children, he lay on his back on the grass and did
nothing at all but look up at Bobby until the little dog moved. Then he
set the wee Highlander up on an altar-topped shaft just above the level
of the human eye. Indifferent at the moment as to what was done to him,
Bobby continued to gaze up and out, wistfully and patiently, upon this
masterless world. As plainly as a little dog could speak, Bobby said:

"I hae bided lang an' lanely. Hoo lang hae I still to bide? An' syne,
wull I be gangin' to Auld Jock?"

The Grand Leddy saw that at once, and tears started to her eyes when
she came in to find the artist sketching with feverish rapidity. She
confessed that she had looked into Bobby's eyes, but she had never truly
seen that mourning little creature before. He had only to be set up so,
in bronze, and looking through the kirkyard gate, to tell his own story
to the most careless passerby. The image of the simple memorial was
clear in her mind, and it seemed unlikely that anything could be added
to it, when she left the kirkyard.

As she was getting into her carriage a noble collie, but one with a
discouraged tail and hanging tongue, came out of Forest Road. He had
done a hard morning's work, of driving a flock from the Pentlands to the
cattle and sheep market, and then had hunted far and unsuccessfully
for water. He nosed along the gutter, here and there licking from the
cobblestones what muddy moisture had not drained away from a recent
rain. The same lady who had fed the carrots to the coster's donkey in
London turned hastily into Ye Olde Greyfriars Dining-Rooms, and asked
Mr. Traill for a basin of water. The landlord thought he must have
misunderstood her. "Is it a glass of water your Leddyship's wanting?"

"No, a basin, please; a large one, and very quickly."

She took it from him, hurried out, and set it under the thirsty animal's
nose. The collie lapped it eagerly until the water was gone, then looked
up and, by waggings and lickings, asked for more. Mr. Traill brought out
a second basin, and he remarked upon a sheep-dog's capacity for water.

"It's no' a basin will satisfy him, used as he is to having a tam on the
moor to drink from. This neeborhood is noted for the dogs that are aye
passing. On Wednesdays the farm dogs come up from the Grassmarket, and
every day there are weel-cared-for dogs from the residence streets, dogs
of all conditions across the bridge from High Street, and meeserable
waifs from the Cowgate. Stray pussies are about, too. I'm a gude-hearted
man, and an unco' observant one, your Leddyship, but I was no' thinking
that these animals must often suffer from thirst."

"Few people do think of it. Most men can love some one dog or cat or
horse and be attentive to its wants, but they take little thought
for the world of dumb animals that are so dependent upon us. It is no
special credit to you, Mr. Traill, that you became fond of an attractive
little dog like Bobby and have cared for him so tenderly."

The landlord gasped. He had taken not a little pride in his stanch
championship and watchful care of Bobby, and his pride had beer
increased by the admiration that had been lavished on him for years by
the general public. Now, as he afterward confessed to Mr. Brown:

"Her leddyship made me feel I'd done naething by the ordinar', but
maistly to please my ainsel'. Eh, man, she made me sing sma'."

When the collie had finished drinking, he looked up gratefully, rubbed
against the good Samaritans, waved his plumed tail like a banner, and
trotted away. After a thoughtful moment Lady Burdett-Coutts said:

"The suitable memorial here, Mr. Traill, is a fountain, with a low
basin level with the curb, and a higher one, and Bobby sitting on an
altar-topped central column above, looking through the kirkyard gate. It
shall be his mission to bring men and small animals together in sympathy
by offering to both the cup of cold water."

She was there once again that year. On her way north she stopped in
Edinburgh over night to see how the work on the fountain had progressed.
It was in Scotland's best season, most of the days dry and bright and
sharp. But on that day it was misting, and yellow leaves were dropping
on the wet tombs and beaded grass, when the Grand Leddy appeared at the
kirkyard late in the afternoon with a wreath of laurel to lay on Auld
Jock's grave.

Bobby slipped out, dry as his own delectable bone, from under the tomb
of Mistress Jean Grant, and nearly wagged his tail off with pleasure.
Mistress Jeanie was set in a proud flutter when the Grand Leddy rang at
the lodge kitchen and asked if she and Bobby could have their tea there
with the old couple by the cozy grate fire.

They all drank tea from the best blue cups, and ate buttered scones and
strawberry jam on the scoured deal table. Bobby had his porridge and
broth on the hearth. The coals snapped in the grate and the firelight
danced merrily on the skylark's cage and the copper kettle. Mr. Brown
got out his fife and played "Bonnie Dundee." Wee, silver-white Bobby
tried to dance, but he tumbled over so lamentably once or twice that he
hung his head apologetically, admitting that he ought to have the sense
to know that his dancing days were done. He lay down and lolled and
blinked on the hearth until the Grand Leddy rose to go.

"I am on my way to Braemar to visit for a few days at Balmoral Castle. I
wish I could take Bobby with me to show him to the dear Queen."

"Preserve me!" cried Mistress Jeanie, and Mr. Brown's pet pipe was in
fragments on the hearth.

Bobby leaped upon her and whimpered, saying "Dinna gang, Leddy!" as
plainly as a little dog could say anything. He showed the pathos at
parting with one he was fond of, now, that an old and affectionate
person shows. He clung to her gown, rubbed his rough head under her
hand, and trotted disconsolately beside her to her waiting carriage. At
the very last she said, sadly:

"The Queen will have to come to Edinburgh to see Bobby."

"The bonny wee wad be a prood doggie, yer Leddyship," Mistress Jeanie
managed to stammer, but Mr. Brown was beyond speech.

The Grand Leddy said nothing. She looked at the foundation work of
Bobby's memorial fountain, swathed in canvas against the winter, and
waiting--waiting for the spring, when the waters of the earth should
be unsealed again; waiting until finis could be written to a story on a
bronze table-tomb; waiting for the effigy of a shaggy Skye terrier to be
cast and set up; waiting--

When the Queen came to see Bobby it was unlikely that he would know
anything about it.

He would know nothing of the crowds to gather there on a public
occasion, massing on the bridge, in Greyfriars Place, in broad Chambers
Street, and down Candlemakers Row--the magistrates and Burgh council,
professors and students from the University, soldiers from the Castle,
the neighboring nobility in carriages, farmers and shepherds from the
Pentlands, the Heriot laddies marching from the school, and the tenement
children in holiday duddies--all to honor the memory of a devoted little
dog. He would know nothing of the military music and flowers, the prayer
of the minister of Greyfriars auld kirk, the speech of the Lord Provost;
nothing of the happy tears of the Grand Leddy when a veil should fall
away from a little bronze dog that gazed wistfully through the kirkyard
gate, and water gush forth for the refreshment of men and animals.

"Good-by, good-by, good-by, Bobby; most loving and lovable, darlingest
wee dog in the world!" she cried, and a shower of bright drops and sweet
little sounds fell on Bobby's tousled head. Then the carriage of the
Grand Leddy rolled away in the rainy dusk.

The hour-bell of St. Giles was rung, and the sunset bugle blown in the
Castle. It took Mr. Brown a long time to lift the wicket, close the tall
leaves and lock the gate. The wind was rising, and the air hardening.
One after one the gas lamps flared in the gusts that blew on the bridge.
The huge bulk of shadow lay, velvet black, in the drenched quarry pit of
the Grassmarket. The caretaker's voice was husky with a sudden "cauld in
'is heid."

"Ye're an auld dog, Bobby, an' ye canna deny it. Ye'll juist hae to
sleep i' the hoose the misty nicht."

Loath to part with them, Bobby went up to the lodge with the old couple
and saw them within the cheerful kitchen. But when the door was held
open for him, he wagged his tail in farewell and trotted away around
the kirk. All the concession he was willing to make to old age and bad
weather was to sleep under the fallen table-tomb.

Greyfriars on a dripping autumn evening! A pensive hour and season,
everything memorable brooded there. Crouched back in shadowy ranks, the
old tombs were draped in mystery. The mist was swirled by the wind and
smoke smeared out, over their dim shapes. Where families sat close about
scant suppers, the lights of candles and cruisey lamps were blurred. The
faintest halo hung above the Castle head. Infrequent footsteps hurried
by the gate. There was the rattle of a belated cart, the ring of a
distant church bell. But even on such nights the casements were opened
and little faces looked into the melancholy kirkyard. Candles glimmered
for a moment on the murk, and sweetly and clearly the tenement bairns
called down:

"A gude nicht to ye, Bobby."

They could not see the little dog, but they knew he was there. They knew
now that he would still be there when they could see him no more--his
body a part of the soil, his memory a part of all that was held dear and
imperishable in that old garden of souls. They could go up to the lodge
and look at his famous collar, and they would have his image in bronze
on the fountain. And sometime, when the mysterious door opened for
them, they might see Bobby again, a sonsie doggie running on the green
pastures and beside the still waters, at the heels of his shepherd
master, for:

If there is not more love in this world than there is room for in God's
heaven, Bobby would just have "gaen awa' hame."