Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


ON THE FIRING LINE

by Anna Chapin Ray and Hamilton Brock Fuller


CHAPTER ONE


Six feet one in his stockings, broad-shouldered and without an ounce
of extra flesh, Harvard Weldon suddenly halted before one of a line
of deck chairs.

"I usually get what I want, Miss Dent," he observed suggestively.

"You are more fortunate than most people." Her answering tone was dry.

Most men would have been baffled by her apparent indifference.
Not so was Weldon. Secure in the possession of a good tailor and
an equally good digestion, he was willing to await the leisurely
course of events.

"My doctor always advises mild exercise after lunch," he continued.

"You are in the care of a physician?" she queried, with a whimsical
glance up at his brown face and athletic figure.

"Not just now. I was once, however." She raised her brows in polite
interrogation. Her involuntary thawing of a moment before had given
place to absolute conventionality. Weldon smiled to himself, as he
noted the change. He had been at sea for three days now, and those
three days had been chiefly spent in trying to penetrate the social
shell of his next neighbor at table. It was not so much that Ethel
Dent was undeniably pretty as that he had been piqued by her frosty
reception of his efforts to supplement the services of a careless waiter.

Now, uninvited, he dropped into the empty chair next her own.

"If I may?" he said questioningly, as he raised his cap. "Yes, I
have had a doctor twice. Once was measles, once a collar bone broken
in football. Both times, I was urged to take a walk after luncheon.
Is Miss Arthur--?"

He hesitated for the right word. Still ignoring his obvious hint,
Ethel Dent supplied the word, without charity for her luckless
chaperon. "Horridly seasick." She pointed out to the level steely-
gray sea. "And on this duck-pond," she added.

Her accent was expressive. Weldon laughed.

"Perhaps she isn't as used to the duck-pond as you are."

The girl brushed a lock of vivid gold hair from her eyes; then she
sat up, to add emphasis to her words. "Miss Arthur has been to
America and back seven times and to Australia once," she said
conclusively.

"As globe-trotter, or as commercial traveller?"

"Neither.  As professional chaperon. When she applied for me, she stated--"
The girl caught her breath and stopped short.

"Well?" he asked encouragingly. She shook her head. Again, for an
instant, Weldon could see the humanity beneath the veneering.
Moreover, he liked what he saw. The blue eyes were honest and
steady. One mocking dimple belied the gravity of the firm lips.

"What did she state?" he asked again.

"It's not manners to tell tales about one's companion," she demurred.

"Not if you spell it with a little c. With a capital, it becomes
professional, and you can say what you choose. Miss Arthur is
a righteous lady; nevertheless, she is a bit professional.
And you were saying that the lady stated--"

"That she never had been seasick in her life."

"Oh. And did she also produce certificates as to her moral
character? Or is fibbing merely bad form nowadays?"

With swift inconsequence, the girl shifted to the other side of the
discussion.

"Of course, this may be a first attack."

"Of course," Weldon assented gravely. But again she shifted her
ground. "Only," she continued, with her eyes thoughtfully fixed on
the distant, impersonal point where sea and sky met; "only it is a
little strange that, yesterday, I heard her tell the stewardess she
never took beeftea when she was seasick."

"Oh." Weldon's eyes joined hers on the sky-line. "I have heard of
similar cases before."

"She offered to come on deck," Ethel went on quietly. "It was
generous of her, for she knew I was left entirely alone.
Nevertheless, I persuaded her that she was better off in her berth."

Leaning back in the chair of the absent invalid, Weldon watched his
companion out of the corners of his eyes and rejoiced at the change
in her. Even while he rejoiced, he marvelled. A Canadian by birth
and education, he had rarely come in contact with English girls. At
first, he had been totally at a loss to account for the haughty
chill in the manner of this one. Grown accustomed to that, he was
still more at a loss to account for this sudden awakening into
humanity. He had as yet to learn that two days of having her only
companion seasick, coupled with a sparkling sun and a crisp breeze,
can rouse even a duenna-led English girl to the point of expressing
her opinions pithily and with vigor.

As the Dunottar Castle had slid away from Southampton, three days
before, Weldon had tramped briskly up and down the crowded deck,
taking mental note of his companions for the next two weeks. Among
the caped and capped throng leaning over the rail and staring after
the receding shore with homesick eyes, he saw little to interest
him. Neither did the shore interest him in the least. His own
partings had come, two weeks before, when the steam yacht had put
back from Sandy Hook. Now, accordingly, he went in search of the
dining-room steward to whom he gave much gold and instruction. Then
he betook himself to his stateroom where his mates were already busy
settling their belongings.

The luncheon hour disclosed the fact that the dining-room steward
had earned his money and had digested his instruction. A short pause
on the threshold informed Weldon that the Dunottar Castle held
exactly one pretty girl; the steward informed Weldon that the vacant
chair beside her was his own. Weldon picked up his napkin with a
brief prayer of thanksgiving. What if he was going out to Africa in
search of Boers and glory? There was no especial reason he should
not enjoy himself on the way.

Weldon had gained a wide experience of American girls. well-bred,
well-chaperoned, nevertheless they offered possible points of
contact to the strangers with whom they were thrown. To all seeming,
Ethel Dent was as accessible as the outer wall of an ice palace.
Beside her decorous ignoring of his existence, Miss Arthur, lean and
spectacled and sniffy, appeared to be of maternal kindliness, albeit
her only advances had been a muffled request for the salt. The next
morning, Miss Arthur's chair had been empty, and her charge, left to
herself, had been more glacially circumspect than ever. Whatever
skittish traits the pair might develop, Weldon felt assured that
they would be solely upon the side of Miss Ophelia Arthur.

Now, however, he was giving himself praise for his own astute
generalship. It was no slight matter, at the end of the third day,
to find himself sitting next to Miss Dent in the line of steamer
chairs and even bending over to pick up the novel she had dropped.
In his elation, Weldon neglected to give credit to Miss Arthur whose
digestive woes were the cause of the whole situation. Only the riper
Christianity which comes with declining years can make one wholly
loyal to a seasick comrade.

He gave himself yet more praise, next morning at sunrise, when he
found himself pacing the deck at Ethel Dent's side. As a rule, he
and his mates rose betimes and, clad in slippers and pajamas, raced
up and down the decks to keep their muscles in hard order, before
descending for the tubbing which is the matin duty of every self-
respecting British subject. This morning, instead of the deserted
decks and the pajama-clad athletes, the passengers were out early to
catch the first glimpse of Madeira, and Weldon, starchy and glowing
with much cold water, was on deck to catch the first glimpse of
Ethel.

Miss Arthur was still invisible, and the girl was discreetly late
about appearing. The deck was full, when at last she came in sight;
and it seemed, to her first glance, that she was the only unattended
person abroad, that morning. Her chin rose a little aggressively as
she moved forward. Then her eyes lighted. Cap in hand, Weldon stood
in her direct path.

"Good morning," he said. "We've just passed the lighthouse and are
nearly opposite Canical. If you come over here, you can see it."

His tone was matter-of-course, yet masterful. At the very beginning
of her fourth solitary day, Ethel admitted to herself that it was
good to have some one take possession of her in this summary
fashion.

"Is Miss Arthur still unhappy?" he asked, as he swung into step at
her side.

"Yes. She has taken to her hymnal, this morning, in search of
consolation. I tried to coax her to get up and go ashore; but she
said there was no use in experiencing the same woe twice."

"I am afraid I do not quite catch the lady's line of argument,"
Weldon remarked doubtfully.

The girl laughed. Then she decorously checked her laugh and
endeavored to turn sympathetic once more.

"She means to make one prolonged illness. Else she will only recover
in order to fall ill again." "Oh." Weldon's tone was still blank.
"And shall you go ashore?"

She shook her head.

"I am sorry. You would find any amount to see."

"I am sorry, too," she said frankly. "Still, I don't see how I can,
without Miss Arthur."

His hands in his pockets, Weldon took a dozen steps in doubtful
silence.

"I'll tell you what we can do, Miss Dent: Harry Carew, one of the
fellows going out with me, had a note of introduction to Colonel
Scott and his wife. He is the pompous old Englishman across the
table. I'll get Carew to introduce us, and perhaps they will let us
go ashore with them."

"But are they going?" she asked irresolutely.

"Surely. We have three hours here. I know Carew's mother well; she
and Mrs. Scott were schoolmates at Madame Prather's in London."

She looked up with sudden interest.

"Madame Prather's? That is where I have been, for the past five
years."

"Then we are all right," Weldon said coolly. "The arrangement is
made. Carew is the only missing link. Excuse me, and I will go in
search of him."

It was high noon when the Dunottar Castle finally weighed anchor at
Funchal and started on her long, unbroken voyage to the southward.
Side by side in the stern, Weldon and Ethel looked back at the blue
harbor dotted with the myriad little boats, at the quaint town
backed with its amphitheatre of sunlit hills and, poised on the
summit, the church where Nossa Senhora do Monte keeps watch and ward
over the town beneath. Ethel's experience was the broader for her
hilarious ride in a bullock-drawn palanquin. Weldon's experience was
more instructive. It taught him that, her hat awry and her yellow
hair loosened about her laughing face, Ethel Dent was tenfold more
attractive than when she made her usual decorous entrance to the
dining-room.

Mrs. Scott had been a willing chaperon and an efficient one.
Nevertheless, as they stood together in the stern, looking out
across the gold-flecked sea, Weldon felt that he had made a long
stride, that morning, towards acquaintance with his companion. And,
even now, the voyage was nearly all before them.

As if in answer to his thoughts, she lifted her eyes to his face.

"Twelve more days!" she said slowly.

"Are you sorry?"

She shook her head.

"Glad and sorry both. I love the sea; but home is at the end of it."

"You live out there?" he asked.

She smiled at the question. "Yes, if out there means Cape Town. At
least, my parents live there."

"How long have you been in England?" he queried, while, abandoning
all pretence of interest in the fast-vanishing town, he turned his
back to the rail in order to face his companion more directly.

"Always, except for one year, six years ago, and a summer--summer in
England, I mean--two years later."

Rather inconsequently, Weldon attacked the side issue suggested by
her words.

"How does it seem to have one's seasons standing on their heads?"

She answered question with question. "Haven't you been out before?"

"No."

"I supposed you had taken the voyage any number of times. But about
the seasons, it doesn't count for much until you come to Christmas.
No England-born mortal can hang up his stocking in mid-summer
without a pang of regretful homesickness."

Weldon laughed.

"Do you substitute a refrigerator for a chimney corner?" he asked.
"But are you England-born?"

"Yes. My father went out only seven years ago. The 'home' tradition
is so strong that I was sent back to school and for a year of social
life. My little brother goes to Harrow in two years. Even in Cape
Town, a few people still hold true to the tradition of the public
school."

Weldon nodded assent.

"We meet it in Canada, now and then; not too often, though. So in
reality you are almost as much a stranger to Cape Town as I am."

"Quite. My father says it is all changed now. It used to be a lazy
little place; now it is pandemonium, soldiers and supplies going
out, time-expired men and invalids coming in. Mr. Weldon--"

His questioning smile answered the pause in her sentence.

"Well?" he asked, after a prolonged interval.

Her teeth shut on her lower lip, she stared at the wide blue sea
with wide blue eyes. Thus, the prophetic songs of Nezahualcoyotl,
those which he sang when he laid the foundation of his great
palace, bore this name.[15]
_teuccuicatl_: songs of the nobles (_teuctli_, _cuicatl_). These were
also called _quauhcuicatl_, "eagle songs," the term _quauhtli_,
eagle, being applied to distinguished persons.

_xochicuicatl_: flower-song, one singing the praises of flowers.

_icnocuicatl_: song of destitution or compassion.

_noteuhcuicaliztli_: "the song of my lords." This appears to be a
synonymous expression for _teuccuicatl_; it is mentioned by
Boturini, who adds that on the day sacred to the god Xiuhteuctli
the king began the song so called.[16]
_miccacuicatl_: the song for the dead (_miqui_, to die, _cuicatl_).

In this solemn chant the singers were seated on the ground, and
their hair was twisted in plaits around their heads.[17]
In addition to the above terms drawn from the subject or character
of the songs, there were others, of geographical origin, apparently
indicating that the song, or its tune, or its treatment was borrowed
from another locality or people.

These are:--

_Huexotzincayotl_: a song of Huexotzinco, a Nahuatl town, situated
east of the Lake of Tezcuco.

This song was sung by the king and superior nobles at certain
festivals, and, in the prescribed order of the chants, followed a
_melahuaccuicatl_.[18]
_Chalcayotl_: a song of Chalco, on the lake of the same name.

This followed the last mentioned in order of time at the
festivals.

_Otoncuicatl_: a song of the Otomis. These were the immediate
neighbors of the Nahuas, but spoke a language radically diverse.
The songs so-called were sung fourth on the list.

_Cuextecayotl_: a song of the country of the Cuexteca, or
Cuextlan, a northern province of Mexico.

_Tlauancacuextecayotl_: a song of the country of the
Tlauancacuexteca.

_Anahuacayotl_: a song of Anahuac, that is, of a country near the
water, either the valley of Mexico, or the shores of the ocean.

Some very ancient sacred songs were referred to by Tezozomoc as
peculiar to the worship of Huitzilopochtli, and, indeed, introduced
by this potent divinity.

From their names, _cuitlaxoteyotl_, and _tecuilhuicuicatl_,[19] I
judge that they referred to some of those pederastic rites which
still prevail extensively among the natives of the pueblos of New
Mexico, and which have been described by Dr.

William A. Hammond and other observers.[20] One of these songs began,

Cuicoyan nohuan mitotia;
In-the-place-of-song with-me they-dance.

But the old chronicler, who doubtless knew it all by heart, gives us
no more of it.[21]

§ 4. _PROSODY OF THE SONGS._
The assertion is advanced by Boturini that the genuine ancient Nahuatl
poetry which has been preserved is in iambic metre, and he refers
to a song of Nezahualcoyotl in his collection to prove his opinion.
What study I have given to the prosody of the Nahuatl tongue leads
me to doubt the correctness of so sweeping a statement. The vocalic
elements of the language have certain peculiarities which prevent
its poetry from entering unencumbered into the domain of classical
prosody.

The quantity of Nahuatl syllables is a very important element in
the pronunciation of the tongue, but their quantity is not confined,
as in Latin, to long, short, and common.

The Nahuatl vowels are long, short, intermediate, and "with stress,"
or as the Spanish grammarians say, "with a jump," _con saltillo_.
The last mentioned is peculiar to this tongue. The vowel so
designated is pronounced with a momentary suspension or catching
of the breath, rendering it emphatic.

These quantities are prominent features in the formal portions of the
language, characterizing inflections and declinations. No common
means of designating them have been adopted by the grammarians,
and for my present purpose, I shall make use of the following
signs:--
[)a] , short.

a , intermediate.

[=a] , long.

â , with stress.

The general prosodic rules are:--
1. In polysyllabic words in which there are no long vowels, all
the vowels are intermediate.

2.

The vowels are long in the penultimate of the plurals of the imperatives
when the preterit of the verb ends in a vowel; the _[=a]_ of the
_c[=a]n_ of the imperatives; the _[=i]_ of the _t[=i]_; of the
gerundives; the last vowel of the futures when the verb loses
a vowel to form them; the penultimates of passives in _lo_, of
impersonals, of verbals in _oni_, _illi_, _olli_ and _oca_, of
verbal nouns with the terminations _yan_ and _can_; the _[=o]_ of
abstract nouns in _otl_ in composition; and those derived from long
syllables.

3.

Vowels are "with stress" when they are the finals in the plurals of
nouns and verbs, also in the perfect preterite, in possessives
ending in â, ê, ô, and in the penultimate of nouns ending in
_tli_, _tla_ and _tle_ when these syllables are immediately preceded
by the vowel.[22]
The practical importance of these distinctions may be illustrated
by the following examples:--
_tâtli_, = father.

_t[=a]tl[)i]_, = thou drinkest.

_t[=a]tlî_, = we drink.

It is, however, evident from this example that the quantity of
Nahuatl syllables enters too much into the strictly formal part of
the language for rules of position, such as some of those above
given, to be binding; and doubtless for this reason the eminent
grammarian Carlos de Tapia Zenteno, who was professor of the tongue
in the University of Mexico, denies that it can be reduced to
definite rules of prosody like those of the Latin.[23]
Substituting accent for quantity, there would seem to be an iambic
character to the songs.

Thus the first words of Song I, were probably chanted:--
_Nino' yolno' notza' campa' nic[)u] iz' yec tli' ahui aca'
xochitl'_:
etc.

But the directions given for the drums at the beginning of Songs
XVIII, XIX, etc., do not indicate a continuance of these feet, but
of others, as in XIX:-- 
u--, u--, u--, uu--, u--, u--, u--, etc.

Indeed, we may suppose that the metre varied with the subject and
the skill of the poet.

This, in fact, is the precise statement of Father Duran,[24] who
speaks of the native poets as "giving to each song a different tune
(_sonada_), as we are accustomed in our poetry to have the sonnet,
the octava rima and the terceto

."

§ 5.

_THE VOCAL DELIVERY OF THE SONG._
Descriptions of the concerts so popular among the Nahuas have been
preserved by the older writers, and it is of the highest importance
to understand their methods in order to appreciate the songs presented
in this volume.

These concerts were held on ceremonial occasions in the open air,
in the village squares or in the courtyards of the houses.

They began in the morning and usually continued until nightfall,
occasionally far into the night.

The musicians occupied the centre of the square and the trained
singers stood or sat around them.

When the sign was given to begin, the two most skillful singers,
sometimes a man and a woman, pronounced the first syllables of the
song slowly but with a sharp emphasis;[25] then the drums began in
a low tone, and gradually increased in strength as the song proceeded;
the other singers united their voices until the whole chorus was
in action, and often the bystanders, to the numbers of thousands,
would ultimately join in the words of some familiar song, keeping
time by concerted movements of the hands and feet.

Each verse or couplet of the song was repeated three or four times
before proceeding to the next, and those songs which were of the
slowest measure and least emotional in character were selected for
the earlier hours of the festivals.

None of the songs was lengthy, even the longest, in spite of the
repetitions, rarely lasting over an hour.[26]
The tone in which the words were chanted is described by Clavigero,
Mühlenpfordt and other comparatively recent travelers as harsh,
strident and disagreeable to the European ear.

Mendieta calls it a "contra-bass," and states that persons gifted
with such a voice cultivated it assiduously and were in great demand.

The Nahuas call it _tozquitl_, the singing voice, and likened it
to the notes of sweet singing birds

.

§ 6.

_THE INSTRUMENTAL ACCOMPANIMENT._
The Nahuas were not acquainted with any stringed instrument.

They manufactured, however, a variety of objects from which they
could extract what seemed to them melodious sounds.

The most important were two forms of drums, the _huehuetl_ and the
_teponaztli_.

The word _huehuetl_ means something old, something ancient, and
therefore important and great.

The drum so-called was a hollow cylinder of wood, thicker than a
man's body, and usually about five palms in height.

The end was covered with tanned deerskin, firmly stretched. The
sides were often elaborately carved and tastefully painted. This
drum was placed upright on a stand in front of the player and the
notes were produced by striking the parchment with the tips of the
fingers.

A smaller variety of this instrument was called _tlapanhuehuetl_,
or the half drum, which was of the same diameter but only half the
height.[27] Still another variety was the _yopihuehuetl_, "the
drum which tears out the heart,"[28] so called either by reason of
its penetrating and powerful sound, or because it was employed at
the _Yopico_, where that form of human sacrifice was conducted.

The _teponaztli_ was a cylindrical block of wood hollowed out
below, and on its upper surface with two longitudinal parallel
grooves running nearly from end to end, and a third in the centre
at right angles to these, something in the shape of the letter I.

The two tongues left between the grooves were struck with balls of
rubber, _ulli_, on the ends of handles or drum sticks.

These instruments varied greatly in size, some being five feet in
length, and others so small that they could conveniently be carried
suspended to the neck.

The _teponaztli_ was the house instrument of the Nahuas.

It was played in the women's apartments to amuse the noble ladies, and
the war captains carried one at the side to call the attention of
their cohorts on the field of battle (Sahagun).

The word is derived from the name of the tree whose wood was selected
to make the drum, and this in turn from the verb _tepunazoa_, to
swell, probably from some peculiarity of its growth.[29]
A much superior instrument to the teponaztli, and doubtless a
development from it, was the _tecomapiloa_, "the suspended vase"
(_tecomatl_, gourd or vase, _piloa_, to hang or suspend).

It was a solid block of wood, with a projecting ridge on its
upper surface and another opposite, on its lower aspect; to the
latter one or more gourds or vases were suspended, which increased
and softened the sound when the upper ridge was struck with the
_ulli_.[30] This was undoubtedly the origin of the _marimba_, which
I have described elsewhere.[31]
The musical properties of these drums have been discussed by Theodor
Baker.

The teponaztli, he states, could yield but two notes, and
could not have been played in accord with the huehuetl. It
served as an imperfect contra-bass.[32]
The _omichicahuaz_, "strong bone," was constructed somewhat on the
principle of a _teponaztli_. A large and long bone was selected, as
the femur of a man or deer, and it was channeled by deep longitudinal
incisions. The projections left between the fissures were rasped
with another bone or a shell, and thus a harsh but varied sound
could be produced.[33]
The _tetzilacatl_, the "vibrator" or "resounder," was a sheet of
copper suspended by a cord, which was struck with sticks or with
the hand.

It appears to have been principally confined to the sacred music in
the temples.

The _ayacachtli_ was a rattle formed of a jar of earthenware or a
dried gourd containing pebbles which was fastened to a handle,
and served to mark time in the songs and dances. An extension of
this simple instrument was the _ayacachicahualiztli_, "the arrangement
of rattles," which was a thin board about six feet long and a span
wide, to which were attached bells, rattles and cylindrical pieces
of hard wood.

Shaking this produced a jingle-jangle, agreeable to the native ear.

The Aztec bells of copper, _tzilinilli_, are really metallic rattles,
like our sleigh bells.

They are often seen in collections of Mexican antiquities.

Other names for them were _coyolliyoyotli_. and

Various forms of flutes and fifes, made of reeds, of bone or of
pottery, were called by names derived from the word _pitzaua_, to
blow (e.g., _tlapitzalli_, _uilacapitzli_), and sometimes, as being
punctured with holes, _zozoloctli_, from _zotl_, the awl or instrument
used in perforating skins, etc.

Many of those made of earthenware have been preserved, and they
appear to have been a highly-esteemed instrument, as Sahagun mentions
that the leader of the choir of singers in the temple bore the title
_tlapitzcatzin_, "the noble flute player."

Large conches were obtained on the seashore and framed into wind
instruments called _quiquiztli_ and _tecciztli_, whose hoarse notes
could be heard for long distances, and whistles of wood, bone and
earthenware added their shrill notes to the noise of the chanting
of the singers.

The shell of the tortoise, _ayotl_, dried and suspended, was beaten
in unison with such instruments.

Recent researches by competent musical experts conducted upon
authentic specimens of the ancient Mexican instruments have tended
to elevate our opinion of their skill in this art.

Mr. H.T. Cresson, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia,
has critically examined the various Aztec clay flutes, whistles,
etc., which are there preserved, and has reached the following
conclusions:-- 
"I.

That upon the four-holed clay flageolets the chromatic and diatonic
scales can be produced with a full octave.

"II.

That the clay whistles or pitch pipes, which may be manipulated in
quartette, will produce an octave and a fourth.

"III. From the facts above shown, the Aztecs must have possessed
a knowledge of the scales as known to us, which has been fully
tested by comparison with the flute and organ

."[34]
This result indicates for the instrumental accompaniment a much
higher position in musical notation than has hitherto been accepted

.

§ 7.

_THE POETIC DIALECT._
All the old writers who were familiar with the native songs speak
of their extreme obscurity, and the difficulty of translating them.

No one will question the intimate acquaintance with the Nahuatl
language possessed by Father Sahagun; yet no one has expressed
more strongly than he the vagueness of the Nahuatl poetic dialect.

"Our enemy on earth," he writes, "has prepared a thick woods and
a dangerous ground full of pitfalls, wherein to devise his evil
deeds and to hide himself from attack, as do wild beasts and venomous
serpents.

This woods and these pitfalls are the songs which he has inspired
to be used in his service, as praises to his honor, in the temples
and elsewhere; because they are composed with such a trick that
they proclaim only what the devil commands, and are understood only
by those to whom they are addressed.

It is well known that the cavern, woods or depths in which the
devil hides himself were these chants or psalms which he himself has
composed, and which cannot be understood in their true significance
except by those who are accustomed to the peculiar style of their
language."[35]
Not less positive are the expressions of Father Diego Duran,
contemporary of Sahagun, and himself well versed in the native
tongue. "All their songs," he observes, "were composed in such obscure
metaphors that scarcely any one can understand them unless he give
especial attention to their construction."[36] The worthy Boturini
was puzzled by those which he had collected, and writes, "the songs
are difficult to explain, because they mystify historical facts
with constant allegorizing,"[37] and Boturini's literary executor,
Don Mariano Echevarria y Veitia, who paid especial attention
to the poetic fragments he had received, says frankly: "The fact is,
that as to the songs I have not found a person who can fully
translate them, because there are many words in them whose signification
is absolutely unknown to-day, and moreover which do not appear in
the vocabularies of Molina or others

."[38]
The Abbé Clavigero speaks in somewhat more definite terms of the poetic
forms and licenses of the language. He notes that in the fragments
of the ancient verses which had been preserved until his day there
were inserted between the significant words certain interjections and
meaningless syllables, apparently to fill out the metre. Nevertheless,
he considered the language of the chants, "pure, pleasant,
brilliant, figurative and replete with allusions to the more pleasing
objects in nature, as flowers, trees, brooks, etc

.
Viewed in either light, it
was hot, crowded and unclean. From his caricature of a hansom,
Weldon registered his swift impression that he wished to get off to
the front as speedily as possible. The hansom contributed to this
impression no less than did the city. Out of a multitude of similar
vehicles, he had chosen this for its name, painted across its
curving front. The Lady of the Snows had obviously been christened
as a welcome to the scores of his fellow colonials who had gone that
way before; and he and Carew had dashed past Killarney and The
Scotch Thistle, to take possession of its padded interior.

It was almost noon, as they drove through the Dock Gates, past the
Amsterdam Battery, and turned eastward towards Adderley Street and
the Grand Hotel. It was nightfall before their luggage was safe
through the custom house and in their room. Carew eyed his boxes
askance. Weldon attacked the straps of his nearest trunk.

"Wherefore?" Carew queried languidly from the midst of a haze of
smoke.

"To take account of stock."

"What's the use?"

"To find out what we need, of course."

"But we don't need anything. We've tobacco for our pipes and quinine
for our stomachs and fuller's earth for our feet. What more can a
man need?" As he spoke, Carew hooked his toe around a second chair,
drew it towards him and promptly converted it into a foot-rest.
"Besides," he added tranquilly; "to-morrow is Boxing Day, and the
bank won't be open until the day after. You know you can't buy
anything more than a pink-bordered handkerchief out of your present
supplies."

Weldon laughed.

"Don't be too sure I can make out even that," he said, as he dived
into the trunk and pulled out a Klondyke sleeping-bag.

Carew watched him from between half-closed lids.

"Going beddy?" he inquired.

"Confound it, no! I thought my calling kit was in there." A pair of
dark gray blankets landed in the corner on top of the sleeping-bag.

"That looks jolly comfortable. You'd better bunk in there, and leave
the bed to me," Carew advised him. "You're in the wrong trunk for
your calling clothes, anyway. What under heaven do you want of them,
Weldon?"

"I don't want them to lie all in a heap."

"They'll lie in heaps for a good long time, before you are out of
this country," Carew predicted cheerfully. "Moreover, from the look
of the place, you could make calls in either pajamas or khaki, and
it would pass muster. I saw one fellow, this noon, in evening
clothes and a collar button. Besides, there isn't anybody for us to
call on."

Weldon smiled contentedly, as he drew out a frock-coat and inspected
its satin-faced lapels.

"Not for you, perhaps," he observed quietly.

"Oh, I see." Carew puffed vigorously. "So you have a bidding to call
upon Miss Dent."

Weldon dislodged Carew's feet from the extra chair and utilized the
chairback as a temporary coat-rack.

"No; quite the contrary," he replied. "I am invited to call upon
Miss Ophelia Arthur. Now you will please to keep quiet, for I think
I shall go to bed."

In silence, Carew watched him half through the process of
undressing. Then, emptying his pipe and snapping open its case, he
rose and faced his friend.

"Weldon," he said sententiously; "we don't care to hang around this
place longer than we must; and we shall have all we can do to get
ourselves enlisted and our horses into condition. We haven't time
for much else. I hope you will remember that you came out here, not
to fuss the girls, but for the fuss with the Boers."

From his seat on the edge of the bed, Weldon eyed him amicably.

"Don't preach, Carew," he answered coolly. "It doesn't do my soul
any good, and it only renders you a bore. It has always been a
clause of my creed that two good things are better than one."

Nevertheless, in spite of his haste to unpack his calling clothes,
it was full three days later that Weldon turned his face eastward in
search of the home of Ethel Dent. Moreover, in all those three days,
he had given scarcely a thought to the companion of his voyage.
Notwithstanding his first impressions, Weldon had found much to
interest him in Cape Town. The streets, albeit unlovely, were full
of novel sights and the patter of novel tongues. Cape carts and
Kaffirs, traction engines and troopers, khaki everywhere and yet
more khaki, and, rising grimly behind it all, the naked face of
Table Mountain covered with its cloth of clouds! It was all a tumult
of busy change, bounded by the unchanging and the eternal. For one
entire morning, Weldon loitered about the streets, viewing all
things with his straightforward Canadian gaze, jostling and jostled
by turns. War had ceased to be a myth, and, of a sudden, was become
a grim reality; yet in the face of it all his courage never
faltered. His sole misgivings concerned themselves with the contrast
between the seasoned regulars marching to their station, and his
boyish self, full of eager enthusiasm, but trained only in the
hunting field, the polo ground and the gymnasium. Then, gripping his
hope in both hands, he resolutely shouldered his way into the
nearest recruiting office. He went into the office as Harvard
Weldon, amateur athlete and society darling of his own home city. He
came out as Trooper Weldon of the First Regiment of Scottish Horse.

He spent the next morning in sorting over his miscellaneous luggage.
In the light of Cape Town and the practical advice which had been
his for the asking, his outfit appeared comically complete. Two
thirds of it must be stored in Cape Town; of the other third, one
full half must be left with the negro servants at the hotel. His
toilet fixtures would have been adequate for a Paris season; his
superfluous rugs would have warmed him during a winter on the apex
of the North Pole. It was with something between a smile and a sigh
that he stowed away the greater part of his waistcoats and neckties,
in company with the silver-mounted medicine chest by which his
mother had set such store. It was as Carew had said: quinine and
tobacco were the main essentials.

Then, for the last time in many months, he arrayed himself in black
cloth and fine linen, chose his stick and gloves with care, and,
leaving Adderley Street behind him, turned eastward towards the home
of the Dents.

He found Ethel on the broad veranda, bordered with flower-boxes and
overlooking the garden and the blue waters of Table Bay. Dressed in
a thin white gown which, to Weldon's mind, was curiously out of
keeping with all his preconceived notions of January weather, she
rose and came forward to greet him at the top of the steps.

"At last," she said cordially, while she gave him her hand. "I began
to fear you had already gone to the front."

"Not without seeing you again," he answered, as he followed her back
to the bamboo chairs at the shaded western end of the veranda. "In
fact, I began to be rather afraid I should never see the front at
all."

"What do you mean?" she asked quickly. "Has something happened since
I saw you?"

"A great deal has happened. The thing I referred to was my first
sight of British regulars."

Her face cleared.

"Oh, is that all?"

"It is a good deal," he assured her, as he sat down. "I came out
here with all sorts of high notions regarding volunteers."

"Well?" she questioned smilingly.

"Well, they have been taken out of me. An untrained man isn't worth
much in any line, least of all in the firing line. Still, it would
be very ignominious to go back home again."

Her eyes swept over his alert, well-groomed figure.

"And when do you start for the front, Trooper Weldon?"

"How do you know I start at all?"

"How do I know you are sitting opposite me?" she asked lightly.
"Having eyes, I use them."

"And they tell you--?" he responded.

"That you are looking content with life."

The laughter died out of his eyes.

"I am," he said gravely; "perfectly content. I am enrolled in the
Scottish Horse, and I go tomorrow."

"The Scottish Horse?" she asked quickly. "Which squadron?"

"Do you know anything of it?"

"A little," she answered; "but that little is good. Then it is to
Maitland that you are going?"

"Are you omniscient, Miss Dent?"

"No; merely an inquisitive girl who remembers the answers to the
questions that she asks. My father, you know, is in the thick of
things, and it seems to me I have met half the British army, in the
four days I have been at home."

"Officers, or Tommies?" he reminded her.

She laughed at the recollection of her former prejudice.

"You told the truth, Mr. Weldon. One of the men I danced with, last
season, is riding across Natal in the same squadron with his groom.
In my one London season, I met only officers. Out here, I find Lord
Thomas turned into Tommy Atkins, and I meet him every day. But,
aside from the war, what do you think of Cape Town?"

"What would I think of Table Mountain without its tablecloth?" he
parried. "In both cases, the two things seem inseparable."

"Wait till you know the place better, then," she advised him. "It
really does have a life of its own, apart from its military
setting."

"I am afraid there's not much chance of my knowing it better," he
answered a little regretfully.

"Maitland is only three miles away, and you've not met my mother
yet," she suggested.

"Is she at home now?" Weldon asked, with the conscious air of a man
suddenly recalled to his social duty.

"Not this afternoon. She has taken Miss Arthur for a drive through
Rondebosch. That is quite one of the things to do, you know."

"I didn't know. Is the redoubtable Miss Arthur well?"

The dimple beside the girl's firm lips displayed itself suddenly,
and her eyes lighted.

"Wonderfully. Her convalescence has been remarkably short. More
remarkable still is the fact that she has neglected to mention her
illness to any one."

"How soon does she go back?"

The blue eyes met his eyes in frank merriment.

"Not until she has finished informing my mother of the present
London code of chaperonage."

Weldon raised his brows.

"Then I shall find her here, when I come back at the end of the
war."

She made no pretence of misunderstanding him.

"Are you so much less strict in Canada?"

"We are--different," he confessed. "Miss Arthur's lorgnette would be
impossible with us. I don't mean the lorgnette itself; but the acute
accent which she contrives to give to it. Mrs. Scott is more of a
colonial matron."

"Dear little lady! Have you seen her since she landed?"

"Once. They are at the Mount Nelson, and Carew and I called on them
there. They are leaving for De Aar, Monday."

"And what about Mr. Carew?"

"He goes with me to Maitland. He is Trooper Carew now."

The girl sat staring thoughtfully out across the lawn.

"I wonder what sort of a soldier he will make," she said, half to
herself. Weldon faced her sharply.

"Why?"

"Because life is an embodied joke to him."

Weldon rose a little stiffly. His call had lasted its allotted time;
nevertheless, under other conditions, it might have lasted even
longer. He liked Ethel Dent absolutely; yet now and then she had a
curious fashion of antagonizing him. The alternations of her cordial
moments with her formal ones were no more marked than were the
alternations of her viewpoint. As a rule, she looked on life with
the impartial eyes of a healthy-minded boy; occasionally, however,
she showed herself hidebound by the fetters of tradition, and, worst
of all, she wore the fetters as if they lay loosely upon her. At
such moments, he longed acutely to impress her with his own point of
view, as the only just one possible.

"I think perhaps you don't fully understand Carew, Miss Dent," he
said courteously, yet with a slight accent of finality. "He laughs
at life like a child; but he lives it like a man. I have known him
since we were boys together; I have never known him to shirk or to
funk a difficult point. If the Scottish Horse ever sees the firing
line, it will hold no better trooper than Harry Carew."

He bowed in farewell and turned away. Looking after him, Ethel Dent
told herself that Weldon's simple words had been descriptive, not
only of his friend, but of his loyal, honest self.

Half-way across the heart-shaped bit of lawn enclosed within the
curve of the drive, Weldon met another guest going towards the
steps. There was no need of the trim uniform of khaki serge to
assure him that the man was also a soldier. The starred shoulder
straps were needless to show him that here was one born to command.
Glancing up, Weldon looked into a pair of keen blue eyes exactly on
a level with his own, took swift note of the full, broad forehead,
of the black lashes contrasting with the yellow hair and of the
resolute lines of the shaven chin. Then, mindful of his frock-coat
and shining silk hat, he repressed his inclination to salute, and
walked steadily on, quite unconscious of the part in his life which
the stranger was destined to play, during the coming months.


CHAPTER FOUR


Sitting in the lee of the picket fence which bounded Maitland Camp
on the west, Paddy the cook communed with himself, and Weldon and
Carew communed with him.

"Oh, it's long and long yet before a good many of these ones will be
soldiers," he, observed, with a disrespectful wave of his thumb
towards the awkward squad still manoeuvering its way about over the
barren stretch of the parade ground. "They ride like tailors
squatting on their press-boards, and they salute like a parrot
scratching his head with his hind paw. A soldier is like a poet,
born, not made."

In leisurely fashion, Weldon stretched himself at full length and
drew out a slender pipe.

"Paddy, if you keep on, I'll fire a kopje at you," he threatened.

Paddy disdained the threat.

"Glory be, the kopjes be riveted down on the bottom end of them! But
it's the truth I'm telling. Half of these men is afraid of their
lives, when they're on a horse."

"The horses of South Africa are divided into two classes," Carew
observed sententiously; "the American ones that merely buck, and the
cross-eyed Argentine ones that grin at you like a Cheshire cat,
after they have done it. Both are bad for the nerves. Still, I'd
rather be respectfully bucked, than bucked and then laughed at,
after the catastrophe occurs. Paddy, my knife has been splitting
open its handle. What's to be done about it?"

"Let's see."

Bending forward, Carew drew the black-handled knife and fork from
the coils of his putties. In the orderly surroundings of Maitland
Camp, there was no especial need of his adopting the storage methods
of the trek; nevertheless, he had taken to the new idea with prompt
enthusiasm. Up to that time, it had never occurred to him to bandage
his legs with khaki, and then convert the bandages into a species of
portable sideboard.

"Paddy," Weldon remonstrated; "don't stop to play with his knife. No
matter if it is cracked. So is he, for the matter of that. Go and
tell your menial troop to remember to put a little beef in the soup,
this noon. I am tired of sipping warm water and onion juice."

"What time is it, then?"

"My watch says eleven; but my stomach declares it is half-past two.
Trot along, there's a good Paddy. And don't forget to tie a pink
string to my piece of meat, when you give it to the orderly. Else I
may not know it's the best one." With a reluctant yawn and a glance
upward towards the sun, Paddy scrambled to his feet and brushed
himself off with the outspread palms of his stubby hands. Then he
turned to the men behind him.

"Stick your fork back in your putties, Mr. Carew, and I'll send you
a knife to go with it. As long as Paddy manages the cooking tent,
the cracked knives shall go to the dunderheads. The best isn't any
too good for them as rides like you and Mr. Weldon, and drinks no
rum at all."

Weldon eyed him mockingly.

"And gives their ration of rum to Paddy," he added. "Go along, man,
and set your kettles to boiling, while you return thanks that you
know a good thing when you see it."

"Paddy is a great boy," Carew observed, as the little Irishman
saluted them in farewell, then turned and strolled away in the
direction of his quarters.

"And, what's more, a most outrageously good cook," Weldon assented.
"If Paddy's ambition to shoot a gun should ever be fulfilled,
England might gain a soldier; but it would lose a chef of the cordon
bleu."

"If I were to choose, I'd sacrifice his sense of taste for the sake
of keeping his sense of humor," Carew returned. "Not even war can
subdue Paddy."

With a disdainful gesture, Weldon pointed out across the sun-baked
parade ground with the stem of his pipe.

"War! This?" he protested. "It is nothing in this world but a Sunday
school picnic."

And Carew, as his eyes followed the pointing pipe-stem, was forced
to give his assent.

It was now five days since, with scores of their mates, Weldon and
Carew had been passed from their medical examination to the double
test of their riding and their shooting. Elated by their threefold
recommendation, they had lost no time in donning their khaki and
taking up their quarters under the fraction of canvas allotted to
them. The days that followed were busy and slid past with a certain
monotony, notwithstanding their varied routine. From morning stables
at seven until evening stables at six, each hour held its duty, for
in that regular, clock-marked life, recreation was counted a duty
just as surely as were the daily drills.

Carew, trained on the football field, took to the foot drill as a
duck takes to water. Weldon was in his glory on mounted parade. One
summer spent on an Alberta ranch had taught him the tricks of the
broncho-buster, and five o'clock invariably found him pirouetting
across the parade ground on the back of the most vicious mount to be
found within the limits of Maitland. More than once there had been a
breathless pause while the entire squadron had waited to watch the
killing of Trooper Weldon; more than once there had been an utterly
profane pause while the officers had waited for Trooper Weldon to
bring his bolting steed back into some semblance of alignment. The
pause always ended with Weldon upright in his saddle, his face
beaming with jovial smiles and his horse ranged up with mathematical
precision. The delays were by no means helpful to discipline.
Nevertheless, the officers yielded to the inevitable with the better
grace, inasmuch as no one else would voluntarily trust life and limb
to the vicious beasts in which Weldon's soul delighted.

Twice already, during the past five days, Weldon had handed over to
the authorities a chastened and obedient pony, and had made petition
to select a fresh and untrammelled spirit. The one of the afternoon
before had been the most untrammelled he had as yet attempted. The
contest had begun with the first touch of the saddle. It had
continued with Weldon's being borne across the camp on the back of a
little gray broncho who was making tentative motions towards a
complete handspring. By the time the pony was convinced of the
proper function of her own hind legs, Weldon found himself being
driven from the door of the cooking tent by Paddy and a volley of
potatoes. The broncho surveyed Paddy with scorn, rose to her hind
legs and strolled towards the corner of the camp sacred to visitors.
There she delivered herself of one final, mighty buck. When Weldon
regained the perpendicular, he found himself directly facing the
merry, admiring eyes of Ethel Dent. By Ethel's side, mounted on a
huge khaki-colored horse, sat the man he had met, only the week
before, in the driveway of the Dents' home.

Scarlet with his exertions, grimly aware that his sleeve was pulled
from its armhole and his left puttie was strained out of its usual
compact folds, nevertheless Weldon saluted her smilingly and, his
mount well in hand, galloped off in search of his squadron. That
night, however, his clear baritone voice was missing from the usual
chorus about the camp fire; and, as he thoughtfully drained his tin
billy of coffee, next morning, he was revolving in mind the relative
merits of his banker and a dead mother-in-law, as excuses for
demanding a pass to town, that afternoon.

However, afternoon found him moodily riding about the camp. His body
was on a subdued gray broncho; his mind was solely upon Ethel and
her companion. He liked the girl for herself, as well as for the
fact that, in this remote corner of the world, she represented the
sole bit of feminine companionship which is the rightful heritage of
every son of Eve. True, there was Miss Arthur; but Miss Arthur was
antediluvian. Under these conditions, it was galling to Weldon to
see Ethel absorbed by a comrade who, he frankly admitted to himself,
was far the more personable man of the two. And the girl's blue eyes
had laughed up into the eyes of the stranger just exactly as, two
short weeks before, they had laughed up into his own. Then the
little gray broncho jumped cornerwise, and Weldon had difficulty in
impressing upon her that handsprings were not an approved form of
cavalry tactics. Nevertheless, he did it with a word of apology. For
the moment, the broncho was not wholly responsible for her return to
evil ways.

Over their breakfast, next morning, his five tentmates fell to
catechising him as to his pensive mood, and their catechism was
largely intermingled with chaff.

"Paddy's compliments, and roll up for your tucker," the mess orderly
proclaimed, as he came into the tent, brandishing a coffee pot in
one hand, the frying pan in the other.

Fork in hand, Carew nevertheless paused to take exception to the
word.

"I confess I can't see why Tucker, when it is supposed to untuck the
creases of us," he observed. "Hermit, shall I serve you in the
corner; or will you deign to join us about the festive frying pan?"

"What's the matter with Weldon, anyhow?" another of the group
queried, as dispassionately as if the subject of discussion had been
absent in Rhodesia. "His face is a yard long, and his lips hang down
in the slack of the corners."

"Brace up, man, and get over your grouch," a third adjured him. "You
are worse than O'Brien was, the morning after he was shoved in kink.
Were you in Cape Town, last night?"

"Not a bit of it," Carew put in hastily, while he buried his knife-
blade in the nearest pot of jam. "My left ear can prove an alibi for
him. From taps till midnight, Weldon discoursed of all the grewsome
things in the human calendar."

The smallest of the group turned himself about and peered up into
Weldon's face.

"Homesick, man?" he queried.

"Sure," Weldon replied imperturbably.

"Oh. Then get over it. Just dream of the days when the bronchos
cease from bucking and the Stringies shoot no more. Meanwhile, if
you could look pleasant, as the photographers say, it would help on
things wonderfully."

And although it be true, as our critic has suggested, that to enlarge
upon the misery which lies low and wide over the whole ground-plot
of civilized society, without at the same time devising an effectual
remedy, is a most unsatisfactory business; nevertheless, this also
must be added, that to forget the existence of this misery would
not be to cure it--would, on the contrary, be a certain method of
perpetuating and aggravating it; that to _try_ to forget it, is as
little wise as it is humane, and that indeed such act of oblivion
is altogether impossible.

If crowds of artizans, coming forth from homes where there is neither
food nor work, shall say, in the words that our author puts into
their mouths, "Behold us here--we ask if you mean to lead us towards
work; to try to lead us?

Or if you declare that you cannot lead us? And expect that we are to
remain quietly unled, and in a composed manner perish of starvation?
What is it that you expect of us?

What is it that you mean to do with us?"

--if, we say, such a question is asked, we may not be able to answer,
but we cannot stifle it.

Surely it is well that every class in the community should know how
indissolubly its interest is connected with the well-being of other
classes.

However remote the man of wealth may sit from scenes like this--however
reluctant he may be to hear of them--nothing can be more true than
that this distress is _his calamity_, and that _on him_ also lies
the inevitable alternative to remedy or to suffer.

It accords with the view we have here taken of the writings of Mr
Carlyle, that of all his works that which pleased us most was the
one most completely _personal_ in its character, which most constantly
kept the reader in a state of self-reflection.

In spite of all its oddities and vagaries, and the chaotic
shape into which its materials have been thrown, the _Sartor Resartus_
is a prime favourite of ours--a sort of volcanic work; and the
reader stands by, with folded arms, resolved at all events to
secure peace within his own bosom.

But no sluggard's peace; his arms are folded, not for idleness,
only to repress certain vain tremors and vainer sighs.

He feels the calm of self-renunciation, but united with no monkish
indolence. Here is a fragment of it.

How it rebukes the spirit of strife and contention!

"To me, in this our life," says the Professor, "which is an internecine
warfare with the time-spirit, other warfare seems questionable.

Hast thou in any way a contention with thy brother, I advise thee,
think well what the meaning thereof is.

If thou gauge it to the bottom, it is simply this--'Fellow, see!

thou art taking more than thy share of happiness in the world,
something from _my_ share; which, by the heavens, thou shalt not;
nay, I will fight thee rather.'

Alas! and the whole lot to be divided is such a beggarly matter,
truly a 'feast of shells,' for the substance has been spilled out:
not enough to quench one appetite; and the collective human species
clutching at them!

Can we not, in all such cases, rather say--'Take it, thou too
ravenous individual; take that pitiful additional fraction of a
share, which I reckoned mine, but which thou so wanted; take it
with a blessing: would to heaven I had enough for thee!'"

--P. 200.

Truisms! Preachments repeated from Solomon downwards!

some quick, impatient reader, all animal irritability, will exclaim--Good,
but it is the very prerogative of genius, in every age, to revive
truisms such as these, and make them burn in our hearts. Many a man
in his hour of depression, when resolution is sicklied over by the
pale cast of thought, will find, in the writings of Carlyle, a
freshening stimulant, better than the wine-cup, or even the laughter
of a friend, can give.

In some of his biographical sketches, with what force has he brought
out the moral resolution which animated, or ought to have animated,
the man of whom he is writing!

We shall have occasion, by and by, to notice what, to our mind, appears
a mere perversion of thought, and a mischievous exaggeration in
our author, who, in his love of a certain _energy_ of character,
has often made this energy (apart from a moral purpose) the test
and rule of his admiration.

But at present turn to his admirable estimation of Dr Samuel Johnson,
and the noble regret which he throws over the memory of Burns.

A portion of the first we cannot resist extracting.

What a keen mountain air, bracing to the nerves, mortal to languor
and complaint, blows over us from passages such as these:--
"The courage we desire and prize is not the courage to die decently,
but to live manfully.

Johnson, in the eighteenth century, all as a man of letters, was,
in good truth, 'the bravest of the brave.'

What mortal could have more to war with?

Yet, as we saw, he yielded not, faltered not; he fought, and even,
such was his blessedness, prevailed.

Whoso will understand what it is to have a man's heart, may find that,
since the time of John Milton, no braver heart had beat in any
English bosom than Samuel Johnson now bore.

Observe, too, that he never called himself brave, never felt
himself to be so; the more completely _was_ he so.

No Giant Despair, no Golgotha Death-Dance, or Sorcerer's Sabbath
of 'Literary Life in London,' appals this pilgrim; he works
resolutely for deliverance; in still defiance steps stoutly
along. The thing that is given him to do he can make himself do; what
is to be endured he can endure in silence.

"How the great soul of old Samuel, consuming daily his own bitter,
unalleviable allotment of misery and toil, shows beside the poor,
flimsy, little soul of young Boswell; one day flaunting in the
ring of vanity, tarrying by the wine-cup, and crying, Aha, the
wine is red; the next day deploring his down-pressed, night-shaded,
quite poor estate; and thinking it unkind that the whole movement
of the universe should go on, while _his_ digestive apparatus had
stopped!

We reckon Johnson's 'talent of silence' to be among his great and
rare gifts. Where there is nothing further to be done, there shall
nothing further be said; like his own poor, blind Welshwoman, he
accomplished somewhat, and also 'endured fifty years of wretchedness
with unshaken fortitude.' How grim was life to him; a sick
prison-house and doubting-castle!

'His great business,' he would profess, 'was to escape from himself.'

Yet towards all this he has taken his position and resolution; can
dismiss it all 'with frigid indifference, having little to hope or
to fear.' Friends are stupid, and pusillanimous, and parsimonious;
'wearied of his stay, yet offended at his departure;' it is the
manner of the world. 'By popular delusion,' remarks he, with a
gigantic calmness, 'illiterate writers will rise into renown:' it
is a portion of the history of English literature; a perennial
thing, this same popular delusion; and will--alter the character
of the language....

"The life of this man has been, as it were, turned inside out, and
examined with microscopes by friend and foe; yet was there no lie
found in him. His doings and writings are not _shows_, but _performances_:
you may weigh them in the balance, and they will stand weight. Not
a line, not a sentence is dishonestly done, is other than it pretends
to be. Alas! and he wrote not out of inward inspiration, but
to earn his wages; and with that grand perennial tide flowing
by, in whose waters he nevertheless refused to fish, to whose rich
oyster-beds the dive was too muddy for him. Observe, again, with what
innate hatred of cant he takes to himself, and offers to others,
the lowest possible view of his business, which he followed with
such nobleness. Motive for writing he had none, as he often said,
but money; and yet he wrote _so_. Into the region of poetic art he
indeed never rose; there was no _ideal_ without him, avowing itself
in his work; the nobler was that unavowed _ideal_ which lay
within him, and commanded, saying, Work out thy artisanship in the
spirit of an artist!

They who talk loudest about the dignity of art, and fancy that
they too are artistic guild-brethren, and of the celestials, let
them consider well what manner of man this was, who felt himself
to be only a hired day-labourer."

--_Misc_. vol. iv. p. 19.

The _History of the French Revolution_ deserves, no doubt,
notwithstanding the sort of partiality we have intimated for its
wild predecessor, to be considered as the greatest work of Mr
Carlyle; but it is the work of which criticism, if she ventures
to speak at all, must speak with the loudest and most frequent
protests.

There are certain grave objections which cannot be got over. As
to the _style_, indeed, Mr Carlyle is, on this head, (except,
occasionally, when writing for some _Review_ in which a very
violent departure from the English language would not be advisable,)
far above all criticism. The attempt to censure the oddities with
which it abounds--the frequent repetition--the metaphor and allusion
used again and again till the page is covered with a sort of
slang--would only subject the critic himself to the same
kind of ridicule that would fall upon the hapless wight who should
bethink him of taking some Shandean work gravely to task for its
scandalous irregularities, and utter want of methodical arrangement.

Such is _Carlylism_; and this is all that can be said upon the
matter. But the style which seemed not altogether unnatural, and
far from intolerable, in Herr Teufelsdrockh, becomes a strangely
inconvenient medium of communication where a whole history is to be
told in it. The mischief is, that it admits of no safe middle path:
it must arrest attention for its novelty, its graphic power, its bold
originality; or it must offend by its newfangled phrase, its jerking
movement, and its metaphor and allusion reduced into a slang.

Meanwhile, there is so much in a history which needs only to be
told--so much, which even this author, _skip_ how he may, must relate,
for the sake merely of preserving a continuous narrative--and
where the perfection of style would be, as all the world knows, that
it should draw no attention whatever to itself.

A style like this of our author's, once assumed, cannot be laid down
for a moment; and the least important incident is related with the
same curiosity of diction, and the same startling manner, that
delighted us in the _Siege of the Bastile_.

To convey mere _information_, it seems quite unserviceable. "How
inferior," says our author somewhere himself,--"how inferior for
_seeing by_ is the brightest train of fireworks to the humblest
farthing candle!"

The basis of a history is surely, after all, the narrative, and
whatever may be the estimate of others, the _historian_ proceeds
on the supposition that the facts he has to relate are, for their
own sake, deserving to be had in remembrance.

If not, why is he there recording and verifying them? But Mr Carlyle
proceeds throughout on quite the contrary supposition, that the
fact for itself is worth nothing--that it is valuable only as it
presents some peculiar picture to the imagination, or kindles some
noteworthy reflection.

He maintains throughout the attitude of one who stands apart, looking
_at_ the history; rarely does he assume the patient office of that
scribe whom we remember to have seen in the frontispiece of our
school histories, recording faithfully what the bald headed Time,
sitting between his scythe and his hour-glass, was dictating.

Never, indeed, was history written in so mad a vein--and that not
only as regards style, but the prevailing mood of mind in
which the facts and characters are scanned.

That mood is for the most part ironical. There is philanthropy,
doubtless, at the bottom of it all; but a mocking spirit, a profound
and pungent irony, are the manifest and prevailing characteristics.

It is a philanthropy which has borrowed the manner of Mephistopheles.

It is a modern Diogenes--in fact it is Diogenes Teufelsdrockh
himself, surveying the Revolution from his solitary watch-tower,
where he sits so near the eternal skies, that a whole generation
of men, _whirling off in wild Sahara waltz into infinite space_,
is but a spectacle, and a very brief and confused one.

This lofty irony, pungent as it is, grows wearisome.

By throwing a littleness on all things, it even destroys the very
aliment it feeds on; nothing, at last, is worth the mocking. But
the weariness it occasions is not its greatest fault.

It leads to a most unjust and capricious estimate of the characters
and actions of men. Capricious it must, of necessity, become.
To be ironical always were insufferable; even for the sake of
artistical effect, some personages; and some events, must be treated
with a natural feeling of respect or abhorrence; yet if one murder
is to be recorded with levity, why not another;--if one criminal
is to be dismissed with a jest, levelled perhaps at some personal
oddity, why is an earnest indignation to be bestowed on the next
criminal that comes under notice?

The distinctions that will be made will be not fair judgments,
but mere favouritism.

Situated thus--plain moral distinctions having been disparaged--Mr
Carlyle has given way to his admiration of a certain _energy_ of
character, and makes the possession of this sole excellence the
condition of his favour, the title to his respect, or perhaps, we
should say, to an immunity from his contempt.

The man who has an _eye_--that is, who glares on you like a tiger--he
who, in an age of revolution, is most thoroughly revolutionary,
and _swallows all formulas_--he is made a hero, and honourable
mention is decreed to him; whilst all who acted with an ill-starred
moderation, who strove, with ineffectual but conscientious effort,
to stay the wild movement of the revolution, are treated with
derision, are dismissed with contempt, or at best with pity for
their _weakness_.

His first hero is Mirabeau, a man of energy enough doubtless, and
who had, in a most remarkable degree, that force of character
which gives not only influence over, but a sort of _possession_
of, other men's minds, though they may claim far higher intellectual
endowments. For this one quality he is forgiven every thing.

The selfish ambition of which he must be more than suspected, is not
glanced at. Even the ridicule due to his inordinate vanity, is spared
him. "Yes support that head," says this dying gladiator to his
friend; "would I could bequeath it to thee!" And our caustic
Diogenes withholds the lash.

As the history proceeds, Danton is elevated to the place of hero.

He is put in strong contrast with Robespierre. The one is raised
into simple admiration, the other sunk into mere contempt; both are
spared the just execration which their crimes have merited. The one
good quality of Danton is, that, like Mirabeau, he had an _eye_--did
not see through _logic spectacles_--had _swallowed all formulas_.

So that, when question is made of certain massacres in which he was
implicated, we are calmly told "that some men have tasks frightfuller
than ours."

The one great vice of Robespierre is, that he lacked courage; for
the rest, he is "sea-green and incorruptible"--"thin and acrid."
His incorruptibility is always mentioned contemptuously, and generally
in connexion with his bilious temperament, as if they related
as cause and effect, or were both alike matters of pathology.

Mr Carlyle has a habit of stringing together certain moral with
certain physical peculiarities, till the two present themselves as
of quite equal importance, and things of the same category.

Yet this Robespierre, had our author been in want of another hero,
possessed one quality, which, in his estimate, would have entitled
him to occupy the pedestal. He had _faith_. "Of incorruptible
Robespierre, it was long ago predicted that he might go far--mean,
meagre mortal though he was--for _doubt_ dwelt not in him."

And this prediction was uttered by no less a man than Mirabeau.
"Men of insight discern that the sea-green may by chance go far: 'this
man,' observes Mirabeau, 'will do somewhat; _he believes every word
he says_.'"

The audacity of Danton the 'sea-green' certainly did not possess,
but of that sort of courage which can use the extremest means for
the desired end, he surely had sufficient.

He shrunk from no crime, however exorbitant. His _faith_ carried
him through all, and nearer to the goal than any of his compeers.

He walked as firm as others round the crater of this volcano,
and walked there the longest. It is impossible not to feel that _here_,
by the side of Dauton, a great injustice has been done to the
incorruptible and _faithful_ Robespierre.

Well may _energy_ or _will_ stand in the place of goodness with Mr
Carlyle, since we find him making in another place this strange
paradoxical statement: "_Bad_ is by its nature negative, and can
do _nothing_; whatsoever enables us to _do_ any thing is by its
very nature _good_."

So that such a thing as a _bad deed_ cannot exist, and such an
expression is without meaning. Accordingly, not only is energy
applauded, but that energy applauded most that _does most_. Those who
exercised their power, and the utmost resolution of mind, in the
attempt to restrain the Revolution, are not to be put in comparison
with those who _did something_--who carried forward the revolutionary
movement.
With what contempt he always mentions Lafayette--a man of limited
views, it is true; and whose views at the time were wide enough? or
to whom would the widest views have afforded a practical guidance?--but
a man of honour and of patriotic intentions! It is "Lafayette--thin,
constitutional pedant; clear, thin, inflexible, as water turned
to thin ice."

And how are the whole party of the Gironde treated with slight
and derision, because, at a period of what proved to be irremediable
confusion--when nothing but the whirlwind was to be reaped--they
were incessantly striving to realize for their country some definite
and permanent institutions! But though their attempt we see
was futile, could they do other than make the attempt? Mr Carlyle
describes the position of affairs very ably in the following
passage:--
"This huge insurrectionary movement, which we liken to a breaking
out of Tophet and the abyss, has swept away royalty, aristocracy,
and a king's life. The question is, what will it next do? how will
it henceforth shape itself?

Settle down into a reign of law and liberty, according as the habits,
persuasions, and endeavours of the educated, monied, respectable class
prescribe? That is to say, the volcanic lava-flood, bursting up
in the manner described, will explode, and flow according to
Girondine formula and pre-established rule of philosophy? If so,
for our Girondine friends it will be well.

"Meanwhile, were not the prophecy rather, that as no external force,
royal or other, now remains which could control this movement, the
movement will follow a course of its own--probably a very original
one.

Further, that whatsoever man or men can best interpret the inward
tendencies it has, and give them voice and activity, will obtain
the lead of it.

For the rest, that, as a thing _without_ order--a thing proceeding
from beyond and beneath the region of order--it must work and wither,
not as a regularity, but as a chaos--destructive and self-destructive
always; till something that _has_ order arise, strong enough to
bind it into subjection again; which something, we may further
conjecture, will not be a formula, with philosophical propositions
and forensic eloquence, but a reality, probably with a sword in its
hand!"

But, true as all this may be, Mr Carlyle would be the last man
to commend the Girondists had they allowed themselves to be borne
along _passively_ by this violent movement: is it fair dealing,
then, that their efforts--the only efforts they _could_ make--efforts
which cost them life, should be treated as little better than idle
pedantries?

But what criticism has to say in _praise_ of this extraordinary
work, let it not be said with stint or timidity.

The bold glance _at_ the Revolution, taken from his Diogenes' station,
and the vivid descriptions of its chief scenes, are unrivalled.

That many a page sorely tries the reader's patience is acknowledged,
and we might easily fill column after column with extracts, to show
that the style of Mr Carlyle, especially when it is necessary for
him to descend to the common track of history, can degenerate into
a mannerism scarce tolerable, for which no term of literary censure,
would be too severe.

We have, however, no disposition to make any such extracts; and our
readers, we are sure, would have little delight in perusing them.
On the other hand, when he does succeed, great is the glory thereof;
and we cannot forego the pleasure of making one quotation, however
well known the remarkable passages of this work may be, to illustrate
the triumphant power which he not unfrequently displays.

Here is a portion of his account of the _Taking of the Bastile_.

Moreover, the direction of that way appeared to be straight towards
the front.

Meanwhile, peacefully unconscious of this diagnosis, Weldon was
sitting on the river bank, prosaically occupied in scooping out the
remaining taste left in an almost-empty jam tin. Beside him, Carew
was similarly occupied. Two more jam tins were between them and,
exactly opposite the pair of jam tins, there squatted a burly
Kaffir, young, alert and crowned with a thatch of hair which by
rights should have sprouted from the back of a sable pig. His mouth
was slightly open, and now and then his tongue licked out, like the
tongue of an eager dog. Aside from his hair, his costume consisted
of one black sock worn in lieu of muffler and a worn pair of khaki
trousers.

Behind him, the river caught the sunset light and turned it to a
sheet of flowing copper; beyond stretched the open country in long,
waving lines that ended in the deep yellow band of the afterglow.
Above them, the sky was blue; but it dropped from the blue zenith to
the yellow horizon through every imaginable shade of emerald and
topaz until all other shades lost themselves in one vivid blaze of
burnt orange. It had been a day of intense heat. Already, however,
the falling twilight and the inevitable eastward shift of the wind
had brought the first hint of the evening chill.

Weldon shrugged his shoulders.

"Hurry up, Carew," he adjured his companion. "I am for leaving our
feast and hieing us back to the sanctuary."

"Right, oh!" Carew raised his jam tin and took careful aim at a rock
in mid stream.

Instantly the Kaffir hitched forward.

"Mine?" he demanded.

Carew stayed his arm.

"What for?"

"Eat. Um good."

"Nothing in there but atmosphere, sonny. You can get that out of any
box. Suppose I can hit that little black point, Weldon?"

"Not if I know it," Weldon said coolly, as he tossed his own tin to
the boy and, seizing that of Carew, threw it after its mate. "Let
the little coon have his lick, Carew. It's not pretty to watch him
go at it, tongue first; but we can't all be Chesterfields. What is
your name, sonny?"

The boy paused with suspended tongue, while he rolled the great
whites of his eyes up at the questioner. Then, the whites still
turned upon Weldon, he took one more hasty lick.

"Kruger Roberts," he said then, detaching himself for an instant
from his treasure. "Oh, I infer you like to sit on fences?" Weldon
said interrogatively.

"Ya, Boss."

"Which side do you intend to come down?"

"Me no come down," the boy answered nonchalantly, more from inherent
indifference than from any comprehension of Weldon's allegory.

"All right. Stop where you are. Meanwhile, I think I should call you
Jamboree."

"Ya, Boss." The face vanished from sight behind the tilted tin. Then
it reappeared, and a huge finger pointed to the remaining tins.
"Mine, too?"

But already the boy was forgotten. Weldon was following hard on the
heels of the sentry who had dashed through the gate in the
churchyard wall.

Four o'clock the next morning, that darkest hour which, by its very
darkness, heralds the coming dawn, found C. Squadron moving out from
the gray-walled churchyard, their faces set towards the eastern
mountains. All night long they had stood under arms, ready for the
attack which might be at hand. By dawn, they were well on their way
towards the laager, fifteen miles distant, whence had come the
scouting hand of Boers who, for two days past, had made leisurely
efforts to pick off their scattered sentinels. At the head of the
little troop rode Frazer. Behind him and as close to his heels as
military law allowed, came Weldon, mounted on the same little black
horse which had so often carried him to the hunt at home. Horse and
rider both sniffed the chilly dawn with eager anticipation. Each
knew that something was in store for them; each contrived to impress
upon the other his determination to make a record, whatever
happened. For one short minute, Weldon let his strong hand rest on
the satiny neck. He could feel the answering pressure of the muscles
beneath the shining skin. That was enough. He and The Nig were in
perfect understanding, one with another.

"Weldon?"

He spurred forward to the Captain's side and saluted.

"In the flurry, last night, I forgot to tell you that Miss Dent
comes to Piquetberg Road, to-day. She is to visit a cousin, Miss
Mellen; and she wished me to tell you that she hoped you could find
time to call upon her."

The Captain spoke low, his eyes, after the first moment, steadily
fixed upon the line of hills before them. Weldon answered in the
same low tone.

"You have heard from Miss Dent?"

"Yes. A note came, last night. She is to be here for a month, while
her uncle is in England on a business trip. Mr. Mellen is the mayor.
You probably know the house."

"I can easily find it. Please tell Miss Dent I shall be sure to call
as--"

A blinding flash ran along the line of hills close in the foreground
where, an instant before, had been only empty ground. There was a
sharp crackle, a strident hum and then the muffled plop of bullets
burying themselves in the earth six hundred feet in the rear. The
Nig grew taut in every muscle; then she edged slowly towards the
huge khaki-colored horse that bore the Captain, and, for an instant,
the two muzzles touched.

"Too long a range, man. Try it again," Frazer observed coolly, as
his glance swept the empty landscape, then, turning, swept the faces
of his men.

That last sight was to his liking. He nodded to himself and
straightened in his saddle, while the orders dropped from his lips,
swift, clean-cut and brooking no question nor delay. Ten men went
galloping off far to the southward, to vanish among the foothills
and reappear on the pass behind the enemy, while a dozen Boers,
springing up from the bowels of the earth, followed hard on their
heels. Ten more took the horses and fell back out of range of the
firing; and the remainder of the squadron stayed in their places and
helped to play out the game.

It was all quite simple, all a matter of course. Instead of the fuss
and fume and chaos of fighting, it had worked itself out like a
problem in mathematics, and Weldon, as he lay on the ground with his
Lee-Enfield cuddled into the curve of his shoulder, felt himself
reducing it to a pair of simultaneous equations: if X Britons equal
Y Boers on the firing line, and Y Britons draw off the fire of W
Boers, then how many Britons--But there came a second flash and a
second spatter, nearer, this time; and he lost his mathematics in a
sudden rush of bad temper which made him long to fly at the
invisible foe and beat him about the head with his clubbed rifle. It
was no especial satisfaction for a man in his position to climb up
on his elbow and help to discharge a volley at an empty landscape.
The war pictures he had been prone to study in his boyhood had been
full of twisty-necked prancing horses and bright-coated swaggering
men, all on their feet, and very hot and earnest. Here the picture
was made up of a row of brown-clothed forms lying flat on their
stomachs and, far before them, a single flat-topped hill and a few
heaps of scattered black rocks. And this was modern war.

There came a third blaze, a third hum of Mauser bullets. Then he
heard a swift intake of the breath, followed by Carew's voice, the
drawling, languid voice which Weldon had learned to associate with
moments of deep excitement.

"Say, Weldon, some beggar has hit me in the shoulder!"

Then of a sudden Weldon realized that at last he knew what it meant
to be under fire.


CHAPTER SEVEN


"Oh, truce! Truce!" Alice Mellen protested. "Don't talk shop,
Cooee."

"It's not shop; it is topics of the day," Ethel responded
tranquilly. "Besides, I want to hear about Mr. Carew. Is he
dangerous?"

Weldon laughed.

"No, for his wound; yes, for his temper. One was only a scratch; the
other way, he was horribly cut up."

"Did he swear?" Alice queried, while she distributed lumps of sugar
among the cups.

"Alice!"

"Don't pretend to be shocked, Cooee. Even if you haven't been out
but one season, you ought to know what happens when a man turns
testy. Frankly, I think it is a healthy sign, if a man stops to
swear when he is hit. It shows there are no morbid secretions."

"You prefer superficial outbreaks, Miss Mellen?" Frazer inquired, as
he handed Ethel her cup.

"Yes. They are far less likely to produce mortification later on,"
she answered, laughing up into his steady eyes. "What do you do,
when you are hit, Captain Frazer?"

"They call me Lucky Frazer, you know," he replied. "I've been in no
end of scrimmages, and I was never hit but once."

Bending over, Ethel turned back the cloth and thumped on the under
side of the table.

"Unberufen and Absit omen," she said hastily. "Don't tempt
Providence too far, Captain Frazer. At my coming-out reception, I
met a man who boasted that he always broke everything within range,
from hearts to china. Ten minutes later, he tripped over a rug and
fell down on top of the plate of salad he was bringing me. And he
didn't break a thing--"

"Except his own record," Weldon supplemented unexpectedly. "I
suspect he also broke the third commandment. The keeping of that and
the falling down in public are totally incompatible."

"And that reminds me, you were going to tell what Mr. Carew did when
he was hit," Ethel reminded him.

"I never tell tales, Miss Dent."

"But, really, how does it feel to be under fire?" she persisted.

"Ask Captain Frazer. He has had more experience than I."

She barely turned her eyes towards Frazer's face.

"He is talking to my cousin and won't hear. Were you frightened?"

"No."

"Truly? But you wouldn't confess, if you were."

He blushed at the mockery in her tone.

"Yes. Why not? I expected to be desperately afraid; but I was only
desperately angry."

"At what?"

"Nothing. That's the point. There was nothing in sight to be angry
at. Bullets came from nowhere in a pelting shower. Most of them
didn't hit anything; there was no cloud from which the shower could
come. One resented it, without knowing exactly why. It was being the
big fellow who can't hit back when the little one torments him."

"Cooee!"

The remonstrance was long-drawn and forceful. This time, Ethel
heeded.

"What is it, Alice?"

"Do you remember that, this noon, we agreed not to mention the war?
These men fight almost without ceasing. When they aren't fighting,
they do sentry and stables and things. This is an afternoon off for
them. We really must talk accordingly."

"What are you and Captain Frazer talking about?"

"Cricket and seven-year locusts."

Ethel held out her empty cup.

"Very well. Then Mr. Weldon and I will discuss mosquitoes and seven-
day Baptists. No sugar, please, and I'd like another of those snappy
things."

"Does that mean a Mauser?" Weldon asked, as he brought back her cup.

"No. I mean biscuits, not cats. But you sinned then. However, my
cousin has her eye upon us, so we must be distinctly frivolous. Is
there any especially peaceful subject you would like to discuss?"

"Yes. Please explain your name."

She looked up at him with sudden literalness.

"It is for my grandmother. For four hundred years there has been an
Ethel Dent in every generation."

"I meant the other."

"Oh, Cooee?" She laughed. "It dates from our first coming out here,
when we were children. My old Kaffir nurse--I was only five, that
first trip--used to call me so, and every one took it up. We went
back to England, after a few weeks, and the name was dropped; but my
uncle stayed out here, and he and my cousin always kept the old
word."

Weldon stirred his tea thoughtfully.

"I rather like it, do you know?" he said.

"Surely, you don't think it fits me?"

His eyes moved from her shining hair to the hem of her elaborate
white gown. Then he smiled and shook his head.

"Not to-day, perhaps. But the Miss Dent of the Dunottar Castle--"

She interrupted him a little abruptly.

"Does that mean I am two-sided?"

"No; only complex."

She smiled in gracious response.

"You did that very well, Mr. Weldon," she said, with a slight accent
of superiority which galled him. Then, before he could reply, she
changed the subject, speaking with a lowered voice. "And what of the
Captain?"

It suited his mood not to understand her.

"In what way?"

"Every way. What do you think of him?"

Then she drew back, abashed by the fervor of the answer, as he said
slowly,--

"That the Creator made him, and then broke the pattern."

The little pause which followed caught the alert attention of the
hostess, and convinced her that it was time to shift the groups to
another combination. A swift gesture summoned Weldon to the table,
while Frazer dropped into his vacant chair. Ethel met the Captain
with only a half-concealed eagerness. This was not the first time
that a consciously trivial word of hers had been crushed out of life
by Weldon's serious dignity. She was never quite able to understand
his mood upon such occasions. The man was no prig. At times, he was
as merry as a boy. At other times, he showed an inflexible
seriousness which left her with the vague feeling of being somehow
or other in the wrong. The result was a mood of pique, rather than
of antagonism. Up to that time, Ethel Dent had known only unreserved
approval. Weldon's occasional gravity, to her mind, suggested
certain reservations. By way of overcoming these reservations, she
focussed her whole attention upon Captain Leo Frazer. Across the
table, Weldon, in the intervals of his talk with his hostess, could
hear the low murmur of their absorbed conversation.

It had been at Ethel's suggestion that the tea-table had been set,
that hot afternoon, under the trees in the heart of the garden. Just
at the crossing of two broad walks, a vine-roofed kiosk gave shelter
from the late sunshine, while its bamboo screens were half raised to
show the long perspective of garden walk and distant lawn. Save for
the orange grove at the left and the ash-colored leaves of the
silver wattle above them, Weldon could almost have fancied himself
in England. The lawn with its conventional tennis court was
essentially English; English, too, the tray with its fixtures.
There, however, the resemblance stopped. The ebony handmaiden who
brought out the tray was never found in private life outside the
limits of South Africa. When she sought foreign countries, it was
merely as a denizen of a midway plaisance.

"Yes, and their names are their most distinctive feature," Alice
assented to Weldon's comment.

"More than their mouths?" he asked, with a flippant recollection
of Kruger Roberts engrossed in his jam tin.

"At least as much so," she responded, laughing. "You notice that I
called our maid Syb. She told me, when she came, that her old master
named her Sybarite. I understood it, the next day, when I found her
snoring on the drawing-room sofa."

During the time of her answer, Weldon took his opportunity to look
steadily at his young hostess. Up to the moment of the shifting of
the groups, he had been too fully absorbed in the pleasure of once
more meeting Ethel to pay much heed to any one else. Now he turned
his gray eyes upon Alice Mellen, partly from real interest in her
personality; partly to counterbalance the rapt attention which Ethel
was bestowing upon the Captain. She had been the selfsame Ethel, a
bundle of contradictions that attracted him at one moment and
antagonized him at the next. He liked her absolutely; his very
liking for her increased the sense of antagonism when, for the
instant, she departed from his ideals of what she ought to be. And
yet, Weldon was candid enough to admit to himself that she departed
from them, rather than fell below them. Often as she had antagonized
him, she had never really disappointed him.

As for Alice Mellen, he confessed himself surprised. Gathering
together all that Ethel had ever told him of her cousin, of her
living her entire life out there in the southern end of South
Africa, of her desire to be a nurse, he had pieced together an
effigy of the combined traits of a Hottentot and a vivandiere. This
girl answered to neither description. Her clothes and her manners
and her accent all had come, albeit with slow indirectness, from
London. Not only would she and her gowns pass muster in a crowd; but
furthermore she would end by being the focal point of a good share
of that crowd. Nevertheless, Weldon found it impossible to discover
her most distinctive point. Even while he sought it, he wondered to
himself whether this might not be another cousin of whom he had
never heard. The women doctors and nurses at home wore stout shoes
and had pockets let in at the seams of their frocks, useful,
doubtless, but with an unlovely tendency to yawn and show their
contents. This girl was a mere fluff of pale yellow organdie which
brought out the purplish lights in her ink-black hair.

"Did you have the heart to disturb her?" he asked, reverting to the
subject of Syb's nap.

"I was forced to. She was on all the cushions, and I needed one for
myself. She took it in good part, though. She told me she had been
disturbed, the night before, by the snoring of the parrot, two rooms
away. As a result, she left me feeling that the apology really ought
to come from me."

"Is that the way of the race?" Weldon queried, as he set down his
empty cup. "If so, you make me tremble."

"Why?"

"Because, without in the least intending it, I have accumulated a
boy."

She looked up suddenly.

"How do you mean?"

"I don't know how. It apparently did itself. It was the day before
we went out to be fired at, and he said his name was Kruger Roberts,
and I fed him some empty jam tins."

"A huge black boy with bristly hair?" she interpolated.

"Yes, and a mouth so large that one wonders how his face can hold it
all."

She sat up alertly, resting her folded arms on the edge of the
table.

"This becomes interesting. Kruger Roberts is Syb's avowed and lawful
lover."

Weldon laughed.

"Mine also, as it appears. As I say, I fed him jam tins. There were
four of them, and they were very jammy. Then we became interested in
the Boers, and I forgot Kruger Roberts. When I came back, yesterday
morning, dead tired and my horse all in a mess, I found Kruger
Roberts calmly sitting on my extra blankets, cleaning my shoes with
Paddy's best dishcloth. Paddy was in a wild state of mutiny, and
told me that that chattering baboon had vowed he was Trooper
Weldon's boy. Since then, I have tried in vain to dislodge him; but
it is no use. The Nig is like a piece of satin, and it is all I can
do to keep my compressed-paper buttons from winking defiance at the
Boers on the northern edge of Sahara."

Alice Mellen laughed with the air of one who understood the
situation.

"You builded better than you knew, Mr. Weldon, and your jam tins
will be no house of cards. The Kaffirs are an unaccountable race of
beings, lazy and good-natured. Once let them love or hate, though,
and all their strength goes into the working out of the feeling.
Kruger Roberts obviously has a sweet tooth; the day may come when
your enemies may find it changed to a poisoned fang. Do you want the
advice of one who knows the country?"

"I do," he assented heartily.

"Then keep your Kruger Roberts," she said decisively.

"But what shall I do with him?"

"Let him do for you."

"As a valet? I've never been used to such luxury," he protested,
laughing.

She shook her head.

"Not only valet. He will be groom, cook, guide, interpreter and,
whether you wish it or not, your chum. Moreover, he will do it all
with the face of a clown and the manner of a tricksy monkey. As a
panacea for the blues, you will find him invaluable."

There was a little pause. Then she added, with a complete change of
tone, "My cousin has spoken of you so often, Mr. Weldon."

"And of you," he returned.

The directness of her answer pleased him.

"Then we ought to start as friends, and not waste time over mere
acquaintance."

"I thought there were no acquaintances out here," he answered
lightly. "In camp, our first question is: Friend, or foe?"

"In the towns, we have every grade between. Often the same person
slides through all the grades in a single day. But you haven't
answered me."

His eyes met her eyes frankly.

"About the friendship? I thought that wasn't necessary."

"Customary, however," she suggested, with a smile.

"But, as I say, there are no customs here," he retorted. "At least,
I should have said so, this morning. Now I am not so sure." Then he
laughed. "I've bungled that horribly, Miss Mellen. What I meant was
that you have given me a very good time, this afternoon."

"Prove it by coming again," she advised him.

"If I may. I don't wish to wear out my welcome; but one hasn't so
many friends in South Africa."

"What about Kruger Roberts?" she reminded him.

"That gives me two."

"And Captain Frazer?"

Weldon's eyes lighted.

"Some day, perhaps. I would be willing to wait for that."

Gravely her glance roved from the alert young Canadian at her side
to the older, more steadfast face across the table. Then she shook
her head.

"You will not have to wait long, Mr. Weldon?" she said quietly.
"Captain Frazer spoke of you, a week ago. I have known him for
months; I know what, with him, stands for enthusiasm."

"I wish you might be a true prophet. I would honor you, even here in
your own garden. For the sake of Captain Frazer's regard, I would
give up most things," he replied, too low to be overheard by the
couple who were now chaffing each other above their cooling cups.

Later on, he wondered a little how far the apparent inconsequence of
her next question was the result of chance.

"What about Cooee?" she asked, in a voice as low as his own had
been.

He hesitated. Then he looked up at her steadily.

"Miss Mellen, I am sure I don't know," he answered gravely.


CHAPTER EIGHT


"Beastly shame that the Boers hadn't buried themselves instead of
the guns!" Carew remarked, as he wrestled with a tough thong of
bully beef which yielded to his jaws much as an India-rubber eraser
might have done.

Without making any pretence of extracting nutriment from his own
ration, Weldon converted it into a missile and hurled it straight at
his companion.

"There's this difference," he returned pithily; "a gun is a good
enough fellow to deserve Christian burial. Carew, do you ever yearn
for the fleshpots?"

Without bringing his jaws to a halt, Carew shook his head.

"Do you?" he asked, after a prolonged interval.

"Yes, if they could be brought here; not otherwise. I like the game;
but I also like a little more oats mixed with my fodder. How long is
it since we had a square meal?"

"How long since we halted in that pineapple grove, coming up from
Durban?" Carew retorted. "That made up for a good deal. You have no
cause to rebel, though. Between Paddy and Kruger Bobs, you stand in
for all the tidbits that are going."

With a mock sigh, Weldon pointed backward over his shoulder.

"But unfortunately Kruger Bobs and The Nig are left behind in the
shadow of Naauwpoort's dreary heights. By the way, Carew, does it
ever strike you that these Boers make a lot more fuss over their
spelling than they do over their pronunciation? At home, we'd get as
good results out of dozens less letters."

"They make as good use of their extra letters as they do of their
extra bullets," Carew returned tranquilly. "They've been sniping,
all the morning long, and they have only hit a man and a quarter
now."

"Which was the quarter?"

Turning, Carew displayed a jagged hole in his left sleeve. Weldon
laughed unfeelingly.

"Can't you keep out of range, you old target? If there's a bullet
coming your way, it's bound to graze you."

"This is only the fourth. Only one of those really meant business.
Oh, hang it! There they go again!" he burst out, as a distant line
of rocks crackled explosively and, a moment later, a random bullet
opened up the side of his shoe.

With the swift change of occupation to which the past four months
had accustomed them, they were soon in the saddle and galloping off
across the rolling veldt. Before them, a pair of guns were pounding
away at the rocky line and its flanking bushes, and beyond, over the
crest of the next ridge, scores of thick-set, burly figures were
racing in search of shelter, with a fragment of the Scottish Horse
in hot pursuit.

Neck and neck in the vanguard raced Weldon and Carew, with Captain
Frazer's huge khaki-colored horse hard on their heels. To Weldon,
the next hour was one of fierce excitement and pleasure. The shriek
of the shells, long since left behind, the flying figures before
them, the rise and fall of his own gray little broncho as she
stretched herself to measure the interminable veldt, the khaki-
colored desert, dotted with huge black rocks and shimmering with the
heat waves which rose above it towards the midday sun: his pulses
tingled and his head throbbed with the glorious rush of it all.

And then the slouching figures were met by other slouching figures,
and reluctantly Weldon drew in his horse, as the halt was ordered.
Only madness would prolong the chase against such heavy odds. Mere
sanity demanded that the troopers should delay until the column came
up. The action must wait, while the heliograph flashed its call for
help. Weldon grumbled low into Carew's ear, as the minutes dragged
themselves along, broken only by indeterminate volleys.

"I have exactly five rounds left," he said at length. "I believe in
obedience, Carew; but, when I get this used up, by jingo, I'll pitch
into those fellows on my own account."

"Keep cool," Carew advised him temperately. "You always were a
thriftless fellow; you must have been wasting your fire. Oh, I say,
what's the row in the rear?"

"The column, most likely. It's time, too. Those fellows would be on
us in a minute. Ah ha!" And Weldon drew a quick breath of
admiration, as the guns came up at the gallop under the watchful eye
of the Imperial Yeomanry.

Once in position on a rise to the left, quickly the guns unlimbered
and opened fire, while the sergeants gathered around the boxes of
spare cartridges on the ground beside the panting ammunition horse.
Then at last came the order for the advance, the order so eagerly
awaited by Weldon, maddened by his long exposure to the bullets of
his unseen foe. In extended order, the squadrons galloped forward
until their goal was a scant five hundred yards away, when of a
sudden a murderous fire broke out from the rocks in front of them,
emptying many a saddle and dropping many a horse. Under such
conditions, safety lay only in an unswerving charge.

Close on their leaders' heels, the troopers spurred forward and,
revolver in right hand, rifle in left, they charged over the
remaining bit of ground and into the midst of the Boer position.
Briton and Boer met, face to face. Revolvers cracked; Boers dropped.

Mausers crashed; Britons fell. And then, through and over, the
British charge had passed.

Even then Weldon found no place for pause. From behind the Boer
position, a band of their reinforcements came galloping down upon
him. Caught between the two lines, the squadrons wheeled about, fell
again upon the broken enemy, dashed through them and, amid the
leaden hail, retired upon their own guns. And now once more the
gunners could reopen fire, and the shells dropped thick and fast.
The moment for a general advance had come. In open order, a thousand
men dashed forward and reached the ridge, only to see the retiring
foe galloping away in all directions across the open veldt. A halt
was ordered, to rest the winded mounts. Pickets were thrown out on
front and flank, while the British awaited their approaching convoy.
That night, the column rested upon the veldt at Vlaakfontein.

After the rush of the day, its hope and its succeeding
disappointment, Weldon was long in falling asleep. Carew was out on
picket; Captain Frazer, coat off and sleeves rolled to his
shoulders, was busy among the wounded, and Weldon had cared to make
few other close friends in the squadron. Around him, he could hear
the murmurs of other sleepless ones; but he lay silent, his arms
under his head, his face turned upward to the shining perspective of
the stars. In similar perspective there ranged them-selves before
his mind the events of the past twelve weeks.

Already the month at Piquetberg Road seemed a chapter out of another
volume. It had culminated in that languid afternoon spent around the
tea-table under the wattle tree in the garden, culminated there and
also ended there. With the unexpectedness that marks all things in a
time of war, the next noon found him steaming across the Cape Flats,
with Maitland in sight. Two days later, they were loaded on an empty
hospital ship returning to Durban. Piquetberg Road was child's play
now, for the front was almost in sight. The voyage had been beastly;
but after it had come the real beginning of things. Natal, in those
days of late February, had seemed deserving of its name, a true
Garden of Africa. The crossing was now a memory of heavy grades, of
verdant country, of ripened fruits. There had been the week's delay
at Pietermaritzburg where they had tasted a bit of civilization in
the intervals of completing their outfits; there had been the brief
stop at Ladysmith, already recovered from her hardships of the year
before, then the crossing the border into the Transvaal where the
verdure slowly vanished to give place to the dreary wastes of red-
brown veldt. At Johannesburg, he had manufactured an excuse for a
long letter to Ethel who--

"Show a leg there!"

The sergeant's voice at his ear called him back to the realities of
life. He sat up as alertly as if he had slept upon eider-down.

By eight o'clock, Weldon was out on the veldt, two miles from camp.
Before him, a force of Yeomanry was guarding the two guns; around
him, a detail from his own squadron protected the flank on the
right. And, still farther to the right, a cloud of yellowish smoke
rose skyward across the yellower sunshine. Then, of a sudden, out
from the heart of the wall of smoke came a muffled thud and roar,
confused at first, growing strident and more detached until,
sweeping from the haze of smoke, five score Boer horsemen rode in a
bolt-like rush, fierce and uncheckable. Without swerving to right or
left, they charged straight towards the Yeomanry drawn up beside the
guns, drove them back and shot down the gunners almost to a man. An
instant later, the guns were whirled about and trained upon their
quondam owners.

From over his breakfast, that morning, the General raised his head
to listen to the booming of the fifteen-pounders. No need to tell
him that heavy fighting had begun. His experienced ear had taught
him that magazine firing meant business. His hand went in search of
his field-glasses.

"General, the enemy have captured the guns. The Major asks for
assistance to retake them."

The General lowered his glasses. Covered with dust, and breathless,
Weldon was before him.

"Mount every available man, and gallop to the scene of action!"

Orderlies carried the command to the different regiments. Before the
mounted men could start, the infantry were half-way to the guns. But
already shells were falling into the camp, telling every man that
the guns were in the hands of the Boers.

In the forefront of the remainder of his squadron, Weldon found
himself borne onward in the rush, straight from the camp to the
right flank of the guns. The broncho's swinging trot had long since
changed to a gallop, and her eyes were flashing with the wicked
light of her old, unbroken days, as she went tearing across the sun-
baked veldt, up and down over the rises and through the rare bits of
thicket at a pace which Weldon would have been powerless to check.
He had no mind to check it. The crisp air, full of ozone and warmed
by the sun, set his cheeks to tingling with its impact. A true
rider, he let his mood follow the temper of his horse and, like a
pair of wild things, they went bolting away far towards the head of
the squadrons.

And always the firing of the guns grew nearer and faster and more
murderous.

He took no note of passing moments, none of the miles he had ridden
during the past days. These counted for naught, while, with
photographic distinctness, the picture before him fixed itself
sharply in his mind: the dust-colored troops on the dusty veldt, the
brown-painted guns, the distant line of the enemy's fire and, far to
the eastward, the wall of smoke which was fast sweeping towards them
from the acres of burning veldt.

"Captain Frazer, the General orders you to take up your position in
the kraal on the extreme right, and to hold it at any cost."

From his place at the Captain's side, Weldon glanced at the orderly,
then, turning, looked across the veldt to the four gray walls
surrounding the clump of trees a mile away. His hand tightened on
the curb, and he straightened in the saddle, as the Captain led the
way into the purgatory beyond, an orderly purgatory, but crossed
with leaden lines of shot and shell.

At such moments, the brain ceases to act coherently. When Weldon
came to himself, he was kneeling behind the old gray wall, revolver
in hand, firing full in the faces of the Boer horsemen, scarce
fifteen feet away. Carew, his right foot dangling, had been hustled
to the rear of the kraal where the gray broncho and her mates were
in comparative shelter.

"Weldon?"

He looked up in a half-dazed fashion. The wall of smoke was already
shutting down about the retreating Boers. Beside him stood the
Captain, his yellow hair clinging to his dripping face, his blue
eyes, under their fringe of black lashes, glittering like polished
gems. Coated as he was with dust and sweat, his clothing torn and
spotted with the fray, he looked ten times more the gallant
gentleman, even, than when he had met Weldon in the heart-shaped
bit of lawn encircled by the Dents' driveway. Now he held out his
hand.

See Bartholome de Alva, _Confessionario en Lengua Mexicana_, fol.
13 (Mexico, 1634); Tezozomoc, _Cronica Mexicana_, cap. 55; D.G.

Brinton; _The Journey of the Soul_ (in Aztec and Aryan Myths),
Philadelphia, 1883.

_yhuintia_, causative form of _ihuinti_, to make drunk. The Nirvana
of the Nahuas was for the soul to lie in dense smoke and darkness,
filled with utter content, and free from all impressions ("en lo
profundo de contento y obscuridad," Tezozomoc, _Cronica Mexicana_,
cap. 55).

NOTES FOR SONG II.

On the signification of the titles given to this poem see the
Introduction, § 3.

1.

_yehnan Dios_; literally "who are God;" the introduction of the
Spanish _Dios_, God, is in explanation of _in tloque in nahuaque_;
so far from proving that this song is of late date, this vouches
for its genuine ancient character, through the necessity for such
explanation.

2.

_nelhuayotl_, the essence or source of something, its true nature;
probably from _nelli_, true.

_teoquecholme_; the prefix _teotl_, divine, is often added as an
expression of admiration. Sahagun mentions the _teoquechol_
as a bird of brilliant plumage.

NOTES FOR SONG III.

The poet recalls a recent attendance on the obsequies of an
acquaintance, and seeks to divert his mind from the gloomy contemplation
of death and the ephemeral character of mortal joys by urging his
friend to join in the pleasure of the hour, and by suggesting the
probability of an after life.

1.

_xochicalco_; compounded of _xochitl_, flower; _calli_, house; and
the postposition, _co_.

The term was applied to any room decorated with flowers; here, to
the mortuary chamber, which Tezozomoc tells us was decked with roses
and brilliant feathers.

_ipalnemohuani_, literally "the one by whom life exists." The
composition is _i_, possessive pronoun, third person, singular;
_pal_, postposition, by; _nemoani_, singular of the present in
_ni_ of the impersonal form of the verb _nemi_, to live, with the
meaning to do habitually that which the verb expresses.

It is an ancient epithet applied to the highest divinity, and is
found in the _Codex Telleriano-Remensis_, Kingsborough's _Mexico_,
Vol.

VI, p. 128, note.

_tolquatectitlan_, from _toloa_, to lower, to bow; _quatequia_, to
immerse the head; _tlan_, place ending.

In the ancient funeral ceremonies the faces of the assistants
were laved with holy water. On this rite see the note of Orozco y
Berra to his edition of the _Cronica Mexicana_ of Tezozomoc, p. 435
(Mexico, 1878).

_xoyacaltitlan_; from _xoyaui_, to spoil, to decay, whence
_xoyauhqui_, rank, unpleasant, like the odor of decaying
substances.

_xochicopal tlenamactli_, "the incense of sweet copal," which was
burned in the funeral chamber (see Tezozomoc's description of the
obsequies of Axayaca, _Cron. Mex._, cap. 55).

2. The translation of this verse offers some special difficulties.

NOTES FOR SONG IV.

A poem of unusually rich metaphors is presented, with the title "A
Song of the Mexicans, after the manner of the Otomis." It is a
rhapsody, in which the bard sings his "faculty divine," and
describes the intoxication of the poetic inspiration. It has every
inherent mark of antiquity, and its thought is free from any
tincture of European influence.

2. _miahuatototl_, literally, "the corn-silk bird," _miahua_ being
the term applied to the silk or tassel of the maize ear when in
the milk.

I have not found its scientific designation.

6.

_poyomatl_; the poyomatli is described by Sahagun (_Hist. de la
Nueva España_, Lib.

X, cap. 24) as a species of rose, portions of which were used to
fill the cane tubes or pipes used for smoking.

He names it along with certain fungi employed for the same purpose,
and it probably produced a narcotic effect.

NOTES FOR SONG V.

From the wording, this appears to be one of the lost songs of
Nezahualcoyotl, either composed by him or sung before him.

(See the Introduction, p. 35.)

It is a funeral dirge, dwelling on the fact of universal and
inevitable death, and the transitoriness of life.

There is in it no hint of Christian consolation, no comfortable
hope of happiness beyond the grave.

Hence it dates, in all likelihood, from a period anterior to the
arrival of the missionaries.

1. _tonequimilol_; I take this to be a derivative from _quimiloa_, to
wrap up, especially, to shroud the dead, to wrap the corpse in its
winding sheets, as was the custom of the ancient Mexicans. The
word, however, seems an archaic form, as it does not lend itself
readily to analysis.

The expression _in Dios_, I explain as in the note to II, 1, and
do not consider that it detracts from the authentic antiquity of
the poem.

2.

_yoyontzin_; on the significance of this appellation of Nezahualcoyotl,
see Introduction, p. 35.

3.

_ti Nezahualcoyotl_; "thou Nezahualcoyotl." The princely poet may
have addressed himself in this expression, or we may suppose the
song was chanted before him.

5.

_Nopiltzin_; the reference is to Quetzalcoatl, the famous "fair God"
of the Nahuas, and in myth, the last ruler of the Toltecs. See D.G.
Brinton, _American Hero Myths_ (Philadelphia, 1882). The term means
"my beloved Lord." On Tezozomoc, see Introduction, p. 35.

6. The text of the latter part or refrain of verses 5 and 6 is corrupt,
and my translation is doubtful.

NOTES FOR SONG VI.

Most of the poems in this collection are not assigned to any author,
but this, and apparently the one following, are recorded as the
compositions of Tetlapan Quetzanitzin.

He is evidently the personage spoken of by Sahagun as "King of
Tlacopan," as present with Montezuma on the occasion of his first
interview with Cortez.

Later in the struggle Tetlapan appears as the associate of Quauhtemoctzin,
the "King of Mexico."

(See Sahagun, _Hist. de la Nueva España_, Lib.

XII, cap. 16 and 40.)

M.

Rémi Simeon explains the name to mean "he who deceives the people
by magic;" deriving it from _quetza_, he places; _te_, the people,
_tlepan_, on the fire.

A simpler derivation seems to me possible from _tetlapanqui_,
miner, or quarryman (literally, stone-breaker), and _quetzalli_,
red; _quetzatzin_, the lord or master of the miners.

Both this and the following are war songs, and have marked
similarity in thought and wording.

The introduction of the Spanish _Dios_ was doubtless substituted
by the scribe, for the name of some native god of war, perhaps
Huitzilopochtli.

1.

_Aua_; this word I take to be a form of the interjection _yahue_, or,
as Olmos gives it in his _Grammar, aa_.

2. _nepohualoyan_; "the place of counting or reckoning," from _pohua_,
to count. The reference is not clear, and the translation uncertain.
In some parts of ancient Mexico they used in their accounting
knotted cords of various colors, like the Peruvian _quipus_. These
were called _nepohualtzitzin_.

4. This verse is remarkable for its sonorous phrases and the archaic
forms of the words.

Its translation offers considerable difficulty.

_xontlachayan_, I take to be an imperative form from _tlachia_, to
look, with the euphonic _on_.

_teoatl tlachinolli_, literally "the divine water (i.e. blood), the
burning," and the expression means war, battle.

In one of his sermons Fray Juan Bautista describes the fall of
Jericho in the words, _otlaltitechya in altepetl teuatl tlachinolli
ye opoliuh_, and explains it, "the town was destroyed with fire and
blood" (_Sermones en Lengua Mexicana_, p. 122).

The word _tlachinolli_ is from _chinoa_, to burn.

_quetzalalpilo_; a compound of _quetzalli_, a beautiful feather,
and _tlalpiloni_, the band which passed around the head to keep
the hair in place.

5.

_melchiquiuhticaya_; "he who presented his breast," an imperfect,
reflexive form. Molina gives _melchiquiuh petlauhqui_, with the
translation _despechugado_. _Vocabulario Mexicana, s.v._

NOTES FOR SONG VII.

The second specimen from the muse of Tetlapan Quetzanitzin is the
noblest war song in the collection. It is an appeal to his
friends to join in a foray to Chiapas. The intoxication of the
battle field is compared to that produced by the strong white wine
prepared from maguey, which was drunk only on solemn occasions. The
bard likens the exhaustion of his fellow warriors from previous
conflicts, to the stupor which follows a debauch, and he exhorts
them to throw it aside.

1. _oamaxque_, _o_, pret. _am_, you, _axque_, 2d pl. pret. from _ay_,
to do.

_octicatl_, apparently an old form from _octli_, the intoxicating
beverage prepared from the maguey.

_oanquique_, 2d pl. pret. from _cui_, to take.

_ohuican_, a place of difficulty and danger.

The frequent addition of the terminal _o_ in this and the
succeeding verses is merely euphonic.

2. _teoatl tlachinolli_; see note VI, 4.

_in maquiztli tlazotetl_, the beloved jewels, a phrase which indicates
that the broken stones and splintered emeralds referred to are
the young warriors who fall in battle, the pride of their parents'
hearts, who are destroyed in the fight.

The _tizaoctli_, white wine (_tizatl_, chalk, hence white, and _octli_,
wine), referred to in this passage, is said by Sahagun to have
been drunk especially at the feast of the god Papaztac, one of the
many gods of the wine cup.

_Hist. de Nueva España_. Lib. II, App.
Tezozomoc mentions it as handed to the mourners at funeral ceremonies.
_Cronica Mexicana_, cap. 55.

3. _xochitlalticpacilhtuicacpao_; in this long compound of _xochitl_,
flower, _tlalti_, earth, and _ilhuicatl_, sky, with various
postpositions and the euphonic terminal _o_, the final _pa_ gives
the sense of location, towards, in the direction of.

_chimalxochiti_; "the shield flower," the shield or buckler of the
ancient warriors, ornamented with tassels and feathers, is not
unaptly called the flower of war.

NOTES FOR SONG VIII.

The entire absence in this lament for the dead of any consolation
drawn from Christian doctrines, points clearly to a date for its
composition earlier than the teachings of the missionaries.

Its cry of woe is hopeless, and the title attributes its authorship
to one of the old chieftains, _tlatoani_, who held the power before
the Spaniard arrived.

1.

_quetzalhuahuaciuhtoque_, from _quetzalli, huaqui_; _in teintoque_,
the splinters; the same simile is employed in VII, 2.

2.

_ximoayan_, see note to I, 8.

The occurrence of this term here and in verse 3 testifies to the
fact of a composition outside of Christian influences.

NOTES FOR SONG IX.

The title does not necessarily mean that this song is a translation
from the Otomi language, but merely that the time to which it was
chanted was in the Otomi style; or, the term _Otomi_ may have
reference to the military officer so called.

The word is perhaps a compound of _otli_, path, and _mitl_, arrow.

The bard sings the vanity of earthly pleasures, and the reality of
earthly pains; he exhorts himself and his hearers not to neglect
the duties of religion, and lauds his own skill in song, which he
compares to the sweet voices of melodious birds.

There is nothing in the poem which reflects European influence.

1. _xotlacueponi_; the meaning of this compound is obscure. It is
not found in the dictionaries.

2.

The terminal _o_ is inserted several times in the passage to express
emotion and fill the metre.

_mixitl tlapatl_. A phrase signifying the stupor or drunkenness that
comes from swallowing or smoking narcotic plants. See Olmos,
_Grammaire de la Langue Nahuatl_, pp. 223, 228; _oquiqueo_ is
from _i_, to drink, or _cui_, to take, the _o_ terminal being
euphonic.

NOTES FOR SONG X.

The poet expresses his grief that his songs all dwell on painful topics;
he exhorts his hearers of the vanity of fame and skill in handicrafts,
and of the uncertainty of life; closing, he appeals especially to
those of Tezcuco and Atecpan to listen and believe his warnings.

In spite of the introduction of the Spanish word _Dios_, and the
exhortation to "believe," in the last line, it is possible that the
substance of this song was due to purely native inspiration; yet
it may have been, like Song XIX, one of those written at an early
period for the converts by the missionaries.

NOTES FOR SONG XI.

In a similar strain as in the last poem, the bard bewails the
briefness of human life and friendships. He closes with an appeal to
the Master of Life, of whom no mortal tongue can speak in worthy and
appropriate terms.

6. _ihuiti_, apparently a form of _ihuintia_.

_tonan_; the reference appears to be to _Tonantzin_, Our Mother,
otherwise known as Cihuacoatl, the Serpent Woman. She was the
mythical mother of the human race, and dispensed afflictions and
adverse fortune. See Sahagun, _Hist. de la Nueva España_, Lib. I,
cap. 6. The name is a proof of the antiquity of the poem, which is
throughout in the spirit of the ancient religion.

NOTES FOR SONG XII.

As stated in the Introduction (§ 10), a note prefixed to this song
introduces it as a translation from the Otomi into the Nahuatl
tongue.

It admirably illustrates the poetic flexibility of the Nahuatl.

3.

_epoyhuayan_, from _epoalli_, sixty; _teoquauhtli ocelott_, "divine
eagles, tigers."

These terms refer to the warriors bearing these titles.

_tlazomaquiztetl_, "beloved, precious stones," a figure of speech
referring to the youths who go to war. The same or similar metaphors
are used in previous songs.

5. The fifth and sixth verses present serious difficulties of construction
which I do not flatter myself I have overcome.

NOTES FOR SONG XIII.

The inhabitants of Huexotzinco were in frequent strife with those
of Mexico-Tenochtitlan, and on various occasions the latter captured
many prisoners.

The present poem is represented to be a composition of one of these
prisoners when he and his companions were confined in Tlatilolco,
one of the suburbs of Tenochtitlan. It breathes hatred against his
captors and an ardent thirst for vengeance. The latest date at
which I find captives from Huexotzinco detained in Mexico is 1511,
and it is to this year, therefore, that I assign the composition of
the poem.

5.

_Atloyantepetl_; this name possibly means "the mountain of the place
of the water-falcons" (_atl_, water; _tlatli_, falcon; _yan_,
place-ending; _tepetl_, mountain).

I have not found it in other writers. (See Index.)
8. _tlaylotlaqui_; Siméon, on the authority of Aubin, explains this
term as the name of a tribe living near Tezcuco. In derivation it
appears to be a term of contempt, "workers in filth or refuse,"
scum, offscourings.

It also appears in Song XV.

10. The construction of this verse is so obscure, or the text so
imperfect, that the translation is doubtful.

NOTES FOR SONG XIV.

This poem, chanted in 1551 before the Governor of Azcapotzalco, by
Francisco Placido, a native of Huexotzinco, is a Christian song in
the style and metre of the ancient poetry.

See the Introduction, p.
51.

1. _impetlatl_; the ordinary meaning of _petlatl_ is a mat or
rug; it is here to be taken in its figurative sense of power or
authority, chiefs and other prominent persons being provided with
mats at the councils, etc.

NOTES FOR SONG XV.

This extremely difficult composition seems to be a war song, in which
the bard refers to the traditional history of the Nahuas, names some
of their most prominent warriors, and incites his hearers to deeds
of prowess on the battle field. I do not claim for my version
more than a general correspondence to the thought of the original.

In several parts, especially verse 18, the text is obviously
defective.

1.

_tzihuactitlan_; "the land of the tzihuac bushes." The tzihuactli
is a small kind of maguey which grows in rocky localities.

The tenth edifice of the great temple at Tenochtitlan was a wall
surrounding an artificial rockery planted with these bushes.

Sahagun, who mentions this fact, adds that the name of this edifice
was _Teotlalpan_, which literally means "on holy ground."

(_Hist. de la Nueva España_, Lib.

II, App.) The _mizquitl_ is the common _Mimosa circinalis_.

_Chicomoztoc_; "at the Seven Caves," a famous locality in Mexican
legend, and the supposed birthplace of their race.

2.

_Colhuacan_ is probably for Acolhuacan; the early rulers of the
latter were of the blood of the Chichimec chiefs of the Tepanecas.
4.

_Hueytlalpan_, "at the ancient land," perhaps for Huetlapallan, a
1ocality often referred to in the migration myths of the Nahuas.

5.

_Atloyan_; see note to XIII, 6.

9.

The ceiba and cypress trees were employed figuratively to indicate
protection and safeguard.

See Olmos, _Gram. de la Langue Nahuatl_, p.
211.

12. On _tlailotlaqui_, see note to XIII, 8. The interjectional
appendages to this and the following verse are increased.

15. Tepeyacan was the name of a mountain on which before the Conquest
was a temple dedicated to the "Mother of our Life," Tonantzin.

16.

_tlapalcayocan_, "the place of shards," of broken pieces, i.e., the
field of battle.

19. The word _totomihuacan_, which has already occurred in vv. 3 and
7, I have translated as referring to the war captains of the Mexican
armies, called _otomi_ (see Bandelier, _On the Art of War of the
Ancient Mexicans_, p. 117).

I am quite open for correction however.

27.

_in ipetl icpal_; in a translation of an ancient song, Ixtlilxochitl
renders the expression _in ipetl icpal in teotl_, "en el trono y
tribunal de Dios," _Historia Chichimeca_, cap. 32.

29.

_Mictlan_; the place of departed souls in Aztec mythology.

NOTES FOR SONG XVI.

In this stirring war-song, the poet reproaches his friends for their
lukewarmness in the love of battle. He reminds them that life is
transitory, and the dead rise not again, and that the greatest joy
of the brave is on the ringing field of fray where warriors win
renown.

It is in the spirit of the Scotch harper:--
"'Twere worth ten years of peaceful life,
One hour of such a day." 
1.

Each verse terminates with an interjectional refrain.

The frequent introduction of the particle _on_ is intended to add
strength and gravity to the oration.

2.

_oppan piltihua_.

Compare this expression with that in v. 22, p.
44.

3.

_xochimicohuayan_, should perhaps be translated, "where the captives
to be immolated to the Gods are taken."

The _xochimique_, "those destined to a flowery death" were the
captives who were reserved for sacrifice to the gods. See Joan Bautista,
_Sermonario en Lengua Mexicana_, p. 180.

4.

_yaoxochimiquiztica_, "pertaining to the slaughter of the flowery
war."

This adjective refers to the peculiar institution of the "flowery
war," _guerra florida_, which obtained among the ancient Mexicans.

It appears to have been a contest without provocation, and merely
for the display of prowess and to take captives to supply the demand
for human sacrifices in the religious rites.

On this see Tezozomoc, _Cronica Mexicana_, cap. 96.

NOTES FOR SONG XVII.

In this long fragment--the closing strophes are missing in my MS.

--the bard represents himself as a stranger appearing before the nobles
of Huexotzinco at some festival.

The first two verses appear to be addressed to him by the nobles.

They ask him to bring forth his drum and sing.

He begins with a laudation of the power of music, proceeds to praise
the noble company present, and touches those regretful chords, so
common in the Nahuatl poetry, which hint at the ephemeral nature
of all joy and the certainty of death and oblivion.

An appeal is made to the Master of Life who inspires the soul of the
poet, and whose praises should be ever in mind.

The words _Dios_ and _angelotin_, in verse 26th, indicate that
the poem has received some "recension" by the Spanish copyist; but
the general tone impresses me as quite aboriginal in character.

2.

_quauhtlocelotl_, see note to I, 5.

3.

In this verse, as frequently elsewhere, the syllable ya is introduced
merely to complete the metre.

Ordinarily it is the sign of the imperfect tense, and has other
meanings (see the Vocabulary), but in many instances does not admit
of translation.

8.

_noncoati_, for _ni-on-coatl_, I am a guest.

18.

The references in this verse are obscure, and I doubt if I have solved
them.

20. "The house of spring;" compare the expression in v. 1, of
Nezahualcoyotl's song, p. 42.

21.

A long oration of Xicontecatl, lord of Tizatlan, may be found in
Clavigero, _Hist.

Antica di Messico_, Tom. III, p. 40. The expression in _camaxochitzin_,
from _camatl_, mouth, _xochitl_, rose, flower, and the reverential
_tzin_, is noteworthy.

24.

_petlacoatl_, the centipede or scolopender; from _petlatl_, mat,
and _coatl_, serpent, as they are said to intertwine with each
other, like the threads of a mat (Sahagun, Lib.

XII, cap. 4).

NOTES FOR SONG XVIII.

At this portion of the MS. several poems are preceded by a line of
syllables indicating their accompaniment on the teponaztli (see
Introduction, p. 32).

The present number is one of the most noteworthy songs of the
collection.

It belongs to the ancient cyclus of Quetzalcoatl myths, and gives
a brief relation of the destruction of Tollan and the departure and
disappearance of the Light God, Quetzalcoatl Ce Acatl.

As I have elsewhere collated this typical myth at length, and
interpreted it according to the tenets of modern mythologic science,
I shall not dwell upon it here (see D.G. Brinton, _American Hero
Myths_, Phila., 1882).

The text of the poem is quite archaic, and presents many difficulties.
But my translation, I think, gives the general sense correctly.

1.

_huapalcalli_; literally, "the house constructed of beams." This name
was applied to the chief temple of the Toltecs; the ruins of an
ancient structure at Tollantzinco were pointed out at the time of
the Conquest as those of this building (see Sahagun, _Hist. de la
Nueva España_, Lib.

X, cap. 29).

_coatlaquetzalli_; this edifice, said to have been left incomplete
by Quetzalcoatl, when he forsook Tollan, had pillars in the form
of a serpent, the head at the base, the tail at the top of the
pillar.

(See Orozco y Berra, _Hist. Antigua de Mexico_, Tom.

III, pp. 30 and 46.)

The structure is mentioned as follows in the _Anales de Cuauhtitlan_:--

_Auh iniquac nemia Quetzalcoatl quitzintica, quipeuahtica iteocal
quimaman coatlaquetzali ihuan amo quitzonquixti, amo quipantlaz

."_
"And when Quetzalcoatl was living, he began and commenced the temple
of his which is the Coatlaquetzali (Serpent Plumes), and he did not
finish it, he did not fully erect it."

_Nacxitl Topiltzin_, "Our Lord the four-footed."

_Nacxitl_ appears to have been the name of Quetzalcoatl, in his
position as lord of the merchants. Compare Sahagun, ubi supra, Lib.
I, cap. 19.

2. _Poyauhtecatl_, a volcano near Orizaba, mentioned by Sahagun.

_Acallan_, a province bordering on the Laguna de los Terminos.

The myth reported that Quetzalcoatl journeyed to the shores of the
Gulf about the isthmus of Tehuantepec and there disappeared.

3.

_Nonohualco_; the reference is to the _cerro de Nonoalco_, which
plays a part in the Quetzalcoatl myth.

The words of the song are almost those of Tezcatlipoca when he is
introduced to Quetzalcoatl.

Asked whence he came, he replied, "Nihuitz in Nonohualcatepetl
itzintla, etc." (_Anales de Cuauhtitlan_).

4.

The occurrences alluded to are the marvels performed by Quetzalcoatl
on his journey from Tulan.

See my American Hero Myths, p. 115.

5.
"Miss Dent is a hero-worshipper," he commented.

"So are we all, in certain directions. Moreover, most women like
their heroes to have a little personality. One can't make one's
admiration stick to a blank wall of impersonal perfection."

Weldon's mind moved swiftly backwards to two blue, black-fringed
eyes glowing out from a dust-streaked face.

"No," he assented; "but neither can one ever really be chums with
his hero. Or, even if he can, he doesn't care to try the
experiment."

Alice glanced at her watch, rose, then lingered.

"I am not so sure of that," she replied thoughtfully. "I want the
pedestal of my hero to be a low one; and Cooee declares that she
wishes no pedestal at all. If her hero is worthy of the name, he
must bear inspection even from above. The worst flaw of all might
lurk in the very crown of his head."

Half an hour later, she came back again.

"Mr. Weldon, do you feel strong enough to see Kruger Bobs for
exactly five minutes?" she asked.

The gray eyes lighted.

"For ten times five," he answered eagerly.

Kruger Bobs shuffled in upon the heels of an orderly. Under his
bristly hair, his face was a study of mingled emotions which
culminated in his mouth. A grin of pure happiness had drawn up the
upper lip; at sight of his prostrate master, the lower one was
rolling outward in a sudden wave of pure pity. Beside the cot, he
halted and stood looking down at Weldon with eyes which, for the
moment, transformed his lazy, jolly, simian face into a species of
nobility. Lying back on his pillow, Weldon waited for him to speak,
waited with an odd, restless beating of the heart for which he was
wholly at a loss to account.

The pause between them lengthened. At last Kruger Bobs drew his
mangy brown felt hat across his eyes.

"I's here, Boss," he said simply.

However, it was enough.

The next morning found Weldon sitting up. A clean-cut hole through
the flesh of a man who has lived a clean-cut life is swift in
healing. Now that his fever had left him, his superb vitality was
asserting itself once more, and he rallied quickly. Meanwhile, it
was good to be able to sit up and eat his breakfast like a civilized
being. Weldon had all the detestation of the average healthy being
for invalid ways. Moreover, he longed to be up and doing. With his
growing strength, the orderly, noiseless routine of the hospital
came upon his nerves. One of the nurses always walked on the points
of her toes; and he was conscious of a wild longing to throw a
pillow at her, as she went diddling to and fro past him, a dozen
times a day. The doctor, a man of iron nerve and velvet hand, was a
daily delight to him. And there was always Alice, frank, friendly
and altogether enjoyable. During the past three days, their liking
had grown apace. Absolutely feminine, yet with the healthy
impersonality of a growing boy, Alice Mellen was a born comrade, and
Weldon enjoyed her just as, in her place, he would have enjoyed
Carew.

She came down the ward, that morning, and paused beside his chair.

"You look like your old self at last," she said, as she held out her
hand in congratulation.

"I might echo your words," he answered, while he looked up into her
eyes, shining with merriment and with something that yet seemed to
him closely akin to annoyance. "Granted the apron, you might be
pouring tea at home."

"Not tea; but malted milk, in these latter days," she said,
laughing. "But I am about to retire from your case. May I introduce
your new nurse, Mr. Weldon?"

His reluctant assent was changed to eager greeting. Light, swift
steps came down the room; a tall figure stopped at his side in the
full glare of a sunshiny window which all at once seemed focussing
its light upon waving strands and heaped-up coils of vivid yellow
hair.

"Cooee!" Then, too late, he bethought himself of his manners and
tried to bite the word off short.

Linking her arm in that of her cousin, the girl stood looking down
at him with merry, mocking blue eyes.

"Invalids are supposed to have privileges denied to well men," she
answered demurely. "It might perhaps be Cooee here, to-day; but it
will have to be Miss Dent, to-morrow, when you are back in the field
again. After all, it is hardly worth while to make the change,
Trooper Weldon."


CHAPTER ELEVEN


Upon one side, at least, the meeting between the two cousins on the
previous night had been wholly unexpected.

Late that afternoon, an ambulance train had come in, loaded with men
from the over-crowded field hospital at Krugersdorp, and for hours
Alice had been in ceaseless attendance upon the surgeon in charge.
Little by little, the girl had found her nerves steadying down to
the task in hand; nevertheless, the past ten weeks, in return for
the increase of her poise, had taken something from her vitality.
Quickness of eye, firmness of hand, evenness of temper: all these
may be gifts of the gods. Their use is a purely human function, and
proportionately exhausting. The girl's one salvation lay in the fact
that her quick sympathy with her patients was for the most part
impersonal. Up to this time, Weldon had been her only patient whom
she had known outside the routine duties of her hospital life. In a
sense, it had been a relief to meet some one whom she knew to be of
her own world; in a sense, the case had worn upon her acutely. She
could watch with a greater degree of stolidity the sufferings of
other men.

Among her new charges, that day, only one had made any distinct
impression upon her overworked brain. That was a jovial young
fellow, handsome as Phoebus Apollo, in spite of a slashing scar
across one cheek. He had answered to her questions regarding his
wounded foot with an accent so like that of Weldon that
involuntarily she lingered beside him to add a word of cheery
consolation. His was her final case, that night. As she wearily
turned towards her own room, she made no effort to analyze her
exhaustion.

She found Ethel, still in her hat and jacket, sitting on the edge of
her own narrow cot.

"Cooee Dent!"

"Yes, dear." The girl's tone was nonchalant, even while the telltale
color came into her cheeks.

"What are you doing here?"

"Visiting you, of course."

"Visiting me! But, Cooee, I really don't know where I can put you."

With perfect composure, Ethel passed her hand over the surface of
the cot.

"Oh, I think this nutmeg-grater will carry two. Still, Alice, I must
say that your hospitality isn't exactly exuberant."

Alice dropped into a chair and wearily pushed her hair still farther
back from her forehead.

"But, Cooee--"

"Aren't you glad to see me?" Ethel demanded.

"Certainly. You are always a dear; but--I wish I had known you were
coming."

Ethel raised her brows, and a slight edge came into her voice.

"If you don't want me, Alice, I can go home in the morning."

Dimly aware that her cousin was fencing with an invisible adversary,
nevertheless Alice Mellen was too tired, that night, to range
herself upon the side of that adversary. As far as she was
concerned, Ethel had dropped upon her like a bolt from the blue. She
was too busy, too absorbed in her patients to give more than a
passing thought to even her most intimate cousin. And besides,
Weldon--She pulled herself together sharply.

"Of course I want you, Cooee dear. It is only a bit sudden, and I am
trying to think what to do with you."

Now and then Ethel turned wayward. This was one of the times.

"If you didn't know what to do with me, Alice, then why did you ask
me to come?"

"But I didn't," Alice responded, too astonished to modify her denial
into a polite form of fibbing.

Ethers tone was gently superior.

"Oh, yes; you did."

"When?"

"When you were leaving home. You said then that I must be sure to
come up to spend a week with you, early in the winter." Then her
accent changed. "You poor tired child!" she said, as she rose and
crossed to her cousin's side. "This work is too hard for you; you
look as if you had been fighting the Boers themselves, instead of
merely enteric and bullet holes. I think it is just as well that I
am here to look out for you, for a few days."

Alice lifted her hand to the hand that lay against her cheek.

"I am glad to see you, Cooee dear. I am only so surprised that it
makes me slow to tell you so. If you can sleep here, to-night, I can
find a better place for you in the morning."

"This will do," Ethel answered, while she slowly drew the pins from
her hat. "It is neat, even if it isn't spacious. Really, Alice, I
should have let you know; but it was only just as I was starting
that I found I could come at all. Father is at home, and mother is
unusually well, and I thought I would best make the most of the
opportunity."

Crossing the room to the table, she stood with her back to her
cousin, while she smoothed the feathers in her hat. Then, without
turning, she asked abruptly,--

"How is Mr. Weldon?"

"Better."

"Out of all danger?"

"Yes. Not that he has been in much danger, anyway."

"Oh, I thought--"

Then silence fell.

Alice, meanwhile, was busy with a swift calculation. Five days, in
these troubled times, for a letter to go from Johannesburg to Cape
Town; five days since Ethel could have left Cape Town. And her one
letter to Ethel since Weldon's arrival had been posted just three
days before.

"How did you know Mr. Weldon was here?" she asked sharply.

Ethel's back was still turned towards her. Nevertheless, she could
see the scarlet tide mounting to the ears and to the roots of the
vivid gold hair.

"Why, your letter, Alice," Ethel answered composedly.

Alice's laugh was sharp and edged with malice.

"Yes, dear. My letter, telling you of his being here, will be
delivered at your house to-morrow morning."

"Oh, then I must have mixed things up," Ethel replied, as she turned
to face her cousin. "Probably Captain Frazer told me."

"Captain Frazer?"

"Yes, he came down to Cape Town, just before I left there. I
remember now, he was the one who told me. He was near Mr. Weldon at
Vlaakfontein; he knew all about his awful ride into Krugersdorp, and
I believe he did say be was to be brought here."

For a moment more, the two pairs of eyes, the blue and the black,
met in steady warfare, neither one yielding in the least, neither
one quite aware how much she was betraying to the other.

"Well, what of it?" Ethel demanded tempestuously then.

"Nothing, only--are you sure you were wise to come?"

The blue eyes blazed.

"And what do you mean by that, Alice? You asked me to visit you
here, to see your work among your patients. I have come. If I came
at all, it had to be now. I can't always leave home for a week at a
time. And I can't help it, can I, if Mr. Weldon happens to be one of
your patients?"

"No; you can't," Alice admitted slowly. "It only remains to be seen
whether you would care to help it, if you could."

Again Ethel crossed the room. This time, she dropped down at her
cousin's side.

"Don't let us argue about it and get cross at each other, dear. If I
have made a mistake in coming now, I am sorry. But I am here. Let me
stay a few days; I may be able to help you a little. Anyway, I
promise not to be a trouble to you. It is so long since I have seen
you, Alice. And--" Again the silence dropped.

Alice roused herself from the reverie which was creeping over her.
She was glad to see Ethel, unfeignedly glad. The bright, animated
presence of her cousin, during the next few days, could not fail to
be a tonic. And, as Ethel had said, she herself had been the one to
suggest the first idea of the winter visit. Chance and Captain
Frazer had decreed that it should take place now, when Alice's hands
were immoderately full of work. But then, so much the better. Ethel
could make herself invaluable among the convalescents. She herself
had not put on her Red-Cross badge for the sake of taking her rest
hour at the bedside of Trooper Harvard Weldon.

Half undressed, Ethel paused, hair brush in hand. "You can't imagine
how tired I am, Alice. It is a terrible journey up here nowadays. I
was in terror of a train-wreck at any moment," she said drowsily.
"Don't let me sleep too long in the morning, because," she pulled
open her eyes long enough to dart a mocking glance over her shoulder
at her cousin; "because you know, right after breakfast, you are
going to let me begin to help you take care of some of your people."

From behind her own sheltering veil of ink-black hair, Alice
laughed.

"Cooee, you are a dear; but you're rather a trial," she said slowly.
"However, now that you are here, I think I shall ask the P. M. O. to
set you to work to watch over the needs of Mr. Weldon. He won't be
here much longer; but, while he stays, I shall consider him your
patient." Then, brushing aside the veil, she bent forward and
touched her lips to her cousin's cheek.

"Might I ask what brought you up here, Miss Dent?" Weldon asked, the
next day.

Beside him sat Ethel, her hands demurely clasped in the lap of her
broad white apron.

"My cousin's invitation," she replied.

"Then Miss Mellen knew you were coming?"

"Yes. She asked me to come, early in the winter."

"Strange she said nothing about it! We were talking about you, only
yesterday."

"She didn't know, even then, that I was so imminent," Ethel
answered. "I took her quite by surprise, at the last."

"A surprise all around, then," he said, with a boyish laugh. "I was
astonished to find Miss Mellen here, and you must have been equally
astonished to find me. If only Captain Frazer would appear, our old
quartette would be complete."

"I am afraid we must get on without him," she said lightly.

"Unfortunately, yes. I wonder where he is."

"In Cape Town," she replied unexpectedly.

"Really? What is he doing there?"

"Don't expect me to tell. It has something to do with a staff; but
whether he carries it, or becudgels recruits with it, I have no idea
at all."

"He hasn't left the Scottish Horse?"

"In fact; but not in name. Your regiment is still in the Transvaal;
but he keeps a sort of vicarious connection with it. Please don't
expect me to grasp military details, Mr. Weldon. I merely repeat the
facts, parrot fashion; you must interpret them to suit yourself."

He laughed again. Already, in that one morning, he appeared to have
taken a long stride towards the regaining of his old self.

"You are a perfect gazette, Miss Dent, the first bit of news that
has crept inside this place. Where did you get all your
information?"

"From Captain Frazer." Her rising color belied her unconcerned tone.

"You have seen him, then?"

"Yes. He is usually very good about calling, whenever he comes to
Cape Town."

"And is he well?"

"Absolutely. Also quite enthusiastic over his troopers and the work
they did at Vlaakfontein."

"Were--many--"

She understood.

"Not very many; but several were wounded. Worst of all, one or two
of the wounded ones were shot by the Boers. Mr. Carew told me that
he left a dozen of your men in the hospital at Krugersdorp."

"Carew? Have you seen him, too, Miss Dent?"

"Didn't you know he was here?"

He stared at her in blank amazement.

"Here in Johannesburg?"

"Here in this hospital."

"In what shape?"

"Hilarious in his mind, and with a foot that is coming out right in
course of time. Didn't Alice tell you?"

"No."

"Strange. She took me to see him, this morning, on my way here,
because he was such a promising patient. She was quite surprised to
find we were old acquaintances."

"Oh," Weldon said slowly. "I begin to see. Miss Mellen had never met
Carew, so she had no idea we were friends. What a curious snarl it
all is!"

"The hand of Fate is in it," Ethel assented idly.

"Do you believe in Fate, too?"

"Surely. Why not?"

"Nothing, only your cousin said you didn't."

The girl frowned.

"Alice doesn't know all my mental processes," she said a little
severely.

"She didn't pretend to. We were speaking of Fate, yesterday, of the
way certain events in one's life seem absolutely inevitable; at
least, I was. Then the conversation worked around to you, and Miss
Mellen suggested that you usually rose superior to Fate," Weldon
explained at some length.

Once again, Ethel felt the note of finality in his tone. For an
instant, she shut her lips. Then she reverted to the main question.

"How do you mean inevitable?"

"As if you chose your path, and then found that, for always, it had
been the only thing for you to do. That's not so clear, I know; but
I can't put it much better."

"For instance?"

"For instance, my coming out here when I did. I was interested in
the war; but there was no real question of my coming, until the
month I sailed. Then, all of a sudden, I seemed to know why it was
that I had spent my life on horseback. They told me in England that
the real war was over. When I landed at Cape Town, I found out that
the one thing needed was a man who could ride, and shoot straight.
From the day I sailed from home, until now, I have been like an
actor walking through a part that some one else has written for him.
I have chosen nothing; it all has been inevitable."

She rose to her feet, and stood leaning on the back of her chair.

"In that case, Mr. Weldon, you must include our meeting in your
scheme of things," she said, with a smile.

His answering smile met her smile with perfect frankness.

"I sometimes wonder if that wasn't the most inevitable part of it
all."


CHAPTER TWELVE


The red-brown veldt stretched away to the sky-line, sixty miles
distant. Level as it looked, it was nevertheless a succession of
softly rolling ridges dotted with clumps of dried sagebrush and
spotted here and there with heaps of black volcanic rocks. Far to
the northward, a thin line of poplars and willows marked the bed of
a river. Beyond that, again, the air was thick with smoke from acres
of burning veldt. The days were full of dust, and the nights were
full of frost; it was the month of June, and winter was upon the
land.

The camp was taking a well-earned rest. For days, the men had swept
over the veldt, following hard on the trail of a Boer general who
only made himself visible now and then by a spatter of bullets, when
his convoy train was delayed at a difficult ford. It had been a week
of playing pussin-the-corner over a charred and dusty land, where
the only roads were trails trodden out to powder by the hoofs of
those that had gone before. Both men and mounts were wellnigh
exhausted, and the officers had decreed a halt.

The strain had been intense. Now, with the relaxing of it, its
memory vanished, and the halt swiftly took upon itself the
appearance of a school holiday. Laughing and chaffing each other,
groups of men loitered here and lounged there, smoking, writing
letters, and taking stout, unlovely stitches in their time-worn
khaki clothing. At one side of the camp was the tent of the mess
sergeant, equipped like a portable species of corner grocery. Near
by, Paddy apparently was in his element, presiding over his camp-
kitchen, a vast bonfire encircled with a dozen iron pots. At the
farther edge of the camp Weldon was umpiring a game of football
between his own squadron and a company of the Derbys. Owing to the
athletic zeal of the hour, it was big-side, and Weldon was too busy
in keeping his eye upon so many players to pay much attention to his
own loneliness.

In all truth, however, he was lonely. The week since he had rejoined
his squadron had dragged perceptibly. Captain Frazer was in Cape
Town; Carew was still in hospital at Johannesburg where, under the
eyes of Alice Mellen and her cousin, he was fast resuming his old
finical habits. Dingy and veldt-stained though he might be, Carew at
heart would always remain the exquisite. However, exquisite that he
was bound to be, he was even more the soldier, and his gay eyes had
clouded, as he had wrung Weldon's hand in parting.

"Lucky dog!" he said enviously. "I am off duty for two weeks more,
and you are going back to the thick of things. One must take it as
it comes; but I say, old man, don't forget me when the bullets begin
to pelt at you again."

And Weldon had been better than his promise. He had thought of
Carew, day and night, for the entire week, thought of him and missed
him acutely. Carew was an ideal comrade in that he never, under any
circumstances, took himself in earnest.

A leg which will carry a man on horseback is by no means fit for
football. Weldon, finished player that he was, found it tame work to
umpire a team whose sole idea of tactics was to get there in any way
that offered itself. Half an hour sufficed; then, appointing an
understudy, he walked away in search of Paddy. From the midst of a
torrent of instructions to his quartette of black subordinates,
Paddy's voice sang out a cheery greeting.

"Come along, little feller! Come and get something to eat. It's
hungry you ought to be, the day, after the way you've been walking
all over the country on horseback and an empty stomach. Try this, as
a sample of your dinner, and sit down by the edge of the fire,
whilst, and tell me how it tastes."

The iron spoon scraped lustily over the iron dixey. Then Weldon
returned them both with a low bow.

"Like yourself, Paddy, short and sweet."

Paddy brandished the spoon, weapon-wise.

"Short is it, you little Canuck! So is a pepperpot short; but it
holds a hell of a flavor. Leave Paddy a gun in his hand, and his
short legs will keep up with your long ones, when it's the firing
line that's before him."

"The old sing-song, Paddy. Give us something new."

"So will I, when I get my wishing. Till then, you'll hear it over
and over again. A man of my temper, little one, will never rest
content at a firing line that's all surrounded about with ten-quart
pots of boiling beef."

"Why don't you resign, then?"

"Resigned! How can I be resigned? I'm a chunk of dynamite in a suet-
pot, hard to manage and ready to go off at any time that something
strikes me. Meantime, I am like what they say is dirt: matter out of
place."

"Then why don't you get out?" Weldon queried.

"I am out of place now, I'm telling you," Paddy returned, as he
pensively rested his cheek upon the bowl of the spoon in his hand.

"Yes; but why not refuse to stay here as cook?"

Sorrowfully Paddy shook his head, spoon and all.

"That's what I did do, little one."

"And what happened?"

"This." The spoon came into evidence once more. "They blarneyed me
up and they blarneyed me down, and they said nobody could cook like
Paddy. Anybody could shoot a baker's dozen of Boers; but only one
man in the camp could fill up the boys to give them a fit and level
stomach for the battle. And here I am, and here I'm like to be, till
the new moon in the heavens turns to a curly strip of bully beef. If
I'd known the Captain was about to escape to Cape Town, it's Paddy
that would have escaped with him, hanging on to the tail of his
coat. Saint Patrick's vipers! What's that?"

A hum, a spat, and a little spurt of red dust rolled lazily upward.
Then another hum followed. There was a scurry of men, a squeak of
leather, the light clashing of rifles snatched from the stack; and
the troops were off.

Beside them, the nearer hills rose in brick-red patches against the
sky. Farther away, the brick color changed to gray and, still
beyond, to misty purple. Before them rolled the open, khaki-colored
veldt dotted in one direction by a ragged spot of black that flowed
over the crest of each ridge and vanished from sight for a moment
before rising from the hollow to flow over the crest of the ridge
beyond. "_
For many years this curious work, which was never printed, was supposed
to be lost; but the original MS. is extant, in the possession
of the distinguished antiquary Don Alfredo Chavero, of the City
of Mexico.[45] Unfortunately, however, the author did not insert
in his work any song in the native language nor a literal translation
of any, as I am informed by Señor Chavero, who has kindly examined
the work carefully at my request, with this inquiry in view.

Half a century later, when Boturini was collecting his material,
he found but very few of the old poems. In the catalogue of
his MSS. he mentions (XIX, 1) some fragments of ancient songs,
badly written, on European paper, but he does not say whether in
the original or translated. The same doubt might rest on the two
songs of Nezahualcoyotl named in his Catalogue (V, 2). He does not
specifically state that they are in the original. The song of
Moquihuix, King of Tlatilulco, in which he celebrated his
victory over the Cuextla, which Boturini states in his text (p.
91) as in his possession, is not mentioned at all in his Catalogue,
and it is uncertain whether his copy was in Nahuatl.

His literary friend, however, Don Mariano Echevarria y Veitia,
removes the uncertainty about the two songs of Nezahualcoyotl, as
he informs us that they were in the original tongue, and adds
that he had inserted them in his History without translation.[46] I
have examined the manuscript of his work, now in the Lenox Library,
New York City, but it does not contain these texts, and evidently
the copy used by Bustamente did not.[47]
Boturini included the translations of the two odes of Nezahualcoyotl
in a work on the Virgin of Guadelupe, only a fragment of which has
been preserved. One of the chapters in this Latin Essay is entitled
_De Indorum Poetarum Canticis sive Prosodiis_, in which he introduces
Ixtlilxochitl's translation and also a song in the original Nahuatl,
but the latter is doubtless of late date and unimportant as a really
native production.[48]
The fragments of Boturini's library collected by M.

Aubin, of Paris, contain a number of the original ancient songs
of the highest importance, which make us regret the more that this
collection has been up to the present inaccessible to students. In
his description of these relics published in 1851, M. Aubin refers
to the _Historical Annals of the Mexican Nation_ (§ VIII, 10, of
Boturini's Catalogue) as containing "historical songs in a
dialect so difficult that I have not been able to translate them
entirely," and adds that similar songs are preserved in others of
the ancient annals in his hands.[49]

§ 9. _THE LX SONGS OF THE KING NEZAHUALCOYOTL._
The most distinguished figure among the Nahuatl poets was
Nezahualcoyotl, ruler of Tezcuco. His death took place in 1472, at
the age of eighty years. His father, Ixtlilxochitl, had been
deprived of his possessions and put to death by Tezozomoc, King of
the Tepanecas, and until the death of the latter at an advanced age
in 1427, Nezahualcoyotl could make but vain efforts to restore the
power of his family. Much of the time he was in extreme want, and
for this reason, and for his savage persistence in the struggle,
he acquired the name "the fasting or hungry wolf"-- _nezahualcoyotl_.
Another of his names was _Acolmiztli_, usually translated "arm of
the lion," from _aculli_, shoulder, and _miztli_, lion.

A third was _Yoyontzin_, which is equivalent to _cevetor nobilis_,
from _yoyoma_ (_cevere_, i.e., _femora movere in re venered_); it
is to be understood figuratively as indicating the height of the
masculine forces.

When his power became assured, he proved himself a liberal and
enlightened patron of the arts and industries.

The poetry and music of his native land attracted him the more
as he felt within himself the moving god, firing his imagination
with poetic vision, the _Deus in nobis, calescimus, agitant'illo_.

Not only did he diligently seek out and royally entertain skilled
bards, but he himself had the credit of composing sixty chants,
and it appears that after the Conquest there were that many written
down in Roman characters and attributed to him.

We need not inquire too closely whether they were strictly his own
composition.

Perhaps they were framed on themes which he furnished, or were
selected by him from those sung at his court by various bards.
The history of the works by royal authors everywhere must not be
too minutely scanned if we wish to leave them their reputation for
originality.

He was of a philosophic as well as a poetic temperament, and reflected
deeply on the problems of life and nature. Following the inherent
tendency of the enlightened intellect to seek unity in diversity, the
One in the Many, he reached the conclusion to which so many
thinkers in all ages and of all races have been driven, that underlying
all phenomena is one primal and adequate Cause, the Essence of all
Existence.

This conclusion he expressed in a philosophic apothegm which was
preserved by his disciples, in these words:--
_Ipan in chicunauitlamanpan meztica in tloque nahuaque palne nohuani
teyocoyani icel teotl oquiyocox in ixquex quexquex in ittoni ihuan
amo ittoni._
"In the ninth series is the Cause of All, of us and of all created
things, the one only God who created all things both visible and
invisible

."[50]
To perpetuate the memory of this philosophic deduction he caused to
be constructed at Tezcuco a stone tower nine stories in height, the
ruins of which were visible long after the Spanish occupation. To
this tower he gave the name Chililitli, a term of uncertain meaning,
but which we find was applied in Tenochtitlan to a building sacred
to the Nine Winds.[51] To explain the introduction of this number,
I should add that a certain school of Nahuatl priests taught that
the heaven above and the earth below were each divided into nine
concentric arcs, each leading farther and farther away from the
conditions of the present life.

Hence, there were nine heavens, abodes of the gods, and nine
lower regions, abodes of the souls of the dead.

Another school taught that there were not nine but thirteen of these
stages.

The sixty poems by Nezahualcoyotl are mentioned by various writers
as in existence after the Conquest, reduced to writing in the
original tongue, and of several of them we have translations or
abstracts.[52] Of four the translations claim to be complete, and
were published entire for the first time in the original Spanish
by Lord Kingsborough in the ninth volume of his great work on the
_Antiquities of Mexico_.

Since then they have received various renderings in prose and verse
into different languages at the hands of modern writers.

I shall give a literal prose translation from the Spanish, numbering
the poems and their verses, for convenience of reference, in the
order in which they appear in the pages of Lord Kingsborough.

* * * * *
The first is one referred to, and partly translated by Ixtlilxochitl,
in his _Historia Chichimeca_ (cap. 47).

He calls it a _xopancuicatl_ (see ante, p. 15), and states that it
was composed and sung on the occasion of the banquet when the king
laid the foundations of his great palace.

He gives the first words in the original as follows:--
_Tlaxoconcaguican ani Nezahualcoyotzin;_
And the translation:--
"Hear that which says the King Nezahualcoyotl."
Restoring the much mutilated original to what I should think was
its proper form, the translation should read:--
"Listen attentively to what I, the singer, the noble Nezahualcoyotl,
say:"-- 
I.

1.

Listen with attention to the lamentations which I, the King
Nezahualcoyotl, make upon my power, speaking with myself, and
offering an example to others.

2.

O restless and striving king, when the time of thy death shall come,
thy subjects shall be destroyed and driven forth; they shall sink
into dark oblivion.

Then in thy hand shall no longer be the power and the rule, but
with the Creator, the All-powerful.

3. He who saw the palaces and court of the old King Tezozomoc, how
flourishing and powerful was his sway, may see them now dry and
withered; it seemed as if they should last forever, but all that
the world offers is illusion and deception, as everything must
end and die.

4.

Sad and strange it is to see and reflect on the prosperity and
power of the old and dying King Tezozomoc; watered with ambition
and avarice, he grew like a willow tree rising above the grass and
flowers of spring, rejoicing for a long time, until at length,
withered and decayed, the storm wind of death tore him from his
roots, and dashed him in fragments to the ground.

The same fate befell the ancient King Colzatzli, so that no memory
was left of him, nor of his lineage.

5.

In these lamentations and in this sad song, I now call to memory
and offer as an example that which takes place in the spring, and
the end which overtook King Tezozomoc; and who, seeing this, can
refrain from tears and wailing, that these various flowers and rich
delights are bouquets that pass from hand to hand and all wither
and end even in the present life!

6.

Ye sons of kings and mighty lords, ponder well and think upon that
which I tell you in these my lamentations, of what takes place in
spring and of the end which overtook King Tezozomoc; and who, seeing
this, can refrain from tears and wailing that these various flowers
and rich delights are bouquets that pass from hand to hand and all
wither and end even in the present life!

7. Let the birds now enjoy, with melodious voices, the abundance of
the house of the flowery spring, and the butterflies sip the nectar
of its flowers

.

* * * * *

The second song is preserved in a Spanish metrical translation only,
but which from internal evidence I should judge to be quite literal.

The words of the poem do not represent it as a composition by the
royal poet, but one which was sung before him, and addressed to him.

It admonishes him to rejoice in the present moment, as the uncertainties
of life and fate must at some time, perhaps very soon, deprive him
of their enjoyment.

II.

1. I wish to sing for a moment, since time and occasion are propitious;
I hope to be permitted, as my intention merits it, and I begin my
song, though it were better called a lamentation.

2.

And thou, beloved companion, enjoy the beauty of these flowers,
rejoice with me, cast out fears, for if pleasure ends with life,
so also does pain.

3.

I, singing, will touch the sonorous instrument, and thou, rejoicing
in the flowers, dance and give pleasure to God the powerful.

Let us be happy in the present, for life is transitory.

4.

Thou hast placed thy noble court in Acolhuacan, thine are its
lintels, thou hast decked them, and one may well believe that with
such grandeur thy state shall increase and grow.

5.

O prudent Yoyontzin, famous king and peerless monarch, rejoice in
the present, be happy in the springtime, for a day shall come in
which thou shall vainly seek these joys.

6.

Then thy destiny shall snatch the sceptre from thy hand, thy moon
shall wane, no longer wilt thou be strong and proud, then thy
servants shall be destitute of all things.

7.

In this sad event, the nobles of thy line, the provinces of might,
children of noble parents, lacking thee as their lord, shall taste
the bitterness of poverty.

8.

They shall call to mind how great was thy pomp, thy triumphs and
victories, and bewailing the glory and majesty of the past, their
tears will flow like seas.

9.

These thy descendants who serve thy plume and crown, when thou art
gone, will forsake Culhuacan, and as exiles will increase their
woes.

10.

Little will fame have to tell of this wondrous majesty, worthy of
a thousand heralds; the nations will only remember how wisely
governed the three chieftains who held the power, 
11.

At Mexico, Montezuma the famous and valorous, at Culhuacan the
fortunate Nezahualcoyotl, and at the stronghold of Acatlapan,
Totoquilhuatli.

12.

I fear no oblivion for thy just deeds, standing as thou dost in thy
place appointed by the Supreme Lord of All, who governs all
things.

13. Therefore, O Nezahualcoyotl, rejoice in what the present offers,
crown thyself with flowers from thy gardens, hear my song and music
which aim to please thee.

14. The pleasures and riches of this life are but loaned, their
substance is vain, their appearance illusory; and so true is this
that I ask thee for an answer to these questions:

15. What has become of Cihuapan? Of the brave Quantzintecomatzin?
Of Conahuatzin? What of all these people? Perhaps these very
words have already passed into another life.

16.

Would that we who are now united by the ties of love and friendship
could foresee the sharp edge of death, for nothing is certain, and
the future ever brings changes.

* * * * *
The third is a "spring song" in which the distinguished warriors of
the king are compared to precious stones. Such jewels were believed
by the Nahuas to possess certain mysterious powers as charms and
amulets, a belief, it is needless to say, found among almost all
nations. In verse 18 there is a reference to the superstition that
at dawn, when these jewels are exposed to the first rays of the
sun, they emit a fine vapor which wafts abroad their subtle potency.

The poem is in Spanish verse, and the original is said to have been
written down by Don Fernando de Avila, governor of Tlalmanalco,
from the mouth of Don Juan de Aguilar, governor of Cultepec, a
direct descendant of Nezahualcoyotl.

III.

1. The flowery spring has its house, its court, its palace, adorned
with riches, with goods in abundance.

2. With discreet art they are arranged and placed, rich feathers,
precious stones, surpassing in luster the sun.

3. There is the valued carbuncle, which from its beauteous center
darts forth rays which are the lights of knowledge.

4. There is the prized diamond, sign of strength, shooting forth
its brilliant gleams.

5. Here one sees the translucent emerald suggesting the hope of
the rewards of merit.

6. Next follows the topaz, equaling the emerald, for the reward it
promises is a heavenly dwelling.

7. The amethyst, signifying the cares which a king has for his subjects,
and moderation in desires.

8. These are what kings, princes and monarchs delight to place upon
their breasts and crowns.

9. All these stones with their varied and singular virtues,
adorn Thy house and court, O Father, O Infinite God!

10. These stones which I the King Nezahualcoyotl have succeeded in
uniting in loving liens,
11. Are the famous princes, the one called Axaxacatzin, the other
Chimalpopoca, and Xicomatzintlamata.

12. To-day, somewhat rejoiced by the joy and words of these, and
of the other lords who were with them, 
13.

I feel, when alone, that my soul is pleased but for a brief time,
and that all pleasure soon passes.

14.

The presence of these daring eagles pleases me, of these lions and
tigers who affright the world,
15. These who by their valor win everlasting renown, whose
name and whose deeds fame will perpetuate.

16. Only to-day am I glad and look upon these rich and varied
stones, the glory of my bloody battles.

17. To-day, noble princes, protectors of the realm, my will is to
entertain you and to praise you.

18. It seems to me that ye answer from your souls, like the fine
vapor arising from precious stones,--
19. "O King Nezahualcoyotl, O royal Montezuma, your subjects sustain
themselves with your soft dews.

20. "But at last a day shall come which will cut away this power,
and all these will be left wretched orphans.

21.

"Rejoice, mighty King, in this lofty power which the King of Heaven
has granted you, rejoice and be glad.

22. "In the life of this world there is no beginning anew, therefore
rejoice, for all good ends.

23.

"The future promises endless changes, griefs that your subjects will
have to undergo.

24. "Ye see before you the instruments decked with wreaths of odorous
flowers; rejoice in their fragrance.

25. "To-day there are peace, and goodfellowship; therefore let
all join hands and rejoice in the dances,
26.

"So that for a little while princes and kings and the nobles may have
pleasure in these precious stones,
27.

"Which through his goodness the will of the King Nezahualcoyotl has
set forth for you, inviting you to-day to his house."
* * * * *
The fourth song has been preserved in an Otomi translation by the
Mexican antiquary Granados y Galvez[53] and in an abstract by
Torquemada.[54] The latter gives the first words as follows:--
_Xochitl mamani in huehuetitlan:_ 
Which he translates:--
"There are fresh and fragrant flowers among the groves."

It is said to have been composed at the time the king dedicated his
palace.

IV.

1. The fleeting pomps of the world are like the green willow trees,
which, aspiring to permanence, are consumed by a fire, fall before
the axe, are upturned by the wind, or are scarred and saddened by
age.

2.

The grandeurs of life are like the flowers in color and in fate;
the beauty of these remains so long as their chaste buds gather and
store the rich pearls of the dawn and saving it, drop it in liquid
dew; but scarcely has the Cause of All directed upon them the full
rays of the sun, when their beauty and glory fail, and the brilliant
gay colors which decked forth their pride wither and fade.

3.

The delicious realms of flowers count their dynasties by short periods;
those which in the morning revel proudly in beauty and strength,
by evening weep for the sad destruction of their thrones, and for
the mishaps which drive them to loss, to poverty, to death and to
the grave.

All things of earth have an end, and in the midst of the most
joyous lives, the breath falters, they fall, they sink into the
ground.

4.

All the earth is a grave, and nought escapes it; nothing is so
perfect that it does not fall and disappear.

The rivers, brooks, fountains and waters flow on, and never return
to their joyous beginnings; they hasten on to the vast realms of
Tlaloc, and the wider they spread between their marges the more
rapidly do they mould their own sepulchral urns.

That which was yesterday is not to-day; and let not that which is
to-day trust to live to-morrow.

5. The caverns of earth are filled with pestilential dust which
once was the bones, the flesh, the bodies of great ones who sate
upon thrones, deciding causes, ruling assemblies, governing armies,
conquering provinces, possessing treasures, tearing down temples,
flattering themselves with pride, majesty, fortune, praise and
dominion.

These glories have passed like the dark smoke thrown out by the
fires of Popocatepetl, leaving no monuments but the rude skins on
which they are written.

6.

Ha! ha! Were I to introduce you into the obscure bowels of this temple,
and were to ask you which of these bones were those of the powerful
Achalchiuhtlanextin, first chief of the ancient Toltecs; of
Necaxecmitl, devout worshiper of the gods; if I inquire where is
the peerless beauty of the glorious empress Xiuhtzal, where the
peaceable Topiltzin, last monarch of the hapless land of Tulan; if
I ask you where are the sacred ashes of our first father Xolotl;
those of the bounteous Nopal; those of the generous Tlotzin; or
even the still warm cinders of my glorious and immortal, though
unhappy and luckless father Ixtlilxochitl; if I continued thus
questioning about all our august ancestors, what would you reply?

The same that I reply--I know not, I know not; for first and last
are confounded in the common clay. What was their fate shall be
ours, and of all who follow us.

7. Unconquered princes, warlike chieftains, let us seek, let
us sigh for the heaven, for there all is eternal, and nothing is
corruptible.
The darkness of the sepulchre is but the strengthening couch for the
glorious sun, and the obscurity of the night but serves to reveal
the brilliancy of the stars. No one has power to alter these heavenly
lights, for they serve to display the greatness of their Creator,
and as our eyes see them now, so saw them our earliest ancestors,
and so shall see them our latest posterity

.

* * * * *
It will be seen that the philosophy of these songs is mostly of the
Epicurean and _carpe diem_ order. The certainty of death and the
mutability of fortune, observations which press themselves upon the
mind of man everywhere, are their principal staples, and cast over
them a hue of melancholy, relieved by exhortations to enjoy to
the utmost what the present moment offers of pleasure and sensual
gratification. Here and there a gleam of a higher philosophy lights
the sombre reflections of the bard; his thoughts turn toward the
infinite Creator of this universe, and he dimly apprehends that
by making Him the subject of his contemplation, there is boundless
consolation even in this mortal life.

Both these leading _motifs_ recur over and over again in the songs
printed in the original in the present volume, and this similarity
is a common token of the authenticity of the book

.

§ 10. _THE HISTORY OF THE PRESENT COLLECTION._
The most recent Mexican writers formally deny that any ancient
Mexican poetry is now extant.

Thus the eminent antiquary, Don Alfredo Chavero, in his elaborate work,
_México á través de los Siglos_, says, "the truth is, we know
no specimens of the ancient poetry, and those, whether manuscript
or printed, which claim to be such, date from after the
Conquest.

"[55] In a similar strain the grammarian Diario Julio Caballero,
writes: "There has never come into our hands a single poetic
composition in this language.

It is said that the great King Nezahualcoyotl was a poet and composed
various songs; however that may be, the fact is that we have never
seen any such compositions, nor met any person who has seen them

."[56]

It is important, therefore, to state the exact provenance of the
specimens printed in this volume, many of which I consider to have
been composed previous to the Conquest, and written down shortly
after the Nahuatl language had been reduced to the Spanish alphabet.

All of them are from a MS. volume in the library of the University
of Mexico, entitled _Cantares de los Mexicanos y otros opusculos_,
composed of various pieces in different handwritings, which, from
their appearance and the character of the letter, were attributed
by the eminent antiquary Don José F.

Ramirez, to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.

The copy I have used is that made by the late Abbé Brasseur (de
Bourbourg).

It does not appear to be complete, but my efforts to have it collated
with the original have not been successful.

Another copy was taken by the late well-known Mexican scholar
Faustino Chimalpopoca, which was in the possession of Señor Ramirez
and sold at the vendue of his books in 1880.

It is No. 511 of the catalogue.

The final decision of the age of the poems must come from a careful
scrutiny of the internal evidence, especially the thoughts they
contain and the language in which they are expressed.

In applying these tests, it should be remembered that a song may
be almost wholly ancient, that is, composed anterior to the Conquest,
and yet display a few later allusions introduced by the person who
preserved it in writing, so as to remove from it the flavor of
heathenism.

Some probable instances of this kind will be pointed out in the
Notes.

The songs are evidently from different sources and of different
epochs.

There are two notes inserted in the MS. which throw some light
on the origin of a few of the poems.

The first is in connection with No.

XII. In my copy of the MS, the title of this song is written
twice, and between the two the following memorandum appears
in Spanish:

"Ancient songs of the native Otomis, which they were accustomed to
sing at their festivals and marriages, translated into the Mexican
language, the play and the spirit of the song and its figures of
speech being always retained; as Your Reverence will understand,
they displayed considerable style and beauty, better than I can
express with my slight talent; and may Your Reverence at your
convenience approve and be entertained by them, as a skilled master
of the tongue, as Your Reverence is."

From its position and from the titles following, this note appears to
apply only to No. XII.

The second note is prefixed to No. XIV, which has no title. It is in
Nahuatl, and reads as follows:--
* * * * *
|
-+- |

|

I H S

Nican ompehua in cuicatl motenehua melahuac Huexotzincayotl ic
moquichitoya in tlatoque Huexotzinca mani mecatca; yexcan inic
tlatlamantitica, teuccuicatl ahnoço quauhcuicatl, xochicuicatl,
icnocuicatl.

I try not to pay much attention to it. Once
in a while, though, not too often, it all comes back over me, and I
feel then as if my life might have been kept for something that is
still ahead of me."

"And doesn't it leave you feeling anxious about making all your
decisions?" she asked slowly, as she leaned back again in her chair.

"At first. Then I remember how that, and some other things have been
settled for me."

"What then?"

"Then I shut my teeth and face forward. All one can do, is to forget
the future and take the present as it comes, making the best of each
minute and leaving the hour to look out for itself," he answered
simply. "Sometimes one makes better progress by drifting than he
does by punting against the current."

She bit her lip.

"Sometimes I think, though--" Suddenly she roused herself and gave a
nervous little laugh. "Captain Frazer is coming up the steps," she
added.

"You think?" Weldon reminded her, as she rose.

But she shook her head and laughed again, this time more in her
natural manner.

"I think that I wish you would bring Mr. Carew to call on me, next
time you come," she said evasively.

"Thank you. He will be glad to come. The only question is when the
next time will arrive."

"You said Captain Frazer was a prophet," she said, as she moved
towards the door. "Ask him."

Tall, alert, eager, the Captain entered the room in time to catch
her words.

"A prophet of what and to whom, Miss Dent?" he asked, as he bowed
over her outstretched hand.

"To Mr. Weldon, in regard to the future fighting," she answered
gayly.

"You here, Weldon?"

"Yes, to say good by."

Captain Frazer nodded.

"I saw Mitchell, this morning. He spoke well of you; of Carew, too,
for the matter of that. He told me your troop would be off in the
morning, and asked me to diagnose ,your best points."

"Could you find any?" Weldon asked imperturbably. "A few. I told him
you could sit tight and shoot straight," the Captain answered,
laughing. Then he added gravely, "And I also told him you could ride
the fiend incarnate, and that, as far as I knew, you didn't lose
your head when you were under fire."

For the instant, Weldon forgot his hostess, as he looked up to meet
the Captain's blue eyes squarely.

"Thank you. But it is more than I deserve."

"Then you must try to live up to it," Ethel advised him languidly.
"It merely increases your responsibilities, for now you have two
reputations to support, your own for pluck and the Captain's for
being a judge of his fellowmen. It is an awful weight that you are
carrying on your shoulders, Mr. Weldon."

"If it grows too heavy, I will slide some of it off on your own," he
returned, as he picked up his hat and rose to his feet. "Your
responsibility is back of mine, Miss Dent. It was you who advised me
to stay in South Africa."

"Not at all. I presented the case and kept my advice to myself," she
rebelled promptly.

"Certain presentments are stronger than much advising."

"Perhaps. But in the end, you remember, I commended your soul to
Captain Frazer's keeping."

He bowed with the odd, old-fashioned deference which it pleased him
to assume at times. "Captain Frazer may have saved it; but it may
have been you who made it worth his efforts at salvation."

She laughed again. Nevertheless, her eyes showed her pleasure.

"Then we, Captain Frazer and I, must divide the responsibility for
your future," she replied. "In any case, may it be all good!"

The drapery fell backward over his departing figure, and, for an
instant, Ethel stood staring at the swaying folds. Then, turning,
she walked back to the fire.

"All good," she repeated. "I know you echo the wish, Captain Frazer.
But--isn't it hard to say good by?"

"In these days most of all," he assented slowly. "And one never can
tell when his own turn may come."

"Nor what its end may be," she added. Then impetuously she rose
again and moved up and down the room. "Look at that sunshine
outside, Captain Frazer," she said restlessly. "It ought to forbid
any such gloomy moods. I believe all this war and so many partings
are spoiling my nerve. I really feel quite blue, to-day; and Mr.
Weldon made it worse."

"By saying good by?"

Glancing up, she was astonished at the wishful, hungry look in the
blue eyes before her. "Yes, a little," she said lightly; "for I hate
the very word. But, if it must be spoken, it should always be short
and staccato. Instead, he sat here, and we talked about Fate and
wounds and all sorts of direful things." She shook herself and
shivered slightly. Then she sat down in the chair which Weldon had
just left vacant. "It is bad manners to have nerves, Captain Frazer.
Forgive me first, and then tell me something altogether flippant, to
make me forget things."

But her mood had caught the Captain in its grasp.

"Are you sure you want to forget?" he asked her gravely.

"Yes," she made vehement answer. "Always!"

But not even her decided answer brought back the eager light into
his dark blue eyes.

Nevertheless, an hour later found him still sitting there. Ethel's
depression had vanished, to be followed by a mood of wayward
merriment for which the honest, straightforward soldier was totally
at a loss to account. Sincere himself, he looked for sincerity in
others. If Ethel's gravity had been unfeigned, how could it so soon
give place to her present buoyancy? Not the strictest code of
hospitality could demand that a hostess should straightway toss
aside the thought of the parting guest who had gone away to battle
and, perhaps, to sudden death. And, if the girl had been insincere
in her parting from Weldon, why should she be sincere in her present
absorption in his own interests? And, if her regrets for Weldon were
as great as they had seemed to be, then what was the use of his
remaining by her side any longer? The horns of the dilemma extended
themselves to infinity and branched again and again as they
extended. Meanwhile, his eyes were full of trouble, and his answers
to her questions were vague and faltering. Until her sudden trip to
Johannesburg, Captain Frazer had taken the girl as a matter of
course. Since then, he had begun to doubt, and the doubts were
thickening.

But, after all, there was no real reason for doubt. During her one
short season in London, the Captain had met Ethel constantly, he had
been quite obviously the favorite of the old aunt who had presided
over the girl's introduction to society, and his later meetings with
Ethel at sundry week-end gatherings had convinced him that he had no
serious rival. Then had come the war; and Ethel's absence from town
had made a farewell impossible. Captain Frazer had sailed away,
leaving the past behind him; but the future was still his, to be
lost or won, according to the use he made of his manhood's chances.

And then, on the dazzling summer morning which had ushered in the
new century, he had caught a glimpse of Ethel riding towards home.
Three days later, as he had gone away down the broad white steps, he
had felt convinced that the future already lay in his grasp. It had
been the selfsame Ethel, unchanged and changeless to his loyal mind,
who had met him with smiling, eager cordiality. The year of
separation was cast aside; their friendship began again at the
precise spot where it had been broken off.

Since then, he had seen her often, occasionally alone, sometimes
with her mother, sometimes the central figure of a little crowd who
were obviously striving to win her favor. Her father's fortune was
in part the cause of this; but the greater, surer cause lay within
the girl's own personality. Ethel Dent was no negative character.
However, Captain Frazer had never found her too absorbed in her
other companions to be able to give him a share of her attention
which differed from all other shares that she bestowed, in being a
bit more personal in its cordiality. His black-fringed blue eyes
were keen and far-sighted. They assured him that, whatever her
regard for him, at least it was true that, in all her Cape Town
life, there was no man for whom Ethel Dent had a sincerer liking.
And then, all at once, a doubt had assailed his mind, and the doubt
had centered itself in this long, lean Canadian with the grave,
steady face and the boyish manner. Worst of all, the doubt had
scarcely arisen before he himself had become aware of his own
growing liking for the young Canadian. Captain Leo Frazer was
strictly just. He admitted to himself that Weldon was in every way
worthy to be chosen by Ethel Dent. However, he was determined as
well as just, and he had no mind at all to allow Ethel Dent to
choose any man but one, and that one was himself, Leo Frazer.

And now he was sitting moodily by her fireside, listening to her
light, easy flow of talk and asking himself certain questions, which
he was powerless to answer.

As he rose at last, some sudden impulse made him speak from the very
midst of his train of thought.

"Did you know he had refused a commission?" he asked, regardless of
antecedents.

She made no pretence of misunderstanding him.

"No. Did he?"

"Yes. Mitchell told me, this morning."

"I wonder why."

"He said he had pledged himself to stay with the rank and file, that
it was easier to take orders than to give them."

"Strange!" she said thoughtfully.

"Strange that he should feel so?"

She shook her head.

"No. He told me about that, coming out. I am not surprised. But it
is strange that he shouldn't have spoken of the matter now."

"It was like him. He doesn't tell all his best deeds," Captain
Frazer said, with direct frankness "Still, I thought it was fairer
that you should know."

Her color came, as she met his eyes; but she offered no question in
regard to the meaning of his final phrase.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN


"Good reason they call them kopjes," Carew grumbled scornfully, as
he swept his arm about the encircling landscape. "Every flat-top
hill is an exact copy of every other flat-top hill, and they all are
more or less hideous to behold. My one source of rejoicement lies in
the fact that the pattern was worn out down here, instead of being
sent up to make our mountains by. I hate a bobtail horse; but it's
nothing so bad as these everlasting bobtail hills. And, by Jove,
there comes another dust devil!"

Far away across the veldt, a tiny spurt of dust twirled up into the
air and came spinning towards them like a huge, translucent top.
Gaining momentum as it spun along and picking up more dust as it
advanced, it came whirling onward, rising high and higher until it
swept down on them, a huge, khaki-colored, balloon-like mass. It
caught them in its whirl, ground its stinging, sifting particles
into their clothing, their skin and even into their shut eyes. Then
it passed them by, and went spinning away in its course. Carew swore
softly, as he wiped the dust from his lashes.

"Beastly things! There really ought to be a society formed for the
suppression of dust devils in their infancy. What do you suppose
becomes of the things, Weldon? There's no stopping them, once they
get under way; and, at their rate of growth, they could bury a
township in their old age."

"Granted they could find one to bury," Weldon returned. "Meanwhile,
observe your bath tub."

Carew glanced down at the dust-filled buckets at his feet.

"Oh, hang!" he said concisely. "And I was about to prink."

"One would think you needed it now more than ever," Weldon answered,
as he shook himself free from the thickest of the dust. "What's the
use of trying to keep clean, Carew?"

"Precious little. I used to talk about I 'the un-tubbed.' Now I
mean, merely for the sake of example, to shave twice in the month,
and swab myself off between whiles. It's not for comfort, I assure
you. It's my belief that an occasional bath is worse than none. It
merely stirs up memories of the buried past, and aspirations that
can't be fulfilled. However--" And Carew, the quondam exquisite,
pulled off his socks and shirt, punched them down into one of the
buckets and then did his British best to wash himself in the other.

His lamentations rose again, however, when he put on his time-
stained uniform once more.

"I now understand why Brother Boer sleeps in his clothes," he
observed grimly. "Cleanliness, may be next to godliness; but it is
mighty near the edge of the diabolical to put yourself back into
clothes that are only fit for the dust bin. When I am field marshal
of a long campaign, my first act will be to establish swimming tanks
and laundries as a branch of the Army Service Corps. Meanwhile, see
here!" His open hand came down on his dust-colored coat. Ten minutes
later, the print of every finger was still distinctly visible.

Weldon watched him sympathetically. Thanks to the efforts of Kruger
Bobs, his own clothing was slightly less filled with dust, and his
abandoned socks came back to him in a state of comparative
cleanliness. Satisfied with the fact, he made no effort to inquire
into the method of its achievement.

Carew, meanwhile, his coat off, his sleeves rolled to his elbows,
was grappling with his efforts to produce laundry effect from a
wooden bucket and a few quarts of dingy water. Beyond splashing his
putties and giving himself a pain in the hinges of his back, he
accomplished little. The garments were very wet; but their griminess
was increased, rather than diminished. Carew's face fell, as he
lifted them one by one. Then he shook his head.

"They certainly aren't cleaner; but they may be a bit fresher for
being irrigated," he observed hopefully. "Look out!"

Weldon dodged out of range, as a sock, squeezed from the ankle
downward, yielded up its irrigation in a sudden spurt through the
toe.

"Hold on, Carew; I'm no candidate for baptism," he adjured his
friend. "Let your things soak for a while, and I'll send Kruger Bobs
over to take them in hand, as soon as he gets through polishing off
The Nig."

Carew straightened his aching back.

"I'll change work with him," he suggested promptly. "A horse is on
your own level; it's degrading to run a Chinese laundry."

Weldon glanced from the wooden bucket to the soaked wrists and
splashed putties of his companion.

"I wish Miss Mellen could see you now, Carew," he remarked unkindly.

With unexpected suddenness, Carew mounted his dignity.

"Unfortunately Miss Mellen is at Johannesburg. Moreover, Miss Mellen
has probably seen men in this mess before now," he answered a little
shortly.

"Doubtless. She may have been in a similar fix, herself. If she
were, I suspect she would put it through and come out on top,"
Weldon replied, with an accent of hearty and respectful admiration
which mollified his companion. "There's my call. I must go to
inspect my day nursery." And, leaving Carew beside his amateur wash-
tub, he went striding away to the farther side of the camp where a
hollow between the hills had been converted into a monstrous kraal.
Involuntarily he smiled, as he walked off to his duty. Carew had
been an edifying spectacle, as he had sacrificed himself upon the
altar of cleanliness. He had been neither deft, dignified nor
devout; and, in all truth, Alice Mellen would have found it hard to
recognize her finical patient in the dusty, unshaven man whose hair
bore unmistakable signs of having been pruned with a pair of pocket
scissors. Little of Carew's past month had been spent in the base
camp at Springfontein. With hundreds of other men, he had gone
galloping up and down the Free State on the slippery heels of De
Wet, now being shot at by prowling Boers, now engaged in a lively
skirmish from which he never made his exit totally unscathed, now
riding for weary, dusty miles upon a scent which ultimately proved
to be a false one. In the spring of the present year it appears
that Mr. Irving touched "the golden shores of old romance," and
published Tales of the Alhambra; the origin of which work is thus
told by the author.

A few years since, Mr. Wilkie, the distinguished R.A. and Mr.
Irving were fellow travellers on the continent. In their rambles about
some of the old cities of Spain, they were struck with scenes and
incidents which reminded them of passages in the Arabian Nights.

Mr. Wilkie urged his companion to write something that should
illustrate those peculiarities, "something in the Haroun Alraschid
style" that should have a dash of that Arabian spice which pervades
everything in Spain.

Mr. Irving set about his task with enthusiasm: his study was the
spacious Alhambra itself, and the governor gave the author and his
companion, permission to occupy his vacant apartments in the
Moorish palace: Mr. Wilkie soon returned to England, leaving Mr.

Irving at the Alhambra, where he remained "for several months,
spell-bound in the old enchanted pile." The result was two volumes
of legends and traditions, which for interesting incident, and
gracefulness of narrative, have few parallels in our romance-writing.[5]
They are dedicated, in good taste, to the ingenious originator, Mr.
Wilkie.

[Footnote 5: For Two Illustrations and Notice of this interesting
work, See _Mirror_, vol. xix. p. 337 to 342; whence the above
origin of the work has been quoted.]
In person, Mr. Irving is of middle height; and, according to
a contemporary, of "modest deportment and easy attitude, with all the
grace and dignity of an English gentleman."[6] Another describes him
as "a most amiable man, and great genius, but not lively in
conversation." His features have a pleasing regularity, and
are lit up, at every corner, with that delightful humour which flows
in a rich vein throughout his writings, and forms their most
attractive charm.

[Footnote 6: Fraser's Magazine.]
Having noticed Mr.

Irving's principal works, we have left but little occasion to
speak of his general style. A contemporary has denominated him
the "Goldsmith of the age;" and of Goldsmith we must remember that,
in his epitaph, Dr. Johnson observes: "he left no species of writing
untouched, and adorned all to which he applied himself"--a tribute
which can scarcely be appropriately paid to any writer of our time.
However, we know not any author that Mr. Irving so much resembles
as Goldsmith: although no imitator, his style and language forcibly
remind us of that easy flow so peculiar to the Citizen of the World.
But, we have higher warrant for this parallel. "It seems probable,"
observes a critical writer of considerable acumen, "that Mr. Irving
might prove no contemptible rival to Goldsmith, whose turn of mind
he very much inherits, and of whose style he particularly reminds
us.

Like him, too, Mr. Irving possesses the art of setting ludicrous
perplexities in the most irresistible point of view, and we think
equals him in the variety of humour."[7]
[Footnote 7: Quarterly Review.--Such is the variety displayed in the
Salmagundi; the papers were supposed to be the joint efforts of several
literati.]

To conclude, we find the literary character of Mr. Irving
illustrated in a contemporary journal, with unusual spirit.
"There never was a writer," observes the editor, "whose popularity
was more matter of feeling, or more intimate than Washington Irving,
perhaps, because he appeared at once to our simplest and kindliest
emotions. His affections were those of 'hearth and home;' the
pictures he delighted to draw were those of natural loveliness,
linked with human sympathies; and a too unusual thing with the writers
of our time--he looked upon God's works, and 'saw that they
were good.' * * * With him the wine of life is not always on the
lees.

An exquisite vein of poetry runs through every page,--and of poetry,
his epithets who does not remember--'the shark, glancing like a
spectre through the blue seas.'"[8]
[Footnote 8: Literary Gazette.]
* * * * *

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
As a rule, the Captain's figure was in the
background of these pictures, and Weldon was content to have it so.
In all South Africa, these were his two best friends; it was good
that they could be together. And the Captain was an older man, much
older. When one lives in the open air during twenty-four hours of
every day, jealousy has scant place in his mind. The smaller vices
are for the cramped town, not for the limitless, unbroken veldt.

And now and then a day brought with it a letter, frank, friendly and
full of news. Those days Weldon marked with a white stone; but his
sleep, on those nights, was as quiet and dreamless as ever. Facts
were facts. Theories and hopes were for the future; and no man looks
much to the future in a time of war.

Besides the letters, there were minor events, too, events which went
to fill up the letters of reply. Now it was a hospital train which
halted at the camp on the way southward, and each red-taped nurse
had reminded him of Alice Mellen, and of those last days in
Johannesburg. Now it was a two-day trek, as escort for a convoy
train whose long lines of bullock-drawn wagons marked the brown
veldt with a wavering stripe of duller brown. Again a wounded picket
came straying back to camp, bleeding and dazed, to report the
inevitable sniping which furnished the running accompaniment to most
other events; or an angry squad came riding in, to tell of the shots
which had followed close upon the raising of the white flag, or of
the score of armed men who had suddenly leaped out from the safe
shelter of a Red-Cross ambulance. And, on one occasion, he had been
in the thick of a similar fray. Hand to hand, he had fought on the
doorsteps of a farmhouse to which he and his five comrades had been
bidden by a sprightly Boer in gown and sunbonnet. At the door, the
bonnet had been cast from the cropped head, and the gown had been
pushed back to give access to the bandolier beneath, while a dozen
shots from an upper window had driven them from the dooryard into
the comparative shelter of the lower rooms. The skirmish had ended
with a charge up the stairway. Weldon, that same night, had written
to Ethel a wholly humorous account of the whole affair, and it was
not until long afterwards that she had learned from Carew, who had
been of the party, which was the trooper who had mounted guard over
the room where the aged grandmother had tucked herself away under
her bed. The old Dutch vrouw had bidden him to share her shelter;
but he had taken note of her dimensions, and had declined her
hospitality. Later on, when the fight was over and she had painfully
wriggled her way out from her trap, he had also declined certain of
her manifestations of gratitude. Even chivalry to the aged possesses
its humorous side.

Then, one November night, Weldon came into his tent with alert step
and glowing eyes. He found Carew going through his camp outfit in
detail, and, squatting on the floor in the corner, Kruger Bobs was
cleaning accoutrements as if his life depended on it.

"You look as if events were about to happen," he observed, from the
dispassionate distance of the doorway.

"They are."

"Ask them to include me, then."

"What do you need of events, you regimental broncho-buster?"

"One gets sick of even the best horseflesh in time," he answered
nonchalantly.

"Sorry, for you are doomed to more of it."

"Another herd of bronchos?" Weldon's voice showed that the idea
displeased him.

"No; but a two-hundred-mile trek across country."

"Good. I am tired of being cooped up, and a spin of that kind will
be a boon."

Carew settled back on his heels and looked up at him.

"Spin is it! Your only spin will be on your own axis. We are to act
as escort for a convoy train of fifty wagons and ten times fifty
mules. We shall make six miles a day, and our tongues will be wholly
corrupted by the language of the mule-drivers. And, in the end, we
shall get to--"

"A glorious fight, I trust," Weldon supplemented.

Gloomily Carew shook his head. "No; merely to Winburg. We are going
to provision Weppener and Ladybrand, and then make for the railroad
again. We'll strike it at Winburg most likely. It is an unholy sort
of hole, and I hear that the hotel serves watered ink and currant
jelly under the name of claret. We shall sit there and sip it, until
the train arrives, and then we shall entrain and come back again.
And this," he emphasized his words by plumping forward on his knees
once more; "and this is war!"

"Yes; but it lets us out on a longer leash than I have had for some
time," Weldon said serenely. "Anyway, it is well for you that it is
not likely to be a bloody campaign, for you'll be headed straight
away from Johannesburg, and I misdoubt me if Winburg holds a
hospital."

"Judging from my past records, it will have to found one, then,"
Carew answered composedly. "If I have to go through two hundred
miles of the enemy's country, they might as well open up, in
readiness for my coming. But what is the letter, old man?"

"News. Yours had knocked it out of my mind, though. Mine comes off
later. Captain Frazer has been transferred to the South African
Light Horse, and will come up here as adjutant, on the first."

Carew's face brightened.

"That's good hearing. He will be higher still, before De Wet is
taken." "I hope so. Anyway, he is coming to us. Think of having him
about again!"

"Much good will it do us! An adjutant doesn't mess with the
trooper."

"Frazer will stick to his friends."

"Mayhap. Still, better men than he have gone dizzy, as they went up
the ladder, and dizziness makes people look at what's above them,
rather than at what is below," Carew answered oracularly. "Frazer's
influence will be sound, and we shall feel it from one end of things
to the other. Aside From that, we aren't likely to be much affected
by his coming. Did Miss Dent tell any other news?"

"As it happens, Miss Dent didn't tell me this."

"Who, then?"

"Captain Frazer, himself," Weldon answered, with a quiet relish of
his own victory. "He sends messages and all that to you." Then he
added, "And who else do you think is coming?"

"With him?"

"Yes."

Carew shook his head.

"I've no idea, unless Lord Kitchener is about to pay us a visit.
There were rumors of it, a week or so ago."

"Guess again. It's a mightier than Lord Kitchener, this time."

"Can't be."

Weldon laughed. "It is, for it is a man trained to two weapons, who
has beaten his kettles into a helmet and his pepper-pot into a
cartridge-box."

"Paddy?"

"Yes, Paddy. The Captain writes that he is thirsting for gore and
glory, and that he has learned to ride anything from a clotheshorse
to a nightmare."

Carew laughed.

"Paddy all over. He never could take things as they came."

"Except Parrott's horse," Weldon suggested.

"How did he get out of that scrape?"

"Went out. There was talk of official vengeance; but Paddy vanished,
that same night. A week later, he turned up at the Captain's room in
Cape Town, with a bundle of clothes and a story that was as leaky as
a sieve. The Captain sent him out to Maitland to be licked into
shape, and this is the result."

"No," Carew objected in a sudden burst of prophecy. "Mind my words,
Paddy has not resulted yet. That will come, later on in the game."


CHAPTER SIXTEEN


Winburg may have all the elements of greatness; but greatness itself
is lacking. Nevertheless, after watching a convoy train tool along
over the green-flecked yellow veldt at the rate of six miles a day,
after seeing nothing but an occasional isolated farmhouse, the
little town appeared like a centre of civilization and excitement to
the bored troopers, as they rode up the main street and pitched camp
on the western edge of the town. There they sat and idly wondered
behind which particular hill was the largest commando. No type of
boredom is more acute than that which links itself with periods of
inaction in the army. Fifteen minutes would have sufficed to exhaust
the resources of Winburg; the troopers remained there for fifteen
days. Only Kruger Bobs was fully in his element. His daily grooming
of the broncho and his master once over, his time was his own, and
he employed it to the best of his ability. Fate had endowed Kruger
Bobs with a smile which won instant liking and gained instant
fulfilment of his wishes. Just as, months before, he had sat on the
river bank at Piquetberg Road, and grinned persuasively at the jam
tins, so now he ranged up and down among the farms scattered about
Winburg, and grinned himself into possession of manifold eggs and
plump fowls and even of soft wheat bread, the final luxury of the
biscuit-sated trooper who owned his fealty.

"'Is thy servant a dog?'" Carew had quoted gravely at sight of his
first army biscuit.

And Weldon had made answer,--

"Not if he knows it. I have always had full sympathy with my hound
who leaves his dog-bread in favor of a bit of oak planking gnawed
out from his kennel floor."

But Carew was less dainty. Nevertheless, he attacked the biscuit
with two flat stones, and mixed the debris with his coffee.

Now, however, thanks to the efforts of Kruger Bobs, they were living
thriftily and upon the fat of the land.

"How do you get it all, Kruger Bobs? "Weldon had demanded, one day.
"To my sure knowledge, you've no money, and people hereabouts don't
love the British. What is your secret?"

Kruger Bobs ducked his bristly head into his ragged hat, and gave an
explosive chuckle. Then he raised his head and scratched it
demurely.

"Kruger Bobs just gits it, Boss," he explained comprehensively.

He came in, the next night, his pockets stuffed, his mouth wide ajar
and the very whites of his eyes full of mystery. Carew and Weldon,
sitting together, glanced up as he appeared. Instantly, as he caught
sight of Carew, Kruger Bobs veiled his emotion and sought to become
properly nonchalant. Nevertheless, it was plain that he had tidings
to impart; and at length, over the top of Carew's head, he fell to
making graphic, yet totally unintelligible, signs to his master.

"What in thunder do you want, Kruger Bobs?" Weldon demanded.

Kruger Bobs heaved an ostentatious sigh, cast at Weldon one flashing
grin, and then asked dolorously,--

"Me speak Boss out dere?"

"What under heaven is the matter with you, Kruger Bobs?" Weldon
asked, as he departed on the heels of his serving man.

Kruger Bobs slapped his thigh noiselessly, vanished behind his
smile, then reappeared to put his lips to Weldon's ear and whisper
in raucous triumph--"Syb down dere Winburg."

"What? Who is Syb?" Weldon queried blankly.

Kruger Bobs straightened, in dignified resentment at his master's
ignorance.

"Syb be my vrouw soon."

"Oh, I see. No wonder you look elated, you rascal. So you have been
courting?"

The grin reappeared. "Ya, Boss. More, too."

"What now?" "Kruger Bobs got despatch from Syb for Boss."

Weldon's face expressed his amusement.

"Much obliged to the lady. Give her mine." "Syb say--" Again the
thick black lips approached Weldon's ear, and the bristly head
nodded energetically in time to the moving lips.

"Who?" Weldon said incredulously. "Miss Mellen?"

"Ya, Boss."

"How does Syb--Is that what you call her?--how does she know? Oh, I
remember now. It is the girl who served at Miss Mellen's home,"
Weldon said, as light began to dawn.

"Ya, Boss; dat Syb."

"And she is here with Miss Mellen?"

Kruger Bobs nodded.

"What are they doing?"

"Dey is nurses sick mens." "How long have they been here?"

"One, tree, five day."

"Five days," Weldon translated to himself. "It was an odd chance,
your running on her so soon. Did she know we were here?"

"She tink ya," Kruger Bobs replied. "Syb no tell." "But why not?"

The matter-of-course question appeared to fill Kruger Bobs with
amazement.

"Boss make night march," he answered. "She may not care to have me.
Still, we'll ride out there with you in the morning."

"Boss?"

"Mr. Carew and myself."

Kruger Bobs looked hurt. In hot excitement, the black fingers closed
on a fold of the brown sleeve.

"Kruger Bobs go, too?"

"What makes you want to go?"

"Syb dere, Boss."

"I don't see what difference that makes," Weldon said reflectively.

Once more Kruger Bobs turned coy.

"Boss go see his vrouw; me go see Syb," he explained briefly.

Weldon's laugh astonished him; still more Weldon's answer.

"Oh, Kruger Bobs, you love-struck calf! Because you're in love with
Syb, do you think it follows that I am in love with Miss Mellen?"

Kruger Bobs plotted geometrical problems with his left toe.

"Syb say," he replied at length. Then he raised his eyes from his
problem. "Boss vrouw good," he ventured persuasively.

Weldon laughed again.

"So we all think. Mr. Carew knows her much better than I do, though,
and Miss Mellen would be hurt, if he didn't go out to see her."

But Kruger Bobs stood his ground. "Boss Weldon go see his vrouw;
Kruger Bobs go see his vrouw; Boss Carew no vrouw."

However, in spite of the advice of Kruger Bobs, Carew was at
Weldon's side, as they rode through Winburg, the next morning.

Already the country was taking on the look of summer, and the dusty
stretches of veldt were tinged here and there with thin patches of
growing green. Over the hills nearest the town were scattered the
lines of ruined trenches, still littered here and there with rusty
tools dropped there by the Boers when, long months before, they had
caught sight of the advancing armies of French and Hutton. The foul
fish rise eagerly at the fly, but the clean ones by no means so.
They weigh from two to twenty-four pounds, and occasionally, I presume,
but very rarely indeed, more. The largest I ever heard of was
taken in the Hallowstell fishing water, at the mouth of the
Tweed, in April 1840, and weighed twenty-three pounds and a half.
The heaviest bull trout I ever encountered myself weighed
sixteen pounds, and I had a long and severe contest with his
majesty.

He was a clean fish, and I hooked him in a cast in Mertoun water
called the _Willow Bush_, not in the mouth but in the dorsal fin.

Brethren of the craft, guess what sore work I had with him! He went
here and there with apparent comfort and ease to his own person,
but not to mine. I really did not know what to make of him.
There never was such a Hector.

I cannot say exactly how long I had him on the hook; it seemed a
week at least. At length John Halliburton, who was then my fisherman,
waded into the river up to his middle, and cleeked him whilst
he was hanging in the stream, and before he was half
beat."--P.
66.

Many simple-minded people, with something of a sentimental turn,
(they are almost always fond of raw oysters, and gloat over a roasted
turkey, although they know that it was bled to to death by cutting
the roots of its tongue,) look upon angling as a "cruel sport."

Let us see, with Mr Scrope, how this matter really stands.

"I take a little wool and feather, and tying it in a particular manner
upon a hook, make an imitation of a fly; then I throw it across
the river, and let it sweep round the stream with a lively motion.
This I have an undoubted right to do, for the river belongs to me or
my friend; but mark what follows. Up starts a monster fish with
his murderous jaws, and makes a dash at my little Andromeda. Thus
he is the aggressor, not I; his intention is evidently to commit
murder. He is caught in the act of putting that intention into
execution.

Having wantonly intruded himself on my hook, which I contend he had
no right to do, he darts about in various directions, evidently
surprised to find that the fly, which he hoped to make an easy
conquest of, is much stronger than himself.

I naturally attempt to regain this fly, unjustly withheld from me.

The fish gets tired and weak in his lawless endeavours to deprive
me of it.

I take advantage of his weakness, I own, and drag him, somewhat loth,
to the shore, when one rap on the back of the head ends him in
an instant.

If he is a trout, I find his stomach distended with flies. That beautiful
one called the May fly, who is by nature almost ephemeral--who
rises up from the bottom of the the shallows, spreads its light
wings, and flits in the sunbeam in enjoyment of its new existence--no
sooner descends to the surface of the water to deposit its eggs,
than the unfeeling fish, at one fell spring, numbers him prematurely
with the dead.

You see, then, what a wretch a fish is; no ogre is more bloodthirsty,
for he will devour his nephews, nieces, and even his own children,
when he can catch them; and I take some credit for having shown him
up.

Talk of a wolf, indeed a lion, or a tiger! Why, these, are all mild
and saintly in comparison with a fish! What a bitter fright must the
smaller fry live in!
They crowd to the shallows, lie hid among the weeds, and dare not say
the river is their own. I relieve them of their apprehensions, and
thus become popular with the small shoals.
When we see a fish quivering upon dry land, he looks so helpless
without arms or legs, and so demure in expression, adding hypocrisy
to his other sins, that we naturally pity him; then kill and eat
him, with Harvey sauce, perhaps.

Our pity is misplaced,--the fish is not. There is an immense
trout in Loch Awe in Scotland, which is so voracious, and swallows
his own species with such avidity, that he has obtained the name
of _Salmo ferox._ I pull about this unnatural monster till he is
tired, land him, and give him the _coup-de-grace_. Is this cruel?
Cruelty should be made of sterner stuff."

--P. 83.

Mr Scrope is known as an accomplished artist as well as an experienced
angler, and we need not now to tell our readers that he is also a
skilful author.

It does not fall to the lot of all men to handle with equal
dexterity the brush, the pen, and the rod--to say nothing of the
rifle--still less of the leister, under cloud of night.

There is much in the present volume to interest even those who are
so unfortunate as to have never seen either, grilse or salmon,
except as pupils or practitioners in the silver-fork school.

His reminiscences of his own early life and manlier years, under the
soubriquet of Harry Otter, are pleasantly told, and his adventurous
meetings with poachers and painters are amusing in themselves, as
well as instructive in their tendency to illustrate, not only the
deeper mysteries of piscatorial art, but the life and conversation
of the amphibious people who dwell by the sides of rivers.

His first arrival in "fair Melrose," the moonlight lustre of which was
then unsung, is thus described--

"It was late, and I looked forth on the tranquil scene from my
window.

The moonbeams played upon the distant hilltops, but the lower masses
slept as yet in shadow; again the pale light caught the waters of
the Tweed, the lapse of whose streams fell faintly on the ear, like
the murmuring of a sea-shell.

In front rose up the mouldering abbey, deep in shadow; its pinnacles,
and buttresses, and light tracery, but dimly seen in the solemn mass.

A faint light twinkled for a space among the tomb-stones, soon it
was extinct, and two figures passed off in the shadow, who had been
digging a grave even at that late hour.

As the night advanced, a change began to take place.

Clouds heaved up over the horizon; the wind was heard in murmurs;
the rack hurried athwart the moon; and utter darkness fell upon
river, mountain, and haugh. Then the gust swelled louder, and the
storm struck fierce and sudden against the casement. But as the
morrow dawned, though rain-drops still hung upon the leaf, the clouds
sailed away, the sun broke forth, and all was fair and tranquil."

--P. 97.

The fisherman was sent for express, and his general garb and
fly-bedizened hat, are soon portrayed; while the "waxing" of the
Tweed, and how the Eildon Hills were of old cloven by the art of
grammarye, conclude the fourth chapter, and bring us only to the
hundredth page.

The ensuing section of the work opens with some general observations
on the scenery of that now noted district of the south of Scotland,
blended with the graceful expression of those melancholy remembrances,
we doubt not deeply felt, which must ever cast a dark shadow over
the minds of the surviving associates of the Great Minstrel.

Alas!

where can we turn ourselves without being reminded of the transitory
nature of this our low estate, of its dissevered ties, its buried
hopes, and lost affections!

How many bitter endurances, reflected from the bosom of the past,
are ever mingling with all those ongoings of human life and action
which we call enjoyments!

How mixed in their effects are even the natural glories of this our
fair creation!

What golden sunset casts not its far-beaming splendour, not only
on the great mountains and the glittering sea, but also breaks, as
if in mockery, into ghastly chambers where the desolation of death,
"the wages of sin," is miserably brooding!

And yet how solemnizing, how elevating in their influences, are all
the highest beauties both of art and nature, notwithstanding the
awe, approaching to fearfulness, with which they not seldom affect
our spirits.

The veneration with which we gaze even on insensate walls which
once formed the loved abode of genius and virtue, is a natural
tribute to a noble nature, and flows from one of the purest and
most sustaining sources of emotion by which our humanity is
distinguished.

It almost looks as if, in accordance with the Platonic philosophy,
there remained to man, from an original and more lofty state of
existence, some dim remembrance of perfection.

"This inborn and implanted recollection of the godlike," says
Schlegel, "remains ever dark and mysterious; for man is surrounded
by the sensible world, which being in itself changeable and imperfect,
encircles him with images of imperfection, changeableness, corruption,
and error, and thus casts perpetual obscurity over that light which
is within him.

Wherever, in the sensible and natural world, he perceives any thing
which bears a resemblance to the attributes of the God-head, which
can serve as a symbol of a high perfection, the old recollections
of his soul are awakened and refreshed. The love of the beautiful
fills and animates the soul of the beholder with an awe and reverence
which belong not to the beautiful itself--at least not to any
sensible manifestation of it--but to that unseen original of which
material beauty is the type.

From this admiration, this new-awakened recollection, and this
instantaneous inspiration, spring all higher knowledge and truth.
These are not the product of cold, leisurely, and voluntary reflection,
but occupy at once a station far superior to what either thought,
or art, or speculation, can attain; and enter into our inmost souls
with the power and presence of a gift from the divinity."
Mr Scrope's first visit to the Tweed was made before the "Ariosto
of the North" had sung those undying strains which have since added
so much associated interest to the finely varied courses of that
fair river.

But many fond lovers of nature, then as now,
"Though wanting the accomplishment of verse,"
were well acquainted with all its unrecorded beauties.

"What stranger," asks our author, "just emerging from the angular
enclosures of the south, scored and subdued by tillage, would not
feel his heart expand at the first sight of the heathy mountains,
swelling out into vast proportions, over which man had no dominion?

At the dawn of day he sees, perhaps, the mist ascending slowly up
the dusky river, taking its departure to some distant undefined
region; below the mountain range his sight rests upon a deep and
narrow glen, gloomy with woods, shelving down to its centre. What
is hid in that mysterious mass the eye may not visit; but a sound
comes down from afar, as of the rushing and din of waters. It is
the voice of the Tweed, as it bursts from the melancholy hills,
and comes rejoicing down the sunny vale, taking its free course
through the haugh, and glittering amongst sylvan bowers--swelling
out at times fair and ample, and again contracted into gorges and
sounding cataracts--lost for a space in its mazes behind a jutting
brae, and re-appearing in dashes of light through bolls of trees
opposed to it in shadow.

"Thus it holds its fitful course. The stranger might wander in
the quiet vale, and far below the blue summits he might see the
shaggy flock grouped upon some sunny knoll, or struggling among the
scattered birch-trees, and lower down on the haugh, his eye perchance
might rest awhile on some cattle standing on a tongue of land by
the margin of the river, with their dark and rich brown forms opposed
to the brightness of the waters.

All these outward pictures he might see and feel; but he would see no
farther: the lore had not spread its witchery over the scene--the
legends slept in oblivion. The stark moss-trooper, and the clanking
stride of the warrior, had not again started into life; nor had the
light blazed gloriously in the sepulchre of the wizard with the
mighty book.

The slogan swelled not anew upon the gale, sounding, through the glens
and over the misty mountains; nor had the minstrel's harp made
music in the stately halls of Newark, or beside the lonely braes
of Yarrow.

"Since that time I have seen the Cottage of Abbotsford, with the
rustic porch, lying peacefully on the haugh between the lone hills,
and have listened to the wild rush of the Tweed as it hurried beneath
it.

As time progressed, and as hopes arose, I have seen that cottage
converted into a picturesque mansion, with every luxury and
comfort attached to it, and have partaken of its hospitality; the
unproductive hills I have viewed covered with thriving plantations,
and the whole aspect of the country civilized, without losing its
romantic character. But, amidst all these revolutions, I have never
perceived any change in the mind of him who made them,--'the
choice and master spirit of the age.' There he dwelt in the hearts
of the people, diffusing life and happiness around him; he
made a home beside the border river, in a country and a nation
that have derived benefit from his presence, and consequence from
his genius.

From his chamber he looked out upon the grey ruins of the Abbey, and
the sun which set in splendour beneath the Eildon Hills.

Like that sun, his course has been run; and, though disastrous
clouds came across him in his career, he went down in unfading
glory.

"These golden hours, alas! have long passed away; but often have I
visions of the sylvan valley, and its glittering waters, with
dreams of social intercourse.

Abbotsford, Mertoun, Chiefswood, Huntly-Burn, Allerley--when shall I
forget ye?"--P.
102.

How many share these sad and vain regrets!

The very voice of the living waters, which once glittered so
rejoicingly through the green pastures, or reflected in their still
expanse the lichen-covered crag or varied woodland, seems now to
utter an "_illoetabile murmur_," while
"A trouble not of clouds or weeping rain, Nor of the setting sun's
pathetic light, Engender'd, hangs o'er Eildon's triple height."

On the 21st of September 1832, Sir Walter Scott breathed his last, in
the presence of all his children. "It was a beautiful day," we
have been elsewhere told, "so warm that every window was wide open,
and so perfectly still, that the sound of all others most delicious
to his ear, the gentle ripple of the Tweed over its pebbles, was
distinctly audible as we knelt around the bed, and his eldest son
kissed and closed his eyes.

No sculptor ever modelled a more majestic image of repose

."[17]
[Footnote 17: The Life of Sir Walter Scott, Bart., by his literary
executor.]
We must here unwillingly conclude our account of Mr Scrope's
volume, although we have scarcely even entered on many of its most
important portions.

Bait fishing for salmon, and the darker, though torch-illumined,
mysteries of the leister, occupy the terminal chapters.
A careful study of the whole will amply repay the angler, the
naturalist, the artist, and the general admirer of the inexhaustible
beauties of rural scenery--nowhere witnessed or enjoyed to such
advantage as by the side of a first-rate river

.

* * * * *

THE WHIPPIAD, A SATIRICAL POEM.

BY REGINALD HEBER, BISHOP OF CALCUTTA.

In offering this little poem to the public, some few words, by way
of explanation, are deemed necessary.

Most of the circumstances alluded to in it will be familiar to
Oxford readers of Bishop Heber's standing, but especially to those
of his own college, Brazenose.

The origin of the poem was simply this:--A young friend of his, B----d
P----t, went to call upon him at Brazenose, and, without being
aware of the heinous crime he was committing, cracked a four-horse
whip in the quadrangle.

This moved the ire of a certain doctor, a fellow and tutor, and at
that time also dean of the college, commonly called _Dr Toe_ from
a defect in one of his feet.

The doctor had unfortunately made himself obnoxious to most of those
of his own college, under-graduates as well as others, by his absurd
conduct and regulations. On the following day Mr P----t cracked
the whip in the quadrangle, when the doctor issued from his rooms
in great wrath, and after remonstrating with Mr P----t, and
endeavouring to take the whip from him, a scuffle ensued, in which
the whip was broken, and the doctor overpowered and thrown down by
the victorious P----t, who had fortunately taken his degree of
Master of Arts.

Heber, then an under-graduate of only a few terms' standing, wrote
the first canto the same evening, and the intrinsic merit of the
poem will recommend it to most readers.

But it will be doubly interesting when considered as one of the
_first_, if not the _very first_, of the poetical productions of
that eminent and distinguished scholar. In it may be traced the
dawnings of that genius which was afterwards to delight the world
in an enlarged sphere of usefulness.

K.

CANTO FIRST.

Where whiten'd Cain the curse of heaven defies,[18] And leaden
slumber seals his brother's eyes, Where o'er the porch in brazen
splendour glows The vast projection of the mystic nose, Triumph
erewhile of Bacon's fabled arts,[19] Now well-hung symbol of the
student's parts; 'Midst those unhallow'd walls and gloomy cells
Where every thing but Contemplation dwells, Dire was the feud our
sculptured Alfred saw,[20] And thy grim-bearded bust, Erigena, When
scouts came flocking from the empty hall, And porters trembled at
the Doctor's call; Ah!

call'd in vain, with laugh supprest they stood And bit their
nails, a dirty-finger'd brood.

E'en Looker gloried in his master's plight,[21] And John beheld,
and chuckled at the sight.[22] Genius of discord!

thou whose murky flight With iron pennons more obscured the night--
Thou, too, of British birth, who dost reside In Syms's or in Goodwin's
blushing tide,[23] Say, spirit, say, for thy enlivening bowl With
fell ambition fired thy favourite's soul, From what dread cause began
the bloodless fray Pregnant with shame, with laughter, and dismay?

Calm was the night, and all was sunk to rest, Save Shawstone's party,
and the Doctor's breast:

He saw with pain his ancient glory fled, And thick oblivion gathering
round his head.
Alas! no more his pupils crowding come, To wait indignant in their
tyrant's room,[24] No more in hall the fluttering theme he
tears, Or lolling, picks his teeth at morning prayers; Unmark'd,
unfear'd, on dogs he vents his hate, And spurns the terrier from
his guarded gate.
But now to listless indolence a prey, Stretch'd on his couch, he sad
and darkling lay; As not unlike in venom and in size, Close in his
hole the hungry spider lies.

"And oh!" he cries, "am I so powerless grown, That I am fear'd
by cooks and scouts alone?
Oh! for some nobler strife, some _senior_ foe, To swell by his
defeat the name of Toe!" He spoke--the powers of mischief heard
his cries, And steep'd in sullen sleep his rheumy eyes.
He slept--but rested not, his guardian sprite Rose to his view in
visions of the night, And thus, with many a tear and many a sigh,
He heard, or seem'd to hear, the mimic demon cry:--[25] "Is this a
time for distant strife to pray, When all my power is melting fast
away, Like mists dissolving at the beams of day, When masters dare
their ancient rights resume, And bold intruders fill the common
room, Whilst thou, poor wretch, forsaken, shunn'd by all, Must pick
thy commons in the empty hall?

Nay more! regardless of thy hours and thee, They scorn the ancient,
frugal hour of three.[26] Good Heavens! at four their costly
treat is spread, And juniors lord it at the table's head; See
fellows' benches sleeveless striplings bear,[27] Whilst Smith
and Sutton from the canvass stare.[28] Hear'st thou through all
this consecrated ground, The rattling thong's unwonted clangour
sound?
Awake! arise! though many a danger lour, By one bright deed to vindicate
thy power." He ceased; as loud the fatal whip resounds, With throbbing
heart the eager Doctor bounds.
So when some bear from Russia's clime convey'd, Politer grown, has
learnt the dancer's trade, If weary with his toil perchance, he hears
His master's lash re-echoing in his ears, Though loath, he lifts
his paws, and bounds in air, And hops and rages whilst the rabble
stare.

CANTO THE SECOND.

You the great foe of this Assembly!
I the great foe? Why the great foe?
In that being one of the meanest, barest, poorest, ----Thou goest
foremost.--SHAKSPEARE'S _Coriolanus_.

Forth from his cell the wily warrior hies, And swift to seize the
unwary victim flies.
For sure he deem'd, since now declining day Had dimn'd the brightness
of his visual ray, He deem'd on helpless under-graduate foes To
purge the bile that in his liver rose.

Fierce schemes of vengeance in his bosom swell, Jobations dire, and
Impositions fell.

The Boer general was familiar with every crack and cranny of
that earth. He knew where to hide, where to dodge, where to scurry
away as fast as his convoy train could bear him company. Behind him,
plucky, but totally in ignorance of the natural advantages of the
country, toiled and perspired and skirmished the British army.
Horses were exhausted, men were killed and supply wagons were
captured, all to little or no purpose. If the quarry could not be
taken by direct pursuit, it was needful to have recourse to the
methods of the ranch. Pursuit failing, it was time for a round-up.

To this end, the Orange River Colony had been marked off into
sections by the rows of blockhouses strung upon barbed wire. Drive
after drive had been made into these enclosures; and every drive had
brought its bag of game. But still the general himself had eluded
them. Early in February, however, a giant drive had been planned,
directed away from the enclosure in order that, once De Wet took
refuge in his usual trick of doubling back upon his pursuers, he
should find himself caught in the open trap. And, secure in the
ultimate success of his plan, Lord Kitchener waited at Wolvehoek in
expectation of its end.

The drive had been made, De Wet had doubled, and now the base of the
triangle was flowing in upon him, fully confident of success at
last. And the base was in part made up of the South African Light
Horse, and Carew and Weldon were of that Horse, and they rejoiced
accordingly.

Nightfall of the sixth found the quarry well inside the triangle,
and the South African Light Horse drawn up in a straight line
running westward from Lindley. The officers slept in their boots,
that night, and every trooper held himself tense in his blankets,
ready to cease snoring at an instant's notice. And far away to the
northward, the moving search-lights carved the frosty darkness with
their blinding cones of light.

Weldon was ordered out on picket duty, that night. All day long, he
had ridden hard, until even the zeal of Piggie had begun to flag.
Nevertheless, as the broad stripe of yellow reluctantly died out of
the western sky, his excited brain denied to his tired muscles the
sleep which they demanded. Accordingly, it was a relief when his
orders came, and he found himself advancing cautiously out into the
shadowy veldt.

Contrary to his usual mood when on picket, Weldon had no sense of
loneliness, that night. Reaching away from him on either hand was
the huge enclosing wall of humanity, pacing to and fro on picket
duty, guarding the blockhouses, patrolling the wire fences between.
Every man was alert to his duty; every nerve was taut with the
consciousness that somewhere within the cordon was the leader who
heretofore had escaped them, that each man was a link forged in the
endless chain which was stretched around the invisible enemy. And,
meanwhile, the starless sky and the waiting chain were equally
silent and equally freighted with mystery. And the future seemed
full of portent and very near.

Then, as the midnight hour swung past him, Weldon heard the rustle
of a quiet footfall. It was Captain Frazer's voice that answered his
challenge.

"I was looking for you, Weldon," he added.

"For anything especial?"

"No. I felt restless and couldn't sleep, so I thought I would go the
round of the pickets. They said you were out here. Where is Carew?"

"In my sleeping-bag. I don't encourage him for a neighbor just now.
He draws too much fire."

The Captain laughed softly.

"He is an unlucky beggar. Eight, nine, how many times is it that he
has been hit? He ought to engage a private nurse."

"He has." And Weldon explained the little scene at the door of the
hospital tent.

"Happy fellow! He deserves her, though. But it is an ideal
combination, that of nurse and soldier," the Captain answered
lightly. Then he asked, "What sort of a day have you had?"

"Rousing. Now the question is: what sort of a night are we going to
have?"

"The night of our lives, I suspect," the Captain replied, still in
the low tone in which all their talk had been made. "The orders are
to close in at daylight, and work the game up towards Wolvehoek;
but, if I know anything at all of De Wet, he won't wait till
daylight."

"You think he will fight?"

"If he does, it will be a fight to the finish," the Captain said
gravely.

Weldon's grip tightened on his rifle.

"When will it come?"

"Heaven only knows. Probably just before light. He will take this
end of things, on account of avoiding the railroads and--"

Weldon's hand shut on his arm.

"Hush! What's that?"

Swiftly the Captain's gravity vanished, and he laughed.

"By George, here they are!" he exclaimed.

From the veldt to the northward, there came a confused din of
rushing, trampling feet; a cloud of dust, lifted on the night
breeze, swept down upon them; and then a herd of stampeding cattle
dashed madly past, noses to earth and tails lashing in furious fear.
An instant later, the darkness to the left was shattered by dots of
light, and the air snapped with the double crack of Mauser rifles.
Far to the northward, though muffled by distance, there was more
firing, and yet more; and ever the moving searchlights carved their
way to and fro through the inky night.

Like a dog on the scent and ready for the plunge, Captain Frazer had
straightened to the full of his height and stood tense, waiting an
instant to measure the scope of the coming fight.

"It's a row, sure enough; and thank God, I'm in it!" he said quietly
then. "Come back to the line, Weldon. There'll be work for us all,
in a few minutes."

Even as he spoke, and while they were hurrying back to the squadron,
a random shot pierced the darkness just before them, and a bullet
whirred close above their heads. Another shot tossed up a spray of
dust at their feet, and a third fell full in the tent where Carew
was swiftly tightening his belts and assuring himself that his
bandoliers were full.

They found the camp already humming like a hive of angry bees. A
small matter of forty miles a day counted for nothing to men wakened
from heavy sleep to face the firing of an invisible foe. There was
no need of the murmured report that De Wet had bidden his followers
break through the British chain wherever its links were weakest.
Instinctively each man threw himself into fighting array, convinced
that the present minute marked the climax of the past days.

And, meanwhile, the limitless darkness shut down over the determined
cordon of British men facing steadily inward towards the foe which
they could not see; over the scattered knots of Boer horsemen,
secure in their full knowledge of every yard of the ground, riding
forward to fight their way through the chain into the veldt beyond.
And, far to the northward, De Wet was lurking in shadow long enough
to cut the wires and then ride away with his trio of faithful
followers.

To Weldon, fresh from the darkness and silence of the open veldt, it
seemed as if, of a sudden, the frosty night were tattered into
shreds. As the fight waxed hot about him, he lost all memory of the
intermediate stages. At one instant, all had been still and dim; at
another, the air before him was thick with vivid rifle flashes, his
ears were full of the strident din of flying bullets, of shouting
men, of squealing, moaning horses. For a time, he could see nothing
of the enemy but the flashing dots of fire. Then the dots drew
nearer, closed up, and the din was increased by the rattle of fixing
bayonets, by the dull, sucking sound of steel prodded into soft
masses, and by the thud of falling bodies. And always from the outer
circle the pitiless rain of bullets came splashing down upon them,
striking impartially on friend and on foe.

Side by side in the foremost rank, Weldon and Carew were fighting
like tigers. Carew's cheek was gashed by a passing bullet, and
Weldon's coat showed dark and wet over his left shoulder; but
neither man was conscious of pain, or of fear, or of anything else
than a surly determination to check the maddening rush before them.
Carew was slashing about him with all the strength of arm and
bayonet; but Weldon, disdaining his bayonet, was firing with a
steady aim which sent one man and then another to join the heap on
the ground at his feet.

A second bullet grazed his wrist, and a horseman swept down upon
him. For an instant, he wavered. Then he straightened his shoulders
and took careful aim. From ten feet away, he had heard a ringing
order, and the order had been given, not in the voice of his own
captain, but in that of Captain Frazer who, as ranking officer, had
taken command of the fight into which chance had led him. Weldon's
every nerve answered to the tonic of that voice. Not since
Vlaakfontein had he been under its command. Nevertheless, the old
spell was upon him, and he responded to its call. An instant before,
the rush towards him had seemed indomitable. Those furious, fighting
horsemen could not be stayed in their course. Now he braced himself
for the shock of their coming, while tired hand and blurring eye
roused themselves to do the bidding of his brain. He was dimly aware
that Paddy had struggled forward to his other side and, shoulder to
shoulder with him, was helping to beat back the iron-like force
pressing down upon them. Then, with the keen grasp of trifling
detail which often marks the supreme moment of mental exhaustion, he
became conscious that the hairy tail which brushed across his face
was unduly coarse and tangled, while a sudden cheer from around him
told that the Boers were turning in flight.

Dazed, he drew his hand across his face, and stared wonderingly at
the scarlet drops on his fingers. Then he turned and looked down at
Paddy with a whimsical, questioning smile. Paddy repeated his query.

"Are you hurt, little one?" he demanded, for the second time, as he
shook Weldon's arm.

Weldon steadied at the touch.

"No; only scratched a bit. It is nothing to last at all. Are you all
right?"

Paddy shut his hand over a shattered finger.

"Glory be! And the snakes of Boers is wriggling off to their holes.
And now, where's the Captain?"

They found him a little apart from the line, slightly to the front
and close beside a scattered heap of bearded men. His face was white
and the lines of his face were rigid and drawn; but he hailed them
just as he always had been used to do.

"My luck has changed," he added quietly. "They have taken my leg,
this time. Still, it's not so very painful. I'll fill my pipe first,
and then will you two fellows help me back, till we can find an
ambulance?"


CHAPTER NINETEEN


In a quiet corner of the crowded hospital at Johannesburg, one
narrow bed was screened away from its neighbors. Beside the bed sat
Ethel Dent, and Weldon leaned against the wall beyond. Both of them
were smiling bravely down into the dark-fringed blue eyes which met
their eyes with a steady wishfulness. With the end so plain in
sight, why keep up the pretence of being blind to its approach?

An operation had been the final chance, and the chance had failed.
Out from the stupor of ether, out from the hours of bewildering
pain, Captain Frazer had come back to an interval of full
consciousness, of fuller knowledge that, for him, this painless
interval was but the prelude to the final painless sleep.
Nevertheless, the man who had helped other men to die unflinchingly
was facing death with a grave, unflinching smile, albeit life to him
was good and full of promise. The interval was short. He would pass
through it in manlike fashion, and, meanwhile, give thanks that
beside his bed sat the one woman in whom his whole future so long
had centered.

The slow moments passed by, unheeded. It was an hour since the
surgeons had gone away; it was nearly an hour since Alice Mellen had
followed the surgeons. Instinctively she realized that her place was
otherwhere. There was no need now for skilled nurses. Ethel could do
all the little which would be required, and it was Ethel's right to
stay.

Since Alice had left them, no word had been spoken. The Captain had
little strength for words as yet. It was taking all his energy and
courage to face the truth and to accept it. Only an hour before, his
crippled career had seemed to him unbearable. Now, as he lay with
his eyes fixed on the girl beside him, he realized how much of
potential sweetness that dreary alternative had held. And yet, Fate
had drawn him into the battle, and it was something that he had met
Fate bravely and in the foremost rank. So far, he had never funked a
fight; if it took his last bit of strength, he would go pluckily
through this last, worse fight which he was destined to face. He
stirred slightly, and shut his teeth on his lower lip; but his eyes
never dropped from Ethel's face. From the farther side of the bed,
Weldon, too, was watching Ethel. If he lived to full fivescore
years, he could never forget her face as he had met her at the
hospital door, that morning. Exhausted with the excitement of the
battle, stiff with his half-dressed wounds, soiled and untidy and
haggard, he had paused beside the ambulance while the attendants had
lifted the stretcher and borne the Captain up the low flight of
steps. Then, like a man in a dream, he had followed along behind
them until, on the very threshold, he had raised his heavy eyes to
see Ethel standing before him, a broad shaft of sunshine pouring
down upon her to rest in the locks of sunshiny hair which straggled
out from beneath her crisp white cap.

"Cooee!" he said huskily, as he took her hand. Then, for the first
time in all those terrible hours since the battle, his lips had
quivered, and two big, boyish tears had rolled out across his
cheeks.

Already the fight seemed to him to be months old. From the first, it
had been the Captain's wish that Weldon should go with him to the
hospital, and Weldon would have allowed no other man to go in his
place. Wounded and weak from loss of blood, nevertheless he forgot
his own weakness as he saw the leg, shattered by two bullets,
explosive bullets such as are denied to warfare of any but barbarous
nations. Young though he was, Weldon had seen many a man wounded
before now. He was not slow to realize the nature of the
alternatives which lay before the man who was at once his hero and
his friend. Mercifully, he had as yet no knowledge how soon the one
alternative must be taken from him.

The case was too grave a one for the surgeons of the field hospital.
In after years, that ambulance journey into Kroonstad seemed branded
upon Weldon's memory: the baking heat of the February sun, the
interminable miles of dusty road stretching away between other
interminable miles of grassy veldt, scarred and seamed here and
there with ridges of naked rock. And at last the ambulance had
jogged into Kroonstad, only to find that no help lay in the hospital
there, that the journey must be dragged onward through a night ride
to Johannesburg.

If the jolting, crawling ambulance had been bad, the jarring train
was infinitely worse. The Captain made no complaints; he was
grateful for every slight attention; he even forced himself to joke
a little now and then. Nevertheless, Weldon, sitting beside him and
occasionally laying his own fingers across the steady hand on the
blanket, was maddened by the noise of the engine, by the ceaseless
thud, thud as the wheels took every new rail, by the roar, and the
rush, and the dust which filtered in upon them. There was nothing he
could do. He merely sat there beside his friend, and thought.
Occasionally, he thought of Ethel; but, for the most part, his mind
was on the man before him, the man whose active career all at once
had been cut in two. Now and then he thought of the one who had
chosen to fire those bullets, taboo of all but the most brutal
warfare. At such times, he rose and fell to pacing restlessly up and
down the car. Then he controlled himself and resumed his seat.

Moment by moment, almost second by second, the dreary night had worn
away. It was full morning when the train had halted inside the
familiar station. After his vigil, the healthy stir of the streets
appeared to Weldon like the confused picture of a dream, and it had
been like a man in a dream that he had been driven away to the
hospital. Then, on the steps, he had seen Ethel, and the dream had
been shattered, giving way, for the instant, to the perfect
happiness of reality.

But the surgeons at Johannesburg had shaken their heads. The delay,
although unavoidable, had been full of danger. One only chance
remained, and they would take that chance. Weldon had lingered until
he was ordered away; then, with Ethel beside him, he had gone to
find a doctor who could dress his own wounds and make him fit to
face the ordeal which he knew was awaiting him. For one short
moment, he had felt Ethel's hands busy about his shoulder and head
and wrist, had rejoiced in the quiet strength of their soothing
touch. For another moment, their eyes had met; but no word had been
spoken between them. Then Alice had come to them, bringing the
surgeon's verdict. That had been an hour before. Now they still were
there, watching the slow approach of the inevitable summons.

Slowly the day waxed--and waned. For the waning life, there was no
interval of waxing. Slowly, steadily, by infinitesimal degrees, Leo
Frazer was sinking down into the Valley of the Shadow. Once the head
surgeon had stepped behind the screens and bent over the bed. Only
Ethel had seen the brief contraction of his brows; but no one of
them was deceived by his cheery words of parting. And still the blue
eyes rested upon Ethel, as if seeking to gain from her the answer to
some unspoken question, as if begging her to share with him some
fraction of her quiet strength. Now and then Ethel wondered at her
own quiet. This was the second week of her promised month with her
cousin; but it was the first time she had come face to face with
death, the first time, too, that her work had taken on any hint of
personality. Now, suddenly confronted with these three, Death and
the two men who, during the past fourteen months, had played so
active parts in her life, she was surprised to find that she faced
them steadily and in silence. As yet, she felt no wish to make any
moan. That would come later, when her nerves had relaxed a little
from the stretching strain. And, meanwhile, as she sat watching the
face on the pillow, grieving for the waning life, now and then she
raised her eyes to the other face on the opposite side of the bed,
and told herself that Fate, harsh as it was, was yet not altogether
unpitying. Although wounded and worn and sick at heart, Weldon was
with her, and intensely alive.

"Ethel!"

Bending forward, she laid her strong, firm hand upon the hand of the
Captain, noting, as she did so, that the finger tips were cold to
her own warm touch.

"Yes?" she said gently.

"You are here? It troubles me to see. Stay with me to the end,
Ethel. It won't be so very long."

She bowed her head; but the answer came firmly.

"I will stay."

There was a short silence. Then, gathering together all his
strength, the Captain went on quite steadily,--

"It won't be so very long, Ethel. I am sorry. I liked to live. I
have had a good time, and I had no idea that my good times were so
nearly over. Not that it would have made much difference, though.
And yet, when one comes to the end, all of a sudden, one finds a
great many things that are left unfinished."

She made no attempt to answer.

Gently he urged the final words upon her attention.

"There are always so many things left unfinished," he repeated.

"Yes," she said faintly.

Slowly, as if its weight dragged sorely upon his failing strength,
he raised her hand to the pillow and rested his cheek upon it.

"Don't cry, Ethel," he said then. "Of course, if I had lived, it
might have meant so much to us both."

Involuntarily she caught her breath and made a swift gesture, as if
to withdraw her hand. Then, with a hasty glance at Weldon, leaning
against the opposite wall, she controlled herself and allowed her
hand to rest where it was.

"It would have meant so much to all of us, Captain Frazer."

"Perhaps. But to you and me--Ethel, I can't go out of life and give
you up!" Pitifully, longingly, the blue eyes stared up at her face
through the growing shadows of waning day and waning life.
Longingly, although the questioning look had left them. In its place
was an infinite, contented love, an absolute trust.

The girl nerved herself to meet his eyes. Then she drew her own eyes
away, to give another hasty, appealing glance up into Weldon's
paling face. For him, as for her, the moment was all unexpected. For
him, as for her, there was need of all the reserve strength in life
to go through it honorably and without flinching.

Up to that very hour, no thought of Leo Frazer's love had crossed
the mind of Ethel Dent. They had been friends, good comrades,
meeting often and always with much pleasure. She had acknowledged to
herself, long since, that he was a man among men; she honored him,
admired him, cared for him as she might have cared for an only
brother. Beyond that, she could not go. Moreover, it had never
occurred to her that Captain Frazer could mistake her attitude to
himself, could differentiate her light, bright cordiality from the
cordiality she showed to other men. Now, Macdonald--now or never!--
Woe is me, the clans are broken! Father, thou art lost for ever!
Chief and vassal, lord and yeoman, there they lie in heaps together,
Smitten by the deadly volley, rolled in blood upon the heather;
And the Hanoverian horsemen, fiercely riding to and fro, Deal their
murderous strokes at random.-- Ah my God! where am I now?
Will that baleful vision never vanish from my aching sight?
Must those scenes and sounds of terror haunt me still by day and
night?

Yea, the earth hath no oblivion for the noblest chance it
gave, None, save in its latest refuge--seek it only in the
grave.
Love may die, and hatred slumber, and their memory will decay, As
the water'd garden recks not of the drought of yesterday; But the
dream of power once broken, what shall give repose again?
What shall charm the serpent-furies coil'd around the maddening
brain?
What kind draught can nature offer strong enough to lull their
sting?
Better to be born a peasant than to live an exiled king!
Oh, these years of bitter anguish!--What is life to such as me, With
my very heart as palsied as a wasted cripple's knee!
Suppliant-like for alms depending on a false and foreign court, Jostled
by the flouting nobles, half their pity, half their sport.
Forced to hold a place in pageant, like a royal prize of war Walking
with dejected features close behind his victor's car, Styled an
equal--deem'd a servant--fed with hopes of future gain-- Worse by
far is fancied freedom than the captive's clanking chain!

Could I change this gilded bondage even for the massy tower Whence
King James beheld his lady sitting in the castle bower-- Birds
around her sweetly singing, fluttering on the kindled spray, And
the comely garden glowing in the light of rosy May.
Love descended to the window--Love removed the bolt and bar-- Love was
warder to the lovers from the dawn to even-star.
Wherefore, Love, didst thou betray me? Where is now the
tender glance?
Where the meaning looks once lavish'd by the dark-eyed Maid of
France?

Where the words of hope she whisper'd, when around my neck
she threw That same scarf of broider'd tissue, bade me wear it and
be true-- Bade me send it as a token when my banner waved once
more On the castled Keep of London, where my fathers' waved before?

And I went and did not conquer--but I brought it back again-- Brought
it back from storm and battle--brought it back without stain; And
once more I knelt before her, and I laid it at her feet, Saying,
"Wilt thou own it, Princess?

There at least is no defeat!" Scornfully she look'd upon me with a
measured eye and cold-- Scornfully she view'd the token, though
her fingers wrought the gold, And she answer'd, faintly flushing,
"Hast thou kept it, then, so long?

Worthy matter for a minstrel to be told in knightly song!
Worthy of a bold Provençal, pacing through the peaceful plain,
Singing of his lady's favour, boasting of her silken chain, Yet
scarce worthy of a warrior sent to wrestle for a crown.

Is this all that thou hast brought me from thy field of high renown?

Is this all the trophy carried from the lands where thou hast been?

It was broider'd by a Princess, can'st thou give it to a Queen?"
Woman's love is writ in water! Woman's faith is traced in sand!
Backwards--backwards let me wander to the noble northern land; Let
me feel the breezes blowing fresh along the mountain side; Let me
see the purple heather, let me hear the thundering tide, Be it
hoarse as Corrievreckan spouting when the storm is high-- Give me
but one hour of Scotland--let me see it ere I die!

Oh, my heart is sick and heavy--southern gales are not for me;
Though the glens are white with winter, place me there, and set me
free; Give me back my trusty comrades--give me back my Highland
maid-- Nowhere beats the heart so kindly as beneath the tartan
plaid!
Flora! when thou wert beside me, in the wilds of far Kintail-- When
the cavern gave us shelter from the blinding sleet and hail-- When
we lurk'd within the thicket, and, beneath the waning moon, Saw
the sentry's bayonet glimmer, heard him chant his listless
tune-- When the howling storm o'ertook us drifting down the island's
lee, And our crazy bark was whirling like a nutshell on the sea--
When the nights were dark and dreary, and amidst the fern we lay
Faint and foodless, sore with travel, longing for the streaks of
day; When thou wert an angel to me, watching my exhausted sleep--
Never didst thou hear me murmur--couldst thou see how now I weep!

Bitter tears and sobs of anguish, unavailing though they be.
Oh the brave--the brave and noble--who have died in vain for me!

W.E.A.

* * * * *

EARLY GREEK ROMANCES--THE ETHIOPICS OF HELIODORUS.

"It is not in Provence, (Provincia _Romanorum_,) as is commonly
said from the derivation of the name--nor yet in Spain, as many
suppose, that we are to look for the fatherland of those amusing
compositions called _Romances_, which are so eminently useful in these
days as affording a resource and occupation to ladies and gentlemen
who have nothing to do.

It is in distant and far different climes to our own, and in
the remote antiquity of long vanished ages:--it is among the
people of the East, the Arabs, the Egyptians, the Persians, and the
Syrians, that the germ and origin is to be found of this species of
fictitious narrative, for which the peculiar genius and poetical
temperament of those nations particularly adapt them, and in which
they delight to a degree scarcely to be credited. For even their
ordinary discourse is interspersed with figurative expressions; and
their maxims of theology and philosophy, and above all, of morals
and political science, are invariably couched under the guise
of allegory or parable. I need not stay to enlarge upon the universal
veneration paid throughout the East to the fables of Bidpai or
Pilpay, and to Lokman, who is (as may easily be shown) the Esop
of the Greeks:--and it is well known that the story of Isfendiyar,
and of the daring deeds of the Persian hero Rustan, in love and
war,[50] are to this day more popular in those regions than the
tales of Hercules, Roland, or Amadis de Gaul, ever were with us.

And so decidedly is Asia the parent of these fictions, that we shall
find on examination, that nearly all those who in early times
distinguished themselves as writers of what are now called romances,
were of oriental birth or extraction.
Clearchus, a pupil of Aristotle, and the first who attempted
any thing of the sort in the Greek language, was a native of Soli
in Cilicia:--Jamblichus was a Syrian, as were also Heliodorus and
Lucian, the former being of Emessa, the latter of Samosata:--Achilles
Tatius was an Alexandrian; and the rule will be found to hold good
in other instances, with scarcely a single exception."
[Footnote 50: The exploits of these and other paladins of the Kaianian
dynasty, the heroic age of Persian history, are now known to us
principally through the _Shah-Nameh_ of Ferdousi, a poem bearing
date only at the beginning of the eleventh century; but both
this and its predecessor, the _Bostan-Nameh_, were founded on
ballads and [Greek:
rhapsôdiai] of far distant ages, which had escaped the ravages of
time and the Mohammedans, and some of which are even now preserved
among the ancient tribes of pure Persian descent, in the S.W.
provinces of the kingdom.

Sir John Malcolm (_History of Persia_, ii. 444, note, 8vo.
ed.,) gives an amusing anecdote of the effect produced among his
escort by one of these popular chants.]
Such is the doctrine laid down (at somewhat greater length than we
have rendered it) by the learned Huetius, in his treatise _De Origine
Fabularum Romanensium_; and from the general principle therein
propounded, we are certainly by no means inclined to dissent.

But while fully admitting that it is to the vivid fancy and picturesque
imagination of the Orientals that we owe the origin of all those
popular legends which have penetrated, under various changes of
costume, into every corner of Europe,[51] as well as those more
gorgeous creations which appear, interwoven with the ruder creations
of the northern nations, to have furnished the groundwork of the
_fabliaux_ and _lais_ of the chivalry of the middle ages:--we still
hold that the invention of the romance of ordinary life, in which
the interest of the story depends upon occurrences in some measure
within the bounds of probability, and in which the heroes and
heroines are neither invested with superhuman qualities, nor
extricated from their difficulties by supernatural means, must be
ascribed to a more _European_ state of society than that which
produced those tales of wonder, which are commonly considered as
characteristic of the climes of the East.

Even the authors enumerated by the learned bishop of Avranches
himself, in the passage above quoted, were all denizens of the _Greek_
cities of Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt, and consequently, in all
probability, Greeks by descent; and though the scene of their
works is frequently laid in Asia, the costumes and characters introduced
are almost invariably on the Greek model. These writers, therefore,
may fairly be considered as constituting a distinct class from
those more strictly Oriental, not only in birth, but in language and
ideas; and as being, in fact, the legitimate forerunners of
that portentous crowd of modern novelists, whose myriad productions
seem destined (as the Persians believe of the misshapen progeny of
Gog and Magog, confined within the brazen wall of Iskender,) to
over-run the world of literature in these latter days.

[Footnote 51: The prototype of the well-known Welsh legend of
Beth-Gelert, for instance, is found in the Sanscrit Hitopadosa,
as translated by Sir William Jones, with a mere change in the
_dramatis personæ_--the faithful hound Gelert becoming a
tame mungoos or ichneumon, the wolf a cabra-capello, and the young
heir of the Welsh prince an infant rajah.]
At the head of this early school of romantic writers, in point of
merit as of time, (for the writings of Lucian can scarcely be
considered as regular romances; and the "Babylonica" of Jamblichus,
and the "Dinias and Dercyllis" of Antonius Diogenes, are known to
us only by the abstract of them preserved in Photius,) we may,
without hesitation, place Heliodorus, the author of the "Ethiopics,"
"whose writings"--says Huetius--"the subsequent novelists of those
ages constantly proposed to themselves as a model for imitation;
and as truly may they all be said to have drunk of the waters of
this fountain, as all the poets did of the Homeric spring."

To so servile an extent, indeed, was this imitation carried, that
while both the incidents and characters in the "Clitophon and
Leucippe" of Achilles Tatius, a work which, in point of literary
merit, stands next to that of Heliodorus, are, in many passages,
almost a reproduction, with different names and localities,[52] of
those in the "Ethiopics," the last-named has again had his copyists
in the "Hysminias and Hysmine" of Eustathius or Eumathius, and the
"Dosicles and Rhodanthe" of Theodorus Prodromus, the latter of whom
was a monk of the twelfth century.

In these productions of the lower empire, the extravagance of the
language, the improbability of the plot, and the wearisome dullness
of the details, are worthy of each other; and are only varied
occasionally by a little gross indelicacy, from which, indeed, none
but Heliodorus is wholly exempt.

Yet, "as in the lowest deep there is a lower still," so even
Theodorus Prodromus has found an humble imitator in Nicetas
Eugenianus, than whose romance of "Charicles and Drosilla" it must
be allowed that the force of nonsense "can no further go."

Besides this descending scale of plagiarism, which we have followed
down to its lowest anti-climax, we should mention, for the sake of
making our catalogue complete, the "Pastorals, or Daphnis and
Chloe" of Longus--a work in itself of no particular merits or demerits
as a literary composition, but noted for its unparalleled depravity,
and further remarkable as the first of the class of pastoral
romances, which were almost as rife in Europe during the middle
ages as novels of fashionable life are, for the sins of this generation,
at the present day.

There only remain to be enumerated the three precious farragos
entitled "The Ephesiacs, or Habrocomas and Anthia"--"the
Babylonics"--and "the Cypriacs"--said to be from the pen of three
different Xenophons, of whose history nothing, not even
the age in which any of them lived, can be satisfactorily made
out--though the uniformity of stupid extravagance, not less than
the similarity of name, would lead _à priori_ to the conclusion that
one luckless wight must have been the author of all three. From this
list of the Byzantine romances, (in which we are not sure that one
or two may not after all have been omitted,) it will be seen that
Heliodorus had a tolerably numerous progeny, even in his own language,
to answer for; though we fear we must concur in the sweeping censure
of a Quarterly Reviewer, (vol. x. p. 301,) who condemns then _en
masse_, with the single exception of the "Ethiopics" of the last-named
author, as "a few tiresome stories, absolutely void of taste,
invention, or interest; without influence even upon the declining
literature of their own age, and in all probability quite unknown
to the real forerunners of Richardson, Fielding, and Rousseau."

[Footnote 52: The principal adventures of Clitophon and Leucippe
consist in being twice taken by pirates on the banks of the Nile, as
Theagenes and Chariclea are in the Ethiopics.]
A work thus excepted, by common consent, from the general
reprobation is which all its compeers are involved, must deserve
some notice from its negative, if not from its positive merits;
and the particulars which have been preserved of its literary history
are also somewhat curious.
Even in these days, when almost every other individual is a novelist,
either _in esse_ or in embryo, the announcement of a love-story
from the pen of a bishop would create what is called "a considerable
sensation"--though perhaps it would hardly draw down on the author
such condign and summary punishment as was inflicted by the
straitlaced Kirk of Scotland, less than a century ago, on one of
her ministers, for the high crime and misdemeanour of having indited
"a stage play, called the _Tragedy of Douglas_."[53] Yet not only
the "Ethiopics," but the best known of its successors, the "Clitophon
and Leucippe" of Achilles Tatius, are both universally asserted to
have been juvenile productions of ecclesiastics who afterwards
attained the episcopal dignity: and the former, if we may credit the
Ecclesiastical History of Nicephorus, fared not much better at the
hands of the Provincial Synod of Thessaly than did the "Tragedy of
Douglas" at those of the Scottish Presbyteries.

Hear what saith the historian: "This Heliodorus, bishop of Trica,
had in his youth written certain love-stories called the "Ethiopics,"
which are highly popular even at the present day, though they are now
better known by the title of 'Chariclea'"--(the name of the
heroine)--"and it was by reason thereof that he lost his see. For,
inasmuch as very many of the youth were drawn into peril of sin by
the perusal of these amorous tales, it was determined by the
provincial synod that either these books, which kindled the fire
of love, should themselves be consumed by fire, or that the
author should be deposed from his episcopal functions--and this
choice being propounded to him, he preferred resigning his bishopric
to suppressing his writings."

--(_Niceph. Hist.
Ecclesiast._ lib. xii. c. 34.)[54] Heliodorus, according to the
same authority, was the first Thessalian bishop who had insisted
on the married clergy putting away their wives, which may probably
have tended to make him unpopular: but the story of his deposition,
it should be observed, rests solely on the statement of Nicephorus,
and is discredited by Bayle and Huet, who argue that the silence
of Socrates (_Ecclesiast. Hist._ v. chap. 22.) in the passage
where he expressly assigns the authorship of the "Ethiopics" to
_the Bishop_ Heliodorus, more than counterbalances the unsupported
assertion of Nicephorus--"an author," says Huet, "of more credulity
than judgment." If Heliodorus were, indeed, as has been generally
supposed, the same to whom several of the Epistles of St
Jerome were addressed, this circumstance would supply an additional
argument against the probability of his having incurred the censures
of the church: but whatever the testimony of Nicephorus may be
worth on this point, his mention of the work affords undeniable
proof of its long continued popularity, as his Ecclesiastical History
was written about A.D. 900, and Heliodorus lived under the reign
of the sons of Theodosius, or fully five hundred years earlier.

Enough, however, has been said of him in his capacity of a bishop--and
we shall proceed to consider him in that of an author, by which
he is far better known than by episcopacy.

[Footnote 53: Home was expelled the ministry for this heinous
offence, which raised a fearful turmoil at the time among Synods
and Presbyteries.

The Glasgow Presbytery published a declaration (Feb. 14, 1757) on the
"melancholy but notorious fact, that one, who is a minister of
the Church of Scotland, did himself write and compose a stage play
intitled the Tragedy of Douglas;" and to this declaration various
other presbyteries published their adhesion.]
[Footnote 54: This sentence might, with more justice, have been visited
upon the work of the other bishop, Achilles Tatius, for his
not infrequent transgressions against delicacy, a fault never
chargeable on Heliodorus.]
The time of the story is laid in the middle ages of Grecian history,
after the conclusion of the wars between Greece and Persia, and
while Egypt was still governed by the satraps of the great king;
and the first scene at once plunges the reader, in accordance
with the Horatian precept, _in medias res_. A band of marauders,
prowling on the coast of Egypt, are surprised by the sight of
a ship moored to the shore without any one on board, while the beach
around is strewed with the fragments of a costly banquet, and
with a number of dead bodies of men, slain apparently in mutual
conflict; the only survivors being a damsel of surpassing beauty,
arrayed as a priestess of Diana, who is wailing over the inanimate
form of a wounded youth.

Before they have time however, either to unravel the mystery,
or to avail themselves of the booty, thus unexpectedly spread
before them, they are in turn put to flight by a more numerous
party of robbers, or rather buccaneers, (_bucoli_ or _herdsmen_,)
who carry off the forlorn couple to their retreat, in the inner-most
recesses of a vast lake or morass, near the Heracleotic mouth of the
Nile.[55] The description of this robber-colony appears to have
been drawn from an existing or well-remembered state of things, and
bears considerable resemblance, except in the presence of women
and children, to a _setsha_, or stronghold, of the Zaporog Cossacks
in the islets of the Dniepr.

[Footnote 55: This is usually called the _Canopia_ mouth; but
Herodotus (who says that it was dug by artificial means) calls it the
_Bucolic_, perhaps from the haunts above described in its neighbourhood.]

"This whole region is called by the Egyptians the _Bucolia_, or
'pasturages,' and is a tract of low land, which has been converted
by the inundations of the Nile into a lake, of great depth in
the middle, and gradually shoaling towards the margins into a marsh.

His intellect told him that Carew was in the right of it, that his
alternatives were speech or madness; but he faced the alternatives
with an absolute indifference. His intellect also told him that, for
the past three weeks, Carew's kindness had been unremitting; that
his care had served as a buffer between himself and the clumsy
tactlessness of their mates; that his sympathy now was leading him
to try to storm the barrier of his own reserve; but he met Carew's
advances with an icy front which could be thawed neither from
outside nor from within. It was not his will to be ungrateful; it
was beyond his present power to show the gratitude which he really
felt. And Carew, with the supreme insight which marks the friendship
of men at times, interpreted Weldon's mood aright and forebode to
take offence.

Nevertheless, watching his friend closely, Carew had judged the case
to be serious. He had felt no surprise at the state of collapse in
which Weldon had struggled back into camp. The battle, the half-
dressed wounds, the nerve-racking journey, the watching the slow
approach of death and the accepting the fact of the loss of a valued
friend: all these were enough to wreck the vitality of a man. With
an almost womanish tenderness, Carew had brought his friend back to
the tent, and made him over to the care of Paddy who gave up all
things else, for the sake of his little Canuck. All that afternoon
and night, Weldon lay passive, inert, while Paddy bathed him, fed
him, poured cool, soft things over his wounds, fed him again, and
then sat down beside him with his own stubby hand resting against
Weldon's limp fingers. But, the next morning, Weldon rose, buttoned
and belted himself with elaborate care. Then, disregarding the
implorings of Carew and Paddy, who were terrified at the steady,
unseeing look in his gray eyes and at the tense lines about his
lips, he went to his captain and demanded his old position of
regimental rough rider.

He obtained it. In fact, it was given, not only freely, but with
joy. In all the regiment, no one else had been able to subdue such
wild mounts as Weldon. In former days, he had stopped at little. Now
he stopped at nothing. Horse-sickness, the scourge of South Africa,
was in the land; and the underfed, overworked mounts yielded to it
with pitiful ease. And, meanwhile, the need for horses was greater
than ever. Drive after drive through the country about Kroonstad was
bringing in the hostile Boers; but it was also bringing down the
horses. The call for new mounts was limitless; limitless, too, the
hours and the strength and the skill which Trooper Weldon put forth
to the supplying that call. He was utterly untiring; but he was
utterly reckless as well. Checked by no risk, sobered by no danger,
he rushed into risk and danger as rushes the man whose one wish is
to escape from a future of which he is in mortal, agonizing dread.

Carew said little; he watched much, and he meditated more. At first,
he hoped all things from the healthy, outdoor life. He watched
Weldon's muscles harden, saw his appetite return and welcomed with
happy anticipations all the signs of his returning rugged strength.
Then, as the time passed by, his anxiety came back upon him in full
measure. Long days in the saddle were followed by sleepless nights;
the shadow never came out of Weldon's eyes, the alertness never came
back into his step. Lean, gaunt as a greyhound, he went about his
work with a silent, dogged endurance which took no note of the other
life about him. For Trooper Weldon, his profession had dropped to a
dull, plodding routine of danger lapping close upon the heels of
danger. And still he spoke no word of the sorrow which had brought
him to this end.

And Carew, meanwhile, could not fail to note the increasing anxiety
with which Alice Mellen wrote of her cousin. From Alice's letters,
it appeared that Ethel, totally unnerved by the death of Captain
Frazer, had begged so piteously to be released from her hospital
work that she had finally been sent home to Cape Town. She had
seemed to be far from well, when she had left Johannesburg;
nevertheless, she had no sooner reached home than she had plunged
into the midst of the whirlpool of social life where she was said to
be the gayest of the gay.

Cape Town, that fall, was facing the end of the war and the
consequent departure of the swarm of young Englishmen who had made
their headquarters there during the past two years. Accordingly, it
resolved to make the most of the short time remaining to it; and the
early weeks of the year saw the little city neglecting all other
things for the sake of making merry with her fast-vanishing heroes.
And, in all the round of merry-making, Ethel Dent was in evidence,
bright and flashing as the diamonds that blazed on her shoulder, and
as soft. Her wit was ceaseless, her energy untiring. Always the
middle of a group, she yet always held herself within range of her
father's protection. He watched her proudly; yet his pride was
sometimes mingled with alarm, as he saw the waxy whiteness of her
ears and the dark shadows which lay beneath her eyes. It was plain
to him that all was not well with the girl; yet he was wholly at a
loss as to the cause of the trouble.

Strange to say, he never once thought of Weldon; neither did his
mind linger long upon the Captain. True, Ethel and Captain Frazer
had been good friends; but so had Ethel been good friends with many
another man. The secret of that last hour of the Captain's life was
buried in two hearts. Weldon could not speak of it; Ethel would not.
And so, in the eyes of her friends, Ethel's experience had been
sorrowful, but scarcely touched with tragedy. The heroic passing of
a casual friend is no cause for a lasting change in the nature of a
happy-tempered girl.

However, Alice had noted the change and, quite unable to account for
it, she had commented upon it to Carew. Her letter, coming that same
morning, had quickened his slow-forming resolution to speak. Taken
quite by itself, her account of Ethel would have made scant
impression upon him. Taken in connection with what he had seen of
Weldon, it forced him to draw certain conclusions which, though
wrong in detail, were comparatively accurate in their main outlines.

He and Weldon came back from their walk, wrapped in the silence of
perfect understanding. Carew had asked few questions; Weldon had
made even fewer replies, and those replies had been brief. Ethel's
name had scarcely been mentioned between them. Their talk had mainly
concerned itself with Captain Frazer, his life, his passing, the
void he had left behind him. Only one sentence had related to the
scene in the hospital; but its brief, tragic summing up of the
situation had been sufficient. Carew had made no answer, save to
walk on for a few steps in silence, with his hand resting on the
shoulder of his friend.

That night, he wrote to Alice. The letter was long and full of
detail. It told what he knew, what he had inferred and what he
feared. It begged her, in the name of their own sacred happiness, to
help him win the same happiness for these two who, longing to come
together, were straying always farther apart; and it ended with the
words with which he had begun his talk with Weldon, that noon,--

"For God's sake, how long is this going to last?"


CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


Paddy waved his thumb disrespectfully towards the rear of the
column.

"And what can you expect of a man that goes to the wars in a fancy
petticoat, let alone a khaki apron to cover up the front of it?" he
demanded. "And look at the bare knees of 'em, for all the world like
knots in the branches of an oak-tree! They may be trained to believe
it's comfortable to walk round in public with their kneepans in
plain sight; but no man can ever make me think it's either beautiful
to the eye, or respectful in the presence of one's betters."

"But their officers wear the same uniform, Paddy," Weldon objected.
"Who are their betters?"

"Myself, little Canuck, and yourself, too," Paddy answered calmly.
"The maple and the shamrock, severally and together, can knock the
spots out of all the thistles that's growing."

"Until it comes to a fight," Carew suggested, from Paddy's other
side. "The Highlanders have made their record, this time."

But Paddy shook his head. "Wait then till the end of the chapter,"
he predicted. "My turn hasn't come yet. Belike I'll be the hero of
them all. I was minding my pots and my kettles, while the Black
Watch was slinging lead up on the road into Kimberley. But, faith,
if I was one of them, with the choice before me between a glorious
death and the having to live in the sound of the bagpipes, I'd mount
a Red Cross and take a white flag in my hand and sally forth to be
seen and shot by the Boers."

"You don't like the bagpipes, Paddy?"

Paddy's reply was sententious.

"Did you ever hear a pig soliloquizing to himself, just as he
crossed the tracks between the wheels of an express train? Well
then!"

"Meanwhile," Carew observed thoughtfully; "I wonder why we are out
on this trek."

"To escort the little Canuck with his mounts, and to study the
surface of the land, to be sure."

Carew's eye swept the barren, desolate expanse about them.

"It is a bit monotonous, though."

"It's monotony that's healthy. You can't make a whole dinner off
from red pepper, and you can't make a whole campaign off from
smokeless powder. In either case, you get too much heated up, for
the show it all makes. Strike hard and eat hot at long intervals and
with exceeding unction; and, meanwhile, pause and let it soak in.
It's not the hottest fire that gives off the most blazes. And where
is that nigger of a Kruger Bobs?"

"In among the wagons with The Nig." "Just for all the world like the
deuce of spades! The Black Watch would better adopt the two of 'em
for their colors. The Nig is a pretty bit of property; but this is
the brute for me." And Paddy bent over in the saddle to stroke the
neck of Piggie who snapped back at him testily.

However, in all truth, the little gray broncho deserved all of
Paddy's praise. Scarred from muzzle to pastern by errant bullets,
limping slightly on one fore leg, she still had borne her master
bravely over weary miles of veldt, into many a skirmish and through
the kicking, squealing throngs of her kindred which crowded the
Lindley kraal. Long since, Weldon had discovered that the
thoroughbred Nig was an ornament; but that Piggie was a necessity.
Again and yet again, her flying feet and gritty temper had brought
him, unscathed, through perilous plights. She read his mind as by
instinct; left unguided, she guided herself with exceeding
discretion; and, upon more than one occasion, she had endured the
nervous strain of feeling a human body dangling limply above the
saddle bow, held in place by main strength of her master who,
crouching forward beneath the heavy fire, could only indicate the
way of safety by the pressure of this heel and then that against her
heaving flanks. Surely, if ever honors could be given to a faithful,
plucky little broncho, Piggie should have been gazetted for the
Distinguished Service Order. Not to the men alone is due all the
honor of victory.

But now Piggie, fresh from a prolonged interval of resting in the
care of Kruger Bobs, felt that she was out on an excursion of pure
pleasure. Behind her trailed a long column of men and mounts and
wagons; around her was a knot of horses whom she knew well; and
before her stretched away the dry and level veldt, broken at the
sky-line by a range of hills that rose sharply in a jagged line
which culminated in one peak lifted far above all the others.

In the very front of the column rode a score or more of the South
African Light Horse, with Weldon, for the moment, in command. The
man was showing, just then, something of the temper of his mount. It
would have been good to leave behind him the slow-moving column and
go dashing away alone, far across the level plain. A spirit of
restlessness was upon him; Paddy's utterances grew vague in his
ears, and he cast longing glances towards the range of hills to the
southward, as if eager to explore them and find what secrets, if
any, lay within their keeping. Then he reined in his broncho and
forced his mind back to Paddy's conversation, still upon the deeds
of the kilted heroes of the Black Watch.

"And they do say," he was observing; "that Wauchope was light in his
mind--fey, them piping, petticoated Scotchmen calls it--the night
before his death. Now that's something that's beyond my thinking. No
dead man ever knows he's going to die. Witness the last words of
most of 'em! They make up their death-bed speeches, and then they
turn thrifty and save up the speeches till next time. Little Canuck
dear, what would you say, if you was hit?"

Weldon laughed shortly.

"I should probably say 'Thank God,'" he answered.

Paddy crossed himself.

"And might heaven forgive you then, little one!" he said gravely.
"The Lord and the Holy Virgin may send the bullets to kill you,
unless it's from the Boers who is guided by the Father of Lies; but
it's small thanks in return they will be asking. Take the benefits
of Providence with a shout of thanksgiving; but swallow hard and
keep a stiff upper lip, when it smacks you over the head with a
shillalegh." Then, of a sudden, he bent over in the saddle once more
and rested his hand on Weldon's fingers which lay on the broncho's
neck. "And, if I mistake not, little one, it is what you have been
doing, these late days, so forgive me teaching you a lesson you've
already learned by heart."

Two nights before this, Carew's letter to Alice had ended with the
outcry,--

"For God's sake, how long is this going to last?"

And now the end was almost in sight. Early the next day, there had
come a call for remounts for a column halted on the veldt near
Reitz, and Weldon, with a score of others from his squadron, had
been sent out with the mounts to join the column for the trek to the
southward. As a matter of course, Weldon had asked that the score
might include Paddy and Carew; and now, with them at his side, he
was at the head of the column which trailed away far towards the
southward, twelve hundred poorly mounted men riding in leisurely
fashion towards Harrismith and the chance of rounding up an
occasional Boer.

Dusk of the second day had brought the hills on the sky-line close
to their eyes, and had sharpened the ragged peaks into threatening
crests of bare, black rock. Already the hills were but three miles
distant, and the hour for halt almost at hand, when scouts came
flying back to the column, breathless with haste and with the
consciousness of tidings to impart. The colonel received the tidings
with outward calm.

"A laager of fifteen hundred Boers? And a mile and a half to the
south of us? We must attack." His eyes swept the faces of his men.
"Trooper Weldon?"

At the word, Weldon rode forward and saluted.

"That highest hill is the key to the position. It is the one we must
hold. Can you and your men ride around to the west of the laager,
get that hill and hold it at all costs until I can send
reinforcements to you? The reinforcements will start as soon as you
reach the top of the hill. Keep out of sight, while you can. Then
rush it. You understand?"

Weldon nodded; then, his head erect, his eyes flashing, he saluted
for a second time and, with his men at his heels, dashed off into
the thickening dusk.

Like foothills beside a mountain range, so the veldt before him was
already broken and crumpled into a series of irregular ridges,
opening in their midst to form a tiny plain where the Boer laager
lay spread out before them. The dusk of the plain was dotted with
scattered camp fires; but, beyond the ridges, it lay heavy, and in
that heaviness Weldon placed his trust. For two thirds of his whole
distance, he could keep below a ridge to the westward of the laager.
The final third lay full in view of the enemy, full up the
increasing steepness of the mountain side, where, horses failing, it
would be necessary to creep by stealth and upon the hands and knees.
And, where the shelter ended, there lay before them a short defile
between walls of naked rock, and the defile was narrow.

Half the way to the defile was already accomplished when Weldon
heard, from the crest of the ridge above him, the double crack of a
Mauser rifle, and then the sound of scurrying, unshod feet. He shut
his teeth, and his chin rose a bit higher. "A picket! And now the
brute has run in to tell tales," he said shortly. "Quick, men, it's
a race between us now."

Answering to the touch of the spur, the gray broncho went leaping
forward, with Paddy's horse neck and neck at her side. From beyond
the ridge, the trio of guns could be heard, barking ceaselessly,
while their shells dropped thick into the laager, scarcely eight
hundred yards away. And now the defile, short, but narrow, was close
at hand.

Ka-paw! Ka-paw!

From the mouth of the tiny pass, a rain of bullets swept down upon
them. A horse dropped, shot through the knee; another, hit in the
neck, bolted, threw its wounded rider and then, mad with pain,
hurled itself straight into the ranks of the enemy. A second shot,
almost at arm's length, threw it to the earth; but not until it had
done its work. The half-broken Boer ponies, fat from much feeding
and totally unaccustomed to this species of missile, swerved at its
approach and destroyed the aim of the second volley, which was
answered by a fire that sent a full quarter of the twoscore Boers
sprawling heavily groundward.

A scant ten minutes sufficed for the rest. Five troopers lay
helpless on the dusty soil. Five dead Boers blocked the trail at the
entrance of the narrow pass. It was a drawn game; but the end was
not yet. From beyond the ridge, Weldon could hear the guns still
pounding ceaselessly. He knew that, half a mile in the rear, his
colonel was watching for him to come to the crest of the hill; that,
in a sense, the whole game was waiting upon his moves. Whirling
himself about, he gave a short, sharp order. Scarcely a moment
later, he was astonished to see the Boers in the pass giving way
before the mad rush of his paltry fifteen men. The narrow pass was
his own.

Beyond the pass were more ridges, some parallel with his course,
some crossing it. Far to the eastward, he could see a moving spot,
black even in the increasing darkness of the night. Leaving Piggie
to pick her own way along the rocky ridge, he rose in his stirrups,
shaded his eyes with his hands and peered anxiously towards the
spot. At last his straining eyes could make out eight Boer horsemen,
riding furiously towards the peak which he was in honor bound to
hold. And their course was the chord of the arc of his own circle.
He dropped back to the saddle where he bent low, yielding his whole
body to the flying body of his horse.

The crest was sharp. To the east, its approach was more easy; but on
the west it offered a wall of blank, black rock. The fat Boer ponies
were still at some distance from the eastern slope, when Weldon
flung himself from his panting broncho. Carew protested, as they
told off by fours and he was left, the third man, with Paddy's
mount, the gray broncho and a huge brown Argentine horse on his
hands.

"Sorry, old man!" Weldon said briefly. "It's luck, and dead against
you. Still, it may save Miss Mellen a bad half-hour. Look out for
Piggie. She deserves it." And, turning, he led the way up the wall
of rock, with thirteen men, breathless, grim and eager, scrambling
at his heels.

For moments, it seemed to him that Fate was idly tossing the dice to
and fro, before allowing herself to make the final, decisive cast.
From the farther side of the hill, he heard a sudden terrified snort
from one of the Boer ponies, then the thud of feet, as they charged
up the approaches of the long slope. From behind him, there arose a
groan, as one of the men, missing his foothold in the deepening
dusk, crashed back against the loose rocks at the bottom of the
hill. Then a shot and a whinnying moan told him that Carew and his
three comrades had edged around the base of the hill into range of
the enemy above them. The man might be wounded, too, as well as the
mount. Seven Boers, and they were thirteen in all. The cast was all
for--

A dash of light! A rattle of firing! Three of his men dropped
backwards. The other ten looked up to face a second flash from the
summit. Only eight heard the answering echoes which came rolling
back to them from the encircling hills. Then Paddy's voice came in
his ears, low, but as unconcerned as ever.

"Remember the fellow who was rejected on account of his teeth,
little Canuck? 'Faith,' he said; 'it's shooting the damned Boers I
want to be, not eating them.' But, by the holy Virgin Mary, in
another ten minutes we'll be shaking 'em between our teeth."

The next flash but one showed only five men on the steep rocky wall;
but those five men were close to the summit. Once on the top, their
rifles could come into play. It was maddening to be picked off, like
stuffed crows resting on a tree branch; maddening to listen to the
low sounds from beneath which told them that some one of their
comrades was facing the end of his fight. Then, just as they reached
the summit, one of their five dropped, with a bullet shattering the
bone of his ankle.

"Go on, boys! You'll get there," he said, as the next in line dashed
past him. "The hill is Weldon's. Mind you hold it for him. The devil
is in him, and he's bound to win."

Nat. viii. 45), and by Suetonius (Claud. cap. 21)--"He exhibited,"
(says the latter writer,) "Thessalian horsemen who drive wild bulls
round and round the circus, and leaping on them when they are weary,
bring them to the ground by the horns."]
Such is the general outline of the story, which, as will have been
perceived, is far from deficient either in incident or in
strikingly imagined situations; but the merit of the conceptions is
too often marred by the mismanagement of the details, and the
unskilful arrangement of the different parts of the narrative.

Thus all the circumstances of the early history of Chariclea, and
the rise of the mutual affection between her and Theagenes, and of
their adventurous flight, are made known through a long episode
awkwardly put into the mouth of a third person, who himself knows
great part of them only at second-hand, and voluntarily related by
him to one with whom his acquaintance is scarcely of an hour's
standing.

This mode of narration, in which one of the characters is
introduced (like the prologue in an old play) to recount the
previous adventures of the others, is in itself at all times
defective; since it injures the effect of the relation by depriving
it of those accessory touches which the author, from his conventionally
admitted insight into the feelings and motives of his characters,
is privileged to supply: whereas a speaker in the first person must
necessarily confine himself, unless when narrating his own adventures,
to the points which have fallen under his personal observation.

In the present instance it is, moreover, needless, as the whole episode
might as well have been told in the ordinary manner. The endless
captures and recaptures of the lovers, who are continually bandied
about from one set of pirates, robbers, or plundering soldiers to
another, become, at length, wearisome from repetition; and the
dramatic force of the conclusion, which would otherwise be highly
effective, is weakened by the knowledge which the reader possesses,
that Chariclea is all along aware of the secret of her own parentage,
and that she has only to produce the fillet and ring in order to
ensure her deliverance from the dreadful doom which appears to
threaten her.

The improbability of some of the incidents, and the awkward manner
in which others are brought about, have been much objected to by
modern critics, and it must be admitted that some better way
might be found to dispose of personages whose agency was no longer
needed, than to cut them off by sudden death, like Calasiris,
or by the bite of a venemous serpent, like Thermuthis. But the
mechanical art (as it may almost be called) of constructing a story
was then in its infancy; and the violations of probability which
have been laid to the charge of Heliodorus, are, after all, much
less flagrant than those of Achilles Tatius, and infinitely less
so than those of any of the other Greek writers of romance; nor
would many of our modern novelists, perhaps, gain much by the
comparison.

The characters are of very different degrees of merit.

Theagenes is as insipid and uninteresting as one of Walter Scott's
well-behaved heroes; and his entreaties to Chariclea, in the final
scene, no longer to delay making herself known to her parents,
betray a most laudable instinct of self-preservation.

The deeds of strength and valour which he is occasionally made
to perform, seem rather to arise from the author's remembering
that his hero must do something to support the character, than to
result naturally from the situations in which he is placed, and his
love of decorum is carried, on all occasions, to an absurd extent
of prudery.

"Le heros de la pièce est d'une sagesse qui a donné lieu à des
railleries assez plaisantes," says Bayle; though the instance usually
cited--a box on the ear, which he gives Chariclea, when she
approaches him in her beggar's dress, under the walls of Memphis,
and attempts to throw herself into his arms, is scarcely a fair
one, as he does not at the time recognize his beloved under her
unbecoming disguise.

The character of Chariclea herself, however, makes ample amends for
the defects of that of her lover; and this superiority of the
heroine, it may be observed, is almost invariable in the early Greek
romances.

The masculine firmness and presence of mind which she evinces in
situations of peril and difficulty, combined at all times with
feminine delicacy, and the warmth and confiding simplicity of her
love for Theagenes, attach to her a degree of interest which belongs
to none of the other personages; and her spontaneous burst of
grateful affection, on recognizing, at Meroë, the voice of her
foster-father, Charicles, is expressed with exquisite tenderness.

Of the subordinate characters little need be said.

Charicles is a mere impersonation of benevolence and parental love;
and Cnemon seems to have been introduced for little else than to
tell his own long story, and listen to that of Calasiris in return.

The old Egyptian priest, however, is a sketch of considerable merit.
Like Scott's Peregrine Touchwood, though abundantly zealous at all
times to serve his friends, he cannot find it in his heart to take
any but the most round-about way of doing so; but he is never
disconcerted by any of the untoward results of his schemes, and
relates to Cnemon, with the most perfect self-complacency, the
deceit which he had practiced on his confiding host, Charicles, in
helping Theagenes to steal away his adopted daughter, and the various
scrapes into which his protegés had fallen under his guidance.

He has, moreover, pet theories of his own on the phenomena of
the Nile, the cause of the roughness of the Ionian Sea, and various
other matters, in which he indoctrinates Cnemon _par parenthèse_:
he is an enthusiastic admirer and constant quoter of Homer, whose
Egyptian birth (at Thebes the hundred-gated) he maintains with all
the zeal of a Highlander defending the authenticity of Ossian; and,
on the whole, we cannot but think the author has scarcely used him
well, in not allowing him to live to see his efforts crowned with
success, and to enjoy the honours which would doubtless have been
heaped upon him at the court of Ethiopia.

The author appears to take especial delight in accounts of costumes,
processions, sacrifices, &c.; the details given of which are often
valuable in an antiquarian point of view; and his information upon
these subjects, as well as of the manners of the country in which
the scene is laid, as far as our knowledge of the present day will
enable us to decide, is extremely correct.

One of the most curious morceaux of this sort, is a minute description
of the complete armour for horse and man, worn by the élite of the
cavalry in the army of Oroondates; and which, though probably
taken from that used by the troops of the Sassanian monarchs
cotemporary with Heliodorus, is equally applicable to the period
at which the scene is laid; since numerous passages in ancient
authors show, that from the earliest time up to the Mohammedan
conquest, the Persian nobles and heavy cavalry used panoply as
impenetrable as the European chivalry of the middle ages.

Among the other scattered traits of manners, it will be remarked
as singular, according to the ideas of the present day, that open
piracy and robbery are neither spoken of as disreputable, nor as
attaching any slur to those who exercised them; insomuch, that the
notoriety of Thyamis, having been a chief of freebooters, is not
regarded as any obstacle to his assumption of the high-priesthood.

But this, it will be found, was strictly in accordance with the
manners of the ancient Greeks, among whom piracy was so far from
being looked upon in any other light than that of an honourable
profession, that Nestor himself, in the third book of the Odyssey,
asks his guests, Telemachus and Mentor, as an ordinary question,
whether business or piracy was the object of their voyage.

But the _Bucoli_ (herdsmen or buccaniers,) over whom Thyamis held
command, should probably, notwithstanding their practice of
rapine, be regarded not so much as robbers as in the light of outlaws,
who had taken refuge in these impenetrable marshes from the yoke
of the Persians; and their constant conflicts with the Persian
troops, as well as the march of Thyamis upon Memphis, confirm the
opinion that this was the intention of the author.

That these vast marshes of the Delta were in fact, throughout the
period of Persian rule in Egypt, the strongholds of Egyptian
independence, admits of abundant demonstration from the Greek
historians:--it was here, in the mysterious island of Elbo, that
Amyrtæus, (called by Thucydides "the king of the marshes,") held
out after the reconquest of Egypt by Megabysus, B.C. 454, "for they
could not take him on account of the great extent of the marsh;
besides which, the marshmen are the most warlike of all the Egyptians

.

"[66] This view of the subject has, at least, the advantage of placing
Thyamis in a more respectable light than that of a mere marauder;
though his mode of life under either supposition, would be considered,
according to modern notions, as a strange training for the sacerdotal
office.

[Footnote 66: Thuc. i. cap. 110.

The island of Elbo, according to Herodotus, who gives a curious
account of the Egyptian marshes and their inhabitants, had been
constructed of _cinders_, in long past times, by a king who lay
concealed for fifty years from the Ethiopians; but no man knew its
situation, till it was again brought to light, after having been
lost for five hundred years, by Amyrtæus.]

Few if any works of fiction have enjoyed so long and widely diffused
a celebrity, as the Ethiopics.

Whatever credit may be attached to the story preserved by Nicephorus,
of the deposition of Heliodorus from his see, it at least affords
evidence of the high popularity of the work, even during the lifetime
of the author; and we have the personal testimony of Nicephorus
himself, that in his own time, five centuries later, it was still
regarded with undiminished favour.

Down to the fall of the Greek empire, its style and incidents
continued to furnish a model to all the wretched scribblers who
attempted the composition of romances--nor was its fame confined
within the limits of the language in which it was written.

It found a place in the famous library of Matthias Corvinus at Buda;
and the dispersion of that celebrated collection on the capture of
the city by the Ottomans after the battle of Mohácz, in 1526, first
made it known to western Europe: the first edition by Obsopoeus,[67]
(printed at Basle in 1534,) having been taken in MS.
which fell into the possession of a soldier on this occasion.

Among the literati of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, its
popularity seems almost to have equalled that which it had enjoyed
in its native country.

Tasso, as has already been noticed, borrowed from it the episode
of Clorinda--and Racine (one of whose early productions was also
founded upon it) was, in his younger days, so enthusiastic an admirer
of it, that when the volume was taken from him by his tutor at
Port-Royal, he replied that it mattered little, as he knew the whole
by heart!

The numerous translations, however, which have appeared in various
languages, particularly in French and English, are little calculated
to add, by the merits of their execution, to the favour of the work;
one English _poetical_ version in particular, by Lisle, published
in 1527, is one of the most precious specimens of balderdash in
existence--a perfect literary curiosity in its way!

Of the others, we need mention only the French one of Amyot, (1558,)
not for its merits, but from the author's having been rewarded by
Henry II. of France with the nomination to an abbey--as if in tardy
compensation to Heliodorus, in the person of his literary representative,
for the see from which the authorship is said to have caused his
expulsion.

[Footnote 67: Of the later editions of the Greek text, the best
are those of Coray, Paris, 1804; and Mitscherlisch, Strasburg, 1797

.]

* * * * *

PAST AND PRESENT, BY CARLYLE.

Mr Carlyle--an astute and trenchant critic might, with show of justice,
remark--assumes to be the reformer and castigator of his age--a
reformer in philosophy, in politics, in religion--denouncing its
_mechanical_ method of thinking, deploring its utter want of _faith_,
and threatening political society, obstinately deaf to the voice
of wisdom, with the retributive horrors of repeated revolutions;
and yet neither in philosophy, in religion, nor in politics, has
Mr Carlyle any distinct dogma, creed, or constitution to promulgate.

The age is irreligious, he exclaims, and the vague feeling of the
impenetrable mystery which encompasses us, is all the theology we
can gather from him; civil society, with its laws and government,
is in a false and perilous position, and for all relief and
reformation, he launches forth an indisputable morality--precepts
of charity, and self-denial, and strenuous effort--precepts most
excellent, and only _too_ applicable; applicable, unfortunately,
after an _à priori_ fashion--for if men would but obey them, there
had been need of few laws, and of no remedial measures.

This man of faith--our critic might continue--has but one everlasting
note; and it is really the most sceptical and melancholy that has
ever been heard, or heard with toleration, in our literature.

He repeats it from his favourite apostle Goethe; "all doubt is to
be cured only--by action."

Certainly, if _forgetting_ the doubt, and the subject of doubt,
be the sole cure for it.

But that other advice which Mr Carlyle tells us was given, and in vain,
to George Fox, the Quaker, at a time when he was agitated by
doubts and perplexities, namely, "to drink beer and dance with the
girls," was of the very same stamp, and would have operated in the
very same manner, to the removing of the pious Quaker's doubts.

Faith! ye lack faith! cries this prophet in our streets; and when
reproved and distressed scepticism enquires where truth is to be
found, he bids it back to the loom or the forge, to its tools and
its workshop, of whatever kind these may be--there to forget the
enquiry.

The religion, or, if he pleases, the formula of religion, which helps
to keep men sober and orderly, Mr Carlyle despises, ridicules; "old
clothes!" he cries, empty and ragged. It is not till a man has
risen into frenzy, or some hot fanaticism, that he deserves his
respect.

An Irving, when his noble spirit, kindled to fever heat, is seized
with delirium, becomes worthy of some admiration. A Cromwell is
pronounced emphatically to have believed in a God, and _therefore_
to have been "by far the remarkablest governor we have had here
for the last five centuries or so."

Meanwhile, is it the faith of an Irving, or the God of a Cromwell,
that our subtle-minded author would have us adopt, or would adopt
himself?

If he scorn the easy, methodical citizen, who plods along the beaten
tracks of life, looking occasionally, in his demure, self-satisfied
manner, upwards to the heavens, but with no other result than to
plod more perseveringly along his very earthy track, it follows not
that there is any one order of fanatic spirits with whom he would
associate, to whose theology he would yield assent.

Verily, no. He demands faith--he gives no creed.

What is it _you_ teach?

a plain-speaking man would exclaim; where is your church?

have you also your thirty-nine articles?

have you nine? have you _one_ stout article of creed that will
bear the rubs of fortune--bear the temptations of prosperity or a
dietary system--stand both sunshine and the wind--which will
keep virtue steady when disposed to reel, and drive back crime to her
penal caverns of remorse?

Then,
as Table Mountain and the Devil's Peak lifted themselves on his
right hand, he knew that Cape Town was near, and he braced himself
to go through what was before him.

Kruger Bobs eyed him anxiously.

"Boss sick," he announced for the dozenth time, as the train drew in
at the Adderley Street station. "Boss berry sick mans. Boss go hotel
soon."

But Weldon shook his head. Even now, rest had scant space in his
plans, least of all, rest in Cape Town.

"I can do it," he asserted resolutely. "Steady me till I get
started, Kruger Bobs. Then I shall astonish you by my agility."

"Boss go hotel," Kruger Bobs muttered in low-voiced mutiny. "Boss
too sick to trek."

"No fear. Did you ever know me to give out, when there was something
still to be done, Kruger Bobs?"

"What Boss do?"

"My discharge. My banker. My passage home."

The arm of Kruger Bobs tightened about the bony figure of his
master, but the pressure of his strong arm was only gentle and
reassuring, and the great, white-ringed eyes glittered wet. This was
not the boy master to whom Kruger Bobs had sworn allegiance. This
was an older man, and weak withal. But the weaker grew the master,
the stronger grew the loyal, loving allegiance of the man.

After the wide, deserted stretches of open veldt, the roar of
Adderley Street seemed to Weldon like the maddening tumult of
Piccadilly. The noise stunned him; the hurrying crowd filled him
with terror. Even inside the cab, he still clung to the arm of the
faithful Kruger Bobs. Still clinging to that faithful arm, he came
out from the citadel, no longer Trooper Weldon, but Mr. Harvard
Weldon once more, honorably discharged from the South African Light
Horse. Kruger Bobs was invisible behind the spreading limits of his
smile; but Weldon had scarcely heeded the words which had been
addressed to him. All at once, like a watch about to run down, the
wheels of his brain were moving slowly and ever more slowly. His
whole resolution now centered in keeping them in motion long enough
to go to his banker and to the office of the steamship company. Once
on the steamer and sliding out across Table Bay, he could leave the
rest to the ship's doctor and to Fate.

Even in the multitude of strangers who had passed through Cape Town,
in those latter months, he was remembered at the bank and greeted
with a word of congratulation on his record in the field. At the
word, a man beside him, hearing, turned to look, looked again, and
then held out his hand. It was the father of Ethel Dent.

That night, the Dents dined alone. Over the roast, Mr. Dent looked
up suddenly.

"Whom do you think I saw, to-day, Ethel?"

"Who now?" she asked, smiling. "You can't expect me to guess, when
you are constantly running up against the most impossible people."
"Not this time. It was quite possible; but it gave me a shock. It
was Mr. Weldon."

The smile died from her lips. Nevertheless, she asked, with a forced
lightness,--

"What shocked you?"

"His looks. He was ghastly, thin to a shadow and burning up with
fever. I was in the bank, and I heard some one speak his name; but I
had to look at him for a second time, before I could recognize him.
The man is a wreck. He looked sixty years old, as he went crawling
off, on the arm of his Kaffir boy. I'm sorry. I always liked
Weldon."

A bit of bread lay by Ethel's plate. For an instant, her finger tips
vanished inside its yielding surface. Then she looked up.

"Too bad! He was a good fellow," she said quietly. Then she lifted
her hand to her throat. "Dear me! Have I lost my diamond pin?" she
added hastily. "I was sure I put it on. Please excuse me, while I
see if I left it in my room." And she ran swiftly out of the room.

Mrs. Dent broke the pause.

"Where was Mr. Weldon going?"

"To his hotel. I came out, just as they drove away, and I heard the
boy give the order to the driver."

"Which hotel was it?"

"I--Really, I don't remember. He used to go to the Grand."

"He seemed ill?"

"He seemed--" For an instant, Mr. Dent held the word in suspension.
Then he let it drop with a slow quietness which added tenfold to its
weight--"dead."

His wife's gentle eyes clouded.

"I am sorry. I liked the boy. He was good to me."

"I had thought Ethel liked him, too," her husband added a little
inconsequently.

"So she did in a way. But there have been so many others." The
mother sighed slightly. In her young days, there had been but one.
Now, remembering that one and watching him in the present, she found
it hard to comprehend Ethel's free-handed distribution of social
favors among so great a throng of admirers. There had always been
many; now, since her recent return from Johannesburg, the many had
become a multitude, and each of the multitude could show proof of
her liking. But Mrs. Dent recurred to the fact of Weldon's illness.

"Poor boy! Fancy being really ill, so far from home and in a hotel!"
she added slowly.

"It is one of the risks of a soldier," her husband reminded her.

"Yes, and the soldiers fought for us. Where would your mines have
been without them?" she suggested in return. "I really wish you
would telephone to the hotel and find out something more definite
about him."

Her husband looked covetously at the entree, just appearing in
sight.

"Now?" he asked.

She ignored the mockery of his tone.

"Yes, please," she assented quietly. "It will only take you a
minute."

It took him ten. When he came back into the room, his hat was in his
hand.

"I think I will go over to the Grand for a minute," he explained. "I
don't quite like what I hear."

"What did you hear?"

In the dim upper hallway, a girlish figure leaned far over the
railing and strained her ears for the reply. Then, noiselessly, the
door of her room shut again behind her.

"They tell me," Mr. Dent was saying; "that Weldon is there,
unconscious in his room. The boy brought him into the house in his
arms, and they have sent for Dr. Wright. It is a bad case of
enteric, mixed with some trouble with the brain. He appears to be
suffering from nervous shock, they say, increased by a long strain
of anxiety."

Half an hour later, he was called from Weldon's room to speak to his
wife at the telephone.

"Yes," he answered her. "It is as bad as I heard, as bad as it can
be. You think so? Are you strong enough? Sure? Hold the wire, then,
till I ask the doctor." The interval was short; and he went on
again, "The doctor says he can be moved now, but not later. It may
be a matter of weeks. How soon can you be ready? Very well. Will you
be sure to save yourself all you can? In an hour, then. And the
doctor will have a nurse waiting there? And can you put the boy into
some corner? He would be frantic, if we tried to leave him behind.
Very well. Yes." And the telephone rang off.

It was midnight before the Dent household was fully reconstructed.
Upstairs in the great eastern front room, a white-capped nurse was
bending above the unconscious man in the bed; downstairs in the
kitchen, the tears of Kruger Bobs were mingling with the cold roast
beef on the table before him. The doctor had just gone away, and in
the room underneath the sickroom, Mr. Dent and his wife were quietly
laying plans to meet the needs of the changed routine which had
fallen upon their home. He looked up, as Ethel came slowly into the
room.

"By the way, Ethel, I forgot to ask you before; but did you find
your pin?"

She looked at him wonderingly. Her face was pale and drawn; but her
eyes were shining like the gems she had professed to miss.

"What pin do you mean?" she asked blankly.


CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE


"Don't wait any longer, Carew. Really, it's not worth while."

"Too late for us to part company now," Carew answered serenely.

"I know. You've stood by me like a good fellow; but it will be some
time yet before I can sail. And you know you are in a hurry to get
away."

"Don't be too sure of that," Carew advised him. "All my good things
aren't at one end of the world."

Weldon's lips curled into the ghost of his old smile.

"Then take one of them along with you," he suggested.

Elbows on knees and chin on fists joined knuckle to knuckle, Carew
turned and smiled blandly down at the face on the pillow.

"Weldon, for a man who has been off his head for a month, you do
have singularly wise ideas. But do you suppose she'd go?"

"Which?"

"Miss Mellen, of course. It's a question of ages. Young Mahomet is
easier to move than the everlasting hills."

"Meaning your mother? She would thank you." "She will thank me, when
she sees Alice," Carew responded hopefully. "But, honor bright, do
you suppose Miss Mellen would go back with me?"

"I thought she promised."

"Yes, but now," Carew persisted, with the eagerness of a boy. "Right
off, next month."

"There's only one way to tell; ask her," Weldon answered. "If she is
the girl I think she is, she will say yes."

"You do like her; don't you, Weldon?" The eagerness was still in his
tone.

"Intensely," Weldon replied quietly. "I have seen few women I have
liked as well."

"What larks we'll be having, this time next year, talking it all
over together," Carew said, in a sudden, thoughtful burst of
prophecy. "By the time we get home, we shall forget the blood and
the dog-biscuit, and only remember the skittles and beer. If only--"

"What?" Weldon looked up at him without flinching.

Carew did flinch, however.

"Nothing," he said hastily. "One is never quite content, you know."

Weldon drew a deep, slow breath.

"No," he echoed. "One is never quite content."

Carew crossed his legs, as he settled back in his chair.

"Mayhap. Some of us ought to be, though."

"Yes. You're a lucky fellow, Carew."

"So are you. The trouble is, one never knows when he is well off."

"But we all know when we aren't," Weldon replied succinctly.

Carew's glance was expressive, as it roved about the luxurious room,
with the bed drawn up near the window which looked out, between the
branches of an ancient oak tree, on the blue waters of Table Bay and
on the fringe of shipping by the Docks far to the eastward. Faintly
from the room below came the sound of a piano and of a hushed
girlish voice singing softly to itself.

"It all depends on one's point of view," Carew said, after an
interval. "I am living in a seven-by-nine room in a hotel, and Miss
Mellen is seventy-two miles and three quarters away. Weldon, you are
a lucky dog, if you did but know it."

Weldon shut his teeth for a moment. Then he said quietly,--

"Carew, it is five weeks that I have been in this house. Mr. Dent
and dear little Mother Dent have been angel-good to me. Miss Dent--"
He hesitated.

"Has been an archangel?" Carew supplemented calmly.

"Has never once come into my sight."

Deliberately, forcefully, the next words dropped from Carew's
tongue. "The--devil--she--hasn't!"

"No."

Then Weldon waited for Carew to speak; but Carew merely sat and
stared at his friend in speechless stupefaction.

"Oh, Lord!" he blurted out at last. "Then you haven't made it up?"

"There was nothing to make up," Weldon said drearily.

Again Carew's elbows came down on his knees with a bump.

"There was, too!" he contradicted, with an explosiveness which
irresistibly reminded Weldon of their kindergarten days.

"What makes you think so?"

"I don't think. I know."

"How do you know?" Weldon asked listlessly.

"Alice Mellen told me," Carew replied conclusively.

"Told you what?"

"That Cooee Dent is in love with you."

From his superior knowledge, Weldon stared disdainfully up at him.

"Then there is one thing that Alice Mellen doesn't know."

"She does, then. She told me about it, when you went off on your
feed, up at Lindley," Carew explained hurriedly. "I was worried
about you, and she was worried about Miss Dent, and we compared
notes. You hadn't said a word of any kind; we could only guess at
things, so we wrote to each other about it. She told me then about
Miss Dent's dashing up to Johannesburg after Vlaakfontein."

"She went to see her cousin."

"She also went to see you."

Carew's emphatic pause was broken by the coming of the nurse, who
bent over the bed, raising her brows inquiringly, as she laid two
fingers on Weldon's wrist. Carew took the obvious hint.

"I hope I've not stopped too long," he said, as he rose. "It has
been good to see Mr. Weldon. May I come again?"

The nurse was a true woman. Therefore she smiled back into his
happy, handsome face.

"I think you may," she answered. "Mr. Weldon is tired now, but you
evidently have done him good."

Carew meditated aloud, as he went away down the walk.

"Out of every five women, three are cats," he observed tranquilly to
himself. "I've cornered the fourth. It remains to be seen whether
Weldon is cornered by the fifth, or only the third. Hasn't been to
see him! Little beast! But I'll bet any amount of gold money that
she has done endless messing for him on the sly."

Carew's words showed that it is usually not the man in love with a
woman who is the shrewdest judge of the hidden recesses of that
woman's nature. The fact was, Ethel had slaved unceasingly, but
unseen, for the patient above stairs. See him she would not. Day
after day, she invented fresh excuses to ward off her mother's
suggestions of a call on the invalid; but also, day by day, she
invented fresh delicacies to tempt the appetite dulled by months of
army biscuit and bully beef. And, meanwhile, she was waiting.

Rather to her surprise, no message came down to her from the
invalid's room. She had supposed as a matter of course that Weldon
would intuitively recognize the source of the dainties which reached
him anonymously. Man-fashion, however, he could see no reason that
his beef tea and his wine jelly should be the work of different
hands. He devoured them both, and reflected thankfully upon the
skill of the Kaffir cook. Mr. Dent had been scrupulously literal in
carrying out the commands laid upon him by his daughter. He had left
in Weldon's mind no doubt whatsoever about the truth of his
statement that Mrs. Dent alone had been responsible for the
invalid's present quarters. Weldon had lavished thanks upon Mrs.
Dent, and she had received them without demur, as her own lawful
property. Even now, he was at a loss whether his recovery was more
owing to Mrs. Dent or to the nurse. Each had given to him a large
share of her vitality.

From a distance, he could follow Ethel's doings, could assure
himself that his presence was no apparent check upon her happiness.
Now it was the muffled whirr of the bell, followed by low voices
from the room beneath. Now it was the roll of the carriage, bearing
her away to dine or to dance, and leaving Weldon to lie and count
the minutes until she returned. Now it was her light footstep on the
stairs, or, but this was only at long intervals, her hushed voice in
the hallway outside his door. At first, he used to lie and hold his
breath, while he waited for her to open the door of his room. By
degrees, however, he ceased to expect her. And, as the expectation
died away, he chafed increasingly at the slowness of his recovery.
Anything to get out of that house! She treated him as he would have
scorned to treat an invalid dog who had taken refuge in his stable.

All this came slowly. For two endless weeks, Weldon lay unconscious.
For two more endless weeks, he raved in delirium. Happily, his nurse
was a discreet woman. She discouraged the visits of Mrs. Dent and
her husband, offered the excuse that strange faces excited the
invalid, and only admitted them during his brief intervals of sleep.
Meanwhile, she used all her professional principles to keep herself
from trying to solve the problem before her eyes. Upstairs was a man
sick unto death, a man who raved ceaselessly of the daughter of the
house. Downstairs, the daughter of the house was going her
accustomed way, with never a question in regard to the man above.
What had happened? How, if anything had happened, how did he chance
to be in that home, with Mrs. Dent as his devoted and anxious slave?
Resolutely, she fell to studying her temperature charts. Her
specialty was fever, not heart disease.

A week after the tide had turned, Carew had been allowed to spend a
short half-hour with the invalid. The next day, by advice of the
nurse, Mr. Dent telephoned to him to come again. Something, whether
in his personality or in his talk, had been of tonic power over
Weldon. It seemed wise to repeat the experiment.

Carew came on the heels of his own voice through the telephone; and
his face was smiling broadly, as he went leaping up the stairs.
After all, it had not been in vain, his quixotic lingering in Cape
Town for a weary month after receiving his discharge. Weldon and he
had been good friends through thick and thin; it would have been
beastly to leave him. And now, after all these useless weeks, he
could at least do something to lighten the convalescence. Moreover,
Carew's pocket held three letters, received that very noon; one of
grudging approval from his son-sick mother, one of chaotic, but
heartfelt thanks from Mrs. Weldon, and the third one an affirmative
answer to a telegram he had sent to Alice Mellen, only the night
before. He went into Weldon's room, looking, as he felt, the
embodiment of happiness and health.

He hailed Weldon from the threshold. Tidings like his could wait
during no interchange of mere conventional greetings. Weldon heard
him to the end, congratulated him, demanded the repetition of all
the details. Then, when Carew's excitement had quite spent itself,
Weldon drew a letter from underneath his pillow.

"It came, this morning," he added laconically.

Carew seized the letter and ran his eye down the page. Then his face
lighted.

"Nunc dimittis!" he said piously. "It's sure to be yours! Have you
told Miss Dent?"

"I've not seen Miss Dent."

Carew's face fell.

"Not yet? But you will. And then you will tell her?"

Weldon's lips straightened into a thin line. He shook his head.

"But she ought to know."

"Why?"

"It is her right."

"Why?" Weldon asked again.

"Because--it is. It might make some difference in--"

Weldon stopped him abruptly.

"It could make no difference, Carew. In facing the main question,
such things as that don't count. Even if they did, though," he rose
on his elbow and faced his friend steadily; "even if they did, I
would never consent to try to bribe a girl into loving me, by
telling her I had won the V. C. It will be time enough for Miss Dent
to hear of it, when it is given."

"But you will be in England then," Carew objected practically.

Weldon lay down again and drew the sheet upward till its shadow lay
across his lips.

"What matter?" he answered slowly. "And, besides, Miss Dent isn't
the girl to be won in any such way as that. Hers is a love to be
given, not bought."

Half an hour later, Carew met Ethel on the stairs. As he halted to
speak to her, he was shocked at the look in her face. The lips were
smiling; but the eyes were the eyes of a hunted animal.

"So long since we have met!" he said, as he took her hand. "And so
much has happened."

"Yes. I have been hoping to congratulate you," she answered.

"It was a stunning letter you wrote me," he said boyishly. "I
suppose we are cousins now."

Then there came a little pause. Before either of them quite realized
it, the pause had lengthened until it was hard to break.

"I have been up to see the invalid," he blurted out at last.

"How is he?" the girl inquired courteously.

"Better." Then a sudden note of resentment crept into Carew's honest
voice. "He is counting the days now before he can be moved. He says
your mother has been wonderfully good to him."

The girl stood aside to let Carew pass her by.

"She is good to everybody," she assented quietly. "I hope Mr. Weldon
won't think of going away until he can be moved with perfect safety.
It is really no trouble to have him here, and the nurse is very
capable."

NOTES FOR SONG XXII.

The ordinary sad burden of the Nahuatl poets is repeated with
emphasis in this plaint.

It is a variation of the Epicurean advice, "Eat, drink, and be
merry, for to-morrow we die."

     Both the sentiment and the reference to Mictlan in verse
        7, point it
     out as a production uninfluenced by Christian teaching.
     
        7. The word
     _ahuicaloyan_, place of sweetness, would seem to be identical with
_ohuicaloyan_, place of difficulty, in v. 8; I have regarded the
latter as an error of transcription.

NOTES FOR SONG XXIII.

Although No. V. is probably one of the lost songs of Nezahualcoyotl,
the present is the only one of the collection which is definitely
attributed to him. The language is very archaic, and in the sentiment
there is every mark of antiquity.

The text is apparently a dialogue, which was chanted as strophe
and antistrophe, the one singer speaking for the King, the other
for the bard himself.

The word _teotl_ is used for divinity, and it is doubtless this
word for which the copyists of some of the other songs have
substituted the Spanish _Dios_, thus conveying an impression that
the chants themselves were of late date.

The last verse, however, seems to be by one who lives after the
time of the great poet-prince, and is calling him to memory.

NOTES FOR SONG XXIV.

It will be seen that there is a wearisome sameness in the theme of
most of the short poems. Probably the bards followed conventional
models, and feared for the popularity of their products, did they
seek originality. Here again are the same delight in flowers and
songs, and the same grief at the thought that all such joys are
evanescent and that soon "death closes all."
I consider the poem one of undoubted antiquity and purely native in
thought and language.

NOTES FOR SONG XXV.

The destruction of the Mexican state was heralded by a series of
omens and prodigies which took place at various times
during the ten years preceding the arrival of Cortes. They are carefully
recorded by Sahagun, in the first chapter of the 12th book of
his history. They included a comet, or "smoking star," as these
were called in Nahuatl, and a bright flame in the East and
Southeast, over the mountains, visible from midnight to daylight,
for a year. This latter occurred in 1509. The song before us is a
boding chant, referring to such prognostics, and drawing from them
the inference that the existence of Mexico was doomed.

It was probably from just such songs that Sahagun derived his
information.

1. _toztliyan_, I suppose from _tozquitl_, the singing voice, in the
locative; literally, "the quechol in the place of sweet-singing."

2. _iquiapan_, from _i_, possessive prefix, _quiauatl_, door,
entrance, house, _pan_, in.

5. An obscure verse; _tequantepec_, appears to be a textual error;
_tequani_, a ravenous beast, from _qua_ to eat; _tepec_, a mountain;
but _tequantepehua_ occurring twice later in the poem induces the
belief _tequani_ should be taken in its figurative sense of
affliction, destruction, and that _tepec_ is an old verbal form.

7. _Xochitecatl_, "one who cares for flowers," is said by Sahagun
to have been the name applied to a woman doomed to sacrifice to
the divinities of the mountains (_Hist. Nueva España_, Lib. II,
cap. 13).

8. _amaxtecatl_, or _amoxtecatl_, as the MS. may read, from _amoxtli_,
a book.

NOTES FOR SONG XXVI.
This seems to be a song of victory to celebrate an attack upon
Atlixco by the ruler of Tezcuco, the famous Nezahualpilli. This
monarch died in 1516, and therefore the song must antedate this
period, if it is genuine. It has every intrinsic evidence of
antiquity, and I think may justly be classed among those preserved
from a time anterior to the Conquest. According to the chronologies
preserved, the attack of Nezahualpilli upon Atlixco was in the year
XI _tochtli_, which corresponds to 1490, two years before the
discovery by Columbus (see Orozco y Berra, _Hist. Antigua de Mexico_,
Tom. III, p. 399).

NOTES FOR SONG XXVII.
My MS. closes with a Christian song in the style of the ancient
poetry. It is valuable as indicating the linguistic differences
between these later productions of the sixteenth century and those
earlier ones, such as XXVI, which I have not hesitated to assign
to an epoch before the Spaniards landed upon the shores of New
Spain.But she held herself in check, and never once yielded to
the temptation. Well she might hold herself in check. She realized
only too keenly that, once face to face with Weldon, she would have
to do over again all the weary work of those weeks of self-
repression.

Then the stupor had given place to delirium; and, even in her room
and behind her closed door, she could hear the low, muttering voice.
After that, she crouched no more outside his room. It would have
been impossible for her to say just what it was that she dreaded to
hear. Nevertheless, she closed her ears as resolutely as she closed
her door; but, when she met the nurse on the stairs, she hurried
onward with her face turned away and her cheeks ablaze.

And then in its turn the delirium had ended. From that time forward,
Ethel went out more constantly than ever. When she was in the house,
she started and grew red or pale at every unexpected step. Now, at
any hour, there might come a summons for her to go to the invalid's
room. She went over in detail every possible reply she could make to
every possible word which Weldon might say. She held herself ready
for any emergency. But the days dragged away, and no emergency had
come.

And then, as it had chanced, she had been away from home, when
Weldon had finally left the house. It had been the fulfilment of an
old promise which had taken her to spend two days with a friend in
Newlands. She had had no notion that the time for Weldon's going
away was at hand. Neither, on the other hand, had Weldon any idea
that Ethel was absent from home. He had merely taken advantage of
the first day when the doctor had ceased to oppose his removal. It
had been to him a cruel disappointment that Mrs. Dent had stood
alone on the steps to watch his departure.

That was three weeks before. Ethel had supposed that Weldon would
sail for home at once. He had supposed so, too, until all at once he
had found it impossible to turn his back upon Cape Town and all it
held. Deep down in his heart was the memory of Carew's words,
assuring him of the reason of Ethel's sudden journey to Johannesburg
after the fight at Vlaakfontein. The episode was now far away in the
past. It might chance, however, that something of the old mood might
linger in her mind. Carew had felt sure of her love for him. Perhaps
she had loved him once, before the Captain had won the first place
in her heart. Perhaps--He had grown dizzy and had grasped the edge
of the pillow to steady himself, the first time the idea had dawned
upon him--Perhaps, now that the Captain had gone beyond the reach of
human love, he might win her to care for himself once more. The
chance appeared to him to be wellnigh impossible; yet, while it
lingered in his mind, he could not force himself to go away from
Cape Town.

it is advice such as this that the Christian preacher, century after
century, utters from his pulpit, which he makes the staple of his
eloquence, and which he and his listeners are contented to applaud;
and the more contented probably to applaud, as, on all hands, it is
tacitly understood to be far _too good_ to be practised.

In fine, turn which way you will, to philosophy, to politics, to
religion, you find Mr Carlyle objecting, denouncing, scoffing, rending
all to pieces in his bold, reckless, ironical, manner--but _teaching_
nothing.

The most docile pupil, when he opens his tablets to put down the
precious sum of wisdom he has learned, pauses--finds his pencil
motionless, and leaves his tablet still a blank.

Now all this, and more of the same kind, which our astute and
trenchant critic might urge, may be true, or very like the truth,
but it is not the whole truth.

"To speak a little pedantically," says our author himself,
in a paper called _Signs of the Times_, "there is a science of
_Dynamics_ in man's fortune and nature, as well as of _Mechanics_.
There is a science which treats of, and practically addresses, the
primary, unmodified, forces and energies of man, the mysterious
springs of love, and fear, and wonder, of enthusiasm, poetry--religion,
all which have a truly vital and _infinite_ character; as
well as a science which practically addresses the finite, modified
developments of these, when they take the shape of immediate
'motives,' as hope of reward, or as fear of punishment.

Now it is certain, that in former times the wise men, the
enlightened lovers of their kind, who appeared generally as moralists,
poets, or priests, did, without neglecting the mechanical province,
deal chiefly with the dynamical; applying, themselves chiefly to
regulate, increase, and purify, the inward primary powers of man;
and fancying that herein lay the main difficulty, and the best
service they could undertake."

--_Misc_. vol. ii. p. 277.

In such _Dynamics_ it is that Mr Carlyle deals. To speak in our own
plain common-place diction, it is to the elements of all religious
feeling, to the broad unalterable principles of morality, that
he addresses himself; stirring up in the minds of his readers those
sentiments of reverence to the Highest, and of justice to all, even
to the lowest, which can never utterly die out in any man, but which
slumber in the greater number of us.

It is by no means necessary to teach any peculiar or positive doctrine
in order to exert an influence on society. After all, there is a
moral heart beating at the very centre of this world. Touch _it_,
and there is a responsive movement through the whole system of the
world.Weldon controlled his own voice as best he might.

"And Miss Dent?" he asked.

However, the maid had just broken the Baden-Powell tea-cup. Its
fragments were still upon the floor, and she had no mind, just then,
to face her young mistress.

"Miss Dent is not at home," she answered, with glib mendacity. And
then she wondered why it was that Weldon's pallor turned from white
to gray, as he went away down the steps.

Nevertheless, he fulfilled his resolution of going to the reception
at the Citadel. For one reason, he had given his word to Carew.
Moreover, he felt that, for the honor of his manhood, he must accept
his fate like a man. Four months before that time, Ethel Dent had
stabbed him almost to the death. Now, with delicate precision, she
had struck him full across the face. The touch had hurt him far more
than the deeper wound had done; but, at least, she should never be
aware of it. To his mind, she had forfeited all right to the
knowledge.

He dressed with careful precision. More than once he was forced to
sit down for a moment; more than once his fingers refused to do his
bidding and his hands dropped inertly at his side. However, Carew
found him waiting, hat in hand, and together they drove away to the
Citadel.

Already, when they reached the door, the reception was nearing its
highest tide. The rooms were bright with uniforms and with trailing
gowns, gay with the hum of voices; and the lilt of a waltz came
softly to them from across the distance. As they halted on the
threshold, Weldon lifted his eyes and suddenly found them resting
full upon Ethel Dent. The girl was quite at the farther end of the
long room, the central figure of a little throng, and wholly
unconscious of their presence. Her back was towards Weldon. He could
only see the sweep of her shimmering gown, the heavy coils of yellow
hair and the curve of one rounding cheek; yet, even in that partial
view, he felt himself astounded at her vitality. It flashed until it
dazzled him, and the dazzle hurt. He bowed to the governor and
turned away into another room, striving, as he went, to account for
the sudden depression which had fallen upon him. He had not expected
to find Ethel Dent moping alone in a corner; neither had he looked
for a radiant alertness such as he had never seen in her before.
During the long weeks of his illness, his mental picture of her had
been colored by the sadness of their last meeting. Now the picture
was torn aside and a new one thrust into its place, and the new one
seemed garish to his weary nerves.

"Weldon! Have you risen from the grave?"

He turned sharply, to find himself face to face with the captain of
his former troop.

"Merely from hospital," he answered. "I have been lying up for
repairs."

The other man nodded.

"I know; and thereby adding to the glamour which surrounds a man
elect for the V. C. Are you all right again?"

Weldon's voice hardened to match the strain he was putting upon his
control.

"Absolutely. I am sailing for home, next week."

"And taking a farewell view of the place, before you go? Then come
to meet the prettiest girl in Cape Town."

Within the house of flowers the Lord of the Waters, of the Gate of
the Waters, answers thee, has answered thee.

19.

Can tinemi noteouh ipalnemohuani mitztemohua in quemmanian y
mocanitlaocoyan, nicuicanitlhuia, zan ni mitzahuiltiaya ohuiyan
tililiyanco huia ohuaya ohuaya.

19. Where thou livest, my beloved, the Giver of Life sends down upon
thee sometimes things of sadness; but I, the singer, shall make
thee glad in the place of difficulty, in the place of cumber.

20.It was Weldon who spoke first, however, and
his voice was level, for he was generous enough to take none of the
advantage which so plainly was all upon his side.

"Miss Dent and I are old acquaintances," he said quietly.

Fortunately the captain was garrulous.

"Another proof of the smallness of the world," he said jovially. "In
time, I shall learn the futility of introductions. One is always
pointing out next-door neighbors to each other's notice. By the way,
Weldon, didn't you know Frazer rather well? I used to meet him at
your house so often, Miss Dent."

Ethel's fingers shut upon the sticks of her fan.

"Yes," she assented. "Captain Frazer was one of our best friends."

All at once, the face of the young captain grew grave.

"I remember now," he said quite slowly. "But his loss was a sorrow
to us all. His place can never be entirely filled."

There came a momentary pause. Then, as the captain's broad shoulders
vanished in the heart of the crowd, Weldon turned and looked Ethel
squarely between the eyes.

"Believe me, Miss Dent," he said simply; "this is none of my doing."

She made no pretence of misunderstanding him. Instead of that, her
quiet voice was full of bitterness, as she gave brief answer,--
"Quite obviously, Mr. Weldon."

"Thank you for doing me that justice," he said, after an instant
when their meeting eyes flashed like meeting blades of steel.
"Stuart had no notion that he was making a mess of things."

She faced him a little proudly.

"I am unable to see what mess he can have made, Mr. Weldon. It is
always a pleasure to meet an old acquaintance."

Few things could have hurt him more than the icy conventionality of
her words. All the gentler side of his nature was crying out for
mercy; but he smothered its cries and faced her bravely, praying the
while for some one to come to them and end the scene. The text of the
ancient songs which it contains offers extreme and peculiar
difficulties to the translator, and I have been obliged to
pursue the task without assistance of any kind. Not a line of
them has ever before been rendered into an European tongue, and my
endeavors to obtain aid from some of the Nahuatl scholars of
Mexico have, for various reasons, proved ineffectual.

I am therefore alone responsible for errors and misunderstandings.

Nevertheless, I have felt that these monuments of ancient native
literature are so interesting in themselves, and so worthy of
publication, that they should be placed at the disposition of
scholars in their original form with the best rendering that I could
give them at present, rather than to await the uncertain event of
years for a better.

The text itself may be improved by comparison with the original
MS.

and with the copy previously made by the Licentiate Chimalpopoca,
referred to on page 48. My own efforts in this direction have been
confined to a faithful reproduction in print of the MS. copy of
the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg.

The Notes, which might easily have been extended, I have confined
within moderate compass, so as not to enlarge unduly the bulk of
the volume.

To some, the Vocabulary may seem inadequate. I assume that those
persons who wish to make a critical study of the original text
will provide themselves with the Nahuatl Dictionaries of Molina or
Siméon, both of which are now easily obtainable, thanks to Mr.

Julius Platzmann for the reprint of Molina. I also assume that
such students will acquaint themselves with the rules of grammar
and laws of word-building of the tongue, and that they will use the
vocabulary merely as a labor-saving means of reaching the themes
of compounds and unusual forms of words.

Employed in this manner, it will, I hope, be found adequate.

In conclusion, I would mention that there is a large body of Nahuatl
literature yet unpublished, both prose and poetry, modern and
ancient, and as the Nahuatl tongue is one of the most highly
developed on the American continent, it is greatly to be desired
that all this material should be at the command of students.

She drew back a step, as if
his vehemence terrified her, yet she dared not raise her eyes to
his. It was all she could do to hold her voice in subjection.

"And what is that?" she asked.

He waited for an instant, before he answered her question. Her next
words might contain all, or nothing. His lips shut to a narrow line;
then he straightened his shoulders.

"Ethel," he said rapidly; "I have been in a good many fights; I've
found that it hurts more to be mangled than it does to be killed.
Speak out, then, and end this thing once for all. Was it final, what
you said to the Captain, that day?"

She bit her lip; but her voice would not come, and she could only
give a little, dreary nod. Weldon watched her steadily for a moment;
then he turned to go away.

For another moment, Ethel stared after him, heedless now of the
drops that were sliding down her cheeks. Then, of a sudden, she
found her voice. "Wait!" she said, as she stepped forward with a
swift gesture which was wholly imploring, wholly feminine. "It may
have been final; but finality is not always truth."

He halted at her words.

"And you mean?"

I said, I cried aloud, may I not cause you pain ye beloved ones, who
are seated to listen; may the brilliant humming-birds come soon.

Whom do we seek, O noble poet?

I ask, I say: Where are the pretty, fragrant flowers with which I
may make glad you my noble compeers?"No matter now," he answered.

Then, taking her hand, he led her back to the open window where they
stood together long, while, in the room beyond, an anxious colonel
threaded his way to and fro in the crowd, impatiently hunting the
partner in whose memory he had ceased to exist.