
When the song was ended, they left the graveyard quietly and went down
the hill. The morning was growing warm. Their work waited them across
many sunny miles of range and plain. Soon their voices and themselves
had emptied away into the splendid vastness and silence, and they were
gone--ready with all their might to live or to die, to be animals or
heroes, as the hours might bring them opportunity. In Drybone's deserted
quadrangle the sun shone down upon Lusk still sleeping, and the wind
shook the aces and kings in the grass.


PART IV

Over at Separ, Jessamine Buckner had no more stockings of Billy's to
mend, and much time for thinking and a change of mind. said he, 'let
me look, 'tis she!'
"'Who is it?'
"'The nurse who was here this morning; the nurse of the little Norman girl.
Good! they may be buried together.' And M. Perrin put on his
spectacles, opened his register, and wrote in his best
current-hand--_unknown!She looked at the photograph on
her table. "Why did he go away so quickly?" she sighed. But when young
Billy returned to his questions she was buoyant again, and more than a
match for him. He reached the forbidden twelfth time of asking why Lin
McLean did not come back and marry her. Nor did she punish him as she
had threatened. She looked at him confidentially, and he drew near, full
of hope.

"Billy, I'll tell you just why it is," said she. "Lin thinks I'm not a
real girl."

"A--ah," drawled Billy, backing from her with suspicion.

"Indeed that's what it is, Billy. If he knew I was a real girl--"

"A--ah," went the boy, entirely angry. "Anybody can tell you're a girl."
And he marched out, mystified, and nursing a sense of wrong. Nor did his
dignity allow him to reopen the subject.

To-day, two miles out in the sage-brush by himself, he was shooting
jack-rabbits, but began suddenly to run in toward Separ. A horseman had
passed him, and he had loudly called; but the rider rode on, intent upon
the little distant station. Man and horse were soon far ahead of the
boy, and the man came into town galloping.

No need to fire the little pistol by her window, as he had once thought
to do! She was outside before he could leap to the ground. And as he
held her, she could only laugh, and cry, and say "Forgive me! Oh, why
have you been so long?" She took him back to the room where his picture
was, and made him sit, and sat herself close. "There remained only the
public room; it is narrow, ill aired; ten or twelve black and sloping
stones receive the suicides, who are placed on it almost in a state
of nudity; the places are seldom all occupied, except perhaps during a
revolution.she said.

As they sat so, happy with deepening happiness, but not gay yet, young
Billy burst open the door. "There!" he cried. "I knowed Lin knowed you
were a girl!"

Thus did Billy also have his wish. For had he not told Jessamine that he
liked her, and urged her to come and live with him and Lin? That cabin
on Box Elder became a home in truth, with a woman inside taking the
only care of Mr. McLean that he had known since his childhood: though
singularly enough he has an impression that it is he who takes care of
Jessamine!



IN THE AFTER-DAYS

      The black pines stand high up the hills,
        The white snow sifts their columns deep,
      While through the canyon's riven cleft
        From there, beyond, the rose clouds sweep.

      Serene above their paling shapes
        One star hath wakened in the sky.
      And here in the gray world below
        Over the sage the wind blows by;

      Rides through the cotton-woods' ghost-ranks,
        And hums aloft a sturdy tune
      Among the river's tawny bluffs,
        Untenanted as is the moon.

      Far 'neath the huge invading dusk
        Comes Silence awful through the plain;
      But yonder horseman's heart is gay,
        And he goes singing might and main.