It was near midnight of the day when the sale of Mr Rothwell's effects
had taken place at "The Firs."  A candle twinkled still in the cottage
of Mrs Forbes, for there was work to be sent home early on the morrow,
and neither lateness nor weariness might suspend their anxious toil.
Lame Sally and her mother had been talking over, what was in everyone's
mouth and thoughts, the sad downfall of the Rothwells.  They saw God's
hand in it, but they did not rejoice; they had found their Saviour true
to His word, and enjoyed a peace in casting their care on Him which they
knew all the wealth of the world could not have given them.  Only one
thing they still prayed for which the Lord had not yet granted: Jim,
poor Jim!  But what was that?  A footstep: how their hearts beat!  Could
it be the old familiar tread?  Yes; Jim, but no longer drunken,
gambling, prodigal Jim, was next moment at his mother's feet, and a
minute after with his arms round his sister's neck.  And there was
weeping, but not for sorrow, in that cottage, and there was joy before
the angels of heaven over a repentant sinner.  Jim was come back.  A
mother's and sister's prayers had reached him and drawn him home.  It
comes direct from the power granted Toharu, vegetation, in answer to man's
prayer as he rubs the sticks. When the flame leaps from the glowing wood,
it is the word of the fire. The power has come near.

Blue is the color of the sky, the dwelling place of Tira´ wahut, the
circle of powers which watch over man. As a man paints the blue
stick he sings.
Red is the color of the sun. Green is the color of Mother Earth.
Eagle is the chief of day; Owl is chief of the night; Woodpecker
is chief of the trees; Duck is chief of the water.CHAPTER TEN.

DESPERATE DOINGS.

It is not to be supposed that Mary Franklin could mourn very deeply the
departure of Mark Rothwell.  Recent events had worn out the old
impressions of tenderness.  All that was bright and attractive in Mark
had melted away before the scorching, withering flame of alcohol.  She
had heard his cruel taunts to her preserver on the evening of her
rescue; she had seen him shamefully intoxicated when ill-using his poor
horse.  Could she cherish love or tenderness for such a being as this?
Impossible!  She was thankful to forget him.  O misery!  Why do so many
of the good and noble frown upon those who would keep the intoxicating
cup altogether out of the hands of the young?  What do the young lose by
never tasting it?  Not health, not cheerfulness, not self-respect, not
self-control.  No!  And what do they gain by tasting?  Too often, habits
of ruinous self-indulgence; too often a thirst which grows with years;
too often a withered manhood or womanhood, and a decrepit and
dishonoured old age.

October was drawing to its close: nothing had been heard of the
Rothwells, and their old dwelling was now occupied by another tenant.
John Randolph's visits to "The Shrubbery" began to be more frequent, and
were certainly not unacceptable.  Gratitude to him for her rescue
forbade Mary's repelling him; and, indeed, the more she and her mother
came to know him, the more they learnt to value his manly and Christian
character.  They began likewise to perceive that he was more than he
seemed to be.  Mr Tankardew had given them to understand latterly that
he was their equal both in birth and fortune.  A mystery there was about
him, it was true; but the veil was now getting so thin that they could
both see pretty distinctly through it, but were content to wait for the
proper time of its withdrawal.  And so it was felt by all that, in time,
John Randolph and Mary Franklin would be drawn together by a closer bond
than that of esteem and respect, but no one as yet gave outspoken
expression to this conviction.

Things were thus hanging in no unpleasing suspense, when, in the
twilight of an October evening, two men of rather suspicious appearance
might have been seen climbing the paling _fence_ at the back of "The
Shrubbery."  Scarcely had one of them reached the top, when a third
person approached, at first hastily; then he suddenly checked himself,
and cautiously crept along, so as to keep himself out of the sight of
the two others who were climbing into the grounds.  This third person
was John Randolph, who had lately left "The Shrubbery," and had come
round by the road at the back, to call, by Mrs Franklin's request, on a
poor sick cottager in the village.  The road in this part was lonely,
and the trespassers evidently imagined themselves unobserved.  The first
who scaled the palings was a stoutish, middle-aged man: but who was the
other?  Randolph's heart beat violently with a terrible suspicion.  Did
he know this second figure?  He could not be quite sure, for he was
afraid to approach too near; but he was almost convinced that he had
seen him before.  When fairly over the fence, both men crept along as
quietly as possible under the shelter of a large bank of evergreens.  He
who had climbed over last led the way, and was plainly well acquainted
with the grounds; he was a much younger man than his companion, and
seemed scarcely sober, yet without having lost self-possession and the
knowledge of what he was doing.  But that is why Turkeys have red
eyes.

[Notes: FIVE CHIEFS OF THE OGALLA SIOUX
_Rank is shown by pipe and pouch. The first Cankutanka, Big Road;
often called Good Road--big and broad and well traveled. The bird flying
through the dusk shows that one may fly rapidly over a good road. Next
is Low Dog. The dog figure is "low," as shown by the shortness of the
legs.

In the center is Long Dog, as shown by the long legs on the dog
figure.

Below, to the left, is Iron Crow, the crow painted blue indicating
iron. The last is Little Hawk. Each chief has three bands on the
cheek, but with variant colors and patterns._]
[Illustration: _From Report of the Bureau of Ethnology_]
[Illustration: OLD HORSE
Name of an Indian Chief, as shown in Red Cloud's census.John Randolph felt
pretty certain that he knew the voice, but he hardly dared think it.

"Where's the plate chest?"

"Don't know: most likely in the pantry."

John was now confident that he knew the speaker.

"Hush!" whispered the elder man, fiercely, "this passage window 'll do:
it won't take much to prise it open: you'll look after the women."

"Trust _me_ for that," muttered the other; and Randolph thought he heard
a click, as of the cocking of a pistol.

"Hush, you fool!" growled the older burglar, with an oath: then there
was a few moments' silence, and the two crept back.  They sat down under
the shelter of some large shrubs, with their backs to John, who could
only just make them out from his hiding-place, for it was now getting
quite dark.  A little while, and they rose, and passed very near their
unsuspected watcher, who could just catch the words "Two o'clock," as
they made their way back to the fence.  A few moments more, and they
were clear of the grounds.

