24th.  Lay pretty long, that is, till past six o'clock, and them up and W.
Howe and I very merry together, till having eat our breakfast, he went
away, and I to my office.  By and by Sir J. Minnes and I to the
Victualling Office by appointment to meet several persons upon stating the
demands of some people of money from the King.  Here we went into their
Bakehouse, and saw all the ovens at work, and good bread too, as ever I
would desire to eat.  Thence Sir J. Minnes and I homewards calling at
Browne's, the mathematician in the Minnerys, with a design of buying
White's ruler to measure timber with, but could not agree on the price. So
home, and to dinner, and so to my office, where we sat anon, and among
other things had Cooper's business tried against Captain Holmes, but I
find Cooper a fuddling, troublesome fellow, though a good artist, and so
am contented to have him turned out of his place, nor did I see reason to
say one word against it, though I know what they did against him was with
great envy and pride.  So anon broke up, and after writing letters, &c.,
home to supper and to bed.

25th (Lady-day).  Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning, at
noon dined and to the Exchange, and thence to the Sun Tavern, to my Lord
Rutherford, and dined with him, and some others, his officers, and Scotch
gentlemen, of fine discourse and education.  My Lord used me with great
respect, and discoursed upon his business as with one that he did esteem
of, and indeed I do believe that this garrison is likely to come to
something under him.  By and by he went away, forgetting to take leave of
me, my back being turned, looking upon the aviary, which is there very
pretty, and the birds begin to sing well this spring.  Thence home and to
my office till night, reading over and consulting upon the book and Ruler
that I bought this morning of Browne concerning the lyne of numbers, in
which I find much pleasure.  This evening came Captain Grove about hiring
ships for Tangier.  I did hint to him my desire that I could make some
lawfull profit thereof, which he promises that he will tell me of all that
he gets and that I shall have a share, which I did not demand, but did
silently consent to it, and money I perceive something will be got
thereby.  At night Mr. Bland came and sat with me at my office till late,
and so I home and to bed.  This day being washing day and my maid Susan
ill, or would be thought so, put my house so out of order that we had no
pleasure almost in anything, my wife being troubled thereat for want of a
good cook-maid, and moreover I cannot have my dinner as I ought in memory
of my being cut for the stone, but I must have it a day or two hence.

26th.  Up betimes and to my office, leaving my wife in bed to take her
physique, myself also not being out of some pain to-day by some cold that
I have got by the sudden change of the weather from hot to cold.  Though
some o' the court hold it presumption To instruct princes what they ought
to do, It is a noble duty to inform them What they ought to foresee.<2>--Here
comes Bosola, The only court-gall; yet I observe his railing Is not
for simple love of piety:
Indeed, he rails at those things which he wants; Would be as lecherous,
covetous, or proud, Bloody, or envious, as any man, If he had means
to be so.--Here's the cardinal.
[Enter CARDINAL and BOSOLA] 
BOSOLA. I do haunt you still.
CARDINAL.She did live last at my Lord Monk's house, and
indeed at dinner did get what there was very prettily ready and neat for
me, which did please me much.  This morning my uncle Thomas was with me
according to agreement, and I paid him the L50, which was against my heart
to part with, and yet I must be contented; I used him very kindly, and I
desire to continue so voyd of any discontent as to my estate, that I may
follow my business the better.  At the Change I met him again, with intent
to have met with my uncle Wight to have made peace with him, with whom by
my long absence I fear I shall have a difference, but he was not there, so
we missed.  All the afternoon sat at the office about business till 9 or
10 at night, and so dispatch business and home to supper and to bed.  My
maid Susan went away to-day, I giving her something for her lodging and
diet somewhere else a while that I might have room for my new maid.

27th.  Up betimes and at my office all the morning, at noon to the
Exchange, and there by appointment met my uncles Thomas and Wight, and
from thence with them to a tavern, and there paid my uncle Wight three
pieces of gold for himself, my aunt, and their son that is dead, left by
my uncle Robert, and read over our agreement with my uncle Thomas and the
state of our debts and legacies, and so good friendship I think is made up
between us all, only we have the worst of it in having so much money to
pay.  Thence I to the Exchequer again, and thence with Creed into Fleet
Street, and calling at several places about business; in passing, at the
Hercules pillars he and I dined though late, and thence with one that we
found there, a friend of Captain Ferrers I used to meet at the playhouse,
they would have gone to some gameing house, but I would not but parted,
and staying a little in Paul's Churchyard, at the foreign Bookseller's
looking over some Spanish books, and with much ado keeping myself from
laying out money there, as also with them, being willing enough to have
gone to some idle house with them, I got home, and after a while at my
office, to supper, and to bed.

28th.  Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning.  Dined at home
and Creed with me, and though a very cold day and high wind, yet I took
him by land to Deptford, my common walk, where I did some little
businesses, and so home again walking both forwards and backwards, as much
along the street as we could to save going by water.  So home, and after
being a little while hearing Ashwell play on the tryangle, to my office,
and there late, writing a chiding letter--to my poor father about his
being so unwilling to come to an account with me, which I desire he might
do, that I may know what he spends, and how to order the estate so as to
pay debts and legacys as far as may be.  So late home to supper and to
bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Waked as I used to do betimes, but being Sunday and
very cold I lay long, it raining and snowing very hard, which I did never
think it would have done any more this year.  Up and to church, home to
dinner.  After dinner in comes Mr. Moore, and sat and talked with us a
good while; among other things telling me, that [neither] my Lord nor he
are under apprehensions of the late discourse in the House of Commons,
concerning resumption of Crowne lands, which I am very glad of.  He being
gone, up to my chamber, where my wife and Ashwell and I all the afternoon
talking and laughing, and by and by I a while to my office, reading over
some papers which I found in my man William's chest of drawers, among
others some old precedents concerning the practice of this office
heretofore, which I am glad to find and shall make use of, among others an
oath, which the Principal Officers were bound to swear at their entrance
into their offices, which I would be glad were in use still.  So home and
fell hard to make up my monthly accounts, letting my family go to bed
after prayers.  I staid up long, and find myself, as I think, fully worth
L670.  So with good comfort to bed, finding that though it be but little,
yet I do get ground every month.  I pray God it may continue so with me.

30th.  Up betimes and found my weather-glass sunk again just to the same
position which it was last night before I had any fire made in my chamber,
which had made it rise in two hours time above half a degree. So to my
office where all the morning and at the Glass-house, and after dinner by
coach with Sir W. Pen I carried my wife and her woman to Westminster, they
to visit Mrs. Ferrers and Clerke, we to the Duke, where we did our usual
business, and afterwards to the Tangier Committee, where among other
things we all of us sealed and signed the Contract for building the Mole
with my Lord Tiviott, Sir J. Most true:
He never pays debts unless they be shrewd turns, And those he will confess
that he doth owe.
Last, for this brother there, the cardinal, They that do flatter him most
say oracles Hang at his lips; and verily I believe them, For the
devil speaks in them.Ford and Sir W. Rider, who drew
them, Mr. Povy and myself as a Committee appointed to prepare them, which
were in substance but not in the manner of executing them independent
wholly upon the Governor consenting to. Thence to see my Lord Sandwich,
who I found very merry and every day better and better.  So to my wife,
who waited my coming at my Lord's lodgings, and took her up and by coach
home, where no sooner come but to bed, finding myself just in the same
condition I was lately by the extreme cold weather, my pores stopt and so
my body all inflamed and itching.  So keeping myself warm and provoking
myself to a moderate sweat, and so somewhat better in the morning,

31st.  And to that purpose I lay long talking with my wife about my
father's coming, which I expect to-day, coming up with the horses brought
up for my Lord.  Up and to my office, where doing business all the
morning, and at Sir W. Batten's, whither Mr. Gauden and many others came
to us about business.  Then home to dinner, where W. Joyce came, and he
still a talking impertinent fellow.  So to the office again, and hearing
by and by that Madam Clerke, Pierce, and others were come to see my wife I
stepped in and staid a little with them, and so to the office again, where
late, and so home to supper and to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  APRIL
                                  1663

April 1st.  Up betimes and abroad to my brother's, but he being gone out I
went to the Temple to my Cozen Roger Pepys, to see and talk with him a
little; who tells me that, with much ado, the Parliament do agree to throw
down Popery; but he says it is with so much spite and passion, and an
endeavour of bringing all Non-conformists into the same condition, that he
is afeard matters will not yet go so well as he could wish. Thence back to
my brother's, in my way meeting Mr. 'Twas my wedding-ring, And I did
vow never to part with it But to my second husband.

ANTONIO. You have parted with it now.
DUCHESS. Yes, to help your eye-sight.
ANTONIO. You have made me stark blind.

DUCHESS. How?

ANTONIO.So I up to his bedside and staid an hour or
two talking with him.  Among other things he tells me how unquiett my
mother is grown, that he is not able to live almost with her, if it were
not for Pall.  All other matters are as well as upon so hard conditions
with my uncle Thomas we can expect them.  I left him in bed, being very
weary, to come to my house to-night or tomorrow, when he pleases, and so I
home, calling on the virginall maker, buying a rest for myself to tune my
tryangle, and taking one of his people along with me to put it in tune
once more, by which I learned how to go about it myself for the time to
come.  So to dinner, my wife being lazily in bed all this morning.
Ashwell and I dined below together, and a pretty girl she is, and I hope
will give my wife and myself good content, being very humble and active,
my cook maid do also dress my meat very well and neatly.  So to my office
all the afternoon till night, and then home, calling at Sir W. Batten's,
where was Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Pen, I telling them how by my letter
this day from Commissioner Pett I hear that his Stempeese

     [Stemples, cross pieces which are put into a frame of woodwork to
     cure and strengthen a shaft.]

he undertook for the new ship at Woolwich, which we have been so long, to
our shame, in looking for, do prove knotty and not fit for service. Lord!
how Sir J. Minnes, like a mad coxcomb, did swear and stamp, swearing that
Commissioner Pett hath still the old heart against the King that ever he
had, and that this was his envy against his brother that was to build the
ship, and all the damnable reproaches in the world, at which I was
ashamed, but said little; but, upon the whole, I find him still a fool,
led by the nose with stories told by Sir W. Batten, whether with or
without reason.  So, vexed in my mind to see things ordered so unlike
gentlemen, or men of reason, I went home and to bed.

2nd.  Up by very betimes and to my office, where all the morning till
towards noon, and then by coach to Westminster Hall with Sir W. Pen, and
while he went up to the House I walked in the Hall with Mr. Pierce, the
surgeon, that I met there, talking about my business the other day with
Holmes, whom I told my mind, and did freely tell how I do depend upon my
care and diligence in my employment to bear me out against the pride of
Holmes or any man else in things that are honest, and much to that purpose
which I know he will make good use of.  But he did advise me to take as
few occasions as I can of disobliging Commanders, though this is one that
every body is glad to hear that he do receive a check.  By and by the
House rises and I home again with Sir W. Pen, and all the way talking of
the same business, to whom I did on purpose tell him my mind freely, and
let him see that it must be a wiser man than Holmes (in these very words)
that shall do me any hurt while I do my duty.  When you come to be a
president in criminal causes, if you smile upon a prisoner, hang him; but
if you frown upon him and threaten him, let him be sure to scape the
gallows.

CASTRUCCIO. I would be a very merry president.

BOSOLA.But I am glad of it, for I
would now and then take occasion to let the world know that I will not be
made a novice.  Sir W. Pen took occasion to speak about my wife's
strangeness to him and his daughter, and that believing at last that it
was from his taking of Sarah to be his maid, he hath now put her away, at
which I am glad.  He told me, that this day the King hath sent to the
House his concurrence wholly with them against the Popish priests,
Jesuits, &c., which gives great content, and I am glad of it.  So home,
whither my father comes and dines with us, and being willing to be merry
with him I made myself so as much as I could, and so to the office, where
we sat all the afternoon, and at night having done all my business I went
home to my wife and father, and supped, and so to bed, my father lying
with me in Ashwell's bed in the red chamber.

