"We have met," said John Falconer, whom Nick had praised yesterday as the
"typical" man of California. He put out his hand, and Nick took it,
pleased and somewhat surprised by the recognition. For he was in his own
eyes an insignificant person compared to John Falconer, who had done
things worth doing in the world.

Angela remembered Nick's eulogy of the man. He was about forty, as tall as
Hilliard, though built more heavily. Nick was clean shaven, and Falconer
wore a close-cut brown beard, which gave him somewhat the air of a naval
officer, though his face was not so deeply tanned. His features were
strong, and behind his clear eyes thoughts seemed to pass as clouds move
under the surface of a deep lake. Such a man was born to be a leader. No
one could look at him and not see that.

Mrs. Harland, his sister, who--as Nick was aware--kept house and
entertained for Falconer, was as like him as a very feminine woman can be
like an extremely masculine man; and, in fact, they were twins. Ralph
Harland, an Englishman, who had owned a California ranch, was dead; and
when his widow was not in Europe she stayed with her brother.

They all talked together for a few minutes, or Theo Dene talked and let
the others speak occasionally. Then Nick said that he must take his car to
the garage, but would come back for luncheon; and when he had flashed
away, Miss Dene invited herself to Mrs. May's room. "Do let me go with
you," she pleaded, with a girlish air which she liked to put on with
married women younger than herself. She thought that amusing. It
impressed upon them the fact that she was a girl--free, with life before
her. And, indeed, "The Free Lance" was a nickname of hers, which she liked
rather than disliked.

Of course, Angela said, "Do come." She had found out that she was tired of
Miss Dene. Still, she was curious to hear what she would say.

PORCUPINE'S STUDIO 41
THE STRANGE VISITORS AT THE EXHIBITION 47
LORD FALCON AND HIS LONDON VISITORS 49
THE WALK TO HIGHGATE 53
THE TRAVELLING SHOWMAN 55

PREFACE.

AMONG the contributions to the Great Exhibition which, from their position,
did not acquire that popularity and praise which was due to them,
were some fine specimens of embroidery from Vienna and various
towns in Austria.

Hung high up, beyond the glance of the casual observer, the elaborately-worked
tapestry of Maria Fusinata attracted little attention.

Those, however, who had the good fortune to notice it were always
delighted with the excellent adaptation of the clever designs of Grandville,
which the embroiderer had so faithfully rendered.

The expression of the animals was most cleverly given, and the
brightness of the colours added much to the effect of the
compositions.

Had Ploucquet added some of these designs to his "Reynard the Fox," he
would have increased the attraction of his show, deservedly popular as
it was. Grandville, in these delineations of the faculties of animals, is
quite equal to Kaulbach; and, though the French artist had not the
honour of having his pictures copied in stuffed animals, they are thought
to be quite worthy of being formed into a volume as a sequel to the
"Comical Creatures from Wurtemberg."

LADY CHAFFINCH'S BALL.

HEIGH-HO! well, I am at home again at last. I wonder if I am the same
innocent little Linnet that left these bowers only three months ago.

What have I seen, where have I been?--or rather, What have I not seen, where
have I not been?

I have visited China and Peru, Nova Scotia, Trinidad, and Tuscany; I have
been to Sweden, Egypt, Germany, and Mexico, and I have some recollections
of Sardinia, and the United States.

This is good travelling for three months, is it not?

Let me think: how shall I tell you about it? I will begin at the beginning--

Three months ago, as I was sitting in our summer-house, warbling one of
my newest songs, our page Tom--Tom-tit we call him, he is such a funny
little fellow--brought me a letter that had just been left by the
postboy.

I have it by heart.

"My dear little Songbird,"--this is a name they gave to me from my infancy,
for they say I could sing before I could speak,--"My dear little Songbird,"
thus the letter began, "All the world is coming to London this
spring to see the most wonderful of sights; try and persuade my
dear sister, that kind Mamma of yours, to let you pay your long-promised
visit to me.

You must come in May, and you may stay with me as long as you can bear
to be away from your delightful home. Let me know when I may expect you.

"Your loving Aunt, "JENNY GOLDFINCH."

And I remember that the envelope was addressed, "Lady Linnet, Gorse Bush,
Somersetshire;" and that in the left-hand corner there was
written, "For Miss Linnet."

Did not I fly to my "kind Mamma" as soon as I had read this note, and
when she had consented that I should go to see that dear old Aunt of mine
in London, did not I half smother her with kisses. I thought the first of
May would never come,--but it did; and Tom-tit was sent to London with
me by the railway to take care of me.

My good Aunt received me with the greatest kindness, and her son
Drinkwater, one of the handsomest young fellows I ever saw in my
life, began whispering compliments to me as soon as ever we were
left together. I had a lovely little boudoir entirely for my own
use, and my page Tom-tit had nothing else to do but wait on me. My
cousin Drinkwater and I were soon great friends; he took me to the
Opera, where I listened to singing such as I had never heard at
Gorse Bush; he took me to the Chiswick Fête, where I saw flowers
such as I had never dreamed of; and he took me--how many times?There's a legend about it, which he used to tell me. The place is sold
now. But I'm going to see it--because of the legend. I had photographs of
the old Mission--and of the lake, too."

"Well, perhaps you know, then, there's a big hotel at Paso Robles and a
'cure.' I never heard of it before--but apparently it's famous. If you
stop there try and find out about a Mademoiselle Dobieski, and see her if
you can."

"Who is she?" Angela asked. "The name sounds dimly familiar, as if she
were an actress or a dancer, or somebody one has heard of."

"She _was_ a singer. She _is_ Mr. Falconer's romance. I'd give a good deal
to see her."

"I suppose you will, if she's a friend of his, and you're going to Paso
Robles in his private car."

"No. I won't be allowed. He's sending Mrs. Harland and me straight on to
Del Monte, and then to San Francisco. He'll follow; and afterward he's
going to take us to Shasta, and the McCloud River, where they say he has
the most fascinating country house in the world. I shall probably have a
relapse when I see it."

"I remember now," said Angela. "There was a Polish girl who sang in
concerts, and then made her _début_ in opera in London. I never saw or
heard her, but people used to say she was divine. Then she went back to
Russia, three or four years ago, and seemed to vanish into space."

"She vanished into Siberia," replied Miss Dene. "Meanwhile, Mr. Falconer
had had time to fall in love with her in London, just before she took her
Russian engagement. It was his sister who told me this--perhaps to prove
that there was no use my having Designs, with a capital D. He followed the
girl to St. Petersburg; she disappeared. He put the matter into the hands
of a detective--an American one, brought over on purpose--money no object.
Then Mr. Falconer couldn't stay any longer himself, on account of
important interests on this side--but I believe he flashed across once in
a while, during the last four years, when he was supposed to be resting
and seeing Europe with his sister. She was always in the secret. Well at
last they wormed out the truth: that the Dobieski'd been arrested as a
Nihilist, secretly, and, in spite of her popularity on the stage as a
singer, sent to Siberia. With money, or influence, or both, she was
rescued from some dreadful hole, and smuggled to England. But she'd had
rheumatic fever, and her beauty was gone--she was a cripple. Still the
extraordinary man was faithful--though he'd never even had a chance to try
and make her like him. Did you ever hear of such a lover, out of a book?"

"No," said Angela, interested. But something within her whispered, "There
might be another such lover."

"Specialists--Mr. Falconer and his sister had the best--said there was
practically no hope that the girl would ever be herself again. Yet the man
wouldn't give up. He thought there was no place in the world like Paso
Robles for performing miracles. The doctors laughed--because it was
natural he should believe in his own country. However, the Dobieski
consented to come. Mrs. Harland brought her over. Now she's been here two
months, and is actually almost cured. Do try to get a glimpse of her. I've
an evil idea that my noble host is going to drop off at the Springs, after
shedding us encumbrances, for the sole purpose of proposing. If I use this
for my plot, I shall give myself the satisfaction of making the story end
badly."

"I dare say you'll enjoy doing that," Angela remarked, in her gentlest
voice.

"I really must go!" exclaimed Theo, and threw her cigarette end into
Angela's golden poppies. But she did not tell when she went downstairs,
as Angela was half afraid she would, that Mrs. May was the Princess di
Sereno.

Her friends had not left the veranda. Mrs. Harland was talking to some
people she knew, Falconer walking up and down looking at the ships that
were still trying their speed, in sight of the hotel.

"I do wonder _if the darling Angela knows about the Prince_?" Theo asked
herself; and then joined Falconer in his walk, not mentioning Mrs. May.

"So you've met that handsome big boy before?" she began.

"Hilliard?" said Falconer. "Oh, yes, I've met him at Mrs. Gaylor's."

"Who's Mrs. Gaylor?" Theo had the curiosity to ask.

Falconer told her, and described Mrs. Gaylor as being a beautiful as well
as immensely rich young woman.

"It must be over a year since her husband died," he added. "'Old Grizzly
Gaylor' he was called; a brute, I'm afraid. His taking off must have been
a relief to her. She's left with a splendid property. I've heard it said
there may be a match between her and Hilliard. He used to be foreman of
her husband's ranch; but now he's a landowner on his own account; struck
oil, and made a pile of money selling a gusher--the biggest and
longest-lived we've had yet."

"Are they engaged?" inquired Theo.

"I don't know. It isn't announced, anyhow. But it wouldn't be a bad match,
even for a rich woman. Hilliard's a fine fellow, all the finer because
he's a self-made man. By the way, the Gaylor place is one of the show
ranches of California. I think we ought to take you to see it."

"Do!" cried Miss Dene. "I could write about it, couldn't I? I'd like to
see Mrs. Gaylor. Another California type for my book!"

And again she asked herself, "I wonder if _dear_ Angela knows about the
Prince?"


XIII

FOR THE SAKE OF DRAMATIC EFFECT


Somehow, Miss Dene got herself invited to spend the afternoon in seeing
with Mrs. May and Hilliard all the things which Falconer and his sister
had spent the whole morning in showing her. Exactly how she did this she
herself might have told--with her occasional startling frankness--if she
had chosen. But Mrs. May could not. Perhaps Angela had invited her, or
said something which could be snapped up as an invitation; for Nick would
hardly have suggested a second guest unless his first guest expressly
wished for one. In any case, the fact remained that Theo Dene was going in
the yellow car for a spin round Santa Barbara, to the Country Club, the
Hope Ranch, and above all, to the Mission.

If waters impregnated with tuf, or certain calcareous substances, produce
the Goitres, it will follow, that in every place where they abound, the
inhabitants should drink of waters so impregnated, which seems consonant
to the truth of the fact." The same causes which occasion the Goitres, have
probably a considerable operation in producing the number of idiots,
as they are always in most abundance where the Goitres prevail.

Such is the intimate and inexplicable sympathy between the body and
the mind.

When the Goitres become large, they produce a difficulty of breathing,
and render the person so affected, extremely indolent and languid. These
idiots are treated with great regard by the rest of the inhabitants
of the country, who even consider them, in some degree, peculiarly
favoured by Providence--thinking that they are certain of eternal happiness,
as not being capable of forming any criminal intentions. Exaggeration is
the common fault of travellers, and, to judge from the accounts given by
some who have visited this country, a stranger would be led to suppose,
that all its population were either idiots, or afflicted with
Goitres.

The fact, however, is, that the inhabitants of the Valais are in general
a strong and healthy race, but that these two unfortunate maladies are
here in greater frequency than in any other country.

Our next stage, after leaving Martigny, was St.

Maurice, which derives its name from an abbey, founded by Sigismund, king
of Burgundy, about the commencement of the sixth century, in honour
of a saint, who is said to have here suffered martyrdom, having
refused to abjure Christianity at the command of the Emperor Maximin.

Its more ancient name is said by antiquarians to have been Agaunum. This
place is very justly considered as the key of the Lower Valais,
of which it is the chief town.

Its bridge over the Rhone is of one arch, of 130 feet, which is thought to
be the work of the Romans, and by its boldness, does not seem unworthy
of a people whose edifices are so justly distinguished for their
elegance and durability.

"Well, I should like to try my hand, if his isn't pre-engaged," said Miss
Dene; "and if it is, he won't be wasted on me, for I can always use him up
in a book. What fun to have Mrs. Gaylor at the same time! We should soon
see if they were engaged if we brought them together, shouldn't we? If
not, I'd be free to get in as much deadly work as possible."

"Is Mrs. May's husband living?" asked Falconer, with a twinkle of mischief
in his usually grave eyes.

"I think I mustn't tell even you anything about her private affairs," Miss
Dene answered virtuously. "But I've reason to know that, for _this_ race,
anyhow, she's out of the running. As Mrs. May was telling you at luncheon,
Mr. Hilliard is showing her a few things because the mutual friend who was
to have done it, couldn't. He can't show her Shasta and McCloud, though,
as you can; for a mere motor's no attraction compared to a private car.
I'm sure she's never been in one as gorgeous as the kind in America--yours
in particular."

"Well, we must give her the chance to try it," said Falconer.

"And you _will_ think of inviting Mrs. Gaylor at the same time?" Theo
turned her eyes from her host to his sister, beseechingly.

"I don't know Mrs. Gaylor well," Mrs. I will, therefore, tell you how we
amused ourselves when we were not inclined to have our brains
bewildered.

First, let me inform you that my cousin, who was born in London,
knows all the grand people by sight, and bows to a great many of
them.

You may imagine what a treat it was to me, who had lived in a country
village all my life, to see with my own eyes His Royal Highness the
Prince, or His Grace the Duke, or Her Grace the Duchess, or His
Excellency the Marquis, or the Most Noble the Marchioness, pass by
in their grand carriages.

She sat behind with Miss Dene, and Billy the "assistant" climbed into the
seat next the chauffeur's.

Theo availed herself of the opportunity to tell what she had heard about
Nick and Mrs. Gaylor, with embroideries of her own.

The air was balm of a thousand flowers, but for Angela it was no longer
"Parfait d'Amour." The two battleships had long ago finished their speed
trial; and trails of floating kelp lay like golden sea-serpents asleep
under the blue ripple of the sea. Everything was very beautiful. But it
was not yesterday!

In the town with the Mission still distant, she began to feel the
"foreignness" of Santa Barbara. The streets had Spanish names, and the
trees seemed musical, as she had thought that trees seemed in the South of
Europe; as if they had heard and seen all the happiness of history, and
had set them to music with their branches. Pretty girls rode bareheaded,
with sunburned men in sombreros, just outside the straggling town, between
hedges of roses that made boundaries for bungalows.

--desirous like the Hindoo wife to sacrifice herself on whatever altar
she raises in her heart, Marguerite, in order to marry Dumiger, had
refused the greatest offers,--amongst others, no less a person than the son
of that house into which she had been received. But irrespective of the
affection which she felt for Dumiger, she was in her nature proud
and haughty, and she would not have consented, even under other
and less favorable circumstances, to have entered where she was
despised by the rest of the family.

The California oaks,
different from all other oaks, were classic in shape as Greek temples
sacred to forest deities, standing against a background of indigo sea. But
Miss Dene would talk.

Theodora, in her books, made a speciality of describing the emotional
souls of women, her favourite female thermometers being usually at
freezing or boiling point--never temperate. Descriptions of scenery she
"couldn't do," and what she called "landscape gazing" bored her. She was
more interested in people, and big towns, than in wide spaces where Nature
tried to lecture her. But because Angela admired the country she admired
it, too, more audibly than Angela.

They saved the Mission for the last. Nick had set his heart on showing it
to Mrs. May at sunset. As for Theo, though she said so much, he knew by
instinct that it was not she who cared for the beauty of the magnolia
hedges, the hay-gilded meadows, and the dark oaks that blotted the gold.
He felt that he ought to admire Miss Dene, for she was handsome, and put
herself out to be kind to him; but he wished the girl away, and was glad
that to-morrow she would be travelling with her own friends. She left
it a year previously to the period when we are writing, to enter a
family of distinction as a humble friend and teacher. There Dumiger chanced
to meet her. When first he met he loved; and like all men of earnest
purpose, he loved with no common passion.

The family were of that kind so frequently met with in society--affecting
great consideration for those whom fate has placed beneath them, but
expressing consideration in such terms as made it almost an offense, and
proving their vanity in the very manner in which they affected humility.
She at once accepted Dumiger, though some months elapsed before it was
possible for them to marry. At last, by dint of great exertion, they
laid aside sufficient money to commence the world with. Dumiger had the
small apartment, within whose narrow limits his mind expanded to the
contemplation of the vast field of inquiry on which he presumed
to enter, and he transported Marguerite to her new home; there to
indulge in imaginations of love, boundless and visionary, as his
were of ambition.

The day following that which we have described there was a great
annual _fête_ at Dantzic. The free city for the time donned its freest and
most joyous manners; it was one of those days in which honest
burghers, and most especially honest burghermasters, delight, because
they are then enabled to put on their greatness with their broadcloths;
and every flag and inscription in the streets is a tribute to their
past, and an incentive to their renewed exertions.

It was easy to remember that there had never been the
same stress of poverty here as among the missionary Fathers of San
Gabriel, in the City of Angela. Yet in this place, too, there was the same
pathetic effect which had brought tears to Angela's eyes in the dim little
church at San Gabriel; an effect that once felt and understood, gives the
old Spanish Missions their great, undying charm. At Santa Barbara--sweet
name, ringing like the silver bells of the Franciscan Fathers--as at San
Gabriel, there had been the same striving to copy the noble designs and
proportions of the Spanish cathedrals, visioned in spirit by the homesick
monks, who knew well they would never see them with bodily eyes again.
With simple materials and unskilled Indian workers, these exiled men had
striven to reproduce in the far, lonely West the architecture of the East,
loved and lost by them forever. The very simplicity of the church made its
beauty.

[Illustration: "_Santa Barbara Mission, with its history and romance_"]

The scar of Santa Barbara Mission had been patched up, while at San
Gabriel the bandages were vines and flowers; but the sunset light lent to
the cloisters all the stateliness and glory of some old monastery in
Southern Spain; the octagonal fountain on the bare terrace dripped silver;
and an embroidery of lichen had gilded the rose-coloured tiles of the
sloping roof with all shades and tints of gold. The hearse was followed by
the British Consul, the American Chargé d'Affairs, and about fifty
friends and artists of all nations.

Mr. Wyatt went to Rome in 1822, and worked for Mr. Gibson. After a few years
he commenced his career, in which he has been so successful.
It was beautiful there, and the bells in their open,
window-like arches, had the kindly beauty of age and experience. Angela
tapped them with pink finger-nails, and brought out a faint, musical
whisper, which seemed to breathe some secret, if only she could
understand. But she could not! She felt dull and unhappy, she could not
tell why. Certainly it could not be for such a stupid, dog-in-the-manger
reason as because Nick Hilliard was supposed to be engaged to his "boss's
widow"--a most suitable arrangement. Perhaps it was the dreamy sadness of
this; place which had taken hold of her. If there were a secret in the
musical whisper of the bells, it was a secret of the past; and it was time
to come which was clouded for Angela. There seemed to be nothing definite
in it for her to touch. Her bodily eyes looked out over the bay of Santa
Barbara, grape-purple with the wine of sunset; but her spirit saw only the
uncharted sea of the future, across which strange sunrises glimmered, and
winds cried like harps, or voices called to her in prophecies she could
not hear. Marguerite, I will retire with you; a great fact has been
accomplished. If labor is virtuous, if to exercise the faculties be
a part of the discipline of life, then, even if I die now, I have not
lived unworthily, and my labor has not been wholly in vain. What think
you, my Marguerite?"
She looked her answer in those dark, speaking, lustrous eyes. The greatness
of his mind had passed to hers; the mysterious sympathy of kindred souls
united them.
