

"All right!" sternly said Hawke. "Send your man right away. I will
tell them what to do later, when I meet them. Let him send the
boatswain and two men to meet us here, and wait and hide with the
others around the tower. I will hunt in the bushes till I run on
them. Stay! He can come back here to me with the three!"

It was already dark when the four men returned to where Alan Hawke
lay perdu with his murderous mate. Not a light was now to be seen
but the one glimmer below in the "Public," on the Rozel pier. And
the very last words had been spoken between "Gentleman Jack Blunt"
and his crafty employer. "Now, remember," said Jack, "Antoine here
goes down with orders to come up the cliff ahead of old Simpson.
You'll surely be warned of his approach. You can give the boatswain
his orders; there'll be three to one. Your man leads you to your men
at the tower. And I am to crack that crib and make for the Hirondelle!

"If chased, the boat runs out to sea, and you are both only honest,
French fishermen storm-driven ashore in search of supplies!"

"That's it, Jack! You are to wait for me, if the house is not
alarmed. I'll bring some 'passengers,' perhaps, on board. If I fail,
you are just to run for Granville. We will all meet at Etienne's.
I've got money to take care of all my men. You are to make no
miss.  I can wait and try again if I am disappointed. I'll take no
chances.  With your success, I can hold the old miser down, and
your two thousand pounds is safe; besides, the swag is your security.
You see, he will never dare to make any public outcry, for he
secretly fears the Government! We take only the safest chances. He
may stay down there all night at St. Heliers, and your lucky chance
will never come again. Go ahead, and do not fail!"

The two men grasped hands in an excited clinch. "Do up Simpson for
a dead man, and no mistake!" hoarsely whispered Jack Blunt.

"I'll fix the old blanc-bec," growled the boatswain, as the spy
slid down the hill toward Rozel Pier.

"Take my flask, Jack!" said Alan Hawke.

"I don't drink on duty!" simply replied Blunt. "I shall get at work
by eleven, and you'll hear from me by midnight! Then, look out only
for yourself! The boat is mine, if there's any alarm. I'll send
her back soon to Rozel Pier, if I have to run out to sea, and you
are to be only honest fishermen. How long shall I wait in the cove
for you?"

"Sail at three o'clock, if I'm not on board! Remember the hail,
'Saint Malo, Ahoy!'"

"This is dead square, for life and death!" cried Blunt.

"Dead square," echoed the renegade officer. Darkness now doubled
its black folds, and the roar of the surf boomed sullenly upon the
rocky Rozel beach. Crouching in their cave, the two French thugs
eagerly watched the winding path below, and gathered a resentful
vulpine ferocity in their hearts. With knife in one hand, and the
heavy lead-weighted blackjacks in readiness, they cowered upon the
path, waiting for the old soldier, whose thickened eyes were still
sullenly gazing at the dingy clock in the Jersey Arms. He hated to
leave the pretty, white-armed Ann.

Ten o'clock! The red-coated soldiery of Fort Regent and Elizabeth
Castle, the guardians of Mont Orgueil, were all wrapped in slumber,
save the poor, shivering sentinels. Ten o'clock! The drenched tide
waiters at St. Heliers pier anathematized the still distant Stella,
whose lights now blinked feebly, laboring far out at sea. "An hour
yet to wait!" growled the bedraggled customs officers. Ten o'clock!
The good burghers of St. Heliers had given up their whist, and
taken their last drop of "hot and hot." In St. Aubin's Bay, from
Corbin's Light, from mansion in town, and cot among the Druidical
rocks, anxious eyes now gazed out on the wild sea, where Andrew
Fraser tried to calm the terrified Nadine Johnstone.

Mattie Jones was lying senseless, a helpless mass of cowering
humanity, while the anxious captain and pilot vigorously swore,
as became hardy British seamen. The "Chief" had piped up "that the
engines would be out of her," if they shipped another sea like the
last. Prayer in the cabin, curses on the deck, fear in the hold,
and misery everywhere; the stout Stella struggled shoreward, toward
her dangerous landing at the pier, whose sheer sixty feet of masonry
wall was now lashed by the wild waves. Black waters rose and fell
in great surges. The shivering coastguards in the line of garrisoned
martello towers, vowed that no such night had ever been seen since
the "Great Storm."

Prince Djiddin had also given up all hope of the return of the
faithful Moonshee whose plea of "business," had led him away to the
society of his brave and beautiful bride. There was but one more
day of "home life" before resuming the hoodwinking of the mentally
excited historian of Thibet. "It's a fearful night on the Channel,"
thought Major Hardwicke as he waited in vain for Simpson's return
to act as valet de chambre.

"God help all at sea! It's a fearful night," Prince Djiddin murmured
as he closed his eyes, little reckoning that the beautiful girl
whom he loved more than life was tempest-tossed off the Corbieres,
while poor Mattie Jones literally "sickened on the heaving wave."

The great house was lone and still, and for the first time Prince
Djiddin reflected upon the exposed situation of the old miser's
home. "Poor old chap," he muttered, as he closed his eyes. "Somebody
might come in and throttle him some night! No one would be here to
stop it. I must speak to Simpson, yes, speak to Simpson--that is,
if he is ever sober enough to listen. Poor old soldier! He will
have his drink!"

There was a singular improvised bivouac going on in the ruined martello
tower where Professor Alaric Hobbs had set up his instruments to
take some interesting observations upon an occultation of Venus.

A coast-guard station at Bouley Bay and St. Catherine's Head
rendered the further occupancy of the old martello tower at Rozel
Head unnecessary, and only a few rats and bats now resented Alaric
Hobbs' sequestration of the second story. He meditated a comparative
memoir upon the "Tides of Fundy Bay, and the Channel Islands," with
a treatise upon "Contracted Ocean Surface Currents." Astronomer,
hydrog-rapher, geologist, and all-round savant, his lank form was
already familiar to the Channel Islanders. And, like the wind, he
veered around "where he listed."

"Great Jupiter aid us!" cried the son of Minerva, "Venus is
unpropitious to-night. All my trouble is vain." For when the black
storm broke upon the little channel islet, Alaric Hobbs saw no way
of a comfortable return to the Royal Victoria at St. Heliers. "I
might leave all here and claim old Fraser's hospitality for a night.
No one can get up to the second story," mused Hobbes, who now
regretted having ordered the fly to come for him only at day-break.
"Here is a wild night of inky darkness. The star occults only at
three A.M. This hurricane ruins all. And old man Fraser may not
have returned from London." So with a basket of luncheon, a roll
of blankets, and a bottle of cocktails, the volunteer astronomer
reluctantly sought the dryest corner of the second floor of the
old tower for a night's camp. A square trapdoor hole whence the
moldering ladder had fallen away, was in the middle of the old
barrack room floor over the four embrasured gun room below. "I'll
just draw up my ladder, have a pipe, and take a nap. It may clear
off. If so the observation goes, and then the highest tide of the
year, I can get the register in the morning."

He had brought down his light instrument from the battlemented
parapet for safety, and now, pulling up his rope ladder, he coiled
it on the floor. "I can drop down below if I wish to if the rain
should drive me out of here," he cried as he curled up like a
sleeping coyote.

Below him the heavy door of the tower swung on its massive hinges,
banging and creaking mournfully when a swirling gust set it swinging.
The man who had slept out on the Lolo trail and bivouacked alone
in the canyon of the Colorado, laughed the howling storm to scorn.
"Better than being out in a blizzard in the Bad Lands!" he gayly
cried, as he dozed away, having finished a good meal and lowered
the level of the "Lone Wolf" cocktails. From sheer frontier habit,
he laid his heavy revolver near at hand, and his old-time hunting
knife. "You see, you don't know what emergencies may arise," often
sagely observed Alaric Hobbes. "Thrice is he armed that hath two
six shooters and a knife!"

When half-past ten rang out from the old French hall clock at the
Banker's Folly, Janet Fairbarn, a gray ghastly figure, made her
last timid rounds of the lower part of the mansion. Her maids were
all snugly nested for the night. Simpson, the erring one, she
believed to be in close attendance upon that foreign heathen, Prince
Djiddin, in their second-story wing. Miss Nadine and her maid had
locked their apartments on departure, the Professor's study was
the only room open and vacant, and so with a last timid glance at
the darkened halls and great salons of the main floor, the Scotch
spinster retired to her rooms adjoining the Master's study and
bedrooms on the ground floor.

Minded to "read a chapter" and to "compose herself for the night,"
the housekeeper sat late rocking alone in her rooms, while the
hollow tick of the hall clock sounded doubly lonely in the cheerless
night. The modern castle's walls were proof against the wildest
rain and even the blows of a catapult, and so the dashing storm
never even stirred the heavy leaded diamonded panes. "Thanks be to
God, auld Andrew never ventured to cross on this raging sea! He'll
no be here the morrow, neither. I must send down for telegrams in
the morning," she mused when she had finally laid her spectacles
across her Bible.

It was nearing eleven o'clock when the two half-drowned thugs hiding
on Rozel Head were roused by their returning mate stumbling wildly
into the muddy cavern in the cliff. They sprang up as he muttered,
"On vient, tout pres d'ici! Soyous tous prets!" A bottle extended
was half drained by the two ruffians, who then eagerly loosened
their black jaws with a mad desire to revenge their cheerless vigil.

"Lei has," whispered the spy, pointing to a black object creeping
unsteadily up the steep path--Simpson, dreaming still of pretty
Ann's rounded white arms! It was indeed Simpson, with unsteady
steps, breasting the hill. A fear of Andrew Fraser's arrival led
the half-fuddled old veteran to hasten homeward now. "I can say the
telegram was late," he chuckled. "They never will know." And then
feeling for his pocket-flask, filled by handsome Ann, "as a last
night-cap," he turned into the little cavern, where the school-boys,
on a Saturday outing, often played "pirates," for his breath was
gone and his eyes were drenched with salt scud.

Then, a half smothered cry arose, as the three waiting thugs leaped
upon their prey. Simpson was taken off his guard! His muscles
were all relaxed by drink. He fell prone as the heavy black jacks
descended upon his head, muffled in the hood of his "dreadnaught."

"Ah! V'la un affaire bien fini! Allons! Jettez-le!" growled the
grim boatswain, dropping his loaded club, as all three spurned the
prostrate body, and then, with a heavy lurch, it bounded off the
sodden bank plunging downward, over the cliff.

For a moment, there was no sound! Then skirting the furze bushes
of the headland, the three assassins dragged their stiffened limbs
along in the darkness, hastening to where the stout Hirondelle
rocked easily in the dead water of the one protected cove to the
north of Rozel Point.

They were all safely stowed away in the forecastle before half an
hour, and, with grunts of satisfaction, examined the largess of
their mysterious employer, "C'est ungaillard--un vrai coq d'Anglais!"
growled the boatswain, as his chums produced another bottle, and
the three doffed their drenched clothing. Then cognac drowned their
scruples against murder--for the price was in their pockets.

It was half past eleven o'clock when gaunt old Andrew Fraser led
his half-fainting ward ashore from the Stella, at St. Heliers pier.
But one covered carriage had remained on the storm-beaten pier,
braving the rigors of this terrible night. "Never mind the luggage,
man," shouted the Professor to the driver. "Here's ten pounds to
drive us over to Rozel, to my home! And, I'll bait yere horses,
put ye up, and give ye a tip to open yere eyes." The hardy islander
whipped up his horses, and soon cautiously climbed the hill of St.
Saviours, crawling along carefully over the wind-swept mows toward
St.  Martin's Church. The exhausted maid was fast asleep. Nadine
Johnstone herself lay in a semi-trance, while the fretful old
scholar consulted his watch by the blinking carriage lights, and
then wildly urged the driver on. It was long after midnight when
they reached St. Martin's Church, with three miles yet to go. A
dreary and a dismal ride!

And all was silent, in the Banker's Folly where the old hall clock
loudly rang out twelve, rousing Mistress Janet Fairbarn from her
first beauty sleep. She started in terror as an unfamiliar sound
broke upon the haunting stillness of the night. The hollow sound of
a smothered cough in the Master's study, a man's deep-toned cough,
unmistakably masculine, aroused the spinster whose whole life had
been haunted by phantom burglars.

For the first time since her coming to the Folly, her loneliness
appalled her. "My God! There is the plate! The master away, and
no one near." Her nerves were thrilling with nature's indefinable
protest against the dangers of the creeping enemy of the night. A
sudden ray of hope lit up her heart. "Had the Professor returned?"
He had the keys. It would be his way. Yes, there was the sign of
his presence. And, so, timorously moving on tip-toe, she crept down
the hall in her white robes, and barefooted. Yes, he had returned,
for she had left the study door open. It was closed now. There was
a pencil of light shining through the keyhole, and, yet, silently
she stood at the door, and listened. There was the sound of muffled
blows within. A panic seized upon her. "Thieves, thieves--at last!"

Scarcely daring to breathe, she fled, ghostlike, up the stair, and
in a wild paroxysm of fear dashed into the room at the angle of
the hall, where "Prince Djiddin" lay extended upon his couch of
Oriental shawls and cushions. He was restless, and still dreaming,
open-eyed, of his absent love.

The young man leaped to his feet as the frantic woman, with affrighted
gestures, besought his aid and protection, pointing down to the
stairway. Hardwicke's ready nerve failed him not.

Grasping a heavy revolver from under the pillow, a mechanical
arrangement, a memory of his Indian life in the midst of untrusted
subordinates, the officer seized in his left hand the Sikh tulwar,
which was his own "property saber" of Thibetan royalty. Its naked,
wedge-shaped blade was as keen as that of a razor.

