Produced by Eve Sobol


LOUISA PALLANT

HENRY JAMES


I

Never say you know the last words about any human heart! I was once
treated to a revelation which startled and touched me in the nature of a
person with whom I had been acquainted--well, as I supposed--for years,
whose character I had had good reasons, heaven knows, to appreciate and
in regard to whom I flattered myself I had nothing more to learn.

It was on the terrace of the Kursaal at Homburg, nearly ten years ago,
one beautiful night toward the end of July. I had come to the place that
day from Frankfort, with vague intentions, and was mainly occupied in
waiting for my young nephew, the only son of my sister, who had been
entrusted to my care by a very fond mother for the summer--I was
expected to show him Europe, only the very best of it--and was on his
way from Paris to join me. The excellent band discoursed music not too
abstruse, while the air was filled besides with the murmur of different
languages, the smoke of many cigars, the creak on the gravel of the
gardens of strolling shoes and the thick tinkle of beer-glasses. There
were a hundred people walking about, there were some in clusters at
little tables and many on benches and rows of chairs, watching the
others as if they had paid for the privilege and were rather
disappointed. I was among these last; I sat by myself, smoking my cigar
and thinking of nothing very particular while families and couples
passed and repassed me.

I scarce know how long I had sat when I became aware of a recognition
which made my meditations definite. It was on my own part, and the
object of it was a lady who moved to and fro, unconscious of my
observation, with a young girl at her side. I hadn't seen her for ten
years, and what first struck me was the fact not that she was Mrs. Henry
Pallant, but that the girl who was with her was remarkably pretty--or
rather first of all that every one who passed appeared extremely to
admire. This led me also to notice the young lady myself, and her
charming face diverted my attention for some time from that of her
companion. The latter, moreover, though it was night, wore a thin light
veil which made her features vague. The couple slowly walked and walked,
but though they were very quiet and decorous, and also very well
dressed, they seemed to have no friends. Every one observed but no one
addressed them; they appeared even themselves to exchange very few
words. Moreover they bore with marked composure and as if they were
thoroughly used to it the attention they excited. I am afraid it
occurred to me to take for granted that they were of an artful intention
and that if they hadn't been the elder lady would have handed the
younger over a little less to public valuation and not have sought so to
conceal her own face. Perhaps this question came into my mind too easily
just then--in view of my prospective mentorship to my nephew. If I was
to show him only the best of Europe I should have to be very careful
about the people he should meet--especially the ladies--and the
relations he should form. I suspected him of great innocence and was
uneasy about my office. Was I completely relieved and reassured when I
became aware that I simply had Louisa Pallant before me and that the
girl was her daughter Linda, whom I had known as a child--Linda grown up
to charming beauty?

The question was delicate and the proof that I was not very sure is
perhaps that I forbore to speak to my pair at once. I watched them a
while--I wondered what they would do. No great harm assuredly; but I was
anxious to see if they were really isolated. Homburg was then a great
resort of the English--the London season took up its tale there toward
the first of August--and I had an idea that in such a company as that
Louisa would naturally know people. It was my impression that she
"cultivated" the English, that she had been much in London and would be
likely to have views in regard to a permanent settlement there. This
supposition was quickened by the sight of Linda's beauty, for I knew
there is no country in which such attractions are more appreciated. You
will see what time I took, and I confess that as I finished my cigar I
thought it all over. There was no good reason in fact why I should have
rushed into Mrs. Pallant's arms. She had not treated me well and we had
never really made it up. Somehow even the circumstance that--after the
first soreness--I was glad to have lost her had never put us quite right
with each other; nor, for herself, had it made her less ashamed of her
heartless behaviour that poor Pallant proved finally no great catch. I
had forgiven her; I hadn't felt it anything but an escape not to have
married a girl who had in her to take back her given word and break a
fellow's heart for mere flesh-pots--or the shallow promise, as it
pitifully turned out, of flesh-pots. Moreover we had met since then--on
the occasion of my former visit to Europe; had looked each other in the
eyes, had pretended to be easy friends and had talked of the wickedness
of the world as composedly as if we were the only just, the only pure. I
knew by that time what she had given out--that I had driven her off by
my insane jealousy before she ever thought of Henry Pallant, before she
had ever seen him. This hadn't been before and couldn't be to-day a
ground of real reunion, especially if you add to it that she knew
perfectly what I thought of her. It seldom ministers to friendship, I
believe, that your friend shall know your real opinion, for he knows it
mainly when it's unfavourable, and this is especially the case if--let
the solecism pass!--he be a woman. I hadn't followed Mrs. Pallant's
fortunes; the years went by for me in my own country, whereas she led
her life, which I vaguely believed to be difficult after her husband's
death--virtually that of a bankrupt--in foreign lands. I heard of her
from time to time; always as "established" somewhere, but on each
occasion in a different place. She drifted from country to country, and
if she had been of a hard composition at the beginning it could never
occur to me that her struggle with society, as it might be called, would
have softened the paste. Whenever I heard a woman spoken of as "horribly
worldly" I thought immediately of the object of my early passion. I
imagined she had debts, and when I now at last made up my mind to recall
myself to her it was present to me that she might ask me to lend her
money. More than anything else, however, at this time of day, I was
sorry for her, so that such an idea didn't operate as a deterrent.

She pretended afterwards that she hadn't noticed me--expressing as we
stood face to face great surprise and wishing to know where I had
dropped from; but I think the corner of her eye had taken me in and she
had been waiting to see what I would do. She had ended by sitting down
with her girl on the same row of chairs with myself, and after a little,
the seat next to her becoming vacant, I had gone and stood before her.
She had then looked up at me a moment, staring as if she couldn't
imagine who I was or what I wanted; after which, smiling and extending
her hands, she had broken out: "Ah my dear old friend--what a delight!"
If she had waited to see what I would do in order to choose her own line
she thus at least carried out this line with the utmost grace. She was
cordial, friendly, artless, interested, and indeed I'm sure she was very
glad to see me. I may as well say immediately, none the less, that she
gave me neither then nor later any sign of a desire to contract a loan.
She had scant means--that I learned--yet seemed for the moment able to
pay her way. I took the empty chair and we remained in talk for an hour.
After a while she made me sit at her other side, next her daughter, whom
she wished to know me--to love me--as one of their oldest friends. "It
goes back, back, back, doesn't it?" said Mrs. Pallant; "and of course
she remembers you as a child." Linda smiled all sweetly and blankly, and
I saw she remembered me not a whit. When her mother threw out that they
had often talked about me she failed to take it up, though she looked
extremely nice. Looking nice was her strong point; she was prettier even
than her mother had been. Persicinus: the red of peach blossoms.

Persistent: remaining constantly; always present.

Personate: gaping wide open; masked; disguised.

Pes, Pedes: a foot feet.

Petiolar area or Petiolarea: on the metanotum of some Hymenoptera, the
apical or hindmost of the three median cells 3d median area; apical
area.

Petiolate: that series of Hymenoptera in which there is a slender
stalk between the thorax and abdomen: = apocrita.

Petiolate: supported or placed on a stem or stalk; usually applied in
describing venation and the method of attachment of abdomen to
thorax.

Petiole: a stem or stalk: specifically the slender segment between the
thorax and abdomen in many Hymenoptera, and some Diptera.

Phaeism: applied to a duskiness of butterflies occurring in a limited
region.

Phagocyte: a corpuscle or cell that devours or absorbs noxious
organisms and also absorbs the organs of the larval stage in the
developments to the adult condition.

Phagocytosis: the destruction or devouring of bacteria or other microorganisms
by phagocytes.
Phalaenae: a Linnean term embracing most of the heterocerous
Lepidoptera: more specifically applied to the Geometridae.
Phalanx -ges: a joint or joints of the tarsus: a division of
classification of uncertain value: similar to tribe.
Phalerated: beaded.

Phallus: =penis: q.v.
Pharyngeal pump: = sucking pump; q.v.
Pharynx: the back part of the mouth and upper part of the throat:
a slight enlargement at the beginning of the oesophagus: in Diptera
is sometimes restricted to the space between the hypopharynx and
sub-clypeal pump, and is then = sub-clypeal tube.
Phauloptera: an ordinal term for the scale insects (Laporte
1835).

Phleboptera: = Hymenoptera; q.v.
Phonetic: sound producing; applied to stridulating structures.
Phosphorescent: shining or glowing in the dark, like phosphorus.
Photogenic: a light producing structure; producing a Phosphorescent
glow.It was suggested to me, I scarcely knew how, that
this confidence between the two ladies went to a great length; that
their union of thought, their system of reciprocal divination, was
remarkable, and that they probably seldom needed to resort to the clumsy
and in some cases dangerous expedient of communicating by sound. I
suppose I made this reflexion not all at once--it was not wholly the
result of that first meeting. I was with them constantly for the next
several days and my impressions had time to clarify.

I do remember, however, that it was on this first evening that Archie's
name came up. She attributed her own stay at Homburg to no refined nor
exalted motive--didn't put it that she was there from force of habit or
because a high medical authority had ordered her to drink the waters;
she frankly admitted the reason of her visit to have been simply that
she didn't know where else to turn. But she appeared to assume that my
behaviour rested on higher grounds and even that it required
explanation, the place being frivolous and modern--devoid of that
interest of antiquity which I had ever made so much of. "Don't you
remember--ever so long ago--that you wouldn't look at anything in Europe
that wasn't a thousand years old? Well, as we advance in life I suppose
we don't think that quite such a charm." And when I mentioned that I had
arrived because the place was as good as another for awaiting my nephew
she exclaimed: "Your nephew--what nephew? He must have come up of late."
I answered that his name was Archie Parker and that he was modern
indeed; he was to attain legal manhood in a few months and was in Europe
for the first time. My last news of him had been from Paris and I was
expecting to hear further from one day to the other. His father was
dead, and though a selfish bachelor, little versed in the care of
children, I was considerably counted on by his mother to see that he
didn't smoke nor flirt too much, nor yet tumble off an Alp.

Mrs. Pallant immediately guessed that his mother was my sister
Charlotte, whom she spoke of familiarly, though I knew she had scarce
seen her. Then in a moment it came to her which of the Parkers Charlotte
had married; she remembered the family perfectly from the old New York
days--"that disgustingly rich set." She said it was very nice having the
boy come out that way to my care; to which I replied that it was very
nice for the boy. She pronounced the advantage rather mine--I ought to
have had children; there was something so parental about me and I would
have brought them up so well. She could make an allusion like that--to
all that might have been and had not been--without a gleam of guilt in
her eye; and I foresaw that before I left the place I should have
confided to her that though I detested her and was very glad we had
fallen out, yet our old relations had left me no heart for marrying
another woman. If I had remained so single and so sterile the fault was
nobody's but hers. She asked what I meant to do with my nephew--to which
I replied that it was much more a question of what he would do with me.
She wished to know if he were a nice young man and had brothers and
sisters and any particular profession. I assured her I had really seen
little of him; I believed him to be six feet high and of tolerable
parts. He was an only son, but there was a little sister at home, a
delicate, rather blighted child, demanding all the mother's care.

"So that makes your responsibility greater, as it were, about the boy,
doesn't it?" said Mrs. Pallant.

"Greater? I'm sure I don't know."

"Why if the girl's life's uncertain he may become, some moment, all the
mother has. So that being in your hands--"

"Oh I shall keep him alive, I suppose, if you mean that," I returned.

"Well, WE won't kill him, shall we, Linda?" my friend went on with a
laugh.

"I don't know--perhaps we shall!" smiled the girl.


II

I called on them the next at their lodgings, the modesty of which was
enhanced by a hundred pretty feminine devices--flowers and photographs
and portable knick-knacks and a hired piano and morsels of old brocade
flung over angular sofas. I took them to drive; I met them again at the
Kursaal; I arranged that we should dine together, after the Homburg
fashion, at the same table d'hote; and during several days this revived
familiar intercourse continued, imitating intimacy if not quite
achieving it. I was pleased, as my companions passed the time for me and
the conditions of our life were soothing--the feeling of summer and
shade and music and leisure in the German gardens and woods, where we
strolled and sat and gossiped; to which may be added a vague sociable
sense that among people whose challenge to the curiosity was mainly not
irresistible we kept quite to ourselves. We were on the footing of old
friends who still had in regard to each other discoveries to make. We
knew each other's nature but didn't know each other's experience; so
that when Mrs. Pallant related to me what she had been "up to," as I
called it, for so many years, the former knowledge attached a hundred
interpretative footnotes--as if I had been editing an author who
presented difficulties--to the interesting page. There was nothing new
to me in the fact that I didn't esteem her, but there was relief in my
finding that this wasn't necessary at Homburg and that I could like her
in spite of it. She struck me, in the oddest way, as both improved and
degenerate; the two processes, in her nature, might have gone on
together. She was battered and world-worn and, spiritually speaking,
vulgarised; something fresh had rubbed off her--it even included the
vivacity of her early desire to do the best thing for herself--and
something rather stale had rubbed on. At the same time she betrayed a
scepticism, and that was rather becoming, for it had quenched the
eagerness of her prime, the mercenary principle I had so suffered from.
She had grown weary and detached, and since she affected me as more
impressed with the evil of the world than with the good, this was a
gain; in other words her accretion of indifference, if not of cynicism,
showed a softer surface than that of her old ambitions. Furthermore I
had to recognise that her devotion to her daughter was a kind of
religion; she had done the very best possible for Linda.

Linda was curious, Linda was interesting; I've seen girls I liked
better--charming as this one might be--but have never seen one who for
the hour you were with her (the impression passed somehow when she was
out of sight) occupied you so completely. I can best describe the
attention she provoked by saying that she struck you above all things as
a felicitous FINAL product--after the fashion of some plant or some
fruit, some waxen orchid or some perfect peach. She was clearly the
result of a process of calculation, a process patiently educative, a
pressure exerted, and all artfully, so that she should reach a high
point.

This high point had been the star of her mother's heaven--it hung before
her so unquenchably--and had shed the only light (in default of a
better) that was to shine on the poor lady's path. It stood her instead
of every other ideal. The very most and the very best--that was what the
girl had been led on to achieve; I mean of course, since no real miracle
had been wrought, the most and the best she was capable of. She was as
pretty, as graceful, as intelligent, as well-bred, as well-informed, as
well-dressed, as could have been conceived for her; her music, her
singing, her German, her French, her English, her step, her tone, her
glance, her manner, everything in her person and movement, from the
shade and twist of her hair to the way you saw her finger-nails were
pink when she raised her hand, had been carried so far that one found
one's self accepting them as the very measure of young grace. I regarded
her thus as a model, yet it was a part of her perfection that she had
none of the stiffness of a pattern. If she held the observation it was
because you wondered where and when she would break down; but she never
broke down, either in her French accent or in her role of educated
angel.

After Archie had come the ladies were manifestly his greatest resource,
and all the world knows why a party of four is more convenient than a
party of three. My nephew had kept me waiting a week, with a serenity
all his own; but this very coolness was a help to harmony--so long, that
is, as I didn't lose my temper with it. I didn't, for the most part,
because my young man's unperturbed acceptance of the most various forms
of good fortune had more than anything else the effect of amusing me. I
had seen little of him for the last three or four years; I wondered what
his impending majority would have made of him--he didn't at all carry
himself as if the wind of his fortune were rising--and I watched him
with a solicitude that usually ended in a joke. He was a tall fresh-
coloured youth, with a candid circular countenance and a love of
cigarettes, horses and boats which had not been sacrificed to more
strenuous studies. He was reassuringly natural, in a supercivilised age,
and I soon made up my mind that the formula of his character was in the
clearing of the inward scene by his so preordained lack of imagination.
If he was serene this was still further simplifying. After that I had
time to meditate on the line that divides the serene from the inane, the
simple from the silly. He wasn't clever; the fonder theory quite defied
our cultivation, though Mrs. Pallant tried it once or twice; but on the
other hand it struck me his want of wit might be a good defensive
weapon. It wasn't the sort of density that would let him in, but the
sort that would keep him out. By which I don't mean that he had
shortsighted suspicions, but that on the contrary imagination would
never be needed to save him, since she would never put him in danger. He
was in short a well-grown well-washed muscular young American, whose
extreme salubrity might have made him pass for conceited. If he looked
pleased with himself it was only because he was pleased with life--as
well he might be, with the fortune that awaited the stroke of his
twenty-first year--and his big healthy independent person was an
inevitable part of that. I am bound to add that he was accommodating--
for which I was grateful. His habits were active, but he didn't insist
on my adopting them and he made numerous and generous sacrifices for my
society. When I say he made them for mine I must duly remember that mine
and that of Mrs. Pallant and Linda were now very much the same thing. He
was willing to sit and smoke for hours under the trees or, adapting his
long legs to the pace of his three companions, stroll through the nearer
woods of the charming little hill-range of the Taunus to those rustic
Wirthschaften where coffee might be drunk under a trellis. Mrs. Pallant
took a great interest in him; she made him, with his easy uncle, a
subject of discourse; she pronounced him a delightful specimen, as a
young gentleman of his period and country. She even asked me the sort of
"figure" his fortune might really amount to, and professed a rage of
envy when I told her what I supposed it to be. While we were so occupied
Archie, on his side, couldn't do less than converse with Linda, nor to
tell the truth did he betray the least inclination for any different
exercise. They strolled away together while their elders rested; two or
three times, in the evening, when the ballroom of the Kursaal was
lighted and dance-music played, they whirled over the smooth floor in a
waltz that stirred my memory. Whether it had the same effect on Mrs.
Pallant's I know not: she held her peace. We had on certain occasions
our moments, almost our half-hours, of unembarrassed silence while our
young companions disported themselves. But if at other times her
enquiries and comments were numerous on this article of my ingenuous
charge, that might very well have passed for a courteous recognition of
the frequent admiration I expressed for Linda--an admiration that drew
from her, I noticed, but scant direct response. I was struck thus with
her reserve when I spoke of her daughter--my remarks produced so little
of a maternal flutter. Her detachment, her air of having no fatuous
illusions and not being blinded by prejudice, seemed to me at times to
savour of affectation. Either she answered me with a vague and impatient
sigh and changed the subject, or else she said before doing so: "Oh yes,
yes, she's a very brilliant creature. She ought to be: God knows what
I've done for her!" The reader will have noted my fondness, in all
cases, for the explanations of things; as an example of which I had my
theory here that she was disappointed in the girl. Where then had her
special calculation failed? As she couldn't possibly have wished her
prettier or more pleasing, the pang must have been for her not having
made a successful use of her gifts. Had she expected her to "land" a
prince the day after leaving the schoolroom? There was after all plenty
of time for this, with Linda but two-and-twenty. It didn't occur to me
to wonder if the source of her mother's tepidity was that the young lady
had not turned out so nice a nature as she had hoped, because in the
first place Linda struck me as perfectly innocent, and because in the
second I wasn't paid, in the French phrase, for supposing Louisa Pallant
much concerned on that score. The last hypothesis I should have invoked
was that of private despair at bad moral symptoms. And in relation to
Linda's nature I had before me the daily spectacle of her manner with my
nephew. It was as charming as it could be without betrayal of a desire
to lead him on. She was as familiar as a cousin, but as a distant one--a
cousin who had been brought up to observe degrees. They offer him
assurances of protection and safe return, which he does not in the
least believe: nevertheless, he feels that his hour is come, and gives
himself up.

His preparations were all made with a solemn method which showed that he
felt he was approaching the last act in the drama of life. He called
together his flock, scattered and forlorn, and gave them his last words
of fatherly advice, encouragement, and comfort,--ending with the remarkable
declaration, "A Christian's life consists in doing good and suffering
evil." "I go with joy to this marriage-supper," he said, as he left the
church for the last sad preparations. He and his doomed friends then
confessed and received the sacrament, and after that he surrendered
himself into the hands of the men who he felt in his prophetic soul
had come to take him to torture and to death.

As he gave himself into their hands, he said, "I commend to your care this
flock of mine, and these good citizens of Florence who have been with
us"; and then once more turning to his brethren, said,--"Doubt not,
my brethren. God will not fail to perfect His work.

Whether I live or die, He will aid and console you."
At this moment there was a struggle with the attendants in the outer
circle of the crowd, and the voice of Father Antonio was heard crying
out earnestly,--"Do not hold me! I will go with him! I must go with
him!"--"Son," said Savonarola, "I charge you on your obedience not
to come. It is I and Frà Domenico who are to die for the love of
Christ." And thus, at the ninth hour of the night, he passed the
threshold of San Marco.

As he was leaving, a plaintive voice of distress was heard from a young
novice who had been peculiarly dear to him, who stretched his hands after
him, crying,--"Father! father! why do you leave us desolate?" Whereupon
he turned back a moment, and said,--"God will be your help.
If we do not see each other again in this world, we surely shall
in heaven."
When the party had gone forth, the monks and citizens stood looking
into each other's faces, listening with dismay to the howl of wild
ferocity that was rising around the departing prisoner.
"What shall we do?" was the outcry from many voices.
"I know what I shall do," said Agostino.He was no reader and I fear he often
dozed.


III

I remember the first time--it was at the end of about ten days of this--
that Mrs. Pallant remarked to me: "My dear friend, you're quite AMAZING!
You behave for all the world as if you were perfectly ready to accept
certain consequences." She nodded in the direction of our young
companions, but I nevertheless put her at the pains of saying what
consequences she meant. "What consequences? Why the very same
consequences that ensued when you and I first became acquainted."

I hesitated, but then, looking her in the eyes, said: "Do you mean she'd
throw him over?"

"You're not kind, you're not generous," she replied with a quick colour.
"I'm giving you a warning."

"You mean that my boy may fall in love with your girl?"

"Certainly. It looks even as if the harm might be already done."

"Then your warning comes too late," I significantly smiled. "But why do
you call it a harm?"

"Haven't you any sense of the rigour of your office?" she asked. "Is
that what his mother has sent him out to you for: that you shall find
him the first wife you can pick up, that you shall let him put his head
into the noose the day after his arrival?"

"Heaven forbid I should do anything of the kind! I know moreover that
his mother doesn't want him to marry young. She holds it the worst of
mistakes, she feels that at that age a man never really chooses. He
doesn't choose till he has lived a while, till he has looked about and
compared."

"And what do you think then yourself?"

"I should like to say I regard the fact of falling in love, at whatever
age, as in itself an act of selection. But my being as I am at this time
of day would contradict me too much."

"Well then, you're too primitive. You ought to leave this place tomorrow."

"So as not to see Archie fall--?"

"You ought to fish him out now--from where he HAS fallen--and take him
straight away."

I wondered a little. "Do you think he's in very far?"

"If I were his mother I know what I should think. I can put myself in
her place--I'm not narrow-minded. I know perfectly well how she must
regard such a question."

"And don't you know," I returned, "that in America that's not thought
important--the way the mother regards it?"

Mrs. Pallant had a pause--as if I mystified or vexed her. "Well, we're
not in America. We happen to be here."

"No; my poor sister's up to her neck in New York."

"I'm almost capable of writing to her to come out," said Mrs. Pallant.

"You ARE warning me," I cried, "but I hardly know of what! It seems to
me my responsibility would begin only at the moment your daughter
herself should seem in danger."

"Oh you needn't mind that--I'll take care of Linda."

But I went on. "If you think she's in danger already I'll carry him off
to-morrow."

"It would be the best thing you could do."

"I don't know--I should be very sorry to act on a false alarm. I'm very
well here; I like the place and the life and your society. Besides, it
doesn't strike me that--on her side--there's any real symptom."

She looked at me with an air I had never seen in her face, and if I had
puzzled her she repaid me in kind. "You're very annoying. You don't
deserve what I'd fain do for you."

What she'd fain do for me she didn't tell me that day, but we took up
the subject again. I remarked that I failed to see why we should assume
that a girl like Linda--brilliant enough to make one of the greatest--
would fall so very easily into my nephew's arms. Might I enquire if her
mother had won a confession from her, if she had stammered out her
secret? Mrs. Pallant made me, on this, the point that they had no need
to tell each other such things--they hadn't lived together twenty years
in such intimacy for nothing. To which I returned that I had guessed as
much, but that there might be an exception for a great occasion like the
present. If Linda had shown nothing it was a sign that for HER the
occasion wasn't great; and I mentioned that Archie had spoken to me of
the young lady only to remark casually and rather patronisingly, after
his first encounter with her, that she was a regular little flower. (The
little flower was nearly three years older than himself.) Apart from
this he hadn't alluded to her and had taken up no allusion of mine. Mrs.
Pallant informed me again--for which I was prepared--that I was quite
too primitive; after which she said: "We needn't discuss the case if you
don't wish to, but I happen to know--how I obtained my knowledge isn't
important--that the moment Mr. Parker should propose to my daughter
she'd gobble him down. Surely it's a detail worth mentioning to you."

I sought to defer then to her judgement. "Very good. I'll sound him.
I'll look into the matter tonight."

"Don't, don't; you'll spoil everything!" She spoke as with some finer
view. "Remove him quickly--that's the only thing."

I didn't at all like the idea of removing him quickly; it seemed too
summary, too extravagant, even if presented to him on specious grounds;
and moreover, as I had told Mrs. Pallant, I really had no wish to change
my scene. It was no part of my promise to my sister that, with my
middle-aged habits, I should duck and dodge about Europe. So I
temporised. "Should you really object to the boy so much as a son-in-
law? After all he's a good fellow and a gentleman."

"My poor friend, you're incredibly superficial!" she made answer with an
assurance that struck me.

The contempt in it so nettled me in fact that I exclaimed: "Possibly!
But it seems odd that a lesson in consistency should come from YOU."

I had no retort from her on this, rather to my surprise, and when she
spoke again it was all quietly. "I think Linda and I had best withdraw.
We've been here a month--it will have served our purpose."

"Mercy on us, that will be a bore!" I protested; and for the rest of the
evening, till we separated--our conversation had taken place after
dinner at the Kursaal--she said little, preserving a subdued and almost
injured air. This somehow didn't appeal to me, since it was absurd that
Louisa Pallant, of all women, should propose to put me in the wrong. If
ever a woman had been in the wrong herself--! I had even no need to go
into that. Archie and I, at all events, usually attended the ladies back
to their own door--they lived in a street of minor accommodation at a
certain distance from the Rooms--where we parted for the night late, on
the big cobblestones, in the little sleeping German town, under the
closed windows of which, suggesting stuffy interiors, our cheerful
English partings resounded. On this occasion indeed they rather
languished; the question that had come up for me with Mrs. Pallant
appeared--and by no intention of mine--to have brushed the young couple
with its chill. Archie and Linda too struck me as conscious and dumb.

As I walked back to our hotel with my nephew I passed my hand into his
arm and put to him, by no roundabout approach, the question of whether
he were in serious peril of love.

"I don't know, I don't know--really, uncle, I don't know!" was, however,
all the satisfaction I could extract from the youth, who hadn't the
smallest vein of introspection. He mightn't know, but before we reached
the inn--we had a few more words on the subject--it seemed to me that
_I_ did. His mind wasn't formed to accommodate at one time many subjects
of thought, but Linda Pallant certainly constituted for the moment its
principal furniture. She pervaded his consciousness, she solicited his
curiosity, she associated herself, in a manner as yet informal and
undefined, with his future. I could see that she held, that she beguiled
him as no one had ever done. I didn't betray to him, however, that
perception, and I spent my night a prey to the consciousness that, after
all, it had been none of my business to provide him with the sense of
being captivated. To put him in relation with a young enchantress was
the last thing his mother had expected of me or that I had expected of
myself. Moreover it was quite my opinion that he himself was too young
to be a judge of enchantresses. Mrs. Pallant was right and I had given
high proof of levity in regarding her, with her beautiful daughter, as a
"resource." There were other resources--one of which WOULD be most
decidedly to clear out. What did I know after all about the girl except
that I rejoiced to have escaped from marrying her mother? That mother,
it was true, was a singular person, and it was strange her conscience
should have begun to fidget in advance of my own. It was strange she
should so soon have felt Archie's peril, and even stranger that she
should have then wished to "save" him. The ways of women were infinitely
subtle, and it was no novelty to me that one never knew where they would
turn up. As I haven't hesitated in this report to expose the irritable
side of my own nature I shall confess that I even wondered if my old
friend's solicitude hadn't been a deeper artifice. Wasn't it possibly a
plan of her own for making sure of my young man--though I didn't quite
see the logic of it? If she regarded him, which she might in view of his
large fortune, as a great catch, mightn't she have arranged this little
comedy, in their personal interest, with the girl?

That possibility at any rate only made it a happier thought that I
should win my companion to some curiosity about other places. There were
many of course much more worth his attention than Homburg. In the course
of the morning--it was after our early luncheon--I walked round to Mrs.
Pallant's to let her know I was ready to take action; but even while I
went I again felt the unlikelihood of the part attributed by my fears
and by the mother's own, so far as they had been roused, to Linda.
Certainly if she was such a girl as these fears represented her she
would fly at higher game. It was with an eye to high game, Mrs. Pallant
had frankly admitted to me, that she had been trained, and such an
education, to say nothing of such a performer, justified a hope of
greater returns. A young American, the fruit of scant "modelling," who
could give her nothing but pocket-money, was a very moderate prize, and
if she had been prepared to marry for ambition--there was no such
hardness in her face or tone, but then there never is--her mark would be
inevitably a "personage" quelconque. I was received at my friend's
lodging with the announcement that she had left Homburg with her
daughter half an hour before. The good woman who had entertained the
pair professed to know nothing of their movements beyond the fact that
they had gone to Frankfort, where, however, it was her belief that they
didn't intend to remain. They were evidently travelling beyond. Sudden,
their decision to move? Oh yes, the matter of a moment. They must have
spent the night in packing, they had so many things and such pretty
ones; and their poor maid, all the morning, had scarce had time to
swallow her coffee. But they clearly were ladies accustomed to come and
go. It didn't matter--with such rooms as hers she never wanted: there
was a new family coming in at three.


IV

This piece of strategy left me staring and made me, I must confess,
quite furious. My only consolation was that Archie, when I told him,
looked as blank as myself, and that the trick touched him more nearly,
for I was not now in love with Louisa. We agreed that we required an
explanation and we pretended to expect one the next day in the shape of
a letter satisfactory even to the point of being apologetic. When I say
"we" pretended I mean that I did, for my suspicion that he knew what had
been on foot--through an arrangement with Linda--lasted only a moment.
If his resentment was less than my own his surprise was equally great. I
had been willing to bolt, but I felt slighted by the ease with which
Mrs. Pallant had shown she could part with us. Archie professed no sense
of a grievance, because in the first place he was shy about it and
because in the second it was evidently not definite to him that he had
been encouraged--equipped as he was, I think, with no very particular
idea of what constituted encouragement. He was fresh from the wonderful
country in which there may between the ingenuous young be so little
question of "intentions." He was but dimly conscious of his own and
could by no means have told me whether he had been challenged or been
jilted. I didn't want to exasperate him, but when at the end of three
days more we were still without news of our late companions I observed
that it was very simple:--they must have been just hiding from us; they
thought us dangerous; they wished to avoid entanglements. They had found
us too attentive and wished not to raise false hopes. He appeared to
accept this explanation and even had the air--so at least I inferred
from his asking me no questions--of judging the matter might be delicate
for myself. The poor youth was altogether much mystified, and I smiled
at the image in his mind of Mrs. Pallant fleeing from his uncle's
importunities. We decided to leave Homburg, but if we didn't pursue our
fugitives it wasn't simply that we were ignorant of where they were. I
could have found that out with a little trouble, but I was deterred by
the reflexion that this would be Louisa's reasoning. She was a dreadful
humbug and her departure had been a provocation--I fear it was in that
stupid conviction that I made out a little independent itinerary with
Archie. I even believed we should learn where they were quite soon
enough, and that our patience--even my young man's--would be longer than
theirs. Therefore I uttered a small private cry of triumph when three
weeks later--we happened to be at Interlaken--he reported to me that he
had received a note from Miss Pallant. The form of this confidence was
his enquiring if there were particular reasons why we should longer
delay our projected visit to the Italian lakes. Mightn't the fear of the
hot weather, which was moreover at that season our native temperature,
cease to operate, the middle of September having arrived? I answered
that we would start on the morrow if he liked, and then, pleased
apparently that I was so easy to deal with, he revealed his little
secret. He showed me his letter, which was a graceful natural document--
it covered with a few flowing strokes but a single page of note-paper--
not at all compromising to the young lady. If, however, it was almost
the apology I had looked for--save that this should have come from the
mother--it was not ostensibly in the least an invitation. It mentioned
casually--the mention was mainly in the words at the head of her paper--
that they were on the Lago Maggiore, at Baveno; but it consisted mainly
of the expression of a regret that they had had so abruptly to leave
Homburg. Linda failed to say under what necessity they had found
themselves; she only hoped we hadn't judged them too harshly and would
accept "this hasty line" as a substitute for the omitted good-bye. She
also hoped our days were passing pleasantly and with the same lovely
weather that prevailed south of the Alps; and she remained very
sincerely and with the kindest remembrances--!

The note contained no message from her mother, and it was open to me to
suppose, as I should prefer, either that Mrs. Pallant hadn't known she
was writing or that they wished to make us think she hadn't known. The
letter might pass as a common civility of the girl's to a person with
whom she had been on easy terms. It was, however, for something more
than this that my nephew took it; so at least I gathered from the
touching candour of his determination to go to Baveno. I judged it idle
to drag him another way; he had money in his own pocket and was quite
capable of giving me the slip. Yet--such are the sweet incongruities of
youth--when I asked him to what tune he had been thinking of Linda since
they left us in the lurch he replied: "Oh I haven't been thinking at
all! Why should I?" This fib was accompanied by an exorbitant blush.
Since he was to obey his young woman's signal I must equally make out
where it would take him, and one splendid morning we started over the
Simplon in a post-chaise.

I represented to him successfully that it would be in much better taste
for us to alight at Stresa, which as every one knows is a resort of
tourists, also on the shore of the major lake, at about a mile's
distance from Baveno. If we stayed at the latter place we should have to
inhabit the same hotel as our friends, and this might be awkward in view
of a strained relation with them. Nothing would be easier than to go and
come between the two points, especially by the water, which would give
Archie a chance for unlimited paddling. His face lighted up at the
vision of a pair of oars; he pretended to take my plea for discretion
very seriously, and I could see that he had at once begun to calculate
opportunities for navigation with Linda. Our post-chaise--I had insisted
on easy stages and we were three days on the way--deposited us at
Stresa toward the middle of the afternoon, and it was within an
amazingly short time that I found myself in a small boat with my nephew,
who pulled us over to Baveno with vigorous strokes. I remember the
sweetness of the whole impression. I had had it before, but to my
companion it was new, and he thought it as pretty as the opera: the
enchanting beauty of the place and, hour, the stillness of the air and
water, with the romantic fantastic Borromean Islands set as great jewels
in a crystal globe. We disembarked at the steps by the garden-foot of
the hotel, and somehow it seemed a perfectly natural part of the lovely
situation that I should immediately become conscious of Mrs. Pallant and
her daughter seated on the terrace and quietly watching us. They had the
air of expectation, which I think we had counted on. I hadn't even asked
Archie if he had answered Linda's note; this was between themselves and
in the way of supervision I had done enough in coming with him.

There is no doubt our present address, all round, lacked a little the
easiest grace--or at least Louisa's and mine did. I felt too much the
appeal of her exhibition to notice closely the style of encounter of the
young people. I couldn't get it out of my head, as I have sufficiently
indicated, that Mrs. Pallant was playing a game, and I'm afraid she saw
in my face that this suspicion had been the motive of my journey. I had
come there to find her out. The knowledge of my purpose couldn't help
her to make me very welcome, and that's why I speak of our meeting
constrainedly. We observed none the less all the forms, and the
admirable scene left us plenty to talk about. I made no reference before
Linda to the retreat from Homburg. This young woman looked even prettier
than she had done on the eve of that manoeuvre and gave no sign of an
awkward consciousness. She again so struck me as a charming clever girl
that I was freshly puzzled to know why we should get--or should have
got--into a tangle about her. People had to want to complicate a
situation to do it on so simple a pretext as that Linda was in every way
beautiful. This was the clear fact: so why shouldn't the presumptions be
in favour of every result of it? One of the effects of that cause, on
the spot, was that at the end of a very short time Archie proposed to
her to take a turn with him in his boat, which awaited us at the foot of
the steps. She looked at her mother with a smiling "May I, mamma?" and
Mrs. Pallant answered "Certainly, darling, if you're not afraid." At
this--I scarcely knew why--I sought the relief of laughter: it must have
affected me as comic that the girl's general competence should suffer
the imputation of that particular flaw. She gave me a quick slightly
sharp look as she turned away with my nephew; it appeared to challenge
me a little--"Pray what's the matter with YOU?" It was the first
expression of the kind I had ever seen in her face. Mrs. Pallant's
attention, on the other hand, rather strayed from me; after we had been
left there together she sat silent, not heeding me, looking at the lake
and mountains--at the snowy crests crowned with the flush of evening.
She seemed not even to follow our young companions as they got into
their boat and pushed off. For some minutes I respected her mood; I
walked slowly up and down the terrace and lighted a cigar, as she had
always permitted me to do at Homburg. I found in her, it was true,
rather a new air of weariness; her fine cold well-bred face was pale; I
noted in it new lines of fatigue, almost of age. At last I stopped in
front of her and--since she looked so sad--asked if she had been having
bad news.

"The only bad news was when I learned--through your nephew's note to
Linda--that you were coming to us."

"Ah then he wrote?"

"Certainly he wrote."

"You take it all harder than I do," I returned as I sat down beside her.
And then I added, smiling: "Have you written to his mother?"

Slowly at last, and more directly, she faced me. "Take care, take care,
or you'll have been more brutal than you'll afterwards like," she said
with an air of patience before the inevitable.

"Never, never! Fascia: a transverse band or broad line; it is common when
it crosses both wings or wing covers.

Fasciate: banded transversely.

Fascicle -ulus: a bundle of hair, threads or fibres.

Fasciculate: bundled; clustered as in a bundle; tufted: a surface
when covered with bundles of long hair.

Fastigiate: flat-topped and of equal height: also applied to elytra
that extend a little beyond the abdomen.

Fastigium: Orthoptera; the extreme point or front of vertex.

Fat-body: is the mass of oil or fat cells found, especially in
larvae, surrounding the alimentary canal and some other internal
organs.

Fatiscent: with cracks, crevices or openings.

Fauna: the assemblage of animals inhabiting a region or country.

Favose: with large deep holes, like the cells of a honeycomb.

Favus: a cell like that of a honeycomb.

Fecula: the excrement of insects.

Fecundation: the making fertile; as an egg by a spermatozoön.

Feeler: commonly applied to antennae; q.v.

Feelers: tactile organs: the term is usually applied to the antennae,
but sometimes to the palpi, as mouth-feelers.

Feet: the legs or organs of locomotion; one pair attached to each
thoracic segment; composed of coxa, trochanter, femur, tibia and
tarsus only; plural of foot; q.v.

Female: designated by "O+" the astronomical sign for Venus: that sex in
which the ova are developed. {Scanner's comment: The sign for Venus being
an orthogonal cross or plus sign hanging vertically below a circle.}
Femina: the female, or belonging to that sex.

Femorate -us: with abnormal or unusually developed femora or thighs.

Femoro-tibial: pertaining to both femur and tibia or to the
articulation between them.

Femur -ora: the thigh: usually the stoutest segment of the leg, articulated
to the body through trochanter and coxa and bearing the tibia at its
distal end: in Coccidae and quite commonly, the femur and trochanter are
considered as one, for measuring purposes.

Fenestra: a window; a transparent glassy spot or mark; a pellucid
mark in a vein: a small, pale, membranous area at the base of the
antenna in roaches.

Fenestrate: with transparent or window-like naked spots as in the
wings of some Lepidoptera.

Fenestrate membrane: of the compound eye is at the base of the ommatidia,
at their junction with the optic nerve; see retina.

Ferreous -eus: the metallic gray of polished iron.

Ferrugineous -ous, -eus, -osus: rusty red-brown [Dragon's blood, but
brighter].

Ferrugino-testaeeous: a rusty yellow brown: a mixture of rusty red with
dull yellow brown.

Fertilization: takes place when a spermatozoön enters through the micropyle
of an ovum and unites with the cell nucleus: loosely applied like
copulation or to its completion.

Festivus: variegated with bright colors.

Festooned: arranged in loops as if hung from nails.

Fibre: a thread-like structure of any tissue.

Fibrilla: rod or sliver-like nerve elements, often grouped like a bundle
of short threads.

Fibrin: a proteid compound making up a large part of the muscular
tissue: also found in blood and other body liquids.

Fibrinogen: a proteid substance of the blood and other body fluids,
concerned in the production of fibrin.

Fibroin: a chemical compound found in silk, cobwebs and the like.

Fifth longitudinal vein: Diptera (Will.); = media 3 (Comst.).

Filament: a thread: a long slender process of equal diameter throughout:
an elongated appendage.

Filariasis: a disease caused by the presence of minute worms or Filaria,
transmitted by mosquitoes. {Scanner's comment: Nowadays it is known
that many kinds of filariasis are transmitted by other species of flies,
in particular Simuliidae and Tabanidae}
Filate: Diptera; antennae that are simple, without lateral hair or
dilation: thread-like.

Filator: the silk spinning structure of caterpillars.

File: the diagonal ridged vein near the base of the tegmina in
crickets, used in stridulating: in general any structure wherever
situated that serves the same purpose.
Filicornia: insects with thread-like antennae; e.g. in Coleopteran,
the Carabidae.
Filiform: thread-like: slender and of equal diameter.
Filippi's glands: a pair of secondary glands, opening into the silk
glands of caterpillars near their anterior end.
Fillet: a transverse, raised structure between the antennae in
Lepidoptera.

Filose: ending in a thread-like process.
Fimbria: thick, ciliated hair at the termination of any part:
fringes.
Fimbriate: a margin or process when set with a fringe of hair closely
placed.

Finger: of maxilla, is the digitus, q.v.
First clypeus: see post clypeus.
First inner apical nervure: in Hymenoptera (Nort.); is cubitus 1,
from media 4, to first anal (Comst.).
First lateral suture: Odonata; starts from beneath base of front
wing behind humeral suture and meets it behind second coxa.
First longitudinal vein: in Diptera; - radius 1 (Comst.).
First submarginal cross-nervure: Hymenoptera; part of the media and
the radio-medial cross vein (Comst.).
Fissate: divided or split: with fissures or cracks.Haven't you discovered, and didn't I tell
you at Homburg, that we're miserably poor?"

"Isn't 'miserably' rather too much--living as you are at an expensive
hotel?"

Well, she promptly met this. "They take us en pension, for ever so
little a day. I've been knocking about Europe long enough to learn all
sorts of horrid arts. Besides, don't speak of hotels; we've spent half
our life in them and Linda told me only last night that she hoped never
to put her foot into one again. She feels that when she comes to such a
place as this she ought, if things were decently right, to find a villa
of her own."

"Then her companion there's perfectly competent to give her one. Don't
think I've the least desire to push them into each other's arms--I only
ask to wash my hands of them. But I should like to know why you want, as
you said just now, to save him. When you speak as if your daughter were
a monster I take it you're not serious."

She was facing me in the rich short twilight, and to describe herself as
immeasurably more serious perhaps than she had ever been in her life she
had only to look at me without protestation. "It's Linda's standard. God
knows I myself could get on! She's ambitious, luxurious, determined to
have what she wants--more 'on the make' than any one I've ever seen. Of
course it's open to you to tell me it's my own fault, that I was so
before her and have made her so. But does that make me like it any
better?"

"Dear Mrs. Pallant, you're wonderful, you're terrible," I could only
stammer, lost in the desert of my thoughts.

"Oh yes, you've made up your mind about me; you see me in a certain way
and don't like the trouble of changing. Votre siege est fait. But you'll
HAVE to change--if you've any generosity!" Her eyes shone in the summer
dusk and the beauty of her youth came back to her.

"Is this a part of the reparation, of the expiation?" I demanded. "I
don't see what you ever did to Archie."

"It's enough that he belongs to you. But it isn't for you I do it--it's
for myself," she strangely went on.

"Doubtless you've your own reasons--which I can't penetrate. But can't
you sacrifice something else? Must you sacrifice your only child?"

"My only child's my punishment, my only child's my stigma!" she cried in
her exaltation.

"It seems to me rather that you're hers."

"Hers? What does SHE know of such things?--what can she ever feel? She's
cased in steel; she has a heart of marble. It's true--it's true," said
Louisa Pallant. "She appals me!"

I laid my hand on my poor friend's; I uttered, with the intention of
checking and soothing her, the first incoherent words that came into my
head and I drew her toward a bench a few steps away. She dropped upon
it; I placed myself near her and besought her to consider well what she
said. She owed me nothing and I wished no one injured, no one denounced
or exposed for my sake.

"For your sake? Oh I'm not thinking of you!" she answered; and indeed
the next moment I thought my words rather fatuous. "It's a satisfaction
to my own conscience--for I HAVE one, little as you may think I've a
right to speak of it. I've been punished by my sin itself. I've been
hideously worldly, I've thought only of that, and I've taught her to be
so--to do the same. That's the only instruction I've ever given her, and
she has learned the lesson so well that now I see it stamped there in
all her nature, on all her spirit and on all her form, I'm horrified at
my work. For years we've lived that way; we've thought of nothing else.
She has profited so well by my beautiful influence that she has gone far
beyond the great original. I say I'm horrified," Mrs. Pallant dreadfully
wound up, "because she's horrible."

"My poor extravagant friend," I pleaded, "isn't it still more so to hear
a mother say such things?"

"Why so, if they're abominably true? Besides, I don't care what I say if
I save him."

I could only gape again at this least expected of all my adventures. "Do
you expect me then to repeat to him--?"

"Not in the least," she broke in; "I'll do it myself." At this I uttered
some strong inarticulate protest, but she went on with the grimmest
simplicity: "I was very glad at first, but it would have been better if
we hadn't met."

"I don't agree to that, for you interest me," I rather ruefully
professed, "immensely."

"I don't care if I do--so I interest HIM."

"You must reflect then that your denunciation can only strike me as, for
all its violence, vague and unconvincing. Never had a girl less the
appearance of bearing such charges out. You know how I've admired her."

"You know nothing about her! _I_ do, you see, for she's the work of my
hand!" And Mrs. Pallant laughed for bitterness. "I've watched her for
years, and little by little, for the last two or three, it has come over
me. There's not a tender spot in her whole composition. To arrive at a
brilliant social position, if it were necessary, she would see me drown
in this lake without lifting a finger, she would stand there and see it
--she would push me in--and never feel a pang. That's my young lady!" Her
lucidity chilled me to the soul--it seemed to shine so flawless. "To
climb up to the top and be splendid and envied there," she went on--"to
do that at any cost or by any meanness and cruelty is the only thing she
has a heart for. She'd lie for it, she'd steal for it, she'd kill for
it!" My companion brought out these words with a cold confidence that
had evidently behind it some occult past process of growth. I watched
her pale face and glowing eyes; she held me breathless and frowning, but
her strange vindictive, or at least retributive, passion irresistibly
imposed itself. I found myself at last believing her, pitying her more
than I pitied the subject of her dreadful analysis. It was as if she had
held her tongue for longer than she could bear, suffering more and more
the importunity of the truth. It relieved her thus to drag that to the
light, and still she kept up the high and most unholy sacrifice. "God in
his mercy has let me see it in time, but his ways are strange that he
has let me see it in my daughter. It's myself he has let me see--myself
as I was for years. But she's worse--she IS, I assure you; she's worse
than I intended or dreamed." Her hands were clasped tightly together in
her lap; her low voice quavered and her breath came short; she looked up
at the southern stars as if THEY would understand.

"Have you ever spoken to her as you speak to me?" I finally asked. "Have
you ever put before her this terrible arraignment?"

"Put it before her? How can I put it before her when all she would have
to say would be: 'You, YOU, you base one, who made me--?'"

"Then why do you want to play her a trick?"

"I'm not bound to tell you, and you wouldn't see my point if I did. I
should play that boy a far worse one if I were to stay my hand."

Oh I had my view of this. "If he loves her he won't believe a word you
say."

"Very possibly, but I shall have done my duty."

"And shall you say to him," I asked, "simply what you've said to me?"

"Never mind what I shall say to him. It will be something that will
perhaps helpfully affect him. Only," she added with her proud decision,
"I must lose no time."

"If you're so bent on gaining time," I said, "why did you let her go out
in the boat with him?"

"Let her? how could I prevent it?"

"But she asked your permission."

"Ah that," she cried, "is all a part of all the comedy!"

It fairly hushed me to silence, and for a moment more she said nothing.
"Then she doesn't know you hate her?" I resumed.

"I don't know what she knows. She has depths and depths, and all of them
bad. Besides, I don't hate her in the least; I just pity her for what
I've made of her. But I pity still more the man who may find himself
married to her."

"There's not much danger of there being any such person," I wailed, "at
the rate you go on."

"I beg your pardon--there's a perfect possibility," said my companion.
"She'll marry--she'll marry 'well.' She'll marry a title as well as a
fortune.

"It's a pity my nephew hasn't a title," I attempted the grimace of
suggesting.

She seemed to wonder. "I see you think I want that, and that I'm acting
a part. God forgive you! Your suspicion's perfectly natural. How can any
one TELL," asked Louisa Pallant--"with people like us?"

Her utterance of these words brought tears to my eyes. I laid my hand on
her arm, holding her a while, and we looked at each other through the
dusk. "You couldn't do more if he were my son."

"Oh if he had been your son he'd have kept out of it! I like him for
himself. He's simple and sane and honest--he needs affection."

"He would have quite the most remarkable of mothers-in-law!" I
commented.

Mrs. Pallant gave a small dry laugh--she wasn't joking. We lingered by
the lake while I thought over what she had said to me and while she
herself apparently thought. I confess that even close at her side and
under the strong impression of her sincerity, her indifference to the
conventional graces, my imagination, my constitutional scepticism began
to range. Queer ideas came into my head. Was the comedy on HER side and
not on the girl's, and was she posturing as a magnanimous woman at poor
Linda's expense? Was she determined, in spite of the young lady's
preference, to keep her daughter for a grander personage than a young
American whose dollars were not numerous enough--numerous as they were--
to make up for his want of high relationships, and had she invented at
once the boldest and the subtlest of games in order to keep the case in
her hands? If she was prepared really to address herself to Archie she
would have to go very far to overcome the mistrust he would be sure to
feel at a proceeding superficially so sinister? Was she prepared to go
far enough? The answer to these doubts was simply the way I had been
touched--it came back to me the next moment--when she used the words
"people like us." Their effect was to wring my heart. She seemed to
kneel in the dust, and I felt in a manner ashamed that I had let her
sink to it. She said to me at last that I must wait no longer, I must go
away before the young people came back. They were staying long, too
long; all the more reason then she should deal with my nephew that
night. I must drive back to Stresa, or if I liked I could go on foot: it
wasn't far--for an active man. She disposed of me freely, she was so
full of her purpose; and after we had quitted the garden and returned to
the terrace above she seemed almost to push me to leave her--I felt her
fine consecrated hands fairly quiver on my shoulders. I was ready to do
as she prescribed; she affected me painfully, she had given me a "turn,"
and I wanted to get away from her. But before I went I asked her why
Linda should regard my young man as such a parti; it didn't square after
all with her account of the girl's fierce ambitions. By that account
these favours to one so graceless were a woeful waste of time.

"Oh she has worked it all out; she has regarded the question in every
light," said Mrs. Pallant. "If she has made up her mind it's because she
sees what she can do."

"Do you mean that she has talked it over with you?"

My friend's wonderful face pitied my simplicity. "Lord! for what do you
take us? We don't talk things over to-day. We know each other's point of
view and only have to act. We observe the highest proprieties of speech.
We never for a moment name anything ugly--we only just go at it. We can
take definitions, which are awkward things, for granted."

"But in this case," I nevertheless urged, "the poor thing can't possibly
be aware of your point of view."

"No," she conceded--"that's because I haven't played fair. Of course she
couldn't expect I'd cheat. There ought to be honour among thieves. But
it was open to her to do the same."

"What do you mean by the same?"

"She might have fallen in love with a poor man. Then I should have been
'done.'"

"A rich one's better; he can do more," I replied with conviction.

At this she appeared to have, in the oddest way, a momentary revulsion.
"So you'd have reason to know if you had led the life that we have!
Never to have had really enough--I mean to do just the few simple things
we've wanted; never to have had the sinews of war, I suppose you'd call
them, the funds for a campaign; to have felt every day and every hour
the hard eternal pinch and found the question of dollars and cents--and
so horridly few of them--mixed up with every experience, with every
impulse: that DOES make one mercenary, does make money seem a good
beyond all others; which it's quite natural it should! And it's why
Linda's of the opinion that a fortune's always a fortune. She knows all
about that of your nephew, how it's invested, how it may be expected to
increase, exactly on what sort of footing it would enable her to live.
She has decided that it's enough, and enough is as good as a feast. She
thinks she could lead him by the nose, and I dare say she could. She'll
of course make him live in these countries; she hasn't the slightest
intention of casting her pearls--but basta!" said my friend. "I think
she has views upon London, because in England he can hunt and shoot, and
that will make him leave her more or less to herself."

"I don't know about his leaving her to herself, but it strikes me that
he would like the rest of that matter very much," I returned. "That's
not at all a bad programme even from Archie's point of view."

"It's no use thinking of princes," she pursued as if she hadn't heard
me. "They're most of them more in want of money even than we. Therefore
'greatness' is out of the question--we really recognised that at an
early stage. Your nephew's exactly the sort of young man we've always
built upon--if he wasn't, so impossibly, your nephew. From head to foot
he was made on purpose. Dear Linda was her mother's own daughter when
she recognised him on the spot! One's enough of a prince to-day when
one's the right American: such a wonderful price is set on one's not
being the wrong! It does as well as anything and it's a great
simplification. If you don't believe me go to London and see." She had
come with me out to the road. I had said I would walk back to Stresa and
we stood there in the sweet dark warmth. As I took her hand, bidding her
good-night, I couldn't but exhale a compassion. "Poor Linda, poor
Linda!"

"Oh she'll live to do better," said Mrs. Pallant.

"How can she do better--since you've described all she finds Archie as
perfection?"

She knew quite what she meant. "Ah better for HIM!"

I still had her hand--I still sought her eyes. "How came it you could
throw me over--such a woman as you?"

"Well, my friend, if I hadn't thrown you over how could I do this for
you?" On which, disengaging herself, she turned quickly away.


VI

I don't know how deeply she flushed as she made, in the form of her
question, this avowal, which was a retraction of a former denial and the
real truth, as I permitted myself to believe; but was aware of the
colour of my own cheeks while I took my way to Stresa--a walk of half an
hour--in the attenuating night. The new and singular character in which
she had appeared to me produced in me an emotion that would have made
sitting still in a carriage impossible. This same stress kept me up
after I had reached my hotel; as I knew I shouldn't sleep it was useless
to go to bed. Long, however, as I deferred this ceremony, Archie had not
reappeared when the inn-lights began here and there to be dispensed
with. I felt even slightly anxious for him, wondering at possible
mischances. Then I reflected that in case of an accident on the lake,
that is of his continued absence from Baveno--Mrs. Pallant would already
have dispatched me a messenger. It was foolish moreover to suppose
anything could have happened to him after putting off from Baveno by
water to rejoin me, for the evening was absolutely windless and more
than sufficiently clear and the lake as calm as glass. Besides I had
unlimited confidence in his power to take care of himself in a much
tighter place. I went to my room at last; his own was at some distance,
the people of the hotel not having been able--it was the height of the
autumn season--to make us contiguous. Before I went to bed I had
occasion to ring for a servant, and I then learned by a chance enquiry
that my nephew had returned an hour before and had gone straight to his
own quarters. I hadn't supposed he could come in without my seeing him--
I was wandering about the saloons and terraces--and it had not occurred
to me to knock at his door. I had half a mind to do so now--I was so
anxious as to how I should find him; but I checked myself, for evidently
he had wanted to dodge me. This didn't diminish my curiosity, and I
slept even less than I had expected. His so markedly shirking our
encounter--for if he hadn't perceived me downstairs he might have looked
for me in my room--was a sign that Mrs. Pallant's interview with him
would really have come off. What had she said to him? What strong
measures had she taken? That almost morbid resolution I still seemed to
hear the ring of pointed to conceivable extremities that I shrank from
considering. She had spoken of these things while we parted there as
something she would do for me; but I had made the mental comment in
walking away from her that she hadn't done it yet. It wouldn't truly be
done till Archie had truly backed out. Perhaps it was done by this time;
his avoiding me seemed almost a proof. That was what I thought of most
of the night. I spent a considerable part of it at my window, looking
out to the couchant Alps. HAD he thought better of it?--was he making up
his mind to think better of it? There was a strange contradiction in the
matter; there were in fact more contradictions than ever. I had taken
from Louisa what she told me of Linda, and yet that other idea made me
ashamed of my nephew. I was sorry for the girl; I regretted her loss of
a great chance, if loss it was to be; and yet I hoped her mother's grand
treachery--I didn't know what to call it--had been at least, to her
lover, thoroughgoing. It would need strong action in that lady to
justify his retreat. For him too I was sorry--if she had made on him the
impression she desired. Once or twice I was on the point of getting into
my dressing-gown and going forth to condole with him. I was sure he too
had jumped up from his bed and was looking out of his window at the
everlasting hills.

But I am bound to say that when we met in the morning for breakfast he
showed few traces of ravage. Youth is strange; it has resources that
later experience seems only to undermine. One of these is the masterly
resource of beautiful blankness. As we grow older and cleverer we think
that too simple, too crude; we dissimulate more elaborately, but with an
effect much less baffling. My young man looked not in the least as if he
had lain awake or had something on his mind; and when I asked him what
he had done after my premature departure--I explained this by saying I
had been tired of waiting for him; fagged with my journey I had wanted
to go to bed--he replied: "Oh nothing in particular. I hung about the
place; I like it better than this one. We had an awfully jolly time on
the water. _I_ wasn't in the least fagged." I didn't worry him with
questions; it struck me as gross to try to probe his secret. The only
indication he gave was on my saying after breakfast that I should go
over again to see our friends and my appearing to take for granted he
would be glad to come too. Then he let fall that he'd stop at Stresa--he
had paid them such a tremendous visit; also that he had arrears of
letters. There was a freshness in his scruples about the length of his
visits, and I knew something about his correspondence, which consisted
entirely of twenty pages every week from his mother. But he soothed my
anxiety so little that it was really this yearning that carried me back
to Baveno. This time I ordered a conveyance, and as I got into it he
stood watching me from the porch of the hotel with his hands in his
pockets. Then it was for the first time that I saw in the poor youth's
face the expression of a person slightly dazed, slightly foolish even,
to whom something disagreeable has happened. Our eyes met as I observed
him, and I was on the point of saying "You had really better come with
me" when he turned away. He went into the house as to escape my call. I
said to myself that he had been indeed warned off, but that it wouldn't
take much to bring him back.

The servant to whom I spoke at Baveno described my friends as in a
summer-house in the garden, to which he led the way. The place at large
had an empty air; most of the inmates of the hotel were dispersed on the
lake, on the hills, in picnics, excursions, visits to the Borromean
Islands. My guide was so far right as that Linda was in the summer-
house, but she was there alone. On finding this the case I stopped
short, rather awkwardly--I might have been, from the way I suddenly
felt, an unmasked hypocrite, a proved conspirator against her security
and honour. But there was no embarrassment in lovely Linda; she looked
up with a cry of pleasure from the book she was reading and held out her
hand with engaging frankness. I felt again as if I had no right to that
favour, which I pretended not to have noticed. This gave no chill,
however, to her pretty manner; she moved a roll of tapestry off the
bench so that I might sit down; she praised the place as a delightful
shady corner. She had never been fresher, fairer, kinder; she made her
mother's awful talk about her a hideous dream. She told me her mother
was coming to join her; she had remained indoors to write a letter. One
couldn't write out there, though it was so nice in other respects: the
table refused to stand firm. They too then had pretexts of letters
between them--I judged this a token that the situation was tense. It
was the only one nevertheless that Linda gave: like Archie she was young
enough to carry it off. She had been used to seeing us always together,
yet she made no comment on my having come over without him. I waited in
vain for her to speak of this--it would only be natural; her omission
couldn't but have a sense. At last I remarked that my nephew was very
unsociable that morning; I had expected him to join me, but he hadn't
seemed to see the attraction.

"I'm very glad. You can tell him that if you like," said Linda Pallant.

I wondered at her. I have had precious seasons of preaching and confessing, and have
worked in blessedness many days restoring and beautifying the holy
pictures and statues whereby these little ones have been comforted.

What with the wranglings of princes and the factions and disturbances in
our poor Italy, there be many who suffer in want and loss of all
things, so that no refuge remains to them but the altars of our Jesus,
and none cares for them but He."
"Brother," said the Superior, "there be thousands of flowers fairer than
man ever saw that grow up in waste places and in deep dells and shades
of mountains; but God bears each one in His heart, and delighteth
Himself in silence with them: and so doth He with these poor, simple,
unknown souls.

The True Church is not a flaunting queen who goes boldly forth among men
displaying her beauties, but a veiled bride, a dove that is in the
cleft of the rocks, whose voice is known only to the Beloved.
Ah! when shall the great marriage-feast come, when all shall behold her
glorified? I had hoped to see the day here in Italy: but now"----

The father stopped, and seemed to lapse into unconscious musing,--his
large eye growing fixed and mysterious in its expression.

"The brothers have been telling me somewhat of the tribulations you
have been through," said Father Antonio, who thought he saw a good
opening to introduce the subject nearest his heart.

"No more of that!

--no more!" said the Superior, turning away his head with an expression
of pain and weariness; "rather let us look up. What think you, brother,
are all _these_ doing now?" he said, pointing to the saints in the
picture. "They are all alive and well, and see clearly through
our darkness." Then, rising up, he added, solemnly, "Whatever man may
say or do, it is enough for me to feel that my dearest Lord and His
blessed Mother and all the holy archangels, the martyrs and prophets
and apostles, are with me. The end is coming."
"But, dearest father," said Antonio, "think you the Lord will suffer the
wicked to prevail?"
"It may be for a time," said Savonarola. "As for me, I am in His
hands only as an instrument. He is master of the forge and handles
the hammer, and when He has done using it He casts it from Him. Thus
He did with Jeremiah, whom He permitted to be stoned to death when
his preaching mission was accomplished; and thus He may do with
_this_ hammer when He has done using it."

At this moment a monk rushed into the room with a face expressive
of the utmost terror, and called out,--
"Father, what shall we do?

The mob are surrounding the convent! Hark!
hear them at the doors!"

In truth, a wild, confused roar of mingled shrieks, cries, and blows
came in through the open door of the apartment; and the pattering
sound of approaching footsteps was heard like showering raindrops
along the cloisters.

"Here come Messer Nicolo de' Lapi, and Francesco Valori!" called out a
voice.

My question found my friend quite ready. "Don't you remember what I told
you about our relations--that everything was implied between us and
nothing expressed? The ideas we have had in common--our perpetual
worldliness, our always looking out for chances--are not the sort of
thing that can be uttered conveniently between persons who like to keep
up forms, as we both do: so that, always, if we've understood each other
it has been enough. We shall understand each other now, as we've always
done, and nothing will be changed. There has always been something
between us that couldn't be talked about."

"Certainly, she's amazing--she's amazing," I repeated; "but so are you."
And then I asked her what she had said to my boy.

She seemed surprised. "Hasn't he told you?"

"No, and he never will."

"I'm glad of that," she answered simply.

"But I'm not sure he won't come back. He didn't this morning, but he had
already half a mind to."

"That's your imagination," my companion said with her fine authority.
"If you knew what I told him you'd be sure."

"And you won't let me know?"

"Never, dear friend."

"And did he believe you?"

"Time will show--but I think so."

"And how did you make it plausible to him that you should take so
unnatural a course?"

For a moment she said nothing, only looking at me. Then at last: "I told
him the truth."

"The truth?"

"Take him away--take him away!" she broke out. "That's why I got rid of
Linda, to tell you you mustn't stay--you must leave Stresa to-morrow.
This time it's you who must do it. I can't fly from you again--it costs
too much!" And she smiled strangely.

"Don't be afraid; don't be afraid. We'll break camp again to-morrow--ah
me! But I want to go myself," I added. I took her hand in farewell, but
spoke again while I held it. "The way you put it, about Linda, was very
bad?"

"It was horrible."

I turned away--I felt indeed that I couldn't stay. She kept me from
going to the hotel, as I might meet Linda coming back, which I was far
from wishing to do, and showed me another way into the road. Then she
turned round to meet her daughter and spend the rest of the morning
there with her, spend it before the bright blue lake and the snowy
crests of the Alps. When I reached Stresa again I found my young man had
gone off to Milan--to see the cathedral, the servant said--leaving a
message for me to the effect that, as he shouldn't be back for a day or
two, though there were numerous trains, he had taken a few clothes. The
next day I received telegram-notice that he had determined to go on to
Venice and begged I would forward the rest of his luggage. "Please don't
come after me," this missive added; "I want to be alone; I shall do no
harm." That sounded pathetic to me, in the light of what I knew, and I
was glad to leave him to his own devices. He proceeded to Venice and I
re-crossed the Alps. For several weeks after this I expected to discover
that he had rejoined Mrs. Pallant; but when we met that November in
Paris I saw he had nothing to hide from me save indeed the secret of
what our extraordinary friend had said to him. This he concealed from me
then and has concealed ever since. He returned to America before
Christmas--when I felt the crisis over. I've never again seen the
wronger of my youth. About a year after our more recent adventure her
daughter Linda married, in London, a young Englishman the heir to a
large fortune, a fortune acquired by his father in some prosaic but
flourishing industry. Mrs. Gimingham's admired photographs--such is
Linda's present name--may be obtained from the principal stationers. I
am convinced her mother was sincere. My nephew has not even yet changed
his state, my sister at last thinks it high time. I put before her as
soon as I next saw her the incidents here recorded, and--such is the
inconsequence of women--nothing can exceed her reprobation of Louisa
Pallant.