software or any other related product without express permission.]


Etext by James Rusk, jrusk@mac-email.com. Italics are indicated by the
underscore character (_). Acute accents are indicated by a single quote
(') after the vowel, while grave accents have a single quote before the
vowel. All other accents are ignored.


CHRISTIE JOHNSTONE.

A NOVEL.

by Charles Reade


I dedicate all that is good in this work to my mother.--C. R.,


NOTE.

THIS story was written three years ago, and one or two topics in it are
not treated exactly as they would be if written by the same hand to-day.
But if the author had retouched those pages with his colors of 1853, he
would (he thinks) have destroyed the only merit they have, viz., that of
containing genuine contemporaneous verdicts upon a cant that was
flourishing like a peony, and a truth that was struggling for bare life,
in the year of truth 1850.

He prefers to deal fairly with the public, and, with this explanation and
apology, to lay at its feet a faulty but genuine piece of work.

CHAPTER I.

VISCOUNT IPSDEN, aged twenty-five, income eighteen thousand pounds per
year, constitution equine, was unhappy! This might surprise some people;
but there are certain blessings, the non-possession of which makes more
people discontented than their possession renders happy.

They grew arrogant and pretentious. They asked Mrs. Brice if she knew this
and that person of consequence in Boston, with whom they claimed
relationship or intimacy.

Her answers were amiable and self-contained.

But what shall we say of Stephen Brice?

Let us confess at once that it is he who is the hero of this story,
and not Eliphalet Hopper. It would be so easy to paint Stephen in
shining colors, and to make him a first-class prig (the horror of
all novelists), that we must begin with the drawbacks. First and
worst, it must be confessed that Stephen had at that time what has
been called "the Boston manner."

This was not Stephen's fault, but Boston's. Young Mr. Brice possessed
that wonderful power of expressing distance in other terms besides
ells and furlongs,--and yet he was simple enough with it all.

Many a furtive stare he drew from the table that evening.

There were one or two of discernment present, and they noted that
his were the generous features of a marked man,--if he chose to
become marked.

He inherited his mother's look; hers was the face of a strong woman,
wide of sympathy, broad of experience, showing peace of mind amid
troubles--the touch of femininity was there to soften it.

Her son had the air of the college-bred.

In these surroundings he escaped arrogance by the wonderful kindliness
of his eye, which lighted when his mother spoke to him.

But he was not at home at Miss Crane's table, and he made no attempt
to appear at his ease.

This was an unexpected pleasure for Mr. Eliphalet Hopper. Let it not be
thought that he was the only one at that table to indulge in a little
secret rejoicing. But it was a peculiar satisfaction to him to reflect
that these people, who had held up their heads for so many
generations, were humbled at last.

To be humbled meant, in Mr. Hopper's philosophy, to lose one's money.
It was thus he gauged the importance of his acquaintances; it was thus
he hoped some day to be gauged. And he trusted and believed that the
time would come when he could give his fillip to the upper rim of
fortune's wheel, and send it spinning downward.

Mr. Hopper was drinking his tea and silently forming an estimate. He
concluded that young Brice was not the type to acquire the money which his
father had lost. And he reflected that Stephen must feel as strange
in St. Louis as a cod might amongst the cat-fish in the Mississippi.

So the assistant manager of Carvel & Company resolved to indulge in the
pleasure of patronizing the Bostonian.

"Callatin' to go to work?"

he asked him, as the boarders walked into the best room.

"Yes," replied Stephen, taken aback. And it may be said here that, if
Mr.

Hopper underestimated him, certainly he underestimated Mr. Hopper.

"It ain't easy to get a job this Fall," said Eliphalet, "St. Louis houses
have felt the panic."

"I am sorry to hear that."
"What business was you callatin' to grapple with?"
"Law," said Stephen.

"Gosh!" exclaimed Mr. Hopper, "I want to know."

In reality he was a bit chagrined, having pictured with some pleasure the
Boston aristocrat going from store to store for a situation.

"You didn't come here figurin' on makin' a pile, I guess."
"A what?"
"A pile."

Stephen looked down and over Mr. Hopper attentively.

He took in the blocky shoulders and the square head, and he pictured the
little eyes at a vanishing-point in lines of a bargain.

Then humor blessed humor--came to his rescue. He had entered the race in
the West, where all start equal. He had come here, like this man who was
succeeding, to make his living. Would he succeed?

Mr. Hopper drew something out of his pocket, eyed Miss Crane, and
bit off a corner.

"What office was you going into?" he asked genially. Mr. Brice
decided to answer that.I do not excel in descriptions, and yet I want to give you some carnal
idea of a certain peculiarity and charm this lady possessed; permit me to
call a sister art to my aid.

There has lately stepped upon the French stage a charming personage,
whose manner is quite free from the affectation that soils nearly all
French actresses--Mademoiselle Madeleine Brohan! When you see this young
lady play Mademoiselle La Segli'ere, you see high-bred sensibility
personified, and you see something like Lady Barbara Sinclair.

She was a connection of Lord Ipsden's, but they had not met for two
years, when they encountered each other in Paris just before the
commencement of this "Dramatic Story," "Novel" by courtesy.

The month he spent in Paris, near her, was a bright month to Lord Ipsden.
A bystander would not have gathered, from his manner, that he was warmly
in love with this lady; but, for all that, his lordship was gradually
uncoiling himself, and gracefully, quietly basking in the rays of Barbara
Sinclair.

He was also just beginning to take an interest in subjects of the
day--ministries, flat paintings, controversial novels, Cromwell's
spotless integrity, etc.--why not? They interested her.

Suddenly the lady and her family returned to England. Lord Ipsden, who
was going to Rome, came to England instead.

She had not been five days in London, before she made her preparations to
spend six months in Perthshire.

This brought matters to a climax.

Lord Ipsden proposed in form.

Lady Barbara was surprised; she had not viewed his graceful attentions in
that light at all. However, she answered by letter his proposal which had
been made by letter.

After a few of those courteous words a lady always bestows on a gentleman
who has offered her the highest compliment any man has it in his power to
offer any woman, she came to the point in the following characteristic
manner:

"The man I marry must have two things, virtues and vices--you have
neither. You do nothing, and never will do anything but sketch and hum
tunes, and dance and dangle. Forget this folly the day after to-morrow,
my dear Ipsden, and, if I may ask a favor of one to whom I refuse that
which would not be a kindness, be still good friends with her who will
always be

"Your affectionate _Cousin,_

"BARBARA SINCLAIR."

Soon after this effusion she vanished into Perthshire, leaving her cousin
stunned by a blow which she thought would be only a scratch to one of his
character.

Lord Ipsden relapsed into greater listlessness than before he had
cherished these crushed hopes. The world now became really dark and blank
to him. He was too languid to go anywhere or do anything; a republican
might have compared the settled expression of his handsome, hopeless face
with that of most day-laborers of the same age, and moderated his envy of
the rich and titled.

At last he became so pale as well as languid that Mr. Saunders
interfered.

Saunders was a model valet and factotum; who had been with his master
ever since he left Eton, and had made himself necessary to him in their
journeys.

The said Saunders was really an invaluable servant, and, with a world of
obsequiousness, contrived to have his own way on most occasions. He had,
I believe, only one great weakness, that of imagining a beau-ideal of
aristocracy and then outdoing it in the person of John Saunders.

Now this Saunders was human, and could not be eight years with this young
gentleman and not take some little interest in him. He was flunky, and
took a great interest in him, as stepping-stone to his own greatness. So
when he saw him turning pale and thin, and reading one letter fifty
times, he speculated and inquired what was the matter. He brought the
intellect of Mr. Saunders to bear on the question at the following angle:

"Now, if I was a young lord with 20,000 pounds a year, and all the world
at my feet, what would make me in this way? Why, the liver! Nothing else.

"And that is what is wrong with him, you may depend."

This conclusion arrived at, Mr. Saunders coolly wrote his convictions to
Dr. Aberford, and desired that gentleman's immediate attention to the
case. An hour or two later, he glided into his lord's room, not without
some secret trepidation, no trace of which appeared on his face. He
pulled a long histrionic countenance. "My lord," said he, in soft,
melancholy tones, "your lordship's melancholy state of health gives me
great anxiety; and, with many apologies to your lordship, the doctor is
sent for, my lord."

"Why, Saunders, you are mad; there is nothing the matter with me."

"I beg your lordship's pardon, your lordship is very ill, and Dr.
Aberford sent for."

"You may go, Saunders."

"Yes, my lord. I couldn't help it; I've outstepped my duty, my lord, but
I could not stand quiet and see your lordship dying by inches." Here Mr.
S. put a cambric handkerchief artistically to his eyes, and glided out,
having disarmed censure.

Lord Ipsden fell into a reverie.

"Is my mind or my body disordered? Dr. Aberford!--absurd!--Saunders is
getting too pragmatical. The doctor shall prescribe for him instead of
me; by Jove, that would serve him right." And my lord faintly chuckled.
"No! this is what I am ill of"--and he read the fatal note again. "I do
nothing!--cruel, unjust," sighed he. "I could have done, would have done,
anything to please her. Do nothing! nobody does anything now--things
don't come in your way to be done as they used centuries ago, or we
should do them just the same; it is their fault, not ours," argued his
lordship, somewhat confusedly; then, leaning his brow upon the sofa, he
wished to die. For, at that dark moment life seemed to this fortunate man
an aching void; a weary, stale, flat, unprofitable tale; a faded flower;
a ball-room after daylight has crept in, and music, motion and beauty are
fled away.

"Dr. Aberford, my lord."

This announcement, made by Mr. Saunders, checked his lordship's reverie.

"Insults everybody, does he not, Saunders?"

"Yes, my lord," said Saunders, monotonously.

"Perhaps he will me; that might amuse me," said the other.

A moment later the doctor bowled into the apartment, tugging at his
gloves, as he ran.

The contrast between him and our poor rich friend is almost beyond human
language.

Here lay on a sofa Ipsden, one of the most distinguished young gentlemen
in Europe; a creature incapable, by nature, of a rugged tone or a coarse
gesture; a being without the slightest apparent pretension, but refined
beyond the wildest dream of dandies. To him, enter Aberford, perspiring
and shouting. He was one of those globules of human quicksilver one sees
now and then for two seconds; they are, in fact, two globules; their head
is one, invariably bald, round, and glittering; the body is another in
activity and shape, _totus teres atque rotundus;_ and in fifty years they
live five centuries. _Horum Rex Aberford_--of these our doctor was the
chief. He had hardly torn off one glove, and rolled as far as the third
flower from the door on his lordship's carpet, before he shouted:

"This is my patient, lolloping in pursuit of health. Your hand," added
he. For he was at the sofa long before his lordship could glide off it.

"Tongue. Pulse is good. Breathe in my face."

"Breathe in your face, sir! how can I do that?" (with an air of mild
doubt.)

"By first inhaling, and then exhaling in the direction required, or how
can I make acquaintance with your bowels?"

"My bowels?"

"The abdomen, and the greater and lesser intestines. Well, never mind, I
can get at them another way; give your heart a slap, so. That's your
liver. And that's your diaphragm."

His lordship having found the required spot (some people that I know
could not) and slapped it, the Aberford made a circular spring and
listened eagerly at his shoulder-blade; the result of this scientific
pantomime seemed to be satisfactory, for he exclaimed, not to say bawled:

"Halo! here is a viscount as sound as a roach! Now, young gentleman,"
added he, "your organs are superb, yet you are really out of sorts; it
follows you have the maladies of idle minds, love, perhaps, among the
rest; you blush, a diagnostic of that disorder; make your mind easy,
cutaneous disorders, such as love, etc., shall never kill a patient of
mine with a stomach like yours. But what good does it do him? He might
have been in the Senate, or on the Supreme Bench, had he not stirred
up so much hatred. And yet I can't help liking Whipple. Do you know him?"

A resounding ring of the door-bell cut off Stephen's reply, and
Mrs.

Cluyme's small talk to Mrs.

Brice. In the hall rumbled a familiar voice, and in stalked none
other than Judge Whipple himself.

Without noticing the other occupants of the parlor he strode up to
Mrs.

Brice, looked at her for an instant from under the grizzled brows,
and held out his large hand.

"Pray, ma'am," he said, "what have you done with your slave?"

Mrs. Cluyme emitted a muffled shriek, like that of a person frightened
in a dream.

Her husband grasped the curved back of his chair.

But Stephen smiled.

And his mother smiled a little, too.

"Are you Mr. Whipple?" she asked.

"I am, madam," was the reply.

"My slave is upstairs, I believe, unpacking my trunks," said Mrs. Brice.

Mr. and Mrs. Cluyme exchanged a glance of consternation. Then Mrs.
Cluyme sat down again, rather heavily, as though her legs had refused
to hold her.

"Well, well, ma'am!"

The Judge looked again at Mrs.

Brice, and a gleam of mirth lighted the severity of his face.

He was plainly pleased with her --this serene lady in black, whose
voice had the sweet ring of women who are well born and whose
manner was so self-contained.

To speak truth, the Judge was prepared to dislike her.

He had never laid eyes upon her, and as he walked hither from his
house he seemed to foresee a helpless little woman who, once he had
called, would fling her Boston pride to the winds and dump her woes
upon him.

He looked again, and decidedly approved of Mrs.

Brice, and was unaware that his glance embarrassed her.

"Mr. Whipple," she said,--"do you know Mr. and Mrs. Cluyme?"
The Judge looked behind him abruptly, nodded ferociously at Mr.

Cluyme, and took the hand that fluttered out to him from Mrs.

Cluyme.

"Know the Judge!" exclaimed that lady, "I reckon we do. And
my Belle is so fond of him. She thinks there is no one equal to Mr.
Whipple. Judge, you must come round to a family supper.

Belle will surpass herself."
"Umph!"

said the Judge, "I think I like Edith best of your girls, ma'am."

"Edith is a good daughter, if I do say it myself," said Mrs. Cluyme. "I
have tried to do right by my children." She was still greatly flustered,
and curiosity about the matter of the slave burned upon her face.

Neither the Judge nor Mrs. Brice were people one could catechise.

Stephen, scanning the Judge, was wondering how far he regarded the
matter as a joke.

"Well, madam," said Mr.

Whipple, as he seated himself on the other end of the horsehair sofa,
"I'll warrant when you left Boston that you did not expect to own a slave
the day after you arrived in St.

Louis."

"But I do not own her," said Mrs. Brice. "It is my son who owns her."
This was too much for Mr. Cluyme.

"What!" he cried to Stephen. "You own a slave? You, a mere boy, have
bought a negress?"

"And what is more, sir, I approve of it," the Judge put in, severely.
"I am going to take the young man into my office."
Mr.

Cluyme gradually retired into the back of his chair, looking at Mr.
Whipple as though he expected him to touch a match to the window
curtains.

But Mr. Cluyme was elastic.

"Pardon me, Judge," said he, "but I trust that I may be allowed to
congratulate you upon the abandonment of principles which I have
considered a clog to your career.

They did you honor, sir, but they were Quixotic.

I, sir, am for saving our glorious Union at any cost. And we have no right
to deprive our brethren of their property of their very means of
livelihood."

The Judge grinned diabolically.

Mrs. Cluyme was as yet too stunned to speak. Only Stephen's mother sniffed
gunpowder in the air.

"This, Mr.

Cluyme," said the Judge, mildly, "is an age of shifting winds.
It was not long ago," he added reflectively, "when you and I met in the
Planters' House, and you declared that every drop of Northern blood
spilled in Kansas was in a holy cause.

Do you remember it, sir?"

Mr. Cluyme and Mr. Cluyme's wife alone knew whether he trembled.

"And I repeat that, sir," he cried, with far too much zeal. "I repeat it
here and now. And yet I was for the Omnibus Bill, and I am with Mr.
Douglas in his local sovereignty. I am willing to bury my abhorrence of
a relic of barbarism, for the sake of union and peace."

"Well, sir, I am not," retorted the Judge, like lightning. He rubbed the
red spat on his nose, and pointed a bony finger at Mr. Cluyme. Many
a criminal had grovelled before that finger. "I, too, am for the Union.
And the Union will never be safe until the greatest crime of modern
times is wiped out in blood.

Mind what I say, Mr. Cluyme, in blood, sir," he thundered.

Poor Mrs. Cluyme gasped.

"But the slave, sir? Did I not understand you to approve of Mr.
Brice's ownership?"
"As I never approved of any other. Good night, sir. Good night, madam."
But to Mrs. Brice he crossed over and took her hand. It has been further
claimed that he bowed.

This is not certain.

"Good night, madam," he said.

"I shall call again to pay my respects when you are not occupied."

THE CRISIS
By Winston Churchill

Volume 2.

CHAPTER VIII
BELLEGARDE
Miss Virginia Carvel came down the steps in her riding-habit.

And Ned, who had been waiting in the street with the horses,
obsequiously held his hand while his young mistress leaped into
Vixen's saddle.

Leaving the darkey to follow upon black Calhoun, she cantered off up the
street, greatly to the admiration of the neighbor. They threw open their
windows to wave at her, but Virginia pressed her lips and stared
straight ahead.
She was going out to see the Russell girls at their father's country place
on Bellefontaine Road, especially to proclaim her detestation for
a certain young Yankee upstart.

She had unbosomed herself to Anne Brinsmade and timid Eugenie Renault the
day before.

It was Indian summer, the gold and purple season of the year. Frost had
come and gone. Wasps were buzzing confusedly about the eaves again,
marvelling at the balmy air, and the two Misses Russell, Puss and
Emily, were seated within the wide doorway at needlework when
Virginia dismounted at the horseblock.

"Oh, Jinny, I'm so glad to see you," said Miss Russell. "Here's Elise Saint
Simon from New Orleans.

You must stay all day and to-night."
"I can't, Puss," said Virginia, submitting impatiently to Miss
Russell's warm embrace.

She was disappointed at finding the stranger. "I only came --to say
that I am going to have a birthday party in a few weeks. You must be
sure to come, and bring your guest."
Virginia took her bridle from Ned, and Miss Russell's hospitable face
fell.

"You're not going?" she said.

"To Bellegarde for dinner," answered Virginia.

"But it's only ten o'clock," said Puss. "And, Jinny?"
"Yes."
"There's a new young man in town, and they do say his appearance is very
striking--not exactly handsome, you know, but strong-looking."
"He's horrid!" said Virginia. "He's a Yankee."
"How do you know?"

demanded Puss and Emily in chorus.

"And he's no gentleman," said Virginia.

"But how do you know, Jinny?"

"He's an upstart."

"Oh.

But he belongs to a very good Boston family, they say."

"There are no good Boston families," replied Virginia, with conviction,
as she separated her reins.

"He has proved that.

Who ever heard of a good Yankee family?"
"What has he done to you, Virginia?"

asked Puss, who had brains.

Virginia glanced at the guest.

But her grievance was too hot within her for suppression.

Do you remember Mr. Benbow's Hester, girls? The one I always said I
wanted. She was sold at auction yesterday.

Pa and I were passing the Court House, with Clarence, when she was put
up for sale. We crossed the street to see what was going on, and there
was your strong-looking Yankee standing at the edge of the crowd.

I am quite sure that he saw me as plainly as I see you, Puss Russell."

"How could he help it?" said Puss, slyly.

Virginia took no notice of the remark.

"He heard me ask Pa to buy her. He heard Clarence say that he would bid
her in for me. I know he did. And yet he goes in and outbids Clarence,
and buys her himself.

Do you think any gentleman would do that, Puss Russell?"
"He bought her himself!" cried the astonished Miss Russell.

"Why I thought that all Bostonians were Abolitionists."
"Then he set her free," said Miss Carvel, contemptuously Judge Whipple
went on her bond to-day."
"Oh, I'm just crazy to see him now," said Miss Russell.

"Ask him to your party, Virginia," she added mischievously.

"Do you think I would have him in my house?" cried Virginia.

Miss Russell was likewise courageous--"I don't see why not.

You have Judge Whipple every Sunday dinner, and he's an Abolitionist."

Virginia drew herself up.

"Judge Whipple has never insulted me," she said, with dignity.

Puss gave way to laughter. Whereupon, despite her protests and prayers for
forgiveness, Virginia took to her mare again and galloped off.

They saw her turn northward on the Bellefontaine Road.

Presently the woodland hid from her sight the noble river shining
far below, and Virginia pulled Vixen between the gateposts which
marked the entrance to her aunt's place, Bellegarde.

Half a mile through the cool forest, the black dirt of the driveway
flying from Vixen's hoofs, and there was the Colfax house on the
edge of the, gentle slope; and beyond it the orchard, and the blue
grapes withering on the vines,--and beyond that fields and fields
of yellow stubble.

The silver smoke of a steamboat hung in wisps above the water. A young
negro was busily washing the broad veranda, but he stopped and
straightened at sight of the young horsewoman.

"Sambo, where's your mistress?"
"Clar t' goodness, Miss Jinny, she was heah leetle while ago."

"Yo' git atter Miss Lilly, yo' good-fo'-nuthin' niggah," said Ned,
warmly.

"Ain't yo' be'n raised better'n to stan' theh wif yo'mouf open?"
Sambo was taking the hint, when Miss Virginia called him back.

"Where's Mr. Clarence?

"Young Masr? I'll fotch him, Miss Jinny.

He jes come home f'um seein' that thar trottin' hose he's gwine to
race nex' week."

Ned, who had tied Calhoun and was holding his mistress's bridle, sniffed.

He had been Colonel Carvel's jockey in his younger days.

"Shucks!" he said contemptuously. "I hoped to die befo' the day a gemman'd
own er trottah, Jinny. On'y runnin' hosses is fit fo' gemmen."

"Ned," said Virginia, "I shall be eighteen in two weeks and a young
lady.

On that day you must call me Miss Jinny."
Ned's face showed both astonishment and inquiry.

"Jinny, ain't I nussed you always?

Ain't I come upstairs to quiet you when yo' mammy ain't had no power
ovah yo'?

Ain't I cooked fo' yo', and ain't I followed you everywheres since I
quit ridin' yo' pa's bosses to vict'ry?

Ain't I one of de fambly? An' yit yo' ax me to call yo' Miss Jinny?"
"Then you've had privileges enough," Virginia answered.

"One week from to-morrow you are to say 'Miss Jinny.'"
"I'se tell you what, Jinny," he answered mischievously, with an
emphasis on the word, "I'se call you Miss Jinny ef you'll call me
Mistah Johnson.

Mistah Johnson. You aint gwinter forget?

Mistah Johnson."
"I'll remember," she said. "Ned," she demanded suddenly, "would you
like to be free?"

The negro started.

"Why you ax me dat, Jinny?"
"Mr. Benbow's Hester is free," she said.

"Who done freed her?"
Miss Virginia flushed.

"A detestable young Yankee, who has come out here to meddle with what
doesn't concern him.

I wanted Hester, Ned. And you should have married her, if you behaved
yourself."
Ned laughed uneasily.

"I reckon I'se too ol' fo' Heste'." And added with privileged impudence,
"There ain't no cause why I can't marry her now."

Virginia suddenly leaped to the ground without his assistance.

"That's enough, Ned," she said, and started toward the house.

"Jinny! Miss Jinny!" The call was plaintive.

"Well, what?"

"Miss Jinny, I seed that than young gemman.

Lan' sakes, he ain' look like er Yankee."
"Ned," said Virginia, sternly, "do you want to go back to cooking?"

He quailed.

"Oh, no'm--Lan' sakes, no'm. I didn't mean nuthin'."

She turned, frowned, and bit her lip.

Around the corner of the veranda she ran into her cousin. He, too, was
booted and spurred.

He reached out, boyishly, to catch her in his arms. But she drew
back from his grasp.

"Why, Jinny," he cried, "what's the matter?"

"Nothing, Max." She often called him so, his middle name being
Maxwell.

"But you have no right to do that."

"To do what?" said Clarence, making a face.

"You know," answered Virginia, curtly.

"Where's Aunt Lillian?"
"Why haven't I the right?" he asked, ignoring the inquiry.

"Because you have not, unless I choose. And I don't choose."
"Are you angry with me still?

It wasn't my fault.

Uncle Comyn made me come away. You should have had the girl, Jinny, if
it took my fortune."

"You have been drinking this morning, Max," said Virginia.

"Only a julep or so," he replied apologetically.

"I rode over to the race track to see the new trotter.

I've called him Halcyon, Jinny," he continued, with enthusiasm. "And
he'll win the handicap sure."
She sat down on the veranda steps, with her knees crossed and her
chin resting on her hands.

The air was heavy with the perfume of the grapes and the smell of
late flowers from the sunken garden near by.

A blue haze hung over the Illinois shore.

"Max, you promised me you wouldn't drink so much."

"And I haven't been, Jinny, 'pon my word," he replied. "But I met old
Sparks at the Tavern, and he started to talk about the horses,
and--and he insisted."

"And you hadn't the strength of character," she said, scornfully, "to
refuse."

"Pshaw, Jinny, a gentleman must be a gentleman. I'm no Yankee."
For a space Virginia answered nothing. Then she said, without
changing her position:
"If you were, you might be worth something."

"Virginia!"

She did not reply, but sat gazing toward the water. He began to pace the
veranda, fiercely.

"Look here, Jinny," he cried, pausing in front of her. "There are some
things you can't say to me, even in jest."

Virginia rose, flicked her riding-whip, and started down the steps.

"Don't be a fool, Max," she said.

He followed her, bewildered.

She skirted the garden, passed the orchard, and finally reached a
summer house perched on a knoll at the edge of the wood.

Then she seated herself on a bench, silently.

He took a place on the opposite side, with his feet stretched out,
dejectedly.

"I'm tired trying to please you," he said.

"I have been a fool. You don't care that for me. It was all right when I
was younger, when there was no one else to take you riding, and
jump off the barn for your amusement, Miss.

Now you have Tom Catherwood and Jack Brinsmade and the Russell boys
running after you, it's different.

I reckon I'll go to Kansas.

There are Yankees to shoot in Kansas."

He did not see her smile as he sat staring at his feet.

"Max," said she, all at once, "why don't you settle down to something?

Why don't you work?"
Young Mr. Colfax's arm swept around in a circle.

There are twelve hundred acres to look after here, and a few niggers.
That's enough for a gentleman."

"Pooh!" exclaimed his cousin, "this isn't a cotton plantation. Aunt Lillian
doesn't farm for money.

If she did, you would have to check your extravagances mighty quick, sir."

"I look after Pompey's reports, I do as much work as my ancestors,"
answered Clarence, hotly.

"Ah, that is the trouble," said Virginia.

"What do you mean?" her cousin demanded.

"We have been gentlemen too long," said Virginia.

The boy straightened up and rose.

The pride and wilfulness of generations was indeed in his handsome face.
And something else went with it. Around the mouth a grave tinge of
indulgence.

"What has your life been?"

she went on, speaking rapidly. "A mixture of gamecocks and ponies and
race horses and billiards, and idleness at the Virginia Springs,
and fighting with other boys.

What do you know? You wouldn't go to college.

You wouldn't study law. You can't write a decent letter. You don't know
anything about the history of your country.

What can you do--?"

"I can ride and fight," he said.

"I can go to New Orleans to-morrow to join Walker's Nicaragua expedition.
We've got to beat the Yankees, --they'll have Kansas away from us
before we know it."

Virginia's eye flashed appreciation.

"Do you remember, Jinny," he cried, "one day long ago when those Dutch
ruffians were teasing you and Anne on the road, and Bert Russell
and Jack and I came along?

We whipped 'em, Jinny.

And my eye was closed. And you were bathing it here, and one of
my buttons was gone.

And you counted the rest."
"Rich man, poor man, beggarman, thief, doctor, lawyer, merchant,
chief," she recited, laughing.

She crossed over and sat beside him, and her tone changed.

"Max, can't you understand?

It isn't that. Max, if you would only work at something. That is why the
Yankees beat us. If you would learn to weld iron, or to build
bridges, or railroads.

Or if you would learn business, and go to work in Pa's store."
"You do not care for me as I am?"

"I knew that you did not understand," she answered passionately.

"It is because I care for you that I wish to make you great. You care
too much for a good time, for horses, Max.

You love the South, but you think too little how she is to be saved. If
war is to come, we shall want men like that Captain Robert Lee who
was here.

A man who can turn the forces of the earth to his own purposes."

For a moment Clarence was moodily silent.

"I have always intended to go into politics, after Pa's example,"
he said at length.

"Then--" began Virginia, and paused.

"Then--?" he said.

"Then--you must study law."

He gave her the one keen look.

And she met it, with her lips tightly pressed together.

Then he smiled.

"Virginia, you will never forgive that Yankee, Brice."

"I shall never forgive any Yankee," she retorted quickly.

"But we are not talking about him. I am thinking of the South, and of
you."
He stooped toward her face, but she avoided him and went back to the
bench.

"Why not?" he said.

"You must prove first that you are a man," she said.

For years he remembered the scene. The vineyard, the yellow stubble;
and the river rushing on and on with tranquil power, and the slow
panting of the steamboat.

A doe ran out of the forest, and paused, her head raised, not twenty
feet away.

"And then you will marry me, Jinny?" he asked finally.

"Before you may hope to control another, we shall see whether you
can control yourself, sir."

"But it has all been arranged," he exclaimed, "since we played here
together years ago!"

"No one shall arrange that for me," replied Virginia promptly.

"And I should think that you would wish to have some of the credit
for yourself."

"Jinny!"

Again she avoided him by leaping the low railing.

The doe fled into the forest, whistling fearfully. Virginia waved
her hand to him and started toward the house.

At the corner of the porch she ran into her aunt Mrs.

Colfax was a beautiful woman. Beautiful when Addison Colfax married her
in Kentucky at nineteen, beautiful still at three and forty. This,
I am aware, is a bald statement. "Prove it," you say. "We do not believe
it.
It was told you by some old beau who lives upon the memory of the
past."
Ladies, a score of different daguerrotypes of Lillian Colfax are
in existence. And whatever may be said of portraits, daguerrotypes
do not flatter. All the town admitted that she was beautiful. All
the town knew that she was the daughter of old Judge Colfax's
overseer at Halcyondale.
If she had not been beautiful, Addison Colfax would not have run
away with her. That is certain. He left her a rich widow at five
and twenty, mistress of the country place he had bought on the
Bellefontaine Road, near St. Louis. And when Mrs. Colfax was not
dancing off to the Virginia watering-places, Bellegarde was a gay
house.
"Jinny," exclaimed her aunt, "how you scared me! What on earth is
the matter?" 
"Nothing," said Virginia
"She refused to kiss me," put in Clarence, half in play, half in
resentment.
Mrs. Colfax laughed musically. She put one of her white hands on
each of her niece's cheeks, kissed her, and then gazed into her
face until Virginia reddened.
"Law, Jinny, you're quite pretty," said her aunt
"I hadn't realized it--but you must take care of your complexion.
You're horribly sunburned, and you let your hair blow all over your
face. It's barbarous not to wear a mask when you ride. Your Pa
doesn't look after you properly. I would ask you to stay to the
dance to-night if your skin were only white, instead of red. You're
old enough to know better, Virginia. Mr. Vance was to have driven
out for dinner. Have you seen him, Clarence?" 
"No, mother."
"He is so amusing," Mrs. Colfax continued, "and he generally brings
candy. I shall die of the blues before supper." She sat down with
a grand air at the head of the table, while Alfred took the lid
from the silver soup-tureen in front of her. "Jinny, can't you say
something bright? Do I have to listen to Clarence's horse talk for
another hour? Tell me some gossip. Will you have some gumbo soup?"

"Why do you listen to Clarence's horse talk?" said Virginia. "Why
don't you make him go to work!"
"Mercy!" said Mrs. Colfax, laughing, "what could he do?"
"That's just it," said Virginia. "He hasn't a serious interest in
life."
Clarence looked sullen. And his mother, as usual, took his side.
"What put that into your head, Jinny," she said. "He has the place
here to look after, a very gentlemanly occupation. That's what they
do in Virginia."
"Yes," said Virginia, scornfully, "we're all gentlemen in the South.
What do we know about business and developing the resources of the
country?
Not THAT."
"You make my head ache, my dear," was her aunt's reply. "Where did
you get all this?"
"You ask me because I am a girl," said Virginia. "You believe that
women were made to look at, and to play with,--not to think. But
if we are going to get ahead of the Yankees, we shall have to think.
It was all very well to be a gentleman in the days of my
great-grandfather. But now we have railroads and steamboats. And
who builds them? The Yankees. We of the South think of our ancestors,
and drift deeper and deeper into debt.
We know how to fight, and we know how to command. But we have been
ruined by--" here she glanced at the retreating form of Alfred, and
lowered her voice, "by niggers."
Mrs. Colfax's gaze rested languidly on her niece's faces which
glowed with indignation.
"You get this terrible habit of argument from Comyn," she said. "He
ought to send you to boarding-school. How mean of Mr. Vance not to
come! You've been talking with that old reprobate Whipple. Why does
Comyn put up with him?"
"He isn't an old reprobate," said Virginia, warmly.
"You really ought to go to school," said her aunt. "Don't be
eccentric.
It isn't fashionable.Instead, however, of this, who should return, to disturb the equilibrium
of truth, but this Christina Johnstone? She came thoughtfully in, and
said:

"I've been taking a thoucht, and this is no what yon gude physeecian
meaned; ye are no to fling your chaerity like a bane till a doeg; ye'll
gang yoursel to Jess Rutherford; Flucker Johnstone, that's my brother,
will convoy ye."

"But how is your brother to know me?"

"How? Because I'll gie him a sair sair hiding, if he lets ye gang by."

Then she returned the one-pound note, a fresh settlement was effected,
and she left him. At the door she said: "And I am muckle obleeged to ye
for your story and your goodness."

While uttering these words, she half kissed her hand to him, with a lofty
and disengaged gesture, such as one might expect from a queen, if queens
did not wear stays; and was gone.

When his lordship, a few minutes after, sauntered out for a stroll, the
first object he beheld was an exact human square, a handsome boy, with a
body swelled out apparently to the size of a man's, with blue flannel,
and blue cloth above it, leaning against a wall, with his hands in his
pockets--a statuette of _insouciance._

This marine puff-ball was Flucker Johnstone, aged fourteen.

Stain his sister's face with diluted walnut-juice, as they make the stage
gypsy and Red Indian (two animals imagined by actors to be one), and you
have Flucker's face.

A slight moral distinction remains, not to be so easily got over,	

She was the best girl in the place, and he a baddish boy.

He was, however, as sharp in his way as she was intelligent in hers.

This youthful mariner allowed his lordship to pass him, and take twenty
steps, but watched him all the time, and compared him with a description
furnished him by his sister.

He then followed, and brought him to, as he called it.

"I daur say it's you I'm to convoy to yon auld faggitt!" said this
baddish boy.

On they went, Flucker rolling and pitching and yawing to keep up with the
lordly galley, for a fisherman's natural waddle is two miles an hour.

At the very entrance of Newhaven, the new pilot suddenly sung out,
"Starboard!"

Starboard it was, and they ascended a filthy "close," or alley they
mounted a staircase which was out of doors, and, without knocking,
Flucker introduced himself into Jess Rutherford's house.

"Here a gentleman to speak till ye, wife."

CHAPTER III.

THE widow was weather-beaten and rough. She sat mending an old net.

"The gentleman's welcome," said she; but there was no gratification in
her tone, and but little surprise.

His lordship then explained that, understanding there were worthy people
in distress, he was in hopes he might be permitted to assist them, and
that she must blame a neighbor of hers if he had broken in upon her too
abruptly with this object. He then, with a blush, hinted at ten
shillings, which he begged she would consider as merely an installment,
until he could learn the precise nature of her embarrassments, and the
best way of placing means at her disposal.

The widow heard all this with a lackluster mind.

For many years her life had been unsuccessful labor; if anything had ever
come to her, it had always been a misfortune; her incidents had been
thorns--her events, daggers.

She could not realize a human angel coming to her relief, and she did not
realize it, and she worked away at her net.

At this, Flucker, to whom his lordship's speech appeared monstrously weak
and pointless, drew nigh, and gave the widow, in her ear, his version,
namely, his sister's embellished. It was briefly this: That the gentleman
was a daft lord from England, who had come with the bank in his breeks,
to remove poverty from Scotland, beginning with her. "Sae speak loud
aneuch, and ye'll no want siller," was his polite corollary.

His lordship rose, laid a card on a chair, begged her to make use of him,
et cetera; he then, recalling the oracular prescription, said, "Do me the
favor to apply to me for any little sum you have a use for, and, in
return, I will beg of you (if it does not bore you too much) to make me
acquainted with any little troubles you may have encountered in the
course of your life."

His lordship, receiving no answer, was about to go, after bowing to her,
and smiling gracefully upon her.

His hand was on the latch, when Jess Rutherford burst into a passion of
tears.

He turned with surprise.

"My _troubles,_ laddie," cried she, trembling all over. "The sun wad set,
and rise, and set again, ere I could tell ye a' the trouble I hae come
through.

"Oh, ye need na vex yourself for an auld wife's tears; tears are a
blessin', lad, I shall assure ye. Mony's the time I hae prayed for them,
and could na hae them Sit ye doon! sit ye doon! I'll no let ye gang fra
my door till I hae thankit ye--but gie me time, gie me time. I canna
greet a' the days of the week."

Flucker, _aetat._ 14, opened his eyes, unable to connect ten shillings
and tears.

Lord Ipsden sat down, and felt very sorry for her.

And she cried at her ease.

If one touch of nature make the whole world kin, methinks that sweet and
wonderful thing, sympathy, is not less powerful. What frozen barriers,
what ice of centuries, it can melt in a moment!

His bare mention of her troubles had surprised the widowed woman's heart,
and now she looked up and examined his countenance; it was soon done.

A woman, young or old, high or low, can discern and appreciate
sensibility in a man's face, at a single glance.

What she saw there was enough. She was sure of sympathy. She recalled her
resolve, and the tale of her sorrows burst from her like a flood.

Then the old fishwife told the young aristocrat how she had borne twelve
children, and buried six as bairns; how her man was always unlucky; how a
mast fell on him, and disabled him a whole season; how they could but
just keep the pot boiling by the deep-sea fishing, and he was not allowed
to dredge for oysters, because his father was not a Newhaven man. How,
when the herring fishing came, to make all right, he never had another
man's luck; how his boat's crew would draw empty nets, and a boat
alongside him would be gunwale down in the water with the fish. How, at
last, one morning, the 20th day of November, his boat came in to Newhaven
Pier without him, and when he was inquired for, his crew said, "He had
stayed at home, like a lazy loon, and not sailed with them the night
before." How she was anxious, and had all the public houses searched.
"For he took a drop now and then, nae wonder, and him aye in the
weather." Poor thing! when he was alive she used to call him a drunken
scoundrel to his face. How, when the tide went down, a mad wife, whose
husband had been drowned twenty years ago, pointed out something under
the pier that the rest took for sea-weed floating--how it was the hair of
her man's head, washed about by the water, and he was there, drowned
without a cry or a struggle, by his enormous boots, that kept him in an
upright position, though he was dead; there he stood--dead--drowned by
slipping from the slippery pier, close to his comrades' hands, in a dark
and gusty night; how her daughter married, and was well to do, and
assisted her; how she fell into a rapid decline, and died, a picture of
health to inexperienced eyes. How she, the mother, saw and knew, and
watched the treacherous advance of disease and death; how others said
gayly, "Her daughter was better," and she was obliged to say, "Yes." How
she had worked, eighteen hours a day, at making nets; how, when she let
out her nets to the other men at the herring fishing, they always cheated
her, because her man was gone. How she had many times had to choose
between begging her meal and going to bed without it, but, thank Heaven!
she had always chosen the latter.

She told him of hunger, cold, and anguish. As she spoke they became real
things to him; up to that moment they had been things in a story-book.
And as she spoke she rocked herself from side to side.

Indeed, she was a woman "acquainted with grief." She might have said,
"Here I and sorrow sit. This is my throne, bid kings come and bow to it!"

Her hearer felt this, and therefore this woman, poor, old, and ugly,
became sacred in his eye; it was with a strange sort of respect that he
tried to console her. He spoke to her in tones gentle and sweet as the
south wind on a summer evening.

"Madam," said he, "let me be so happy as to bring you some comfort. The
sorrows of the heart I cannot heal; they are for a mightier hand; but a
part of your distress appears to have been positive need; that we can at
least dispose of, and I entreat you to believe that from this hour want
shall never enter that door again. Never! upon my honor!"

The Scotch are icebergs, with volcanoes underneath; thaw the Scotch ice,
which is very cold, and you shall get to the Scotch fire, warmer than any
sun of Italy or Spain.

His lordship had risen to go. The old wife had seemed absorbed in her own
grief; she now dried her tears.

"Bide ye, sirr," said she, "till I thank ye."

So she began to thank him, rather coldly and stiffly.

"He says ye are a lord," said she; "I dinna ken, an' I dinna care; but
ye're a gentleman, I daur say, and a kind heart ye hae."

Then she began to warm.

"And ye'll never be a grain the poorer for the siller ye hae gien me; for
he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord."

Then she began to glow.

"But it's no your siller; dinna think it--na, lad, na! Oh, fine! I ken
there's mony a supper for the bairns and me in yon bits metal; but I
canna feel your siller as I feel your winsome smile--the drop in your
young een--an' the sweet words ye gied me, in the sweet music o' your
Soothern tongue, Gude bless ye!" (Where was her ice by this time?) "Gude
bless ye! and I bless ye!"

And she did bless him; and what a blessing it was; not a melodious
generality, like a stage parent's, or papa's in a damsel's novel. It was
like the son of Barak on Zophim.

She blessed him, as one who had the power and the right to bless or
curse.

She stood on the high ground of her low estate, and her afflictions--and
demanded of their Creator to bless the fellow-creature that had come to
her aid and consolation.

This woman had suffered to the limits of endurance; yesterday she had
said, "Surely the Almighty does na _see_ me a' these years!"

So now she blessed him, and her heart's blood seemed to gush into words.

She blessed him by land and water.

She knew most mortal griefs; for she had felt them.

She warned them away from him one by one.

She knew the joys of life; for she had felt their want.

She summoned them one by one to his side.

"And a fair wind to your ship," cried she, "and the storms aye ten miles
to leeward o' her."

Many happy days, "an' weel spent," she wished him.

"His love should love him dearly, or a better take her place."

"Health to his side by day; sleep to his pillow by night."

A thousand good wishes came, like a torrent of fire, from her lips, with
a power that eclipsed his dreams of human eloquence; and then, changing
in a moment from the thunder of a Pythoness to the tender music of some
poetess mother, she ended:

"An' oh, my boenny, boenny lad, may ye be wi' the rich upon the airth a'
your days--AND WI' THE PUIR IN THE WARLD TO COME!"

His lordship's tongue refused him the thin phrases of society.

"Farewell for the present," said he, and he went quietly away.

He paced thoughtfully home.

He had drunk a fact with every sentence; and an idea with every fact.

For the knowledge we have never realized is not knowledge to us--only
knowledge's shadow.

With the banished duke, he now began to feel, "we are not alone unhappy."
This universal world contains other guess sorrows than yours,
viscount--_scilicet_ than unvarying health, unbroken leisure, and
incalculable income.

Then this woman's eloquence! bless me! he had seen folk murmur politely
in the Upper House, and drone or hammer away at the Speaker down below,
with more heat than warmth.

He had seen nine hundred wild beasts fed with peppered tongue, in a
menagerie called _L'Assemble' Nationale._

His ears had rung often enough, for that matter. This time his heart
beat.

He had been in the principal courts of Europe; knew what a handful of
gentlefolks call "the World"; had experienced the honeyed words of
courtiers, the misty nothings of diplomatists, and the innocent prattle
of mighty kings.

But hitherto he seemed to have undergone gibberish and jargon:

Gibberish and jargon--Political!

Gibberish and jargon--Social!

Gibberish and jargon--Theological!

Gibberish and jargon--Positive!

People had been prating--Jess had spoken.

But, it is to be observed, he was under the double effect of eloquence
and novelty; and, so situated, we overrate things, you know.

That night he made a provision for this poor woman, in case he should die
before next week.

"Who knows?" said he, "she is such an unlucky woman." Then he went to
bed, and whether from the widow's blessing, or the air of the place, he
slept like a plowboy.

Leaving Richard, Lord Ipsden, to work out the Aberford problem--to
relieve poor people, one or two of whom, like the Rutherford, were
grateful, the rest acted it to the life--to receive now and then a visit
from Christina Johnstone, who borrowed every mortal book in his house,
who sold him fish, invariably cheated him by the indelible force of
habit, and then remorsefully undid the bargain, with a peevish entreaty
that "he would not be so green, for there was no doing business with
him"--to be fastened upon by Flucker, who, with admirable smoothness and
cunning, wormed himself into a cabin-boy on board the yacht, and
man-at-arms ashore.

To cruise in search of adventures, and meet nothing but disappointments;
to acquire a browner tint, a lighter step, and a jacket, our story moves
for a while toward humbler personages.


CHAPTER IV.


JESS RUTHERFORD, widow of Alexander Johnstone--for Newhaven wives, like
great artists, change their conditions without changing their names--was
known in the town only as a dour wife, a sour old carline. Whose fault?

Do wooden faces and iron tongues tempt sorrow to put out its snails'
horns?

She hardly spoke to any one, or any one to her, but four days after the
visit we have described people began to bend looks of sympathy on her, to
step out of their way to give her a kindly good-morrow; after a bit, fish
and meal used to be placed on her table by one neighbor or another, when
she was out, and so on. She was at first behindhand in responding to all
this, but by degrees she thawed to those who were thawing to her. Next,
Saunders called on her, and showed her a settlement, made for her
benefit, on certain lands in Lanarkshire. She was at ease for life.

The Almighty had seen her all these years.

But how came her neighbors to melt?

Because a nobleman had visited her.

Not exactly, dear novel-reader.

This was it.

That same night, by a bright fire lighting up snowy walls, burnished
copper, gleaming candlesticks, and a dinner-table floor, sat the mistress
of the house, Christie Johnstone, and her brother, Flucker.

She with a book, he with his reflections opposite her.

"Lassie, hae ye ony siller past ye?"

"Ay, lad; an' I mean to keep it!" The baddish boy had registered a vow to
the contrary, and proceeded to bleed his flint (for to do Christie
justice the process was not very dissimilar). Flucker had a versatile
genius for making money; he had made it in forty different ways, by land
and sea, tenpence at a time.

"I hae gotten the life o' Jess Rutherford till ye," said he.

"Giest then."

"I'm seeking half a crown for 't," said he.

Now, he knew he should never get half a crown, but he also knew that if
he asked a shilling, he should be beaten down to fourpence.

So half a crown was his first bode.

The enemy, with anger at her heart, called up a humorous smile, and
saying, "An' ye'll get saxpence," went about some household matter; in
reality, to let her proposal rankle in Flucker.

Flucker lighted his pipe slowly, as one who would not do a sister the
injustice to notice so trivial a proposition.

He waited fresh overtures.

They did not come.

Christie resumed her book.

Then the baddish boy fixed his eye on the fire, and said softly and
thoughtfully to the fire, "Hech, what a heap o' troubles yon woman has
come through."

This stroke of art was not lost. Christie looked up from her book;
pretended he had spoken to her, gave a fictitious yawn, and renewed the
negotiation with the air of one disposed to kill time.

She was dying for the story.

Commerce was twice broken off and renewed by each power in turn.

At last the bargain was struck at fourteen-pence.

Then Flucker came out, the honest merchant.

He had listened intently, with mercantile views.

He had the widow's sorrows all off pat.

He was not a bit affected himself, but by pure memory he remembered where
she had been most agitated or overcome.

He gave it Christie, word for word, and even threw in what dramatists
call "the business," thus:

"Here ye suld greet--"

"Here ye'll play your hand like a geraffe."

"Geraffe? That's a beast, I'm thinking."

"Na; it's the thing on the hill that makes signals."

"Telegraph, ye fulish goloshen!"

"Oo ay, telegraph! Geraffe 's sunest said for a'."

Thus Jess Rutherford's life came into Christie Johnstone's hands.

She told it to a knot of natives next day; it lost nothing, for she was a
woman of feeling, and by intuition an artist of the tongue. She was the
best _raconteur_ in a place where there are a hundred, male and female,
who attempt that art.

The next day she told it again, and then inferior narrators got hold of
it, and it soon circulated through the town.

And this was the cause of the sudden sympathy with Jess Rutherford.

As our prigs would say:

"Art had adopted her cause and adorned her tale."


CHAPTER V.

THE fishing village of Newhaven is an unique place; it is a colony that
retains distinct features; the people seldom intermarry with their Scotch
neighbors.

Some say the colony is Dutch, some Danish, some Flemish. The character
and cleanliness of their female costume points rather to the latter.

Fish, like horse-flesh, corrupts the mind and manners.

After a certain age, the Newhaven fishwife is always a blackguard, and
ugly; but among the younger specimens, who have not traded too much, or
come into much contact with larger towns, a charming modesty, or else
slyness (such as no man can distinguish from it, so it answers every
purpose), is to be found, combined with rare grace and beauty.

It is a race of women that the northern sun peachifies instead of
rosewoodizing.

On Sundays the majority sacrifice appearance to fashion; these turn out
rainbows of silk, satin and lace. In the week they were all grace, and no
stays; now they seem all stays and no grace. They never look so ill as
when they change their "costume" for "dress."

The men are smart fishermen, distinguished from the other fishermen of
the Firth chiefly by their "dredging song."

This old song is money to them; thus:

Dredging is practically very stiff rowing for ten hours.

Now both the Newhaven men and their rivals are agreed that this song
lifts them through more work than untuned fishermen can manage.

I have heard the song, and seen the work done to it; and incline to think
it helps the oar, not only by keeping the time true, and the spirit
alive, but also by its favorable action on the lungs. It is sung in a
peculiar way; the sound is, as it were, expelled from the chest in a sort
of musical ejaculations; and the like, we know, was done by the ancient
gymnasts; and is done by the French bakers, in lifting their enormous
dough, and by our paviors.

The song, in itself, does not contain above seventy stock verses, but
these perennial lines are a nucleus, round which the men improvise the
topics of the day, giving, I know not for what reason, the preference to
such as verge upon indelicacy.

"Well, I just thought as much," was the energetic reply; "minute I seen the
rig I knew Captain Grant was behind it."

He held out a big hand, which Captain Grant clasped, just looking
at his own with a smile. The stranger was Captain Elijah Brent of the
'Louisiana'.

"Now," said Brent, "I'll just bet a full cargo that you're off to
the Planters' House, and smoke an El Sol with the boys."

Mr. Grant nodded.

"You're keen, Captain," said he.

"I've got something here that'll outlast an El Sol a whole day,"
continued Captain Breast, tugging at his pocket and pulling out a
six-inch cigar as black as the night.

"Just you try that."
The Captain instantly struck a match on his boot and was puffing in a
silent enjoyment which delighted his friend.

"Reckon he don't bring out cigars when you make him a call," said
the steamboat captain, jerking his thumb up at the house.

It was Mr. Jacob Cluyme's.

Captain Grant did not reply to that, nor did Captain Lige expect
him to, as it was the custom of this strange and silent man to speak
ill of no one.

He turned rather to put the stakes back into his wagon.

"Where are you off to, Lige?"

he asked.

"Lord bless my soul," said Captain Lige, "to think that I could forget!"
He tucked a bundle tighter under his arm. "Grant, did you ever see
my little sweetheart, Jinny Carvel?" The Captain sighed. "She ain't
little any more, and she eighteen to-day."
Captain Grant clapped his hand to his forehead.

"Say, Lige," said he, "that reminds me. A month or so ago I pulled a fellow
out of Renault's area across from there. First I thought he was
a thief.

After he got away I saw the Colonel and his daughter in the window."

Instantly Captain Lige became excited, and seized Captain Grant by the
cape of his overcoat.

"Say, Grant, what kind of appearing fellow was he?"

"Short, thick-set, blocky face."

"I reckon I know," said Breast, bringing down his fist on the wagon
board; "I've had my eye on him for some little time."

He walked around the block twice after Captain Grant had driven down the
muddy street, before he composed himself to enter the Carvel mansion.
He paid no attention to the salutations of Jackson, the butler,
who saw him coming and opened the door, but climbed the stairs to
the sitting-room.

"Why, Captain Lige, you must have put wings on the Louisiana," said
Virginia, rising joyfully from the arm of her father's chair to
meet him.

"We had given you up."
"What?" cried the Captain. "Give me up? Don't you know better than that?

What, give me up when I never missed a birthday,--and this the best of
all of 'em.

"If your pa had got sight of me shovin' in wood and cussin' the pilot
for slowin' at the crossin's, he'd never let you ride in my boat again.
Bill Jenks said: 'Are you plum crazy, Brent? Look at them cressets.'
'Five dollars'' says I; 'wouldn't go in for five hundred.

To-morrow's Jinny Carvel's birthday, and I've just got to be there.' I
reckon the time's come when I've got to say Miss Jinny," he added
ruefully.

The Colonel rose, laughing, and hit the Captain on the back.

"Drat you, Lige, why don't you kiss the girl? Can't you see she's waiting?"

The honest Captain stole one glance at Virginia, and turned red copper
color.

"Shucks, Colonel, I can't be kissing her always.

What'll her husband say?"

For an instant Mr. Carvel's brow clouded.

"We'll not talk of husbands yet awhile, Lige."
Virginia went up to Captain Lige, deftly twisted into shape his
black tie, and kissed him on the check. How his face burned when
she touched him.
"There!" said she, "and don't you ever dare to treat me as a young
lady.
Why, Pa, he's blushing like a girl. I know. He's ashamed to kiss
me now.
He's going to be married at last to that Creole girl in New Orleans."
With them was a young Englishman, the leader of the expedition, Charles
Gatty.

His step was elastic, and his manner wonderfully animated, without
loudness.

"A bright day," said he. "The sun forgot where he was, and shone;
everything was in favor of art."

"Oh, dear, no," replied old Groove, "not where I was"

"Why, what was the matter?"

"The flies kept buzzing and biting, and sticking in the work. That's the
worst of out o' doors!"

"The flies! is that all? Swear the spiders in special constables next
time," cried Gatty. "We shall win the day;" and light shone into his
hazel eye.

"The world will not always put up with the humbugs of the brush, who, to
imitate Nature, turn their back on her. Paint an out o' door scene
indoors! I swear by the sun it's a lie! the one stupid, impudent lie that
glitters among the lies of vulgar art, like Satan among Belial, Mammon
and all those beggars.

"Now look here; the barren outlines of a scene must be looked at, to be
done; hence the sketching system slop-sellers of the Academy! but the
million delicacies of light, shade, and color can be trusted to memory,
can they?

"It's a lie big enough to shake the earth out of her course; if any part
of the work could be trusted to memory or imagination, it happens to be
the bare outlines, and they can't. The million subtleties of light and
color; learn them by heart, and say them off on canvas! the highest angel
in the sky must have his eye upon them, and look devilish sharp, too, or
he shan't paint them. I give him Charles Gatty's word for that."

"That's very eloquent, I call it," said Jones.

"Yes," said poor old Groove, "the lad will never make a painter."

"Yes, I shall, Groove; at least I hope so, but it must be a long time
first."

"I never knew a painter who could talk and paint both," explained Mr.
Groove.

"Very well," said Gatty. "Then I'll say but one word more, and it is
this. The artifice of painting is old enough to die; it is time the art
was born. Whenever it does come into the world, you will see no more dead
corpses of trees, grass and water, robbed of their life, the sunlight,
and flung upon canvas in a studio, by the light of a cigar, and a
lie--and--"

"How much do you expect for your picture?" interrupted Jones.

"What has that to do with it? With these little swords" (waving his
brush), "we'll fight for nature-light, truth light, and sunlight against
a world in arms--no, worse, in swaddling clothes."

"With these little swerrds," replied poor old Groove, "we shall cut our
own throats if we go against people's prejudices."

The young artist laughed the old daubster a merry defiance, and then
separated from the party, for his lodgings were down the street.

He had not left them long, before a most musical voice was heard, crying:

"A caallerr owoo!"

And two young fishwives hove in sight. The boys recognized one of them as
Gatty's sweetheart.

"Is he in love with her?" inquired Jones.

Hyacinth the long-haired undertook to reply.

"He loves her better than anything in the world except Art. Love and Art
are two beautiful things," whined Hyacinth.

"She, too, is beautiful. I have done her," added he, with a simper.

"In oil?" asked Groove.

"In oil? no, in verse, here;" and he took out a paper.

"Then hadn't we better cut? you might propose reading them," said poor
old Groove.

"Have you any oysters?" inquired Jones of the Carnie and the Johnstone,
who were now alongside.

"Plenty," answered Jean. "Hae ye ony siller?"

The artists looked at one another, and didn't all speak at once.

"I, madam," said old Groove, insinuatingly, to Christie, "am a friend of
Mr. Gatty's; perhaps, on that account, you would _lend_ me an oyster or
two."

"Na," said Jean, sternly.

"Hyacinth," said Jones, sarcastically, "give them your verses, perhaps
that will soften them."

Hyacinth gave his verses, descriptive of herself, to Christie. This
youngster was one of those who mind other people's business.

_Alienis studiis delectatus contempsit suum._

His destiny was to be a bad painter, so he wanted to be an execrable
poet.

All this morning he had been doggreling, when he ought to have been
daubing; and now he will have to sup off a colored print, if he sups at
all.

Christie read, blushed, and put the verses in her bosom.

"Come awa, Custy," said Jean.

"Hets," said Christie, "gie the puir lads twarree oysters, what the waur
will we be?"

So they opened the oysters for them; and Hyacinth the long-haired looked
down on the others with sarcastico-benignant superiority. He had
conducted a sister art to the aid of his brother brushes.

"The poet's empire, all our hearts allow; But doggrel's power was never
known till now."


CHAPTER VII.

AT the commencement of the last chapter, Charles Gatty, artist, was going
to usher in a new state of things, true art, etc. Wales was to be painted
in Wales, not Poland Street.

He and five or six more youngsters were to be in the foremost files of
truth, and take the world by storm.

This was at two o'clock; it is now five; whereupon the posture of
affairs, the prospects of art, the face of the world, the nature of
things, are quite the reverse.

In the artist's room, on the floor, was a small child, whose movements,
and they were many, were viewed with huge dissatisfaction by Charles
Gatty, Esq. This personage, pencil in hand, sat slouching and morose,
looking gloomily at his intractable model.

Things were going on very badly; he had been waiting two hours for an
infantine pose as common as dirt, and the little viper would die first.

Out of doors everything was nothing, for the sun was obscured, and to all
appearance extinguished forever.

"Ah! Mr. Groove," cried he, to that worthy, who peeped in at that moment;
you are right, it is better to plow away upon canvas blindfold, as our
grandfathers--no, grandmothers--used, than to kill ourselves toiling
after such coy ladies as Nature and Truth."

"Aweel, I dinna ken, sirr," replied Groove, in smooth tones. "I didna
like to express my warm approbation of you before the lads, for fear of
making them jealous."

"They be-- No!"

"I ken what ye wad say, sirr, an it wad hae been a vara just an'
sprightly observation. Aweel, between oursels, I look upon ye as a young
gentleman of amazing talent and moedesty. Man, ye dinna do yoursel
justice; ye should be in th' Academy, at the hede o' 't."

"Mr. Groove, I am a poor fainting pilgrim on the road, where stronger
spirits have marched erect before me."

"A faintin' pelgrim! Deil a frights o' ye, ye're a brisk and bonny lad.
Ah, sirr, in my juvenile days, we didna fash wi nature, and truth, an the
like."

"The like! What is like nature and truth, except themselves?"

"Vara true, sirr; vara true, and sae I doot I will never attain the
height o' profeeciency ye hae reached. An' at this vara moment, sir,"
continued Groove, with delicious solemnity and mystery, "ye see before
ye, sir, a man wha is in maist dismal want--o' ten shellen!" (A pause.)
"If your superior talent has put ye in possession of that sum, ye would
obleege me infinitely by a temporary accommodation, Mr. Gaattie."

"Why did you not come to the point at once?" cried Gatty, bruskly,
"instead of humbling me with undeserved praise. There." Groove held out
his hand, but made a wry face when, instead of money, Gatty put a sketch
into his hand.

"There," said Gatty, "that is a lie!"

"How can it be a lee?" said the other, with sour inadvertence. "How can
it be a lee, when I hae na spoken ?"

"You don't understand me. That sketch is a libel on a poor cow and an
unfortunate oak-tree. I did them at the Academy. They had never done me
any wrong, poor things; they suffered unjustly. You take them to a shop,
swear they are a tree and a cow, and some fool, that never really looked
into a cow or a tree, will give you ten shillings for them."

"Are ye sure, lad?"

"I am sure. Mr. Groove, sir, if you can not sell a lie for ten shillings
you are not fit to live in this world; where is the lie that will not
sell for ten shillings?"

"I shall think the better o' lees all my days; sir, your words are
inspeeriting." And away went Groove with the sketch.

Gatty reflected and stopped him.

"On second thoughts, Groove, you must not ask ten shillings; you must ask
twenty pounds for that rubbish."

"Twenty pund! What for will I seek twenty pund?"

"Simply because people that would not give you ten shillings for it will
offer you eleven pounds for it if you ask twenty pounds."

"The fules," roared Groove. "Twenty pund! hem!" He looked closer into it.
"For a'," said he, "I begin to obsairve it is a work of great merit. I'll
seek twenty pund, an' I'll no tak less than fifteen schell'n, at
present."

The visit of this routine painter did not cheer our artist.

The small child got a coal and pounded the floor with it like a machine
incapable of fatigue. So the wished-for pose seemed more remote than
ever.

The day waxed darker instead of lighter; Mr. Gatty's reflections took
also a still more somber hue.

"Even Nature spites us," thought he, "because we love her."

"Then cant, tradition, numbers, slang and money are against us; the least
of these is singly a match for truth; we shall die of despair or paint
cobwebs in Bedlam; and I am faint, weary of a hopeless struggle; and one
man's brush is truer than mine, another's is bolder--my hand and eye are
not in tune. Ah! no! I shall never, never, never be a painter."

These last words broke audibly from him as his head went down almost to
his knees.

A hand was placed on his shoulder as a flake of snow falls on the water.
It was Christie Johnstone, radiant, who had glided in unobserved.

"What's wrang wi' ye, my lad?"

"The sun is gone to the Devil, for one thing."

"Hech! hech! ye'll no be long ahint him; div ye no think shame."

"And I want that little brute just to do so, and he'd die first."

"Oh, ye villain, to ca' a bairn a brute; there's but ae brute here, an'
it's no you, Jamie, nor me--is it, my lamb?"

She then stepped to the window.

"It's clear to windward; in ten minutes ye'll hae plenty sun. Tak your
tools noo." And at the word she knelt on the floor, whipped out a paper
of sugar-plums and said to him she had christened "Jamie." "Heb! Here's
sweeties till ye." Out went Jamie's arms, as if he had been a machine and
she had pulled the right string.

"Ah, that will do," said Gatty, and sketched away.

Unfortunately, Jamie was quickly arrested on the way to immortality by
his mother, who came in, saying:

"I maun hae my bairn--he canna be aye wasting his time here."

This sally awakened the satire that ever lies ready in piscatory bosoms.

"Wasting his time! ye're no blate. Oh, ye'll be for taking him to the
college to laern pheesick--and teach maenners."

"Ye need na begin on me," said the woman. "I'm no match for Newhaven."

So saying she cut short the dispute by carrying off the gristle of
contention.

"Another enemy to art," said Gatty, hurling away his pencil.

"Reckon you don't come from anywhere round here?"
"No, sir," said Eliphalet. "From Willesden, Massachusetts."

"Come in on the 'Louisiana'?"

"Yes, sir." But why this politeness?

The elderly gentleman lighted a cigar.

The noise of the rushing mules had now become a distant roar, like
a whirlwind which has swept by.

But Eliphalet did not stir.

"Friends in town?"

inquired the gentleman at length.

"No, sir," sighed Mr. Hopper.

At this point of the conversation a crisp step sounded from behind
and wonderful smile came again on the surface.

"Mornin', Colonel," said a voice which made Eliphalet jump.

And he swung around to perceive the young captain of the Louisiana.

"Why, Captain Lige," cried the Colonel, without ceremony, "and how do you
find yourself to-day, suh? A good trip from Orleans?

We did not look for you so soon."
"Tolluble, Colonel, tolluble," said the young man, grasping the
Colonel's hand.

"Well, Colonel, I just called to say that I got the seventy bales of goods
you wanted."

"Ephum" cried the Colonel, diving toward a counter where glasses
were set out,--a custom new to Eliphalet,--"Ephum, some of that
very particular Colonel Crittenden sent me over from Kentucky last
week."

An old darkey, with hair as white as the Colonel's, appeared from behind
the partition.

"I 'lowed you'd want it, Marse Comyn, when I seed de Cap'n comin',"
said he, with the privilege of an old servant.

Indeed, the bottle was beneath his arm.

The Colonel smiled.

"Hope you'se well, Cap'n," said Ephum, as he drew the cork.

"Tolluble, Ephum," replied the Captain. "But, Ephum--say, Ephum!"
"Yes, sah."

"How's my little sweetheart, Ephum?"
"Bress your soul, sah," said Ephum, his face falling perceptibly,
"bress your soul, sah, Miss Jinny's done gone to Halcyondale, in
Kaintuck, to see her grandma.

Ole Ephum ain't de same nigger when she's away."

The young Captain's face showed as much disappointment as the
darkey's.

"Cuss it!" said he, strongly, "if that ain't too bad!

I brought her a Creole doll from New Orleans, which Madame Claire
said was dressed finer than any one she'd ever seen.

All lace and French gewgaws, Colonel.

But you'll send it to her?"

"That I will, Lige," said the Colonel, heartily.

"And she shall write you the prettiest note of thanks you ever got."

"Bless her pretty face," cried the Captain. "Her health, Colonel!

Here's a long life to Miss Virginia Carvel, and may she rule forever! How
old did you say this was?"

he asked, looking into the glass.

"Over half a century," said Colonel Carvel.

"If it came from the ruins of Pompeii," cried Captain Brent, "it might
be worthy of her!"
"What an idiot you are about that child, Lige," said the Colonel,
who was not hiding his pleasure.

The Colonel could hide nothing. "You ruin her!"
The bluff young Captain put down his glass to laugh.

"Ruin her!" he exclaimed. "Her pa don't ruin her I eh, Ephum? Her pa don't
ruin her!"

"Lawsy, Marse Lige, I reckon he's wuss'n any."

"Ephum," said the Colonel, pulling his goatee thoughtfully, "you're
a damned impertinent nigger.

I vow I'll sell you South one of these days.
Have you taken that letter to Mr.

Renault?"

He winked at his friend as the old darkey faded into the darkness
of the store, and continued: "Did I ever tell you about Wilson
Peale's portrait of my grandmother, Dorothy Carvel, that I saw this
summer at my brother Daniel's, in Pennsylvania?

Jinny's going to look something like her, sir. Um!

She was a fine woman.
Black hair, though. Jinny's is brown, like her Ma's."

The Colonel handed a cigar to Captain Brent, and lit one himself.

"Daniel has a book my grandfather wrote, mostly about her. Lord, I
remember her! She was the queen-bee of the family while she lived.

I wish some of us had her spirit."

"Colonel," remarked Captain Lige, "what's this I heard on the levee just
now about your shootin' at a man named Babcock on the steps here?"

The Colonel became very grave.

His face seemed to grow longer as he pulled his goatee.

"He was standing right where you are, sir," he replied (Captain
Lige moved), "and he proposed that I should buy his influence."

"What did you do?"

Colonel Carvel laughed quietly at the recollection

"Shucks," said he, "I just pushed him into the streets gave him a
little start, and put a bullet past his ear, just to let the trash
know the sound of it. Then Russell went down and bailed me out."
The Captain shook with laughter. But Mr. Eliphalet Hopper's eyes were glued
to the mild-mannered man who told the story, and his hair rose under his
hat.

"By the way, Lige, how's that boy, Tato? Somehow after I let you have
him on the 'Louisiana', I thought I'd made a mistake to let him run
the river. Easter's afraid he'll lose the little religion she taught
him."

It was the Captain's turn to be grave.

"I tell you what, Colonel," said he; "we have to have hands, of course.

But somehow I wish this business of slavery had never been started!"
"Sir," said the Colonel, with some force, "God made the sons of Ham
the servants of Japheth's sons forever and forever."

"Well, well, we won't quarrel about that, sir," said Brent, quickly.

"If they all treated slaves as you do, there wouldn't be any cry
from Boston-way.

And as for me, I need hands. I shall see you again, Colonel."

"Take supper with me to-night, Lige," said Mr. Carvel.

"I reckon you'll find it rather lonesome without Jinny."

"Awful lonesome," said the Captain. "But you'll show me her letters,
won't you?"

He started out, and ran against Eliphalet.

"Hello!" he cried. "Who's this?"
"A young Yankee you landed here this morning, Lige," said the
Colonel.

"What do you think of him?"
"Humph!" exclaimed the Captain.

"He has no friends in town, and he is looking for employment. Isn't
that so, sonny?"

asked the Colonels kindly.

"Yes."
"Come, Lige, would you take him?" said Mr. Carvel.

The young Captain looked into Eliphalet's face.

The dart that shot from his eyes was of an aggressive honesty; and Mr.
Hopper's, after an attempt at defiance, were dropped.

"No," said the Captain.

"Why not, Lige?"
"Well, for one thing, he's been listening," said Captain Lige, as he
departed.

Colonel Carvel began to hum softly to himself:--
"'One said it was an owl, and the other he said nay, One said it
was a church with the steeple torn away, Look a' there now!'

"I reckon you're a rank abolitionist," said he to Eliphalet, abruptly.

"I don't see any particular harm in keepin' slaves," Mr. Hopper replied,
shifting to the other foot.

Whereupon the Colonel stretched his legs apart, seized his goatee,
pulled his head down, and gazed at him for some time from under his
eyebrows, so searchingly that the blood flew to Mr.

Hopper's fleshy face.

He mopped it with a dark-red handkerchief, stared at everything in the
place save the gentleman in front of him, and wondered whether he had ever
in his life been so uncomfortable. Then he smiled sheepishly, hated
himself, and began to hate the Colonel.

"Ever hear of the Liberator?"
"No, sir," said Mr. Hopper.

"Where do you come from?" This was downright directness, from which
there was no escape.

"Willesden, Massachusetts."
"Umph! And never heard of Mr. Garrison?"
"I've had to work all my life."
"What can you do, sonny?"

"I cal'late to sweep out a store. I have kept books," Mr. Hopper
vouchsafed.

"Would you like work here?" asked the Colonel, kindly. The green eyes
looked up swiftly, and down again.

"What'll you give me?"
The good man was surprised.

"Well," said he, "seven dollars a week."
Many a time in after life had the Colonel reason to think over this
scene. He was a man the singleness of whose motives could not be
questioned.

The one and sufficient reason for giving work to a homeless boy, from the
hated state of the Liberator, was charity. The Colonel had his moods,
like many another worthy man.

The small specks on the horizon sometimes grow into the hugest of
thunder clouds.

And an act of charity, out of the wisdom of God, may produce on this earth
either good or evil.

Eliphalet closed with the bargain.

Ephum was called and told to lead the recruit to the presence of Mr. Hood,
the manager. And he spent the remainder of a hot day checking invoices
in the shipping entrance on Second Street.

It is not our place here to chronicle Eliphalet's faults. Whatever he
may have been, he was not lazy. But he was an anomaly to the rest of the
young men in the store, for those were days when political sentiments
decided fervent loves or hatreds.

In two days was Eliphalet's reputation for wisdom made. During that period
he opened his mouth to speak but twice. The first was in answer to a
pointless question of Mr. Barbo's (aetat 25), to the effect that he,
Eliphalet Hopper, was a Pierce Democrat, who looked with complacency on
the extension of slavery.

This was wholly satisfactory, and saved the owner of these sentiments
a broken head. The other time Eliphalet spoke was to ask Mr. Barbo
to direct him to a boardinghouse.

"I reckon," Mr. Barbo reflected, "that you'll want one of them
Congregational boarding-houses.

We've got a heap of Yankees in the town, and they all flock together
and pray together.

I reckon you'd ruther go to Miss Crane's nor anywhere."

Forthwith to Miss Crane's Eliphalet went. And that lady, being a Greek
herself, knew a Greek when she saw one. The kind-hearted Barbo
lingered in the gathering darkness to witness the game which ensued,
a game dear to all New Englanders, comical to Barbo.

The two contestants calculated.
Barbo reckoned, and put his money on his new-found fellow-clerk.

Eliphalet, indeed, never showed to better advantage. The shyness he had
used with the Colonel, and the taciturnity practised on his fellow-clerks,
he slipped off like coat and waistcoat for the battle. The scene was in
the front yard of the third house in Dorcas Row. Everybody knows where
Dorcas Row was. Miss Crane, tall, with all the severity of side curls
and bombazine, stood like a stone lioness at the gate.

In the background, by the steps, the boarders sat, an interested group.
Eliphalet girded up his loins, and sharpened his nasal twang to
cope with hers.

The preliminary sparring was an exchange of compliments, and deceived
neither party.

It seemed rather to heighten mutual respect.

"You be from Willesden, eh?" said Crane.

"I calculate you know the Salters."

If the truth were known, this evidence of an apparent omniscience rather
staggered Eliphalet.

But training stood by him, and he showed no dismay.
Yes, he knew the Salters, and had drawed many a load out of Hiram Salters'
wood-lot to help pay for his schooling.

"Let me see," said Miss Crane, innocently; "who was it one of them
Salters girls married, and lived across the way from the meetin'-house?"

"Spauldin'," was the prompt reply.

"Wal, I want t' know!" cried the spinster: "not Ezra Spauldin'?"

Eliphalet nodded. That nod was one of infinite shrewdness which commended
itself to Miss Crane. These courtesies, far from making awkward the
material discussion which followed; did not affect it in the least.

"So you want me to board you?" said she, as if in consternation.

Eliphalet calculated, if they could come to terms.

And Mr. Barbo keyed himself to enjoyment.

"Single gentlemen," said she, "pay as high as twelve dollars." And she
added that they had no cause to complain of her table.

Eliphalet said he guessed he'd have to go somewhere else.

Upon this the lady vouchsafed the explanation that those gentlemen
had high positions and rented her large rooms.

Since Mr. Hopper was from Willesden and knew the Salters, she would be
willing to take him for less.

Eliphalet said bluntly he would give three and a half.

Barbo gasped. This particular kind of courage was wholly beyond him.

Half an hour later Eliphalet carried his carpet-bag up three flights
and put it down in a tiny bedroom under the eaves, still pulsing
with heat waves.

Here he was to live, and eat at Miss Crane's table for the consideration
of four dollars a week.

Such is the story of the humble beginning of one substantial prop of the
American Nation. And what a hackneyed story it is! How many other
young men from the East have travelled across the mountains and floated
down the rivers to enter those strange cities of the West, the growth
of which was like Jonah's gourd.

Two centuries before, when Charles Stuart walked out of a window
in Whitehall Palace to die; when the great English race was in the
throes of a Civil War; when the Stern and the Gay slew each other
at Naseby and Marston Moor, two currents flowed across the Atlantic
to the New World.

Then the Stern men found the stern climate, and the Gay found the smiling
climate.

After many years the streams began to move again, westward, ever
westward.

Over the ever blue mountains from the wonderland of Virginia into
the greater wonderland of Kentucky.

And through the marvels of the Inland Seas, and by white conestogas
threading flat forests and floating over wide prairies, until the
two tides met in a maelstrom as fierce as any in the great tawny
torrent of the strange Father of Waters.

A city founded by Pierre Laclede, a certain adventurous subject of Louis
who dealt in furs, and who knew not Marly or Versailles, was to be
the place of the mingling of the tides. After cycles of separation, Puritan
and Cavalier united on this clay-bank in the Louisiana Purchase, and
swept westward together--like the struggle of two great rivers when
they meet the waters for a while were dangerous.

So Eliphalet was established, among the Puritans, at Miss Crane's.

The dishes were to his taste.

Brown bread and beans and pies were plentiful, for it was a land of
plenty. All kinds of Puritans were there, and they attended Mr.

Davitt's Congregational Church. And may it be added in justice to Mr.
Hopper, that he became not the least devout of the boarders.

CHAPTER. II
THE MOLE
For some years, while Stephen A. Douglas and Franklin Pierce and other
gentlemen of prominence were playing at bowls on the United States of
America; while Kansas was furnishing excitement free of charge to any
citizen who loved sport, Mr. Eliphalet Hopper was at work like the
industrious mole, underground. It is safe to affirm that Colonel Carvel
forgot his new hand as soon as he had turned him over to Mr.

Hood, the manager. As for Mr. Hopper, he was content. We can ill
afford to dissect motives.

Genius is willing to lay the foundations of her structure unobserved.

At first it was Mr. Barbo alone who perceived Eliphalet's
greatness,--Mr.

Barbo, whose opinions were so easily had that they counted for nothing.

The other clerks, to say the least, found the newcomer uncompanionable.

He had no time for skylarking, the heat of the day meant nothing
to him, and he was never sleepy.

He learned the stock as if by intuition, and such was his strict
attention to business that Mr.

Hood was heard is say, privately, he did not like the looks of it. A young
man should have other interests.

And then, although he would not hold it against him, he had heard
that Mr.

Hopper was a teacher in Mr. Davitt's Sunday School.

Because he did not discuss his ambitions at dinner with the other clerks
in the side entry, it must not be thought that Eliphalet was without
other interests.

He was likewise too shrewd to be dragged into political discussions at the
boarding-house table. He listened imperturbably to the outbursts against
the Border Ruffian, and smiled when Mr.

Abner Reed, in an angry passion, asked him to declare whether or
not he was a friend of the Divine Institution.

After a while they forgot about him (all save Miss Crane), which
was what Mr.

Hopper of all things desired.

One other friend besides Miss Crane did Eliphalet take unto himself,
wherein he showed much discrimination.

This friend was none other than Mr. Davitt, minister for many years of
the Congregational Church.

For Mr.
Davitt was a good man, zealous in his work, unpretentious, and
kindly.

More than once Eliphalet went to his home to tea, and was pressed
to talk about himself and his home life.

The minister and his wife ware invariably astonished, after their
guest was gone, at the meagre result of their inquiries.

If Love had ever entered such a discreet soul as that into which we are
prying, he used a back entrance. Even Mr. Barbo's inquiries failed in
the discovery of any young person with whom Eliphalet "kept company."

Whatever the notions abroad concerning him, he was admittedly a
model.

There are many kinds of models.

With some young ladies at the Sunday School, indeed, he had a distant
bowing acquaintance. They spoke of him as the young man who knew the Bible
as thoroughly as Mr.

Davitt himself.

The only time that Mr. Hopper was discovered showing embarrassment
was when Mr.

Davitt held his hand before them longer than necessary on the church steps.
Mr. Hopper was not sentimental.

However fascinating the subject, I do not propose to make a whole book
about Eliphalet.

Yet sidelights on the life of every great man are interesting. And there
are a few incidents in his early career which have not gotten into the
subscription biographical Encyclopaedias.

In several of these volumes, to be sure, we may see steel engravings of
him, true likenesses all.

His was the type of face which is the glory of the steel
engraving,--square and solid, as a corner-stone should be.

The very clothes he wore were made for the steel engraving, stiff
and wiry in texture, with sharp angles at the shoulders, and sombre
in hue, as befit such grave creations.

Let us go back to a certain fine morning in the September of the year 1857,
when Mr.

Hopper had arrived, all unnoticed, at the age of two and thirty.

Industry had told. He was now the manager's assistant; and, be it said in
passing, knew more about the stock than Mr. Hood himself. On this
particular morning, about nine o'clock, he was stacking bolts of woollen
goods near that delectable counter where the Colonel was wont to regale
his principal customers, when a vision appeared in the door. Visions
were rare at Carvel & Company's. This one was followed by an old negress
with leathery wrinkles, whose smile was joy incarnate. They entered
the store, paused at the entrance to the Colonel's private office,
and surveyed it with dismay.
"Clar t' goodness, Miss Jinny, yo' pa ain't heah! An' whah's Ephum,
dat black good-fo'-nuthin'!"
Miracle number one,--Mr. Hopper stopped work and stared. The vision
was searching the store with her eyes, and pouting.Ah, my poor fellow, a much slower horse than Gatty will go by you, ridden
as you are by a leaden heart.

Tu nihil invita facies pingesve Minerva.


It would not lower a mechanical dog's efforts, but it must yours.

He was unhappy. He heard only one side for days; that side was
recommended by his duty, filial affection, and diffidence of his own good
sense.

He was brought to see his proceedings were eccentric, and that it is
destruction to be eccentric.

He was made a little ashamed of what he had been proud of.

He was confused and perplexed; he hardly knew what to think or do; he
collapsed, and all his spirit was fast leaving him, and then he felt
inclined to lean on the first thing he could find, and nothing came to
hand but his mother.

Meantime, Christie Johnstone was also thinking of him, but her single
anxiety was to find this eighty pounds for him.

It is a Newhaven idea that the female is the natural protector of the
male, and this idea was strengthened in her case.

She did not fully comprehend his character and temperament, but she saw,
by instinct, that she was to be the protector. Besides, as she was
twenty-one, and he only twenty-two, she felt the difference between
herself, a woman, and him, a boy, and to leave him to struggle unaided
out of his difficulties seemed to her heartless.

Twice she opened her lips to engage the charitable "vile count" in his
cause, but shame closed them again; this would be asking a personal
favor, and one on so large a scale.

Several days passed thus; she had determined not to visit him without
good news.

She then began to be surprised, she heard nothing from him.

And now she felt something that prevented her calling on him.

But Jean Carnie was to be married, and the next day the wedding party
were to spend in festivity upon the island of Inch Coombe.

She bade Jean call on him, and, without mentioning her, invite him to
this party, from which, he must know, she would not be absent.

Jean Carnie entered his apartment, and at her entrance his mother, who
took for granted this was his sweetheart, whispered in his ear that he
should now take the first step, and left him.

What passed between Jean Carnie and Charles Gatty is for another chapter.


CHAPTER IX.


A YOUNG viscount with income and person cannot lie _perdu_ three miles
from Edinburgh.

First one discovers him, then another, then twenty, then all the world,
as the whole clique is modestly called.

Before, however, Lord Ipsden was caught, he had acquired a browner tint,
a more elastic step, and a stouter heart.

The Aberford prescription had done wonders for him.

He caught himself passing one whole day without thinking of Lady Barbara
Sinclair.

But even Aberford had misled him; there were no adventures to be found in
the Firth of Forth; most of the days there was no wind to speak of; twice
it blew great guns, and the men were surprised at his lordship going out,
but nobody was in any danger except himself; the fishermen had all
slipped into port before matters were serious.

He found the merchantmen that could sail creeping on with three reefs in
their mainsail; and the Dutchmen lying to and breasting it, like ducks in
a pond, and with no more chance of harm.

On one of these occasions he did observe a little steam-tug, going about
a knot an hour, and rolling like a washing-tub. He ran down to her, and
asked if he could assist her; she answered, through the medium of a sooty
animal at her helm, that she was (like our universities) "satisfied with
her own progress"; she added, being under intoxication, "that, if any
danger existed, her scheme was to drown it in the bo-o-owl;" and two days
afterward he saw her puffing and panting, and fiercely dragging a
gigantic three-decker out into deep water, like an industrious flea
pulling his phaeton.

And now it is my office to relate how Mr. Flucker Johnstone comported
himself on one occasion.

As the yacht worked alongside Granton Pier, before running out, the said
Flucker calmly and scientifically drew his lordship's attention to three
points:

The direction of the wind--the force of the wind--and his opinion, as a
person experienced in the Firth, that it was going to be worse instead of
better; in reply, he received an order to step forward to his place in
the cutter--the immediate vicinity of the jib-boom. On this, Mr. Flucker
instantly burst into tears.

His lordship, or, as Flucker called him ever since the yacht came down,
"the skipper," deeming that the higher appellation, inquired, with some
surprise, what was the matter with the boy.

One of the crew, who, by the by, squinted, suggested, "It was a slight
illustration of the passion of fear."

Flucker confirmed the theory by gulping out: "We'll never see Newhaven
again."

On this the skipper smiled, and ordered him ashore, somewhat
peremptorily.

Straightway he began to howl, and, saying, "It was better to be drowned
than be the laughing-stock of the place," went forward to his place; on
his safe return to port, this young gentleman was very severe on open
boats, which, he said "bred womanish notions in hearts naturally
dauntless. Give me a lid to the pot," added he, "and I'll sail with Old
Nick, let the wind blow high or low."

The Aberford was wrong when he called love a cutaneous disorder.

There are cutaneous disorders that take that name, but they are no more
love than verse is poetry;

Than patriotism is love of country;

Than theology is religion;

Than science is philosophy;

Than paintings are pictures;

Than reciting on the boards is acting;

Than physic is medicine

Than bread is bread, or gold gold--in shops.

Love is a state of being; the beloved object is our center; and our
thoughts, affections, schemes and selves move but round it.

We may diverge hither or thither, but the golden thread still holds us.

Is fair or dark beauty the fairest? The world cannot decide; but love
shall decide in a moment.

A halo surrounds her we love, and makes beautiful to us her movements,
her looks, her virtues, her faults, her nonsense, her affectation and
herself; and that's love, doctor!

Lord Ipsden was capable of loving like this; but, to do Lady Barbara
justice, she had done much to freeze the germ of noble passion; she had
not killed, but she had benumbed it.

"Saunders," said Lord Ipsden, one morning after breakfast, "have you
entered everything in your diary?"

"Yes, my lord."

"All these good people's misfortunes?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Do you think you have spelled their names right?"

"Where it was impossible, my lord, I substituted an English appellation,
hidentical in meaning."

"Have you entered and described my first interview with Christie
Johnstone, and somebody something?"

"Most minutely, my lord."

"How I turned Mr. Burke into poetry--how she listened with her eyes all
glistening--how they made me talk--how she dropped a tear, he! he! he! at
the death of the first baron--how shocked she was at the king striking
him when he was dying, to make a knight-banneret of the poor old fellow?"

"Your lordship will find all the particulars exactly related," said
Saunders, with dry pomp.

"How she found out that titles are but breath--how I answered--some
nonsense?"

"Your lordship will find all the topics included."

"How she took me for a madman? And you for a prig?"

"The latter circumstance eluded my memory, my lord."

"But when I told her I must relieve only one poor person by day, she took
my hand."

"Your lordship will find all the items realized in this book, my lord."

"What a beautiful book!"

"Alba are considerably ameliorated, my lord."

"Alba?"

"Plural of album, my lord," explained the refined factotum, "more
delicate, I conceive, than the vulgar reading."

Viscount Ipsden read from

"MR. SAUNDERS'S ALBUM.

"To illustrate the inelegance of the inferior classes, two juvenile
venders of the piscatory tribe were this day ushered in, and
instantaneously, without the accustomed preliminaries, plunged into a
familiar conversation with Lord Viscount Ipsden.

"Their vulgarity, shocking and repulsive to myself, appeared to afford
his lordship a satisfaction greater than he derives from the graceful
amenities of fashionable association--"

~ "Saunders, I suspect you of something."

"Me, my lord!"

"Yes. Writing in an annual."

"I do, my lord," said he, with benignant _hauteur._ "It appears every
month--_The Polytechnic."_

"I thought so! you are polysyllabic, Saunders; _en route!"_

~ "In this hallucination I find it difficult to participate; associated
from infancy with the aristocracy, I shrink, like the sensitive plant,
from contact with anything vulgar."

~ "I see! I begin to understand you, Saunders. Order the dog-cart, and
Wordsworth's mare for leader; we'll give her a trial. You are an ass,
Saunders."

"Yes, my lord; I will order Robert to tell James to come for your
lordship's commands about your lordship's vehicles. (What could he intend
by a recent observation of a discourteous character?)"

His lordship soliloquized.

"I never observed it before, but Saunders is an ass! La Johnstone is one
of Nature's duchesses, and she has made me know some poor people that
will be richer than the rich one day; and she has taught me that honey is
to be got from bank-notes--by merely giving them away."

Among the objects of charity Lord Ipsden discovered was one Thomas
Harvey, a maker and player of the violin. This man was a person of great
intellect; he mastered every subject he attacked. By a careful
examination of all the points that various fine-toned instruments had in
common, he had arrived at a theory of sound; he made violins to
correspond, and was remarkably successful in insuring that which had been
too hastily ascribed to accident--a fine tone.

This man, who was in needy circumstances, demonstrated to his lordship
that ten pounds would make his fortune; because with ten pounds he could
set up a shop, instead of working out of the world's sight in a room.

Lord Ipsden gave him ten pounds!

A week after, he met Harvey, more ragged and dirty than before.

Harvey had been robbed by a friend whom he had assisted. Poor Harvey!
Lord Ipsden gave him ten pounds more!

Next week, Saunders, entering Harvey's house, found him in bed at noon,
because he had no clothes to wear.

Saunders suggested that it would be better to give his wife the next
money, with strict orders to apply it usefully.

This was done!

Ain't there anything I can do?"
"No, thank you, Lige," Mr. Carvel answered. "Do you remember, one morning
some five years ago, when I took in at the store a Yankee named
Hopper?
You didn't like him, I believe."
Captain Brent jumped, and the ashes of his cigar fell on his coat. He
had forgotten his conversation with Captain Grant.

"I reckon I do," he said dryly.

For a moment he was on the point of telling the affair. Then he desisted.

He could not be sure of Eliphalet from Grant's description.

So he decided to await a better time.

Captain Brent was one to make sure of his channel before going
ahead.

"Well," continued the Colonel, "I have been rather pushed the last week,
and Hopper managed things for this dance. He got the music, and saw
the confectioner. But he made such a close bargain with both of 'em
that they came around to me afterward," he added, laughing.

"Is he coming here to-night?" demanded the Captain, looking disgusted.

"Lige," replied the Colonel, "you never do get over a prejudice. Yes, he's
coming, just to oversee things. He seems to have mighty little pleasure,
and he's got the best business head I ever did see. A Yankee," said
Mr.

Carvel, meditatively, as he put on his hat, "a Yankee, when he will
work, works like all possessed.

Hood don't like him any more than you do, but he allows Hopper is a
natural-born business man. Last month Samuels got tight, and Wright &
Company were going to place the largest order in years.

I called in Hood. 'Go yourself, Colonel,' says he. I I'm too old to
solicit business, Hood,' said I. 'Then there's only one man to send,'
says he, 'young Hopper. He'll get the order, or I'll give up this place
I've had for twenty years.' Hopper 'callated' to get it, and
another small one pitched in.

And you'd die laughing, Lige, to hear how he did it."
"Some slickness, I'll gamble," grunted Captain Lige.

"Well, I reckon 'twas slick," said the Colonel, thoughtfully.

"You know old man Wright hates a solicitor like poison. He has his notions.
And maybe you've noticed signs stuck up all over his store, 'No
Solicitors nor Travelling Men Allowed Here'" 
The Captain nodded.

"But Hopper--Hopper walks in, sir, bold as you please, right past
the signs till he comes to the old man's cage.

'I want to see Mr. Wright,' says he to the clerk.

And the clerk begins to grin. 'Name, please,' says he. Mr. Hopper whips
out his business card. 'What!' shouts old Wright, flying 'round in his
chair, 'what the devil does this mean?

Can't you read, sir?' 'callate to,' says Mr. Hopper. 'And you dare
to come in here?

"'Business is business,' says Hopper. 'You "callate"!' bellowed the old
man; 'I reckon you're a damned Yankee.

I reckon I'll upset your "callations" for once. And if I catch you in
here again, I'll wring your neck like a roostah's.

Git!'"
"Who told you this?" asked Captain Brent.

"Wright himself,--afterward," replied Mr. Carvel, laughing. "But listen,
Lige. The old man lives at the Planters' House, you know. What does
Mr.
Hopper do but go 'round there that very night and give a nigger two bits
to put him at the old man's table. When Wright comes and sees him,
he nearly has one of his apoplectic fits. But in marches Hopper
the next morning with twice the order. The good Lord knows how he did
it."
There was a silence. Then the door-bell rang.

"He's dangerous," said the Captain, emphatically. "That's what I call
him."
"The Yankees are changing business in this town," was the Colonel's
answer.

"We've got to keep the pace, Lige."
CHAPTER XIII 
THE PARTY
To gentle Miss Anne Brinsmade, to Puss Russell of the mischievous
eyes, and even to timid Eugenie Renault, the question that burned
was: Would he come, or would he not? And, secondarily, how would
Virginia treat him if he came? Put our friend Stephen for the
subjective, and Miss Carvers party for the objective in the above,
and we have the clew. For very young girls are given to making much
out of a very little in such matters. If Virginia had not gotten
angry when she had been teased a fortnight before, all would have
been well.
Even Puss, who walked where angels feared to tread, did not dare
to go too far with Virginia. She had taken care before the day of
the party to beg forgiveness with considerable humility.Thomas
Carlyle, and he had the mortification to find that she had neither an ear
nor an eye for him.

Human opinion has so many shades that it is rare to find two people
agree.

But two people may agree wonderfully, if they will but let a third think
for them both.

Thus it was that these two ran so smoothly in couples.

Antiquity, they agreed, was the time when the world was old, its hair
gray, its head wise. Every one that said, "Lord, Lord!" two hundred years
ago was a Christian. There were no earnest men now; Williams, the
missionary, who lived and died for the Gospel, was not earnest in
religion; but Cromwell, who packed a jury, and so murdered his
prisoner--Cromwell, in whose mouth was heaven, and in his heart temporal
sovereignty--was the pattern of earnest religion, or, at all events,
second in sincerity to Mahomet alone, in the absence of details
respecting Satan, of whom we know only that his mouth is a Scripture
concordance, and his hands the hands of Mr. Carlyle's saints.

Then they went back a century or two, and were eloquent about the great
antique heart, and the beauty of an age whose samples were Abbot Sampson
and Joan of Arc.

Lord Ipsden hated argument; but jealousy is a brass spur, it made even
this man fluent for once.

He suggested "that five hundred years added to a world's life made it
just five hundred years older, not younger--and if older, grayer--and if
grayer, wiser.

"Of Abbot Sampson," said he, "whom I confess both a great and a good man,
his author, who with all his talent belongs to the class muddle-head,
tells us that when he had been two years in authority his red hair had
turned gray, fighting against the spirit of his age; how the deuce, then,
could he be a sample of the spirit of his age?

"Joan of Arc was burned by acclamation of her age, and is admired by our
age. Which fact identifies an age most with a heroine, to give her your
heart, or to give her a blazing fagot and death?"

"Abbot Sampson and Joan of Arc," concluded he, "prove no more in favor of
their age, and no less against it, than Lot does for or against Sodom.
Lot was in Sodom, but not of it; and so were Sampson and Joan in, but not
of, the villainous times they lived in.

"The very best text-book of true religion is the New Testament, and I
gather from it, that the man who forgives his enemies while their ax
descends on his head, however poor a creature he may be in other
respects, is a better Christian than the man who has the God of Mercy
forever on his lips, and whose hands are swift to shed blood.

"The earnest men of former ages are not extinct in this," added he.
"Whenever a scaffold is erected outside a prison-door, if you are earnest
in pursuit of truth, and can put up with disgusting objects, you shall
see a relic of ancient manners hanged.

"There still exist, in parts of America, rivers on whose banks are
earnest men who shall take your scalp, the wife's of your bosom, and the
innocent child's of her bosom.

(May I be hung if they hadn't acted it all out before.) "If you
should wish proofs, however, I have several notes from him which are at
your service, and an inscribed photograph. No, Marian," she added, shaking
her head, "I really cannot give him up."
Miss Thorn rose and confronted him, and her dignity was inspiring.
"Is this so?" she demanded; "is it true that you are engaged to
marry Miss Trevor?"

The Bone of Contention was badly troubled. He had undoubtedly known what
it was to have two women quarrelling over his hand at the same time, but
I am willing to bet that the sensation of having them come together
in his presence was new to him.

"I did not think--" he began. "I was not aware that Miss Trevor looked upon
the matter in that light, and you know--"
"What disgusting equivocation," Miss Trevor interrupted.

"He asked me point blank to marry him, and of course I consented.
He has never mentioned to me that he wished to break the engagement,
and I wouldn't have broken it."

I felt like a newsboy in a gallery,--I wanted to cheer. And the Celebrity
kicked the stones and things.

"Who would have thought," she persisted, "that the author of The
Sybarites, the man who chose Desmond for a hero, could play thus
idly with the heart of woman?

The man who wrote these beautiful lines:
'Inconstancy in a woman, because of the present social conditions, is
sometimes pardonable. In a man, nothing is more despicable.' And how poetic
a justice it is that he has to marry me, and is thus forced to
lead the life of self-denial he has conceived for his hero.

Mr. Crocker, will you be my attorney if he should offer any objections?"

The humor of this proved too much for the three of us, and Miss Trevor
herself went into peals of laughter. Would that the Celebrity could
have seen his own face. I doubt if even he could have described
it. But I wished for his sake that the earth might have kindly
opened and taken him in.

"Marian," said Miss Trevor, "I am going to be very generous.
I relinquish the prize to you, and to you only.

And I flatter myself there are not many girls in this world who
would do it."

"Thank you, Irene," Miss Thorn replied gravely, "much as I want
him, I could not think of depriving you."

Well, there is a limit to all endurance, and the Celebrity had
reached his.

"Crocker," he said, "how far is it to the Canadian Pacific?"

I told him.

"I think I had best be starting," said he.

And a moment later he had disappeared into the woods.

We stood gazing in the direction he had taken, until the sound
of his progress had died away.

The shock of it all had considerably muddled my brain, and when at last I
had adjusted my thoughts to the new conditions, a sensation of
relief, of happiness, of joy (call it what you will), came upon me,
and I could scarce restrain an impulse to toss my hat in the air.

He was gone at last! But that was not the reason. I was safe from
O'Meara and calumny.

Nor was this all. And I did not dare to look at Miss Thorn.

The knowledge that she had planned and carried out with dignity and success
such a campaign filled me with awe.

That I had misjudged her made me despise myself. Then I became aware
that she was speaking to me, and I turned.

"Mr. Crocker, do you think there is any danger that he will lose his way?"

"No, Miss Thorn," I replied; "he has only to get to the top of that ridge
and strike the road for Saville, as I told him."

We were silent again until Miss Trevor remarked:

"Well, he deserved every bit of it."

"And more, Irene," said Miss Thorn, laughing; "he deserved to marry
you."

"I think he won't come West again for a very long time," said I.

Miss Trevor regarded me wickedly, and I knew what was coming.

"I hope you are convinced, now, Mr. Crocker, that our sex is not as black
as you painted it: that Miss Thorn knew what she was about, and that
she is not the inconsistent and variable creature you took her to be."

I felt the blood rush to my face, and Miss Thorn, too, became
scarlet.

She went up to the mischievous Irene and grasping her arms from behind,
bent them until she cried for mercy.

"How strong you are, Marian! It is an outrage to hurt me so.

I haven't said anything."

But she was incorrigible, and when she had twisted free she began
again:

"I took it upon myself to speak a few parables to Mr.

Crocker the other day.

You know, Marian, that he is one of these level-headed old fogies
who think women ought to be kept in a menagerie, behind bars, to
be inspected on Saturday afternoons.

Now, I appeal to you if it wouldn't be disastrous to fall in love
with a man of such ideas.

And just to let you know what a literal old law-brief he is, when
I said he had had a hat-pin sticking in him for several weeks, he
nearly jumped overboard, and began to feel himself all over.

Did you know that he actually believed you were doing your best to
get married to the Celebrity?"

(Here she dodged Miss Thorn again.) "Oh, yes, he confided in me. He used
to worry himself ill over that.

I'll tell you what he said to me only--"
But fortunately at this juncture Miss Trevor was captured again,
and Miss Thorn put her hand over her mouth.

Heaven only knows what she would have said!

The two boats did not arrive until nearly four o'clock, owing to
some trouble to the tug's propeller.

Not knowing what excuse my client might have given for leaving some of
his party ashore, I thought it best to go out to meet them.

Seated on the cabin roof of the Maria I beheld Mr.

Cooke and McCann in conversation, each with a black cigar too big
for him.

"Hello, Crocker, old man," shouted my client, "did you think I was
never coming back?

I've had lots of sport out of this hayseed captain" (and he poked
that official playfully), "but I didn't get any grub.

So we'll have to go to Far Harbor."

I caught the hint. Mr. Cooke had given out that he had started for Saville
to restock the larder.

"No," he continued, "Brass Buttons didn't let me get to Saville.

You see, when he got back to town last night they told him he had
been buncoed out of the biggest thing for years, and they got it
into his head that I was child enough to run a ferry for criminals.

They told him he wasn't the sleuth he thought he was, so he came
back.

They'll have the laugh on him now, for sure."
McCann listened with admirable good-nature, gravely pulling
at his cigar, and eyeing Mr.

Cooke with a friendly air of admiration.

"Mr. Crocker," he said, with melancholy humor, "it's leery I am
with the whole shooting-match.

Mr. Cooke here is a gentleman, every inch of him, and so be you, Mr.

Crocker. But I'm just after taking a look at the hole in the bottom
of the boat.

'Ye have yer bunks in queer places, Mr.

Cooke,' says I. It's not for me to be doubting a gentleman's word, sir,
but I'm thinking me man is over the hills and far away, and that's
true for ye."

Mr. Cooke winked expressively.

"McCann, you've been jerked," said he. "Have another bottle!"
The Sinclair towed us to Far Harbor for a consideration, the wind being
strong again from the south, and McCann was induced by the affable owner
to remain on the yellow-plush yacht. I cornered him before we had
gone a great distance.

"McCann," said I, "what made you come back to-day?"

"Faith, Mr. Crocker, I don't care if I am telling you. I always had a
liking for you, sir, and bechune you and me it was that divil
O'Meara what made all the trouble.

I wasn't taking his money, not me; the saints forbid!

But glory be to God, if he didn't raise a rumpus whin I come back without
Allen!

It was sure he was that the gent left that place, --what are ye
calling it?

--Mohair, in the Maria, and we telegraphs over to Asquith.

He swore I'd lose me job if I didn't fetch him to-day.

Mr.

Crocker, sir, it's the lumber business I'll be startin' next week," said
McCann.

"Don't let that worry you, McCann," I answered.

"I will see that you don't lose your place, and I give you my word again
that Charles Wrexell Allen has never been aboard this yacht, or at Mohair
to my knowledge.

What is more, I will prove it to-morrow to your satisfaction."

McCann's faith was touching.

"Ye're not to say another word, sir," he said, and he stuck out his
big hand, which I grasped warmly.

My affection for McCann still remains a strong one.

After my talk with McCann I was sitting on the forecastle propped against
the bitts of the Maria's anchor-chain, and looking at the swirling foam
cast up by the tug's propeller.

There were many things I wished to turn over in my mind just then, but
I had not long been in a state of reverie when I became conscious
that Miss Thorn was standing beside me.

I got to my feet.

"I have been wondering how long you would remain in that trance, Mr.

Crocker," she said.

"Is it too much to ask what you were thinking of?"

Now it so chanced that I was thinking of her at that moment. It would never
have done to say this, so I stammered.

And Miss Thorn was a young woman of tact.

"I should not have put that to so literal a man as you," she
declared.

"I fear that you are incapable of crossing swords.

And then," she added, with a slight hesitation that puzzled me, "I did not
come up here to ask you that,--I came to get your opinion."
"My opinion?" I repeated.

"Not your legal opinion," she replied, smiling, "but your opinion as a
citizen, as an individual, if you have one.

To be frank, I want your opinion of me. Do you happen to have such
a thing?"
I had. But I was in no condition to give it.

"Do you think me a very wicked girl?"

she asked, coloring.

"You once thought me inconsistent, I believe, but I am not that.
Have I done wrong in leading the Celebrity to the point where you saw
him this morning?"
"Heaven forbid!"

I cried fervently; "but you might have spared me a great deal had
you let me into the secret."

"Spared you a great deal," said Miss Thorn. "I--I don't quite understand."

"Well--" I began, and there I stayed.

All the words in the dictionary seemed to slip out of my grasp, and I
foundered. I realized I had said something which even in my wildest
moments I had not dared to think of.

My secret was out before I knew I possessed it. Bad enough had I told it
to Farrar in an unguarded second. But to her! I was blindly seeking some
way of escape when she said softly:

"Did you really care?"

I am man enough, I hope, when there is need to be.

And it matters not what I felt then, but the words came back to me.

"Marian," I said, "I cared more than you will ever learn."
But it seems that she had known all the time, almost since that
night I had met her at the train.

And how? I shall not pretend to answer, that being quite beyond me.

I am very sure of one thing, however, which is that I never told a
soul, man or woman, or even hinted at it.

How was it possible when I didn't know myself?

The light in the west was gone as we were pulled into Far Harbor, and the
lamps of the little town twinkled brighter than I had ever seen
them before.

I think they must have been reflected in our faces, since Miss
Trevor, when she came forward to look for us, saw something there
and openly congratulated us.

And this most embarrassing young woman demanded presently:

"How did it happen, Marian? Did you propose to him?"

I was about to protest indignantly, but Marian laid her hand on my
arm.

"Tell it not in Asquith," said she. "Irene, I won't have him teased
any more."
We were drawing up to the dock, and for the first time I saw that
a crowd was gathered there.

The report of this chase had gone abroad. Some began calling out to McCann
when we came within distance, among others the editor of the
Northern Lights, and beside him I perceived with amusement the
generous lines: of the person of Mr.

O'Meara himself.

I hurried back to give Farrar a hand with the ropes, and it was
O'Meara who caught the one I flung ashore and wound it around a pile.

The people pressed around, peering at our party on the Maria, and
I heard McCann exhorting them to make way.

And just then, as he was about to cross the plank, they parted for some
one from behind. A breathless messenger halted at the edge of the
wharf. He held out a telegram.

McCann seized it and dived into the cabin, followed closely by my client
and those of us who could push after. He tore open the envelope, his eye
ran over the lines, and then he began to slap his thigh and turn
around in a circle, like a man dazed.

"Whiskey!" shouted Mr. Cooke. "Get him a glass of Scotch!"
But McCann held up his hand.

"Holy Saint Patrick!" he said, in a husky voice, "it's upset I am,
bottom upwards. Will ye listen to this?"

"'Drew is your man. Reddish hair and long side whiskers, gray
clothes. Pretends to represent summer hotel syndicate. Allen at Asquith
unknown and harmless.

"' (Signed.) Everhardt."'
"Sew me up," said Mr. Cooke; "if that don't beat hell!"

CHAPTER XXI
In this world of lies the good and the bad are so closely intermingled
that frequently one is the means of obtaining the other.

Therefore, I wish very freely to express my obligations to the
Celebrity for any share he may have had in contributing to the
greatest happiness of my life.

Marian and I were married the very next month, October, at my client's
palatial residence of Mohair. This was at Mr. Cooke's earnest wish: and
since Marian was Mrs.

Cooke's own niece, and an orphan, there seemed no good reason why
my client should not be humored in the matter.

As for Marian and me, we did not much care whether we were married at
Mohair or the City of Mexico. Mrs. Cooke, I think, had a secret
preference for Germantown.

Mr. Cooke quite over-reached himself in that wedding. "The knot was
tied," as the papers expressed it, "under a huge bell of yellow roses."
The paper also named the figure which the flowers and the collation
and other things cost Mr.

Cooke. A natural reticence forbids me to repeat it. But, lest my
client should think that I undervalue his kindness, I will say
that we had the grandest wedding ever seen in that part of the world.

McCann was there, and Mr. Cooke saw to it that he had a punchbowl all
to himself in which to drink our healths: Judge Short was there,
still followed by the conjugal eye: and Senator Trevor, who remained
over, in a new long black coat to kiss the bride.

Mr. Cooke chartered two cars to carry guests from the East, besides
those who came as ordinary citizens.

Miss Trevor was of the party, and Farrar, of course, was best man. Would
that I had the flow of words possessed by the reporter of the
Chicago Sunday newspaper!

But there is one thing I must mention before Mrs.

Crocker and I leave for New York, in a shower of rice, on Mr.

Cooke's own private car, and that is my client's gift.

In addition to the check he gave Marian, he presented us with a
huge, 'repousse' silver urn he had had made to order, and he expressed
a desire that the design upon it should remind us of him forever
and ever.

I think it will. Mercury is duly set forth in a gorgeous equipage,
driving four horses around the world at a furious pace; and the
artist, by special instructions, had docked their tails.

From New York, Mrs. Crocker and I went abroad.

And it so chanced, in December, that we were staying a few days at a
country-place in Sussex, and the subject of The Sybarites was
broached at a dinner-party.

The book was then having its sale in England.

"Crocker," said our host, "do you happen to have met the author of
that book?

He's an American."
I looked across the table at my wife, and we both laughed.

"I happen to know him intimately," I replied.

"Do you, now?"

said the Englishman; "what a very entertaining chap he is, is he not?

I had him down in October, and, by Jove, we were laughing the blessed
time. He was telling us how he wrote his novels, and he said, 'pon my
soul he did, that he had a secretary or something of that sort to whom he
told the plot, and the secretary elaborated, you know, and wrote the
draft. And he said, 'pon my honor, that sometimes the clark wrote the
plot and all,--the whole blessed thing,--and that he never saw the
book except to sign his name to it."
"You say he was here in October?" asked Marian, when the laugh had
subsided.

"I have the date," answered our host, "for he left me an autograph
copy of The Sybarites when he went away."

And after dinner he showed us the book, with evident pride. Inscribed
on the fly-leaf was the name of the author, October 10th. But a glance
sufficed to convince both of us that the Celebrity had never written
it.

"John," said Marian to me, a suspicion of the truth crossing her mind,
"John, can it be the bicycle man?"

"Yes, it can be," I said; "it is."
"Well," said Marian, "he's been doing a little more for our friend than
we did."

Nor was this the last we heard of that meteoric trip through England, which
the alleged author of The Sybarites had indulged in. He did not go up to
London; not he. It was given out that he was travelling for his health,
that he did not wish to be lionized; and there were friends of
the author in the metropolis who had never heard of his secretary,
and who were at a loss to understand his conduct.

They felt slighted. One of these told me that the Celebrity had been
to a Lincolnshire estate where he had created a decided sensation by his
riding to hounds, something the Celebrity had never been known to do. And
before we crossed the Channel, Marian saw another autograph copy
of the famous novel.

One day, some months afterwards, we were sitting in our little salon
in a Paris hotel when a card was sent up, which Marian took.

"John," she cried, "it's the Celebrity."
It was the Celebrity, in the flesh, faultlessly groomed and clothed, with
frock coat, gloves, and stick.

_Christie (with dismal pathos)._ "Oh, Flucker, dinna speak evil o'
deegneties--that's maybe fishing for yoursel' the noo!---'An' ye shall
cut the flesh frae off his breest.'--'A sentence,' says Shylock, 'come,
prepare.'"

Christie made a dash _en Shylock,_ and the company trembled.

_Christie._ "'Bide a wee,' says the judge, 'this boend gies ye na a drap
o' bluid; the words expressly are, a pund o' flesh!'"

_(A Dramatic Pause.)_

_Jean Carnie (drawing her breath)._ "That's into your mutton, Shylock"

_Christie (with dismal pathos)._ "Oh, Jean! yon's an awfu' voolgar
exprassion to come fra' a woman's mooth."

"Could ye no hae said, 'intil his bacon'?" said Lizzie Johnstone,
confirming the remonstrance.

_Christie._ "'Then tak your boend, an' your pund o' flesh, but in cutting
o' 't, if thou dost shed one drop of Christian bluid, thou diest!'"

_Jean Carnie._ "Hech!"

_Christie._ "'Thy goods are by the laws Veneece con-fis-cate,
confiscate!'"

Then, like an artful narrator, she began to wind up the story more
rapidly.

"Sae Shylock got to be no sae saucy. 'Pay the boend thrice,' says he,
'and let the puir deevil go.'--'Here it's,' says Bassanio.--Na! the young
judge wadna let him.--'He has refused it in open coort; no a bawbee for
Shylock but just the forfeiture; an' he daur na tak it.'--'I'm awa','
says he. 'The deivil tak ye a'.'--Na! he wasna to win clear sae; ance
they'd gotten the Jew on the hep, they worried him, like good Christians,
that's a fact. The judge fand a law that fitted him, for conspiring
against the life of a citizen; an' he behooved to give up hoose an'
lands, and be a Christian; yon was a soor drap--he tarned no weel, puir
auld villain, an' scairtit; an' the lawyers sent ane o' their weary
parchments till his hoose, and the puir auld heathen signed awa' his
siller, an' Abraham, an' Isaac, an' Jacob, on the heed o' 't. I pity him,
an auld, auld man; and his dochter had rin off wi' a Christian lad--they
ca' her Jessica, and didn't she steal his very diamond ring that his ain
lass gied him when he was young, an' maybe no sae hard-hairted?"

_Jean Carnie._ "Oh, the jaud! suppose he was a Jew, it was na her
business to clean him oot."

_A young Fishwife._ "Aweel, it was only a Jew body, that's my comfort."

_Christie._ "Ye speak as a Jew was na a man; has not a Jew eyes, if ye
please?"

_Lizzy Johnstone._ "Ay, has he!--and the awfuest lang neb atween 'em."

_Christie._ "Has not a Jew affections, paassions, organs?"

_Jean._ "Na! Christie; thir lads comes fr' Italy!"

_Christie._ "If you prick him, does he not bleed? if you tickle him, does
na he lauch?"

_A young Fishwife (pertly)._ "I never kittlet a Jew, for my pairt--sae
I'll no can tell ye."

_Christie._ "If you poison him, does he not die? and if you wrang him"
(with fury) "shall he not revenge?"

_Lizzie Johnstone._ "Oh! but ye're a fearsome lass."

_Christie._ "Wha'll give me a sang for my bonny yarn?"

Lord Ipsden, who had been an unobserved auditor of the latter part of the
tale, here inquired whether she had brought her book.

"What'n buik?"

"Your music-book!"

"Here's my music-book," said Jean, roughly tapping her head.

"And here's mines," said Christie, birdly, touching her bosom.

"Richard," said she, thoughtfully, "I wish ye may no hae been getting in
voolgar company. Div ye think we hae minds like rinning water?"

_Flucker (avec malice)._ "And tongues like the mill-clack abune it?
Because if ye think sae, captain--ye're no far wrang!"

_Christie._ "Na! we hae na muckle gowd maybe; but our minds are gowden
vessels."

_Jean._ "Aha! lad."

_Christie._ "They are not saxpenny sieves, to let music an' meter
through, and leave us none the wiser or better. Dinna gang in low voolgar
company, or you a lost laddy."

_Ipsden._ "Vulgar, again! everybody has a different sense for that word,
I think. What is vulgar?"

_Christie._ "Voolgar folk sit on an chair, ane, twa, whiles three hours,
eatin' an' abune drinkin', as still as hoegs, or gruntin' puir every-day
clashes, goessip, rubbich; when ye are aside them, ye might as weel be
aside a cuddy; they canna gie ye a sang, they canna gie ye a story, they
canna think ye a thoucht, to save their useless lives; that's voolgar
folk."

She sings. "A caaller herrin'!"

_Jean._ "A caaller herrin'!"

_Omnes._

"Come buy my bonny caaller herrin', Six a penny caaller from the sea,"
etc.

The music chimed in, and the moment the song was done, without pause, or
anything to separate or chill the succession of the arts, the fiddles
diverged with a gallant plunge into "The Dusty Miller." The dancers found
their feet by an instinct as rapid, and a rattling reel shook the floor
like thunder. Jean Carnie assumed the privilege of a bride, and seized
his lordship; Christie, who had a mind to dance with him too, took
Flucker captive, and these four were one reel! There were seven others.

The principle of reel dancing is articulation; the foot strikes the
ground for every _accented_ note (and, by the by, it is their weakness of
accent which makes all English reel and hornpipe players such failures).

And in the best steps of all, which it has in common with the hornpipe,
such as the quick "heel and toe," "the sailor's fling," and the "double
shuffle," the foot strikes the ground for every _single_ note of the
instrument.

All good dancing is beautiful.

But this articulate dancing, compared with the loose, lawless diffluence
of motion that goes by that name, gives me (I must confess it) as much
more pleasure as articulate singing is superior to tunes played on the
voice by a young lady:

Or the clean playing of my mother to the piano-forte splashing of my
daughter; though the latter does attack the instrument as a washerwoman
her soapsuds, and the former works like a lady.

Or skating to sliding:

Or English verse to dactyls in English:

Or painting to daubing:

Or preserved strawberries to strawberry jam.

What says Goldsmith of the two styles? "They swam, sprawled, frisked, and
languished; but Olivia's foot was as pat to the music as its
echo."--_Vicar of Wakefield._

Newhaven dancing aims also at fun; laughter mingles with agility;
grotesque yet graceful gestures are flung in, and little inspiring cries
flung out.

His lordship soon entered into the spirit of it. Deep in the mystery of
the hornpipe, he danced one or two steps Jean and Christie had never
seen, but their eyes were instantly on his feet, and they caught in a
minute and executed these same steps.

To see Christie Johnstone do the double-shuffle with her arms so saucily
akimbo, and her quick elastic foot at an angle of forty-five, was a
treat.

The dance became inspiriting, inspiring, intoxicating; and, when the
fiddles at last left off, the feet went on another seven bars by the
enthusiastic impulse.

And so, alternately spinning yarns, singing songs, dancing, and making
fun, and mingling something of heart and brain in all, these benighted
creatures made themselves happy instead of peevish, and with a day of
stout, vigorous, healthy pleasure, refreshed, indemnified, and warmed
themselves for many a day of toil.

Such were the two picnics of Inch Coombe, and these rival cliques,
agreeing in nothing else, would have agreed in this: each, if allowed
(but we won't allow either) to judge the other, would have pronounced the
same verdict:

_"Ils ne savent pas vivre ces gens-l'a."_


CHAPTER XI.


Two of our personages left Inch Coombe less happy than when they came to
it.

Lord Ipsden encountered Lady Barbara with Mr.----, who had joined her
upon the island.

He found them discoursing, as usual, about the shams of the present day,
and the sincerity of Cromwell and Mahomet, and he found himself _de
trop._

They made him, for the first time, regret the loss of those earnest times
when, "to avoid the inconvenience of both addressing the same lady," you
could cut a rival's throat at once, and be smiled on by the fair and
society.

That a book-maker should blaspheme high civilization, by which alone he
exists, and one of whose diseases and flying pains he is, neither
surprised nor moved him; but that any human being's actions should be
affected by such tempestuous twaddle was ridiculous.

And that the witty Lady Barbara should be caught by this chaff was
intolerable; he began to feel bitter.

He had the blessings of the poor, the good opinion of the world; every
living creature was prepossessed in his favor but one, and that one
despised him; it was a diabolical prejudice; it was the spiteful caprice
of his fate.

His heart, for a moment, was in danger of deteriorating. He was
miserable; the Devil suggested to him, "make others miserable too;" and
he listened to the advice.

There was a fine breeze, but instead of sailing on a wind, as he might
have done, he made a series of tacks, and all were ill.

The earnest man first; and Flucker announced the skipper's insanity to
the whole town of Newhaven, for, of course, these tacks were all marine
solecisms.

The other discontented Picnician was Christie Johnstone. Gatty never
came; and this, coupled with five or six days' previous neglect, could no
longer pass unnoticed.

Her gayety failed her before the afternoon was ended; and the last two
hours were spent by her alone, watching the water on all sides for him.

At last, long after the departure of his lordship's yacht, the Newhaven
boat sailed from Inch Coombe with the wedding party. There was now a
strong breeze, and the water every now and then came on board. So the men
set the foresail with two reefs, and drew the mainsail over the women;
and there, as they huddled together in the dark, Jean Carnie discovered
that our gay story-teller's eyes were wet with tears.

Jean said nothing; she embraced her; and made them flow faster.

But, when they came alongside the pier, Jean, who was the first to get
her head from under the sail, whipped it back again and said to Christie:

"Here he is, Christie; dinna speak till him."

And sure enough there was, in the twilight, with a pale face and an
uneasy look--Mr. Charles Gatty!

He peered timidly into the boat, and, when he saw Christie, an "Ah!" that
seemed to mean twenty different things at once, burst from his bosom. He
held out his arm to assist her.

She cast on him one glance of mute reproach, and, placing her foot on the
boat's gunwale, sprang like an antelope upon the pier, without accepting
his assistance.

Before going further, we must go back for this boy, and conduct him from
where we left him up to the present point.

The moment he found himself alone with Jean Carnie, in his own house, he
began to tell her what trouble he was in; how his mother had convinced
him of his imprudence in falling in love with Christie Johnstone; and how
she insisted on a connection being broken off which had given him his
first glimpse of heaven upon earth, and was contrary to common sense.

Jean heard him out, and then, with the air of a lunatic-asylum keeper to
a rhodomontading patient, told him "he was one fool, and his mother was
another." First she took him up on the score of prudence.

"You," said she, "are a beggarly painter, without a rap; Christie has
houses, boats, nets, and money; you are in debt; she lays by money every
week. It is not prudent on her part to take up with you--the better your
bargain, my lad."

Under the head of common sense, which she maintained was all on the same
side of the question, she calmly inquired:

"How could an old woman of sixty be competent to judge how far human
happiness depends on love, when she has no experience of that passion,
and the reminiscences of her youth have become dim and dark? You might as
well set a judge in court, that has forgotten the law--common sense,"
said she, "the old wife is sixty, and you are twenty--what can she do for
you the forty years you may reckon to outlive her? Who is to keep you
through those weary years but the wife of your own choice, not your
mother's? You English does na read the Bible, or ye'd ken that a lad is
to 'leave his father and mother, and cleave until his wife,'" added she;
then with great contempt she repeated, "common sense, indeed! ye're fou
wi' your common sense; ye hae the name o' 't pat eneuch--but there's na
muckle o' that mairchandise in your harns."

Gatty was astonished. What! was there really common sense on the side of
bliss? and when Jean told him to join her party at Inch Coombe, or never
look her in the face again, scales seemed to fall from his eyes; and,
with a heart that turned in a moment from lead to a feather, he vowed he
would be at Inch Coombe.

He then begged Jean on no account to tell Christie the struggle he had
been subjected to, since his scruples were now entirely conquered.

Jean acquiesced at once, and said: "Indeed, she would be very sorry to
give the lass that muckle pain."

She hinted, moreover, that her neebor's spirit was so high, she was quite
capable of breaking with him at once upon such an intimation; and she,
Jean, was "nae mischief-maker."

In the energy of his gratitude, he kissed this dark-browed beauty,
professing to see in her a sister.

And she made no resistance to this way of showing gratitude, but muttered
between her teeth, "He's just a bairn!"

And so she went about her business.

On her retreat, his mother returned to him, and, with a sad air, hoped
nothing that that rude girl had said had weakened his filial duty.

"No, mother," said he.

She then, without explaining how she came acquainted with Jean's
arguments, proceeded to demolish them one by one.

"If your mother is old and experienced," said she, "benefit by her age
and experience. She has not forgotten love, nor the ills it leads to,
when not fortified by prudence. Scripture says a man shall cleave to his
wife when he has left his parents; but in making that, the most important
step of life, where do you read that he is to break the fifth
commandment? But I do you wrong, Charles, you never could have listened
to that vulgar girl when she told you your mother was not your best
friend."

"N--no, mother, of course not."

"Then you will not go to that place to break my heart, and undo all you
have done this week."

"I should like to go, mother."

"You will break my heart if you do."

"Christie will feel herself slighted, and she has not deserved this
treatment from me."

"The other will explain to her, and if she is as good a girl as you
say--"

"She is an angel!"

"How can a fishwife be an angel? Well, then, she will not set a son to
disobey his mother."

"I don't think she would! but is all the goodness to be on her side?"

"No, Charles, you do your part; deny yourself, be an obedient child, and
your mother's blessing and the blessing of Heaven will rest upon you."

In short, he was not to go to Inch Coombe.

He stayed at home, his mother set him to work; he made a poor hand of it,
he was so wretched. She at last took compassion on him, and in the
evening, when it was now too late for a sail to Inch Coombe, she herself
recommended a walk to him.

The poor boy's feet took him toward Newhaven, not that he meant to go to
his love, but he could not forbear from looking at the place which held
her.

He was about to return, when a spacious blue jacket hailed him. Somewhere
inside this jacket was Master Flucker, who had returned in the yacht,
leaving his sister on the island.

Gatty instantly poured out a flood of questions.

The baddish boy reciprocated fluency. He informed him "that his sister
had been the star of a goodly company, and that, her own lad having
stayed away, she had condescended to make a conquest of the skipper
himself.

"He had come in quite at the tag-end of one of her stories, but it had
been sufficient to do his business--he had danced with her, had even
whistled while she sung. (Hech, it was bonny!)

"And when the cutter sailed, he, Flucker, had seen her perched on a rock,
like a mermaid, watching their progress, which had been slow, because the
skipper, infatuated with so sudden a passion, had made a series of
ungrammatical tacks."

"For his part he was glad," said the gracious Flucker; "the lass was a
prideful hussy, that had given some twenty lads a sore heart and him many
a sore back; and he hoped his skipper, with whom he naturally identified
himself rather than with his sister, would avenge the male sex upon her."

In short, he went upon this tack till he drove poor Gatty nearly mad.

Here was a new feeling superadded; at first he felt injured, but on
reflection what cause of complaint had he?

He had neglected her; he might have been her partner--he had left her to
find one where she could.

Fool, to suppose that so beautiful a creature would ever be
neglected--except by him!

It was more than he could bear.

He determined to see her, to ask her forgiveness, to tell her everything,
to beg her to decide, and, for his part, he would abide by her decision.

Christie Johnstone, as we have already related, declined his arm, sprang
like a deer upon the pier, and walked toward her home, a quarter of a
mile distant.

Gatty followed her, disconsolately, hardly knowing what to do.

At last, observing that she drew near enough to the wall to allow room
for another on the causeway, he had just nous enough to creep alongside
and pull her sleeve somewhat timidly.

"Christie, I want to speak to you:"

"What can ye hae to say till me?"

"Christie, I am very unhappy; and I want to tell you why, but I have
hardly the strength or the courage."

"Ye shall come ben my hoose if ye are unhappy, and we'll hear your story;
come away.

He had never been admitted into her house before.

They found it clean as a snowdrift.

They found a bright fire, and Flucker frying innumerable steaks.

The baddish boy had obtained them in his sister's name and at her
expense, at the flesher's, and claimed credit for his affection.

Potatoes he had boiled in their jackets, and so skillfully, that those
jackets hung by a thread.

Christie laid an unbleached table-cloth, that somehow looked sweeter than
a white one, as brown bread is sweeter than white.

But lo! Gatty could not eat; so then Christie would not, because he
refused her cheer.

The baddish boy chuckled, and addressed himself to the nice brown steaks
with their rich gravy.

On such occasions a solo on the knife and fork seemed better than a trio
to the gracious Flucker.

Christie moved about the room, doing little household matters; Gatty's
eye followed her.

Her beauty lost nothing in this small apartment; she was here, like a
brilliant in some quaint, rough setting, which all earth's jewelers
should despise, and all its poets admire, and it should show off the
stone and not itself.

Lincoln scares me into that belief. I don't count his bluster worth
a cent.

No sirree! It's this youngster who comes out here from Boston and buys a
nigger with all the money he's got in the world.

And if he's an impetuous young fool; I'm no judge of men."
"Appleton Brice wasn't precisely impetuous," remarked Mr. Whipple. And he
smiled a little bitterly, as though the word had stirred a memory.

"I like that young fellow," Mr. Carvel continued. "It seems to be a kind
of fatality with me to get along with Yankees.

I reckon there's a screw loose somewhere, but Brice acted the man
all the way through.

He goa a fall out of you, Silas, in your room, after the show. Where
are you going, Jinny?"

Virginia had risen, and she was standing very erects with a flush on her
face, waiting for her father to finish.

"To see Anne Brinsmade," she said.

"Good-by, Uncle Silas."
She had called him so from childhood.

Hers was the one voice that seemed to soften him--it never failed. He
turned to her now with a movement that was almost gentle.

"Virginia, I should like you to know my young Yankee," said he.

"Thank you, Uncle Silas," said the girl, with dignity, "but I
scarcely think that he would care to know me.

He feels so strongly."

"He feels no stronger than I do," replied the Judge.

"You have gotten used to me in eighteen years, and besides," she
flashed, "you never spent all the money you had in the world for a
principle."

Mr. Whipple smiled as she went out of the door.

"I have spent pretty near all," he said. But more to himself than to the
Colonel.

That evening, some young people came in to tea, two of the four big
Catherwood boys, Anne Brinsmade and her brother Jack, Puss Russell
and Bert, and Eugenie Renault.

But Virginia lost her temper. In an evil moment Puss Russell started
the subject of the young Yankee who had deprived her of Hester.
Puss was ably seconded by Jack Brinsmade, whose reputation as a
tormentor extended far back into his boyhood.In short, he never said a word to Christie about parting with her, but
several about being buried in the same grave with her, sixty years hence,
for which the spot he selected was Westminster Abbey.

And away he went, leaving golden opinions behind him.

The next day Christie was so affected with his conduct, coming as it did
after an apparent coolness, that she conquered her bashfulness and called
on the "vile count," and with some blushes and hesitation inquired,
"Whether a painter lad was a fit subject of charity."

"Why not?" said his lordship.

She told him Gatty's case, and he instantly promised to see that artist's
pictures, particularly an "awfu' bonny ane;" the hero of which she
described as an English minister blessing the bairns with one hand, and
giving orders to kill the puir Scoetch with the other.

"C'est e'gal," said Christie in Scotch, "it's awfu' bonny."

Gatty reached home late; his mother had retired to rest.

But the next morning she drew from him what had happened, and then ensued
another of those dialogues which I am ashamed again to give the reader.

Suffice it to say, that she once more prevailed, though with far greater
difficulty; time was to be given him to unsew a connection which he could
not cut asunder, and he, with tearful eyes and a heavy heart, agreed to
take some step the very first opportunity.

This concession was hardly out of his mouth, ere his mother made him
kneel down and bestowed her blessing upon him.

He received it coldly and dully, and expressed a languid hope it might
prove a charm to save him from despair; and sad, bitter, and dejected,
forced himself to sit down and work on the picture that was to meet his
unrelenting creditor's demand.

He was working on his picture, and his mother, with her needle, at the
table, when a knock was heard, and gay as a lark, and fresh as the dew on
the shamrock, Christie Johnstone stood in person in the apartment.

She was evidently the bearer of good tidings; but, before she could
express them, Mrs. Gatty beckoned her son aside, and announcing, "she
should be within hearing," bade him take the occasion that so happily
presented itself, and make the first step.

At another time, Christie, who had learned from Jean the arrival of Mrs.
Gatty, would have been struck with the old lady's silence; but she came
to tell the depressed painter that the charitable viscount was about to
visit him and his picture; and she was so full of the good fortune likely
to ensue, that she was neglectful of minor considerations.

It so happened, however, that certain interruptions prevented her from
ever delivering herself of the news in question.

First, Gatty himself came to her, and, casting uneasy glances at the door
by which his mother had just gone out, said:

"Christie!"

"My lad!"

"I want to paint your likeness."

This was for a _souvenir,_ poor fellow!

"Hech! I wad like fine to be painted."

"It must be exactly the same size as yourself, and so like you, that,
should we be parted, I may seem not to be quite alone in the world."

Here he was obliged to turn his head away.

"But we'll no pairt," replied Christie, cheerfully. "Suppose ye're puir,
I'm rich, and it's a' one; dinna be so cast down for auchty pund."

At this, a slipshod servant entered, and said: "There's a fisher lad,
inquiring for Christie Johnstone."

"It will be Flucker," said Christie; "show him ben. What's wrang the noo
I wonder!"

The baddish boy entered, took up a position and remained apparently
passive, hands in pockets.

_Christie._ "Aweel, what est?"

_Flucker._ "Custy."

_Christie._ "What's your will, my manny?"

_Flucker._ "Custy, I was at Inch Keith the day."

_Christie._ "And hae ye really come to Edinbro' to tell me thaat?"

_Flucker (dryly)._ "Oh! ye ken the lasses are a hantle wiser than we
are--will ye hear me? South Inch Keith, I played a bowl i' the water,
just for divairsion--and I catched twarree fish!"

_Christie._ "Floonders, I bet."

_Flucker._ "Does floonders swim high? I'll let you see his gills, and if
ye are a reicht fishwife ye'll smell bluid."

Here he opened his jacket, and showed a bright little fish.

In a moment all Christie's nonchalance gave way to a fiery animation. She
darted to Flucker's side.

"Ye hae na been sae daft as tell?" asked she.

Flucker shook his head contemptuously.

"Ony birds at the island, Flucker?"

"Sea-maws, plenty, and a bird I dinna ken; he moonted sae high, then doon
like thunder intil the sea, and gart the water flee as high as Haman, and
porpoises as big as my boat."

"Porr-poises, fulish laddy--ye hae seen the herrin whale at his wark, and
the solant guse ye hae seen her at wark; and beneath the sea, Flucker,
every coedflsh and doegfish, and fish that has teeth, is after them; and
half Scotland wad be at Inch Keith Island if they kenned what ye hae
tell't me--dinna speak to me."

During this, Gatty, who did not comprehend this sudden excitement, or
thought it childish, had tried in vain to win her attention.

At last he said, a little peevishly, "Will you not attend to me, and tell
me at least when you will sit to me?"

Set!" cried she. "When there's nae wark to be done stanning."

And with this she was gone.

At the foot of the stairs, she said to her brother:

"Puir lad! I'll sune draw auchty punds fra' the sea for him, with my
feyther's nets."

As she disappeared, Mrs. Gatty appeared. "And this is the woman whose
mind was not in her dirty business," cried she. "Does not that open your
eyes, Charles?"

"Ah! Charles," added she, tenderly, "there's no friend like a mother."

And off she carried the prize--his vanity had been mortified.

And so that happened to Christie Johnstone which has befallen many a
woman--the greatness of her love made that love appear small to her
lover.

"Ah! mother," cried he, "I must live for you and my art; I am not so dear
to her as I thought."

And so, with a sad heart, he turned away from her; while she, with a
light heart, darted away to think and act for him.


CHAPTER XII.


IT was some two hours after this that a gentleman, plainly dressed, but
whose clothes seemed a part of himself (whereas mine I have observed hang
upon me; and the Rev. Josiah Splitall's stick to him)--glided into the
painter's room, with an inquiry whether he had not a picture or two
disposable.

"I have one finished picture, sir," said the poor boy; "but the price is
high!"

He brought it, in a faint-hearted way; for he had shown it to five
picture-dealers, and all five agreed it was hard.

He had painted a lime-tree, distant fifty yards, and so painted it that
it looked something like a lime-tree fifty yards off.

"That was _mesquin,"_ said his judges; "the poetry of painting required
abstract trees, at metaphysical distance, not the various trees of
nature, as they appear under positive accidents."

On this Mr. Gatty had deluged them with words.

"When it is art, truth, or sense to fuse a cow, a horse, and a critic
into one undistinguishable quadruped, with six legs, then it will be art
to melt an ash, an elm, and a lime, things that differ more than
quadrupeds, into what you call abstract trees, that any man who has seen
a tree, as well as looked at one, would call drunken stinging-nettles.
You, who never look at nature, how can you judge the arts, which are all
but copies of nature? At two hundred yards' distance, full-grown trees
are more distinguishable than the animal tribe. Paint me an abstract
human being, neither man nor a woman," said he, "and then I will agree to
paint a tree that shall be no tree; and, if no man will buy it, perhaps
the father of lies will take it off my hands, and hang it in the only
place it would not disgrace."

In short, he never left off till he had crushed the non-buyers with
eloquence and satire; but he could not crush them into buyers--they beat
him at the passive retort.

Poor Gatty, when the momentary excitement of argument had subsided, drank
the bitter cup all must drink awhile, whose bark is alive and strong
enough to stem the current down which the dead, weak things of the world
are drifting, many of them into safe harbors.

And now he brought out his picture with a heavy heart.

"Now," said he to himself, "this gentleman will talk me dead, and leave
me no richer in coin, and poorer in time and patience."

The picture was placed in a light, the visitor sat down before it.

A long pause ensued.

"Has he fainted?" thought Gatty, ironically; "he doesn't gabble."

"If you do not mind painting before me," said the visitor, "I should be
glad if you would continue while I look into this picture."

Gatty painted.

The visitor held his tongue.

At first the silence made the artist uneasy, but by degrees it began to
give him pleasure; whoever this was, it was not one of the flies that had
hitherto stung him, nor the jackdaws that had chattered him dead.

Glorious silence! he began to paint under its influence like one
inspired.

Half an hour passed thus.

"What is the price of this work of art?"

"Eighty pounds."

"I take it," said his visitor, quietly.

What, no more difficulty than that? He felt almost disappointed at
gaining his object so easily.

"I am obliged to you, sir; much obliged to you," he added, for he
reflected what eighty pounds were to him just then.

"It is my descendants who are obliged to you," replied the gentleman;
"the picture is immortal!"

These words were an epoch in the painter's life.

The grave, silent inspection that had preceded them, the cool,
deliberate, masterly tone in which they were said, made them oracular to
him.

Words of such import took him by surprise.

He had thirsted for average praise in vain.

A hand had taken him, and placed him at the top of the tree.

He retired abruptly, or he would have burst into tears.

He ran to his mother.

"Stephen, how can you! We came West in order that you might have more
chance for the career to which you are entitled. Our friends in
Boston were more than good."

He left the window and came and stood behind her chair, his hands
clasped playfully beneath her chin.

"Have you the exact date about you, mother?"
"What date, Stephen?"

"When I shall leave St. Louis for the United States Senate.
And you must not forget that there is a youth limit in our
Constitution for senators."

Then the widow smiled,--a little sadly, perhaps.

But still a wonderfully sweet smile.

And it made her strong face akin to all that was human and helpful.

"I believe that you have the subject of my first speech in that august
assembly. And, by the way, what was it?"

"It was on 'The Status of the Emigrant,'" she responded instantly, thereby
proving that she was his mother.

"And it touched the Rights of Privacy," he added, laughing, "which
do not seem to exist in St.

Louis boarding-houses."
"In the eyes of your misguided profession, statesmen and authors
and emigrants and other public charges have no Rights of Privacy,"
said she.

"Mr. Longfellow told me once that they were to name a brand of flour
for him, and that he had no redress."

"Have you, too, been up before Miss Crane's Commission?" he asked, with
amused interest.

His mother laughed.

"Yes," she said quietly.

"They have some expert members," he continued.

"This Mrs. Abner Reed could be a shining light in any bar. I overheard a
part of her cross-examination.

She--she had evidently studied our case--"
"My dear," answered Mrs. Brice, "I suppose they know all about us."

She was silent a moment, I had so hoped that they wouldn't.

They lead the same narrow life in this house that they did in their little
New England towns. They--they pity us, Stephen."
"Mother!"

"I did not expect to find so many New Englanders here--I wish that Mr.
Whipple had directed us elsewhere-"
"He probably thought that we should feel at home among New Englanders. I
hope the Southerners will be more considerate. I believe they will," he
added.

"They are very proud," said his mother. "A wonderful people,--born
aristocrats. You don't remember those Randolphs with whom we travelled
through England.

They were with us at Hollingdean, Lord Northwell's place. You were too small
at the time.

There was a young girl, Eleanor Randolph, a beauty. I shall never
forget the way she entered those English drawing-rooms.

They visited us once in Beacon Street, afterwards.
And I have heard that there are a great many good Southern families
here in St.

Louis."

"You did not glean that from Judge Whipple's letter, mother," said Stephen,
mischievously.

"He was very frank in his letter," sighed Mrs. Brice.

"I imagine he is always frank, to put it delicately."
"Your father always spoke in praise of Silas Whipple, my dear. I have heard
him call him one of the ablest lawyers in the country. He won a remarkable
case for Appleton here, and he once said that the Judge would have
sat on the Supreme Bench if he had not been pursued with such
relentlessness by rascally politicians."

"The Judge indulges in a little relentlessness now and then, himself.

He is not precisely what might be termed a mild man, if what we hear is
correct."
Mrs. Brice started.

"What have you heard?" she asked.

"Well, there was a gentleman on the steamboat who said that it took
more courage to enter the Judge's private office than to fight a
Border Ruffian.

And another, a young lawyer, who declared that he would rather face
a wild cat than ask Whipple a question on the new code.

And yet he said that the Judge knew more law than any man in the
West.

And lastly, there is a polished gentleman named Hopper here from Massachusetts
who enlightened me a little more."
Stephen paused and bit his tongue. He saw that she was distressed by
these things. Heaven knows that she had borne enough trouble in the last
few months.

"Come, mother," he said gently, "you should know how to take my jokes
by this time. I didn't mean it. I am sure the Judge is a good man,--one
of those aggressive good men who make enemies. I have but a single
piece of guilt to accuse him of."
"And what is that?" asked the widow.

"The cunning forethought which he is showing in wishing to have it said
that a certain Senator and Judge Brice was trained in his office."

"Stephen--you goose!"

she said.

Her eye wandered around the room,--Widow Crane's best bedroom.

It was dimly lighted by an extremely ugly lamp.

The hideous stuffy bed curtains and the more hideous imitation marble
mantel were the two objects that held her glance. There was no change
in her calm demeanor.

But Stephen, who knew his mother, felt that her little elation over
her arrival had ebbed, Neither would confess dejection to the other.

"I--even I--" said Stephen, tapping his chest, "have at least made
the acquaintance of one prominent citizen, Mr.

Eliphalet D. Hopper. According to Mr. Dickens, he is a true American
gentleman, for he chews tobacco.

He has been in St. Louis five years, is now assistant manager of the
largest dry goods house, and still lives in one of Miss Crane's
four-dollar rooms.

I think we may safely say that he will be a millionaire before I
am a senator."

He paused.

"And mother?"

"Yes, dear."

He put his hands in his pockets and walked over to the window.

"I think that it would be better if I did the same thing."
"What do you mean, my son--"
"If I went to work,--started sweeping out a store, I mean.

See here, mother, you've sacrificed enough for me already.

After paying father's debts, we've come out here with only a few
thousand dollars, and the nine hundred I saved out of this year's
Law School allowance.

What shall we do when that is gone? The honorable legal profession, as
my friend reminded me to-night, is not the swiftest road to millions."

With a mother's discernment she guessed the agitation, he was
striving to hide; she knew that he had been gathering courage for
this moment for months.

And she knew that he was renouncing thus lightly, for her sake an
ambition he had had from his school days.

Widow passed her hand over her brow.

It was a space before she answered him.

"My son," she said, let us never speak of this again:
"It was your father's dearest wish that you should become a lawyer
and --and his wishes are sacred God will take care of us."

She rose and kissed him good-night.

"Remember, my dear, when you go to Judge Whipple in the morning,
remember his kindness, and--."

"And keep my temper. I shall, mother."
A while later he stole gently back into her room again.

She was on her knees by the walnut bedstead.

At nine the next manning Stephen left Miss Crane's, girded for the
struggle with the redoubtable Silas Whipple. He was not afraid, but a poor
young man as an applicant to a notorious dragon is not likely to be
bandied with velvet, even though the animal had been a friend of
his father.

Dragons as a rule have had a hard rime in their youths, and believe in
others having a hard time.

To a young man, who as his father's heir in Boston had been the subject
of marked consideration by his elders, the situation was keenly
distasteful.

But it had to be gone through. So presently, after inquiry, he came
to the open square where the new Court House stood, the dome of
which was indicated by a mass of staging, and one wing still to be
completed. Across from the building, on Market Street, and in the middle
of the block, what had once been a golden hand pointed up a narrow
dusty stairway.

Here was a sign, "Law office of Silas Whipple."
Stephen climbed the stairs, and arrived at a ground glass door, on
which the sign was repeated.

Behind that door was the future: so he opened it fearfully, with an
impulse to throw his arm above his head.

But he was struck dumb on beholding, instead of a dragon, a good-natured
young man who smiled a broad welcome. The reaction was as great as though
one entered a dragon's den, armed to the teeth, to find a St. Bernard
doing the honors.

Stephen's heart went out to this young man,--after that organ had jumped
back into its place.

This keeper of the dragon looked the part. Even the long black coat which
custom then decreed could not hide the bone and sinew under it. The young
man had a broad forehead, placid Dresden-blue eyes, flaxen hair,
and the German coloring.

Across one of his high cheek-bones was a great jagged scar which seemed
to add distinction to his appearance. That caught Stephen's eye, and held
it.

He wondered whether it were the result of an encounter with the Judge.

"You wish to see Mr.

Whipple?" he asked, in the accents of an educated German.

"Yes," said Stephen, "if he isn't busy."
"He is out," said the other, with just a suspicion of a 'd' in the
word.

"You know he is much occupied now, fighting election frauds.

You read the papers?"
"I am a stranger here," said Stephen.

"Ach!" exclaimed the German, "now I know you, Mr. Brice. The young one
from Boston the Judge spoke of. But you did not tell him of your arrival."

"I did not wish to bother him," Stephen replied, smiling.

"My name is Richter--Carl Richter, sir."
The pressure of Mr. Richter's big hands warmed Stephen as nothing else
had since he had come West. He was moved to return it with a little
more fervor than he usually showed.

And he felt, whatever the Judge might be, that he had a powerful
friend near at hand--Mr.

Richter's welcome came near being an embrace.

"Sit down, Mr. Brice," he said; "mild weather for November, eh? The Judge
will be here in an hour."
Stephen looked around him: at the dusty books on the shelves, and the
still dustier books heaped on Mr.

Richter's big table; at the cuspidors; at the engravings of Washington
and Webster; at the window in the jog which looked out on the
court-house square; and finally at another ground-glass door on
which was printed:

SILAS WHIPPLE 
PRIVATE
This, then, was the den,--the arena in which was to take place a
memorable interview.

But the thought of waiting an hour for the dragon to appear was
disquieting.

Stephen remembered that he had something over nine hundred dollars
in his pocket (which he had saved out of his last year's allowance
at the Law School).

So he asked Mr. Richter, who was dusting off a chair, to direct him to
the nearest bank.

"Why, certainly," said he; "Mr. Brinsmade's bank on Chestnut Street."

He took Stephen to the window and pointed across the square.

"I am sorry I cannot go with you," he added, "but the Judge's negro,
Shadrach, is out, and I must stay in the office. I will give you a note
to Mr.

Brinsmade."

"His negro!" exclaimed Stephen. "Why, I thought that Mr. Whipple was an
Abolitionist."
Mr.

Richter laughed.

"The man is free," said he. "The Judge pays him wages."
Stephen thanked his new friend for the note to the bank president, and went
slowly down the stairs. To be keyed up to a battle-pitch, and then to
have the battle deferred, is a trial of flesh and spirit.

As he reached the pavement, he saw people gathering in front of the
wide entrance of the Court House opposite, and perched on the
copings.

He hesitated, curious. Then he walked slowly toward the place, and
buttoning his coat, pushed through the loafers and passers-by dallying
on the outskirts of the crowd. There, in the bright November
sunlight, a sight met his eyes which turned him sick and dizzy.

Against the walls and pillars of the building, already grimy with soot,
crouched a score of miserable human beings waiting to be sold at
auction.

Mr. Lynch's slave pen had been disgorged that morning. Old and young,
husband and wife,--the moment was come for all and each. How hard the
stones and what more pitiless than the gaze of their fellow-creatures
in the crowd below!

O friends, we who live in peace and plenty amongst our families,
how little do we realize the terror and the misery and the dumb
heart-aches of those days!

Stephen thought with agony of seeing his own mother sold before his eyes,
and the building in front of him was lifted from its foundation
and rocked even as shall the temples on the judgment day.

The oily auctioneer was inviting the people to pinch the wares. Men came
forward to feel the creatures and look into their mouths, and one
brute, unshaven and with filthy linen, snatched a child from its
mother's lap Stephen shuddered with the sharpest pain he had ever
known.

An ocean-wide tempest arose in his breast, Samson's strength to break
the pillars of the temple to slay these men with his bare hands.

Seven generations of stern life and thought had their focus here in
him,--from Oliver Cromwell to John Brown.

Stephen was far from prepared for the storm that raged within him. He had
not been brought up an Abolitionist--far from it.

Nor had his father's friends--who were deemed at that time the
best people in Boston--been Abolitionists.

Only three years before, when Boston had been aflame over the delivery
of the fugitive Anthony Burns, Stephen had gone out of curiosity to the
meeting at Faneuil Hall.

How well he remembered his father's indignation when he confessed
it, and in his anger Mr.

Brice had called Phillips and Parker "agitators."

But his father, nor his father's friends in Boston had never been brought
face to face with this hideous traffic.

Hark! Was that the sing-song voice of the auctioneer He was selling
the cattle.

High and low, caressing an menacing, he teased and exhorted them to
buy. The were bidding, yes, for the possession of souls, bidding
in the currency of the Great Republic.

And between the eager shouts came a moan of sheer despair.

What was the attendant doing now?

He was tearing two of then: from a last embrace.

Three--four were sold while Stephen was in a dream
Then came a lull, a hitch, and the crowd began to chatter gayly.

But the misery in front of him held Stephen in a spell.

Figures stood out from the group. A white-haired patriarch, with eyes
raised to the sky; a flat-breasted woman whose child was gone, whose
weakness made her valueless. Then two girls were pushed forth, one a
quadroon of great beauty, to be fingered.

Stephen turned his face away,--to behold Mr.

Eliphalet Hopper looking calmly on.

"Wal, Mr.

Brice, this is an interesting show now, ain't it?

Something we don't have.

I generally stop here to take a look when I'm passing."

And he spat tobacco juice on the coping.

Stephen came to his senses.

"And you are from New England?" he said.

Mr. Hopper laughed.

"Tarnation!" said he, "you get used to it.

When I came here, I was a sort of an Abolitionist.

But after you've lived here awhile you get to know that niggers
ain't fit for freedom."

Silence from Stephen.

"Likely gal, that beauty," Eliphalet continued unrepressed.

"There's a well-known New Orleans dealer named Jenkins after her. I callate
she'll go down river."
"I reckon you're right, Mistah," a man with a matted beard chimed
in, and added with a wink: "She'll find it pleasant enough--fer a
while.

Some of those other niggers will go too, and they'd rather go to hell. They
do treat 'em nefarious down thah on the wholesale plantations.

Household niggers! there ain't none better off than them.

But seven years in a cotton swamp,--seven years it takes, that's
all, Mistah."

Stephen moved away. He felt that to stay near the man was to be
tempted to murder.

He moved away, and just then the auctioneer yelled, "Attention!"

"Gentlemen," he cried, "I have heah two sisters, the prope'ty of
the late Mistah Robe't Benbow, of St.

Louis, as fine a pair of wenches as was ever offe'd to the public from
these heah steps--"
"Speak for the handsome gal," cried a wag.

"Sell off the cart hoss fust," said another.

The auctioneer turned to the darker sister:

"Sal ain't much on looks, gentlemen," he said, "but she's the best
nigger for work Mistah Benbow had."

He seized her arm and squeezed it, while the girl flinched and drew
back.

"She's solid, gentlemen, and sound as a dollar, and she kin sew and
cook.

Twenty-two years old. What am I bid?"
Much to the auctioneer's disgust, Sal was bought in for four hundred
dollars, the interest in the beautiful sister having made the crowd
impatient.

Stephen, sick at heart, turned to leave. Halfway to the corner he met
a little elderly man who was the color of a dried gourd.

And just as Stephen passed him, this man was overtaken by an old negress,
with tears streaming down her face, who seized the threadbare hem
of his coat.

Stephen paused involuntarily.

"Well, Nancy," said the little man, "we had marvellous luck. I was able
to buy your daughter for you with less than the amount of your
savings."

"T'ank you, Mistah Cantah," wailed the poor woman, "t'ank you, suh.

Praised be de name ob de Lawd. He gib me Sal again.

Oh, Mistah Cantah" (the agony in that cry), "is you gwineter stan' heah an'
see her sister Hester sol' to--to--oh, ma little Chile! De little Chile
dat I nussed, dat I raised up in God's 'ligion.

Mistah Cantah, save her, suh, f'om dat wicked life o' sin.

De Lawd Jesus'll rewa'd you, suh.

Dis ole woman'll wuk fo' you twell de flesh drops off'n her fingers, suh."

And had he not held her, she would have gone down on her knees on
the stone flagging before him.

Her suffering was stamped on the little man's face--and it seemed
to Stephen that this was but one trial more which adversity had
brought to Mr.

Canter.

"Nancy," he answered (how often, and to how many, must he have had to say
the same thing), "I haven't the money, Nancy.

Would to God that I had, Nancy!"

She had sunk down on the bricks. But she had not fainted.

It was not so merciful as that.

It was Stephen who lifted her, and helped her to the coping, where
she sat with her bandanna awry.

Stephen was not of a descent to do things upon impulse.

But the tale was told in after days that one of his first actions
in St. Louis was of this nature. The waters stored for ages in the
four great lakes, given the opportunity, rush over Niagara Falls
into Ontario.

"Take the woman away," said Stephen, in a low voice, "and I will buy the
girl,--if I can."

The little man looked up, dazed.

"Give me your card,--your address. I will buy the girl, if I can, and
set her free."

He fumbled in his pocket and drew out a dirty piece of pasteboard. It
read: "R. Canter, Second Hand Furniture, 20 Second Street." And still he
stared at Stephen, as one who gazes upon a mystery. A few curious
pedestrians had stopped in front of them.

"Get her away, if you can, for God's sake," said Stephen again.

And he strode off toward the people at the auction. He was trembling.

In his eagerness to reach a place of vantage before the girl was
sold, he pushed roughly into the crowd.

But suddenly he was brought up short by the blocky body of Mr.

Hopper, who grunted with the force of the impact.

"Gosh," said that gentleman, "but you are inters'ted.

They ain't begun to sell her yet--he's waitin' for somebody.

Callatin' to buy her?" asked Mr.
Hopper, with genial humor.

Stephen took a deep breath. If he knocked Mr.

Hopper down, he certainly could not buy her. And it was a relief to
know that the sale had not begun.

As for Eliphalet, he was beginning to like young Brice.

He approved of any man from Boston who was not too squeamish to
take pleasure in a little affair of this kind.

As for Stephen, Mr.

Hopper brought him back to earth. He ceased trembling, and began to
think.

"Tarnation!" said Eliphalet.

"There's my boss, Colonel Carvel across the street. Guess I'd better
move on. But what d'ye think of him for a real Southern gentleman?"

"The young dandy is his nephew, Clarence Colfax. He callates to own this
town."

Eliphalet was speaking leisurely, as usual, while preparing to move. "That's
Virginia Carvel, in red. Any gals down Boston-way to beat her? Guess
you won't find many as proud."
He departed. And Stephen glanced absently at the group. They were picking
their way over the muddy crossing toward him.

Was it possible that these people were coming to a slave auction?

Surely not. And yet here they were on the pavement at his very side.

She wore a long Talma of crimson cashmere, and her face was in that
most seductive of frames, a scoop bonnet of dark green velvet, For
a fleeting second her eyes met his, and then her lashes fell.

But he was aware, when he had turned away, that she was looking at him
again. He grew uneasy.

He wondered whether his appearance betrayed his purpose, or made a
question of his sanity.

Sanity! Yes, probably he was insane from her point of view. A sudden anger
shook him that she should be there calmly watching such a scene.

Just then there was a hush among the crowd.

The beautiful slave-girl was seized roughly by the man in charge
and thrust forward, half fainting, into view.

Stephen winced. But unconsciously he turned, to see the effect upon
Virginia Carvel.

Thank God! There were tears upon her lashes.

Here was the rasp of the auctioneer's voice:-- "Gentlemen, I reckon
there ain't never been offered to bidders such an opportunity as
this heah.

Look at her well, gentlemen.

I ask you, ain't she a splendid creature?"
Colonel Carvel, in annoyance, started to move on.

"Come Jinny," he said, "I had no business to bring you aver."
But Virginia caught his arm. "Pa," she cried, "it's Mr. Benbow's
Hester.

Don't go, dear. Buy her for me You know that I always wanted her.
Please!"
The Colonel halted, irresolute, and pulled his goatee Young Colfax
stepped in between them.

"I'll buy her for you, Jinny. Mother promised you a present, you know, and
you shall have her."

Virginia had calmed.

"Do buy her, one of you," was all she said
"You may do the bidding, Clarence," said the Colonel, "and we'll
settle the ownership afterward."

Taking Virginia's arm, he escorted her across the street.

Stephen was left in a quandary. Here was a home for the girl, and
a good one.

Why should me spend the money which meant so much to him. He saw the
man Jenkin elbowing to the front.

And yet--suppose Mr. Colfax did not get her? He had promised to buy her
if he could, and to set her free:

Stephen had made up his mind: He shouldered his way after Jenkins.

CHAPTER V 
THE FIRST SPARK PASSES
"Now, gentlemen," shouted the auctioneer when he had finished his
oration upon the girl's attractions, "what 'tin I bid? Eight hundred?"

Stephen caught his breath. There was a long pause no one cared to
start the bidding.
"Come, gentlemen, come! There's my friend Alf Jenkins. He knows
what she's worth to a cent. What'll you give, Alf? Is it eight
hundred?"
Mr. Jenkins winked at the auction joined in the laugh.
"Three hundred!" he said.
The auctioneer was mortally offended. Then some one cried:--"Three
hundred and fifty!"
It was young Colfax. He was recognized at once, by name, evidently
as a person of importance.
"Thank you, Mistah Colfax, suh," said the auctioneer, with a servile
wave of the hand in his direction, while the crowd twisted their
necks to see him. He stood very straight, very haughty, as if
entirely oblivious to his conspicuous position.
"Three seventy-five!"
"That's better, Mistah Jenkins," said the auctioneer, sarcastically.
He turned to the girl, who might have stood to a sculptor for a
figure of despair.Before tobacco the evil passions fall, they tell me.

The cause of this quarrel soon explained itself; up came Sandy Liston,
cursing and swearing.

"What! ye hae gotten till your wife's; that's the place for ye; to say
there's a brig in distress, and ye'll let her go on the rocks under your
noses. But what are ye afraid o'? there's na danger?"

"Nae danger!" said one of the reproached, "are ye fou?"

"Ye are fou wi' fear yoursel'; of a' the beasts that crawl the airth, a
cooward is the ugliest, I think."

"The wifes will no let us," said one, sulkily.

"It's the woman in your hairts that keeps ye," roared Sandy hoarsely;
"curse ye, ye are sure to dee ane day, and ye are sure to be----!" (a
past participle) "soon or late, what signifies when? Oh! curse the hour
ever I was born amang sic a cooardly crew." _(Gun at sea.)_

"There!"

"She speaks till ye, hersel'; she cries for maircy; to think that, of a'
that hear ye cry, Alexander Liston is the only mon mon enough to answer."
_(Gun.)_

"You are mistaken, Mr. Alexander Liston," said a clear, smart voice,
whose owner had mingled unobserved with the throng; "there are always men
to answer such occasions; now, my lads, your boats have plenty of beam,
and, well handled, should live in any sea; who volunteers with Alexander
Liston and me?"

The speaker was Lord Ipsden.

The fishwives of Newhaven, more accustomed to measure men than poor
little Lady Barbara Sinclair, saw in this man what in point of fact he
was--a cool, daring devil, than whom none more likely to lead men into
mortal danger, or pull them through it, for that matter.

They recognized their natural enemy, and collected together against him,
like hens at the sight of a hawk.

"And would you really entice our men till their death?"

"My life's worth as much as theirs, I suppose.

"Nae! your life! it's na worth a button; when you dee, your next kin will
dance, and wha'll greet? but our men hae wife and bairns to look till."
_(Gun at sea.)_

"Ah! I didn't look at it in that light," said Lord Ipsden. He then
demanded paper and ink; Christie Johnstone, who had come out of her
house, supplied it from her treasures, and this cool hand actually began
to convey a hundred and fifty thousand pounds away, upon a sheet of paper
blowing in the wind; when he had named his residuary legatee, and
disposed of certain large bequests, he came to the point--

"Christie Johnstone, what can these people live on? two hundred a year?
living is cheap here--confound the wind!"

"Twahundred? Fifty! Vile count."

"Don't call me vile count. I am Ipsden, and my name's Richard. Now, then,
be smart with your names."

Three men stepped forward, gave their names, had their widows provided
for, and went for their sou'westers, etc.

"Stay," said Lord Ipsden, writing. "To Christina Johnstone, out of
respect for her character, one thousand pounds."

"Richard! dinna gang," cried Christie, "oh, dinna gang, dinna gang, dinna
gang; it's no your business."

"Will you lend me your papa's Flushing jacket and sou'wester, my dear? If
I was sure to be drowned, I'd go!"

Christie ran in for them.

In the mean time, discomposed by the wind, and by feelings whose
existence neither he, nor I, nor any one suspected, Saunders, after a
sore struggle between the frail man and the perfect domestic, blurted
out:

"My lord, I beg your lordship's pardon, but it blows tempestuous."

"That is why the brig wants us," was the reply.

"My lord, I beg your lordship's pardon," whimpered Saunders. "But, oh! my
lord, don't go; it's all very well for fishermen to be drowned; it is
their business, but not yours, my lord."

"Saunders, help me on with this coat."

Christie had brought it.

"Yes, my lord," said Saunders, briskly, his second nature reviving.

His lordship, while putting on the coat and hat, undertook to cool Mr.
Saunders's aristocratic prejudices.

"Should Alexander Liston and I be drowned," said he, coolly, "when our
bones come ashore, you will not know which are the fisherman's and which
the viscount's." So saying, he joined the enterprise.

"I shall pray for ye, lad," said Christie Johnstone, and she retired for
that purpose.

Saunders, with a heavy heart, to the nearest tavern, to prepare an
account of what he called "Heroism in High Life," large letters, and the
usual signs of great astonishment!!!!! for the _Polytechnic Magazine._

The commander of the distressed vessel had been penny-wise. He had
declined a pilot off the Isle of May, trusting to fall in with one close
to the port of Leith; but a heavy gale and fog had come on; he knew
himself in the vicinity of dangerous rocks; and, to make matters worse,
his ship, old and sore battered by a long and stormy voyage, was leaky;
and unless a pilot came alongside, his fate would be, either to founder,
or run upon the rocks, where he must expect to go to pieces in a quarter
of an hour.

The Newhaven boat lay in comparatively smooth water, on the lee side of
the pier.

Our adventurers got into her, stepped the mast, set a small sail, and ran
out! Sandy Liston held the sheet, passed once round the belaying-pin, and
whenever a larger wave than usual came at them, he slacked the sheet, and
the boat, losing her way, rose gently, like a cork, upon seas that had
seemed about to swallow her.

But seen from the shore it was enough to make the most experienced wince;
so completely was this wooden shell lost to sight, as she descended from
a wave, that each time her reappearance seemed a return from the dead.

The weather was misty--the boat was soon lost sight of; the story remains
ashore.


CHAPTER XIV.


IT was an hour later; the natives of the New Town had left the pier, and
were about their own doors, when three Buckhaven fishermen came slowly up
from the pier; these men had arrived in one of their large fishing-boats,
which defy all weather.

The men came slowly up; their petticoat trousers were drenched, and their
neck-handkerchiefs and hair were wet with spray.

At the foot of the New Town they stood still and whispered to each other.

There was something about these men that drew the eye of Newhaven upon
them.

In the first place a Buckhaven man rarely communicates with natives of
Newhaven, except at the pier, where he brings in his cod and ling from
the deep sea, flings them out like stones, and sells them to the
fishwives; then up sail and away for Fifeshire.

But these men evidently came ashore to speak to some one in the town.

They whispered together; something appeared to be proposed and demurred
to; but at last two went slowly back toward the pier, and the eldest
remained, with a fisherman's long mackintosh coat in his hand which the
others had given him as they left him.

With this in his hand, the Buckhaven fisherman stood in an irresolute
posture; he looked down, and seemed to ask himself what course he should
take.

"What's wrang?" said Jean Carnie, who, with her neighbors, had observed
the men; "I wish yon man may na hae ill news."

"What ill news wad he hae?" replied another.

"Are ony freends of Liston Carnie here?" said the fisherman.

"The wife's awa' to Granton, Beeny Liston they ca' her--there's his
house," added Jean, pointing up the row.

"Ay," said the fisherman, "I ken he lived there."

"Lived there!" cried Christie Johnstone. "Oh, what's this?"

"Freends," said the man, gravely, "his boat is driving keel uppermost in
Kircauldy Bay. We passed her near enough to read the name upon her."

"But the men will have won to shore, please God?"

The fisherman shook his head.

"She'll hae coupit a mile wast Inch Keith, an' the tide rinning aff the
island an' a heavy sea gaun. This is a' Newhaven we'll see of them
_(holding up the coat)_ "till they rise to the top in three weeks' time."

The man then took the coat, which was now seen to be drenched with water,
and hung it up on a line not very far from its unfortunate owner's house.
Then, in the same grave and subdued tone in which he had spoken all
along, he said, "We are sorry to bring siccan a tale into your toon," and
slowly moved off to rejoin his comrades, who had waited for him at no
great distance. They then passed through the Old Town, and in five
minutes the calamity was known to the whole place.

After the first stupor, the people in the New Town collected into knots,
and lamented their hazardous calling, and feared for the lives of those
that had just put to sea in this fatal gale for the rescue of strangers,
and the older ones failed not to match this present sorrow with others
within their recollection.

In the middle of this, Flucker Johnstone came hastily in from the Old
Town and told them he had seen the wife, Beeny Liston, coming through
from Granton.

The sympathy of all was instantly turned in this direction.

"She would hear the news."

"It would fall on her like a thunderclap."

"What would become of her?"

Every eye was strained toward the Old Town, and soon the poor woman was
seen about to emerge from it; but she was walking in her usual way, and
they felt she could not carry her person so if she knew.

At the last house she was seen to stop and speak to a fisherman and his
wife that stood at their own door.

"They are telling her," was then the cry.

Beeny Liston then proceeded on her way.

Every eye was strained.

No! they had not told her.

She came gayly on, the unconscious object of every eye and every heart.

The hands of this people were hard, and their tongues rude, but they
shrunk from telling this poor woman of her bereavement--they thought it
kinder she should know it under her own roof, from her friends or
neighbors, than from comparative strangers.

She drew near her own door.

And now a knot collected round Christie Johnstone, and urged her to
undertake the sad task.

"You that speak sa learned, Christie, ye should tell her; we daur na."

"How can I tell her?" said Christie, turning pale. "How will I tell her?
I'se try."

She took one trembling step to meet the woman.

Beeny's eye fell upon her.

"Ay! here's the Queen o' Newhaven," cried she, in a loud and rather
coarse voice. "The men will hae ta leave the place now y' are turned
fisherman, I daur say."

"Oh, dinna fieicht on me! dinna fieicht on me!" cried Christie,
trembling.

"Maircy on us," said the other, "auld Flucker Johnstone's dochter turned
humble. What next?"

"I'm vexed for speaking back till ye the morn," faltered Christie.

"Hett," said the woman carelessly, "let yon flea stick i' the wa'. I
fancy I began on ye. Aweel, Cirsty," said she, falling into a friendlier
tone; "it's the place we live in spoils us--Newhaven's an impudent toon,
as sure as deeth.

"I passed through the Auld Toon the noo--a place I never speak in; an' if
they did na glower at me as I had been a strange beast.

"They cam' to their very doors to glower at me; if ye'll believe me, I
thoucht shame.

"At the hinder end my paassion got up, and I faced a wife East-by, and I
said, 'What gars ye glower at me that way, ye ignorant woman?' ye would
na think it, she answered like honey itsel'. 'I'm askin' your paarrdon,'
says she; and her mon by her side said, 'Gang hame to your ain hoose, my
woman, and Gude help ye, and help us a' at our need,' the decent mon.
'It's just there I'm for,' said I, 'to get my mon his breakfast.'"

All who heard her drew their breath with difficulty.

The woman then made for her own house, but in going up the street she
passed the wet coat hanging on the line.

She stopped directly.

They all trembled--they had forgotten the coat--it was all over; the coat
would tell the tale.

"Aweel," said she, "I could sweer that's Liston Carnie's coat, a droukit
wi' the rain; then she looked again at it, and added, slowly, "if I did
na ken he has his away wi' him at the piloting." And in another moment
she was in her own house, leaving them all standing there half stupefied.

Christie had indeed endeavored to speak, but her tongue had cloven to her
mouth.

While they stood looking at one another, and at Beeny Liston's door, a
voice that seemed incredibly rough, loud and harsh, jarred upon them; it
was Sandy Liston, who came in from Leith, shouting:

"Fifty pounds for salvage, lasses! is na thaat better than staying
cooard-like aside the women?"

"Whisht! whisht!" cried Christie.

"We are in heavy sorrow; puir Liston Cairnie and his son Willy lie deed
at the bottom o' the Firrth."

"Gude help us!" said Sandy, and his voice sank.

"An', oh, Sandy, the wife does na ken, and it's hairt-breaking to see
her, and hear her; we canna get her tell't; ye're the auldest mon here;
ye'll tell her, will ye no, Sandy?"

"No, me, that' I will not!"

"Oh, yes; ye are kenned for your stoot heart, an' courage; ye come fra'
facing the sea an' wind in a bit yawl."

"The sea and the wind," cried he, contemptuously; "they be ----, I'm used
wi' them; but to look a woman i' the face, an' tell her her mon and her
son are drowned since yestreen, I hae na coorage for that."

All further debate was cut short by the entrance of one who came
expressly to discharge the sad duty all had found so difficult. It was
the Presbyterian clergyman of the place; he waved them back. "I know, I
know," said he, solemnly. "Where is the wife?"

She came out of her house at this moment, as it happened, to purchase
something at Drysale's shop, which was opposite.

"Beeny," said the clergyman, "I have sorrowful tidings."

"Tell me them, sir," said she, unmoved. "Is it a deeth?" added she,
quietly.

"It is!--death, sudden and terrible; in your own house I must tell it
you--(and may God show me how to break it to her)."

He entered her house.

"Aweel," said the woman to the others, "it maun be some far-awa cousin,
or the like, for Liston an' me hae nae near freends. Meg, ye idle fuzzy,"
screamed she to her servant, who was one of the spectators, "your pat is
no on yet; div ye think the men will no be hungry when they come in fra'
the sea?"

"They will never hunger nor thirst ony mair," said Jean, solemnly, as the
bereaved woman entered her own door.

There ensued a listless and fearful silence.

Every moment some sign of bitter sorrow was expected to break forth from
the house, but none came; and amid the expectation and silence the waves
dashed louder and louder, as it seemed, against the dike, conscious of
what they had done.

At last, in a moment, a cry of agony arose, so terrible that all who
heard it trembled, and more than one woman shrieked in return, and fled
from the door, at which, the next moment, the clergyman stood alone,
collected, but pale, and beckoned. Several women advanced.

"One woman," said he.

Jean Carnie was admitted; and after a while returned.

"She is come to hersel'," whispered she; "I am no weel mysel'." And she
passed into her own house.

Then Flucker crept to the door to see.

"Oh, dinna spy on her," cried Christie.

"Oh, yes, Flucker," said many voices.

"He is kneelin'," said Flucker. "He has her hand, to gar her kneel
tae--she winna--she does na see him, nor hear him; he will hae her. He
has won her to kneel--he is prayin, an' greetin aside her. I canna see
noo, my een's blinded."

"He's a gude mon," said Christie. "Oh, what wad we do without the
ministers?"

Sandy Liston had been leaning sorrowfully against the wall of the next
house; he now broke out:

"An auld shipmate at the whale-fishing!!! an' noow we'll never lift the
dredging sang thegither again, in yon dirty detch that's droowned him; I
maun hae whisky, an' forget it a'."

He made for the spirit-shop like a madman; but ere he could reach the
door a hand was laid on him like a vise. Christie Johnstone had literally
sprung on him. She hated this horrible vice--had often checked him; and
now it seemed so awful a moment for such a sin, that she forgot the wild
and savage nature of the man, who had struck his own sister, and
seriously hurt her, a month before--she saw nothing but the vice and its
victim, and she seized him by the collar, with a grasp from which he in
vain attempted to shake himself loose.

"No! ye'll no gang there at siccan a time."

"Hands off, ye daft jaud," roared he, "or there'll be another deeth i'
the toon."

At the noise Jean Carnie ran in.

"Let the ruffian go," cried she, in dismay. "Oh, Christie, dinna put your
hand on a lion's mane."

"Yes, I'll put my hand on his mane, ere I'll let him mak a beast o'
himsel'."

"Sandy, if ye hurt her, I'll find twenty lads that will lay ye deed at
her feet."

"Haud your whisht," said Christie, very sharply, "he's no to be
threetened."

Sandy Liston, black and white with rage, ground his teeth together, and
said, lifting his hand, "Wull ye let me go, or must I tak my hand till
ye?"

"No!" said Christie, "I'll no let ye go, _sae look me i' the face;
Flucker's dochter, your auld comrade, that saved your life at Holy Isle,
think o' his face--an' look in mines--an' strike me!!!"_

They glared on one another--he fiercely and unsteadily; she firmly and
proudly.

Jean Carnie said afterward, "Her eyes were like coals of fire."

"Ye are doing what nae mon i' the toon daur; ye are a bauld, unwise
lassy."

"It's you mak me bauld," was the instant reply. "I saw ye face the mad
sea, to save a ship fra' the rocks, an' will I fear a mon's hand, when I
can save" _(rising to double her height)_ "my feyther's auld freend fra'
the puir mon's enemy, the enemy o' mankind, the cursed, cursed drink? Oh,
Sandy Liston, hoow could ye think to put an enemy in your mooth to steal
awa your brains!"

"This 's no Newhaven chat; wha lairns ye sic words o' power?"

"A deed mon!"

"I would na wonder, y' are no canny; she's ta'en a' the poower oot o' my
body, I think." Then suddenly descending to a tone of abject submission,
"What's your pleesure, Flucker Johnstone's dochter?"

She instantly withdrew the offending grasp, and, leaning affectionately
on his shoulder, she melted into her rich Ionic tones.

"It's no a time for sin; ye'll sit by my fire, an' get your dinner; a
bonny haggis hae I for you an' Flucker, an' we'll improve this sorrowfu'
judgment; an' ye'll tell me o' auld times--o' my feyther dear, that
likeit ye weel, Sandy--o' the storrms ye hae weathered, side by side--o'
the muckle whales ye killed Greenland way--an' abune a', o' the lives ye
hae saved at sea, by your daurin an' your skell; an', oh, Sandy, will na
that be better as sit an' poor leequid damnation doown your throat, an'
gie awa the sense an' feeling o' a mon for a sair heed and an ill name?"

"I'se gang, my lamb," said the rough man, quite subdued; "I daur say
whisky will no pass my teeth the day."

And so he went quietly away, and sat by Christie's fireside.

Jean and Christie went toward the boats.

Jean, after taking it philosophically for half a minute, began to
whimper.

"What's wrang?" said Christie.

"Div ye think my hairt's no in my mooth wi' you gripping yon fierce
robber?"

Here a young fishwife, with a box in her hand, who had followed them,
pulled Jean by the coats.

"Hets," said Jean, pulling herself free.

The child then, with a pertinacity these little animals have, pulled
Christie's coats.

"Hets," said Christie, freeing herself more gently.

"Ye suld mairry Van Amburgh," continued Jean; "ye are just such a lass as
he is a lad."

Christie smiled proudly, was silent, but did not disown the comparison.

The little fishwife, unable to attract attention by pulling, opened her
box, and saying, "Lasses, I'll let ye see my presoner. Hech! he's
boenny!" pulled out a mouse by a string fastened to his tail and set him
in the midst for friendly admiration.

"I dinna like it--I dinna like it!" screamed Christie. "Jean, put it
away--it fears me, Jean!" This she uttered (her eyes almost starting from
her head with unaffected terror) at the distance of about eight yards,
whither she had arrived in two bounds that would have done no discredit
to an antelope.

"Het," said Jean, uneasily, "hae ye coowed you savage, to be scared at
the wee beastie?"

Christie, looking askant at the animal, explained: "A moose is an awesome
beast--it's no like a mon!" and still her eye was fixed by fascination
upon the four-footed danger.

Jean, who had not been herself in genuine tranquillity, now turned
savagely on the little Wombwelless. "An' div ye really think ye are to
come here wi' a' the beasts i' the Airk? Come, awa ye go, the pair o'
ye."

These severe words, and a smart push, sent the poor little biped off
roaring, with the string over her shoulder, recklessly dragging the
terrific quadruped, which made fruitless grabs at the shingle.--_Moral._
Don't terrify bigger folk than yourself.

Christie had intended to go up to Edinburgh with her eighty pounds, but
there was more trouble in store this eventful day.

Flucker went out after dinner, and left her with Sandy Liston, who was in
the middle of a yarn, when some one came running in and told her Flucker
was at the pier crying for her. She inquired what was the matter. "Come,
an' ye'll see," was all the answer. She ran down to the pier. There was
poor Flucker lying on his back; he had slipped from the pier into a boat
that lay alongside; the fall was considerable; for a minute he had been
insensible, then he had been dreadfully sick, and now he was beginning to
feel his hurt; he was in great anguish; nobody knew the extent of his
injuries; he would let nobody touch him; all his cry was for his sister.
At last she came; they all made way for her; he was crying for her as she
came up.

"My bairn! my bairn!" cried she, and the poor little fellow smiled, and
tried to raise himself toward her.

She lifted him gently in her arms--she was powerful, and affection made
her stronger; she carried him in her arms all the way home, and laid him
on her own bed. Willy Liston, her discarded suitor, ran for the surgeon.
There were no bones broken, but his ankle was severely sprained, and he
had a terrible bruise on the loins; his dark, ruddy face was streaked and
pale; but he never complained after he found himself at home.

Christie hovered round him, a ministering angel, applying to him with a
light and loving hand whatever could ease his pain; and he watched her
with an expression she had never noticed in his eye before.

At last, after two hours' silence, he made her sit in full view, and then
he spoke to her; and what think you was the subject of his discourse?

He turned to and told her, one after another, without preface, all the
loving things she had done to him ever since he was five years old. Poor
boy, he had never shown much gratitude, but he had forgotten nothing,
literally nothing.

Christie was quite overcome with this unexpected trait; she drew him
gently to her bosom, and wept over him; and it was sweet to see a brother
and sister treat each other almost like lovers, as these two began to
do--they watched each other's eye so tenderly.

This new care kept the sister in her own house all the next day; but
toward the evening Jean, who knew her other anxiety, slipped in and
offered to take her place for an hour by Flucker's side; at the same time
she looked one of those signals which are too subtle for any but woman to
understand.

Christie drew her aside, and learned that Gatty and his mother were just
coming through from Leith; Christie ran for her eighty pounds, placed
them in her bosom, cast a hasty glance at a looking-glass, little larger
than an oyster-shell, and ran out.

"Hech! What pleased the auld wife will be to see he has a lass that can
mak auchty pund in a morning."

This was Christie's notion.

At sight of them she took out the banknotes, and with eyes glistening and
cheeks flushing she cried:

"Oh, Chairles, ye'll no gang to jail--I hae the siller!" and she offered
him the money with both hands, and a look of tenderness and modesty that
embellished human nature.

Ere he could speak, his mother put out her hand, and not rudely, but very
coldly, repelling Christie's arm, said in a freezing manner:

"We are much obliged to you, but my son's own talents have rescued him
from his little embarrassment."

"A nobleman has bought my picture," said Gatty, proudly.

"For one hundred and fifty pounds," said the old lady, meaning to mark
the contrast between that sum and what Christie had in her hand.

Christie remained like a statue, with her arms extended, and the
bank-notes in her hand; her features worked--she had much ado not to cry;
and any one that had known the whole story, and seen this unmerited
repulse, would have felt for her; but her love came to her aid, she put
the notes in her bosom, sighed and said:

"I would hae likeit to hae been the first, ye ken, but I'm real pleased."

"But, mother," said Gatty, "it was very kind of Christie all the same.
Oh, Christie!" said he, in a tone of despair.

At this kind word Christie's fortitude was sore tried; she turned away
her head; she was far too delicate to let them know who had sent Lord
Ipsden to buy the picture.

While she turned away, Mrs. Gatty said in her son's ear:

"Now, I have your solemn promise to do it here, and at once; you will
find me on the beach behind these boats--do it."

The reader will understand that during the last few days Mrs. Gatty had
improved her advantage, and that Charles had positively consented to obey
her; the poor boy was worn out with the struggle--he felt he must have
peace or die; he was thin and pale, and sudden twitches came over him;
his temperament was not fit for such a battle; and, it is to be observed,
nearly all the talk was on one side. He had made one expiring
struggle--he described to his mother an artist's nature; his strength,
his weakness--he besought her not to be a slave to general rules, but to
inquire what sort of a companion the individual Gatty needed; he lashed
with true but brilliant satire the sort of wife his mother was ready to
see him saddled with--a stupid, unsympathizing creature, whose ten
children would, by nature's law, be also stupid, and so be a weight on
him till his dying day. He painted Christie Johnstone, mind and body, in
words as true and bright as his colors; he showed his own weak points,
her strong ones, and how the latter would fortify the former.

He displayed, in short, in one minute, more intellect than his mother had
exhibited in sixty years; and that done, with all his understanding, wit
and eloquence, he succumbed like a child to her stronger will--he
promised to break with Christie Johnstone.

When anything went wrong, Sam'l had an appropriate word for the
occasion.

One day the old man got an inspiration when he was scratching around
in the dirt for an odd-sized iron.

"'Sam'l,' says he, 'I want thee.'

"Sam'l went, and found the old man standing over a big rat hole, where
the rats came out to feed on the scraps.

"'Sam'l,' says he, 'fetch the tongs.'
"Sam'l fetched the tongs.

"'Now, Sam'l,' says the old man, 'thou wilt sit here until thou
hast a rat.

Never mind thy dinner.

And when thou hast him, if I hear thee swear, thou wilt sit here
until thou hast another.

Dost thou mind?'"

Here Mr. Lincoln seized two cotton umbrellas, rasped his chair over the
bare boor into a corner of the room, and sat hunched over an
imaginary rat hole, for all the world like a gawky Quaker apprentice.

And this was a candidate for the Senate of the United States, who
on the morrow was to meet in debate the renowned and polished
Douglas!

"Well," Mr.

Lincoln continued, "that was on a Monday, I reckon, and the boys
a-shouting to have their horses shod.

Maybe you think they didn't have some fun with Sam'l. But Sam'l sat
there, and sat there, and sat there, and after a while the old man pulled
out his dinner-pail. Sam'l never opened his mouth.

First thing you know, snip went the tongs." Mr.

Lincoln turned gravely around.

"What do you reckon Sam'l said, Judge?"
The Judge, at random, summoned up a good one, to the delight of the
audience.

"Judge," said Mr. Lincoln, with solemnity, "I reckon that's what
you'd have said.

Sam'l never said a word, and the old man kept on eating his dinner.
One o'clock came, and the folks began to drop in again, but Sam'l,
he sat there.

'Long towards night the boys collected 'round the door.

They were getting kind of interested.

Sam'l, he never looked up." Here Mr. Lincoln bent forward a little, and
his voice fell to a loud, drawling whisper. "First thing you know,
here come the whiskers peeping up, then the pink eyes a--blinking
at the forge, then--!"

"Suddenly he brought the umbrellas together with whack.

"'By God,' yells Sam'l, 'I have thee at last!'"
Amid the shouts, Mr.

Lincoln stood up, his long body swaying to and fro as he lifted high
the improvised tongs. They heard a terrified squeal, and there was the
rat squirming and wriggling,--it seemed before their very eyes. And Stephen
forgot the country tavern, the country politician, and was transported
straightway into the Quaker's smithy.

CHAPTER III
IN WHICH STEPHEN LEARNS SOMETHING
It was Mr. Lincoln who brought him back. The astonishing candidate for the
Senate had sunk into his chair, his face relaxed into sadness save
for the sparkle lurking in the eyes.

So he sat, immobile, until the laughter had died down to silence.
Then he turned to Stephen.

"Sonny," he said, "did you want to see me?"
Stephen was determined to be affable and kind, and (shall we say it?)
he would not make Mr. Lincoln uncomfortable either by a superiority of
English or the certain frigidity of manner which people in the
West said he had. But he tried to imagine a Massachusetts senator, Mr.
Sumner, for instance, going through the rat story, and couldn't.

Somehow, Massachusetts senators hadn't this gift. And yet he was not quite
sure that it wasn't a fetching gift. Stephen did not quite like to be
called "Sonny." But he looked into two gray eyes, and at the face, and
something curious happened to him.

How was he to know that thousands of his countrymen were to experience
the same sensation?

"Sonny," said Mr. Lincoln again, "did you want to see me?"
"Yes, sir."

Stephen wondered at the "sir." It had been involuntary. He drew from his
inner pocket the envelope which the Judge had given him.

Mr. Lincoln ripped it open. A document fell out, and a letter. He put the
document in his tall hat, which was upside down on the floor. As he
got deeper into the letter, he pursed his mouth, and the lines of his
face deepened in a smile.

Then he looked up, grave again.

Judge Whipple told you to run till you found me, did he, Mr.

Brice?"

"Yes, sir."
"Is the Judge the same old criss-cross, contrary, violent fool that
he always was?"

Providence put an answer in Stephen's mouth.

"He's been very good to me, Mr. Lincoln."
Mr. Lincoln broke into laughter.

"Why, he's the biggest-hearted man I know.

You know him, Oglesby,--Silas Whipple. But a man has to be a Daniel
or a General Putnam to venture into that den of his. There's only one man
in the world who can beard Silas, and he's the finest states-right Southern
gentleman you ever saw. I mean Colonel Carvel.

You've heard of him, Oglesby. Don't they quarrel once in a while, Mr.
Brice?"

"They do have occasional arguments,' said Stephen, amused.

"Arguments!" cried Mr.

Lincoln; "well, I couldn't come as near to fighting every day and stand it.
If my dog and Bill's dog across the street walked around each other and
growled for half a day, and then lay down together, as Carvel and Whipple
do, by Jing, I'd put pepper on their noses--"

"I reckon Colonel Carvel isn't a fighting man," said some one, at
random.

Strangely enough, Stephen was seized with a desire to vindicate the
Colonel's courage.

Both Mr. Lincoln and Judge Oglesby forestalled him.

"Not a fighting man!" exclaimed the Judge. "Why, the other day--"
"Now, Oglesby," put in Mr. Lincoln, "I wanted to tell that story."
Stephen had heard it, and so have we.

But Mr. Lincoln's imitation of the Colonel's drawl brought him a pang
like homesickness.

"'No, suh, I didn't intend to shoot. Not if he had gone off straight.
But he wriggled and twisted like a rattlesnake, and I just couldn't
resist, suh. Then I sent m'nigger Ephum to tell him not to let me catch
sight of him 'round the Planters' House. Yes, suh, that's what he was.
One of these damned Yankees who come South and go into nigger-deals
and politics."'

Mr. Lincoln glanced at Stephen, and then again at the Judge's letter. He
took up his silk hat and thrust that, too, into the worn lining, which
was already filled with papers. He clapped the hat on his head,
and buttoned on his collar.

"I reckon I'll go for a walk, boys," he said, "and clear my head, so as
to be ready for the Little Giant to-morrow at Freeport. Mr. Brice, do you
feel like walking?"

Stephen, taken aback, said that he did.

"Now, Abe, this is just durned foolishness," one of the gentlemen
expostulated.

"We want to know if you're going to ask Douglas that question."

"If you do, you kill yourself, Lincoln," said another, who Stephen
afterwards learned was Mr.

Medill, proprietor of the great 'Press and Tribune'.

"I guess I'll risk it, Joe," said Mr. Lincoln, gravely. Suddenly
comes the quiver about the corners of his mouth and the gray eyes
respond.
"Boys," said he, "did you ever hear the story of farmer Bell, down
in Egypt?

I'll tell it to you, boys, and then perhaps you'll know why I'll ask
Judge Douglas that question.

Farmer Bell had the prize Bartlett pear tree, and the prettiest gal in
that section. And he thought about the same of each of 'em.

All the boys were after Sue Bell.

But there was only one who had any chance of getting her, and his name
was Jim Rickets. Jim was the handsomest man in that section. He's been
hung since. But Jim had a good deal out of life,--all the appetites,
and some of the gratifications.

He liked Sue, and he liked a luscious Bartlett. And he intended to have
both. And it just so happened that that prize pear tree had a whopper on
that year, and old man Bell couldn't talk of anything else.

"Now there was an ugly galoot whose name isn't worth mentioning.

He knew he wasn't in any way fit for Sue, and he liked pears about as well
as Jim Rickets. Well, one night here comes Jim along the road, whistling;
to court Susan, and there was the ugly galoot a-yearning on the bank
under the pear tree.

Jim was all fixed up, and he says to the galoot, 'Let's have a throw.' Now
the galoot knew old Bell was looking over the fence So he says, 'All
right,' and he gives Jim the first shot--Jim fetched down the big pear,
got his teeth in it, and strolled off to the house, kind of pitiful
of the galoot for a, half-witted ass.

When he got to the door, there was the old man. 'What are you here for?'
says he.

'Why,' says Rickets, in his off-hand way, for he always had great
confidence, 'to fetch Sue.'"

"The old man used to wear brass toes to keep his boots from wearing
out," said Mr.

Lincoln, dreamily.

"You see," continued Mr.

Lincoln, "you see the galoot knew that Jim Rickets wasn't to be
trusted with Susan Bell."

Some of the gentlemen appeared to see the point of this political
parable, for they laughed uproariously.

The others laughed, too.

Then they slapped their knees, looked at Mr. Lincoln's face, which
was perfectly sober, and laughed again, a little fainter. Then the Judge
looked as solemn as his title.

"It won't do, Abe," said he.

"You commit suicide."

"You'd better stick to the pear, Abe," said Mr. Medill, "and fight
Stephen A.

Douglas here and now. This isn't any picnic. Do you know who he is?"
"Why, yes, Joe," said Mr.

Lincoln, amiably. "He's a man with tens of thousands of blind followers.
It's my business to make some of those blind followers see."

By this time Stephen was burning to know the question that Mr.
Lincoln wished to ask the Little Giant, and why the other gentlemen were
against it. But Mr. Lincoln surprised him still further in taking him
by the arm.
Turning to the young reporter, Mr.

Hill, who had finished his writing, he said:

"Bob, a little air will do you good.

I've had enough of the old boys for a while, and I'm going to talk
to somebody any own age."

Stephen was halfway down the corridor when he discovered that he had
forgotten his hat.

As he returned he heard somebody say:

"If that ain't just like Abe. He stopped to pull a flea out of his stocking
when he was going to fight that duel with Shields, and now he's walking
with boys before a debate with the smartest man in this country.

And there's heaps of things he ought to discuss with us."
"Reckon we haven't got much to do with it," said another, half
laughing, half rueful.

"There's some things Abe won't stand."
From the stairs Stephen saw Mr. Lincoln threading his way through the crowd
below, laughing at one, pausing to lay his hand on the shoulder
of another, and replying to a rough sally of a third to make the
place a tumult of guffaws.

But none had the temerity to follow him.

When Stephen caught up with him in the little country street, he
was talking earnestly to Mr.

Hill, the young reporter of the Press and Tribune.

And what do you think was the subject?

The red comet in the sky that night.

Stephen kept pace in silence with Mr.

Lincoln's strides, another shock in store for him.

This rail-splitter, this postmaster, this flat-boatman, whom he had not
credited with a knowledge of the New Code, was talking Astronomy.

And strange to say, Mr. Brice was learning.

"Bob," said Mr. Lincoln, "can you elucidate the problem of the three
bodies?"
To Stephen's surprise, Mr.

Hill elucidated.

The talk then fell upon novels and stories, a few of which Mr. Lincoln
seemed to have read. He spoke, among others, of the "Gold Bug."

"The story is grand," said he, "but it might as well have been written
of Robinson Crusoe's island.

What a fellow wants in a book is to know where he is. There are not many
novels, or ancient works for that matter, that put you down
anywhere."

"There is that genuine fragment which Cicero has preserved from a
last work of Aristotle," said Mr.

Hill, slyly. "'If there were beings who lived in the depths & the earth,
and could emerge through the open fissures, and could suddenly
behold the earth, the sea, and the:--vault of heaven--'"
"But you--you impostor," cried Mr.

Lincoln, interrupting, "you're giving us Humboldt's Cosmos."

Mr. Hill owned up, laughing.

It is remarkable how soon we accustom ourselves to a strange
situation.

And to Stephen it was no less strange to be walking over a muddy road of
the prairie with this most singular man and a newspaper correspondent,
than it might have been to the sub-terrestrial inhabitant to emerge
on the earth's surface.

Stephen's mind was in the process of a chemical change: Suddenly it
seemed to him as if he had known this tall Illinoisan always.

The whim of the senatorial candidate in choosing him for a companion
he did not then try to account for.

"Come, Mr. Stephen," said Mr. Lincoln, presently, "where do you
hail from?"
"Boston," said Stephen.

"No!" said Mr. Lincoln, incredulously. "And how does it happen that you
come to me with a message from a rank Abolitionist lawyer in St. Louis?"

"Is the Judge a friend of yours, sir?"

Stephen asked.

"What!" exclaimed Mr. Lincoln, "didn't he tell you he was?"

"He said nothing at all, sir, except to tell me to travel until I
found you."

"I call the Judge a friend of mine," said Mr. Lincoln. "He may not claim
me because I do not believe in putting all slave-owners to the sword."

"I do not think that Judge Whipple is precisely an Abolitionist, sir."

"What!

And how do you feel, Mr. Stephen?"

Stephen replied in figures. It was rare with him, and he must have caught
it from Mr. Lincoln.

"I am not for ripping out the dam suddenly, sir, that would drown
the nation.

I believe that the water can be drained off in some other way."
Mr. Lincoln's direct answer to this was to give Stephen stinging slap
between the shoulder-blades.

"God bless the boy!" he cried. "He has thought it out. Bob, take that down
for the Press and Tribune as coming from a rising young politician
of St.

Louis."

"Why," Stephen blurted out, "I--I thought you were an Abolitionist,
Mr.

Lincoln."
"Mr. Brice," said Mr. Lincoln, "I have as much use for the Boston
Liberator as I have for the Charleston Courier.

You may guess how much that is. The question is not whether we shall or
shall not have slavery, but whether slavery shall stay where it
is, or be extended according to Judge Douglas's ingenious plan.
The Judge is for breeding worms. I am for cauterizing the sore so that
it shall not spread. But I tell you, Mr.

Brice, that this nation cannot exist half slave and half free."

Was it the slap on the back that opened Stephen's eyes? It was certain
that as they returned to the tavern the man at his side was changed.
He need not have felt chagrined.

Men in high places underestimated Lincoln, or did not estimate him at
all.

Affection came first.

The great warm heart had claimed Stephen as it claimed all who came near
it.

The tavern was deserted save for a few stragglers. Under the dim light
at the bar Mr. Lincoln took off his hat and drew the Judge's letter from
the lining.

"Mr.

Stephen," said he, "would you like to come to Freeport with me
to-morrow and hear the debate?"

An hour earlier he would have declined with thanks.

But now! Now his face lighted at the prospect, and suddenly fell
again.

Mr. Lincoln guessed the cause. He laid his hand on the young man's shoulder,
and laughed.

"I reckon you're thinking of what the Judge will say."
Stephen smiled.

"I'll take care of the Judge," said Mr.

Lincoln. "I'm not afraid of him." He drew forth from the inexhaustible
hat a slip of paper, and began to write.

"There," said he, when he had finished, "a friend of mine is going
to Springfield in the morning, and he'll send that to the Judge."

And this is what he had written:--

"I have borrowed Steve for a day or two, and guarantee to return
him a good Republican.

A. LINCOLN."

It is worth remarking that this was the first time Mr. Brice had been
called "Steve" and had not resented it.

Stephen was embarrassed.

He tried to thank Mr.

Lincoln, but that gentleman's quizzical look cut him short. And the
next remark made him gasp.

"Look here, Steve," said he, "you know a parlor from a drawing-room.

What did you think of me when you saw me to-night?"
Stephen blushed furiously, and his tongue clave to the roof of his
mouth.

"I'll tell you," said Mr.

Lincoln, with his characteristic smile, "you thought that you
wouldn't pick me out of a bunch of horses to race with the Senator."

CHAPTER IV

THE QUESTION
Many times since Abraham Lincoln has been called to that mansion which
God has reserved for the patriots who have served Him also, Stephen Brice
has thought of that steaming night in the low-ceiled room of the
country tavern, reeking with the smell of coarse food and hot
humanity.

He remembers vividly how at first his gorge rose, and recalls how
gradually there crept over him a forgetfulness of the squalidity
and discomfort.

Then came a space gray with puzzling wonder. Then the dawning of a worship
for a very ugly man in a rumpled and ill-made coat.

You will perceive that there was hope for Stephen.

On his shake-down that night, oblivious to the snores of his companions
and the droning of the insects, he lay awake.

And before his eyes was that strange, marked face, with its deep lines
that blended both humor and sadness there. It was homely, and yet
Stephen found himself reflecting that honesty was just as homely,
and plain truth.

And yet both were beautiful to those who had learned to love them. Just
so this Mr. Lincoln.

He fell asleep wondering why Judge Whipple had sent him.

It was in accord with nature that reaction came with the morning. Such a
morning, and such a place!

He was awakened, shivering, by the beat of rain on the roof, and
stumbling over the prostrate forms of the four Beaver brothers,
reached the window.

Clouds filled the sky, and Joshway, whose pallet was under the sill,
was in a blessed state of moisture.

No wonder some of his enthusiasm had trickled away!

He made his toilet in the wet under the pump outside; where he had
to wait his turn.

And he rather wished he were going back to St.

Louis.

He had an early breakfast of fried eggs and underdone bacon, and
coffee which made him pine for Hester's.

The dishes were neither too clean nor too plentiful, being doused
in water as soon as ever they were out of use.

But after breakfast the sun came out, and a crowd collected around
the tavern, although the air was chill and the muck deep in the
street.

Stephen caught glimpses of Mr. Lincoln towering above the knots of
country politicians who surrounded him, and every once in a while a
knot would double up with laughter. There was no sign that the
senatorial aspirant took the situation seriously; that the coming
struggle with his skilful antagonist was weighing him down in the
least.

Stephen held aloof from the groups, thinking that Mr. Lincoln had forgotten
him. He decided to leave for St.

Louis on the morning train, and was even pushing toward the tavern
entrance with his bag in his hand, when he was met by Mr.

Hill.

"I had about given you up, Mr.

Brice," he said. "Mr. Lincoln asked me to get hold of you, and bring you
to him alive or dead."
Accordingly Stephen was led to the station, where a long train of
twelve cars was pulled up, covered with flags and bunting.

On entering one of these, he perceived Mr.

Lincoln sprawled (he could think of no other word to fit the attitude)
on a seat next the window, and next him was Mr.
Medill of the Press and Tribune.

The seat just in front was reserved for Mr.

Hill, who was to make any notes necessary. Mr. Lincoln looked up. His
appearance was even less attractive than the night before, as he had
on a dirty gray linen duster.

"I thought you'd got loose, Steve," he said, holding out his hand. "Glad
to see you.

Just you sit down there next to Bob, where I can talk to you."
Stephen sat down, diffident, for he knew that there were others in that
train who would give ten years of their lives for that
seat.

"I've taken a shine to this Bostonian, Joe," said Mr Lincoln to Mr.

Medill. "We've got to catch 'em young to do anything with 'em, you know.
Now, Steve, just give me a notion how politics are over in St.

Louis.
What do they think of our new Republican party? Too bran new for
old St.

Louis, eh?"

Stephen saw expostulation in Mr. Medill's eyes, and hesitated. And Mr.
Lincoln seemed to feel Medill's objections, as by mental telepathy. But he
said:-- "We'll come to that little matter later, Joe, when the cars start."

Naturally, Stephen began uneasily. But under the influence of that kindly
eye he thawed, and forgot himself. He felt that this man was not one to
feign an interest.

The shouts of the people on the little platform interrupted the account,
and the engine staggered off with its load.

"I reckon St. Louis is a nest of Southern Democrats," Mr. Lincoln remarked,
"and not much opposition."

"There are quite a few Old Line Whigs, sir," ventured Stephen,
smiling.

"Joe," said Mr. Lincoln, "did you ever hear Warfield's definition of an
Old Line Whig?"

Mr. Medill had not.

"A man who takes his toddy regularly, and votes the Democratic
ticket occasionally, and who wears ruffled shirts."

Both of these gentlemen laughed, and two more in the seat behind,
who had an ear to the conversation.

"But, sir," said Stephen, seeing that he was expected to go on, "I
think that the Republican party will gather a considerable strength
there in another year or two.

We have the material for powerful leaders in Mr.
Blair and others" (Mr. Lincoln nodded at the name). "We are getting an ever
increasing population from New England, mostly of young men who
will take kindly to the new party."

And then he added, thinking of his pilgrimage the Sunday before: "South
St. Louis is a solid mass of Germans, who are all antislavery. But they
are very foreign still, and have all their German institutions."

"The Turner Halls?" Mr. Lincoln surprised him by inquiring.

"Yes. And I believe that they drill there."

"Then they will the more easily be turned into soldiers if the time
should come," said Mr.

Lincoln. And he added quickly, "I pray that it may not."

Stephen had cause to remember that observation, and the acumen it
showed, long afterward.

The train made several stops, and at each of them shoals of country people
filled the aisles, and paused for a most familiar chat with the senatorial
candidate. Many called him Abe. His appearance was the equal in
roughness to theirs, his manner if anything was more democratic,--yet
in spite of all this Stephen in them detected a deference which
might almost be termed a homage. There were many women among them.
Had our friend been older, he might have known that the presence
of good women in a political crowd portends something. As it was,
he was surprised. He was destined to be still more surprised that
day.
When they had left behind them the shouts of the little down of
Dixon, Mr. Lincoln took off his hat, and produced a crumpled and
not too immaculate scrap of paper from the multitude therein.
"Now, Joe," said he, "here are the four questions I intend to ask
Judge Douglas. I am ready for you. Fire away."
"We don't care anything about the others," answered Mr. Medill.
"But I tell you this. If you ask that second one, you'll never see
the United States Senate."
"And the Republican party in this state will have had a blow from
which it can scarcely recover," added Mr. Judd, chairman of the
committee.
Mr. Lincoln did not appear to hear them. His eyes were far away
over the wet prairie.
Stephen held his breath. But neither he, nor Medill, nor Judd, nor
Hill guessed at the pregnancy of that moment. How were they to know
that the fate of the United States of America was concealed in that
Question, --was to be decided on a rough wooden platform that day
in the town of Freeport, Illinois?and
came trotting up. I screamed and ran--I remember nothing but arriving at
the stile, and lo, on the other side, offering me his arm with
_empressment_ across the wooden barrier was--"

"Well?"

"Well! don't you see?"

"No--oh--yes, I see!--fancy--ah! Shall I tell you how he came to get
first over? He ran more earnestly than you."

'It is not Mr. Jerrold this time, I presume," said her satirical
ladyship.

"No! you cannot always have him. I venture to predict your ladyship on
your return home gave this mediaeval personage his _conge'."_

"No!"

"No?"

"I gave it him at the stile! Let us be serious, if you please; I have a
confidence to make you, Ipsden. Frankly, I owe you some apology for my
conduct of late; I meant to be reserved--I have been rude--but you shall
judge me. A year ago you made me some proposals; I rejected them because,
though I like you--"

"You like me?"

"I detest your character. Since then, my West India estate has been
turned into specie; that specie, the bulk of my fortune, placed on board
a vessel; that vessel lost, at least we think so--she has not been heard
of."

"My dear cousin."

"Do you comprehend that now I am cooler than ever to all young gentlemen
who have large incomes, and" (holding out her hand like an angel) "I must
trouble you to forgive me."

He kissed her lovely hand.

"I esteem you more and more," said he. "You ought, for it has been a hard
struggle to me not to adore you, because you are so improved, _mon
cousin."_

"Is it possible? In what respect?"

"You are browner and charitabler; and I should have been very kind to
you--mawkishly kind, I fear, my sweet cousin, if this wretched money had
not gone down in the _Tisbe."_

"Hallo!" cried the viscount.

"Ah!" squeaked Lady Barbara, unused to such interjections.

"Gone down in what?" said Ipsden, in a loud voice.

"Don't bellow in people's ears. The _Tisbe,_ stupid," cried she,
screaming at the top of her voice.

"Ri tum, ti turn, ti tum, tum, tum, tiddy, iddy," went Lord Ipsden--he
whistled a polka.

_Lady Barbara (inspecting him gravely)._ "I have heard it at a distance,
but I never saw how it was done before. _It is very, very pretty!!!!"_

_Ipsden. "Polkez-vous, madame?"_

_Lady Barb. "Si, je polke, Monsieur le Vicomte."_

They polked for a second or two.

"Well, I dare say I am wrong," cried Lady Barbara, "but I like you better
now you are a downright--ahem!--than when you were only an insipid
non-intellectual--you are greatly improved."

_Ips._ "In what respects?'

_Lady Barb._ "Did I not tell you? browner and more impudent; but tell
me," said she, resuming her sly, satirical tone, "how is it that you, who
used to be the pink of courtesy, dance and sing over the wreck of my
fortunes?"

"Because they are not wrecked."

"I thought I told you my specie is gone down in the _Tisbe."_

_Ipsden._ "But the _Tisbe_ has not gone down."

_Lady Barb._ "I tell you it is."

_Ipsden._ "I assure you it is not."

_Lady Barb._ "It is not?"

_Ipsden._ "Barbara! I am too happy, I begin to nourish such sweet hopes
once more. Oh, I could fall on my knees and bless you for something you
said just now."

Lady Barbara blushed to the temples.

"Then why don't you?" said she. "All you want is a little enthusiasm."
Then recovering herself, she said:

"You kneel on wet sand, with black trousers on; that will never be!!!"

These two were so occupied that they did not observe the approach of a
stranger until he broke in upon their dialogue.

An Ancient Mariner had been for some minutes standing off and on,
reconnoitering Lord Ipsden; he now bore down, and with great rough,
roaring cordiality, that made Lady Barbara start, cried out:

"Give me your hand, sir--give me your hand, if you were twice a lord.

"I couldn't speak to you till the brig was safe in port, and you slipped
away, but I've brought you up at last; and--give me your hand again, sir.
I say, isn't it a pity you are a lord instead of a sailor?"

_Ipsden._ "But I am a sailor."

_Ancient Mariner._ "That ye are, and as smart a one as ever tied a
true-lover's knot in the top; but tell the truth--you were never nearer
losing the number of your mess than that day in the old _Tisbe."_

_Lady Barb._ "The old _Tisbe!_ Oh!"

_Ipsden._ "Do you remember that nice little lurch she gave to leeward as
we brought her round?"

_Lady Barb._ "Oh, Richard!"

_Ancient Mariner._ "And that reel the old wench gave under our feet,
north the pier-head. I wouldn't have given a washing-tub for her at that
moment."

_Ipsden._ "Past danger becomes pleasure, sir. _Olim et hoec meminisse_--I
beg your pardon, sir."

_Ancient Mariner (taking off his hat with feeling)._ "God bless ye, sir,
and send ye many happy days, and well spent, with the pretty lady I see
alongside; asking your pardon, miss, for parting pleasanter company--so
I'll sheer off."

And away went the skipper of the _Tisbe,_ rolling fearfully. In the heat
of this reminiscence, the skipper of the yacht (they are all alike, blue
water once fairly tasted) had lost sight of Lady Barbara; he now looked
round. Imagine his surprise!

Her ladyship was in tears.

"Dear Barbara," said Lord Ipsden, "do not distress yourself on my
account."

"It is not your fe-feelings I care about; at least, I h-h-hope not; but I
have been so unjust, and I prided myself so on my j-ju-justice."

"Never mind!"

"Oh! if you don't, I don't. I hate myself, so it is no wonder you h-hate
me."

"I love you more than ever."

"Then you are a good soul! Of course you know I always _l_-esteemed you,
Richard."

"No! I had an idea you despised me!"

"How silly you are! Can't you see? When I thought you were not
perfection, which you are now, it vexed me to death; you never saw me
affront any one but you?"

"No, I never did! What does that prove?"

"That depends upon the wit of him that reasons thereon." (Coming to
herself.)

"I love you, Barbara! Will you honor me with your hand?"

"No! I am not so base, so selfish. You are worth a hundred of me, and
here have I been treating you _de haut en bas._ Dear Richard, poor
Richard. Oh! oh! oh!" (A perfect flood of tears.)

"Barbara! I regret nothing; this moment pays for all."

"Well, then, I will! since you keep pressing me. There, let me go; I must
be alone; I must tell the sea how unjust I was, and how happy I am, and
when you see me again you shall see the better side of your cousin
Barbara."

She was peremptory. "She had her folly and his merits to think over," she
said; but she promised to pass through Newhaven, and he should put her
into her pony-phaeton, which would meet her there.

Lady Barbara was only a fool by the excess of her wit over her
experience; and Lord Ipsden's love was not misplaced, for she had a great
heart which she hid from little people. I forgive her!

The resolutions she formed in company with the sea, having dismissed
Ipsden, and ordered her flunky into the horizon, will probably give our
viscount just half a century of conjugal bliss.

As he was going she stopped him and said: "Your friend had browner hands
than I have hitherto conceived possible. _To tell the truth,_ I took them
for the claws of a mahogany table when he grappled you--is that the term?
_C'est e'gal_--I like him--"

She stopped him again. "Ipsden, in the midst of all this that poor man's
ship is broken. I feel it is! You will buy him another, if you really
love me--for I like him."

And so these lovers parted for a time; and Lord Ipsden with a bounding
heart returned to Newhaven. He went to entertain his late _vis-'a-vis_ at
the "Peacock."

Meantime a shorter and less pleasant _rencontre_ had taken place between
Leith and that village.

Gatty felt he should meet his lost sweetheart; and sure enough, at a turn
of the road Christie and Jean came suddenly upon him.

Jean nodded, but Christie took no notice of him; they passed him; he
turned and followed them, and said, "Christie!"

"What is your will wi' me?" said she, coldly.

"I--I-- How pale you are!"

"I am no very weel."

"She has been watching over muckle wi' Flucker," said Jean.

Christie thanked her with a look.

"I hope it is not--not--"

"Nae fears, lad," said she, briskly; "I dinna think that muckle o' ye."

"And I think of nothing but you," said he.

A deep flush crimsoned the young woman's brow, but she restrained
herself, and said icily: "Thaat's very gude o' ye, I'm sure."

Gatty felt all the contempt her manners and words expressed. He bit his
lips. The tear started to his eye. "You will forget me," said he. "I do
not deserve to be remembered, but I shall never forget you. I leave for
England. I leave Newhaven forever, where I have been so happy. I am going
at three o'clock by the steamboat. Won't you bid me good-by?" He
approached her timidly.

"Ay! that wull do," cried she; "Gude be wi' ye, lad; I wish ye nae ill."
She gave a commanding gesture of dismissal; he turned away, and went
sadly from her. She watched every motion when his back was turned.

"That is you, Christie," said Jean; "use the lads like dirt, an' they
think a' the mair o' ye."

"Oh, Jean, my hairt's broken. I'm just deeing for him."

"Let me speak till him then," said Jean; "I'll sune bring him till his
marrow-banes;" and she took a hasty step to follow him.

Christie held her fast. "I'd dee ere I'd give in till them. Oh, Jean! I'm
a lassie clean flung awa; he has neither hairt nor spunk ava, yon lad!"

Jean began to make excuses for him. Christie inveighed against him. Jean
spoke up for him with more earnestness.

Now observe, Jean despised the poor boy.

Christie adored him.

So Jean spoke for him, because women of every degree are often one solid
mass of tact; and Christie abused him, because she wanted to hear him
defended.


CHAPTER XVI.


RICHARD, LORD VISCOUNT IPSDEN, having dotted the seashore with sentinels,
to tell him of Lady Barbara's approach, awaited his guest in the
"Peacock"; but, as Gatty was a little behind time, he placed Saunders
sentinel over the "Peacock," and strolled eastward; as he came out of the
"Peacock," Mrs. Gatty came down the little hill in front, and also
proceeded eastward; meantime Lady Barbara and her escort were not far
from the New Town of Newhaven, on their way from Leith.

Mrs. Gatty came down, merely with a vague fear. She had no reason to
suppose her son's alliance with Christie either would or could be
renewed, but she was a careful player and would not give a chance away;
she found he was gone out unusually early, so she came straight to the
only place she dreaded; it was her son's last day in Scotland. She had
packed his clothes, and he had inspired her with confidence by arranging
pictures, etc., himself; she had no idea he was packing for his departure
from this life, not Edinburgh only.

She came then to Newhaven with no serious misgivings, for, even if her
son had again vacillated, she saw that, with Christie's pride and her own
firmness, the game must be hers in the end; but, as I said before, she
was one who played her cards closely, and such seldom lose.

But my story is with the two young fishwives, who, on their return from
Leith, found themselves at the foot of the New Town, Newhaven, some
minutes before any of the other persons who, it is to be observed, were
approaching it from different points; they came slowly in, Christie in
particular, with a listlessness she had never, known till this last week;
for some days her strength had failed her--it was Jean that carried the
creel now--before, Christie, in the pride of her strength, would always
do more than her share of their joint labor. He was, if the truth were
told, more amused than angry. It was Colonel Carvel's voice that stopped
him.

"Hold on, Judge," he drawled, "I reckon you haven't got all the
packing out of that case."

Mr. Whipple locked at him in a sort of stupefaction.

Then he glanced at Stephen.

"Come back here, sir," he cried. "I'll give you hearing. No man shall say
that I am not just."
Stephen looked gratefully at the Colonel.
"I did not expect one, sir," he said..
"And you don't deserve one, sir," cried the Judge.
"I think I do," replied Stephen, quietly.
The Judge suppressed something.
"What did you do with this person?" he demanded
"I took her to Miss Crane's boarding-house," said Stephen.
It was the Colonel's turn to explode.A little matter excites curiosity in such places.

The man's head looked like a spot of ink.

Sandy Liston was minding his own business, lazily mending a skait-net,
which he had attached to a crazy old herring-boat hauled up to rot.

Christie sat down, pale and languid, by him, on a creepie that a lass who
had been baiting a line with mussels had just vacated; suddenly she
seized Jean's arm with a convulsive motion; Jean looked up--it was the
London steamboat running out from Leith to Granton Pier to take up her
passengers for London. Charles Gatty was going by that boat; the look of
mute despair the poor girl gave went to Jean's heart; she ran hastily
from the group, and cried out of sight for poor Christie.

A fishwife, looking through a telescope at the swimmer, remarked: "He's
coming in fast; he's a gallant swimmer, yon--

"Can he dee't?" inquired Christie of Sandy Liston.

"Fine thaat," was the reply; "he does it aye o' Sundays when ye are at
the kirk."

"It's no oot o' the kirk window ye'll hae seen him, Sandy, my mon," said
a young fishwife.

"Rin for my glass ony way, Flucker," said Christie, forcing herself to
take some little interest.

Flucker brought it to her, she put her hand on his shoulder, got slowly
up, and stood on the creepie and adjusted the focus of her glass; after a
short view, she said to Flucker:

"Rin and see the nook." Likewise he had visited Miss Puss Russell.

But Miss Virginia Carvel he had never seen since the night he had danced
with her.

This was because, after her return from the young ladies' school
at Monticello, she had gone to Glencoe, Glencoe, magic spot, perched
high on wooded highlands.

And under these the Meramec, crystal pure, ran lightly on sand and pebble
to her bridal with that turbid tyrant, the Father of Waters.

To reach Glencoe you spent two dirty hours on that railroad which
(it was fondly hoped) would one day stretch to the Pacific Ocean.

You generally spied one of the big Catherwood boys in the train,
or their tall sister Maude.

The Catherwoods likewise lived at Glencoe in the summer. And on some Saturday
afternoons a grim figure in a linen duster and a silk skull-cap
took a seat in the forward car.

That was Judge Whipple, on his way to spend a quiet Sunday with Colonel
Carvel.

To the surprise of many good people, the Judge had recently formed
another habit.

At least once a week he would drop in at the little house on Olive
Street next to Mr.

Brinsmade's big one, which was shut up, and take tea with Mrs. Brice.
Afterward he would sit on the little porch over the garden in the
rear, or on the front steps, and watch the bob-tailed horse-cars
go by.

His conversation was chiefly addressed to the widow.

Rarely to Stephen; whose wholesome respect for his employer had in
no wise abated.

Through the stifling heat of these summer days Stephen sat in the outer
office, straining at the law. Had it not been for the fact that Mr.
Whipple went to his mother's house, despair would have seized him
long since.

Apparently his goings-out and his comings-in were noted only by Mr.

Richter.

Truly the Judge's methods were not Harvard methods.

And if there were pride in the young Bostonian, Mr. Whipple thought he
knew the cure for it.

It was to Richter Stephen owed a debt of gratitude in these days. He would
often take his midday meal in the down-town beer garden with the
quiet German.

Then there came a Sunday afternoon (to be marked with a red letter)
when Richter transported him into Germany itself.

Stephen's eyes were opened. Richter took him across the Rhine. The
Rhine was Market Street, and south of that street was a country
of which polite American society took no cognizance.

Here was an epic movement indeed, for South St. Louis was a great sod
uprooted from the Fatherland and set down in all its vigorous
crudity in the warm black mud of the Mississippi Valley.

Here lager beer took the place of Bourbon, and black bread and
sausages of hot rolls and fried chicken.

Here were quaint market houses squatting in the middle of wide streets;
Lutheran churches, square and uncompromising, and bulky Turner Halls,
where German children were taught the German tongue. Here, in a shady
grove of mulberry and locust, two hundred families were spread out at
their ease.

For a while Richter sat in silence, puffing at a meerschaum with a
huge brown bowl.

A trick of the mind opened for Stephen one of the histories in his
father's library in Beacon Street, across the pages of which had
flitted the ancestors of this blue-eyed and great-chested Saxon.

He saw them in cathedral forests, with the red hair long upon their
bodies.

He saw terrifying battles with the Roman Empire surging back and forth
through the low countries.

He saw a lad of twenty at the head of rugged legions clad in wild skins,
sweeping Rome out of Gaul.

Back in the dim ages Richter's fathers must have defended grim Eresburg.
And it seemed to him that in the end the new Republic must profit by
this rugged stock, which had good women for wives and mothers, and
for fathers men in whose blood dwelt a fierce patriotism and contempt
for cowardice.

This fancy of ancestry pleased Stephen. He thought of the forefathers of
those whom he knew, who dwelt north of Market Street.

Many, though this generation of the French might know it not, had bled at
Calais and at Agincourt, had followed the court of France in clumsy
coaches to Blois and Amboise, or lived in hovels under the castle
walls.

Others had charged after the Black Prince at Poitiers, and fought as
serf or noble.
in the war of the Roses; had been hatters or tailors in Cromwell's
armies, or else had sacrificed lands and fortunes for Charles Stuart.

These English had toiled, slow but resistless, over the misty Blue
Ridge after Boone and Harrod to this old St. Louis of the French, their
enemies, whose fur traders and missionaries had long followed the
veins of the vast western wilderness.

If he but saw her!!!"

The words had hardly left Lord Ipsden's lips, when the sound of a woman's
voice came like an AEolian note across the water.

"Hurraih!" roared Liston, and every creature joined the cheer.

"She'll no let him dee. Ah! she's in the bows, hailing him an' waving the
lad's bonnet ower her head to gie him coorage. Gude bless ye, lass; Gude
bless ye!"

Christie knew it was no use hailing him against the wind, but the moment
she got the wind she darted into the bows, and pitched in its highest key
her full and brilliant voice; after a moment of suspense she received
proof that she must be heard by him, for on the pier now hung men and
women, clustered like bees, breathless with anxiety, and the moment after
she hailed the drowning man, she saw and heard a wild yell of applause
burst from the pier, and the pier was more distant than the man. She
snatched Flucker's cap, planted her foot on the gunwale, held on by a
rope, hailed the poor fellow again, and waved the cap round and round her
head, to give him courage; and in a moment, at the sight of this,
thousands of voices thundered back their cheers to her across the water.
Blow, wind--spring, boat--and you, Christie, still ring life toward those
despairing ears and wave hope to those sinking eyes; cheer the boat on,
you thousands that look upon this action; hurrah! from the pier; hurrah!
from the town; hurrah! from the shore; hurrah! now, from the very ships
in the roads, whose crews are swarming on the yards to look; five minutes
ago they laughed at you; three thousand eyes and hearts hang upon you
now; ay, these are the moments we live for!

And now dead silence. The boat is within fifty yards, they are all three
consulting together round the mast; an error now is death; his forehead
only seems above water.

"If they miss him on that tack?" said Lord Ipsden, significantly, to
Liston.

"He'll never see London Brigg again," was the whispered reply.

They carried on till all on shore thought they would run over him, or
past him; but no, at ten yards distant they were all at the sail, and had
it down like lightning; and then Flucker sprang to the bows, the other
boy to the helm.

Unfortunately, there were but two Johnstones in the boat; and this boy,
in his hurry, actually put the helm to port, instead of to starboard.
Christie, who stood amidships, saw the error; she sprang aft, flung the
boy from the helm and jammed it hard-a-starboard with her foot. The boat
answered the helm, but too late for Flucker; the man was four yards from
him as the boat drifted by.

"He's a deed mon!" cried Liston, on shore.

The boat's length gave one more little chance; the after-part must drift
nearer him--thanks to Christie. Flucker flew aft; flung himself on his
back, and seized his sister's petticoats.

"Fling yourself ower the gunwale," screamed he. "Ye'll no hurt; I'se haud
ye."

She flung herself boldly over the gunwale; the man was sinking, her nails
touched his hair, her fingers entangled themselves in it, she gave him a
powerful wrench and brought him alongside; the boys pinned him like
wild-cats.

Christie darted away forward to the mast, passed a rope round it, threw
it the boys, in a moment it was under his shoulders. Christie hauled on
it from the fore thwart, the boys lifted him, and they tumbled him,
gasping and gurgling like a dying salmon, into the bottom of the boat,
and flung net and jackets and sail over him to keep the life in him.

Ah! draw your breath all hands at sea and ashore, and don't try it again,
young gentleman, for there was nothing to spare; when you were missed at
the bow two stout hearts quivered for you; Lord Ipsden hid his face in
his two hands, Sandy Liston gave a groan, and, when you were grabbed
astern, jumped out of his boat and cried:

"A gill o' whisky for ony favor, for it's turned me as seeck as a doeg."
He added: "He may bless yon lassie's fowr banes, for she's ta'en him oot
o' Death's maw, as sure as Gude's in heaven!"

Lady Barbara, who had all her life been longing to see perilous
adventures, prayed and trembled and cried most piteously; and Lord
Ipsden's back was to her, and he paid no attention to her voice; but when
the battle was won, and Lord Ipsden turned and saw her, she clung to his
arm and dried her tears; and then the Old Town cheered the boat, and the
New Town cheered the boat, and the towns cheered each other; and the
Johnstones, lad and lass, set their sail, and swept back in triumph to
the pier; so then Lady Barbara's blood mounted and tingled in her veins
like fire. "Oh, how noble!" cried she.

"Yes, dearest," said Ipsden. "You have seen something great done at last;
and by a woman, too!"

"Yes," said Barbara, "how beautiful! oh! how beautiful it all is; only
the next one I see I should like the danger to be over first, that is
all."

The boys and Christie, the moment they had saved Gatty, up sail again for
Newhaven; they landed in about three minutes at the pier.


TIME. From Newhaven town to pier on foot: 1 m. 30 sec. First tack: 5 m.
30 sec. Second tack, and getting him on board: 4 m. 0 sec. Back to the
pier, going free: 3 m. 30 sec.

Total: 14 m. 30 sec.


They came in to the pier, Christie sitting quietly on the thwart after
her work, the boy steering, and Flucker standing against the mast, hands
in his pockets; the deportment this young gentleman thought fit to assume
on this occasion was "complete apathy"; he came into port with the air of
one bringing home the ordinary results of his day's fishing; this was, I
suppose, to impress the spectators with the notion that saving lives was
an every-day affair with La Famille Johnstone; as for Gatty, he came to
himself under his heap of nets and jackets and spoke once between Death's
jaw and the pier.

"Beautiful!" murmured he, and was silent. The meaning of this observation
never transpired, and never will in this world. Six months afterward,
being subjected to a searching interrogatory, he stated that he had
alluded to the majesty and freedom of a certain _pose_ Christie had
adopted while hailing him from the boat; but, reader, if he had wanted
you and me to believe it was this, he should not have been half a year
finding it out--_increduli odimus!_ They landed, and Christie sprang on
shore; while she was wending her way through the crowd, impeded by
greetings and acclamations, with every now and then a lass waving her
kerchief or a lad his bonnet over the heroine's head, poor Mrs. Gatty was
receiving the attention of the New Town; they brought her to, they told
her the good news--she thanked God.

"From time immemorial it has been the pleasant habit of old communities
to be shocked at newer settlements, built by their own countrymen. Are
you shocked, sir?"

Stephen flushed.

Fortunately the Judge did not give him time to answer.

"Why didn't your mother let me know that she was coming?"

"She didn't wish to put you to any trouble, sir."

"Wasn't I a good friend of your father's? Didn't I ask you to come here
and go into my office?"
"But there was a chance, Mr. Whipple--"
"A chance of what?"
"That you would not like me. And there is still a chance of it," added
Stephen, smiling.

For a second it looked as if the Judge might smile, too.

He rubbed his nose with a fearful violence.

"Mr. Richter tells me you were looking for a bank," said he,
presently.

Stephen quaked.

"Yes, sir, I was, but--"
But Mr. Whipple merely picked up the 'Counterfeit Bank Note Detector'.

"Beware of Western State Currency as you would the devil," said he.

"That's one thing we don't equal the East in--yet. And so you want to
become a lawyer?"

"I intend to become a lawyer, sir."

"And so you shall, sir," cried the Judge, bringing down his yellow
fist upon the 'Bank Note Detector'.

"I'll make you a lawyer, sir. But my methods ain't Harvard methods, sir."

"I am ready to do anything, Mr. Whipple."
The Judge merely grunted. He scratched among his papers, and produced some
legal cap and a bunch of notes.

"Go out there," he said, "and take off your coat and copy this brief.

Mr.
Richter will help you to-day. And tell your mother I shall do myself
the honor to call upon her this evening."

Stephen did as he was told, without a word. But Mr. Richter was not in the
outer office when he returned to it.

He tried to compose himself to write, although the recollection of
each act of the morning hung like a cloud over the back of his head.

Therefore the first sheet of legal cap was spoiled utterly.

But Stephen had a deep sense of failure.

He had gone through the ground glass door with the firm intention
of making a clean breast of the ownership of Hester.

Now, as he sat still, the trouble grew upon him.

He started a new sheet, and ruined that: Once he got as far as his feet,
and sat down again.

But at length he had quieted to the extent of deciphering ten lines
of Mr.

Whipple's handwriting when the creak of a door shattered his nerves
completely.
He glanced up from his work to behold--none other than Colonel Comyn
Carvel.
Glancing at Mr. Richter's chair, and seeing it empty, the Colonel's
eye roved about the room until it found Stephen. There it remained,
and the Colonel remained in the middle of the floor, his soft hat
on the back of his head, one hand planted firmly on the gold head
of his stick, and the other tugging at his goatee, pulling down his
chin to the quizzical angle.

"Whoopee!" he cried.
The effect of this was to make one perspire freely. Stephen
perspired.
And as there seemed no logical answer, he made none.
Suddenly Mr.Suddenly she gave a violent start.

"Christie! where is Christie?" had cried a well-known voice. He had
learned on the pier who had saved him--he had slipped up among the boats
to find her--he could not find his hat--he could not wait for it--his
dripping hair showed where he had been--it was her love whom she had just
saved out of Death's very jaws.

She gave a cry of love that went through every heart, high or low, young
or old, that heard it. And she went to him, through the air it seemed;
but, quick as she was, another was as quick; the mother had seen him
first, and she was there. he demanded.

"I callate."

"What?"
"I callate to," responded Mr.

Hopper again, without rising.

"Please find Mr. Hood," directed Mr. Colfax, with a wave of his cane,
"and say that Miss Carvel is here--"
Whereupon Miss Carvel seated herself upon the edge of a bale and
giggled, which did not have a soothing effect upon either of the
young men. How abominably you were wont to behave in those days,
Virginia.
"Just say that Mr. Colfax sent you," Clarence continued, with a
note of irritation."My daughter!" sobbed the old woman.

At that word Christie clasped her quickly; and then Christie began to
cry.

"I am not a stone," cried Mrs. Gatty.

"I gave him life; but you have saved him from death. Oh, Charles, never
make her repent what she has done for you."

She was a woman, after all; and prudence and prejudice melted like snow
before her heart.

There were not many dry eyes--least of all the heroic Lady Barbara's.

"So we were," answered Miss Trevor, "and I should be very sorry to think,
Mr. Allen," she said meaningly, "that our relations had in any way changed."

It was the Celebrity's turn to flush.

"At any rate," he remarked in his most offhand manner, "I am much
obliged to you both. On sober reflection I have come to believe
that you did the very best thing for my reputation."
CHAPTER XX
He had scarcely uttered these words before the reason for the Maria's
abrupt departure became apparent.Lady Barbara enjoined Lord Ipsden to watch these people, and not to lose
a word they said; and, after she had insisted upon kissing Christie, she
went off to her carriage. And she too was so happy, she cried three
distinct times on her way to Edinburgh.

Lord Ipsden, having reminded Gatty of his engagement, begged him to add
his mother and Christie to the party, and escorted Lady Barbara to her
phaeton.

'Hang your impudence,' said I, but I wanted to hear what he had to
say.

'Don't lose your temper, old chap,' he laughed; 'you took a few liberties
with my name, and there was no good reason why I shouldn't take some
with yours. Was there?

She
married a green-grocer," added Saunders, with an injured air.

"Hech! hech!" cried Flucker, "Christie has ta'en up her head wi' a cook's
son."

The peasant is a serf. He is compelled to serve the lord of the land
every year with so much labor of his hands.
The small farmers, the 'Gross' and 'Mittel Bauern', we call them,
are also mortgaged to the nobles who tyrannize our Vaterland.

When they met, Mrs. Gatty gave a little scream of joy, and said: "Oh, my
child; if I had seen you in that dress, I should never have said a word
against you."

"Pars minima est ipsa puella sui!"

Even the wise forget themselves. But all at once a wagon backed and
bumped against the curb in front of him, and Eliphalet's head dropped as
if it had been struck by the wheel. Above him a sash screamed as it
opened, and he heard Mr.."_

"Hech! it's for five hundred pund, Chairles."

"Good gear gangs in little book,"* said Jean.