"Now, Fred we're very glad to see that you've been made gang-boss. You
know the game all right, and we're sure that you're not likely to be a
piece-work hog. You come along with us, and every-thing will be all
right, but if you try breaking any of these rates you can be mighty sure
that we'll throw you over the fence."

The writer told them plainly that he was now working on the side of the
management, and that he proposed to do whatever he could to get a fair
day's work out of the lathes. This immediately started a war; in most
cases a friendly war, because the men who were under him were his
personal friends, but none the less a war, which as time went on grew
more and more bitter. The writer used every expedient to make them do a
fair day's work, such as discharging or lowering the wages of the more
stubborn men who refused to make any improvement, and such as lowering
the piece-work price, hiring green men, and personally teaching them bow
to do the work, with the promise from them that when they had learned
how, they would then do a fair day's work. While the men constantly
brought such pressure to bear (both inside and outside the works) upon
all those who started to increase their output that they were finally
compelled to do about as the rest did, or else quit. No one who has not
had this experience can have an idea of the bitterness which is
gradually developed in such a struggle. In a war of this kind the
workmen have one expedient which is usually effective. They use their
ingenuity to contrive various ways in which the machines which they are
running are broken or damaged--apparently by accident, or in the regular
course of work--and this they always lay at the door of the foreman, who
has forced them to drive the machine so hard that it is overstrained and
is being ruined. And there are few foremen indeed who are able to stand
up against the combined pressure of all of the men in the shop. In this
case the problem was complicated by the fact that the shop ran both day
and night.

The writer had two advantages, however, which are not possessed by the
ordinary foreman, and these came, curiously enough, from the fact that
he was not the son of a working man.

They told me they never went back on the plains, but throughout the winter
had spent their days and nights on the top of the cliff and along its
face. This cliff was an alternation of sheer precipices and very
steep inclines. When coated with ice it would be difficult to imagine
an uglier bit of climbing; but throughout the winter, and even in the
wildest storms, the sheep had habitually gone down it to drink at the
water below. When we first saw them they were lying sunning themselves
on the edge of the canyon, where the rolling grassy country behind
it broke off into the sheer descent. It was mid-afternoon and they were
under some pines. After a while they got up and began to graze, and
soon hopped unconcernedly down the side of the cliff until they were
half way to the bottom. They then grazed along the sides, and spent
some time licking at a place where there was evidently a mineral deposit.
Before dark they all lay down again on a steeply inclined jutting
spur midway between the top and bottom of the canyon.

[Illustration: MOUNTAIN SHEEP AT CLOSE QUARTERS.]
Next morning I thought I would like to see them close up, so I walked
down three or four miles below where the canyon ended, crossed the
stream, and came up the other side until I got on what was literally
the stamping ground of the sheep. Their tracks showed that they
had spent their time for many weeks, and probably for all the winter,
within a very narrow radius. For perhaps a mile and a half, or two
miles at the very outside, they had wandered to and fro on the summit of
the canyon, making what was almost a well-beaten path; always very
near and usually on the edge of the cliff, and hardly ever going
more than a few yards back into the grassy plain-and-hill country.In all
such cases, however, a display of timidity is apt to increase rather
than diminish the risk, so the writer told these men to say to the other
men in the shop that he proposed to walk home every night right up that
railway track; that he never had carried and never would carry any
weapon of any kind, and that they could shoot and be d------.

After about three years of this kind of struggling, the output of the
machines had been materially increased, in many cases doubled, and as a
result the writer had been promoted from one gang-boss-ship to another
until he became foreman of the shop. For any right-minded man, however,
this success is in no sense a recompense for the bitter relations which
he is forced to maintain with all of those around him. Life which is one
continuous struggle with other men is hardly worth living. His workman
friends came to him continually and asked him, in a personal, friendly
way, whether he would advise them, for their own best interest, to turn
out more work. And, as a truthful man, he had to tell them that if he
were in their place he would fight against turning out any more work,
just as they were doing, because under the piece-work system they would
be allowed to earn no more wages than they had been earning, and yet
they would be made to work harder.

Soon after being made foreman, therefore, he decided to make a
determined effort to in some way change the system of management, so
that the interests of the workmen and the management should become the
same, instead of antagonistic. This resulted, some three years later, in
the starting of the type of management which is described in papers
presented to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers entitled "A
Piece-Rate System" and "Shop Management."

Suddenly one took the alarm and dashed straight over the cliff, the
others all following at once. I ran after them to the edge in
time to see the last yearling drop off the edge of the basalt cliff
and stop short on the sheer slope below, while the stones dislodged
by his hoofs rattled down the canon. They all looked up at me with great
interest and then strolled off to the edge of a jutting spur and lay
down almost directly underneath me and some fifty yards off. That
evening on my return to camp we watched the band make its way right
down to the river bed, going over places where it did not seem possible
a four-footed creature could pass.

They halted to graze here and there, and down the worst places they
went very fast with great bounds.
He stated, however, that he did not
believe that any scientific study of this sort would give results of
much value.

Among several investigations which were undertaken at this time, one was
an attempt to find some rule, or law, which would enable a foreman to
know in advance how much of any kind of heavy laboring work a man who
was well suited to his job ought to do in a day; that is, to study the
tiring effect of heavy labor upon a first-class man. Our first step was
to employ a young college graduate to look up all that had been written
on the subject in English, German, and French. Two classes of
experiments had been made: one by physiologists who were studying the
endurance of the human animal, and the other by engineers who wished to
determine what fraction of a horse-power a man-power was. These
experiments had been made largely upon men who were lifting loads by
means of turning the crank of a winch from which weights were suspended,
and others who were engaged in walking, running, and lifting weights in
various ways. However, the records of these investigations were so
meager that no law of any value could be deduced from them. We therefore
started a series of experiments of our own.

