          There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines,
          And maidens without number.
          My dove, My perfect one, is but one;
          She is the only one of her mother;
          She is the choice one of her that bare her.
          The daughters saw her, and called her blessed;
          Yea, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her,
               saying,
          Who is she that looketh forth as the morning,
          Fair as the moon,
          Clear as the sun,
          Brilliant as an army with banners?

Thus the section closes with communion fully restored; the bride
reinstated and openly acknowledged by the Bridegroom as His own peerless
companion and friend. Best, indeed, undertaken to religious ends, as the
Apostle saith (1 Cor.
VII. '_In the Lord_'); yet not therefore invalid or unholy without a
minister and his pretended necessary hallowing, more than any other
act, enterprise, or contract, of civil life,--which ought all to
be done also in the Lord and to his glory,--all which, no less than
marriage, were by the cunning of priests heretofore, as material
to their profit, transacted at the altar.

Our Divines deny it to be a Sacrament; yet retained the celebration,
till prudently a late Parliament recovered the civil liberty of
marriage from their encroachment, and transferred the ratifying and
registering thereof from their Canonical Shop to the proper cognisance
of Civil Magistrates" [The Marriages Act of the Barebones Parliament;
in accordance with which had been Milton's own second marriage: see
ante p. 281, and Vol.

IV. p. 511].

_Sitting under a Stated Minister:_--"If men be not all their lifetime
under a teacher to learn Logic, Natural Philosophy, Ethics, or
Mathematics, ... certainly it is not necessary to the attainment
of Christian knowledge that men should sit all their life long at
the foot of a pulpited divine, while he, a lollard indeed over his
elbow-cushion, in almost the seventh part of forty or fifty years,
teaches them scarce half the principles of Religion, and his sheep
ofttimes sit the while to as little purpose of benefiting as the
sheep in their pews at Smithfield."

_Congregations for mutual Edification:_--"Notwithstanding the gaudy
superstition of some devoted still ignorantly to temples, we may
be well assured that He who disdained not to be laid in a manger
disdains not to be preached in a barn, and that by such meetings
as these, being indeed most apostolical and primitive, they will
in a short time advance more in Christian knowledge and reformation
of life than by the many years preaching of such an incumbent,--I
may say such an incubus ofttimes,--as will be meanly hired to abide
long in those places."

The bride and Bridegroom appear to have been discovered by their willing
people while thus engaged in the happy fellowship of fruitful service,
and the bride, or ever she was aware, found herself seated among the
chariots of her people--_her_ people as well as _His_.

The daughters of Jerusalem would fain call her back:--

          Return, return, O Shulammite;
          Return, return, that we may look upon thee.

There is no question now as to who she is, nor why her Beloved is more
than another beloved; He is recognized as King Solomon, and to her is
given the same name, only in its feminine form (Shulammite).

Some have seen in these words, "Return, return," an indication of the
rapture of the Church; and explain some parts of the subsequent context,
which appear inconsistent with this view, as resumptive rather than
progressive. Interesting as is this thought, and well as it would
explain the absence of _reference_ to the KING in the preceding verses,
we are not inclined to accept it; but look on the whole song as
progressive, and its last words as being equivalent to the closing words
of the Book of Revelation, "Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come,
LORD JESUS." We do not therefore look upon the departure of the bride
from her garden as being other than temporary.

The bride replies to the daughters of Jerusalem:--

          Why will ye look upon the Shulammite?

or, as in the Authorized Version,

          What will ye see in the Shulamite?

In the presence of the KING, she cannot conceive why any attention
should be paid to her. As Moses, coming down from the mount, was
unconscious that his face shone with a divine glory, so was it here with
the bride. But we may learn this very important lesson, that many who do
not see the beauty of the LORD, will not fail to admire His reflected
beauty in His bride. The eager look of the daughters of Jerusalem
surprised the bride, and she says, You might be looking "upon the dance
of Mahanaim"--the dance of two companies of Israel's fairest
daughters--instead of upon one who has no claim for attention, save that
she is the chosen, though unworthy, bride of the glorious KING.

The daughters of Jerusalem have no difficulty in replying to her
question, and recognizing her as of royal birth--"O Prince's
daughter"--as well as of queenly dignity, they describe in true and
Oriental language the tenfold beauties of her person; from her feet to
her head they see only beauty and perfection. What a contrast to her
state by nature! Once "from the sole of the foot even unto the head" was
"but wounds, and bruises, and festering sores"; now her feet are "shod
with the preparation of the Gospel of peace," and the very hair of the
head proclaims her a Nazarite indeed; "the KING" Himself "is held
captive in the tresses thereof."

But One, more to her than the daughters of Jerusalem, responded to her
unaffected question, "What will ye see in the Shulamite?" The Bridegroom
Himself replies to it:--

          How fair and how pleasant art thou,
          O love, for delights!

He sees in her the beauties and the fruitfulness of the tall and
upright palm, of the graceful and clinging vine, of the fragrant and
evergreen citron. Grace has made her like the palm-tree, the emblem
alike of uprightness and of fruitfulness. The fruit of the date-palm is
more valued than bread by the Oriental traveller, so great is its
sustaining power; and the fruit-bearing powers of the tree do not pass
away; as age increases the fruit becomes more perfect as well as more
abundant.

          The righteous shall flourish like the palm-tree:
          He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
          They that are planted in the house of the LORD
          Shall flourish in the courts of our GOD.
          They shall still bring forth fruit in old age;
          They shall be full of sap and green.

But why are the righteous made so upright and flourishing?

          To show that the LORD is upright;
          He is my ROCK, and there is no unrighteousness in Him.

One with our LORD, it is ours to _show forth_ His graces and virtues, to
reflect His beauty, to be His faithful witnesses.

The palm is also the emblem of victory; it raises its beautiful crown
towards the heavens, fearless of the heat of the sultry sun, or of the
burning hot wind from the desert. From its beauty it was one of the
ornaments of Solomon's, as it is to be of Ezekiel's temple. When our
SAVIOUR was received at Jerusalem as the KING of Israel the people took
branches of palm-trees and went forth to meet Him; and in the glorious
day of His espousals, "a great multitude, which no man" can "number, of
all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues," shall stand "before
the throne and before the LAMB, clothed with white robes"; and with
palms of victory in their hands shall ascribe their "salvation to our
GOD which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the LAMB."

But if she resembles the palm she also resembles the vine. Much she
needs the culture of the Husbandman, and well does she repay it. Abiding
in CHRIST, the true source of fruitfulness, she brings forth clusters of
grapes, luscious and refreshing, as well as sustaining, like the fruit
of the palm--luscious and refreshing to Himself, the owner of the
vineyard, as well as to the weary, thirsty world in which He has placed
it.

The vine has its own suggestive lessons: it needs and seeks support;
the sharp knife of the pruner often cuts away unsparingly its tender
garlands, and mars its appearance, while increasing its fruitfulness. It
has been beautifully written:--

          The living Vine, CHRIST chose it for Himself:--
          GOD gave to man for use and sustenance
          Corn, wine, and oil, and each of these is good:
          And CHRIST is Bread of life and Light of life.
          But yet, He did not choose the summer corn,
          That shoots up straight and free in one quick growth.
          And has its day, is done, and springs no more;
          Nor yet the olive, all whose boughs are spread
          In the soft air, and never lose a leaf,
          Flowering and fruitful in perpetual peace;
          But only this, for Him and His is one,--
          That everlasting, ever-quickening Vine,
          That gives the heat and passion of the world,
          Through its own life-blood, still renewed and shed.
               .     .     .     .     .      .
          The Vine from every living limb bleeds wine;
          Is it the poorer for that spirit shed?
          The drunkard and the wanton drink thereof;
          Are they the richer for that gift's excess?
          _Measure thy life by loss instead of gain;_
          _Not by the wine drunk, but the wine poured forth;_
          _For love's strength standeth in love's sacrifice;_
          _And whoso suffers most, hath most to give._

Yet one figure more is used by the Bridegroom: "The smell of thy breath
[is] like apples," or rather citrons. In the first section the bride
exclaims:--

          As the citron-tree among the trees of the wood,
          So is my Beloved among the sons.
          I delighted and sat down under His shadow,
          And His fruit was sweet to my taste.

Here we find the outcome of that communion. The citrons on which she had
fed perfumed her breath, and imparted to her their delicious odour. The
Bridegroom concludes his description:--

          Thy mouth [is] like the best wine,
          That goeth down smoothly--
                        For my Beloved--

interjects the bride,

          Causing the lips of those that are asleep to move.

He was a country gentleman who considered himself to be energetic if he
went out twice a week, and in doing this he rarely left his house earlier
for that purpose than he would leave it for others. At certain periods
of the year he if ho went out twice a he rarely left his house than
he would leave it periods of the year he would, perhaps, be out before
dawn; but then the general habits of his life conduced to
early rising; and his distances were short.And what must be her joy in
finding, ever more fully, the satisfaction of the glorious Bridegroom in
the lowly wild flower He has made His bride, and beautified with His own
graces and virtues!

          I am my Beloved's,
          And His desire is toward me,

she gladly exclaims. Now it is none of self or for self, but all of Thee
and for Thee. And if such be the sweet fruits of going down to the
garden of nuts, and caring for His garden with Him, she will need no
constraining to continue in this blessed service.

