Now it might be contended that all these different moralities are in
their essence one and the same; and that one cannot comply with the
requirements of any one of these systems of morality without
fulfilling in a measure the requirements of all the other moralities.

It might, for example, be urged that if a man strive after the
achievement of a transcendental ideal in which self shall be annulled,
he will _pro tanto [to such extent]_ be bringing welfare to his
domestic circle; or again, that it would be impossible to promote
domestic welfare without, through this, promoting the welfare of the
nation, and through that the general welfare of the world.

In like manner it might be argued that all work done for abstract
principles of morality like liberty and justice, for the advancement
of knowledge, and for whatever else goes to the building up of a
higher civilisation, will, by promoting the welfare of the general
body of mankind, redound to the advantage of each several nation, and
ultimately to the advantage of each domestic circle.

But all this would be true only in a very superficial and strictly
qualified sense. In reality, just as there is eternal conflict between
egoism and altruism, so there is conflict between the different
moralities.

To take examples, the attempt to actualise the transcendental
religious ideal may, when pursued with ardour, very easily conflict
with the morality which makes domestic felicity its end. And again--as
we see in the anti-militarist movement in France, in the history of
the early Christian Church, in the case of the Quakers and in the
teachings of Tolstoy--it may quite well set itself in conflict with
national ideals, and dictate a line of conduct which is, from the
point of view of the State, immoral.

We need no further witness of the divorce between idealistic and
national morality than that which is supplied in the memorable
utterance of Bishop Magee, "No state which was conducted on truly
Christian principles could hold together for a week."

And domestic morality will constantly come into conflict with public
morality.

To do everything in one's power to advance one's relatives and friends
irrespectively of all considerations of merit would, no doubt, be
quite sound domestic morality; it could, however, not always be
reconciled with public morality. In the same way, to take one's
country's part in all eventualities would be patriotic, but it might
quite well conflict with the higher interests of humanity.

Now, the point towards which we have been winning our way is that each
man's moral station and degree will be determined by the election
which he makes where egoism and altruism, and where a narrower and a
wider code of morality, conflict.

That the moral law forbids yielding to the promptings of egoism or to
those of the narrower moralities when this involves a violation of the
precepts of the wider morality is axiomatic. Criminal and anti-social
actions are not excused by the fact that motives which impelled their
commission were not purely egoistic.

But the ethical law demands more than abstention from definitely
anti-social actions. It demands from every individual that he shall
recognise the precepts of public morality as of superior obligation to
those of egoism and domestic morality.

By the fact that her public men recognised this ethical law Rome won
for herself in the ancient world spectacular grandeur. By an
unexampled national obedience to it glory has in our time accrued to
Japan. And, in truth, there is not anywhere any honour or renown but
such as comes from casting away the bonds of self and of the narrower
moralities to carry out the behests of the wider morality.

Even in the strongholds of transcendental religion where it was
axiomatic that morality began and was summed up in personal morality,
it is gradually coming to be recognised that, where we have two
competing moralities, it is always the wider morality which has the
prior claim upon our allegiance.

Kingsley's protest against the morality of "saving one's dirty soul"
marked a step in advance. And we find full recognition of the superior
claim of the larger morality in that other virile dictum of Bishop
Magee, "I would rather have England free, than England sober." That
is, "I would maintain the conditions which make for the highest
civilisation even at the price of a certain number of lapses in
personal and domestic morality."

What is here new, let it be noted, is only the acknowledgment by those
whose official allegiance is to a transcendental ideal of personal
morality that they are called upon to obey a higher allegiance. For
there has always existed, in the doctrine that guilty man could not be
pardoned and taken back into favour until the claims of eternal
justice had been satisfied, theoretical recognition of the principle
that one must conform to the precepts of abstract morality before one
may ethically indulge oneself in the lower moralities of philanthropy
and personal benevolence.

The view point from which I would propose to survey the morality of
woman has now been reached. It has, however, still to be pointed out
that we may appropriately, in comparing the morals of man and woman,
confine our survey to a comparatively narrow field. That is to say, we
may here rule out all that relates to purely personal and domestic
morality--for this is not relevant to the suffrage. And we may also
rule out all that relates to offences against the police laws--such as
public drunkenness and offences against the criminal law--for these
would come into consideration only in connexion with an absolutely
inappreciable fraction of voters.

It will be well to begin by signalising certain points in the moral
psychology of man.

When morality takes up its abode in a man who belongs to the
intellectual caste it will show itself in his becoming mindful of his
public obligations. He will consider the quality of his work as
affecting the interest of those who have to place dependence upon it;
behaviour to those who are casually brought into relations with him;
the discharge of his indebtedness to the community; and the proper
conduct of public affairs.

In particular, it will be to him a matter of concern that the law
shall be established upon classifications which are just (in the sense
of being conformable to public advantage); and that the laws shall
everywhere be justly, that is to say rigorously and impartially,
administered.

If we now turn to the man in the street we shall not find him
especially sensible to the appeals of morality. But when the special
call comes it will generally be possible to trust him: as an elector,
to vote uninfluenced by considerations of private advantage; and, when
called to serve on a jury, to apply legal classifications without
distinction of person.

Furthermore, in all times of crisis he may be counted upon to apply
the principles of communal morality which have been handed down in the
race.

The _Titanic_ disaster, for example, showed in a conspicuous manner
that the ordinary man will, "letting his own life go," obey the
communal law which lays it upon him, when involved in a catastrophe,
to save first the women and children.

Lastly, we come to the man who is intolerant of all the ordinary
restraints of personal and domestic morality. Even in him the seeds of
communal morality will often be found deeply implanted.

Time and again a regiment of scallawags, who have let all other
morality go hang, have, when the proper chord has been made to vibrate
in them, heard the call of communal morality, and done deeds which
make the ears of whosoever heareth of them to tingle.

We come into an entirely different land when we come to the morality
of woman. It is personal and domestic, not public, morality which is
instinctive in her.

In other words, when egoism gives ground to altruism, that altruism is
exercised towards those who are linked up to her by a bond of sexual
affection, or a community in blood, or failing this, by a relation of
personal friendship, or by some other personal relation.

And even when altruism has had her perfect work, woman feels no
interest in, and no responsibility towards, any abstract moral ideal.

And though the suffragist may protest, instancing in disproof of this
her own burning enthusiasm for justice, we, for our part, may
legitimately ask whether evidence of a moral enthusiasm for justice
would be furnished by a desire to render to others their due, or by
vehement insistence upon one's own rights, and systematic attempts to
extort, under the cover of the word "justice," advantages for oneself.

But it will be well to dwell a little longer on, and to bring out more
clearly, the point that woman's moral ideals are personal and
domestic, as distinguished from impersonal and public.

Let us note in this connexion that it would be difficult to conceive
of a woman who had become deaf to the appeal of personal and domestic
morality making it a matter of _amour propre_ to respond to a call of
public morality; and difficult to conceive of a woman recovering lost
self-respect by fulfilling such an obligation.

But one knows that woman will rise and respond to the call of any
strong human or transcendental personal affection.

Again, it is only a very exceptional woman who would, when put to her
election between the claims of a narrow and domestic and a wider or
public morality, subordinate the former to the latter.

In ordinary life, at any rate, one finds her following in such a case
the suggestions of domestic--I had almost called it animal--morality.

It would be difficult to find any one who would trust a woman to be
just to the rights of others in the case where the material interests
of her children, or of a devoted husband, were involved. And even to
consider the question of being in such a case intellectually just to
any one who came into competition with personal belongings like
husband and child would, of course, lie quite beyond the moral horizon
of ordinary woman.

It is not only the fact that the ideals of abstract justice and truth
would inevitably be brushed aside by woman in the interests of those
she loves which comes into consideration here; it is also the fact
that woman is almost without a moral sense in the matter of executing
a public trust such as voting or attaching herself to a political
association with a view to influencing votes.

There is between man and woman here a characteristic difference.

While it is, of course, not a secret to anybody that the baser sort of
man can at any time be diverted from the path of public morality by a
monetary bribe or other personal advantage, he will not, at any rate,
set at naught all public morality by doing so for a peppercorn. He
will, for instance, not join, for the sake of a daughter, a political
movement in which he has no belief; nor vote for this or that
candidate just to please a son; or censure a member of Parliament who
has in voting on female suffrage failed to consider the predilections
of his wife.

But woman, whether she be politically enfranchised as in Australasia,
or unenfranchised as at home; whether she be immoral in the sense of
being purely egoistic, or moral in the sense of being altruistic, very
rarely makes any secret or any shame of doing these things.

In this matter one would not be very far from the truth if one alleged
that there are no good women, but only women who have lived under the
influence of good men.

Even more serious than this postponement of public to private morality
is the fact that even reputedly ethical women will, in the interests
of what they take to be idealistic causes, violate laws which are
universally accepted as being of moral obligation.

I here pass over the recent epidemic of political crime among women to
advert to the want of conscience which permits, in connexion with
professedly idealistic causes, not only misrepresentations, but the
making of deliberately false statements on matters of public concern.

It is, for example, an illustration of the profoundly different moral
atmospheres in which men and women live that when a public woman
recently made, for what was to her an idealistic purpose, a
deliberately false statement of fact in _The Times_, she quite naively
confessed to it, seeing nothing whatever amiss in her action.

And it did not appear that any other woman suffragist could discern
any kind of immorality in it. The worst thing they could find to say
was that it perhaps was a little _gauche_ to confess to making a
deliberately false statement on a public question when it was for the
moment particularly desirable that woman should show up to best
advantage before the eyes of man.

We may now for a moment put aside the question of woman's public
morality and consider a question which is inextricably mixed up with
the question of the admission of woman to the suffrage. This is the
mental attitude and the programme of the female legislative reformer.


IV

MENTAL OUTLOOK AND PROGRAMME OF THE FEMALE LEGISLATIVE REFORMER

The suffragist woman, when she is the kind of woman who piques herself
upon her ethical impulses, will, even when she is intellectually very
poorly equipped, and there is no imprint of altruism upon her life,
assure you that nothing except the moral influence of woman, exerted
through the legislation, which her practical mind would be capable of
initiating, will ever avail to abate existing social evils, and to
effect the moral redemption of the world.

It will not be amiss first to try to introduce a little clearness and
order into our ideas upon those formidably difficult problems which
the female legislative reformer desires to attack, and then to
consider how a rational reforming mind would go to work in the matter
of proposing legislation for these.

_First_ would come those evils which result from individuals seeking
advantage to themselves by the direct infliction of injury upon
others. Violations of the criminal law and the various forms of
sweating and fleecing one's fellow-men come under this category.

_Then_ would come the evils which arise out of purveying physiological
and psychological refreshments and excitements, which are, according
as they are indulged in temperately or intemperately, grateful and
innocuous, or sources of disaster and ruin. The evils which are
associated with the drink traffic and the betting industry are typical
examples.

_Finally,_ there would come into consideration the evils of death or
physical suffering deliberately inflicted by man upon man with a view
to preventing worse evils. The evil of war would come under this
category. In this same category might also come the much lesser evil
of punitive measures inflicted upon criminals. And with this might be
coupled the evil of killing and inflicting physical suffering upon
animals for the advantage of man.

We may now consider how the rational legislative reformer would in
each case go to work.

He would not start with the assumption that it _must_ be possible by
some alteration of the law to abolish or conspicuously reduce any of
the afore-mentioned evils; nor yet with the assumption that, if a
particular alteration of the law would avail to bring about this
result, that alteration ought necessarily to be made. He would
recognise that many things which are theoretically desirable are
unattainable; and that many legislative measures which could perfectly
well be enforced would be barred by the fact that they would entail
deplorable unintended consequences.

The rational legislator whom we have here in view would accordingly
always take expert advice as to whether the desired object could be
achieved by legal compulsion; and as to whether a projected law which
satisfied the condition of being workable would give a balance of
advantages over disadvantages.

In connexion with a proposal for the prevention of sweating he would,
for instance, take expert advice as to whether its provisions could be
enforced; and whether, if enforceable, they would impose added
hardships on any class of employees or penalties on any innocent class
of employers.

In like manner in connexion with a proposed modification in criminal
procedure, the rational reformer would defer to the expert on the
question as to whether such modification would secure greater
certainty of punishment for the guilty without increasing the risk of
convicting the innocent.

In connexion with the second category of evils--the category under
which would come those of drinking and betting--the rational
legislative reformer would recognise the complete impracticability of
abolishing by legislative prohibition physiological indulgences and
the evils which sometimes attend upon them.

He would consider instead whether these attendant evils could be
reduced by making the regulating laws more stringent; and whether more
stringent restrictions--in addition to the fact that they would filch
from the all too small stock of human happiness--would not, by paving
the way for further invasions of personal liberty, cripple the free
development of the community.

On the former question, which only experts could properly answer, the
reasonable reformer would defer to their advice. The answer to the
last question he would think out for himself.

In connexion with the evils which are deliberately inflicted by man
with a view to reaping either personal profit, or profit for the
nation, or profit for humanity, the reasonable reformer would begin by
making clear to himself that the world we live in is not such a world
as idealism might conjure up, but a world of violence, in which life
must be taken and physical suffering be inflicted.

And he would recognise that the vital material interests of the nation
can be protected only by armed force; that civilisation can be
safeguarded only by punishing violations of the criminal law; and that
the taking of animal life and the infliction of a certain amount of
physical suffering upon animals is essential to human well-being,
comfort, and recreation; and essential also to the achievement of the
knowledge which is required to combat disease.

And the reasonable reformer will, in conformity with this, direct his
efforts, not to the total abolition of war, but to the prevention of
such wars as are not waged for really vital material interests, and to
the abatement of the ferocities of warfare.

In the case of punishment for criminals he would similarly devote his
efforts not to the abrogation of punishments, but to the
relinquishment of any that are not reformatory, or really deterrent.

In like manner the reasonable reformer would not seek to prohibit the
slaughtering of animals for food, or the killing off of animal pests,
or the trapping, shooting, or hunting of animals for sport or profit,
nor yet would he seek to prevent their utilisation of animals for the
acquirement of knowledge.

He would direct his efforts to reducing the pain which is inflicted,
and to preserving everywhere measure and scale--not sentimentally
forbidding in connexion with one form of utilisation of animals what
is freely allowed in connexion with another--but differentiating, if
differentiating at all in favour of permitting the infliction of
proportionately greater suffering in the case where national and
humanitarian interests, than in the case where mere recreation and
luxury and personal profit, are at stake.

Having recognised what reason would prescribe to the legislative
reformer, we have next to inquire how far the man voter conforms to
these prescriptions of reason, and how far the woman reformer would do
so if she became a voter.

Let it be noted that the man in the street makes no question about
falling in with the fact that he is born into a world of violence, and
he acquiesces in the principle that the State, and, failing the State,
the individual, may employ force and take life in defence of vital
material interests. And he frankly falls in with it being a matter of
daily routine to kill and inflict suffering upon animals for human
profit or advantage.

Even if these principles are not formulated by the man in the street
in quite such plain terms, he not only carries them out in practice,
but he conducts all his thinking upon these presuppositions.

He, for instance, would fall in with the proposition that morality
does not require from man that he should give up taking life or
inflicting physical suffering. And he would not cavil with the
statement that man should put reasonable limits to the amount of
suffering he inflicts, and confine this within as narrow a range as
possible--always requiring for the death or suffering inflicted some
tangible advantage.

Moreover, if the question should be raised as to whether such
advantage will result, the ordinary man will as a rule, where the
matter lies beyond his personal ken, take expert opinion before
intervening.

He will, for instance, be prepared to be so guided in connexion with
such questions as whether disease could, if more knowledge were
available, be to a large extent prevented and cured; as to how far
animal experiments would contribute to the acquirement of that
knowledge; and as to how far the physical suffering which might be
involved in these experiments can be minimised or abolished. But not
every man is prepared to fall in with this programme of inflicting
physical suffering for the relief of physical suffering. There is also
a type of spiritually-minded man who in this world of violence sets
his face uncompromisingly against the taking of any life and the
infliction of any physical suffering--refusing to make himself a
partaker of evil.

An idealist of this type will, like Tolstoy, be an anti-militarist.
He will advocate a general gaol delivery for criminals. He will be a
vegetarian. He will not allow an animal's life to be taken in his
house, though the mice scamper over his floors. And he will,
consistently with his conviction that it is immoral to resort to
force, refuse to take any part in legislation or government.

This attitude, which is that commended by the Hindoo and the Buddhist
religions, is, of course, a quite unpractical attitude towards life.
It is, in fact, a self-destructive attitude, unless a man's
fellow-citizens are prepared by forcible means to secure to him the
enjoyment of the work of his hands or of his inherited property, or
unless those who refuse to desist from the exercise of force are
prepared to untake the support of idealists.

We have not only these two classes of men--the ordinary man who has no
compunction in resorting to force when the requirements of life demand
it, and the idealist who refuses to have any lot or part in violence;
there is also a hybrid. This male hybrid will descant on the general
iniquity of violence, and then not only connive at those forms of
violence which minister to his personal comforts, but also make a
virtue of trying to abate by legal violence some particular form of
physical suffering which happens to offend in a quite special manner
his individual sensibility.

There is absolutely nothing to be said about this kind of reforming
crank, except only that anything which may be said in relation to the
female legislative reformer may be appositely said of him; and perhaps
also this, that the ordinary man holds him both in intellectual and in
moral contempt, and is resolved not to allow him to do any really
serious injury to the community.

To become formidable this quasi-male person must, as he recognises,
ally himself with the female legislative reformer.

Passing on to deal with her, it imports us first to realise that while
the male voter has--except where important constitutional issues were
in question--been accustomed to leave actual legislation to the
expert, the female reformer gives notice beforehand that she will, as
soon as ever she gets the suffrage, insist on pressing forward by her
vote her reforming schemes.

What would result from the ordinary voter legislating on matters which
require expert knowledge will be plain to every one who will consider
the evolution of law.

There stand over against each other here, as an example and a warning,
the Roman Law, which was the creation of legal experts: the praetor
and the jurisconsult; and the legal system of the Greeks, which was
the creation of a popular assembly--and it was a popular assembly
which was quite ideally intelligent.

Upon the Roman Law has been built the law of the greater part of the
civilised world. The Greek is a by-word for inconsequence.

How can one, then, without cold shudders think of that legal system
which the female amateur legal reformer would bring to the birth?

Let us consider her qualifications.  Let us first take cognisance of
the fact that the reforming woman will neither stand to the principle
that man may, where this gives a balance of advantage, inflict on his
fellow-man, and _a fortiori_ upon animals, death and physical
suffering; nor yet will she stand to the principle that it is
ethically unlawful to do deeds of violence.

She spends her life halting between these two opinions, eternally
shilly-shallying.

She will, for instance, begin by announcing that it can never be
lawful to do evil that good may come; and that killing and inflicting
suffering is an evil. (In reality the precept of not doing evil that
good may come has relation only to breaking for idealistic purposes
moral laws of higher obligation.) She will then go back upon that and
concede that war may sometimes be lawful, and that the punishment of
criminals is not an evil. But if her emotions are touched by the
forcible feeding of a criminal militant suffragist, she will again go
back upon that and declare that the application of force is an
intolerable evil.

Or, again, she will concede that the slaughtering of animals for food
is not an evil, but that what is really unforgivable is the infliction
of physical suffering on animals. And all the time for her, as well as
for man, calves and lambs are being emasculated to make her meat
succulent; wild animals are painfully done to death to provide her
table with delicacies; birds with young in the nest are shot so that
she may parade in their plumage; or fur-bearing animals are for her
comfort and adornment massacred and tortured in traps.

When a man crank who is co-responsible for these things begins to talk
idealistic reforms, the ordinary decent man refuses to have anything
more to say to him.

But when a woman crank holds this language, the man merely shrugs his
shoulders. "It is," he tells himself, "after all, the woman whom God
gave him."

It must be confessed that the problem as to how man with a dual nature
may best accommodate himself to a world of violence presents a very
difficult problem.

It would obviously be no solution to follow out everywhere a programme
of violence. Not even the predatory animals do that. Tigers do not
savage their cubs; hawks do not pluck hawks' eyes; and dogs do not
fight bitches.

