Charles Franks and Distributed Proofers.


The Clockmaker; or
The Sayings and Doings of Samuel Slick, of Slickville,

by Thomas Chandler Haliburton.


   Garrit aniles
   ex re fabellas
      --Horace.

   The cheerful sage, when solemn dictates fail,
   Conceals the moral counsel in a tale.


Halifax, N. S.
1836.


ADVERTISEMENT.

The following Sketches, as far as the twenty-first No.
originally appeared in "THE NOVASCOTIAN" newspaper. The
great popularity they acquired, induced the Editor of
that paper, to apply to the Author for the remaining part
of the series, and permission to publish the whole entire.
This request having been acceded to, the Editor has now
the pleasure of laying them before the public in their
present shape.

Halifax, December, 1836.


CONTENTS.

SLICK'S LETTER
1.  The Trotting Horse
2.  The Clockmaker
3.  The Silent Girls
4.  Conversations at the River Philip
5.  Justice Pettifog
6.  Anecdotes
7.  Go Ahead
8.  The Preacher that Wandered from His Text
9.  Yankee Eating and Horse Feeding
10. The Road to a Woman's Heart--The Broken Heart
11. Cumberland Oysters Produce Melancholy Forebodings
12. The American Eagle
13. The Clockmaker's Opinion of Halifax
14. Sayings and Doings in Cumberland
15. The Dancing Master Abroad
16. Mr. Slick's Opinion of the British
17. A Yankee Handle for a Halifax Blade
18. The Grahamite and the Irish Pilot
19. The Clockmaker Quilts a Blue Nose
20. Sister Sall's Courtship
21. Setting up for Governor
22. A Cure for Conceit
23. The Blowin Time
24. Father John O'Shaughnessy
25. Taming a Shrew
26. The Minister's Horn Mug
27. The White Nigger
28. Fire in the Dairy
29. A Body Without a Head
30. A Tale of Bunker's Hill
31. Gulling a Blue Nose
32. Too many Irons in the Fire
33. Windsor and the Far West


SLICK'S LETTER.

[After these sketches had gone through the press, and
were ready for the binder, we sent Mr. Slick a copy; and
shortly afterwards received from him the following letter,
which characteristic communication we give entire--EDITOR.]

To MR. HOWE,

SIR.--I received your letter, and note its contents; I
aint over half pleased, I tell you; I think I have been
used scandalous, that's a fact. It warn't the part of a
gentleman for to go and pump me arter that fashion and
then go right off and blart it out in print. It was a
nasty dirty mean action, and I don't thank you nor the
Squire a bit for it. It will be more nor a thousand
dollars out of my pocket. There's an eend to the Clock
trade now, and a pretty kettle of fish I've made of it,
hav'nt I? I shall never hear the last on it, and. what
am I to say when I go back to the States? I'll take my
oath I never said one half the stuff he has set down
there; and as for that long lochrum about Mr. Everett,
and the Hon. Alden Gobble, and Minister, there aint a
word of truth in it from beginnin to eend. If ever I
come near hand to him agin, I'll larn him--but never
mind, I say nothin. Now there's one thing I don't cleverly
understand. If this here book is my "Sayins and Doins,"
how comes it yourn or the Squire's either? If my thoughts
and notions are my own, how can they be any other folks's?
According to my idee you have no more right to take them,
than you have to take my clocks without payin for 'em.
A man that would be guilty of such an action is no
gentleman, that's flat, and if you don't like it, you
may lump it--for I don't valy him nor you, neither, nor
are a Blue Nose that ever stept in shoe leather the matter
of a pin's head. I don't know as ever I felt so ugly
afore since I was raised; why didn't he put his name to
it, as well as mine? When an article han't the maker's
name and factory on it, it shows its a cheat, and he's
ashamed to own it. If I'm to have the name I'll have the
game, or I'll know the cause why, that's a fact? Now
folks say you are a considerable of a candid man, and
right up and down in your dealins, and do things above
board, handsum--at least so I've hearn tell. That's what
I like; I love to deal with such folks. Now spose you
make me an offer? You'll find me not very difficult to
trade with, and I don't know but I might put off more
than half of the books myself, tu. I'll tell you how I'd
work it. I'd say, "Here's a book they've namesaked arter
me, Sam Slick the Clockmaker, but it tante mine, and I
can't altogether jist say rightly whose it is. Some say
it's the General's, and some say its the Bishop's, and
some say its Howe himself; but I aint availed who it is.
Its a wise child that knows its own father. It wipes up
the Blue Noses considerable hard, and don't let off the
Yankees so very easy neither, but it's generally allowed
to be about the prettiest book ever writ in this country;
and although it aint altogether jist gospel what's in
it, there's some pretty home truths in it, that's a fact.
Whoever wrote it must be a funny feller, too, that's
sartin; for there are some queer stories in it that no
soul could help larfin at, that's a fact. Its about the
wittiest book I ever seed. Its nearly all sold off, but
jist a few copies I've kept for my old customers. The
price is just 5s. 6d. but I'll let you have it for 5s.
because you'll not get another chance to have one." Always
ax a sixpence more than the price, and then bate it, and
when Blue Nose hears that, he thinks he's got a bargain,
and bites directly. I never see one on 'em yet that didn't
fall right into the trap.

Yes, make me an offer, and you and I will trade, I think.
But fair play's a jewel, and I must say I feel ryled and
kinder sore. I han't been used handsum atween you two,
and it don't seem to me that I had ought to be made a
fool on in that book, arter that fashion, for folks to
laugh at, and then be sheered out of the spec. If I am,
somebody had better look out for squalls, I tell you.
I'm as easy as an old glove, but a glove aint an old shoe
to be trod on, and I think a certain person will find
that out afore he is six months older, or else I'm
mistakened, that's all. Hopin to hear from you soon, I
remain yours to command,

SAMUEL SLICK.

Pugnose's Inn, River Philip, Dec. 25,1836.

P.S. I see in the last page it is writ, that the Squire
is to take another journey round the Shore, and back to
Halifax with me next Spring. Well, I did agree with him,
to drive him round the coast, but don't you mind--we'll
understand each other, I guess, afore we start. I concait
he'll rise considerable airly in the mornin, afore he
catches me asleep agin. I'll be wide awake for him next
hitch, that's a fact. I'd a ginn a thousand dollars if
he had only used Campbell's name instead of mine; for he
was a most an almighty villain, and cheated a proper raft
of folks, and then shipped himself off to Botany Bay,
for fear folks would transport him there; you couldnt
rub out Slick, and put in Campbell, could you? that's a
good feller; if you would I'd make it worth your while,
you may depend.


THE CLOCKMAKER


No. I

The Trotting Horse.

I was always well mounted; I am fond of a horse, and
always piqued myself on having the fastest trotter in
the Province. I have made no great progress in the world,
I feel doubly, therefore, the pleasure of not being
surpassed on the road. I never feel so well or so cheerful
as on horseback, for there is something exhilirating in
quick motion; and, old as I am, I feel a pleasure in
making any person whom I meet on the way put his horse
to the full gallop, to keep pace with my trotter. Poor
Ethiope! you recollect him, how he was wont to lay back
his ears on his arched neck, and push away from all
competition. He is done, poor fellow! the spavin spoiled
his speed, and he now roams at large upon 'my farm at
Truro.' Mohawk never failed me till this summer, I pride
myself (you may laugh at such childish weakness in a man
of my age,) but still, I pride myself in taking the
concert out of coxcombs I meet on the road, and on the
ease with which I can leave a fool behind, whose nonsense
disturbs my solitary musings, On my last journey to Fort
Lawrence, as the beautiful view of Colchester had just
opened upon me, and as I was contemplating its richness
and exquisite scenery, a tall thin man, with hollow cheeks
and bright twinkling black eyes, on a good bay horse,
somewhat out of condition, overtook me; and drawing up,
said, I guess you started early this morning, Sir? I did,
Sir, I replied. You did not come from Halifax, I presume,
Sir, did you? in a dialect too rich to be mistaken as
genuine Yankee. And which way may you be travelling?
asked my inquisitive companion. To Fort Lawrence. Ah!
said he, so am I, it is IN MY CIRCUIT. The word CIRCUIT
sounded so professional, I looked again at him, to
ascertain whether I had ever seen him before, or whether
I had met with one of those nameless, but innumerable
limbs of the law, who now flourish in every district of
the Province. There was a keenness about his eye, and an
acuteness of expression, much in favor of the law; but
the dress, and general bearing of the man, made against
the supposition. His was not the coat of a man who can
afford to wear an old coat, nor was it one of 'Tempest
& More's,' that distinguish country lawyers from country
boobies. His clothes were well made, and of good materials,
but looked as if their owner had shrunk a little since
they were made for him; they hung somewhat loose on him.
A large brooch, and some superfluous seals and gold keys,
which ornamented his outward man, looked 'New England'
like. A visit to the States, had perhaps, I thought,
turned this Colchester beau into a Yankee fop. Of what
consequence was it to me who he was--in either case I
had nothing to do with him, and I desired neither his
acquaintance nor his company--still I could not but ask
myself who can this man be? I am not aware, said I,
that there is a court sitting at this time at Cumberland?
Nor am I, said my friend. What then could he have to do
with the circuit? It occurred to me he must be a Methodist
preacher. I looked again, but his appearance again puzzled
me. His attire might do--the colour might be suitable--the
broad brim not out of place; but there was a want of that
staidness of look, that seriousness of countenance, that
expression, in short, so characteristic of the clergy.
I could not account for my idle curiosity--a curiosity
which, in him, I had the moment before viewed both with
suspicion and disgust; but so it was--I felt a desire to
know who he could be who was neither lawyer nor preacher,
and yet talked of his circuit with the gravity of both.
How ridiculous, I thought to myself is this; I will leave
him. Turning towards him, I said, I feared I should be
late for breakfast, and must therefore bid him good
morning. Mohawk felt the pressure of my knees, and away
we went at a slapping pace. I congratulated myself on
conquering my own curiosity, and on avoiding that of my
travelling companion. This, I said to myself, this is
the value of a good horse; I patted his neck--I felt
proud of him. Presently I heard the steps of the unknown's
horse--the clatter increased. Ah, my friend, thought I,
it won't do; you should be well mounted if you desire my
company; I pushed Mohawk faster, faster, faster--to his
best. He outdid himself; he had never trotted so
handsomely--so easily--so well.

I guess that is a pretty considerable smart horse, said
the stranger, as he came beside me, and apparently reined
in, to prevent his horse passing me; there is not, I
reckon, so spry a one on MY CIRCUIT.

CIRCUIT, OR NO CIRCUIT, one thing was settled in my mind;
he was a Yankee, and a very impertinent Yankee, too. I
felt humbled, my pride was hurt, and Mohawk was beaten.
To continue this trotting contest was humiliating; I
yielded, therefore, before the victory was palpable, and
pulled up. Yes, continued he, a horse of pretty considerable
good action, and a pretty fair trotter, too, I guess.
Pride must have a fall--I confess mine was prostrate in
the dust. These words cut me to the heart. What! is it
come to this, poor Mohawk, that you, the admiration of
all but the envious, the great Mohawk, the standard by
which all other horses are measured--trots next to Mohawk,
only yields to Mohawk, looks like Mohawk--that you are,
after all, only a counterfeit, and pronounced by a
straggling Yankee to be merely 'a pretty fair trotter!'
If he was trained, I guess that he might be made do a
little more. Excuse me, but if you divide your weight
between the knee and the stirrup, rather most on the
knee, and rise forward on the saddle, so as to leave a
little daylight between you and it, I hope I may never
ride THIS CIRCUIT AGAIN, if you don't get a mile more an
hour out of him. What! not enough, I mentally groaned,
to have my horse beaten, but I must be told that I don't
know how to ride him; and that, too, by a Yankee--Aye,
there's the rub--a Yankee what? Perhaps a half-bred puppy,
half Yankee, half Blue Nose. As there is no escape, I'll
try to make out my riding master. YOUR CIRCUIT, said I,
my looks expressing all the surprise they were capable
of--your circuit, pray what may that be? Oh, said he,
the eastern circuit--I am on the eastern circuit, sir.
I have heard, said I, feeling that I now had a lawyer to
deal with, that there is a great deal of business on this
circuit--pray, are there many cases of importance? There
is a pretty fair business to be done, at least there has
been, but the cases are of no great value--we do not make
much out of them, we get them up very easy, but they
don't bring much profit. What a beast, thought I, is
this; and what a curse to a country, to have such an
unfeeling pettifogging rascal practising in it--a horse
jockey, too--what a finished character! I'll try him on
that branch of his business.

That is a superior animal you are mounted on, said I--I
seldom meet one that can travel with mine. Yes, said he
coolly, a considerable fair traveller, and most particular
good bottom. I hesitated, this man who talks with such
unblushing effrontery of getting up cases, and making
profit out of them, cannot be offended at the question
--yes, I will put it to him. Do you feel an inclination
to part with him? I never part with a horse sir, that
suits me, said he--I am fond of a horse--I don't like to
ride in the dust after every one I meet, and I allow no
man to pass me but when I choose. Is it possible, I
thought, that he can know me; that he has heard of my
foible, and is quizzing me, or have I this feeling in
common with him. But, continued I, you might supply
yourself again. Not on THIS CIRCUIT, I guess, said he,
nor yet in Campbell's circuit. Campbell's circuit--pray,
sir, what is that? That, said he, is the western--and
Lampton rides the shore circuit; and as for the people
on the shore, they know so little of horses, that Lampton
tells me, a man from Aylesford once sold a hornless ox
there, whose tail he had cut and nicked for a horse of
the Goliath breed. I should think, said I, that Mr.
Lampton must have no lack of cases among such enlightened
clients. Clients, sir, said my friend, Mr. Lampton is
not a lawyer. I beg pardon, I thought you said he rode
the CIRCUIT. We call it a circuit, said the stranger,
who seemed by no means flattered by the mistake--we divide
the Province, as in the Almanack, into circuits, in each
of which we separately carry on our business of
manufacturing and selling clocks. There are few, I guess,
said the Clockmaker, who go upon TICK as much as we do,
who have so little use for lawyers; if attornies could
wind a MAN UP AGAIN, after he has been fairly RUN DOWN,
I guess they'd be a pretty harmless sort of folks. This
explanation restored my good humour, and as I could not
quit my companion, and he did not feel disposed to leave
me, I made up my mind to travel with him to Fort Lawrence,
the limit of HIS CIRCUIT.


No. II

The Clock Maker.

I had heard of Yankee clock pedlars, tin pedlars, and
bible pedlars, especially of him who sold Polyglot Bibles
(ALL IN ENGLISH) to the amount of sixteen thousand pounds.
The house of every substantial farmer had three substantial
ornaments, a wooden clock, a tin reflector, and a Polyglot
Bible. How is it that an American can sell his wares, at
whatever price he pleases, where a Blue Nose would fail
to make a sale at all? I will enquire of the Clockmaker
the secret of his success. What a pity it is, Mr. SLICK,
(for such was his name,) what a pity it is, said I, that
you, who are so successful in teaching these people the
value of CLOCKS, could not also teach them the value of
TIME. I guess, said he, they have got that ring to grow
on their horns yet, which every four year old has in our
country. We reckon hours and minutes to be dollars and
cents. They do nothing in these parts, but eat, drink,
smoke, sleep, ride about, lounge at taverns, make speeches
at temperance meetings, and talk about "House of Assembly."
If a man don't hoe his corn, and he don't get a crop, he
says it is all owing to the Bank; and if he runs into
debt and is sued, why says the lawyers are a curse to
the country. They are a most idle set of folks, I tell
you. But how is it, said I, that you manage to sell such
an immense number of clocks, (which certainly cannot be
called necessary articles,) among a people with whom
there seems to be so great a scarcity of money.

Mr. Slick paused, as if considering the propriety of
answering the question, and looking me in the face, said,
in a confidential tone, Why, I don't care if I do tell
you, for the market is glutted, and I shall quit this
circuit. It is done by a knowledge of SOFT SAWDER and
HUMAN NATUR. But here is Deacon Flint's, said he, I have
but one clock left, and I guess I will sell it to him.
At the gate of a most comfortable looking farm house
stood Deacon Flint, a respectable old man, who had
understood the value of time better than most of his
neighbours, if one might judge from the appearance of
every thing about him. After the usual salutation, an
invitation to "alight" was accepted by Mr. Slick, who
said, he wished to take leave of Mrs. Flint before he
left Colchester. We had hardly entered the house, before
the Clockmaker pointed to the view from the window, and,
addressing himself to me, said, if I was to tell them in
Connecticut, there was such a farm as this away down east
here in Nova Scotia, they would'nt believe me--why there
aint such a location in all New England. The deacon has
a hundred acres of dyke--seventy, said the deacon, only
seventy. Well, seventy; but then there is your fine deep
bottom, why I could run a ramrod into it--Interval, we
call it, said the Deacon, who, though evidently pleased
at this eulogium, seemed to wish the experiment of the
ramrod to be tried in the right place--well interval if
you please, (though Professor Eleazer Cumstick, in his
work on Ohio, calls them bottoms,) is just as good as
dyke. Then there is that water privilege, worth 3 or
$4,000, twice as good as what Governor Cass paid $15,000
for. I wonder, Deacon, you don't put up a carding mill
on it: the same works would carry a turning lathe, a
shingle machine, a circular saw, grind bark, and ----.
Too old, said the Deacon, too old for all those
speculations--old, repeated the clock-maker, not you;
why you are worth half a dozen of the young men we see,
now-a-days, you are young enough to have--here he said
something in a lower tone of voice, which I did not
distinctly hear; but whatever it was, the Deacon was
pleased, he smiled and said he did not think of such
things now. But your beasts, dear me, your beasts must
be put in and have a feed; saying which, he went out to
order them to be taken to the stable. As the old gentleman
closed the door after him, Mr. Slick drew near to me,
and said in an under tone, that is what I call "SOFT
SAWDER." An Englishman would pass that man as a sheep
passes a hog in a pasture, without looking at him; or,
said he, looking rather archly, if he was mounted on a
pretty smart horse, I guess he'd trot away, IF HE COULD.
Now I find--here his lecture on "SOFT SAWDER" was cut
short by the entrance of Mrs. Flint. Jist come to say
good bye, Mrs. Flint. What, have you sold all your
clocks? yes, and very low, too, for money is scarce, and
I wished to close the concarn; no, I am wrong in saying
all, for I have just one left. Neighbor Steel's wife
asked to have the refusal of it, but I guess I won't sell
it; I had but two of them, this one and the feller of
it, that I sold Governor Lincoln. General Green, the
Secretary of State for Maine, said he'd give me 50 dollars
for this here one--it has composition wheels and patent
axles, it is a beautiful article--a real first chop--no
mistake, genuine superfine, but I guess I'll take it
back; and beside, Squire Hawk might think kinder harder,
that I did not give him the offer. Dear me, said Mrs.
Flint, I should like to see it, where is it? It is in a
chest of mine over the way, at Tom Tape's store, I guess
he can ship it on to Eastport. That's a good man, said
Mrs. Flint, jist let's look at it Mr. Slick, willing to
oblige, yielded to these entreaties, and soon produced
the clock--a gawdy, highly varnished, trumpery looking
affair. He placed it on the chimney-piece, where its
beauties were painted out and duly appreciated by Mrs.
Flint, whose admiration was about ending in a proposal,
when Mr. Flint returned from giving his directions about
the care of the horses. The Deacon praised the clock, he
too thought it a handsome one; but the Deacon was a
prudent man, he had a watch, he was sorry, but he had no
occasion for a clock. I guess you're in the wrong furrow
this time, Deacon, it ant for sale, said Mr. Slick; and
if it was, I reckon neighbor Steel's wife would have it,
for she gives me no peace about it. Mrs. Flint said, that
Mr. Steele had enough to do, poor man, to pay his interest,
without buying clocks for his wife. It's no concarn of
mine, said Mr. Slick, as long as he pays me, what he has
to do, but I guess I don't want to sell it, and beside
it comes too high; that clock can't be made at Rhode
Island under 40 dollars. Why it ant possible, said the
Clockmaker, in apparent surprise, looking at his watch,
why as I'm alive it is 4 o'clock, and if I hav'nt been
two hours here--how on airth shall I reach River Philip
to-night? I'll tell you what, Mrs. Flint, I'll leave the
clock in your care till I return on my way to the States
--I'll set it a going and put it to the right time. As
soon as this operation was performed, he delivered the
key to the deacon with a sort of serio-comic injunction
to wind up the clock every Saturday night, which Mrs.
Flint said she would take care should be done, and promised
to remind her husband of it, in case he should chance to
forget it.

That, said the Clockmaker as soon as we were mounted,
that I call 'HUMAN NATUR!' Now that clock is sold for 40
dollars--it cost me just 6 dollars and 50 cents. Mrs.
Flint will never let Mrs. Steel have the refusal--nor
will the deacon learn until I call for the clock, that
having once indulged in the use of a superfluity, how
difficult it is to give it up. We can do without any
article of luxury we have never had, but when once
obtained, it is not 'IN HUMAN NATUR' to surrender it
voluntarily. Of fifteen thousand sold by myself and
partners in this Province, twelve thousand were left in
this manner, and only ten clocks were ever returned--
when we called for them they invariably bought them. We
trust to 'SOFT SAWDER' to get them into the house, and
to 'HUMAN NATUR' that they never come out of it.


No. III

The Silent Girls.

Do you see them are swallows, said the Clockmaker, how
low they fly? Well I presume we shall have rain right
away, and them noisy critters, them gulls how close they
keep to the water, down there in the Shubenacadie; well
that's a sure sign. If we study natur, we don't want no
thermometer. But I guess we shall be in time to get under
cover in a shingle-maker's shed about three miles ahead
on us. We had just reached the deserted hovel when the
rain fell in torrents.

I reckon, said the Clockmaker, as he sat himself down on
a bundle of shingles, I reckon they are bad off for inns
in this country. When a feller is too lazy to work here,
he paints his name over his door, and calls it a tavern,
and as like as not he makes the whole neighbourhood as
lazy as himself--it is about as easy to find a good inn
in Halifax, as it is to find wool on a goat's back. An
inn, to be a good concarn, must be built a purpose, you
can no more make a good tavern out of a common dwelling
house, I expect, than a good coat out of an old pair of
trowsers. They are etarnal lazy, you may depend--now
there might be a grand spec made there, in building a
good Inn and a good Church. What a sacrilegious and
unnatural union, said I, with most unaffected surprise.
Not at all, said Mr. Slick, we build both on speculation
in the States, and make a good deal of profit out of 'em
too, I tell you. We look out a good sightly place, in a
town like Halifax, that is pretty considerably well
peopled, with folks that are good marks; and if there is
no real right down good preacher among them, we build a
handsome Church, touched off like a New-York liner, a
real taking looking thing--and then we look out for a
preacher, a crack man, a regular ten horse power chap
--well, we hire him, and we have to give pretty high
wages too, say twelve hundred or sixteen hundred dollars
a year. We take him at first on trial for a Sabbath or
two, to try his paces, and if he takes with the folks,
if he goes down well, we clinch the bargain, and let and
sell the pews; and, I tell you it pays well and makes a
real good investment. There were few better specs among
us than Inns and Churches, until the Railroads came on
the carpet--as soon as the novelty of the new preacher
wears off, we hire another, and that keeps up the steam.
I trust it will be long, very long, my friend, said I,
ere the rage for speculation introduces "the money changers
into the temple," with us. Mr. Slick looked at me with
a most ineffable expression of pity and surprise. Depend
on it, Sir, said he, with a most philosophical air, this
Province is much behind the intelligence of the age. But
if it is behind us in that respect, it is a long chalk
ahead on us in others.

I never seed or heard tell of a country that had so many
natural privileges as this. Why there are twice as many
harbors and water powers were, as we have all the way
from Eastport to New OrLEENS. They have all they can ax,
and more than they desarve. They have iron, coal, slate,
grindstone, lime, firestone, gypsum, freestone, and a
list as long as an auctioneer's catalogue. But they are
either asleep, or stone blind to them. Their shores are
crowded with fish, and their lands covered with wood. A
government that lays as light on 'em as a down counterpin,
and no taxes. Then look at their dykes. The Lord seems
to have made 'em on purpose for such lazy folks. If you
were to tell the citizens of our country, that these
dykes had been cropped for a hundred years without manure,
they'd say, they guessed you had seen Col. Crookett, the
greatest hand at a flam in our nation. You have heerd
tell of a man who could'nt see London for the houses, I
tell you, if we had this country, you could'nt see the
harbors for the shipping. There'd be a rush of folks to
it, as there is in one of our inns, to the dinner table,
when they sometimes get jammed together in the door-way,
and a man has to take a running leap over their heads,
afore he can get in. A little nigger boy in New York
found a diamond worth 2,000 dollars; well, he sold it to
a watchmaker for 50 cents--the little critter did'nt
know no better. Your people are just like the nigger boy,
they don't know the value of their diamond.

Do you know the reason monkeys are no good? because they
chatter all day long--so do the niggers--and so do the
Blue Noses of Nova Scotia--its all talk and no work; now,
with us its all work and no talk--in our ship yards,
our factories, our mills, and even in our Vessels, there's
no talk--a man can't work and talk too. I guess if you
were at the factories at Lowell we'd show you a wonder
--five hundred galls at work together, all in silence.
I don't think our great country has such a real natural
curiosity as that--I expect the world don't contain the
beat of that; for a woman's tongue goes so slick of
itself, without water power or steam, and moves so easy
on its hinges, that its no easy matter to put a spring
stop on it, I tell you--it comes as natural as drinkin
mint julip.

I don't pretend to say the galls don't nullify the rule,
sometimes at intermission and arter hours, but when they
do, if they don't let go, then its a pity. You have heerd
a school come out, of little boys, Lord its no touch to
it; or a flock of geese at it, they are no more a match
for em than a pony is for a coach-horse. But when they
are at work, all's as still as sleep and no snoring. I
guess we have a right to brag o' that invention--we
trained the dear critters, so they don't think of striking
the minutes and seconds no longer.

Now the folks of Halifax take it all out in talking--
they talk of steamboats, whalers and rail roads--but they
all end where they begin--in talk. I don't think I'd be
out in my latitude, if I was to say they beat the women
kind at that. One feller says, I talk of going to
England--another says, I talk of going to the Country--
while a third says, I talk of going to sleep. If we happen
to speak of such things, we say: 'I'm right off down
East; or I'm away off South,' and away we go, jist like
a streak of lightning.

When we want folks to talk, we pay 'em for it, such as
ministers, lawyers, and members of congress: but then we
expect the use of their tongues, and not their hands;
and when we pay folks to work, we expect the use of their
hands, and not their tongues. I guess work don't come
kind o' natural to the people of this Province, no more
than it does to a full bred horse. I expect they think
they have a little TOO MUCH BLOOD in 'em for work, for
they are near about as proud as they are lazy.

Now the bees know how to sarve out such chaps, for they
have their drones too. Well they reckon its no fun, a
making honey all summer, for these idle critters to eat
all winter--so they give 'em Lynch Law. They have a
regular built mob of citizens, and string up the drones
like the Vixburg gamblers. Their maxim is, and not a bad
one neither I guess, 'no work, no honey.'


No. IV

Conversations at the River Philip.

It was late before we arrived at Pugnose's Inn--the
evening was cool, and a fire was cheering and comfortable.
Mr. Slick declined any share in the bottle of wine, he
said he was dyspeptic; and a glass or two soon convinced
me, that it was likely to produce in me something worse
than dyspepsy. It was speedily removed and we drew up to
the fire. Taking a small penknife from his pocket, he
began to whittle a thin piece of dry wood, which lay on
the hearth; and, after musing some time said, I guess
you've never been in the States. I replied that I had
not, but that before I returned to England I proposed
visiting that country. There, said he, you'll see the
great Daniel Webster--he's a great man, I tell you; King
William, number 4, I guess, would be no match for him as
an orator--he'd talk him out of sight in half an hour.
If he was in your house of Commons, I reckon he'd make
some of your great folks look pretty streaked--he's a
true patriot and statesman, the first in our country,
and a most particular cute Lawyer. There was a Quaker
chap too cute for him once tho'. This Quaker, a pretty
knowin' old shaver, had a cause down to Rhode Island; so
he went to Daniel to hire him to go down and plead his
case for him; so says he, Lawyer Webster what's your fee?
Why, says Daniel, let me see, I have to go down south to
Washington, to plead the great Insurance case of the
Hartford Company--and I've got to be at Cincinnati to
attend the Convention, and I don't see how I can go to
Rhode Island without great loss and great fatigue; it
would cost you may be more than you'd be willing to give.
Well, the Quaker looked pretty white about the gills, I
tell you, when he heard this, for he could not do without
him no how, and he did not like this preliminary talk of
his at all--at last he made bold to ask him the worst of
it, what he would take; why, says Daniel, I always liked
the Quakers, they are a quiet peaceable people who never
go to law if they can help it, and it would be better
for our great country if there were more such people in
it. I never seed or heerd tell of any harm in em except
going the whole figure for Gineral Jackson, and that
everlastin almighty villain, Van Buren; yes, I love the
Quakers, I hope they'll go the Webster ticket yet--and
I'll go for you as low as I can any way afford, say 1,000
dollars. The Quaker well nigh fainted when he heerd this,
but he was pretty deep too: so, says he, Lawyer, that's
a great deal of money, but I have more causes there, if
I give you the 1000 dollars will you plead the other
cases I shall have to give you? Yes, says Daniel, I will
to the best of my humble abilities; so down they went to
Rhode Island, and Daniel tried the case and carried it
for the Quaker. Well, the Quaker he goes round to all
the folks that had suits in court, and says he what will
you give me if I get the great Daniel to plead for you?
It cost me 1000 dollars for a fee, but now he and I are
pretty thick, and as he is on the spot, I'd get him to
plead cheap for you--so he got three hundred dollars from
one, and two from another and so on, until he got eleven
hundred dollars, jist one hundred dollars more than he
gave. Daniel was in a great rage when he heerd this;
what, said he, do you think I would agree to your letting
me out like a horse to hire? Friend Daniel, said the
Quaker, didst thou not undertake to plead all such cases
as I should have to give thee? If thou wilt not stand to
thy agreement, neither will I stand to mine. Daniel
laughed out ready to split his sides at this. Well, says
he, I guess I might as well stand still for you to put
the bridle on this time, for you have fairly pinned me
up in a corner of the fence any how--so he went good
humouredly to work and pleaded them all.

This lazy fellow, Pugnose, continued the Clockmaker; that
keeps this inn, is going to sell off and go to the States;
he says he has to work too hard here; that the markets
are dull, and the winters too long; and he guesses he
can live easier there; I guess he'll find his mistake
afore he has been there long. Why our country aim to be
compared to this, on no account whatever; our country
never made us to be the great nation we are, but we made
the country. How on airth could we, if we were all like
old Pugnose, as lazy as ugly, make that cold thin soil
of New-England produce what it does? Why, Sir, the land
between Boston and Salem would starve a flock of geese;
and yet look at Salem, it has more cash than would buy
Nova Scotia from the King. We rise early, live frugally,
and work late: what we get we take care of. To all this
we add enterprise and intelligence--a feller who finds
work too hard here, had better not go to the States. I
met an Irishman, one Pat Lannigan, last week, who had
just returned from the States; why, says I, Pat, what on
airth brought you back? Bad luck to them, says Pat, if
I warn't properly bit. What do you get a day in Nova
Scotia? says Judge Beler to me. Four shillings, your
Lordship, says I. There are no Lords here, says he, we
are all free. Well, says he, I'll give you as much in
one day as you can earn there in two; I'll give you eight
shillings. Long life to your Lordship, says I. So next
day to it I went with a party of men a-digging a piece
of canal, and if it wasn't a hot day my name is not Pat
Lannigan. Presently I looked up and straightened my
back; says I to a comrade of mine, Mick, says I, I'm very
dry; with that, says the overseer, we don't allow gentlemen
to talk at their work in this country. Faith, I soon
found out for my two days' pay in one, I had to do two
days' work in one, and pay two weeks' board in one, and
at the end of a month, I found myself no better off in
pocket than in Nova Scotia; while the devil a bone in my
body that didn't ache with pain: and as for my nose, it
took to bleeding, and bled day and night entirely. Upon
my soul, Mr. Slick, said he, the poor labourer does not
last long in your country: what with new rum, hard labor,
and hot weather, you'll see the graves of the Irish each
side of the canals, for all the world like two rows of
potatoes in a field that have forgot to come up. It is
a land, Sir, continued the Clockmaker, of hard work. We
have two kind of slaves, the niggers and the white slaves.
All European laborers and blacks, who come out to us, do
our hard bodily work, while we direct it to a profitable
end; neither rich nor poor, high nor low, with us, eat
the bread of idleness. Our whole capital is in active
operation, and our whole population is in active
employment. An idle fellow, like Pugnose, who runs away
to us, is clapt into harness afore he knows where he is,
and is made to work; like a horse that refuses to draw,
he is put into the Team-boat; he finds some before him
and others behind him, HE MUST EITHER DRAW, or be DRAGGED
TO DEATH.


No. V

Justice Pettifog.

In the morning the Clockmaker informed me that a Justice's
Court was to be held that day at Pugnose's Inn, and he
guessed be could do a little business among the country
folks that would be assembled there. Some of them, he
said, owed him for clocks, and it would save him a world
of travelling, to have the Justice and Constable to drive
them up together. If you want a fat wether, there's
nothing like penning up the whole flock in a corner. I
guess, said he, if General Campbell knew what sort of a
man that are magistrate was, he'd disband him pretty
quick: he's a regular suck egg--a disgrace to the country.
I guess if he acted that way in Kentucky, he'd get a
breakfast of cold lead some morning, out of the small
eend of a rifle, he'd find pretty difficult to digest.
They tell me he issues three hundred writs a year, the
cost of which, including that tarnation Constable's fees,
can't amount to nothing less than 3,000 dollars per annum.
If the Hon. Daniel Webster had him afore a jury, I reckon
he'd turn him inside out, and slip him back again, as
quick as an old stocking. He'd paint him to the life, as
plain to be known as the head of Gineral Jackson. He's
jist a fit feller for Lynch law, to be tried, hanged,
and damned, all at once--there's more nor him in the
country--there's some of the breed in every county in
the Province. Jist one or two to do the dirty work, as
we keep niggers, for jobs that would give a white man
the cholera. They ought to pay his passage, as we do with
such critters, tell him his place is taken in the Mail
Coach, and if he is found here after twenty four hours,
they'd make a carpenter's plumb-bob of him, and hang him
outside the church steeple, to try if it was perpendicular.
He almost always gives judgment for plaintiff, and if
the poor defendant has an offset, he makes him sue it,
so that it grinds a grist both ways for him, like the
upper and lower mill stone.

People soon began to assemble, some on foot, and others
on horseback and in waggons--Pugnose's tavern was all
bustle and confusion--Plaintiffs, Defendants, and witnesses,
all talking, quarreling, explaining, and drinking. Here
comes the Squire, said one--I'm thinking his horse carries
more roguery than law, said another; they must have been
in proper want of timber to make a justice of, said a
third, when they took such a crooked stick as that; sap
headed enough too for refuse, said a stout looking farmer;
may be so, said another, but as bard at the heart as a
log of elm; howsomever, said a third, I hope it wont be
long afore he has the wainy edge scored off of him, any
how. Many more such remarks were made, all drawn from
familiar objects, but all expressive of bitterness and
contempt.

He carried one or two large books with him in his gig,
and a considerable roll of papers. As soon as the
obsequious Mr. Pugnose saw him at the door, he assisted
him to alight, ushered him into the "best room," and
desired the constable to attend "the Squire." The crowd
immediately entered, and the Constable opened the Court
in due form, and commanded silence. Taking out a long
list of causes, Mr. Pettifog commenced reading the
names--James Sharp versus John Slug--call John Slug:
John Slug being duly called and not answering, was
defaulted. In this manner he proceeded to default some
20 or 30 persons; at last he came to a cause, William
Hare versus Dennis O'Brien--call Dennis O'Brien--here
I am, said a voice from the other room--here I am, who
has any thing to say to Dennis O'Brien? Make less noise,
sir, said the Justice, or I'll commit you. Commit me, is
it, said Dennis, take care then, Squire, you don't commit
yourself You are sued by William Hare for three pounds
for a month's board and lodging, what have you to say to
it? Say to it, said Dennis, did you ever hear what Tim
Doyle said when be was going to be hanged for stealing
a pig' says he, if the pig had'nt squeeled in the bag
I'd never have been found out, so I would'nt--so I'll
take warning by Tim Doyle's fate, I say nothing, let him
prove it. Here Mr. Hare was called on for his proof,
but taking it for granted that the board would be admitted,
and the defence opened, he was not prepared with proof.
I demand, said Dennis, I demand an unsuit. Here there
was a consultation between the Justice and the Plaintiff,
when the Justice said, I shall not nonsuit him, I shall
continue the cause. What, hang it up till next Court
--you had better hang me up then at once--how can a poor
man come here so often--this may be the entertainment
Pugnose advertises for horses, but by Jacquers, it is no
entertainment for me--I admit then, sooner than come
again, I admit it. You admit you owe him three pounds
then for a month's board? I admit no such thing, I say
I boarded with him a month, and was like Pat Moran's cow
at the end of it, at the lifting, bad luck to him. A
neighbour was here called who proved that the three pounds
might be the usual price. And do you know I taught his
children to write at the school, said Dennis--you might,
answered the witness--and what is that worth? I don't
know--you don't know, faith I believe you're right, said
Dennis, for if the children are half as big rogues as
the father, they might leave writing alone, or they'd be
like to be hanged for forgery. Here Dennis produced his
account for teaching five children, two quarters, at 9
shillings a quarter each, 4 pounds 10s. I am sorry, Mr.
O'Brien, said the Justice, very sorry, but your defence
will not avail you, your account is too large for one
Justice, any sum over three pounds must be sued before
two magistrates--but I only want to offset as much as
will pay the board--it can't be done in this shape, said
the magistrate; I will consult Justice Dolittle, my
neighbour, and if Mr. Hare won't settle with you, I will
sue it for you. Well, said Dennis, all I have to say
is, that there is not so big a rogue as Hare on the whole
river, save and except one scoundrel who shall be nameless,
making a significant and humble bow to the Justice. Here
there was a general laugh throughout the Court--Dennis
retired to the next room to indemnify himself by another
glass of grog, and venting his abuse against Hare and
the Magistrate. Disgusted at the gross partiality of the
Justice, I also quitted the Court, fully concurring in
the opinion, though not in the language, that Dennis was
giving utterance to in the bar room.

Pettifog owed his elevation to his interest at an election.
It is to be hoped that his subsequent merits will be as
promptly rewarded, by his dismissal from a bench which
he disgraces and defiles by his presence.


No. VI

Anecdotes.

As we mounted our horses to proceed to Amherst, groups
of country people were to be seen standing about Pugnose's
inn, talking over the events of the morning, while others
were dispersing to their several homes. A pretty prime
superfine scoundrel, that Pettifog, said the Clockmaker;
he and his constable are well mated, and they've travelled
in the same gear so long together, that they make about
as nice a yoke of rascals, as you'll meet in a day's
ride. They pull together like one rope reeved through
two blocks. That are constable was een almost strangled
t'other day; and if he had'nt had a little grain more
wit than his master, I guess he'd had his wind-pipe
stopped as tight as a bladder. Sir _Geo._ I am always
ready, but what do's he intend to do with _Miranda?_ Is
she to be sold in private? or will he put her up by way
of Auction, at who bids most? If so, Egad, I'm for him:
my Gold, as you say, shall be subservient to my
Pleasure.

_Cha._ To deal ingeniously with you, Sir _George_, I
know very little of Her, or Home; for since my Uncle's
Death, and my Return from Travel, I have never been well
with my Father; he thinks my Expences too great, and I his
Allowance too little; he never sees me, but he quarrels;
and to avoid that, I shun his House as much as possible.
The Report is, he intends to marry her himself.

Sir _Geo._ Can she consent to it?

_Cha._ Yes faith, so they say; but I tell you, I am wholly
ignorant of the matter. _Miranda_ and I are like two
violent Members of a contrary Party, I can scarce allow her
Beauty, tho' all the World do's; nor she me Civility,
for that Contempt, I fancy she plays the Mother-in-law
already, and sets the old Gentleman on to do mischief.

Sir _Geo._ Then I've your free Consent to get her.

_Cha._ Ay and my helping-hand, if occasion be.

Sir _Geo._ Pugh, yonder's a Fool coming this way, let's
avoid him.

_Cha._ What _Marplot_, no no, he's my Instrument; there's
a thousand Conveniences in him, he'll lend me his Money
when he has any, run of my Errands and be proud on't;
in short, he'll Pimp for me, Lye for me, Drink for me,
do any thing but Fight for me, and that I trust to my
own Arm for.

Sir _Geo._ Nay then he's to be endur'd; I never knew his
Qualifications before.

_Enter _Marplot_ with a Patch cross his Face._
_Marpl._ Dear _Charles_, your's,--Ha! Sir _George Airy_,
the Man in the World, I have an Ambition to be known
to (_aside_.) Give me thy Hand, dear Boy--
_Cha._ A good Assurance! But heark ye, how came your
Beautiful Countenance clouded in the wrong place?

_Marpl._ I must confess 'tis a little _Mal-a-propos_,
but no matter for that; a Word with you, _Charles_;
Prithee, introduce me to Sir _George_--he is a Man of
Wit, and I'd give ten Guinea's to--
_Cha._ When you have 'em, you mean.

_Marpl._ Ay, when I have 'em; pugh, pox, you cut the Thread of my
Discourse--I wou'd give ten Guinea's, I say, to be rank'd in his
Acquaintance: Well, 'tis a vast Addition to a Man's Fortune, according
to the Rout of the World, to be seen in the Company of Leading Men;
for then we are all thought to be Politicians, or Whigs, or Jacks,
or High-Flyers, or Low-Flyers, or Levellers--and so forth; for you
must know, we all herd in Parties now.

_Cha._ Then a Fool for Diversion is out of Fashion, I
find.

_Marpl._ Yes, without it be a mimicking Fool, and they
are Darlings every where; but prithee introduce me.

_Cha._ Well, on Condition you'll give us a true Account
how you came by that Mourning Nose, I will.

_Marpl._ I'll do it.

_Cha._ Sir _George_, here's a Gentleman has a passionate
Desire to kiss your Hand.

Sir _Geo._ Oh, I honour Men of the Sword, and I presume
this Gentleman is lately come from _Spain_ or _Portugal_--by
his Scars.

_Marpl._ No really, Sir _George_, mine sprung from civil
Fury, happening last Night into the Groom-Porters--I
had a strong Inclination to go ten Guineas with a sort of
a, sort of a--kind of a Milk Sop, as I thought: A Pox
of the Dice he flung out, and my Pockets being empty as
_Charles_ knows they sometimes are, he prov'd a surly
_North-Britain_, and broke my Face for my Deficiency.

Sir _Geo._ Ha! ha! and did not you draw?

_Marpl._ Draw, Sir, why, I did but lay my Hand upon my
Sword to make a swift Retreat, and he roar'd out. Now the
Deel a Ma sol, Sir, gin ye touch yer Steel, Ise whip mine
through yer Wem.

Sir _Geo._ Ha, ha, ha,
_Cha._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, fase was the Word, so you walk'd
off, I suppose.

_Marp._ Yes, for I avoid fighting, purely to be serviceable
to my Friends you know--
Sir _Geo._ Your Friends are much oblig'd to you, Sir, I hope you'll
rank me in that Number.

_Marpl._ Sir _George_, a Bow from the side Box, or to be seen in
your Chariot, binds me ever yours.

Sir _Geo._ Trifles, you may command 'em when you please.

_Cha._ Provided he may command you--
_Marpl._ Me! why I live for no other purpose--Sir _George_,
I have the Honour to be carest by most of the reigning
Toasts of the Town, I'll tell 'em you are the finest
Gentleman--
Sir _Geo._ No, no, prithee let me alone to tell the
Ladies--my Parts--can you convey a Letter upon Occasion,
or deliver a Message with an Air of Business, Ha!

_Marpl._ With the Assurance of a Page and the Gravity of
a Statesman.

Sir _Geo._ You know _Miranda!_
_Marpl._ What, my Sister _Ward?_ Why, her Guardian is mine,
we are Fellow Sufferers: Ah! he is a covetous, cheating,
sanctify'd Curmudgeon; that Sir _Francis Gripe_ is a
damn'd old--
_Char._ I suppose, Friend, you forget that he is my
Father--
_Marpl._ I ask your Pardon, _Charles_, but it is for your sake I
hate him.

Well, I say, the World is mistaken in him, his Out-side
Piety, makes him every Man's Executor, and his Inside
Cunning, makes him every Heir's Jaylor. Egad, _Charles_,
I'm half persuaded that thou'rt some _Ward_ too, and
never of his getting: For thou art as honest a Debauchee
as ever Cuckolded Man of Quality.

Sir _Geo._ A pleasant Fellow.

_Cha._ The Dog is Diverting sometimes, or there wou'd be
no enduring his Impertinence: He is pressing to be employ'd and
willing to execute, but some ill Fate generally attends all he
undertakes, and he oftner spoils an Intreague than helps it--

_Marpl._ If I miscarry 'tis none of my Fault, I follow my
Instructions.

_Cha._ Yes, witness the Merchant's Wife.

_Marpl._ Pish, Pox, that was an Accident.

Sir _Geo._ What was it, prithee?

_Ch._ Why, you must know, I had lent a certain Merchant my
hunting Horses, and was to have met his Wife in his Absence:
Sending him along with my Groom to make the Complement, and to
deliver a Letter to the Lady at the same time; what does he do, but
gives the Husband the Letter, and offers her the Horses.

_Marpl._ I remember you was even with me, for you deny'd
the Letter to be yours, and swore I had a design upon
her, which my Bones paid for.

_Cha._ Come, Sir _George_, let's walk round, if you are
not ingag'd, for I have sent my Man upon a little earnest
Business, and have order'd him to bring me the Answer
into the Park.

_Marpl._ Business, and I not know it, Egad I'll watch
him.

Sir _Geo._ I must beg your Pardon, _Charles_, I am to meet
your Father here.

_Ch._ My Father!

Sir _Geo._ Aye! and about the oddest Bargain perhaps you
ever heard off; but I'll not impart till I know the
Success.

_Marpl._ What can his Business be with Sir _Francis?

_ Now wou'd I give all the World to know it; why the
Devil should not one know every Man's Concern.
(_Aside_.

_Cha._ Prosperity to't whate'er it be, I have private
Affairs too; over a Bottle we'll compare Notes.

_Marpl._ _Charles_ knows I love a Glass as well as any
Man, I'll make one; shall it be to Night? Ad I long to
know their Secrets.
(_Aside._
_Enter _Whisper_._
_Whis._ Sir, Sir, Mis _Patch_ says, _Isabinda_'s Spanish
Father has quite spoil'd the Plot, and she can't meet you
in the Park, but he infallibly will go out this
Afternoon, she says; but I must step again to know the
Hour.

_Marpl._ What did _Whisper_ say now? I shall go stark Mad,
if I'm not let into this Secret.
(_Aside._
_Cha._ Curst Misfortune, come along with me, my Heart
feels Pleasure at her Name. Sir _George_, yours; we'll
meet at the old place the usual Hour.

Sir _Geo._ Agreed; I think I see Sir _Francis_
yonder.
(_Exit._
_Cha._ _Marplot_, you must excuse me, I am engag'd.
(_Exit._
_Marpl._ Engag'd, Egad I'll engage my Life, I'll know
what your Engagement is.
(_Exit._
_Miran._ (_Coming out of a Chair._) Let the Chair wait:
My Servant, That dog'd Sir _George_ said he was in
the Park.

_Enter _Patch_._
Ha! Mis _Patch_ alone, did not you tell me you had contriv'd
a way to bring _Isabinda_ to the Park?

_Patch._ Oh, Madam, your Ladiship can't imagine what a
wretched Disappointment we have met with: Just as I had
fetch'd a Suit of my Cloaths for a Disguise: comes my
old Master into his Closet, which is right against
her Chamber Door; this struck us into a terrible Fright--At
length I put on a Grave Face, and ask'd him if he was
at leisure for his Chocolate, in hopes to draw him out
of his Hole; but he snap'd my Nose off, No, I shall
be busie here this two Hours; at which my poor
Mistress seeing no way of Escape, order'd me to wait on
your Ladiship with the sad Relation.

_Miran._ Unhappy _Isabinda!_ Was ever any thing so
unaccountable as the Humour of Sir _Jealousie
Traffick_.

_Patch._ Oh, Madam, it's his living so long in _Spain_,
he vows he'll spend half his Estate, but he'll be a
Parliament-Man, on purpose to bring in a Bill for
Women to wear Veils, and the other odious _Spanish_
Customs--He swears it is the height of Impudence to have
a Woman seen Bare-fac'd even at Church, and scarce
believes there's a true begotten Child in the City.

_Miran._ Ha, ha, ha, how the old Fool torments himself!
Suppose he could introduce his rigid Rules--does he
think we cou'd not match them in Contrivance? No, no;
Let the Tyrant Man make what Laws he will, if there's a
Woman under the Government, I warrant she finds a way
to break 'em: Is his Mind set upon the _Spaniard_ for his Son-in-law
still?

_Patch._ Ay, and he expects him by the next Fleet, which
drives his Daughter to Melancholy and Despair: But, Madam,
I find you retain the same gay, cheerful Spirit you had,
when I waited on your Ladiship.--My Lady is mighty
good-humour'd too, and I have found a way to make Sir
_Jealousie_ believe I am wholly in his Interest, when
my real Design is to serve her; he makes me her Jaylor,
and I set her at Liberty.

_Miran._ I know thy Prolifick Brain wou'd be of singular
Service to her, or I had not parted with thee to her
Father.

_Patch._ But, Madam, the Report is that you are going to marry your
Guardian.

_Miran._ It is necessary such a Report shou'd be,
_Patch_.

_Patch._ But is it true, Madam?

_Miran._ That's not absolutely necessary.

_Patch._ I thought it was only the old Strain, coaxing him still
for your own, and railing at all the young Fellows about Town; in
my Mind now, you are as ill plagu'd with your Guardian, Madam, as
my Lady is with her Father.

_Miran._ No, I have Liberty, Wench, that she wants; what
would she give now to be in this _dissabilee_ in the--open
Air, nay more, in pursuit of the young Fellow she
likes; for that's my Case, I assure thee.

_Patch._ As for that, Madam, she's even with you; for
tho' she can't come abroad, we have a way to bring him home
in spight of old _Argus_.

_Miran._ Now _Patch_, your Opinion of my Choice, for
here he comes--Ha!
my Guardian with him; what can be the meaning of this?
I'm sure Sir _Francis_ can't know me in this Dress--Let's
observe 'em.
(_They withdraw._
_Enter Sir _Francis Gripe_ and Sir _George Airy_._
Sir _Fran._ Verily, Sir _George_, thou wilt repent
throwing away thy Money so, for I tell thee sincerely,
_Miranda_, my Charge do's not love a young Fellow, they
are all vicious, and seldom make good Husbands; in
sober Sadness she cannot abide 'em.

_Miran._ (_Peeping._) In sober Sadness you are mistaken--what
can this mean?

Sir _Geo._ Look ye, Sir _Francis_, whether she can or cannot
abide young Fellows is not the Business; will you take
the fifty Guineas?

Sir _Fran._ In good truth--I will not, for I knew thy
Father, he was a hearty wary Man, and I cannot consent
that his Son should squander away what he sav'd, to no purpose.

_Mirand._ (_Peeping._) Now, in the Name of Wonder, what
Bargain can he be driving about me for fifty
Guineas?

_Patch._ I wish it ben't for the first Night's Lodging,
Madam.

Sir _Geo._ Well, Sir _Francis_, since you are so conscientious
for my Father's sake, then permit me the Favour,
_Gratis_.

_Miran._ (_Peeping._) The Favour! Oh my Life! I believe
'tis as you said, _Patch_.

Sir _Fran._ No verily, if thou dost not buy thy Experience,
thou wou'd never be wise; therefore give me a Hundred
and try Fortune.

Sir _Geo._ The Scruples arose, I find, from the scanty
Sum--Let me see--a Hundred Guineas-- (_Takes 'em out
of a Purse and chinks 'em._) Ha! they have a very pretty
Sound, and a very pleasing Look--But then, _Miranda_--But
if she should be cruel--
_Miran._ (_Peeping._) As Ten to One I shall--
Sir _Fran._ Ay, do consider on't, He, he, he, he.

Sir _Geo._ No, I'll do't.

_Patch._ Do't, what, whether you will or no, Madam?

Sir _Geo._ Come to the Point, here's the Gold, sum up the
Conditions--
Sir _Fran._ (_Pulling out a Paper_.)
_Miran._ (_Peeping_.) Ay for Heaven's sake do, for my
Expectation is on the Rack.

Sir _Fran._ Well at your own Peril be it.

Sir _Geo._ Aye, aye, go on.

Sir _Fran._ _Imprimis_, you are to be admitted into my
House in order to move your Suit to _Miranda_, for the
space of Ten Minutes, without Lett or Molestation,
provided I remain in the same Room.

Sir _Geo._ But out of Ear shot--
Sir _Fran._ Well, well, I don't desire to hear what you
say, Ha, ha, ha, in consideration I am to have that Purse
and a hundred Guineas.

Sir _Geo._ Take it-- (_Gives him the Purse_.

_Miran._ (_Peeping_.) So, 'tis well it's no worse, I'll
fit you both--
Sir _Geo._ And this Agreement is to be perform'd to
Day.

Sir _Fran._ Aye, aye, the sooner the better, poor Fool,
how _Miranda_ and I shall laugh at him--Well, Sir
_George_, Ha, ha, ha, take the last sound of your
Guineas, Ha, ha, ha. (_Chinks 'em_.) (Exit.

_Miran._ (_Peeping_.) Sure he does not know I am
_Miranda_.

Sir _Geo._ A very extraordinary Bargain I have made truly,
if she should be really in Love with this old Cuff now--Psha,
that's morally impossible--but then what hopes have I to
succeed, I never spoke to her--
_Miran._ (_Peeping_.) Say you so? Then I am safe.

Sir _Geo._ What tho' my Tongue never spoke, my Eyes
said a thousand Things, and my Hopes flatter'd me hers
answer'd 'em. If I'm lucky--if not, 'tis but a hundred
Guineas thrown away.
(__Miranda_ and _Patch_ come forwards._
_Miran._ Upon what Sir _George?_
Sir _Geo._ Ha! my _Incognito_--upon a Woman, Madam.

_Miran._ They are the worst Things you can deal in, and
damage the soonest; your very Breath destroys 'em, and I
fear you'll never see your Return, Sir _George_, Ha,
ha!

Sir _Geo._ Were they more brittle than _China_, and drop'd to pieces
with a Touch, every Atom of her I have ventur'd at, if she is but
Mistress of thy Wit, ballances Ten times the Sum--Prithee let me
see thy Face.
_Miran._ By no means, that may spoil your Opinion of my Sense--
Sir _Geo._ Rather confirm it, Madam.
_Patch._ So rob the Lady of your Gallantry, Sir.
Sir _Geo._ No Child, a Dish of Chocolate in the Morning never spoils
my Dinner; the other Lady, I design a set Meal; so there's no
danger--
_Miran._ Matrimony! Ha, ha, ha; what Crimes have you committed
against the God of Love, that he should revenge 'em so severely to
stamp Husband upon your Forehead--
Sir _Geo._ For my Folly in having so often met you here, without
pursuing the Laws of Nature, and exercising her command--But I
resolve e'er we part now, to know who you are, where you live, and
what kind of Flesh and Blood your Face is; therefore unmask and
don't put me to the trouble of doing it for you.
_Miran._ My Face is the same Flesh and Blood with my Hand, Sir
_George_, which if you'll be so rude to provoke.
Sir _Geo._ You'll apply it to my Cheek--The Ladies Favours are
always Welcome; but I must have that Cloud withdrawn. (_Taking hold
of her_.) Remember you are in the _Park_, Child, and what a terrible
thing would it be to lose this pretty white Hand.
_Miran._ And how will it sound in a _Chocolate-House_, that Sir
_George Airy_ rudely pull'd off a Ladies Mask, when he had given
her his Honour, that he never would, directly or indirectly endeavour
to know her till she gave him Leave.
_Patch._ I wish we were safe out.
(_Aside._
Sir _Geo._ But if that Lady thinks fit to pursue and meet me at
every turn like some troubl'd Spirit, shall I be blam'd if I inquire
into the Reality? I would have nothing dissatisfy'd in a Female
Shape.

_Miran._ What shall I do?
(_Pause._
Sir _Geo._ Ay, prithee consider, for thou shalt find me very much
at thy Service.
_Patch._ Suppose, Sir, the Lady shou'd be in Love with you.
Sir _Geo._ Oh! I'll return the Obligation in a Moment.
_Patch._ And marry her?
Sir _Geo._ Ha, ha, ha, that's not the way to Love her Child.
_Miran._ If he discovers me, I shall die--Which way shall I
escape?--Let me see.
(_Pauses._ 
Sir _Geo._ Well, Madam--
_Miran._ I have it--Sir _George_, 'tis fit you should allow something;
if you'll excuse my Face, and turn your Back (if you look upon me
I shall sink, even mask'd as I am) I will confess why I have engag'd
you so often, who I am, and where I live?
Sir _Geo._ Well, to show you I'm a Man of Honour I accept the
Conditions. Let me but once know those, and the Face won't be long
a Secret to me.
(_Aside._ 
_Patch._ What mean you, Madam?
_Miran._ To get off.
Sir _Geo._ 'Tis something indecent to turn ones Back upon a Lady;
but you command and I obey. (_Turns his Back._) Come, Madam, begin--

_Miran._ First then it was my unhappy Lot to see you at _Paris_
(_Draws back a little while and speaks_) at a Ball upon a Birth-Day;
your Shape and Air charm'd my Eyes; your Wit and Complaisance my
Soul, and from that fatal Night I lov'd you. (_Drawing back._) And
when you left the Place, Grief seiz'd me so--No Rest my Heart, no
Sleep my Eyes cou'd know.--
_Last I resolv'd a hazardous Point to try,_ _And quit the Place in
search of Liberty._ (Exit.
Sir _Geo._ Excellent--I hope she's Handsome--Well, Now, Madam, to
the other two Things: Your Name, and where you live?--I am a
Gentleman, and this Confession will not be lost upon me.--Nay,
prithee don't weep, but go on--for I find my Heart melts in thy
Behalf--speak quickly or I shall turn about--Not yet.--Poor Lady,
she expects I shou'd comfort her; and to do her Justice, she has
said enough to encourage me. (_Turns about._) Ha? gone! The Devil,
jilted? Why, what a Tale has she invented--of _Paris_, Balls, and
Birth-Days.--Egad I'd give Ten Guineas to know who this Gipsie
is.--A Curse of my Folly--I deserve to lose her; what Woman can
forgive a Man that turns his Back.
_The Bold and Resolute, in Love and War, To Conquer take the Right,
and swiftest way; The boldest Lover soonest gains the Fair, As
Courage makes the rudest Force obey, Take no denial, and the Dames
adore ye, Closely pursue them and they fall before ye._
The End of the First ACT.

ACT the Second.
_Enter Sir _Francis Gripe_, _Miranda_._
Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
_Miran._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha; Oh, I shall die with Laughing.--The
most Romantick Adventure: Ha, ha! what does the odious young Fop
mean? A Hundred Pieces to talk an Hour with me; Ho, ha.
Sir _Fran._ And I'm to be by too; there's the Jest; Adod, if it had
been in Private, I shou'd not have car'd to trust the young
Dog.
_Mirand._ Indeed and Indeed, but you might _Gardy_.--Now methinks
there's no Body Handsomer than you; So Neat, so Clean, so Good-Humour'd,
and so Loving.--
Sir _Fran._ Pritty Rogue, Pritty Rogue, and so thou shalt find me,
if thou do'st prefer thy _Gardy_ before these Caperers of the Age,
thou shalt out-shine the Queen's Box on an _Opera_ Night; thou shalt
be the Envy of the Ring (for I will Carry thee to _Hide-Park_) and
thy Equipage shall Surpass, the what--d'ye call 'em Ambassadors.
_Miran._ Nay, I'm sure the Discreet Part of my Sex will Envy me
more for the Inside Furniture, when you are in it, than my Outside
Equipage.
Sir _Fran._ A Cunning Bagage, a faith thou art, and a wise one too;
and to show thee thou hast not chose amiss, I'll this moment
Disinherit my Son, and Settle my whole Estate upon thee.If I don't take the shine
off the Sea Serpent, when I get back to Boston, then my
name's not Sam Patch.)

Well, says I, Professor, send for Sam Patch, the diver,
and let him dive down and stick a torpedo in the bottom
of the Province and blow it up; or if that won't do, send
for some of our steam tow boats from our great Eastern
cities, and tow it out to sea; you know there's nothing
our folks can't do, when they once fairly take hold on
a thing in airnest. Well, that made him laugh; he seemed
to forget about the nutmegs, and says he, that's a bright
scheme, but it won't do; we shall want the Province some
day, and I guess we'll buy it of King William; they say
he is over head and ears in debt, and owes nine hundred
millions of pounds starling--we'll buy it, as we did
Florida. In the meantime we must have a canal from Bay
Fundy to Bay Varte, right through Cumberland neck, by
Shittyack, for our fishing vessels to go to Labradore.
I guess you must ax leave first, said I; that's jist what
I was cyphering at, says he, when you came in. I believe
we won't ax them at all, but jist fall to and do it; ITS
A ROAD OF NEEDCESSITY. I once heard Chief Justice Marshall
of Baltimore say; 'If the people's highway is dangerous
--a man may take down a fence--and pass through the fields
as a way of NEEDCESSITY;' and we shall do it on that
principle, as the way round by Isle Sable is dangerous.
I wonder the Novascotians don't do it for their own
convenience. Said I, it would'nt make a bad speculation
that. The critters don't know no better, said he.

Well, says I, the St. John's folks, why don't they? for
they are pretty cute chaps them. They remind me, says
the Professor, of Jim Billings. You knew Jim Billings,
did'nt you, Mr. Slick? Oh yes, said I, I knew him. It
was he that made such a talk by shipping blankets to the
West Indies; the same, says he. Well, I went to see him
the other day at Mrs. Lecain's Boarding House, and says
I, Billings, you have a nice location here. A plaguy
sight too nice, said he. Marm Lecain makes such an etarnal
touss about her carpets, that I have to go along that
everlasting long entry, and down both staircases, to the
street door to spit; and it keeps all the gentlemen a
running with their mouths full all day. I had a real bout
with a New Yorker this morning, I run down to the street
door, and afore I see'd any body a coming, I let go, and
I vow if I did'nt let a chap have it all over his white
waistcoat. Well, he makes a grab at me, and I shuts the
door right to on his wrist, and hooks the door chain
taught and leaves him there, and into Marm Lecain's bed
room like a shot, and hides behind the curtain. Well, he
roared like a bull, till black Lucretia, one of the house
helps, let him go, and they looked into all the gentlemen's
rooms and found nobody--so I got out of that are scrape.
So, what with Marm Lecain's carpets in the house, and
other folks' waistcoats in the street, its too nice a
location for me, I guess, so I shall up killoch and off
to morrow to the TREE-mont.

Now, says the Professor, the St. John's folks are jist
like Billings, fifty cents would have bought him a spit
box, and saved him all them are journeys to the street
door--and a canal at Bay Varte would save the St. John's
folks a voyage all round Nova-Scotia. Why, they can't
get at their own backside settlements, without a voyage
most as long as one to Europe. If we had that are neck
of land in Cumberland, we'd have a ship canal there, and
a town at each end of it as big as Portland. You may
talk of Solomon, said the Professor, but if Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like a lily of the field,
neither was he in all his wisdom, equal in knowledge to
a reel free American citizen. Well, said I, Professor,
we are a most enlightened people, that's sartain, but
somehow I don't like to hear you run down King Solomon
neither; perhaps he warnt quite so wise as Uncle Sam,
but then, said I, (drawing close to the Professor, and
whispering in his ear, for fear any folks in the bar room
might hear me,) but then, said I, may be he was every
bit and grain as honest. Says he, Mr. Slick, there are
some folks who think a good deal and say but little, and
they are wise folks; and there are others agin, who blart
right out whatever comes uppermost, and I guess they are
pretty considerable superfine darned fools. And with that
he turned right round, and sat down to his map and never
said another word, lookin' as mad as a hatter the whole
blessed time.


No. IX

Yankee Eating and Horse Feeding.

Did you ever heer tell of Abernethy, a British doctor?
said the Clockmaker. Frequently, said I, he was an eminent
man, and had a most extensive practice. Well, I reckon
he was a vulgar critter that, he replied, he treated the
honble. Aiden Gobble, secretary to our legation at London,
dreadful bad once; and I guess if it had been me he had
used that way, I'd a fixed his flint for him, so that
he'd think twice afore he'd fire such another shot as
that are again. I'd a made him make tracks, I guess, as
quick as a dog does a hog from a potatoe field. He'd a
found his way out of the hole in the fence a plaguy sight
quicker than he came in, I reckon. Hits manner, said I,
was certainly rather unceremonious at times, but he was
so honest, and so straightforward, that no person was,
I believe, ever seriously offended at him. IT WAS HIS
WAY. Then his way was so plague rough, continued the
Clockmaker, that he'd been the better, if it had been
hammered and mauled down smoother. I'd a levelled him as
flat as a flounder. Pray what was his offence? said I.
Bad enough you may depend. The honble. Alden Gobble was
dyspeptic, and he suffered great on easiness arter eatin,
so he gees to Abemethy for advice. What's the matter with
you, said the Doctor? jist that way, without even passing
the time o' day with him--What's the matter with you?
said he. Why, says Alden, I presume I have the Dyspepsy.
Ah! said he, I see; a Yankee swallowed more dollars and
cents than he can digest I am an American citizen, says
Alden, with great dignity, I am Secretary to our Legation
at the Court of St. James. The devil you are, said
Abernethy, then you'll soon get rid of your dyspepsy. I
don't see that are inference, said Alden, it don't follow
from what you predicate at all--it ant a natural
consequence, I guess, that a man should cease to be ill,
because he is called by the voice of a free and enlightened
people to fill an important office. (The truth is, you
could no more trap Alden than you could an Indian. He
could see other folks' trail, and made none himself; he
was a real diplomatist, and I believe our diplomatists
are allowed to be the best in the world.) But I tell you
it does follow, said the Doctor; for in the company you'll
have to keep, you'll have to eat like a Christian. It
was an everlasting pity Alden contradicted him, for he
broke out like one ravin distracted mad. I'll be d--d,
said he, if ever I saw a Yankee that did'nt bolt his food
whole like a Boa Constrictor. How the devil can you
expect to digest food, that you neither take the trouble
to dissect, nor time to masticate? It's no wonder you
lose your teeth, for you never use them; nor your digestion,
for you overload it; nor your saliva, for you expend it
on the carpets, instead of your food. Its disgusting,
its beastly. You Yankees load your stomachs as a Devonshire
man does his cart, as full as it can hold, and as fast
as he can pitch it with a dung fork, and drive off; and
then you complain that such a load of compost is too
heavy for you. Dyspepsy, eh! infernal guzzling, you mean.
I'll tell you what, Mr. Secretary of Legation, take half
the time to eat, that you do to drawl out your words,
chew your food half as much as you do your filthy tobacco,
and you'll be well in a month. I don't understand such
language, said Alden. (for he was fairly ryled, and got
his dander up, and when he shows clear grit, he looks
wicked ugly, I tell you.) I don't understand such language.
Sir: I came here to consult you professionally, and not
to be ---. Don't understand! said the Doctor, why its
plain English: but here, read my book--and he shoved a
book into his hands and left him in an instant, standing
alone in the middle of the room. If the honble. Alden
Gobble had gone right away and demanded his passports,
and returned home with the Legation, in one of our first
class frigates, (I guess the English would as soon see
pyson as one o' them are Serpents) to Washington, the
President and the people would have sustained him in it,
I guess, until an apology was offered for the insult to
the nation. I guess if it had been me, said Mr. Slick,
I'd a headed him afore he slipt out o' the door, and
pinned him up agin the wall, and made him bolt his words
again, as quick as he throw'd 'em up, for I never see'd
an Englishman that didn't cut his words as short as he
does his horse's tail, close up to the stump. It certainly
was very coarse and vulgar language, and I think, said
I, that your Secretary had just cause to be offended at
such an ungentlemanlike attack, although he showed his
good sense in treating it with the contempt it deserved,
It was plaguy lucky for the doctor, I tell you, that he
cut stick as he did, and made himself scarce, for Alden
was an ugly customer; he'd a gin him a proper scalding
--he'd a taken the bristles off his hide, as clean as
the skin of a spring shote of a pig killed at Christmas.
The Clockmaker was evidently excited by his own story,
and to indemnify himself for these remarks on his
countrymen, he indulged for some time in ridiculing the
Nova Scotians.

Do you see that are flock of colts, said he, (as we passed
one of those beautiful prairies that render the vallies
of Nova Scotia so verdant and so fertile,) well, I guess
they keep too much of that are stock. I heerd an Indian
one day ax a tavern keeper for some rum; why, Joe Spawdeeck,
said he, I reckon you have got too much already. Too much
of any thing, said Joe is not good, but too much rum is
jist enough. I guess these Blue Noses think so bout their
horses, they are fairly eat up by them, out of house and
home, and they are no good neither. They beant good saddle
horses, and they beant good draft beasts--they are jist
neither one thing nor tother. They are like the drink of
our Connecticut folks. At mowing time they use molasses
and water, nasty stuff only fit to catch flies--it spiles
good water and makes bad beer. No wonder the folks are
poor. Look at them are great dykes; well, they all go to
feed horses; and look at their grain fields on the upland;
well, they are all sowed with oats to feed horses, and
they buy their bread from us: so we feed the asses, and
they feed the horses. If I had them critters on that are
marsh, on a location of mine, I'd jist take my rifle and
shoot every one on them; the nasty yo necked, cat hammed,
heavy headed, flat eared, crooked shanked, long legged,
narrow chested, good for nothin brutes; they aint worth
their keep one winter. I vow, I wish one of these Blue
Noses, with his go-to-meetin clothes on, coat tails pinned
up behind like a leather blind of a Shay, an old spur on
one heel, and a pipe stuck through his hat band, mounted
on one of these limber timbered critters, that moves its
hind legs like a hen scratchin gravel, was sot down in
Broadway, in New York, for a sight. Lord! I think I hear
the West Point cadets a larfin at him. Who brought that
are scare-crow out of standin corn and stuck him here?
I guess that are citizen came from away down east out of
the Notch of the White Mountains. Here comes the Cholera
doctor, from Canada--not from Canada, I guess, neither,
for he don't LOOK AS IF HE HAD EVER BEEN AMONG THE RAPIDS.
If they would'nt poke fun at him its a pity. If they'd
keep less horses, and more sheep, they'd have food and
clothing, too, instead of buying both. I vow I've larfed
afore now till I have fairly wet myself a cryin, to see
one of these folks catch a horse: may be he has to go
two or three miles of an arrand. Well, down he goes on
the dyke with a bridle in one hand, and an old tin pan
in another, full of oats, to catch his beast. First he
goes to one flock of horses, and then to another, to see
if he can find his own critter. At last he gets sight on
him, and goes softly up to him, shakin of his oats, and
a coaxin him, and jist as he goes to put his hand upon
him, away he starts all head and tail, and the rest with
him: that starts another flock, and they set a third
off, and at last every troop on 'em goes, as if Old Nick
was arter them, till they amount to two or three hundred
in a drove. Well, he chases them clear across the Tantramer
marsh, seven miles good, over ditches, creeks, mire holes,
and flag ponds, and then they turn and take a fair chase
for it back again seven miles more. By this time, I
presume, they are all pretty considerably well tired,
and Blue Nose, he goes and gets up all the men folks in
the neighborhood, and catches his beast, as they do a
moose arter he is fairly run down; so he runs fourteen
miles, to ride two, because he is in a tarnation hurry.
Its e'en a most equal to eatin soup with a fork, when
you are short of time. It puts me in mind of catching
birds by sprinkling salt on their tails; its only one
horse a man can ride out of half a dozen, arter all. One
has no shoes, tother has a colt, one arnt broke, another
has a sore back, while a fifth is so etarnal cunnin, all
Cumberland could'nt catch him, till winter drives him up
to the barn for food.

Most of them are dyke marshes have what they call 'HONEY
POTS' in 'em; that is a deep hole all full of squash,
where you can't find no bottom. Well, every now and then,
when a feller goes to look for his horse, he sees his
tail a stickin right out an eend, from one of these honey
pots, and wavin like a head of broom corn; and sometimes
you see two or three trapped there, e'en a most smothered,
everlastin' tired, half swimmin' half wadin, like rats
in a molasses cask. When they find 'em in that are
pickle, they go and get ropes, and tie 'em tight round
their necks, and half hang 'em to make 'em float, and
then haul 'em out. Awful looking critters they be, you
may depend, when they do come out; for all the world like
half drowned kittens--all slinkey--slimey--with their
great long tails glued up like a swab of oakum dipped in
tar. If they don't look foolish its a pity? Well, they
have to nurse these critters all winter, with hot mashes,
warm covering, and what not, and when spring comes, they
mostly die, and if they don't they are never no good
arter. I wish with all my heart half the horses in the
country were barrelled up in these here 'honey pots,'
and then there'd be near about one half too many left
for profit. Jist look at one of these barn yards in the
spring--half a dozen half starved colts, with their hair
lookin a thousand ways for Sunday, and their coats hangin
in tatters, and half a dozen good for nothin old horses,
a crowdin out the cows and sheep.

Can you wonder that people who keep such an unprofitable
stock, come out of the small eend of the horn in the long
run?


No. X

The Road to a Woman's Heart--The Broken Heart.

As we approached the Inn at Amherst, the Clockmaker grew
uneasy. Its pretty well on in the evening, I guess, said
he, and Marm Pugwash is as onsartain in her temper as a
mornin in April; its all sunshine or all clouds with her,
and if she's in one of her tantrums, she'll stretch out
her neck and hiss, like a goose with a flock of goslins.
I wonder what on airth Pugwash was a thinkin on, when he
signed articles of partnership with that are woman; she's
not a bad lookin piece of furniture neither, and its a
proper pity sich a clever woman should carry such a stiff
upper lip--she reminds me of our old minister Joshua
Hopewell's apple trees. The old minister had an orchard
of most particular good fruit, for he was a great hand
at buddin, graftin, and what not, and the orchard (it
was on the south side of the house) stretched right up
to the road. Well, there were some trees hung over the
fence, I never seed such bearers, the apples hung in
ropes, for all the world like strings of onions, and the
fruit was beautiful. Nobody touched the minister's
apples, and when other folks lost theirn from the boys,
hisn always hung there like bait to a hook, but there
never was so much as a nibble at em. So I said to him
one day, Minister, said I, how on airth do you manage to
keep your fruit that's so exposed, when no one else cant
do it nohow. Why, says he, they are dreadful pretty
fruit, ant they? I guess, said I, there ant the like on
em in all Connecticut. Well, says he, I'll tell you the
secret, but you need'nt let on to no one about it. That
are row next the fence, I grafted it myself, I took great
pains to get the right kind, I sent clean up to Roxberry,
and away down to Squaw-neck Creek, (I was afeared he was
agoin to give me day and date for every graft, being a
terrible long-winded man in his stories,) so says I, I
know that, minister, but how do you preserve them? Why
I was a goin to tell you, said he, when you stopped me.
That are outward row I grafted myself with the choicest
kind I could find, and I succeeded. They are beautiful,
but so etarnal sour, no human soul can eat them. Well,
the boys think the old minister's graftin has all succeeded
about as well as that row, and they sarch no farther.
They snicker at my graftin, and I laugh in my sleeve, I
guess, at their penetration.

Now, Marm Pugwash is like the Minister's apples, very
temptin fruit to look at, but desperate sour. If Pugwash
had a watery mouth when be married, I guess its pretty
puckery by this time. However, if she goes to act ugly,
I'll give her a dose of 'soft sawder,' that will take
the frown out of her frontispiece, and make her dial-plate
as smooth as a lick of copal varnish. Its a pity she's
such a kickin devil, too, for she has good points--good
eye--good foot--neat pastern--fine chest--a clean set
of limbs, and carries a good ---. But here we are, now
you'll see what' soft sawder' will do. When we entered
the house, the traveller's room was all in darkness, and
on opening the opposite door into the sitting room, we
found the female part of the family extinguishing the
fire for the night. Mrs. Pugwash had a broom in her hand,
and was in the act (the last act of female housewifery)
of sweeping the hearth. The strong flickering light of
the fire, as it fell upon her tall fine figure and
beautiful face, revealed a creature worthy of the
Clockmaker's comments. Good evening, Marm, said Mr. Slick,
how do you do, and how's Mr. Pugwash? He, said she, why
he's been abed this hour, you don't expect to disturb--him
this time of night I hope. Oh no, said Mr. Stick, certainly
not, and I am sorry to have disturbed you, but we got
detained longer than we expected; I am sorry that --. So
am I, said she, but if Mr. Pugwash will keep an Inn when
he has no occasion to, his family cant expect no rest.
Here the Clockmaker, seeing the storm gathering, stooped
down suddenly, and staring intently, held out his hand
and exclaimed, well if that aint a beautiful child--come
here, my little man and shake hands along with me--well
I declare if that are little feller aint the finest child
I ever seed--what, not abed yet? ah you rogue, where did
you get them are pretty rosy cheeks; stole them from
mamma, eh? Well, I wish my old mother could see that
child, it is such a treat In our country, said he, turning
to me, the children are all as pale as chalk, or as yeller
as an orange. Lord, that are little feller would be a
show in our country--come to me my man. Here the soft
sawder began to operate. Mrs. Pugwash said in a milder
tone than we had yet heard, 'go my dear to the gentleman,
go dear.' Mr. Slick kissed him, asked him if he would go
to the States along with him, told him all the little
girls there would fall in love with him, for they didn't
see such a beautiful face once in a month of Sundays.
Black eyes, let me see, ah mamma's eyes too, and black
hair also; as I am alive, why you are mamma's own boy,
the very image of mamma. Do be seated, gentlemen, said
Mrs. Pugwash--Sally make a fire in the next room. She
ought to be proud of you, he continued. Well, if I live
to return here, I must paint your face, and have it put
on my clocks, and our folks will buy the clocks for the
sake of the face. Did you ever see, said he, again
addressing me, such a likeness between one human and
another, as between this beautiful little boy and his
mother. I am sure you have had no supper, said Mrs.
Pugwash to me; you must be hungry and weary, too--I will
get you a cup of tea. I am sorry to give you so much
trouble, said I. Not the least trouble in the world,
she replied, on the contrary a pleasure. We were then
shown into the next room, where the fire was now blazing
up, but Mr. Slick protested he could not proceed without
the little boy, and lingered behind me to ascertain his
age, and concluded by asking the child if he had any
aunts that looked like mamma.

As the door closed, Mr. Slick said, it's a pity she don't
go well in gear. The difficulty with those critters is
to get them to start, arter that there is no trouble with
them if you don't check 'em too short If you do, they'll
stop again, run back and kick like mad, and then Old Nick
himself would'nt start 'em. Pugwash, I guess, don't
understand the natur of the critter; she'll never go kind
in harness for him. When I see a child, said the Clockmaker,
I always feel safe with these women folk; for I have
always found that the road to a woman's heart lies through
her child.

You seem, said I, to understand the female heart so well,
I make no doubt you are a general favorite among the fair
sex. Any man, he replied, that understands horses, has
a pretty considerable fair knowledge of women, for they
are jist alike in temper, and require the very identical
same treatment. Incourage the timid ones, be gentle and
steady with the fractious, but lather the sulky ones like
blazes. People talk an everlastin sight of nonsense about
wine, women and horses. I've bought and sold 'em all,
I've traded in all of them, and I tell you, there aint
one in a thousand that knows a grain about either on 'em.
You hear folks say, oh, such a man is an ugly grained
critter--he'll break his wife's heart; jist as if a
woman's heart was as brittle as a pipe stalk. The female
heart, as far as my experience goes, is just like a new
India Rubber Shoe; you may pull and pull at it, till it
stretches out a yard long, and then let go, and it will
fly right back to its old shape. These things go on
whether we will them or not. Although the spirit leaves
the body in sleep as previously stated, there is still
a magnetic connection with soul and body. This magnetic
connection acts on the sympathetic nervous system and the
cerebro spinal which controls the functions of the human
organism. In sleep the astral man may be in the immediate
vicinity of his sleeping recuperating physical body
or it may be thousands of miles away in space, the
magnetic connection still exists regardless of the distance.
No matter what distance the astral man is away from his
physical body, he can return to it with the rapidity
of thought, as the saying is, for it is the soul that
thinks, the brain is only an instrument of the soul.

Many of our dreams may be attributed to subconscious memory,
for when our mind is centered on a certain train of thought
these thoughts are apt to filter through into the conscious
state in sleep. The subconscious memory cannot be truthfully
called a dream, for it is only a memory of something
we have previously perceived in reality or imagination.
One only has to examine his subconscious dream in the
light of reason to eliminate them. Telepathy does explain
some of our dreams, for just as it is possible for minds
to receive telepathic communications (thought transference) from
another in the walking state, it is also possible for the so-called
dead to have telepathic communication with the living, for thought
is a power, its limitation is unknown.

While many of our dreams may be traced to subconscious
memory or telepathy and happenings of material affairs of
our daily lives, others are undoubtedly the astral
happenings of the ego while functioning in the etheric
regions. There we meet not only the misnamed dead but
also many of those who are still in the physical body,
and let me state here that many of our difficult problems
of physical life are worked out in sleep.

The old axiom, "I will go to sleep on it," has a greater
significance than is generally attributed to it, for
sleep and dreams have more to do in shaping your lives
than you have any idea of. You can go to school in
sleep and study anything you are studying in physical
life and make marvelous progress. This requires much
training, however.
Keeping the mind free from evil thoughts is most essential to enable
the sincere investigator to enter that larger state of consciousness,
for the thoughts of our waking state have a more or less effect on
the ego during sleep.

Every individual harbors a certain train of thought, whether at
business or pleasure this train of thought has a tremendous influence
on the ego, in fact it shapes ones destiny.

Choose well your thoughts for your choice is brief and yet endless.

--Anna Besant in Thought Power
Man may be said to live two lives in one, one when he is
fully awake and the other when he is sound asleep. These
two lives, of course, is the expression of his one
existence. The highly developed, spiritual man as he retires
into the interior world during sleep, realizes a
state of spiritual bliss that is far beyond the stage
of ordinary mortals. Man has been in the habit of looking
at himself as a mass of flesh and muscle with a slight
chance of realizing the Divinity within him. As the
earnest soul gradually arouses himself he finds his
proper place in the universe, for within him are all
the attributes of deity, and when he reaches the end
of the long evolutionary journey that is ahead of him
he will find himself and know what he is destined to
be, a God.

VARIETIES OF DREAMS
In order to distinguish and classify the different kinds
of dreams in which everyone has an experience they may
be divided into four variations. Nearly all dreams
may be classified under this heading:

1. Physical Stimulus.

2. Subconscious memory.

3. Telepathy.

4. The Actual Astral experience of the Ego or Soul in the
Astral region.

Physical Stimulus may be the direct cause of impressing
certain ideas on the physical brain which may appear
to be a reality. The falling of a book, picture or
any article in the room may cause the sleeper to dream
of firearms; a soldier may dream of a battlefield; a
sensitive female may dream it is a burglar; a person
who throws the bed clothes off him on a cold night may dream of
snow and ice; the continual dropping of water from a faucet in the
room of the sleeper has been the direct cause of a friend of mine
dreaming of a passenger train; the steady tramping of footsteps
overhead may be the cause of dreaming of thunder storms, etc.Oh! dear
no, said our hostess, they are found all along the coast
from Shittyack, through Bay of Vartes, away up to Ramshag.
The latter we seldom get, though the best; there is no
regular conveyance, and when they do come, they are
generally shelled and in kegs, and never in good order.
I have not had a real good Ramshag in my house these two
years, since Governor Maitland was here; he was amazin
fond of them, and Lawyer Talkemdeaf sent his carriage
there on purpose to procure them fresh for him. Now we
can't GET THEM, but we have the Shittyacks in perfection;
say the word, and they shall be served up immediately.
A good dish and an unexpected dish is most acceptable,
and certainly my American friend and myself did ample
justice to the Oysters, which, if they have not so
classical a name, have quite as good a flavor as their
far famed brethren of Milton. Mr. Slick eat so heartily,
that when he resumed his conversation, he indulged in
the most melancholy forebodings.

Did you see that are nigger, said he, that removed the
Oyster shells? well, he's one of our Chesapickers, one
of General Cuffy's slaves. I wish Admiral Cockburn had
a taken them all off our hands at the same rate. We made
a pretty good sale of them are black cattle, I guess, to
the British; I wish we were well rid of 'em all. THE
BLACKS AND THE WHITES in the States show their teeth and
snarl, they are jist ready to fall to. The PROTESTANTS
and CATHOLICS begin to lay back their ears, and turn tail
for kickin. THE ABOLITIONISTS AND PLANTERS are at it like
two bulls in a pastur. MOB LAW AND LYNCH LAW are working
like yeast in a barrell, and frothing at the bung hole.
NULLIFICATION AND TARIFF are like a charcoal pit, all
covered up, but burning inside, and sending out smoke at
every crack, enough to stifle a horse. GENERAL GOVERNMENT
AND STATE GOVERNMENT every now and then square off and
sparr, and the first blow given will bring a genuine
set-to. SURPLUS REVENUE is another bone of contention;
like a shin of beef thrown among a pack of dogs, it will
set the whole on 'em by the ears. You have heerd tell of
cotton rags dipt in turpentine, hav'nt you, how they
produce combustion? Well, I guess we have the elements
of spontaneous combustion among us in abundance; when it
does break out, if you don't see an eruption of human
gore, worse than Etna lava, then I'm mistaken. There'll
be the very devil to pay, that's a fact. I expect the
blacks will butcher the Southern whites, and the
northerners will have to turn out and butcher them again;
and all this shoot, hang, cut, stab, and burn business
will sweeten our folks' temper, as raw meat does that of
a dog--it fairly makes me sick to think on it. The
explosion may clear the air again, and all be tranquil
once more, but its an even chance if it don't leave us
the three steam boat options, to be blown sky high, to
be scalded to death or drowned. If this sad picture you
have drawn, be indeed true to nature, how does your
country, said I, appear so attractive, as to draw to it
so large a portion of our population? It tante its
attraction, said the Clockmaker, its nothin but its power
of suction; it is a great whirlpool--a great vortex--it
drags all the straw, and chips and floatin sticks, drift
wood and trash into it. The small crafts are sucked in,
and whirl round and round like a squirrel in a cage--
they'll never come out. Bigger ones pass through at
certain times of tide, and can come in and out with good
pilotage, as they do at HELL GATE up the Sound. You
astonish me, said I, beyond measure; both your previous
conversations with me, and the concurrent testimony of
all my friends who have visited the States, give a
different view of it. YOUR FRIENDS! said the Clockmaker,
with such a tone of ineffable contempt, that I felt a
strong inclination to knock him down for his insolence
--your friends! Ensigns and leftenants, I guess, from
the British marchin regiments in the Colonies, that run
over five thousand miles of country in five weeks, on
leave of absence, and then return, lookin as wise as the
monkey that had seen the world. When they get back they
are so chock full of knowledge of the Yankees, that it
runs over of itself, like a Hogshead of molasses rolled
about in hot weather--a white froth and scum bubbles out
of the bung; wishy washy trash they call tours, sketches,
travels, letters, and what not; vapid stuff, jist sweet
enough to catch flies, cockroaches, and half fledged
galls. It puts me in mind of my French. I larnt French
at night school one winter, of our minister, Joshua
Hopewell (he was the most larned man of the age, for he
taught himself een amost every language in Europe); well,
next spring, when I went to Boston, I met a Frenchman,
and I began to jabber away French to him: 'Polly woes a
french say,' says I. I don't understand Yankee yet, says
he. You dont understand! says I, why its French. I guess
you didn't expect to hear such good French, did you, away
down east here? but we speak it real well, and its
generally allowed we speak English, too, better than the
British. Oh, says he, you one very droll Yankee, dat
very good joke, Sare; you talk Indian and call it French.
But, says I, Mister Mount shear; it is French, I vow;
real merchantable, without wainy edge or shakes--all
clear stuff; it will pass survey in any market--its ready
stuck and seasoned. Oh, very like, says he, bowin as
polite as a black waiter at New OrLEENS, very like, only
I never heerd it afore; oh, very good French dat--CLEAR
STUFF, no doubt, but I no understand--its all my fault,
I dare say, Sare.

Thinks I to myself a nod is as good as a wink to a blind
horse, I see how the cat jumps--Minister knows so many
languages he hant been particular enough to keep 'em in
separate parcels and mark 'em on the back, and they've
got mixed, and sure enough I found my French was so
overrun with other sorts, that it was better to loose
the whole crop than to go to weedin, for as fast as I
pulled up any strange seedlin, it would grow right up
agin as quick as wink, if there was the least bit of root
in the world left in the ground, so I left it all rot on
the field. There is no way so good to larn French as to
live among 'em, and if you WANT TO UNDERSTAND US, YOU
MUST LIVE AMONG US, TOO; your Halls, Hamiltons, and De
Rouses, and such critters, what CAN they know of us? Can
a chap catch a likeness flying along a rail road? can he
even see the feature? Old Admiral Anson once axed one of
our folks afore our glorious Revolution, (if the British
had a known us a little grain better at that time, they
would'nt have got whipped like a sack as they did then)
where he came from. From the Chesapeeke, said he. Aye,
aye, said the Admiral, from the West Indies. I guess,
said the Southaner, you may have been clean ROUND THE
WORLD, Admiral, but you have been plaguy LITTLE IN IT,
not to know better nor that I shot a wild goose at River
Philip last year, with the rice of Varginey fresh in his
crops he must have cracked on near about as fast as them
other geese, the British travellers. Which know'd the
most of the country they passed over, do you suppose? I
guess it was much of a muchness--near about six of one
and a half dozen of tother; two eyes aint much better
than one, if they are both blind.

No, if you want to know all about us and the Blue Noses
(a pretty considerable share of Yankee blood in them too,
I tell you; the old stock comes from New England, and
the breed is tolerable pure yet, near about one half
apple sarce, and tother half molasses, all except to the
Easterd, where there is a cross of the Scotch,) jist ax
me and I'll tell you candidly. I'm not one of them that
can't see no good points in my neighbor's critter, and
no bad ones in my own; I've seen too much of the world
for that, I guess. Indeed, in a general way, I praise
other folks' beasts, and keep dark about my own. Says I,
when I meet Blue Nose mounted, that's a real smart horse
of yourn, put him out, I guess he'll trot like mad. Well,
he lets him have the spur, and the critter does his best,
and then I pass him like a streak of lightning with mine.
The feller looks all taken aback at that. Why, says he,
that's a real clipper of yourn, I vow. Middlin, says I,
(quite cool, as if I had heard that are same thing a
thousand times,) he's good enough for me, jist a fair
trotter, and nothin to brag of. That goes near about as
far agin in a general way, as a crackin and a boastin
does. Never TELL folks you can go a head on 'em, but DO
it; it spares a great deal of talk, and helps them to
save their breath to cool their broth. No, if you want
to know the inns and the outs of the Yankees--I've wintered
them and summered them; I know all their points, shape,
make and breed; I've tried 'em alongside of other folks,
and I know where they fall short, where they mate 'em,
and where they have the advantage, about as well as some
who think they know a plaguy sight more. It tante them
that stare the most, that see the best always, I guess.
Our folks have their faults, and I know them, (I warnt
born blind, I reckon,) but your friends, the tour writers,
are a little grain too hard on us. Our old nigger wench
had several dirty, ugly lookin children, and was proper
cross to 'em. Mother used to say, 'Juno, its better never
to wipe a child's nose at all, I guess, than to wring it
off.'


No. XII

The American Eagle.

Jist look out of the door, said the Clockmaker, and see
what a beautiful night it is, how calm, how still, how
clear it is, beant it lovely?--I like to look up at them
are stars, when I am away from home, they put me in mind
of our national flag, and it is generally allowed to be
the first flag in the univarse now. The British can whip
all the world, and we can whip the British. Its near
about the prettiest sight I know of, is one of our first
class Frigates, manned with our free and enlightened
citizens all ready for sea; it is like the great American
Eagle, on its perch, balancing itself for a start on the
broad expanse of blue sky, afeared of nothin of its kind,
and president of all it surveys. It was a good emblem
that we chose, warn't it? There was no evading so direct,
and at the same time, so conceited an appeal as this.
Certainly, said I, the emblem was well chosen. I was
particularly struck with it on observing the device on
your naval buttons during the last war--an eagle with an
anchor in its claws. That was a natural idea, taken from
an ordinary occurrence: a bird purloining the anchor of
a frigate--an article so useful and necessary for the
food of its young. It was well chosen, and exhibited
great taste and judgment in the artist. The emblem is
more appropriate than you are aware of--boasting of what
you cannot perform--grasping at what you cannot attain
--an emblem of arrogance and weakness--of ill-directed
ambition and vulgar pretension. Its a common phrase, said
he, (with great composure) among seamen, to say 'damn
your buttons,' and I guess its natural for you to say so
of the buttons of our navals; I guess you have a right
to that are oath. Its a sore subject, that, I reckon,
and I believe I hadn't ought to have spoken of it to you
at all. Brag is a good dog, but hold fast is a better
one. He was evidently annoyed, and with his usual
dexterity gave vent to his feelings, by a sally upon the
Blue Noses, who he says are a cross of English and Yankee,
and therefore first cousins to us both. Perhaps, said
he, that are Eagle might with more propriety have been
taken off as perched on an anchor, instead of holding it
in his claws, and I think it would have been more nateral;
but I suppose it was some stupid foreign artist that made
that are blunder, I never seed one yet that was equal to
ourn. If that Eagle is represented as trying what HE
CAN'T DO, its an honorable ambition arter all, but these
Blue Noses wont try what THEY CAN DO. They put me in mind
of a great big hulk of a horse in a cart, that wont put
his shoulder to the collar at all for all the lambastin
in the world, but turns his head round and looks at you,
as much as to say, 'what an everlastin heavy thing an
empty cart is, isnt it?' An Owl should be their emblem,
and the motto, 'He sleeps all the days of his life.' The
whole country is like this night; beautiful to look at,
but silent as the grave--still as death, asleep, becalmed.
If the sea was always calm, said he, it would pyson the
univarse; no soul could breathe the air, it would be so
uncommon bad. Stagnant water is always unpleasant, bat
salt water when it gets tainted beats all natur; motion
keeps it sweet and wholesome, and that our minister used
to say is one of the 'wonders of the great deep.' This
province is stagnant; it tante deep like still water
neither, for its shaller enough, gracious knows, but it
is motionless, noiseless, lifeless. If you have ever been
to sea, in a calm, you'd know what a plaguy tiresome
thing it is for a man that's in a hurry. An everlastin
flappin of the sails, and a creakin of the boombs, and
an onsteady pitchin of the ship, and folks lyin about
dozin away their time, and the sea a heavin a long heavy
swell, like the breathin of the chist of some great
monster asleep. A passenger wonders the sailors are so
plagy easy about it, and he goes a lookin out east, and
a spyin out west, to see if there's any chance of a
breeze, and says to himself 'Well, if this aint dull
music its a pity.' Then how streaked he feels when he
sees a steamboat a clippin it by him like mad, and the
folks on board pokin fun at him, and askin him if he has
any word to send to home. Well, he says, if any soul ever
catches me on board a sail vessel again, when I can go
by steam, I'll give him leave to tell me of it, that's
a fact. That's partly the case here. They are becalmed,
and they see us going a head on them, till we are een
amost out of sight; yet they hant got a steamboat, and
they hant got a rail road; indeed, I doubt if one half
on em ever see'd or heerd tell of one or tother of them.
I never see'd any folks like 'em except the Indians, and
they wont even so much as look--they hav'nt the least
morsel of curiosity in the world; from which one of our
Unitarian preachers (they are dreadful hands at DOUBTIN
them. I don't DOUBT but some day or another, they will
DOUBT whether every thing aint a DOUBT) in a very learned
work, doubts whether they were ever descended from Eve
at all. Old marm Eve's children, he says, are all lost,
it is said, in consequence of TOO MUCH curiosity, while
these copper colored folks are lost from havin TOO LITTLE
little. How can they be the same? Thinks I, that may be
logic, old Dubersome, but it ant sense, don't extremes
meet? Now these Blue Noses have no motion in 'em, no
enterprise, no spirit, and if any critter shows any
symptoms of activity, they say he is a man of no judgment,
he's speculative, he's a schemer, in short he's mad. They
vegitate like a lettuce plant in sarse garden, they grow
tall and, spindlin, run to seed right off, grow as bitter
as gaul and die.

A gall once came to our minister to hire as a house help;
says she, minister, I suppose you don't want a young lady
to do chamber business and breed worms do you? For I've
half a mind to take a spell of livin out (she meant, said
the Clockmaker, house work and rearing silk worms.) My
pretty maiden, says he, a pattin her on the cheek, (for
I've often observed old men always talk kinder pleasant
to young women,) my pretty maiden where was you brought
up? why, says she I guess I warnt brought up at all, I
growed up; under what platform, says he, (for he was very
particular that all his house helps should go to his
meetin,) under what Church platform? Church platform,
says she, with a toss of her bead, like a young colt
that's got a check of the curb, I guess I warnt raised
under a platform at all, but in as good a house as yourn,
grand as you be--you said well said the old minister,
quite shocked, when you said you growed up, dear, for
you have grown up in great ignorance. Then I guess you
had better get a lady that knows more than me, says she,
that's flat. I reckon I am every bit and grain as good
as you be--If I don't understand a bum-byx (silk worm)
both feedin, breedin, and rearin, then I want to know
who does, that's all; church platform indeed, says she,
I guess you were raised under a glass frame in March,
and transplanted on Independence day, warnt you? And off
she sot, lookin as scorney as a London lady, and leavin
the poor minister standin starin like a stuck pig. Well,
well, says he, a liftin up both hands, and turnin up the
whites of his eyes like a duck in thunder, if that don't
bang the bush!! It fearly beats sheap shearin arter the
blackberry bushes have got the wool. It does, I vow; them
are the tares them Unitarians sow in our grain fields at
night; I guess they'll ruinate the crops yet, and make
the grounds so everlastin foul; we'll have to pare the
sod and burn it, to kill the roots. Our fathers sowed
the right seed here in the wilderness, and watered it
with their tears, and watched over it with fastin and
prayer, and now its fairly run out, that's a fact, I
snore. Its got choaked up with all sorts of trash in,
natur, I declare. Dear, dear, I vow I never seed the
beat o' that in all my born days.

Now the Blue Noses are like that are gall; they have
grown up, and grown up in ignorance of many things they
had'nt ought not to know; and its as hard to teach grown
up folks as it is to break a six year old horse; and they
do ryle one's temper so--they act so ugly that it tempts
one sometimes to break their confounded necks--its near
about as much trouble as its worth. What remedy is there
for all this supineness, said I; how can these people be
awakened out of their ignorant slothfulness, into active
exertion? The remedy, said Mr, Slick, is at hand--it is
already workin its own cure. They must recede before our
free and enlightened citizens like the Indians; our folks
will buy them out, and they must give place to a more
intelligent and ac-TIVE people. They must go to the lands
of Labrador, or be located back of Canada; they can hold
on there a few years, until the wave of civilization
reaches them, and then they must move again, as the
savages do. It is decreed; I hear the bugle of destiny
a soundin of their retreat, as plain as any thing. Congress
will give them a concession of land, if they petition,
away to Alleghany backside territory, and grant them
relief for a few years; for we are out of debt, and don't
know what to do with our surplus revenue. The only way
to shame them, that I know, would be to sarve them as
Uncle Enoch sarved a neighbor of his in Varginey.

There was a lady that had a plantation near hand to hisn,
and there was only a small river atwixt the two houses,
So that folks could hear each other talk across it. Well,
she was a dreadful cross grained woman, a real catamount,
as savage as a she bear that has cubs, an old farrow
critter, as ugly as sin, and one that both hooked and
kicked too--a most particular onmarciful she devil, that's
a fact. She used to have some of her niggers tied up
every day, and flogged uncommon severe, and their screams
and screeches were horrid--no soul could stand it; nothin
was heerd all day, but OH LORD MISSUS! OH LORD MISSUS!
We are all familiar with the sort of magazine that contents
itself with saying day in and day out ceaselessly and
noisily: "The _Planet Magazine_ is the greatest magazine
in the universe. The greatest literary artists and the
world's greatest illustrators contribute to our pages."
And it stops there. It has repeated this claim so often
that it has come to believe it. Such a magazine is the
great literary ostrich. It hides by burying its eyes in the
sand.

It is an axiom of human nature that the greatest men
do not find it necessary or possible to talk about
their own greatness. They are so busy that they have
never had much time to think about it. And so it is with
the best magazines, and with the best short stories. The
man who wrote what I regard as the best short story
published in 1915 was the most surprised man in Brooklyn
when I told him so.

The truth of the matter is that we are changing very
rapidly, and that a new national sense in literature is accompanying
that change.

There was a time, and in fact it is only now drawing to a
close, when the short story was exploited by interested
moneymakers who made such a loud noise that you could hear
nothing else without great difficulty. The most successful
of these noisemakers are still shouting, but their heart
is in it no longer. The editor of one of the largest
magazines in the country said to me not long ago that he
found the greatest difficulty now in procuring short
stories by writers for whom his magazine had trained the
public to clamor. The immediate reason which he ascribed
for this state of affairs was that the commercial
rewards offered to these writers by the moving picture
companies were so great, and the difference in time
and labor between writing scenarios and developing finished
stories was so marked, that authors were choosing the
more attractive method of earning money. The excessive
commercialisation of literature in the past decade is now
turned against the very magazines which fostered it.

    The magazines which bought
    and sold fiction like
        soap are beginning to repent of it all.

    They have killed the
    goose that laid the
        golden eggs.

This fight for sincerity in the short story is a fight
that is worth making. It is at the heart of all that for
which I am striving. The quiet sincere man who has
something to tell you should not be talked down by
the noisemakers. He should have his hearing. He is real.
And we need him.

That is why I have set myself the annual task of reading
so many short stories. I am looking for the man and woman
with something to say,--who cares very much indeed
about how he says it. I am looking for the man and woman
with some sort of a dream, the man or woman who sees
just a little bit more in the pedlar he passes on the
street than you or I do, and who wishes to devote his
life to telling us about it. I want to be told my own
story too, so that I can see myself as other people see
me.
And I want to feel that the storyteller who talks to me
about these things is as much in earnest as a sincere
clergyman, an unselfish physician, or an idealistic
lawyer. I want to feel that he belongs to a profession
that is a sort of priesthood, and not that he is holding
down a job or running a bucket shop.

I have found this writer with a message in almost every
magazine I have studied during the year. He is just as
much in earnest in _Collier's Weekly_ as he is in _Scribner's
Magazine_. I do not find him often, but he is there
somewhere. And he is the only man for whom it is worth
our while to watch.

I feel that it is none of my business whether I like and agree with
what he has to say or not.

All that I am looking for is to see whether he means what he says
and makes it as real as he can to me.

I accept his substance at his own valuation, but I want to
know what he makes of it.

Each race that forms part of the substance in our great
melting pot is bringing the richest of its traditions
to add to our children's heritage. That is a wonderful
thing to think about. Here, for example, is a young Jewish
writer, telling in obscurity the stories of his people with
all the art of the great Russian masters. And Irishmen
are bringing to us the best of their heritage, and men
and women of many other races contribute to form the
first national literature the world has ever seen which
is not based on a single racial feeling. Why are we not
more curious about the ragman's story and that of the
bootblack and the man who keeps the fruit store? Don't
you suppose life is doing things to the boy in the
coat-room as interesting as anything in all the
romances?
Isn't life changing us in the most extraordinary ways,
and do we not wish to know in what manner we are to meet
and adapt ourselves to these changes? There is a humble
writer in an attic up there who knows all about it,
if you care to listen to him. The trouble is that he
is so much interested in talking about life that he
forgets to talk about himself, and we are too lazy to
listen to any one who forgets to blow his own trumpet.
But the magazines are beginning to look for him, and,
wonderful to say, they are beginning to find him, and
to discover that he is more interesting and humanly popular
than the professional chef who may be always depended
upon to cook his single dish in the same old way, but
who has never had time to learn anything else.

Now what is the essential point of all that I have been
trying to say?
It is simply this. If we are going to do anything as a
nation, we must be honest with ourselves and with
everybody else. If we are story writers or story readers,
and practically every one is either one or the other
in these days, we must come to grips with life in the
fiction we write or read. Sloppy sentimentality and
slapstick farce ought to bore us frightfully, especially
if we have any sense of humor. Life is too real to go to
sleep over it.

To repeat what I have said in these pages in previous
years, for the benefit of the reader as yet unacquainted
with my standards and principles of selection, I shall
point out that I have set myself the task of disengaging
the essential human qualities in our contemporary fiction
which, when chronicled conscientiously by our literary
artists, may fairly be called a criticism of life. I
am not at all interested in formulæ, and organised
criticism at its best would be nothing more than dead
criticism, as all dogmatic interpretation of life is
always dead.
What has interested me, to the exclusion of other things,
is the fresh, living current which flows through the
best of our work, and the psychological and imaginative
reality which our writers have conferred upon it.

No substance is of importance in fiction, unless it is
organic substance, that is to say, substance in which the
pulse of life is beating. Inorganic fiction has been our
curse in the past, and bids fair to remain so, unless
we exercise much greater artistic discrimination than
we display at present.

The present record covers the period from October, 1919,
to September, 1920, inclusive. During this period, I have
sought to select from the stories published in American
magazines those which have rendered life imaginatively
in organic substance and artistic form. Substance is
something achieved by the artist in every act of
creation, rather than something already present, and accordingly
a fact or group of facts in a story only attain substantial embodiment
when the artist's power of compelling imaginative persuasion
transforms them into a living truth.

The first test of a short story, therefore, in any
qualitative analysis is to report upon how vitally
compelling the writer makes his selected facts or incidents.
This test may be conveniently called the test of
substance.

But a second test is necessary if the story is to
take rank above other stories. The true artist will seek
to shape this living substance into the most beautiful
and satisfying form, by skilful selection and arrangement
of his materials, and by the most direct and appealing
presentation of it in portrayal and characterization.

The short stories which I have examined in this study,
as in previous years, have fallen naturally into four
groups. The first group consists of those stories
which fail, in my opinion, to survive either the test
of substance or the test of form. These stories are listed
in the yearbook without comment or a qualifying
asterisk. The second group consists of those stories
which may fairly claim that they survive either the
test of substance or the test of form. Each of these
stories may claim to possess either distinction of
technique alone, or more frequently, I am glad to say,
a persuasive sense of life in them to which a reader
responds with some part of his own experience. Stories
included in this group are indicated in the yearbook
index by a single asterisk prefixed to the title.

The third group, which is composed of stories of still
greater distinction, includes such narratives as may
lay convincing claim to a second reading, because each
of them has survived both tests, the test of substance and
the test of form. Stories included in this group are
indicated in the yearbook index by two asterisks prefixed
to the title.

Finally, I have recorded the names of a small group of stories
which possess, I believe, an even finer distinction--the
distinction of uniting genuine substance and artistic
form in a closely woven pattern with such sincerity that
these stories may fairly claim a position in our literature.
If all of these stories by American authors were republished,
they would not occupy more space than five novels of average
length. My selection of them does not imply the critical
belief that they are great stories. A year which produced
one great story would be an exceptional one. It is
simply to be taken as meaning that I have found the
equivalent of five volumes worthy of republication among
all the stories published during the period under
consideration. These stories are indicated in the yearbook
index by three asterisks prefixed to the title, and are
listed in the special "Roll of Honor." In compiling these
lists, I have permitted no personal preference or prejudice
to consciously influence my judgment. To the titles of
certain stories, however, in the "Rolls of Honor," an
asterisk is prefixed, and this asterisk, I must confess,
reveals in some measure a personal preference, for which,
perhaps, I may be indulged. It is from this final short
list that the stories reprinted in this volume have been
selected.

It has been a point of honor with me not to republish an
English story, nor a translation from a foreign author.
I have also made it a rule not to include more than one
story by an individual author in the volume.
The general and particular results of my study will be
found explained and carefully detailed in the supplementary
part of the volume.

As in past years it has been my pleasure and honor to
associate this annual with the names of Benjamin
Rosenblatt, Richard Matthews Hallet, Wilbur Daniel Steele, Arthur
Johnson, and Anzia Yezierska, so it is my wish to dedicate this
year the best that I have found in the American magazines as the
fruit of my labors to Sherwood Anderson, whose stories, "The Door
of the Trap," "I Want to Know Why," "The Other Woman," and "The
Triumph of the Egg" seem to me to be among the finest imaginative
contributions to the short story made by an American artist during
the past year.

#Edward J. O'Brien.#

#Forest Hill, Oxon, England,#
November 8, 1920.

THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1920

#Note.#--The order in which the stories in this volume
are printed is not intended as an indication of their
comparative excellence; the arrangement is alphabetical
by authors.

THE OTHER WOMAN[2]
BY SHERWOOD ANDERSON
From _The Little Review_

"I am in love with my wife," he said--a superfluous
remark, as I had not questioned his attachment to the
woman he had married. We walked for ten minutes and then
he said it again. I turned to look at him. He began to talk
and told me the tale I am now about to set down.

The thing he had on his mind happened during what
must have been the most eventful week of his life. He
was to be married on Friday afternoon. On Friday of
the week before he got a telegram announcing his appointment
to a government position. Something else happened that
made him very proud and glad. In secret he was in the
habit of writing verses and during the year before
several of them had been printed in poetry magazines.
One of the societies that give prizes for what they think
the best poems published during the year put his name at
the head of their list. The story of his triumph was
printed in the newspapers of his home city, and one
of them also printed his picture.

As might have been expected, he was excited and in a rather
highly strung nervous state all during that week. Almost
every evening he went to call on his fiancée, the
daughter of a judge. When he got there the house was
filled with people and many letters, telegrams and
packages were being received. He stood a little to one
side and men and women kept coming to speak with him.
They congratulated him upon his success in getting the
government position and on his achievement as a
poet.
Everyone seemed to be praising him, and when he went home
to bed he could not sleep. On Wednesday evening he went to the
theatre and it seemed to him that people all over the house recognized
him. Everyone nodded and smiled. After the first act five or six
men and two women left their seats to gather about him. A little
group was formed.
Strangers sitting along the same row of seats stretched their necks
and looked. He had never received so much attention before, and now
a fever of expectancy took possession of him.
As he explained when he told me of his experience, it was for him
an altogether abnormal time. He felt like one floating in air. When
he got into bed after seeing so many people and hearing so many
words of praise his head whirled round and round. When he closed
his eyes a crowd of people invaded his room. It seemed as though
the minds of all the people of his city were centered on himself.
The most absurd fancies took possession of him. He imagined himself
riding in a carriage through the streets of a city. Windows were
thrown open and people ran out at the doors of houses. "There he
is. That's him," they shouted, and at the words a glad cry arose.
The carriage drove into a street blocked with people. A hundred
thousand pairs of eyes looked up at him. "There you are! What a
fellow you have managed to make of yourself!" the eyes seemed to
be saying.
My friend could not explain whether the excitement of the people
was due to the fact that he had written a new poem or whether, in
his new government position, he had performed some notable act. The
apartment where he lived at that time was on a street perched along
the top of a cliff far out at the edge of the city and from his
bedroom window he could look down over trees and factory roofs to
a river.They are proper thin now; you can count their ribs
een a most as far as you can see them. The only thing
that will either make or save Halifax, is a rail road
across the country to Bay of Fundy.

It will do to talk of, says one; you'll see it some day
says another; yes, says a third, it will come, but we
are too young yet. Our old minister had a darter, a real
clever lookin gall as you'd see in a day's ride, and she
had two or three offers of marriage from sponsible
men--most particular good specs--but minister always said
'Phoebe, you are too young--the day will come--but you
are too young yet dear.' Well, Phoebe did'nt think so at
all; she said she guessed she knew better nor that: so
the next offer she had, she said she had no notion to
lose another chance--off she sot to Rhode Island and got
married; says she, father's too old, he don't know. That's
jist the case at Halifax. The old folks say the country
is too young--the time will come, and so on; and in the
mean time the young folks won't wait, and run off to the
States, where the maxim is, 'youth is the time for
improvement; a new country is never too young for
exertion--push on--keep movin--go ahead.' Darn it all,
said the Clockmaker, rising with great animation, clinching
his fist, and extending his arm--darn it all, it fairly
makes my dander rise, to see the nasty idle loungin good
for nothin do little critters--they aint fit to tend a
bear trap, I vow. They ought to be quilted round and
round a room, like a lady's lap dog, the matter of two
hours a day, to keep them from dyin of apoplexy. Hush,
hush, said I, Mr. Slick, you forget. Well, said he,
resuming his usual composure--well, it's enough to make
one vexed though, I declare--is'nt it?

Mr. Slick has often alluded to this subject, and always
in a most decided manner; I am inclined to think he is
right. Mr. Howe's papers on the rail road I read till I
came to his calculations, but I never could read figures,
'I can't cypher,' and there I paused; it was a barrier:
I retreated a few paces, took a running leap, and cleared
the whole of them. Mr. Slick says he has UNDER and not
OVER rated its advantages. He appears to be such a shrewd,
observing, intelligent man, and so perfectly at home on
these subjects, that I confess I have more faith in this
humble but eccentric Clockmaker, than in any other man
I have met with in this Province. I therefore pronounce
'there will be a rail road.'

No. XIV

Sayings and Doings in Cumberland.

I reckon, said the Clockmaker, as we strolled through
Amherst, you have read Hook's story of the boy that one
day asked one of his father's guests who his next door
neighbor was, and when he heerd his name, asked him if
he warnt a fool. No, my little feller, said he, he beant
a fool, he is a most particular sensible man; but why
did you ax that are question? Why, said the little boy,
mother said tother day you were next door to a fool, and
I wanted to know who lived next door to you. His mother
felt pretty ugly, I guess, when she heerd him run right
slap on that are breaker. Now these Cumberland folks have
curious next door neighbors, too; they are placed by
their location right atwixt fire and water; they have
New Brunswick politics on one side, and Nova Scotia
politics on tother side of them, and Bay Fundy and Bay
Varte on tother two sides; they are actilly in hot water;
they are up to their croopers in politics, and great
hands for talking of House of Assembly, political Unions,
and what not. Like all folks who wade so deep, they can't
always tell the natur of the ford. Sometimes they strike
their shins agin a snag of a rock; at other times they
go whap into a quicksand, and if they don't take special
care they are apt to go souse over head and ears into
deep water. I guess if they'd talk more of ROTATIONS,
and less of ELECTIONS, more of them are DYKES, and less
of BANKS, and attend more to TOP-DRESSING, and lees to
RE-DRESSING, it ed be better for 'em. Now you mention
the subject, I think I have observed, said I, that there
is a great change in your countrymen in that respect.
Formerly, whenever you met an American, you had a dish
of politics set before you, whether you had an appetite
for it or not; but lately I have remarked they seldom
allude to it. Pray to what is this attributable? I guess,
said he, they have enough of it to home, and are sick of
the subject. They are cured the way our pastry cooks cure
their prentices of stealing sweet notions out of their
shops. When they get a new prentice they tell him he must
never so much as look at all them are nice things; and
if he dares to lay the weight of his finger upon one of
them, they'll have him up for it before a justice; they
tell him its every bit and grain as bad as stealing from
a till. Well, that's sure to set him at it, just as a
high fence does a breachy ox, first to look over it, and
then to push it down with its rump; its human natur.
Well, the boy eats and eats till he cant eat no longer,
and then he gets sick at his stomach, and hates the very
sight of sweetmeats arterwards. We've had politics with
us, till we're dog sick of 'em, I tell you. Besides, I
guess we are as far from perfection as when we set out
a roin for it. You may get PURITY OF ELECTION, but how
are you to get PURITY OF MEMBERS? It would take a great
deal of cyphering to tell that. I never see'd it yet,
and never heerd tell of one who had see'd it. The best
member I een amost ever seed was John Adams. Well, John
Adams could no more plough a straight furrow in politics
than he could haul the plough himself. He might set out
straight at beginnin for a little way, but he was sure
to get crooked afore he got to the eend of the ridge--and
sometimes he would have two or three crooks in it. I used
to say to him, how on airth is it, Mr. Adams, (for he
was no way proud like, though he was president of our
great nation--and it is allowed to be the greatest nation
in the world, too--for you might see him sometimes of an
arternoon, a swimmin along with the boys in the Potomac;
I do believe that's the way he larned to give the folks
the dodge so spry;) well, I used to say to him, how on
airth is it, Mr. Adams, you can't make straight work on
it? He was a grand hand at an excuse, (though minister
used to say that folks that were good at an excuse, were
seldom good for nothin else); sometimes, he said, the
ground was so tarnation stony, it throwed the plough out;
at other times he said the off ox was such an ugly wilful
tempered critter, there was no doin nothin with him; or
that there was so much machinery about the plough, it
made it plagy hard to steer; or may be it was the fault
of them that went afore him, that they laid it down so
bad; unless he was hired for another term of four years,
the work wouldn't look well; and if all them are excuses
wouldn't do, why he would take to scolding the nigger
that drove the team--throw all the blame on him, and
order him to have an everlastin lacin with the cowskin.
You might as well catch a weazel asleep as catch him. He
had somethin the matter with one eye--well, he knew I
know'd that when I was a boy; so one day, a feller
presented a petition to him, and he told him it was very
affectin. Says he, it fairly draws tears from me, and
his weak eye took to lettin off its water like statiee
so as soon as the chap went, he winks to me with tother
one, quite knowin, as much as to say, YOU SEE ITS ALL IN
MY EYE, Slick, but don't let on to any one about it, that
I said so. That eye was a regular cheat, a complete New
England wooden nutmeg. Folks said Mr. Adams was a very
tender hearted man. Perhaps he was, but I guess that eye
didn't pump its water out o' that place.

Members in general aint to be depended on, I tell you.
Politics makes a man as crooked as a pack does a pedlar;
not that they are so awful heavy, neither, but it TEACHES
A MAN TO STOOP IN THE LONG RUN. Arter all, there's not
that difference in 'em (at least there aint in Congress)
one would think, for if one of them is clear of one vice,
why, as like as not, he has another fault just as bad.
An honest farmer, like one of these Cumberland folks,
when he goes to choose atwixt two that offers for votes,
is jist like the flying fish. That are little critter is
not content to stay to home in the water, and mind its
business, but he must try his hand at flyin, and he is
no great dab at flyin, neither. Well, the moment he's
out of water, and takes to flyin, the sea fowl are arter
him, and let him have it; and if he has the good luck to
escape them, and makes a dive into the sea, the dolphin,
as like as not, has a dig at him, that knocks more wind
out of him than he got while aping the birds, a plagy
sight. I guess the Blue Noses know jist about as much
about politics as this foolish fish knows about flyin.
All critters in natur are better in their own element.

It beats cock fightin, I tell you, to hear the Blue Noses,
when they get together, talk politics. They have got
three or four evil spirits, like the Irish Banshees, that
they say cause all the mischief in the Province--the
Council, the Banks, the House of Assembly and the Lawyers.
If a man places a higher valiation on himself than his
neighbors do, and wants to be a magistrate before he is
fit to carry the ink horn for one, and finds himself
safely delivered of a mistake, he says it is all owing
to the Council. The members are cunnin critters, too;
they know this feelin, and when they come home from
Assembly, and people ax 'em "where are all them are fine
things you promised us?" why, they say, we'd a had 'em
all for you, but for that etarnal Council, they nullified
all we did. The country will come to no good till them
chaps show their respect for it, by covering their bottoms
with homespun. If a man is so tarnation lazy he wont
work, and in course has no money, why he says its all
owin to the banks, they wont discount, there's no money,
they've ruined the Province. If there beant a road made
up to every citizen's door, away back to the woods (who
as like as not has squatted there) why he says the House
of Assembly have voted all the money to pay great men's
salaries, and there's nothin left for poor settlers, and
cross roads. Well, the lawyers come in for their share
of cake and ale, too; if they don't catch it, its a pity.

There was one Jim Munroe of Onion County, Connecticut,
a desperate idle fellow, a great hand at singin songs,
a skatin, drivin about with the galls, and so on. Well,
if any body's windows were broke, it was Jim Munroe--and
if there were any youngsters in want of a father, they
were sure to be poor Jim's. Jist so it is with the lawyers
here; they stand Godfathers for every misfortune that
happens in the country. When there is a mad dog a goin
about, every dog that barks is said to be bit by the mad
one, so he gets credit for all the mischief that every
dog does for three months to come. So every feller that
goes yelpin home from a court house, smartin from the
law, swears he is bit by a lawyer. Now there may be
something wrong in all these things, (and it cant be
otherwise in natur) in Council, Banks, House of Assembly,
and Lawyers: but change them all, and its an even chance
if you don't get worse ones in their room. It is in
politics as in horses; when a man has a beast that's near
about up to the notch, he'd better not swap him; if he
does, he's een amost sure to get one not so good as his
own. My rule is, I'd rather keep a critter whose faults
I do know, than change him for a beast whose faults I
dont know.

No. XV

The Dancing Master Abroad.

I wish that are black heifer in the kitchen would give
over singing that are everlastin dismal tune, said the
Clockmaker, it makes my head ache. You've heerd a song
afore now, said he, hav'nt you, till you was fairly sick
of it? for I have, I vow. The last time I was in Rhode
Island, (all the galls sing there, and its generally
allowed there's no such singers any where; they beat the
EYE-talians a long chalk--they sing so high some on em,
they go clear out o' hearin sometimes, like a lark) well,
you heerd nothin but 'Oh no, we never mention her,' well,
I grew so plaguy tired of it, I used to say to myself,
I'd sooner see it, than heer tell of it, I vow, I wish
to gracious you 'would never mention her,' for it makes
me feel ugly to hear that same thing for ever and ever
and amen that way. Well, they've got a cant phrase here,
'the schoolmaster is abroad,' and every feller tells you
that fifty times a day. There was a chap said to me not
long ago, at Truro, Mr. Slick, this Country is rapidly
improving, 'the schoolmaster is abroad now,' and he looked
as knowin as though he had found a mate's nest. So I
should think, said I, and it would jist be about as well,
I guess, if he'd stay to home and mind his business, for
your folks are so consoomedly ignorant, I reckon he's
abroad een amost all his time. I hope when he returns,
he'll be the better of his travels, and that's more nor
many of our young folks are who go 'abroad,' for they
import more airs and nonsense, than they dispose of one
while, I tell you--some of the stock remains on hand all
the rest of their lives. There's nothin I hate so much
as cant, of all kinds, its a sure sign of a tricky
disposition. If you see a feller cant in religion, clap
your hand into your pocket, and lay right hold of your
puss, or he'll steal it as sure as you're alive; and if
a man cant in politics, he'll sell you if he gets a
chance, you may depend. Law and physic are jist the same,
and every mite and morsel as bad. If a lawyer takes to
cantin, its like the fox preachin to the geese, he'll
eat up his whole congregation; and if a doctor takes to
it, he's a quack as sure as rates. The Lord have massy
on you, for he wont. I'd sooner trust my chance with a
naked hook any time, than one that's half covered with
bad bait. The fish will sometimes swaller the one, without
thinkin, but they get frightened at tother, turn tail
and off like a shot. Now, to change the tune, I'll give
the Blue Noses a new phrase. They'll have an election
most likely next year, and then 'the dancin master will
be abroad.' A candidate is a most particular polite man,
a noddin here, and a bowin there, and a shakin hands all
round. Nothin improves a man's manners like an election.
'The dancin master's abroad then;' nothin gives the paces
equal to that, it makes them as squirmy as an eel, they
cross hands and back agin, set to their partners and
right and left in great style, and slick it off at the
eend, with a real complete bow, and a smile for all the
world as sweet as a cat makes at a pan of new milk. Then
they get as full of compliments as a dog is full of
fleas--enquirin how the old lady is to home, and the
little boy that made such a wonderful smart answer, they
never can forget it till next time; a praisin a man's
farm to the nines, and a tellin of him, how scandalous
the road that leads to his location has been neglected,
and how much he wants to find a real complete hand that
can build a bridge over his brook, and axin him if HE
ever built one. When he gets the hook baited with the
right fly, and the simple critter begins to jump out of
water arter it, all mouth and gills, he winds up the
reel, and takes leave, a thinkin to himself 'now you see
what's to the eend of my line, I guess I'll know where
to find you when I want you.'

There's no sort of fishin requires so much practice as
this. When bait is scarce one worm must answer for several
fish. A handful of oats in a pan, arter it brings one
horse up in a pastur for the bridle, serves for another,
a shakin of it, is better than a givin of it, it saves
the grain for another time. It's a poor business arter
all is electioneering, and when 'the Dancin Master is
abroad,' he's as apt to teach a man to cut capers and
get larfed at as any thing else. It tante every one that's
soople enough to dance real complete. Politicks take a
great deal of time, and grinds away a man's honesty near
about as fast as cleaning a knife with brick dust, 'it
takes its steel out.' What does a critter get arter all
for it in this country, why nothin but expense and
disappointment. As King Solomon says, (and that are man
was up to a thing or two, you may depend, tho' our
professor did say he warn't so knowin as Uncle Sam,) it's
all vanity and vexation of spirit.

I raised a four year old colt once, half blood, a perfect
pictur of a horse, and a genuine clipper, could gallop
like the wind; a real daisy, a perfect doll, had an eye
like a weasel, and nostril like Commodore Rodgers's
speakin trumpet. Well, I took it down to the races at
New York, and father he went along with me; for says he,
Sam, you don't know every thing, I guess, you hant cut
your wisdom teeth yet, and you are goin among them that's
had 'em through their gums this while past. Well, when
we gets to the races, father he gets colt and puts him
in an old waggon, with a worn out Dutch harness, and
breast band; he looked like Old Nick, that's a fact. Then
he fastened a head martingale on, and buckled it to the
girths atwixt his fore legs. Says I, father, what on
airth are you at? I vow I feel ashamed to be seen with
such a catamaran as that, and colt looks like old Saytan
himself--no soul would know him. I guess I warn't born
yesterday, says he, let me be, I know what I am at. I
guess I'll slip it into 'em afore I've done as slick as
a whistle. I guess I can see as far into a mill stone
as the best on 'em. Well, father never entered the horse
at all, but stood by and see'd the races, and the winnin
horse was followed about by the matter of two or three
thousand people, a praisin of him and admirin him. They
seemed as if they never had see'd a horse afore. The
owner of him was all up on eend a boastin of him, and a
stumpin the course to produce a horse to run agin him
for four hundred dollars. Father goes up to him, lookin
as soft as dough, and as meechin as you please, and says
he, friend, it tante every one that has four hundred
dollars--its a plaguy sight of money, I tell you; would
you run for one hundred dollars, and give me a little
start? if you would, I'd try my colt out of my old waggon
agin you, I vow. Let's look at your horse, says he; so
away they went, and a proper sight of people arter them
to look at colt, and when they see'd him they sot up such
a larf, I felt een a most ready to cry for spite. Says
I to myself; what can possess the old man to act arter
that fashion, I do believe he has taken leave of his
senses. You need'nt larf, says Father, he's smarter than
he looks; our Minister's old horse, Captain Jack, is
reckoned as quick a beast of his age as any in our
location, and that are colt can beat him for a lick of
a quarter of a mile quite easy--I see'd it myself. Well,
they larfed agin louder than before, and says father, if
you dispute my word, try me; what odds will you give?
Two to one, says the owner--800 to 400 dollars. Well,
that's a great deal of money, aint it, says father, if
I was to lose it I'd look pretty foolish, would'nt I.
How folks would pass their jokes at me when I went home
again. You would'nt take that are waggon and harness
for fifty dollars of it, would you? says he. Well, says
the other, sooner than disappoint you, as you seem to
have set your mind on losing your money, I don't care if
I do.

As soon as it was settled, father drives off to the
stables, and then returns mounted, with a red silk pocket
handkerchief tied round his head, and colt a looking like
himself as proud as a nabob, chock full of spring like
the wire eend of a bran new pair of trowser galluses--one
said that's a plaguy nice lookin colt that old feller
has arter all, that horse will show play for it yet, says
a third; and I heard one feller say, I guess that's a
regular Yankee trick, a complete take in. They had a
fair start for it, and off they sot, father took the lead
and kept it, and won the race, tho' it was a pretty tight
scratch, for father was too old to ride colt, he was near
about the matter of seventy years old. Well when the colt
was walked round after the race, there was an amasin
crowd arter him, and several wanted to buy him; but, says
father, how am I to get home without him, and what shall
I do with that are waggon and harness so far as I be from
Slickville. So he kept them in talk, till he felt their
pulses pretty well, and at last he closed with a Southerner
for 700 dollars, and we returned, having made a considerable
good spec of colt. Says father to me, Sam says he, you
seed the crowd a follerin the winnin horse, when we came
there, did'nt you? yes Sir, said I, I did. Well, when
colt beat him, no one follered him at all, but come a
crowded about HIM. That's popularity, said he, soon won,
soon lost--cried up sky high one minute, and deserted
the next or run down; colt will share the same fate.
He'll get beat afore long, and then he's done for. The
multitude are always fickle minded. Our great Washington
found that out, and the British officer that beat
Bounaparte, the bread they gave him turned sour afore he
got half through the loaf. His soap had hardly stiffened
afore it ran right back to lye and grease agin. I was
sarved the same way, I liked to have missed my pension,
the Committee said I warn't at Bunker's hill at all, the
villans. That was a Glo---, (thinks I, old boy, if you
once get into that are field, you'll race longer than
colt, a plaguy sight; you'll run clear away to the fence
to the far eend afore you stop, so I jist cut in and took
a hand myself,) yes, says I, you did 'em father, properly,
that old waggon was a bright scheme, it led 'em on till
you got 'em on the right spot, did'nt it? Says father,
THERE'S A MORAL SAM, IN EVERY THING IN NATUR. Never have
nothin to do with elections, you see the valy of popularity
in the case of that are horse--sarve the public 999 times,
and the 1,000th, if they don't agree with you, they desart
and abuse you--see how they sarved old John Adams, see
how they let Jefferson starve in his old age, see how
good old Munroe like to have got right into Jail, after
his term of President was up. They may talk of independence,
says father, but Sam, I'll tell you what independence
is, and he gave his hands a slap agin his trowses pocket,
and made the gold eagles he won at the race all jingle
agin; THAT, says he, giving them another wipe with his
fist, (and winkin as much as to say do you hear that my
boy) THAT I CALL INDEPENDENCE. He was in great spirits,
the old man, he was so proud of winnin the race, and
puttin the leake into the New Yorkers--he looked all
dander. Let them great hungry, ill favored, long legged
bitterns, says he, (only he called them by another name
that don't sound quite pretty) from the outlandish states
to Congress, TALK ABOUT independence; but Sam, said he,
(hitting the Shiners agin till be made them dance right
up an eend in his pocket) I LIKE TO FEEL IT.

No Sam, said be, line the pocket well first, make that
independent, and then the spirit will be like a horse
turned out to grass in the spring, for the first time,
he's all head and tail, a snortin and kickin and racin
and carryin on like mad--it soon gets independent too.
While it's in the stall it may hold up, and paw, and
whiner, and feel as spry as any thing, but the leather
strap keeps it to the manger, and the lead weight to the
eend of it makes it hold down its head at last. No, says
he, here's independence, and he gave the Eagles such a
drive with his fist, he bust his pocket and sent a whole
raft of them a spinnin down his leg to the ground--says
I, father, (and I swear I could hardly keep from larfin,
he looked so peskily vexed) Father, says I, I guess
there's a moral in that are too--EXTREMES NARY WAY ARE
NONE O' THE BEST. Well, well, says he, (kinder snappishly)
I suppose you're half right, Sam, but weve said enough
about it, let's drop the subject, and see if I have picked
em all up, for my eyes are none of the best now, I'm near
hand to seventy.


No. XVI

Mr. Slick's Opinion of the British.

What success had you, said I, in the sale of your Clocks
among the Scotch in the eastern part of the Province? do
you find them as gullible as the Blue Noses? Well, said
he, you have heerd tell that a Yankee never answers one
question, without axing another, havent you? Did you ever
see an English Stage Driver make a bow? because if you
hante observed it, I have, and a queer one it is, I swan.
He brings his right arm up, jist across his face, and
passes on, with a knowin nod of his head, as much as to
say, how do you do? but keep clear o' my wheels, or I'll
fetch your horses a lick in the mouth as sure as youre
born; jist as a bear puts up his paw to fend off the blow
of a stick from his nose. Well, that's the way I pass
them are bare breeched Scotchmen. Lord, if they were
located down in these here Cumberland mashes, how the
musquitoes would tickle them up, would'nt they? They'd
set 'em scratching thereabouts, as an Irishman does his
head, when he's in sarch of a lie. Them are fellers cut
their eye teeth afore they ever sot foot in this country,
I expect. When they get a bawbee, they know what to do
with it, that's a fact; they open their pouch and drop
it in, and its got a spring like a fox trap--it holds
fast to all it gets, like grim death to a dead nigger.
They are proper skin flints, you may depend. Oatmeal is
no great shakes at best; it tante even as good for a
horse as real yeller Varginey corn, but I guess I warnt
long in finding out that the grits hardly pay for the
riddlin. No, a Yankee has as little chance among them as
a Jew has in New England; the sooner he clears out, the
better. You can no more put a leake into them, than you
can send a chisel into Teake wood--it turns the edge of
the tool the first drive. If the Blue Noses knew the
value of money as well as they do, they'd have more cash,
and fewer Clocks and tin reflectors, I reckon. Now, its
different with the Irish; they never carry a puss, for
they never have a cent to put in it. They are always in
love or in liquor, or else in a row; they are the merriest
shavers I ever seed. Judge Beeler, I dare say you have
heerd tell of him--he's a funny feller--he put a notice
over his factory gate at Lowell, 'no cigars or Irishmen
admitted within these walls;' for, said he, the one will
set a flame agoin among my cottons, and t'other among my
galls. I wont have no such inflammable and dangerous
things about me on no account. When the British wanted
our folks to join in the treaty to chock the wheels of
the slave trade, I recollect hearin old John Adams say,
we had ought to humor them; for, says he, they supply us
with labor on easier terms, by shippin out the Irish.
Says he, they work better, and they work cheaper, and
they don't live so long. The blacks, when they are past
work hang on for ever, and a proper bill of expence they
be; but hot weather and new rum rub out the poor rates
for tother ones. The English are the boys for tradin
with; they shell out their cash like a sheef of wheat in
frosty weather--it flies all over the thrashin floor;
but then they are a cross grained, ungainly, kicken breed
of cattle, as I een a most ever see'd. Whoever gave them
the name of John Bull, knew what he was about, I tell
you; for they are bull-necked, bull-headed folks, I vow;
sulky, ugly tempered, vicious critters, a pawin and a
roarin the whole time, and plaguy onsafe unless well
watched. They are as headstrong as mules, and as conceited
as peacocks.

The astonishment with which I heard this tirade against
my countrymen, absorbed every feeling of resentment. I
listened with amazement at the perfect composure with
which he uttered it. He treated it as one of those self
evident truths, that need neither proof nor apology, but
as a thing well known and admitted by all mankind. There's
no richer sight that I know of, said he, than to see one
on 'em when he first lands in one of our great cities.
He swells out as big as a balloon, his skin is ready to
bust with wind--a regular walking bag of gas; and he
prances over the pavement like a bear over hot iron--a
great awkward hulk of a feller, (for they aint to be
compared to the French in manners) a smirkin at you, as
much as to say, 'look here, Jonathan, here's an Englishman;
here's a boy that's got blood as pure as a Norman pirate,
and lots of the blunt of both kinds, a pocket full of
one, and a mouthfull of tother; beant he lovely?' and
then he looks as fierce as a tiger, as much as to say,
'say boo TO A GOOSE, if you dare.' No, I believe we may
stump the Univarse; we improve on every thing, and we
have improved on our own species. You'll sarch one while,
I tell you, afore you'll find a man that, take him by
and large, is equal to one of our free and enlightened
citizens. He's the chap that has both speed, wind and
bottom; he's clear grit--ginger to the back bone, you
may depend. Its generally allowed there aint the beat
of them to be found any where. Spry as a fox, supple as
an eel, and cute as a weasel. Though I say it that
should'nt say it, they fairly take the shine off
creation--they are actilly equal to cash.

He looked like a man who felt that he had expressed
himself so aptly and so well, that any thing additional
would only weaken its effect; he therefore changed the
conversation immediately, by pointing to a tree at some
little distance from the house, and remarking that it
was the rock maple or sugar tree. Its a pretty tree, said
he, and a profitable one too to raise. It will bear
tapping for many years, tho' it gets exhausted at last.
This Province is like that are tree, it is tapped till
it begins to die at the top, and if they dont drive in
a spile and stop the everlastin flow of the sap, it will
perish altogether. All the money that's made here, all
the interest that's paid in it, and a pretty considerable
portion of rent too, all goes abroad for investment, and
the rest is sent to us to buy bread. Its drained like
a bog, it has opened and covered trenches all through
it, and then there's others to the foot of the upland to
cut off the springs. Now you may make even a bog too dry;
you may take the moisture out to that degree, that the
very sile becomes dust and blows away. The English funds,
and our banks, rail roads, and canals, are all absorbing
your capital like a spunge, and will lick it up as fast
as you can make it. That very Bridge we heerd of at
Windsor, is owned in New Brunswick, and will pay tole to
that province. The capitalists of Nova Scotia treat it
like a hired house, they wont keep it in repair; they
neither paint it to preserve the boards, nor stop a leak
to keep the frame from rottin; but let it go to wrack
sooner than drive a nail or put in a pane of glass. It
will sarve our turn out they say. There's neither spirit,
enterprise, nor patriotism here; but the whole country
is as inactive as a bear in winter, that does nothin but
scroutch up in his den, a thinkin to himself, "well if
I ant an unfortunate divil, it's a pity; I have a most
splendid warm coat as are a gentleman in these here woods,
let him be who he will; but I got no socks to my feet,
and have to sit for everlastingly a suckin of my paws to
keep 'em warm; if it warn't for that, I guess, I'd make
some o' them chaps that have hoofs to their feet and
horns to their heads, look about them pretty sharp, I
know." It's dismal now, aint it? If I had the framin of
the Governor's message, if I would'nt shew 'em how to
put timber together you may depend, I'd make them scratch
their heads and stare, I know. I went down to Matanzas
in the Fulton Steam Boat once--well, it was the first of
the kind they ever see'd, and proper scared they were to
see a vessel, without sails or oars, goin right straight
ahead, nine knots an hour, in the very wind's eye, and
a great streak of smoke arter her as long as the tail of
a Comet. I believe they thought it was old Nick alive, a
treatin him self to a swim. You could see the niggers a
clippin it away from the shore, for dear life, and the
soldiers a movin about as if they thought that we were
a goin to take the whole country. Presently a little half
starved orange-coloured looking Spanish officer, all
dressed off in his livery, as fine as a fiddle, came off
with two men in a boat to board us. Well, we yawed once
or twice, and motioned to him to keep off for fear he
should get hurt; but be came right on afore the wheel,
and I hope I may be shot if the paddle did'nt strike the
bow of the boat with that force, it knocked up the starn
like a plank tilt, when one of the boys playing on it is
heavier than t'other; and chucked him right atop of the
wheel house--you never see'd a feller in such a dunderment
in your life. He had picked up a little English from
seein our folks there so much, and when he got up, the
first thing he said was,' Damn all sheenery, I say,
where's my boat?' and he looked round as if he thought
it had jumped on board too. Your boat, said the Captain,
why I expect it's gone to the bottom, and your men have
gone down to look arter it, for we never see'd or heerd
tell of one or t'other of them arter the boat was struck.
Yes, I'd make 'em stare like that are Spanish officer,
as if they had see'd out of their eyes for the first
time. Governor Campbell did'nt expect to see such a
country as this, when he came here, I reckon; I know he
did'nt. When I was a little boy, about knee high or so,
and lived down Connecticut river, mother used to say,
Sam, if you don't give over acting so like old Scratch,
I'll send you off to Nova-Scotia as sure as you are born;
I will, I vow. Well, Lord, how that are used to frighten
me; it made my hair stand right up an eend, like a cat's
back when she is wrathy; it made me drop it as quick as
wink--like a tin night cap put on a dipt candle agoin to
bed, it put the fun right out. Neighbour Dearborn's darter
married a gentleman to Yarmouth, that speculates in the
smugglin line; well, when she went on board to sail down
to Nova-Scotia, all her folks took on as if it was a
funeral; they said she was goin to be buried alive like
the nuns in Portengale that get a frolickin, break out
of the pastur, and race off, and get catched and brought
back agin. Says the old Colonel, her father. Deliverance,
my dear, I would sooner foller you to your grave, for
that would be an eend to your troubles, than to see you
go off to that dismal country, that's nothin but an
iceberg aground; and he howled as loud as an Irishman
that tries to wake his wife when she is dead. Awful
accounts we have of the country, that's a fact; but if
the Province is not so bad as they make it out, the folks
are a thousand times worse. You've seen a flock of
partridges of a frosty mornin in the fall, a crowdin out
of the shade to a sunny spot, and huddlin up there in
the warmth--well, the Blue Noses have nothin else to do
half the time but sun themselves. Whose fault is that?
Why it's the fault of the legislature; they don't encourage
internal improvement, nor the investment of capital in
the country: and the result is apathy, inaction and
poverty. They spend three months in Halifax, and what do
they do? Father gave me a dollar once, to go to the fair
at Hartford, and when I came back, says he, Sam, what
have you got to show for it? Now I ax what have they to
show for their three months' setting? They mislead folks;
they make 'em believe all the use of the Assembly is to
bark at Councillors, Judges, Bankers, and such cattle,
to keep 'em from eatin up the crops; and it actilly costs
more to feed them when they are watchin, than all the
others could eat if they did break a fence and get in.
Indeed some folks say they are the most breachy of the
two, and ought to go to pound themselves. If their fences
are good them hungry cattle could'nt break through; and
if they aint, they ought to stake 'em up, and with them
well; but it's no use to make fences unless the land is
cultivated. If I see a farm all gone to wrack, I say
here's bad husbandry and bad management; and if I see a
Province like this, of great capacity, and great natural
resources, poverty-stricken, I say there's bad legislation.
No, said he, (with an air of more seriousness than I had
yet observed,) How much it is to be regretted, that,
laying aside personal attacks and petty jealousies, they
would not unite as one man, and with one mind and one
heart apply themselves sedulously to the internal
improvement and developement of this beautiful Province.
Its value is utterly unknown, either to the general or
local Government, and the only persons who duly appreciate
it, are the Yankees.


No. XVII

A Yankee Handle for a Halifax Blade.

I met a man this mornin, said the Clock Maker, from
Halifax, a real conceited lookin critter as you een a
most ever seed, all shines and didos. He looked as if he
had picked up his airs, arter some officer of the regilars
had worn 'em out and cast 'em off. They sot on him like
second hand clothes, as if they had'nt been made for him
and did'nt exactly fit. He looked fine, but awkward, like
a captain of militia, when he gets his uniform on, to
play sodger; a thinkin himself mighty handSUM, and that
all the world is a lookin at him. He marched up and down
afore the street door like a peacock, as large as life
and twice as natural; he had a riding whip in his hand
and every now and then struck it agin his thigh, as much
as to say, aint that a splendid leg for a boot, now? Wont
I astonish the Amherst folks, that's all? thinks I you
are a pretty blade, aint you? I'd like to fit a Yankee
handle on to you, that's a fact. When I came up, he held
up his head near about as high as a Shot factory, and
stood with his fists on his hips, and eyed me from head
to foot, as a shakin quaker does a town lady: as much as
to say what a queer critter you be, that's toggery I
never seed afore, you're some carnal minded maiden, that's
sartain. Well, says he to me, with the air of a man that
chucks a cent into a beggar's hat, "a fine day this,
Sir;" do you actilly think so, said I? and I gave it the
real Connecticut drawl. Why, said he, quite short, if I
did'nt think so, I would'nt say so. Well, says I, I
don't know, but if I did think so, I guess I would'nt
say so; why not? says he--because, I expect, says I, any
fool could see that as well as me; and then I stared at
him, as much as to say, now if you like that are swap,
I am ready to trade with you agin as soon as you like.
Now I will have the Act my own, to let the idle Fops see
how much I prefer a Man loaded with Years and Wisdom.

Sir _Fran._ Humph! Prithee leave out Years, _Chargee_,
I'm not so old, as thou shalt find: Adod, I'm young;
there's a Caper for ye.
(_Jumps_.

_Miran._ Oh never excuse it, why I like you the better
for being old--But I shall suspect you don't love me,
if you Refuse me this Formality.

Sir _Fran._ Not Love thee, _Chargee!_ Adod I do love thee
better than, than, than, better than--what shall I say?
Egad, better than Money, I faith I do--
_Miran._ That's false I'm sure (_Aside._) To prove it
do this then.

Sir _Fran._ Well, I will do it, _Chargee_, provided I bring
a License at the same time.

_Miran._ Ay, and a Parson too, if you please; Ha, ha,
ha, I can't help Laughing to think how all the young
Coxcombs about Town will be mortify'd when they hear
of our Marriage.

Sir _Fran._ So they will, so they will; Ha, ha, ha.

_Miran._ Well, I fancy I shall be so happy with my
_Gardee!_
Sir _Fran._ If wearing Pearls and Jewels, or eating Gold,
as the old Saying is, can make thee happy, thou shalt
be so, my Sweetest, my Lovely, my Charming, my--verily
I know not what to call thee.

_Miran._ You must know, _Gardee_, that I am so eager
to have this Business concluded, that I have employ'd
my Womans Brother, who is a Lawyer in the _Temple_, to
settle Matters just to your Liking, you are to give your
Consent to my Marriage, which is to your self, you
know:
But Mum, you must take up notice of that. So then I will,
that is, with your Leave, put my Writings into his
Hands; then to Morrow we come slap upon them with a
Wedding, that no body thought on; by which you seize
me and my Estate, and I suppose make a Bonfire of your
own Act and Deed.

Sir _Fran._ Nay, but _Chargee_, if--
_Miran._ Nay, _Gardee_, no Ifs--Have I refus'd three
_Northern_ Lords, two _British_ Peers, and half a score
Knights, to have you put in your Ifs?--
Sir _Fran._ So thou hast indeed, and I will trust to thy
Management. Od, I'm all of a Fire.

_Miran._ 'Tis a wonder the dry Stubble does not blaze.

_Enter _Marplot_._
Sir _Fran._ How now! who sent for you, Sir? What's the
Hundred Pound gone already?

_Marpl._ No, Sir, I don't want Money now.

Sir _Fran._ No, that's a Miracle! But there's one thing
you want, I'm sure.

_Marpl._ Ay, what's that, _Guardian?_
Sir _Fran._ Manners, what had I no Servants without?

_Marpl._ None that cou'd do my Business, _Guardian_,
which is at present with this Lady.

_Miran._ With me, Mr. _Marplot!_ what is it, I beseech
you?

Sir _Fran._ Ay, Sir, what is it? any thing that
relates to her may be deliver'd to me.

_Marpl._ I deny that.

_Miran._ That's more than I do, Sir.

_Marpl._ Indeed, Madam, why then to proceed: Fame
says, that you and my most Conscionable _Guardian_ here,
design'd, contriv'd, plotted and agreed to chouse a very
civil, honourable, honest Gentleman, out of a Hundred
Pound.

_Miran._ That I contrived it!

_Marpl._ Ay you--You said never a Word against it, so far
you are Guilty.

Sir _Fran._ Pray tell that civil, honourable, honest
Gentleman, that if he has any more such Sums to fool away,
they shall be received like the last; Ha, ha, ha, ha,
chous'd, quotha! But hark ye, let him know at the
same time, that if he dare to report I trick'd him of it,
I shall recommend a Lawyer to him shall shew him a Trick
for twice as much; D'ye hear, tell him that.

_Marpl._ So, and this is the way you use a Gentleman, and my
Friend.

_Miran._ Is the Wretch thy Friend?

_Marpl._ The Wretch! Look ye, Madam, don't call Names;
Egad I won't take it.

_Miran._ Why you won't beat me, will you? Ha, ha.

_Marpl._ I don't know whether I will or no.

Sir _Fran._ Sir, I shall make a Servant shew you out at
the Window if you are sawcy.

_Marpl._ I am your most humble Servant, _Guardian_; I
design to go out the same way I came in. I wou'd only ask
this Lady, if she do's not think in her Soul Sir _George
Airy_ is not a fine Gentleman.

_Miram._ He Dresses well.

Sir _Fran._ Which is chiefly owing to his Taylor, and
_Valet de Chamber_.

_Miran._ And if you allow that a proof of his being a
fine Gentleman, he is so.

_Marpl._ The judicious part of the World allow him
Wit, Courage, Gallantry and Management; tho' I think
he forfeited that Character, when he flung away a Hundred
Pound upon your Dumb Ladyship.

Sir _Fran._ Does that gaul him? Ha, ha, ha.

_Miran._ So, Sir _George_ remaining in deep Discontent, has
sent you his trusty Squire, to utter his Complaint:
Ha, ha, ha.

_Marpl._ Yes, Madam; and you, like a cruel, hard-hearted
Jew, value it no more--than I wou'd your Ladyship, were
I Sir _George_, you, you, you--
_Miran._ Oh, don't call Names.

I know you love to be employ'd, and I'll oblige you;
and you shall carry him a Message from me.

_Marpl._ According as I like it: What is it?

_Miran._ Nay, a kind one you may be sure--First tell
him, I have chose this Gentleman to have, and to hold,
and so forth.
(_Clapping her Hand into Sir _Francis_'s._
Sir _Fran._ Oh the dear Rogue, how I dote on her!
(_Aside._
_Miran._ And advise his Impertinence to trouble me no
more, for I prefer Sir _Francis_ for a Husband before all
the Fops in the Universe.

_Marpl._ Oh Lord, Oh Lord! She's bewitch'd, that's
certain; Here's a Husband for Eighteen--Here's a
Shape--Here's Bones ratling in a Leathern Bag. (_Turning
Sir _Francis_ about._) Here's Buckram, and Canvass, to
scrub you to Repentance.

Sir _Fran._ Sirrah, my Cane shall teach you Repentance
presently.

_Marpl._ No faith, I have felt its Twin-Brother from just
such a wither'd Hand too lately.

_Miran._ One thing more, advise him to keep from the Garden
Gate on the left Hand; for if he dares to saunter there,
about the Hour of Eight, as he used to do, he shall be
saluted with a Pistol or a Blunderbuss.

_Sir Fran._ Oh monstrous! why _Chargee_; did he use to come
to the Garden Gate?

_Miran._ The Gardner describ'd just such another Man
that always watch'd his coming out, and fain wou'd have
bribed him for his Entrance--tell him he shall find a
warm Reception if he comes this Night.

_Marpl._ Pistols and Blunderbusses! Egad, a warm Reception
indeed; I shall take care to inform him of your
Kindness, and advise him to keep farther off.

_Miran._ I hope he will understand my Meaning better,
than to follow your Advice.
(_Aside._
Sir _Fran._ Thou hast sign'd, seal'd, and ta'en Possession
of my Heart; for ever, _Chargee_, Ha, ha, ha; and for
you, Mr. Sauce-box, let me have no more of your Messages,
if ever you design to inherit your Estate, Gentleman.

_Marpl._ Why there 'tis now. Sure I shall be out of
your Clutches one Day.--Well, _Guardian_, I say no
more; but if you be not as errant a Cuckold, as e're
drove Bargain upon the Exchange, or paid Attendance to
a Court; I am the Son of a Whetstone; and so your
humble Servant.
(_Exit._
_Miran._ Don't forget the Message; Ha, ha.

Sir _Fran._ I am so provok'd!

--'tis well he's gone.

_Miran._ Oh mind him not, _Gardee_, but let's sign
Articles, and then--
Sir _Fran._ And then--Adod, I believe I am Metamorphos'd;
my Pulse beats high, and my Blood boils, methinks--
(_Kissing and Hugging her._
_Miran._ Oh fye, _Gardee_, be not so violent; Consider
the Market lasts all the Year--Well, I'll in and see if
the Lawyer be come, you'll follow.
(_Exit._
Sir _Fran._ Ay, to the World's End, my Dear. Well, _Franck_,
thou art a lucky Fellow in thy old Age, to have such a
delicate Morsel, and Thirty Thousand Pound in love
with thee; I shall be the Envy of Batchelors, the Glory
of Marry'd Men, and the Wonder of the Town. Some Guardians
wou'd be glad to compound for part of the Estate, at
dispatching an Heiress, but I engross the whole: _O!
Mihi præteritos referet si Jupiter Annos._ (Exit.

SCENE _Changes to a Tavern; discovers Sir _George_ and
_Charles_ with Wine before them, and _Whisper_ waiting._

Sir _Geo._ Nay, prithee don't be Grave, _Charles;_ Misfortunes
will happen: Ha, ha, ha, 'tis some Comfort to have a
Companion in our Sufferings.

_Char._ I am only apprehensive for _Isabinda_, her
Father's Humour is implacable; and how far his Jealousie
may transport him to her Undoing, shocks my Soul to
think.

Sir _Geo._ But since you escap'd undiscover'd by him,
his Rage will quickly lash into a Calm, never fear
it.

_Char._ But who knows what that unlucky Dog, _Marplot_, told
him; nor can I imagine what brought him thither; that
Fellow is ever doing Mischief; and yet, to give him his
due, he never designs it. This is some Blundering Adventure,
wherein he thought to shew his Friendship, as he calls
it: A Curse on him.

Sir _Geo._ Then you must forgive him; what said he?

_Char._ Said! nay, I had more mind to cut his Throat, than
hear his Excuses.

Sir _Geo._ Where is he?

_Whisp._ Sir, I saw him go into Sir _Francis Gripe_'s
just now.

_Char._ Oh! then he is upon your Business, Sir _George_;
a thousand to one, but he makes some Mistake there
too.

Sir _Geo._ Impossible, without he huffs the Lady, and makes
Love to Sir _Francis_.

_Enter Drawer._
_Draw._ Mr. _Marplot_ is below, Gentlemen, and desires
to know if he may have Leave to wait upon ye.

_Char._ How civil the Rogue is when he has done a
fault!

Sir _Geo._ Ho! Desire him to walk up. Prithee, _Charles_,
throw off this Chagreen, and be good Company.

_Char._ Nay, hang him, I'm not angry with him. _Whisper_,
fetch me Pen, Ink and Paper.

_Whisp._ Yes, Sir.

(_Ex. _Whisp_._
_Enter _Marplot_._
_Char._ Do but mark his sheepish Look, Sir _George_.

_Marpl._ Dear _Charles,_ don't o'erwhelm a Man--already
under insupportable Affliction. I'm sure I always
intend to serve my Friends; but if my malicious Stars
deny the Happiness, is the fault mine?

Sir _Geo._ Never mind him, Mr. _Marplot_, he is eat up with
Spleen. But tell me, what says _Miranda?_
_Marpl._ Says--nay, we are all undone there too.

_Char._ I told you so; nothing prospers that he
undertakes.

_Marpl._ Why can I help her having chose your Father
for Better for Worse?

_Char._ So: There's another of Fortune's Strokes; I
suppose I shall be Edg'd out of my Estate, with Twins
every Year, let who will get 'em.

Sir _Geo._ What is the Woman really Possest?

_Marpl._ Yes with the Spirit of Contradiction, she rail'd
at you most prodigiously.

Sir _Geo._ That's no ill Sign.

_Enter _Whisper_, with Pen, Ink and Paper._
_Marpl._ You'd say it was no good Sign, if you knew all.

Sir _Geo._ Why, prithee?

_Marpl._ Hark'e, Sir _George_, Let me warn you, pursue
your old Haunt no more, it may be dangerous.
(Charles _sits down to write._
Sir _Geo._ My old Haunt, what d'you mean?

_Marpl._ Why in short then, since you will have it, _Miranda_
vows if you dare approach the Garden-Gate at Eight a
Clock, as you us'd, you shall be saluted with a Blunderbuss,
Sir. These were her Words; nay, she bid me tell you so
too.

Sir _George_, Ha! The Garden-Gate at Eight, as I us'd to
do! There must be a Meaning in this. Is there such a Gate,
_Charles?_
_Char._ Yes, yes; it opens into the Park, I suppose
her Ladyship has made many a Scamper through it.

Sir _Geo_. It must be an Assignation then. Ha, my Heart
springs with Joy, 'tis a propitious Omen. My dear
_Marplot_, let me embrace thee, thou art my Friend, my
better Angel--
_Marpl._ What do you mean, Sir _George?_
Sir _Geo._ No matter what I mean. Here take a Bumper to the
Garden-Gate, ye dear Rogue, you.

_Marpl._ You have Reason to be transported, Sir _George_;
I have sav'd your Life.

Sir _Geo_. My Life! thou hast sav'd my Soul, Man. _Charles_,
if thou do'st not pledge this Health, may'st thou
never taste the Joys of Love.

_Char._ _Whisper_, be sure you take care how you deliver
this (_gives him the Letter_) bring me the Answer to my
Lodgings.

_Whisp._ I warrant you, Sir.
(_Exit._
_Marpl._ Whither does that Letter go?--Now dare I not
ask for my Blood.

_Char._ Now I'm for you.

Sir _Geo._ To the Garden-Gate at the Hour of Eight, _Charles_,
along, Huzza!

_Char._ I begin to conceive you.

_Marpl._ That's more than I do, Egad--to the Garden-Gate,
Huzza, (_Drinks._) But I hope you design to keep far enough off
on't, Sir _George_.

Sir _Geo._ Ay, ay, never fear that; she shall see I despise
her Frowns, let her use her Blunderbuss against the
next Fool, she shan't reach me with the Smoak, I warrant
her, Ha, ha, ha.

_Marpl._ Ah, _Charles_, if you cou'd receive a Disappointment
thus _En Cavalier_, one shou'd have some comfort in being
beat for you.

_Char._ The Fool comprehends nothing.

Sir _Geo._ Nor wou'd I have him; prithee take him along
with thee.

_Char._ Enough: _Marplot_, you shall go home with me.

_Marpl._ I'm glad I'm well with him however. Sir
_George_, yours. Egad, _Charles_, asking me to go home
with him, gives me a shrewd suspicion there's more in the Garden-Gate,
than I comprehend. Faith, I'll give him the drop, and away to
_Guardians_, and find it out.
Sir _Geo._ I kiss both your Hands--And now for the Garden-Gate.
_It's Beauty gives the Assignation there,_ _And Love too powerful
grows t' admit of Fear._ (_Exit._ 
_The End of the Third Act._
ACT the Fourth.
SCENE the Out-side of Sir _Jealous Traffick_'s House, _Patch_ peeping
out of Door.

_Enter _Whisper_._
_Whisp._ Ha, Mrs. _Patch_, this is a lucky Minute, to find you so
readily, my Master dies with Impatience.
_Patch._ My Lady imagin'd so, and by her Orders I have been scouting
this hour in search of you, to inform you that Sir _Jealous_ has
invited some Friends to Supper with him to Night, which gives an
Opportunity to your Master to make use of his Ladder of Ropes: The
Closet Window shall be open, and _Isabinda_ ready to receive him;
bid him come immediately.
_Whisp._ Excellent, He'll not disappoint I warrant him: But hold,
I have a Letter here, which I'm to carry an Answer of: I can't think
what Language the Direction is.
_Patch._ Pho, 'tis no Language, but a Character which the Lovers
invented to avert Discovery: Ha, I hear my old Master coming down
Stairs, it is impossible you shou'd have an Answer; away, and bid
him come himself for that--begone we are ruined if you're seen, for
he has doubl'd his Care since the last Accident.
_Whisp._ I go, I go.
[_Exit._
_Patch._ There, go thou into my Pocket. [_Puts it besides, and it
falls down._] Now I'll up the back Stairs, lest I meet him. Well,
a dexterous Chamber-maid is the Ladies best Utensil, I say.
[_Exit._ 
_Enter Sir _Jealous_ with a Letter in his Hand._
Sir _Jeal._ So, this is some Comfort, this tells me that _Seignior
Don Diego Babinetto_ is safely arriv'd, he shall marry my Daughter
the Minute he comes, ha. What's here [_takes up the Letter _Patch_
drop'd_] a Letter! I don't know what to make of the Superscription.
I'll see what's within side, [_opens it_] humph; 'tis _Hebrew_ I
think. What can this mean. There must be some trick in it; this was
certainly design'd for my Daughter, but I don't know that she can
speak any Language but her Mother-Tongue. No matter for that, this
may be one of Love's Hieroglyphicks, and I fancy I saw _Patch_'s
Tail sweep by. That Wench may be a Slut, and instead of guarding
my Honour, betray it; I'll find it out I'm resolv'd; who's there?
What Answer did you bring from the Gentlemen I sent you to
invite?
_Serv._ That they'd all wait of you, Sir, as I told you before, but
I suppose you forget, Sir.
Sir _Jeal._ Did I so, Sir, but I shan't forget to break your Head,
if any of 'em come, Sir.
_Serv._ Come, Sir, why did not you send me to desire their Company,
Sir?
Sir _Jeal._ But I send you now to desire their Absence; say I have
something extraordinary fallen out, which calls me abroad, contrary
to Expectation, and ask their Pardon, and d'ye hear, send the Butler
to me.

_Serv._ Yes, Sir.
[_Exit._ 
_Enter _Butler_._
Sir _Jeal._ If this Paper has a Meaning I'll find it. Lay the Cloath
in my Daughter's Chamber, and bid the Cook send Supper thither
presently.

_Butl._ Yes, Sir,--hey day, what's the Matter now?
[_Exit._
Sir _Jeal._ He wants the Eyes of _Argus_, that has a young handsome
Daughter in this Town, but my Comfort is, I shall not be troubl'd
long with her. He that pretends to rule a Girl once in her Teens,
had better be at Sea in a Storm, and would be in less Danger.
_For let him do, or Counsel all he can,_ _She thinks and dreams of
nothing else but Man._ [_Exit._
SCENE _Isabinda_'s Chamber, _Isabinda_ and _Patch_.
_Isab._ Are you sure, no Body saw you speak to _Whisper?_
_Patch._ Yes, very sure Madam, but I heard Sir _Jealous_ coming
down Stairs, so I clap'd this Letter into my Pocket.
(_Feels for the Letter._ 
_Isab._ A Letter! give it me quickly.
_Patch._ Bless me! what's become on't--I'm sure I put it-- (_Searching
still._
_Isab._ Is it possible, thou could'st be so Careless--Oh! I'm undone
for ever if it be lost.
_Patch._ I must have drop'd it upon the Stairs. But why are you so
much alarm'd, if the worst happens no body can read it, Madam, nor
find out whom it was design'd for.
_Isab._ If it falls into my Father's Hands the very Figure of a
Letter will produce ill Consequences. Run and look for it upon the
Stairs this Moment.
_Patch._ Nay, I'm sure it can be no where else.-- (_As she's going
out of the Door meets the Butler._) How now, what do you want?
_Butl._ My Master order'd me to lay the Cloth here for his
Supper.

_Isab._ Ruin'd past Redemption-- (_Aside._
_Patch._ You mistake sure; what shall we do?
_Isab._ I thought he expected Company to Night--Oh! poor
_Charles_--Oh!
unfortunate _Isabinda_.
_Butl._ I thought so too Madam, but I suppose he has alter'd his
Mind.
(_Lays the Cloth, and Exit._
_Isab._ The Letter is the Cause; this heedless Action has undone
me: Fly and fasten the Closet-window, which will give _Charles_
notice to retire. Ha, my Father, oh! Confusion.
_Enter Sir _Jealous_._
Sir _Jeal._ Hold, hold, _Patch_, whither are you going. I'll have
no body stir out of the Room till after Supper.
_Patch._ Sir, I was only going to reach your easie Chair--Oh!
wretched Accident!
Sir _Jeal._ I'll have no body stir out of the Room. I don't want
my easie Chair.
_Isab._ What will be the event of this? (_Aside._
Sir _Jeal._ Hark ye Daughter, do you know this Hand?
_Isab._ As I suspected--Hand do you call it, Sir? 'Tis some
School-boy's Scraul.
_Patch._ Oh! Invention, thou Chamber-maid's best Friend, assist
me.
(_Aside._
Sir _Jeal._ Are you sure you don't understand it?
(_Patch._ _Feels in her Bosom, and shakes her Coats._)
_Isab._ Do you understand it, Sir?

Sir _Jeal._ I wish I did.
_Isab._ Thank Heaven you do not. (_aside_) Then I know no more of
it than you do indeed, Sir.
_Patch._ Oh Lord, Oh Lord, what have you done, Sir? Why the Paper
is mine, I drop'd it out of my Bosom.
(_Snatching it from him._ 
Sir _Jeal._ Ha! yours, Mistress.
_Isab._ What does she mean by owning it.
(_Aside._
_Patch._ Yes, Sir, it is.

Sir _Jeal._ What is it? Speak.
_Patch._ Why, Sir, it is a Charm for the Tooth-ach--I have worn it
this seven Year, 'twas given me by an Angel for ought I know, when
I was raving with the Pain; for no body knew from whence he came,
nor whither he went, he charg'd me never to open it, lest some dire
Vengeance befal me, and Heaven knows what will be the Event. Oh!
cruel Misfortune that I should drop it, and you should open it--If
you had not open'd it-- 
_Isab._ Excellent Wench.
(_Aside._
Sir _Jeal._ Pox of your Charms, and Whims for me, if that be all
'tis well enough; there, there, burn it, and I warrant you no
Vengeance will follow.
_Patch._ So, all's right again thus far.
(_Aside._
_Isab._ I would not lose _Patch_ for the World--I'll take courage
a little. (_aside_) Is this Usage for your Daughter, Sir, must my
Virtue and Conduct be suspected? For every Trifle, you immure me
like some dire Offender here, and deny me all Recreations which my
Sex enjoy, and the Custom of the Country and Modesty allow; yet not
content with that you make my Confinement more intolerable by your
Mistrusts and Jealousies; wou'd I were dead, so I were free from
this.
(_Weeps._
Sir _Jeal._ To morrow rids you of this tiresome Load,--_Don Diego
Babinetto_ will be here, and then my Care ends and his begins.
_Isab._ Is he come then! Oh how shall I avoid this hated
Marriage?
(_Aside._ 
_Enter Servants with Supper._
Sir _Jeal._ Come will you sit down?

_Isab._ I can't eat, Sir.
_Patch._ No, I dare swear he has given her Supper enough. I wish I
cou'd get into the Closet-- (_Aside._
Sir _Jeal._ Well, if you can't eat, then give me a Song whilst I
do.
_Isab._ I have such a Cold I can scarce speak, Sir, much less sing.
How shall I prevent _Charles_ coming in.
(_Aside._
Sir _Jeal._ I hope you have the Use of your Fingers, Madam. Play a
Tune upon your _Spinnet_, whilst your Woman sings me a Song.
_Patch._ I'm as much out of Tune as my Lady, if he knew all.
(_Aside._
_Isab._ I shall make excellent Musick. (_Sits down to play._
_Patch._ Really, Sir, I'm so frighted about your opening this Charm,
that I can't remember one Song.
Sir _Jeal._ Pish, hang your Charm; come, come, sing any thing.As for them guides,
I'd make short work of 'em if it was me. In the last war
with Britain, the Constitution frigate was close in once
on the shores of Ireland, a lookin arter some marchant
ships, and she took on board a pilot; well, he was a
deep, sly, twistical lookin chap, as you een amost ever
seed. He had a sort of dark down look about him, and a
lear out of the corner of one eye, like a horse that's
goin to kick. The captain guessed he read in his face
"well now, if I was to run this here Yankee right slap
on a rock and bilge her, the King would make a man of me
forever." So, says he to the first leftenant, reeve a
rope thro' that are block at the tip eend of the fore
yard, and clap a runnin nuse in it. The leftenant did it
as quick as wink, and came back, and says he, I guess
it's done. Now says the captain, look here, pilot, here's
a rope you hant seed yet, I'll jist explain the use of
it to you in case you want the loan of it. If this here
frigate, manned with our free and enlightened citizens,
gets aground, I'll give you a ride on the slack of that
are rope, right up to that yard by the neck, by Gum.
Well, it rub'd all the writin out of his face, as quick
as spittin on a slate takes a sum out, you may depend.
Now, they should rig up a crane over the street door of
the State house at Halifax, and when any of the pilots
at either eend of the buildin, run 'em on the breakers
on purpose, string em up like an onsafe dog. A sign of
that are kind, with "a house of public entertainment,"
painted under it, would do the business in less than no
time. If it would'nt keep the hawks out of the poultry
yard, it's a pity--it would scare them out of a year's
growth, that's a fact--if they used it once, I guess they
would'nt have occasion for it agin in a hurry--it would
be like the Aloe tree, and that bears fruit only once in
a hundred years. If you want to know how to act any time,
squire, never go to books, leave them to galls and school
boys; but go right off and cypher it out of natur, that's
a sure guide, it will never deceive you, you may depend.
For instance, "what's that to me," is a phrase so common
that it shows it's a natural one, when people have no
particular interest in a thing. Well, when a feller gets
so warm on either side as never to use that phrase at
all, watch him, that's all! keep your eye on him, or
he'll walk right into you afore you know where you be.
If a man runs to me and says, "your fence is down," thank
you, says I, that's kind--if he comes agin and says, "I
guess some stray cattle have broke into your short sarce
garden," I thank him again; says I, come now, this is
neighborly; but when he keeps etarnally tellin me this
thing of one sarvant, and that thing of another sarvant,
hints that my friends ant true, that my neighbors are
inclined to take advantage of me, and that suspicious
folks are seen about my place, I say to myself, what on
airth makes this critter take such a wonderful interest
in my affairs? I don't like to hear such tales--he's
arter somethin as sure as the world, if he war'nt he'd
say, "What's that to me." I never believe much what I
hear said by a man's VIOLENT FRIEND, or VIOLENT ENEMY,
I want to hear what a disinterested man has to say--now,
as a disinterested man, I say if the members of the House
of Assembly, instead of raisin up ghosts and hobgoblins
to frighten folks with, and to shew what swordsmen they
be, a cuttin and a thrustin at phantoms that only exist
in their own brains, would turn to, heart and hand, and
develope the resources of this fine country, facilitate
the means of transport--promote its internal improvement,
and entourage its foreign trade, they would make it the
richest and greatest, as it now is one of the happiest
sections of all America--I hope I may be skinned if they
would'nt--they would I swan.


No. XIX

The Clockmaker Quilts a Blue Nose.

The descendants of Eve have profited little by her example.
The curiosity of the fair sex is still insatiable, and,
as it is often ill directed, it frequently terminates in
error. In the country this feminine propensity is
troublesome to a traveller, and he who would avoid
importunities, would do well to announce at once, on his
arrival at a Cumberland Inn, his name and his business,
the place of his abode and the length of his visit. Our
beautiful hostess, Mrs. Pugwash, as she took her seat at
the breakfast table this morning, exhibited the example
that suggested these reflections. She was struck with
horror at our conversation, the latter part only of which
she heard, and of course misapplied and misunderstood.
She was run down by the President, said I, and has been
laid up for some time. Gulard's people have stripped her,
in consequence of her making water so fast. Stripped
whom? said Mrs. Pugwash, as she suddenly dropped the
teapot from her hand; stripped whom,--for heaven's sake
tell me who it is? The Lady Ogle, said I. Lady Ogle, said
she, how horrid! Two of her ribs were so broken as to
require to be replaced with new ones. Two new ribs, said
she, well I never heer'd the beat of that in all my born
days; poor critter, how she must have suffered. On
examining her below the waist they found--Examining her
still lower, said she (all the pride of her sex revolting
at the idea of such an indecent exhibition,) you don't
pretend to say they stripped her below the waist; what
did the Admiral say? Did he stand by and see her handled
in that way? The Admiral, madam, said I, did not trouble
his head about it. They found her extremely unsound there,
and much worm eaten. Worm eaten, she continued, how awful!
it must have been them nasty jiggers, that got in there;
they tell me they are dreadful thick in the West Indies;
Joe Crow had them in his feet, and lost two of his toes.
Worm eaten, dear, dear!! but still that aint so bad as
having them great he fellows strip one. I promise you if
them Gulards had undertaken to strip me, I'd a taught
them different guess manners; I'd a died first before
I'd a submitted to it. I always heerd tell the English
quality ladies were awful bold, but I never heerd the
like o' that.

What on airth are you drivin at? said Mr. Slick. I never
seed you so much out in your latitude afore, marm, I vow.
We were talking of reparin a vessel, not strippin' a
woman, what under the sun could have put that are crotchet
into your head? She looked mortified and humbled at the
result of her own absurd curiosity, and soon quitted the
room. I thought I should have snorted right out two or
three times, said the Clockmaker; I had to pucker up my
mouth like the upper eend of a silk puss, to keep from
yawhawin in her face, to hear the critter let her clapper
run that fashion. She is not the first hand that has
caught a lobster, by puttin in her oar afore her turn,
I guess. She'll mind her stops next hitch, I reckon.
This was our last breakfast at Amherst.

An early frost that smote the potatoe fields, and changed
the beautiful green color of the Indian corn into shades
of light yellow, and dark brown, reminded me of the
presence of autumn--of the season of short days and bad
roads, I determined to proceed at once to Parrsboro, and
thence by the Windsor and Kentville route to Annapolis,
Yarmouth, and Shelburne, and to return by the shore road,
through Liverpool and Lunenburg to Halifax. I therefore
took leave, (though not without much reluctance) of the
Clockmaker, whose intention had been to go to Fort
Lawrence. Well, said he, I vow I am sorry to part company
along with you; a considerable long journey like ourn,
is like sitting up late with the galls, a body knows its
getting on pretty well towards mornin, and yet feels loth
to go to bed, for its just the time folks grow sociable.

I got a scheme in my head, said he, that I think will
answer both on us; I got debts due to me in all them are
places for Clocks sold by the concarn, now suppose you
leave your horse on these mashes this fall, he'll get as
fat as a fool, he wont be able to see out of his eyes in
a month, and I'll put "Old Clay," (I call him Clay arter
our senator, who is a prime bit of stuff) into a Yankee
waggon I have here, and drive you all round the coast.
This was too good an offer to be declined. A run at
grass for my horse, an easy and comfortable waggon, and
a guide so original and amusing as Mr. Slick, were either
of them enough to induce my acquiescence.

As soon as we had taken our seats in the waggon, he
observed, we shall progress real handsum now; that are
horse goes etarnal fast, he near about set my axle on
fire twice. He's a spanker you may depend. I had him
when he was a two year old, all legs and tail, like a
devil's darnin needle, and had him broke on purpose by
father's old nigger, January Snow. He knows English real
well, and can do near about any thing but speak it. He
helped me once to ginn a Blue Nose a proper handsum
quiltin. He must have stood a poor chance indeed, said
I, a horse kickin, and a man striking him at the same
time. Oh! not arter that pattern at all, said he, Lord
if "Old Clay" had a kicked him, he'd a smashed him like
that are sarcer you broke at Pugnose's inn, into ten
hundred thousand million flinders. Oh! no, if I did'nt
fix his flint for him in fair play it's a pity. I'll tell
you how it was. I was up to Truro, at Ezra Whitter's Inn.
There was an arbitration there atween Deacon Text and
Deacon Faithful. Well, there was a nation sight of folks
there, for they said it was a biter bit, and they came
to witness the sport, and to see which critter would get
the earmark.

Well, I'd been doin a little business there among the
folks, and had jist sot off for the river, mounted on
"Old Clay," arter takin a glass of Ezra's most particular
handsum Jamaiky, and was trottin off pretty slick, when
who should I run agin but Tim Bradley. He is a dreadful
ugly cross grained critter, as you een amost ever seed,
when he is about half shaved. Well, I stopped short, and
says, I, Mr. Bradley, I hope you beant hurt; I'm proper
sorry I run agin you, you cant feel uglier than I do
about it, I do assure you. He called me a Yankee pedlar,
a cheatin vagabond, a wooden nutmeg, and threw a good
deal of assorted hardware of that kind at me; and the
crowd of folks cried out, down with the Yankee, let him
have it Tim, teach him better manners; and they carried
on pretty high, I tell you. Well, I got my dander up
too, I felt all up on eend like; and, thinks I to myself,
my lad if I get a clever chance, I'll give you such a
quiltin as you never had since you were raised from a
seedlin, I vow. So, says I, Mr Bradley, I guess you had
better let me be, you know I cant fight no more than a
cow--I never was brought up to wranglin, and I don't like
it. Haul off the cowardly rascal, they all bawled out,
haul him off, and lay it into him. So he lays right hold
of me by the collar, and gives me a pull, and I lets on
as if I'd lost my balance and falls right down. Then I
jumps up on eend, and says I "go ahead Clay," and the
old horse he sets off a head, so I knew I had him when
I wanted him. Then, says I, I hope you are satisfied now,
Mr Bradley, with that are ungenteel fall you ginn me.
Well, he makes a blow at me, and I dodged it, now, says
I, you'll be sorry for this, I tell you, I wont be treated
this way for nothin, I'll go right off and swear my life
agin you, I'm most afeerd you'll murder me. Well, he
strikes at me agin, (thinkin he had a genuine soft horn
to deal with,) and hits me in the shoulder. Now, says I,
I wont stand here to be lathered like a dog all day long
this fashion, it tante pretty at all, I guess I'll give
you a chase for it. Off I sets arter my horse like mad,
and he arter me, (I did that to get clear of the crowd,
so that I might have fair play at him) Well, I soon found
I had the heels of him, and could play him as I liked.
Then I slackened up a little, and when he came close up
to me, so as nearly to lay his hand upon me, I squatted
right whap down, all short, and he pitched over me near
about a rod or so, I guess, on his head, and plowed up
the ground with his nose, the matter of a foot or two.
If he didn't polish up the coulter, and both mould boards
of his face, its a pity. Now, says I, you had better lay
where you be and let me go, for I am proper tired; I blow
like a horse that's got the heaves; and besides, says I,
I guess you had better wash your face, for I am most a
feared you hurt yourself. That ryled him properly; I
meant that it should; so he ups and at me awful spiteful
like a bull; then I lets him have it, right, left, right,
jist three corkers, beginning with the right hand, shifting
to the left, and then with the right hand agin. This way
I did it, said the Clockmaker, (and he showed me the
manner in which it was done) its a beautiful way of
hitting, and always does the business--a blow for each
eye and one for the mouth. It sounds like ten pounds ten
on a blacksmith's anvil; I bunged up both eyes for him,
and put in the dead lights in two tu's, and drew three
of his teeth, quicker a plaguy sight than the Truro doctor
could, to save his soul alive. Now, says I, my friend,
when you recover your eye-sight I guess you'll see your
mistake--I warnt born in the woods to be scared by an
owl. The next time you feel in a most particular elegant
good humour, come to me and I'll play you the second part
of that identical same tune, that's a fact. With that,
I whistled for old Clay, and back he comes, and I mounted
and off, jist as the crowd came up. The folks looked
staggered, and wondered a little grain how it was done
so cleverly in short metre. If I did'nt quilt him in no
time, you may depend; I went right slap into him, like
a flash of lightning into a gooseberry bush. He found
his suit ready made and fitted afore he thought he was
half measured. Thinks I, friend Bradley, I hope you know
yourself now, for I vow no livin soul would; your swallowed
your soup without singin out scaldins, and your near
about a pint and a half nearer cryin than larfin.

Yes, as I was sayin, this "old Clay" is a real knowin
one, he's as spry as a colt jet, clear grit, ginger to
the back bone; I cant help a thinkin sometimes the breed
must have come from old Kentuck, half horse, half alligator,
with a cross of the airth-quake.

I hope I may be tetotally ruinated, if I'd take eight
hundred dollars for him. Go ahead, you old clinker built
villain, said he, and show the gentleman how wonderful
handSUM you can travel. Give him the real Connecticut
quick step. That's it--that's the way to carry the
President's message to Congress, from Washington to New
York, in no time--that's the go to carry a gall from
Boston to Rhode Island, and trice her up to a Justice to
be married, afore her father's out of bed of a summer's
mornin. Aint he a beauty? a real doll? none of your
Cumberland critters, that the more you quilt them, the
more they wont go; but a proper one, that will go free
gratis for nothin, all out of his own head voluntERRILY.
Yes, a horse like "Old Clay," is worth the whole seed,
breed and generation, of them Amherst beasts put together.
He's a horse, every inch of him, stock, lock, and barrel,
is OLD CLAY.


No. XX

Sister Sall's Courtship.

There goes one of them are everlastin rottin poles in
that bridge, they are no better than a trap for a critter's
leg, said the Clockmaker. They remind me of a trap Jim
Munroe put his foot in one night, that near about made
one leg half a yard longer than tother. I believe I told
you of him, what a desperate idle feller he was--he came
from Onion County in Connecticut. Well, he was courtin
Sister Sall--she was a real handsum lookin gall; you
scarce ever seed a more out and out complete critter than
she was--a fine figur head, and a beautiful model of a
craft as any in the state: a real clipper, and as full
of fun and frolick as a kitten. Well he fairly turned
Sall's head; the more we wanted her to give him up the
more she would'nt, and we got plaguy oneasy about it,
for his character was none of the best. He was a univarsal
favorite with the galls, and tho' he did'nt behave very
pretty neither, forgetting to marry where he promised,
and where he had'nt ought to have forgot too; yet, so it
was, he had such an uncommon winnin way with him, he
could talk them over in no time--Sall was fairly bewitched.
At last, Father said to him one evening when he came a
courtin, Jim, says he, you'll never come to no good, if
you act like old Scratch as you do; you aint fit to come
into no decent man's house at all, and your absence would
be ten times more agreeable than your company, I tell
you. I won't consent to Sall's goin to them are huskin
parties and quiltin frolics along with you no more, on
no account, for you know how Polly Brown and Nancy White
---. Now don't, says he, now don't, Uncle Sam; say no
more about that; if you knowed all you would'nt say it
was my fault; and besides, I have turned right about, I
am on tother tack now, and the long leg, too; I am as
steady as a pump bolt now. I intend to settle myself and
take a farm--yes yes, and you could stock it too, by all
accounts, pretty well, unless you are much misreported,
says father, but it won't do. I knew your father; he was
our Sargeant, a proper clever and brave man he was too;
he was one of the heroes of our glorious revolution. I
had a great respect for him, and I am sorry for his sake
you will act as you do; but I tell you once for all you
must give up all thoughts of Sall, now and for everlastin.
When Sall heerd this, she began to nit away like mad in
a desperate hurry--she looked foolish enough, that's a
fact. First she tried to bite in her breath, and look as
if there was nothin particular in the wind, then she
blushed all over like scarlet fever, but she recovered
that pretty soon, and then her colour went and came, and
came and went, till at last she grew as white as chalk,
and down she fell slap off her seat on the floor, in a
faintin fit. I see, says father, I see it now, you etarnal
villain, and he made a pull at the old fashioned sword,
that always hung over the fire place, (we used to call
it old Bunker, for his stories always begun, "when I was
at Bunker's hill,") and drawing it out, he made a clip
at him as wicked as if he was stabbing at a rat with a
hay fork; but Jim he outs of the door like a shot, and
draws it too arter him, and father sends old Bunker right
through the panel. I'll chop you up as fine as mince
meat, you villain, said he, if ever I catch you inside
my door agin; mind what I tell you, "YOU'LL SWING FOR IT
YET." Well, he made himself considerable scarce arter
that, he never sot foot inside the door agin, and I
thought he had ginn up all hopes of Sall, and she of him;
when one night, a most particular uncommon dark night,
as I was a comin home from neighbor Dearborne's, I heerd
some one a talkin under Sall's window. Well, I stops and
listens, and who should be near the ash saplin, but Jim
Munroe, a tryin to persuade Sall to run off with him to
Rhode Island to be married. It was all settled, he should
come with a horse and shay to the gate, and then help
her out of the window, jist at nine o'clock, about the
time she commonly went to bed. Then he axes her to reach
down her hand for him to kiss, (for he was proper clever
at soft sawder) and she stretches it down and he kisses
it; and, says he, I believe I must have the whole of you
out arter all, and gives her a jirk that kinder startled
her; it came so sudden like it made her scream; so off
he sot hot foot, and over the gate in no time.

Well, I cyphered over this all night, a calculatin how
I should reciprocate that trick with him, and at last I
hit on a scheme. I recollected father's words at partin,
"MIND WHAT I TELL YOU, YOU'LL SWING FOR IT YET;" and
thinks I, friend Jim, I'll make that prophecy come true
yet, I guess. So the next night, jist at dark, I gives
January Snow, the old nigger, a nidge with my elbow, and
as soon as he looks up, I winks and walks out and he
arter me--says I, January can you keep your tongue within
your teeth, you old nigger you? Why massa, why you ax
that are question? my Gor Ormity, you tink old Snow he
don't know dat are yet; my tongue he got plenty room now,
debil a tooth left, be can stretch out ever so far; like
a little leg in a big bed, he lay quiet enough, Massa,
neber fear. Well, then, says I, bend down that are ash
saplin softly, you old Snowball, and make no noise. The
saplin was no sooner bent than secured to the ground by
a notched peg and a noose, and a slip knot was suspended
from the tree, jist over the track that led from the
pathway to the house. Why, my Gor, massa, that's a ---.
Hold your mug, you old nigger, says I, or I'll send your
tongue a sarchin arter your teeth; keep quiet, and follow
me in presently. Well, jist as it struck nine o'clock,
says I, Sally, hold this here hank of twine for a minute,
till I wind a trifle on it off; that's a dear critter.
She sot down her candle, and I put the twine on her hands,
and then I begins to wind and wind away ever so slow,
and drops the ball every now and then, so as to keep her
down stairs. Sam, says she, I do believe you won't wind
that are twine off all night, do give it to January, I
won't stay no longer, I'm een a most dead asleep. The
old feller's arm is so plaguy onsteady, says I, it won't
do; but hark, what's that, I'm sure I heerd something in
the ash saplin, did'nt you Sall? I heerd the geese there,
that's all, says she, they always come under the windows
at night; but she looked scared enough, and says she, I
vow I'm tired a holdin out of arms, this way, and I won't
do it no longer; and down she throw'd the hank on the
floor. Well, says I, stop one minute, dear, till I send
old January out to see if any body is there; perhaps some
o' neighbour Dearborne's cattle have broke into the sarce
garden. January went out, tho' Sall say'd it was no use,
for she knew the noise of the geese, they always kept
close to the house at night, for fear of the varmin.
Presently in runs old Snow, with his hair standin up an
eend, and the whites of his eyes lookin as big as the
rims of a soup plate; oh! Gor Ormity, said he, oh massa,
oh Miss Sally, oh!! What on airth is the matter with
you, said Sally, how you do frighten me, I vow I believe
you'r mad--oh my Gor said he, oh!! massa Jim Munroe he
hang himself, on the ash saplin under Miss Sally's
window--oh my Gor!!! That shot was a settler, it struck
poor Sall right atwixt wind and water; she gave a lurch
ahead, then healed over and sunk right down in another
faintin fit; and Juno, old Snow's wife, carried her off
and laid her down on the bed--poor thing, she felt ugly
enough, I do suppose.

Well, father, I thought he'd a fainted too, he was so
struck up all of a heap, he was completely bung fungered;
dear, dear, said he, I did'nt think it would come to pass
so soon, but I knew it would come; I foretold it; says
I, the last time I seed him, Jim, says I, mind what I
say, YOU'LL SWING FOR IT YET. Give me the sword I wore
when I was at Bunker's hill, may be there is life yet,
I'll cut him down. The lantern was soon made ready, and
out we went to the ash saplin. Cut me down, Sam, that's
a good fellow, said Jim, all the blood in my body has
swashed into my head, and's a runnin out o' my nose, I'm
een a most smothered, be quick for heaven's sake. The
Lord be praised, said father, the poor sinner is not
quite dead yet. Why, as I'm alive--well if that don't
beat all natur, why he has hanged himself by one leg,
and's a swingin like a rabbit upside down, that's a fact.
Why, if he aint snared, Sam; he is properly wired I
declare--I vow this is some o' your doins, Sam--well it
was a clever scheme too, but a little grain too dangerous,
I guess. Don't stand staring and jawin there all night,
said Jim, cut me down, I tell you--or cut my throat and
be damned to you, for I am choakin with blood. Roll over
that are hogshead, old Snow, said I, till I get a top on
it and cut him down; so I soon released him but he could'nt
walk a bit. His ankle was swelled and sprained like
vengeance, and he swore one leg was near about six inches
longer than tother. Jim Munroe, says father, little did
I think I should ever see you inside my door agin, but
I bid you enter now, we owe you that kindness, any how.
Well, to make a long story short, Jim was so chap fallen,
and so down in the mouth, he begged for heaven's sake it
might be kept a secret; he said he would RUN the state,
if ever it got wind, he was sure he could'nt STAND it.
It will be one while, I guess, said father, afore you
are able to run or stand either; but if you will give me
your hand, Jim, and promise to give over your evil ways,
I will not only keep it secret, but you shall be a welcome
guest at old Sam Slick's once more, for the sake of your
father--he was a brave man, one of the heroes of Bunker's
hill, he was our Sergeant and ---. He promises, says I,
father, (for the old man had stuck his right foot out,
the way he always stood when he told about the old war;
and as Jim could'nt stir a peg, it was a grand chance,
and he was a goin to give him the whole revolution from
General Gage up to Independence,) he promises, says I,
father. Well it was all settled, and things soon grew as
calm as a pan of milk two days old; and afore a year was
over, Jim was as steady a goin man as Minister Joshua
Hopewell, and was married to our Sall. Nothin was ever
said about the snare till arter the weddin. When the
Minister had finished axin a blessin, father goes up to
Jim, and says he, Jim Munroe, my boy, givin him a rousin
slap on the shoulder that sot him a coughin for the matter
of five minutes, (for he was a mortal powerful man, was
father) Jim Munroe, my boy, says he, you've got the snare
round your neck, I guess now, instead of your leg; the
Saplin has been a father to you, may you be the father
of many saplins.

We had a most special time of it, you may depend, all
except the minister; father got him into a corner, and
gave him chapter and verse for the whole war. Every now
and then as I come near them, I heard "Bunker's Hill,
Brandywine, Clinton, Gates," and so on. It was broad day
when we parted, and the last that went was poor minister.
Father followed him clean down to the gate, and says he,
"minister, we had'nt time this hitch, or I'd a told you
all about the 'EVAKYATION' of New York, but I'll tell
you that the next time we meet."


No. XXI

Setting up for Governor.

I never see one of them queer little old fashioned tea
pots, like that are in the cupboard of Marm Pugwash, said
the Clockmaker, that I dont think of Lawyer Crowningshield
and his wife. When I was down to Rhode Island last, I
spent an evening with them. Arter I had been there a
while, the black House help brought in a little home made
dipt candle, stuck in a turnip sliced in two, to make it
stand straight, and set it down on the table. Why, says
the Lawyer to his wife, Increase my dear, what on earth
is the meanin o' that? what does little Viney mean by
bringin in such a light as this, that aint fit for even
a log hut of one of our free and enlightened citizens
away down east; where's the lamp? My dear, says she, I
ordered it--you know they are agoin to set you up for
Governor next year, and I allot we must economise or we
will be ruined--the salary is only four hundred dollars
a year, you know, and you'll have to give up your
practice--we can't afford nothin now. Well, when tea was
brought in, there was a little wee china tea pot, that
held about the matter of half a pint or so, and cups and
sarcers about the bigness of children's toys. When he
seed that, he grew most peskily ryled, his under lip
curled down like a peach leaf that's got a worm in it,
and he stripped his teeth, and showed his grinders, like
a bull dog; what foolery is this, said he? My dear, said
she, its the foolery of being Governor; if you choose to
sacrifice all your comfort to being the first rung in
the ladder, don't blame me for it. I did'nt nominate
you--I had not art nor part in it. It was cooked up at
that are Convention, at Town Hall. Well, he sot for some
time without sayin a word, lookin as black as a thunder
cloud, just ready to make all natur crack agin. At last
he gets up, and walks round behind his wife's chair, and
takin her face between his two hands, he turns it up and
gives her a buss that went off like a pistoll--it fairly
made my mouth water to see him; thinks I, them lips aint
a bad bank to deposit one's spare kisses in, neither.
Increase, my dear, said he, I believe you are half right,
I'll decline to-morrow, I'll have nothin to do with it--I
WONT BE A GOVERNOR, ON NO ACCOUNT.

Well, she had to haw and gee like, both a little, afore
she could get her head out of his hands; and then she
said, Zachariah, says she, how you do act, aint you
ashamed? Do for gracious sake behave yourself: and she
colored up all over like a crimson piany; if you hav'nt
foozled all my hair too, that's a fact, says she; and
she put her curls to rights, and looked as pleased as
fun, though poutin all the time, and walked right out of
the room. Presently in come two well dressed House Helps,
one with a splendid gilt lamp, a real London touch, and
another with a tea tray, with a large solid silver coffee
pot, and tea pot, and a cream jug, and sugar boul, of
the same genuine metal, and a most an elegant sett of
real gilt china. Then in came Marm Crowningshield herself,
lookin as proud as if she would not call the President
her cousin; and she gave the Lawyer a look, as much as
to say, I guess when Mr. Slick is gone, I'll pay you
off that are kiss with interest, you dear you--I'll answer
a bill at sight for it, I will, you may depend. I believe,
said he agin, you are right Increase, my dear, its an
expensive kind of honor that bein Governor, and no great
thanks neither; great cry and little wool, all talk and
no cider--its enough I guess for a man to govern his own
family, aint it, dear? Sartin, my love, said she, sartin,
a man is never so much in his own proper sphere as there;
and beside, said she, his will is supreme to home, there
is no danger of any one non-concurring him there: and
she gave me a sly look, as much as to say, I let him
think he is master in his own house, FOR WHEN LADIES WEAR
THE BREECHES, THEIR PETTICOATS OUGHT TO BE LONG ENOUGH
TO HIDE THEM; but I allot, Mr. Slick, you can see with
half an eye that the "grey mare is the better horse here."

What a pity it is, continued the Clockmaker, that the
Blue Noses would not take a leaf out of Marm Crowninshield's
book--talk more of their own affairs and less of politics.
I'm sick of the everlastin sound of "House of Assembly,"
and "Council," and "great folks." They never alleviate
talking about them from July to etarnity. I had a curious
conversation about politics once, away up to the right
here. Do you see that are house, said he, in the field,
that's got a lurch to leeward, like a north river sloop,
struck with a squall, off West Point, lopsided like? It
looks like Seth Pine, a tailor down to Hartford, that
had one leg shorter than tother, when he stood at ease
at militia trainin, a restin on the littlest one. Well,
I had a special frolic there the last time I passed this
way. I lost the linch pin out of my forred axle, and I
turned up there to get it sot to rights. Just as I drove
through the gate, I saw the eldest gall a makin for the
house for dear life--she had a short petticoat on that
looked like a kilt, and her bare legs put me in mind of
the long shanks of a bittern down in a rush swamp, a
drivin away like mad full chizel arter a frog. I could
not think what on airth was the matter. Thinks I, she
wants to make herself look decent like afore I get in,
she don't like to pull her stockings on afore me; so I
pulls up the old horse and let her have a fair start.
Well, when I came to the door, I heard a proper scuddin;
there was a regular flight into Egypt, jist such a noise
as little children make when the mistress comes suddenly
into school, all a huddlin and scroudgin into their seats,
as quick as wink. Dear me, says the old woman, as she
put her head out of a broken window to avail who it was,
is it you, Mr. Slick? I sniggers, if you did not frighten
us properly, we actilly thought it was the Sheriff; do
come in. Poor thing, she looked half starved and half
savage, hunger and temper had made proper strong lines
in her face, like water furrows in a ploughed field; she
looked bony and thin, like a horse, that has had more
work than oats, and had a wicked expression, as though
it warnt over safe to come too near her heels--an everlastin
kicker. You may come out, John, said she to her husband,
its only Mr. Slick; and out came John from under the bed
backwards, on all fours, like an ox out of the shoein
frame, or a lobster skullin wrong eend foremost--he looked
as wild as a hawk. Well, I swan I thought I should have
split, I could hardly keep from bustin right out with
larfter--he was all covered with feathers, lint and
dust, the savins of all the sweepins since the house was
built, shoved under there for tidiness. He actilly sneezed
for the matter of ten minutes--he seemed half choked with
the flaff and stuff, that came out with him like a cloud.
Lord, he looked like a goose half picked, as if all the
quills were gone, but the pen feathers and down were
left, jist ready for singin and stuffin. He put me in
mind of a sick Adjutant, a great tall hulkin bird, that
comes from the East Indgies, a most as high as a man,
and most as knowin as a Blue Nose. I'd a ginn a hundred
dollars to have had that chap as a show at a fair--tar
and feathers war'nt half as nateral. You've seen a gall
both larf and cry at the same time, hante you? well, I
hope I may be shot if I could'nt have done the same. To
see that critter come like a turkey out of a bag at
Christmas, to be fired at for ten cents a shot, was as
good as a play; but to look round and see the poverty
--the half naked children--the old pine stumps for
chairs--a small bin of poor watery yaller potatoes in
the corner--day light through the sides and roof of the
house, lookin like the tarred seams of a ship, all black
where the smoak got out--no utensils for cookin or
eatin--and starvation wrote as plain as a handbill on
their holler cheeks, skinney fingers, and sunk eyes,
went right straight to the heart. I do declare I believe
I should have cried, only they did'nt seem to mind it
themselves. They had been used to it, like a man that's
married to a thunderin ugly wife, he gets so accustomed
to the look of her everlastin dismal mug, that he don't
think her ugly at all. Well, there was another chap a
settin by the fire, and he DID look as if he saw it and
felt it too, he did'nt seem over half pleased, you may
depend. He was the District Schoolmaster, and he told me
he was takin a spell at boardin there, for it was their
turn to keep him. Thinks I to myself poor devil, you've
brought your pigs to a pretty market, that's a fact. I
see how it is, the Blue Noses can't "cypher." The cat's
out of the bag now--its no wonder they don't go ahead,
for they don't know nothin--the "Schoolmaster is ABROAD,"
with the devil to it, for he has NO HOME at all. Why,
Squire, you might jist as well expect a horse to go right
off in gear, before he is halter broke, as a Blue Nose
to get on in the world, when he has got no schoolin. But
to get back to my story. Well, say's I, how's times with
you, Mrs. Spry? Dull, says she, very dull, there's no
markets now, things don't fetch nothin. Thinks I, some
folks had'nt ought to complain of markets, for they don't
raise nothin to sell, but I did'nt say so; FOR POVERTY
IS KEEN ENOUGH, WITHOUT SHARPENING ITS EDGE BY POKIN FUN
AT IT. Potatoes, says I, will fetch a good price this
fall, for it's a short crop in a general way--; how's
yourn? Grand, says she, as complete as ever you seed;
our tops were small and did'nt look well; but we have
the handsomest bottoms, its generally allowed, in all
our place; you never seed the best of them, they are
actilly worth lookin at. I vow I had to take a chaw of
tobacky to keep from snorting right out, it sounded so
queer like. Thinks I to myself, old lady, its a pity you
could'nt be changed eend for eend then, as some folks do
their stockings; it would improve the look of your dial
plate amazinly then, that's a fact.

Now there was human natur, Squire, said the Clockmaker,
there was pride even in that hovel. It is found in rags
as well as King's robes, where butter is spread with the
thumb as well as the silver knife, NATUR IS NATUR WHEREVER
YOU FIND IT. Jist then, in came one or two neighbors to
see the sport, for they took me for a Sheriff or Constable,
or something of that breed, and when they saw it was me
they sot down to hear the news; they fell right too at
politicks as keen as any thing, as if it had been a dish
of real Connecticut Slap Jacks, or Hominy; or what is
better still, a glass of real genuine splendid mint julep,
WHE-EU-UP, it fairly makes my mouth water to think of
it. I wonder, says one, what they will do for us this
winter in the House of Assembly? Nothin, says the other,
they never do nothin but what the great people at Halifax
tell 'em. Squire Yeoman is the man, he'll pay up the
great folks this hitch, he'll let 'em have their own,
he's jist the boy that can do it. Says I, I wish I could
say all men were as honest then, for I am afeard there
are a great many wont pay me up this winter; I should
like to trade with your friend, who is he? Why, says he,
he is the member for Isle Sable County, and if he don't
let the great folks have it, its a pity. Who do you call
great folks, said I, for I vow I hav'nt see'd one since
I came here. The only one that I know that comes near
hand to one is Nicholas Overknocker, that lives all along
shore, about Margaret's Bay, and HE IS a great man, it
takes a yoke of oxen to drag him. When I first see'd him,
says I, what on airth is the matter o' that man, has he
the dropsy, for he is actilly the greatest man I ever
see'd; he must weigh the matter of five hundred weight;
he'd cut three inches on the rib--he must have a proper
sight of lard, that chap? No, says I, don't call 'em
great men, for there aint a great man in the country,
that's a fact; there aint one that desarves the name;
folks will only larf at you if you talk that way. There
may be some rich men, and I believe there be, and its a
pity there warn't more on 'em, and a still greater pity
they have so little spirit or enterprise among 'em, but
a country is none the worse of having rich men in it,
you may depend. Great folks, well come, that's a good
joke--that bangs the bush. No, my friend, says I, the
meat that's at the top of the barrel, is sometimes not
so good as that that's a little grain lower down; the
upper and lower eends are plaguy apt to have a little
taint in 'em, but the middle is always good.

Well, says the Blue Nose, perhaps they beant great men,
exactly in that sense, but they are great men compared
to us poor folks; and they eat up all the revenue, there's
nothin left for roads and bridges, they want to ruin the
country, that's a fact. Want to ruin your granny, says
I, (for it raised my dander to hear the critter talk such
nonsense.) I did hear of one chap, says I, that sot fire
to his own house once, up to Squantum, but the cunnin
rascal insured it first; now how can your great folks
ruin the country without ruinin themselves, unless they
have insured the Province? Our folks will insure all
creation for half nothin, but I never heerd tell of a
country being insured agin rich men. Now if you ever go
to Wall Street to get such a policy, leave the door open
behind you, that's all; or they'll grab right hold of
you, shave your head and blister it, clap a straight
jacket on you, and whip you right into a mad house, afore
you can say Jack Robinson. No, your great men are nothin
but rich men, and I can tell you for your comfort, there's
nothin to hinder you from bein rich too, if you will take
the same means as they did. They were once all as poor
folks as you be, or their fathers afore them; for I know
their whole breed, seed and generation, and they would'nt
thank you to tell them that you knew their fathers and
grand fathers, I tell you. If ever you want the loan of
a hundred pounds from any of them, keep dark about that
--see as far ahead as you please, but it tante always
pleasant to have folks see too far back. Perhaps they be
a little proud or so, but that's nateral; all folks that
grow up right off, like a mushroom in one night, are apt
to think no small beer of themselves. A cabbage has plaguy
large leaves to the bottom, and spreads them out as wide
as an old woman's petticoats, to hide the ground it sprung
from, and conceal its extraction, but what's that to you?
If they get too large salaries, dock 'em down at once,
but don't keep talkin about it for everlastinly. If you
have too many sarvents, pay some on 'em off, or when they
quit your sarvice don't hire others in their room, that's
all; but you miss your mark when you keep firin away the
whole blessed time that way.

I went out a gunnin when I was a boy, and father went
with me to teach me. Well, the first flock of plover I
seed I let slip at them and missed them. Says father,
says he, what a blockhead you be, Sam, that's your own
fault, they were too far off, you had'nt ought to have
fired so soon. At Bunker's hill we let the British come
right on till we seed the whites of their eyes, and then
we let them have it slap bang. Well, I felt kinder grigged
at missin my shot, and I did'nt over half like to be
scolded too; so, says I yes, father, but recollect you
had a mud bank to hide behind, where you were proper
safe, and you had a rest for your guns too; but as soon
as you seed a little more than the whites of their eyes,
you run for dear life, full split, and so I don't see
much to brag on in that arter all, so come now. I'll
teach you to talk that way, you puppy you, said he, of
that glorious day; and he fetched me a wipe that I do
believe if I had'nt a dodged, would have spoiled my gunnin
for that hitch; so I gave him a wide birth arter that
all day. Well, the next time I missed, says I, she hung
fire so everlastinly, its no wonder--and the next miss,
says I, the powder is no good, I vow. Well, I missed
every shot, and I had an excuse for every one on 'em--the
flint was bad, or she flashed in the pan, or the shot
scaled, or something or another; and when all would'nt
do, I swore the gun was no good at all. Now, says father,
(and he edged up all the time, to pay me off for that
hit at his Bunker hill story, which was the only shot I
did'nt miss,) you han't got the right reason arter all.
It was your own fault, Sam. Now that's jist the case with
you; you may blame Banks and Council, and House of
Assembly, and "the great men," till you are tired, but
its all your own fault--YOU'VE NO SPIRIT AND NO ENTERPRISE,
YOU WANT INDUSTRY AND ECONOMY; USE THEM, AND YOU'LL SOON
BE AS RICH AS THE PEOPLE AT HALIFAX YOU CALL GREAT
FOLKS--they did'nt grow rich by talking, but by working;
instead of lookin after other folks' business, they looked
about the keenest arter their own. You are like the
machinery of one of our boats, good enough, and strong
enough, but of no airthly use till you get the steam up;
you want to be set in motion, and then you'll go ahead
like any thing, you may depend. Give up politics--its a
barren field, and well watched too; when one critter
jumps a fence into a good field and gets fat, more nor
twenty are chased round and round, by a whole pack of
yelpin curs, till they are fairly beat out, and eend by
bein half starved, and are at the liftin at last. look
to your farms--your water powers--your fisheries, and
factories. in short, says I, puttin on my hat and startin,
look to yourselves, and don't look to others.


No. XXII

A Cure for Conceit.

Its a most curious unaccountable thing, but its a fact,
said the Clockmaker, the Blue Noses are so conceited,
they think they know every thing; and yet there aint a
livin soul in Nova Scotia knows his own business real
complete, farmer or fisherman, lawyer or doctor, or any
other folk. A farmer said to me one day, up to Pugnose's
inn at River Philip, Mr. Slick, says he, I allot this
aint "A BREAD COUNTRY;" I intend to sell off the house
I improve, and go to the States. If it aint a bread
country, said I, I never see'd one that was. There is
more bread used here, made of best superfine flour, and
No. 1. Genesssee, than in any other place of the same
population in the univarse. You might as well say it aint
a Clock Country, when, to my sartin knowledge, there are
more clocks than bibles in it. I guess you expect to
raise your bread ready made, dont you? Well there's only
one class of our free and enlightened citizens that can
do that, and that's them that are born with silver spoons
in their mouths. It's a pity you was'nt availed of this
truth, afore you up killoch and off--take my advice and
bide where you be. Well the fishermen are jist as bad.
The next time you go into the fish market at Halifax,
stump some of the old hands; says you "how many fins has
a cod at a word," and I'll liquidate the bet if you lose
it. When I've been along-shore afore now, a vendin of my
clocks, and they began to raise my dander, by belittleing
the Yankees, I always brought them up by a round turn by
that requirement, "how many fins has a cod at a word."
Well they never could answer it; and then, says I, when
you larn your own business, I guess it will be time enough
to teach other folks theirn. How different it is with
our men folk, if they cant get thro' a question, how
beautifully they can go round it, can't they? Nothin
never stops them. I had two brothers, Josiah and Eldad,
one was a lawyer, and the other a doctor. They were a
talkin about their examinations one night, at a huskin
frolic, up to Governor Ball's big stone barn at Slickville.
Says Josy, when I was examined, the Judge axed me all
about real estate; and, says he, Josiah, says he, what's
a fee? Why, says I, Judge, it depends on the natur of
the case. In a common one, says I, I call six dollars
a pretty fair one; but lawyer Webster has got afore now,
I've heerd tell, 1,000 dollars, and that _I_ DO CALL a
fee. Well, the Judge he larfed ready to split his sides;
(thinks I, old chap, you'll bust like a steam byler, if
you hant got a safety valve somewhere or another,) and,
says he, I vow that's superfine; I'll indorse your
certificate for you, young man; there's no fear of you,
you'll pass the inspection brand any how.

Well, says Eldad, I hope I may be skinned if the same
thing did'nt een amost happen to me at my examination.
They axed me a nation sight of questions, some on 'em I
could answer, and some on 'em no soul could, right off
the reel at a word, without a little cypherin; at last
they axed me, "How would you calculate to put a patient
into a sweat, when common modes would'nt work no how?"
Why, says I, I'd do as Dr. Comfort Payne sarved father;
and how was that, said they. Why, says I, he put him into
such a sweat as I never seed him in afore, in all my born
days, since I was raised, by sending him in his bill,
and if that did'nt sweat him it's a pity; it was an ACTIVE
dose you may depend. I guess that are chap has cut his
eye teeth, said the President, let him pass as approbated.

They both knowed well enough, they only made as if they
did'nt, to poke a little fun at them, for the Slick family
were counted in a general way to be pretty considerable
cute.

They reckon themselves here, a chalk above us Yankees,
but I guess they have a wrinkle or two to grow afore they
progress ahead on us yet. If they hant got a full cargo
of conceit here, then I never seed a load, that's all.
They have the hold chock full, deck piled up to the pump
handles, and scuppers under water. They larnt that of
the British, who are actilly so full of it, they remind
me of Commodore Trip. When he was about half shaved he
thought every body drunk but himself. I never liked the
last war, I thought it unnateral, and that we hadnt ought
to have taken hold of it at all, and so most of our New
England folks thought; and I wasn't sorry to hear Gineral
Dearborne was beat, seeing we had no call to go into
Canada. But when the Guerriere was captivated by our
old Ironsides, the Constitution, I did feel lifted up
amost as high as a stalk of Varginey corn among Connecticut
middlins; I grew two inches taller I vow, the night I
heerd that news. Brag, says I, is a good dog, but hold
fast is better. The British navals had been a braggin
and a hectorin so long, that when they landed in our
cities, they swaggered een amost as much as Uncle Peleg
(big Peleg as he was called), and when he walked up the
centre of one of our narrow Boston streets, he used to
swing his arms on each side of him, so that folks had to
clear out of both foot paths; he's eat, afore now, the
fingers of both hands agin the shop windows on each side
of the street. Many the poor feller's cruper bone he's
smashed, with his great thick boots, a throwin out his
feet afore him een amost out of sight, when he was in
full rig a swigglin away at the top of his gait. Well
they cut as many shines as Uncle Peleg. One Frigate they
guessed would captivate, sink, or burn our whole navy.
Says a naval one day, to the skipper of a fishing boat
that he took, says he, is it true Commodore Decatur's
sword is made of an old iron hoop? Well, says the skipper,
I'm not quite certified as to that, seein as I never sot
eyes on it; but I guess if he gets a chance he'll shew
you the temper of it some of these days, any how.

I mind once a British man-o'-war took one of our Boston
vessels, and ordered all hands on board, and sent a party
to skuttle her; well, they skuttled the fowls and the
old particular genuine rum, but they obliviated their
arrand and left her. Well, next day another frigate (for
they were as thick as toads arter a rain) comes near her,
and fires a shot for her to bring to. No answer was made,
there bein no livin soul on board, and another shot fired,
still no answer. Why what on airth is the meanin of this,
said the Captain, why dont they haul down that damn goose
and gridiron (thats what he called our eagle and stars
on the flag.) Why, says the first leftenant, I guess they
are all dead men, that shot frightened them to death.
They are afeared to show their noses says another, lest
they should be shaved off by our shots. They are all down
below a "CALCULATIN" their loss I guess, says a third.
I'll take my davy says the Captain, its some Yankee trick,
a torpedo in her bottom or some such trap--we'll let her
be, and sure enough, next day, back she came to shore of
herself. I'll give you a quarter of an hour, says the
Captain of the Guerriere to his men, to take that are
Yankee frigate the Constitution. I guess he found his
mistake where he didn't expect it, without any great
sarch for it either. Yes; (to eventuate my story) it
did me good, I felt dreadful nice, I promise you. It was
as lovely as bitters of a cold mornin. Our folks beat
'em arter that so often, they got a little grain too much
conceit also. They got their heels too high for their
boots, and began to walk like uncle Peleg too, so that
when the Chesapeake got whipped I warnt sorry. We could
spare that one, and it made our navals look round, like
a feller who gets a hoist, to see who's a larfin at him.
It made 'em brush the dust off, and walk on rather
sheepish. It cut their combs that's a fact. The war did
us a plaguy sight of good in more ways than one, and it
did the British some good too. It taught 'em not to carry
their chins too high, for fear they should'nt see the
gutters--a mistake that's spoiled many a bran new coat
and trowsers afore now.

Well, these Blue Noses have caught this disease, as folks
do the Scotch fiddle, by shakin hands along with the
British. Conceit has become here, as Doctor Rush says,
(you have heerd tell of him, he's the first man of the
age, and its generally allowed our doctors take the shine
off of all the world) acclimated, it is citizenised among
'em, and the only cure is a real good quiltin. I met a
first chop Colchester Gag this summer a goin to the races
to Halifax, and he knowed as much about racin, I do
suppose, as a Chictaw Ingian does of a rail road. Well,
he was a praisin of his horse, and runnin on like Statiee.
He was begot, he said, by Roncesvalles, which was better
than any horse that ever was seen, because he was once
in a duke's stable in England. It was only a man that
had blood like a lord, said he, that knew what blood in
a horse was. Capt. Currycomb, an officer at Halifax, had
seen his horse and praised him, and that was enough--that
stamped him--that fixed his value. It was like the
President's name to a bank note, it makes it pass current.
Well, says I, I hant got a drop of blood in me nothin
stronger than molasses and water, I vow, but I guess I
know a horse when I see him for all that, and I dont
think any great shakes of your beast, any how; what start
will you give me, says I, and I will run "Old Clay" agin
you, for a mile lick right an eend. Ten rods, said he,
for twenty dollars. Well, we run, and I made "Old Clay"
bite in his breath and only beat him by half a neck. A
tight scratch says I, that, and it would have sarved me
right if I had been beat. I had no business to run an
old roadster so everlastin fast, it aint fair on him, is
it? Says he, I will double the bet and start even, and
run you agin if you dare. Well, says I, since I won the
last it would'nt be pretty not to give you a chance; I
do suppose I oughtn't to refuse, but I dont love to abuse
my beast by knockin him about this way.

As soon as the money was staked, I said, had'nt we better,
says I, draw stakes, that are blood horse of yourn has
such uncommon particular bottom, he'll perhaps leave me
clean out of sight. No fear of that, said he, larfin,
but he'll beat you easy, any how. No flinchin, says he,
I'll not let you go back of the bargain. Its run or
forfeit. Well, says I, friend, there is fear of it; your
horse will leave me out of sight, to a sartainty, thats
a fact, for he CANT KEEP UP TO ME NO TIME. I'll drop him,
hull down, in tu twos. If old Clay did'nt make a fool of
him, its a pity. Did'nt he gallop pretty, that's all? He
walked away from him, jist as the Chancellor Livingston
steam boat passes a sloop at anchor in the north river.
Says I, I told you your horse would beat me clean out of
sight, but you would'nt believe me; now, says I, I will
tell you something else. That are horse will help, you
to lose more money to Halifax than you are a thinkin on;
for there aint a beast gone down there that wont beat
him. He cant run a bit, and you may tell the British
Captain I say so. Take him home and sell him, buy a good
yoke of oxen; they are fast enough for a farmer, and give
up blood horses to them that can afford to keep stable
helps to tend 'em, and leave bettin alone to them, as
has more money nor wit, and can afford to lose their
cash, without thankin agin of their loss. When _I_ WANT
your advice, said he, I will ASK IT, most peskily sulky.
You might have got it before you AXED for it, said I,
but not afore you WANTED it, you may depend on it. But
stop, said I, let's see that all's right afore we part;
so I counts over the fifteen pounds I won of him, note
by note, as slow as any thing, on purpose to ryle him,
then I mounts "old Clay" agin, and says I, friend, you
have considerably the advantage of me this hitch, any
how. Possible! says he, how's that? Why, says I, I guess
you'll return rather lighter than you came--and that's
more nor I can say, any how, and then I gave him a wink
and a jupe of the head, as much as to say, "do you take?"
and rode on and left him starin and scratchin his head
like a feller who's lost his road. If that citizen aint
a born fool, or too far gone in the disease, depend on't,
he found "A CURE FOR CONCEIT."


No. XXIII

The Blowin Time.

The long rambling dissertation on conceit to which I had
just listened, from the Clockmaker, forcibly reminded me
of the celebrated aphorism "gnothi seauton," know thyself,
which, both from its great antiquity and wisdom, has been
by many attributed to an oracle.

With all his shrewdness to discover, and his humor to
ridicule the foibles of others, Mr. Slick was kind to
the many defects of his own character; and, while
prescribing "a cure for conceit," exhibited in all he
said, and all he did, the most overweening conceit himself.
He never spoke of his own countrymen, without calling
them "the most free and enlightened citizens on the face
of the airth," or as "takin the shine off of all creation."
His country he boasted to be the "best atween the poles,"
"the greatest glory under heaven." The Yankees he considered
(to use his expression) as "actilly the class-leaders in
knowledge among all the Americans," and boasted that they
have not only "gone ahead of all others," but had lately
arrived at that most enviable no plus ultra point "of
goin ahead of themselves." In short, he entertained no
doubt that Slickville was the finest place in the greatest
nation in the world, and the Slick family the wisest
family in it. I was about calling his attention to this
national trait, when I saw him draw his reins under his
foot, (a mode of driving peculiar to himself, when he
wish'd to economise the time that would otherwise be lost
by an unnecessary delay,) and taking off his hat, (which,
like a pedlar's pack, contained a general assortment,)
select from a number of loose cigars one that appeared
likely to "go," as he called it. Having lighted it by a
lucifer, and ascertained that it was "true in draft," he
resumed his reins and remarked, This must be an everlastin
fine country beyond all doubt, for the folks have nothin
to do but to ride about and talk politics. In winter,
when the ground is covered with snow, what grand times
they have a slayin over these here mashes with the galls,
or playin ball on the ice, or goin to quiltin frolics of
nice long winter evenings and then a drivin home like
mad, by moonlight. Natur meant that season on purpose
for courtin. A little tidy scrumptious lookin slay, a
real clipper of a horse, a string of bells as long as a
string of inions round his neck, and a sprig on his back,
lookin for all the world like a bunch of apples broke
off at gatherin time, and a sweetheart alongside, all
muffled up but her eyes and lips--the one lookin right
into you, and the other talkin right at you--is een a
most enough to drive one ravin tarin distracted mad with
pleasure, aint it? And then the dear critters say the
bells make such a din there's no hearin one's self speak;
so they put their pretty little mugs close up to your
face, and talk, talk, talk, till one can't help lookin
right at them instead of the horse, and then whap you
both go capsized into, a snow drift together, skins,
cushions and all. And then to see the little critter
shake herself when she gets up, like a duck landin from
a pond, a chatterin away all the time like a Canary bird,
and you a haw-hawin with pleasure, is fun alive, you may
depend. In this way Blue Nose gets led on to offer himself
as a lovier, afore he knows where he bees. But when he
gets married, he recovers his eyesight in little less
than half no time. He soon finds he's treed; his flint
is fixed then, you may depend. She larns him how vinegar
is made: Put plenty of sugar into the water aforehand,
my dear, says she, if you want to make it real sharp.
The larf is on the other side of his mouth then. If his
slay gets upsot, its no longer a funny matter, I tell
you; he catches it right and left. Her eyes don't look
right up to hisn any more, nor her little tongue ring,
ring, ring, like a bell any longer, but a great big hood
covers her head, and a whappin great muff covers her
face, and she looks like a bag of soiled clothes agoin
to the brook to be washed. When they get out, she don't
wait any more for him to walk lock and lock with her,
but they march like a horse and a cow to water, one in
each gutter. Sir _Jeal._ I wou'd she were in her Grave.
Where are you, Sirrah, Villain, Robber of my Honour;
I'll pull you out of your Nest.
(_Goes into the Closet._
_Patch._ You'l be mistaken, old Gentleman, the Bird is
flown.

_Isab._ I'm glad I have 'scap'd so well. I was almost
dead in earnest with the Fright.

_Re-enter Sir _Jealous_ out of the Closet._
Sir _Jeal._ Whoever the Dog were he has escap'd out
of the Window, for the Sash is up. But tho' he is got out
of my Reach, you are not: And first Mrs. _Pandor_,
with your Charms for Tooth-ach, get out of my House, go,
troop; yet hold, stay, I'll see you out of my Doors my self,
but I'll secure your Charge e'er I go.

_Isab._ What do you mean, Sir? Was she not a Creature
of your own providing?

Sir _Jeal._ She was of the Devil's providing for ought
I know.

_Patch._ What have I done, Sir to merit your Displeasure?

Sir _Jeal._ I don't know which of you have done it; but you
shall both suffer for it, till I can discover whose
Guilt it is: Go get in there, I'll move you from this
side of the House (_Pushes _Isabinda_ in at the other
Door, and locks it; puts the Key in his Pocket._) I'll
keep the Key my self: I'll try what Ghost will get
into that Room. And now forsooth I'll wait on you down
Stairs.

_Patch._ Ah, my poor Lady--Down Stairs, Sir, but I won't
go out, Sir, till I have look'd up my Cloaths.

Sir _Jeal._ If thou wer't as naked as thou wer't born,
thou should'st not stay to put on a Smock. Come along,
I say, when your Mistress is marry'd you shall have
your Rags, and every thing that belongs to you; but till
then-- (_Exit, pulling her out._ 
_Patch._ Oh!

barbarous Usage for nothing.

_Re-enter at the lower Door._
Sir _Jeal._ There, go, and, come no more within sight
of my Habitation, these three Days, I charge you.
(_Slaps the Door after her._
_Patch._ Did ever any Body see such an old Monster!

_Enter _Charles_._
_Patch._ Oh! Mr. _Charles_ your Affairs and mine are in
an ill Posture.

_Char._ I am immur'd to the Frowns of Fortune: But what
has befal'n thee?

_Patch._ Sir _Jealous_, whose suspicious Nature's always on the
Watch; nay, even whilst one Eye sleeps, the other keeps Sentinel:
Upon sight of you, flew into such a violent Passion, that I cou'd
find no Stratagem to appease him, but in spight of all Arguments,
lock'd his Daughter into his own Apartment, and turn'd me out of
Doors.

_Char._ Ha! oh, _Isabinda_.

_Patch._ And swears she shall neither see Sun nor Moon,
till she is _Don Diego Babinetto_'s Wife, who arrived last
Night, and is expected with impatience.

_Char._ He dies, yes, by all the Wrongs of Love he shall;
here will I plant my self, and thro' my Breast he
shall make his Passage, if he enters.

_Patch._ A most heroick Resolution. There might be ways
found out more to your Advantage. Policy is often
preferr'd to open force.

_Char._ I apprehend you not.

_Patch._ What think you of personating this _Spaniard_,
imposing upon the Father, and marrying your Mistress by
his own Consent.

_Char._ Say'st thou so my Angel! Oh cou'd that be done,
my Life to come wou'd be too short to recompence thee:
But how can I do that, when I neither know what
Ship he came in, nor from what part of _Spain_; who
recommends him, nor how attended.

_Patch._ I can solve all this. He is from _Madrid_, his
Father's Name _Don Pedro Questo Portento Babinetto_.
Here's a Letter of his to Sir _Jealous_, which he drop'd
one Day; you understand _Spanish_, and the Hand may
be counterfeited: You conceive me, Sir.

_Char._ My better Genius, thou hast reviv'd my drooping
Soul: I'll about it instantly. Come to my Lodgings, and
we'll concert Matters.

(_Exeunt._

SCENE a Garden Gate open, _Scentwell_ waiting within.

_Enter Sir _George Airy_._
Sir _Geo._ So, this is the Gate, and most invitingly
open: If there shou'd be a Blunderbuss here now, what
a dreadful Ditty wou'd my Fall make for Fools; and what
a Jest for the Wits; how my Name wou'd be roar'd about
Streets. Well I'll venture all.

_Scentw._ Hist, hist, Sir _George Airy_-- (_Enters._
Sir _Geo._ A Female Voice, thus far I'm safe, my Dear.

_Scentw._ No, I'm not your Dear, but I'll conduct you
to her, give me your Hand; you must go thro' many a
dark Passage and dirty Step before you arrive--
Sir _Geo._ I know I must before I arrive at Paradise;
therefore be quick my charming Guide.

_Scentw._ For ought you know; come, come your Hand and
away.

Sir _Geo._ Here, here Child, you can't be half so swift
as my Desires.

(_Exeunt._

SCENE the House.

_Enter _Miranda_._
_Miran._ Well, let me reason a little with my mad self.

Now don't I transgress all Rules to venture upon a Man,
without the Advice of the Grave and Wise; but then a
rigid knavish Guardian who wou'd have marry'd me. To whom?
Even to his nauseous self, or no Body: Sir _George_
is what I have try'd in Conversation, inquir'd into his
Character, am satisfied in both. Then his Love; who wou'd
have given a hundred Pound only to have seen a Woman
he had not infinitely loved? So I find my liking him
has furnish'd me with Arguments enough of his side;
and now the only Doubt remains whether he will come or
no.

_Enter _Scentwell_._
_Scentw._ That's resolv'd, Madam, for here's the
Knight.
_Exit_ Scentwell.

Sir _Geo._ And do I once more behold that lovely Object,
whose Idea fills my Mind, and forms my pleasing
Dreams!

_Miran._ What beginning again in Heroicks!--Sir _George_,
don't you remember how little Fruit your last Prodigal
Oration produced, not one bare single Word in answer.

Sir _Geo._ Ha! the Voice of my _Incognita_--Why did you
take Ten Thousand ways to captivate a Heart your Eyes
alone had vanquish'd?

_Miran._ Prithee, no more of these Flights; for our
Time's but short, and we must fall into Business: Do
you think we can agree on that same terrible Bugbear,
_Matrimony_, without heartily Repenting on both sides.

Sir _Geo._ It has been my wish since first my longing Eyes
beheld ye.

_Miran._ And your happy Ears drank in the pleasing News,
I had Thirty Thousand Pound.

Sir _Geo._ Unkind! Did I not offer you in those purchas'd
Minutes to run the Risque of your Fortune, so you wou'd
but secure that lovely Person to my Arms.

_Miran._ Well, if you have such Love and Tenderness, (since
our Woing has been short) pray reserve it for our
future Days, to let the World see we are Lovers after
Wedlock; 'twill be a Novelty--
Sir _Geo._ Haste then, and let us tye the Knot, and prove
the envy'd Pair-- 
_Miran._ Hold!

not so fast, I have provided better than to venture on dangerous
Experiments headlong--My _Guardian_, trusting to my dissembled Love,
has given up my Fortune to my own dispose; but with this _Proviso_,
that he to Morrow morning weds me.

He is now gone to _Doctors Commons_ for a License.

Sir _Geo._ Ha, a License!

_Miran._ But I have planted Emissaries that infallibly
take him down to _Epsom_, under pretence that a Brother
Usurer of his, is to make him his Executor; the thing on
Earth he covets.

Sir _Geo._ 'Tis his known Character.

_Miran._ Now my Instruments confirm him, this Man is
dying, and he sends me word he goes this Minute; it
must be to Morrow e'er he can be undeceiv'd. That time
is ours.

Sir _Geo._ Let us improve it then, and settle on our
coming Years, endless, endless Happiness.

_Miran._ I dare not stir till I hear he's on the Road--then
I and my Writings, the most material point, are soon
removed.

Sir _Geo._ I have one Favour to ask, if it lies in your
power, you wou'd be a Friend to poor _Charles_, tho'
the Son of this tenacious Man: He is as free from all
his Vices, as Nature and a good Education can make
him; and what now I have vanity enough to hope will induce
you, he is the Man on Earth I love.

_Miran._ I never was his Enemy, and only put it on as it
help'd my Designs on his Father. If his Uncle's Estate
ought to be in his Possession, which I shrewdly
suspect, I may do him a singular piece of Service.

Sir _Geo._ You are all Goodness.

_Enter _Scentwell_._
_Scentw._ Oh, Madam, my Master and Mr. _Marplot_ are
just coming into the House.

_Miran._ Undone, undone! if he finds you here in this
Crisis, all my Plots are unravell'd.

Sir _Geo._ What shall I do! can't I get back into the
Garden?

_Scentw._ Oh, no! he comes up those Stairs.

_Miran._ Here, here, here! can you condescend to stand
behind this Chimney-Board, Sir _George?_
Sir _Geo._ Any where, any where, dear Madam, without
Ceremony.

_Scentw._ Come, come, Sir; lie close-- (_They put him
behind the Chimney-Board._
_Enter Sir _Francis_ and _Marplot_: Sir _Francis_ peeling
an Orange_._
Sir _Fran._ I cou'd not go, tho' 'tis upon Life and Death,
without taking leave of dear _Chargee_. Besides, this
Fellow buz'd in my Ears, that thou might'st be so desperate
to shoot that wild Rake which haunts the Garden-Gate;
and that wou'd bring us into Trouble, dear--
_Miran._ So, _Marplot_ brought you back then: I am oblig'd
to him for that, I'm sure-- (_Frowning at _Marplot_
aside._
_Marpl._ By her Looks she means she is not oblig'd to
me. I have done some Mischief now, but what I can't
imagine.

Sir _Fran._ Well, _Chargee_, I have had three Messengers to
come to _Epsom_ to my Neighbour _Squeezum_'s who, for
all his vast Riches, is departing.
(_Sighs._
_Marpl._ Ay, see what all you Usurers must come to.

Sir _Fran._ Peace, ye young Knave! Some Forty Years hence
I may think on't--But, _Chargee_, I'll be with thee to
Morrow, before those pretty Eyes are open; I will, I will,
_Chargee_, I'll rouze you, I saith.--Here Mrs. _Scentwell_,
lift up your Lady's Chimney-Board, that I may throw
my Peel in, and not litter her Chamber.

_Miran._ Oh my Stars! what will become of us now?

_Scentw._ Oh, pray Sir, give it me; I love it above
all things in Nature, indeed I do.

Sir _Fran._ No, no, Hussy; you have the Green Pip already,
I'll have no more Apothecary's Bills.
(_Goes towards the Chimney._
_Miran._ Hold, hold, hold, dear _Gardee_, I have a, a, a,
a, a Monkey shut up there; and if you open it before the
Man comes that is to tame it, 'tis so wild 'twill break
all my China, or get away, and that wou'd break my
Heart; for I am fond on't to Distraction, next thee, dear
_Gardee_.
(_In a flattering Tone._
Sir _Fran._ Well, well, _Chargee_, I wont open it; she
shall have her Monkey, poor Rogue; here throw this Peel
out of the Window.

(_Exit _Scentwell_._
_Marpl._ A Monkey, dear Madam, let me see it; I can tame
a Monkey as well as the best of them all. Oh how I love
the little Minatures of Man.

_Miran._ Be quiet, Mischief, and stand farther from the
Chimney--You shall not see my Monkey--why sure--
(_Striving with him._
_Marpl._ For Heaven's sake, dear Madam, let me but peep,
to see if it be as pretty as my Lady _Fiddle-Faddle_'s.
Has it got a Chain?

_Miran._ Not yet, but I design it one shall last its
Life-time: Nay, you shall not see it--Look, _Gardee_, how
he teazes me!

Sir _Fran._ (_Getting between him and the Chimney._) Sirrah,
Sirrah, let my _Chargee_'s Monkey alone, or _Bambo_ shall
fly about your Ears. What is there no dealing with
you?

_Marpl._ Pugh, pox of the Monkey! here's a Rout: I wish
he may Rival you.

_Enter a Servant._
_Serv._ Sir, they put two more Horses in the Coach, as
you order'd, and 'tis ready at the Door.

Sir _Fran._ Well, I'm going to be Executor, better for
thee, Jewel. B'ye _Chargee_, one Buss!--I'm glad thou hast
got a a Monkey to divert thee a little.

_Miran._ Thank'e, dear _Gardee_.--Nay, I'll see you to
the Coach.

Sir _Fran._ That's kind, adod.

_Miran._ Come along, Impertinence.
(_To _Marplot_._
_Marpl._ (_Stepping back._) Egad, I will see the Monkey:
Now (_Lifts up the Board, and discovers Sir_ George_._)
Oh Lord, Oh Lord! Thieves, Thieves, Murder!

Sir _Geo._ Dam'e, you unlucky Dog! 'tis I, which way
shall I get out, shew me instantly, or I'll cut your
Throat.

_Marpl._ Undone, undone! At that Door there. But hold,
hold, break that China, and I'll bring you off.
(_He runs off at the Corner, and throws down some China._

_Re-enter Sir _Francis_, _Miranda_, and _Scentwell_._
Sir _Fran._ Mercy on me! what's the matter?

_Miran._ Oh, you Toad! what have you done?

_Marpl._ No great harm, I beg of you to forgive me:
Longing to see the Monkey, I did but just raise up the
Board, and it flew over my Shoulders, scratch'd all
my Face, broke yon' China, and whisk'd out of the
Window.

Sir _Fran._ Was ever such an unlucky Rogue! Sirrah, I
forbid you my House. Call the Servants to get the Monkey
again; I wou'd stay my self to look it, but that you
know my earnest Business.

_Scentw._ Oh my Lady will be the best to lure it back; all
them Creatures love my Lady extremely.

_Miran._ Go, go, dear _Gardee_; I hope I shall recover
it.

Sir _Fran._ B'ye, by'e, Dear'e. Ah, Mischief, how you
look now! B'ye, b'ye.
(_Exit._
_Miran._ _Scentwell_, see him in the Coach, and bring
me word.

_Scentw._ Yes, Madam.

_Miran._ So, Sir, you have done your Friend a signal piece
of Service, I suppose.

_Marpl._ Why look you, Madam!

if I have committed a fault, thank your self; no Man is more
Serviceable when I am let into a Secret, nor none more
Unlucky at finding it out. Who cou'd divine your
Meaning, when you talk'd of a Blunderbuss, who thought
of a Rendevous? and when you talk'd of a Monkey, who the
Devil dreamt of Sir _George?_
_Miran._ A sign you converse but little with our Sex, when
you can't reconcile Contradictions.

_Enter _Scentwell_._
_Scentw._ He's gone, Madam, as fast as the Coach, and Six
can carry him.
_Enter Sir _George_._ 
Sir _Geo._ Then I may appear.
_Marpl._ Dear, Sir _George_, make my Peace! On my Soul, I did not
think of you.
Sir _Geo._ I dare swear thou didst not. Madam, I beg you to forgive
him.

_Miran._ Well, Sir _George_, if he can be secret.
_Marpl._ Ods heart, Madam, I'm as secret as a Priest when I'm
trusted.
Sir _Geo._ Why 'tis with a Priest our Business is at present.
_Scentw._ Madam, here's Mrs. _Isabinda_'s Woman to wait on
you.

_Miran._ Bring her up.

_Enter _Patch_._
How do'e, Mrs. _Patch_, what News from your Lady?
_Patch._ That's for your private Ear, Madam. Sir _George_, there's
a Friend of yours has an urgent Occasion for your Assistance.
Sir _Geo._ His Name.

_Patch._ _Charles._
_Marpl._ Ha! then there is something a-foot that I know nothing of.
I'll wait on you, Sir _George_.
Sir _Geo._ A third Person may not be proper perhaps; as soon as I
have dispatch'd my own Affairs, I am at his Service. I'll send my
Servant to tell him, I'll wait upon him in half an Hour.
_Miran._ How come you employ'd in this Message, Mrs. _Patch?_

_Patch._ Want of Business, Madam. I am discharg'd by my Master, but
hope to serve my Lady still.
_Miran._ How discharg'd! you must tell me the whole Story
within.

_Patch._ With all my Heart, Madam.
_Marpl._ Pish! Pox, I wish I were fairly out of the House. I find
Marriage is the end of this Secret: And now I am half mad to know
what _Charles_ wants him for.
(_Aside._
Sir _Geo._ Madam, I'm doubly press'd, by Love and Friendship: This
Exigence admits of no delay. Shall we make _Marplot_ of the
Party?
_Miran._ If you'll run the Hazard, Sir _George_; I believe he means
well.
_Marpl._ Nay, nay, for my part, I desire to be let into nothing:
I'll begon, therefore pray don't mistrust me.
(_Going._
Sir _Geo._ So now has he a mind to be gone to _Charles_: but not
knowing what Affairs he may have upon his Hands at present, I'm
resolv'd he sha'n't stir: No, Mr. _Marplot_, you must not leave us,
we want a third Person.
(_Takes hold of him._
_Marpl._ I never had more mind to be gone in my Life.
_Miran._ Come along then; if we fail in the Voyage, thank your self
for taking this ill starr'd Gentleman on Board.

_Sir_ Geo.
_That Vessel ne'er can Unsuccessful prove,_ _Whose Freight is Beauty,
and whose Pilot Love._ 
The End of the Fourth ACT.
ACT the Fifth.
_Enter _Miranda_, _Patch_, and _Scentwell_._
_Miran._ Well, _Patch_, I have done a strange bold thing! my Fate
is determin'd, and Expectation is no more. Now to avoid the
Impertinence and Roguery of an old Man, I have thrown my self into
the Extravagance of a young one; if he shou'd despise, slight or
use me ill, there's no Remedy from a Husband, but the Grave; and
that's a terrible Sanctuary to one of my Age and Constitution.
_Patch._ O fear not, Madam, you'll find your account in Sir _George
Airy_; it is impossible a Man of Sense shou'd use a Woman ill,
indued with Beauty, Wit and Fortune. It must be the Lady's fault,
if she does not wear the unfashionable Name of Wife easie, when
nothing but Complaisance and good Humour is requisite on either
side to make them happy.
_Miran._ I long till I am out of this House, lest any Accident
shou'd bring my _Guardian_ back. _Scentwell_, put my best Jewels
into the little Casket, slip them, into thy Pocket, and let us march
off to Sir.
_Jealous_'s.

_Scentw._ It shall be done, Madam.
(_Exit_ Scentwell.
_Patch._ Sir _George_ will be impatient, Madam; if their Plot
succeeds, we shall be well receiv'd; if not, he will be able to
protect us.
Besides, I long to know how my young Lady fares.
_Miran._ Farewell, old _Mammon_, and thy detested Walls; 'twill be
no more sweet Sir _Francis_, I shall be compell'd to the odious
Task of Dissembling no longer to get my own, and coax him with the
wheedling Names of my _Precious_, my _Dear_, dear _Gardee_. Oh
Heavens!

_Enter Sir _Francis_ behind._
Sir _Fran._ Ah, my sweet _Chargee_, don't be frighted. (_She starts._)
But thy poor _Gardee_ has been abused, cheated, fool'd, betray'd,
but no Body knows by whom.
_Miran._ (_Aside._) Undone! past Redemption.
Sir _Fran._ What won't you speak to me, _Chargee!_
_Miran._ I'm so surpriz'd with Joy to see you, I know not what to
say.
Sir _Fran._ Poor, dear Girl! But do'e know that my Son, or some
such Rogue, to rob or murder me, or both, contriv'd this Journey?
For upon the Road I met my Neighbour _Squeezum_ well, and coming
to Town.
_Miran._ Good lack, good lack! what Tricks are there in this
World!
_Enter _Scentwell_, with a Diamond Necklace in her Hand; not seeing
Sir _Francis_._
_Scentw._ Madam, be pleas'd to tye this Neck-lace on; for I can't
get it into the-- (_Seeing Sir _Francis_._
_Miran._ The Wench is a Fool, I think! cou'd you not have carry'd
it to be mended, without putting it in the Box?
Sir _Fran._ What's the matter?
_Miran._ Only Dear'e, I bid her, I bid her--Your ill Usage has put
every thing out of my Head. But won't you go, _Gardee_, and find
out these Fellows, and have them punish'd! and, and--
Sir _Fran._ Where shou'd I look them, Child? No I'll sit me down
contented with my Safety, nor stir out of my own Doors, till I go
with thee to a Parson.
_Miran._ (_Aside._) If he goes into his Closet I am ruin'd. Oh!
bless me in this Fright, I had forgot Mrs. _Patch_.
_Patch._ Ay, Madam, and I stay for your speedy Answer.
_Miran._ (_Aside._) I must get him out of the House. Now assist me
Fortune.
Sir _Fran._ Mrs. _Patch_, I profess I did not see you, how dost
thou do, Mrs. _Patch_; well don't you repent leaving my _Chargee?_

_Patch._ Yes, every body must love her--but I came now--Madam, what
did I come for, my Invention is at the last Ebb.
(_Aside to _Miranda_._
Sir _Fran._ Nay, never Whisper, tell me.
_Miran._ She came, dear _Gardee_ to invite me to her Lady's Wedding,
and you shall go with me _Gardee_, 'tis to be done this Moment to
a _Spanish_ Merchant; Old Sir _Jealous_ keeps on his Humour, the
first Minute he sees her, the next he marries her.
Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, ha, I'd go if I thought the sight of Matrimony
wou'd tempt _Chargee_ to perform her Promise: There was a smile,
there was a consenting Look with those pretty Twinklers, worth a
Million. Ods precious, I am happier than the Great _Mogul_, the
Emperour of _China_, or all the Potentates that are not in Wars.
Speak, confirm it, make me leap out of my Skin.
_Miran._ When one has resolv'd, 'tis in vain to stand shall I, shall
I, if ever I marry, positively this is my Wedding Day.
Sir _Fran._ Oh! happy, happy Man--Verily I will beget a Son, the
first Night shall disinherit that Dog, _Charles_. I have Estate
enough to purchase a Barony, and be the immortalizing the whole
Family of the Gripes.
_Miran._ Come then _Gardee_, give me thy Hand, let's to this House
of _Hymen_.
_My Choice is fix'd, let good or ill betide,_
Sir _Fran._ _The joyful Bridegroom, I_
_Miran._ _And I the happy Bride._ 
(Exeunt.
_Enter Sir _Jealous_ meeting a Servant._
_Serv._ Sir, here's a couple of Gentlemen enquire for you; one of
'em calls himself _Seignor Diego Babinetto_.

Sir _Jeal._ Ha!When they get fairly stumped, and you produce a text
that they can't get over, nor get round, why they say it
tante in our varsion at all--that's an interpolation,
its an invention of them are everlastin monks; there's
nothin left for you to do with them, but to sarve them
as Parson Possit detailed the boxer--lay right hold of
'em, and chuck 'em over the fence, even if they were as
big as all out doors. That's what our folks ought to
have done with 'em at first, pitched 'em clean out of
the state, and let 'em go down to Nova-Scotia, or some
such outlandish place, for they aint fit to live in no
christian country at all.

Fightin is no way to make converts; THE TRUE WAY IS TO
WIN 'EM. You may stop a man's mouth, Sam, says he, by a
crammin a book down his throat, but you won't convince
him. Its a fine thing to write a book all covered over
with Latin, and Greek, and Hebrew, like a bridle that's
real jam, all spangled with brass nails, but who knows
whether its right or wrong? why not one in ten thousand.
If I had my religion to choose, and warn't able to judge
for myself I'll tell you what I'd do: I'd just ask myself
WHO LEADS THE BEST LIVES? Now, says he, Sam, I won't say
who do, because it would look like vanity to say it was
the folks who hold to our platform, but I'll tell you
who don't. IT AINT THEM THAT MAKES THE GREATEST PROFESSIONS
ALWAYS; and mind what I tell you, Sam, when you go a
tradin with your clocks away down east to Nova-Scotia,
and them wild provinces, keep a bright look out on them
as cant too much, FOR A LONG FACE is plaguy apt to COVER
A LONG CONSCIENCE--that's a fact.


No. XXV

Taming a Shrew.

The road from Amherst to Parrsboro' is tedious and
uninteresting. In places it is made so straight, that
you can see several miles of it before you, which produces
an appearance of interminable length, while the stunted
growth of the spruce and birch trees bespeaks a cold thin
soil, and invests the scene with a melancholy and sterile
aspect. Here and there occurs a little valley with its
meandering stream, and verdant and fertile intervale,
which, though possessing nothing peculiar to distinguish
it from many others of the same kind, strikes the traveller
as superior to them all, from the contrast to the
surrounding country. One of these secluded spots attracted
my attention, from the number and neatness of the buildings,
which its proprietor, a tanner and currier, had erected
for the purposes of his trade. Mr. Slick said be knew
him, and he guessed it was a pity he couldn't keep his
wife in as good order as he did his factory. They don't
hitch their horses together well at all. He is properly
hen-pecked, said he; he is afeerd to call his soul his
own, and he leads the life of a dog; you never seed the
beat of it, I vow. Did you ever see a rooster hatch a
brood of chickens? No, said I, not that I can recollect.
Well then I have, said he, and if he don't look like a
fool all the time he is a settin on the eggs, its a pity;
no soul could help larfin to see him. Our old nigger,
January Snow, had a spite agin one of father's roosters,
seein that he was a coward, and would'nt fight. He used
to call him Dearborne, arter our General that behaved so
ugly to Canada; and, says he one day, I guess you are no
better than a hen, you everlastin old chicken-hearted
villain, and I'll make you a larfin stock to all the
poultry. I'll put a trick on you you'll bear in mind all
your born days. So he catches old Dearborne, and pulls
all the feathers off his breast, and strips him as naked
as when he was born, from his throat clean down to his
tail, and then takes a bundle of nettles and gives him
a proper switchin that stung him, and made him smart like
mad; then he warms some eggs and puts them in a nest,
and sets the old cock right a top of 'em. Well, the warmth
of the eggs felt good to the poor critter's naked belly,
and kinder kept the itchin of the nettles down, and he
was glad to bide where he was, and whenever he was tired
and got off his skin felt so cold, he'd run right back
and squat down agin, and when his feathers began to grow,
and he got obstropolous, he got another ticklin with the
nettles, that made him return double quick to his location.
In a little time he larnt the trade real complete.

Now, this John Porter, (and there he is on the bridge I
vow, I never seed the beat o' that, speak of old Saytin
and he's sure to appear;) well, he's jist like old
Dearborne, only fit to hatch eggs. When we came to the
Bridge, Mr. Slick stopped his horse, to shake hands with
Porter, whom he recognized as an old acquaintance and
customer. He enquired after a bark mill he had smuggled
from the States for him, and enlarged on the value of
such a machine, and the cleverness of his countrymen who
invented such useful and profitable articles; and was
recommending a new process of tanning, when a female
voice from the house was heard, vociferating, "John
Porter, come here this minute." Coming, my dear, said
the husband. "Come here, I say, directly, why do you
stand talking to that Yankee villain there." The poor
husband hung his head, looked silly, and bidding us good
bye, returned slowly to the house. As we drove on, Mr.
Slick said, that was me--I did that. Did what? said I.
That was me that sent him back, I called him and not his
wife. I had that are bestowment ever since I was knee
high or so; I'm a real complete hand at Ventriloquism;
I can take off any man's voice I ever heerd to the very
nines. If there was a law agin forgin that as there is
for handwritin, I guess I should have been hanged long
ago. I've had high goes with it many a time, but its
plaguy dangersome, and I don't pracTISE it now but seldom.
I had a real bout with that are citizen's wife once, and
completely broke her in for him; she went as gentle as
a circus horse for a space, but he let her have her head
agin, and she's as bad as ever now. I'll tell you how it
was. I was down to the Island a sellin clocks, and who
should I meet but John Porter; well, I traded with him
for one, part cash, part truck and proDUCE, and also put
off on him that are bark mill you heerd me axin about,
and it was pretty considerable on in the evenin afore we
finished our trade. I came home along with him, and had
the clock in the waggon to fix it up for him, and to shew
him how to regilate it. Well, as we neared his house,
he began to fret and take on dreadful oneasy; says he,
I hope Jane wont be abed, cause if she is she'll act
ugly, I do suppose. I had heerd tell of her afore; bow
she used to carry a stiff upper lip, and make him and
the broomstick well acquainted together; and, says I,
why do you put up with her tantrums, I'd make a fair
division of the house with her, if it was me, I'd take
the inside and allocate her the outside of it pretty
quick that's a fact. Well, when we came to the house,
there was no light in it, and the poor critter looked so
streaked and down in the mouth, I felt proper sorry for
him. When he rapped at the door, she called out, who's
there? Its me, dear, says Porter. You, is it, said she,
then you may stay where you be, them as gave you your
supper, may give you your bed, instead of sendin you
sneakin home at night like a thief. Said I, in a whisper,
says I, leave her to me, John Porter--jist take the
horses up to the barn, and see after them, and I'll manage
her for you, I'll make her as sweet as sugary candy,
never fear. The barn you see is a good piece off to the
eastward of the house; and, as soon as he was cleverly
out of hearin, says I, a imitatin of his voice to the
life, do let me in, Jane, says I, that's a dear critter,
I've brought you home some things you'll like, I know.
Well, she was an awful jealous critter; says she, take
'em to her you spent the evenin with, I don't want you
nor your presents neither. Arter a good deal of coaxin
I stood on tother tack, and began to threaten to break
the door down; says I, you old unhansum lookin sinner,
you vinerger cruet you, open the door this minit or I'll
smash it right in. That grigged her properly, it made
her very wrathy, (for nothin sets up a woman's spunk like
callin her ugly, she gets her back right up like a cat
when a strange dog comes near her; she's all eyes, claws
and bristles.)

I heerd her bounce right out of bed, and she came to the
door as she was, ondressed, and onbolted it; and, as I
entered it, she fetched me a box right across my cheek
with the flat of her hand, that made it tingle agin. I'll
teach you to call names agin, says she, you varmint. It
was jist what I wanted; I pushed the door tu with my
foot, and seizing her by the arm with one hand, I quilted
her with the horsewhip real handsum, with the other. At
first she roared like mad; I'll give you the ten
commandments, says she, (meaning her ten claws,) I'll
pay you for this, you cowardly villain, to strike a woman.
How dare you lift your hand, John Porter, to your lawful
wife, and so on; all the time runnin round and round,
like a colt that's a breakin, with the mouthin bit,
rarein, kickin, and plungin like statiee. Then she began
to give in. Says she, I beg pardon, on my knees I beg
pardon--don't murder me, for Heaven's sake--don't, dear
John, don't murder your poor wife, that's a dear. I'll
do as you bid me, I promise to behave well, upon my honor
I do--oh! dear John, do forgive me, do dear. When I had
her properly brought too, for havin nothin on but a thin
under garment, every crack of the whip told like a notch
on a baker's tally, says I, take that as a taste of what
you'll catch, when you act that way like old Scratch.
Now go and dress yourself, and get supper for me and a
stranger I have brought home along with me, and be quick,
for I vow I'll be master in my own house. She moaned
like a dog hit with a stone, half whine, half yelp; dear,
dear, says she, if I aint all covered over with welts as
big as my finger, I do believe I'm flayed alive; and she
boohood right out like any thing. I guess, said I, you've
got 'em where folks wont see 'em, any how, and I calculate
you won't be over forrard to show 'em where they be. But
come, says I, be a stirrin, or I'll quilt you agin as
sure as you're alive--I'll tan your hide for you, you
may depend, you old ungainly tempered heifer you.

When I went to the barn, says I, John Porter, your wife
made right at me, like one ravin distracted mad, when I
opened the door, thinkin it was you; and I was obliged
to give her a crack or two of the cowskin to get clear
of her. It has effectuated a cure completely; now foller
it up, and don't let on for your life, it warn't you that
did it, and you'll be master once more in your own house.
She's all docity jist now, keep her so. As we returned
we saw a light in the keepin room, the fire was blazin
up cheerfulsome, and Marm Porter moved about as brisk as
a parched pea, though as silent as dumb, and our supper
was ready in no time. As soon as she took her seat and
sot down, she sprung right up on eend, as if she had sot
on a pan of hot coals, and colored all over; and then
tears started in her eyes. Thinks I to myself, I calculate
I wrote that are lesson in large letters any how, I can
read that writin without spellin, and no mistake; I guess
you've got pretty well warmed thereabouts this hitch.
Then she tried it agin, first she sot on one leg then on
tother, quite oneasy, and then right atwixt both, a
fidgettin about dreadfully; like a man that's rode all
day on a bad saddle, and lost a little leather on the
way. If you had seed how she stared at Porter, it would
have made you snicker. She could'nt credit her eyes. He
warn't drunk, and he warn't crazy, but there he sot as
peeked and as meechin as you please. She seemed all struck
up of a heap at his rebellion. The next day when I was
about startin, I advised him to act like a man, and keep
the weather gage now he had it, and all would be well,
but the poor critter only held on a day or two, she soon
got the upper hand of him, and made him confess all, and
by all accounts he leads a worse life now than ever. I
put that are trick on him jist now to try him, and I see
it's gone goose with him; the jig is up with him, she'll
soon call him with a whistle like a dog. I often think
of the hornpipe she danced there in the dark along with
me, to the music of my whip--she touched it off in great
style, that's a fact. I shall mind that go one while,
I promise you. It was actilly equal to a play at old
Bowry. You may depend, Squire, the only way to tame a
shrew, is by the cowskin. Grandfather Slick was raised
all along the coast of Kent in Old England, and he used
to say there was an old saying there, which, I expect,
is not far off the mark:

   A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree,
   The more you lick 'em, the better they be.


No. XXVI

The Minister's Horn Mug.

This Country, said Mr. Slick, abounds in superior mill
privileges, and one would naterally calculate that such
a sight of water power, would have led to a knowledge of
machinery. I guess if a Blue Nose was to go to one of
our free and enlightened citizens, and tell him Nova
Scotia was intersected with rivers and brooks in all
directions, and nearly one quarter of it covered with
water, he'd say, well I'll start right off and see it,
I vow, for I guess I'll larn somethin. I allot I'll get
another wrinkle away down east there. With such splendid
chances for experimentin, what first-chop mills they must
have, to a sartainty. I'll see such new combinations,
and such new applications of the force of water to motion,
that I'll make my fortin, for we can improve on any thing
amost. Well, he'd find his mistake out I guess, as I did
once, when I took passage in the night at New York for
Providence, and found myself the next mornin clean out
to sea, steerin away for Cape Hatteras, in the Charleston
steamer. He'd find he'd gone to the wrong place, I reckon;
there aint a mill of any kind in the Province fit to be
seen. If we had 'em, we'd sarve 'em as we do the gamblin
houses down south, pull 'em right down, there would'nt
be one on 'em left in eight and forty hours.

Some domestic factories they ought to have here; its an
essential part of the social system. Now we've run to
the other extreme, its got to be too big an interest with
us, and aint suited to the political institutions of our
great country. Natur designed us for an agricultural
people, and our government was predicated on the supposition
that we would be so. Mr. Hopewell was of the same opinion.
He was a great hand at gardenin, orchadin, farming, and
what not. One evenin I was up to his house, and says he,
Sam, what do you say to a bottle of my old genuine cider?
I guess I got some that will take the shine off of your
father's, by a long chalk, much as the old gentleman
brags of his'n--I never bring it out afore him. He thinks
he has the best in all Connecticut. Its an innocent
ambition that; and Sam, it would be but a poor thing for
me to gratify my pride, at the expense of humblin his'n.
So I never lets on that I have any better, but keep dark
about this superfine particular article of mine, for I'd
as lives he'd think so as not. He was a real primiTIVE
good man was minister. I got some, said he, that was
bottled that very year, that glorious action was fought
atween the Constitution and the Guerriere. Perhaps the
whole world could'nt shew such a brilliant whippin as
that was. It was a splendid deed, that's a fact. The
British can whip the whole airth, and we can whip the
British. It was a bright promise for our young eagle; a
noble bird that, too; great strenth, great courage, and
surpassing sagacity.

Well, he went down to the cellar, and brought up a bottle,
with a stick tied to its neck, and day and date to it,
like lye-bills on the trees in Squire Hendrick's garden.
I like to see them are cobwebs, says he, as he brushed
'em off, they are like grey hairs in an old man's head,
they indicate venerable old age. As he uncorked it, says
he, I guess Sam, this will warm your gizzard, my boy; I
guess our great nation may be stumped to produce more
eleganter liquor than this here. Its the dandy, that's
a fact. That, said he, a smackin his lips, and lookin at
its sparklin top, and layin back his head, and tippin
off a horn mug brim full of it--that, said he, and his
eyes twinkled agin, for it was plaguy strong, that is
the produce of my own orchard. Well, I said, minister,
says I, I never see you a swiggin it out of that are horn
mug, that I don't think of one of your texts. What's
that, Sam, says he? for you always had a most a special
memory when you was a boy; why says I, "that the horn of
the righteous man shall be exalted," I guess that's what
they mean by "exalten the horn," aint it? Lord if ever
you was to New OrLEENS, and seed a black thunder cloud
rise right up and cover the whole sky in a it, you'd a
thought of it if you had seed his face. It looked as dark
as Egypt. For shame, says he, Sam, that's ondecent; and
let me tell you that a man that jokes on such subjects,
shews both a lack of wit and sense too. I like mirth,
you know I do, for its only the Pharisees and hypocrites
that wear long faces, but then mirth must be innocent to
please me; and when I see a man make merry with serious
things, I set him down as a lost sheep. That comes of
your speculatin to Lowell; and, I vow, them factorin
towns will corrupt our youth of both sexes, and become
hotbeds of iniquity. Evil communications endamnify good
manners, as sure as rates; one scabby sheep will infect
a whole flock--vice is as catchin as that nasty disease
the Scotch have, it's got by shakin hands, and both eend
in the same way--in brimstone. I approbate domestic
factories, but nothin further for us. It don't suit us
or our institutions. A republic is only calculated for
an enlightened and vartuous people, and folks chiefly in
the farmin line. That is an innocent and a happy vocation.
Agriculture was ordained by Him as made us, for our chief
occupation.

Thinks I, here's a pretty how do you do; I'm in for it
now, that's a fact; he'll jist fall to and read a regular
sarmon, and he knows so many by heart hell never stop.
It would take a Philadelphia lawyer to answer him. So,
says I, minister, I ax your pardon, I feel very ugly at
havin given you offence, but I did'nt mean it, I do assure
you. It jist popt out unexpectedly, like a cork out of
one of them are cider bottles, I'll do my possibles that
the like don't happen agin, you may depend; so 'spose we
drink a glass to our reconciliation. That I will, said
he and we will have another bottle too, but I must put
a little water into MY GLASS, (and he dwelt on that word,
and looked at me, quite feelin, as much as to say, don't
for goodness sake make use of that are word HORN agin,
for it's a joke I don't like,) for my head hante quite
the strength my cider has. Taste this, Sam, said he,
(openin of another bottle,) it's of the same age as the
last, but made of different apples, and I am fairly
stumped sometimes to say which is best.

These are the pleasures, says he, of a country life. A
man's own labor provides him with food, and an appetite
to enjoy it. Let him look which way he will, and he sees
the goodness and bounty of his Creator, his wisdom, his
power, and his majesty. There never was any thing so
true, as that are old sayin, "man made the town, but God
made the country," and both bespeak their different
architects in terms too plain to be misunderstood. The
one is filled with virtue and the other with vice. One
is the abode of plenty, and the other of want; one is a
ware-duck of nice pure water--and tother one a cess-pool.
Our towns are gettin so commercial and factoring, that
they will soon generate mobs, Sam, (how true that are
has turned out, haint it? he could see near about as far
into a mill-stone, as them that picks the hole into it,)
and mobs will introduce disobedience and defiance to
laws, and that must eend in anarchy and bloodshed. No,
said the old man, raising his voice, and giving the table
a wipe with his fist that made the glasses all jingle
agin, give me the country; that country to which he that
made it said, "Bring forth grass, the herb yield in seed,
and the tree yieldin fruit," AND WHO SAW THAT IT WAS
GOOD. Let me jine with the feathered tribe in the mornin,
(I hope you get up airly now, Sam; when you was a boy
there was no gitten you out of bed at no rate,) and at
sunset, in the hymns which they utter in full tide of
song to their Creator. Let me pour out the thankfulness
of my heart to the Giver of all good things, for the
numerous blessings I enjoy, and intreat him to bless my
increase, that I may have wherewithal to relieve the
wants of others, as he prevents and relieves mine. No!
give me the country. Its --- Minister was jist like a
horse that has the spavin: he sot off considerable stiff
at first, but when he once got under way, he got on like
a house a fire. He went like the wind, full split.

He was jist beginnin to warm on the subject, and I knew
if he did, what wonderful bottom he had; how he would
hang on for ever amost; so, says I, I think so too,
minister, I like the country, I always sleep better there
than in towns; it tante so plaguy hot, nor so noisy
neither, and then its a pleasant thing to set out on the
stoop and smoke in the cool, aint it? I think, says I,
too, Minister, that that are uncommon handsum cider of
yourn desarves a pipe, what do you think? Well, says he,
I think myself a pipe would'nt be amiss, and I got some
real good Varginey, as you een amost ever seed, a present
from Rowland Randolph, an old college chum; and none the
worse to my palate, Sam, for bringin bye gone recollections
with it. Phoebe, my dear, said he to his darter, bring
the pipes and tobacco. As soon as the old gentleman
fairly got a pipe in his mouth, I give Phoebe a wink, as
much as to say, warnt that well done. That's what I call
a most particular handsum fix. He can TALK now, (and that
_I_ DO LIKE to hear him do,) but he can't make a speech,
or preach a sarmon, and that _I_ DON'T LIKE to hear him
do, except on Sabbath day, or up to Town Hall, on oration
times.

Minister was an uncommon pleasant man, (for there was
nothin amost he didn't know,) except when he got his
dander up, and then he did spin out his yarns for
everlastinly.

But I'm of his opinion. If the folks here want their
country to go ahead, they must honor the plough, and
General Campbell ought to hammer that are into their
noddles, full chisell, as hard as he can drive. I could
larn him somethin, I guess, about hammerin he aint up
to. It tante every one that knows how to beat a thing
into a man's head. How could I have sold so many thousand
clocks, if I hadn't had that nack. Why, I wouldn't have
sold half a dozen, you may depend.

Agriculture is not only neglected but degraded here.
What a number of young folks there seem to be in these
parts, a ridin about, titivated out real jam, in their
go-to-meetin clothes, a doin nothin. It's melancholy to
think on it. That's the effect of the last war. The
idleness and extravagance of those times took root, and
bore fruit abundantly, and now the young people are above
their business. They are too high in the instep, that's
a fact Old Drivvle, down here to Maccan, said to me one
day, for gracious sake, says he Mr. Slick, do tell me
what I shall do with Johnny. His mother sets great store
by him, and thinks he's the makins of a considerable
smart man--he's growin up fast now, and I am pretty well
to do in the world, and reasonable forehanded, but I
don't know what the dogs to put him to. The Lawyers are
like spiders, they've eat up all the flies, and I guess
they'll have to eat each other soon, for there's more on
'em than causes now every court. The Doctors' trade is
a poor one, too, they don't get barely cash enough to
pay for their medicines; I never seed a country practitioner
yet that made any thing worth speakin of. Then, as for
preachin, why church and dissenters are pretty much tarred
with the same stick, they live in the same pastur with
their flocks; and, between 'em, its fed down pretty close
I tell you. What would you advise me to do with him?
Well, says I, I'll tell you if you won't be miffy with
me. Miffy with you indeed, said he, I guess I'll be very
much obliged to you; it tante every day one gets a chance
to consult with a person of your experience--I count it
quite a privilege to have the opinion of such an
understandin man as you be. Well, says I, take a stick
and give him a real good quiltin, jist tantune him like
blazes, and set him to work.--What does the critter
want? you have a good farm for him, let him go and airn
his bread; and when he can raise that, let him get a wife
to make butter for it; and when he has more of both than
he wants, let him sell em and lay up his money, and he
will soon have his bread buttered on both sides--put him
to, eh! why put him to the PLOUGH, the most nateral, the
most happy, the most innocent, and the host healthy
employment in the world. But, said the old-man (and he
did not look over half pleased) markets are so confounded
dull, labor so high, and the banks and great folks a
swallerin all up so, there don't seem much encouragement
for farmers, its hard rubbin, now-a-days, to live by the
plough--he'll be a hard workin poor man all his days.
Oh! says I, if he wants to get rich by farmin, be can
do that, too. Let him sell his wheat, and eat his oatmeal
and rye; send his beef, mutton and poultry to market,
and eat his pork and potatoes; make his own cloth, weave
his own linen, and keep out of shops, and he'll soon grow
rich--there are more fortins got by savin than by makin,
I guess, a plaguy sight--he cant eat his cake and have
it too, that's a fact. No, make a farmer of him, and you
will have the satisfaction of seeing him an honest, an
independent, and a respectable member of society--more
honest than traders, more independent than professional
men, and more respectable than either.

Ahem! says Marm Drivvle, and she began to clear her throat
for action; she slumped down her nittin, and clawed off
her spectacles, and looked right straight at me, so as
to take good aim. I seed a regular norwester a bruin, I
knew it would bust somewhere sartan, and make all smoke
agin, so I cleared out and left old Drivvle to stand the
squall. I conceit he must have had a tempestical time of
it, for she had get her Ebenezer up, and looked like a
proper sneezer. Make her Johnny a farmer, eh! I guess
that was too much for the like o' her to stomach.

PRIDE, SQUIRE, continued the Clockmaker, (with such an
air of concern, that, I verily believe, the man feels an
interest in the welfare of a Province, in which he has
spent so long a time,) Pride, Squire, and a false pride,
too, is the ruin of this country, I hope I may be skinned
if it tante.


No. XXVII

The White Nigger.

One of the most amiable, and at the same time most amusing
traits, in the Clockmaker's character, was the attachment
and kindness with which he regarded his horse. He considered
"Old Clay" as far above a Provincial Horse, as he did
one of his "free and enlightened citizens" superior to
a Blue Nose. He treated him as a travelling companion,
and when conversation flagged between us, would often
soliloquize to him, a habit contracted from pursuing his
journeys alone. Well now, he would say, "Old Clay," I
guess you took your time a goin up that are hill, 'spose
we progress now. Go along you old sculpin, and turn out
your toes. I reckon you are as deff as a shad, do you
hear there, "go ahead Old Clay." There now, he'd say,
Squire aint that dreadful pretty? There's action. That
looks about right--legs all under him--gathers all up
snug--no bobbin of his head--no rollin of his shoulders
--no wabblin of his hind parts, but steady as a pump
bolt, and the motion all underneath. When he fairly lays
himself to it, he trots like all vengeance. Then look at
his ears, jist like rabbits, none o' your flop ears like
them Amherst beasts, half horses, half pigs, but strait
up and pineted, and not too near at the tips; for that
are, I concait, always shews a horse aint true to draw.
There are only two things, Squire, worth lookin at in a
horse, action and soundness, for I never saw a critter
that had good action that was a bad beast. Old Clay puts
me in mind of one of our free and enlightened ---. Excuse
me, said I, Mr. Slick, but really you appropriate that
word "free" to your countrymen, as if you thought no
other people in the world were entitled to it but
yourselves. Neither be they, said he. We first sot the
example. Look at our declaration of independence. It was
writ by Jefferson, and he was the first man of the age,
perhaps the world never seed his ditto. It's a beautiful
piece of penmanship that, he gave the British the butt
eend of his mind there. I calculate you couldn't falt it
in no particular, it's generally allowed to be his cap
shief. In the first page of it, second section, and
first varse, are these words, "We hold this truth to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal." I guess
King George turned his quid when he read that. It was
somethin to chaw on, he hadn't been used to the flavor
of, I reckon. Jefferson forgot to insert--one little
word, said I, he should have said, "all white men;" for,
as it now stands, it is a practical untruth, in a country
which tolerates domestic slavery in its worst and most
forbidding form. It is a declaration of SHAME, and not
of INDEPENDENCE. It is as perfect a misnomer as ever I
knew. Well, said he, I must admit there is a screw loose
somewhere thereabouts, and I wish it would convene to
Congress, to do somethin or another about our niggers,
but I am not quite certified how that is to be sot to
rights--I concait that you don't understand us. But, said
he, (evading the subject with his usual dexterity,) we
deal only in niggers,--and those thick skulled, crooked
shanked, flat footed, long heeled, wooly headed gentlemen,
don't seem fit for much else but slavery, I do suppose.
They aint fit to contrive for themselves. They are jist
like grasshoppers; they dance and sing all summer, and
when winter comes they have nothin provided for it, and
lay down and die. They require some one to see arter
them. Now, we deal in black niggers only, but the Blue
Noses sell their own species--they trade in white slaves.
Thank God, said I, slavery does not exist in any part of
his Majesty's dominions now, we have at last wiped off
that national stain. Not quite, I guess, said he, with
an air of triumph, it tante done with in Nova Scotia,
for I have seed these human cattle sales with my own
eyes--I was availed of the truth of it up here to old
Furlong's, last November. I'll tell you the story, said
he; and as this story of the Clockmaker's contained some
extraordinary statements, which I had never heard of
before, I noted it in my journal, for the purpose of
ascertaining their truth; and, if founded on fact, of
laying them before the proper authorities.

Last fall, said he, I was on my way to Partridge Island,
to ship off some truck and produce I had taken in, in
the way of trade; and as I neared old Furlong's house,
I seed an amazin crowd of folks about the door; I said
to myself, says I, whose dead, and what's to pay now
--what on airth is the meanin of all this? Is it a vandew,
or a weddin, or a rolin frolick, or a religious stir, or
what is it? Thinks I, I'll see, so I hitches Old Clay to
the fence, and walks in. It was some time afore I was
able to swiggle my way thro' the crowd, and get into the
house. And when I did, who should I see but deacon
Westfall, a smooth faced, slick haired, meechin lookin
chap as you'd see in a hundred, a standin on a stool,
with an auctioneer's hammer in his hand; and afore him
was one Jerry Oaks and his wife, and two little orphan
children, the prettiest little toads I ever beheld in
all my born days. Gentlemen, said he, I will begin the
sale by putting up Jerry Oaks, of Apple River, he's a
considerable of a smart man yet, and can do many little
chores besides feedin the children and pigs, I guess he's
near about worth his keep. Will you warrant him sound,
wind and limb? says a tall ragged lookin countryman, for
he looks to me as if he was foundered in both feet, and
had a string halt into the bargain. When you are as old
as I be, says Jerry, mayhap you may be foundered too,
young man. I have seen the day when you wouldn't dare
to pass that joke on me, big as you be. Will any gentleman
bid for him, says the deacon, he's cheap at 7s. 6d. Why
deacon, said Jerry, why surely your honor isn't a goin
for to sell me separate from my poor old wife, are you?
Fifty years have we lived together as man and wife, and
a good wife has she been to me, through all my troubles
and trials, and God knows I have had enough of 'em. No
one knows my ways and my ailments but her, and who can
tend me so kind, or who will bear with the complaints of
a poor old man but his wife. Do, deacon, and Heaven bless
you for it, and yours, do sell us together. We have but
a few days to live now, death will divide us soon enough.
Leave her to close my old eyes, when the struggle comes,
and when it comes to you, deacon, as come it must to us
all, may this good deed rise up for you, as a memorial
before God. I wish it had pleased him to have taken us
afore it came to this, but his will be done; and he hung
his head, as if he felt he had drained the cup of
degradation to its dregs. Can't afford it, Jerry--can't
afford it, old man, said the deacon, (with such a smile
as a November sun gives, a passin atween clouds.) Last
year they took oats for rates, now nothin but wheat will
go down, and that's as good as cash, and you'll hang on
as most of you do yet these many years. There's old Joe
Crowe, I believe in my conscience he will live for ever.
The biddin then went on, and he was sold for six shillings
a week. Well, the poor critter gave one long loud deep
groan, and then folded his arms over his breast, so tight
that he seemed tryin to keep in his heart from bustin.
I pitied the misfortinate wretch from my soul, I don't
know as I ever felt so streaked afore. Not so his wife,
she was all tongue. She begged and prayed, and cryed,
and scolded, and talked at the very tip eend of her voice,
till she became, poor critter, exhausted, and went off
in a faintin fit, and they ketched her up and carried
her out to the air, and she was sold in that condition.
Well I couldn't make head or tail of all this, I could
hardly believe my eyes and ears; so, says I, to John
Porter, (him that has that catamount of a wife, that I
had such a touss with,) John Porter, says I, who ever
seed or heerd tell of the like of this, what under the
sun does it all mean? What has that are critter done that
he should be sold arter that fashion? Done, said he, why
nothin, and that's the reason they sell him. This is
town meetin day, and we always sell the poor for the
year, to the lowest bidder. Them that will keep them for
the lowest sum, gets them. Why, says I, that feller that
bought him is a pauper himself, to my sartan knowledge.
If you were to take him up by the heels and shake him
for a week, you couldn't shake sixpence out of him. How
can he keep him? It appears to me the poor buy the poor
here, and that they all starve together. Says I, there
was a very good man once lived to Liverpool, so good, he
said he hadn't sinned for seven years; well he put a mill
dam across the river, and stopt all the fish from goin
up, and the court fined him fifty pounds for it, and this
good man was so wrathy, he thought he should feel better
to swear a little, but conscience told him it was wicked.
So he compounded with conscience, and cheated the devil,
by callin it a "dam fine business." Now, friend Porter,
if this is your poor law, it is a damn poor law, I tell
you, and no good can come of such hard-hearted doins.
It's no wonder your country don't prosper, for who ever
heerd of a blessin on such carryins on as this? Says I,
did you ever hear tell of a sartan rich man, that had a
beggar called Lazarus laid at his gate, and how the dogs
had more compassion than he had, and came and licked his
sores? cause if you have, look at that forehanded and
sponsible man there, deacon Westfall, and you see the
rich man. And then look at that are pauper, dragged away
in that ox-cart from his wife for ever, like a feller to
States' Prison, and you see Lazarus. Recollect what
follered, John Porter, and have neither art nor part in
it, as you are a Christian man. It fairly made me sick
all day. John Porter follered me out of the house, and
as I was a turnin old Clay, said he, Mr. Slick, says he,
I never seed it in that are light afore, for its our
custom, and custom you know will reconcile one to most
any thing. I must say, it does appear, as you lay it out,
an unfeelin way of providin for the poor; but, as touchin
the matter of dividen man and wife, why, (and he peered
all round to see that no one was within hearin,) why I
dont know, but if it was my allotment to be sold, I'd as
lives they'd sell me separate from Jane as not, for it
appears to me its about the best part of it.

Now, what I have told you Squire, said the Clockmaker,
is the truth; and if members, instead of their everlastin
politicks, would only look into these matters a little,
I guess it would be far better for the Country. So, as
for our declaration of independence, I guess you need'nt
twitt me with our slave-sales, for we deal only in blacks;
but Blue Nose approbates no distinction in colours, and
when reduced to poverty, is reduced to slavery, and is
sold--a White Nigger.


No. XXVIII

Fire in the Dairy.

As we approached within fifteen or twenty miles of
Parrsboro, a sudden turn of the road brought us directly
in front of a large wooden house, consisting of two
stories and an immense roof, the heighth of which edifice
was much increased by a stone foundation, rising several
feet above ground. Now, did you ever see, said Mr. Slick,
such a catamaran as that; there's a proper goney for you,
for to go and raise such a buildin as that are, and he
as much use for it, I do suppose, as my old waggon here
has for a fifth wheel. Blue Nose always takes keer to
have a big house, cause it shows a big man, and one that's
considerable forehanded, and pretty well to do in the
world. These Nova Scotians turn up their Blue Noses, as
a bottle nose porpoise turns up his snout, and puff and
snort exactly like him at a small house. If neighbor
Carrit has a two story house, all filled with winders,
like Sandy Hook light house, neighbor Parsnip must add
jist two feet more on to the post of hisn, and about as
much more to the rafter, to go ahead of him; so all these
long sarce gentlemen strive who can get the furdest in
the sky, away from their farms. In New England our maxim
is a small house, and a most an everlastin almighty big
barn; but these critters revarse it, they have little
hovels for their cattle, about the bigness of a good
sizeable bear trap, and a house for the humans as grand
as Noah's Ark. Well, jist look at it and see what a figur
it does cut. An old hat stuffed into one pane of glass,
and an old flannel petticoat, as yaller as jaundice, in
another, finish off the front; an old pair of breeches,
and the pad of a bran new cart saddle worn out, titivate
the eend, while the backside is all closed up on account
of the wind. When it rains, if there aint a pretty
how-do-you-do, it's a pity--beds toated out of this room,
and tubs set in tother to catch soft water to wash; while
the clapboards, loose at the eends, go clap, clap, clap,
like galls a hacklin flax, and the winders and doors keen
a dancin to the music. The only dry place in the house
is in the chimbley corner, where the folks all huddle
up, as an old hen and her chickens do under a cart of a
wet day. I wish I had the matter of half a dozen pound
of nails, (you'll hear the old gentleman in the grand
house say,) I'll be darned, if I don't, for if I had,
I'd fix them are clapboards, I guess they'll go for it
some o' these days. I wish you had, his wife would say,
for they do make a most particular unhansum clatter,
that's a fact; and so they let it be till the next
tempestical time comes, and then they wish agin. Now this
grand house has only two rooms down stairs, that are
altogether slicked up and finished off complete, the
other is jist petitioned off rough like, one half great
dark entries, and tother half places that look a plaguy
sight more like packin boxes than rooms. Well, all up
stairs is a great onfarnished place, filled with every
sort of good for nothin trumpery in natur--barrels without
eends--corn cobs half husked--cast off clothes and bits
of old harness, sheep skins, hides, and wool, apples,
one half rotten, and tother half squashed--a thousand or
two of shingles that have bust their withs, and broke
loose all over the floor, hay rakes, forks and sickles,
without handles or teeth; rusty scythes, and odds and
eends without number. When any thing is wanted, then
there is a general overhaul of the whole cargo, and away
they get shifted forrard, one by one, all handled over
and chucked into a heap together till the lost one is
found; and the next time, away they get pitched to the
starn agin, higglety pigglety, heels over head, like
sheep taken a split for it over a wall; only they increase
in number each move, cause some on 'em are sure to get
broke into more pieces than they was afore. Whenever I
see one of these grand houses, and a hat lookin out o'
the winder, with nary head in it, thinks I, I'll be darned
if that's a place for a wooden clock, nothin short of a
London touch would go down with them folks, so I calculate
I wont alight.

Whenever you come to such a grand place as this, Squire,
depend on't the farm is all of a piece, great crops of
thistles, and an everlastin yield of weeds, and cattle
the best fed of any in the country, for they are always
in the grain fields or mowin lands, and the pigs a rootin
in the potatoe patches. A spic and span new gig at the
door, shinin like the mud banks of Windsor, when the
sun's on 'em, and an old wrack of a hay waggon, with its
tongue onhitched, and stickin out behind, like a pig's
tail, all indicate a big man. He's above thinkin of farmin
tools, he sees to the bran new gig, and the hired helps
look arter the carts. Catch him with his go to meetin
clothes on, a rubbin agin their nasty greasy axles, like
a tarry nigger; not he, indeed, he'd stick you up with it.

The last time I came by here, it was a little bit arter
day light down, rainin cats and dogs, and as dark as
Egypt; so, thinks I, I'll jist turn in here for shelter
to Squire Bill Blake's. Well, I knocks away at the front
door, till I thought I'd a split it in: but arter a rappin
awhile to no purpose, and findin no one come, I gropes
my way round to the back door, and opens it, and feelin
all along the partition for the latch, of the keepin
room, without finding it, I knocks agin, when some one
from inside calls out 'walk.' Thinks I, I don't cleverly
know whether that indicates 'walk in,' or 'walk out,'
its plaguy short metre, that's a fact; but I'll see any
how. Well, arter gropin about awhile, at last I got hold
of the string and lifted the latch and walked in, and
there sot old marm Blake, close into one corner of the
chimbley fire place, a see-sawin in a rockin chair, and
a half grown black house help, half asleep in tother
corner, a scroudgin up over the embers. Who be you, said
Marm Blake, for I can't see you. A stranger, said I.
Beck, says she, speakin to the black heifer in the corner,
Beck, says she agin, raisin her voice, I believe you are
as deff as a post, get up this minit and stir the coals,
till I see the man. Arter the coals were stirred into a
blaze, the old lady surveyed me from head to foot, then
she axed me my name, and where I came from, where I was
agoin, and what my business was. I guess, said she, you
must be reasonable, wet, sit to the fire and dry yourself,
or mayhap your health may be endamnified p'raps.

So I sot down, and we soon got pretty considerably well
acquainted, and quite sociable like, and her tongue when
it fairly waked up, began to run like a mill race when
the gate's up. I hadn't been talkin long, 'fore I well
nigh lost sight of her altogether agin, for little Beck,
began to flourish about her broom, right and left, in
great style, a clearin up, and she did raise such an
auful thick cloud o' dust, I didn't know if I should ever
see or breathe either agin. Well when all was sot to
rights and the fire made up, the old lady began to
apologize for havin no candles; she said she'd had a
grand tea party the night afore, and used them all up,
and a whole sight of vittals too, the old man hadn't been
well since, and had gone to bed airly. But, says she, I
do wish with all my heart you had a come last night, for
we had a most a special supper--punkin pies and dough-nuts,
and apple sarce, and a roast goose stuffed with indian
puddin, and a pig's harslet stewed in molasses and onions,
and I don't know what all, and the fore part of to-day
folks called to finish. I actilly have nothin left to
set afore you; for it was none o' your skim-milk parties,
but superfine uppercrust real jam, and we made clean work
of it. But I'll make some tea, any how, for you, and
perhaps, arter that, said she, alterin of her tone,
perhaps you'll expound the Scriptures, for its one while
since I've heerd them laid open powerfully. I hant been
fairly lifted up since that good man Judas Oglethorp
travelled this road, and then she gave a groan and hung
down her head, and looked corner-ways, to see how the
land lay thereabouts. The tea kettle was accordingly put
on, and some lard fried into oil, and poured into a
tumbler; which, with the aid of an inch of cotton wick,
served as a make shift for a candle. Well, arter tea we
sot and chatted awhile about fashions, and markets, and
sarmons, and scandal, and all sorts o' things; and, in
the midst of it, in runs the nigger wench, screemin out
at the tip eend of her voice, oh Missus! Missus! there's
fire in the Dairy, fire in the Dairy! I'll give it to
you for that, said the old lady, I'll give it you for
that, you good for nothin hussy, that's all your
carelessness, go and put it out this minit, how on airth
did it get there? my night's milk gone, I dare say; run
this minit and put it out and save the milk. I am dreadful
afeard of fire, I always was from a boy, and seein the
poor foolish critter seize a broom in her fright, I ups
with the tea kettle and follows her; and away we clipt
thro' the entry, she callin out mind the cellar door on
the right, take kear of the close horse on the left, and
so on, but as I could'nt see nothin, I kept right straight
ahead. At last my foot kotched in somethin or another,
that pitched me somewhat less than a rod or so, right
agin the poor black critter, and away we went, heels over
head. I heerd a splash and a groan, and I smelt somethin
plaguy sour, but I could'nt see nothin; at last I got
hold of her and lifted her up, for she didn't scream,
but made a strange kind of choakin noise, and by this
time up came Marm Blake with a light. If poor Beck didn't
let go then in airnest, and sing out, for dear life, its
a pity, for she had gone head first into the swill tub,
and the tea kettle had scalded her feet. She kept a dancin
right up and down, like one ravin distracted mad, and
boohooed like any thing, clawin away at her head the
whole time, to clear away the stuff that stuck to her
wool.

I held in as long as I could, till I thought I should
have busted, for no soul could help a larfin, and at last
I haw hawed right out. You good for nothin stupid slut
you, said the old lady, to poor Beck, it serves you right,
you had no business to leave it there--I'll pay you. But,
said I, interferin for the unfortunate critter, Good
gracious Marm! you forget the fire. No I don't, said she,
I see him, and seesin the broom, that had fallen from
the nigger's hand, she exclaimed, I see him, the nasty
varmint, and began to belabor most onmarcifully a poor
half starved cur that the noise had attracted to the
entry. I'll teach you, said she, to drink milk; I'll larn
you to steal into the dairy; and the besot critter joined
chorus with Beck, and they both yelled together, till
they fairly made the house ring agin. Presently old Squire
Blake popt his head out of a door, and rubbin his eyes,
half asleep and half awake, said, What the devil's to
pay now, wife? Why nothin, says she, only "FIRE'S IN THE
DAIRY," and Beck's in the swill tub, that's all. Well,
don't make such a touss, then, said he, if that's all,
and he shot tu the door and went to bed agin. When we
returned to the keepin room, the old lady told me that
they always had had a dog called "FIRE," ever since her
grandfather, Major Donald Fraser's time, and what was
very odd, says she, every one on 'em would drink milk if
he had a chance. By this time the shower was over, and
the moon shinin so bright and clear that I thought I'd
better be up and stirrin, and arter slippin a few cents
into the poor nigger wench's hand, I took leave of the
grand folks in the big house. Now, Squire, among these
middlin sized farmers you may lay this down as a rule
--THE BIGGER THE HOUSE, THE BIGGER THE FOOLS BE THAT'S
IN IT.

But, howsomever, I never call to mind that are go in the
big house, up to the right, that I don't snicker when I
think of "FIRE IN THE DAIRY."


No. XXIX

A Body without a Head.


I allot you had ought to visit our great country Squire,
said the Clockmaker, afore you quit for good and all. I
calculate you don't understand us. The most splendid
location atween the Poles is the United States, and the
first man alive is Gineral Jackson, the hero of the age,
him that skeered the British out of their seven senses.
Then there's the great Danel Webster, its generally
allowed, he's the greatest orator on the face of the
airth, by a long chalk, and Mr. Van Buren, and Mr. Clay,
and Amos Kindle, and Judge White, and a whole raft of
statesmen, up to every thing, and all manner of politics;
there aint the beat of 'em to be found any where. If you
was to hear 'em, I concait you'd hear genuine pure English
for once, any how; for its generally allowed we speak
English better than the British. They all know me to be
an American citizen here, by my talk, for we speak it
complete in New England.

Yes, if you want to see a free people--them that makes
their own laws, accordin to their own notions--go to
the States. Indeed, if you can falt them at all, they
are a little grain too free. Our folks have their head
a trifle too much, sometimes, particularly in Elections,
both in freedom of speech and freedom of Press. One hadnt
ought to blart right out always all that comes uppermost.
A horse that's too free frets himself and his rider too,
and both on em lose flesh in the long run. I'd een a most
as lives use the whip sometimes, as to be for everlastenly
a pullin at the rein. One's arm gets plaguy tired, that's
a fact. I often think of a lesson I larnt Jehiel Quirk
once, for letten his tongue outrun his good manners. I
was down to Rhode Island one summer to larn gilden and
bronzin, so as to give the finishin touch to my clocks.
Well, the folks elected me a hog reave, jist to poke fun
at me, and Mr. Jehiel, a bean pole of a lawyer, was at
the bottom of it. So one day, up to Town Hall, where
there was an oration to be delivered on our Independence,
jist afore the orator commenced, in runs Jehiel in a most
allfired hurry; and, says he, I wonder, says he, if
there's are a hog reave here, because if there be I
require a turn of his office. And then, said he, a lookin
up to me and callin out at the tip eend of his voice,
Mr. Hogreave Slick, says he, here's a job out here for
you. Folks snickered a good deal, and I felt my spunk a
risen like half flood, that's a fact; but I bit in my
breath, and spoke quite cool. Possible, says I; well
duty, I do suppose, must be done, though it tante the
most agreeable in the world. I've been a thinkin, says
I, that I would be liable to a fine of fifty cents for
sufferin a hog to run at large, and as you are the biggest
one, I presume, in all Rhode Island, I'll jist begin by
ringin your nose, to prevent you for the futur from pokin
your snout where you hadnt ought to, and I seized him by
the nose and nearly wrung it off. Well, you never heerd
sich a shoutin and clappin of hands, and cheerin, in your
life--they haw hawed like thunder. Says I Jehiel Quirk
that was a superb joke of yourn, how you made the folks
larf didn't you? You are een amost the wittiest critter
I ever seed. I guess you'll mind your parts o' speech,
and study the ACCIDENCE agin afore you let your clapper
run arter that fashion, won't you?

I thought, said I, that among you republicans, there were
no gradations of rank or office, and that all were equal,
the Hogreave and the Governor, the Judge and the Crier,
the master and his servant, and although, from the natur
of things, more power might be entrusted to one than the
other, yet that the rank of all was precisely the same.
Well, said he, it is so in theory, but not always in
practice, and when we do pracTISE it, it seems to go a
little agin the grain, as if it warnt quite right neither.
When I was last to Baltimore there was a Court there,
and Chief Justice Marshall was detailed there for duty.
Well, with us in New England, the Sheriff attends the
Judge to Court and, says I to the Sheriff, why don't you
escort that are venerable old Judge to the State House,
he's a credit to our nation that man, he's actilly the
first pot hook on the crane, the whole weight is on him,
if it warnt for him the fat would be in the fire in no
time, I wonder you don't show him that respect--it wouldn't
hurt you one morsel, I guess. Says he, quite miffy like,
don't he know the way to Court as well as I do? if I
thought he didn't, I'd send one of my niggers to show
him the road. I wonder who was his lackey last year, that
he wants me to be hisn this time. It don't convene to
one of our free and enlightened citizens, to tag arter
any man, that's a fact; its too English and too foreign
for our glorious institutions. He's bound by law to be
there at 10 o'clock, and so be I, and we both know the
way there I reckon.

I told the story to our minister, Mr. Hopewell (and he
has some odd notions about him that man, though he don't
always let out what he thinks); says he, Sam, that was
in bad taste, (a great phrase of the old gentleman's
that) in bad taste, Sam. That are Sheriff was a goney;
don't cut your cloth arter his pattern, or your garment
won't become you, I tell you. We are too enlightened, to
worship our fellow citizens as the ancients did, but we
ought to pay great respect to vartue and exalted talents
in this life; and, arter their death, there should be
statues of eminent men placed in our national temples,
for the veneration of arter ages, and public ceremonies
performed annually to their honor. Arter all, Sam, said
he, (and he made a considerable of a long pause, as if
he was dubersome whether he ought to speak out or not)
arter all, Sam, said he, atween ourselves, (but you must
not let on I said so, for the fullness of time han't yet
come) half a yard of blue ribbon is a plaguy cheap way
of rewarden merit, as the English do; and, although we
larf at em, (for folks always will larf at what they hant
got, and never can get,) yet titles aint bad things as
objects of ambition, are they? Then, tappen me on the
shoulder, and lookin up and smilin, as he always did when
he was pleased with an idee, Sir Samuel Slick would not
sound bad, I guess, would it Sam?

When I look at the English House of Lords, said he, and
see so much larning, piety, talent, honor, vartue, and
refinement, collected together, I ax myself this, here
question, can a system which produces and sustains such
a body of men, as the world never saw before and never
will see agin, be defective? Well, I answer myself,
perhaps it is, for all human institutions are so, but I
guess its een about the best arter all. It wouldn't do
here now, Sam, nor perhaps for a century to come, but it
will come sooner or later with some variations. Now the
Newtown pippin, when transplanted to England, don't
produce such fruit as it does in Long Island, and English
fruits don't preserve their flavor here, neither; allowance
must be made for difference of soil and climate--(Oh
Lord! thinks I, if he turns in to his orchard, I'm done
for; I'll have to give him the dodge some how or another,
through some hole in the fence, that's a fact--but he
passed on that time.) So it is, said he, with constitutions;
ourn will gradually approximate to theirn, and theirn to
ourn. As they lose their strength of executive, they will
varge to republicanism, and as we invigorate the form of
government, (as we must do, or go to the old boy) we
shall tend towards a monarchy. If this comes on gradually,
like the changes in the human body, by the slow approach
of old age, so much the better; but I fear we shall have
fevers, and convulsion-fits, and cholics, and an everlastin
gripin of the intestines first; you and I wont live to
see it Sam, but our posteriors will, you may depend.

I don't go the whole figur with minister, said the
Clockmaker, but I do opinionate with him in part. In our
business relations we bely our political principles--we
say every man is equal in the Union, and should have an
equal vote and voice in the Government; but in our Banks,
Rail Road Companies, Factory Corporations, and so on,
every man's vote is regilated by his share and proportion
of stock; and if it warnt so, no man would take hold on
these things at all.

Natur ordained it so--a father of a family is head, and
rules supreme in his household; his eldest son and darter
are like first leftenants under him, and then there is
an overseer over the niggers; it would not do for all to
be equal there. So it is in the univarse, it is ruled by
one Superior Power; if all the Angels had a voice in the
Government I guess--Here I fell fast asleep; I had been
nodding for some time, not in approbation of what he
said, but in heaviness of slumber, for I had never before
heard him so prosy since I first overtook him on the
Colchester road. I hate politics as a subject of
conversation, it is too wide a field for chit chat, and
too often ends in angry discussion. How long he continued
this train of speculation I do not know, but, judging by
the different aspect of the country, I must have slept
an hour.

I was at length aroused by the report of his rifle, which
he had discharged from the waggon. The last I recollected
of his conversation was, I think, about American angels
having no voice in the Government, an assertion that
struck my drowsy faculties as not strictly true; as I
had often heard that the American ladies talked frequently
and warmly on the subject of politics, and knew that one
of them had very recently the credit of breaking up
General Jackson's cabinet.--When I awoke, the first I
heard was "well, I declare, if that aint an amazin fine
shot, too, considerin how the critter was a runnin the
whole blessed time; if I han't cut her head off with a
ball, jist below the throat, that's a fact." There's no
mistake in a good Kentucky rifle! I tell you. Whose head?
said I, in great alarm, whose head, Mr. Slick? for heaven's
sake what have you done? (for I had been dreaming of
those angelic politicians the American ladies.) Why that
are hen-partridge's head, to be sure, said he; don't you
see how special wonderful wise it looks, a flutterin
about arter its head. True, said I, rubbing my eyes, and
opening them in time to see the last muscular spasms of
the decapitated body; true, Mr. Slick, it is a happy
illustration of our previous conversation--A BODY WITHOUT
A HEAD.


No. XXX

A Tale of Bunker's Hill.

Mr. Slick, like all his countrymen whom I have seen, felt
that his own existence was involved in that of the
Constitution of the United States, and that it was his
duty to uphold it upon all occasions. He affected to
consider its government and its institutions as perfect,
and if any doubt was suggested as to the stability or
character of either, would make the common reply of all
Americans, "I guess you don't understand us," or else
enter into a labored defence. When left, however, to the
free expression of his own thoughts, he would often give
utterance to those apprehensions which most men feel in
the event of an experiment not yet fairly tried, and
which has in many parts evidently disappointed the sanguine
hopes of its friends. But, even on these occasions, when
his vigilance seemed to slumber, he would generally cover
them, by giving them as the remarks of others, or concealing
them in a tale. It was this habit that gave his discourse
rather the appearance of "thinking aloud," than a connected
conversation.

We are a great nation, Squire, he said, that's sartain;
but I'm afeard we didn't altogether start right. Its in
politics as in racin, every thing depends upon a fair
start. If you are off too quick, you have to pull up and
turn back agin, and your beast gets out of wind and is
baffled, and if you lose in the start you hant got a fair
chance arterwards, and are plaguy apt to be jockied in
the course. When we set up housekeepin, as it were for
ourselves, we hated our step mother, Old England, so
dreadful bad, we wouldn't foller any of her ways of
managin at all, but made new receipts for ourselves.
Well, we missed it in many things most consumedly, some
how or another. Did you ever see, said he, a congregation
split right in two by a quarrel, and one part go off and
set up for themselves. I am sorry to say, said I, that
I have seen some melancholy instances of the kind. Well,
they shoot ahead, or drop astern, as the case may be but
they soon get on another tack, and leave the old ship
clean out of sight. When folks once take to emigratin in
religion in this way, they never know where to bide.
First they try one location, and then they try another;
some settle here and some improve there, but they don't
hitch their horses together long. Some times they complain
they HAVE TOO LITTLE WATER, at other times that they HAVE
TOO MUCH; they are never satisfied, and, wherever these
separatists go, they onsettle others as bad as themselves.
I NEVER LOOK ON A DESARTER AS ANY GREAT SHAKES. My poor
father used to say, "Sam, mind what I tell you, if a man
don't agree in all particulars with his church, and can't
go the whole hog with 'em, he aint justified on that
account, no how, to separate from them, for Sam, SCHISM
IS A SIN IN THE EYE OF GOD." The whole Christian world,
he would say, is divided into two great families, the
Catholic and Protestant. Well, the Catholic is a united
family, a happy family, and a strong family, all governed
by one head; and Sam, as sure as eggs is eggs, that are
family will grub out tother one, stalk, branch and root,
it won't so much as leave the seed of it in the ground,
to grow by chance as a nateral curiosity. I replied: "I haven't
time to go now," but he insisted, "Well, come anyway and
when you have time you can go and get it." So I went.
We started off in the direction of what I have since
learned is the richest locality in gold mines and after
walking a while we seemed to float through space; then
we came to the ground a few feet from the top of the
mountain. We walked up to the top and again floated in
the air in a semi-circle, landing at the foot of another
mountain a few miles to the west.

The stranger said: "I want you to note the peculiar
formation of this country and this stream and right here,
walking a short distance, is where you will find the
gold." About three months later I decided to return
to Chicago, and in the train I met a cigar salesman
who, as we soon became friendly, insisted that I should
locate in one of the towns on his route and gave me a
letter to a certain friend of his in the mining district.
When the friend had read the letter he wrote another to a friend
of his own on whom I was to call.

As I went down the street I carried the letter in my hand
and as I crossed the street I stopped short, for the store
I sought was the store of my dream.

Three years ago at a summer resort where a company of
us were telling strange dreams, I remarked that the
weak part of my dream was that one of my guides was
supposed to be a dead relative of my own, and my mother
remarked at once, "I had an uncle, a prospector, who died
out West in the mining country, but nobody ever knew
just where."
Chicago.

CURIOUS.

MARION HOLMES' ANSWER.

Dr. Peterson, the New York neurologist, in a recent
magazine article on dreams and their meaning, points out
that many dreams thought to be prophetic can be accounted
for physiologically and avers that there never was a
purely prophetic dream. He would contend, no doubt, that
your waking thoughts having been a good deal engaged
with Western life, your dream carried the same train of
thought straight through.
He would probably characterize the incidents of the rich
mines, the store and the relative as merely coincidental,
yet as the writer of a text-book on mental philosophy
observes, to call such dreams coincidences leaves the
mystery as great as before.

It is evident Curious is not as curious as what he signs
himself. If he had investigated his dream he may have
found it to his advantage.

* * * * *

WARDEN DREAMS OF JAIL DELIVERY--FOILS ATTEMPT.

Chicago American, February 24, 1921.

New Orleans, Feb. 24.--Because Capt. H.J. Ruffier, warden
of the House of Detention, dreamed there was a jail
delivery on, a general effort to escape from the prison
was frustrated. Forty prisoners confined in one big
room, on the Tulane avenue side of the building, were
detected working at the bars of a window and picking
at brickworks under another window when discovered.

This dream may be attributed to mental telepathy. The
prisoners evidently have been planning their escape for
days. (Creating thought forms.) It was possible for
the warden in sleep, out of his body, to be mentally
impressed of the delivery and bring it through into waking
consciousness.

* * * * *

DREAMING TO SOME PURPOSE.
Chicago Daily News, February 24, 1921.
Huntington, W. Va.--Mrs. Mattie Estep was told in a dream to write
songs. She did so, and two of them were accepted and published in
New York.

PAINTS PICTURE IN DREAM, GHOST GUIDES HER BRUSH.
Chicago Evening American, June 8, 1921.
Peoria is all excited today over the announcement by Benjamin
H.
Serkowich of the Peoria Art League that a canvas painted by a woman
in her dream with the hand of the immortal and long since departed
Whistler guiding her brush, is on display at a local theater mezzanine
floor which gave space to the annual exhibit of the League.
Mrs. William Hawley Smith, wife of Dr. W.H. Smith of Peoria, is the
woman. She and her husband are among the wealthiest and most socially
prominent families in Peoria.
Dr. William Hawley Smith is well known as a student and writer on
sociological problems. Both he and Mrs. Smith claim to have frequently
received spirit messages from the dead. Several weeks ago Mrs. Smith
says she was sleeping soundly when Whistler appeared in a dream.And I say, Polly dear, I guess we're a goin to have rain,
for that plaguy cute rheumatis has seized my foot and it
does antagonize me so I have no peace. It always does so
when it's like for a change. Dear heart she says, (the
poor simple critter,) then I guess I had better rub it,
had'nt I, Sam? and she crawls out of bed and gets her
red flannel petticoat, and rubs away at my foot ever so
long. Oh, Sam, if she could rub it out of my heart as
easy as she thinks she rubs it out of my foot, I should
be in peace, that's a fact.

What's done, Sam, can't be helped, there is no use in
cryin over spilt milk, but still one can't help a thinkin
on it. But I dont love schisms and I dont love rebellion.

Our revolution has made us grow faster and grow richer;
but Sam, when we were younger and poorer, we were more
pious and more happy. We have nothin fixed either in
religion or politics. What connection there ought to be
atween Church and State, I am not availed, but some there
ought to be as sure as the Lord made Moses. Religion when
left to itself, as with us, grows too rank and luxuriant.
Suckers and sprouts, and intersecting shoots, and
superfluous wood make a nice shady tree to look at, but
where's the fruit, Sam? that's the question--where's the
fruit? No; the pride of human wisdom, and the presumption
it breeds will ruinate us. Jefferson was an infidel, and
avowed it, and gloried in it, and called it the
enlightenment of the age. Cambridge College is Unitarian,
cause it looks wise to doubt, and every drumstick of a
boy ridicules the belief of his forefathers. If our
country is to be darkened by infidelity, our Government
defied by every State, and every State ruled by mobs--then,
Sam, the blood we shed in our revolution will be atoned
for in the blood and suffering of our fellow citizens.
The murders of that civil war will be expiated by a
political suicide of the State.

I am somewhat of father's opinion, Said the Clockmaker,
though I dont go the whole figur with him, but he needn't
have made such an everlastin touss about fixin that are
British officer's flint for him, for he'd a died of
himself by this time, I do suppose, if he had a missed
his shot at him. Praps we might have done a little better,
and praps we mightn't, by sticken a little closer to the
old constitution. But one thing I will say, I think arter
all, your Colony Government is about as happy and as a
good a one as I know on. A man's life and property are
well protected here at little cost, and he can go where
he likes and do what he likes provided he don't trespass
on his neighbor.

I guess that's enough for any on us, now aint it?


No. XXXI

Gulling a Blue Nose.

I allot, said Mr. Slick, that the Blue Noses are the most
gullible folks on the face of the airth--rigular soft
horns, that's a fact. Politicks and such stuff set 'em
a gapin, like children in a chimbley corner listenen to
tales of ghosts, Salem witches, and Nova Scotia snowstorms;
and while they stand starin and yawpin all eyes and mouth,
they get their pockets picked of every cent that's in
'em. One candidate chap says "Feller citizens, this
country is goin to the dogs hand over hand; look at your
rivers, you have no bridges; at your wild lands, you have
no roads; at your treasury, you hante got a cent in it:
at your markets, things dont fetch nothin; at your fish,
the Yankees ketch 'em all. There's nothin behind you
but sufferin, around you but poverty, afore you, but
slavery and death. What's the cause of this unheerd of
awful state of things, ay, what's the cause? Why Judges,
and Banks, and Lawyers, and great folks, have swallered
all the money. They've got you down, and they'll keep
you down to all etarnity, you and your posteriors arter
you. Rise up like men, arouse yourselves like freemen,
and elect me to the Legislatur, and I'll lead on the
small but patriotic band, I'll put the big wigs thro'
their facins, I'll make 'em shake in their shoes, I'll
knock off your chains and make you free." Well, the goneys
fall tu and elect him, and he desarts right away, with
balls, rifle, powder horn and all. HE PROMISED TOO MUCH.

Then comes a real good man, and an everlastin fine
preacher, a most a special spiritual man, renounces the
world, the flesh, and the devil, preaches and prays day
and night, so kind to the poor, and so humble, he has no
more pride than a babe, and so short-handed he's no butter
to his bread--all self denial, mortifyin the flesh. Well,
as soon as he can work it, he marries the richest gall
in all his flock, and then his bread is buttered on both
sides. HE PROMISED TOO MUCH.

Then comes a Doctor, and a prime article he is too, I've
got, says he, a screw augur emetic and hot crop, and if
I cant cure all sorts o' things in natur my name aint
quack. Well he turns stomach and pocket, both inside out,
and leaves poor Blue Nose--a dead man. HE PROMISED TOO
MUCH.

Then comes a Lawyer, an honest lawyer too, a real wonder
under the sun, as straight as a shingle in all his dealins.
He's so honest he cant bear to hear tell of other lawyers,
he writes agin 'em, raves agin 'em, votes agin 'em, they
are all rogues but him. He's jist the man to take a case
in hand, cause HE will see justice done. Well, he wins
his case, and fobs all for costs, cause he's sworn to
see justice done to--himself. HE PROMISED TOO MUCH.

Then comes a Yankee Clockmaker, (and here Mr. Slick
looked up and smiled,) with his "Soft Sawder," and "Human
Natur," and he sells clocks warranted to run from July
to Etarnity, stoppages included, and I must say they do
run as long as--as long as wooden clocks commonly do,
that's a fact. But I'll shew you presently how I put the
leak into 'em, for here's a feller a little bit ahead on
us, whose flint I've made up my mind to fix this while
past. Here we were nearly thrown out of the waggon, by
the breaking down of one of those small wooden bridges,
which prove so annoying and so dangerous to travellers.
Did you hear that are snap? said he, well as sure as
fate, I'll break my clocks over them etarnal log bridges,
if Old Clay clips over them arter that fashion. Them are
poles are plaguy treacherous, they are jist like old Marm
Patience Doesgood's teeth, that keeps the great United
Independent Democratic Hotel, at Squaw Neck Creek, in
Massachusetts, one half gone, and tother half rotten
eends. I thought you had disposed of your last Clock,
said I, at Colchester, to Deacon Flint. So I did, he
replied, the last one I had to sell to HIM, but I got a
few left for other folks yet. Now there is a man on this
road, one Zeb Allen, a real genuINE skinflint, a proper
close fisted customer as you'll amost see any where, and
one that's not altogether the straight thing in his dealin
neither. He dont want no one to live but himself, and
he's mighty handsum to me, sayin my Clocks are all a
cheat, and that we ruinate the country, a drainin every
drop of money out of it, a callin me a Yankee broom and
what not. But it tante all jist Gospel that he says. Now
I'll put a Clock on him afore he knows it, I'll go right
into him as slick as a whistle, and play him to the eend
of my line like a trout. I'll have a hook in his gills,
while he's a thinkin he's only smellin at the bait. There
he is now, I'll be darned if he aint, standin afore his
shop door, lookin as strong as high proof Jamaiky; I
guess I'll whip it out o' the bung while he's a lookin
arter the spicket, and praps he'll be none o' the wiser
till be finds it out, neither.

Well Squire, how do you do, said he, how's all to home?
Reasonable well, I give you thanks, wont you alight? Cant
to-day, said Mr. Slick, I'm in a considerable of a hurry
to katch the Packet, have you any commands for Sow West?
I'm goin to the Island, and across the Bay to Windsor.
Any word that way? No says Mr. Allen, none that I can
think on, unless it be to enquire how butter's goin; they
tell me cheese is down, and proDUCE of all kind particular
dull this fall. Well, I'm glad I can tell you that
question, said Slick, for I don't calculate to return to
these parts, butter is risin a cent or two; I put mine
off mind at 10 pence. Dont return! possible! why how
you talk? have you done with the clock trade? I guess I
have, it tante worth follerin now. Most time, said the
other, laughing, for by all accounts the clocks warnt
worth havin, and most infarnal dear too, folks begin to
get their eyes open. It warnt needed in your case, said
Mr. Slick, with that peculiarly composed manner, that
indicates suppressed feeling, for you were always wide
awake, if all the folks had cut their eye teeth as airly
as you did, their'd be plaguy few clocks sold in these
parts, I reckon; but you are right, Squire, you may say
that, they actilly were NOT worth havin, and that's the
truth. The fact is, said he, throwing down his reins;
and affecting a most confidential tone, I felt almost
ashamed of them myself; I tell you. The long and short
of the matter is jist this, they don't make no good ones
now-a-days, no more, for they calculate 'em for shippin
and not for home use. I was all struck up of a heap when
I see'd the last lot I got from the States; I was properly
bit by them, you may depend; they didnt pay cost, for I
couldn't recommend them with a clear conscience, and I
must say I do like a fair deal, for I'm strait up and
down, and love to go right ahead, that's a fact. Did you
ever see them I fetched when I first came, them I sold
over the Bay? No, said Mr. Allen, I cant say I did. Well,
continued he, they WERE a prime article, I tell you, no
mistake there, fit for any market, its generally allowed
there aint the beat of them to be found any where. If
you want a clock, and CAN lay your hands on one of them,
I advise you not to let go the chance; you'll know 'em
by the 'Lowell' mark, for they were all made at Judge
Beler's factory, Squire Shepody, down to Five Islands,
axed me to get him one, and a special job I had of it,
near about more sarch arter it than it was worth, but I
did get him one, and a particular handsome one it is,
copald and gilt superior. I guess its worth ary half
dozen in these parts, let tothers be where they may. If
I could a got supplied with the like o' them, I could a
made a grand spec out of them, for they took at once,
and went off quick. Have you got it with you, said Mr.
Allen, I should like to see it. Yes, I have it here, all
done up in tow, as snug as a bird's egg, to keep it from
jarrin, for it hurts 'em consumedly to jolt 'em over them
are etarnal wooden bridges. But its no use to take it
out, it aint for sale, its bespoke, and I would'nt take
the same trouble to get another for twenty dollars. The
only one that I know of that there's any chance of gettin,
is one that Increase Crane has up to Wilmot, they say
he's a sellin off.

After a good deal of persuasion, Mr. Slick unpacked the
clock, but protested against his asking for it, for it
was not for sale. It was then exhibited, every part
explained and praised, as new in invention and perfect
in workmanship. Now Mr. Allen had a very exalted opinion
of Squire Shepody's taste, judgment, and saving knowledge;
and, as it was the last and only chance of getting a
clock, of such superior quality, he offered to take it
at the price the Squire was to have it, at seven pounds
ten shillings. But Mr. Slick vowed he could'nt part with
it at no rate, he didnt know where he could get the like
agin, (for he warnt quite sure about Increase Crane's)
and the Squire would be confounded disappointed, he
could'nt think of it. In proportion to the difficulties,
rose the ardor of Mr. Allen, his offers advanced to 8
pounds, to 8 pounds 10, to 9 pounds. Court Ladies will
to Country Seats be gone, My Lord can't all the Year
live Great in Town, Where wanting _Opera's_, _Basset_, and
a _Play_, They'll Sigh and stitch a Gown, to pass the
time away.
Gay City-Wives at _Tunbridge_ will appear, Whose Husbands
long have laboured for an Heir; Where many a Courtier
may their Wants relieve, But by the Waters only they
Conceive.
The _Fleet-street_ Sempstress--Toast of _Temple_ Sparks,
That runs Spruce Neckcloths for Attorney's Clerks; At
_Cupid_'s _Gardens_ will her Hours regale, Sing fair
_Dorinda_, and drink Bottl'd Ale.
At all Assemblies, Rakes are up and down, And Gamesters,
where they think they are not known.
Shou'd I denounce our Author's fate to Day, To cry down
Prophecies, you'd damn the Play:
Yet Whims like these have sometimes made you Laugh; 'Tis
Tattling all, like _Isaac Bickerstaff_.
Since War, and Places claim the Bards that write, Be
kind, and bear a Woman's Treat to-Night; Let your Indulgence
all her Fears allay, And none but Woman-Haters damn
this Play.

EPILOGUE.

In me you see one _Busie-Body_ more; Tho' you may have
enough of one before.
With Epilogues, the _Busie-Body_'s Way, We strive to
help; but sometimes mar a Play.
At this mad Sessions, half condemn'd e'er try'd, Some,
in three Days, have been turn'd off, and dy'd, In spight of Parties,
their Attempts are vain, For like false Prophets, they ne'er rise
again.
Too late, when cast, your Favour one beseeches, And Epilogues prove
Execution Speeches.
Yet sure I spy no _Busie-Bodies_ here; And one may pass, since they
do ev'ry where.
Sowr Criticks, Time and Breath, and Censures waste, And baulk your
Pleasure to refine your Taste.
One busie Don ill-tim'd high Tenets Preaches, Another yearly shows
himself in Speeches.You hear nothin but politicks,
politicks, politicks, one everlastin sound of give, give,
give. If I was Governor I'd give 'em the butt eend of my
mind on the subject, I'd crack their pates till I let
some light in 'em, if it was me, I know. I'd say to the
members, don't come down here to Halifax with your long
lockrums about politicks, makin, a great touss about
nothin; but open the country, foster agricultur, encourage
trade, incorporate companies, make bridges, facilitate
conveyance, and above all things make a Railroad from
Windsor to Halifax; and mind what I tell you now, write
it down for fear you should forget it, for it's a fact;
and if you don't believe me, I'll lick you till you do,
for there aint a word of a lie in it, by Gum: "ONE SUCH
WORK AS THE WINDSOR BRIDGE IS WORTH ALL YOUR LAWS, VOTES,
SPEECHES AND RESOLUTIONS, FOR THE LAST TEN YEARS, IF TIED
UP AND PUT INTO A MEAL BAG TOGETHER. IF IT TANTE I HOPE
I MAY BE SHOT."


No. XXXII

Too many Irons in the Fire.

We had a pleasant sail of three hours from Parrsboro to
Windsor. The arrivals and departures by water, are
regulated at this place by the tide, and it was sunset
before we reached Mrs. Wilcox's comfortable inn. Here,
as at other places, Mr. Slick seemed to be perfectly at
home; and he pointed to a wooden clock, as a proof of
his successful and extended trade, and of the universal
influence of "soft sawder," and a knowledge of "human
natur." Taking out a pen knife, he cut off a splinter
from a stick of firewood, and balancing himself on one
leg of his chair, by the aid of his right foot, commenced
his favorite amusement of whitling, which he generally
pursued in silence. Indeed it appeared to have become
with him an indispensible accompaniment of reflection.
He sat in this abstracted manner, until he had manufactured
into delicate shavings the whole of his raw materiel,
when he very deliberately resumed a position of more ease
and security, by resting his chair on two legs instead
of one, and putting both his feet on the mantel piece.
Then, lighting his cigar, he said in his usual quiet
manner, there's a plaguy sight of truth in them are old
proverbs. They are distilled facts steamed down to an
essence. They are like portable soup, an amazin deal of
matter in a small compass. They are what I valy most,
experience. Father used to say I'd as lives have an old
homespun self taught doctor as are a Professor in the
College at Philadelphia or New York to attend me; for
what they do know, they know by experience, and not by
books; and experience is every thing, its hearin and
seein and tryin, and arter that a feller must be a born
fool if he don't know. That's the beauty of old proverbs;
they are as true as a plum line, and as short and sweet
as sugar candy. Now when you come to see all about this
Country you'll find the truth of that are one--"A MAN
THAT HAS TOO MANY IRONS IN THE FIRE, IS PLAGUY APT TO
GET SOME ON 'EM BURNT."

Do you recollect that are tree I show'd you to Parrsboro',
it was all covered with BLACK KNOBS, like a wart rubbed
with caustic. Well, the plum trees had the same disease
a few years ago, and they all died, and the cherry trees
I concait will go for it too. The farms here are all
covered with the same "black knobs," and they do look
like old scratch. If you see a place all gone to wrack
and ruin, its mortgaged you may depend. The "black knob"
is on it. My plan, you know, is to ax leave to put a
clock in a house, and let it be till I return. I never
say a word about sellin it, for I know when I come back,
they wont let it go arter they are once used to it. Well,
when I first came, I knowed no one, and I was forced to
enquire whether a man was good for it, afore I left it
with him; so I made a pint of axin all about every man's
place that lived on the road. Who lives up there in the
big house, says I? its a nice location that, pretty
considerable improvements them. Why Sir, that's A. B.'s;
he was well to do in the world once, carried a stiff
upper lip and keerd for no one; he was one of our grand
aristocrats, wore a long tailed coat, and a ruffled shirt,
but he must take to ship buildin, and has gone to the
dogs. Oh, said I, too many irons in the fire. Well, the
next farm, where the pigs are in the potatoe field, whose
is that? Oh, Sir, that's C. D's. he was a considerable
fore handed farmer, as any in our place, but he sot up
for an Assembly-man, and opened a Store, and things went
agin him some how, he had no luck arterwards. I hear his
place is mortgaged, and they've got him cited in chancery.
"The black knob" is on him, said I. The black what, Sir,
says Blue Nose? nothin says I. But the next, who improves
that house? Why that's E. F.'s he was the greatest farmer
in these parts, another of the aristocracy, had a most
a noble stock o' cattle, and the matter of some hundreds
out in jint notes; well he took the contract for beef
with the troops; and he fell astarn so, I guess its a
gone goose with him. The reason the layman does not
interpret his dreams correctly, by following his
intuition, is because he generally has some material
idea of his own concerning dreams.

Here is a dream that may be said to be an actual
experience of the ego. Taken from the Chicago American,
July 17, 1920:

Dreams sons drowned; found bodies in river, Burlington,
Vt.
The dream was responsible for the finding of the bodies of
George Raymond, Jr., 14 years, son of George Raymond,
and his uncle, Winford Raymond, in the Lamoille river
at Fletcher. According to Winford's father, the vision
of the boy's mother appeared before him in a dream and
directed him to look for the boys in the river. They
had been absent from home since Sunday. The dream was so
vivid that the father wakened and at 2 o'clock went
to the river bank, where he found the boys' clothing.
At daybreak the bodies were recovered.

Here is a dream of the so-called dead who, many believe,
exist in a state of dreamless sleep or annihilation,
appearing in a vision, and so impressing on the astral
brain of the sleeper where the boy's bodies were, that
he actually brought the vision or astral experience
through into the waking consciousness. Here is proof of a mother
looking over her children, even if she is separated from them through
the doorway of the tomb. No sane person today can actually believe
the tomb to be the doorway to the night of oblivion.--That beautiful river we came up to day, What superfine
farms it has on both sides of it, hante it? its a sight
to behold. Our folks have no notion of such a country so
far down east, beyond creation most, as Nova Scotia is.
If I was to draw up an account of it for the Slickville
Gazette, I guess few would accept it as a bona fide draft,
without some sponsible man to indorse it, that warnt
given to flammin. They'd say there was a land speculation
to the bottom of it, or water privilege to put into the
market, or a plaister rock to get off, or some such
scheme. They would, I snore. But I hope I may never see
daylight agin, if there's sich a country in all our great
nation, as the VI-cinity of Windsor.

Now its jist as like as not, some goney of a Blue Nose,
that see'd us from his fields, sailin up full spirit,
with a fair wind on the packet, went right off home and
said to his wife, "now do for gracious sake, mother, jist
look here, and see how slick them folks go along; and
that Captain has nothin to do all day, but sit straddle
legs across his tiller, and order about his sailors, or
talk like a gentleman to his passengers; he's got most
as easy a time of it as Ami Cuttle has, since he took up
the fur trade, a snarin rabbits. I guess I'll buy a
vessel, and leave the lads to do the plowin and little
chores, they've growd up now to be considerable lumps of
boys." Well, away he'll go, hot foot, (for I know the
critters better nor they know themselves) and he'll go
and buy some old wrack of a vessel, to carry plaister,
and mortgage his farm to pay for her. The vessel will
jam him up tight for repairs and new riggin, and the
Sheriff will soon pay him a visit (and he's a most
particular troublesome visitor that; if he once only gets
a slight how-d'ye-do acquaintance, he becomes so amazin
intimate arterwards, a comin in without knockin, and a
runnin in and out at all hours, and makin so plaguy free
and easy, its about as much as a bargain if you can get
clear of him afterwards.) Benipt by the tide, and benipt
by the Sheriff, the vessel makes short work with him.
Well, the upshot is, the farm gets neglected, while
Captain Cuddy is to sea a drogin of plaister. The thistles
run over his grain fields, his cattle run over his hay
land, the interest runs over its time, the mortgage runs
over all, and at last he jist runs over to the lines to
Eastport, himself. And when he finds himself there, a
standin in the street, near Major Pine's tavern, with
his bands in his trowser pockets, a chasin of a stray
shillin from one eend of 'em to another, afore he can
catch it to swap for a dinner, wont he look like a ravin
distracted fool, that's all? He'll feel about as streaked
as I did once, a ridin down the St. John river. It was
the fore part of March--I'd been up to Fredericton a
speculatin in a small matter of lumber, and was returnin
to the city, a gallopin along on one of old Buntin's
horses, on the ice, and all at one I missed my horse, he
went right slap in and slid under the ice out of sight
as quick as wink, and there I was a standin all alone.
Well, says I, what the dogs has become of my horse and
port mantle? they have given me a proper dodge, that's
a fact. That is a narrer squeak, it fairly bangs all.
Well, I guess he'll feel near about as ugly, when he
finds himself brought up all standin that way; and it
will come so sudden on him, he'll say, why it aint possible
I've lost farm and vessel both, in tu tu's that way, but
I don't see neither on 'em. Eastport is near about all
made up of folks who have had to cut and run for it.

I was down there last fall, and who should I see but
Thomas Rigby, of Windsor. He knew me the minit he laid
eyes upon me, for I had sold him a clock the summer afore.
Centlivre borrowed minor details and two episodes, one
of them the amusing dumb scene. This scene, though
a close imitation, seems more amusing in _The Busie
Body_ than in Jonson's play, perhaps because the characters,
especially Sir Francis Gripe and Miranda, are more
credible and more fully portrayed. From the second
source for _The Busie Body_, Molière's _L'Etourdi_, I
believe Mrs.
Centlivre borrowed the framework for her parallel plots,
the theme of Marplot's blundering, and the name and
general character of Marplot. But she has improved what
she borrowed. She places in Molière's framework more
credible women characters than his, especially in the
charming Miranda and the crafty Patch; she constructs
a more skillful intrigue plot for the stage than his
subplot and emphasizes Spanish customs in the lively
Charles-Isabinda-Traffick plot. Mrs. Centlivre concentrates
on Marplot's blundering, whereas Molière concentrates on
the servant Mascarille's schemes. Marplot's funniest
blunder, in the "monkey" scene, is entirely original as far
as I know (IV, iv). But her greatest change is in the
character of Marplot, who in her hands becomes not so
much stupid as human and irresistibly ludicrous. Mrs.
Centlivre's style is of course inferior to that of
Molière. In the preface to _Love's Contrivance_ (1703), in
speaking of borrowings from Molière, she said that
borrowers "must take care to touch the Colors with an
English Pencil, and form the Piece according to our Manners."
Of course her touching the "Colors with an English
Pencil" meant changing the style of Molière to suit the
less delicate taste of the middle-class English audience.

A third source for _The Busie Body_ is Dryden's _Sir
Martin Mar-all_ (1667). Since Dryden followed Molière
with considerable exactness, it would be difficult to
prove beyond doubt that Mrs. Centlivre borrowed from
Molière rather than from Dryden. Yet I believe, after
a careful analysis of the plays, that she borrowed from
Molière. She made of _The Busie Body_ a comedy of
intrigue based on the theme and plot used by both Molière
and Dryden, but she omitted the scandalous Restoration
third plot which Dryden had added to Molière. Her
characters are English in speech and action, but they
lack the coarseness apparent in Dryden's _Sir Martin Mar-all_.
Though it is impossible to prove the exact sources of Mrs. Centlivre's
borrowings, there is no doubt that she has improved what she
borrowed.

Whatever the truth may be about Mrs.As for Banks, they can't hurt a country
no great, I guess, except by breakin, and I conceit
there's no fear of yourn breakin; and as for lawyers,
and them kind o' heavy coaches, give 'em half the road,
and if they run agin you, take the law of 'em. Undivided,
unremittin attention paid to one thing, in ninety-nine
cases out of a hundred, will ensure success; but you know
the old sayin about "TOO MANY IRONS."

Now, says I, Mr. Rigby, what o'clock is it? Why, says
he, the moon is up a piece, I guess its seven o'clock or
thereabouts. I suppose its time to be a movin. Stop, says
I, jist come with me, I got a real nateral curiosity to
show you--such a thing as you never laid your eyes on in
Nova-Scotia, I know. So we walked along towards the beach;
now, says I, look at that are man, old Lunar, and his
son, a sawin plank by moonlight, for that are vessel on
the stocks there; come agin to morrow mornin, afore you
can cleverly discarn objects the matter of a yard or so
afore you, and you'll find 'em at it agin. I guess that
vessel won't ruinate those folks. They know their business
and stick to it. Well, away went Rigby, considerably
sulky, (for he had no notion that it was his own fault,
he laid all the blame on the folks to Halifax,) but I
guess he was a little grain posed, for back he went, and
bought to Sowack, where I hear he has a better farm than
he had afore.

I mind once we had an Irish gall as a dairy help; well,
we had a wicked devil of a cow, and she kicked over the
milk pail, and in ran Dora, and swore the Bogle did it;
jist so, poor Rigby, he wouldn't allow it was nateral
causes, but laid it all to politics. Talkin of Dora, puts
me in mind of the galls, for she warnt a bad lookin heifer
that; my! what an eye she had, and I concaited she had
a particular small foot and ankle too, when I helped her
up once into the hay mow, to sarch for eggs; but I cant
exactly say, for when she brought em in, mother shook
her head and said it was dangerous; she said she might
fall through and hurt herself, and always sent old Snow
afterwards. She was a considerable of a long headed woman,
was mother, she could see as far ahead as most folks.
She warn't born yesterday, I guess. But that are proverb
is true as respects the galls too. Whenever you see one
on 'em with a whole lot of sweet hearts, its an even
chance if she gets married to any on em. One cools off,
and another cools off, and before she brings any one on
em to the right weldin heat, the coal is gone and the
fire is out. Then she may blow and blow till she's tired;
she may blow up a dust, but the deuce of a flame can she
blow up agin, to save her soul alive. I never see a clever
lookin gall in danger of that, I dont long to whisper in
her ear, you dear little critter, you, take care, you
have too many irons in the fire, some on 'em will get
stone cold, and tother ones will get burnt so, they'll
never be no good in natur.


No. XXXIII

Windsor and the Far West.

The next morning the Clockmaker proposed to take a drive
round the neighborhood. You hadn't ought, says he, to be
in a hurry; you should see the VIcinity of this location;
there aint the beat of it to be found anywhere. While
the servants were harnessing old Clay, we went to see a
new bridge, which had recently been erected over the Avon
River. That, said he, is a splendid thing. A New Yorker
built it, and the folks in St. John paid for it. You mean
of Halifax, said I; St. John is in the other province.
I mean what I say, he replied, and it is a credit to New
Brunswick. No, Sir, the Halifax folks neither know nor
keer much about the country--they wouldn't take hold on
it, and if they had a waited for them, it would have been
one while afore they got a bridge, I tell you. They've
no spirit, and plaguy little sympathy with the country,
and I'll tell you the reason on it. There are a good many
people there from other parts, and always have been, who
come to make money and nothin else, who don't call it
home, and don't feel to home, and who intend to up killoch
and off, as soon as they have made their ned out of the
Blue Noses. They have got about as much regard for the
country as a pedlar has, who trudges along with a pack
on his back. He WALKS, cause he intends to RIDE at last;
TRUSTS, cause he intends to SUE at last; SMILES, cause
he intends to CHEAT at last; SAVES ALL, cause he intends
to MOVE ALL at last. Its actilly overrun with transient
paupers, and transient speculators, and these last grumble
and growl like a bear with a sore head, the whole blessed
time, at every thing; and can hardly keep a civil tongue
in their head, while they're fobbin your money hand over
hand. These critters feel no interest in any thing but
cent per cent; they deaden public spirit; they han't got
none themselves, and they larf at it in others; and, when
you add their numbers to the timid ones, the stingy ones,
the ignorant ones, and the poor ones that are to be found
in every place, why the few smart spirited ones that's
left, are too few to do any thing, and so nothin is done.
It appears to me if I was a Blue Nose I'd ---; but thank
fortin I aint, so I says nothin--but there is somethin
that aint altogether jist right is this country, that's
a fact.

But what a country this Bay country is, isn't it? Look
at that medder, beant it lovely? The Prayer Eyes of
Illanoy are the top of the ladder with us, but these
dykes take the shine off them by a long chalk, that's
sartin. The land in our far west, it is generally allowed,
can't be no better; what you plant is sure to grow and
yield well, and food is so cheap you can live there for
half nothin. But it don't agree with us New England folks;
we don't enjoy good health there; and what in the world
is the use of food, if you have such an etarnal dyspepsy
you can't digest it, A man can hardly live there till
next grass afore he is in the yaller leaf. Just like one
of our bran new vessels built down in Maine, of best
hackmatack, or what's better still, of our real American
live oak, (and that's allowed to be about the best in
the world) send her off to the West Indies, and let her
lie there awhile, and the worms will riddle her bottom
all full of holes like a tin cullender, or a board with
a grist of duck shot thro it, you wouldn't believe what
a BORE they be. Well, that's jist the case with the
western climate. The heat takes the solder out of the
knees and elbows, weakens the joints and makes the frame
ricketty. --How Lieut. Cleveland W. McDermott penned a
death poem in the plane in which he and six others were
crashed to death Saturday night was revealed here
today.

It is the story of perhaps the most remarkable premonition
of death that ever has been recorded before the fatal flight.
McDermott, who was a seasoned world-war veteran and
accustomed to hazardous flights, wrote seven letters to
as many friends. These he placed in the hands of a
fellow officer with instructions that they be mailed
in the event of his death. The poem was discovered in
the lieutenant's personal effects, written on a piece
of scratch paper. It had been stuffed in a breast pocket of his
uniform. The writing was scraggly, due to the vibration of the
motors.Adams's diamonds, (that
folks say shine as well in the dark as in the light,)
neck like a swan, lips chock full of kisses--lick! it
fairly makes one's mouth water to think on 'em. But its
no use talkin, they are just made critters that's a fact,
full of health and life and beauty,--now, to change them
are splendid white water lillies of Connecticut and Rhode
Island, for the yaller crocusses of Illanoy, a what we
don't like. It goes most confoundedly agin the grain, I
tell you. Poor critters, when they get away back there,
they grow as thin as a sawed lath, their little peepers
are as dull as a boiled codfish, their skin looks like
yaller fever, and they seem all mouth like a crocodile.
And that's not the worst of it neither, for when a woman
begins to grow saller its all over with her; she's up a
tree then you may depend, there's no mistake. You can no
more bring back her bloom than you can the color to a
leaf the frost has touched in the fall. It's gone goose
with her, that's a fact. And that's not all, for the
temper is plaguy apt to change with the cheek too. When
the freshness of youth is on the move, the sweetness of
temper is amazin apt to start along with it. A bilious
cheek and a sour temper are like the Siamese twins,
there's a nateral cord of union atween them. The one is
a sign board, with the name of the firm written on it in
big letters. He that don't know this, cant read, I guess.
It's no use to cry over spilt milk, we all know, but its
easier said than done that. Women kind, and especially
single folks, will take on dreadful at the fadin of their
roses, and their frettin only seems to make the thorns
look sharper. Our minister used to say to sister Sall,
(and when she was young she was a real witch, a most an
everlastin sweet girl,) Sally, he used to say, now's the
time to larn when you are young; store your mind well,
dear, and the fragrance will remain long arter the rose
has shed its leaves. _Patch._ Really, Sir, I wish you wou'd
employ any Body else in this Affair; I lead a Life like
a Dog with obeying your Commands. Come, Madam, will you
please to be Lock'd up.

_Isab._ Ay, to enjoy more Freedom than he is aware of.Now, who would go to expose his wife or his
darters, or himself, to the dangers of such a climate
for the sake of 30 bushels of wheat to the acre, instead
of 15. There seems a kinder somethin in us that rises in
our throat when we think on it, and wont let us. We dont
like it. Give me the shore, and let them that like the
Far West go there, I say.

This place is as fartile as Illanoy or Ohio, as healthy
as any part of the Globe, and right along side of the
salt water; but the folks want three things--INDUSTRY,
ENTERPRISE, ECONOMY; these Blue Noses don't know how to
valy this location--only look at it, and see what a place
for bisness it is--the centre of the Province--the nateral
capital of the Basin of Minas, and part of the Bay of
Fundy--the great thoroughfare to St. John, Canada, and
the United States--the exports of lime, gypsum, freestone
and grindstone--the dykes--but it's no use talkin; I wish
we had it, that's all. Our folks are like a rock maple
tree--stick 'em in any where, but eend up and top down,
and they will take root and grow; but put 'em in a real
good soil like this, and give 'em a fair chance, and they
will go ahead and thrive right off, most amazin fast,
that's a fact. Yes, if we had it we would make another
guess place of it from what it is. IN ONE YEAR WE WOULD
HAVE A RAIL ROAD TO HALIFAX, WHICH, UNLIKE THE STONE THAT
KILLED TWO BIRDS, WOULD BE THE MAKIN OF BOTH PLACES. I
often tell the folks this, but all they can say is, oh
we are too poor and too young. Second, induced sleep,
such as hypnotism, mesmerism or trance. Third, death.
In the above two cases the man has only left his
physical body temporarily, whereas in death he has left
it forever. In the case of death, the link which unites
soul and body, as seen by clairvoyant vision, is broken,
but in trance or sleep it is released.

The real man is then in the astral world. He now
functions in his astral body, which becomes a vehicle for
expressing consciousness, just as the physical body is
an instrument for expressing consciousness in the waking
state.

Consciousness is not annihilated when the man is in the Astral
world, it is only temporarily suspended. Just the same as in the
case of death.Slick agreed to meet me
here in June, and to provide for me the same conveyance
I had used from Amherst. I look forward with much pleasure
to our meeting again. His manner and idiom were to me
perfectly new and very amusing; while his good sound
sense, searching observation, and queer humor, rendered
his conversation at once valuable and interesting. There
are many subjects on which I should like to draw him out;
and I promise myself a fund of amusement in his remarks
on the state of society and manners at Halifax, and the
machinery of the local government, on both of which he
appears to entertain many original and some very just
opinions.

As he took leave of me in the coach, he whispered, "Inside
of your great big cloak you will find wrapped up a box,
containin a thousand real genuine first chop Havanahs--no
mistake--the clear thing. When you smoke 'em think
sometimes of your old companion, SAM SLICK THE CLOCKMAKER."




THE END.