Produced by Al Haines


THE CHUMS OF SCRANTON HIGH

At Ice Hockey


BY

DONALD FERGUSON


THE WORLD SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO.

CLEVELAND, O.               NEW YORK, N.Y.


Copyright, MCMXIX

by

THE WORLD SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO.


Printed in the United States of America

by

THE COMMERCIAL BOOKBINDING CO.

CLEVELAND, O.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER PAGE

     I. GOOD TIMES COMING
    II. A BULL IN THE CHINA SHOP
   III. GIVING NICK A CHANCE
    IV. THE HOCKEY MATCH WITH A SCRATCH SEVEN
     V. THAD BRINGS SOME STARTLING NEWS
    VI. NOT GUILTY
   VII. TURNING A PAGE OF THE PAST
  VIII. OWEN DUGDALE'S ANNOUNCEMENT
    IX. AN ADVENTURE ON THE ROAD
     X. THE MYSTERY DEEPENS
    XI. A MOTHER'S SACRIFICE
   XII. TIP SATISFIES HIS CRAVING--AND LOSES
  XIII. THE LIVELY GAME WITH KEYPORT'S SEVEN
   XIV. ENCOURAGING NICK
    XV. WHERE THE SPARKS FLEW
   XVI. AT THE DEACON'S FIRESIDE
  XVII. A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
 XVIII. IN A SAFE HARBOR AT LAST
   XIX. MEETING BELLEVILLE'S STRONG TEAM
    XX. NICK MAKES GOOD--CONCLUSION


THE CHUMS OF SCRANTON HIGH AT ICE HOCKEY

CHAPTER I

GOOD TIMES COMING

Hugh looked at the big thermometer alongside the Juggins' front door
as he came out, and the mercury was still falling steadily.

"It's certainly a whole lot sharper than it was early this morning,
Thad.  Feels to me as if the first cold wave of the winter had struck
Scranton."

"The ice on our flooded baseball field, and that out at Hobson's
mill-pond ought to be in great shape after a hard freeze to-night,
Hugh."

"We're in luck this time, chum Thad.  Look at that sky, will you?
Never a cloud in sight, and the sun going down yellow.  Deacon
Winslow, our reliable old weather prophet blacksmith, who always
keeps a goose-bone hanging up in his smithy, to tell what sort of a
winter we're going to get, says such a sign stands for cold and clear
to-morrow after that kind of a sunset.  Red means warmer, you know."

"I only hope it keeps on for forty-eight hours more, that's all I can
say, Hugh.  This being Thursday, it would fetch us to Saturday.  I
understand they're not meaning to let a single pair of steel runners
on the baseball park, to mark the smooth surface of the new ice,
until Saturday morning."

"Which will be a fine thing for our hockey try-out with the scratch
Seven, eh, Thad?"

"We want to test our team play before going up against the boys of
Keyport High, that's a fact; and Scranton can put up a hard fighting
bunch of irregulars.  There are some mighty clever hockey players in
and out of the high school, who are not on our Seven.  I guess there
ought to be a pretty lively game on Saturday; and there will be if
several fellows I could mention line up against us."

The two boys who had just left the home of a schoolmate named Horatio
Juggins were great friends.  Although Hugh Morgan had seemed to jump
into popular leadership among the boys of Scranton, soon after his
folks came to reside in the town, he and Thad Stevens had become
almost inseparables.

Indeed, some of the fellows often regarded them as "Damon and
Pythias," or on occasions it might be "David and Jonathan."  Both
were of an athletic turn, and took prominent parts in all baseball
games, and other strenuous outdoor sports indulged in by the boys of
Scranton High; a record of which will be found in the several
preceding books of this series, to which the new reader is referred,
if he feels any curiosity concerning the earlier doings of this
lively bunch.

Hugh was cool and calm in times when his chum would show visible
signs of great excitement.  He had drilled himself to control his
temper under provocation, until he felt master of himself.

It was the 10th of January, and thus far the opportunities for
skating that had come to the young people of that section of country
where Scranton was located, had been almost nil; which would account
for the enthusiasm of the lads when Thad announced how rapidly the
thermometer was giving promise of a severe cold spell.

Scranton had two keen rivals for athletic honors.  Allandale and
Belleville High fellows had given them a hard run of it before they
carried off the championship pennant of the county in baseball the
preceding summer.

Then, in the late fall, there had been a wonderfully successful
athletic tournament, inaugurated to celebrate the enclosing of the
grounds outside Scranton with a high board-fence, and the building of
a splendid grandstand, as well as rooms where the athletic
participants in sports might dress in comfort.

With the coming of winter the big field thus enclosed had been
properly flooded, so that it might afford a vast amount of healthy
recreation to all Scranton boys and girls who loved to skate.

Hitherto they had been compelled to trudge all the way out to
Hobson's mill-pond, and back, which was a long enough journey to keep
many from ever thinking of indulging in what is, perhaps, the most
cherished winter sport among youthful Americans.

The two friends had been asked around by the Juggins boy to inspect a
wonderful assortment of treasure trove that an old and peculiar
uncle, with a fad for collecting curios of every description, and who
was at present out in India, had sent to his young nephew and
namesake.

These consisted of scores of most interesting objects, besides
several thousand rare postage stamps.  Taken in all it was the
greatest collection of stamps any of them had ever heard of.  And the
other things proved of such absorbing interest that Hugh and Thad had
lingered until the afternoon was done, with supper not so far away
but that they must hurry home.

Thad, apparently, had something on his mind which he wished to get
rid of, judging from the way in which he several times looked queerly
at his chum.  Finally, as if determined to speak up, he started, half
apologetically:

"Hugh, excuse me if I'm butting in where I have no business," he
said; "but when I saw you talking so long with that town bully, Nick
Lang, this afternoon, after we got out of school, I didn't know what
to think.  Was he threatening you about anything, Hugh?  After that
fine dressing-down you gave Nick last summer, when he forced you to
fight him while we were out at that barn dance, I notice he keeps
fairly mum when you're around."

Hugh chuckled, as though the recollection might not be wholly
displeasing; though, truth to tell, that was the only fight he had
been in since coming to Scranton.  Even it would not have taken place
only that he could not stand by and see the big bully thrash most
cruelly a weaker boy than himself.

"Oh! no, you're away off in your guess, Thad," he replied
immediately.  "Fact is, instead of threats, Nick was asking a favor
of me, for once in his life."

"You don't say!" ejaculated Thad.  "Well, now you've got me excited
there's nothing left but to tell me what sort of a favor Nick would
want of you, Hugh."

"It seems that for a long time he's been admiring those old hockey
skates of mine," continued the other.  "In fact, they've grown on
Nick so that he even condescended to ask me to _sell_ them to him for
a dollar, which he said he'd earned by doing odd jobs, just in order
to buy my old skates.  He chanced to hear me say once that my mother
had promised to get me the best silver-plated hockey skates on the
market, for my next birthday, which is now only a few days off.
That's all there was to it, Thad."

"Well," commented Thad, "we all know that Nick is a boss skater, even
on the old runners he sports, and which mebbe his dad used before
him, they're that ancient.  He can hold his own with the next one
whenever there's any ice worth using.  And as to hockey, why, if Nick
would only play fair, which he never will, it seems because his
nature must be warped and crooked, he could have a leading place on
our Seven.  As it is, the boys refused to stand for him in any game,
and so he had to herd with the scratch players.  Even then Mr.
Leonard, our efficient coach and trainer, has to call him down good
and hard for cheating, or playing off-side purposely.  It's anything
to win, with Nick."

"You're painting Nick pretty true to life, Thad," agreed Hugh;
"though I'm sorry it's so, I've got a hunch that chap, if he only
could be reconstructed in some way or other, might be a shining mark
in many of our athletic games."

"Oh! that's hopeless, Hugh, I tell you.  The leopard can't change its
spots; and Nick Lang was born to be just the tricky bully he's always
shown himself."

Hugh shook his head, as though not quite agreeing with his chum.

"Time alone will tell, Thad.  There might come a sudden revolution in
Nick's way of seeing things.  I've heard of boys who were said to be
the worst in the town taking a turn, and forging up to the head.
It's improbable, I admit, but not impossible."

"Oh! he's bad all the way through, believe me, Hugh.  But did you
sell the skates, as he wanted you to do?"

"No, I told him I didn't care to," Hugh replied.  "I was tempted to
agree when he looked so bitterly disappointed; then an ugly scowl
came over his face, and he broke away and left me; so that
opportunity was lost.  Besides, it's best not to be too sure I'm
going to get those silver-plated skates after all, though Mom is
looking pretty mysterious these days; and some sort of package came
to her by express from New York the other day.  She hurried it away
before I could even see the name printed on the wrapper."

"Perhaps," said Thad a bit wistfully, "you might bequeath me your old
skates in case you do get new ones.  Mine are not half as good for
hockey.  I don't blame Nick for envying you their possession; but
then it hasn't been so much what you had on your feet that has made
you the swift hockey player you are, but coolness of judgment,
ability to anticipate the moves of the enemy, and a clever stroke
that can send the puck skimming over the ice like fury."

"Here, that'll do for you, Thad.  No bouquets needed, thank you, all
the same.  According to my notion there are several fellows in
Scranton my equals at hockey, and perhaps my superiors.  Nick Lang,
for instance, if only he had skates he could depend on, and which
wouldn't threaten to trip him up in the midst of an exciting
scrimmage."

"But, see here, Hugh, you were speaking just now about a chap built
like Nick turning over a new leaf, and making himself respected in
the community in spite of the bad name he's always had.  Honestly
now, do you really believe that's possible?  Is there such a thing as
the regeneration of a boy who's been born bad, and always taken
delight in doing every sort of mean thing on the calendar?  I can't
believe it."

Hugh Morgan turned and gave his chum a serious look.

"I've got a good mind to tell you something that's been on my mind
lately," he said.


CHAPTER II

A BULL IN THE CHINA SHOP

On hearing his chum say that, Thad gripped Hugh's arm.

"Then get busy, Hugh," he hastened to remark. "When you start
cogitating over things there's always something interesting on foot.
What is it this time?"

"Oh! just a little speculation I've been indulging in, Thad, and on
the very subject we were talking about--whether a really bad man, or
boy, for that matter, can ever turn right-about-face, and redeem
himself. You say it's impossible; I think otherwise."

"Tell me a single instance, then, Hugh."

"Just what I'm meaning to do," came the ready response, "but it's in
romance, not history; though there are just as strong instances that
can be proven. I've heard my father mention some of them long ago.
But it happens, Thad, that I've been reading over, for the third
time, a book we once enjoyed together immensely. We got a splendid
set of Victor Hugo's works lately at our house, you remember."

"Oh!" exclaimed Thad, "you're referring to his _Les Miserables_, I
guess. And now I remember how you said at the time we read it
together that the scene where that good priest forgave the rascally
Jean Valjean for stealing his silver candlesticks and spoons, after
he had been so kind to him made a great impression on your mind.
But, see here, Hugh, are you comparing that sneak Nick Lang to Jean
Valjean, the ex-convict?"

"Yes, in a way," the other replied.  "The man who had been released
from the galleys, after he had served his term for stealing a loaf
of bread was despised by society, which shut the door in his face.
He was like a wild beast, you remember, and hated everyone. Well, by
degrees, Nick is finding himself in just about the same position.
Everybody looks on him as being thoroughly bad; and so he tells
himself that since he's got the name he might as well have the
game."

"I suppose that's about the way it goes," Thad admitted.

"There's no doubt of it," Hugh told him. "Several times I remember
we had an idea Nick meant to reform; but he went back to his old
ways suddenly. I think people must have nagged him, and made him
feel ugly. But I've been wondering, Thad, what if Nick could have a
revelation about like the one that came to Jean Valjean at the time
that splendid old priest, looking straight at the thief when the
officers dragged him back with those silver candlesticks and spoons
hidden under his dirty blouse, told them the men had committed no
wrong, because he, the priest, had given the silver to him; which we
know he _had_ done in his mind, after discovering how he had been
robbed."

The platform was tastefully decorated with flowers, ferns, and
the national colors.

We feel keenly the need of a large flag, and should some friend who
sees this be moved to donate us one it would be very gratefully
received.

The class of '96, composed of two young ladies and two young men,
acquitted themselves well. The essay, "We Girls," by Miss Annie
Laurie Fuller, was full of good thoughts, and pointed out very
forcibly to the girls of the colored race their present advantages,
and what as a result their responsibilities are.

Rev. H. H.

Proctor, pastor of the First Congregational Church, of Atlanta,
Ga., gave an able address on "Racial Contributions to American
Civilization," which, while stating plain truths very plainly, gave
no offense to the white friends present.

For the first time in our knowledge of the school there were a
number of white ladies in the audience, which we felt was quite a
point gained. All expressed themselves as very much pleased with
the address, the parts of the graduates, the music, and in fact with
all the exercises.

Mr. Proctor's presence with us was an inspiration to all, both
teachers and pupils.

On the whole, the year was closed with hopefulness for the future
and a greater desire to do work that should tell for the uplifting
of the needy people with whom we are associated.

* * * * *
TALLADEGA COLLEGE COMMENCEMENT.

Talladega College, Ala., observed its twenty-ninth anniversary at
the usual time.

The first public exercise was by the preparatory students who had
completed the course which entitled them to enter upon the collegiate
studies in the fall.

Four young men received diplomas at this exhibition.

The display by the industrial departments was unusually interesting.

The sewing-room had on hand plain and fancy needle-work, finished
garments for both sexes, among which were children's clothes made
over from those previously worn by adults. This latter feature
will commend itself to many homes where the custom of "making over"
old clothes is one of the necessities.

Girls taught in the sewing-room are able to make a livelihood by
taking orders for work in this line.

There is also a nurse-training department which is not only patronized
by pupils in the required course, but volunteer classes have been
formed consisting of the older male students and of mothers living
near the college.

A hospital bed was exhibited, and also the various sorts of
bandages required in special cases. The boys' mechanical department
furnished a large display in carpentry--mostly of a technical
character. Then there were geometric and scale drawing, building
plans of a varied character, and other work.

The farm was represented in an appropriate way. Convenient appliances
for care of stock, for housing farm products, etc., were shown, and
live stock of various sorts was there--some varieties of which are
giving to the college a wide notoriety for their excellence.

Public examinations were held in studies of grammar and advanced
grades.

The class in trigonometry gave evidence of the practical character
of its labors by exhibiting a plat of the college property--some
270 acres in all--drawn to a scale and neatly lettered.

The literary and musical exercises of the commencement were very
generously patronized by the white citizens. It is to be regretted
that the college chapel is not sufficiently large to accommodate the
audiences, and that scores were unable to get a sitting at the concert
of Monday night.

There is a hope that a more commodious chapel will soon be built.

There were present two distinguished gentlemen from abroad--members
of the college trustee board, Dr. Beard, of New York, and Dr. Cooper,
of Connecticut. The former spoke most felicitously on several
occasions, and the latter delivered a very able baccalaureate sermon
and the literary address. Rev. J. R. McLean, of Macon, Ga., preached
Sunday night.

The graduates and the subjects of their themes were as follows:
NORMAL DEPARTMENT.

The Uses of the Imagination Louise M. Johnson, Talladega Folk-lore
Marietta G. Kidd, Talladega True Womanhood Annie B. Williams,
Jacksonville The Times that Try Men's Souls Robert A. Clarke, New
Berne There is More Beyond Wade A. Jones, Vincent
THEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT.

The Condition and the Value of Definite Preaching, Manuel L. Baldwin,
Troy, N.

C.

The Conquest of Alexander the Great in its Relation to the Spread
of Christianity, John I.

Donaldson, Paris, Tex.

The Relation of Infant Baptism to the Kingdom of God, Robert W.
Jackson, Durant, Miss.

Dr. Andrews presided at the exercises and delivered the diplomas.

Two representatives of the alumni also presented original
exercises:

Leaders Demanded by this Epoch, Rev. H. E. Levi, B.D., Talladega
(Normal '87, Theological '95)
Alumni History, Miss Eliza A.

Jones, Selma (Normal '91)
The Alumni dinner and business meeting followed, and the address
on "Manhood," by Dr. Cooper, at night, closed the series.

* * * * *

SNAP SHOTS AT SOME TALLADEGA STUDENTS.

BY PROF. E. C. SILSBY.

One day last year there came unannounced a boy who had walked fifty
miles to get here. He was an orphan, had been working until he had
secured a good outfit of clothing, and, having been told of this
school by one of our pupil-teachers laboring in his neighborhood,
concluded to come, "work his way," and get an education.

There seemed to be nothing to do but to reward his faith by receiving
him into boarding-hall and school-room.

He was an apt scholar, worked diligently, and is still doing
well.

Not long ago a young man, twenty years old, appeared with a diminutive
satchel and applied to enter school. Upon inquiry a college
official discovered that he lived some thirty miles distant, that
he had only $3.50, no expectation of getting any more money, and
that his scholarship was very poor.

He stated that he had been converted about four years before and
sometime afterward had a "call to preach." Later, he explained
the nature of this "call" thus: "One morning just before day, as I
lay in my bed, I heard a voice.

It said, 'Does you remember what the Lord Jesus Christ said to his
disciples just before He descended into heaven? Go ye into all the
world and preach the gospel to every creature.' I studied about
this, and finally asked the Lord did He mean for me to preach.
He gave me a feeling that He did. I tried to get the idea out of my
mind, but it kept coming back, and here I am." He was advised to
stay out until he could earn money enough with which to make a
beginning.

But he wanted to enter school even if he could stay in but two
weeks. He was therefore examined, placed in the second reader room,
given a book and a Testament, and the promise of work to pay
his tuition.

He found a boarding place, and for a brief period of time enjoyed
the privileges of the school room according to his request.

A young woman, daughter of an early friend of the College, is here.

Her father (now in heaven) had experienced the conditions both of
slavery and of freedom, and his children have inherited that father's
interest in education to a large degree. This, his youngest daughter,
is cared for by her brothers, and the solicitude they exhibit in
her welfare is very touching.

May she finish her course with honor, and perform a noble
work "for Christ and humanity."
A few years ago a man and his wife left the service of their
employer in a neighboring city, rented a little cottage in Talladega,
and entered the same class in one of our lower grades.

By prudence and economy they had saved some money and were able to
live comfortably while prosecuting their studies. They have
passed regularly up the grades and are happy in the progress they
are making. During the long summer vacation they find employment,
and are on hand promptly at the fall opening of the school.

They are both active church members, and the man expects to study for
the ministry after sufficient preparatory training.

Here is a case several times repeated.

It is that of a girl who is making her way unaided by parental
effort.

She spends the long summer vacation teaching a country school. The pay
is small, board must be paid out of her wages, and her scanty wardrobe
must be replenished.

She has made a deposit with the treasurer, and has arranged for work
at the boarding hall to help out in the matter of college bills. She
has no time for play, no money for luxuries, but she is plucky and
is bound to have an education, and it looks as if she would
succeed.

A young man is here. He came with plain clothes, although they were
clean and new. Out of wages--less than ten dollars a month and
board--he had saved an amount which, with work out of study hours
would insure him a year in school.

Once he came without money, but we could not receive him. He therefore
determined to come next time _with_ money, and his success we note
above. Promotion for good scholarship came soon. Religious influences
were strong, and he became a Christian. He is now among the most
trusted and valued pupils.

* * * * *
ALBANY NORMAL SCHOOL, ALBANY, GA.

BY MRS. ALICE L. DAVIS.

One finds that every year the enrollment grows larger. The people
are increasingly appreciating the work done by the school. Every one
who can afford it usually sends his children to our school, but
there are others who are extremely poor but who are equally
anxious to send their children also, and in order to do this they
make great sacrifices.

Many mothers work at the washtub from Monday morning till Saturday
night, and do all kinds of manual labor, to obtain the money with
which to keep their children in school.

Some of our neediest pupils prove to be the best in their classes.
One boy, whose widowed mother is unable to keep him in school, may
be seen every day before and after school going in search of odd jobs
to obtain money with which to pay his tuition.

This boy is one of the brightest pupils we have.

There are others who are equally anxious to obtain an education. Many
will walk distances ranging from three to seven miles to school
every morning. The interest in the school increases yearly to such
an extent that the building, which at first was thought to be large
enough to accommodate all who would come, is now entirely too small
to accommodate the pupils that we have. It will be almost impossible
to get along next year without more room. We are greatly in need
of a chapel where we can hold our devotions and have our public
exercises. Without more room the work will be greatly hampered.

The third anniversary of our school was held last week. These exercises
are always looked forward to with the greatest interest and pleasure
by both parents and pupils. On June 4 was our exhibition of the
primary and intermediate grades.

The audience was made up of the fathers, mothers, and friends of
the students. They seemed anxious to have each pupil acquit himself
well, and the pupils seemed equally as eager to do their best to
please the audience.

The programme, which was well rendered, was made up of essays, declamations,
solos, duets, and choruses. "Bernardo del Carpio" and the quarrel
between Brutus and Cassius were rendered in a manner worthy of more
experienced pupils.

On June 5 were the exercises of the grammar grades. The programme was
made up of essays by two young ladies, who had completed the grammar
grades; instrumental solos by the music-pupils, trios, and choruses;
also an address by Rev.

Mr. Sims, of Thomasville, Ga., who spoke on the subject "Wanted." He
pointed out the need of education, of religion, of wealth, and
especially of sterling morality in character.
This address was highly appreciated by the large and enthusiastic
audience.

Could my reader have been present he would have realized that the
people are hungering and thirsting after knowledge, and are beginning
to regard our school as a well-spring to supply them.

* * * * *

CHANDLER NORMAL SCHOOL, LEXINGTON, KY.

MISS F. J. WEBSTER, PRINCIPAL.

In reviewing the history of Chandler Normal School for the past year,
we find more reasons than usual for courage and gratitude. In all
departments of our work we see evidences of the mental and moral
advancement of our pupils. The year has been one of progress and
prosperity. Nothing has occurred to hinder the work. The conscientious
performance of duty has been the rule of the school, and the
students who entered with any other purpose in view soon discovered
their mistake and saw that they did not have the approval of their
companions.

The forerunner of the closing exercises was the presentation of
the cantata "Little Red Riding-hood," by the pupils of the intermediate
grades. This entertainment drew as large an audience as the chapel, a
room that has a seating capacity of 600, could accommodate.

The music, both vocal and instrumental, was excellent, and illustrated
most fully the remarkable progress that has been made in this
department within the past three years.

Two days were devoted to the annual written examinations, momentous
occasions, that were crowned with success so far as the majority of
the pupils were concerned. The ordeal of examinations closed with
the public oral ones on Friday morning. On the afternoon of the
same day occurred the exhibition of the eighth grade, the class
finishing the grammar course.

The essays presented on this occasion were all upon subjects suggested
by the pupils' study of United States history.

The exercises of Monday morning were wholly musical.

The first part of the programme consisted of the cantata "The Musical
Enthusiast," and the second part of a piano recital. All the music
presented was of a high order, most of it being classical.

On Tuesday a declamatory contest was given by the young women of the
normal department.

The prize offered by a friend of one of the teachers was a
year's tuition in Chandler School. The selections were from standard
authors, and were chosen with the purpose of testing to the utmost
the ability of the young contestants. During the past year much
interest has been manifested by the pupils in work of this sort, and
most noticeable progress has been made by many of them.

At the close of the contest a very interesting and eloquent address
on the subject of temperance was given by Rev.

J. S. Jackson, pastor of the Congregational Church in Lexington.

The thoughts presented were full of inspiration for all who heard
them.

On Wednesday morning an intelligent and appreciative audience assembled
in the chapel to listen to the commencement exercises.

Three young men presented orations, and three young women essays, on
this occasion. There was but one graduate from the higher normal course.
An oration on the subject "Frederick Douglass," presented by a young
man who had completed the tenth grade, was considered an unusually
creditable student production and elicited much applause.

The commencement address was given by the Rev. W. T. Bolling, D.D.,
pastor of the Southern Methodist Church of Lexington. The speaker
prefaced his remarks by saying that much surprise had been expressed
by many of his friends that he, a former slaveholder and an
ex-Confederate soldier, would consent to deliver the commencement
address for a school devoted to such a purpose as was Chandler. He
assured these individuals that our school had no warmer friend than
he, nor one more in sympathy with its work. No address could have
been more helpful and stimulating than was his. All who had the
privilege of listening to it were cheered and edified.
At the close of each day's literary exercises the majority of the
audience accepted the invitation to examine the work of the
sewing-classes on exhibition in one of the recitation-rooms. A large
number of articles, all carefully made by hand, gave abundant
evidence of the industry and skill of the girls of both schools.
The closing entertainment of commencement week took place in the
chapel on Wednesday at 8 P.M. The programme for that occasion
consisted of a cantata entitled "The Cadets' Picnic," presented by
the little pupils of the Hand School.Hugh, meaning to make a straight job of his idea, calmly looked the
skates over.  He knew full well how Nick was watching his every
action, trying to hug just a glimmer of hope to his heart that,
perhaps, Hugh might be merciful, and let him off, as the skates were
now once again in his possession.  The shadow of the Reformatory
loomed up dreadfully close to Nick Lang just then, darker than he had
ever before imagined it could look.  It terrified him, too, and
caused him to shiver as though someone had dashed a bucket of
ice-cold water over him unexpectedly.

"Yes, I recognize these skates very well, Chief," Hugh told the
waiting officer.

"And do they belong to you, Hugh?" continued the officer, with a
stern look at the cringing culprit near by, who weakly leaned against
the table for support after his recent rough handling.

"They _were_ my property until just ten minutes, more or less, ago,
Chief," said Hugh, deliberately fixing Nick with his eye, so as to
impress things on him in a way he could never forget.  "Then I had an
offer from Nick here to buy them.  At first I was averse to letting
him have them, but I changed my mind.  These skates belong to Nick,
Chief.  You must set him free, and not hold this against him.  He's
going to wipe the slate clean this time and astonish folks here in
Scranton by showing them what a fellow of his varied talents can do,
once he sets out to go straight.  And, for one, I wish him the best
of success from the bottom of my heart.  I hope you enjoy your
skates, Nick."

He held out his hand, and the astounded Nick mechanically allowed
Hugh to squeeze his digits.  But not one word could he say, simply
stared at Hugh as though he had difficulty in understanding such
nobility of soul; then, taking the skates, he went from the room.
They could hear the clatter of his heels as he hurried down the
stairs, as though afraid Hugh might yet repent and send the officer
after him.

Of course, Chief Wambold departed, shrugging his shoulders as though
still more than half convinced there had been something crooked about
Nick's suspicious actions.

Of course Thad had to be told the whole amazing story.  He shook his
head at the conclusion, and went on record as being a doubter by
saying:

"I wish you success in your wonderful experiment, Hugh, I sure do;
but all the same I don't believe for a minute the leopard is going to
change its spots, or that Nick Lang, the worst boy in Scranton, can
ever reform."

Hugh would say nothing further about it, only, of course, he made
Thad promise to keep everything secret until he gave permission to
speak.  If Nick made good this would never happen.

That night Hugh had a jolly time, and it was fairly late when he
crept into bed.  As he lay there, instead of going to sleep
immediately, he looked out of the window toward the west, where a
bright star hung above the horizon.  It seemed like a magnet to Hugh,
who lay there and watched for its setting, all the while allowing his
thoughts to roam back to the remarkable happening of that afternoon.

"It's a toss-up, just as Thad says, whether anything worth while will
come of my experiment," he told himself; "but, anyhow, I've given
Nick something to think over.  And if he makes the first advances
toward me I'm bound to meet him half-way.  I only hope it turns out
like the story of Jean Valjean did.  But there goes my Star of Hope
down behind the horizon; and now I'd better be getting some sleep
myself.  All the same I'm glad I did it!"

And doubtless he slept all the more soundly because of the noble
impulse that had impelled him to save Nick Lang from the Reform
School.


CHAPTER IV

THE HOCKEY MATCH WITH A SCRATCH SEVEN

There was a large crowd present to watch the local hockey match that
morning.  Not only were Scranton High pupils interested, but many of
the town folks seemed to find it convenient to stroll around to the
field that, during the recent summer, had been the scene of bitterly
contested baseball games.

Even a number of gentlemen were on hand to criticize, and also
applaud, according to what their judgment of the work of the young
athletes proved to be.  Some of these men had been college players,
or, at least, interested in athletic sports.  They hailed the
awakening of Scranton along these lines most heartily.  And most of
them had only too gladly invested various sums in the up-building of
the athletic grounds.

Now that the high board-fence surrounded the large field, and the
carefully planned clubhouse stood at the near end, the grounds had a
business-like air.  Those who knew just how to go about it had seen
that the water was just the right depth, and this was now frozen
almost solid.  As the enclosure was limited in dimensions, it became
apparent that half of the ice should be given over to the hockey
players.  When the game was finished the entire pond could be used by
the general public.

The "rink" had been scientifically measured off, and such lines as
were necessary marked, after the rules of the game.  The two goals in
the center of the extreme ends were stationary, the posts having been
rooted to the ice in some ingenious fashion, with the nets between.

Hugh Morgan had been unanimously chosen to serve as leader of the
Scranton Seven.  He was admirably fitted for the position, since his
playing was gilt-edged, his judgment sound, and he never allowed
himself to become excited, or "rattled," no matter what the crisis.

The other members of the team consisted of fellows who had done nobly
in the stirring baseball encounters of the previous summer, and were,
moreover, well up in the various angles of skating.

By name they were as follows, and those who have read previous
stories in this High School Series will recognize old friends in the
list:

Julius Hobson, Thad Stevens, Joe Danvers, Owen Dugdale, Horatio
Juggins and Justin Smith, commonly known as "J. J."

The scratch team consisted of some fine players in addition, boys who
were swift on the wing and able with their hockey sticks.  When the
two teams were lined up to hear the last instructions from Mr.
Leonard, who, being the physical instructor at Scranton High, had
taken upon himself the duties of umpire and coach and referee all in
one for this occasion, they stood as follows:

  _Scranton High_   _Position_       _Scratch Team_
  Stevens ......... Goal ........... Anthony McGrew
  Hobson .......... Point .......... Frank Marshall
  Danvers ......... Cover Point .... Dick Travers
  Smith ........... Right End ...... Nick Lang
  Dugdale ......... Center ......... Tom Rawlings
  Juggins ......... Left End ....... Phil Hasty
  Morgan .......... Rover .......... Tug Lawrence

Just before the game began there was a hasty consultation among the
players opposed to the regular team.  One of their members had sent
word he could not come up to time, as his mother had refused to let
him play.  This necessitated a change of program.  A substitute must
be found, and as they knew that Hugh's Seven already greatly
outclassed them it was of considerable moment that they pick up a
player who would strengthen their team, regardless of his identity.

So Nick Lang had been approached and offered the position of Right
End, a very important place for swift action and furious fighting.
Nick had been skating quietly by himself and evidently greatly
enjoying his new skates, which many boys recognized as the pair Hugh
Morgan had once owned.

He had hesitated just a trifle, and then agreed to fill the vacancy.
There were those who shook their heads dismally when they saw Nick
the trouble-maker in the line-up.  Previous experiences warned them
that the game was very likely to break up in a big row, for such had
been the fate of many a rivalry when rough-and-ready Nick Lang
entered the lists.

But Hugh, who had secretly been the first to suggest to the captain
of the other Seven that Nick be chosen, somehow believed the one-time
bully of Scranton might surprise his critics for once by playing a
straight, honest game.

Hugh, of course, was mounted on his new silver skates.  He had found
little difficulty in persuading his mother to advance his birthday
gift a few days, after telling her the whole circumstances; and it
must be said that Mrs. Morgan approved of his plan from the bottom of
her heart.

Mr. Leonard had often had trouble with Nick in times gone by.  When
he sternly told the boys before the game was started that he meant to
be severe in inflicting punishment and penalties for foul or off-side
work he had Nick mostly in mind.  Indeed, everyone who heard what he
said concluded that it was meant almost entirely for the Lang chap.

Nick only grinned.  Those who knew him best did not find any
encouragement about his apparent good nature.  Nick could "smile, and
smile again, and still be a villain," as some of them were fond of
repeating.

The game began, and was soon in full progress, with the players
surging from one end of the rink to the other, according to which
side had gained possession of the puck, and were endeavoring by every
legitimate means possible to shoot the little rubber disc between the
goal posts, and into the net of their opponents.

It was soon seen that as a whole the Scratch Team was woefully weak.
Hugh's players had things pretty much their own way.  Before more
than half of the first twenty-minute period had been exhausted the
score stood five goals for Scranton High, and none to the credit of
their opponents.

Then the tactics of the Scratch Team underwent a change.  The captain
put Nick Lang forward to oppose Hugh Morgan when the puck was again
faced for a fresh start.  In a fashion truly miraculous Nick managed
to gain possession of the rubber, and the way in which he sent it
flying before him along the ice was well worth seeing.  Many started
to cheer, forgetting their former antipathy toward the bully.
Despite the clever work of Hugh, and others, as well as the able
defense of the goal-keeper, Thad Stevens, Nick succeeded in shooting
the puck between the goal posts for a score.

Hugh was ready to shake hands with himself, he felt so pleased.  And
not once so far had Mr. Leonard found occasion to reprimand Nick on
account of foul work so flagrant that it could be no accident.

Many rubbed their eyes and asked their neighbors if that could really
be Nick Lang, the terror of Scranton, who played like a fiend, and
yet kept well within his rights?

"But just wait till something happens to upset Nick," they went on to
say, with wise shakes of the head.  "We know how he's just bound to
carry on.  It's a nice game so far, but the chances are three to one
it'll break up in a row yet; they always do when that fellow has a
hand in the going.  He wouldn't be happy without a fuss, and an
attempt to win by some dirty work."

When the first half had passed, and there was a recess of fifteen
minutes called for the warm players to secure a little rest, the
score was five to three.  That looked better for a well-contested
game.  And so far there had not been any flagrant breaking of rules
to call for condemnation on the part of the referee.

Mr. Leonard himself looked a little surprised.  He could not
understand it, but continued to keep an extra sharp eye on the usual
trouble-maker, as though expecting Nick to break loose with more than
ordinary violence because he had kept "bottled up" so long.

Hugh noticed another thing that interested him.  During this
intermission Nick skated by himself.  His old cronies, Tip Slavin and
Leon Disney, were on the ice, and, of course, indulging in their
customary derogatory remarks concerning the playing of the Regulars,
but Nick did not seem to want to join them, as had always been his
habit hitherto.

Twice Hugh saw the crafty Leon skate up alongside and speak
insinuatingly to the other, as though trying to persuade him to agree
to something; but on each occasion Nick shook his head in the
negative, and broke away.  Leon looked after him rather
disconsolately, as though at a loss to understand what could have
happened to take all the fight and "bumptiousness" out of the former
bully.

Then play was resumed.

Hugh had taken his comrades to task during the intermission.  He told
them several weaknesses had developed in their team play, which
should be corrected if they hoped to down the strong Keyport Seven.
Nor did Hugh spare himself in making these criticisms, for he knew
his own faults.  It is a wise boy who does.

Having tested Nick's superb playing and found it good, the captain of
the Scratch Seven was willing to put him forward as their star
player, even if it went against the grain to realize that they had to
depend on a fellow so much in disrepute.

There were several hot scrimmages, as always occur during a strenuous
game of ice hockey.  Even the most careful of players will sometimes
err in judgment at such times, and either be reprimanded by the
referee or having their side penalized on account of their too
energetic work.  Strange to say, Nick Lang never once caused a
penalty to be inflicted on his side, though Rawlings, Hasty and
Lawrence were unwitting offenders, as were also Dugdale and Hobson on
the part of Scranton High.

Everybody was satisfied when the game finally came to an end with the
score nine to six.  It was a pretty good contest, all things
considered.  Perhaps the Regulars did not try quite as hard as they
might, since after all this was to be considered only in the light of
practice, and they were more taken up with correcting certain glaring
errors than in making goals.

The talk of the whole game, however, was the playing of Nick Lang,
who had left the ice after it was all over; but not before Hugh had
congratulated him on his fine work.

"How did he ever go through with it all, and never make a nasty break
once?"

"This must foe one of Nick's special good days, I reckon!"

"He's sure a hummer, all right, when he chooses to play straight.
What a pity he has that crooked streak in his make-up.  Only for that
Nick would be a jim-dandy hand at any old athletic sport.  I wonder
if it will last, or is he due to break loose, to-night perhaps, just
because he's held himself in so long."

These and many similar remarks passed between the astonished boys of
Scranton High, but they did not seem able to understand it at all.
Hugh, however, only smiled when they appealed to him, and would say
nothing; but deep down in his heart he was satisfied that the seed he
had sown had fallen on fallow soil and taken root.


CHAPTER V

THAD BRINGS SOME STARTLING NEWS

"Hugh, have you heard the news this Sunday morning?"

With these abrupt words Thad Stevens burst upon his chum who was
feeding some long-eared, handsome Belgian hares, which of late he had
taken to keeping, as it had become quite a fad among the Scranton
boys.

Hugh turned to look at his friend.  It was plain to be seen that Thad
was laboring under considerable excitement.  His face was flushed as
if with running, while his eyes glowed much more than was their wont
under ordinary conditions.

"Why, no, I haven't heard a thing except the church bells ringing,
and people going past our house early this morning for mass.  You
know we live on a street that is largely used by those who have to
get out shortly after daybreak Sunday mornings in winter.  What's
happened during the night?  There couldn't have been a fire, because
I'd have heard the bell, and been out with the rest of the boys."

"Oh! you couldn't guess it in a dozen trials, Hugh.  It was a regular
down-right burglary that was pulled off, even if the stuff taken
consisted of candy, cigarettes, and the like, as well as some
sporting goods and several revolvers."

Hugh looked interested.

"From the way you talk, Thad, I should say it might have been Paul
Kramer's Emporium that had suffered; because he's really the only man
in Scranton who keeps sporting goods."

"A good guess, Hugh, because Paul is the chap.  They got in through a
back door, and everybody says it was a pretty slick job, too," Thad
went on to say.

"Let's see what you're telling me," Hugh remarked thoughtfully.  "If
they took candy and cigarettes and sporting goods it would look to me
pretty much as if the robbery was the work of unprincipled boys,
rather than men."

Thad stared hard at his companion.

"Well, you are a wonder, Hugh, at seeing through things!" he hastily
declared.  "Why, that was what Chief Wambold said right away.  And,
Hugh, he followed it with the declaration that he guessed he could
put his finger on the guilty fellows without much trouble.  You know
who he had in mind, of course, Hugh?"

"It goes without saying that one of them would be Nick Lang," came
the quick reply, while a small cloud crept over Hugh's face.

"Sure thing," continued Thad, shrugging his shoulders.  "When a
fellow has built up a nice reputation for himself along those lines
he can't blame folks for suspecting him of every single tricky piece
of work that is pulled off in town.  In the past Nick has been
ring-leader in lots of lawless doings, and the Chief was dead certain
he'd get him with the goods on this time, as he called it."

"Perhaps he may, but I hope that for once Chief Wambold will find
himself mistaken," said Hugh soberly, and then adding: "How did you
happen to hear about it, Thad?"

"Oh!  I chanced to be out early this morning on an errand for mother,
taking some things over to that sick colored wash-lady we have do our
weekly work, and passing through the public square on my way back I
saw a crowd around Kramer's place.  Music, painting, literature, and
science have all been influenced; and ideas concerning political,
economic, and social facts have been affected by that interchange
which has developed our philosophy, our science, and our art.

No one nation has originated all; and each nation has depended on
hints and hypotheses which have arisen in others.

But the interchange of ideas on social life has led to an increase of
ideals, which are plans of action emotionally appreciated and
therefore motive forces.

Some of these are the Utopias of individual thinkers; but we shall
consider here only those more powerful ideals which are shared,
however vaguely, by many. In this case also, as in the purely
intellectual sphere, the fire spreads from group to group, from
nation to nation; and as the interchange of ideas increases knowledge,
so the exchange of enthusiasm makes action more powerful. A really
effective ideal, however, cannot arise except from the perception
of definite evil.

Vague discontents may cause such revolution as leads to reaction; but
the clear sight of evil is the only source of reform. We may take
it for granted, then, that although an ideal is nerveless if it
is not passionate, it is futile unless it is based on knowledge.

Therefore a hint must be given of the evils from the knowledge of which
ideals of social reform now rise.

That all is not well in the relations of man to man or of group to
group must be fairly obvious to any one with imagination enough
for sympathy.

General dissatisfaction and universal cures for society are childish;
but the perception of this and that evil gives rise to different
plans for reform which all originate in the enthusiasm which is an
ideal. We may put aside the long history of the growth of this shared
enthusiasm for better relations between men, whatever their ability,
their rank, their race, or their government.

The common ideals of the present are the result of a gradual
development, but we shall consider them here as attempts to deal
with existing evils and plans for a better future

.

* * * * *
Some social evils of the present are perhaps as old as any settled
civilization. Such are disease and personal violence.

Some are due to forces which have come into existence recently,
owing to increased communication and accumulated wealth.

Such are extreme poverty and the dehumanizing of social relations.
With both kinds of evil we are moved to deal, and we are not deterred
from the attempt to reform even long-established evil; for we feel
that we do not know what is possible.

Nothing is inevitable.

This is not the place to give in detail the description of those
evils which are being dealt with. It is enough if we recognize
that it is no abstract or airy theory of equality or human nature
which moves us to action. All real theories are intensely personal:
and no theory has ever yet moved men unless they saw through it
to the crude facts.

However it may be phrased in a theory of society, we recognize it
as evil that disease, leading to premature death, should be as
common as it is.

As a social evil it may be said to disturb seriously the relations
between men. We see also that it is a social evil that men should use
fraud or violence in compelling labour or in the pursuit of riches.
Of the newer social evils there is the physical and spiritual
deterioration which seems to result from the massing of men in
great cities.

There is also the dehumanizing of the relations between master and
man.

And this is like in kind to the dehumanizing of all functions in the
vast institutions of modern times. The director of a company comes
to regard himself as part of a machine; and so does the shareholder.
So eventually does the agent of the State. Until at last we reach the
immense evil that human action is done for which no moral
responsibility is felt.

How then shall we act? What has been done and what is still hoped
for? The answer to such questions will be a statement of ideals.

One may speak of ideals of social reform from two different points
of view; either with respect to (1) the changing sentiment which
produces movements for reform or with respect to (2) the institutional
change which embodies that sentiment.

The two are complementary parts of one historical movement: and it
is difficult to divide them as cause and effect. For sentiment,
becoming enthusiasm, certainly causes institutional change, and yet
the reformed institution invariably creates a new sentiment. The
province of law and of social custom is to lead as well as
to register--a dynamic as well as a static influence, to increase
order and to incite to liberty. In actual life, therefore, it is
often impossible to separate the sentiment from its embodiment in
measures of social reform.

For purposes of study, however, one may divide. We may put aside the
moving sentiments--the passions, however faint, which urge men to
wish for a better future--and we may consider first the particular
instances of reform

.

* * * * *
One definite and in some sense new departure in the results of the
shared enthusiasms of nations has been the industrial legislation
of recent years.

That has been already dealt with. But, although in an economic
age such as ours industrial reform may seem the most striking, it is
not the only effect of our shared enthusiasm and later ages may not
think it the most important. There has been reform of social
evils owing to the interchange between nations of ideas on education,
religious toleration, medicine, and sanitation, the treatment of
criminals, the suppression of slavery and many other subjects. All
these and many more reforms are, as it were, registered in
institutional (legal or administrative) change.

Perhaps it is better to begin with a definite instance of the working
of an ideal, lest it may seem that we are speaking only of an empty
aspiration.

We may take as an example the reforms connected with medicine and
sanitation, and those only in so far as they have been officially
established by the joint action of states. This is a very restricted
embodiment of a social ideal, since of course we may find the same
use of common labour between men of different races in the private
contest with disease or in the municipal preventive medicine which
in every great city owes much to investigators and practitioners
of other nations.

But it is better to take the most tangible effect in purely governmental
action.

The French Government proposed an international conference, which
met in 1851, to deal with infectious disease; and a second conference
met in 1856.

In 1865 the outburst of cholera in the East led to a third congress
at Constantinople. Great Britain opposed treaties for regulating
quarantine, &c., because of the delay which might be caused to the
pursuit of shipping interests.

But at last a treaty was made in 1892 at Venice for protection against
cholera. Further and more effective treaties were agreed to by civilized
states in 1897 and 1903.
A bureau of information concerning infectious disease was established
at Paris, and commissions to supervise were established in Turkey
and Egypt.

With regard to sleeping sickness Great Britain took the initiative;
and a conference met in 1907, in London, at which six countries
were represented.

So much with respect to disease; we may now turn to examples
of the joint action of states as regards crime.

The African slave traffic has been dealt with since 1885 (Berlin
Conference) by the European States acting together on certain
general principles. And what is known as the White Slave traffic
was the subject of arrangement between fifteen states in the
conference at Paris in 1902.

Again, the reform of prisons and penitentiaries has been much
assisted by international congresses since 1846.

The last was held in 1910 in America, at which twenty-eight states
were represented. A secretariat has been established at Berne for
the exchange of expert opinion and for making suggestions to
governments.

These are examples of a very numerous class of reforms undertaken by
the _joint action_ of governments.

They are all comparatively recent and most of the twenty-eight unions
between governments for concerted action have been established
during the years of European peace between 1871 and 1914.

In these instances the States of Europe have put their precious
sovereignties into their pockets; although the lawyers and
diplomatists explain the situation in the old terms.

With respect to all these movements for social reform three points
must be noticed: first, the initiative in most reform has come from
private enterprise and not from diplomacy or governments. Secondly,
this private interest has spread from the few of one nation to the
few of another before any effective result was attained. Thirdly, the
states have not acted together because of any general theory of
international action, but simply because certain social evils could
not be dealt with at all by any state acting separately.

Whatever hampers common action, then, also hinders effective reform
in dealing with disease or crime. I need not elaborate the
conclusion.

* * * * *
There are also instances of governmental action being _directly
influenced_ by the practice of other states, even when there has
been no common action.

The two most striking reforms of recent years have been in education
and religious toleration.

Of education enough has already been said. The interest from our
point of view here is chiefly in the effect of education on social
structure. It is increasingly evident that of all forces for transforming
a nation, education is the most powerful; but no one nation can transform
its education effectively without respect to the mistakes and
successes of its neighbours. This has been perceived and acted upon.
The influence, for example, of Germany on England is sufficiently
well known.

German precedents were quoted in the House of Commons in the early
days of state education for England: and the Education Acts of
1870 and 1876 were largely due to the impression made in England by
the success of state education in Prussia. Coleridge, Carlyle, and
Matthew Arnold definitely acknowledged a debt to Germany.

But Germany owed something to England in the perception of the
value of surroundings and corporate life in schools. France
also was affected by English education; and, in fact, French educators
had to come to England to find the thing for which the French gave
us the name--_Esprit de Corps_.

The United States have been very definitely influenced in their University
education both by Germany and England; and their Government has
in primary education certainly established for all states the transforming
possibilities of a school system. It must be remembered that
the crudity of civilization and its apparent corruption in the
United States are European not American.

It is because Europe has neglected its duty, enslaved and brutalized
its peoples, that social and political evil enters with the immigrants;
and all this mass of European incompetence, the result of neglect
or evil-doing in Ireland, Poland, the Slavonic Countries and Italy,
the Government of the United States exorcises with education: and
the effect is spreading beyond the frontiers of the States.

A further effect of influence passing from nation to nation has
been the change with regard to the relations of State and Church.

In England it is some years since the State persecuted in the supposed
interest of religion; but we remember that the abolition of tests
against Roman Catholics was as late as 1830 and as against Jews as
late as 1850.

Even the most backward of European countries have been affected by
the general feeling.

In 1874 Austria for the first time allowed any creed, not dangerous
to morals, to be preached; and ecclesiastical power is not any
longer to be used against any but members of the particular Church
which is offended.

In Spain there are still some obstacles to public manifestations of
any religious belief but that which is most prevalent; free worship
in private, however, is at last allowed. Thus, the general tendency,
spreading from the nations which are most intricately divided in
religion, has been towards what is called toleration.

Connected with this has been the gradual recognition of civil
marriage; in which the old privilege of the most powerful Church
is no longer recognized by the modern State. Law and custom have both
changed.

Perhaps the general attitude has not really changed. We persecute more
for political than for religious unorthodoxy; or it may be that
in our more economic age we forbear to burn heretics only because
we cannot afford the faggots. But in any case the relations between
men in society are more justly arranged, even where religion is
concerned.

* * * * *
We have thus examples of (1) joint governmental action and (2)
separate actions of governments influenced directly by foreign
governments.

There are also certain results of the interchange of ideals between
nations which are not yet, or only in part, registered in legal or
political institutions. Such for example is the changed position
given to women.

A change has occurred quite outside the political or even the
economic sphere, both in the habits of western humanity and in
their guiding conceptions.

The change is affecting the meaning of marriage, since we are
becoming inclined to suppose that man and woman are not simply male
and female.

Human individuality is given a new value; and there is no telling
yet what the new attitude may involve in lessening the friction due
to primitive and obsolete tradition or in making society more
reasonable and civilized.

The source of the change is undoubtedly an enthusiasm which has been
influenced by men and women of all nations. Ibsen has a place in the
history of social transformation. And besides, the contact between
nations has made it possible for the freer position of women in
one group to affect the domestic slavery of another.

In the position of children, also, an immense change is proceeding.
We cannot fail to call it social reform, that the child should be
given so much more definite a place in the social organism. Aristotle
thought woman was a mistake of nature's in the attempt to make man;
and nearly all philosophers have treated children as if they ought
to be rather ashamed of themselves for not being grown up.

I speak of philosophers in the wide sense of the term, for I do not
think the metaphysicians knew that there was such a thing as a child
in the universe. However that may be, we can hardly believe that
as late as the nineteenth century parents really imagined that
they knew what was good for their children.

In our more sceptical age, children have generally to be careful not
to allow their parents to read certain books, and in every well
brought up family, it is thought that parents should be seen and not
heard. A social change has occurred in the comparative importance
we assign to childhood and age.

Thirdly, there is gradually coming about a transformation of social
castes. One must speak carefully; for in the West we are supposed
not to have castes. There is, however, an uncomfortable feeling
that society is not one, that the two cities which Plato said would
divide and destroy the true city of men are now established--the
rich and the poor.

I do not mean those with £3,000 a year, and those with £160 a year. It
is not a question for the Exchequer. I mean that great numbers in
all 'civilized' nations are ill-fed and ill-clothed from birth, and
die prematurely. To perceive it is to desire action which perhaps
no state can perform.

But that we perceive it is something. Read the complacent rhymes of
Lord Tennyson about 'freedom slowly broadening down' and then turn
to contemporary literature, to Jean Richepin or John Galsworthy,
and you will acknowledge that a common ideal of social reform has come
into existence. We are at least restless in face of a social
organization which wastes humanity during long years of peace almost
as completely, though not so recklessly, as during a few months of
war.

Something has been already done--English writers and English experience
have given a motive power to Hungarian, Russian, Finnish, Turkish,
Persian, and Indian democracy.

Groups of men have claimed, for example in South America, their right
to free development. And everywhere during the period of European peace
the contact between nations was teaching every nation the force of
its own character, while the new complexities of society were
weakening the old dividing lines of caste between individuals.

In all these matters we seem to be moved by a desire for a freer
social atmosphere. Whether law or administration changes or not,
it is clear that most European nations have undergone in the years
of peace from 1871 to 1914 considerable social changes.

How far they are effective in all nations and in all classes it
is very difficult for a contemporary to judge. It may be that the
social structure of the decorative upper fringe or of the
bedraggled hem of society is much the same as it was before
communication was easy and transit rapid.

But the central body of European society is certainly changed; and,
after all, between the scum and the dregs is the good soup.

* * * * *
Such are the changes which have been introduced into social life
owing to the interdependence of nations. But we should not understand
what has happened if we accepted the mere record of achievements.

The future is built not only upon what we have done, but upon what
we hope to do.
Reforms accomplished do not make us more satisfied to endure evil not
yet reformed--for always working in the achieved present is the ideal
which transformed the past into what we now see.

We may turn, then, to consider some general features of the force
working in social reform which is not yet achieved. And for that
purpose we put aside established law and custom to consider the
implied attitude.

Now that political privilege and inequality before the law are more
or less removed, there is a greater concentration upon the underlying
social injustice.

We all accept it as good that the activities of government should not
be for the benefit of the few, or that the money should not be
drawn from one class.

We suppose at least that there should be one law for rich and
poor.

To any one with a knowledge of history this seems an immense step since
small classes in every nation held political privilege, made law for
others, and forced tribute from the majority.

Not that all is justice and liberty. The law still, with noble
impartiality, forbids both the millionaire and the pauper to steal
bread.

Of course it is not directed against the poor. The law never forbids
the poor man to cheat the state out of more than £3,000 a year. Again,
political power still depends on the social position of your cousins
and your aunts. But something has been done.

We hear much more nowadays about social than about political or legal
reform. That, in itself, is a sign of a change of attitude.

In the revolution of 1381 the crowds came marching to London swearing,
in the words of the old chronicle, that there would be no peace
in the land till each and every lawyer was slain.

In the revolutions of 1830 and 1848 it was 'death to the politicians'.
Now--it may be that we despair of lawyers or politicians, dead or
alive. In any case the attention of those in every state who are moved
by enthusiasm for a better society is concentrated less upon votes
and laws than upon the distribution of well-being.

Secondly, there has been a transference of enthusiasm of the religious
or poetic kind from the sphere of contemplation or aloofness to
that of earthly and even material action.

Ideals of social reform do not any longer involve a neglect of food
and clothing: we are all more and more convinced that it is idle to
preach culture to a starving man, or to talk of liberty to one whose
whole life is a bestial struggle for bare food and covering. I
speak of normal times. In England, France, and Germany, social
betterment means giving to a greater number security of bare life,
upon which alone the good life can be built.

It will be seen that I imply a disagreement with the Tolstoian
conception of reform; in so far as that involves a neglect of food
and clothing and generally of what are called material goods.

That conception is not perhaps powerful among those who deal with
what is usually called social reform. It is not 'modern', and
it is also dependent upon a mistaken argument in ethical theory.

An unfortunate confusion made by what is called Eastern, Stoic, or
Mediaeval asceticism led to the idea that because the mind is more
important than the body, the body has no importance at all.

But we need not deal with this theory in detail, especially as the
general attitude of to-day is opposed to it.

There is undoubtedly a concentration upon the bare necessities of
human life with a view to discovering how these can be shared more
generally.

"Not the miracles that are brought about by a complete change of
heart on the part of someone the world looks down on as a scamp,"
Hugh persisted.  "But you're one of those who want to be shown; I
reckon, Thad, your folks must have come from Missouri, didn't they?"

"Wrong again, Hugh, because none of them ever saw the Mississippi,
though my grandfather fought through the Civil War, and was with
Grant when Lee surrendered at Appomattox Court House.  But I admit I
am a little stubborn, and prejudiced.  It runs in the blood, I
suppose.  The Stevens were always sort of pig-headed."

"I've also heard considerable about the deacon as a weather seer,
Thad; how about that?  Does he manage to hit it off occasionally, so
as to equal our forecaster at Washington, whose predictions come true
every now and then?"

"Oh! the deacon has made that quite a fad," he was told by the
obliging Thad.  "He doesn't confine himself to figuring out just what
sort of day we'll have to-morrow, or even for the coming week.  He
looks ahead, and finds out from the signs of Nature what sort of
winter or summer we're going to have next,--cold, mild, hot, cool,
dry or rainy.  And say, I've heard he hits it nearly every time."

"Well, what did he say about this particular winter?" Hugh asked,
with renewed interest; for such subjects always gripped his
attention, because he believed some of these shrewd countrymen, who
watched the weather and observed what was going on all around them,
could tell better than any scientific gentleman what was liable to
come along during the succeeding seasons.

"He predicted a severe winter," replied Thad promptly.  "Some people
laughed at what he said, especially when Christmas came and went, and
so far we'd had precious little of cold.  But it's come along at
last, and from all reports some of the most dreadful weather ever
known is happening away out in the Northwest right now."

"And how does the old blacksmith get his ideas--from Nature, you
said, I believe, Thad?"

"He studies the bark on the trees; the way the squirrels store the
nuts away; and how the caterpillars weave their cocoons.  Oh! he has
a hundred different signs that he depends on before making up his
mind.  I used to laugh when I heard him talking about it, but since
I've grown older I've decided that there may be a whole lot in that
sort of weather prediction."

"I incline that same way," agreed Hugh.  "Many of the little animals
of the woods are given a wonderful instinct that enables them to know
what to expect.  Even bees that always lay by a certain amount of
honey for winter use, are said to stock up extra heavy on years when
a severe winter comes along.  It must be a mighty interesting study,
I should think.  Some time I mean to know the old deacon better, so
as to get posted on his vast store of knowledge along those lines."

"His wife is rather feeble now," continued Thad.  "She's a fine old
lady though, and as cheery as can be, considering all things."

"But if, as you said, she has to move around in one of those
self-propelling wheel-chairs, how does she ever get her house-work
done, Thad?"

"Oh! they have a girl in during the daytime," came the explanation;
"though Mrs. Winslow still mixes all the cakes and bread.  And, say,
she does make the greatest crullers you ever tasted in your born
days.  I know, because that couple are always sending things out to
houses where there are growing boys.  Their world lies in boys only;
you never hear either of them say a thing about girls."

Hugh could easily understand that.  He had been in numerous homes
where there were only boys in the family; and the parents knew next
to nothing about the delight and constant anxiety of girls.

"As I like crullers about the best of any sort of cakes," he
chuckled, "I think I'll have to cultivate the acquaintance of Mrs.
Winslow.  Some time I may have the pleasure of tasting her famous
cooking that you rate so highly.  But to turn to another subject,
Thad, have you heard any more reports about those Keyport High
fellows we expect to go up against next Saturday?"

"Yes, I have, Hugh.  Podge Huggins was over there two days back.  He
saw them practicing on some thin ice over a pond, and he told, me
they were an exceptionally husky proposition.  He also saw us work
yesterday afternoon in the scratch game, and when I asked him how we
compared with Keyport, why Podge wouldn't give me a straight answer;
but only grinned and turned the subject."

"Evidently then Podge doesn't have the confidence in his school team
that he ought to feel," said Hugh, apparently not at all disturbed.
"Well, we have a whole week still for practice, and ought to keep on
improving.  I'm hoping that Keyport may overdo it, which is always
possible."

"You mean too much work will cause them to go stale; is that it,
Hugh?"

"Physical directors and coaches are always on their guard against
that, Thad.  The boat team is always strongest at a certain point.
If the race comes off when they attain that top-notch pinnacle,
they're apt to do their very best; but should it be delayed, by
weather or something else, the coach becomes alarmed, because he
knows there's a great chance of their losing speed from too much
nervous tension and overwork."

From which talk it was evident that Hugh must have imbibed
considerable valuable knowledge from Mr. Leonard, who, as a college
man, ought to understand a thing or two concerning sporting matters.

So the two chums continued to talk all the way back to town.  Hugh
had picked up a whole lot of information by making the journey out to
the cross-roads.  Somehow he seemed to feel drawn toward the old
blacksmith, who seemed to be such a sterling character.

Hugh had met him in church circles and at sociables, but, not knowing
the tragedy that lay back in the deacon's younger life, he had so far
failed to cultivate his acquaintance.  But he was now determined to
see more of Deacon Winslow, for he believed the weather prophet would
be able to tell him a host of interesting things about Nature's
storehouse, from which he had gleaned astonishing facts during many
years' study.


CHAPTER VIII

OWEN DUGDALE'S ANNOUNCEMENT

Another week of school had commenced, with winter now in full swing.

The weather seemed to have settled down to show what it could do,
after such a long delay.  It was making up for lost time, some of the
boys declared.  But then it could hardly be too cold for fellows
warmly dressed, and who had their three hearty meals a day.  The poor
might complain, because they suffered, especially when such spells
were prolonged.

Deacon Winslow was seen in town more frequently than usual, he
leaving the work to the charge of his assistant for an hour or so at
a time.  He always carried a big basket in his wagon or sleigh; and
those who knew his warm heart could easily understand that his visits
were wholly at homes where there was none too much in the way of
comforts and food.

During the earlier days of the week the talk was pretty much of
winter sports.  Ice hockey occupied a prominent place in the
conversations that were carried on wherever three or more Scranton
High fellows clustered, to kick their heels on the pavement, or sun
themselves while perched on the top of the campus fence that would go
down in history as the peer of the famous one at Yale.

During afternoons the hockey players gathered at the park, and each
day saw them engaging in some sort of practice game,--their opponents
being such fellows as could be gathered together to constitute a fair
Seven.

Hugh seemed satisfied with the progress made, and Mr. Leonard, too,
looked as if he felt well repaid for the trouble he was taking
showing them certain clever moves that might reward them in a
fiercely contested match.

Meanwhile the mystery concerning that robbery at Paul Kramer's
Emporium had not yet been wholly solved.  Leon Disney still
languished in the lock-up at Police Headquarters, his folks having
been unable to secure bail for him.  They could not raise the amount
themselves, and somehow there seemed to be no person in the whole
community philanthropical enough to take chances with Leon, who was
reckoned an exceedingly slippery individual, who would most likely
run away before his trial came off, leaving his bondsman to "hold the
bag," as the boys called it.

He was just as stubborn as ever in his denial of complicity in the
robbery.  Leon doubtless believed that a lie well stuck to was bound
to raise up friends.  There are always well disposed people whose
sympathies are apt to be aroused when they hear of a case like this.

But Leon was not being held on circumstantial evidence.  He had been
caught "with the goods on him."  All that loot hidden under the old
barn on his place was positive proof of his guilt.  Still he held
out, and declared himself the victim of some base plot calculated to
ruin his reputation; which was rather a queer thing for Leon to say,
since the only reputation he had in Scranton was for badness.

Another thing was that he still declined to betray his pal, for
everyone felt positive he had had company when foraging through the
cases in Paul Kramer's establishment, taking such things as naturally
appeal to a boy's heart--candy, cigarettes, revolvers and sporting
goods.

Chief Wambold suspected one boy from the start, after finding that
the former chief offender in these lines could prove a positive
alibi.  This was the third of the bad lot, Tip Slavin.

He had even gone to Tip's humble home and made a thorough search,
high and low, but without the least success.  If Tip were guilty he
must have been smarter than his confederate, who had hidden his share
of the plunder under the loose boards of the floor of his folks' barn.

Not having any evidence beyond suspicion the officer did not dare
arrest Tip, who continued to loaf about his customary corners and
look impudently at every fellow who stared meaningly at him when
passing.  Hugh himself never once doubted the guilt of Tip Slavin;
though he fancied the authorities might have a hard time catching
him, unless the stubborn Leon at the last, finding himself on the way
to the Reform School, confessed, and implicated his companion.

He and Thad were talking about that very same thing on Thursday
afternoon while on the way home from the park a little earlier than
usual.

"Where do you think that sly Tip could have hidden the stuff, Hugh?"
Thad asked, continuing their conversation.

"Oh! there would be plenty of places, and no one likely to ever run
across it, on one condition," replied the other.

"What might that be?" demanded Thad.

"If only Tip could himself keep away from his cache," he was told.
"That may be his undoing, after all.  You know, when an ordinary
thief has done something big, and is being looked for, the smart
police always ask whether he has a wife or a sweetheart; because they
know that sooner or later he is bound to communicate with such a
person, and so a clue may be found to his hiding-place.  Well, Tip's
heart will be located where his treasure is.  He'll soon get a
_yearning_ to indulge in some of the candy and cigarettes he's got
hidden away."

"Then if Chief Wambold knew his duty," snapped Thad vigorously, "he'd
keep tabs of Tip day and night, and shadow him wherever he went."

"That would be his best move," agreed Hugh.

"You ought to post the Chief on that same sort of clever job, Hugh."

"Well, I did think of that," admitted the other boy, "but somehow I
hated to have a hand in railroading Tip to the Reformatory.  It's
true he ought to be there, for he's a terror to the whole community;
but he's got a mother, Thad, and I'd hate to see her swollen eyes,
and remember that I'd had a hand in parting her from her boy.  It
isn't as if I were paid for doing such things, as Chief Wambold is;
this is hardly any business of mine, you know, and I've concluded to
keep my hands off."

"Well, now, somehow I don't just look at it the way you do, Hugh.
Perhaps I'm not quite so tender-hearted as you are.  It may be the
best thing that ever happened to Tip if he is sent to the Reform
School before he plunges any deeper into the mire of crime.  Plenty
of boys have become fine men after being sent there, to be taught
what it should have been the duty of their careless or incompetent
parents to put into their heads."

"Do you mean that you might take a notion to drop a hint to the
Chief, Thad?"

"I'll think it over, and decide later," the other told him.  "Perhaps
I'll ask advice of Dominie Pettigrew, who's a good friend of mine,
and would tell me what my duty was, not only to Tip, but to the
community at large, which he had so flagrantly abused time and again."

"Suit yourself about that, Thad.  Perhaps, after all, you may be
right, and that it would be a good thing all around if Tip could be
sent away with Leon.  But it's likely Leon will weaken when his trial
comes off, and betray his pal; though he may give Tip a hint
beforehand so he can clear out in time."

"And about Nick Lang?" continued Thad.

"I haven't changed my mind about him, as yet," Hugh replied sturdily
enough.  "So far Nick seems to be minding his own business, and
having as little to do with other boys as possible.  I heard Dr.
Carmack say he was astonished at the difference in Nick's work in
classes.  He seemed particularly pleased, too, because, with all the
other teachers, he's had a hard time with Nick in the past."

"But in all the days we've practiced our hockey work Nick hasn't once
joined the scrub team we've fought against.  That's why we've been
able to lick them so easily, I guess, Hugh.  That fellow certainly is
a wizard on runners, and would make a good addition to our Seven, if
by some chance he could be squeezed in.  But one of the Regulars
would have to be dropped, and I think there would be some bad blood
shown if anyone had to give way to a fellow who's had such a bad
reputation in the past.  Even now lots of people think he's only
shamming reform for some deep purpose."

"Lots of people are due for a surprise, then, let me tell you," said
Hugh.  "But, of course, just as you say, I wouldn't dare take any
fellow out as long as he was working his best, and substituting Nick.
It would raise a howl, to be sure.  But, Thad, if the time should
ever come when we're up against a hard proposition, with defeat
staring us in the face, and one of our team was injured, I'd grab at
Nick like a drowning man does at a plank floating near."

"One lucky thing happened for us, Hugh, anyhow."

"You're referring to the toss of the coin that gave us the choice of
grounds for the game, and will force Keyport to journey over here on
Saturday, eh, Thad?"

"Yes, that's what I had in mind.  Captain Mossman seemed to be a
pretty fine sort of chap, too, I thought, when he dropped in on us
yesterday afternoon to look the place over; because it seems he's
never played before in Scranton."

"Well, Scranton was hardly on the map until this year," Hugh laughed.
"However, some of our neighboring towns have already learned that
Scranton is alive and wide-awake."

"Just what they have, Hugh, and there are other surprises coming for
them, too.  I noticed that you cut out all play while the Keyport
chap was with us.  Didn't want him to get a line on our methods, I
suppose?"

"It might give them a little advantage, you see, and weaken our play.
Some of the Scranton boys have gone over to Keyport to see what's
doing there.  They bring back great reports of the confidence shown
in the team; but Coach Leonard has positively forbidden any member of
our Seven to make the trip.  He says it smacks too much of spying to
please him."

"Oh! that's drawing the line pretty tight, Hugh.  Lots of players in
the baseball world try their level best to get a line on a pitcher
who is going to oppose them, and consider it legitimate enough."

"Well, they are professionals, to begin with," said the other; "and
business is business with them.  But, right or wrong, there's going
to be no spying on our part, so long as Mr. Leonard has charge of the
athletic end of the game at Scranton.  You can depend on that every
time."

"There's Owen now; he wasn't at practice this afternoon, I wonder
why?" exclaimed Thad, as they sighted another boy coming toward them.
"He looks as if he might be bursting with some sort of news, Hugh.
Now I wonder what he's run up against."

Owen quickly arrived.  His face did have an eager look, and his eyes
were fairly dancing with some sort of emotion.

"Hugh, I've got something to tell you!" he burst out with, at which
Thad shot a knowing glance toward his chum, which said as plain as
could be: "There, what did I say to you?"

"All right, Owen, relieve yourself of the load right away, before you
burst," Hugh went on to advise, in his pleasant fashion.

"It's about a certain chap who's under suspicion right now of having
been implicated in that breaking into the Kramer store and robbing
it."

"Tip Slavin, you mean, Owen?" asked Hugh, looking interested at once.

"Yes, no other, Hugh.  Well, I've discovered beyond a shadow of a
doubt that he is the guilty partner of Leon Disney, just as everybody
suspected!"


CHAPTER IX

AN ADVENTURE ON THE ROAD

Thad gave utterance to an ejaculation, and then followed it up by
saying:

"Well, now, I like that!  After all, Hugh, I may not have to bother
giving the Chief that tip you mentioned, if Owen here has discovered
something big.  Tell us about it, Owen, please; since you've got us
excited by your news."

"I couldn't get over to practice this afternoon, Hugh, as of course
you noticed," the other commenced to say.  "But it wasn't any fault
of mine, I give you my word.  I had to do several things around the
house for mother.  One of the pipes had frozen and had to be thawed
out.  Then there were other jobs that kept me busy for an hour.
Finally, when I began to hope I might get down a short time before
you closed shop, she remembered an errand that would take me out on
the road leading to Hobson's Mill-Pond.  I had to go to Farmer
Brown's for some butter and eggs."

All this was said with such a lugubrious expression that Hugh had to
laugh.

"It's plain to be seen you started on that walk feeling anything but
pleased, Owen," he went on to remark.  "Of course you'd much rather
have been skating with the balance of the crowd over at our new rink.
Well, what happened?"

"Just this, Hugh.  I was well out of town, and walking briskly along,
thinking of the game we expect to win on Saturday, when someone
suddenly turned a bend ahead.  I saw that it was a boy who was
smoking a cigarette like everything,--yes, Tip Slavin, if you please.
He discovered me at about the same second, and, say, you ought to
have seen how he flipped that coffin-nail thing from his lips, and
came on as bold as anything."

Thad chuckled.

"Huh! guess you got him dead to rights that time, Owen.  Did you
accuse him of being a thief?" he asked hurriedly.

"Well, hardly, because, you see, I wasn't begging for a fight; and
there's no doubt in the world that's what would have followed.  But I
made out as if I hadn't noticed anything out of the way, and just
nodded careless like to Tip as we passed by."

"I admire your way of grasping the situation," said Hugh
impressively, "because already I can guess you had some sort of
scheme in your mind to make use of your discovery."

"Just what I did," chortled Owen.  "I walked on, and turned the bend
he had come around.  Then I crept back, and peeked, taking care he
didn't glimpse me.  When I saw him stop as if deciding on something I
was disappointed, because I expected he meant to come back after it;
but then he seemed to think it not worth while, and later on passed
out of sight in the distance."

"And then you hunted for the cigarette he had thrown away, I
suppose?" ventured Thad.

"Oh!  I'd noted the exact spot where he was at the time, and also on
which side of the road he'd tossed the stub; so I didn't have much
trouble about picking it up; after which I continued on my way.
Hugh, here it is."

"With that Owen took something from his pocket, carefully wrapped in
the folds of his handkerchief.  It turned out to be a half-smoked
cigarette.  Hugh fastened his eyes instantly on some small printing
in blue ink, giving the name of the manufacturers down in Virginia.

"It's the same make as those found under the Disney barn-floor," he
said impressively; "and that alone would be proof that Tip has a
cache somewhere back along the road to the mill-pond, perhaps in a
hollow tree in the woods.  A clever police officer could easily find
it by following back Tip's trail, and learning just where he came out
of the woods.  I myself happen to know his left shoe has a triangular
patch across the toe,--that would serve to identify the tracks
anywhere."

"Listen to that, will you, Owen?" gasped the wondering Thad.  "If my
chum here doesn't take up the line of an investigator of crime for a
livelihood believe me there'll be a great loss to the world.  I
wonder now, Hugh, if you've got tabs on all the fellows, so that you
could tell who made any footprint in the mud?"

Hugh only laughed as he went on to say:

"It was just a mere accident that I knew that about Tip's mended
sole, and it might never happen again.  But when Owen here told us
about a hidden cache I only gave you my opinion as to what would be
the easiest way to discover its location.  But what will you do about
it, Owen,--let the Chief know of your discovery, or keep mum?"

"Why, I look at it this way," said the other, with a line of
perplexity marked upon his usually smooth forehead; "if it was only a
_suspicion_ I might keep quiet, not wanting to injure Tip, though
I've got little cause to love the brute.  But since I actually _know_
something that would prove a valuable clue to the officers, I'm
afraid it would be what I've heard a lawyer call 'compounding a
felony' if I refused to inform on Tip.  How about that, Hugh?  I want
to do the right thing, even if I hate to be an informer."

"It's up to you, Owen, and your duty is plain enough," said Hugh.

"Then I ought to see the Chief, you mean?" asked the other.

"I'd advise you to do so, for your future peace of mind, if nothing
else," Hugh told the hesitating boy, who thereupon drew a long
breath, and remarked:

"I'm more than half sorry now I went back to look for this cigarette;
because only for my picking up such positive evidence I needn't get
into this nasty game.  But I'm in now, and I'll have to shoulder my
share of the responsibility, I guess.  So, while the thing is still
fresh in my mind, I'll trot around to Headquarters to wake up our
sleeping Chief.  Things have come to a pretty pass here in Scranton
when boys have to lend a helping hand to the police force so as to
nab a petty thief."

With that Owen left them.  When he had a duty to perform, however
unpleasant it might be, Owen was accustomed to grappling with it, and
not compromising.

Thad looked after the other and remarked:

"How queer things do come about, Hugh.  Just to think of Owen
discovering Tip sauntering along the road and smoking one of those
stolen cigarettes.  Pretty cute of him, too, sneaking back and
hunting for the evidence.  I suppose it'll wind up in Tip being
locked up with Leon, and eventually going to the Reform School."

"Few people will be sorry," observed Hugh, although he felt a twinge
when his mind reverted to the mothers of the two boys.

"I wonder what Nick thinks of it all," mused Thad.  "He must realize
that he had a narrow squeak of it; because, only for that sudden
change of heart on his part, brought around by what you did about
those nickeled skates, he might have been in the cooler right now,
along with crafty Leon."

As they had arrived at the point where their paths diverged, the two
chums separated.  Hugh had returned home somewhat earlier than
customary, as he had something to do for his mother, just as Owen had
admitted was the cause of his absence from the ice that same
afternoon.

Usually boys like to linger on the ice until long after the shades of
night have settled down and time for supper is perilously near.  With
a jolly bonfire blazing on the bank, and the skaters going and coming
all the while, the prospect is so alluring that it is indeed
difficult for any lad to break away.  And the father who has not
forgotten his own shortcomings of long ago is apt to wisely overlook
some such transgression of parental authority, when the ice beckons,
and, in spite of good intentions, all outdoors seems to grip a fellow
in fetters of steel.

Some little time later Hugh might have been seen in a neighbor's
family sleigh heading out of town.  There was plenty of snow for this
sort of thing, though the ice had been kept well cleared through the
use of brooms handled by many willing hands.  The skating had not
been injured in the least, for they flooded the pond each night
afresh, giving it a glittering new surface by morning.

Hugh had to go a couple of miles out.  He, too, was bound for a farm,
to fetch back a sack of potatoes that his mother had purchased, and
which should have been delivered before then, only that the one horse
on the place had taken a notion to fall sick, and that rendered the
farmer helpless.

It was already well on toward sunset when Hugh started out.  He
expected to be overtaken by twilight before getting back home; but
that was a small matter, since he knew the road very well, and with
the snow on the ground it would not be really dark at any time.

It was certainly bitter cold.  Hugh wore warm gloves especially
suited for driving, or any purpose when the zero mark was approached
by the mercury in the tube of the thermometer.  He also kept his ears
well muffled up by means of a toque of dark blue worsted, which he
wore under his ordinary cap.

As he had on a heavy wool-lined pea-jacket that buttoned close up
under his chin the boy found nothing to complain about in that cold
atmosphere, for his blood coursed through his veins with all the
richness of healthy youth.

"But all the same," he was telling himself, as he passed an humble
cottage where, through a dingy window, a lone lamp could be seen; and
some children gathered about the kitchen stove, "I'm thinking this
bracing weather that we boys have wanted to see so much, is pretty
hard on poor folks.  The world is unevenly divided, as mother often
says; some have too much for their own good; and others far too
little for comfort."

He presently arrived at his destination.  The neighbor's horse, while
not at all fleet, was a steady goer, and Hugh had not allowed him to
"loaf on the job" so long as he could touch the whip to the animal's
broad back.

The sack of potatoes was soon tucked away in the back part of the big
sleigh.  He also bundled some extra coverings about it, which he had
brought along with him, to prevent any chance of the precious tubers
freezing.  A basket, with some other things, was also stowed away in
the back of the vehicle; after which the boy said good-night to the
farmer, and started on his return trip.

Hugh was about half-way home when something occurred to excite him
not a little, though at the time he did not even suspect what an
intimate relation it might have in connection with certain facts that
he and his chum had only recently been discussing at length.

His horse suddenly gave a series of snorts, and at the same time
shied to one side as if startled.  Hugh gripped the lines tighter,
and strained his eyes to see what was wrong, while, perhaps, his
heart did start to beating faster than ordinary, although he could
not be said to be alarmed in the least, only excited.

A wavering figure started out toward him.  Then Hugh discovered,
greatly to his surprise, that it was a woman, and that she held by
the hand a child of about five, a boy at that.

She tried to speak to him, but seemed overcome with weakness, as
though she might have been trudging along until exhausted by want of
food and the severe cold.  Hugh guessed that possibly the couple must
have come out of a side road he had passed a few hundred feet back,
for they were certainly not there when he went by on the way to the
farmer's place.

He saw her stretch out her hand toward him, caught the feeble words,
"Help--my poor little boy!" and then, to Hugh's utter dismay, she
sank to the ground in a heap!


CHAPTER X

THE MYSTERY DEEPENS

Fortunately, Hugh was a lad equal to any occasion.  Of course, he had
never had an experience like this before; but somehow he seemed to
understand that the first, indeed, only thing to be done, was to get
the woman and child in the sleigh some way or other, and then make
for home at breakneck speed.

So out he jumped, and, after considerable difficulty, managed to lift
the now unconscious woman into the sleigh.  He had never realized
until then how like lead an inert person might seem, although not
heavy in reality, when possessed of life and animation.

He tore the coverings off the sack of potatoes, and tucked them
eagerly about his charges; for he had also placed the little fellow,
now sobbing bitterly, under the possible impression that "mommy" was
dead, in the sleigh.  As for the potatoes they could "go hang," as he
told himself under his breath; though, perhaps, they might not freeze
in the brief time he meant to be on the road now.

In again Hugh jumped.  Old Bill felt the whip come down this time in
deadly earnest, and actually jumped in his amazement.  Hugh kept him
going at a mad pace.  He was thrilled with the importance of getting
home as speedily as possible.  The woman had looked so deathly white
that the boy was alarmed.  And how he pitied the little chap who
cuddled against his side, still surging over now and then with his
grief, while Hugh drove along.

They struck town, and people turned to stare upon seeing Hugh
whipping his horse so unmercifully.  They could not understand it,
and rubbed their eyes.  Surely that was Hugh Morgan in the sleigh,
but why should _he_ be pounding his horse, and half standing erect?
If it had been a fire chief going to a blaze he could hardly have
excited more comment.

A boy who was walking briskly along the street with a package under
his arm came to a full stop, and stared as though he thought he had
taken leave of his seven senses.  It was Thad Stevens, and no wonder
he was amazed, having recognised his chum in the frantic driver.

Thad gave vent to a whistle to relieve his pent-up feelings.  Then he
started on a gallop after Hugh.  He could not rest easy until he had
learned just what might have happened to cause his usually collected
chum to act in this strange fashion.

When he arrived at the Morgan home it was to find Hugh had landed the
child on the little porch in front of the door.  This latter was
open, and his mother, together with the hired girl, stood there,
trying to comprehend what Hugh was saying.

Thad came panting up, and was immediately seized upon by Hugh.

"Great luck!  Just in time to give me a helping hand, Thad!" cried
the other.

"What with--the Murphies?" asked the astonished Thad; for he had
known Hugh expected to go out to the farm after a sack of potatoes.

"Not this time," snapped the other; "it's a poor woman who fainted
from cold and exhaustion while she was trying to ask me the way
somewhere.  That child is hers.  Come, give me a hand, Thad, and
we'll carry her into the house.  Mother says she must be put to bed
right away, and won't hear of my taking her over to the hospital."

That aroused Thad, and between them the two stout lads had little
difficulty in carrying the still unconscious young woman into the
warm house.  Up the stairs Mrs. Morgan and the girl led them, and
into the neat spare-room, reserved for favored company.

Once she had been laid on the bed, after the blankets and coverings
had been turned down, and the little boy was being soothed by Hugh's
mother, she told the boys they could now go downstairs again, and she
would report later as to what next should be done.

"First carry in the potatoes, Hugh, for they are too expensive this
season to let the frost get them," she went on to say, patting the
little fellow, whose tears had by now ceased to run down his chubby
cheeks; "then call up Doctor Cadmus, and tell him to come around
immediately.  I'm sorry your father is away from home just now, but I
can depend on my son."

The boys went out again and lugged the heavy sack of potatoes around
to the cellar door, by means of which they were taken in where they
would be safe from the bitter air of the winter.  Then Thad was sent
around to the neighbor's with the horse and sleigh, while Hugh meant
to get the good physician on the wire, and hasten his coming on an
urgent call.

"If Mr. Jones notices that old Bill is wheezing a bit, as if he'd had
a warm run of it, please explain how it happened, Thad.  I wouldn't
like him, after all his kindness, to think I'd whip up his horse for
nothing, or just in a spirit of sport."

As it was an hour when Doctor Cadmus was through with his day's
calls, Hugh had the good luck to hear the physician's voice on the
wire.

"Mother wants you to come right over, Doctor!" Hugh told him.

"Who's sick?" demanded the other, being very fond of all the Morgan
family; "not your good mother, I hope, Hugh?"

"No, neither of us, Doctor," the boy continued.  "I ran upon a young
woman and a small child when on the road after potatoes in Mr. Jones'
sleigh.  She fainted dead away before she could tell me who she was,
or where she was going.  I managed to get them both aboard, and
fetched them here.  Mother has put her to bed; but she is afraid a
fever is coming on, and it worries her.  You'll be here right away,
Doctor, won't you, please?"

"As fast as I can get there, my son!" came the prompt reply.

If there was a touch of pride in the voice one could not wonder at
it; for like a good many other people of Scranton Doctor Cadmus had
conceived a great liking for Hugh; and thought there had never been
another boy fashioned after his model, which, of course, was all
nonsense, as Hugh often protested indignantly when he heard any such
talk.

Only a short time elapsed before the doctor and Thad reached the
front door at the same minute.

"Wait for me in the library, Thad, if you don't mind being late for
your supper.  Doctor, I'll show you the way upstairs," and with this
remark Hugh preceded the stout little physician up to the second
floor.

As for Thad, he never once dreamed of "breaking away" at that most
interesting stage.  Suppers occurred three hundred and sixty-five
times a year, with an extra one thrown in for good measure when
leap-year came around; but exciting events like the one happening to
Hugh were of rare occurrence.  Catch him thinking of eating when
there was a chance right at his door to have a hand in a thrilling
drama that beat the "movies" all hollow!

So Thad sat down.

Hugh soon joined him.  He was immediately pounced upon by his curious
chum, and plied with all manner of questions.  By degrees Thad
"pumped him dry," and there was nothing more to tell.

"We'll have to wait until she comes back to her senses," Hugh finally
remarked sagely, "before we'll be able to learn anything definite
about them, mother and the doctor both say."

"And she's actually out of her head, is she, right now?" Thad
demanded.

"Yes, and keeps on saying the same thing over and over, just as if it
might have been in her mind so much lately.  She keeps on pleading
with someone she calls grandfather, and begging him not to put them
out of his heart and home, for little Joey's sake--it's always little
Joey she's worrying about and not herself.  The doctor says she was
utterly exhausted by want of sustaining food, added to anxiety and
the exposure she had suffered."

"But where could she have come from, Hugh?  She has never been in
Scranton, you said that, and I never saw her before either.  You told
me the little boy can only say his name is Joey Walters; and honest
to goodness, Hugh, there isn't a single family of that name in or
around this town that I ever heard of."

"They've been trying to get some clues out of the little chap,"
continued Hugh, "but without much success.  All he's said so far is
that they've come ever so far, and that he liked riding on the cars
first-rate, only mommy cried so much and wouldn't eat every time he
did.  From the way he talked they suspect that the young woman may
have come from the West somewhere."

"She _is_ young then, Hugh?"

"Yes, not over twenty-five or so, the doctor says, but frail-looking.
He thinks there is nothing serious the matter with her, only that
she's been underfed for a long time, and has suffered.  Perhaps she's
denied herself proper food so as to save up enough money to make this
trip."

Thad shook his head as if feeling sad over the happening; for the boy
had a tender heart.

"Well, I certainly hope she'll be better tomorrow, and able to tell
something about herself," he went on to say, as he prepared to leave.
"And, Hugh, it was fine of your mother to refuse to let her be taken
over to the Scranton Hospital, when the doctor proposed such a thing."

"My mother wouldn't hear of it," Hugh told him proudly.  "Why,
already she's in love with that little chap, and he's enough of a
darling to make any woman with a heart want to mother him.  Both of
us seem to think we may have seen him before somewhere; or else he
resembles someone we've known once on a time; but, so far, we can't
imagine who or where it was.  But once she comes to her senses,
whether to-morrow, or some days afterwards, of course the truth will
be known."

"And Hugh," said the other, with one of his smiles, "if you feel that
you can't wait for her to tell, suppose you start out to-morrow
afternoon and try to strike a clue on your own account.  That
wonderful faculty you possess for investigating things ought to put
you on the track."

"Perhaps I may, that is, if I have time to-morrow," chuckled Hugh;
"because, you know, we have our last practice at hockey before
meeting those Keyport experts."

"You said you felt sure she must have come out of that side road near
where you met them," continued the persistent Thad.

"Whence?"
"From Tomsk?"
"Is the wire cut beyond that city?"
"Yes, sire, since yesterday."

"Telegraph hourly to Tomsk, General, and keep me informed of all that
occurs."
"Sire, it shall be done," answered General Kissoff.

These words were exchanged about two hours after midnight, at the
moment when the fete given at the New Palace was at the height of
its splendor.

During the whole evening the bands of the Preobra-jensky and Paulowsky
regiments had played without cessation polkas, mazurkas, schottisches,
and waltzes from among the choicest of their repertoires.

Innumerable couples of dancers whirled through the magnificent
saloons of the palace, which stood at a few paces only from the
"old house of stones"--in former days the scene of so many terrible
dramas, the echoes of whose walls were this night awakened by the
gay strains of the musicians.

The grand-chamberlain of the court, was, besides, well seconded
in his arduous and delicate duties. The grand-dukes and their
aides-de-camp, the chamberlains-in-waiting and other officers of the
palace, presided personally in the arrangement of the dances.

The grand duchesses, covered with diamonds, the ladies-in-waiting
in their most exquisite costumes, set the example to the wives
of the military and civil dignitaries of the ancient "city of white
stone."

When, therefore, the signal for the "polonaise" resounded through the
saloons, and the guests of all ranks took part in that measured
promenade, which on occasions of this kind has all the importance
of a national dance, the mingled costumes, the sweeping robes adorned
with lace, and uniforms covered with orders, presented a scene of
dazzling splendor, lighted by hundreds of lusters multiplied tenfold
by the numerous mirrors adorning the walls.

The grand saloon, the finest of all those contained in the New
Palace, formed to this procession of exalted personages and splendidly
dressed women a frame worthy of the magnificence they displayed.

The rich ceiling, with its gilding already softened by the touch
of time, appeared as if glittering with stars. The embroidered drapery
of the curtains and doors, falling in gorgeous folds, assumed rich
and varied hues, broken by the shadows of the heavy masses of
damask.

Through the panes of the vast semicircular bay-windows the light,
with which the saloons were filled, shone forth with the brilliancy
of a conflagration, vividly illuminating the gloom in which for
some hours the palace had been shrouded. The attention of those of
the guests not taking part in the dancing was attracted by the
contrast.

Resting in the recesses of the windows, they could discern, standing
out dimly in the darkness, the vague outlines of the countless
towers, domes, and spires which adorn the ancient city.

Below the sculptured balconies were visible numerous sentries, pacing
silently up and down, their rifles carried horizontally on the
shoulder, and the spikes of their helmets glittering like flames
in the glare of light issuing from the palace.

The steps also of the patrols could be heard beating time on the
stones beneath with even more regularity than the feet of the dancers
on the floor of the saloon.

From time to time the watchword was repeated from post to post, and
occasionally the notes of a trumpet, mingling with the strains of the
orchestra, penetrated into their midst. Still farther down, in front
of the facade, dark masses obscured the rays of light which
proceeded from the windows of the New Palace.

These were boats descending the course of a river, whose waters,
faintly illumined by a few lamps, washed the lower portion of the
terraces.

The principal personage who has been mentioned, the giver of the fete,
and to whom General Kissoff had been speaking in that tone of respect
with which sovereigns alone are usually addressed, wore the simple
uniform of an officer of chasseurs of the guard. This was not
affectation on his part, but the custom of a man who cared little
for dress, his contrasting strongly with the gorgeous costumes amid
which he moved, encircled by his escort of Georgians, Cossacks, and
Circassians--a brilliant band, splendidly clad in the glittering
uniforms of the Caucasus.

This personage, of lofty stature, affable demeanor, and physiognomy
calm, though bearing traces of anxiety, moved from group to group,
seldom speaking, and appearing to pay but little attention either
to the merriment of the younger guests or the graver remarks of the
exalted dignitaries or members of the diplomatic corps who represented
at the Russian court the principal governments of Europe.

Two or three of these astute politicians--physiognomists by virtue
of their profession--failed not to detect on the countenance of their
host symptoms of disquietude, the source of which eluded their
penetration; but none ventured to interrogate him on the subject.

It was evidently the intention of the officer of chasseurs that his
own anxieties should in no way cast a shade over the festivities;
and, as he was a personage whom almost the population of a world
in itself was wont to obey, the gayety of the ball was not for a
moment checked.

Nevertheless, General Kissoff waited until the officer to whom he had
just communicated the dispatch forwarded from Tomsk should give him
permission to withdraw; but the latter still remained silent.
He had taken the telegram, he had read it carefully, and his visage
became even more clouded than before. Involuntarily he sought the
hilt of his sword, and then passed his hand for an instant before
his eyes, as though, dazzled by the brilliancy of the light, he
wished to shade them, the better to see into the recesses of his
own mind.

"We are, then," he continued, after having drawn General Kissoff aside
towards a window, "since yesterday without intelligence from the Grand
Duke?"
"Without any, sire; and it is to be feared that in a short time
dispatches will no longer cross the Siberian frontier."
"But have not the troops of the provinces of Amoor and Irkutsk, as
those also of the Trans-Balkan territory, received orders to march
immediately upon Irkutsk?"

"The orders were transmitted by the last telegram we were able to send
beyond Lake Baikal."
"And the governments of Yeniseisk, Omsk, Semipolatinsk, and Tobolsk--are
we still in direct communication with them as before the insurrection?"

"Yes, sire; our dispatches have reached them, and we are assured
at the present moment that the Tartars have not advanced beyond
the Irtish and the Obi."

"And the traitor Ivan Ogareff, are there no tidings of him?"
"None," replied General Kissoff. "The head of the police cannot state
whether or not he has crossed the frontier."
"Let a description of him be immediately dispatched to Nijni-Novgorod,
Perm, Ekaterenburg, Kasirnov, Tioumen, Ishim, Omsk, Tomsk, and to
all the telegraphic stations with which communication is yet open."

"Your majesty's orders shall be instantly carried out."
"You will observe the strictest silence as to this."
The General, having made a sign of respectful assent, bowing low,
mingled with the crowd, and finally left the apartments without
his departure being remarked.

The officer remained absorbed in thought for a few moments, when,
recovering himself, he went among the various groups in the saloon,
his countenance reassuming that calm aspect which had for an instant
been disturbed.

Nevertheless, the important occurrence which had occasioned these
rapidly exchanged words was not so unknown as the officer of the
chasseurs of the guard and General Kissoff had possibly supposed.
It was not spoken of officially, it is true, nor even officiously,
since tongues were not free; but a few exalted personages had been
informed, more or less exactly, of the events which had taken place
beyond the frontier.

At any rate, that which was only slightly known, that which was not
matter of conversation even between members of the corps diplomatique,
two guests, distinguished by no uniform, no decoration, at this
reception in the New Palace, discussed in a low voice, and with
apparently very correct information.

By what means, by the exercise of what acuteness had these two ordinary
mortals ascertained that which so many persons of the highest rank
and importance scarcely even suspected?

It is impossible to say. Had they the gifts of foreknowledge and
foresight? Did they possess a supplementary sense, which enabled them
to see beyond that limited horizon which bounds all human gaze?
Had they obtained a peculiar power of divining the most secret events?
Was it owing to the habit, now become a second nature, of
living on information, that their mental constitution had thus
become really transformed?

It was difficult to escape from this conclusion.

Of these two men, the one was English, the other French; both were
tall and thin, but the latter was sallow as are the southern Provencals,
while the former was ruddy like a Lancashire gentleman. The
Anglo-Norman, formal, cold, grave, parsimonious of gestures and
words, appeared only to speak or gesticulate under the influence
of a spring operating at regular intervals.

The Gaul, on the contrary, lively and petulant, expressed himself
with lips, eyes, hands, all at once, having twenty different ways
of explaining his thoughts, whereas his interlocutor seemed to have
only one, immutably stereotyped on his brain.

The strong contrast they presented would at once have struck the
most superficial observer; but a physiognomist, regarding them
closely, would have defined their particular characteristics by
saying, that if the Frenchman was "all eyes," the Englishman was
"all ears."

In fact, the visual apparatus of the one had been singularly perfected
by practice. The sensibility of its retina must have been as instantaneous
as that of those conjurors who recognize a card merely by a rapid
movement in cutting the pack or by the arrangement only of marks
invisible to others.

The Frenchman indeed possessed in the highest degree what may be called
"the memory of the eye."
The Englishman, on the contrary, appeared especially organized to
listen and to hear.

When his aural apparatus had been once struck by the sound of a
voice he could not forget it, and after ten or even twenty years
he would have recognized it among a thousand. His ears, to be sure,
had not the power of moving as freely as those of animals who are
provided with large auditory flaps; but, since scientific men know
that human ears possess, in fact, a very limited power of movement,
we should not be far wrong in affirming that those of the said
Englishman became erect, and turned in all directions while endeavoring
to gather in the sounds, in a manner apparent only to the naturalist.

It must be observed that this perfection of sight and hearing was
of wonderful assistance to these two men in their vocation, for
the Englishman acted as correspondent of the Daily Telegraph, and
the Frenchman, as correspondent of what newspaper, or of what
newspapers, he did not say; and when asked, he replied in a jocular
manner that he corresponded with "his cousin Madeleine."

This Frenchman, however, neath his careless surface, was wonderfully
shrewd and sagacious. Even while speaking at random, perhaps the
better to hide his desire to learn, he never forgot himself. His
loquacity even helped him to conceal his thoughts, and he was
perhaps even more discreet than his confrere of the Daily Telegraph.

Both were present at this fete given at the New Palace on the night
of the 15th of July in their character of reporters.

It is needless to say that these two men were devoted to their mission
in the world--that they delighted to throw themselves in the track
of the most unexpected intelligence--that nothing terrified or
discouraged them from succeeding--that they possessed the imperturbable
sang froid and the genuine intrepidity of men of their calling.

Enthusiastic jockeys in this steeplechase, this hunt after information,
they leaped hedges, crossed rivers, sprang over fences, with the ardor
of pure-blooded racers, who will run "a good first" or die!

Their journals did not restrict them with regard to money--the surest,
the most rapid, the most perfect element of information known to
this day.

It must also be added, to their honor, that neither the one nor the
other ever looked over or listened at the walls of private life,
and that they only exercised their vocation when political or
social interests were at stake.

In a word, they made what has been for some years called "the great
political and military reports."

It will be seen, in following them, that they had generally an
independent mode of viewing events, and, above all, their consequences,
each having his own way of observing and appreciating.

The French correspondent was named Alcide Jolivet. Harry Blount
was the name of the Englishman. They had just met for the first time
at this fete in the New Palace, of which they had been ordered
to give an account in their papers. The dissimilarity of their
characters, added to a certain amount of jealousy, which generally
exists between rivals in the same calling, might have rendered
them but little sympathetic.

However, they did not avoid each other, but endeavored rather to
exchange with each other the chat of the day. They were sportsmen,
after all, hunting on the same ground. That which one missed might
be advantageously secured by the other, and it was to their interest
to meet and converse.

This evening they were both on the look out; they felt, in fact,
that there was something in the air.

"Even should it be only a wildgoose chase," said Alcide Jolivet to
himself, "it may be worth powder and shot."
The two correspondents therefore began by cautiously sounding each
other.

"Really, my dear sir, this little fete is charming!" said Alcide Jolivet
pleasantly, thinking himself obliged to begin the conversation
with this eminently French phrase.

"I have telegraphed already, 'splendid!'" replied Harry Blount calmly,
employing the word specially devoted to expressing admiration by all
subjects of the United Kingdom.

"Nevertheless," added Alcide Jolivet, "I felt compelled to remark
to my cousin--" 
"Your cousin?"

repeated Harry Blount in a tone of surprise, interrupting his brother
of the pen.

"Yes," returned Alcide Jolivet, "my cousin Madeleine.

It is with her that I correspond, and she likes to be quickly and well
informed, does my cousin. I therefore remarked to her that, during
this fete, a sort of cloud had appeared to overshadow the sovereign's
brow."
"To me, it seemed radiant," replied Harry Blount, who perhaps, wished
to conceal his real opinion on this topic.

"And, naturally, you made it 'radiant,' in the columns of the Daily
Telegraph."

"Exactly."

"Do you remember, Mr.

Blount, what occurred at Zakret in 1812?"

"I remember it as well as if I had been there, sir," replied the
English correspondent.

"Then," continued Alcide Jolivet, "you know that, in the middle of
a fete given in his honor, it was announced to the Emperor
Alexander that Napoleon had just crossed the Niemen with the vanguard
of the French army.

Nevertheless the Emperor did not leave the fete, and notwithstanding
the extreme gravity of intelligence which might cost him his
empire, he did not allow himself to show more uneasiness."
"Than our host exhibited when General Kissoff informed him that the
telegraphic wires had just been cut between the frontier and the
government of Irkutsk."

"Ah! you are aware of that?"
"I am!"
"As regards myself, it would be difficult to avoid knowing it, since
my last telegram reached Udinsk," observed Alcide Jolivet, with
some satisfaction.

"And mine only as far as Krasnoiarsk," answered Harry Blount,
in a no less satisfied tone.

"Then you know also that orders have been sent to the troops of
Nikolaevsk?"

"I do, sir; and at the same time a telegram was sent to the Cossacks
of the government of Tobolsk to concentrate their forces."
"Nothing can be more true, Mr.

Blount; I was equally well acquainted with these measures, and you
may be sure that my dear cousin shall know of them to-morrow."

"Exactly as the readers of the Daily Telegraph shall know it also,
M.
Jolivet."
"Well, when one sees all that is going on...."
"And when one hears all that is said...."

"An interesting campaign to follow, Mr. Blount."
"I shall follow it, M. Jolivet!"

"Then it is possible that we shall find ourselves on ground less
safe, perhaps, than the floor of this ball-room."
"Less safe, certainly, but--"
"But much less slippery," added Alcide Jolivet, holding up his
companion, just as the latter, drawing back, was about to lose his
equilibrium.

Thereupon the two correspondents separated, pleased that the one had
not stolen a march on the other.

At that moment the doors of the rooms adjoining the great reception
saloon were thrown open, disclosing to view several immense tables
beautifully laid out, and groaning under a profusion of valuable
china and gold plate.

On the central table, reserved for the princes, princesses, and members
of the corps diplomatique, glittered an epergne of inestimable
price, brought from London, and around this chef-d'oeuvre of chased
gold reflected under the light of the lusters a thousand pieces of
most beautiful service from the manufactories of Sevres.

The guests of the New Palace immediately began to stream towards the
supper-rooms.

At that moment. General Kissoff, who had just re-entered, quickly
approached the officer of chasseurs.

"Well?" asked the latter abruptly, as he had done the former
time.

"Telegrams pass Tomsk no longer, sire."
"A courier this moment!"
The officer left the hall and entered a large antechamber adjoining.
It was a cabinet with plain oak furniture, situated in an angle of
the New Palace. Several pictures, amongst others some by Horace Vernet,
hung on the wall.

The officer hastily opened a window, as if he felt the want of air,
and stepped out on a balcony to breathe the pure atmosphere of a
lovely July night.

Beneath his eyes, bathed in moonlight, lay a fortified inclosure,
from which rose two cathedrals, three palaces, and an arsenal.
Around this inclosure could be seen three distinct towns: Kitai-Gorod,
Beloi-Gorod, Zemlianai-Gorod--European, Tartar, and Chinese
quarters of great extent, commanded by towers, belfries, minarets, and
the cupolas of three hundred churches, with green domes, surmounted
by the silver cross.

A little winding river, here and there reflected the rays of the
moon.

This river was the Moskowa; the town Moscow; the fortified inclosure
the Kremlin; and the officer of chasseurs of the guard, who, with
folded arms and thoughtful brow, was listening dreamily to the
sounds floating from the New Palace over the old Muscovite city, was
the Czar.

CHAPTER II RUSSIANS AND TARTARS
THE Czar had not so suddenly left the ball-room of the New Palace, when
the fete he was giving to the civil and military authorities and
principal people of Moscow was at the height of its brilliancy,
without ample cause; for he had just received information that
serious events were taking place beyond the frontiers of the Ural.

It had become evident that a formidable rebellion threatened to
wrest the Siberian provinces from the Russian crown.

Asiatic Russia, or Siberia, covers a superficial area of 1,790,208
square miles, and contains nearly two millions of inhabitants. Extending
from the Ural Mountains, which separate it from Russia in Europe,
to the shores of the Pacific Ocean, it is bounded on the south by
Turkestan and the Chinese Empire; on the north by the Arctic Ocean,
from the Sea of Kara to Behring's Straits.

It is divided into several governments or provinces, those of Tobolsk,
Yeniseisk, Irkutsk, Omsk, and Yakutsk; contains two districts, Okhotsk
and Kamtschatka; and possesses two countries, now under the Muscovite
dominion--that of the Kirghiz and that of the Tshouktshes. This immense
extent of steppes, which includes more than one hundred and ten
degrees from west to east, is a land to which criminals and political
offenders are banished.

Two governor-generals represent the supreme authority of the Czar over
this vast country. The higher one resides at Irkutsk, the far capital
of Eastern Siberia. The River Tchouna separates the two Siberias.

No rail yet furrows these wide plains, some of which are in reality
extremely fertile.

No iron ways lead from those precious mines which make the Siberian
soil far richer below than above its surface.

The traveler journeys in summer in a kibick or telga; in winter, in
a sledge.

An electric telegraph, with a single wire more than eight thousand
versts in length, alone affords communication between the western and
eastern frontiers of Siberia. On issuing from the Ural, it passes
through Ekaterenburg, Kasirnov, Tioumen, Ishim, Omsk, Elamsk,
Kolyvan, Tomsk, Krasnoiarsk, Nijni-Udinsk, Irkutsk, Verkne-Nertschink,
Strelink, Albazine, Blagowstenks, Radde, Orlomskaya, Alexandrowskoe,
and Nikolaevsk; and six roubles and nineteen copecks are paid for
every word sent from one end to the other.

From Irkutsk there is a branch to Kiatka, on the Mongolian frontier;
and from thence, for thirty copecks a word, the post conveys the
dispatches to Pekin in a fortnight.

It was this wire, extending from Ekaterenburg to Nikolaevsk, which had
been cut, first beyond Tomsk, and then between Tomsk and
Kolyvan.

This was why the Czar, to the communication made to him for the second
time by General Kissoff, had answered by the words, "A courier
this moment!"

The Czar remained motionless at the window for a few moments,
when the door was again opened. The chief of police appeared on the
threshold.

"Enter, General," said the Czar briefly, "and tell me all you know
of Ivan Ogareff."
"He is an extremely dangerous man, sire," replied the chief of
police.

"He ranked as colonel, did he not?"
"Yes, sire."
"Was he an intelligent officer?"

"Very intelligent, but a man whose spirit it was impossible to
subdue; and possessing an ambition which stopped at nothing,
he became involved in secret intrigues, and was degraded from his
rank by his Highness the Grand Duke, and exiled to Siberia."

"How long ago was that?"
"Two years since. Pardoned after six months of exile by your
majesty's favor, he returned to Russia."

"And since that time, has he not revisited Siberia?"
"Yes, sire; but he voluntarily returned there," replied the chief of
police, adding, and slightly lowering his voice, "there was a time,
sire, when NONE returned from Siberia."
"Well, whilst I live, Siberia is and shall be a country whence men
CAN return."

The Czar had the right to utter these words with some pride, for
often, by his clemency, he had shown that Russian justice knew how to
pardon.

The head of the police did not reply to this observation, but it was
evident that he did not approve of such half-measures. According
to his idea, a man who had once passed the Ural Mountains in charge
of policemen, ought never again to cross them.

Now, it was not thus under the new reign, and the chief of police
sincerely deplored it. What! no banishment for life for other crimes
than those against social order!
What! political exiles returning from Tobolsk, from Yakutsk, from
Irkutsk! In truth, the chief of police, accustomed to the despotic
sentences of the ukase which formerly never pardoned, could not
understand this mode of governing.

But he was silent, waiting until the Czar should interrogate him
further. The questions were not long in coming.

"Did not Ivan Ogareff," asked the Czar, "return to Russia a second
time, after that journey through the Siberian provinces, the object
of which remains unknown?"
"He did."

"And have the police lost trace of him since?"
"No, sire; for an offender only becomes really dangerous from the
day he has received his pardon."
The Czar frowned.
Boys and girls came flocking to the place.  Many bore skates, but
there were others who only wished to witness the contest between the
two rival high-school teams, as scheduled for that morning.  There
were hosts of other people present also; and already cars and
conveyances of every description were arriving from Keyport,
Allandale, Belleville, and such places, filled with eager
enthusiasts, who loved a good hockey game above all sports, and would
journey far afield in order to be present when one was to be played.

Shortly afterwards some of the Scranton players appeared on the
enclosed area.  Their coming was greeted with all sorts of cries,
meant, for the most part, as encouragement, and expressing a firm
belief in their ability to win out.

"We're pinning our faith on you boys.  Dugdale, remember!" cried one
fellow.

"Don't let them get too big a start on you, because they're terrible
fighters, once they get a lead!" came from another, who, having lived
in Keyport, was supposed to know the characteristics of the boys on
that team.

"And, Hobson, always remember that it's the longest pole that knocks
the persimmons!" whooped a third fellow student.

Thad and Hugh were sitting on a low bench, adjusting their skates
leisurely, and listening in an amused way to much of this friendly
badinage.

"The boys are certainly wanting to win this game, Hugh," chuckled
Thad.  "Makes me think of some of the warm sessions we had last
summer in baseball contests with Allandale and Belleville.  ["_The
Chums of Scranton High in the Three-Town League_."]

"It seems as if Scranton boys and girls have developed a voracious
appetite for every kind of out-door sport lately," Hugh went on to
say.  "Did you hear what the committee in charge of the grounds here
intends to do next week?"

"Haven't heard a whisper so far, Hugh; so give me the news," pleaded
the other.

"Why, you know the fellows have been building bonfires here at
night-times when skating.  It was all very fine, but there seemed to
be considerable worry about the new high fence taking fire and
burning during the night.  So they've concluded to run wires across
from side to side, and string electric lights for use on dark nights,
but only when the skating is good."

Thad looked pleased.

"Why, that's a boss idea; who suggested it, Hugh?" he demanded.

"Oh! somebody just happened to think of it, and the committee agreed
it was a good scheme," returned Hugh; but something about his manner
told Thad the truth.

"Huh!  I can give a pretty good guess who that smart chap is; but
don't bother trying to deny it, Hugh.  The only bad thing about it in
my mind is that we'll miss those jolly fires.  It's always been so
fine to skate up and stand before one, to get warm, and hear the
flames crackle, while the girl you're skating with sits on a log, or
something like that, to warm her feet."

"Oh! well, when you want the romantic side of night-skating, Thad,
you'll have to go out to Hobson's mill-pond, like you say you used to
do.  There, with plenty of wood handy, you can have the biggest fire
you feel like making.  Here, so close to town, we have to get our
light in a more modern way.  Now, I reckon I'm ready for any sort of
a scrimmage that comes along."

A shout presently announced that the boys from Keyport had arrived in
a big car of the "rubber-neck" variety, with five seats across; and
used for sight-seeing purposes, or any excursion where a dozen or
twenty wished to go in a crowd.

A little later the fellows came on the ice in a body, with their
distinguishing jerseys.  They appeared to be an exceedingly lively
bunch, and were soon spinning about, displaying a nimbleness that
excited apprehensions in many a loyal Scranton heart.

As boys need little introduction, the opposing players quickly
intermingled, and seemed on the best of terms.  Captain Mossman and
Hugh paired off, to talk over matters connected with the game.  They
were soon joined by Mr. Leonard, and several gentlemen, some from
Keyport, others hailing from Allandale and Belleville.

It was soon decided that the officials should be chosen as far as
possible from neutral territory.  There were to be a referee, an
assistant referee, two goal umpires, as many timekeepers, and a pair
of penalty timekeepers.

Fortunately, Allandale and its sister town had quite a quota of
former college players and gentlemen who had been members of famous
hockey clubs in Canada and elsewhere when younger.  They had kept in
touch with the progress of events, so that they were eminently
qualified to act in the various capacities to which they were now
assigned by Mr. Leonard and the coach of the Keyport Seven.

Hugh kept looking around from time to time.  He wished to be posted
as to what other promising players connected with Scranton High were
on the ice, so that in case of necessity he could call on one of them
to take the place of an injured Scranton boy.

And when he finally noted that Nick Lang had arrived, and was on his
skates, somehow Hugh seemed relieved.  Deep down in his heart he
believed that should he have occasion to replace a player, as the
rules allowed, on account of serious injury, which is about the only
excuse for such a thing, Nick would be his first choice.

He wished now he had spoken to Nick about it, so that he could depend
on his remaining throughout the game.  There was not another fellow
who would be of such great benefit to Scranton as the boy now wearing
Hugh's old hockey skates.  But it was too late to think of seeking
him out, for the game was about to be called.

When the rival teams faced each other, and listened to the last
instructions of the head referee, they were found to line up as
follows:


  _Scranton High_     _Position_       _Keyport_
  Stevens .......... Goal ............ Kellogg
  Hobson ........... Point ........... Ackerson
  Danvers .......... Cover Point ..... Bell
  Smith ............ Right End ....... Elly
  Dugdale .......... Center .......... Braxton
  Juggins .......... Left End ........ Mossman
  Morgan ........... Rover ........... Jackson


Hugh faced Mossman when the puck was dropped on the ice, and play
began.  There was a furious scramble, but Hugh came out of it
first-best, for he bore away the little elusive rubber disc, and
managed to carry it some distance down toward Keyport's goal before
losing control.  Then the fun became fast and furious, indeed.  Those
agile skaters whirled back and forth across the smooth ice with every
imaginable turn and twist.

Clever plays were continually occurring on either side, and these
were greeted with outbursts of enthusiastic cheering.

The crowd really seemed very impartial and sportsmanlike, considering
that possibly four-fifths of it represented the local team, and might
be supposed to feel prejudiced in their favor.  They shouted
themselves fairly hoarse over a brilliant dash on the part of Captain
Mossman, whereby he outwitted his opponents, and, despite all Thad's
efforts to block the play, shot the puck home in the cage for the
first well-won goal of the game.

Later on Owen Dugdale repeated the performance in almost as masterly
a manner.  The applause was, if anything, a shade more uproarous.
Now the game went on evenly, with a goal apiece; but Keyport was out
for scoring and would not be denied; so, in a hurry, they pushed the
fighting down on Scranton territory, and put another goal to their
credit, though three times did Thad balk the effort before it was
accomplished.

When the first twenty minutes had expired the score was six to five.
Keyport was ahead, but the margin was so small that no one despaired.

After the intermission they went at it once more, "hammer-and-tongs."
Thus far no one had been injured seriously enough to more than delay
the game a few minutes, and, before the fatal seven had expired, the
fellow who had been hurt was able to take his place in the line; so
no substitutes were called on.  Hugh was glad of this, though he
frequently shot a quick glance around to see if Nick Lang still hung
about; which he certainly did, being deeply interested in the game.

The second half was even more fiercely contested than the previous
one had been.  Scranton rallied behind Hugh, and put up a savage
attack that carried them up a couple of pegs, the score then standing
eight to seven; but after a bit Keyport came back and tied it again.
So it remained until the limit of the game approached perilously
near, and it seemed as though an extension of time would have to be
granted, as the rules allowed.  But at the last minute, Hugh himself
carried out a daring steal of the puck; and, before the opposing
players could block him, shot it into their net for the winning score.

Before the players could get in position again, and the puck be
faced, the whistle of the referee declared the game over, with
Scranton a bare winner.

The Keyport players were plainly greatly chagrined, but they proved
game losers, and had not a fault to find, shaking hands cheerfully
with their late opponents, and expressing a hope that a return match
could be arranged on their rink at some date not far in the future.


CHAPTER XIV

ENCOURAGING NICK

It was well on toward noon when Hugh, tired of skating for one day,
started homeward.  For a wonder he walked by himself, something Hugh
seldom had happen; for if his chum Thad Stevens was not at his side,
some other fellow, possibly several, would be sure to hurry so as to
catch up with him.

But Thad had been compelled to go home an hour before on some
account, his folks having certain plans that forced him to accompany
them immediately after lunch.

Hugh was feeling a bit tired, but in good spirits, nevertheless,
because of the clever victory his team had won, in which he had borne
his part consistently.  It always gives a boy a warm sensation around
the region of his heart to realize that he has not failed those who
put their faith in his ability.  How many can look back with a
feeling of pride to that "great day" when it was their home-run
drive, or whistling three-bagger that pulled the home team out of a
slump, and started a batting-bee that, eventually, won the game?
Those days are marked with a red letter in the pages of memory.

When part way to town, for the athletic grounds lay outside the
limits of Scranton, though not far away, Hugh suddenly discovered a
familiar figure just ahead of him, which, somehow, he had not noticed
up to then.  It was Nick Lang.  He had his skates dangling over his
shoulder by a strap, and Hugh could actually catch his whistle as he
strode along.

Somehow this told him Nick was feeling in higher spirits than had
lately been the case.  Perhaps he was beginning to feel a new
confidence in himself, Hugh suspected.  In the beginning Nick must
have seriously doubted his ability to, as some of the boys would have
called it, "come across, and deliver the goods," when he set out to
reform his ways.

He had now been keeping up the pace for more than a week.  It was
gradually growing easier, too, the further he went along the
unfamiliar road.  People did not sneer quite so much at him as in the
beginning.  Some even ventured to give him a half-friendly nod when
they chanced to meet.

And so for the first time perhaps since that day when he made up his
mind, Nick was unconsciously whistling as he walked along, his
thoughts busy with matters connected with his set purpose.

Obeying an impulse Hugh quickened his pace.

"Oh, Nick!  Hold on a minute, will you?" he called out.

On turning his head quickly and seeing who it was, Nick stopped short
in his tracks.  He was looking a little confused, yet not displeased,
when Hugh reached him.

Hugh thrust out his hand, and, of course, Nick had to accept it,
though he did look a little awkward, because this was a new
experience with him.  Still, he gave Hugh's digits a fierce squeeze
that might be taken as an index to his feelings toward his one-time
hated enemy.

"I've been wanting to have a little chat with you for some time,
Nick," the other hastened to say; "but somehow every chance I got
something would interfere, and the best I could do was to wave my
hand, or give you a nod.  Now this morning, just as I started to
skate through the crowd to say something important to you, the coach
called me back and said they were ready to start play.  Do you know
what it was I meant to ask of you this morning, Nick?"

Nick looked puzzled and curious also.

"I might guess it in a week, Hugh," he said, grinning; "but not right
away.  You see, I ain't used to having _anybody_ ask things of me.
It's generally been a scowl, and a suspicious look, as if they
thought I mean to play a trick on 'em if they so much as turned their
heads on me.  But then that's just what I used to do often enough; so
I oughtn't to complain.  What did you want with me, Hugh?"

"I was going to ask you to stand by during the entire game, because,
in case one of my players was hurt so badly that he'd have to be
dropped out, rather than cut both sides down to six, I meant to put
you in as substitute, no matter what position had to be filled."

Nick caught his breath.  His face flushed, and a glow appeared in his
eyes.  That expression of confidence shown in Hugh's words filled his
aching heart with new encouragement.  Hugh could see the muscles of
his cheeks working, as though he found it difficult to control his
emotions.  Then Nick spoke.

"That was mighty kind in you, Hugh, to think of me," he said, with
just a suspicious quiver to his voice.  "I'd sure liked to have
played in that game; but do you think it'd have been wise to have
picked _me_ for a substitute when there were plenty of other fellows
on the ice competent to take the place?"

"Not one able to fill your shoes, Nick, and they know it," asserted
Hugh stoutly.

"But then if you'd done that there'd sure have been a howl raised
later on by lots of folks who still have it in for me because of the
past," urged Nick, though it could be easily seen that he felt
particularly pleased by what the captain of the Scranton High Seven
had just told him.

"Let them howl," Hugh went on to say.  "There never yet was a fellow
who nobly redeemed his past but what a bunch of wolves set up a howl
on his heels.  Don't you pay any attention to those fellows, Nick.
Stick to your game through thick and thin.  Every day you go on as
you have been doing you win fresh friends.  Even Mr. Leonard, who
used to fairly detest you, is now singing your praises; and Dr.
Carmack told me he was pinning his faith on you.  He's a long-headed
man, Nick, a very far-seeing man, who knows boys and is not easily
deceived.  He believes in you; so do I, and a lot of other fellows.
You're going to make good, and I know it."

"Well, I'm going to keep on fighting, that's all I can say, Hugh,"
replied Nick grimly.  "I'll get there, or bust the biler trying.  But
sometimes I have an awful time with myself, just because I can't
wholly believe folks will respect a chap who's done as many mean
things as I have in the past."

"You must put that out of your mind, Nick," urged the other.  "Why,
don't you think I'd have ten times as much respect for the fellow
who's been down, and climbs up again through his own will-power, than
for the one who's always been shielded from temptation, and never
really proved what he had in him?  Nine-tenths of the fellows who
walk along so straight are kept on that road because they happen to
have wise parents to watch over them; and they were never given an
overpowering appetite to do wrong things."

Nick drew a long breath.  His eyes glistened again, and perhaps with
something besides the animation that Hugh's kind and encouraging
words kindled within his soul.

"You see," he went on to say, presently, when he could control his
voice, "I always did like to run smack up against a hard proposition.
It's in my nature to want a good fight, and I reckon I've got it this
time.  But I'm a whole lot stubborn, too, Hugh, as likely you've
learned; and I don't give up easy.  Since I started to reform I'm
a-going to get there if it takes a leg.  Anyhow, it's a heap sight
pleasanter doing it _outside_ the Reform School than inside, like
some fellows I used to train with are a-going to do, it seems."

All this kind of talk pleased Hugh immensely.  He felt more than ever
satisfied with the magnificent result of that clever little scheme of
his.  Reading Hugo's masterpiece had brought it about, too, and he
would always have occasion to remember this when handling that volume
recording the wonderful achievements of the one-time ignorant convict
and human beast named Jean Valjean.

Nick just then saw several other boys hurrying to overtake Hugh.  He
immediately evinced a desire to start off on a tangent, and head
elsewhere.

"I've got an errand over in town, Hugh, so I'll break away," he said
hurriedly, though Hugh could easily guess the real reason for his
departure.  "But I want to tell you I appreciate your kindness, and
if in the next hockey match there's need of a substitute, and you see
fit to put _me_ in, why, I'll work my fingers to the bone to make
good, sure I will."

And Hugh believed it.


CHAPTER XV

WHERE THE SPARKS FLEW

Along about three o'clock that afternoon Hugh, feeling refreshed,
made up his mind he would go for a walk.  There had been no positive
change in the condition of the mother of little Joey.  She was coming
along nicely, though, Doctor Cadmus assured Mrs. Morgan, and would
very likely awaken in her proper senses on the following morning.  He
was successfully combating the inclination towards fever, he told the
good lady, and this gave Hugh's mother considerable relief.

The boy was a fine little chap.  Hugh had already come to feel a deep
interest in him, and had played for an hour with Joey.

"Why not take him out with you, Hugh, if, as you say, you're going
for a walk?" asked his mother.

"I'd like to," the boy said, "if you thought he could stand going
such a distance as out to the Cross-roads; for I meant to drop in on
Deacon Winslow.  He asked me to come and see him, and perhaps stay to
supper in the bargain, for he wants to have a good chat with me.
And, Mother, I've been meaning to get to know that fine old man
better; there's something about him that draws me.  He's got such
healthy ideas about everything, and is an entertaining talker when it
comes to the habits of animals, and the secrets of all animated
nature."

"Well, I'm sure little Joey would enjoy the walk.  He seems fond of
being outdoors, and has been shut up here since you brought him home.
And if Deacon Winslow urges you both to take supper with him, there's
no reason why you should decline.  He may fetch you home in his
sleigh, if the child seems tired, and sleepy."

Hugh decided he would do as his mother suggested.

"Would you like to take a nice long walk out in the country with me,
Joey?" he asked the little fellow, who had been hovering near by, and
listening to all that was being said.

"I like to walk," the small chap replied quickly; "but not all day,
like mom and me did.  Mebbe she'll be awake when we come back, Hugh?"

Each time he had been allowed in the room to see his mother was when
she happened to be in a deep sleep, and her ravings had ceased; so it
was natural for Joey to conclude she was only making up for lack of
rest.

So, shortly afterwards, the two started forth, the little fellow with
his hand in that of Hugh.  He had come to feel the utmost confidence
in this big boy who, in the time of their distress, had fetched
himself and his poor fainting mother to the nice warm house, where
they seemed to have the nicest things to eat he could ever remember
of seeing.

Hugh kept an eye about him, half hoping he might run across Thad,
although the other had not expected to return before dusk.  No such
luck befell him, and so Hugh concluded he must carry out his original
scheme, and have only the child for company during his stroll.

Of course, they could not walk at a fast pace, and so it took quite a
long time for them to draw near the place where the two roads
crossed.  Here, at a point where there was much traffic in vehicles,
the smithy of the old deacon stood.  Time was when he attended only
to the shoeing of horses, and such other business as a blacksmith
would find in his line.  The coming of the auto had made him change
his work to some extent; so he kept a line of rubber tires and tubes
in his shop, and was capable of doing all ordinary repairing, such as
might be found necessary after a minor accident to a car on the road.

It was pleasant, indeed, when the wintry air was so keen, to step up
to the open doors of the shop, and see that seething fire in the
forge beyond the grim anvil.  Mr. Winslow stood there, with his
leather apron on, and his woollen sleeves rolled up to his elbows,
showing his brawny arms with their muscles of steel.  He was working
the bellows and singing softly to himself, after a habit he had when
alone.

Apparently, he had let his helper off earlier than customary that
afternoon, for the deacon was not a hard employer, and ready to grant
favors when business was not rushing.

Hugh stood there and took in the striking picture, with the glowing
fire in the forge, that fine, big figure of the old blacksmith
standing there.  The rosy light played on his strong features as he
crooned his song, his thoughts possibly away back in the past, as is
the habit of those who near the end of their life span.

Just then little Joey sneezed.  The low song of the deacon came to an
abrupt end, as he turned his head and discovered the two figures in
the open doorway.

He recognized Hugh immediately, and a look of genuine pleasure
flashed across his face.

"Is that you, Hugh?" he called out, stopping work with the bellows;
"and have you come out to take a bite with the old lady and myself?
I'm certainly glad to see you, lad.  And who might this fine little
chap be?"

It was only natural that a man who loved all boys, little and big, as
Deacon Winslow did, should drop down on one knee and take Joey in his
arms.  When he looked into the little fellow's winsome face he seemed
strangely moved.  But then in these later days it was always so with
the old man; never a child did he see but that long-hidden memories
flowed again, and once more he seemed to be looking on his own boy,
gone ages and ages ago.

"He and his mother are stopping at our house," said Hugh, meaning to
tell how he had come to find them in their extremity, later on, when
possibly the child was not present to hear what he said.

"I've just got a small amount of work to finish, and then I'm done
for the week," said the brawny smith, as he arose again, winking very
fast, it seemed to Hugh, for some reason or other.  "Here's a bench
you can both sit on, and watch the sparks fly from the anvil when I
get my hammer busy.  Likely the lad has never seen the same before,
and it is always deeply interesting to children, I've found."

So they made themselves comfortable.  Little Joey was a bit tired
after his long walk, and leaned confidingly up against Hugh, who had
thrown an arm about him.

The smiting of the red bar with the hammer caused a shower of sparks
to fly in every direction.  It was fairly fascinating, and Joey
stared with all his might.  Even Hugh always enjoyed seeing a
blacksmith at work, and hearing the sweet-toned ring of steel smiting
steel.

Now and again as he worked, Deacon Winslow would ask some question.
He was acquainted with the fact that the boys of Scranton High had
expected to play a hockey match that morning with the Keyport team,
and as no one had thus far told him how the game came out, he asked
Hugh about it.

From this subject the talk drifted to others, always being of a
somewhat sporadic nature, caused by the smith's starting work again,
after heating his iron bar sufficiently in the fire.

"I'll have the night free, for a wonder," he told Hugh, with a sigh
of pleasure.  "I try as best I can to avoid working late on Saturday,
because I want to be as fresh as possible Sundays, which are always
full days for me.  So when Nick wanted to come out Saturdays, I
induced him to change it to an earlier night instead.  By the way,
how is the lad coming, on these days with his new resolutions?"

Accordingly, Hugh started in to tell him how Nick was doing finely,
and even repeated a part of the little talk he and the other had had
that morning, while on the way to town from the park.

Mr. Winslow listened intently, as he worked the bellows.

"I'm very much interested in the outcome of your experiment, Hugh,"
he said.  "It was a clever idea on your part; and now that Nick has
made a start I do believe he'll see it through.  I always thought he
had it in him to work out his own salvation, if ever he got a fair
chance.  That opportunity has now dawned, and he's on the right road,
Hugh; he's on the right road."

"I agree with you there, sir," said the boy.  "The very stubborn
spirit that used to get him into so much trouble is now going to be
his redemption, since he's got it harnessed up to the right sort of
vehicle.  The more they try to shove Nick off the track the harder
he'll be apt to stick."

"It was the luckiest thing that ever happened for him," continued the
deacon, "when you hatched up that wonderful plan on the spur of the
moment, and tried it out on him.  But for that, Hugh, he'd now be
locked up with his former mates, and headed for the Reform School at
full speed.  As it is, he is free to walk the streets, and already
beginning to win the confidence of many good people in the town."

Ten minutes afterwards and the brawny smith threw his hammer aside,
and commenced to undo the thongs that fastened his leathern apron
about his loins.

"I've finished my stint, lad," he said; "and now we can go into the
house, where you'll meet my better-half.  I've told her so much about
you, she is eager to make your acquaintance.  As for this fine, manly
little chap here, who seems to spring straight into my heart the more
I look at him, as if he belonged there, she'll be half-tickled to
death at the chance to cuddle him in her motherly arms.  Alas! lad,
it's been many a long, weary year since she had the privilege of
loving a child of her own.  Sometimes when I see her sitting there,
so quiet like, and looking into the wonderfully brilliant sunset
skies, I seem to know what she is thinking about, and I feel for her.
It's harder on a mother, than anyone else, to lose her child as we
did our poor, reckless boy."

Hugh felt a queer sensation in the region of his heart when he heard
the big man speak so mournfully.  He realized then as never before
how the heart of a parent can never fully recover from a cruel shock,
such as the loss of one who as a little child had come, it was hoped,
as a ray of sunlight in the lives of those who loved him.

The home of the smith adjoined his shop.  There was, in fact, a door
that connected them, and through this Deacon Winslow now led his
thrice welcome guests.  Presently they found themselves in what
seemed to be a cozy little sitting-room, where a wood-fire blazed
cheerily on the hearth.

Seated in one of those invalid wheel-chairs, which can be so easily
manipulated by the occupant, after becoming expert at the job, was a
most benign-looking and motherly old lady, with snow-white hair, and
a face that was one of the sweetest and most patient Hugh had ever
gazed upon.

He knew instantly that he was going to like Mrs. Winslow just as much
as he did her big husband.  All the good things he had heard about
her benevolence must then be true, he concluded, as he looked on her
smiling face.

"Mother, here's my friend, Hugh Morgan, come out to take supper with
us, as I told you he'd half-promised to do," said the deacon, in his
breezy fashion.  "And see, he has fetched a little chap along with
him who'll warm your heart as nothing else could do.  This is Joey
Walters, who, with his mother, is stopping at the Morgan home.  It is
filed out with a rat-tail file until it is large enough to admit the
tube very tightly.

The tube may be bent easily, by being heated over a common fish-tail
gas burner or over the top of the chimney of a kerosene lamp,
so as to form two right angles, one end extending close to the bottom
of the bottle B as shown.

Having fitted up the apparatus, about two ounces of hyposulphite
of soda are placed in the bottle A, while the bottle B is about
three-fourths filled with water--distilled or melted ice water is
to be preferred; some sulphuric acid--about two ounces--is now
diluted with about twice its bulk of water, by first putting the
water into a dish and pouring in the acid in a steady stream,
stirring meanwhile.

It is well to set the dish in a sink, to avoid any damage which
might occur through the breaking of the dish by the heat produced;
when cool, the solution is ready for use and may be kept in a
bottle.

The cork which serves to adapt the bent tube to the bottle A is now
just removed for an instant, the other end remaining in the water in
bottle B, and about two or three ounces of the dilute acid are
poured in upon the hyposulphite, after which the cork is immediately
replaced.

Sulphurous acid is now evolved by the action of the acid on the
hypo, and as the gas is generated it is led as a series of bubbles
through the water in the bottle B as shown.

The air space above the water in bottle B soon becomes filled by
displacement with sulphurous acid gas, which is a little over twice
as heavy as air; so in order to expedite the complete saturation
of the water, it is convenient to remove the bottle A with its tube
from bottle B, and after having closed the latter by its cork or
stopper, to agitate it thoroughly by turning the bottle upside down.

As the sulphurous acid gas accumulated in the air space over the water
is absorbed by the water, a partial vacuum is created, and
when the stopper is eased an inrush of air may be noted.
People will never know one-tenth of what he's done to save
boys who were going the pace.  His latest protege in that line you
happen to know, a hulking fellow named Nick Lang, who, I understand,
has been the terror of Scranton for years.  I've met him, and must
say I have my doubts whether he can ever be tamed, and molded into a
respectable member of society; but Joel seems to believe no boy is so
bad but what he has a soft streak in him _somewhere_, if only you can
find it."

"Well, since he hasn't told you about the inspiration that came to
me," Hugh felt constrained to say, though averse to speaking of his
own successes, "I want to say that right now Nick Lang is on the road
to making good."

"Please tell me all about it then, Hugh?" she urged him.

Accordingly, Hugh started to relate the story from the very
beginning; and he had a deeply interested auditor; for Mrs. Winslow
sat there in her wheel-chair, with little Joey cuddled in her arms,
and one of his soft, chubby hands patting her face.


CHAPTER XVI

AT THE DEACON'S FIRESIDE

"Hugh, I do believe you will succeed in your undertaking, and that
Nick Lang is already firmly planted on the right path!" exclaimed the
old lady, with considerable warmth, when the story had been brought
up to date, bringing in an account of Hugh's most recent talk with
the former terror of the town.

"It looks encouraging, anyhow," he merely replied; though, of course;
he felt a flush of boyish pride at the warm look she gave him when
saying what she did.

"My husband has worked with many an erring lad," she continued
reminiscently; "sometimes with fair success, but only too often
without, apparently, winning him away from his bad companions.  But
your idea was most unique.  To think it all came of your reading
Hugo's masterpiece, and taking it to heart.  But here comes Joel; and
we can soon be seated at the supper table."

The more Hugh saw of this remarkably genial old couple the closer did
he seem to be drawn to Deacon Winslow and his crippled wife.  Indeed,
Hugh soon came to the conclusion that they were the warmest-hearted
pair he had ever known in all his life.

Mrs. Winslow was wheeled cheerily to her appointed place at the table
by her husband, who waited on her just as assiduously as though they
were lately married; instead of having "trudged along life's highway
in double harness," as the deacon, humorously put it, for a matter of
sixty years or so.

Of course, as Deacon Winslow was a deeply religious man, Hugh
expected he would ask a blessing before partaking of the bountiful
spread that was placed on the table; nor was he disappointed.  The
deacon's deep-toned voice was wonderfully musical, and to Hugh it
sounded almost as though he were singing whenever he spoke.  He never
grew tired of hearing the old blacksmith talk; though they would not
allow him to be a mere visitor, but, by asking many questions, kept
Hugh in the conversation.

The little fellow had been placed in a high chair.  It looked of very
ancient vintage, Hugh thought, when first sighting it.  Seeing the
look on his face the good lady of the house said in a voice that she
tried to keep from vibrating:

"It was our Joel's chair; somehow we have managed to keep it intact
through all the years.  There was a time when I dreamed of some day
seeing this boy seated at my table in his father's high chair.  But
your small friend, Hugh, fills a long vacant spot.  I could almost
fancy he belonged there, he seems so like----"

Deacon Winslow must have seen that his wife was getting on forbidden
ground, for just at that moment he broke in with a question that
demanded an answer from Hugh; and so the subject was dropped.  But
Hugh understood, and he felt his boyish heart throb with genuine
sympathy for this splendid couple, who had yearned to have a house
full of children, but somehow found their dearest wish set aside by a
mysterious decree of Providence.

They had a merry time at the table.  Little Joey was as bright as
Hugh had ever known him to be, and fairly captivated the aged pair
with his prattle.  The old lady in particular hung upon his every
word, as though in an ecstacy of delight.  She anticipated his
childish wants, and, really, little Joey could never have sat down to
such a bountiful feast as on that memorable occasion.

Then the meal being ended they repaired again to the cheery fire.
The deacon put on fresh wood, and the crackle of the blaze was very
delightful on that cold night.  Hugh had already spoken of the long
walk ahead of him, and how, perhaps, he had better postpone his visit
for another occasion, so as to get the child back home before it grew
too late.

"Don't think of it, son," said Deacon Winslow instantly, and in a
tone that would not be denied.  "When the time comes I'll hitch my
horse to the big sleigh; we'll wrap the child up as snug as a bug in
a rug; and be over to your house in a jiffy.  What if he does get a
bit drowsy; let him take a nap.  I'm sure he'll be safe in the loving
arms of grandma."

At his mention of that last word the old lady hugged the child, and
bent her wrinkled kindly face close to his cheeks; but Hugh believed
it was to hide the rush of sacred emotions that swept over her.

Then they talked.

By degrees Hugh got his host started on the subject that was nearest
his heart, and which had to do with the wonderful habits of all the
small, wild animals of which the deacon had made a life-long study.

"It's a wonderfully fascinating subject, Hugh," the old blacksmith
philanthropist went on to say, as he started in.  "I took it up just
as a fancy, but as the years went by it became a habit that grew on
me more and more.  Yes, I have had an amazing lot of pleasure out of
my observations.  As the good wife here will tell you, I've spent
hours on hours at night, hidden in the woods, with a light fixed on
some nest of a muskrat or gopher or fox, just to learn what the
cunning little varmint did betimes; when of rights I should have been
in my bed getting rested for another hard day's labor at my forge."

"His holidays have always been taken up in the same way," interrupted
Mrs. Winslow, smiling lovingly at her husband, whose heart she
evidently could read as though it were a printed book.  "At first I
begrudged him the time, but later on I knew it was taking his
thoughts away from subjects that we were trying to keep out of our
minds, and I never tried to hold him back."

"It was my study of the habits of these small animals and birds that
gave me what little faculty I may possess for prophesying the weather
ahead," continued the old man.  "They seldom, if ever, go wrong.  If
I've hit it wrong now and then, the fault was mine, not theirs.  I
had failed to properly interpret their actions, that was all."

So he went on to tell Hugh many deeply interesting experiments he had
undertaken along those lines.  He also had a fund of wonderful
anecdotes, many of them quite humorous, connected with his little
friends of fur and feather.

The more Hugh heard him tell the greater grew his interest.  He
resolved that at some time in the not distant future, when an
opportunity came along, he, too, would begin to pay more attention to
the multitude of interesting things that could be discovered in
almost any woods, if only the observer kept his eyes about him, and
did nothing to alarm the timid inmates of various burrows and hollow
trees.

So an hour passed, all too quickly.

Once Hugh took out his little nickel watch, as if under the
impression that it must be getting near time for him to think of
saying good-night; though he hated to leave such a jolly fireside,
and the fine couple.

"Please don't think of going home yet, Hugh," said the old man,
looking distressed at once.  "The night is young, and I don't know
when I've enjoyed anyone's company as I have yours.  My dreams in the
long ago were for just such a son as you.  I envy your parents, my
lad.  Providence, however, saw fit to turn my activities in another
direction; and I have done the best I could to be of some little help
to other people's sons.  I only bitterly regret that I am able to do
so little."

"But I'm afraid the child may become too much bother for your good
wife, sir," Hugh was saying, although already deciding he would
remain longer.

The deacon laughed softly.  He put out his big hand, and gently
touched Hugh on the sleeve.

"Look yonder, lad!" he went on to say; "does that strike you as if a
heavenly little sunbeam like the boy could ever be too much trouble
for her?  See how her dear face is lighted up as she bends over him.
He's gone fast asleep in her arms, as contented as though with his
own mother.  Ah! lad, it was a kindly act, your fetching that tiny
bit of humanity out to visit us.  You have made her almost happy
again for once."

Hugh, looking, saw that the old lady was paying no further attention
to them, or listening to what they were saying.  She touched the
sweet face of the child, and pressed her withered lips against his
soft skin.  If a tear fell on the little fellow's head, was it to be
wondered at?  He saw her open his clothes at the neck, as though the
heat of that blazing fire might be a little too much, in her matronly
estimation.

The deacon, too, was looking as though his heart might be in his
eyes.  Such a spectacle as that must have been of rare occurrence at
his fireside, deeply as he regretted it.

Then he started talking again, for he had been in the midst of an
unusually interesting description at the time he drew the boy's
attention to the beautiful picture at the opposite side of the
fireplace.  And Hugh, becoming wrapped up in the amusing episode for
the moment forgot all about little Joey and the loving soul who had
him held in her arms.

What the blacksmith was telling related to a thrilling happening he
had experienced on one occasion, when lying out in the woods watching
for a certain timid little rodent to commence moving around.  At the
time the deacon had one of those new-fangled hand electric torches
with him, which he meant to use when the proper moment arrived.

Hearing voices drawing near he thought it best to warn the darkies
who were advancing in time, for, otherwise, they threatened to walk
directly over him in the pitch darkness.  When, however, he flashed
his light suddenly toward them, he must have given them the fright of
their lives, for they uttered howls, and fled precipitately, despite
his reassuring calls.

"I afterwards learned," said the deacon, smiling broadly at the
amusing recollection, "that the three men were those colored players
who constitute the band you young people always have at your barn
dances, Daddy Whitehead, the leader, and his able assistants, Mose
Coffin and Abe Skinner.  They really believed they had met something
supernatural in the woods, when taking a shortcut home, after
attending a dance somewhere out in the country.  And, really, I never
had the heart to undeceive the poor ignorant chaps.  But I warrant
you they kept to the highway after that terrible experience with
ghosts."

Hugh laughed at the mental picture of those three aged musicians, one
with his fiddle, another carrying a 'cello, and the third an oboe,
"streaking" it through the dark woods madly, possessed of a deadly
fear lest their time had come, and that they were pursued by
something from the spirit world.

He was just about to make some remark when the words froze on his
lips.  Mrs. Winslow had given vent to a cry.  It thrilled Hugh
strangely, as though he feared some agonizing pain had suddenly
gripped the old lady.

Both he and the deacon were instantly on their feet.  As they glued
their eyes on the figure across on the other side of the broad hearth
they saw that she was sitting there with a marvelous look on her
wrinkled face--a look that seemed to tell of sheer amazement,
exceeding great joy, incredulity, and many other like emotions that
Hugh could not stop to analyze.


CHAPTER XVII

A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY

"Joel, come to me quickly!" they heard her gasp, as though she were
almost suffocating; and both of them hastened to her side.

"What has happened, wife?" cried the alarmed deacon.

"Oh! tell me, am I awake, or dreaming, husband?" she went on to say
thickly.  "See what the child is wearing about his dear chubby neck!
Surely we ought to know that tiny gold locket.  It carries me far
back through the long, weary, waiting years to the day I clasped it
about his neck--my baby Joel!"

The deacon snatched the object from her quivering hand.  He stared
hard at it, as though he, too, might suspect he were asleep, and that
it was all but a vision of a disordered mind.

Hugh was trembling, he hardly knew why.  Something seemed to rush
over him, something that thrilled him to the core.  He had felt a
touch of the same sensation when the good old lady let him look at
the pictures in her family album, and pointed to one of her baby boy;
although at the time he could not fully grasp the idea that appealed
so dimly to his investigating mind.

Then Deacon Winslow found his voice, though it was thick and husky
when he went on to say hastily:

"Yes, it does look mighty like the one you had for the boy; and we
never found it again, you remember, after he--left home; so we
thought he had taken it along with everything else he owned.  But
wait, wife, don't jump at conclusions.  It is next to impossible that
this should be the tiny chain with the plain gold pendant that you
bought for our little Joel.  Surely there must have been many others
like it made."

Apparently, he was sorely afraid lest the bitter disappointment would
follow.  The blasting of those new, wild hopes of hers might have a
bad effect on the old lady.  That was why the deacon tried to keep
her from being too sanguine, even though he himself was possibly
hugging suddenly awakened rapturous dreams to his heart.

"There may have been others, Joel!" she cried exultantly; "but look
on the back of the medallion.  I feared it might be lost some day,
Joel, so I scratched his initials there.  My glasses are too moist
for me to see well; look and tell me if you can make out anything,
husband!"

Even Hugh held his breath while the deacon turned the tiny medallion
over in his hands.  Then he snatched up a reading glass of
considerable power from the table, and held it close to the object in
his quivering clutch.

They heard him give a cry, and it did not hint at disappointment.

"Oh! Joel, are the three letters there?" she begged piteously, as she
hugged the still calmly sleeping child closer and closer to her heart.

"Something I can see, wife, although it is very faint," he told her.
"But then think of the many years that have elapsed.  The scratches
must have been very lightly done at best.  Hugh, your eyes are
younger than mine; and, besides, I'm afraid there are tears dimming
my sight.  Look, and tell us what you see!"

It was a picture, with those two old people so eagerly hanging on the
decision of the clear-eyed youth.  Hugh used the glass, for he wanted
to make certain.  It would be doubly cruel if by any mistake on his
part those anxious hearts were deceived.

"I can plainly make out the first initial, which is J beyond
question," he almost immediately said.

At hearing that the deacon cast a swift look toward his wife, which
she returned in kind.  Neither of them could find utterance for a
single word, however, such was the mental strain under which they
labored.

"The last letter looks like a W," continued Hugh.  "Yes, now that
I've rubbed it with my finger I am positive of that.  As for the
middle one, I think it must be either an O or a C, though it's rather
hard to say."

Deacon Winslow gave a deep sigh.

"And our boy's middle name was Carstairs, named after his mother's
family!" he hastened to say.

Then they exchanged more wondering looks.  It was very like a
miracle, the bringing of the little child into the home of that
couple whose fireside had so long awaited the coming of such a
sunbeam.

Deacon Winslow turned almost fiercely on Hugh, and gripped his sleeve.

"You must tell us more about the boy," he said.  "Who is he, and
where did he come from?  Those are vital things for us to learn.  We
could never know peace again if this mystery were not made clear.  So
tell us, Hugh, tell us as quickly as you can, so that we may learn
the best, or the worst."

He saw that they were strangely shaken, and Hugh wisely believed it
best to reassure them in the very beginning.

"First of all, sir," he started to say, "I begin to believe it may be
what you would wish most of all.  This boy who so much resembles your
own child of the past is likely to turn out his son or perhaps
grandson, for his mother's name is Walters, we've learned.  You ask
me where I found him, and I meant to tell you later on, never
dreaming that it would interest you more than casually.  I picked him
and his mother up Thursday evening just at dusk, when I was coming
home from a farm in a sleigh, where I had been to get a sack of
potatoes.  The young woman was trying to ask me something when she
swooned away."

"Go on, lad, go on!" pleaded the deacon hoarsely, as Hugh paused for
breath.

"Of course, the only thing I could do was to get them into the sleigh
and whip up the horse," Hugh continued.  "Once I reached home my
mother would not hear of the poor thing being taken to the hospital.
She had her put to bed and the doctor called in.  Since that time she
has been threatened with fever; in fact, is partly out of her head,
though Doctor Cadmus says he believes she will be sensible by
to-morrow morning.  She was simply half-starved, and dreadfully
worried about something."

"But could you not hear a few random words she uttered that would
give you some idea as to her identity, and where she came from?"
asked the deacon.

"Besides her name, which seemed to be Walters, she has said nothing
that gives us a clue, save that we imagine they must have lived
somewhere in the West."

"In the West--and our Joel started for that section of the country!"
gasped the old lady, still patting the curly head on her lap lovingly.

"And then the lad's name is very similar," broke in the deacon.  "Are
you sure, Hugh, if isn't Joel?  Might not the child have simply given
the baby pronunciation of Joey?"

"I think that would be very likely, sir," admitted the boy readily.

Again the agitated couple exchanged looks.  Hugh would certainly
never forget the joyous expression that sat upon both faces.  It was
as though Heaven had opened to them, and given them back the child of
their younger years.

The deacon dropped down on his knees.  One arm went around his aged
wife and the little fellow she cuddled in her lap.  In sonorous tones
he lifted up his voice and gave thanks from the depths of his heart
for the great mercy shown to them that night.

Hugh was deeply affected.  He believed some invisible hand must have
guided him when he took that sudden notion to have the child go
walking with him, his mother having suggested that it might do the
little chap good to get an airing after being shut up in the house
all day long.

His mind raced back, and once more he marshalled all the facts, as
far as he knew them, before him.  Yes, there did not seem to be any
reason to believe such a thing as a sad mistake could be made.  That
boy certainly had the Winslow blood in him; why, he greatly resembled
the Joel of more than fifty years back, as shown in that old-time
daguerreotype.

Then Deacon Winslow once more rose to his feet.  His face was fairly
radiant, as was that of his wife.

"I believe I can understand how this comes about," he was saying,
just as if he might have had a revelation as he prayed there.  "It is
no accident, but the hand of a special Providence.  Our petitions
have been heard, and this is the answer; so the last few years of our
lives may be made happy by the sight of our own flesh and blood.  My
poor service has come up as a memorial before Heaven.  And let us
hope that tomorrow, when that poor girl comes into her senses again,
she will be able to tell us all of the wonderful story."

"There is one thing I should have mentioned, sir, which slipped my
mind," Hugh went on to say just then.  "Always in her delirium she
seems to be pleading with someone not to deny her a place under his
family roof with her little Joey.  And it is to an imaginary
_grandfather_ she is appealing, so pathetically that I have seen my
mother crying time and again, for very sympathy."

"A grandfather, and cruel at that!" said the old man, shaking his
head, while the tears rolled unheeded down his furrowed cheeks.  "At
least, that does not apply to me.  --With two engravings of the
Rocket.

The Flow of Water through Turbines and Screw Propellers.--By ARTHUR
RIGG.--Experimental researches.--Impact on level plate.--Impact and
reaction in confined channels.--4 figures.

Improved Textile Machinery.--The Textile Exhibition at Islington.--5
figures.

Endless Rope Haulage.--2 figures.

III. TECHNOLOGY.--A Reliable Water Filter.--With engraving.

Simple Devices for Distilling Water.--4 figures.

Improved Fire Damp Detecter.--With full description and engraving.

Camera Attachment for Paper Photo Negatives.--2 figures.

Instantaneous Photo Shutter.--1 figure.

Sulphurous Acid.--Easy method of preparation for photographic
purposes.

IV. PHYSICS. ELECTRICITY, ETC.--Steps toward a Kinetic Theory of
Matter.--Address by Sir Wm. THOMSON at the Montreal meeting of the
British Association.

Application of Electricity to Tramways.--By M. HOLROYD SMITH.--7
figures.

The Sunshine Recorder.--1 figure.

V. ARCHITECTURE AND ART.--The National Monument at Rome.--With full
page engraving.

On the Evolution of Forms of Art.

--From a paper by Prof.

JACOBSTHAL.--Plant Forms the archetypes of cashmere patterns.--Ornamental
representations of plants of two kinds.--Architectural forms
of different ages.--20 figures.

VI. NATURAL HISTORY.--The Latest Knowledge about Gapes.--How to keep
poultry free from them.

The Voyage of the Vettor Pisani.--Shark fishing In the Gulf of
Panama.--Capture of Rhinodon typicus, the largest fish in existence.

VII. HORTICULTURE, ETC.

--The Proper Time for Cutting Timber.

Raising Ferns from Spores.--1 figure.

The Life History of Vaucheria.--Growth of alga vaucheria under
the microscope.--4 figures.

VIII. MISCELLANEOUS.--Fires in London and New York.

The Greely Arctic Expedition.--With engraving.

The Nile Expedition.--1 figure.

* * * * *

LINKS IN THE HISTORY OF THE LOCOMOTIVE.

It is, perhaps, more difficult to write accurate history than anything
else, and this is true not only of nations, kings, politicians, or
wars, but of events and things witnessed or called into existence
in every-day life. In _The Engineer_ for September 17, 1880, we did
our best to place a true statement of the facts concerning the Rocket
before our readers. In many respects this was the most remarkable
steam engine ever built, and about it there ought to be no difficulty,
one would imagine, in arriving at the truth.

It was for a considerable period the cynosure of all eyes.
Engineers all over the world were interested in its performance. Drawings
were made of it; accounts were written of it, descriptions of it
abounded.
Little more than half a century has elapsed since it startled the
world by its performance at Rainhill, and yet it is not too much
to say that the truth--the whole truth, that is to say--can never
now be written.

We are, however, able to put some facts before our readers now which
have never before been published, which are sufficiently startling,
and while supplying a missing link in the history of the locomotive,
go far to show that much that has hitherto been held to be true is
not true at all.

When the Liverpool and Manchester Railway was opened on the 15th
of September, 1830, among those present was James Nasmyth,
subsequently the inventor of the steam hammer.

Mr. Nasmyth was a good freehand draughtsman, and he sketched the Rocket
as it stood on the line. The sketch is still in existence. Mr. Nasmyth
has placed this sketch at our disposal, thus earning the gratitude
of our readers, and we have reproduced as nearly as possible, but to
a somewhat enlarged scale, this invaluable link in the history of
the locomotive. Mr. Nasmyth writes concerning it, July 26, 1884:
"This slight and hasty sketch of the Rocket was made the day before
the opening of the Manchester and Liverpool Railway, September 12,
1830.

I availed myself of the opportunity of a short pause in the experimental
runs with the Rocket, of three or four miles between Liverpool and
Rainhill, George Stephenson acting as engine driver and his son
Robert as stoker.

The limited time I had for making my sketch prevented me from making a
more elaborate one, but such as it is, all the important and
characteristic details are given; but the pencil lines, after the
lapse of fifty-four years, have become somewhat indistinct."

The pencil drawing, more than fifty years old, has become so faint
that its reproduction has become a difficult task.

Enough remains, however, to show very clearly what manner of engine
this Rocket was.

For the sake of comparison we reproduce an engraving of the Rocket of
1829.

A glance will show that an astonishing transformation had taken place
in the eleven months which had elapsed between the Rainhill trials and
the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. We may indicate
a few of the alterations. In 1829 the cylinders were set at a steep
angle; in 1830 they were nearly horizontal. In 1829 the driving wheels
were of wood; in 1830 they were of cast iron.

In 1829 there was no smoke-box proper, and a towering chimney; in
1830 there was a smoke-box and a comparatively short chimney.

In 1829 a cask and a truck constituted the tender; in 1830 there was a
neatly designed tender, not very different in style from that still
in use on the Great Western broad gauge. All these things may perhaps
be termed concomitants, or changes in detail. But there is a
radical difference yet to be considered.

In 1829 the fire-box was a kind of separate chamber tacked on to
the back of the barrel of the boiler, and communicating with it
by three tubes; one on each side united the water spaces, and one at
the top the steam spaces. In 1830 all this had disappeared, and we
find in Mr. Nasmyth's sketch a regular fire-box, such as is used
to this moment.

In one word, the Rocket of 1829 is different from the Rocket of 1830
in almost every conceivable respect; and we are driven perforce to
the conclusion that the Rocket of 1829 _never worked at all on the
Liverpool and Manchester Railway; the engine of 1830 was an entirely
new engine_.

We see no possible way of escaping from this conclusion. The most
that can be said against it is that the engine underwent many alterations.
The alterations must, however, have been so numerous that they
were tantamount to the construction of a new engine.

It is difficult, indeed, to see what part of the old engine could
exist in the new one; some plates of the boiler shell might, perhaps,
have been retained, but we doubt it. It may, perhaps, disturb some
hitherto well rooted beliefs to say so, but it seems to us indisputable
that the Rocket of 1829 and 1830 were totally different
engines.

[Illustration: FIG. 1. THE ROCKET, 1829. THE ROCKET, 1830.]
Our engraving, Fig. 1, is copied from a drawing made by Mr. Phipps,
M.I.C.E., who was employed by Messrs.

Stephenson to compile a drawing of the Rocket from such drawings and
documents as could be found. This gentleman had made the original
drawings of the Rocket of 1829, under Messrs. G. & R. Stephenson's
direction. Mr.

Phipps is quite silent about the history of the engine during the
eleven months between the Rainhill trials and the opening of the
railway.

In this respect he is like every one else. This period is a perfect
blank. It is assumed that from Rainhill the engine went back to
Messrs. Stephenson's works; but there is nothing on the subject in
print, so far as we are aware. Mr. G.R. Stephenson lent us in 1880
a working model of the Rocket.

An engraving of this will be found in _The Engineer_ for September 17,
1880. The difference between it and the engraving below, prepared
from Mr.

Phipps' drawing, is, it will be seen, very small--one of proportions
more than anything else. Mr. Stephenson says of his model: "I can say
that it is a very fair representation of what the engine was before
she was altered." Hitherto it has always been taken for granted
that the alteration consisted mainly in reducing the angle at which
the cylinders were set. The Nasmyth drawing alters the whole aspect
of the question, and we are now left to speculate as to what became
of the original Rocket. We are told that after "it" left the railway
it was employed by Lord Dundonald to supply steam to a rotary
engine; then it propelled a steamboat; next it drove small machinery
in a shop in Manchester; then it was employed in a brickyard;
eventually it was purchased as a curiosity by Mr.

Thomson, of Kirkhouse, near Carlisle, who sent it to Messrs.

Stephenson to take care of. With them it remained for years. Then
Messrs. Stephenson put it into something like its original shape,
and it went to South Kensington Museum, where "it" is now. The
question is, What engine is this? Was it the Rocket of 1829 or the
Rocket of 1830, or neither?

It could not be the last, as will be understood from Mr. Nasmyth's
drawing; if we bear in mind that the so-called fire-box on the South
Kensington engine is only a sham made of thin sheet iron without
water space, while the fire-box shown in Mr.

Nasmyth's engine is an integral part of the whole, which could not
have been cut off. That is to say, Messrs. Stephenson, in getting the
engine put in order for the Patent Office Museum, certainly did not
cut off the fire-box shown in Mr.

Nasmyth's sketch, and replace it with the sham box now on the boiler.
If our readers will turn to our impression for the 30th of June,
1876, they will find a very accurate engraving of the South Kensington
engine, which they can compare with Mr.

Nasmyth's sketch, and not fail to perceive that the differences are
radical.

In "Wood on Railroads," second edition, 1832, page 377, we are told
that "after those experiments"--the Rainhill trials--"were
concluded, the Novelty underwent considerable alterations;"
and on page 399, "Mr.
Stephenson had also improved the working of the Rocket engine, and by
applying the steam more powerfully in the chimney to increase the
draught, was enabled to raise a much greater quantity of steam
than before."

Nothing is said as to where the new experiments took place, nor their
precise date.
But it seems that the Meteor and the Arrow--Stephenson engines--were
tried at the same time; and this is really the only hint Wood gives
as to what was done to the Rocket between the 6th of October, 1829,
and the 15th of September, 1830.

There are men still alive who no doubt could clear up the question
at issue, and it is much to be hoped that they will do so. As the
matter now stands, it will be seen that we do not so much question
that the Rocket in South Kensington Museum is, in part perhaps, the
original Rocket of Rainhill celebrity, as that it ever ran in regular
service on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.

Yet, if not, then we may ask, what became of the Rocket of 1830? It
is not at all improbable that the first Rocket was cast on one side,
until it was bought by Lord Dundonald, and that its history is set
out with fair accuracy above. But the Rocket of the Manchester and
Liverpool Railway is hardly less worthy of attention than its immediate
predecessor, and concerning it information is needed. Any scrap
of information, however apparently trifling, that can be thrown on
this subject by our readers will be highly valued, and given an
appropriate place in our pages.

--_The Engineer_.

* * * * *
The largest grain elevator in the world, says the _Nashville American_,
is that just constructed at Newport News under the auspices of the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co.

It is 90 ft. wide, 386 ft. long, and about 164 ft. high, with engine
and boiler rooms 40 × 100 ft. and 40 ft. high.

In its construction there were used about 3,000 piles, 100,000 ft.
of white-oak timber, 82,000 cu. ft. of stone, 800,000 brick, 6,000,000
ft. of pine and spruce lumber, 4,500 kegs of nails, 6 large boilers,
2 large engines, 200 tons of machinery, 20 large hopper-scales, and
17,200 ft. of rubber belts, from 8 to 48 in. wide and 50 to 1,700
ft. long; in addition, there were 8,000 elevator buckets, and other
material.

The storage capacity is 1,600,000 bushels, with a receiving capacity
of 30,000, and a shipping capacity of 20,000 bushels per hour

.

* * * * *

THE FLOW OF WATER THROUGH TURBINES AND SCREW PROPELLERS.

[Footnote: Paper read before the British Association at Montreal.]

By Mr. ARTHUR RIGG, C.E.

Literature relating to turbines probably stands unrivaled among all
that concerns questions of hydraulic engineering, not so much in
its voluminous character as in the extent to which purely
theoretical writers have ignored facts, or practical writers have
relied upon empirical rules rather than upon any sound theory.
In relation to this view, it may suffice to note that theoretical
deductions have frequently been based upon a generalization that
"streams of water must enter the buckets of a turbine without shock,
and leave them without velocity."

Both these assumed conditions are misleading, and it is now well
known that in every good turbine both are carefully disobeyed. So-called
practical writers, as a rule, fail to give much useful information,
and their task seems rather in praise of one description of turbine
above another.

But generally, it is of no consequence whatever how a stream of water
may be led through the buckets of any form of turbine, so long as its
velocity gradually becomes reduced to the smallest amount that will
carry it freely clear of the machine.

The character of theoretical information imparted by some _Chicago
Journal of Commerce_, dated 20th February, 1884.

There we are informed that "the height of the fall is one of the
most important considerations, as the same stream of water will
furnish five times the horse power at ten ft. that it will at five
ft. fall."

By general consent twice two are four, but it has been reserved for
this imaginative writer to make the useful discovery that sometimes
twice two are ten. Not until after the translation of Captain
Morris' work on turbines by Mr. E. Morris in 1844, was attention in
America directed to the advantages which these motors possessed
over the gravity wheels then in use.

A duty of 75 per cent. was then obtained, and a further study of the
subject by a most acute and practical engineer, Mr. Boyden, led to
various improvements upon Mr. Fauneyron's model, by which his
experiments indicated the high duty of 88 per cent. The most conspicuous
addition made by Mr. Boyden was the diffuser.

The ingenious contrivance had the effect of transforming part of whatever
velocity remained in the stream after passing out of a turbine
into an atmospheric pressure, by which the corresponding lost head
became effective, and added about 3 per cent. to the duty obtained.
It may be worth noticing that, by an accidental application of these
principles to some inward flow turbines, there is obtained most,
if not all, of whatever advantage they are supposed to possess, but
oddly enough this genuine advantage is never mentioned by any of
the writers who are interested in their introduction or sale. The
well-known experiments of Mr. James B. Francis in 1857, and his
elaborate report, gave to hydraulic engineers a vast store of useful
data, and since that period much progress has been made in the
construction of turbines, and literature on the subject has become
very complete.This
party was the same gentleman who had officiated with such
satisfaction in the game with Keyport on the preceding Saturday.

Here is the list of players, and the positions they occupied,
Scranton having kept the identical Seven with which the last game had
been so cleverly won, though many people were of the opinion they had
a much more difficult proposition before them in the Belleville boys:


  _Scranton High_   _Position_         _Belleville_
  Stevens ......... Goal ............  Leonard
  Hobson .......... Point ...........  Wright
  Danvers ......... Cover Point ...... "O. K." Kramer
  Smith ........... Right End ........ Gould
  Dugdale ......... Center ........... Waterman
  Morgan .......... Rover ............ Conway
  Juggins ......... Left End ......... Haggerty

The game had hardly begun before Hugh realized that those Belleville
fellows had determined to down the visitors, if it took every ounce
of strenuous ability they possessed.  Previous defeats at the hands
of Scranton High rankled in their hearts, and they were grimly
resolved, "to do or die," as one of them told Thad Stevens while
chatting before the game was called.

They made a whirlwind beginning, and had scored two goals before the
visitors began to "find" themselves.  This would never do, Hugh
determined.  He gave his players a signal that called for a spurt,
and himself led the way by capturing the puck, and shooting it into
the cage of their opponents amidst loud footings of great joy from
the loyal and now anxious Scranton rooters.

Juggins distinguished himself also immediately afterwards by a
lightning play that amazed the Belleville spectators.  He dodged all
interference and when finally too hard pressed, managed to send the
rubber disc across to Dugdale, who continued the good work by
shooting it into the charge of Hobson; and, almost before Leonard
could try to stop its flight, it had gone with a crash into the cage
for the second goal on Scranton's side.

Things began to look brighter.  If Belleville could play brilliant
hockey through the coaching of an efficient instructor, the visiting
team knew a few things also, which were calculated to surprise their
rivals.

Of course, most, if not all of the Belleville Seven had attended the
game on the preceding Saturday, their own match for that day, which
they had easily won, coming off in the afternoon.  Consequently, they
had studied the methods of the Scranton boys, and believed they would
be able to profit by their knowledge later on.

But Hugh had been wise to this fact, and posted Mr. Leonard, the
coach; who, meanwhile, taught them a few new little wrinkles that
were calculated to disturb the calculations of Belleville when the
time came for the meeting.  As in football, ice hockey presents a
fruitful field for diplomacy and clever tactics; and the wisest
general usually manages to carry his team to victory over those who
may be much more nimble skaters and even smarter with their sticks,
but not so able in the line of strategy.

Belleville also took a "hunch," as some of the boys called it, and
again forged to the front.  Indeed, they scored three times against
one more goal for the visitors; and when the first half of the match
had been finished the game stood at five to three against Scranton.

Hugh was in a dilemma.  He knew that to win out he must have an
infusion of new blood, for those husky players of the local school
were too rapid for the Scranton boys.  But, according to the rules of
the game, substitutes can only be allowed in case of serious injury.
So, unless one of his player chanced to be hurt in such a way as to
necessitate his withdrawal from the game there could be no changes
made in the line-up.

This is so hedged about with safeguards against fraud that even if a
player is hurt he must be examined by someone competent to say
whether he may be able to commence work again inside of seven
minutes; and if so, the game must proceed.  Should he be excused from
further participation in the contest his captain may have the
privilege of putting in another man; or, if he chooses to play with
only six on the ice, the other side must also eliminate a player, so
as to make the line-up equal.

Perhaps some of Hugh's comrades must have guessed what was gripping
their leader around that time.  Nothing else could have induced
Smith, for instance, to say, as he did to Hugh, while they were
resting in preparation for the last half of the game to start in:

"I'm awfully ashamed of that rotten run I made, Hugh, when you handed
me the rubber so handsomely.  If I'd known my business as I should
I'd have landed it in the wire cage as snug as anything.  But I
fumbled, and that Conway got it away from me, the robber.  I'm no
good, Hugh; and I'd give a heap if only you could kick me out of the
game, and get a better substitute."

"It can't be done, Just," Hugh told him; "a player has to be pretty
badly hurt to be dropped, you know, and a substitute taken on.  Cheer
up, and get a fresh start.  Two goals shouldn't be a hard job for us
to tackle, once we get going at our old pace.  There are a few tricks
left in the bag still, before we reach the bottom."

"But, see here, I'm pretty lame at that, after the stumble and fall I
had, Hugh," said "Just" Smith eagerly; "perhaps the referee would let
me throw up my job if he saw how badly my shin has been scraped."

"Oh! you're in pretty good shape still, 'Just,' and you know it,"
remarked Hugh, smiling at the evident determination of his friend to
sacrifice himself for the general good.  "When we start play again
we'll try the last dodge Mr. Leonard taught us, and see if it'll work
for a goal.  It's clean sport, and nothing tricky, you know."

So "Just" Smith shrugged his shoulders, and did not seem at all
happy, though he let the matter drop.  After the class song is sung,
diplomas bestowed, the in-coming senior class welcomed, and the
announcement made as to the one whose rank in her studies entitles
her to a free scholarship for the ensuing year, a brief but most
excellent address is given by a young colored physician of Savannah,
whose ability, culture, high moral worth, and nobly unselfish
ambitions fit him to stand as a model to our students.

The newly made alumni meet teachers and friends in the Teachers'
Home for refreshments and a good, happy time generally; and in the
midst of it all one of the workers of Beach is surprised by a
token of appreciation in the form of a beautiful gift from the
graduating class.

Our orator of the day, after some consultation, proposes to the class
of '96 the forming of an alumni association at the opening of the
next year, and then soon all disperse and a successful school
year is reckoned with the past.

* * * * *

BALLARD NORMAL SCHOOL, MACON, GA.

BY MISS LINCOLNIA C. HAYNES.

The Commencement Exercises of Ballard Normal School began with the
Junior Exhibition. At the time appointed every seat was taken and there
was scarcely standing room. The greatest interest was manifested by
all present, and at the close of the evening, when anxious parents
and interested friends crowded around with beaming faces to
express their satisfaction and appreciation, each teacher felt
amply rewarded for the arduous labor and effort put forth.

The "Jubilee Songs," and especially the "Jubilee Medley," attracted
great attention. To hear "Steal Away," "Get on Board," "Swing Low,"
and all the other old-time songs, wound into one, and yet fitting
into each other so perfectly and harmoniously, seemed almost a
wonder.

The annual sermon was preached the following Sunday by Rev.

J. R.
McLean, pastor of the Congregational Church. In addressing the graduates
he urged a practical use of the knowledge gained; he emphasized the
fact that philanthropy is giving one's self, and he impressed upon
them the necessity of co-operating with Christ in all things if
success is desired in anything.

Wednesday was Visitors' Day at the school, and a larger number was
out this year to witness the examinations and inspect work than for
several previous years.

Wednesday night the alumni held their regular meeting in the chapel.

Thursday, Commencement Day, dawned gloriously, and long before the
time for the exercises to begin, people were wending their way toward
the building in order to obtain a comfortable seat.

There were three graduates, all girls, and they made a pretty sight
as they marched slowly up the aisle and took their places upon the
platform.

The Annual Address was delivered by Rev. S. A. Peeler, of the M.

One word from the coach as he strode forward Nick
would never forget as long as he lived; it was a word of confidence;
and, remembering how Mr. Leonard had at one time detested and
distrusted this boy, it meant everything to Nick.

The game started again after the lapse of seven minutes.

Belleville considered that they had "the edge" on the visitors, and
immediately went at it as though bent on adding considerably to the
number of goals marked to their credit.  But almost immediately it
was discovered that the infusion of new blood had somehow altered the
complexion of things greatly.

Thanks principally to the marvelous agility and strategy of Nick, a
goal was shot inside of two minutes.  It was immediately followed by
another, this time Nick winning the score without the least help from
anyone.

Wild applause rang out from parts of the crowd, where, of course,
Scranton rooters mostly congregated.  How sweet those cheers must
have sounded in the ears of Nick Lange, who for years had only earned
the hoots and jeers of his fellows in Scranton, on account of their
distrust, and his own evil ways.

Why, the Belleville folks sat up and rubbed their eyes.  They had
never dreamed that any fellow not a professional player could prove
himself such a marvelous wizard on steel runners.  Nick fairly
dazzled them with his speed, his eccentric twistings when hotly
pursued, and the clever way in which he kept that rubber disc just in
front of his hockey stick, always carrying it along toward the point
where he meant to strike for goal.

And when he did make that stroke vain were the frantic efforts of the
usually dependable Leonard to block its amazing passage; for almost
before he swung he heard the plug of the puck landing in the wire
cage which he was especially set to guard, and knew that another
tally had been added to Scranton's growing score.

The conditions had changed, and the shoe was now on the other foot.

Thanks to the fine playing of Nick Lang Scranton was now ahead, and
it seemed extremely doubtful whether Belleville would have another
chance to make a single tally.  The boys were plainly disconcerted by
the excellent work of the substitute, and seemed to have lost much of
that aggressive spirit so absolutely necessary in ice hockey in order
to win games.  They played almost sullenly, as if realizing that it
was all over but the shouting.

Vain were the efforts of Captain Kramer to put new life in his
followers.  He himself fought more desperately than ever, and once
even succeeded in taking the puck away from the triumphant Nick, the
only one who attained that glory; only to lose it immediately
afterwards to Owen Dugdale, who transferred it to Stevens by way of
Hobson; and then it plunged into the cage, despite Leonard's mad
attempt to stay its swift flight.

"Who's this you Scranton boys have thrown into the game?" demanded
one chagrined Belleville gentleman, as he saw what a radical change
Nick's coming had made in the affair on the ice rink.  "He plays
suspiciously like a certain Canadian I saw last winter, who set
everybody in New York City wild with his work.  Is Jean La Rue
visiting anybody in Scranton; and have you rung him in on us to-day,
to send our poor chaps down to defeat?"

"Don't you believe it, Mister," chortled a boy standing near by,
whose jersey was decorated with the letters "S. H. S.," standing, of
course, for Scranton High School.  "That fellow is only our Nick
Lang, who was born and brought up in our home town.  The place was
never proud of that face until this great day, because Nick, you see,
has been the worst boy ever known in Scranton.  Why, his escapades
would take a week to tell you.  He used to be the terror of
everybody, the bully all boys feared and shunned.  I think that you
will be able to get an idea of how I have been influenced by Emerson
Institute by the narrative which I have given, although scattering.

I trust that you will pray for my success, and that I may be able
to stand the _test_.He'll be a hero, as sure as he used to be the town
scapegrace!"

It was just that way up to the time the referee signaled that the
last half of the game had been played to a finish.  Nick seemed
capable of doing almost as he pleased.  Whenever he got possession of
the puck it was, as one enthusiastic Scranton boy whooped, a "regular
procession."  The Belleville lads just couldn't touch him.  His
actions bewildered them, so that they were continually becoming mixed
up with their own side when they thought to corner Nick and the puck.

The score?

Well, it seemed too bad that after such a brilliant beginning
Belleville should fall so low, and see the terrible figures, thirteen
to seven, marked up against them.

In the annals of sport, as chronicled at Scranton High, that contest
would always be known as the "Battle of Winchester," just because, as
in the Civil War, when the Union army was in retreat and demoralized,
the coming of a single man, General Phil Sheridan, caused them to
turn about, and presently win a conclusive and overwhelming victory.
And Nick Lang had been the Phil Sheridan for Scranton on that
glorious day!

Of these, the first five had previously prohibited the use of white
phosphorus within their own frontiers. Room was, however, left for
the entry of other States into the convention at a subsequent date,
with the result that the scope of the treaty has been gradually
extended, and that we now find ourselves fairly within sight of the
banishment from manufacture of one of the most deadly of all
industrial poisons, and the consequent disappearance of an industrial
disease peculiarly dreadful in its nature and symptoms.

The tardy adhesion of the United Kingdom to this treaty remains a
matter of regret; but the procedure of the Indian Government and
of all the British self-governing dominions in following the mother
country when at last she determined to take action has done much to
redeem that tardiness. Obviously, it was the prohibition of the
importation and sale of phosphorus matches in India and the Dominions
which has forced the Scandinavian and Belgian manufacturers who
were opposing complete prohibition to seek for substitutes for white
phosphorus.

At the present moment only Japan and Sweden among manufacturing
countries stand outside the convention, the United States, whose
constitution forbade her to impose prohibition by direct legislation,
having brought about the desired result by the imposition of a
prohibitive tax.

Is this all? it may be asked. If the question be of treaties signed,
sealed, and ratified, the answer must be 'Yes'.
So it seemed that Nick's future was assured, if so be he cared to
take up that honorable trade, by means of which the deacon had
accumulated his little fortune.

As for the two former pals of Nick, Tip Slavin and Leon Disney, in
due time they were convicted of the robbery of Paul Kramer's store,
and sent away to the excellent State institution, to remain there
until they had reached the age of twenty-one.

There was at least a fair hope that long before that time arrived one
or both of the boys would have learned a trade and decided to live a
respectable life in the future; for many lads who were deemed
uncontrollable at home, under the lax training they received there,
have been fashioned into splendid men because of the strict
discipline at the Reform School.

There is little more to add to make our story complete.

Joey and his mother were soon installed under the hospitable roof of
the deacon, where they found themselves the objects of love and
devotion.  The miseries of the past would soon be forgotten in the
great happiness that had come to them.  And certain it is that no one
would be a more welcome guest there than Hugh Morgan, because it was
partly through his efforts that this joyous event had been made
possible.

Since Scranton High had taken such a leading part in the outdoor
sports so beloved by all wide-awake boys, it could be set down as
certain that the fellows in Allandale and Belleville would not be
content to let them rest upon their well-earned laurels, but would
strive with might and main to excel them on the diamond, the
cinder-path, the football gridiron, or some other field of athletic
endeavor.

Its study has been to me a source of ever increasing pleasure,
and has again demonstrated how our favorite instrument reveals phenomena
of most absorbing interest in directions where the unaided eye finds
but little promise.
THE END