The earliest recollections of my childhood are associated with my
stepfather, and passed from him to the theatre. I well remember
that he would have liked to see me develop a talent for painting;
and his studio, with the easel and the pictures upon it, did not
fail to impress me. I remember in particular that I tried, with a
childish love of imitation, to copy a portrait of King Frederick
Augustus of Saxony; but when this simple daubing had to give
place to a serious study of drawing, I could not stand it,
possibly because I was discouraged by the pedantic technique of
my teacher, a cousin of mine, who was rather a bore. At one time
during my early boyhood I became so weak after some childish
ailment that my mother told me later she used almost to wish me
dead, for it seemed as though I should never get well. However,
my subsequent good health apparently astonished my parents. I
afterwards learnt the noble part played by my excellent
stepfather on this occasion also; he never gave way to despair,
in spite of the cares and troubles of so large a family, but
remained patient throughout, and never lost the hope of pulling
me through safely.

My imagination at this time was deeply impressed by my
acquaintance with the theatre, with which I was brought into
contact, not only as a childish spectator from the mysterious
stagebox, with its access to the stage, and by visits to the
wardrobe with its fantastic costumes, wigs and other disguises,
but also by taking a part in the performances myself. After I had
been filled with fear by seeing my father play the villain's part
in such tragedies as Die Waise und der Morder, Die beiden
Galeerensklaven, I occasionally took part in comedy. I remember
that I appeared in Der Weinberg an der Elbe, a piece specially
written to welcome the King of Saxony on his return from
captivity, with music by the conductor, C. M. von Weber. In this
I figured in a tableau vivant as an angel, sewn up in tights with
wings on my back, in a graceful pose which I had laboriously
practised. I also remember on this occasion being given a big
iced cake, which I was assured the King had intended for me
personally. Lastly, I can recall taking a child's part in which I
had a few words to speak in Kotzebue's Menschenhass und Reue
[Footnote: 'Misanthropy and Remorse.'], which furnished me with
an excuse at school for not having learnt my lessons. I said I
had too much to do, as I had to learn by heart an important part
in Den Menschen ausser der Reihe. [Footnote: 'The Man out of the
Rank or Row.' In the German this is a simple phonetic corruption
of Kotzebue's title, which might easily occur to a child who had
only heard, and not read, that title.--EDITOR.]

On the other hand, to show how seriously my father regarded my
education, when I was six years old he took me to a clergyman in
the country at Possendorf, near Dresden, where I was to be given
a sound and healthy training with other boys of my own class. In
the evening, the vicar, whose name was Wetzel, used to tell us
the story of Robinson Crusoe, and discuss it with us in a highly
instructive manner. I was, moreover, much impressed by a
biography of Mozart which was read aloud; and the newspaper
accounts and monthly reports of the events of the Greek War of
Independence stirred my imagination deeply. My love for Greece,
which afterwards made me turn with enthusiasm to the mythology
and history of ancient Hellas, was thus the natural outcome of
the intense and painful interest I took in the events of this
period. In after years the story of the struggle of the Greeks
against the Persians always revived my impressions of this modern
revolt of Greece against the Turks.

One day, when I had been in this country home scarcely a year, a
messenger came from town to ask the vicar to take me to my
parents' house in Dresden, as my father was dying.

We did the three hours' journey on foot; and as I was very
exhausted when I arrived, I scarcely understood why my mother was
crying. The next day I was taken to my father's bedside; the
extreme weakness with which he spoke to me, combined with all the
precautions taken in the last desperate treatment of his
complaint--acute hydrothorax--made the whole scene appear like a
dream to me, and I think I was too frightened and surprised to
cry.

In the next room my mother asked me to show her what I could play
on the piano, wisely hoping to divert my father's thoughts by the
sound. I played Ueb' immer Treu und Redlichkeit, and my father
said to her, 'Is it possible he has musical talent?'

In the early hours of the next morning my mother came into the
great night nursery, and, standing by the bedside of each of us
in turn, told us, with sobs, that our father was dead, and gave
us each a message with his blessing. To me she said, 'He hoped to
make something of you.'

In the afternoon my schoolmaster, Wetzel, came to take me back to
the country. We walked the whole way to Possendorf, arriving at
nightfall. On the way I asked him many questions about the stars,
of which he gave me my first intelligent idea.

A week later my stepfather's brother arrived from Eisleben for
the funeral. He promised, as far as he was able, to support the
family, which was now once more destitute, and undertook to
provide for my future education.

I took leave of my companions and of the kind-hearted clergyman,
and it was for his funeral that I paid my next visit to
Possendorf a few years later. I did not go to the place again
till long afterwards, when I visited it on an excursion such as I
often made, far into the country, at the time when I was
conducting the orchestra in Dresden. I was much grieved not to
find the old parsonage still there, but in its place a more
pretentious modern structure, which so turned me against the
locality, that thenceforward my excursions were always made in
another direction.

This time my uncle brought me back to Dresden in the carriage. I
found my mother and sister in the deepest mourning, and remember
being received for the first time with a tenderness not usual in
our family; and I noticed that the same tenderness marked our
leave-taking, when, a few days later, my uncle took me with him
to Eisleben.

This uncle, who was a younger brother of my stepfather, had
settled there as a goldsmith, and Julius, one of my elder
brothers, had already been apprenticed to him. Our old
grandmother also lived with this bachelor son, and as it was
evident that she could not live long, she was not informed of the
death of her eldest son, which I, too, was bidden to keep to
myself. The servant carefully removed the crape from my coat,
telling me she would keep it until my grandmother died, which was
likely to be soon.

I was now often called upon to tell her about my father, and it
was no great difficulty for me to keep the secret of his death,
as I had scarcely realised it myself. She lived in a dark back
room looking out upon a narrow courtyard, and took a great
delight in watching the robins that fluttered freely about her,
and for which she always kept fresh green boughs by the stove.
When some of these robins were killed by the cat, I managed to
catch others for her in the neighbourhood, which pleased her very
much, and, in return, she kept me tidy and clean. Her death, as
had been expected, took place before long, and the crape that had
been put away was now openly worn in Eisleben.

The back room, with its robins and green branches, now knew me no
more, but I soon made myself at home with a soap-boiler's family,
to whom the house belonged, and became popular with them on
account of the stories I told them.

