I lay there staring into those mysterious depths of her strange
wide-spaced eyes, and she giggled a little. I could not help laughing.
Even as I struggled to retain sense an almost hysterical laugh of relief
broke from me.

We got to our feet, and in spite of the terrible danger, our arms kept
hold of each other, our eyes still held together, and our lips were
drawn together and burned there for minutes.

"This is madness, woman, we must get out of here. The Croen has made
bombs for the prince's ships. He has rebelled against the Jivros,
released the Croen, Cyane, they will blast this place, perhaps the whole
city, before this night is over!"

"So no one placed any value on the life or the help of Carna but the
earth man! Why did you come here for me, Carl?"

"I saw your scarf at the window. I learned then what I did not know
before--I could not let you die! Do you know what I felt when I knew you
were still in this prison?"

"Of course I know. You see, Carl, the magic of the Zoorphs is really a
magic of love. You love me, and I willed it so. You will always love me
now!"

I was not entranced by her words.

"We have no time for a discussion of metaphysics or of love, woman.
Come, we must get out."

Carna gestured toward the doorway. I whirled, stood frozen with startled
nerves. There stood the old Jivro whom I had met in the council beside
the queen. In his hands were no weapons, and at his back were no tall
Schree guards. I wondered if the desertion of the Jivros had been so
complete. Even as I stooped to retrieve the heavy rifle from the floor,
his hands gestured, and the rifle eluded my reach, seeming to glide
across the floor. He became interested in Deborah Denny, a child of twelve when he
came to the village, who grew up under his ministrations.

Her family for centuries was famed for its piety and was thoroughly
devoted to the interests of the church.
My lips moved, but no sound came out.

A sudden blast of light came from the window, and the vast concussion
shook the building terribly. For an instant I felt freedom in my limbs.
I tugged out the .45 at my belt, leveled it, fired. The Old One
staggered, his eyes blazed at me, and his hand gestured again. The Duke
D'Anville committed suicide. Many died with disease, and thousands were
consigned to a watery grave. The small number who survived returned
to France, broken in health and spirits,--the enterprise was
abandoned, and never renewed."

       *       *       *

Swirling nothingness, a dry cachination as of some dead-as-dust thing
laughing at life itself, a shuddering vibrance flooding through my flesh
in waves of terrible nausea, a dim glow that grew and grew into
terrifying painful brilliance, then paled and died again into the
swirling blankness that was not death, but a knowledge of deep
injury....

Again and again the swirling horror of my brain slowed, almost stopped.
My eyes almost opened into the painful light, and the deep interior
vibrating sensation swelled into overpowering violence. I sank again
into darkness. Over and over I struggled almost to the doors of
consciousness, only to be shoved back by the consciously controlled
exterior force.

At last the sickness passed, and my mind quieted. I struggled into
wakefulness. As I opened my eyes, the face of the old Jivro gaped with
its noseless, bulging eyes not a foot away, the thin, wide lips and
mouth hanging open like a trap, the ridges across the mouth like a fish,
white and horrible.

I retched at the repellent sight, and the mouth moved, the words came
out so strangely, like a mechanical voice:

"Tell me, earthman, how is the weapon with which you shot my men on the
roof made? What are the details of its construction, and the formula for
its explosive?"

I almost laughed.

"You are ridiculous, old insect! Such things are known only to
technicians in factories, not to mining men like myself."

