Produced by Robert Shimmin and PG Distributed Proofreaders


                           DESIDERIUS ERASMUS

                          THE PRAISE OF FOLLY


                        Translated by John Wilson
                                  1668


                          ERASMUS OF ROTTERDAM
                              to his friend
                          THOMAS MORE, health:


As I was coming awhile since out of Italy for England, that I might not
waste all that time I was to sit on horseback in foolish and illiterate
fables, I chose rather one while to revolve with myself something of our
common studies, and other while to enjoy the remembrance of my friends,
of whom I left here some no less learned than pleasant. Among these you,
my More, came first in my mind, whose memory, though absent yourself,
gives me such delight in my absence, as when present with you I ever
found in your company; than which, let me perish if in all my life I ever
met with anything more delectable. And therefore, being satisfied that
something was to be done, and that that time was no wise proper for any
serious matter, I resolved to make some sport with the praise of folly.
Like an army defeated, the snow has retreated; the Graces and the Nymphs
can dance unclad in the soft warm air. But summer will thrust out spring,
autumn summer, then dull winter will come again; will come to the year,
will come to you and me. Not birth nor eloquence nor virtue can save
from Minos' judgement seat; like Aeneas, Tullus, Ancus, like all the great
ones of the earth, we shall soon be nameless shades and a poor pinch of
dust. More of the old buoyant glee comes back in a festal invitation to
one Virgilius, not the poet. There is a ring of Tom Moore in Sir
Theodore Martin's rendering of it.

* * * * *
On the young grass reclined, near the murmur of fountains, The shepherds
are piping the song of the plains, And the god who loves Arcady's
purple-hued mountains, The god of the flocks, is entranced by their
strains.

* * * * *
To the winds with base lucre and pale melancholy!
In the flames of the pyre these, alas! will be vain; Mix your sage
ruminations with glimpses of folly, 'Tis delightful at times to be somewhat
insane!

There follows a savage assault on one Lyce, an ancient beauty who had
lost her youthful charms, but kept up her youthful airs:

Where now that beauty? where those movements? where That colour? what of
her, of her is left, Who, breathing Love's own air, Me of myself bereft!

Poor Lyce! spared to raven's length of days; That youth may see, with
laughter and disgust, A firebrand, once ablaze, Now smouldering
in grey dust.

Poor Lyce indeed! what had she done to be so scourged? One address we
miss: there is no ode in this book to Maecenas, who was out of favour
with Augustus, and had lost all political influence. But the friend
is not sunk in the courtier. The Ides or 13th of April is his old
patron's birthday--a nativity, says Horace, dearer to him almost than
his own, and he keeps it always as a feast. With a somewhat ghostly
resurrection of voluptuousness dead and gone he bids Phyllis come and
keep it with him. All things are ready, a cask of Alban nine years old
is broached, the servants are in a stir, the altar wreathed for sacrifice,
the flames curling up the kitchen chimney, ivy and parsley gathered to
make a wreath for Phyllis' hair. Come then, sweet girl, last of my
loves; for never again shall this heart take fire at a woman's face--come,
and learn of me a tune to sing with that dear voice, and drive away dull
care. I am told that every man in making love assures the charmer that
no woman shall ever succeed her in his regards; but this is probably
a veritable amorous swan-song. He was older than are most men at fifty-two.
Years as they pass, he sadly says, bereave us one by one of all our precious
things; of mirth, of loves, of banquets; at last the Muse herself
spreads wings to follow them. "You have sported long enough," she
says, "with Amaryllis in the shade, you have eaten and drunk your
fill, it is time for you to quit the scene." And so the curtain
falls.

* * * * *
To our great loss there is no contemporary portrait of Horace. He
tells us himself (Ep. II, ii, 214; I, xx, 29) that he was short of
stature, his hair black but early tinged with grey; that he loved
to bask in sunshine, that his temper was irascible but easily
appeased.
In advanced life he became fat; Augustus jests with him rather
coarsely on his protuberant figure. The portrait prefixed to this
volume is from a Contorniate, or bronze medallion of the time of
Constantine, representing the poet's likeness as traditionally
preserved amongst his countrymen three hundred years after his
death.No, you'll meet with some so preposterously
religious that they will sooner endure the broadest scoffs even against
Christ himself than hear the Pope or a prince be touched in the least,
especially if it be anything that concerns their profit; whereas he that
so taxes the lives of men, without naming anyone in particular, whither,
I pray, may he be said to bite, or rather to teach and admonish? Or
otherwise, I beseech you, under how many notions do I tax myself?
Besides, he that spares no sort of men cannot be said to be angry with
anyone in particular, but the vices of all. And therefore, if there shall
happen to be anyone that shall say he is hit, he will but discover either
his guilt or fear. Saint Jerome sported in this kind with more freedom
and greater sharpness, not sparing sometimes men's very name. But I,
besides that I have wholly avoided it, I have so moderated my style that
the understanding reader will easily perceive my endeavors herein were
rather to make mirth than bite. Nor have I, after the example of Juvenal,
raked up that forgotten sink of filth and ribaldry, but laid before you
things rather ridiculous than dishonest. And now, if there be anyone that
is yet dissatisfied, let him at least remember that it is no dishonor to
be discommended by Folly; and having brought her in speaking, it was but
fit that I kept up the character of the person. But why do I run over
these things to you, a person so excellent an advocate that no man better
defends his client, though the cause many times be none of the best?
Farewell, my best disputant More, and stoutly defend your _Moriae_.

From the country,
the 5th of the Ides of June.


                          THE PRAISE OF FOLLY


                     An oration, of feigned matter,
                   spoken by Folly in her own person


At what rate soever the world talks of me (for I am not ignorant what an
ill report Folly has got, even among the most foolish), yet that I am
that she, that only she, whose deity recreates both gods and men, even
this is a sufficient argument, that I no sooner stepped up to speak to
this full assembly than all your faces put on a kind of new and unwonted
pleasantness. So suddenly have you cleared your brows, and with so frolic
and hearty a laughter given me your applause, that in truth as many of
you as I behold on every side of me seem to me no less than Homer's gods
drunk with nectar and nepenthe; whereas before, you sat as lumpish and
pensive as if you had come from consulting an oracle. And as it usually
happens when the sun begins to show his beams, or when after a sharp
winter the spring breathes afresh on the earth, all things immediately
get a new face, new color, and recover as it were a certain kind of youth
again: in like manner, by but beholding me you have in an instant gotten
another kind of countenance; and so what the otherwise great rhetoricians
with their tedious and long-studied orations can hardly effect, to wit,
to remove the trouble of the mind, I have done it at once with my
single look.

But if you ask me why I appear before you in this strange dress, be
pleased to lend me your ears, and I'll tell you; not those ears, I mean,
you carry to church, but abroad with you, such as you are wont to prick
up to jugglers, fools, and buffoons, and such as our friend Midas once
gave to Pan. For I am disposed awhile to play the sophist with you; not
of their sort who nowadays boozle young men's heads with certain empty
notions and curious trifles, yet teach them nothing but a more than
womanish obstinacy of scolding: but I'll imitate those ancients who, that
they might the better avoid that infamous appellation of _sophi_ or
_wise_, chose rather to be called sophists. Their business was to
celebrate the praises of the gods and valiant men. And the like encomium
shall you hear from me, but neither of Hercules nor Solon, but my own
dear self, that is to say, Folly. Nor do I esteem a rush that call it a
foolish and insolent thing to praise one's self. Be it as foolish as they
would make it, so they confess it proper: and what can be more than that
Folly be her own trumpet? For who can set me out better than myself,
unless perhaps I could be better known to another than to myself? Though
yet I think it somewhat more modest than the general practice of our
nobles and wise men who, throwing away all shame, hire some flattering
orator or lying poet from whose mouth they may hear their praises, that
is to say, mere lies; and yet, composing themselves with a seeming
modesty, spread out their peacock's plumes and erect their crests, while
this impudent flatterer equals a man of nothing to the gods and proposes
him as an absolute pattern of all virtue that's wholly a stranger to it,
sets out a pitiful jay in other's feathers, washes the blackamoor white,
and lastly swells a gnat to an elephant. In short, I will follow that old
proverb that says, "He may lawfully praise himself that lives far from
neighbors." Though, by the way, I cannot but wonder at the ingratitude,
shall I say, or negligence of men who, notwithstanding they honor me in
the first place and are willing enough to confess my bounty, yet not one
of them for these so many ages has there been who in some thankful
oration has set out the praises of Folly; when yet there has not wanted
them whose elaborate endeavors have extolled tyrants, agues, flies,
baldness, and such other pests of nature, to their own loss of both time
and sleep. And now you shall hear from me a plain extemporary speech, but
so much the truer. Nor would I have you think it like the rest of
orators, made for the ostentation of wit; for these, as you know, when
they have been beating their heads some thirty years about an oration and
at last perhaps produce somewhat that was never their own, shall yet
swear they composed it in three days, and that too for diversion: whereas
I ever liked it best to speak whatever came first out.

But let none of you expect from me that after the manner of rhetoricians
I should go about to define what I am, much less use any division; for I
hold it equally unlucky to circumscribe her whose deity is universal, or
make the least division in that worship about which everything is so
generally agreed. Or to what purpose, think you, should I describe myself
when I am here present before you, and you behold me speaking? For I am,
as you see, that true and only giver of wealth whom the Greeks call
_Moria_, the Latins _Stultitia_, and our plain English _Folly_. Or what
need was there to have said so much, as if my very looks were not
sufficient to inform you who I am? Or as if any man, mistaking me for
wisdom, could not at first sight convince himself by my face the true
index of my mind? I am no counterfeit, nor do I carry one thing in my
looks and another in my breast. No, I am in every respect so like myself
that neither can they dissemble me who arrogate to themselves the
appearance and title of wise men and walk like asses in scarlet hoods,
though after all their hypocrisy Midas' ears will discover their master.
A most ungrateful generation of men that, when they are wholly given up
to my party, are yet publicly ashamed of the name, as taking it for a
reproach; for which cause, since in truth they are _morotatoi_, fools,
and yet would appear to the world to be wise men and Thales, we'll even
call them _morosophous_, wise fools.

Nor will it be amiss also to imitate the rhetoricians of our times, who
think themselves in a manner gods if like horse leeches they can but
appear to be double-tongued, and believe they have done a mighty act if
in their Latin orations they can but shuffle in some ends of Greek like
mosaic work, though altogether by head and shoulders and less to the
purpose. And if they want hard words, they run over some worm-eaten
manuscript and pick out half a dozen of the most old and obsolete to
confound their reader, believing, no doubt, that they that understand
their meaning will like it the better, and they that do not will admire
it the more by how much the less they understand it. Nor is this way of
ours of admiring what seems most foreign without its particular grace;
for if there happen to be any more ambitious than others, they may give
their applause with a smile, and, like the ass, shake their ears, that
they may be thought to understand more than the rest of their neighbors.

But to come to the purpose: I have given you my name, but what epithet
shall I add? What but that of the most foolish? For by what more proper
name can so great a goddess as Folly be known to her disciples? And
because it is not alike known to all from what stock I am sprung, with
the Muses' good leave I'll do my endeavor to satisfy you. But yet neither
the first Chaos, Orcus, Saturn, or Japhet, nor any of those threadbare,
musty gods were my father, but Plutus, Riches; that only he, that is, in
spite of Hesiod, Homer, nay and Jupiter himself, _divum pater atque
hominum rex_, the father of gods and men, at whose single beck, as
heretofore, so at present, all things sacred and profane are turned
topsy-turvy. According to whose pleasure war, peace, empire, counsels,
judgments, assemblies, wedlocks, bargains, leagues, laws, arts, all
things light or serious--I want breath--in short, all the public and
private business of mankind is governed; without whose help all that herd
of gods of the poets' making, and those few of the better sort of the
rest, either would not be at all, or if they were, they would be but such
as live at home and keep a poor house to themselves. And to whomsoever
he's an enemy, 'tis not Pallas herself that can befriend him; as on the
contrary he whom he favors may lead Jupiter and his thunder in a string.
This is my father and in him I glory. Nor did he produce me from his
brain, as Jupiter that sour and ill-looked Pallas; but of that lovely
nymph called Youth, the most beautiful and galliard of all the rest. Nor
was I, like that limping blacksmith, begot in the sad and irksome bonds
of matrimony. Yet, mistake me not, 'twas not that blind and decrepit
Plutus in Aristophanes that got me, but such as he was in his full
strength and pride of youth; and not that only, but at such a time when
he had been well heated with nectar, of which he had, at one of the
banquets of the gods, taken a dose extraordinary.

And as to the place of my birth, forasmuch as nowadays that is looked
upon as a main point of nobility, it was neither, like Apollo's, in the
floating Delos, nor Venus-like on the rolling sea, nor in any of blind
Homer's as blind caves: but in the Fortunate Islands, where all things
grew without plowing or sowing; where neither labor, nor old age, nor
disease was ever heard of; and in whose fields neither daffodil, mallows,
onions, beans, and such contemptible things would ever grow, but, on the
contrary, rue, angelica, bugloss, marjoram, trefoils, roses, violets,
lilies, and all the gardens of Adonis invite both your sight and your
smelling. And being thus born, I did not begin the world, as other
children are wont, with crying; but straight perched up and smiled on my
mother. Nor do I envy to the great Jupiter the goat, his nurse, forasmuch
as I was suckled by two jolly nymphs, to wit, Drunkenness, the daughter
of Bacchus, and Ignorance, of Pan. And as for such my companions and
followers as you perceive about me, if you have a mind to know who they
are, you are not like to be the wiser for me, unless it be in Greek: this
here, which you observe with that proud cast of her eye, is _Philantia_,
Self-love; she with the smiling countenance, that is ever and anon
clapping her hands, is _Kolakia_, Flattery; she that looks as if she were
half asleep is _Lethe_, Oblivion; she that sits leaning on both elbows
with her hands clutched together is _Misoponia_, Laziness; she with the
garland on her head, and that smells so strong of perfumes, is _Hedone_,
Pleasure; she with those staring eyes, moving here and there, is _Anoia_,
Madness; she with the smooth skin and full pampered body is _Tryphe_,
Wantonness; and, as to the two gods that you see with them, the one is
_Komos_, Intemperance, the other _Eegretos hypnos_, Dead Sleep. These, I
say, are my household servants, and by their faithful counsels I have
subjected all things to my dominion and erected an empire over emperors
themselves. Thus have you had my lineage, education, and companions.

And now, lest I may seem to have taken upon me the name of goddess
without cause, you shall in the next place understand how far my deity
extends, and what advantage by it I have brought both to gods and men.
For, if it was not unwisely said by somebody, that this only is to be a
god, to help men; and if they are deservedly enrolled among the gods that
first brought in corn and wine and such other things as are for the
common good of mankind, why am not I of right the _alpha_, or first, of
all the gods? who being but one, yet bestow all things on all men. For
first, what is more sweet or more precious than life? And yet from whom
can it more properly be said to come than from me? For neither the
crab-favoured Pallas' spear nor the cloud-gathering Jupiter's shield
either beget or propagate mankind; but even he himself, the father of
gods and king of men at whose very beck the heavens shake, must lay by
his forked thunder and those looks wherewith he conquered the giants
and with which at pleasure he frightens the rest of the gods, and like
a common stage player put on a disguise as often as he goes about that,
which now and then he does, that is to say the getting of children: And
the Stoics too, that conceive themselves next to the gods, yet show me
one of them, nay the veriest bigot of the sect, and if he do not put off
his beard, the badge of wisdom, though yet it be no more than what is
common with him and goats; yet at least he must lay by his supercilious
gravity, smooth his forehead, shake off his rigid principles, and for
some time commit an act of folly and dotage. In fine, that wise man
whoever he be, if he intends to have children, must have recourse to me.
But tell me, I beseech you, what man is that would submit his neck to
the noose of wedlock, if, as wise men should, he did but first truly
weigh the inconvenience of the thing? Or what woman is there would ever
go to it did she seriously consider either the peril of child-bearing or
the trouble of bringing them up? So then, if you owe your beings to
wedlock, you owe that wedlock to this my follower, Madness; and what
you owe to me I have already told you. Again, she that has but once
tried what it is, would she, do you think, make a second venture if it
were not for my other companion, Oblivion? Nay, even Venus herself,
notwithstanding whatever Lucretius has said, would not deny but that
all her virtue were lame and fruitless without the help of my deity.
For out of that little, odd, ridiculous May-game came the supercilious
philosophers, in whose room have succeeded a kind of people the world
calls monks, cardinals, priests, and the most holy popes. And lastly,
all that rabble of the poets' gods, with which heaven is so thwacked
and thronged, that though it be of so vast an extent, they are hardly
able to crowd one by another.

But I think it is a small matter that you thus owe your beginning of life
to me, unless I also show you that whatever benefit you receive in the
progress of it is of my gift likewise. For what other is this? Can that
be called life where you take away pleasure? Oh! Do you like what I say?
I knew none of you could have so little wit, or so much folly, or wisdom
rather, as to be of any other opinion. For even the Stoics themselves
that so severely cried down pleasure did but handsomely dissemble, and
railed against it to the common people to no other end but that having
discouraged them from it, they might the more plentifully enjoy it
themselves. But tell me, by Jupiter, what part of man's life is that that
is not sad, crabbed, unpleasant, insipid, troublesome, unless it be
seasoned with pleasure, that is to say, folly? For the proof of which the
never sufficiently praised Sophocles in that his happy elegy of us, "To
know nothing is the only happiness," might be authority enough, but that
I intend to take every particular by itself.

And first, who knows not but a man's infancy is the merriest part of life
to himself, and most acceptable to others? For what is that in them which
we kiss, embrace, cherish, nay enemies succor, but this witchcraft of
folly, which wise Nature did of purpose give them into the world with
them that they might the more pleasantly pass over the toil of education,
and as it were flatter the care and diligence of their nurses? And then
for youth, which is in such reputation everywhere, how do all men favor
it, study to advance it, and lend it their helping hand? And whence, I
pray, all this grace? Whence but from me? by whose kindness, as it
understands as little as may be, it is also for that reason the higher
privileged from exceptions; and I am mistaken if, when it is grown up and
by experience and discipline brought to savor something like man, if in
the same instant that beauty does not fade, its liveliness decay, its
pleasantness grow flat, and its briskness fail. And by how much the
further it runs from me, by so much the less it lives, till it comes to
the burden of old age, not only hateful to others, but to itself also.
Which also were altogether insupportable did not I pity its condition, in
being present with it, and, as the poets' gods were wont to assist such
as were dying with some pleasant metamorphosis, help their decrepitness
as much as in me lies by bringing them back to a second childhood, from
whence they are not improperly called twice children. Which, if you ask
me how I do it, I shall not be shy in the point. I bring them to our
River Lethe (for its springhead rises in the Fortunate Islands, and that
other of hell is but a brook in comparison), from which, as soon as they
have drunk down a long forgetfulness, they wash away by degrees the
perplexity of their minds, and so wax young again.

But perhaps you'll say they are foolish and doting. Admit it; 'tis the
very essence of childhood; as if to be such were not to be a fool, or
that that condition had anything pleasant in it, but that it understood
nothing. For who would not look upon that child as a prodigy that should
have as much wisdom as a man?--according to that common proverb, "I do
not like a child that is a man too soon." Or who would endure a converse
or friendship with that old man who to so large an experience of things
had joined an equal strength of mind and sharpness of judgment? And
therefore for this reason it is that old age dotes; and that it does so,
it is beholding to me. Yet, notwithstanding, is this dotard exempt from
all those cares that distract a wise man; he is not the less pot
companion, nor is he sensible of that burden of life which the more manly
age finds enough to do to stand upright under it. And sometimes too, like
Plautus' old man, he returns to his three letters, A.M.O., the most
unhappy of all things living, if he rightly understood what he did in it.
And yet, so much do I befriend him that I make him well received of his
friends and no unpleasant companion; for as much as, according to Homer,
Nestor's discourse was pleasanter than honey, whereas Achilles' was both
bitter and malicious; and that of old men, as he has it in another place,
florid. Bubb Doddington, afterwards Lord Melcombe, who had written Mr.
Mann a letter of most extravagant lamentation on the death of the Prince
of Wales. He was member for Winchelsea, and left behind him a diary,
which was published some years after his death, and which throws a good
deal of light on the political intrigues of the day.]
We have already begun to sell the pictures that had not found place
at Houghton: the sale gives no great encouragement to proceed (though
I fear it must come to that!); the large pictures were thrown away; the
whole-length Vandykes went for a song! I am mortified now at having printed
the catalogue. Gideon the Jew, and Blakiston the independent grocer, have
been the chief purchasers of the pictures sold already--there, if you
love moralizing!

Adieu! I have no more articles to-day for my literary gazette.

_DESCRIPTION OF STRAWBERRY HILL--BILL TO PREVENT CLANDESTINE MARRIAGES._

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _June_ 12, 1753.

I could not rest any longer with the thought of your having no idea of a
place of which you hear so much, and therefore desired Mr. Bentley
to draw you as much idea of it as the post would be persuaded to carry
from Twickenham to Florence. The enclosed enchanted little landscape, then,
is Strawberry Hill; and I will try to explain so much of it to you as
will help to let you know whereabouts we are when we are talking to
you; for it is uncomfortable in so intimate a correspondence as ours not
to be exactly master of every spot where one another is writing, or
reading, or sauntering. This view of the castle is what I have just
finished, and is the only side that will be at all regular. Directly
before it is an open grove, through which you see a field, which is
bounded by a serpentine wood of all kind of trees, and flowering shrubs,
and flowers. The lawn before the house is situated on the top of a small
hill, from whence to the left you see the town and church of Twickenham
encircling a turn of the river, that looks exactly like a seaport in
miniature. The opposite shore is a most delicious meadow, bounded by
Richmond Hill, which loses itself in the noble woods of the park to
the end of the prospect on the right, where is another turn of the river,
and the suburbs of Kingston as luckily placed as Twickenham is on the
left: and a natural terrace on the brow of my hill, with meadows of my
own down to the river, commands both extremities. Is not this a tolerable
prospect? You must figure that all this is perpetually enlivened by
a navigation of boats and barges, and by a road below my terrace, with
coaches, post-chaises, waggons, and horsemen constantly in motion, and
the fields speckled with cows, horses, and sheep. Now you shall walk
into the house. The bow-window below leads into a little parlour hung
with a stone-colour Gothic paper and Jackson's Venetian prints, which I
could never endure while they pretended, infamous as they are, to be
after Titian, &c., but when I gave them this air of barbarous bas-reliefs,
they succeeded to a miracle: it is impossible at first sight not
to conclude that they contain the history of Attila or Tottila,
done about the very aera.

From hence, under two gloomy arches, you come to the hall and staircase,
which it is impossible to describe to you, as it is the most particular
and chief beauty of the castle.
Imagine the walls covered with (I call it paper, but it is really
paper painted in perspective to represent) Gothic fretwork: the lightest
Gothic balustrade to the staircase, adorned with antelopes (our supporters)
bearing shields; lean windows fattened with rich saints in painted glass,
and a vestibule open with three arches on the landing-place, and niches
full of trophies of old coats of mail, Indian shields made of rhinoceros's
hides, broadswords, quivers, longbows, arrows, and spears--all _supposed_
to be taken by Sir Terry Robsart in the holy wars. But as none of this
regards the enclosed drawing, I will pass to that. The room on the
ground-floor nearest to you is a bedchamber, hung with yellow paper and
prints, framed in a new manner, invented by Lord Cardigan; that is, with
black and white borders printed. Over this is Mr. Chute's bedchamber,
hung with red in the same manner. The bow-window room one pair of
stairs is not yet finished; but in the tower beyond it is the charming
closet where I am now writing to you. It is hung with green paper
and water-colour pictures; has two windows; the one in the drawing looks
to the garden, the other to the beautiful prospect; and the top of each
glutted with the richest painted glass of the arms of England, crimson
roses, and twenty other pieces of green, purple, and historic bits. I must
tell you, by the way, that the castle, when finished, will have
two-and-thirty windows enriched with painted glass. In this closet,
which is Mr. Chute's college of Arms, are two presses with books of
heraldry and antiquities, Madame Sévigné's Letters, and any French books
that relate to her and her acquaintance.
Out of this closet is the room where we always live, hung with a blue
and white paper in stripes adorned with festoons, and a thousand plump
chairs, couches, and luxurious settees covered with linen of the same
pattern, and with a bow-window commanding the prospect, and gloomed
with limes that shade half each window, already darkened with painted
glass in chiaroscuro, set in deep blue glass. Under this room is a
cool little hall, where we generally dine, hung with paper to imitate
Dutch tiles.

I have described so much, that you will begin to think that all the
accounts I used to give you of the diminutiveness of our habitation
were fabulous; but it is really incredible how small most of the
rooms are.
The only two good chambers I shall have are not yet built: they will be
an eating-room and a library, each twenty by thirty, and the
latter fifteen feet high. For the rest of the house I could send it you
in this letter as easily as the drawing, only that I should have
nowhere to live till the return of the post. The Chinese summer-house,
which you may distinguish in the distant landscape, belongs to my Lord
Radnor. We pique ourselves upon nothing but simplicity, and have
no carvings, gildings, paintings, inlayings, or tawdry
businesses.

You will not be sorry, I believe, by this time to have done with Strawberry
Hill, and to hear a little news. The end of a very dreaming session has
been extremely enlivened by an accidental bill which has opened great
quarrels, and those not unlikely to be attended with interesting
circumstances. A bill to prevent clandestine marriages,[1] so drawn by
the Judges as to clog all matrimony in general, was inadvertently espoused
by the Chancellor; and having been strongly attacked in the House of Commons
by Nugent, the Speaker, Mr.

Fox, and others, the last went very great lengths of severity on the
whole body of the law, and on its chieftain in particular, which,
however, at the last reading, he softened and explained off extremely.
This did not appease: but on the return of the bill to the House of
Lords, where our amendments were to be read, the Chancellor in the
most personal terms harangued against Fox, and concluded with saying that
"he despised his scurrility as much as his adulation and recantation." As
Christian charity is not one of the oaths taken by privy-counsellors,
and as it is not the most eminent virtue in either of the champions,
this quarrel is not likely to be soon reconciled. There are natures
whose disposition it is to patch up political breaches, but whether
they will succeed, or try to succeed in healing this, can I tell you?

[Footnote 1: These clandestine marriages were often called "Fleet
marriages." Lord Stanhope, describing this Act, states that "there was
ever ready a band of degraded and outcast clergymen, prisoners for debt
or for crime, who hovered about the verge of the Fleet prison soliciting
customers, and plying, like porters, for employment.... One of these
wretches, named Keith, had gained a kind of pre-eminence in infamy. On
being told there was a scheme on foot to stop his lucrative traffic, he
declared, with many oaths, he would still be revenged of the
Bishops, that he would buy a piece of ground and outbury them!"

("History of England," c. 31).]
The match for Lord Granville, which I announced to you, is not concluded:
the flames are cooled in that quarter as well as in others.

I begin a new sheet to you, which does not match with the other, for I have
no more of the same paper here. Dr. Cameron is executed, and died with
the greatest firmness. His parting with his wife the night before was
heroic and tender: he let her stay till the last moment, when being aware
that the gates of the Tower would be locked, he told her so; she fell at
his feet in agonies: he said, "Madam, this was not what you promised
me," and embracing her, forced her to retire: then with the same
coolness looked at the window till her coach was out of sight, after
which he turned about and wept. His only concern seemed to be at the
ignominy of Tyburn: he was not disturbed at the dresser for his body, or
at the fire to burn his bowels.[1] The crowd was so great, that a friend
who attended him could not get away, but was forced to stay and behold
the execution; but what will you say to the minister or priest
that accompanied him?

The wretch, after taking leave, went into a landau, where, not content
with seeing the Doctor hanged, he let down the top of the landau for the
better convenience of seeing him embowelled! I cannot tell you positively
that what I hinted of this Cameron being commissioned from Prussia
was true, but so it is believed.
Adieu! my dear child; I think this is a very tolerable letter for
summer!

[Footnote 1: "The populace," says Smollett, "though not very subject to
tender emotions, were moved to compassion, and even to tears, by his
behaviour at the place of execution; and many sincere well-wishers of
the present establishment thought that the sacrifice of this victim,
at such a juncture, could not redound either to its honour or security."]

[Illustration: GEORGE MONTAGU.]

_NO NEWS FROM FRANCE BUT WHAT IS SMUGGLED--THE KING'S DELIGHT AT THE VOTE
FOR THE HANOVER TROOPS--BON MOT OF LORD DENBIGH._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, _May_ 19, 1756.

Nothing will be more agreeable to me than to see you at Strawberry Hill;
the weather does not seem to be of my mind, and will not invite you. I
believe the French have taken the sun. Among other captures, I
hear the King has taken another English mistress, a Mrs. Pope, who
took her degrees in gallantry some years ago. She went to Versailles
with the famous Mrs. Quon: the King took notice of them; he was told
they were not so rigid as _all_ other English women are--mind, I
don't give you any part of this history for authentic; you know we can
have no news from France but what we run.[1] I have rambled so that
I forgot what I intended to say; if ever we can have spring, it must be
soon: I propose to expect you any day you please after Sunday se'nnight,
the 30th: let me know your resolution, and pray tell me in what
magazine is the Strawberry ballad? I should have proposed an earlier
day to you, but next week the Prince of Nassau is to breakfast at
Strawberry Hill, and I know your aversion to clashing with
grandeur.

[Footnote 1: "During the winter England was stirred with constantly
recurring alarms of a French invasion.... Addresses were moved in both
Houses entreating or empowering the King to summon over for our
defence some of his Hanoverian troops, and also some of hired
Hessians--an ignominious vote, but carried by large majorities"
(Lord Stanhope, "History of England," c. 22).]

As I have already told you one mob story of a King, I will tell you
another: _they say_, that the night the Hanover troops were voted, _he_
sent Schutz for his German cook, and said, "Get me a very good supper;
get me all de varieties; I don't mind expense."
I tremble lest his Hanoverians should be encamped at Hounslow; Strawberry
would become an inn; all the Misses would breakfast there, to go and see
the camp!

My Lord Denbigh is going to marry a fortune, I forget her name; my Lord
Gower asked him how long the honey-moon would last? He replied, "Don't
tell me of the honey-moon; it is harvest moon with me."

Adieu!

_VICTORY OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA AT LOWOSITZ--SINGULAR RACE--QUARREL OF THE
PRETENDER WITH THE POPE._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _Oct._ 17, 1756.

Lentulus (I am going to tell you no old Roman tale; he is the King
of Prussia's aid-de-camp) arrived yesterday, with ample confirmation of
the victory in Bohemia.[1]--Are not you glad that we have got a victory
that we can at least call _Cousin_? Between six and seven thousand
Austrians were killed: eight Prussian squadrons sustained the _acharnement_,
which is said to have been extreme, of thirty-two squadrons of Austrians:
the pursuit lasted from Friday noon till Monday morning; both our
countrymen, Brown and Keith, performed wonders--we seem to flourish much
when transplanted to Germany--but Germans don't make good manure here!

The Prussian King writes that both Brown and Piccolomini are too strongly
intrenched to be attacked. His Majesty ran _to_ this victory; not _à la_
Molwitz. He affirms having found in the King of Poland's cabinet ample
justification of his treatment of Saxony--should not one query whether he
had not these proofs in his hands antecedent to the cabinet? The
Dauphiness[2] is said to have flung herself at the King of France's feet
and begged his protection for her father; that he promised "qu'il le
rendroit au centuple au Roi de Prusse."
[Footnote 1: On the 1st of the month Frederic II. had defeated the Austrian
general, Marshal Brown, at Lowositz. It was the first battle of the
Seven Years' War, and was of great political importance as leading
to the capture of Dresden and of laying all Saxony at the mercy
of the conqueror.

"_À la_ Molwitz" is an allusion to the first battle in the war of the
Austrian Succession, April 10, 1741, in which Frederic showed that he was
not what Voltaire and Mr. Pitt called "a heaven-born general;" since on
the repulse of his cavalry he gave up all for lost, and rode from the
field, to learn at night that, after his flight, his second in command,
the veteran Marshal Schwerin, had rallied the broken squadrons, and had
obtained a decisive victory.]
[Footnote 2: The Dauphiness was the daughter of Augustus, King of Poland
and Elector of Saxony.]
Peace is made between the courts of Kensington and Kew:[1] Lord Bute,
who had no visible employment at the latter, and yet whose office
was certainly no _sinecure_, is to be Groom of the Stole to the Prince
of Wales; which satisfies. The rest of the family will be named before the
birthday--but I don't know how, as soon as one wound is closed, another
breaks out! Mr. Fox, extremely discontent at having no power, no
confidence, no favour (all entirely engrossed by the old monopolist),
has asked leave to resign. It is not yet granted. If Mr. Pitt
will--or can, accept the seals, probably Mr. Fox will be indulged,--if
Mr. Pitt will not, why then, it is impossible to tell you what will
happen.
Whatever happens on such an emergency, with the Parliament so near,
with no time for considering measures, with so bad a past, and so
much worse a future, there certainly is no duration or good in
prospect. Unless the King of Prussia will take our affairs at home
as well as abroad to nurse, I see no possible recovery for us--and
you may believe, when a doctor like him is necessary, I should be
full as willing to die of the distemper.
[Footnote 1: "The courts of Kensington and Kew"--in other words,
of the King and the Prince of Wales and his mother, to whom George
II. was not very friendly. A scandal, which had no foundation,
imputed to the Princess undue intimacy with the Earl of Bute, who,
however, did stand high in her good graces, and who probably was
indebted to them for his appointment in the next reign to the office
of Prime Minister, for which he had no qualification whatever.]

Well! and so you think we are undone!--not at all; if folly and
extravagance are symptoms of a nation's being at the height of their
glory, as after-observers pretend that they are forerunners of its
ruin, we never were in a more flourishing situation. My Lord
Rockingham and my nephew Lord Orford have made a match of five
hundred pounds, between five turkeys and five geese, to run from
Norwich to London. Don't you believe in the transmigration of souls?
And are not you convinced that this race is between Marquis
Sardanapalus and Earl Heliogabalus? And don't you pity the poor
Asiatics and Italians who comforted themselves on their resurrection
with their being geese and turkeys?
Here's another symptom of our glory! The Irish Speaker Mr. Ponsonby
has been _reposing_ himself at _Newmarket_: George Selwyn, seeing
him toss about bank-bills at the hazard-table said, "How easily the
Speaker passes the money-bills!"
You, who live at Florence among vulgar vices and tame slavery, will
stare at these accounts. Pray be acquainted with your own country,
while it is in its lustre.In fine, I am so necessary to the making of all society and manner of
life both delightful and lasting, that neither would the people long
endure their governors, nor the servant his master, nor the master his
footman, nor the scholar his tutor, nor one friend another, nor the wife
her husband, nor the usurer the borrower, nor a soldier his commander,
nor one companion another, unless all of them had their interchangeable
failings, one while flattering, other while prudently conniving, and
generally sweetening one another with some small relish of folly.

And now you'd think I had said all, but you shall hear yet greater
things. Will he, I pray, love anyone that hates himself? Or ever agree
with another who is not at peace with himself? Or beget pleasure in
another that is troublesome to himself? I think no one will say it that
is not more foolish than Folly. And yet, if you should exclude me,
there's no man but would be so far from enduring another that he would
stink in his own nostrils, be nauseated with his own actions, and himself
become odious to himself; forasmuch as Nature, in too many things rather
a stepdame than a parent to us, has imprinted that evil in men,
especially such as have least judgment, that everyone repents him of his
own condition and admires that of others. Whence it comes to pass that
all her gifts, elegancy, and graces corrupt and perish. For what benefit
is beauty, the greatest blessing of heaven, if it be mixed with
affectation? What youth, if corrupted with the severity of old age?
Lastly, what is that in the whole business of a man's life he can do with
any grace to himself or others--for it is not so much a thing of art, as
the very life of every action, that it be done with a good mien--unless
this my friend and companion, Self-love, be present with it? Nor does she
without cause supply me the place of a sister, since her whole endeavors
are to act my part everywhere. For what is more foolish than for a man to
study nothing else than how to please himself? To make himself the object
of his own admiration? And yet, what is there that is either delightful
or taking, nay rather what not the contrary, that a man does against the
hair? Take away this salt of life, and the orator may even sit still with
his action, the musician with all his division will be able to please no
man, the player be hissed off the stage, the poet and all his Muses
ridiculous, the painter with his art contemptible, and the physician with
all his slip-slops go a-begging. Lastly, you will be taken for an ugly
fellow instead of youthful, and a beast instead of a wise man, a child
instead of eloquent, and instead of a well-bred man, a clown. So
necessary a thing it is that everyone flatter himself and commend himself
to himself before he can be commended by others.

Lastly, since it is the chief point of happiness "that a man is willing
to be what he is," you have further abridged in this my Self-love, that
no man is ashamed of his own face, no man of his own wit, no man of his
own parentage, no man of his own house, no man of his manner of living,
nor any man of his own country; so that a Highlander has no desire to
change with an Italian, a Thracian with an Athenian, nor a Scythian for
the Fortunate Islands. O the singular care of Nature, that in so great a
variety of things has made all equal! Where she has been sometimes
sparing of her gifts she has recompensed it with the more of self-love;
though here, I must confess, I speak foolishly, it being the greatest of
all other her gifts: to say nothing that no great action was ever
attempted without my motion, or art brought to perfection without my
help.

Is not war the very root and matter of all famed enterprises? And yet
what more foolish than to undertake it for I know what trifles,
especially when both parties are sure to lose more than they get by the
bargain? For of those that are slain, not a word of them; and for the
rest, when both sides are close engaged "and the trumpets make an ugly
noise," what use of those wise men, I pray, that are so exhausted with
study that their thin, cold blood has scarce any spirits left? No, it
must be those blunt, fat fellows, that by how much the more they exceed
in courage, fall short in understanding. Unless perhaps one had rather
choose Demosthenes for a soldier, who, following the example of
Archilochius, threw away his arms and betook him to his heels e'er he had
scarce seen his enemy; as ill a soldier, as happy an orator.

But counsel, you'll say, is not of least concern in matters of war. In a
general I grant it; but this thing of warring is not part of philosophy,
but managed by parasites, panders, thieves, cut-throats, plowmen, sots,
spendthrifts, and such other dregs of mankind, not philosophers; who how
unapt they are even for common converse, let Socrates, whom the oracle of
Apollo, though not so wisely, judged "the wisest of all men living," be
witness; who stepping up to speak somewhat, I know not what, in public
was forced to come down again well laughed at for his pains. Indeed, they
don't seem so unwise as to risk their cause upon so precarious an event;
but rather to design to establish themselves in Scotland, till they can
be supported from France, and be set up with taking Edinburgh Castle,
where there is to the value of a million, and which they would make a
stronghold. It is scarcely victualled for a month, and must surely fall
into their hands.
Our coasts are greatly guarded, and London kept in awe by the arrival of
the guards. I don't believe what I have been told this morning, that
more troops are sent for from Flanders, and aid asked of Denmark.

Prince Charles has called a Parliament in Scotland for the 7th of October;
ours does not meet till the 17th, so that even in the show of liberty
and laws they are beforehand with us. With all this, we hear of no
men of quality or fortune having joined him but Lord Elcho, whom you have
seen at Florence; and the Duke of Peith, a silly race horsing boy, who
is said to be killed in this battle. But I gather no confidence from hence:
my father always said, "If you see them come again, they will begin
by their lowest people; their chiefs will not appear till the end." His
prophecies verify every day!

The town is still empty; on this point only the English act
contrary to their custom, for they don't throng to see a Parliament,
though it is likely to grow a curiosity!...

_GENERAL WADE IS MARCHING TO SCOTLAND--VIOLENT PROCLAMATION OF THE
PRETENDER._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Oct._ 21, 1745.

I had been almost as long without any of your letters as you had without
mine; but yesterday I received one, dated the 5th of this month, N.S.

The rebels have not left their camp near Edinburgh, and, I suppose, will
not now, unless to retreat into the Highlands. General Wade was to march
yesterday from Doncaster for Scotland. By their not advancing, I conclude
that either the Boy and his council could not prevail on the Highlanders
to leave their own country, or that they were not strong enough, and still
wait for foreign assistance, which, in a new declaration, he intimates
that he still expects. One only ship, I believe, a Spanish one, is got
to them with arms, and Lord John Drummond and some people of
quality on board. We don't hear that the younger Boy is of the number.
Four ships sailed from Corunna; the one that got to Scotland, one taken
by a privateer of Bristol, and one lost on the Irish coast; the fourth
is not heard of. At Edinburgh and thereabouts they commit the most
horrid barbarities.

We last night expected as bad here:
information was given of an intended insurrection and massacre by the
Papists; all the Guards were ordered out, and the Tower shut up at seven.
I cannot be surprised at anything, considering the supineness of the
Ministry--nobody has yet been taken up!

The Parliament met on Thursday. I don't think, considering the crisis,
that the House was very full. Indeed, many of the Scotch members cannot
come if they would. The young Pretender had published a declaration,
threatening to confiscate the estates of the Scotch that should come to
Parliament, and making it treason for the English. The only points that
have been before the House, the address and the suspension of the
Habeas Corpus, met with obstructions from the Jacobites. By this we may
expect what spirit they will show hereafter. With all this, I am far
from thinking that they are so confident and sanguine as their friends at
Rome. I blame the Chutes extremely for cockading themselves: why take
a part, when they are only travelling? I should certainly retire to
Florence on this occasion.

You may imagine how little I like our situation; but I don't despair.

The little use they made, or could make of their victory; their not
having marched into England; their miscarriage at the Castle of
Edinburgh; the arrival of our forces, and the non-arrival of any French
or Spanish, make me conceive great hopes of getting over this ugly
business. But it is still an affair wherein the chance of battles,
or perhaps of one battle, may decide.

I write you but short letters, considering the circumstances of the
time; but I hate to send you paragraphs only to contradict them
again: I still less choose to forge events; and, indeed, am glad I have
so few to tell you.

My Lady O[rford] has forced herself upon her mother, who receives her
very coolly: she talks highly of her demands, and quietly of her methods:
the fruitlessness of either will, I hope, soon send her back--I am sorry
it must be to you!

You mention Holdisworth:[1] he has had the confidence to come and
visit me within these ten days; and (I suppose, from the overflowing of
his joy) talked a great deal and quick--with as little sense as
when he was more tedious.

[Footnote 1: A nonjuror, who travelled with Mr. George Pitt.--WALPOLE.]

Since I wrote this, I hear the Countess [of Orford] has told her mother,
that she thinks her husband the best of our family, and me the worst--nobody
so bad, except you! I don't wonder at my being so ill with her; but
what have you done? or is it, that we are worse than anybody, because we
know more of her than anybody does? Adieu!

_GALLANT RESISTANCE OF CARLISLE--MR. PITT ATTACKS THE MINISTRY._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Nov._ 22, 1745.

For these two days we have been expecting news of a battle. Wade
marched last Saturday from Newcastle, and must have got up with
the rebels if they stayed for him, though the roads are exceedingly
bad and great quantities of snow have fallen.

But last night there was some notice of a body of rebels being
advanced to Penryth. We were put into great spirits by an heroic letter
from the Mayor of Carlisle, who had fired on the rebels and made them
retire; he concluded with saying, "And so I think the town of
Carlisle has done his Majesty more service than the great city of
Edinburgh, or than all Scotland together." But this hero, who was grown
the whole fashion for four-and-twenty hours, had chosen to stop all other
letters. The King spoke of him at his _levée_ with great encomiums;
Lord Stair said, "Yes, sir, Mr. Patterson has behaved very bravely."
The Duke of Bedford interrupted him; "My lord, his name is not _Paterson_;
that is a Scotch name; his name is _Patinson_." But, alack!
the next day the rebels returned, having placed the women and children
of the country in waggons in front of their army, and forcing the peasants
to fix the scaling-ladders. The great Mr. Pattinson, or Patterson (for
now his name may be which one pleases), instantly surrendered the town,
and agreed to pay two thousand pounds to save it from pillage.
Well! then we were assured that the citadel could hold out seven or
eight days; but did not so many hours. On mustering the militia, there
were not found above four men in a company; and for two companies,
which the ministry, on a report of Lord Albemarle, who said they
were to be sent from Wade's army, thought were there, and did not
know were not there, there was nothing but two of invalids.

Colonel Durand, the governor, fled, because he would not sign the
capitulation, by which the garrison, it is said, has sworn never to bear
arms against the house of Stuart. The Colonel sent two expresses, one to
Wade, and another to Ligonier at Preston; but the latter was playing at
whist with Lord Harrington at Petersham. Such is our diligence and
attention! All my hopes are in Wade, who was so sensible of the
ignorance of our governors, that he refused to accept the command, till
they consented that he should be subject to no kind of orders from hence.
The rebels are reckoned up at thirteen thousand; Wade marches with about
twelve; but if they come southward, the other army will probably be to
fight them; the Duke is to command it, and sets out next week with another
brigade of Guards, the Ligonier under him. There are great apprehensions
for Chester from the Flintshire-men, who are ready to rise. A quartermaster,
first sent to Carlisle, was seized and carried to Wade; he behaved most
insolently; and being asked by the general, how many the rebels were,
replied, "Enough to beat any army you have in England." A Mackintosh
has been taken, who reduces their formidability, by being sent to raise
two clans, and with orders, if they would not rise, at least to
give out they had risen, for that three clans would leave the
Pretender, unless joined by those two.

Five hundred new rebels are arrived at Perth, where our prisoners are
kept.

I had this morning a subscription-book brought me for our parish; Lord
Granville had refused to subscribe. This is in the style of his
friend Lord Bath, who has absented himself whenever any act of authority
was to be executed against the rebels.

Five Scotch lords are going to raise regiments _à l'Angloise_! resident
in London, while the rebels were in Scotland; they are to receive
military emoluments for their neutrality!

The _Fox_ man-of-war of 20 guns is lost off Dunbar. One Beavor,
the captain, has done us notable service: the Pretender sent to commend
his zeal and activity, and to tell him, that if he would return to his
allegiance, he should soon have a flag. Beavor replied, "He never
treated with any but principals; that if the Pretender would come
on board him, he would talk with him."

I must now tell you of our great Vernon: without once complaining to the
Ministry, he has written to Sir John Philipps, a distinguished Jacobite,
to complain of want of provisions; yet they do not venture to recall him!
Yesterday they had another baiting from Pitt, who is ravenous for
the place of Secretary at War: they would give it him; but as a preliminary,
he insists on a declaration of our having nothing to do with the continent.
He mustered his forces, but did not notify his intention; only at two
o'clock Lyttelton said at the Treasury, that there would be business
at the House. The motion was, to augment our naval force, which, Pitt
said, was the only method of putting an end to the rebellion. Ships built
a year hence to suppress an army of Highlanders, now marching through
England!
My uncle [_old_ Horace] attacked him, and congratulated his country
on the wisdom of the modern young men; and said he had a son of two-and-twenty,
who, he did not doubt, would come over wiser than any of them. Pitt was
provoked, and retorted on his negotiations and _grey-headed_
experience. At those words, my uncle, as if he had been at Bartholomew
fair, snatched off his wig, and showed his grey hairs, which made the
_august senate_ laugh, and put Pitt out, who, after laughing himself,
diverted his venom upon Mr. Pelham.

Upon the question, Pitt's party amounted but to thirty-six: in short, he
has nothing left but his words, and his haughtiness, and his Lytteltons,
and his Grenvilles.
Adieu!

_THE REBEL ARMY HAS RETREATED FROM DERBY--EXPECTATION OF A FRENCH
INVASION._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Dec._ 9, 1745.

I am glad I did not write to you last post as I intended; I should
have sent you an account that would have alarmed you, and the danger
would have been over before the letter had crossed the sea. The Duke,
from some strange want of intelligence, lay last week for four-and-twenty
hours under arms at Stone, in Staffordshire, expecting the rebels every
moment, while they were marching in all haste to Derby. The news of this
threw the town into great consternation; but his Royal Highness repaired
his mistake, and got to Northampton, between the Highlanders and
London.
They got nine thousand pounds at Derby, and had the books brought to them,
and obliged everybody to give them what they had subscribed against
them. Then they retreated a few miles, but returned again to Derby, got
ten thousand pounds more, plundered the town, and burnt a house of
the Countess of Exeter. They are gone again, and go back to Leake, in
Staffordshire, but miserably harassed, and, it is said, have left all
their cannon behind them, and twenty waggons of sick. The Duke has sent
General Hawley with the dragoons to harass them in their retreat,
and despatched Mr. Conway to Marshal Wade, to hasten his march upon the
back of them. They must either go to North Wales, where they will probably
all perish, or to Scotland, with great loss. We dread them no longer.
We are threatened with great preparations for a French invasion, but the
coast is exceedingly guarded; and for the people, the spirit against
the rebels increases every day. Though they have marched thus into the
heart of the kingdom, there has not been the least symptom of a rising,
nor even in the great towns of which they possessed themselves. They
have got no recruits since their first entry into England, excepting
one gentleman in Lancashire, one hundred and fifty common men, and two
parsons, at Manchester, and a physician from York.
But here in London, the aversion to them is amazing: on some thoughts
of the King's going to an encampment at Finchley,[1] the weavers not
only offered him a thousand men, but the whole body of the Law formed
themselves into a little army, under the command of Lord Chief
Justice Willes, and were to have done duty at St.

James's, to guard the royal family in the King's absence.

[Footnote 1: The troops which were being collected for the Duke of Cumberland,
as soon as he should arrive from the Continent, to march with against the
Pretender, were in the meantime encamped on Finchley Common near London.
The march of the Guards to the camp is the subject of one of Hogarth's
best pictures.]
But the greatest demonstration of loyalty appeared on the prisoners being
brought to town from the Soleil prize: the young man is certainly
Mr. Radcliffe's son; but the mob, persuaded of his being the youngest
Pretender, could scarcely be restrained from tearing him to pieces all
the way on the road, and at his arrival. He said he had heard of
English mobs, but could not conceive they were so dreadful, and wished
he had been shot at the battle of Dettingen, where he had been engaged.
The father, whom they call Lord Derwentwater, said, on entering the
Tower, that he had never expected to arrive there alive. For the young
man, he must only be treated as a French captive; for the father,
it is sufficient to produce him at the Old Bailey, and prove that he is
the individual person condemned for the last Rebellion, and so to
Tyburn.

We begin to take up people, but it is with as much caution and timidity
as women of quality begin to pawn their jewels; we have not ventured upon
any great stone yet! The Provost of Edinburgh is in custody of a
messenger; and the other day they seized an odd man, who goes by the
name of Count St. Germain. He has been here these two years, and will not
tell who he is, or whence, but professes that he does not go by his right
name. He sings, plays on the violin wonderfully, composes, is mad,
and not very sensible. He is called an Italian, a Spaniard, a Pole; a
somebody that married a great fortune in Mexico, and ran away with her
jewels to Constantinople; a priest, a fiddler, a vast nobleman. The
Prince of Wales has had unsatiated curiosity about him, but in
vain.
However, nothing has been made out against him;[1] he is released; and,
what convinces me that he is not a gentleman, stays here, and talks of
his being taken up for a spy.

[Footnote 1: In the beginning of the year 1755, on rumours of a great
armament at Brest, one Virette, a Swiss, who had been a kind of toad-eater
to this St. Germain, was denounced to Lord Holdernesse for a spy; but
Mr. Stanley going pretty surlily to his lordship, on his suspecting a
friend of his, Virette was declared innocent, and the penitent secretary
of state made him the _amende honorable_ of a dinner in form. About the
same time, a spy of ours was seized at Brest, but, not happening to be
acquainted with Mr. Stanley, was broken upon the wheel.--WALPOLE.]
I think these accounts, upon which you may depend, must raise your
spirits, and figure in Mr. Chute's loyal journal.--But you don't get my
letters: I have sent you eleven since I came to town; how many of these
have you received? Adieu!

_BATTLE OF CULLODEN._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _April_ 25, 1746.

You have bid me for some time to send you good news--well! I think I will.
How good would you have it?

must it be a total victory over the rebels; with not only the Boy,
that is here, killed, but the other, that is not here, too; their
whole army put to the sword, besides an infinite number of prisoners; all
the Jacobite estates in England confiscated, and all those in Scotland--what
would you have done with them?--or could you be content with something
much under this? how much will you abate?
will you compound for Lord John Drummond, taken by accident? or for three
Presbyterian parsons, who have very poor livings, stoutly refusing
to pay a large contribution to the rebels? Come, I will deal as well with
you as I can, and for once, but not to make a practice of it, will let
you have a victory! My friend, Lord Bury, arrived this morning from the
Duke, though the news was got here before him; for, with all our victory,
it was not thought safe to send him through the heart of Scotland; so
he was shipped at Inverness, within an hour after the Duke entered the
town, kept beating at sea five days, and then put on shore at North
Berwick, from whence he came post in less than three days to London; but
with a fever upon him, for which he had been twice blooded but the
day before the battle; but he is young, and high in spirits, and I flatter
myself will not suffer from this kindness of the Duke: the King has
immediately ordered him a thousand pound, and I hear will make him his
own aide-de-camp. My dear Mr. Chute, I beg your pardon; I have forgot
you have the gout, and consequently not the same patience to wait for
the battle, with which I, knowing the particulars, postpone it.

On the 16th, the Duke, by forced marches, came up with the rebels, a little
on this side Inverness--by the way, the battle is not christened yet; I
only know that neither Prestonpans nor Falkirk are to be godfathers. The
rebels, who fled from him after their victory, and durst not attack
him, when so much exposed to them at his passage of the Spey, now stood
him, they seven thousand, he ten. They broke through Barril's regiment,
and killed Lord Robert Kerr, a handsome young gentleman, who was cut to
pieces with above thirty wounds; but they were soon repulsed, and fled;
the whole engagement not lasting above a quarter of an hour.
The young Pretender escaped; Mr. Conway says, he hears, wounded: he
certainly was in the rear. They have lost above a thousand men in the
engagement and pursuit; and six hundred were already taken; among which
latter are their French ambassador and Earl Kilmarnock. The Duke of Perth
and Lord Ogilvie are said to be slain; Lord Elcho was in a salivation, and
not there. Except Lord Robert Kerr, we lost nobody of note: Sir Robert
Rich's eldest son has lost his hand, and about a hundred and thirty private
men fell. The defeat is reckoned total, and the dispersion general; and
all their artillery is taken. It is a brave young Duke! The town is
all blazing round me, as I write, with fireworks and illuminations: I
have some inclination to wrap up half a dozen sky-rockets, to make you
drink the Duke's health. Mr.

Dodington, on the first report, came out with a very pretty illumination;
so pretty, that I believe he had it by him, ready for _any_ occasion....

_TRIAL OF THE REBEL LORDS BALMERINO AND KILMARNOCK._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Aug._ 1, 1746.

I am this moment come from the conclusion of the greatest and most
melancholy scene I ever yet saw! You will easily guess it was the Trials
of the rebel Lords. As it was the most interesting sight, it was the
most solemn and fine: a coronation is a puppet-show, and all the splendour
of it idle; but this sight at once feasted one's eyes and engaged all one's
passions. It began last Monday; three parts of Westminster Hall
were inclosed with galleries, and hung with scarlet; and the whole
ceremony was conducted with the most awful solemnity and decency,
except in the one point of leaving the prisoners at the bar, amidst
the idle curiosity of some crowd, and even with the witnesses who
had sworn against them, while the Lords adjourned to their own House
to consult. No part of the royal family was there, which was a
proper regard to the unhappy men, who were become their victims.
One hundred and thirty-nine Lords were present, and made a noble
sight on their benches _frequent and full_! The Chancellor [Hardwicke]
was Lord High Steward; but though a most comely personage with a
fine voice, his behaviour was mean, curiously searching for occasion
to bow to the minister [Mr. Pelham] that is no peer, and consequently
applying to the other ministers, in a manner, for their orders; and
not even ready at the ceremonial. To the prisoners he was peevish;
and instead of keeping up to the humane dignity of the law of
England, whose character it is to point out favour to the criminal,
he crossed them, and almost scolded at any offer they made towards
defence. I had armed myself with all the resolution I could, with
the thought of their crimes and of the danger past, and was assisted
by the sight of the Marquis of Lothian in weepers for his son who
fell at Culloden--but the first appearance of the prisoners shocked
me! their behaviour melted me! Lord Kilmarnock and Lord Cromartie
are both past forty, but look younger. Lord Kilmarnock is tall and
slender, with an extreme fine person: his behaviour a most just
mixture between dignity and submission; if in anything to be
reprehended, a little affected, and his hair too exactly dressed
for a man in his situation; but when I say it is not to find fault
with him, but to show how little fault there was to be found. Lord
Cromartie is an indifferent figure, appeared much dejected, and
rather sullen: he dropped a few tears the first day, and swooned
as soon as he got back to his cell. For Lord Balmerino, he is the
most natural brave old fellow I ever saw: the highest intrepidity,
even to indifference. At the bar he behaved like a soldier and a
man; at the intervals of form, with carelessness and humour. He
pressed extremely to have his wife, his pretty Peggy, with him in
the Tower. Lady Cromartie only sees her husband through the grate,
not choosing to be shut up with him, as she thinks she can serve
him better by her intercession without: she is big with child and
very handsome: so are their daughters. When they were to be brought
from the Tower in separate coaches, there was some dispute in which
the axe must go--old Balmerino cried, "Come, come, put it with me."
At the bar, he plays with his fingers upon the axe, while he talks
with the gentleman-gaoler; and one day somebody coming up to listen,
he took the blade and held it like a fan between their faces. During
the trial, a little boy was near him, but not tall enough to see;
he made room for the child and placed him near himself.
When the trial began, the two Earls pleaded guilty; Balmerino not
guilty, saying he could prove his not being at the taking of the
castle of Carlisle, as was laid in the indictment. Then the King's
counsel opened, and Serjeant Skinner pronounced the most absurd
speech imaginable; and mentioned the Duke of Perth, "who," said he,
"I see by the papers is dead." Then some witnesses were examined,
whom afterwards the old hero shook cordially by the hand. The Lords
withdrew to their House, and returning, demanded of the judges,
whether one point not being proved, though all the rest were, the
indictment was false? to which they unanimously answered in the
negative.As therefore those arts are best that have the nearest affinity
with folly, so are they most happy of all others that have least commerce
with sciences and follow the guidance of Nature, who is in no wise
imperfect, unless perhaps we endeavor to leap over those bounds she has
appointed to us. Nature hates all false coloring and is ever best where
she is least adulterated with art.

Go to then, don't you find among the several kinds of living creatures
that they thrive best that understand no more than what Nature taught
them? What is more prosperous or wonderful than the bee? And though they
have not the same judgment of sense as other bodies have, yet wherein has
architecture gone beyond their building of houses? What philosopher ever
founded the like republic? Whereas the horse, that comes so near man in
understanding and is therefore so familiar with him, is also partaker of
his misery. For while he thinks it a shame to lose the race, it often
happens that he cracks his wind; and in the battle, while he contends for
victory, he's cut down himself, and, together with his rider "lies biting
the earth;" not to mention those strong bits, sharp spurs, close stables,
arms, blows, rider, and briefly, all that slavery he willingly submits
to, while, imitating those men of valor, he so eagerly strives to be
revenged of the enemy. Than which how much more were the life of flies or
birds to be wished for, who living by the instinct of nature, look no
further than the present, if yet man would but let them alone in it. And
if at anytime they chance to be taken, and being shut up in cages
endeavor to imitate our speaking, 'tis strange how they degenerate from
their native gaiety. So much better in every respect are the works of
nature than the adulteries of art.

In like manner I can never sufficiently praise that Pythagoras in a
dunghill cock, who being but one had been yet everything, a philosopher,
a man, a woman, a king, a private man, a fish, a horse, a frog, and, I
believe too, a sponge; and at last concluded that no creature was more
miserable than man, for that all other creatures are content with those
bounds that nature set them, only man endeavors to exceed them. And
again, among men he gives the precedency not to the learned or the great,
but the fool. Nor had that Gryllus less wit than Ulysses with his many
counsels, who chose rather to lie grunting in a hog sty than be exposed
with the other to so many hazards. Nor does Homer, that father of
trifles, dissent from me; who not only called all men "wretched and full
of calamity," but often his great pattern of wisdom, Ulysses,
"miserable;" Paris, Ajax, and Achilles nowhere. And why, I pray but that,
like a cunning fellow and one that was his craft's master, he did nothing
without the advice of Pallas? In a word he was too wise, and by that
means ran wide of nature. As therefore among men they are least happy
that study wisdom, as being in this twice fools, that when they are born
men, they should yet so far forget their condition as to affect the life
of gods; and after the example of the giants, with their philosophical
gimcracks make a war upon nature: so they on the other side seem as
little miserable as is possible who come nearest to beasts and never
attempt anything beyond man. Go to then, let's try how demonstrable this
is; not by enthymemes or the imperfect syllogisms of the Stoics, but by
plain, downright, and ordinary examples.

And now, by the immortal gods! I think nothing more happy than that
generation of men we commonly call fools, idiots, lack-wits, and dolts;
splendid titles too, as I conceive them. I'll tell you a thing, which at
first perhaps may seem foolish and absurd, yet nothing more true. And
first they are not afraid of death--no small evil, by Jupiter! They are
not tormented with the conscience of evil acts, not terrified with the
fables of ghosts, nor frightened with spirits and goblins. They are not
distracted with the fear of evils to come nor the hopes of future good.
In short, they are not disturbed with those thousand of cares to which
this life is subject. They are neither modest, nor fearful, nor
ambitious, nor envious, nor love they any man. And lastly, if they should
come nearer even to the very ignorance of brutes, they could not sin, for
so hold the divines. And now tell me, you wise fool, with how many
troublesome cares your mind is continually perplexed; heap together all
the discommodities of your life, and then you'll be sensible from how
many evils I have delivered my fools. Add to this that they are not only
merry, play, sing, and laugh themselves, but make mirth wherever they
come, a special privilege it seems the gods have given them to refresh
the pensiveness of life. Whence it is that whereas the world is so
differently affected one towards another, that all men indifferently
admit them as their companions, desire, feed, cherish, embrace them, take
their parts upon all occasions, and permit them without offense to do or
say what they like. And so little does everything desire to hurt them,
that even the very beasts, by a kind of natural instinct of their
innocence no doubt, pass by their injuries. For of them it may be truly
said that they are consecrate to the gods, and therefore and not without
cause do men have them in such esteem. Whence is it else that they are in
so great request with princes that they can neither eat nor drink, go
anywhere, or be an hour without them? Nay, and in some degree they prefer
these fools before their crabbish wise men, whom yet they keep about them
for state's sake. Nor do I conceive the reason so difficult, or that it
should seem strange why they are preferred before the others, for that
these wise men speak to princes about nothing but grave, serious matters,
and trusting to their own parts and learning do not fear sometimes "to
grate their tender ears with smart truths;" but fools fit them with that
they most delight in, as jests, laughter, abuses of other men, wanton
pastimes, and the like.

Again, take notice of this no contemptible blessing which Nature has
given fools, that they are the only plain, honest men and such as speak
truth. And what is more commendable than truth? For though that proverb
of Alcibiades in Plato attributes truth to drunkards and children, yet
the praise of it is particularly mine, even from the testimony of
Euripides, among whose other things there is extant that his honorable
saying concerning us, "A fool speaks foolish things." For whatever a fool
has in his heart, he both shows it in his looks and expresses it in his
discourse; while the wise men's are those two tongues which the same
Euripides mentions, whereof the one speaks truth, the other what they
judge most seasonable for the occasion. These are they "that turn black
into white," blow hot and cold with the same breath, and carry a far
different meaning in their breast from what they feign with their tongue.
Yet in the midst of all their prosperity, princes in this respect seem to
me most unfortunate, because, having no one to tell them truth, they are
forced to receive flatterers for friends.

But, someone may say, the ears of princes are strangers to truth, and for
this reason they avoid those wise men, because they fear lest someone
more frank than the rest should dare to speak to them things rather true
than pleasant; for so the matter is, that they don't much care for truth.
And yet this is found by experience among my fools, that not only truths
but even open reproaches are heard with pleasure; so that the same thing
which, if it came from a wise man's mouth might prove a capital crime,
spoken by a fool is received with delight. For truth carries with it a
certain peculiar power of pleasing, if no accident fall in to give
occasion of offense; which faculty the gods have given only to fools. And
for the same reasons is it that women are so earnestly delighted with
this kind of men, as being more propense by nature to pleasure and toys.
And whatsoever they may happen to do with them, although sometimes it be
of the most serious, yet they turn it to jest and laughter, as that sex
was ever quick-witted, especially to color their own faults.

But to return to the happiness of fools, who when they have passed over
this life with a great deal of pleasantness and without so much as the
least fear or sense of death, they go straight forth into the Elysian
field, to recreate their pious and careless souls with such sports as
they used here. Let's proceed then, and compare the condition of any of
your wise men with that of this fool. Fancy to me now some example of
wisdom you'd set up against him; one that had spent his childhood and
youth in learning the sciences and lost the sweetest part of his life in
watchings, cares, studies, and for the remaining part of it never so much
as tasted the least of pleasure; ever sparing, poor, sad, sour, unjust,
and rigorous to himself, and troublesome and hateful to others; broken
with paleness, leanness, crassness, sore eyes, and an old age and death
contracted before their time (though yet, what matter is it, when he die
that never lived?); and such is the picture of this great wise man.

And here again do those frogs of the Stoics croak at me and say that
nothing is more miserable than madness. But folly is the next degree, if
not the very thing. For what else is madness than for a man to be out of
his wits? But to let them see how they are clean out of the way, with the
Muses' good favor we'll take this syllogism in pieces. Subtly argued, I
must confess, but as Socrates in Plato teaches us how by splitting one
Venus and one Cupid to make two of either, in like manner should those
logicians have done and distinguished madness from madness, if at least
they would be thought to be well in their wits themselves. For all
madness is not miserable, or Horace had never called his poetical fury a
beloved madness; nor Plato placed the raptures of poets, prophets, and
lovers among the chiefest blessings of this life; nor that sibyl in
Virgil called Aeneas' travels mad labors. But there are two sorts of
madness, the one that which the revengeful Furies send privily from hell,
as often as they let loose their snakes and put into men's breasts either
the desire of war, or an insatiate thirst after gold, or some dishonest
love, or parricide, or incest, or sacrilege, or the like plagues, or when
they terrify some guilty soul with the conscience of his crimes; the
other, but nothing like this, that which comes from me and is of all
other things the most desirable; which happens as often as some pleasing
dotage not only clears the mind of its troublesome cares but renders it
more jocund. And this was that which, as a special blessing of the gods,
Cicero, writing to his friend Atticus, wished to himself, that he might
be the less sensible of those miseries that then hung over the
commonwealth.

Nor was that Grecian in Horace much wide of it, who was so far made that
he would sit by himself whole days in the theatre laughing and clapping
his hands, as if he had seen some tragedy acting, whereas in truth there
was nothing presented; yet in other things a man well enough, pleasant
among his friends, kind to his wife, and so good a master to his servants
that if they had broken the seal of his bottle, he would not have run mad
for it. But at last, when by the care of his friends and physic he was
freed from his distemper and become his own man again, he thus
expostulates with them, "Now, by Pollux, my friends, you have rather
killed than preserved me in thus forcing me from my pleasure." By which
you see he liked it so well that he lost it against his will. And trust
me, I think they were the madder of the two, and had the greater need of
hellebore, that should offer to look upon so pleasant a madness as an
evil to be removed by physic; though yet I have not determined whether
every distemper of the sense or understanding be to be called madness.

For neither he that having weak eyes should take a mule for an ass, nor
he that should admire an insipid poem as excellent would be presently
thought mad; but he that not only errs in his senses but is deceived also
in his judgment, and that too more than ordinary and upon all occasions--
he, I must confess, would be thought to come very near to it. As if
anyone hearing an ass bray should take it for excellent music, or a
beggar conceive himself a king. And yet this kind of madness, if, as it
commonly happens, it turn to pleasure, it brings a great delight not only
to them that are possessed with it but to those also that behold it,
though perhaps they may not be altogether so mad as the other, for the
species of this madness is much larger than the people take it to be. For
one mad man laughs at another, and beget themselves a mutual pleasure.
Nor does it seldom happen that he that is the more mad, laughs at him
that is less mad. And in this every man is the more happy in how many
respects the more he is mad; and if I were judge in the case, he should
be ranged in that class of folly that is peculiarly mine, which in truth
is so large and universal that I scarce know anyone in all mankind that
is wise at all hours, or has not some tang or other of madness.

And to this class do they appertain that slight everything in comparison
of hunting and protest they take an unimaginable pleasure to hear the
yell of the horns and the yelps of the hounds, and I believe could pick
somewhat extraordinary out of their very excrement. And then what
pleasure they take to see a buck or the like unlaced? Let ordinary
fellows cut up an ox or a wether, 'twere a crime to have this done by
anything less than a gentleman! who with his hat off, on his bare knees,
and a couteau for that purpose (for every sword or knife is not
allowable), with a curious superstition and certain postures, lays open
the several parts in their respective order; while they that hem him in
admire it with silence, as some new religious ceremony, though perhaps
they have seen it a hundred times before. And if any of them chance to
get the least piece of it, he presently thinks himself no small
gentleman. In all which they drive at nothing more than to become beasts
themselves, while yet they imagine they live the life of princes.

And next these may be reckoned those that have such an itch of building;
one while changing rounds into squares, and presently again squares into
rounds, never knowing either measure or end, till at last, reduced to the
utmost poverty, there remains not to them so much as a place where they
may lay their head, or wherewith to fill their bellies. And why all this?
but that they may pass over a few years in feeding their foolish fancies.

And, in my opinion, next these may be reckoned such as with their new
inventions and occult arts undertake to change the forms of things and
hunt all about after a certain fifth essence; men so bewitched with this
present hope that it never repents them of their pains or expense, but
are ever contriving how they may cheat themselves, till, having spent
all, there is not enough left them to provide another furnace. And yet
they have not done dreaming these their pleasant dreams but encourage
others, as much as in them lies, to the same happiness. And at last, when
they are quite lost in all their expectations, they cheer up themselves
with this sentence, "In great things the very attempt is enough," and
then complain of the shortness of man's life that is not sufficient for
so great an understanding.

And then for gamesters, I am a little doubtful whether they are to be
admitted into our college; and yet 'tis a foolish and ridiculous sight to
see some addicted so to it that they can no sooner hear the rattling of
the dice but their heart leaps and dances again. And then when time after
time they are so far drawn on with the hopes of winning that they have
made shipwreck of all, and having split their ship on that rock of dice,
no less terrible than the bishop and his clerks, scarce got alive to
shore, they choose rather to cheat any man of their just debts than not
pay the money they lost, lest otherwise, forsooth, they be thought no men
of their words. Again what is it, I pray, to see old fellows and half
blind to play with spectacles? Nay, and when a justly deserved gout has
knotted their knuckles, to hire a caster, or one that may put the dice in
the box for them? A pleasant thing, I must confess, did it not for the
most part end in quarrels, and therefore belongs rather to the Furies
than me.

But there is no doubt but that that kind of men are wholly ours who love
to hear or tell feigned miracles and strange lies and are never weary of
any tale, though never so long, so it be of ghosts, spirits, goblins,
devils, or the like; which the further they are from truth, the more
readily they are believed and the more do they tickle their itching ears.
And these serve not only to pass away time but bring profit, especially
to mass priests and pardoners. And next to these are they that have
gotten a foolish but pleasant persuasion that if they can but see a
wooden or painted Polypheme Christopher, they shall not die that day; or
do but salute a carved Barbara, in the usual set form, that he shall
return safe from battle; or make his application to Erasmus on certain
days with some small wax candles and proper prayers, that he shall
quickly be rich. Nay, they have gotten a Hercules, another Hippolytus,
and a St. George, whose horse most religiously set out with trappings and
bosses there wants little but they worship; however, they endeavor to
make him their friend by some present or other, and to swear by his
master's brazen helmet is an oath for a prince. Or what should I say of
them that hug themselves with their counterfeit pardons; that have
measured purgatory by an hourglass, and can without the least mistake
demonstrate its ages, years, months, days, hours, minutes, and seconds,
as it were in a mathematical table? Or what of those who, having
confidence in certain magical charms and short prayers invented by some
pious imposter, either for his soul's health or profit's sake, promise to
themselves everything: wealth, honor, pleasure, plenty, good health, long
life, lively old age, and the next place to Christ in the other world,
which yet they desire may not happen too soon, that is to say before the
pleasures of this life have left them?

And now suppose some merchant, soldier, or judge, out of so many rapines,
parts with some small piece of money. He straight conceives all that sink
of his whole life quite cleansed; so many perjuries, so many lusts, so
many debaucheries, so many contentions, so many murders, so many deceits,
so many breaches of trusts, so many treacheries bought off, as it were by
compact; and so bought off that they may begin upon a new score. But what
is more foolish than those, or rather more happy, who daily reciting
those seven verses of the Psalms promise to themselves more than the top
of felicity? Which magical verses some devil or other, a merry one
without doubt but more a blab of his tongue than crafty, is believed to
have discovered to St. Bernard, but not without a trick. And these are so
foolish that I am half ashamed of them myself, and yet they are approved,
and that not only by the common people but even the professors of
religion. And what, are not they also almost the same where several
countries avouch to themselves their peculiar saint, and as everyone of
them has his particular gift, so also his particular form of worship? As,
one is good for the toothache; another for groaning women; a third, for
stolen goods; a fourth, for making a voyage prosperous; and a fifth, to
cure sheep of the rot; and so of the rest, for it would be too tedious to
run over all. And some there are that are good for more things than one;
but chiefly, the Virgin Mother, to whom the common people do in a manner
attribute more than to the Son.

Yet what do they beg of these saints but what belongs to folly? To
examine it a little. Among all those offerings which are so frequently
hung up in churches, nay up to the very roof of some of them, did you
ever see the least acknowledgment from anyone that had left his folly, or
grown a hair's breadth the wiser? One escapes a shipwreck, and he gets
safe to shore. Another, run through in a duel, recovers. Another, while
the rest were fighting, ran out of the field, no less luckily than
valiantly. Another, condemned to be hanged, by the favor of some saint or
other, a friend to thieves, got off himself by impeaching his fellows.
Another escaped by breaking prison. Another recovered from his fever in
spite of his physician. Another's poison turning to a looseness proved
his remedy rather than death; and that to his wife's no small sorrow, in
that she lost both her labor and her charge. Another's cart broke, and he
saved his horses. Another preserved from the fall of a house. All these
hang up their tablets, but no one gives thanks for his recovery from
folly; so sweet a thing it is not to be wise, that on the contrary men
rather pray against anything than folly.

But why do I launch out into this ocean of superstitions? Had I a hundred
tongues, as many mouths, and a voice never so strong, yet were I not able
to run over the several sorts of fools or all the names of folly, so
thick do they swarm everywhere. And yet your priests make no scruple to
receive and cherish them as proper instruments of profit; whereas if some
scurvy wise fellow should step up and speak things as they are, as, to
live well is the way to die well; the best way to get quit of sin is to
add to the money you give the hatred of sin, tears, watchings, prayers,
fastings, and amendment of life; such or such a saint will favor you, if
you imitate his life--these, I say, and the like--should this wise man
chat to the people, from what happiness into how great troubles would he
draw them?

Of this college also are they who in their lifetime appoint with what
solemnity they'll be buried, and particularly set down how many torches,
how many mourners, how many singers, how many almsmen they will have at
it; as if any sense of it could come to them, or that it were a shame to
them that their corpse were not honorably interred; so curious are they
herein, as if, like the aediles of old, these were to present some shows
or banquet to the people.

And though I am in haste, yet I cannot yet pass by them who, though they
differ nothing from the meanest cobbler, yet 'tis scarcely credible how
they flatter themselves with the empty title of nobility. One derives his
pedigree from Aeneas, another from Brutus, a third from the star by the
tail of Ursa Major. They show you on every side the statues and pictures
of their ancestors; run over their great-grandfathers and the
great-great-grandfathers of both lines, and the ancient matches of their
families, when themselves yet are but once removed from a statue, if not
worse than those trifles they boast of. And yet by means of this pleasant
self-love they live a happy life. Nor are they less fools who admire
these beasts as if they were gods.

But what do I speak of any one or the other particular kind of men, as if
this self-love had not the same effect everywhere and rendered most men
superabundantly happy? As when a fellow, more deformed than a baboon,
shall believe himself handsomer than Homer's Nereus. Another, as soon as
he can draw two or three lines with a compass, presently thinks himself a
Euclid. A third, that understands music no more than my horse, and for
his voice as hoarse as a dunghill cock, shall yet conceive himself
another Hermogenes. But of all madness that's the most pleasant when a
man, seeing another any way excellent in what he pretends to himself,
makes his boasts of it as confidently as if it were his own. And such was
that rich fellow in Seneca, who whenever he told a story had his servants
at his elbow to prompt him the names; and to that height had they
flattered him that he did not question but he might venture a rubber at
cuffs, a man otherwise so weak he could scarce stand, only presuming on
this, that he had a company of sturdy servants about him.

Or to what purpose is it I should mind you of our professors of arts?
Forasmuch as this self-love is so natural to them all that they had
rather part with their father's land than their foolish opinions; but
chiefly players, fiddlers, orators, and poets, of which the more ignorant
each of them is, the more insolently he pleases himself, that is to say
vaunts and spreads out his plumes. And like lips find like lettuce; nay,
the more foolish anything is, the more 'tis admired, the greater number
being ever tickled at the worst things, because, as I said before, most
men are so subject to folly. And therefore if the more foolish a man is,
the more he pleases himself and is admired by others, to what purpose
should he beat his brains about true knowledge, which first will cost him
dear, and next render him the more troublesome and less confident, and
lastly, please only a few?

And now I consider it, Nature has planted, not only in particular men but
even in every nation, and scarce any city is there without it, a kind of
common self-love. And hence is it that the English, besides other things,
particularly challenge to themselves beauty, music, and feasting. The
Scots are proud of their nobility, alliance to the crown, and logical
subtleties. The French think themselves the only well-bred men. The
Parisians, excluding all others, arrogate to themselves the only
knowledge of divinity. The Italians affirm they are the only masters of
good letters and eloquence, and flatter themselves on this account, that
of all others they only are not barbarous. In which kind of happiness
those of Rome claim the first place, still dreaming to themselves of
somewhat, I know not what, of old Rome. The Venetians fancy themselves
happy in the opinion of their nobility. The Greeks, as if they were the
only authors of sciences, swell themselves with the titles of the ancient
heroes. The Turk, and all that sink of the truly barbarous, challenge to
themselves the only glory of religion and laugh at Christians as
superstitious. And much more pleasantly the Jews expect to this day the
coming of the Messiah, and so obstinately contend for their Law of Moses.
From Eton they both went to Cambridge, and, when they quitted the
University, in 1738, joined in a travelling tour through France
and Italy.

They continued companions for something more than two years; but at the
end of that time they separated, and in the spring of 1741 Gray returned
to England. The cause of their parting was never distinctly avowed;
Walpole took the blame, if blame there was, on himself; but, in fact, it
probably lay in an innate difference of disposition, and consequently
of object. Walpole being fond of society, and, from his position as
the Minister's son, naturally courted by many of the chief men in the
different cities which they visited; while Gray was of a reserved character
shunning the notice of strangers, and fixing his attention on more serious
subjects than Walpole found attractive.

In the autumn of the same year Walpole himself returned home. He had
become a member of Parliament at the General Election in the
summer, and took his seat just in time to bear a part in the fierce
contest which terminated in the dissolution of his father's Ministry.
His maiden speech, almost the only one he ever made, was in defence of
the character and policy of his father, who was no longer in the House of
Commons to defend himself.[1] And the result of the conflict made
no slight impression on his mind; but gave a colour to all his political
views.

He began almost immediately to come forward as an author: not, however,
as--
Obliged by hunger and request of friends;
for in his circumstances he was independent, and even opulent; but
seeking to avenge his father by squibs on Mr. Pulteney (now Lord
Bath), as having been the leader of the attacks on him, and on the
new Ministry which had succeeded him.

In one respect that age was a happy one for ministers and all connected
with them. Pensions and preferments were distributed with a lavish hand;
and, even while he was a schoolboy, he had received more than one
"patent place," as such were called, in the Exchequer, to which before
his father's resignation others were added, which after a time raised
his income to above £5,000 a year, a fortune which in those times was
exceeded by comparatively few, even of those regarded as wealthy. So rich,
indeed, was he, that before he was thirty he was able to buy Strawberry
Hill, "a small house near Twickenham," as he describes it at first, but
which he gradually enlarged and embellished till it grew into something
of a baronial castle on a small scale, somewhat as, under the affectionate
diligence of a greater man, Abbotsford in the present century became
one of the lions of the Tweed.

[Footnote 1: The speech was made March 23, 1742; but Sir Robert had
resigned office, and been created Earl of Orford in the February preceding.]

From this time forth literary composition, with the acquisition of
antiques and curiosities for the decoration of "Strawberry" occupied
the greater part of his life.

He erected a printing press, publishing not only most of his own writings,
but some also of other authors, such as poems of Gray, with whom he
kept up uninterrupted intercourse. But, in fact, his own works were
sufficiently numerous to keep his printers fully employed. He was
among the most voluminous writers of a voluminous age. In the course
of the next twenty years he published seven volumes of memoirs of
the last ten years of the reign of George II. and the first ten of George
III.; five volumes of a work entitled "Royal and Noble Authors;" several
more of "Anecdotes of Painting;" "The Mysterious Mother," a tragedy;
"The Castle of Otranto," a romance; and a small volume to which he
gave the name of "Historic Doubts on Richard III." Of all these not one
is devoid of merit. He more than once explains that the "Memoirs" have
no claim to the more respectable title of "History"; and he apologises
for introducing anecdotes which might be thought inconsistent with what
Macaulay brands as "a vile phrase," the dignity of history. He excuses
this, which he looked on as a new feature in historical composition, on
the ground that, if trifles, "they are trifles relating to
considerable people; such as all curious people have ever loved to read."
"Such trifles," he says, "are valued, if relating to any reign one hundred
and fifty years ago; and, if his book should live so long, these too
might become acceptable." Readers of the present day will not think such
apology was needed. The value of his "trifles" has been proved in a
much shorter time; for there is no subsequent historian of that period who
has not been indebted to him for many particulars of which no other
trustworthy record existed. Walpole had in a great degree a historical
mind; and perhaps there are few works which show a keener critical insight
into the value of old traditions than the "Historic Doubts," directed
to establish, not, indeed, Richard's innocence of the crimes charged
against him, but the fact that, with respect to many of them, his guilt
has never been proved by any evidence which is not open to the gravest
impeachment. His "Royal and Noble Authors," and his "Anecdotes of Painting"
are full of entertainment, not unmixed with instruction. "The
Mysterious Mother" was never performed on the stage, nor is it calculated
for representation; since he himself admits that the subject is
disgusting.

But dramas not intended for representation, and which therefore should
perhaps be more fitly called dramatic poems, were a species of composition
to which more than one writer of reputation had lately begun to turn
their attention; though dramas not designed for the stage seem to most
readers defective in their very conception, as lacking the stimulus
which the intention of submitting them to the extemporaneous ocular
judgement of the public can alone impart. Among such works, however,
"The Mysterious Mother" is admitted to rank high for vigorous description
and poetic imagery. A greater popularity, which even at the present day
has not wholly passed away, since it is still occasionally reprinted, was
achieved by "The Castle of Otranto," which, as he explains it in one
of his letters, owed its origin to a dream. Novels had been a branch of
literature which had slumbered for several years after the death of Defoe,
but which the genius of Fielding and Smollett had again brought
into fashion. But their tales purported to be pictures of the manners
of the day. This was rather the forerunner of Mrs. Radcliffe's[1]
weird tales of supernatural mystery, which for a time so engrossed the
public attention as to lead that "wicked wag," Mr. George Coleman, to
regard them as representatives of the class, and to describe how--
A novel now is nothing more Than an old castle and a creaking door;
A distant hovel; Clanking of chains, a gallery, a light, Old armour,
and a phantom all in white, And there's a novel.

[Footnote 1: "'The Castle of Otranto' was the father of that marvellous
series which once overstocked the circulating library, and closed
with Mrs.

Radcliffe."--D'Israeli, "Curiosities of Literature," ii. 115.]
He had published it anonymously as a tale that had been found in the library
of an ancient family in the North of England; but it was not indebted
solely to the mystery of its authorship for its favourable reception--since,
after he acknowledged it as his own work in a second edition, the sale
did not fall off. And it deserved success, for, though the day had
passed when even the most credulous could place any faith in swords
that required a hundred men to lift, and helmets which could only
fit the champion whose single strength could wield such a weapon,
the style was lively and attractive, and the dialogue was eminently
dramatic and sparkling.

But the interest of all these works has passed away. The "Memoirs"
have served their turn as a guide and aid to more regular historians, and
the composition which still keeps its author's fame alive is his Correspondence
with some of his numerous friends, male and female, in England or abroad,
which he maintained with an assiduity which showed how pleasurable he
found the task, while the care with which he secured the preservation of
his letters, begging his correspondents to retain them, in case at any
future time he should desire their return, proves that he anticipated the
possibility that they might hereafter be found interesting by other
readers than to those to whom they were addressed.

But he did not suffer either his writings or the enrichment of "Strawberry"
with antiquarian treasures to engross the whole of his attention. For the
first thirty years and more of his public life he was a zealous politician.
And it is no slight proof how high was the reputation for sagacity
and soundness of judgement which he enjoyed, that in the ministerial
difficulties caused by Lord Chatham's illness, he was consulted
by the leaders of more than one section of the Whig party, by Conway,
the Duke of Bedford, the Duke of Grafton, Lord Holland, and others;
that his advice more than once influenced their determinations; and
that he himself drew more than one of the letters which passed
between them.

Even the King himself was not ignorant of the weight he had in their
counsels, and, on one occasion at least, condescended to avail himself of
it for a solution of some of the embarrassments with which their negotiations
were beset.

But after a time his attendance in Parliament, which had never been very
regular, grew wearisome and distasteful to him. At the General Election
of 1768 he declined to offer himself again as a candidate for Lynn, which
he had represented for several years. And henceforth his mornings were
chiefly occupied with literature; the continuation of his Memoirs;
discussion of literary subjects with Gibbon, Voltaire, Mason, and others,
while his evenings were passed in the society of his friends, a mode
of enjoying his time in which he was eminently calculated to shine, since
abundant testimony has come down to us from many competent judges
of the charm of his conversation; the liveliness of his disposition
acting as a most attractive frame to the extent and variety of his
information.

Among his distractions were his visits to France, which for some
time were frequent.

He had formed a somewhat singular intimacy with a blind old lady, the
Marquise du Deffand, a lady whose character in her youth had been something
less than doubtful, since she had been one of the Regent Duc d'Orléans's
numerous mistresses; but who had retained in her old age much of the
worldly acuteness and lively wit with which she had borne her part in that
clever, shameless society. Her _salon_ was now the resort of many
personages of the highest distinction, even of ladies themselves
of the most unstained reputation, such as the Duchesse de Choiseul; and
the rumours or opinions which he heard in their company enabled him
to enrich his letters to his friends at home with comments on the conduct
of the French Parliament, of Maupéon, Maurepas, Turgot, and the King
himself, which, in many instances, attest the shrewdness with which he
estimated the real bearing of the events which were taking place, and
anticipated the possible character of some of those which were not
unlikely to ensue.

Thus, with a mind which, to the end, was so active and so happily constituted
as to be able to take an interest in everything around him, and, even
when more than seventy years old, to make new friends to replace
those who had dropped off, he passed a long, a happy, and far from an
useless life. When he was seventy-four he succeeded to his father's
peerage, on the death of his elder brother; but he did not long enjoy
the title, by which, indeed, he was not very careful to be
distinguished, and in the spring of 1797 he died, within a few months
of his eightieth birthday.

A great writer of the last generation, whose studies were of a severer
cast, and who, conscious perhaps of his own unfitness to shine at the
tea-table of fashionable ladies, was led by that feeling to
undervalue the lighter social gifts which formed conspicuous ingredients
in Walpole's character, has denounced him not only as frivolous in
his tastes, but scarcely above mediocrity in his abilities (a sentence
to which Scott's description of him as "a man of great genius" may be
successfully opposed); and is especially severe on what he terms his
affectation in disclaiming the compliments bestowed on his learning by
some of his friends. The expressed estimate of his acquirements and
works which so offended Lord Macaulay was that "there is nobody so
superficial, that, except a little history, a little poetry, a little
painting, and some divinity, he knew nothing; he had always lived in
the busy world; had always loved pleasure; played loo till two or three
in the morning; haunted auctions--in short, did not know so
much astronomy as would carry him to Knightsbridge; not more physic than
a physician; nor, in short, anything that is called science. If it were
not that he laid up a little provision in summer, like the ant, he
should be as ignorant as the people he lived with."[1] In Lord
Macaulay's view, Walpole was never less sincere than when pronouncing
such a judgement on his works.

He sees in it nothing but an affectation, fishing for further praises;
and, fastening on his account of his ordinary occupations, he pronounces
that a man of fifty should be ashamed of playing loo till after
midnight.

[Footnote 1: Letter to Mann, Feb. 6, 1760.]
In spite, however, of Lord Macaulay's reproof, something may be said in
favour of a man who, after giving his mornings to works which display
no little industry as well as talent, unbent his bow in the evening at
lively supper-parties, or even at the card-table with fair friends,
where the play never degenerated into gambling. And his disparagement
of his learning, which Lord Macaulay ridicules as affectation, a
more candid judgement may fairly ascribe to sincere modesty. For it is
plain from many other passages in his letters, that he really did
undervalue his own writings; and that the feeling which he thus
expressed was genuine is to a great extent proved by the patience, if not
thankfulness, with which he allowed his friend Mann to alter passages
in "The Mysterious Mother," and confessed the alterations to be improvements.
It may be added that Lord Macaulay's disparagement of his judgement and
his taste is not altogether consistent with his admission that Walpole's
writings possessed an "irresistible charm" that "no man who has written
so much is so seldom tiresome;" that, even in "The Castle of Otranto,"
which he ridicules, "the story never flags for a moment," and, what
is more to our present purpose, he adds that "his letters are with
reason considered his best performance;" and that those to his friend
at Florence, Sir H. Mann, "contain much information concerning the history
of that time: the portion of English History of which common readers know
the least."
Of these letters it remains for us now to speak. The value of such _pour
servir_, to borrow a French expression, that is to say, to serve as
materials to supply the historian of a nation or an age with an acquaintance
with events, or persons, or manners, which would be sought for
in vain among Parliamentary records, or ministerial despatches,
has long been recognised.[1] Two thousand years ago, those of the
greatest of Roman orators and statesmen were carefully preserved;
and modern editors do not fear to claim for them a place "among the
most valuable of all the remains of Roman literature; the specimens
which they give of familiar intercourse, and of the public and
private manners of society, drawing up for us the curtain from
scenes of immense historical interest, and laying open the secret
workings, the complications, and schemes of a great revolution period

."[2] Such a description is singularly applicable to the letters of Walpole;
and the care which he took for their preservation shows that he
was not without a hope that they also would be regarded as interesting and
valuable by future generations. He praises one of his correspondents
for his diligence in collecting and publishing a volume of letters belonging
to the reigns of James I. and Charles I., on the express ground that
"nothing gives so just an idea of an age as genuine letters; nay, history
waits for its last seal from them." And it is not too much to say
that they are superior to journals and diaries as a mine to be worked
by the judicious historian; while to the general public they will always
be more attractive, from the scope they afford to elegance of style,
at which the diary-keeper does not aim; and likewise from their frequently
recording curious incidents, fashions, good sayings, and other things
which, from their apparently trifling character, the grave diarist
would not think worth preserving.

[Footnote 1: D'Israeli has remarked that "the _gossiping_ of a profound
politician, or a vivacious observer, in one of their letters, often
by a spontaneous stroke reveals the individual, or by a simple incident
unriddles a mysterious event;" and proceeds to quote Bolingbroke's
estimate of the importance, from this point of view, of "that valuable
collection of Cardinal d'Ossat's Memoirs" ("Curiosities of Literature,"
iii. p. 381).]
[Footnote 2: The Rev. J.E. Yonge, Preface to an edition of "Cicero's
Letters."]
He, however, was not the first among the moderns to achieve a reputation
by his correspondence. In the generation before his birth, a French lady,
Madame de Sévigné, had, with an affectionate industry, found her chief
occupation and pleasure in keeping her daughters in the provinces fully
acquainted with every event which interested or entertained Louis XIV.
and his obsequious Court; and in the first years of the eighteenth
century a noble English lady, whom we have already mentioned, did in
like manner devote no small portion of her time to recording, for the
amusement and information of her daughter, her sister, and her other friends
at home, the various scenes and occurrences that came under her own
notice in the foreign countries in which for many years her lot was
cast, as the wife of an ambassador.

In liveliness of style, Lady Mary Montague is little if at all inferior
to her French prototype; while, since she was endowed with far more
brilliant talents, and, from her foreign travels, had a wider range
of observation, her letters have a far greater interest than could
attach to those of a writer, however accomplished and sagacious, whose
world was Paris, with bounds scarcely extending beyond Versailles on one
side, and Compiègne on the other. To these fair and lively ladies
Walpole was now to succeed as a third candidate for epistolary fame;
though, with his habit of underrating his own talents, he never aspired
to equal the gay Frenchwoman; (the English lady's correspondence was as
yet unknown). There is evident sincerity in his reproof of one of his
correspondents who had expressed a most flattering opinion: "You say such
extravagant things of my letters, which are nothing but gossiping gazettes,
that I cannot bear it; you have undone yourself with me, for you compare
them to Madame de Sévigné's. Absolute treason! Do you know there is
scarcely a book in the world I love so much as her letters?"
Yet critics who should place him on an equality with her would not
be without plausible grounds for their judgement.

Many circumstances contributed to qualify him in a very special degree
for the task which, looking at his letters in that light, he may be said
to have undertaken.
His birth, as the son of a great minister; his comparative opulence; even
the indolent insignificance of his elder brothers, which caused him to
be looked upon as his father's representative, and as such to be consulted
by those who considered themselves as the heirs of his policy, while the
leader of that party in the House of Commons, General Conway, was his
cousin, and the man for whom he ever felt the strongest personal
attachment,--were all advantages which fell to the lot of but few. And
to these may be added the variety of his tastes, as attested by
the variety of his published works. He was a man who observed everything,
who took an interest in everything. His correspondents, too, were so various
and different as to ensure a variety in his letters. Some were politicians,
ministers at home, or envoys abroad; some were female leaders of fashion,
planning balls and masquerades, summoning him to join an expedition
to Ranelagh or Vauxhall; others were scholars, poets, or critics,
inviting comments on Gray's poems, on Robertson's style, on Gibbon's
boundless learning; or on the impostures of Macpherson and Chatterton;
others, again, were antiquarians, to whom the helmet of Francis,
or a pouncet-box of the fair Diana, were objects of far greater
interest than the intrigues of a Secretary of State, or the expedients
of a Chancellor of the Exchequer; and all such subjects are discussed
by him with evidently equal willingness, equal clearness, and
liveliness.

It would not be fair to regard as a deduction from the value of those
letters which bear on the politics of the day the necessity of confessing
that they are not devoid of partiality--that they are coloured with his
own views, both of measures and persons. Not only were political
prejudices forced upon him by the peculiarities of his position, but it
may be doubted whether any one ever has written, or can write, of
transactions of national importance which are passing under his own
eyes, as it were, with absolute impartiality.Add to
these our logicians and sophists, a generation of men more prattling than
an echo and the worst of them able to outchat a hundred of the best
picked gossips. And yet their condition would be much better were they
only full of words and not so given to scolding that they most
obstinately hack and hew one another about a matter of nothing and make
such a sputter about terms and words till they have quite lost the sense.
And yet they are so happy in the good opinion of themselves that as soon
as they are furnished with two or three syllogisms, they dare boldly
enter the lists against any man upon any point, as not doubting but to
run him down with noise, though the opponent were another Stentor.

And next these come our philosophers, so much reverenced for their furred
gowns and starched beards that they look upon themselves as the only wise
men and all others as shadows. And yet how pleasantly do they dote while
they frame in their heads innumerable worlds; measure out the sun, the
moon, the stars, nay and heaven itself, as it were, with a pair of
compasses; lay down the causes of lightning, winds, eclipses, and other
the like inexplicable matters; and all this too without the least
doubting, as if they were Nature's secretaries, or dropped down among us
from the council of the gods; while in the meantime Nature laughs at them
and all their blind conjectures. For that they know nothing, even this is
a sufficient argument, that they don't agree among themselves and so are
incomprehensible touching every particular. These, though they have not
the least degree of knowledge, profess yet that they have mastered all;
nay, though they neither know themselves, nor perceive a ditch or block
that lies in their way, for that perhaps most of them are half blind, or
their wits a wool-gathering, yet give out that they have discovered
ideas, universalities, separated forms, first matters, quiddities,
haecceities, formalities, and the like stuff; things so thin and bodiless
that I believe even Lynceus himself was not able to perceive them. But
then chiefly do they disdain the unhallowed crowd as often as with their
triangles, quadrangles, circles, and the like mathematical devices, more
confounded than a labyrinth, and letters disposed one against the other,
as it were in battle array, they cast a mist before the eyes of the
ignorant. Nor is there wanting of this kind some that pretend to
foretell things by the stars and make promises of miracles beyond
all things of soothsaying, and are so fortunate as to meet with people
that believe them.

But perhaps I had better pass over our divines in silence and not stir
this pool or touch this fair but unsavory plant, as a kind of men that
are supercilious beyond comparison, and to that too, implacable; lest
setting them about my ears, they attack me by troops and force me to a
recantation sermon, which if I refuse, they straight pronounce me a
heretic. For this is the thunderbolt with which they fright those whom
they are resolved not to favor. And truly, though there are few others
that less willingly acknowledge the kindnesses I have done them, yet even
these too stand fast bound to me upon no ordinary accounts; while being
happy in their own opinion, and as if they dwelt in the third heaven,
they look with haughtiness on all others as poor creeping things and
could almost find in their hearts to pity them; while hedged in with so
many magisterial definitions, conclusions, corollaries, propositions
explicit and implicit, they abound with so many starting-holes that
Vulcan's net cannot hold them so fast, but they'll slip through with
their distinctions, with which they so easily cut all knots asunder that
a hatchet could not have done it better, so plentiful are they in their
new-found words and prodigious terms. Besides, while they explicate the
most hidden mysteries according to their own fancy--as how the world was
first made; how original sin is derived to posterity; in what manner, how
much room, and how long time Christ lay in the Virgin's womb; how
accidents subsist in the Eucharist without their subject.

But these are common and threadbare; these are worthy of our great and
illuminated divines, as the world calls them! At these, if ever they fall
athwart them, they prick up--as whether there was any instant of time in
the generation of the Second Person; whether there be more than one
filiation in Christ; whether it be a possible proposition that God the
Father hates the Son; or whether it was possible that Christ could have
taken upon Him the likeness of a woman, or of the devil, or of an ass, or
of a stone, or of a gourd; and then how that gourd should have preached,
wrought miracles, or been hung on the cross; and what Peter had
consecrated if he had administered the Sacrament at what time the body of
Christ hung upon the cross; or whether at the same time he might be said
to be man; whether after the Resurrection there will be any eating and
drinking, since we are so much afraid of hunger and thirst in this world.
There are infinite of these subtle trifles, and others more subtle than
these, of notions, relations, instants, formalities, quiddities,
haecceities, which no one can perceive without a Lynceus whose eyes could
look through a stone wall and discover those things through the thickest
darkness that never were.

Add to this those their other determinations, and those too so contrary
to common opinion that those oracles of the Stoics, which they call
paradoxes, seem in comparison of these but blockish and idle--as 'tis a
lesser crime to kill a thousand men than to set a stitch on a poor man's
shoe on the Sabbath day; and that a man should rather choose that the
whole world with all food and raiment, as they say, should perish, than
tell a lie, though never so inconsiderable. And these most subtle
subtleties are rendered yet more subtle by the several methods of so many
Schoolmen, that one might sooner wind himself out of a labyrinth than the
entanglements of the realists, nominalists, Thomists, Albertists,
Occamists, Scotists. Nor have I named all the several sects, but only
some of the chief; in all which there is so much doctrine and so much
difficulty that I may well conceive the apostles, had they been to deal
with these new kind of divines, had needed to have prayed in aid of some
other spirit.

Paul knew what faith was, and yet when he said, "Faith is the substance
of things hoped for, and the evidence of things not seen," he did not
define it doctor-like. And as he understood charity well himself, so he
did as illogically divide and define it to others in his first Epistle to
the Corinthians, Chapter the thirteenth. And devoutly, no doubt, did the
apostles consecrate the Eucharist; yet, had they been asked the question
touching the "terminus a quo" and the "terminus ad quem" of
transubstantiation; of the manner how the same body can be in several
places at one and the same time; of the difference the body of Christ has
in heaven from that of the cross, or this in the Sacrament; in what point
of time transubstantiation is, whereas prayer, by means of which it is,
as being a discrete quantity, is transient; they would not, I conceive,
have answered with the same subtlety as the Scotists dispute and define
it. They knew the mother of Jesus, but which of them has so
philosophically demonstrated how she was preserved from original sin as
have done our divines? Peter received the keys, and from Him too that
would not have trusted them with a person unworthy; yet whether he had
understanding or no, I know not, for certainly he never attained to that
subtlety to determine how he could have the key of knowledge that had no
knowledge himself. They baptized far and near, and yet taught nowhere
what was the formal, material, efficient, and final cause of baptism, nor
made the least mention of delible and indelible characters. They
worshiped, 'tis true, but in spirit, following herein no other than that
of the Gospel, "God is a Spirit, and they that worship, must worship him
in spirit and truth;" yet it does not appear it was at that time revealed
to them that an image sketched on the wall with a coal was to be
worshiped with the same worship as Christ Himself, if at least the two
forefingers be stretched out, the hair long and uncut, and have three
rays about the crown of the head. For who can conceive these things,
unless he has spent at least six and thirty years in the philosophical
and supercelestial whims of Aristotle and the Schoolmen?

In like manner, the apostles press to us grace; but which of them
distinguishes between free grace and grace that makes a man acceptable?
They exhort us to good works, and yet determine not what is the work
working, and what a resting in the work done. They incite us to charity,
and yet make no difference between charity infused and charity wrought in
us by our own endeavors. Nor do they declare whether it be an accident or
a substance, a thing created or uncreated. They detest and abominate sin,
but let me not live if they could define according to art what that is
which we call sin, unless perhaps they were inspired by the spirit of the
Scotists. Nor can I be brought to believe that Paul, by whose learning
you may judge the rest, would have so often condemned questions,
disputes, genealogies, and, as himself calls them, "strifes of words," if
he had thoroughly understood those subtleties, especially when all the
debates and controversies of those times were rude and blockish in
comparison of the more than Chrysippean subtleties of our masters.
Although yet the gentlemen are so modest that if they meet with anything
written by the apostles not so smooth and even as might be expected from
a master, they do not presently condemn it but handsomely bend it to
their own purpose, so great respect and honor do they give, partly to
antiquity and partly to the name of apostle. And truly 'twas a kind of
injustice to require so great things of them that never heard the least
word from their masters concerning it. And so if the like happen in
Chrysostom, Basil, Jerome, they think it enough to say they are not
obliged by it.

The apostles also confuted the heathen philosophers and Jews, a people
than whom none more obstinate, but rather by their good lives and
miracles than syllogisms: and yet there was scarce one among them that
was capable of understanding the least "quodlibet" of the Scotists. But
now, where is that heathen or heretic that must not presently stoop to
such wire-drawn subtleties, unless he be so thick-skulled that he can't
apprehend them, or so impudent as to hiss them down, or, being furnished
with the same tricks, be able to make his party good with them? As if a
man should set a conjurer on work against a conjurer, or fight with one
hallowed sword against another, which would prove no other than a work to
no purpose. For my own part I conceive the Christians would do much
better if instead of those dull troops and companies of soldiers with
which they have managed their war with such doubtful success, they would
send the bawling Scotists, the most obstinate Occamists, and invincible
Albertists to war against the Turks and Saracens; and they would see, I
guess, a most pleasant combat and such a victory as was never before. For
who is so faint whom their devices will not enliven? who so stupid whom
such spurs can't quicken? or who so quick-sighted before whose eyes they
can't cast a mist?

But you'll say, I jest. Nor are you without cause, since even among
divines themselves there are some that have learned better and are ready
to turn their stomachs at those foolish subtleties of the others. There
are some that detest them as a kind of sacrilege and count it the height
of impiety to speak so irreverently of such hidden things, rather to be
adored than explicated; to dispute of them with such profane and
heathenish niceties; to define them so arrogantly and pollute the majesty
of divinity with such pithless and sordid terms and opinions. Meantime
the others please, nay hug themselves in their happiness, and are so
taken up with these pleasant trifles that they have not so much leisure
as to cast the least eye on the Gospel or St. Paul's epistles. And while
they play the fool at this rate in their schools, they make account the
universal church would otherwise perish, unless, as the poets fancied of
Atlas that he supported heaven with his shoulders, they underpropped the
other with their syllogistical buttresses. And how great a happiness is
this, think you? while, as if Holy Writ were a nose of wax, they fashion
and refashion it according to their pleasure; while they require that
their own conclusions, subscribed by two or three Schoolmen, be accounted
greater than Solon's laws and preferred before the papal decretals;
while, as censors of the world, they force everyone to a recantation that
differs but a hair's breadth from the least of their explicit or implicit
determinations. And those too they pronounce like oracles. This
proposition is scandalous; this irreverent; this has a smack of heresy;
this no very good sound: so that neither baptism, nor the Gospel, nor
Paul, nor Peter, nor St. Jerome, nor St. Augustine, no nor most
Aristotelian Thomas himself can make a man a Christian, without these
bachelors too be pleased to give him his grace. And the like in their
subtlety in judging; for who would think he were no Christian that should
say these two speeches "matula putes" and "matula putet," or "ollae
fervere" and "ollam fervere" were not both good Latin, unless their
wisdoms had taught us the contrary? who had delivered the church from
such mists of error, which yet no one ever met with, had they not come
out with some university seal for it? And are they not most happy while
they do these things?

Then for what concerns hell, how exactly they describe everything, as if
they had been conversant in that commonwealth most part of their time!
Again, how do they frame in their fancy new orbs, adding to those we have
already an eighth! a goodly one, no doubt, and spacious enough, lest
perhaps their happy souls might lack room to walk in, entertain their
friends, and now and then play at football. And with these and a thousand
the like fopperies their heads are so full stuffed and stretched that I
believe Jupiter's brain was not near so big when, being in labor with
Pallas, he was beholding to the midwifery of Vulcan's axe. And therefore
you must not wonder if in their public disputes they are so bound about
the head, lest otherwise perhaps their brains might leap out. Nay, I have
sometimes laughed myself to see them so tower in their own opinion when
they speak most barbarously; and when they humh and hawh so pitifully
that none but one of their own tribe can understand them, they call it
heights which the vulgar can't reach; for they say 'tis beneath the
dignity of divine mysteries to be cramped and tied up to the narrow rules
of grammarians: from whence we may conjecture the great prerogative of
divines, if they only have the privilege of speaking corruptly, in which
yet every cobbler thinks himself concerned for his share. Lastly, they
look upon themselves as somewhat more than men as often as they are
devoutly saluted by the name of "Our Masters," in which they fancy there
lies as much as in the Jews' "Jehovah;" and therefore they reckon it a
crime if "Magister Noster" be written other than in capital letters; and
if anyone should preposterously say "Noster Magister," he has at once
overturned the whole body of divinity.

And next these come those that commonly call themselves the religious and
monks, most false in both titles, when both a great part of them are
farthest from religion, and no men swarm thicker in all places than
themselves. Nor can I think of anything that could be more miserable did
not I support them so many several ways. For whereas all men detest them
to that height, that they take it for ill luck to meet one of them by
chance, yet such is their happiness that they flatter themselves. For
first, they reckon it one of the main points of piety if they are so
illiterate that they can't so much as read. And then when they run over
their offices, which they carry about them, rather by tale than
understanding, they believe the gods more than ordinarily pleased with
their braying. And some there are among them that put off their
trumperies at vast rates, yet rove up and down for the bread they eat;
nay, there is scarce an inn, wagon, or ship into which they intrude not,
to the no small damage of the commonwealth of beggars. And yet, like
pleasant fellows, with all this vileness, ignorance, rudeness, and
impudence, they represent to us, for so they call it, the lives of the
apostles. Yet what is more pleasant than that they do all things by rule
and, as it were, a kind of mathematics, the least swerving from which
were a crime beyond forgiveness--as how many knots their shoes must be
tied with, of what color everything is, what distinction of habits, of
what stuff made, how many straws broad their girdles and of what fashion,
how many bushels wide their cowl, how many fingers long their hair, and
how many hours sleep; which exact equality, how disproportionate it is,
among such variety of bodies and tempers, who is there that does not
perceive it? And yet by reason of these fooleries they not only set
slight by others, but each different order, men otherwise professing
apostolical charity, despise one another, and for the different wearing
of a habit, or that 'tis of darker color, they put all things in
combustion. And among these there are some so rigidly religious that
their upper garment is haircloth, their inner of the finest linen; and,
on the contrary, others wear linen without and hair next their skins.
Others, again, are as afraid to touch money as poison, and yet neither
forbear wine nor dallying with women. In a word, 'tis their only care
that none of them come near one another in their manner of living, nor
do they endeavor how they may be like Christ, but how they may differ
among themselves.

And another great happiness they conceive in their names, while they call
themselves Cordiliers, and among these too, some are Colletes, some
Minors, some Minims, some Crossed; and again, these are Benedictines,
those Bernardines; these Carmelites, those Augustines; these Williamites,
and those Jacobines; as if it were not worth the while to be called
Christians. And of these, a great part build so much on their ceremonies
and petty traditions of men that they think one heaven is too poor a
reward for so great merit, little dreaming that the time will come when
Christ, not regarding any of these trifles, will call them to account for
His precept of charity. One shall show you a large trough full of all
kinds of fish; another tumble you out so many bushels of prayers; another
reckon you so many myriads of fasts, and fetch them up again in one
dinner by eating till he cracks again; another produces more bundles of
ceremonies than seven of the stoutest ships would be able to carry;
another brags he has not touched a penny these three score years without
two pair of gloves at least upon his hands; another wears a cowl so lined
with grease that the poorest tarpaulin would not stoop to take it up;
another will tell you he has lived these fifty-five years like a sponge,
continually fastened to the same place; another is grown hoarse with his
daily chanting; another has contracted a lethargy by his solitary living;
and another the palsy in his tongue for want of speaking. But Christ,
interrupting them in their vanities, which otherwise were endless, will
ask them, "Whence this new kind of Jews? I acknowledge one commandment,
which is truly mine, of which alone I hear nothing. I promised, 'tis
true, my Father's heritage, and that without parables, not to cowls, odd
prayers, and fastings, but to the duties of faith and charity. Nor can I
acknowledge them that least acknowledge their faults. They that would
seem holier than myself, let them if they like possess to themselves
those three hundred sixty-five heavens of Basilides the heretic's
invention, or command them whose foolish traditions they have preferred
before my precepts to erect them a new one." When they shall hear these
things and see common ordinary persons preferred before them, with what
countenance, think you, will they behold one another? In the meantime
they are happy in their hopes, and for this also they are beholding
to me.

And yet these kind of people, though they are as it were of another
commonwealth, no man dares despise, especially those begging friars,
because they are privy to all men's secrets by means of confessions, as
they call them. Which yet were no less than treason to discover, unless,
being got drunk, they have a mind to be pleasant, and then all comes out,
that is to say by hints and conjectures but suppressing the names. But if
anyone should anger these wasps, they'll sufficiently revenge themselves
in their public sermons and so point out their enemy by circumlocutions
that there's no one but understands whom 'tis they mean, unless he
understand nothing at all; nor will they give over their barking till you
throw the dogs a bone. And now tell me, what juggler or mountebank you
had rather behold than hear them rhetorically play the fool in their
preachments, and yet most sweetly imitating what rhetoricians have
written touching the art of good speaking? Good God! what several
postures they have! How they shift their voice, sing out their words,
skip up and down, and are ever and anon making such new faces that they
confound all things with noise! And yet this knack of theirs is no less a
mystery that runs in succession from one brother to another; which though
it be not lawful for me to know, however I'll venture at it by
conjectures. And first they invoke whatever they have scraped from the
poets; and in the next place, if they are to discourse of charity, they
take their rise from the river Nilus; or to set out the mystery of the
cross, from bell and the dragon; or to dispute of fasting, from the
twelve signs of the zodiac; or, being to preach of faith, ground their
matter on the square of a circle.

I have heard myself one, and he no small fool--I was mistaken, I would
have said scholar--that being in a famous assembly explaining the mystery
of the Trinity, that he might both let them see his learning was not
ordinary and withal satisfy some theological ears, he took a new way, to
wit from the letters, syllables, and the word itself; then from the
coherence of the nominative case and the verb, and the adjective and
substantive: and while most of the audience wondered, and some of them
muttered that of Horace, "What does all this trumpery drive at?" at last
he brought the matter to this head, that he would demonstrate that the
mystery of the Trinity was so clearly expressed in the very rudiments of
grammar that the best mathematician could not chalk it out more plainly.
And in this discourse did this most superlative theologian beat his
brains for eight whole months that at this hour he's as blind as a
beetle, to wit, all the sight of his eyes being run into the sharpness of
his wit. But for all that he thinks nothing of his blindness, rather
taking the same for too cheap a price of such a glory as he won thereby.

And besides him I met with another, some eighty years of age, and such a
divine that you'd have sworn Scotus himself was revived in him. He, being
upon the point of unfolding the mystery of the name Jesus, did with
wonderful subtlety demonstrate that there lay hidden in those letters
whatever could be said of him; for that it was only declined with three
cases, he said, it was a manifest token of the Divine Trinity; and then,
that the first ended in _S_, the second in _M_, the third in _U_, there
was in it an ineffable mystery, to wit, those three letters declaring to
us that he was the beginning, middle, and end (_summum, medium, et
ultimum_) of all. Nay, the mystery was yet more abstruse; for he so
mathematically split the word Jesus into two equal parts that he left the
middle letter by itself, and then told us that that letter in Hebrew was
_schin_ or _sin_, and that _sin_ in the Scotch tongue, as he remembered,
signified as much as sin; from whence he gathered that it was Jesus that
took away the sins of the world. At which new exposition the audience
were so wonderfully intent and struck with admiration, especially the
theologians, that there wanted little but that Niobe-like they had been
turned to stones; whereas the like had almost happened to me, as befell
the Priapus in Horace. And not without cause, for when were the Grecian
Demosthenes or Roman Cicero ever guilty of the like? They thought that
introduction faulty that was wide of the matter, as if it were not the
way of carters and swineherds that have no more wit than God sent them.
But these learned men think their preamble, for so they call it, then
chiefly rhetorical when it has least coherence with the rest of the
argument, that the admiring audience may in the meanwhile whisper to
themselves, "What will he be at now?" In the third place, they bring in
instead of narration some texts of Scripture, but handle them cursorily,
and as it were by the bye, when yet it is the only thing they should have
insisted on. And fourthly, as it were changing a part in the play, they
bolt out with some question in divinity, and many times relating neither
to earth nor heaven, and this they look upon as a piece of art. Here they
erect their theological crests and beat into the people's ears those
magnificent titles of illustrious doctors, subtle doctors, most subtle
doctors, seraphic doctors, cherubin doctors, holy doctors, unquestionable
doctors, and the like; and then throw abroad among the ignorant people
syllogisms, majors, minors, conclusions, corollaries, suppositions, and
those so weak and foolish that they are below pedantry. There remains yet
the fifth act in which one would think they should show their mastery.
And here they bring in some foolish insipid fable out of _Speculum
Historiale_ or _Gesta Romanorum_ and expound it allegorically,
tropologically, and anagogically. And after this manner do they and their
chimera, and such as Horace despaired of compassing when he wrote "Humano
capiti," etc.

But they have heard from somebody, I know not whom, that the beginning of
a speech should be sober and grave and least given to noise. And
therefore they begin theirs at that rate they can scarce hear themselves,
as if it were not matter whether anyone understood them. They have
learned somewhere that to move the affections a louder voice is
requisite. Whereupon they that otherwise would speak like a mouse in a
cheese start out of a sudden into a downright fury, even there too, where
there's the least need of it. A man would swear they were past the power
of hellebore, so little do they consider where 'tis they run out. Again,
because they have heard that as a speech comes up to something, a man
should press it more earnestly, they, however they begin, use a strange
contention of voice in every part, though the matter itself be never so
flat, and end in that manner as if they'd run themselves out of breath.
Lastly, they have learned that among rhetoricians there is some mention
of laughter, and therefore they study to prick in a jest here and there;
but, O Venus! so void of wit and so little to the purpose that it may be
truly called an ass's playing on the harp. And sometimes also they use
somewhat of a sting, but so nevertheless that they rather tickle than
wound; nor do they ever more truly flatter than when they would seem to
use the greatest freedom of speech. Lastly, such is their whole action
that a man would swear they had learned it from our common tumblers,
though yet they come short of them in every respect. However, they are
both so like that no man will dispute but that either these learned their
rhetoric from them, or they theirs from these. And yet they light on some
that, when they hear them, conceive they hear very Demosthenes and
Ciceroes: of which sort chiefly are our merchants and women, whose ears
only they endeavor to please, because as to the first, if they stroke
them handsomely, some part or other of their ill-gotten goods is wont to
fall to their share. And the women, though for many other things they
favor this order, this is not the least, that they commit to their
breasts whatever discontents they have against their husbands. And now, I
conceive me, you see how much this kind of people are beholding to me,
that with their petty ceremonies, ridiculous trifles, and noise exercise
a kind of tyranny among mankind, believing themselves very Pauls and
Anthonies.

But I willingly give over these stage-players that are such ingrateful
dissemblers of the courtesies I have done them and such impudent
pretenders to religion which they haven't. And now I have a mind to give
some small touches of princes and courts, of whom I am had in reverence,
aboveboard and, as it becomes gentlemen, frankly. And truly, if they had
the least proportion of sound judgment, what life were more unpleasant
than theirs, or so much to be avoided? For whoever did but truly weigh
with himself how great a burden lies upon his shoulders that would truly
discharge the duty of a prince, he would not think it worth his while to
make his way to a crown by perjury and parricide. He would consider that
he that takes a scepter in his hand should manage the public, not his
private, interest; study nothing but the common good; and not in the
least go contrary to those laws whereof himself is both the author and
exactor: that he is to take an account of the good or evil administration
of all his magistrates and subordinate officers; that, though he is but
one, all men's eyes are upon him, and in his power it is, either like a
good planet to give life and safety to mankind by his harmless influence,
or like a fatal comet to send mischief and destruction; that the vices of
other men are not alike felt, nor so generally communicated; and that a
prince stands in that place that his least deviation from the rule of
honesty and honor reaches farther than himself and opens a gap to many
men's ruin. Nor is it greatly to his discredit that his disgust
at what he considers Hume's needless parade of scepticism and
infidelity, which did honour to his heart, blinded him in a great degree
to the historian's unsurpassed acuteness and insight, and (to borrow the
eulogy of Gibbon) "the careless inimitable felicities" of his narrative.
He was among the first to recognize the peculiar genius of Crabbe, and to
detect the impostures of Macpherson and Chatterton, while doing full
justice to "the astonishing prematurity" of the latter's genius. And
in matters of art, so independent as well as correct was his taste,
that he not only, in one instance, ventured to differ from Reynolds, but
also proved to be right in his opinion that a work extolled by Sir
Joshua, was but a copy, and a poor one.

On his qualifications to be a painter of the way of life, habits, and
manners (_quorum pars magna fuit_) of the higher classes in his day, it
would be superfluous to dwell. Scott, who was by no means a warm admirer
of his character, does not hesitate to pronounce him "certainly the best
letter-writer in the English language;" and the great poet who, next to
Scott, holds the highest place in the literary history of the last two
centuries, adds his testimony not only to the excellence of his letters,
but also to his general ability as that of a high order. "It is the
fashion to underrate Horace Walpole, firstly, because he was a nobleman,
and, secondly, because he was a gentleman; but, to say nothing of
the composition of his incomparable letters and of 'The Castle of Otranto,'
he is the 'Ultimus Romanorum,' the author of 'The Mysterious Mother,'
a tragedy of the highest order, and not a puling love-play. He is the
father of the first romance, and the last tragedy in our language; and
surely worthy of a higher place than any living writer, be he who he
may."[1]
[Footnote 1: Byron, Preface to "Marino Faliere." But in the last
sentence the poet certainly exaggerated his admiration for Walpole;
since it is sufficiently notorious from his own letters, and from more
than one passage in his works, as where he ranks Scott as second to
Shakespeare alone, that he deservedly admired him more than all their
contemporaries put together.]
And it seems not unnatural to entertain a hope that a selection
from a correspondence which extorted such an eulogy from men whose
own letters form no small part of the attraction of Lockhart's and
Moore's biographies, will be acceptable to many who, while lacking
courage, or perhaps leisure, to grapple with publications in many
volumes, may welcome the opportunity thus here afforded them of
forming an acquaintance, however partial, with works which, in their
entire body, are deservedly reckoned among the masterpieces of our
literature.[1]
[Footnote 1: It may be proper to point out that, in some few
instances, a letter is not given in its entirety; but, as in familiar
correspondence, it must constantly happen that, while the incidents
mentioned in one portion of a letter are full of interest, of
others--such as marriages, deaths, &c.

--the importance is of the most temporary and transitory character. It may
be hoped that the liberty taken of leaving out such portions will be
regarded as, if not commendable, at the least excusable.]

A SELECTION
FROM THE
LETTERS OF HORACE WALPOLE.

_MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCESS OF WALES--VERY LIVELY._[1]
[Footnote 1: This letter, written before he was nineteen, is worth noticing
as a proof how innate was his liveliness of style, since in that
respect few of the productions of his maturer age surpasses it. It
also shows how strong already was his expectations that his letters would
hereafter be regarded as interesting and valuable.]
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.[1]
[Footnote 1: George Montagu, Esq., of Roel, in the county of Gloucester,
son of Brigadier-General Edward Montagu, and long M.P. for Northampton.

He was the grandnephew of the first Earl of Halifax of the Montagu family,
the statesman and poet, and was the contemporary at Eton of Walpole
and Gray. When his cousin, the Earl of Halifax, was Lord-Lieutenant of
Ireland, he was his secretary; and when Lord North was Chancellor of the
Exchequer, he occupied the same position with him.
He died May 10, 1780, leaving the bulk of his fortune to Lord North.
Walpole's letters to him, 272 in number, and dating between 1736 and 1770,
were first published in 1818, "from the Originals in the possession of the
Editor."

There was a coolness between Walpole and Montagu several years before
the latter's death, the correspondence dropping very abruptly. The
cause is explained by Walpole in a letter to Cole, dated May 11, 1780.
Mr. Montagu's brother, Edward, was killed at Fontenoy. His sister, Arabella,
was married to a Mr. Wetenhall--a relation of the Wetenhall mentioned in
De Grammont. "Of Mr. Montagu, it is only remembered that he was a
gentleman-like body of the _vieille cour_, and that he was usually
attended by his brother John (the Little John of Walpole's
correspondence), who was a midshipman at the age of sixty, and found his
chief occupation in carrying about his brother's snuff-box" (_Quarterly
Rev._ for _April_, 1818, p. 131).]
KING'S COLLEGE, _May_ 2, 1736.

Dear Sir,--Unless I were to be married myself, I should despair ever being
able to describe a wedding so well as you have done: had I known your
talent before, I would have desired an epithalamium. I believe the
Princess[1] will have more beauties bestowed on her by the occasional
poets, than even a painter would afford her.

They will cook up a new Pandora, and in the bottom of the box enclose
Hope, that all they have said is true. A great many, out of excess of
good breeding, having heard it was rude to talk Latin before women,
propose complimenting her in English; which she will be much the better
for. I doubt most of them, instead of fearing their compositions
should not be understood, should fear they should: they write
they don't know what, to be read by they don't know who. You have made
me a very unreasonable request, which I will answer with another as
extraordinary: you desire I would burn your letters: I desire you
would keep mine. I know but of one way of making what I send you useful,
which is, by sending you a blank sheet: sure you would not grudge threepence
for a halfpenny sheet, when you give as much for one not worth a farthing.
You drew this last paragraph on you by your exordium, as you call it,
and conclusion. I hope, for the future, our correspondence will run a
little more glibly, with dear George, and dear Harry [Conway]; not as
formally as if we were playing a game at chess in Spain and Portugal;
and Don Horatio was to have the honour of specifying to Don Georgio,
by an epistle, whither he would move.

In one point I would have our correspondence like a game at chess; it
should last all our lives--but I hear you cry check; adieu!

Dear George, yours ever.

[Footnote 1: Augusta, younger daughter of Frederic II., Duke of Saxe-Gotha,
married (27th April, 1736) to Frederick, Prince of Wales, father of George
III.

In 1736, I wrote a copy of Latin verses, published in the "Gratulatio
Acad. Cantab.," on the marriage of Frederick, Prince of Wales.--_Walpole_
(_Short Notes_).]

_FONDNESS FOR OLD STORIES--REMINISCENCES OF ETON, ETC._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, _May_ 6, 1736.

Dear George,--I agree with you entirely in the pleasure you take
in talking over old stories, but can't say but I meet every day
with new circumstances, which will be still more pleasure to me to
recollect.

I think at our age 'tis excess of joy, to think, while we are running over
past happinesses, that it is still in our power to enjoy as
great.
Narrations of the greatest actions of other people are tedious in comparison
of the serious trifles that every man can call to mind of himself while
he was learning those histories. Youthful passages of life are the
chippings of Pitt's diamond, set into little heart-rings with mottoes;
the stone itself more worth, the filings more gentle and agreeable.--Alexander,
at the head of the world, never tasted the true pleasure that boys of
his own age have enjoyed at the head of a school.
Little intrigues, little schemes, and policies engage their thoughts;
and, at the same time that they are laying the foundation for their
middle age of life, the mimic republic they live in furnishes materials
of conversation for their latter age; and old men cannot be said to be
children a second time with greater truth from any one cause, than their
living over again their childhood in imagination.

To reflect on the season when first they felt the titillation of love,
the budding passions, and the first dear object of their wishes! how
unexperienced they gave credit to all the tales of romantic loves!
Dear George, were not the playing fields at Eton food for all manner
of flights? No old maid's gown, though it had been tormented into all
the fashions from King James to King George, ever underwent so many
transformations as those poor plains have in my idea. At first I was
contented with tending a visionary flock, and sighing some pastoral name
to the echo of the cascade under the bridge. How happy should I have
been to have had a kingdom only for the pleasure of being driven from
it, and living disguised in an humble vale! As I got further into Virgil
and Clelia, I found myself transported from Arcadia to the garden of Italy;
and saw Windsor Castle in no other view than the _Capitoli immobile saxum_.
I wish a committee of the House of Commons may ever seem to be the
senate; or a bill appear half so agreeable as a billet-doux. You see how
deep you have carried me into old stories; I write of them with pleasure,
but shall talk of them with more to you. I can't say I am sorry I was
never quite a schoolboy: an expedition against bargemen, or a match at
cricket, may be very pretty things to recollect; but, thank my
stars, I can remember things that are very near as pretty.

The beginning of my Roman history was spent in the asylum, or
conversing in Egeria's hallowed grove; not in thumping and pummelling
king Amulius's herdsmen.
I was sometimes troubled with a rough creature or two from the plough;
one, that one should have thought, had worked with his head, as well
as his hands, they were both so callous. One of the most agreeable
circumstances I can recollect is the Triumvirate, composed of
yourself, Charles, and
Your sincere friend.

_WISH TO TRAVEL--SUPERIORITY OF FRENCH MANNERS TO ENGLISH IN THEIR MANNER
TO LADIES._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, _March_ 20, 1737.

Dear George,--The first paragraph in my letter must be in answer to the
last in yours; though I should be glad to make you the return you ask,
by waiting on you myself. 'Tis not in my power, from more circumstances
than one, which are needless to tell you, to accompany you and
Lord Conway to Italy: you add to the pleasure it would give me, by
asking it so kindly.

You I am infinitely obliged to, as I was capable, my dear George,
of making you forget for a minute that you don't propose stirring from
the dear place you are now in. Poppies indeed are the chief flowers in
love nosegays, but they seldom bend towards the lady; at least not till
the other flowers have been gathered. Prince Volscius's boots were made
of love-leather, and honour leather; instead of honour, some people's
are made of friendship: but since you have been so good to me as to
draw on this, I can almost believe you are equipped for travelling
farther than Rheims. 'Tis no little inducement to make me wish myself
in France, that I hear gallantry is not left off there; that you may be
polite, and not be thought awkward for it. You know the pretty men of
the age in England use the women with no more deference than they do
their coach-horses, and have not half the regard for them that they
have for themselves. The little freedoms you tell me you use take off
from formality, by avoiding which ridiculous extreme we are dwindled
into the other barbarous one, rusticity. If you had been at Paris, I
should have inquired about the new Spanish ambassadress, who, by the
accounts we have thence, at her first audience of the queen, sat down
with her at a distance that suited respect and conversation.

Adieu, dear George,
Yours most heartily.

_THEATRES AT PARIS--ST. DENIS--FONDNESS OF THE FRENCH FOR SHOW, AND FOR
GAMBLING--SINGULAR SIGNS--THE ARMY THE ONLY PROFESSION FOR MEN OF GENTLE
BIRTH--SPLENDOUR OF THE PUBLIC BUILDINGS._
TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

PARIS, _April_ 21, N.S. 1739.[1]
[Footnote 1: He is here dating according to the French custom. In England
the calendar was not rectified by the disuse of the "Old Style" till
1752.]
Dear West,--You figure us in a set of pleasures, which, believe me, we do
not find; cards and eating are so universal, that they absorb all
variation of pleasures.

The operas, indeed, are much frequented three times a week; but to me they
would be a greater penance than eating maigre: their music resembles a
gooseberry tart as much as it does harmony. We have not yet been at the
Italian playhouse; scarce any one goes there. Their best amusement, and
which, in some parts, beats ours, is the comedy; three or four of the
actors excel any we have: but then to this nobody goes, if it is not one
of the fashionable nights; and then they go, be the play good or bad--except
on Molière's nights, whose pieces they are quite weary of. Gray and I
have been at the Avare to-night: I cannot at all commend their performance
of it.

Last night I was in the Place de Louis le Grand (a regular octagon,
uniform, and the houses handsome, though not so large as Golden Square),
to see what they reckoned one of the finest burials that ever was
in France. It was the Duke de Tresmes, governor of Paris and marshal
of France. It began on foot from his palace to his parish-church, and
from thence in coaches to the opposite end of Paris, to be interred
in the church of the Celestins, where is his family-vault. About a week
ago we happened to see the grave digging, as we went to see the church,
which is old and small, but fuller of fine ancient monuments than
any, except St. Denis, which we saw on the road, and excels Westminster;
for the windows are all painted in mosaic, and the tombs as fresh
and well preserved as if they were of yesterday. In the Celestins' church
is a votive column to Francis II., which says, that it is one assurance
of his being immortalized, to have had the martyr Mary Stuart for his
wife. After this long digression, I return to the burial, which was a
most vile thing. A long procession of flambeaux and friars; no plumes,
trophies, banners, led horses, scutcheons, or open chariots; nothing
but
friars, White, black, and grey, with all their trumpery.

This godly ceremony began at nine at night, and did not finish till three
this morning; for, each church they passed, they stopped for a hymn and
holy water. By the bye, some of these choice monks, who watched the body
while it lay in state, fell asleep one night, and let the tapers catch
fire of the rich velvet mantle lined with ermine and powdered with gold
flower-de-luces, which melted the lead coffin, and burnt off the feet
of the deceased before it wakened them. The French love show; but there
is a meanness reigns through it all. At the house where I stood to see
this procession, the room was hung with crimson damask and gold, and the
windows were mended in ten or a dozen places with paper. At dinner
they give you three courses; but a third of the dishes is patched up
with salads, butter, puff-paste, or some such miscarriage of a dish.
None, but Germans, wear fine clothes; but their coaches are tawdry
enough for the wedding of Cupid and Psyche. You would laugh extremely at
their signs: some live at the Y grec, some at Venus's toilette, and
some at the sucking cat. You would not easily guess their notions of
honour: I'll tell you one: it is very dishonourable for any gentleman
not to be in the army, or in the king's service as they call it,
and it is no dishonour to keep public gaming-houses: there are at
least a hundred and fifty people of the first quality in Paris who
live by it.

You may go into their houses at all hours of the night, and find hazard,
pharaoh, &c. The men who keep the hazard-table at the Duke de Gesvres' pay
him twelve guineas each night for the privilege. Even the princesses of
the blood are dirty enough to have shares in the banks kept at their
houses. We have seen two or three of them; but they are not young, nor
remarkable but for wearing their red of a deeper dye than other women,
though all use it extravagantly.

The weather is still so bad, that we have not made any excursions to see
Versailles and the environs, not even walked in the Tuileries; but we have
seen almost everything else that is worth seeing in Paris, though that
is very considerable. They beat us vastly in buildings, both in number
and magnificence. The tombs of Richelieu and Mazarin at the Sorbonne and
the College de Quatre Nations are wonderfully fine, especially the former.
We have seen very little of the people themselves, who are not
inclined to be propitious to strangers, especially if they do not play
and speak the language readily. There are many English here: Lord
Holdernesse, Conway and Clinton, and Lord George Bentinck; Mr. Brand,
Offley, Frederic, Frampton, Bonfoy, &c.

Sir John Cotton's son and a Mr. Vernon of Cambridge passed through
Paris last week. We shall stay here about a fortnight longer, and then go
to Rheims with Mr. Conway for two or three months. When you have nothing
else to do, we shall be glad to hear from you; and any news. If we did
not remember there was such a place as England, we should know nothing
of it: the French never mention it, unless it happens to be in one of
their proverbs. Adieu!

Yours ever.

To-morrow we go to the Cid. They have no farces, but _petites pièces_ like
our 'Devil to Pay.'

_MAGNIFICENCE OF VERSAILLES--THE CHARTREUX RELICS._
TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

FROM PARIS, 1739.

Dear West,--I should think myself to blame not to try to divert you, when
you tell me I can.

From the air of your letter you seem to want amusement, that is, you
want spirits. I would recommend to you certain little employments that
I know of, and that belong to you, but that I imagine bodily exercise
is more suitable to your complaint. If you would promise me to
read them in the Temple garden, I would send you a little packet
of plays and pamphlets that we have made up, and intend to dispatch
to "Dick's"[1] the first opportunity.--Stand by, clear the way,
make room for the pompous appearance of Versailles le Grand!----But
no:
it fell so short of my idea of it, mine, that I have resigned to
Gray the office of writing its panegyric. He likes it. They say I
am to like it better next Sunday; when the sun is to shine, the
king is to be fine, the water-works are to play, and the new knights
of the Holy Ghost are to be installed! Ever since Wednesday, the
day we were there, we have done nothing but dispute about it. They
say, we did not see it to advantage, that we ran through the
apartments, saw the garden _en passant_, and slubbered over Trianon.
I say, we saw nothing. However, we had time to see that the great
front is a lumber of littleness, composed of black brick, stuck
full of bad old busts, and fringed with gold rails. The rooms are
all small, except the great gallery, which is noble, but totally
wainscoted with looking-glass. The garden is littered with statues
and fountains, each of which has its tutelary deity. In particular,
the elementary god of fire solaces himself in one. In another,
Enceladus, in lieu of a mountain, is overwhelmed with many waters.
There are avenues of water-pots, who disport themselves much in
squirting up cascadelins. In short, 'tis a garden for a great
child.
Such was Louis Quatorze, who is here seen in his proper colours,
where he commanded in person, unassisted by his armies and generals,
and left to the pursuit of his own puerile ideas of glory.
[Footnote 1: A celebrated coffee-house, near the Temple Gate in
Fleet Street, where quarto poems and pamphlets were taken in.]
We saw last week a place of another kind, and which has more the
air of what it would be, than anything I have yet met with: it was
the convent of the Chartreux. All the conveniences, or rather (if
there was such a word) all the _adaptments_ are assembled here,
that melancholy, meditation, selfish devotion, and despair would
require. But yet 'tis pleasing. Soften the terms, and mellow the
uncouth horror that reigns here, but a little, and 'tis a charming
solitude.But more ingeniously
does Jeremiah in his tenth chapter confess it, saying, "Every man is made
a fool through his own wisdom;" attributing wisdom to God alone and
leaving folly to all men else, and again, "Let not man glory in his
wisdom." And why, good Jeremiah, would you not have a man glory in his
wisdom? Because, he'll say, he has none at all. But to return to
Ecclesiastes, who, when he cries out, "Vanity of vanities, all is
vanity!" what other thoughts had he, do you believe, than that, as I said
before, the life of man is nothing else but an interlude of folly? In
which he has added one voice more to that justly received praise of
Cicero's which I quoted before, viz., "All things are full of fools."
Again, that wise preacher that said, "A fool changes as the moon, but a
wise man is permanent as the sun," what else did he hint at in it but
that all mankind are fools and the name of wise only proper to God? For
by the moon interpreters understand human nature, and by the sun, God,
the only fountain of light; with which agrees that which Christ himself
in the Gospel denies, that anyone is to be called good but one, and that
is God. And then if he is a fool that is not wise, and every good man
according to the Stoics is a wise man, it is no wonder if all mankind be
concluded under folly. Again Solomon, Chapter 15, "Foolishness," says he,
"is joy to the fool," thereby plainly confessing that without folly there
is no pleasure in life. To which is pertinent that other, "He that
increases knowledge, increases grief; and in much understanding there is
much indignation." And does he not plainly confess as much, Chapter 7,
"The heart of the wise is where sadness is, but the heart of fools
follows mirth"? by which you see, he thought it not enough to have
learned wisdom without he had added the knowledge of me also. And if you
will not believe me, take his own words, Chapter 1, "I gave my heart to
know wisdom and knowledge, madness and folly." Where, by the way, 'tis
worth your remark that he intended me somewhat extraordinary that he
named me last. A preacher wrote it, and this you know is the order among
churchmen, that he that is first in dignity comes last in place, as
mindful, no doubt, whatever they do in other things, herein at least to
observe the evangelical precept.

Besides, that folly is more excellent than wisdom the son of Sirach,
whoever he was, clearly witnesses, Chapter 44, whose words, so help me,
Hercules! I shall not once utter before you meet my induction with a
suitable answer, according to the manner of those in Plato that dispute
with Socrates. What things are more proper to be laid up with care, such
as are rare and precious, or such as are common and of no account? Why do
you give me no answer? Well, though you should dissemble, the Greek
proverb will answer for you, "Foul water is thrown out of doors;" which,
if any man shall be so ungracious as to condemn, let him know 'tis
Aristotle's, the god of our masters. Is there any of you so very a fool
as to leave jewels and gold in the street? In truth, I think not; in the
most secret part of your house; nor is that enough; if there be any
drawer in your iron chests more private than other, there you lay them;
but dirt you throw out of doors. And therefore, if you so carefully lay
up such things as you value and throw away what's vile and of no worth,
is it not plain that wisdom, which he forbids a man to hide, is of less
account than folly, which he commands him to cover? Take his own words,
"Better is the man that hideth his folly than he that hideth his wisdom."
Or what is that, when he attributes an upright mind without craft or
malice to a fool, when a wise man the while thinks no man like himself?
For so I understand that in his tenth chapter, "A fool walking by the
way, being a fool himself, supposes all men to be fools like him." And is
it not a sign of great integrity to esteem every man as good as himself,
and when there is no one that leans not too much to other way, to be so
frank yet as to divide his praises with another? Nor was this great king
ashamed of the name when he says of himself that he is more foolish than
any man. Nor did Paul, that great doctor of the Gentiles, writing to the
Corinthians, unwillingly acknowledge it; "I speak," says he, "like a
fool. I am more." As if it could be any dishonor to excel in folly.

But here I meet with a great noise of some that endeavor to peck out the
crows' eyes; that is, to blind the doctors of our times and smoke out
their eyes with new annotations; among whom my friend Erasmus, whom for
honor's sake I often mention, deserves if not the first place yet
certainly the second. O most foolish instance, they cry, and well
becoming Folly herself! The apostle's meaning was wide enough from what
you dream; for he spoke it not in this sense, that he would have them
believe him a greater fool than the rest, but when he had said, "They are
ministers of Christ, the same am I," and by way of boasting herein had
equaled himself with to others, he added this by way of correction or
checking himself, "I am more," as meaning that he was not only equal to
the rest of the apostles in the work of the Gospel, but somewhat
superior. And therefore, while he would have this received as a truth,
lest nevertheless it might not relish their ears as being spoken with too
much arrogance, he foreshortened his argument with the vizard of folly,
"I speak like a fool," because he knew it was the prerogative of fools to
speak what they like, and that too without offense. Glover, a London
merchant, was the author of a poem entitled "Leonidas"; of a tragedy,
"Boadicea"; and of the ode on "Admiral Hosier's Ghost," which is mentioned
in the letter to Conway at p. 23.]
On this Thursday, of which I was telling you, at three o'clock, Mr.
Pulteney rose up, and moved for a secret committee of twenty-one. This
inquisition, this council of ten, was to sit and examine whatever
persons and papers they should please, and to meet when and where
they pleased. He protested much on its not being intended against
_any person_, but merely to give the King advice, and on this foot they
fought it till ten at night, when Lord Perceval blundered out what they
had been cloaking with so much art, and declared that he should vote
for it as a committee of accusation. Sir Robert immediately rose, and
protested that he should not have spoken, but for what he had heard
last; but that now, he must take it to himself. He pourtrayed the
malice of the Opposition, who, for twenty years, had not been able to
touch him, and were now reduced to this infamous shift.

He defied them to accuse him, and only desired that if they should, it might
be in an open and fair manner; desired no favour, but to be acquainted
with his accusation. He spoke of Mr. Dodington, who had called his
administration infamous, as of a person of great self-mortification, who,
for sixteen years, had condescended to bear part of the odium. For Mr.
Pulteney, who had just spoken a second time, Sir R. said, he had begun
the debate with great calmness, but give him his due, he had made amends
for it in the end. In short, never was innocence so triumphant!

There were several glorious speeches on both sides; Mr. Pulteney's
two, W. Pitt's [Chatham's] and George Grenville's, Sir Robert's, Sir
W.
Yonge's, Harry Fox's [Lord Holland's], Mr. Chute's, and the Attorney-General's
[Sir Dudley Ryder]. My friend Coke [Lovel], for the first time, spoke
vastly well, and mentioned how great Sir Robert's character is abroad.
Sir Francis Dashwood replied that he had found quite the reverse
from Mr. Coke, and that foreigners always spoke with contempt of
the Chevalier de Walpole.

This was going too far, and he was called to order, but got off well
enough, by saying, that he knew it was contrary to rule to name any
member, but that he only mentioned it as spoken by an impertinent
Frenchman.

But of all speeches, none ever was so full of wit as Mr. Pulteney's
last.For when the last point of danger was at hand, at
which time retainers and dependents are wont in a more special manner to
attend their protectors, to examine what strength they have, and prepare
for the encounter, Christ, intending to take out of his disciples' minds
all trust and confidence in such like defense, demands of them whether
they wanted anything when he sent them forth so unprovided for a journey
that they had neither shoes to defend their feet from the injuries of
stones and briars nor the provision of a scrip to preserve them from
hunger. And when they had denied that they wanted anything, he adds, "But
now, he that hath a bag, let him take it, and likewise a scrip; and he
that hath none, let him sell his coat and buy a sword." And now when the
sum of all that Christ taught pressed only meekness, suffering, and
contempt of life, who does not clearly perceive what he means in this
place? to wit, that he might the more disarm his ministers, that
neglecting not only shoes and scrip but throwing away their very coat,
they might, being in a manner naked, the more readily and with less
hindrance take in hand the work of the Gospel, and provide themselves of
nothing but a sword, not such as thieves and murderers go up and down
with, but the sword of the spirit that pierces the most inward parts, and
so cuts off as it were at one blow all earthly affections, that they mind
nothing but their duty to God. But see, I pray, whither this famous
theologian wrests it. By the sword he interprets defense against
persecution, and by the bag sufficient provision to carry it on. As if
Christ having altered his mind, in that he sent out his disciples not so
royally attended as he should have done, repented himself of his former
instructions: or as forgetting that he had said, "Blessed are ye when ye
are evil spoken of, despised, and persecuted, etc.," and forbade them to
resist evil; for that the meek in spirit, not the proud, are blessed: or,
lest remembering, I say, that he had compared them to sparrows and
lilies, thereby minding them what small care they should take for the
things of this life, was so far now from having them go forth without a
sword that he commanded them to get one, though with the sale of their
coat, and had rather they should go naked than want a brawling-iron by
their sides. Admiral Boscawen is dead by this time. Mrs.
Osborn[1] and I are not much afflicted: Lady Jane Coke too is dead,
exceedingly rich; I have not heard her will yet.

[Footnote 1: Boscawen had been a member of the court martial which had
found Admiral Byng guilty. Mrs. Osborn was Byng's sister.]
If you don't come to town soon, I give you warning, I will be a lord of
the bedchamber, or a gentleman usher. If you will, I will be nothing but
what I have been so many years--my own and yours ever.

_SEVERITY OF THE WEATHER--SCARCITY IN GERMANY--A PARTY AT PRINCE
EDWARD'S--CHARLES TOWNSEND'S COMMENTS ON LA FONTAINE._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Jan._ 14, 1760.

How do you contrive to exist on your mountain in this rude season?
Sure you must be become a snowball! As I was not in England in forty-one,
I had no notion of such cold. The streets are abandoned; nothing appears
in them: the Thames is almost as solid. Then think what a campaign must
be in such a season! Our army was under arms for fourteen hours on the
twenty-third, expecting the French; and several of the men were frozen
when they should have dismounted. What milksops the Marlboroughs and
Turennes, the Blakes and the Van Tromps appear now, who whipped into
winter quarters and into port, the moment their noses looked blue. Sir
Cloudesley Shovel said that an admiral would deserve to be broke,
who kept great ships out after the end of September, and to be shot if
after October. There is Hawke in the bay weathering _this_ winter,
after conquering in a storm. For my part, I scarce venture to make a
campaign in the Opera-house; for if I once begin to freeze, I shall be
frozen through in a moment. I am amazed, with such weather, such ravages,
and distress, that there is anything left in Germany, but money; for
thither, half the treasure of Europe goes: England, France, Russia, and
all the Empress can squeeze from Italy and Hungary, all is sent thither,
and yet the wretched people have not subsistence. A pound of bread sells
at Dresden for eleven-pence. We are going to send many more troops
thither; and it is so much the fashion to raise regiments, that I wish
there were such a neutral kind of beings in England as abbés,[1] that
one might have an excuse for not growing military mad, when one
has turned the heroic corner of one's age.

I am ashamed of being a young rake, when my seniors are covering their
grey toupees with helmets and feathers, and accoutering their pot-bellies
with cuirasses and martial masquerade habits. Yet rake I am, and abominably
so, for a person that begins to wrinkle reverendly. I have sat up twice
this week till between two and three with the Duchess of Grafton, at
loo, who, by the way, has got a pam-child this morning, and on Saturday
night I supped with Prince Edward at my Lady Rochford's, and we stayed
till half an hour past three. My favour with that Highness continues,
or rather increases. He makes everybody make suppers for him to meet me,
for I still hold out against going to court. In short, if he were twenty
years older, or I could make myself twenty years younger, I might carry
him to Campden House, and be as impertinent as ever my Lady Churchill
was; but, as I dread being ridiculous, I shall give my Lord Bute no
uneasiness. My Lady Maynard, who divides the favour of this tiny court
with me, supped with us. Did you know she sings French ballads very prettily?
Lord Rochford played on the guitar, and the Prince sung; there were my
two nieces, and Lord Waldegrave, Lord Huntingdon, and Mr. Morrison the
groom, and the evening was pleasant; but I had a much more agreeable
supper last night at Mrs. Clive's, with Miss West, my niece Cholmondeley,
and Murphy, the writing actor, who is very good company, and two
or three more. Mrs.
Cholmondeley is very lively; you know how entertaining the Clive
is, and Miss West is an absolute original.But why am I so careful to no purpose that I thus run on to prove my
matter by so many testimonies? when in those mystical Psalms Christ
speaking to the Father says openly, "Thou knowest my foolishness." Nor is
it without ground that fools are so acceptable to God. The reason perhaps
may be this, that as princes carry a suspicious eye upon those that are
over-wise, and consequently hate them--as Caesar did Brutus and Cassius,
when he feared not in the least drunken Antony; so Nero, Seneca; and
Dionysius, Plato--and on the contrary are delighted in those blunter and
unlabored wits, in like manner Christ ever abhors and condemns those wise
men and such as put confidence in their own wisdom. And this Paul makes
clearly out when he said, "God hath chosen the foolish things of this
world," as well knowing it had been impossible to have reformed it by
wisdom. Which also he sufficiently declares himself, crying out by the
mouth of his prophet, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and cast
away the understanding of the prudent."

And again, when Christ gives Him thanks that He had concealed the mystery
of salvation from the wise, but revealed it to babes and sucklings, that
is to say, fools. For the Greek word for babes is fools, which he opposes
to the word wise men. To this appertains that throughout the Gospel you
find him ever accusing the Scribes and Pharisees and doctors of the law,
but diligently defending the ignorant multitude (for what other is that
"Woe to ye Scribes and Pharisees" than woe to you, you wise men?), but
seems chiefly delighted in little children, women, and fishers. Besides,
among brute beasts he is best pleased with those that have least in them
of the foxes' subtlety. And therefore he chose rather to ride upon an ass
when, if he had pleased, he might have bestrode the lion without danger.
And the Holy Ghost came down in the shape of a dove, not of an eagle or
kite. Add to this that in Scripture there is frequent mention of harts,
hinds, and lambs; and such as are destined to eternal life are called
sheep, than which creature there is not anything more foolish, if we may
believe that proverb of Aristotle "sheepish manners," which he tells us
is taken from the foolishness of that creature and is used to be applied
to dull-headed people and lack-wits. And yet Christ professes to be the
shepherd of this flock and is himself delighted with the name of a lamb;
according to Saint John, "Behold the Lamb of God!" Of which also there is
much mention in the Revelation. And what does all this drive at, but that
all mankind are fools--nay, even the very best?

And Christ himself, that he might the better relieve this folly, being
the wisdom of the Father, yet in some manner became a fool when taking
upon him the nature of man, he was found in shape as a man; as in like
manner he was made sin that he might heal sinners. Nor did he work this
cure any other way than by the foolishness of the cross and a company of
fat apostles, not much better, to whom also he carefully recommended
folly but gave them a caution against wisdom and drew them together by
the example of little children, lilies, mustard-seed, and sparrows,
things senseless and inconsiderable, living only by the dictates of
nature and without either craft or care. As he is so near death, that it
is indifferent to him whether he died two thousand years ago or to-morrow,
it is unlucky for him not to have lived when such insensibility would
have been a Roman virtue.

There are no arts, no menaces, which the Opposition do not
practise.
They have threatened one gentleman to have a reversion cut off from
his son, unless he will vote with them. To Totness there came a
letter to the mayor from the Prince, and signed by two of his lords,
to recommend a candidate in opposition to the Solicitor-General
[Strange].Bernard seems
in my opinion to follow when he interprets that mountain whereon Lucifer
had fixed his habitation to be the mountain of knowledge.

Nor perhaps ought I to omit this other argument, that Folly is so
gracious above that her errors are only pardoned, those of wise men
never. Whence it is that they that ask forgiveness, though they offend
never so wittingly, cloak it yet with the excuse of folly. So Aaron, in
Numbers, if I mistake not the book, when he sues unto Moses concerning
his sister's leprosy, "I beseech thee, my Lord, not to lay this sin upon
us, which we have foolishly committed." So Saul makes his excuse of
David, "For behold," says he, "I did it foolishly." And again, David
himself thus sweetens God, "And therefore I beseech thee, O Lord, to take
away the trespass of thy servant, for I have done foolishly," as if he
knew there was no pardon to be obtained unless he had colored his offense
with folly and ignorance. And stronger is that of Christ upon the cross
when he prayed for his enemies, "Father, forgive them," nor does he cover
their crime with any other excuse than that of unwittingness--because,
says he, "they know not what they do." In like manner Paul, writing to
Timothy, "But therefore I obtained mercy, for that I did it ignorantly
through unbelief." And what is the meaning of "I did it ignorantly" but
that I did it out of folly, not malice? And what of "Therefore I received
mercy" but that I had not obtained it had I not been made more allowable
through the covert of folly? For us also makes that mystical Psalmist,
though I remembered it not in its right place, "Remember not the sins of
my youth nor my ignorances." You see what two things he pretends, to wit,
youth, whose companion I ever am, and ignorances, and that in the plural
number, a number of multitude, whereby we are to understand that there
was no small company of them.

But not to run too far in that which is infinite. To speak briefly, all
Christian religion seems to have a kind of alliance with folly and in no
respect to have any accord with wisdom. Of which if you expect proofs,
consider first that boys, old men, women, and fools are more delighted
with religious and sacred things than others, and to that purpose are
ever next the altars; and this they do by mere impulse of nature. And in
the next place, you see that those first founders of it were plain,
simple persons and most bitter enemies of learning. Lastly there are no
sort of fools seem more out of the way than are these whom the zeal of
Christian religion has once swallowed up; so that they waste their
estates, neglect injuries, suffer themselves to be cheated, put no
difference between friends and enemies, abhor pleasure, are crammed with
poverty, watchings, tears, labors, reproaches, loathe life, and wish
death above all things; in short, they seem senseless to common
understanding, as if their minds lived elsewhere and not in their own
bodies; which, what else is it than to be mad? II, ii, 15). From the same
district came the _Massic_ wine, also strong and fiery. "It breeds
forgetfulness" (II, vii, 21), he says; advises that it should be
softened by exposure to the open sky (Sat.

II, iv, 51). He had a small supply of it, which he kept for a "happy day"
(III, xxi, 6). The _Calenian_ wine, from Cales near Falernum, was of
similar character.
He classes it with Caecuban as being too costly for a poor man's
purse (I, xx, 10): writing late in life to a friend, promises to find
him some, but says that his visitor must bring in exchange an alabaster
box of precious spikenard (IV, xii, 17). Next after these Campanian
vintages came the _Alban_. He tells Phyllis that he will broach
for her a cask of it nine years old (IV, xi, 1). It was offered, too, at
Nasidienus' dinner as an alternative to Caecuban; and Horace praises
the raisins made from its berries (Sat. II, iv, 72). Of the _Sabine_,
poorest of Italian wines, we have spoken (page 23).

The finest Greek wine was _Chian_, thick and luscious; he couples it in
the Epode to Maecenas (IX, 34) with _Lesbian_ which he elsewhere
(I, xvii, 21) calls "innocent" or mild. _Coan_ wine he mentions twice,
commending its medicinal value (Sat. II, iv, 29; II, viii, 9).

In justice to Horace and his friends, it is right to observe that
connoisseurship in wine must not be confounded with inebriety. They drank
to exhilarate, not to stupefy themselves, to make them what Mr. Bradwardine
called _ebrioli_ not _ebrii_; and he repeatedly warns against excess.
The vine was to him "a sacred tree," its god, Bacchus, a gentle, gracious
deity (I, xviii, 1):

'Tis thine the drooping heart to heal, Thy strength uplifts the poor
man's horn; Inspired by thee, the soldier's steel, The monarch's crown,
he laughs to scorn.

III, xxi, 17.

"To total abstainers," he says, "heaven makes all things hard" (I, xviii,
3); so let us drink, but drink with moderate wisdom, leave
quarrelsomeness in our cups to barbarous Scythians, to brute Centaurs
and Lapithae: let riot never profane our worship of the kindly god.
We must again remember that they did not drink wine neat, as we do,
but always mixed with water. Come, he says to his slave as they sit
down, quench the fire of the wine from the spring which babbles by
(II, xi, 19). The common mixture was two of water to one of wine;
sometimes nine of water to three of wine, the Muses to the Graces;
very rarely nine of wine to three of water.For as this wise man pitied and bewailed their palpable
madness that were possessed with so gross an error, so they in return
laughed at him as a doting fool and cast him out of their company. In
like manner the common sort of men chiefly admire those things that are
most corporeal and almost believe there is nothing beyond them. Whereas
on the contrary, these devout persons, by how much the nearer anything
concerns the body, by so much more they neglect it and are wholly hurried
away with the contemplation of things invisible. For the one give the
first place to riches, the next to their corporeal pleasures, leaving the
last place to their soul, which yet most of them do scarce believe,
because they can't see it with their eyes. On the contrary, the others
first rely wholly on God, the most unchangeable of all things; and next
him, yet on this that comes nearest him, they bestow the second on their
soul; and lastly, for their body, they neglect that care and condemn and
fly money as superfluity that may be well spared; or if they are forced
to meddle with any of these things, they do it carelessly and much
against their wills, having as if they had it not, and possessing as if
they possessed it not.

There are also in each several things several degrees wherein they
disagree among themselves. And first as to the senses, though all of them
have more or less affinity with the body, yet of these some are more
gross and blockish, as tasting, hearing, seeing, smelling, touching; some
more removed from the body, as memory, intellect, and the will. And
therefore to which of these the mind applies itself, in that lies its
force. But holy men, because the whole bent of their minds is taken up
with those things that are most repugnant to these grosser senses, they
seem brutish and stupid in the common use of them. Whereas on the
contrary, the ordinary sort of people are best at these, and can do least
at the other; from whence it is, as we have heard, that some of these
holy men have by mistake drunk oil for wine. Again, in the affections of
the mind, some have a greater commerce with the body than others, as
lust, desire of meat and sleep, anger, pride, envy; with which holy men
are at irreconcilable enmity, and contrary, the common people think
there's no living without them. And lastly there are certain middle kind
of affections, and as it were natural to every man, as the love of one's
country, children, parents, friends, and to which the common people
attribute no small matter; whereas the other strive to pluck them out of
their mind: unless insomuch as they arrive to that highest part of the
soul, that they love their parents not as parents--for what did they get
but the body? though yet we owe it to God, not them--but as good men or
women and in whom shines the image of that highest wisdom which alone
they call the chiefest good, and out of which, they say, there is nothing
to be beloved or desired.

How many tears have I shed over him! Sometimes I would just look at him,
and my tears would flow; no, it will never be my lot to see
him in the uniform of the guardsmen! But it was most distressing of all
for me when his father, owing to the boy's poor health, was unable
to send him to a military school. How much it cost me to renounce the
thought that he might become a soldier! For half a year I was ill. Just
imagine to yourself, my dear, when he finishes his course, they will give
him some rank or other, such as they give to any priest's son clerking
in a government office! Isn't it awful? In the military service, especially
in the cavalry, all ranks are aristocratic; one knows at once that even
a junker is from the nobility.
But what is a provincial secretary, or a titular councillor! Any one can
be a titular councillor--even a merchant, a church-school graduate, a
low-class townsman, if you please. You have only to study, then serve
awhile. Why, one of the petty townsmen who is apt at learning will get
a rank higher than his! That's the way of the world! That's the way of
the world! Oh, dear! [_She turns away with a wave of her hand_] I don't
like to pass judgment on anything that is instituted by higher authority,
and won't permit others to do so, but, nevertheless, I don't approve of
this system.
I shall always say loudly that it's unjust, unjust.

LEONÍD. Why are Nádya's eyes red from crying?

VASILÍSA PEREGRÍNOVNA. She hasn't been flogged for a long time.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. That's none of your business, my dear. Nádya, go away,
you're not needed here.

[NÁDYA _goes out._] 
LEONÍD.

Well, I know why: you want to marry her off.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. Whether I do or not, my dear, is my own business.
Furthermore, I do not like to have any one meddle in my arrangements.

VASILÍSA PEREGRÍNOVNA. What a clever young man you are; you know everything,
you get into everything!

LEONÍD. Indeed, mamma dear, I don't mean to meddle in your arrangements.

Only he's a drunkard.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. And that, again, is none of your business. Leave that
to your mother's judgment.

LEONÍD. I'm only sorry for her, mamma.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. All very fine, my dear; but I should like to know from
whom you heard that I'm going to marry NÁDYA. If one of the housemaids
has....

LEONÍD. No, mamma, no.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. How could you find out otherwise? How did that get
out?
[_To_ GAVRÍLOVNA] Find out without fail!

LEONÍD. No, indeed, mamma; the man she's going to marry told me.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV. What sort of a man?

LEONÍD. I don't know what sort! He said he was a clerk in a government
office.... a peculiar surname: NEGLIGÉNTOV. What a funny fellow
he is! He says he's your godson, and that he's afraid of nobody.
He's dancing in the garden now, drunk.
MADAM ULANBÉKOV. Drunk, in my house!
LEONÍD. If you want, I'll invite him in. Potápych, call NEGLIGÉNTOV!
He said that you were at his uncle's to-day, and that you promised
to give him Nádya. Already he's reckoning, in anticipation, how
much income he will get in the court, or "savings," as he says.
What a funny fellow! He showed me how they taught him at school.
Do you want me to bring him in?
_Enter_ POTÁPYCH _and_ NEGLIGÉNTOV.

SCENE IV
_The same,_ NEGLIGÉNTOV _and_ POTÁPYCH
MADAM ULANBÉKOV. Oh, oh, how disgusting! Don't come near me!
NEGLIGÉNTOV. I'm sent from uncle to thank you for your bounty.
LEONÍD. He says, mamma, that they taught him a good deal, only it
was impossible for him to learn anything.
NEGLIGÉNTOV. Impossible; from my birth I had no aptitude for the
sciences.
I received from fifty to a hundred birch rods nearly every day, but
they didn't quicken my understanding.
LEONÍD. Oh, mamma, how amusingly he tells about the way he learned!
Here, just listen. Well, and how did you learn Latin?
NEGLIGÉNTOV. Turpissime!
MADAM ULANBÉKOV. [_Shrugging her shoulders_] What in the world is
that?

NEGLIGÉNTOV. Most abominably.
LEONÍD. No, wait a bit; and what did the teacher do with
you?
NEGLIGÉNTOV. [_Bursts out laughing_] It made you laugh. Once, after
a cruel torture, he commanded two students to fasten me by the neck
with a belt, and to lead me through the market-place as a
laughing-stock.

MADAM ULANBÉKOV.And therefore they that are sensible of it, and few there are to whom
this happens, suffer a kind of somewhat little differing from madness;
for they utter many things that do not hang together, and that too not
after the manner of men but make a kind of sound which they neither heed
themselves, nor is it understood by others, and change the whole figure
of their countenance, one while jocund, another while dejected, now
weeping, then laughing, and again sighing. And when they come to
themselves, tell you they know not where they have been, whether in the
body or out of the body, or sleeping; nor do they remember what they have
heard, seen, spoken, or done, and only know this, as it were in a mist or
dream, that they were the most happy while they were so out of their
wits. And therefore they are sorry they are come to themselves again and
desire nothing more than this kind of madness, to be perpetually mad. And
this is a small taste of that future happiness.

But I forget myself and run beyond my bounds. Though yet, if I shall seem
to have spoken anything more boldly or impertinently than I ought, be
pleased to consider that not only Folly but a woman said it; remembering
in the meantime that Greek proverb, "Sometimes a fool may speak a word in
season," unless perhaps you expect an epilogue, but give me leave to tell
you you are mistaken if you think I remember anything of what I have
said, having foolishly bolted out such a hodgepodge of words. 'Tis an old
proverb, "I hate one that remembers what's done over the cup." This is a
new one of my own making: I hate a man that remembers what he hears.
Wherefore farewell, clap your hands, live and drink lustily, my most
excellent disciples of Folly.