Thus then, at the end of the seventeenth century, a great part of
the new world was known. In North America, Canada, the shores of the
Atlantic and of the Gulf of Mexico, the valley of the Mississippi,
the coasts of California and of New Mexico, were discovered or
colonized. All the central part of the continent, from Rio del Norte,
as far as Terra Firma, was subject, at least nominally, to the
Spaniards. In the south, the savannahs and the forests of Brazil,
the pampas of the Argentine, and the interior of Patagonia, escaped
the observation of the explorers, as they were destined to do for a
long time yet.

In Africa, the long line of coasts, which are washed by the Atlantic
and the Indian Oceans, had been patiently followed and observed by
navigators. At some points only, colonists and missionaries had
tried to penetrate the mystery of this vast continent. Senegal,
Congo, the valley of the Nile, and Abyssinia, were all that were
known with some degree of detail and of certainty.

If many of the countries of Asia, surveyed by the travellers of the
middle ages, had not been revisited since that epoch, we had
carefully explored the whole anterior part of that continent, India
had been revealed to us, we had even founded some establishments
there, China had been touched by our missionaries, and Japan, that
famous Cipango which had exercised so great an attraction for our
travellers of the preceding age, was at length known to us. Only
Siberia and the whole north-east angle of Asia had escaped our
investigations, and it was not yet known whether America was not
connected with Asia, a mystery which was before long to be cleared
up.

In Oceania, a number of archipelagos, of islands and separate islets,
remained still to be discovered, but the islands of Sunda were
colonized, the coasts of Australia and of New Zealand had been
partially revealed, and the existence of that great continent which,
according to Tasman, extended from Tierra del Fuego to New Zealand,
began to be doubted; but it still required the long and careful
researches of Cook to banish definitely into the domain of fable a
chimera so long cherished.

Geography was on the point of transforming itself. The great
discoveries made in astronomy were about to be applied to geography.
The labours of Fernel and above all of Picard, upon the measure of a
terrestrial degree between Paris and Amiens, had made it clear that
the globe is not a sphere, but a spheroid, that is to say, a ball
flattened at the poles and swollen at the equator, and thus were
found at one stroke the form and the dimensions of the world which
we inhabit. At length the labours of Picard, continued by La Hire
and Cassini, were completed at the commencement of the following
century. The astronomical observations, rendered possible by the
calculation of the satellites of Jupiter, enabled us to rectify our
maps. Strawberries, while cooking, have a tendency to rise to the top,
and unless they are kept poshed down, will not be cooked uniformly,
which is doubtless one reason they sometimes fail to keep
well. The froth should also be kept skimmed off.
At the same time, historical geography was more studied; it
began to take for its foundation the study of inscriptions, and
archæology was about to become one of the most useful instruments of
comparative geography.

In a word, the seventeenth century is an epoch of transition and of
progress; it seeks and it finds the powerful means which its
successor, the eighteenth century, was destined to put into
operation. The era of the sciences has already opened, and with it
the modern world commences.




END OF THE SECOND PART.




GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, LIMITED, ST. JOHN'S SQUARE, LONDON.