The Plane of Mineral Mind comprises the "states or conditions" of the
units or entities, or groups and combinations of the same, which animate
the forms known to us as "minerals, chemicals, etc." These entities must
not be confounded with the molecules, atoms and corpuscles themselves,
the latter being merely the material bodies or forms of these entities,
just as a man's body is but his material form and not "himself." These
entities may be called "souls" in one sense, and are living beings of a
low degree of development, life, and mind--just a little more than the
units of "living energy" which comprise the higher sub-divisions of the
highest Physical Plane. The average mind does not generally attribute
the possession of mind, soul, or life, to the mineral kingdom, but all
occultists recognize the existence of the same, and modern science is
rapidly moving forward to the point-of-view of the Hermetic, in this
respect. The molecules, atoms and corpuscles have their "loves and
hates"; "likes and dislikes"; "attractions and repulsions". "affinities
and non-affinities," etc., and some of the more daring of modern
scientific minds have expressed the opinion that the desire and will,
emotions and feelings, of the atoms differ only in degree from those of
men. We have no time or space to argue this matter here. All occultists
know it to be a fact, and others are referred to some of the more recent
scientific works for outside corroboration. There are the usual seven
sub-divisions to this plane.

The Plane of Elemental Mind (A) comprises the state or condition, and
degree of mental and vital development of a class of entities unknown to
the average man, but recognized to occultists. They are invisible to the
ordinary senses of man, but, nevertheless, exist and play their part of
the Drama of the Universe. Their degree of intelligence is between that
of the mineral and chemical entities on the one hand, and of the
entities of the plant kingdom on the other. There are seven subdivisions
to this plane, also.

The Plane of Plant Mind, in its seven sub-divisions, comprises the
states or conditions of the entities comprising the kingdoms of the
Plant World, the vital and mental phenomena of which is fairly well
understood by the average intelligent person, many new and interesting
scientific works regarding "Mind and Life in Plants" having been
published during the last decade. Plants have life, mind and "souls," as
well as have the animals, man, and super-man.

The Plane of Elemental Mind (B), in its seven sub-divisions, comprises
the states and conditions of a higher form of "elemental" or unseen
entities, playing their part in the general work of the Universe, the
mind and life of which form a part of the scale between the Plane of
Plant Mind and the Plane of Animal Mind, the entities partaking of the
nature of both.

"There it is," exclaimed the Augustine Peter, "there, from my own
pocket, paid with pleasure to preserve that youth from the evil influence
of too much hair--I'll pay for all the City if they like--and banished
suicide, and I'll pretty soon see if I can't settle all the City crops.
Prisoner, you are discharged."

The young man lost his hair, the Queen five shillings, and Sir Peter
one; but then he gained his end,--and docking must henceforth be
looked upon as the treadmill's antidote, and young man's fines' best
friend. We therefore say, should the iniquity of your long locks,
gentle reader, take you to the station (for, remember, Sir Peter
says, _Long hair will do anything_), if you can't find bail, secure
a barber, and command your liberation.

We have been speculating of these externally-illustrated grades of
crime; we think the following nearly correct:--
The long and lank indicates larceny (petty and otherwise).

The bushy and bountiful--burglary.

The full and flowing--felony.

The magnificent and mysterious--murder.

And, for aught we know, pigtails--polygamy.

For the future, a thinking man's motto will be, not to mind "his own eye,"
but everybody else's hair.

P.S.

We have just received the following horrifying communication which
establishes Sir Peter's opinion, "that a man with such hair would do
anything," but unfortunately disproves the remedy, as those atrocities
have been committed when he was without.
Indignant at the loss of his head's glory, the evil-minded tailor,
immediately upon leaving the court, sent for counsel's opinion as
to whether he couldn't proceed against Sir Peter, under the act for
"cutting and maiming, with intent to do him some grievous bodily
harm." This, it appears he cannot do, inasmuch as these very learned
gentlemen at the bar have decided, "the head" from which the hair
was cut, and which, if any, is consequently the injured part, is
not included in the meaning of the word _bodily_, as &c. &c.But we may say
this much, in order to give you a little clearer idea, of the relations
of these planes to the more familiar ones--the Elementary Planes bear
the same relation to the Planes of Mineral, Plant, Animal and Human
Mentality and Life, that the black keys on the piano do to the white
keys. The white keys are sufficient to produce music, but there are
certain scales, melodies, and harmonies, in which the black keys play
their part, and in which their presence is necessary. They are also
necessary as "connecting links" of soul-condition; entity states, etc.,
between the several other planes, certain forms of development being
attained therein--this last fact giving to the reader who can "read
between the lines" a new light upon the processes of Evolution, and a
new key to the secret door of the "leaps of life" between kingdom and
kingdom.  The great kingdoms of Elementals are fully recognized by all
occultists, and the esoteric writings are full of mention of them.  The
readers of Bulwer's "Sanoni" and similar tales will recognize the
entities inhabiting these planes of life.

Passing on from the Great Mental Plane to the Great Spiritual Plane,
what shall we say? How can we explain these higher states of Being, Life
and Mind, to minds as yet unable to grasp and understand the higher
subdivisions of the Plane of Human Mind? The task is impossible. We can
speak only in the most general terms. How may Light be described to a
man born blind--how sugar, to a man who has never tasted anything
sweet--how harmony, to one born deaf?

All that we can say is that the Seven Minor Planes of the Great
Spiritual Plane (each Minor Plane having its seven sub-divisions)
comprise Beings possessing Life, Mind and Form as far above that of Man
of to-day as the latter is above the earth-worm, mineral or even certain
forms of Energy or Matter. The Life of these Beings so far transcends
ours, that we cannot even think of the details of the same; their minds
so far transcend ours, that to them we scarcely seem to "think," and our
mental processes seem almost akin to material processes; the Matter of
which their forms are composed is of the highest Planes of Matter, nay,
some are even said to be "clothed in Pure Energy." What may be said of
such Beings?

On the Seven Minor Planes of the Great Spiritual Plane exist Beings of
whom we may speak as Angels; Archangels; Demi-Gods. On the lower Minor
Planes dwell those great souls whom we call Masters and Adepts. Above
them come the Great Hierarchies of the Angelic Hosts, unthinkable to
man; and above those come those who may without irreverence be called
"The Gods," so high in the scale of Being are they, their being,
intelligence and power being akin to those attributed by the races of
men to their conceptions of Deity. These Beings are beyond even the
highest flights of the human imagination, the word "Divine" being the
only one applicable to them. Many of these Beings, as well as the
Angelic Host, take the greatest interest in the affairs of the Universe
and play an important part in its affairs. These Unseen Divinities and
Angelic Helpers extend their influence freely and powerfully, in the
process of Evolution, and Cosmic Progress. Their occasional intervention
and assistance in human affairs have led to the many legends, beliefs,
religions and traditions of the race, past and present. They have
superimposed their knowledge and power upon the world, again and again,
all under the Law of THE ALL, of course.

But, yet, even the highest of these advanced Beings exist merely as
creations of, and in, the Mind of THE ALL, and are subject to the Cosmic
Processes and Universal Laws. They are still Mortal. We may call them
"gods" if we like, but still they are but the Elder Brethren of the
Race,--the advanced souls who have outstripped their brethren, and who
have foregone the ecstasy of Absorption by THE ALL, in order to help the
race on its upward journey along The Path. But, they belong to the
Universe, and are subject to its conditions--they are mortal--and their
plane is below that of Absolute Spirit.

Only the most advanced Hermetists are able to grasp the Inner Teachings
regarding the state of existence, and the powers manifested on the
Spiritual Planes. The phenomena is so much higher than that of the
Mental Planes that a confusion of ideas would surely result from an
attempt to describe the same. Only those whose minds have been carefully
trained along the lines of the Hermetic Philosophy for years--yes, those
who have brought with them from other incarnations the knowledge
acquired previously--can comprehend just what is meant by the Teaching
regarding these Spiritual Planes. And much of these Inner Teachings is
held by the Hermetists as being too sacred, important and even dangerous
for general public dissemination. The intelligent student may recognize
what we mean by this when we state that the meaning of "Spirit" as used
by the Hermetists is akin to "Living Power"; "Animated Force;" "Inner
Essence;" "Essence of Life," etc., which meaning must not be confounded
with that usually and commonly employed in connection with the term,
i.e., "religious; ecclesiastical; spiritual; ethereal; holy," etc., etc.
To occultists the word "Spirit" is used in the sense of "The Animating
Principle," carrying with it the idea of Power, Living Energy, Mystic
Force, etc. And occultists know that that which is known to them as
"Spiritual Power" may be employed for evil as well as good ends (in
accordance with the Principle of Polarity), a fact which has been
recognized by the majority of religions in their conceptions of Satan,
Beelzebub, the Devil, Lucifer, Fallen Angels, etc. And so the knowledge
regarding these Planes has been kept in the Holy of Holies in all
Esoteric Fraternities and Occult Orders,--in the Secret Chamber of the
Temple. But this may be said here, that those who have attained high
spiritual powers and have misused them, have a terrible fate in store
for them, and the swing of the pendulum of Rhythm will inevitably swing
them back to the furthest extreme of Material existence, from which
point they must retrace their steps Spiritward, along the weary rounds
of The Path, but always with the added torture of having always with
them a lingering memory of the heights from which they fell owing to
their evil actions. The legends of the Fallen Angels have a basis in
actual facts, as all advanced occultists know. The striving for selfish
power on the Spiritual Planes inevitably results in the selfish soul
losing its spiritual balance and falling back as far as it had
previously risen. But to even such a soul, the opportunity of a return
is given--and such souls make the return journey, paying the terrible
penalty according to the invariable Law.

In conclusion we would again remind you that according to the Principle
of Correspondence, which embodies the truth: "As Above so Below; as
Below, so Above," all of the Seven Hermetic Principles are in full
operation on all of the many planes, Physical Mental and Spiritual. The
Principle of Mental Substance of course applies to all the planes, for
all are held in the Mind of THE ALL. The Principle of Correspondence
manifests in all, for there is a correspondence, harmony and agreement
between the several planes. The Principle of Vibration manifests on all
planes, in fact the very differences that go to make the "planes" arise
from Vibration, as we have explained. The Principle of Polarity
manifests on each plane, the extremes of the Poles being apparently
opposite and contradictory. The Principle of Rhythm manifests on each
Plane, the movement of the phenomena having its ebb and flow, rise and
flow, incoming and outgoing. The Principle of Cause and Effect manifests
on each Plane, every Effect having its Cause and every Cause having its
effect. Since the abovetimes Animal Magnetism and Mesmerism have
followed in the wake of what has been; and now, just as despair,
already poised upon its outstretched sable wings, was hovering for
a brief moment previous to making its final swoop upon the External
Doctrine, Peter--our Peter--Peter Laurie--the great, the glorious,
the aldermanic Laurie--makes despair, like the Indian Juggler who
swallowed himself, become the victim of its own insatiate maw.

Our quill trembles as we proceed; it is unequal to the task. Oh, that
we could write with the whole goose upon the wondrous merits of the
wondrous Peter!

We are better.

That bumper has restored our nerve.

Reader, fancy the gifted Peter seated in the dull dignity of civic
magistracy: the court is thronged--a young delinquent blinks like
an owl in sunshine 'neath the mighty flashing of his bench-lit eye.

    His crime, ay, what's his crime? it can't be
    much--so pale, so thin, so woe-begone!

look, too, so tremulous of knee, and redolent of hair! what has he done?

Here Roe interprets--"Please your worship, this young man, or tailor,
has been assaulting several females with a blue bag and a pair of breeches."

_Sir Peter_.--"I don't wonder at it; that man would do anything, I
see it in his face, or rather in the back of his head, that's where
the expression lies--look at his hair!"
The whole court becomes a Cyclops--it has but one eye, and that is
fixed upon the tailor's locks.

"I say," resumes our Peter, "a man with that head of hair would do
anything--pray, sir, do you wish to be taken for a German sausage, or
a German student?--they're all the same, sir--speak at once."
The faltering fraction denies the student, and repudiates the sausage.

_Sir Peter_, still looking at the hair, from which external sign he
evidently derived all his information--"You were drunk, sir."
"I was," faltered the Samsonian schneider.

"I know it, sir--you are fined five shillings, sir--but if you choose to
submit to the deprivation of that iniquitous hair, which has brought
you here, and which, I repeat, will make you do anything, I will
remit the fine."

A sigh, fine-drawn as the accidental rent in an unfinished skirt, escaped
the hirsute stitcher: a melancholy reflection upon the infinite
deal of nothing in his various pockets, and the slow revolving of the
Brixton wheel in stern perspective, wrung from the quodded wretch
a slow assent:
Sir Peter sent a City officer with his warrant to secure the nearest
barber: a few sharp clickings of the envious shears--and all was
over!

Crime fell from the shoulders of the quondam culprit, and the tonsorial
innocent stood forth confessed!

Sir Peter was entranced. That was his doing! He gazed with pride upon
the new absolved from sin. He asked, "Are you not more comfortable?"
All vice had gone, save one--the young man answered "Yes," and
_lied_.
"Then, sir, go home."
"The barber," muttered "soft Roe" in as soft a voice.
"What of him?" 
"Wants a shillin'."The
molecules of which the particular kinds of Matter are composed are in a
state of constant vibration and movement around each other and against
each other. The molecules are composed of Atoms, which, likewise, are in
a state of constant movement and vibration. The atoms are composed of
Corpuscles, sometimes called "electrons," "ions," etc., which also are
in a state of rapid motion, revolving around each other, and which
manifest a very rapid state and mode of vibration. And, so we see that
all forms of Matter manifest Vibration, in accordance with the Hermetic
Principle of Vibration.

And so it is with the various forms of Energy. Science teaches that
Light, Heat, Magnetism and Electricity are but forms of vibratory motion
connected in some way with, and probably emanating from the Ether.
Science does not as yet attempt to explain the nature of the phenomena
known as Cohesion, which is the principle of Molecular Attraction; nor
Chemical Affinity, which is the principle of Atomic Attraction; nor
Gravitation (the greatest mystery of the three), which is the principle
of attraction by which every particle or mass of Matter is bound to
every other particle or mass. These three forms of Energy are not as yet
understood by science, yet the writers incline to the opinion that these
too are manifestations of some form of vibratory energy, a fact which
the Hermetists have held and taught for ages past.

The Universal Ether, which is postulated by science without its nature
being understood clearly, is held by the Hermetists to be but a higher
manifestation of that which is erroneously called matter--that is to
say, Matter at a higher degree of vibration--and is called by them "The
Ethereal Substance." The Hermetists teach that this Ethereal Substance
is of extreme tenuity and elasticity, and pervades universal space,
serving as a medium of transmission of waves of vibratory energy, such
as heat, light, electricity, magnetism, etc. The Teachings are that The
Ethereal Substance is a connecting link between the forms of vibratory
energy known as "Matter" on the one hand, and "Energy or Force" on the
other; and also that it manifests a degree of vibration, in rate and
mode, entirely its own.

Scientists have offered the illustration of a rapidly moving wheel, top,
or cylinder, to show the effects of increasing rates of vibration. The
illustration supposes a wheel, top, or revolving cylinder, running at a
low rate of speed--we will call this revolving thing "the object" in
following out the illustration. Let us suppose the object moving slowly.
It may be seen readily, but no sound of its movement reaches the ear.
The speed is gradually increased. In a few moments its movement becomes
so rapid that a deep growl or low note may be heard. Then as the rate is
increased the note rises one in the musical scale. Then, the motion
being still further increased, the next highest note is distinguished.
Then, one after another, all the notes of the musical scale appear,
rising higher and higher as the motion is increased. Finally when the
motions have reached a certain rate the final note perceptible to human
ears is reached and the shrill, piercing shriek dies away, and silence
follows. No sound is heard from the revolving object, the rate of motion
being so high that the human ear cannot register the vibrations. Then
comes the perception of rising degrees of Heat. Then after quite a time
the eye catches a glimpse of the object becoming a dull dark reddish
color. As the rate increases, the red becomes brighter. Then as the
speed is increased, the red melts into an orange. Then the orange melts
into a yellow. Then follow, successively, the shades of green, blue,
indigo, and finally violet, as the rate of sped increases. Then the
violet shades away, and all color disappears, the human eye not
being able to register them. But there are invisible rays emanating from
the revolving object, the rays that are used in photographing, and other
subtle rays of light. Then begin to manifest the peculiar rays known as
the "X Rays," etc., as the constitution of the object changes.
Electricity and Magnetism are emitted when the appropriate rate of
vibration is attained.

When the object reaches a certain rate of vibration its molecules
disintegrate, and resolve themselves into the original elements or
atoms. Then the atoms, following the Principle of Vibration, are
separated into the countless corpuscles of which they are composed. And
finally, even the corpuscles disappear and the object may be said to Be
composed of The Ethereal Substance. Science does not dare to follow the
illustration further, but the Hermetists teach that if the vibrations be
continually increased the object would mount up the successive states of
manifestation and would in turn manifest the various mental stages, and
then on Spiritward, until it would finally re-enter THE ALL, which is
Absolute Spirit. The "object," however, would have ceased to be an
"object" long before the stage of Ethereal Substance was reached, but
otherwise the illustration is correct inasmuch as it shows the effect of
constantly increased rates and modes of vibration. Not the crop
that was planted, suh, but the crop that he expected to plant.

"Colonel Talcott approached the hole, and with that Chesterfieldian
manner which has distinguished the Talcotts for mo' than two centuries,
asked the postmaster for the loan of a three-cent postage
stamp.

"To his astonishment, suh, he was refused.

"Think of a Talcott in his own county town bein' refused a three-cent
postage stamp by a low-lived Yankee, who had never known a gentleman
in his life!

The colonel's first impulse was to haul the scoundrel through the
hole and caarve him; but then he remembered that he was a Talcott and
could not demean himself, and drawin' himself up again with that
manner which was grace itself he requested the loan of a three-cent
postage stamp until he should communicate with his factor in Richmond,
Virginia; and again he was refused. Well, suh, what was there left for a
high-toned Southern gentleman to do? Colonel Talcott drew his revolver
and shot that Yankee scoundrel through the heart, and killed him
on the spot.

"And now, suh, comes the most remarkable part of the story. If it had
not been for Major Tom Yancey, Jedge Kerfoot and myself, there would
have been a lawsuit."
Fitz lay back in his chair and roared.

"And they did not hang the colonel?"
"Hang a Talcott! No, suh; we don't hang gentlemen down our way.
Jedge Kerfoot vehy properly charged the coroner's jury that it was
a matter of self-defense, and Colonel Talcott was not detained mo' than
haalf an hour."
The colonel stopped, unlocked a closet in the sideboard, and produced
a black bottle labeled in ink, "Old Cherry Bounce, 1848."
"You must excuse me, gentlemen, but the discussion of these
topics has quite unnerved me. Allow me to share with you a
thimbleful."

Fitz drained the glass, cast his eyes upward, and said solemnly, "To the
repose of the postmaster's soul."

LOVE SONNETS OF AN OFFICE BOY
BY S.E. KISER

I

Oh, if you only knowed how much I like To stand here, when the "old man"
ain't around, And watch your soft, white fingers while you pound
Away at them there keys!

Each time you strike It almost seems to me as though you'd found
So me way, while writin' letters, how to play Sweet music on that
thing, because the sound Is something I could listen to all day.

You're twenty-five or six, and I'm fourteen, And you don't hardly
ever notice me-- But when you do, you call me Willie!

    Gee, I wisht I'd bundles of the old long green And could
    be twenty-eight or nine or so, And something happened to
    your other beau.
    
    

VI
When you're typewritin' and that long-legged clerk Tips back there on
his chair and smiles at you, And you look up and get to smilin', too,
I'd like to go and give his chair a jerk And send him flyin' till his
head went through The door that goes out to the hall, and when They picked
him up he'd be all black and blue And you'd be nearly busted laughin'
then.

But if I done it, maybe you would run And hold his head and smooth
his hair and say It made you sad that he got dumped that way, And
I'd get h'isted out for what I done-- I wish that he'd get fired
and you'd stay And suddenly I'd be a man some day.

VIII
This morning when that homely, long-legged clerk Come in he had a rose
he got somewhere; He went and kind of leaned against her chair, Instead
of goin' on about his work, And stood around and talked to her a while,
Because the boss was out,--and both took care To watch the door; and
when he left her there He dropped the flower with a sickish smile.
I snuck it from the glass of water she Had stuck it in, and tore
it up and put It on the floor and smashed it with my foot, When
neither him nor her was watchin' me-- I'd like to rub the stem
acrost his nose, And I wish they'd never be another rose.
XIII
Last night I dreamed about her in my sleep; I thought that her and
me had went away Out on some hill where birds sung 'round all day,
And I had got a job of herdin' sheep.
I thought that she had went along to keep Me comp'ny, and we'd set
around for hours Just lovin', and I'd go and gather flowers And
pile them at her feet, all in a heap.
It seemed to me like heaven, bein' there With only her besides the
sheep and birds, And us not sayin' anything but words About the way
we loved.The teachers
claim that illustrations of this Principle may be had on every hand, and
from an examination into the real nature of anything. They begin by
showing that Spirit and Matter are but the two poles of the same thing,
the intermediate planes being merely degrees of vibration. They show
that THE ALL and The Many are the same, the difference being merely a
matter of degree of Mental Manifestation. Thus the LAW and Laws are the
two opposite poles of one thing. Likewise, PRINCIPLE and Principles.
Infinite Mind and finite minds.

Then passing on to the Physical Plane, they illustrate the Principle by
showing that Heat and Cold are identical in nature, the differences
being merely a matter of degrees. The thermometer shows many degrees of
temperature, the lowest pole being called "cold," and the highest
"heat." Between these two poles are many degrees of "heat" or "cold,"
call them either and you are equally correct. The higher of two degrees
is always "warmer," while the lower is always "colder." There is no
absolute standard-all is a matter of degree. There is no place on the
thermometer where heat ceases and cold begins. It is all a matter of
higher or lower vibrations. The very terms "high" and "low," which we
are compelled to use, are but poles of the same thing-the terms are
relative. So with "East and West"--travel around the world in an
eastward direction, and you reach a point which is called west at your
starting point, and you return from that westward point. Travel far
enough North, and you will find yourself traveling South, or vice versa.

Light and Darkness are poles of the same thing, with many degrees
between them. The musical scale is the same--starting with "C" you move
upward until you reach another "C" and so on, the differences between
the two ends of the board being the same, with many degrees between the
two extremes. The scale of color is the same-higher and lower vibrations
being the only difference between high violet and low red. Large and
Small are relative. So are Noise and Quiet; Hard and Soft follow the
rule. Likewise Sharp and Dull. Positive and Negative are two poles of
the same thing, with countless degrees between them.

Good and Bad are not absolute--we call one end of the scale Good and the
other Bad, or one end Good and the other Evil, according to the use of
the terms. A thing is "less good" than the thing higher in the scale;
but that "less good" thing, in turn, is "more good" than the thing next
below it--and so on, the "more or less" being regulated by the position
on the scale.

And so it is on the Mental Plane. "Love and. Hate" are generally
regarded as being things diametrically opposed to each other; entirely
different; unreconcilable. But we apply the Principle of Polarity; we
find that there is no such thing as Absolute Love or Absolute Hate, as
distinguished from each other. The two are merely terms applied to the
two poles of the same thing. Beginning at any point of the scale we find
"more love," or "less hate," as we ascend the scale; and "more hate" or
"less love" as we descend this being true no matter from what point,
high or low, we may start. There are degrees of Love and Hate, and there
is a middle point where "Like and Dislike" become so faint that it is
difficult to distinguish between them. Courage and Fear come under the
same rule. The Pairs of Opposites exist everywhere. Where you find one
thing you find its opposite-the two poles.

And it is this fact that enables the Hermetist to transmute one mental
state into another, along the lines of Polarization. Things belonging to
different classes cannot be transmuted into each other, but things of
the same class may be changed, that is, may have their polarity changed.
Thus Love never becomes East or West, or Red or Violet-but it may and
often does turn into Hate and likewise Hate may be transformed into
Love, by changing its polarity. Courage may be transmuted into Fear, and
the reverse. Hard things may be rendered Soft. Dull things become Sharp.
Hot things become Cold. And so on, the transmutation always being
between things of the same kind of different degrees. Take the case of a
Fearful man. By raising his mental vibrations along the line of Fear-
Courage, he can be filled with the highest degree of Courage and
Fearlessness. And, likewise, the Slothful man may change himself into an
Active, Energetic individual simply by polarizing along the lines of the
desired quality.

The student who is familiar with the processes by which the various
schools of Mental Science, etc., produce changes in the mental states of
those following their teachings, may not readily understand the
principle underlying many of these changes. When, however, the Principle
of Polarity is once grasped, and it is seen that the mental changes are
occasioned by a change of polarity-a sliding along the same scale-the
hatter is readily understood. The change is not in the nature of a
transmutation of one thing into another thing entirely different-but is
merely a change of degree in the same things, a vastly important
difference. For instance, borrowing an analogy from the Physical Plane,
it is impossible to change Heat into Sharpness, Loudness, Highness,
etc., but Heat may readily be transmuted into Cold, simply by lowering
the vibrations. In the same way Hate and Love are mutually transmutable;
so are Fear and Courage. But Fear cannot be transformed into Love, nor
can Courage be transmuted into Hate. The mental states belong to
innumerable classes, each class of which has its opposite poles, along
which transmutation is possible.

The student will readily recognize that in the mental states, as well as
in the phenomena of the Physical Plane, the two poles may be classified
as Positive and Negative, respectively. Thus Love is Positive to Hate;
Courage to Fear; Activity to Non-Activity, etc., etc. And it will also
be noticed that even to those unfamiliar with the Principle of
Vibration, the Positive pole seems to be of a higher degree than the
Negative, and readily dominates it. The tendency of Nature is in the
direction of the dominant activity of the Positive pole.

In addition to the changing of the poles of one's own mental states by
the operation of the art of Polarization, the phenomena of Mental
Influence, in its manifold phases, shows us that the principle may be
extended so as to embrace the phenomena of the influence of one mind
over that of another, of which so much has been written and taught of
late years. When it is understood that Mental Induction is possible,
that is that mental states may be produced by "induction" from others,
then we can readily see how a certain rate of vibration, or polarization
of a certain mental state, may be communicated to another person, and
his polarity in that class of mental states thus changed. It is along
this principle that the results of many of the "mental treatments" are
obtained. For instance, a person is "blue," melancholy and full of fear.
Fresh milk is evaporated by a very gentle heat till it is reduced to a
dry powder, which is to be kept perfectly dry in a bottle. When required
for use it need only be diluted with a sufficient quantity of water.
Mr. James Jones, who keeps a red cow--over his door--claims the original
idea of making milk from a white powder, which, he states, may be done
without the tedious process of evaporation, by using an article
entirely known to London milk-vendors--namely _chalk_.A little study will show you that these
mental changes are nearly all along the line of Polarization, the change
being one of degree rather than of kind.

A knowledge of the existence of this great Hermetic Principle will
enable the student to better understand his own mental states, and those
of other people. He will see that these states are all matters of
degree, and seeing thus, he will be able to raise or lower the vibration
at will--to change his mental poles, and thus be Master of his mental
states, instead of being their servant and slave. And by his knowledge
he will be able to aid his fellows intelligently and by the appropriate
methods change the polarity when the same is desirable. We advise all
students to familiarize themselves with this Principle of Polarity, for
a correct understanding of the same will throw light on many difficult
subjects.


CHAPTER XI

RHYTHM

    "Everything flows out and in; everything has its tides;
    all things rise and fall; the pendulum-swing manifests
    in everything; the measure of the swing to the right,
    is the measure of the swing to the left; rhythm
    compensates"--The Kybalion.

The great Fifth Hermetic Principle--the Principle of Rhythm-embodies the
truth that in everything there is manifested a measured motion; a
to-and-from movement; a flow and inflow; a swing forward and backward; a
pendulum-like movement; a tide-like ebb and flow; a high-tide and a low-
tide; between the two-poles manifest on the physical, mental or
spiritual planes. The Principle of rhythm is closely connected with the
Principle of Polarity described in the preceding chapter. We beg
to inform our readers that Mr. Tanner, of Temple-bar and Shire-lane,
whose salon extends from the city of London to the liberties of
Westminster, has this day been appointed Hair-cutter Extraordinary
to Sir Peter Laurie.
But the swing is ever "toward" first one pole and then the other.

