I take it ill, that you should think I should suspect you of
asking indirectly for my Noble Authors-and much more if you would
not be so free as to ask for them directly-a most trifling
present surely--and from you who have made me a thousand! I know
I have some copies in my old house in Arlington-street, I hope of
both volumes, I am sure of the second.  I will soon go thither
and look for them.

I have gone through the six volumes of Leicester.  The author is
so modest and so humble, that I am quite sorry it is so very bad
a work; the arrangement detestable, the materials trifling, his
reflections humane but silly.  He disposes all under reigns of
Roman emperors and English kings, whether they did any thing or
nothing at Leicester.  I am sorry I have such predilection for
the histories of particular counties and towns: there certainly
does not exist a worse class of reading.

Dr. E. made me a visit last week.  He is not at all less
vociferous for his disgrace.  I wish I had any Guinea-fowls.  I
can easily get you some eggs from Lady Ailesbury, and will ask
her for some, that you may have the pleasure of rearing your own
chicks--but how can you bear their noise? they are more
discordant and clamorous than peacocks.  How shall I convey the
eggs?

I smiled at Dr. Kippis's bestowing the victory on Dean Milles,
and a sprig on Mr. Masters.  I regard it as I should, if the
sexton of Broad Street St. Giles's were to make a lower bow to a
cheese-monger of his own parish than to me.  They are all three
haberdashers of small wares, and welcome to each other's
civilities.  When such men are summoned to a jury on one of their
own trade, it is natural they should be partial.  They do not
reason, but recollect how much themselves have overcharged some
yards of buckram.  Adieu!

P. S. Mr. Pennicott has shown me a most curious and delightful
picture.  It is Rose, the royal gardener, presenting the first
pine-apple ever raised in England to Charles II.  They are In a
garden, with a view of a good private house, such as there are
several at Sunbury and about london.  It is by far the best
likeness of the King I ever saw; the countenance cheerful,
good-humoured, and very sensible.  He is in brown, lined with
orange, and many black ribands, a large flapped hat, dark wig,
not tied up, nor yet bushy, a point cravat, no waistcoat, and a
tasselled handkerchief, hanging from a low pocket.  The whole is
of the smaller landscape size, and extremely well coloured, with
perfect harmony.  \It was a legacy from London, grandson of him
who was partner with Wise.


Letter 189 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.
Strawberry Hill, March 13, 1780.(PAGE 246)

You compliment me, my good friend, on a sagacity that is surely
very common.  How frequently do we see portraits that have
catched the features and missed the countenance or character,
which is far more difficult to hit; nor is it unfrequent to hear
that remark made.

I have confessed to you that I am fond of local histories.  It is
the general execution of them that I condemn, and that I call
"the worst kind of reading." I cannot comprehend but that they
might be performed with taste.  I did mention this winter the new
edition of Atkyns's Gloucestershire, as having additional
descriptions of situations that I thought had merit.  I have just
got another, a View of Northumberland, in two volumes, quarto,
with cuts;(381) but I do not devour it fast; for the author's
predilection is to Roman antiquities, which, such as are found in
this island, are very indifferent, and inspire me with little
curiosity.  A barbarous country, so remote from the seat of
empire, and occupied by a few legions that very rarely decided
any great events, is not very interesting, though one's own
country; nor do I care a straw for a stone that preserves the
name of a standard-bearer of a cohort, or of a colonel's
daughter.  Then I have no patience to read the tiresome disputes
of antiquaries to settle forgotten names of vanished towns, and
to prove that such a village was called something else in
Antoninus's Itinerary.  I do not say the Gothic antiquities I
like are of more importance; but at least they exist.  The site
of a Roman camp, of which nothing remains but a bank, gives me
not the smallest pleasure.  One knows they had square camps-has
one a clearer idea from the spot, which is barely
distinguishable?  How often does it happen, that the lumps of
earth are so imperfect, that it is never clear whether they are
Roman, Druidic, Danish, or Saxon fragments: the moment it is
uncertain, it is plain they furnish no specific idea of art or
history, and then I neither desire to see or read them.  I have
been diverted, too, by another work, in which I am personally a
little concerned.  Yesterday was published an octavo, pretending
to contain the correspondence of Hackman and Miss Ray, that he
murdered.(382)  I doubt whether the letters are genuine; and yet,
if fictitious, they are executed well, and enter into his
character: hers appears less natural, and yet the editors were
certainly more likely to be in the possession of hers than his.
It is not probable that Lord Sandwich should have sent what he
found in her apartments to the press.  No account is pretended to
be given of how they came to light.

You will wonder how I should be concerned in this correspondence,
who never saw either of the lovers in my days.  In fact, my being
dragged in is a reason for doubting the authenticity; nor can I
believe that the long letter in which I am frequently mentioned
could be written by the wretched lunatic.  It pretends that Miss
Ray desired him to give her a particular account of Chatterton.
He does give a most ample one; but is there a glimpse of
probability that a being so frantic should have gone to Bristol,
and sifted Chatterton's sister and others with as much cool
curiosity as Mr. Lort could do? and at such a moment! Besides, he
murdered Miss Ray, I think, in March; my printed defence was not
at all dispersed before the preceding January or February, nor do
I conceive that Hackman could even see it.  There are notes,
indeed, by the editor, who has certainly seen it; but I rather
imagine that the editor, whoever he is, composed the whole
volume.  I am acquitted of' being accessory to the man's death,
which is gracious; but much blamed for speaking of his bad
character, and for being too hard on his forgeries, though I took
so much pains to Specify the innocence of them; and for his
character, I only quoted the words of his own editor and
panegyrist.  I did not repeat what Dr. Goldsmith told me at the
Royal Academy, where I first heard of his death, that he went by
the appellation of the "Young Villain;" but it is not new to me,
as you know, to be blamed by two opposite parties.  The editor
has in one place confounded me and my uncle; who, he says, as is
true, checked Lord Chatham for being too forward a young man in
1740.  In that year I was not even come into Parliament; and must
have been absurd indeed if I had taunted Lord Chatham with youth,
who was, at least, six or seven years younger than he was; and
how could he reply by reproaching me with old age, who was then
not twenty-three? I shall make no answer to these absurdities,
nor to any part of the work.  Blunder, I see, people will, and
talk of what they do not understand @ and what care I?  There is
another trifling mistake of still less consequence.  The editor
supposes it was Macpherson who communicated Ossian to me.  It was
Sir David Dalrymple who sent me the first specimen.(383)
Macpherson did once come to me, but my credulity was then a
little shaken.

