Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


The African Trader; or, The Adventures of Harry Bayford, by W.H.G.
Kingston.

________________________________________________________________________

This is rather a short book, only 120 small pages in book format.  Harry
is a young chap, just about ready to leave school, when his father
suffers some business losses, and the stress kills him.  Harry is left
with some sisters, and he does not want to be a burden to them so he
gets a job on board a trading vessel, and off they go to Africa.

Here many of the crew catch the Yellow Fever, and die.  The captain is
ill, but appears to be surviving.  An African seaman is a senior rating
aboard the vessel.  With a rich cargo, and badly under-manned, the
vessel sets off for home.  There is a fire in one of the holds, to which
the vessel succumbs.  Harry and the African seaman make themselves a
raft, but the captain perishes.  They are picked up almost at once by a
slave trader, but a Royal Navy man-of-war appears and gives chase.  The
slave trader delays the chase by chucking slaves overboard, who then
have to be picked up by the pursuer.  It all gets sorted out, and
Harry's cousin is an officer on the man-of-war.  The African seaman is a
religious man, and it actually turns out that he is the very person
Harry had been asked to look out for by his old nurse.  So there is a
happy ending, as far as Harry is concerned, but there certainly were a
few casualties on the way.

________________________________________________________________________

THE AFRICAN TRADER; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF HARRY BAYFORD, BY W.H.G.
KINGSTON.


CHAPTER ONE.

MY FATHER, AFTER MEETING WITH A SEVERE REVERSE OF FORTUNE, DIES, AND MY
SISTERS AND I ARE LEFT DESTITUTE.--OUR FAITHFUL OLD BLACK NURSE MAMMY,
TAKES CARE OF MY SISTERS, WHILE I, INVITED BY A FORMER ACQUAINTANCE,
CAPTAIN WILLIS OF THE "CHIEFTAIN," SAIL WITH HIM ON A TRADING VOYAGE TO
THE COAST OF AFRICA.

Our school was breaking up for the midsummer holidays--north, south,
east, and west we sped to our different destinations, thinking with glee
of the pleasures we believed to be in store for us.

I was bound for Liverpool, where my father, a West India merchant, now
resided.  He had for most of his life lived in Jamaica, where I was
born, and from whence I had a few years before accompanied him to
England to go to school.

"I am sorry we shall not see you back, Bayford," said the good doctor,
as he shook me warmly by the hand.  "May our heavenly Father protect
you, my boy, wherever you go."

"I hope to go as a midshipman on board a man-of-war, sir," I answered.
"My father expects to get me appointed to a ship this summer, and I
suppose that is the reason I am leaving."

The doctor looked kindly and somewhat sadly at me.  "You must not,
Harry, raise your hopes on that point too high," he answered, in a grave
tone.  "When I last heard from your father, saying he desired to remove
you, he was very unwell.  I grieve to have to say this, but it is better
that you should be prepared for evil tidings.  God bless you Harry
Bayford.  The coach will soon be up; I must not detain you longer."

The doctor again warmly wrung my hand.

I hastened after Peter the porter, who was wheeling my trunk down to the
village inn where the coach stopped, and I had just time to mount on the
top when the guard cried out, "All right;" the coachman laid his whip
along the backs of the horses, which trotted gaily forward along the
dusty road.

My spirits would naturally have risen at finding myself whirled along at
the rate of ten miles an hour on my way homeward, but the last words
spoken by the doctor continually recurred to me, and contributed greatly
to damp them.  I managed, however, at length, to persuade myself that my
anticipations of evil were mere fancies.  On reaching Liverpool, having
called a porter to carry my things, I hurried homewards, expecting to
receive the usual happy greetings from my father and sisters.  My
spirits sank when looking up at the windows, I saw that all the blinds
were drawn down.  I knocked at the door with trembling hand.  A strange
and rough-looking man opened it.  "Is my father at home?"  I asked, in a
low voice.  The man hesitated, looking hard at me, and then said, "Yes;
but you can't see him.  There are some ladies upstairs--your sisters, I
suppose--you had better go to them."

There was an ominous silence in the house; no one was moving about.
What had become of all the servants?  I stole gently up to Jane and
Mary's boudoir.  They, and little Emily our younger sister, were seated
together, all dressed in black.  Sobs burst from them, as they threw
their arms round my neck, without uttering a word.  I then knew to a
certainty what had happened--our kind father was dead; but I little
conceived the sad misfortunes which had previously overtaken him and
broken his heart, leaving his children utterly destitute.

Jane, on recovering herself, in a gentle sad voice told me all about it.
"Mary and I intend going out as governesses, but we scarcely know what
to do for dear Emily and you Harry, though we will devote our salaries
to keep you and her at school."

"Oh, I surely can get a place as a nursemaid," said Emily, a fair
delicate girl, looking but ill-adapted for the situation she proposed
for herself.  DISTAFFINA DE COCKAIGNE was wont to inquire, and "what's
an 'all" (of Music like the London Pavilion) "without a NED" in
the shape of Mr. EDWARD SWANBOROUGH, the all-knowing yet ever-green
Acting Manager at this place of entertainment, who possessing the
secret of perpetual youth in all the glory of ever-resplendent hat
and ever-dazzling shirt-front, ushers us into the Stalls in time
to hear the best part of an excellent all-round show.

It is sad to think that, probably as we were disputing with the cabman,
the celebrated Miss BOOM-TE-RÉ-SA, alias LOTTIE COLLINS, Serio-Comic
and Dancer, was "booming" and "teraying" before the eyes of a delighted
audience. Strange that we should not yet have heard the great original.
But as she is not (so to adapt a line from the "_Last Rose of Summer_")
"left booming alone," we have not escaped hearing several of her
male and female imitators who, by her kind permission and that of
her publishers, trade on her present exceptional success.

However, when we entered the Stalls, Miss BOOM-TE-RÉ-SA had disappeared,
and somebody with a song had "intervened"--a mode of proceeding not
necessarily limited to the Queen's Proctor--before the object of our visit
walked on to the stage, and when he did come a pretty object he was
too, seeing that it was Mr. ALBERT CHEVALIER, the unequalled and
inimitable Comedian of the Costermongers. He is a thorough artist in
this particular line, and no indifferent one in others; but his Coster
ballads are artistically first rate. The fashion of calling English
singers by Italian names is on the wane, otherwise Mr. ALBERT CHEVALIER,
of French extraction, would find an excellent Italian alias, closely
associated with the operatic and musical professions, and most
appropriate to the line he has adopted, in the name of "SIGNOR
COSTA."

The melody of Mr. CHEVALIER's "_Coster's Serenade_," of which, I rather
think, he is the composer as well as librettist, is as charming as it
is strikingly original. After the _Chevalier sans peur et sans
approche_ had retired, clever and sprightly Miss JENNY HILL gave as a
taste of lodging-house-keeperism, following whom came the Two MACS
belabouring each other in their old hopelessly idiotic, but always
utterly irresistible style; and then Lieutenant W.

COLE--King COLE we "crowned him long ago"--gave his ventriloquial
entertainment, who, with his troop of talking dolls, should have his
address at Dollis Hill. There were many "turns" yet to follow when we
left, at a comparatively early hour; "and so," to quote old PEPYS,
"home with much content."
* * * * *
"TO HAVE AND TO HOLD."
Big promises and Party scoldings Won't cure "Small Savings" by "Small
Holdings."
* * * * *
THE MARVELS OF MODERN SCIENCE.

SCENE--_Interior of Small Box containing telephone with book of addresses.
Enter hurriedly_ Impatient Subscriber.

_Impatient Subscriber_ (_turning over leaves of address-book_).
Of course I can't find it! Ah! here it is! 142086. (_Rings bell of
telephone, and listens with receivers to his ear._) Now I have forgotten
it! (_Puts back receivers on rests, and refers again to book. Telephone
bell rings in answer. He hurries back and calls._) One hundred and
forty-two nought eighty-six.

_First Voice_ (_from telephone_). One hundred and forty-two?

_Imp. Sub._ Yes, and nought eighty-six.

_First Voice_. Which do you want?

_Imp. Sub._ Why, both.

_First Voice_. You can't. Must have one at a time.

_Imp. Sub._ It's only one. One four two nought eight six.

_First Voice_. One four two nought eight six?

_Imp. Sub._ Yes, please. One four two nought eight six.

_First Voice_. Very well. Why didn't you give the number before?

_Imp. Sub._ (_angrily_). Well, I have given it now. (_He listens intently,
exclaiming now and again_, "_Are you there_?" _and then rings_.) One
four two nought eight six, please.

_First Voice_ (_after a pause_). What!

_Imp. Sub._ One four two nought eight six, please.

[Illustration]
_First Voice_ (_as if the number is now heard for the first time_).
One four two nought eight six?

_Imp. Sub._ Yes, please. And look sharp!

_First Voice_. What?

_Imp. Sub._ One four two nought eight six.

_First Voice_. I hear. One four two nought eight six. [_The communication
is cut off for a couple of minutes._
_Imp. Sub._ (_for the sixth time_). Are you there?

_Second Voice_. Yes. Who is it?

_Imp. Sub._ I am BOSH, BOODLE & CO.

_Second Voice_. RUSH, RUDDLE & CO.?

_Imp. Sub._ No. BOSH, BOODLE & CO.

_First Voice_. Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ No, no--we are still speaking. I want to know if you
have sent that case of champagne to BUMBLETON?

_Second Voice_. What? I can't hear you.

_Imp. Sub._ (_speaking very slowly, as if dictating to imperfectly
educated infants_). Have--you--sent--that--case--of--cham--pagne--to
BUM--BLE--TON?

_Second Voice_ (_puzzled_). Sent a case of champagne?

_First Voice_ (_interposing_.) Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ No, we are still speaking. Yes--have you sent a case of
champagne to BUMBLETON?

_Second Voice_. Sent a case of champagne to BUMBLETON? No; why
should we?

_Imp. Sub._ Because you promised TICKLEBY you would.

_Second Voice_ (_evidently perplexed_).

Promised TICKLEBY?

_Imp. Sub._ (_in a tone of reproach_). Yes, promised TICKLEBY.

_First Voice_ (_interposing_.)

Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ No, we are still speaking; please don't cut us off.
(_Returning to the champagne subject_). Yes, you promised TICKLEBY
you would send the case of champagne to BUMBLETON. (_With inspiration._)
You are the Arctic Wine Company, aren't you?

_Second Voice_. No.

I am Secretary of the Curate's Papier Mâché Church Company.

_Imp. Sub._ (_in a tone of sorrow_). Aren't you one four two nought
eight six?

_Third Voice_ (_coming from somewhere_). Mind and bring a gun with you,
and--.

_Second Voice_. No. We are two four eight nought six seven. Good
morning!

_First Voice_. Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ (_angrily_). I have not begun! You have put me on the wrong
number!

_First Voice_ (_calmly_). What number do you want?

_Imp. Sub._ (_angrily_). One four two nought eight six.

_First Voice_. Two four two nought eight six?

_Imp. Sub._ (_with suppressed rage_). No, _one_ four two nought eight
six.

_First Voice_. Very well. One four two nought eight six.

_Imp. Sub._ Yes, and don't make a mistake.

[_Long pause, during which he asks_, "_Are you there?_" _at intervals._

_Fourth Voice_. What is it?

_Imp.

Sub._ Are you Arctic Wine Company?

_Fourth Voice_. Yes, all right! What is it?

_Imp.

Sub._ (_joyfully_). Have you sent a case of champagne to BUMBLETON?

_Fourth Voice_. What? I can't hear you.

_First Voice_. (_interposing_). Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ No, we are still speaking. Have you sent a case of champagne
to BUMBLETON?

_Fourth Voice_. We can't hear you. Send a messenger.

_First Voice_. Have you finished?

_Imp. Sub._ (_shouting_). Yes! (_Is cut off._) Shorter to have done so
at once!

[_Uses intemperate language, and hurries off to get a Messenger. Curtain._

* * * * *
THE CHURLISH CABMAN.

AIR--"_BALLYHOOLEY_."
[Illustration]
The Cabman's thrifty fares, Who would seek suburban airs, Desire,
of course, a more extended "radius;" But, Cabby, it is clear,
Thinks quite otherwise.

I fear The controversy's growing rather "taydious." Whether by
night or day, A fair fare the fare should pay, And Cabby should not
overcharge unduly; But _this_ is what riles _me_, When churl
Cabby _will_ not see A would-be fare, but just ignores him coolly.

_Chorus_.

"_Hi! hi! Cab! Hi_!" Oh, no!
On the sullen brute will go; When he _wants_ a fare, he's clamorous and
unruly; But if he wants a _drink_, With a sneer or with a wink, He'll
rumble on and just ignore you coolly

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: DESTROYING THE MONEY-LENDER'S WEB; OR, THE THIRTEENTH
LABOUR OF HERSCHELLES

.]

* * * * *
[Illustration: RATHER SMART ALL ROUND.

_Lady Di._ (_who has been trying a Horse with a view to purchase_).

"AND DO YOU REALLY THINK THAT HE'S QUITE UP TO MY WEIGHT, MR. SPAVIN?"

_Spavin._ "LOR! MY LADY, HE'D CARRY TWO OF YOU!"
_Lady Di._ "WHAT? DO YOU MEAN TO SAY THAT I'M ONLY HALF A HORSEWOMAN?"

_Spavin._ "BY NO MEANS, MY LADY. BUT ANOTHER LIKE YOUR LADYSHIP WOULD
LOOK SO WELL ON THE OTHER SIDE!"]
* * * * *
HOW TO REPORT THE PRACTICE OF THE CREWS.

(_NEWEST STYLE._)
Scarcely had the tintinabulum fixed on the altitude of the clock tower
of the ecclesiastical building known to fame and rowing men as Putney
Church sounded out the merry chimes of eleven in the forenoon, when the
wielders of the sky-blue (or dark-blue) blades were observed by the
eager frequenters of the tow-path carrying their trim-built ship to the
water's edge. Not many moments were cut to waste before each man had
safely ensconced himself on the thwart built for him under the experienced
eyes of the champion boat-builder. The men looked, it must in all fairness
be admitted, in the high level of condition. In each eye there blazed a
stern determination to do or die on every possible occasion. When the
signal to start was given, the boat was observed to move with the
bounding speed of a highly-trained greyhound. The oars dipped into the
water like one man, though a marked inclination was observed on the part
of two or three of the oarsmen to "hurry," while the rest seemed
equally disposed to be "late."

A few fatherly words from the prince of modern coaches soon had the
desired effect of placing matters on a more completely satisfactory
footing. The suggestion often made in these columns that a swifter
rate of striking should be introduced, was acted upon. The boat moved
with perfect evenness, while the wavelets played round her like young
dolphins out for a holiday.

I need only add that our old friend Jupiter Pluvius proved once
again to be a kind friend to those who tempted the dangers of the
foaming tide in Putney Reach. In conclusion, it must be observed
that the stroke was sometimes "short" and occasionally "long," but the
"slides" moved like things of life, and contributed greatly to the
pleasure of a very enjoyable outing.

* * * * *

DESTROYING THE SPIDER'S WEB;
_OR, THE THIRTEENTH LABOUR OF HERSCHELLES._
"To Lion-Hearted Hercules," the strong, Sounded the clarion of
Homeric song.

"Alcides, forcefullest of all the brood Of men enforced with need of
earthly food." _Punch_ will sing gallant Herschelles, than whom Who
was more worthy of Alcmene's womb Or Jovian parentage? Behold him stand
With lion-hide on loins, and club in hand!
Forceful and formidable to all foes, But fatal most especially to
those Of Hydra presence and Stymphalian beak, Whose quarry is unseasoned
youth, who seek By subtle snares the Infant's steps to trip, And
catch the Minor in their harpy grip.

To his Twelve Labours, against monsters grim, Who might have lived in
safety but for him, To snare, to slay, to humbug, and to cozen,
Herschelles, just to make a baker's dozen, Adds a Thirteenth!
A wily, wicked wight, Dwelling in noxious nooks as dark as night,
Beyond the radius of the housemaid's broom, And thence dispensing
dire disgrace and doom Long time our homes hath haunted.

Greedy Ghoul, As furtive of advance as fierce of soul, The Money-lending
Spider is his name, And grim and gruesome was his little game.
Of swollen body, of protuberant beak, He knew that Youths were green, and
Infants weak, And spun his web, invisible but strong, Where'er GRAY's
well-named "little triflers" throng, Who, verily unmindful of their doom,
He watched from forth his grubby haunts of gloom, And strove by sinister
device to lure, Till, 'midst his viscous mazes once secure, Them he might
seize and suck.
The Birds, the Boar, The Lion, or the Bull, all whom before Great Herschelles
had tackled, were not worse Than the Colossal Spider, Albion's curse,
The scourge of childish Wealth and youthful Rank, The Moloch of our
Minors! Fathers, thank Our new Alcides, who, with legal club, Could dare
the web assault, the Spider drub!
Worse than Tarantula venom hath the bite Of this Conkiferous Ogre, which
to fight Herschelles did adventure! Thump! Bang! Whack!
The web is burst, the Spider's on his back, All impotently spluttering
poisonous spleen Let's hope such monster may no more be seen.
And let us hail great Herschelles, whose skill The high-nosed horror
hath availed to kill.
Blow, Infants, blow the pipe, and thump the tabor, In honour of the hero's
Thirteenth Labour!

* * * * *
CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

VII.--THE DUFFER WITH A SALMON-ROD.

No pursuit is more sedentary, if one may talk of a sedentary pursuit,
and none more to my taste, than trout-fishing as practised in the South
of England. Given fine weather, and a good novel, nothing can he
more soothing than to sit on a convenient stump, under a willow,
and watch the placid kine standing in the water, while the brook
murmurs on, and perhaps the kingfisher flits to and fro.

Here you sit and fleet the time carelessly, till a trout rises. Then,
indeed, duty demands that you shall crawl in the manner of the serpent
till you come within reach of him, and cast a fly, which usually makes
him postpone his dinner-hour. But he will come on again, there is no need
for you to change your position, and you can always fill your basket
easily--with irises and marsh-marigolds.

[Illustration: "I wade in as far as I can, and make a tremendous
swipe with the rod."]

Such are our county contents, but woe befall the day when I took
to salmon-fishing. The outfit is expensive, "half-crown flees" soon mount
up, especially if you never go out without losing your fly-book. If you
buy a light rod, say of fourteen feet, the chances are that it will
not cover the water, and a longer rod requires in the fisherman the
strength of a SANDOW. You need wading-breeches, which come up nearly
to the neck, and weigh a couple of stone. The question has been
raised, can one swim in them, in case of an accident? For _one_, I
can answer, he can't. The reel is about the size of a butter-keg, the
line measures hundreds of yards, and the place where you fish for salmon
is usually at the utter ends of the earth. Some enthusiasts begin in
February. Covered with furs, they sit in the stern of a boat, and are
pulled in a funereal manner up and down Loch Tay, while the rods fish
for themselves. The angler's only business is to pick them up if a salmon
bites, and when this has gone on for a few days, with no bite, Influenza,
or a hard frost with curling, would be rather a relief.
This kind of thing is not really angling, and a Duffer is as good at it
as an expert.

Real difficulties and sufferings begin when you reach the Cruach-na-spiel-bo,
which sounds like Gaelic, and will serve us as a name for the
river. It is, of course, extremely probable that you pay a large rent for
the right to gaze at a series of red and raging floods, or at a
pale and attenuated trickle of water, murmuring peevishly through
a drought.

But suppose, for the sake of argument, that the water is "in order,"
and only running with deep brown swirls at some thirty miles an
hour. Suppose also, a large presumption, that the Duffer does not
leave any indispensable part of his equipment at home.

He arrives at the stream, and as he detests a gillie, whose contempt for
the Duffer breeds familiarity, he puts up his rod, selects a casting
line, knots on the kind of fly which is locally recommended, and
steps into the water.

Oh, how cold it is! I begin casting at the top of the stream, and step
from a big boulder into a hole. Stagger, stumble, violent bob forwards,
recovery, trip up, and here one is in a sitting position in the bed
of the stream. However, the high india-rubber breeks have kept the
water out, except about a pailful, which gradually illustrates the
equilibrium of fluids in the soles of one's stockings.

However, I am on my feet again, and walking more gingerly, though
to the spectator, my movements suggest partial intoxication.

That is because the bed of the stream is full of boulders, which one
cannot see, owing to the darkness of the water.
There was a fish rose near the opposite side. My heart is in my mouth.

I wade in as far as I can, and make a tremendous swipe with the rod.
A frantic tug behind, crash, there goes the top of the rod! I am caught
up in the root of a pine-tree, high up on the bank at my back. No use
in the language of imprecation.

I waddle out, climb the bank, extricate the fly, get out a spare
top, and to work again, more cautiously.

Something wrong, the hook has caught in my coat, between my shoulders.
I must get the coat off somehow, not an easy thing to do, on account of
my india-rubber armour. It is off at last. I cut the hook out with a
knife making a big hole in the coat, and cast again. That was over him!
I let the fly float down, working it scientifically. No response.
Perhaps better look at the fly. Just my luck, I have cracked it off!

Where is the fly-book? Where indeed? A feverish search for the fly-book
follows--no use: it is not in the basket, it is not in my pocket; must
have fallen out when I fell into the river. No good in looking
for it, the water is too thick, I _thought_ I heard a splash.
Luckily there are some flies in my cap, it looks knowing to have
some flies in one's cap, and it is not so easy to lose a cap, without
noticing it, as to lose most things. Here is a big Silver Doctor that
may do as the water is thick. I put one on, and begin again casting over
where that fish rose. By George, there he came at me, at least
I think it must have been at me, a great dark swirl, "the purple wave
bowed over it like a hill," but he never touched me. Give him five
minutes law, the hook is sure to be well fastened on, need not
bother looking at that again.

Five minutes take a long time in passing, when you are giving a
salmon a rest. Good times and bad times and all times pass, so
here goes.

It is correct to begin a good way above him and come down to him. I'm
past him; no, there is a long heavy drag under water, I get the
point up, he is off like a shot, while I stand in a rather stupid
attitude, holding on. If I cannot get out and run down the bank,
he has me at his mercy. I do stagger out, somehow, falling on my
back, but keeping the point up with my right hand. No bones broken,
but surely he is gone! I begin reeling up the line, with a heavy
heart, and try to lift it out of the water. It won't come, he is
here still, he has only doubled back. Hooray! Nothing so nice as
being all alone when you hook a salmon. No gillie to scream out
contradictory orders. He is taking it very easy, but suddenly he
moves out a few yards, and begins jiggering, that is, giving a
series of short heavy tugs. They say he is never well hooked, when
he jiggers.
The rod thrills unpleasantly in my hands, I wish he wouldn't do
that.
It is very disagreeable and makes me very nervous. Hullo! he is off
again up-stream, the reel ringing like mad: he gets into the thin
water at the top, and jumps high in the air. He is a monster.
Hullo!
what's that splash? The reel has fallen off, it was always loose,
and has got into the water. How am I to act now? He is coming back
like mad, and all the line is loose, and I can't reel up. I begin
pulling at the line to bring up the reel, but the reel only lets
the line out, and now he is off again, down stream this time, and
I after him, and the line running out at both ends at once, and now
my legs get entangled in it, it is twisted all round me. He runs
again and jumps, the line comes back in my face, all slack, something
has given. It is the hook, it was not knotted on firmly to start
with. He flings himself out of the water once more to be sure that
he is free, and I sit down and gnaw the reel. Had ever anybody such
bad fortune, but it is just my luck!
I go back to the place where the reel fell in, and by pulling
cautiously I extract it from the stream. It shan't come off again;
I tie it on with the leather lace of one of my brogues. Then I reel
up the slack, and put on another fly, out of my cap, a Popham. Then
I fish down the rest of the pool. Near the edge, in the slower part
of the water, there is a long slow draw, before I can lift the point
of the rod, a salmon jumps high out of the water at me,--and is
gone!
I never struck him, was too much taken aback at the moment; did not
expect him then. Thank goodness, the hook is not off this time.
The next stream is very deep, strong and narrow; the best chance
is close in on my side. By Jove, here he is, he took almost beside
the rock. He sails leisurely out into the strength of the stream,
if he will come up, I can manage him, but if he goes down, the water
is very swift and broken, there are big boulders, and then a sheer
wall of rock difficult to pass in cold blood, and then the Big Pool.
He insists on going down, I hold hard on him, and refuse line. But
he leaps, and then, well he _will_ have it; down he rushes, I after
him, over the stones, scrambling along the rocky face; great heavens!
_the top joint of the rod is loose_; I did not tie it on, thought
it would hold well enough. But down it runs, right down the line;
it must be touching the fish. It is; he does not like it, he jiggers
like a mad thing, rushes across the Big Pool, nearly on to the
opposite bank.
Why won't the line run? The line is entangled in my boot-lace. He
is careering about; I feel that I am trembling like a leaf. There,
I knew it would happen; he is off with my last casting-line, hook
and all. A beauty he was, clear as silver and fresh from the sea.
Well, there is nothing for it but a walk back to the house. I have
lost one fly-book, two hooks, a couple of casting-lines, three
salmon, a top joint, and I have torn a great hole in my coat. On
changing my dress before lunch, I find my fly-book in my breast
pocket, where I had not thought of looking for it somehow. Then the
rain comes, and there is not another fishing day in my fortnight.
Still, it decidedly was "one crowded hour of glorious life," while
it lasted. The other men caught four or five salmon apiece; it is
their Red Letter Day. It is marked in black in my calendar.
* * * * * 
TOOTING.
["It is a noteworthy fact that while debates have been languishing
at Westminster, at Tooting there have been Members enough to 'make
a House' any day during the past fortnight, so keen an interest is
the 'Royal and Ancient' game exciting."--_Daily Telegraph._]
What's the use of hooting.
Or cir-cum-lo-cuting?
M.P.'s off To play at Golf.
All the way to Tooting!
Petty points PAT's mooting!
Chances not computing, M.P. slips, (Despite the Whips) Off to Golf
at Tooting!
Landlords _may_ be looting, Tenants _may_ be shooting; Where's the
fun In _that_? Let's run Off to Golf at Tooting!
So M.P.'s are "scooting," On-the-gay-galoot-ing; Cut the House (It
shows their _nous_) For the Links at Tooting!
There is joy in shooting, Wine-ing or cherooting, Dinners, Moors,
Weeds--_all_ are bores, Compared with Golf at Tooting!
* * * * * 
[Illustration: CONSIDERATION FOR OTHERS.
_Tommy._ "I HAD _SUCH_ A BAD DREAM LAST NIGHT, GRANDPAPA!"
_The Admiral._ "TELL IT ME, TOMMY."
_Tommy._ "OH NO! IT WOULD ONLY FRIGHTEN YOU AS IT FRIGHTENED ME!"]
* * * * * 
"BEYOND THE DREAMS OF AVARICE."
["FIFTY POUNDS Reward will be gratefully paid to any Lady or Gentleman
who will ASSIST in RECOVERING a valuable HEIRLOOM.... Anyone with
wealthy or influential friends can at once secure above reward.
Address, &c."] 
[Illustration]
I am an impecunious young man, and, the other day, on seeing this
Advertisement in the _Times_, I was seized with a wild desire to
"at once secure above reward." Said I to myself, "I have 'wealthy
and influential friends.'We stood on with all
canvas set; the hands at their stations ready to shorten sail when
necessary.  Soon we found ourselves mounting to the top of a high
roller, then on we glided, till in another instant down we came amid the
hissing roaring breakers, their foam-topped summits dancing up on either
side, and deluging our decks.  I saw our black pilot holding on pretty
tightly by the main shrouds--I followed his example, for I expected
every moment to feel the vessel's keel touching the bar, when I knew
that if she were to hang there even for the shortest possible time, the
following sea might break over her stem, and make a clean sweep of her
deck.  On she sped though, lifted by another huge roller; downwards we
then glided amid the eddying creamy waters on to the calm surface of the
river, up which the next minute we were gliding rapidly.

The appearance of the banks on either side was not attractive.  As far
as the eye could reach was one dense jungle of mangrove bushes, and
though we ran on for several miles it in no way improved.  The wind died
away as we advanced, and the atmosphere became hot and oppressive.  I
had expected to see pleasant openings, with neat cottages, plantations
of maize, rice, and other grain, pepper, palms and palmetos; but
instead, a uniform line of the sombre tinted mangrove alone presented
itself, the trees just too high to prevent our having a view over them
of any more attractive scenery which might have existed beyond.

I asked our black pilot when we should come to the town.  "By by den you
see," he answered with a look which denoted that we should in time
witness something worth beholding.

The water was as smooth as glass.  Here and there coveys of birds might
be seen skimming along the surface, while overhead a flight of scarlet
winged flamingos swept in wide circles, their plumage flashing in the
sun as they prepared to descend on one of the many sandbanks in the
stream, to carry on their fishing operations.  As we advanced, now and
then a canoe would shoot out from among the jungle; the black skinned
paddlers coming quickly alongside, to ascertain our character and the
objects for which we wished to trade.  Sometimes too we could see troops
of monkeys making their way among the branches, their small grinning
faces peering out at us as we glided by through some channel near the
shore.  Hour after hour thus passed by, but at length, towards evening,
the belt of mangrove bushes diminished in thickness, and other trees of
more attractive appearance began to take their place, and openings
appeared with a few huts scattered about on the slopes of gently rising
ground.

As evening was closing in we caught sight, in the far distance, of a
congregation of huts, and the pilot gave the captain the welcome
information, that he might shorten sail, and prepare to come to an
anchor.  By the time we had made everything snug darkness closed down
upon us.  We could just see a few lights twinkling ahead, while on
either side, across the stream, appeared the dark outline of the tall
trees which clothed the river's banks.  Silence reigned around us, with
the exception of the ripple of the water against the vessel's bows; but
from afar off came a confused mixture of sounds, which appeared like the
croaking of frogs, the chirruping of crickets, and other creeping and
flying things, the screeching and chattering of monkeys, mingled with
the voices of human beings making merry round their huts.  The air was
damp and heavy and hot; at the same time I felt that I should like to be
seated by a roaring drying fire.

We kept a watch on deck as if we were at sea, with arms ready for use,
for though our pilot had assured us "that all good people here," Captain
Willis was too well acquainted, both with the character of the natives,
and the sort of gentry who might possibly be in the river waiting for a
cargo of slaves, to put himself in their power.

I tumbled and tossed about during the night in my berth, unable to
sleep, both on account of the heat, and, strange to say, of the perfect
quiet which prevailed.  Next morning a large canoe was seen coming off
from the shore, in which was seated a white headed old negro in a glazed
cocked hat, a red hunting coat on his shoulders, a flannel petticoat
round his waist, and a pair of worsted slippers on his feet.  The pilot,
who had remained on board, notified to the captain, with great
formality, that he was King Dingo, coming to receive his dash or payment
for allowing us to trade with his people.  His majesty was received with
due ceremony, and conducted into the cabin, when, as soon as he was
seated, notwithstanding the early hour of the day, he signified that it
was his royal pleasure to be presented with a bottle of rum.  Having
taken two or three glasses, which seemed to have no other effect on him
than sharpening his wits, he handed it to one of his attendants, and
then applied himself to the breakfast, which had just been placed on the
table, and I dare not say how many cups of coffee, sweetened to the brim
with sugar, he swallowed in rapid succession.  Having received half a
dozen muskets, as many kegs of powder, brass pans, wash basins, plates,
gunflints, and various cotton articles, as his accustomed dash, and
requested a dozen bottles of rum in addition, he took his departure,
promising to come again and do a little trade on his own account.

The subjects of the sable potentate were now allowed to come on board,
and several canoes were seen approaching us from different parts of the
shore.  One brought a tusk of ivory, others jars of palm oil, several
had baskets of India-rubber, or gum-elastic, as it is called.  Besides
these articles, they had ebony, bees'-wax, tortoise-shell, gold-dust,
copper-ore, ground nuts, and others to dispose of.

We soon found that the business of trading with these black merchants
was not carried on at the rate we should have desired.

The trader, having hoisted his goods out of his canoe, would place them
on deck, and seat himself before them, looking as unconcerned as if he
had not the slightest wish to part with them.  Some would wait till the
captain came forward and made an offer; others would ask a price ten
times the known value of the article, extolling its excellence, hinting
that very little more was likely to be brought down the river for a long
time to come, and that several other traders were soon expected.  The
captain would then walk away, advising the owner to keep it till he
could obtain the price he asked.  The trader would sit still till the
captain again came near him, then ask a somewhat lower price.  On this
being refused he would perhaps make a movement as if about to return to
his canoe, without having the slightest intention of so doing; and so
the game would go on till the captain would offer the former price for
the article, when, perhaps, the trader would sit on, time being of no
consequence to him, in the hopes that he might still receive a larger
amount of goods.  On other occasions the captain had to commence
bargaining, when he invariably offered considerably below the true mark,
when the trader as invariably asked something greatly above it.  The
captain would then walk aft, and, perhaps, come back and talk about the
other ports he intended to visit, where the natives were more reasonable
in their demands.  Captain Willis was too cool a hand to show any
impatience, and he thus generally made very fair bargains, always being
ready to give a just value for the articles he wished to purchase.  As
each jar of oil, each tooth or box of gold-dust, or basket of
India-rubber, could alone be procured by this process, some idea may be
formed of the time occupied every day in trading.

Palm oil was, however, the chief article we were in search of; but two
weeks passed by, and still a considerable number of our casks remained
unfilled.  Fever too had broken out on board.  Three of our men were
down with it, and day after day others were added to the number.  The
two first seized died, and we took them on shore to be buried.  This had
a depressing effect on the rest.

When we returned on board we found that a third was nearly at his last
gasp.  Poor fellow, the look of despair and horror on his countenance I
can never forget.  "Harry," he exclaimed, seizing my hand as I went to
him with a cup of cooling drink, "I am not fit to die, can no one do any
thing for me?  I dare not die, can't some of those black fellows on
shore try to bring me through--they ought to know how to man handle this
fever."

"I am afraid that they are but bad doctors, Bob," I answered, "however,
take this cooling stuff it may perhaps do you good."

"A river of it won't cool the burning within me," he gasped out.  "Oh
Harry, and if I die now, that burning will last for ever and ever.  I
would give all my wages, and ten times as much, for a few days of life.
Harry, I once was taught to say my prayers, but I have not said them for
long years, and curses, oaths, and foul language have come out of my
lips instead.  I want to have time to pray, and to recollect what I was
taught as a boy."  I tried to cheer him up, as I called it, but alas, I
too had forgotten to say my prayers, and had been living without God in
the world, and though I did not curse and swear, my heart was capable of
doing that and many other things that were bad, and so I could offer the
poor fellow no real consolation.  I persuaded him to drink the contents
of the cup; but I saw as I put it to his lips that he could with
difficulty get the liquid down his throat.

"You have had a hard life of it, Bob, and perhaps God will take that
into consideration," I said, making use of one of the false notions
Satan suggests to the mind of seamen as well as to others.  Bob knew it
to be false.

"That won't undo all the bad things I have been guilty of; it won't
unsay all the blasphemies and obscene words which have flowed from my
lips," he gasped out.

"Then try to pray as you used to do," I said, "I will try and pray with
you, but I am a bad hand at that I am afraid."

"Oh, I can't pray now, it's too late! too late!" he exclaimed in a low
despairing voice, as he sank back on his pillow, turning his fast
glazing eye away from me.  He had been delirious for some time before
then, but his senses had lately been restored.  He seemed instinctively
to feel that I could offer him none of the consolation he needed.

While I was still standing by the side of his bunk, one of the mates
came forward to see how the sick were getting on.  He spoke a few words
to try and comfort the dying man.  They had no more effect than mine, he
only groaned out, "It's too late! too late! too late!"  His voice
rapidly grew weaker--there was a slight convulsive struggle; the mate
lifted his hand, it fell down by his side.

"Poor Bob has gone," he said, "there will be more following before long,
I fear.  If I was the captain I would get out of this river without
waiting for a full cargo, or we shall not have hands enough left to take
the vessel home."

This scene made a deep impression on me; too late! too late! continued
sounding in my ears.  What if I were to be brought to utter the same
expression?  Where was poor Bob now?  I tried not to think of the
matter, but still those fearful words "too late" would come back to me;
then I tried to persuade myself that I was young and strong, and as I
had led a very different sort of life to most of the men, I was more
likely than any one to escape the gripe of the fever.

We had another trip on shore to bury poor Bob.  The captain seemed sorry
for him.  "He was a man of better education than his messmates, though,
to be sure, he had been a wild chap," he observed to me.  Bob's
conscience had been awakened; that of the others remained hardened or
fast asleep, and they died as they had lived, foul, unwashed, unfit to
enter a pure and holy heaven.

I am drawing a sad and painful picture, but it is a true one.  I did not
then understand how full of horror it was, though I thought it very sad
to lose so many of our crew.

We continued to carry on trade as before, and the captain sent
messengers urging the natives to hasten in bringing palm oil on board,
but they showed no inclination to hurry themselves; and as to quitting
the river till he had a full cargo on board, he had no intention of
doing that.

Hitherto the officers had escaped; but one morning the second mate
reported that the first mate was unable to leave his berth, though he
believed that it was nothing particular; but Dick Radforth, who was
considered to be the strongest man on board, when he had tried to get up
that morning, had been unable to rise.  The captain sent me forward to
see him.

Some hours must have passed since he was attacked.  He was fearfully
changed, but still conscious.

"Black Jack has got hold of me at last, Harry, but I'll grapple with him
pretty tightly before I let him get the victory, do you see," he
observed, when I told him that the captain had sent me to see him.  "I'm
obliged to him, but if he wishes to give me a longer spell of life, and
to save the others on board, he will put to sea without loss of time,
while the land breeze lasts.  A few mouthfuls of sea air would set me up
in a trice.  If we don't get that there will be more of us down with
fever before night."

The boatswain had scarcely said this when he began to rave and tumble
and toss about in his berth, and I had to call two of the men to assist
me in keeping him quiet.  When I got back to the cabin, I told the
captain what Radforth had said.  "Oh, that's only the poor fellow's
raving.  It will never do to leave the river without our cargo, for if
we do some other trader will sure to be in directly afterwards and take
advantage of what has been collected for us.  However, I have had notice
that lots of oil will be brought on board in a few days, and when we get
that, we will put to sea even though we are not quite full."

The captain shortly afterwards paid Radforth a visit; but the boatswain
was raving at the time, and never again spoke while in his senses.  The
following day we carried him to his grave on shore.  The death of one
who was looked upon as the most seasoned and strongest man, had, as may
be supposed, a most depressing effect among the crew.  It was soon also
evident that the first mate was ill with the fever, and indeed more than
half our number were now down with it.

Still the captain could not bring himself to quit the river.  "In a few
days very possibly we shall have a full cargo Harry," he said to me.
"In the meantime, I daresay, the rest will hold out.  Radforth
overworked himself, or he would not have caught the fever.  Take care
Harry you don't expose yourself to the sun, and you will keep all to
rights my boy,--I am very careful about that--though I am so well
seasoned that nothing is likely to hurt me."

"I wish we were out of the river, Captain Willis," I could not help
replying.  "The mates and the men are always talking about it, and they
say the season is unusually sickly or this would not have happened."

"They must mind their own business, and stay by the ship, wherever I
choose to take her," he exclaimed, in an angry tone, and I saw that I
should have acted more wisely in not making the observation I had just
let fall.  Still, to do him justice, Captain Willis was as kind and
attentive as he possibly could be to the sick men; he constantly visited
the first mate, and treated him as if he had been a brother.

All this time not a word about religion was spoken on board; I had, it
is true, a Bible in my chest, put there by my sisters, but I had
forgotten all about it, and there was not another in the ship.

Except in the instance I have mentioned, and in one or two others, not
even the sick men seemed concerned about their souls.  The only
consolation which those in health could offer to them, was the hope that
they might recover.  "Cheer up Dick," or, "cheer up Tom, you'll struggle
through it, never say die--you will be right again before long old boy,"
and such like expressions were uttered over and over again, often to
those at their last gasp, and so the poor fellows went out of the world
believing that they were going to recover and enjoy once more the base
pursuits and unholy pleasures in which their souls' delighted.  Alas, I
have often though what a fearful waking up there must have been of those
I had thus seen taking their departure from this world, yet the rest of
us remained as hardened, and in most cases as fearless, of consequences
as before.

The death of the first mate, which very soon occurred, made the second
mate, I perceived, somewhat more anxious than before about himself.  The
first mate had been a strong healthy man, and had often before been out
on the coast, while the second mate was always rather sickly, and this
was his first visit to the shores of Africa.  Whether or not his fears
had an effect upon him, I cannot say, but he began to look very ill, and
became every day more anxious about himself.  The captain tried to
arouse him, telling him that we should be at sea enjoying the fresh
breeze in a few days, and that he must hold out till then.  "Still it is
of no use, Harry," he said to me, as I was walking the deck with him one
evening, trying to get a few mouthfuls of air.  "I know I shall never
leave this horrible place alive unless the captain would give the order
at once to trip the anchor, then perhaps the thought of being free of it
would set me up again."

I told the captain when I went into the cabin what the poor mate had
said, for I really thought our going away might be the means of saving
his life, as well as that of others aboard.  He took what I said in very
good part, but was as obstinately bent in remaining as before.  "Those
are all fancies, Harry," he answered.  "He has taken it into his head
that he is to die, and that is as likely to kill him as the fever
itself."

"But then he fancies that he would get well if we were at sea," I
replied.  "Perhaps that really would set him up again."

"Well, well, just tell him that you heard me ay I hoped to get away in
two or three days, perhaps that will put him to rights," answered the
captain, laughing.  "Now, Harry, don't let me hear any more of this sort
of thing; I have bother enough with these black traders without having
to listen to the fancies of my own people."

I told the mate what the captain had said.  "If the vessel does get away
at the time he mentioned, I hope that I may be able to help in taking
her to sea, if not, mark my words Harry, there will be a good many more
of us down with the fever."  He spoke too truly.  The traders continued
to arrive but slowly, as before, with their oil.  The captain waited and
waited like an angler anxious to catch more fish.  Before the week was
over the second mate was dead, and we had only two men fit for duty on
board.


CHAPTER FOUR.

MORE VICTIMS TO THE FEVER.--THE CAPTAIN HIMSELF ATTACKED.--WE SHIP SOME
KRUMEN AND OTHER BLACKS, AMONG WHOM IS A CHRISTIAN, PAUL BALINGO.--PAUL
INSTRUCTS THE CAPTAIN AND ME IN THE TRUTH.--CAPTAIN WILLIS GETS SOMEWHAT
BETTER, AND WE PREPARE FOR SEA.

The ship was almost full, and we had a few more empty casks, and were
expecting some traders on board during the day with oil which would fill
them up.  When I turned out of my berth, just as morning broke, I found
the captain seated in his cabin, with his head resting on his hands.  He
felt a little ill, he acknowledged, but said he was sure it was nothing.
"We will get under weigh at daylight to-morrow morning, when the tide
makes down, and I shall soon be all to rights," he observed.  Still, I
could not help remarking that he looked pale, and moved with difficulty.
"I have agreed to ship half-a-dozen Krumen, and two or three other
black seamen, who are knocking about here," he added.  "This fever has
made us terribly short-handed; but I hope the fellows who are sick will
come round when we are in blue water again.  Harry, go forward and see
how they are getting on, and send Tom Raven to me."  Raven was one of
the two men who had hitherto escaped the lever, and being a good seaman,
had been promoted to the rank of mate.

I went on deck, but saw neither him nor Grinham, the other man.  I made
my way forward to where the crew were berthed, under the topgallant
forecastle, expecting to find them there.  Grinham was in his berth; he
and two other poor fellows were groaning and tossing with fever, but the
rest were perfectly quiet.  I thought they were asleep.  What was my
horror, on looking into their berths, to find that their sleep was that
of death!

"Water, water," murmured Grinham.  I ran and fetched some, and as I gave
it to him I asked where Raven was.  "I don't know," he answered,
somewhat revived by the cool draught.  "It's his watch on deck.  He said
he felt a little ill when he relieved me."

Having done what I could for the other man, I went to look for Raven.  I
found him in the second mate's berth.  He too was ill with fever, and
seemed to have forgotten that he ought to have been on deck, and that
the vessel had been left without anyone to look-out.  I told him that
the captain had resolved to put to sea the next day.  "Had he gone a
week ago the lives of some of us might have been saved, but it is too
late now," he answered with a groan.

Sick at heart, after attending to him, I returned to the cabin, to make
my report to the captain.

"What, all! everyone of them sick!" he exclaimed, sighing deeply.  "Then
God have mercy upon us.  You must not fall ill, Harry."

"Not if I can help it, sir," I replied.

"I must keep up," he said, and if I can get these Krumen on board we
will still put to sea.  They are trustworthy fellows, and, Harry, you
must be my mate.  You are somewhat young; but you have got a head on
your shoulders.  You must keep your wits alive.

"I'll do my best, sir," I answered, feeling not a little proud of the
rank to which I thus was raised.  I had, indeed, for some time past been
performing the duties of mate, supercargo, steward, and not unfrequently
helping the black cook, Sambo, and, indeed, lending a hand to everything
which required to be done.  Now Sambo and I were literally the only two
people capable of working on board.  The captain himself I feared
greatly had got the fever, notwithstanding his assertions to the
contrary.  It was surprising that I, the youngest in the ship, and least
inured to the climate, should have escaped.  I had always been very
healthy; had never done anything to hurt my constitution, and had
followed the captain's advice in keeping out of the sun, and was
inclined to feel somewhat self-satisfied on that account--not
considering that it was owing to God's mercy and loving-kindness that I
had been preserved.

The captain said he would go and see Raven; but having got up, after
moving a few paces, he sat down again with a groan, and a deadly pallor
came over his countenance.  He felt that he, too, had got the fever.  I
advised him to lie down again and rest, but to that he would not
consent.  He was determined to carry on the trade as usual during the
day, and to get ready for sea as soon as the black seamen, whom he
expected every hour on board, arrived.  He sent me up frequently to see
whether they were coming off, and now, when too late, he seemed as
anxious as anyone had been to get the vessel out of the river.

I was thankful when at length I found two canoes alongside with the
expected blacks.  The Krumen were fine athletic fellows, neatly dressed
in shirts and trousers, and having all served on board men-of-war or in
merchant vessels, spoke a little English.  They had been hired by the
captain's agent on shore; and as their wages had been settled, and they
knew the duties they were required to perform, they went to work at once
under their head man, who had been appointed to act as boatswain, and
seemed inclined to be orderly and obedient.  Besides the Krumen there
were, as I have before said, several other black seamen engaged, who had
been mostly recaptured slaves, and had afterwards entered on board
men-of-war or merchant vessels touching at Sierra Leone.  I was struck
with the manner of one of them, a fine active man, as I, now the only
representative of the "Chieftain's" officers and crew, stood near the
gangway to receive them.  Touching his hat in a respectful manner, he
asked after Captain Willis.  "He know me, Paul Balingo.  I sail once
with him some time ago.  He kind man, so I come again."  I told him that
the captain was rather unwell.  He had charged me not to let the blacks
fancy that he had the fever.  I added, that I was sure he would be glad
to see him in the cabin.

"I go when you tell I come on board," answered Paul.  "Sorry to hear him
ill."

"Oh, he says its nothing," I observed, "and as soon as the tide serves
we are to go down the river, and put to sea."

I made this remark in obedience to the captain's instructions.  I now
gave directions to the black boatswain to get the cargo stowed without
delay.

The captain was much pleased to hear that Paul Balingo had joined the
vessel, and said he would see him at once.  "I remember him well," he
observed, "a good steady fellow."

I told Paul to come down, and he received a friendly welcome.  I then
reminded the captain that there was another duty to be performed.  It
was to bury the men who had died during the night.  This was beyond the
strength of those who still survived.

"I see to it, sir," said Paul.

"The sooner the better then," observed the captain.  "And when you
return we will trip the anchor, if there is wind enough to help us
along."

Four bodies were lowered into the canoe, and Paul and some of his
companions took them on shore.  He had fastened them up in canvas, for
there was no time to make coffins; indeed, the carpenter was among them.
I should like to have accompanied him to pay the last mark of respect I
could to the poor fellows, but there were too many duties to be
performed on board to allow of this.  I watched them, however, through
the glass as they stood on the beach, which formed our burial place.  To
my surprise, after the graves were dug, I observed Paul Balingo take off
his hat--his companions imitating his example--when he seemed to be
lifting up his hands in prayer.  Then he addressed a number of natives
who were standing round, and the bodies were carefully lowered into the
graves, and covered up.

When he returned on board I told him that the captain was very much
obliged to him for what he had done.  "And I saw too," I observed, "that
you were praying for the poor fellows."

"No, massa; I no pray for dem," he answered.  "If when dey died dey
loved Jesus Christ, den dey no want my prayers; if dey no love Him, den
He no love dem.  No, massa, me pray for dose that stand round, and for
dose still alive.  I pray dat God's Holy Spirit would come into dere
hearts, and told dem to love Jesus, and dat He died for sinners.  I
prayed dat dey would hear His Word, and love Him and serve Him.  Den I
tell dem that Jesus Christ came down on earth, and become man, and be
obedient to God, and do all dat good child should do who lub him
parents, and dat He pure and holy like lamb widout spot or blemish, and
dat He died on de cross, and be punished instead of wicked man, and dat
God den say dat one who not deserve punishment being punished He will
forgive all dose His dear Son present to Him, who lub Him and serve Him.
Den I tell dem dat Jesus Christ died for dem, and dat if dey trust to
Him He put away all dere sins, and God not look at dere sins any more.
Den I turn de matter about, and I say dat you and all men are poor and
naked and covered with dirt and sores, and not fit to go into de
presence of pure and holy God; but if you love Christ and trust dat He
died and was punished instead of you, den He put on you a white robe,
cover you wid His righteousness, and den when you go to God He longer
see that you are poor and naked, but He only see the white robe, and He
say, `Now you may come into dis pure and bright heaven, and live wid
Me.'  Then once more I say again, look here, God put you into this
world, and you owe God everything.  You ought to obey Him and serve Him,
and give Him all your strength and health, and to try and please Him in
all things every moment of your life.  Next I remind dem dat none of us
do it, so we owe God a debt, and the longer we live the greater is the
debt.  It is not den all the things that we do dat God reckon, but the
many things that we ought to do and which we leave undone.  We receive
all the good things from God, and we give Him nothing in return.  Then
we have no means to pay this debt, so Jesus Christ, because He love us,
say He pay it, and God say He accept His payment and set us free.  Den I
say to the people, Do you believe dis?  If you do, and try to love God,
and serve God, and do what Jesus Christ did when He was on earth, den
you have living faith, and you are free, and God no say longer that you
owe Him debt, but He call you His dear children, and when you leave this
world He receive you in heaven."

"Why, Paul," I exclaimed, after listening with astonishment to what he
had said, "I little expected to hear such things come out of a--" (I was
going to say negro's mouth, but changed it to) "African sailor's mouth.
You ought to be a missionary."

"Every Christian man ought to be a missionary," he answered.  "If he
love the Lord Jesus, and know that the Lord Jesus love him, then he
ought to tell that love to others, and if he knows the value of his own
soul then he values the souls of others, and try to win those souls for
Christ.  The truth is, massa, I do want to be missionary, and I seek to
go to England to learn more.  I there learn to preach the gospel, and
when I come back I carry the glad tidings of salvation to my ignorant
countrymen."

I was very much struck with Paul's earnestness and zeal, though at that
time I could scarcely comprehend all he said--I myself knew nothing
experimentally of the great love of Jesus of which he spoke.  The poor
black Christian was far more enlightened than I was.  Still I felt a
satisfaction at having him on board.  He at once showed that he was not
a mere theoretical Christian, for as soon as his duty on board the ship
was over, he devoted himself to attending on the sick men.  All the
hours he could snatch from sleep he spent by the side of their bunks,
urging them to trust to Jesus, and to repent of their sins while yet
there was time.

The poor second mate grew worse and worse.  Paul visited him, and he
heard from the lips of the black seaman, perhaps for the first time, the
full and free message of salvation; and, I believe, from what Paul told
me, and from the remarks the mate made to me before he died, that he had
fully accepted God's gracious offer of reconciliation.

I am going ahead though too fast in my narrative.  Before the morning
came that we were to have left our anchorage Captain Willis himself was
laid prostrate with the fever, and having now no one on board to
navigate the vessel, we could not venture to sea.  I would have done my
best to find our way to Sierra Leone, but the black boatswain refused to
leave the harbour without an officer capable of taking charge of the
brigantine.  We were compelled, therefore, to wait till Captain Willis
should recover sufficiently, or till the arrival of another English
vessel which could spare one of her mates to take charge of the
"Chieftain."

Before many days were over Captain Willis, and Sambo, the black cook,
and I, were the only persons of those who had come into the river, still
alive on board.  Had the Krumen been badly disposed, they might, without
difficulty, have taken possession of the vessel, and made off with her
rich cargo; but they appeared, as far I could judge, to intend to act
faithfully, and perform their various duties as well as if the captain's
eye had been constantly upon them.  About Paul I had no doubt.  Little
as I knew of vital religion myself, I was sure that he was a true man,
and that he acted according to his professions.  Nothing could exceed
his attention to the captain; he or I were constantly at his bedside;
and Paul showed considerable skill in treating the disease.  I believe
that it was mainly owing to him, through God's mercy, that the captain
did not succumb to it, as the rest of the crew had done.

"Paul," said the captain one morning, when he felt himself getting a
little better, "I owe you my life, I will try not to forget you."

"Oh, no, no captain, poor fellow like me not able to do you good; give
God de praise," he answered solemnly, looking upwards.  "Oh, if you did
but know how God loves you, how He takes care of you, and gives you all
the good things of life, and saves you from danger, and wishes you to
come and live with Him, and be happy for ever and ever, you would try to
love Him and serve Him, and obey Him in all things."

"I don't think that God can care for one who has cared so little for
Him," answered the captain.  "I don't mean to say that I call myself a
bad man, or that I have many great sins on my conscience, and so, I
suppose, if I died He would hot shut me out of heaven altogether."

"Captain," said Paul, fixing his eyes steadily on him, "the debil told
you dat; he a liar from the beginning.  God says, `There is none that
doeth good, no not one,' `The soul that sinneth shall surely die.'  What
does dat mean?  Not, surely, that if you sinner He let you get into
heaven.  I ask you, captain, whether you are a sinner, or whether you
pure and holy, and trust to Christ, and love Christ, and fit to go and
live for ever and ever in the pure and holy heaven with Him?
Understand, I do not ask whether you are a great sinner in your own
sight, but whether you have ever committed any sins; and remember, God
says, `the soul that sinneth,' not only the soul that is a great
sinner."

The captain looked much annoyed.  "Yes, of course, I have committed some
sins; but I don't see why God has any right to charge them against me."

"God made this world, and all things that are therein.  God rules this
world, and God made His laws, and He says they are just and right, and
God says, `The soul that sinneth shall surely die,'" answered Paul,
solemnly.  "Captain understand, it is not I who say that.  God says it.
But though God is a God of justice He is full of love and mercy, and He
has therefore formed a plan for the benefit of sinning men, by which
man's sins can be washed away, by which His justice will be satisfied,
His love and mercy shown.  He has allowed another to be punished instead
of the sinner," Paul continued, explaining to the captain God's plan of
salvation much in the same terms as he had already explained it to me.

"I never understood that matter before," said the captain.  "But still I
do not see how God can expect us to be as good as you say."

"Massa Captain, I do not say dat God expect us to be good; but still He
has a right to demand that we should be good.  He made man pure and holy
and upright, and He gave him free will to act as he chose; but man
disobeyed God and went away from Him, and forgot Him, and so God has the
right to punish man.  But den God is full of love and mercy, and He does
not want to punish him, but wants him to come back to Him, and so He has
sent His message to man to tell him how he may do that.  Now as man
cannot be good and pure and holy and do nothing but good, but, on the
contrary, does much harm, he must either accept God's plan of salvation,
or be punished.  You have heard, captain, about the thief on the cross,
even when he was dying he put faith in Jesus, and Jesus told him that he
should be that night with Him in paradise.  So you see, captain, there
is hope for the sinner, even at the last, and this shows that God does
not expect us to do anything good in order to be saved, but only just to
put faith in the sacrifice of His dear Son--that is to say, to believe
that He was punished instead of us.  But then remember, captain, that
only one thief was saved; and that shows to us that we must not put off
turning to Jesus to the last, and, therefore, I pray you, captain, go to
Him at once; trust to Him now, and you will not feel unhappy; and if
this fever takes you away, as it has taken away so many people on board
this ship, you will hab no fear of death, for you will go to live with
Jesus, and be happy with Him for ever and ever."

Captain Willis groaned.  "I'll pray wid you, captain," said Paul, and he
knelt down by the side of the bed, and lifted up his voice in prayer,
and earnestly besought God to send His Holy Spirit to soften the
captain's heart, and to enlighten his mind.

I had listened attentively to all that Paul had said, and I prayed that
the blessing which he asked for the captain might descend on me also;
for I had begun to discover that my heart was very hard, and prone to
evil, and that I had no love for Jesus, no desire to obey His law.  Thus
the truths of the gospel, as they fell from the lips of the black
sailor, first came home to my heart.

Several days passed by--the "Chieftain" was got ready for sea, and the
captain considered himself well enough to take the command.


CHAPTER FIVE.

WE AT LENGTH GET OUT OF THE RIVER INTO THE OPEN SEA, BUT A CALM COMES
ON, AND THE CAPTAIN AGAIN BECOMES VERY ILL.--NO ONE ON BOARD
UNDERSTANDING NAVIGATION, I DOUBT WHETHER I SHALL FIND MY WAY TO SIERRA
LEONE.--THE CAPTAIN DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT HE IS IN DANGER.--PAUL PLEADS
WITH HIM ABOUT THE SAFETY OF HIS SOUL.--A FIRE BREAKS OUT IN THE HOLD.--
WE IN VAIN ENDEAVOUR TO EXTINGUISH IT.--THE REST OF THE CREW DESERT
US.--PAUL AND I ENDEAVOUR TO SAVE THE CAPTAIN, BUT DRIVEN FROM THE CABIN
BY THE FLAMES LEAP OVERBOARD AND REACH A SMALL BOAT, WHICH WE RIGHT AND
GET INTO.--SEE A SCHOONER APPROACHING US.

At day-break the pilot came on board, the sails were loosed, the anchor
hove-up, and the "Chieftain," with a hot land breeze, which still blew
strong, glided down the river.  Captain Willis, who had been brought
from his cabin by Paul and Sambo, sat propped up with pillows on the
deck.  It was melancholy to see him, his once strong frame reduced to a
mere skeleton, his countenance pale and haggard, and his strong voice
now sounding weak and hollow, and scarcely to be heard by those to whom
he issued his orders.  I stood by him to repeat them.  I saw him cast an
eye towards the spot which contained the graves of our shipmates, and I
could divine his thoughts.  Perhaps he might have reflected that had he
not been so greedy of gain, many of them might be still alive, while he
himself might be enjoying health and strength.

The mangrove covered shores looked even more sombre and monotonous than
before, in the grey light of morning, as we glided down between them.
The air was hot and oppressive, and full of pestilence, and it seemed a
wonder to me that I should have lived so many weeks while breathing such
an atmosphere.  I dreaded lest the breeze should fail us, and we should
be compelled to spend another night under its influence; but the wind
held, the tide was in our favour, and we had nearly reached the mouth of
the river before the wind dropped, and we had to bring up.  A few
minutes afterwards the fresh sea breeze came rushing in, pure and sweet,
and comparatively cool.  With what delight did I gulp it down.  I
quickly felt like another creature.  The captain also seemed to revive
rapidly under its influence, and I began to hope that he would
ultimately recover.

I eagerly watched the sparkling lines of white foam as the ocean waves,
meeting the ebbing current of the river, broke across the bar.  How I
longed for the evening, when the land breeze would again fill our sails,
and carry us out into the open bounding ocean.  It seemed to me that
then all difficulty would be passed, and we should only have to shape
our course for England, and steer on till we should reach it.

The captain, unwilling again to go below, sat all day on deck under an
awning, ready for the moment when we might venture to weigh anchor.  It
came at last.  Just before sunset the hot wind began to blow.  Although
the bar still wore a threatening aspect, the pilot declared that,
without fear, we might venture over it.

Not a moment was lost, on we stood towards it.  In a short time foaming
breakers were hissing and bubbling around us.  Once more I felt the
vessel rising to the heaving wave, and welcomed the showers of spray
which flew over her deck.  On she sped, but very slowly; now she sank
downwards, and it seemed as if the next roller would send her back on
the bar.  It glided under her, however, and then she appeared floating,
as it were, almost at rest on its summit, and then downwards she slid,
slowly making her onward way.

In a few minutes more we were in the free open ocean, and the dark
sombre river, with its gloomy associations, was far astern.  Every inch
of canvas the vessel could carry was set, that we might get a good
offing before nightfall, when a calm was to be expected.

"I never wish to see that place again," I could not help exclaiming.

"Don't say that, Harry," answered the captain.  "We may hope to have
better luck the next time.  If you ever want to grow rich you must run
some risk.  We have had an unusually sickly season, which may not again
occur; and if the owners ask me to go back, I am not the man to refuse
to do so, and I should look to you to go along with me."

Can it be possible, I thought, that a man, after running so fearful a
risk, would willingly again expose himself to the same danger, merely
for the sake of rapidly gaining wealth?  I forgot at the moment that
people not only hazard their health but their souls, for that object.
Had I remembered the fact, I should not have been surprised at what the
captain had said.

We had got out of sight of land, but the wind was very light, and we
made little progress.  In a short time it fell calm altogether, and the
vessel lay like a log on the water.  The heat, too, was very great, and
the captain appeared to suffer from it.  It was evident, indeed, that he
was falling rapidly back, and he had now no strength to come on deck.  I
was much alarmed on his account, for I thought it too likely that, after
apparently being so near recovery, he would die.  I was anxious also on
our own account, for knowing so little as I did about navigation, I
could not tell how I should take the vessel into port.  I got out a
chart and studied it, and marked the spot where I believed we then were.
I then drew a line from it to Sierra Leone, the place for which I
intended to steer.  It lay about north-west of us, and I hoped that if I
could sight the land to the southward I might coast along till I came to
it.  There were, however, I knew, strong currents running, which might
take us out of our course, and we might have contrary winds, which would
further increase the difficulty.  I thought that very likely some of the
blacks knew more about the matter than I did, but I did not like to
confess my apprehensions to them lest they might be tempted to play some
trick, and perhaps run away with the vessel altogether.

The only person in whom I could confide was Paul.  I knew that I could
trust him thoroughly, but then I suspected that he was not a better
navigator than I was, as he had only served on board a man-of-war and
merchantmen, when he would not have been able to learn anything about
the matter.

The captain caught sight of me through the open door of his berth, as I
was poring over the chart spread out on the table of the main cabin.
"What are you about, Harry?" he asked.

I told him that I was looking at the chart to see what course we ought
to steer.

"Don't trouble yourself about that, lad," he answered; "I shall be well
as soon as the breeze comes.  It's this hot calm keeps me down.  If the
wind had continued, I should have been myself again by this time, though
I have had a narrow squeak for it I'll allow."

His face looked so pale and haggard, his eyes so sunken, his voice so
weak and trembling, that I could not help fearing that he was mistaken.
I was unwilling to alarm him, but it was so important that I should know
how to act in case of his death, that I could not help saying,--"But
suppose anything was to happen to you, sir, what should you advise me to
do?"

"I do not intend that anything shall happen to me, Harry," he answered,
evidently annoyed at my remark.  "After having got this valuable cargo
on board we must not think of such a thing.  Why Harry, in all my
voyages I have never collected half so rich a freight."

"I earnestly hope that you may recover your health, sir," I said.  "I
mentioned the subject simply in case of accidents, and I did not suppose
that you would be offended."

"Of course I am not, Harry," he replied.  "You don't suppose that I am a
coward and afraid to die; and if it was not for the sake of the vessel
and her freight, I should not care, I fancy, so much about the matter;
but it would never do now to knock under--so don't, Harry, put those
gloomy thoughts again into my head."

On going on deck I told Paul my fears about the captain.  "Yes, he very
bad," he said; "but I more sorry about him soul.  He think more of the
cargo, which may go to the bottom in one moment, than of his soul, which
live for ever and ever.  O Massa Harry, we must speak again to him about
dat.  We will plead with him with tears in our eyes, that he think about
his soul, and we will tell him not to trouble about the vessel."

Without loss of time we went to the captain.  At first he listened
somewhat coldly to what Paul said, but he did not grow angry.  "I thank
you for interesting yourself about me," he said at last.  "You may be
right, and if you will pray with me I will try to join you."

Paul and I thereon knelt down, as we had done before, and Paul, in very
plain language, earnestly besought God to send His Holy Spirit to soften
the captain's heart, to show him that he was a lost sinner, and had need
of a Saviour--to enlighten his mind, and to enable him to take hold of
Christ as the only way whereby he could be saved.

The captain remained for a long time afterwards silent.  At length he
put out his hand and grasped Paul's.  "I see it now," he said, sighing
deeply.  "I have been, and still am, a great sinner.  Oh, that I knew
better how I could be saved."

"Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved," said Paul,
in a firm voice.  "That is God's loving message.  He sends no other;
and, captain, if all the ministers of your country were to come to you,
they could bring you no other.  If you do believe on Jesus, and are to
die this very day, He says to you just what He said when hanging on the
cross on Calvary to the dying thief, `This night thou shalt be with me
in paradise.'"

The captain was greatly moved, and I heard him, between his sobs,
exclaiming, "Lord, I believe, help Thou my unbelief."

Oh how necessary is that prayer! and I am sure it is one which is always
answered, when the sinner is truly desirous of turning from his sins,
and is seeking, by every means in his power, to strengthen his belief.

I had got out my Bible several days before, and I now read it constantly
to the captain, as well as to myself.  Whenever I came to a passage
which seemed to meet his case, he desired me to read it over and over
again.  Notwithstanding this, the desire was strong within him to
recover, for the sake of carrying home the vessel and her rich freight
in safety.  That was but natural, and I earnestly hoped that he might be
restored to health.  Instead, however, of gaining strength, he appeared
to grow weaker and weaker.

The calm had now continued for several days.  Often as I looked over the
side I saw dark triangular fins just rising above the surface, and
moving here and there round the ship, and frequently the whole form of
the monster could be discerned as it glided by; and when I saw its keen
cruel eyes glancing up towards me, I felt a shudder pass through my
frame, such as, according to the vulgar notion, a person feels when it
is said that some one is walking over his grave.  Occasionally, when
anything was thrown overboard, a white flash was seen rising out of the
deep, and a large pair of jaws, armed with sharp teeth, opening, gulped
it down, and directly afterwards the creature went swimming on, watching
for any other dainty morsel which might come in its way.  "How dreadful
it would be to fall overboard," I thought.  "Calm as the sea is, a
person, with those creatures around, would have very little chance of
escaping with life."

Dark clouds had been gathering around, and the wavelets began to play
over the hitherto calm ocean.  Although as yet there was not much wind,
the sails were trimmed, and, by the captain's orders, the vessel was put
on a north-west course.  I concluded, consequently, that he at all
events intended touching at Sierra Leone, to obtain a mate and some
white hands.  The wind, however, rapidly increased, sail was taken in,
and before long it was blowing a perfect hurricane.  This made the poor
captain more anxious than ever to get on deck, but when he attempted to
move he found that he had not strength even to sit up.  The wind howled
and whistled, the vessel tumbled fearfully about, and the seas, which
rose up in foaming masses, frequently broke on board, deluging her deck.

I had gone down to the captain, who had directed me to visit him every
quarter of an hour to let him know how things were going on, when, as I
entered the cabin, I discovered a strong smell of burning, and directly
afterwards I saw thin wreaths of black smoke making their way through
the forward bulk-head.  The dreadful conviction came upon me that the
vessel was on fire.  I sprang on deck, and calling the boatswain and
Paul, I told them my fears.  That they were too well founded we had soon
fearful evidence, for the smoke, now in thick volumes, rose above the
deck, both fore and aft.  Still there might be time to extinguish the
fire.  To do this it was necessary to take off the main-hatchway, and,
in spite of the risk of a sea beating over us, it was done.  The instant
it was off dense masses of black smoke rose up from below, preventing
all attempts which the boatswain and some of his men made to discover
the seat of the fire.

"We must take to the boats," he exclaimed, "the ship soon all in flames,
then the boats burn and we no get away."

Paul and I as well as Sambo tried to persuade him and his Krumen to make
more efforts to put out the fire before they lowered the boats.  With
the sea then running, indeed there was every probability that they would
be swamped.  We set them the example, by rigging the pumps, and filling
buckets from alongside to heave down the hold.  Thus encouraged, they
laboured for a short time, but finding their efforts of no effect, they
abandoned the work and began to lower the boats.

The wind had happily by this time somewhat moderated; while most of the
people were engaged in launching the long boat, Paul and I with two
other men set to work to lower one of the smaller boats.  We had not
forgotten the poor captain, and as the smoke had not yet made its way
into his cabin, I did not intend to let him know what had occurred till
the last, when I hoped, with the assistance of Paul and others, to get
him lowered safely into one of the boats.

All hands were working away with frantic haste, for we could not tell at
what moment the flames might burst forth, and render the deck untenable.
At length the long boat was launched, and the boatswain and the Krumen
leaped into her.  They called to Sambo and the rest to follow.  I
thought Sambo would have remained faithful to the captain, and have come
to assist him, but at that moment a forked flame burst up from the hold,
so alarming him, that he followed the rest.  Paul and I entreated the
other men to remain by the smaller boat, while we went into the cabin to
bring up my poor friend the captain.  As I was descending the companion
hatch, I heard the boatswain shouting to the other men, and caught sight
of them running to the side.  Still I hoped that should they desert us,
Paul and I might be able, after placing the captain in the boat, to
lower her in safety.

"The ship on fire," exclaimed Captain Willis, when I told him what had
occurred, "Heave water down the hold.  Do all you can to save our rich
freight, that must not be lost on any account."

I told him that we had done what we could, and that the rest of the crew
had already deserted the vessel.

The captain sank back on his pillow, "I Have no strength to move," he
murmured, "and you and Paul cannot lift me."

"We will try, Massa Captain," said Paul.

I proposed that we should lift him in his cot through the skylight.  The
captain at length agreed to this.  I sprang on deck, intending to secure
a tackle to the main boom, by which we might carry out my proposal with
greater ease.  What was my horror on reaching the deck, to find that the
blacks, on quitting the falls, had neglected to secure them, and that
the boat having fallen into the water had been washed away and capsized.
The flames, too, which were now ascending through the main-hatchway had
caught the other boat, and already her bows were burned through.

With this appalling intelligence I returned below.  Escape seemed
impossible.  I proposed building a raft, it was a desperate resource,
and there might not be time even to lash a few spars together.  I could
not bear the thought of allowing the poor captain to perish miserably
without an attempt to save him.  He divined my thoughts.  "Its of no
use, Harry, I am prepared for death, and resign myself to the arms of
that merciful God whom I have so lately learned to know," he said, with
perfect calmness.

Paul, while the captain had been speaking, seized a bright axe which
hung against the bulk-head as an ornament, intending to cut away
whatever might assist in forming a raft, and had sprang on deck with it.
He now came down through the skylight hatch, "It is too late," he
exclaimed, "the flames come aft."

He spoke too truly.  At that instant dense masses of smoke rushed into
the cabin, and the flames burst through the after bulk head.  I was
scorched, by the heat and almost suffocated.  So dense was the smoke
which filled the captain's berth, that I could no longer see him.

I felt Paul grasping my hand, "Come Harry, come, too late to save poor
captain," he said, dragging me after him.  I was almost stifled, and
gasped for breath.  In another moment I should have fallen, indeed I was
so overcome with the smoke that I did not know what was happening.

Happily however I kept firm hold of Paul, and suddenly I found myself
plunged headlong into the water.  He had hauled me through the cabin
window.

"Now strike out Massa Harry, I see boat not far off, we get to her," he
exclaimed.  I did as he directed me, but the thought of the horrid
sharks I had seen swimming about the vessel, almost paralysed my senses,
and every moment I expected to find myself seized by the cruel jaws of
one of them.

"Cheer up Harry, cheer up," shouted Paul; "there is the boat, we got
Friend in heaven who look after us; never fear, we reach her soon, cheer
up."

With such like cries he continued to animate me.  He shouted thus not
only for that object, but to keep any sharks which might be inclined to
seize us at a distance.  The boat, as we got near her, was, I saw, keel
upwards.

"Never fear Massa Harry," said Paul, "we soon right her."

We at length reached the boat, and Paul showing me the way, after some
exertion, he going ahead and I keeping astern, we managed to turn her
over.  We then shook her from side to side till we had hove out a
considerable amount of water in her.  He told me to get in over the
stern, and to begin bailing with my hat.  I did as he advised, thankful
to find myself out of the grasp of the sharks.  He kept splashing about
with his heels, and constantly turning round to see that none of the
monsters were near.  Looking up I caught sight of the long boat standing
away from us under sail towards the shore.  She had already got too far
off to allow of our cries reaching her, or even indeed for those on
board to see us.  We were thus cruelly deserted by our shipmates.  We
could only hope for their credit that they supposed we had already lost
our lives, and that there would be no use looking for us.

At length I having partially cleared the boat, Paul also got in, and we
both began bailing away as hard as we could with our hats.  While thus
employed I saw a huge shark approaching, and I fancied looking
disappointed at our having escaped his hungry maw.  Happily the sea by
this time had gone considerably down, or our task would have been
rendered hopeless.  As it was it took us a considerable time to lessen
the water in the boat, for deep as she was, the water which leaped in
often again nearly refilled her.  Still we persevered, for we were, we
knew, labouring for our lives.  Meantime the shark, as if longing to
make us its prey, kept swimming round and round the boat.  At a short
distance the brigantine was burning furiously, and already the flames,
ascending the masts, had caught the rigging and sails.

While as I could not help doing, I turned my gaze at her I saw far away
in the horizon the white sail of a vessel.  "A sail! a sail!"  I
shouted; "we are saved Paul, we are saved."

Paul looked up for a minute.  "Yes," he said, "she standing this way.
The burning ship bring her down to us.  She big schooner.  May be good,
may be bad! though."


CHAPTER SIX.

A CALM COMES ON, AND WE REMAIN DURING THE NIGHT SUFFERING FROM HUNGER
AND THIRST.--PAUL TELLS ME HIS HISTORY, AND I FIND THAT HE IS CHEEBO, OF
WHOM I AM IN SEARCH.--HIS JOY AT HEARING OF HIS MOTHER MAKES HIM
REGARDLESS OF THE SUFFERING WE ARE ENDURING--THE SCHOONER PICKS US UP.--
PAUL SUSPECTS HER CHARACTER.--BEFORE LONG WE DISCOVER THAT SHE IS A
SLAVER, AND SHE RUNS UP A RIVER TO RECEIVE HER CARGO ON BOARD.

Scarcely had we caught sight of the stranger than the wind entirely fell
and she lay totally becalmed.  The smooth sea enabled us to free the
boat completely, and now we had nothing to do but to sit down and watch
the burning brigantine.

First one of the tall masts, completely encircled by the flames, fell
hissing into the water.  The other, after standing awhile in solitary
grandeur, formed a fiery pinnacle to the flaming hull below.

At length it followed its companion, and then the fire ran riot fore and
aft.  Sometimes wearied by the sight, I put my hands before my eyes to
shut it out, but then I could not help thinking of the sad fate of the
poor captain, whose body lay on its funeral pile on board.

"Ah, he happy now," whispered Paul.  He had also been thinking of him.
"He say he love Jesus; he trust to Jesus, no fear for him."

Paul's words brought consolation to my heart.  Our own condition might
well have made me depressed, yet I felt supported by the strong faith of
my companion in a way I formerly should not have thought possible.

We had no food, and not a drop of fresh water to quench our burning
thirst.

Some way off we could see pieces of burnt spars floating about.  I
thought of trying to paddle the boat up to them with our hands, hoping
to find some which might serve as oars, and enable us to reach the
schooner in the distance.  I quickly, however, gave up the attempt, for
scarcely had I put my hand into the water than I saw a huge pair of jaws
darting towards it, and I had just time to pull it out before they made
a snap close to me, which would, in a moment, have bitten it off.

Night soon came down upon us as we thus sat utterly helpless in our
boat, while the sea around was lighted up with the flames of the burning
vessel.  Loaded as she was almost entirely with combustible materials,
they burned with unusual fierceness.  Her whole interior, as the sides
were burned away, appeared one glowing mass, surrounded by a rim of
flames which fed upon her stout timbers and planking.  Suddenly there
came a loud hissing noise across the water, then a dense vapour ascended
from her midst, and in an instant after all was darkness.  The remains
of the "Chieftain" had sunk into the depths of ocean.

"I am afraid our chance of being picked up by the schooner is gone," I
observed to Paul.  "She very probably, when the breeze comes, will stand
away from us."

"There is no such thing as chance, Massa Harry," he answered.  "If it is
God's will she come, if not, He find some other way to save us.  Let us
pray that He do what He judge best."

Thereon Paul, without waiting for my reply, knelt down in the bottom of
the boat and lifted up his voice in prayer to our merciful Father in
heaven, for that protection which we more than ever felt we so much
needed.  I imitating his example, heartily joined him.

As we sat in the boat side by side talking together, for neither of us
were inclined to sleep, I asked him how it was that he, a common sailor,
had become so well instructed a Christian?

"Ah, Massa Harry, I knew about Jesus when I quite a little boy; but only
a few years ago I learned to love Him and trust to Him as I now do," he
answered.  "I'll tell you how dis was.  When I piccaniny I hab kind
fader and moder, and we live in Yourba country, in our own village, far
away.  One night the enemy come and attack the village, and carry off
many men and women and children.  My fader take me up and run away into
de wood, my moder follow, but she fall, and the slaver people catch her
and take her with the rest.  My poor fader, like to break him heart, but
for my sake he live and hide away till the slaver people gone.  He tried
to find my moder, but from dat day to dis he neber hear of her more.
After some time it was told him dat a great many people go to a place
called Abeokuta, and dat dere day built town, and let no slave-takers
come near them, so my fader go there, and we live there, and work and
grow rich, and many more people come, and we not fear any of our
enemies.  All the people were heathens, and prayed to the fetish.

"After some time many people come from Sierra Leone, who had been
carried off in slavers, and taken by the English cruisers, and landed
there.  They find relations and friends in Abeokuta, and so they stop to
live with us.  Some of them had learned in Sierra Leone about God and
His Son Jesus Christ, and they tell us, and many of the people of
Abeokuta say they will no longer pray to the fetish, but will only pray
to God, and love Him and serve Him.  My fader was among these, and now
the only thing he cared for in life was to listen to the missionaries
and hear about Jesus Christ.  Only one thing made him unhappy, that was
that my poor moder should not learn the truth of the gospel.  He knew
that she was carried away by bad people, and he afraid that she become
bad like them; but he pray day and night that God in His mercy would
make known to her His great love, as He had made it known to him.

"Oh, if I could but hear that she had become a Christian how happy I
should be!" he used to say to me over and over again.  "Paul," that was
the name I had got when I was christened, "you must pray for your moder
wid me, and I am sure that God will hear our prayers."

"At last my fader grew sick, and he made me promise, if he died, that I
would go to Sierra Leone and try to find if my moder was dere.  My fader
grew worse and worse, but still him very happy, and taking my hand, he
say, `Paul, you must meet me in heaven, and you must bring your moder
there, and then we all live together for ever and ever, where there are
no more slave-dealers, and no more war, and no more cruelty,' and den
him die.

"After dat I set off to go to Sierra Leone, but slave-dealer catch me on
the way and take me on board slaver, with nearly four hundred other
black fellows, and we were all put down in ship's hold, and carried away
to the coast of Brazil.  But English man-of-war catch the slaver.  The
English captain find out that I was a Christian, and so he ask me if I
like to serve on board de man-of-war, and I say yes.  The captain, good
Christian man himself, so I learn to speak English, and he taught me to
read Bible, and I learn still more about Jesus than I did in Abeokuta.
At last we got back to Sierra Leone, and then I remember my promise to
my father, and while I on shore trying to learn about my moder, the ship
sail away, and no more come back.  I no hear about my moder, and have no
money, so I ship on board merchant vessel, and after sailing in her
along the coast for some time I go on board another, and then I again go
on board man-of-war.  At last I get back to Sierra Leone, and fall very
sick, and sent to hospital, then a good missionary come to me and I tell
him what my fader had said, and he ask me if I think I going to heaven,
and then he tell me more about the right way, and pray with me.  And now
I find Jesus as my own Saviour and Friend, and love Him, and wish to
serve Him, and obey Him.  Then the wish came into my heart to preach the
gospel to my countrymen, but I, still poor and very ignorant, and I
thought if I could make two or three voyages and save money, I would go
to England and study there, and be better able to declare the glad
tidings of salvation, and that the people would more willingly listen to
me.

"It was on the second trip I made that the vessel I was in was wrecked
not far from the mouth of the Bonny, and I was making my way with some
of those who had escaped with me to Sierra Leone when Captain Willis
engaged me to serve on board the `Chieftain.'"

While Paul was giving me this sketch of his history an idea had forcibly
taken possession of my mind.  "Tell me," I exclaimed suddenly, "what was
your name before you were christened?"

"Cheebo," he answered.

"And your father's name," I inquired eagerly.

"My father, him called Quamino," he said, in a surprised tone.

"Oh Paul!"  I cried out, seizing his hand, "I have indeed then good news
for you.  Your father's and your prayers have been answered, for I can
assure you that your mother is a true and faithful Christian.  I have
known her all my life, her name she has told me was Ambah, and that she
was torn away from her husband and child as your mother was from you."

"Yes, yes, Ambah was my mother's name, and did she tell you that her
husband's name was Quamino, and their piccaniny was called Cheebo?" he
asked, almost gasping for breath.

"Those were the very names she gave me, and I wrote them in my pocket
book so that I might not forget them."  I answered.

"Oh, Massa Harry, that is indeed joyful news," he cried out.  "Then I
and my mother and father will all meet in heaven, Praise God!  I now not
fear what man can do unto me."

It would be difficult to do justice to the feeling displayed by Paul,
even were I to repeat all he said, his piety, his gratitude, and his
joy.  He could talk of nothing else during the night.  He seemed to be
insensible to hunger and thirst, and to forget altogether the dangerous
position in which we were placed.  Now he kneeled down in prayer, now he
gave vent to his feelings in a hymn of praise.  I could not help
sympathising with him, and rejoicing that I had been the means of giving
him the information which made him so happy.  Still I must confess that
I myself suffered not a little from the pangs of hunger, and would have
given much for a glass of cold water.

When morning dawned the schooner was still in sight.  I looked anxiously
round for the sign of a breeze, hoping that if it did come the stranger
would stand towards us.  At all events it seemed probable that having
seen the burning vessel those on board, in common humanity, would sail
over the spot where she had been, on the chance of picking up any of her
crew who might have escaped.  Paul, however, did not seem to wish this
as much as I did.  I saw him narrowly watching the vessel, then he shook
his head as if he did not like her looks.

The sun rose high in the sky, and beat down on our heads.  My thirst
became intolerable, and whatever might be the character of the stranger,
I could not help longing that she would pick us up.  The breeze came at
last, her sails filled.  How eagerly I watched her.

"She is standing towards us," I cried out, "we must soon be seen."  I
stood up on a thwart and waved a handkerchief.

"Better not Massa Harry," said Paul, but I did not heed him.

The schooner came on rapidly.  Again I waved my handkerchief, and held
it between my two hands, so that it might flutter in the breeze.  The
stranger approached.  She was a fine large square topsail schooner, with
a black hull and taunt raking masts.  She rounded to close to us, so
that she could drop down to where our boat lay.

A rope was hove to us, and I clambered up her side, Paul following me.
We were both so weak when we reached her deck that we could scarcely
stand.  I pointed to my mouth, just able to murmur, "water! water!"

"Si, si, aqua aqua," said a man, who appeared to be an officer; when one
of the men dipped a mug into a cask on deck, and brought it to us.  I
took part of the contents then handed it to Paul; but the seaman signed
to me to drain it myself, casting, I thought, a contemptuous glance at
my negro companion.  However, he brought another cup full, and even
though I emptied it to the bottom, still my thirst was scarcely
quenched.

An officer now appeared from below, and addressing me in English, asked
me how I came to be in the boat.  I told him exactly what had occurred.

"It is fortunate for you that we picked you up, for another vessel might
not pass this way for days to come," he observed.  "But what a pity so
rich a cargo should have been lost."

The unhappy fate of the poor captain did not seem to concern him much.

There is my cousin's uncle, who has, I believe, thirty thousand
a-year, though I never saw any part of it, or of him, for the matter
of that; and there is my own aunt by marriage, whose second husband
is a K.C.B., but I forget his name, and do not know where he lives."

So I sat and thought about it for a time with my eyes shut, and then
I started. The train was so full, that I imagined it must be
market-day in some neighbouring town, but the station was so much fuller,
that I could hardly get out of the train.

At last, edgeways, I reached a pale and melancholy ticket-collector, and
asked him where I should find the address mentioned. He turned a pitying
eye upon me, and, pointing to the crowd that filled the station,
said, wearily, "They're all a-goin' there. I know, cos they've all arst
me.
You'd better foller 'em."

This statement filled me with desperation; I fought and struggled
through the vast crowd of persons "with wealthy and influential
friends" until I reached the open street.

By that time I was exhausted, and, finding that the street was even
fuller than the station had been, I gave up the attempt. I saw that the
reserve of gold at the Bank of England would not have sufficed to pay
each applicant the promised £50.

In any case I felt sure that by that time the whole of the money in the
town must have been used up.

So, without hat or umbrella, and with my coat as much divided
up the back as up the front, I returned--to consciousness, and went on
reading the newspaper.

* * * * *
"THE FORESTERS."

All the greatest swells Of the U.S.A.
Come to see a new, Fascinating play.
Verses by a Lord!
Music by a Knight!
Just the thing in which Democrats delight.
When the hearty praise Bursts from Yankee lips, "Pass and blush the news
Over glowing ships;" What are "glowing ships"?
That I've never guessed, "Pass the happy news, Blush it thro' the
West;" This I simply quote From the poet's muse; Hang me if I know
How you "blush the news"!"You see what this vessel is," said the officer who had spoken to me in
English.  "We have saved your life, and must exact a promise from you
not to appear as a witness against any one on board should you at any
future period be called on to do so.  Let me advise you indeed not to
take notice of anything that occurs on board and it will be the better
for you.  We do not wish to harm you, but there are those among us who
hold human life very cheap, and they are not likely to stand on ceremony
should you interfere with their proceedings."

I replied that I was very grateful to him and the other officers for
treating me kindly, and that I only desired to be put on board an
English trader, in which I could work a passage home, "and I hope," I
added, "that my black companion will be allowed to accompany me."

"As to that I can make no promise," he answered.  "The captain will
decide the matter; but, I have no doubt, that if we fall in with an
English trader you will be allowed to go on board her."

A bright look-out was kept from the mast-head, and twice the schooner
altered her course to avoid a sail seen in the distance.  At length we
came off the mouth of a river.  A signal was made from the shore.  With
a fair breeze we ran in, and proceeding up some distance, dropped anchor
in a creek, where the schooner lay concealed by the tall trees which
grew on its banks.


CHAPTER SEVEN.

I WITNESS THE EMBARKATION OF SLAVES COLLECTED AT THE BARRACOONS, AND THE
CRUEL WAY IN WHICH THEY ARE TREATED AND PACKED IN THE HOLD OF THE
SLAVER.--UNWILLING TO DESERT PAUL, I REMAIN ON BOARD, AND THE SLAVER
PUTS TO SEA.--PAUL IS THREATENED FOR ATTEMPTING TO COMFORT THE SLAVES
WITH THE GOSPEL NEWS.--THE SCHOONER RECEIVES MORE SLAVES ON BOARD ALONG
THE COAST.--SOME ARE DROWNED COMING OFF--THE SLAVER GETS ON SHORE JUST
AS A MAN-OF-WAR IS SEEN IN THE OFFING.--A FOG COMES ON, AND THE
SCHOONER'S CREW MAKING DESPERATE EFFORTS TO GET HER OFF, SHE ESCAPES, TO
MY BITTER DISAPPOINTMENT, FROM THE MAN-OF-WAR'S BOATS, ALONG THE COAST.

I found myself once more exposed to the pestilential air of an African
river.  I in vain tried to sleep.  All night long I heard the sound of
the carpenters at work fitting the slave decks, and fixing the bars
across them, to which the captive negroes were to be secured.  The crew
were employed most of their time in hoisting water casks, and a further
supply of farinha, on board.

At length when morning broke I went on deck to breathe the air, which I
hoped would be somewhat cooler than that of the calm.  Through an
opening in the trees I saw several long low sheds with cottages and huts
scattered round them, while a number of people were moving about.  The
door in the end of one of the sheds was thrown open, and there issued
forth a long line of black figures, walking two and two, and secured
together by iron shackles round their wrists.

They staggered along with unwilling steps, looking round on the trees
and distant blue hills, which they were destined never again to see, and
even now it seemed to me that could they have wrenched their hands from
those iron bonds they would have attempted to strike a blow for freedom,
and make their escape into the forest.  On either side of them, however,
walked ruffianly looking fellows, with pistols in their belts and heavy
whips in their hands, with which, if their captives attempted to lag
behind, they urged them on.  One or two were whites, but most of them
were negroes, and seemed to have no scruple in leading their countrymen
into captivity.

So long a line came forth that it seemed impossible the building could
have held so many human beings.  Some were strong men, who cast scowling
glances at their guards; others were youths, many mere lads and young
boys, and there were a considerable number of women, mostly young, many,
indeed, being mere girls.  Several of the elder women had infants in
their arms, and children of various ages trotted by the sides of others,
or clung to their hands.  The sad procession came towards the vessel.  A
bridge had been formed from her deck to the shore.  The leading slaves
hesitated as they reached it, and refused to move forward till urged on
by the lash of their guards.

It must be remembered that cards can only be played on the foundations
_from the Auxiliaries_, and not straight from the Rivals or from the
talon; cards from these must first pass into the Auxiliaries.
There is no re-deal.

[Illustration: THE LABYRINTH.]As they arrived on board they were compelled to go below and take
their seats on the bare deck, side by side, with their legs secured to
the iron bars, and so closely packed that their knees were drawn up
almost to their chins.  Still, although nearly a hundred had come on
board, a considerable portion of the deck remained unoccupied.

I took an opportunity of going on shore, no one interfering with me.  As
I went through the village I passed a house of some size, in front of
which the captain was seated in the verandah with another white man,
with whom he appeared to be eagerly bargaining.  The latter was, I
found, the principle slave-dealer, to whom the sheds or barracoons, in
which the slaves were confined, belonged.  Going on I looked into one of
the barracoons.  The heat and odour which proceeded from it made me
unwilling to enter.  It was full of blacks, seated on narrow benches,
with their arms and legs secured to long bars which ran in front of
them.  Here they had been placed as they were brought down from the
interior, and kept in readiness for the arrival of the slaver.  This, I
suspect, was the gang for whom the captain had been bargaining with
their owner, as they were immediately afterwards summoned out and
marched down, as the others had been, to the vessel.

While I was still on shore I saw coming through the woods another long
line of captives.  The last act is usually presented in a single scene,
the Prison, but it contains five changes. After a weird prelude, the
Walpurgis revel begins, in which short, strange phrases are heard from
unseen singers.
The night scene changes to a hall of pagan enchantment, and again to
the Brocken, where the apparition of Marguerite is seen. The orgy is
resumed, when suddenly by another transformation we are taken to the
prison where Marguerite is awaiting death. It is unnecessary to
give its details.They gazed at her with looks of dismay, for they knew that she
was to convey them away over the wide ocean they had heard of, but never
seen, to an unknown land, where they were to toil, unrequited, for hard
task-masters.

I thought of remaining on shore rather than proceed in the slave vessel;
but was unwilling to desert Paul, and he had not been allowed to land.
I therefore returned, hoping to obtain his release.

"You must remain with us a little longer," said my friend the officer,
who spoke English, "and we will land you on another part of the coast,
where you are more likely than here to meet with a trader."

I was compelled to comply, indeed I knew by his tone and manner, that I
should not be allowed to remain behind.

All the slaves which had been collected in the depot having been
received on board, the schooner cast off from the bank, and proceeded
down the river.  As we crossed the bar the vessel pitched heavily, and
shipped several seas.  The poor wretches below, as the water rushed down
upon them, fancying that they were about to be drowned, gave vent to
piercing shrieks and cries.  The Spanish crew heard them with perfect
indifference, and no one, with the exception of Paul, took the slightest
trouble to calm their fears--he managing to slip down into the hold
assured them that there was no danger; but he could offer them very
little comfort besides as to their prospects in this world.  Still he
could speak to them of another and a better land, "where the weary are
at rest, and the wicked cease from troubling," and where the shackles of
slavery are cast aside, and to which the God of mercy invites all His
creatures to come and dwell with Him, and be at rest.  The
heavenly trumpets which rang through the prologue are again heard, and
the celestial choirs are singing. Enraged, Mephistopheles summons the
sirens, who lure Faust with all their charms. Faust seizes the Sacred
Volume, and declares that he relies upon its word for salvation.

He prays for help against the demon. His prayer is answered; and as
he dies a shower of roses falls upon his body. The tempter disappears,
and the finale of the prologue, repeated, announces Faust has died
in salvation.In a short time people appeared collecting
from all quarters and a canoe came off with a burly negro on board, who,
as he climbed up the side was treated with great ceremony.  He was, I
found, the king of that part of the country, his chief revenue being
derived from slave dealing.  His business with the captain was quickly
concluded.  A signal was made from the vessel, and soon afterwards I saw
a long line of slaves coming forth from behind a wood which concealed
the barracoons where they had been confined.  They were marched down to
the canoes, and thrust in one after the other in spite of their
struggles.

The canoes were now launched, and began to make their way through the
surf.  Three succeeded in getting alongside, but the fourth was
overturned by a heavy roller, and the unfortunate passengers thrown out
amid the foaming waters.  Some, as if thus glad to escape from their
persecutors, sank without making a struggle for life; others clung to
the canoe, and a few were either washed back on the beach or picked up
by the surrounding canoes, to which the crew had already made their way.
Eight or ten human beings thus lost their lives, but the event seemed
to cause no concern to the captain or his officers.  He had only agreed
to pay for those brought off to him in safety.  The embarkation
continued as before, and we were soon surrounded by canoes full of
slaves, who were forthwith hoisted on board and stowed below.  Their
price, chiefly in goods, was then lowered into the canoes, which
returned to the shore with much more caution than they had come out.

Two days afterwards we obtained an other addition to our cargo still
further down the coast.  On this occasion we brought up in a sheltered
bay.  Here the slaves were conveyed on large rafts.  Every expedition
was used in getting them on board, for news had been received that an
English cruiser was in the neighbourhood.  The moment they were stowed
away the anchor was hove-up and sail was made.

As we were going out, and appeared to be clear of the harbour, I heard a
grating sound, and felt the vessel's keel touch the ground.  At the same
moment the look-out from the mast-head gave notice that a sail was in
sight in the offing.

Every effort was made to get the schooner off, but she stuck fast.  One
of the officers had gone aloft with a spy-glass.  On his return I
observed a look of consternation in the countenance of the captain and
his mates.  After talking eagerly together one of them went aloft.  He
remained for sometime with his spy-glass turned towards the stranger,
which, in a short time, could be seen clearly from the deck, and from
the expressions I heard them utter, I found that she was supposed to be
a British man-of-war.  I endeavoured to conceal my satisfaction, for I
hoped that the unfortunate slaves would be rescued, and that Paul and I
might be taken on board her.

It shortly, however, fell perfectly calm, and the spirits of the
slaver's crew revived.  The tide was rising, anchors were carried out,
and desperate efforts were made to heave the vessel off.  A report now
came from aloft that several boats were approaching from the direction
of the cruiser.  The Spaniards, on hearing this, began to stamp about
the deck, grinding their teeth and shaking their fists towards where the
boats were supposed to be, working themselves into a perfect fury.  Arms
were got up on deck, and the two guns the vessel carried were loaded and
run out.  The savage cries and oaths, and fierce gestures of the crew,
made them look more like demons than men.

I looked anxiously for Paul, fearing that in their fury they might
injure him, but he had wisely taken shelter in the berth forward so as
to be out of their sight.  I had thought of hiding in the cabin where I
slept, but felt too anxious to watch the issue of events to do so.  Of
one thing I felt very sure, that though the Spaniards might fight, the
British seamen would soon be in possession of the slaver.

The day was drawing to a close, however, and I began to fear that the
boats might not reach the schooner before darkness set in.  In a short
time too, I observed a thick mist gathering over the land, which rose
higher and higher, and came moving towards us.  We were soon completely
enveloped in it.  This seemed to give the slaver's crew great
satisfaction, and they again began to talk and laugh in their usual
tone, while all the time they continued their exertions to get the
vessel off.  Lazy as the Spaniards are they can work as hard as any one
when they have a sufficient motive to arouse them.

I observed the captain frequently wetting his finger and holding it up,
and soon I felt a light breeze blowing from the land.  The sails were
let fall, and the crew making another desperate effort, the schooner
glided away up to her anchors.  No time was lost in weighing them.  I
thought the crew would have shouted to show their satisfaction, but not
a sound was uttered.  Onward she glided, keeping close in-shore.

My heart sank within me, and my hopes of escaping from the vile slave
ship vanished.  The lead was kept going.  I felt sure that no stranger
would venture to stand in so close to the coast as we were doing.  On we
stood till the Spanish seamen seemed satisfied that they had made good
their escape from the boats of the cruiser.  As the schooner had by this
time nearly a full cargo of slaves, I feared that she would not again
touch on the coast, and that I was destined to make a voyage on board
the hateful craft across the Atlantic.


CHAPTER EIGHT.

THE SPANIARDS BELIEVING THE MAN-OF-WAR TO BE FAR AWAY, STEER TO THE
WESTWARD.--WE SIGHT HER, AND SHE CHASES US.--CRUEL DEVICE OF THE
SLAVER'S CREW TO ASSIST THEIR ESCAPE.--PAUL, AMONG OTHERS, BEING THROWN
OVERBOARD THAT THE MAN-OF-WAR MIGHT HAVE TO PICK THEM UP; I FEAR THAT HE
HAS BEEN LOST.Although he was occupied six months in negotiating
for his stipulated price (one thousand dollars), he wrote the opera in
three weeks. Of its first performance, a correspondent of the "Harmonicon,"
who was present, writes: "The first act, which lasted two hours and
fifteen minutes, was received very coldly, with the exception of one
passage in the overture, which overture, however, was unconscionably long.
The second act, which lasted two hours and a half, began to please
in an air of Mariani, but the applause was rather directed to this
favorite singer.

After this a duet between her and Colbran, together with an air of Galli,
and particularly a terzetto between him and the two ladies, were well
received. Rossini was also called for at the end of the second act. It
is all over with Madame, his own wife" (Mme. Colbran), who took the
title-rôle.

The scene of the opera is laid in Babylon, and the story briefly told
is as follows: Ninus, the King of Babylon, has been murdered by his
Queen, Semiramis, aided by Assur, a prince enamoured of her and
aspiring to the throne. One of the Queen's warriors, Arsaces,
supposed to be of Scythian origin, but in reality her own son,
returns from a foreign expedition and is loaded with honors for
the victory he has won.

Semiramis, ignorant of his parentage, has a secret passion for him, he
in the mean time being devoted to Azema, one of the princesses royal.
As all gather together in the temple to swear allegiance to the Queen,
the gates of Ninus's tomb suddenly open, and his ghost appears and
announces that Arsaces will be the successor to the crown. At midnight
Semiramis, Assur, and Arsaces meet at the tomb, and by mistake
Assur stabs her instead of Arsaces, who in turn kills Assur, and,
all obstacles being removed, is united to Azema and ascends the
throne.

An introductory chorus of Babylonians and a terzetto by Idreno,
Assur, and Oroe open the opera and lead up to the first appearance
of Semiramis, which is followed by a very dramatic quartet ("Di
tanti regi").

In the fourth scene Arsaces has a very brilliant aria ("O!
come da quel di"), which also did service in one or two of
Rossini's other operas, and is followed by a very animated duet
("Bella imago degli dei") between himself and Assur.

The eighth scene is introduced by a graceful female chorus which leads to
Semiramis's brilliant and well-known aria, "Bel raggio." In the tenth
scene occurs an elegant duet ("Serbami agnor si fido"), followed in the
next scene by a stately priests' march and chorus ("Ergi omai la
fronte altera"), set to ecclesiastical harmony and accompanied by
full military band as well as orchestra, this being the first
instance where a military band was used in Italian opera.

It leads to the finale, where Semiramis on her throne announces to
her people her choice for their future king.
The oath of allegiance follows in an impressive quartet with chorus
("Giuro al numi"), and a defiant aria by the Queen leads to the sudden
appearance of the ghost of Ninus, accompanied by characteristic
music repeated in quintet with chorus.

As the ghost speaks, the statue scene in Don Giovanni is inevitably
recalled, especially in some phrases which are literally copied.

The second act opens with a vindictively passionate duet ("Assur, icenni
mici") between Assur and Semiramis, closing with a fierce outburst
of hatred ("La forza primiera"). The scene is a very long and spirited
one, and is followed by a second chorus of priests, leading to a great
aria with chorus ("Ah! tu gelar mi fai") for Arsaces. In the fifth scene
occurs a long duet between Arsaces and Semiramis, the second part
of which ("Giorno d'orrore") is the strongest number in the opera.
Though intensely passionate in its tone, the music is smooth and
flowing and very florid for both voices. The seventh scene is composed
of a scena, aria and chorus, followed by still another chorus in the
mausoleum.

Semiramis sings a prayer of great pathos and beauty ("Ah mio pregar").
A terzetto ("L'usato ardir"), which like the mausoleum chorus is
based upon an aria from Mozart's "Cosi fan tutti," closes the opera.
"The Harmonicon," to which reference has already been made, in an
analysis of the work, has the following apt criticism: "It has been said,
and truly, that 'Semiramide' is composed in the German style, but it
is the German style exaggerated. Rossini is become a convert to
this school, and his conversion does his judgment credit, though like all
proselytes he passes into extremes.

"Take care my lad, or you may be treated in the same way," was the
answer.

"Oh, but he has just heard of his mother, who longs to see him, and I
have promised to take him to her," I cried out.  "Oh, ask them if any of
them have mothers from whom they have been long parted, would they not
desire to see them again?  Will they not have compassion on my poor
friend?"

"Don't grieve for me, Massa Harry," said Paul, while the sailors were
lashing him to the plank.  "God take care of me.  Give my lub to my
moder, and tell her I meet her in heaven, and she know me den."

In vain I pleaded.  My friend seizing me by the arm, dragged me away,
while the savages hove Paul overboard.

"Go into my cabin," he exclaimed, "its your only chance of safety."

I saw, as he dragged me aft, that the Spaniards were preparing to throw
several other slaves into the sea; and, as I turned my head, three in
rapid succession were thrust through the gangway, secured, as the others
had been, to floats.

My friend had not cautioned me without reason, for I heard the crew
clamouring for the "Englez."  My friend went out to them, and on his
return told me that they wished to throw me into the sea, but that he
had advised them not to do so lest after all the schooner should be
captured, when the captain of the man-of-war would certainly deal more
hardly with them for having thus treated a countryman.

I thanked him for interfering as far as I was concerned, but, at the
same time, could not help observing that the English captain would
consider the crime of throwing any one overboard equally great, whatever
the colour of the sufferer.

"Ah, we think little about the life of a black," he answered carelessly.

"So it seems," I said, for I felt utterly horrified at what I had
witnessed.  A feeling of desperate indifference to my own fate had crept
over me.  "Poor Paul! that the wretches should have treated you thus," I
said to myself.  Then I remembered how Paul would have acted, and I
prayed that he might be protected, though I confess I had little
expectation of his escaping the ravenous jaws of a shark.

So eager was I to ascertain what had happened, that had not my friend
locked the door on me, in spite of his warnings, I should have gone out
again to watch the progress of the chase.  Some time elapsed; I longed
again to hear the sound of the corvette's guns, but in vain.  The wind
had increased, as I could judge by the movement of the vessel; and I at
length began to fear that she would after all escape.

Some hours passed away, my friend at length came back.  "You are hungry,
I dare say," he said, "and you may come into the cabin and have some
supper, but it is not safe for you to go on deck, the crew are angry at
your having interfered about the black seaman; although our plan has
answered, for your good natured-countrymen, by stopping to pick up the
negroes, have enabled us to escape them.  A few of the wretches were, to
be sure, picked off by the sharks."

"Did my friend, the black sailor, escape?"  I asked eagerly.

"As to that I cannot say," he answered, "undoubtedly some escaped, or
the corvette would not have hove-to so often.  But come, the supper is
on the table."

I declared that I had no appetite; but he insisted upon my going into
the cabin, and said that he should be offended if I did not.  "It would
be better for you also to put an indifferent face on the matter," he
added.

Those of the officers who came to supper were laughing and talking in
good spirits, and, as far as I could judge, seemed to be amusing
themselves at my expense.  I, however, had the wisdom to follow my
friend's advice, and showed no signs of annoyance.  I confess, too, that
the sight of the food quickly restored my appetite.

When supper was over my friend advised me to go back to my cabin.  "We
shall be far away from the corvette by to-morrow morning, and then you
can come on deck if you like," he observed.

As I lay in my berth the dreadful scenes I had witnessed came constantly
before my sight, and I kept alternately hoping that Paul might have been
saved, and fearing that he was lost.  For a long time too it seemed I
could not go to sleep.  The vessel also was pitching heavily, the sea
dashed against her sides, and I could hear the roaring and whistling of
the wind in her rigging; it was evidently blowing very hard.  At last I
dropped off to sleep.  I was awakened by a loud crash, and the fearful
shrieks and cries which arose from the hold.

No longer heeding my friend's caution, slipping on my clothes, I rushed
on deck.  The schooner's masts had gone by the board, and she lay
helpless on the foaming ocean.  The crew were shouting and swearing as
they endeavoured to cut away the masts, which were battering against her
sides, while ever and anon a heavy sea striking her, swept over her
deck, and from the shrieks which came up out of the waters a short
distance away to leeward, I had little doubt that several of the people
had been washed overboard.  Fearing that such might be my fate were I to
remain on deck, I hurried back again into the cabin.  I knew that
nothing could be done till daylight, and that it would be impossible to
rig jury-masts until the sea was somewhat smoother.  Perhaps before then
the slaver and her living freight might be carried down into the depths
of ocean.  I would not venture to lie down, but sat in the cabin, ready
to rush out and make an attempt for my life should such a catastrophe
appear imminent.

The night seemed very long.  At length I saw daylight through the
bull's-eye overhead, and the movement of the vessel was less violent
than before.  I could no longer restrain my curiosity, and made my way
on deck.  The crew, much diminished, were sheltering themselves under
the bulwarks, while the officers were collected in the after part of the
vessel.  I saw that their eyes were directed to windward, I looked in
the same direction, and there to my infinite satisfaction I caught sight
of the corvette standing towards us.  I was glad to see my English
friend among the officers, but the captain and first mate were gone.
They had been carried overboard.  I felt that they deserved their fate,
terrible as it was.

The corvette soon came up, and hove-to to windward; a boat was lowered
and pulled towards us.  I watched her eagerly.  A lieutenant was
steering, and among her crew I observed a black man.  I tried to make
out his features, but at that distance it was impossible.  The hope rose
in my breast that he might be Paul.

As the schooner still rolled heavily it was no easy matter for the boat
to get alongside without the risk of being swamped.  She at length came
up under our quarter.  I looked anxiously over the bulwarks, and to my
joy saw that the black was indeed Paul.  He caught sight of me.

"All right Massa Harry," he shouted, "we soon aboard, praise God that
you safe."

"Silence!" said the officer, for Paul had forgotten the discipline of a
man-of-war in speaking.  At that moment I thought I recognised the
lieutenant's countenance; yes, I was nearly certain it was my cousin
Jack Haultaught, whose yarns, when he was a midshipman, first made me
wish to go to sea.  He and his crew soon sprang on to the low deck of
the schooner, while the boat, with a couple of hands in her, was veered
astern.

I first greeted Paul warmly.  His joy at seeing me was excessive, for he
had been afraid that the slavers would have thrown me overboard as they
had him, and as I had not been picked up thought my life had been
sacrificed.  As my cousin Jack did not know me I had time to talk to
Paul.

"Oh Massa Harry we must praise God for all His mercy and goodness to us,
what we think going to be very bad for us He make turn out for the best.
The captain of the corvette, my old friend, he good Christian man, he
say he take me to England with him, and then I see my dear moder, and
learn more of the Bible, and then come back and preach the gospel to my
poor countrymen."

The hatches, which had hitherto been kept battened down, were now taken
off.  The five hundred human beings crowded below were evidence of the
character of the vessel, and enabled the lieutenant at once to claim her
as a prize to Her Majesty's ship "Triton."

I do not wish to dwell on the fearful sight which met our eyes as we
looked down below on the mass of humanity jammed, pressed, and huddled
together.  And oh, the horrible odour which arose from that foul hold!
It seemed impossible that human beings could have existed a minute in
it, much less the many hours during which those unhappy people had been
shut up during the gale.  How fearful would have been their sufferings
had they been compelled thus to make the passage across the Atlantic.
How enormous a proportion of them would have died.  As it was, many of
them had their limbs broken, and many were sadly crushed and bruised.

At length I went up to the lieutenant and put out my hand.  Learning
from Lucy what she has done, he tramples the contract under foot,
hurls an imprecation upon the house of Lammermoor, and bursts out
of the room in a terrible rage.

Sir Henry follows him, and a fierce quarrel ensues, which ends in a
challenge.
You will be welcome on
board the `Triton,' and if you have a fancy for continuing at sea, I
think the captain will be able to enter you as a supernumerary, and get
you regularly appointed when we return to England."

I told him that above all things it was what I should like.

I now accompanied him to the "Triton," carrying with us the surviving
officers of the slaver.  They were treated with scant ceremony, but
without any undue harshness, on board, and berthed together in a cabin
run up on the lower deck.  The bandit himself, who has followed them on
their journey in the disguise of a marquis, and has been particularly
attentive to the lady, enters the inn just as Lord Allcash has been
reproving his wife for her familiarity with a stranger.
He declined doing so, however.  He afterwards told my cousin
Jack that in consequence of the scenes he had witnessed he had resolved
to have nothing more to do with the slave trade.

"It was a great temptation," he said.  "I expected to make my fortune in
a short time, and that induced me to engage in the accursed traffic."

The corvette now took the schooner in tow.  As soon as the sea was calm
enough hands were sent on board her to rig jury-masts, and a course was
steered for Sierra Leone.  The slaver, as may be supposed, was
condemned, the slaves liberated, and the whole of them settled in the
colony.  Paul entered on board the "Triton," and I was placed as a
midshipman on her quarter-deck.

We cruised for a short time longer on the coast, and captured another
slaver, and then, as the corvette had been her due time on the station,
she was ordered home.

Jack, from having been at sea, had not heard of the misfortunes of my
family.

As soon as the ship was paid off he insisted on accompanying me and Paul
back to Liverpool.  We reached the house where I had left my sisters
under Mammy's care.  Lionel tells his story in an aria ("Lost, proscribed,
an humble Stranger") which is universally popular, and the melody of
which has been set to various words.

They have come to the fair to procure help for their farm.
While the sheriff, according to law, is binding the girls for a year's
service, Plunkett and Lionel meet Martha and Nancy, and are so delighted
with their appearance that they tender them the customary bonus, or
"earnest-money," which secures them.

They so glad you come back," she
exclaimed, and dragged me along.  She opened the door where they were
seated at work.

"I have brought some strangers to see you," I said, after our greetings
were over.  "You remember our cousin Jack Haultaught; he insisted on
coming, he is a first-rate capital fellow, and a true friend of mine."

"We shall be very glad to see him and to thank him," said Mary and Jane
together.

"And I shall be delighted," cried Emily.  "I recalled his giving me all
sorts of curious things when he came back from his first voyage.  I'll
run down and ask him in."

"Mammy," I said, feeling very doubtful how I could best prepare her for
meeting her son.  "You remember the commission you gave me, I did my
best to execute it.  I asked all the people I met if they knew Cheebo."

"Ah, you no hear of him," said Mammy, with a sigh.

"I did not say that," I answered.  "Mammy, you believe that God hears
your prayers."

"Yes, Massa Harry, I am sure He does," she said, and then it seemed to
flash across her that I had something of interest to communicate about
her son.

"You hear of Cheebo, he become Christian, oh say dat, Massa Harry, say
dat."

"Yes, Mammy," I answered, taking her hand, "I not only heard of him, but
I have seen him; and, Mammy, do you think the joy would not be too much
for you if I were to tell you that I hope you will see him too?"

"Oh, he is come! he is come!" exclaimed Mammy.

I made a sign to my sisters to remain with our old nurse, whispering to
Mary that I was going to bring up her long lost son.  I hurried down
stairs, and found that Emily had already invited Jack and his companion
into the house.  I led Paul to the door, and my sisters slipping out; we
left the old woman and her son together.

And now it is time that I should bring my yarn to a conclusion.  Jack
seemed to find Liverpool a very delightful place; and perhaps it may
account for his so doing, when I say that before he went away he asked
my sister Mary to marry him.  She did not refuse.  The revolution of
1830 destroyed his plans. In 1836 he heard Meyerbeer's "Huguenots,"
and resolved to write no more.

Four years before this he had written the "Stabat Mater," but it was not
produced complete until 1842. From this time on he lived at his villa
at Passy the life of a voluptuary and died there Nov. 13, 1868.
The catalogue of his works is immense, including fifty operas alone,
of which in a necessarily brief sketch it has been possible to mention
only those best known.Mammy's joy, when she
found that not only had her son become a Christian, but that her husband
had accepted the truth, was full.  She willingly parted with Paul when
she heard of his wish to become a missionary of the gospel.  He returned
to Sierra Leone, and after remaining a short time there, went on to
Abeokuta, to labour with others in spreading the glad tidings of
salvation among the dark-skinned sons of Africa.