This eBook was produced by Robert Nield, David Starner,
Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


Handy Literal Translations.

THE ORATIONS OF LYSIAS

_LITERALLY TRANSLATED_


CONTENTS.


THE ORATIONS:

II.     FUNERAL ORATION

V.      FOR CALLIAS

VII.    THE OLIVE TREE

IX.     POLYAENUS

X.      THEOMNESTUS

XII.    ERATOSTHENES

XIII.   AGORATUS

XIV.    ALCIBIADES

XVI.    MANTITHEUS

XVII.   PROPERTY OF ERATON

XIX.    PROPERTY OF ARISTOPHANES

XXII.   THE GRAIN DEALERS

XXIII.  PANCLEON

XXIV.   THE CRIPPLE

XXV.    REPLY TO "THE OVERTHROW OF THIS DEMOCRACY"

XXVIII. ERGOCLES

XXX.    NICOMACHUS

XXXI.   AGAINST PHILON

XXXII.  DIOGEITON

XXXIII. PANEGYRIC


ORATION II.

FUNERAL ORATION.


1. If I thought it were possible, O fellow-citizens who are assembled at
this burial-place, to set forth in words the valor of those who lie here,
I should blame the men who invited me to speak about them at a few days'
notice. But as all time would not be sufficient for (the combined
efforts) of all men to prepare an address adequate to their deeds, the
city seems to me, in providing for men to speak here, to make the
appointment at short notice, on the supposition that the speakers would
under the circumstances meet with less adverse criticism.

2. And though my words relate to these men, the chief difficulty is not
concerning their deeds, but with those who formerly spoke upon them. For
the valor of these men has been the occasion of such abundance (of
composition), both by those able to compose, and those wishing to speak,
that, although many noble sentiments have been uttered about them by men
in the past, yet much has been left unsaid, and enough can yet be spoken
at the present time. For they have experienced perils on land and sea,
and everywhere and among all men, who, while bewailing their own hard
fate, yet sing the praises of the courage of these men.

3. First, then, I will review the hardships of our ancestors, following
the traditions. For all men should keep them too in mind, both
celebrating them in song, speaking of them in maxims about the good,
honoring them at such times as this, and instructing the living by the
deeds of the dead.

4. The Amazons were once the daughters of Ares, living by the river
Thermodon, and they alone of the inhabitants of that region were armed
with metal, and first of all they mounted horses, by which they
unexpectedly, because of the inexperience of their adversaries, overtook
those who fled from them, and they left their pursuers far behind. So for
their spirit they were thought men, rather than women for their nature.
For they seemed to surpass men in spirit rather than to be inferior in
_physique_.

5. And after they had subdued many tribes and in fact enslaved the
surrounding nations, they heard great reports about this country, and for
the sake of glory took the most warlike of their tribes and marched
against this city. And after they met these brave men, they came to have
their souls like their nature, and with changed hearts seemed to be women
rather from their conduct in danger than from their forms.

6. And they alone were not allowed to learn from experience and to plan
better for the future, and they might not go homeward and tell of their
discomfiture and the valor of our ancestors; for they died here and paid
the penalty for their rashness, and made the memory of this city immortal
through valor, and rendered their own country nameless through their
defeat here. These women then, through their unjust desire for a country
not their own, justly lost their own.

7. After Adrastus and Polyneices had joined in the expedition against
Thebes and had been worsted in battle, the Thebans would not let them
bury their dead. So the Athenians, who believed that if these men did
wrong they had (already) the greatest punishment in death, and that the
gods of the lower world were not receiving their due, and that by the
pollution of holy places the gods above were being insulted, first sent
heralds and demanded them to grant the removal of the dead, (8) thinking
it the part of brave men to punish their enemies while alive, but of men
who distrusted themselves to show their courage on the bodies of the
dead. As they were unable to obtain this favor, they marched against the
Thebans, although previously there was no reason for hostility against
them, and not because they were trying to please the living Argives, (9)
but because they believed those who died in battle should obtain the
customary rites, they ran into danger against the Thebans in the
interests of both, on the one hand, that they might never again offer
insult to the gods by their treatment of the dead, and on the other, that
they might not return to their country with disgrace attached to their
names, without fulfilling Greek customs robbed of a common hope. 10. With
this in mind, and thinking that the chances of war are common to all men,
they made many enemies, but with right on their side they came off
victorious. And they did not, roused by success, contend for a greater
punishment for the Thebans, but they exhibited to them their own valor
instead of their impiety, and after they had obtained the prizes they
struggled for, the bodies of the Argives, they buried them in their own
Eleusis. Such were they (who fought) for the dead of the Seven at Thebes.

11. And afterwards, after Heracles had disappeared from men, and his
children fled from Eurystheus and were hunted by all the Greeks, who,
though ashamed indeed of what they did, feared the power of Eurystheus,
they came to this city and took refuge at the altars. 12. And though
Eurystheus demanded it, the Athenians would not give them up, but they
reverenced the bravery of Heracles more than they feared their own
danger, and they thought it more worthy of themselves to contend for the
weak on the side of justice than to please those in power and surrender
those wronged by them. 13. And when Eurystheus marched on them at that
time at the head of the Peloponnesus, they did not change their minds on
the approach of danger, but held the same opinion as before, though the
father (_Heracles_) had done them no special good, and the Athenians
did not know what sort of men these (children) would turn out to be. 14.
But they thought it was a just course of action, though there was no
previous reason for enmity with Eurystheus, and they had no longer hope
of reward except that of a good reputation; so they incurred this danger
for the boys, because they pitied the down-trodden, and hated the
oppressors, and tried to hinder the latter and aid the former, believing
it a mark of liberty to do nothing by compulsion, and of justice to aid
the wronged, and of courage to die, if need be, fighting for both. 15.
And both were so proud that Eurystheus and his party did not seek to gain
any favor from willing men, and the Athenians were unwilling that
Eurystheus, even if he came as a suppliant, should drive out their
suppliants. So they summoned a force and fought and conquered the army
from the whole of Peloponnesus, and brought the children of Heracles to
safety, dispelled their fear and freed their souls, and because of their
father's courage they crowned them with their own perils. 16. And they,
while children, were much more fortunate than their father; for he,
though bringing much happiness to all men, made his own life full of toil
and strife and emulation, and punished others who were wrong-doers, but
he could not punish Eurystheus who was his enemy and had sinned against
him. But his sons through this city saw on the same day their own safety
and the punishment of their enemies.

17. So many occasions came to our ancestors for fighting for this idea of
justice. For the commencement of their life was just. For they were not,
like many, collected from all quarters, and they did not settle here
after expelling the earlier inhabitants, but they sprang from the soil
and it was both their mother and country. 18. And they were the first and
only ones at that time to banish the ruling families and establish a
democracy, in the belief that freedom of all is the greatest harmony, and
making the rewards of their dangers common, they administered the
government with free minds, (19) by law honoring the good and punishing
the bad, for they thought the wild beasts struggle with one another, but
it is fitting for men to define justice by law, and to obey argument, and
to serve these by their actions ruled by law and taught by argument.

20. So being of noble descent and of one mind, the ancestors of these who
lie here did many brave and wonderful things, and their descendants
everywhere left by their valor everlasting memorials of themselves. For
in behalf of all Greece they risked their lives before the countless
hordes of barbarians. 21. For the king of Asia, not satisfied with his
own fortunes, but hoping to enslave Europe, sent an army of five hundred
thousand. And thinking, if they could make this city a willing ally or
subdue against its will, they would easily reduce the rest of Greece,
they went to Marathon, believing that the Greeks would be deserted by
their allies, if they should bring on the conflict while Greece was still
undecided how it was best to ward off the invaders. 22. And still such an
opinion prevailed among them about the city from the previous conflicts,
that they believed if they should advance against another city, they
would contend with both that and the Athenians; for these would eagerly
come to aid the oppressed; but if they should come here first, no other
Greeks would dare by aiding others to bring on themselves open hostility
(for the sake of the Athenians). 23. These then were their plans; but our
ancestors, taking no account of the dangers in war, but believing that
glorious death left immortal testimony to good deeds, did not fear the
multitudes of the enemy, but trusted their own valor. And being ashamed
that the barbarians were in their country, they did not wait for their
allies to learn of the matter and aid them, and they did not think they
ought to be indebted for their rescue to others, but the other Greeks to
them. 24. With one accord they rushed forward, few against many; for they
believed death was theirs in common with all men, and they were brave
with only a few, and on account of death their lives were not their own,
and they would leave a memory of themselves from their dangers. And they
thought that even with allies they could not have conquered those whom
they did not conquer alone. And if worsted, they would perish only a
little before the rest, and if they conquered, they would free the
others. 25. And becoming brave men they did not spare themselves, and did
not grudge their lives for valor, rather reverencing the traditions among
them, than fearing the danger from the enemy. So they erected trophies
for Greece in their country on the borders, over the barbarians who for
gain had invaded a foreign land. 26. So quickly they incurred this danger
that the same messengers announced to the other Greeks that the
barbarians had made the invasion, and that our ancestors had conquered.
No one of the rest (of the Greeks) feared for a coming danger, but
rejoiced over their own safety. So it is not remarkable when such things
happened long ago if the glory of them as if recent is still lauded by
all men. 27. And after this, Xerxes, the king of Asia, despising Greece,
and buoyed up by false hopes, and disgraced by the past, and grieved at
the disaster, angry at its causes, untried by defeat, and with no
experience with brave men, prepared for ten years and came with twelve
hundred ships, and led a multitude of foot so vast that it would be a
task indeed to recall all the tribes collected with him. 28. And the
greatest proof of its size is this; when he could have transported his
infantry on a thousand boats across the narrowest part of the Hellespont
from Asia to Europe, he did not wish to, believing it would take much
time. 29. But overlooking the natural obstacles and the deeds of the gods
and human intelligence, he made a road through the sea, and forced a
voyage through the earth, joined the Hellespont, and channeled Athos. No
one agreed, but some reluctantly submitted, and others gave way
willingly. For they were not able to ward him off, but some were
corrupted by bribes. And both were persuasive, gain and fear. 30. But the
Athenians, while Greece was in this condition, embarked and helped at
Artemisium, and the Lacedaemonians and some of the allies met at
Thermopylae, thinking on account of the narrowness of the pass they could
check their advance. 31. But when the crisis came, at the same time the
Athenians conquered in the naval battle, but the Lacedaemonians
(perished), not failing in courage, but deceived in the number (of the
enemy). For they thought they would ward off the enemy and so risk (their
lives), (and they were) not worsted by the enemy, but died where they
were ordered to fight, (32) and in this way the Spartans were unfortunate
while the Persians gained entrance. They marched to this city, and our
ancestors, learning of the misfortune of the Spartans, and in perplexity
in the dangers which surrounded them, knowing that if they should attack
the enemy by sea they would sail with a thousand ships and take the city
deserted, and if they embarked on triremes they would be taken by the
land army, and they could not do both, ward off (the enemy) and leave
sufficient guard behind, (33) while these two questions were before them,
whether it was best to leave their country or going over to the
barbarians to enslave the Greeks, they believed that freedom with virtue,
poverty and exile was better than slavery of the country with disgrace
and plenty, so for the sake of Greece they left the city, that against
each in turn but not against both they might risk their forces. 34. So
they placed the children and women in Salamis, and collected the naval
force of the allies. Not many days after, the infantry and the sea-force
of the barbarians came, (a force) which any one would fear, considering
how great and terrible a danger was encountered for the sake of the
freedom of Greece. 35. And what feelings had those who saw them in those
ships, while their safety was hazardous and the approaching conflict of
doubtful issue, or those who were about to contend for their loved ones,
for the prizes in Salamis? 36. Such a multitude of the enemy surrounded
them from all sides that the least of their impending dangers was the
prospect of death, and the greatest calamity was what they expected to
suffer in subjection to the victorious barbarians. 37. Doubtless through
their trials they frequently pledged one another, and probably
commiserated their own fortunes, knowing how few were their own ships and
seeing many of the enemy's, and realizing that the city was being
devastated and filled with barbarians, and the temples burned, and ruin
close at hand. 38. They heard together the paean of Greek and barbarian,
the exhortations of both and the cries of the vanquished, the sea full of
the dead, wrecks coming together, both friend and foe, and because the
battle was long undecided, thinking now they have conquered and are
saved, now they are worsted and lost. 39. Surely through their fear they
thought to see much they did not see, and to hear much they did not hear.
What prayers did not rise to the gods, or reminders of sacrifices,
compassion for children, longing for wives, pity for parents and
meditations on what would result in case of defeat? 40. What god would
not pity them for the magnitude of the danger? What man would not weep?
Who would not wonder at their daring? Truly these surpassed all men by
far in point of courage, both in their plans and in the face of the
danger, leaving the city, embarking upon the ships, opposing their own
lives, few as they were, to the Persian host. 41. And they showed all men
by their naval victory that it is better to struggle for freedom with a
few than for their own slavery with many subjects of the king. 42. These
made the greatest and most honorable contribution in behalf of the
freedom of the Greeks, the general Themistocles, best able to speak, to
understand and to act; more ships than the allies, and men of the most
experience. And who of the other Greeks would have claimed to be equal in
intelligence, numbers and courage? 43. So that justly they took without
dispute the rewards of the naval battle from Greece, and gained success
in proportion to their dangers and proved to the Asiatic barbarians that
their courage was genuine and native.

44. So in the naval battle they conducted themselves thus and incurred
the greatest part of the danger, and by their own valor gained freedom
for themselves and the rest. Afterwards when the Peloponnesians were
putting a wall across the Isthmus and were content with their own safety,
supposing they were rid of the danger by sea, and intending to watch the
rest of the Greeks falling into the power of the barbarians, (45) the
Athenians were angry and advised them if they had this idea to put a wall
about all the Peloponnesus; for if they, betrayed by the Greeks, should
act with the Persians, they would have no need of their thousand ships,
nor would the Isthmian wall help the Peloponnesians. For the control of
the sea would be the king's without trouble. 46. And they were convinced
and realized they were doing wrong and making poor plans, and that the
Athenians spoke fairly and were giving them the best advice, and so they
sent aid to Plataea. And when most of the allies under cover of night
fled from the ranks because of the numbers of the enemy, the
Lacedaemonians and the Tegeans put the barbarians to flight, and the
Athenians and the Plataeans conquered in the fight all the Greeks who had
despaired of freedom and submitted to slavery. 47. And on that day they
brought about the most glorious conclusion of all their trials, and
secured freedom for Europe, and in all times of danger they are
acknowledged by all, both those with whom and against whom they fought,
to have proved their own valor, both alone and with others, both on land
and on sea, against barbarians and Greeks, and to have become the leaders
of Greece.

48. Later, when the Greek war broke out through jealousy as to the past
and envy of what was done, while all were envious and each needed but
small grievances, when a naval battle was fought by the Athenians against
the Aeginetans and their allies, they took seventy triremes. 49. And
while they were struggling with Egypt and Aegina at the same time, and
while the men of military age were away on sea and in the army, the
Corinthians and their allies, thinking they would either attack a
deserted country or they (_the Athenians_) would withdraw from
Aegina, marched out and took Gereneia. 50. And the Athenians, some being
at a distance and some near, did not dare to summon either, but trusting
their own spirits and despising the invaders, the old men and the boys
thought they alone could face the danger, (51) the former gaining courage
from experience and the latter from their natures. And they in themselves
became brave and the boys imitated them, the older men knowing how to
command and the boys being able to obey commands. 52. Under the
leadership of Myronides they set out for Megaris and conquered in battle
all the forces (of the enemy), by those past service and those not yet
ready for it, going into a foreign country to meet those who presumed to
invade theirs. 53. And they set up a trophy for this glorious deed of
theirs, and shameful act of the enemy, and the men, some no longer strong
in body, the rest not yet strong, became greater in spirit and went back
home with great renown, the latter to their teachers, the former to
meditate on the future.

54. It is no easy task for one man to enumerate the brave deeds of so
many, nor to tell in a single day the acts of all time. For what speech
or time or orator could adequately testify to the valor of these men
lying here? 55. For after countless struggles and signal contests and
glorious encounters they have made Greece free, and proved their country
the greatest, which ruled the sea for seventy years, kept the allies from
revolt, (56) not permitting the many to be enslaved by the few, but
forcing all to share alike, nor weakening the allies, but establishing
them, so that the great king no longer longed for others' goods, but
yielded up some of his own possessions and trembled for the future. 57.
No ships sailed for Asia in that time, nor was a tyrant established among
the Greeks, nor was a Greek city enslaved by the barbarians. Such was the
moderation and fear their valor produced on all men. For this reason they
alone must be the champions of the Greeks and leaders of the cities.

56. And also in adversity they showed their valor. For when the ships
were lost in the Hellespont, either through the fault of the commander or
by the will of the gods, and when that great disaster resulted to us and
all the Greeks, they showed not long after that the power of the city was
the safety of Greece. 59. For under the leadership of others those
conquered the Greeks in naval battle who formerly had not embarked upon
the sea, and they sailed to Europe, and enslaved Greek cities and
established tyrannies, some after our disaster, and some after the
victory of the barbarians. 60. Mr. A. G. Ellis and Professor Blumhardt.
5th June 1886-5th April 1887.

On June 5th the Burtons and their "Magpie Trunk" again left Trieste and
travelled via Innsbruck, Zurich, Bale and Boulogne to England.
After a short stay at Folkestone with Lady Stisted and her daughter,
they went on to London, whence Burton memorialized the vice-chancellor
and the curators of the Bodleian Library for the loan of the Wortley
Montagu manuscripts of the Arabian Nights.

Not a private loan, but a temporary transference to the India Office under
the charge of Dr. R. Rost. On November 1st came a refusal, and Burton,
at great inconvenience to himself, had to go to Oxford.
"The Bodleian," he says, "is the model of what a reading library should not
be, and the contrast of its treasures with their mean and miserable
surroundings is a scandal." He did not know in which he suffered most,
the Bodleian, the Radcliffe or the Rotunda. Finally, however, the difficulty
was got over by having the required pages photographed.

He now wrote to the Government and begged to be allowed, at the age of
sixty-six, to retire on full pension. His great services to the country
and to learning were set down, but though fifty persons of importance
in the political and literary world supported the application, it was
refused. It is, however, only just to the Government to say that henceforward
Burton was allowed "leave" whenever he wanted it. An easier post than
that at Trieste it would have been impossible to imagine, still, he was
in a measure tied, and the Government missed an opportunity of doing a
graceful act to one of its most distinguished servants, and to one of
the most brilliant of Englishmen.

Then followed a holiday in Scotland, where the Burtons were the
guests of Mr. (now Sir) Alexander Baird of Urie. Back in London, they
lunched at different times with F. F. Arbuthnot, G. A. Sala, A. C.
Swinburne, and "dear old Larkin"--now 85--in whose house at Alexandria,
Burton had stayed just before his Mecca journey.
It was apparently during this visit that Burton gave to his cousin St.
George Burton a seal showing on one side the Burton crest, on
another the Burton Arms, and on the third a man's face and a hand
with thumb to the nose and fingers spread out.

"Use it," said Burton, "when you write to a d-----d snob." And he conveyed
the belief that it would be used pretty often.

On 16th September 1886, writing to Mr. Kirby[FN#542] from "United Service
Club," Pall Mall, Burton says, "We here have been enjoying splendid
weather, and a really fine day in England (I have seen only two
since May) is worth a week anywhere else. ...

You will find your volumes[FN#543] sent to you regularly. No. 1 caused big
sensation.
A wonderful leader about it in Standard (Mrs. Gamp, of all people!)
followed by abuse in Pall Mall. I have come upon a young woman friend
greedily reading it in open drawing-room, and when I warned another against
it, she answered: 'Very well, Billy [her husband] has a copy, and I shall
read it at once.'"
Later Burton's curiosity was aroused by the news that Mr. A. G.
Ellis, of the British Museum, had shown Mr. Kirby an edition of Alaeddin
in Malay.[FN#544] "Let me know," he says, "when you go to see Mr. Ellis.
I especially want to accompany you, and must get that Malay version
of Alaeddin.

Lord Stanley of Alderley could translate it."
It was about this time that Burton decided to make a new and lavishly
annotated translation of The Scented Garden. To the Kama Shastra
edition of 1886 we have already referred, and we shall deal fully
with the whole subject in a later chapter.

On October 6th the Burtons heard Mr. Heron Allen lecture on palmistry at
Hampstead. For some weeks Burton was prostrated again by his old enemy,
the gout, but Lord Stanley of Alderley, F. F. Arbuthnot, and other
friends went and sat with him, so the illness had its compensations.
A visit to Mr. John Payne, made, as usual, at tea time, is next recorded,
and there was to have been another visit, but Burton, who was anxious
to get to Folkestone to see his sister, had to omit it.

On January 10th 1887, he writes to Mr. Payne as follows:

"That last cup of tea came to grief, I ran away from London abruptly,
feeling a hippishness gradually creep over my brain; longing to see a
sight of the sun and so forth. We shall cross over next Thursday (if
the weather prove decent) and rush up to Paris, where I shall have
some few days' work in the Bibliotheque Nationale. Thence to Cannes,
the Riviera, &c. At the end of my 5th Vol. (Supplemental) I shall walk
in to Edin[burgh] Review.[FN#545] ... I hope you like Vol. x. and its
notices of your work. I always speak of it in the same terms, always with
the same appreciation and admiration."
On January 13th 1887, the Burtons reached Paris, where Sir Richard had
the pleasure of meeting Herr Zotenberg, discoverer of the Arabic originals
of Alaeddin and Zayn al Asnam; and thence they proceeded to Cannes,
where the state of Burton's health gave his wife great uneasiness. She
says, "I saw him dripping his pen anywhere except into the ink. When
he tried to say something he did not find his words." An awful fit
of "epileptiform convulsions," the result of suppressed gout, followed,
and the local doctors who were called in came to the conclusion
that Burton could not recover.

They thought it better, however, that their opinion should be conveyed to
him by a perfect stranger, so they deputed Dr. Grenfell Baker, a young
man who was then staying at Cannes, to perform the painful duty.

Dr. Baker entered the sick room and broke the news to Burton as
best he could.

"Then you suppose I am going to die?" said Burton.

"The medical men who have been holding a consultation are of that opinion."

Shrugging his shoulders, Burton said, "Ah, well!--sit down," and then
he told Dr. Baker a story out of The Arabian Nights.
Dr. Baker remained a fortnight, and then Sir Richard, who decided to
have a travelling medical attendant, sent to England for Dr. Ralph
Leslie, who a little later joined him at Trieste.

To his circle of friends Burton now added Mr. A. G. Ellis, already referred
to, Professor James F. Blumhardt, of the British Museum, and Professor
Cecil Bendall, of University College, London.[FN#546] His first communication
with Mr. Ellis seems to have been a post-card dated Trieste, 8th May
1887.

He says "The Perfumed Garden is not yet out nor will it be for six
months.

My old version is to be had at ---'s, Coventry Street, Haymarket.

The Supplemental Nights you can procure from the agent, -----, Farleigh
Road, Stoke Newington."
As we have seen, Burton's first and second supplemental volumes of the
Nights correspond with Mr. Payne's three volumes of Tales from the Arabic.
He also wished to include the eight famous Galland Tales:--"Zayn
Al-Asnam," "Alaeddin," "Khudadad and his Brothers," "The Kaliph's Night
Adventure," "Ali Baba," "Ali Khwajah and the Merchant of Baghdad," "Prince
Ahmad and the Fairy Peri-Banu," and "The Two Sisters who Envied their
Cadette;" but the only Oriental text he could find was a Hindustani
version of Galland's tales "Orientalised and divested of their
inordinate Gallicism."

As Burton was at this time prostrated by illness, Professor Blumhardt
kindly undertook "to English the Hindustani for him.
While the volume was going forward, however, M. Zotenberg, of Paris,
discovered a MS. copy of The Nights containing the Arabic originals of
'Zayn Al-Asnam' and 'Alaeddin,' and Burton, thanks to the courtesy of
Zotenberg, was able to make use of it."

150. Dr. Leslie and Dr. Baker: Anecdotes. April 1887.

From June 19th to 22nd there were rejoicings at Trieste on account of Queen
Victoria's Jubilee. At the banquet, which took place at the Jager,
Sir Richard occupied the chair, and he and the Rev. C. F. Thorndike,
the chaplain, made speeches. During the summer Sir Richard's health
continued to cause grave anxiety, but he was well enough by July 15th
to set out for the usual summer holiday. Accompanied by Lady Burton, Dr.
Leslie and Lisa, he first visited Adelsburg, and then Sauerbrunn, where
he got relief by drinking daily a cup of very hot water. In a letter
to Mr. Ellis written from Sauerbrunn, 14th September 1887, Burton
refers to Professor Blumhardt's contribution to his Supplementary
Nights, and finishes: "Salute for me Mr.

Bendall and tell him how happy I shall be to see him at Trieste if
he pass through that very foul part."

After the Burtons' return to Trieste (at the end of September) Dr.

Leslie obtained another post, and Dr. Baker was invited to take his
place.

Dr. Baker consented to do so, only on the condition that Sir Richard
would not dispute his medical orders. This, Dr. Baker explained to me,
was a very necessary stipulation, for Sir Richard now looked upon the
time spent over his meals as so many half-hours wasted.
He never ate his food properly, but used to raven it up like an animal
in order to get back quickly to his books. So a treaty was made, and Dr.
Baker remained a member of the household the rest of Burton's life.

To this period belong the following unpublished anecdotes.
Of Burton's interest in Ancient Etruria and especially in the archaeological
discoveries at Bologna[FN#547] we have already spoken. Once when he and
Dr. Baker were visiting Bologna they took a long walk outside the town and
quite lost their bearings.
Noticing a working man seated on the roadside, Burton asked him in
French the way back.

In reply the man "only made a stupid noise in his throat." Burton
next tried him with the Bolognese[FN#548] dialect, upon which the man
blurted out, "Je don't know savez." Sir Richard then spoke in English,
and the man finding there was no further necessity for Parisian, explained
in his own tongue that he was an English sailor who had somehow got
stranded in that part.

To Burton's delight in shocking people we have already alluded.
Nor did age sober him. He would tell to open-mouthed hearers stories
of his hair-breadth escapes, and how some native plotted against his life.
"Another moment," he would say, "and I should have been a dead man, but I
was too quick for my gentleman.
I turned round with my sword and sliced him up like a lemon." Dr.
Baker, who had heard many tales about the Austrians and duelling, was
exercised in his mind as to what ought to be done if he were "called
out." "Now," said Burton, "this is one of the things in life worthy of
remembrance. Never attack a man, but if he attacks you, kill him." Sometimes
the crusted tale about the Arab murder would come up again. "Is it true,
Sir Richard," a young curate once innocently inquired, "that you shot a
man near Mecca?" "Sir," replied Burton, tossing his head haughtily, "I'm
proud to say that I have committed every sin in the Decalogue."
In after years Dr. Baker was often asked for reminiscences of Burton. "Can
you remember any of his sayings?" enquired one interlocutor. "Yes,"
replied Dr. Baker. "He once said, 'Priests, politicians and publishers
will find the gate of Heaven extremely narrow.'"

"I'm sorry for that," followed the interlocutor, "for I've just been elected
M.P. for the ---- Division of Yorkshire."
For Mrs. Lynn Linton, the novelist, whom he described as a "sweet, womanly
woman," Burton had a sincere regard, but he used to say that though she
was an angel in the drawing-room, she was a raging, blood-thirsty tigress
on the platform. One day, while Sir Richard, Mrs. Linton and Dr. Baker
were chatting together, a lady to whom Mrs.

Linton was a stranger joined the group and said "Sir Richard, why
don't you leave off writing those heavy books on Bologna and other
archaeological subjects, and do something lighter?

Couldn't you write some trash--novels, I mean?" Sir Richard look sideways
at Mrs. Linton, and kept his countenance as well as he could.
On another occasion when Sir Richard, Lady Burton, Dr. Baker and an aged
Cambridge Professor were chatting together, Burton unconsciously glided
into Latin--in which he asked the professor a question. The old man
began a laboured reply in the same language--and then, stopping
suddenly, said, "If you don't mind, Sir Richard, we'll continue the
conversation in English."

Believing that Burton was overworking himself, Dr. Baker recommended him
to order "a little rubbish in the shape of novels," from London, and so
rest his brain for an hour just before bedtime. Burton demurred, but the
novels were ultimately sent for, they duly arrived, and Burton went
through a course of "chou-chou," as he called it. After a while,
however, he gave up what he had never taken to kindly, and henceforward
he nightly "rested his brain," by reading books in the modern Greek
dialects.

151. Three Months at Abbazia. 1st Dec. 1887-5th March 1888.

On the 1st of December 1887, in order to avoid the fearful boras of
Trieste, and to shelter in the supposed mild climate of "the Austrian
Riviera," Burton, accompanied, as always, by his wife, Dr. Baker, and
Lisa, went to stay at Abbazia. The subscriptions for his Supplemental
Nights were now pouring in, and they put him in great jollity. Jingling
his money in his pockets, he said to Dr. Baker, "I've always been poor,
and now we'll enjoy ourselves." Henceforth he spent his money like a
dissipated school-boy at a statute fair. Special trains, the best rooms
in the best hotels, anything, everything he fancied--and yet all the
while he worked at his books "like a navvy." Abbazia was a disappointment.
Snow fell for two months on end, and all that time they were mewed up
in their hotel. Burton found the society agreeable, however, and he read
German with the Catholic priest. Most of his time was spent in finishing
the Supplemental Nights, and Lady Burton was busy preparing for the
press and expurgated edition of her husband's work which, it was hoped,
would take its place on the drawing-room table.
Mr. Justin Huntly McCarthy, son of the novelist, gave her considerably
assistance, and the work appeared in 1888. Mr. Kirby's notes were to
have been appended to Lady Burton's edition of the Nights as well as
to Sir Richard's, but ultimately the idea was abandoned. "My wife and
I agreed," writes Burton, "that the whole of your notes would be
far too learned for her public,"[FN#549] so only a portion was used.

Lady Burton's work consisted of six volumes corresponding with Burton's
first ten, from which 215 pages were omitted.

Owing to the stagnation of Abbazia, and the martyrdom which he endured
from the gout, Burton was very glad to get back to Trieste, which was
reached on March 5th. When his pain was acute he could not refrain from
groaning, and at such times, Lady Burton, kneeling by his bedside, use
to say "Offer it up, offer it up"--meaning that prayer alone would bring
relief.

To Mr. Payne, 14th March 1888, Burton writes, "I have been moving since
yours of March 5th reached me, and unable to answer you. ...
Delighted to hear that in spite of cramp,[FN#550] Vo. V.[FN#551] is finished,
and shall look forward to the secret[FN#552] being revealed. You are quite
right never to say a word about it. There is nothing I abhor so much
as a man intrusting me with a secret."
On March 19th, Sir Richard finished his last volume of the Supplemental
Nights, and in May he was visited at Trieste by his old friend, F. F.
Arbuthnot.

On the 15th of April (1888) occurred the death of Matthew Arnold, who
had for some years enjoyed a Civil List pension of £250 a year;
and the event had scarcely been announced before Lady Burton, without
consulting her husband,[FN#553] telegraphed to the Government to "give
Burton Arnold's pension." This step, characteristic as it was indiscreet,
naturally did not effect its purpose.

Chapter XXXIII 19th March 1888-15th October 1888 The Last Visit to England
"The Supplemental Nights"

Bibliography:

76. 1st Vol. Supplemental Nights, 1st December 1886. 6th Vol.
1st August 1888.

152. Meeting with Mr. Swinburne and others, 18th July 1888-15th October
1888.

Burton's health continuing weak, he again endeavoured to induce the
Government to release him from his duties. Instead of that, they
gave him what he calls "an informal sick certificate," and from the following
letter to his sister (26th May 1888) we may judge that it was not given
gracefully.

"Yesterday," he says, "I got my leave accompanied by some disagreeable
expressions which will be of use to me when retiring.
We leave Trieste in June and travel leisurely over the St. Gothard and
expect to be in England about the 10th. ... The meteorologists declare
that the heat is going to equal the cold. Folky[FN#554] folk are like their
neighbours, poor devils who howl for excitement--want of anything
better to do.

The dreadful dull life of England accounts for many British madnesses.
Do you think of the Crystal Palace this year? We have an old friend,
Aird, formerly the Consul here, who has taken up his abode somewhere
in Sydenham. I don't want cold water bandages, the prospect of leave
makes me sleep quite well. With love and kisses to both,[FN#555] Your
affectionate brother, R. F. B."
Burton and his wife reached Folkestone on July 18th. Next day they went
on to London, where they had the pleasure of meeting again Commander
Cameron, Mr. Henry Irving, M. Du Chaillu, Mr. A. C.
Swinburne, and Mr. Theodore Watts[-Dunton]. What Burton was to Mr. Swinburne
is summed up in the phrase--"the light that on earth was he."[FN#556]

153. H. W. Ashbee.

His principal place of resort, however, during this visit was the
house of Mr. H. W. Ashbee, 54, Bedford Square, where he met not only Mr.
Ashbee, but also Dr. Steingass, Mr. Arbuthnot, Sir Charles Wingfield and
Mr. John Payne, all of whom were interested, in different ways, in
matters Oriental. Ashbee, who wrote under the name of Pisanus Fraxi (Bee
of an ash), was a curiously matter-of-fact, stoutish, stolid, affable
man, with a Maupassantian taste for low life, its humours and
laxities. He was familiar with it everywhere, from the sordid
purlieus of Whitechapel to the bazaars of Tunis and Algiers, and
related Haroun Al-Raschid-like adventures with imperturbably,
impassive face, and in the language that a business man uses when
recounting the common transactions of a day. This unconcernedness
never failed to provoke laughter, even from those who administered
rebukes to him. Of art and literature he had absolutely no idea,
but he was an enthusiastic bibliophile, and his library, which
included a unique collection or rare and curious books, had been
built up at enormous expense.
Somebody having described him as "not a bad old chap," Mr. Payne
added characteristically, "And he had a favourite cat, which says
something for him." 

154. A Bacon Causerie.
The serenity of these gatherings, whether at Mr. Ashbee's or at Mr.
Arbuthnot's, was never ruffled unless somebody happened to introduce
politics or the Shakespere-Bacon Question. Arbuthnot the Liberal
was content to strike out with his back against the wall, so to
speak, when attacked by the Conservative Burton, Ashbee and Payne;
but Arbuthnot the Baconian frequently took the offensive.
He would go out of his way in order to drag in this subject.
He could not leave it out of his Life of Balzac even.
These controversies generally resolved themselves into a duel between
Mr. Arbuthnot and Mr. Payne--Burton, who loved a fight between any
persons and for any reasons, looking on approvingly.
Mr. Ashbee and Dr. Steingass were inclined to side with Mr. Payne.
On one of these occasions Mr. Payne said impatiently that he could
not understand "any sensible man taking the slightest interest in
the sickening controversy," and then he pointed out one by one the
elements that in his opinion made the Baconian theory ridiculous.
"But," followed Mr. Arbuthnot, "Shakespere had no education, and
no person without an extremely good education could have written
the play erroneously published under the name of William Shakespere."

"If," retorted Mr. Payne, "Shakespere had been without education,
do you think the fact would have escaped the notice of such bitter
and unscrupulous enemies as Nash, Greene, and others, who hated him
for his towering superiority?"
Upon Mr. Arbuthnot admitting that he studies Shakespere merely from
a "curio" point of view, and that for the poetry he cared nothing,
Mr. Payne replied by quoting Schopenhauer: "A man who is insensible
to poetry, be he who he may, must be a barbarian."
Burton, who regarded himself as a poet, approved of the sentiment;
Dr. Steingass, who wrote execrable verses in English which neither
rhymed nor scanned, though they were intended to do both, was no
less satisfied; Mr.It seems to me strange that slaves when tortured make
damning statements about themselves, knowing well that it will kill them,
but prefer to be tortured than to inform on their masters to whom they
are naturally ill-disposed, when by doing so they could free themselves.
36. If Nicomachus had asked for them, and I had refused to give them up,
it would be evident that I thought them conscious of my guilt. As he did
not wish to take them when offered, you rightly can have the same opinion
about him, for the danger was not by any means evenly divided. 37. Had
they denounced me, there would have been no escape for me. If they had
not testified what he wished he would have suffered no penalty. So that
it devolved a great deal more on him to take them than on me to offer
them. But I was thus zealous, thinking it was for my interest to have you
learn the truth of the matter either from the evidence of slaves or
freedmen or facts.

38. Consider then, (members of the) Boule, whether you ought to trust me
for whom many persons have given testimony, or my accuser for whom no one
dares testify, and whether it is more likely that he lied when there was
no risk to himself, or that in the face of such great danger I committed
the act, and whether you think he made the accusation merely for the good
of the city or as an informer.

39. For I think you know that Nicomachus, induced by my personal enemies,
brought the case into court, not hoping to prove me guilty, but expecting
to be bribed. For, in proportion as such charges are most easily imputed
and most difficult to refute, so much the more do all men endeavor to
avoid them. 40. I, (members of the) Boule, did not think it right (to
shun trial), but when he brought the charge submitted myself entirely to
your disposal, nor did I try to conciliate any one of my enemies who
speak evil of me rather than praise themselves. No one ever attempted to
do me any open injury, but set on me men of such a character as these in
whom you cannot justly place any confidence. 41. I should be the most
wretched of all men if I were driven unjustly into exile, childless and
alone, leaving my home desolate, my mother in need of everything,
deprived of my country on the most disgraceful charges, although I have
been engaged in many sea-fights and many battles, and have conducted
myself in an orderly manner both under the Democracy and under the
Oligarchy.

42. I do not know, (members of the) Boule, that it is necessary for me to
say anything more. I have shown you that there was not an olive on the
place, and I have brought witnesses and proof. You must judge the case,
bearing in mind that you should learn from this man why, when it was
possible to catch me in the act, he brings the accusation after so long a
time, (43) and why, although bringing no witness, he wants you to trust
his mere assertions when he could have arrested me in the act, and why,
although I offered him all the slaves who he says were present, he
refused to take them.


ORATION IX.

POLYAENUS.


1. What purpose have the prosecutors in disregarding the main point, and
trying to attack my character? Are they not aware that they should speak
about the question at issue? Or do they indeed understand this, but
thinking to divert your attention, present more arguments in regard to
every sort of matter than about what they should (speak)? 2. I see
clearly that they speak, not because they have a small opinion of me, but
of their case. I should not be surprised if they supposed that you would
be persuaded by their slanders and convict me. 3. I did think, gentlemen
of the jury, that my trial was in regard to the accusation, not in regard
to my character. But since the prosecutors attack that, I must make my
defense on all sides. First then, I shall tell you about the writ.

4. Two years ago I came to the city, but lived here only two months when
I was put on the list for military service. When I found out it had been
done, I immediately surmised I had been chosen for no honest reason. So I
went to the Strategus and showed I had served, but I met with no
satisfaction. I was angered at their insults, but held my peace. 5. And
not knowing what to do, and consulting a citizen about my course of
action, I found out that they threatened me with imprisonment, saying
that (I), Polyaenus, had lived in the city no less time than Callicrates.
This conversation had been held at the bank of Philias. 6. So Ctesicles,
the archon, and his associates imposed a fine upon me contrary to law,
upon the accusation of some one that I spoke evil of them, the law really
declaring "if any one speak evil of the government in council." They made
the accusation, but did not attempt to enforce the penalty, but at the
end of their term of office entered it on the register and gave it to the
stewards (of the treasury). 7. The stewards however held a different view
of the matter, and calling up those who gave them the item, demanded the
reason for the charge. After they had heard what had happened, and
understood the treatment I had received, at first they tried to persuade
them to drop the matter, showing that it was not right for any citizen to
be registered as owing a fine; but being unable to persuade them
otherwise, they ran the risk (of being called to account) by you and
decided to cancel the fine. 8. That I was then released by the stewards,
you are well aware. But although believing that in reality I have been
cleared from the charge by this showing, yet I will bring further laws
and other pleas.

LAWS.

9. You have heard that the law expressly states that a fine is imposed on
those who speak evil in the council; but I have brought witnesses that I
did not enter the place of assembly, nor ought I to have been fined
unjustly, nor could I with justice pay that amount. 10. For if it was
plain I did not enter the council, and the law states that those who
misbehave within it are to be fined, I am shown not to have transgressed
in any way, but to have been fined unreasonably from motives of personal
dislike without ill-doing (on my part). 11. And they were conscious that
they acted wrongly; for they neither submitted an account of the matter
nor came to the courts and established their proceedings as legal by a
(judicial) vote. But then, even if these men fined me legally, and
established their accusation before you, as the stewards remitted the
fine, really I should have been acquitted of the charge. 12. For if they
were competent to enforce or remit the fine, I would not with reason have
to pay the money, though fined legally; and if it is possible for them to
remit and they give account of their doings, if they have proceeded
illegally, they will easily obtain the penalty which they deserve.

13. You know now how I was transferred and fined; but you ought to know
not only the reason for the charge, but the pretext for their enmity. For
I was a friend of Sostratus before incurring their hatred, knowing that
he had materially benefited the state. 14. But although his friend, I
never took advantage of his power to punish an enemy nor aid a friend.
For during his life I remained inactive through necessity and on account
of my age, and when he died neither by word and deed did I injure any of
his accusers, and I can say so much, from which I should deserve much
more gratitude from my opponents than ill-treatment. Their enmity they
showed for the reasons which have been given, although (in reality) they
had no reason for enmity. 15. So while on oath to enroll those who had
not served, they violated their oaths and proposed to the assembly to
deliberate about my freedom, (16) fining me on the ground that I spoke
evil of the government, and utterly disregarding justice, being bound to
injure me on some plea or other. What would they have done if they were
really going to injure me greatly and benefit themselves, they who care
so little for their unfairness (even) when neither of these objects is
accomplished? 17. For they had small opinion of your assembly and had no
respect for the gods, but behaved so contemptuously and illegally as not
to attempt to defend their acts, and at last, thinking they had not
punished me sufficiently, finally banished me from the city. 18. While
acting so illegally and violently, they did not care to conceal their
unfairness, but bringing me up again on the same charges, though I have
done no wrong, they accuse and revile me, bringing charges not at all
corresponding to my habits, but which harmonize and accord with their own
characters.

19. These men are then eager in every way for me to meet punishment; but
do not, I beg you, be swayed by their slanders and condemn me, nor set
aside those who came to a better and juster decision. For these have
acted both in accord with custom and precedent, and evidently have done
no wrong, caring most for justice. 20. So if these (_the
prosecutors_) act illegally, I would be somewhat disturbed,
considering it is established to treat enemies ill and friends well; but
if I did not meet fair treatment at your hands, I should be much more
troubled. For then I should not seem to have been ill-treated through
private enmity, but through the viciousness of the state. 21. Nominally I
am contending about the writ, but actually about my citizenship. For with
fair treatment I would remain in the city (for I trust to your decision);
but if, being brought up by these men, I should be unjustly convicted, I
should have to leave the city. What hope would I have to buoy me up in
living with you, or why should I intend (to do so), knowing the desire of
my accusers, and not knowing at whose hands to expect justice? Care then
more for justice (than for anything else) and bear in mind that you grant
pardon about charges evidently unjust, and do not allow those who have
committed no wrong to meet through individual malice the most unfair
treatment.


ORATION X.

THEOMNESTUS.


1. I think, gentlemen of the jury, that I shall have no lack of
witnesses, for I see many of you sitting on the jury who were present
when Lysithous was impeaching Theomnestus for speaking in the Assembly
when it was illegal, as he had thrown away his shield. In that trial he
said I had killed my father. 2. Now if he had claimed I had killed his
father, I should have overlooked his words, (for I thought him of no
account and insignificant), (3) but now it seems a disgrace not to
punish, a man who said this in relation to my father, who benefited you
and the state so signally. And now I wish to know from you whether he
shall pay the penalty, or whether he alone of the Athenians is allowed to
act and speak illegally just as he pleases.

4. This is my thirty-third year, gentlemen of the jury, and the twentieth
since the restoration (of the Democracy). So I was clearly thirteen years
old when my father died at the hands of the Thirty. At that age I neither
understood what an oligarchy was, nor could I have helped my father under
his unjust treatment. 5. And I could not have had reason to plot against
him for the sake of the money, for my elder brother Pantaleon took
everything and as guardian took our patrimony, so that on many accounts,
gentlemen of the jury, it was for my interest to desire my father's life.
So it is necessary to call these facts to your minds, and I shall need
but few words; you know well enough that I speak the truth. And
nevertheless I will furnish evidence for these facts.

EVIDENCE.

6. Now probably, gentlemen of the jury, he will make no denial of these
facts, but will say before you, as he dared to affirm before the arbiter,
that one does not use a forbidden word in saying some one has "killed"
his father, for the law does not forbid this, but forbids the use of the
word "homicide." 7. But I think that you should make your decision not
about the letter of the law, but its intention. You all know that those
who kill others are homicides, and those who are homicides kill others.
For it would be a great task for a lawgiver to write all the words having
the same signification, but in mentioning one term, his meaning covers
all. 8. This is the case then, is it not, Theomnestus,--if any one called
you a beater of father or mother, you would think he should be punished,
but if any one said you beat your father or mother, you would then think
he should go unfined as saying no forbidden word! 9. For I should like to
hear from you (for in this you are skilled in practice and speech). If
any one should say you "flung away" your shield, and in the law was
written that a man was liable to punishment if any one declares he "threw
it away," would you not have prosecuted him, and would it have been
enough for you to say if some one declared you "flung it away," I do not
care, for _flinging_ and _throwing_ are not the same thing. 10.
Now could you admit the charge as one of the Eleven, if some one brought
in a man on the charge of having stripped off his cloak or shirt but you
would have discharged him because he was not called a "clothesstealer."
And if any one should be caught carrying off a boy, you would not say he
was a kidnapper, if you quibble with terms, and will not pay attention to
the facts to express which terms are invented. 11. Consider this now,
gentlemen of the jury. For this man seems never to have gone to the
Areopagus through indolence and indifference. For you all know that
there, whenever they are conducting a trial for murder, they do not make
their depositions with this term, but with that by which I have been
abused. For the prosecutor makes a deposition that "he killed," the
defendant that "he did not kill." 12. Accordingly it would be absurd to
acquit the one who evidently committed murder because he pleads he is a
murderer, when the prosecutor charges the defendant of "killing." For
what is the difference of which this man speaks? And you yourself brought
suit against Theon for saying you "flung away" your shield. Nothing is
said in the law about "flinging," but if any one declared he has "thrown
away" his shield, it decrees a fine of 500 drachmae. 13. Would it not be
terrible if whenever it were necessary for you to punish your enemies for
slander, for you to interpret the laws as I do now, but whenever you
speak illegally of another, to think you ought not to be punished? Are
you so powerful as to be able to employ the laws as you wish, or have you
such influence as to believe that those whom you wrong will not get a
recompense? 14. Are you not ashamed to have the thought that you should
claim advantages, not from your services to the state, but from your
unpunished deeds? But read me the law.

LAW.

15. I now, gentlemen of the jury, assume that you all know that I speak
to the point, but he is so clumsy that he cannot understand what is said.
So I wish to inform him also from other laws about these things, that
even now while he is on the platform, he may be informed and may give you
no further trouble. Now read me the old laws of Solon.

16. _Law. Let him be bound, in the stocks by the feet, if the court
decrees it in addition._

The "stocks," Theomnestus, is the same thing which is now called the
"pillory." If then a man who has been bound should on his release
complain when the Eleven were undergoing their audit that he had not been
bound in stocks but in the pillory, would they not think him crazy? Read
another law.

17. _Law. Let him give security, having sworn by Apollo, fearing to
escape on account of the penalty._

The (old-fashioned) "swearing falsely" now means "swearing by," and
"running off" is our "escape."

_And whoever shuts a door with a thief inside._

The "close" is our "shut" and means the same.

18. _Money may be at interest at whatever rate the lender wishes._

The "interest," my good friend, is not "weighed," but draws whatever
percent is wished. Read now the last law.

19. _As many as go about in plain view,_ and _He shall be
responsible for injury to a domestic or female slave._

Now attend. The "in plain view" is "openly," the "go about" is "walk the
streets," the "domestic" is "servant." And there are many other such
cases, gentlemen of the jury. 20. And unless this man is stupid, I think
he understands that these matters are the same now as in antiquity, but
that we now employ different terms for them. And he will show (his
consciousness), for he will withdraw from the platform in silence. 21.
And if he does not, I beg you, gentlemen of the jury, to vote what is
just, bearing in mind that it is a much greater evil to hear that one has
killed his father than to hear that he has thrown away his shield. I at
least would rather have thrown away all my shields, rather than to have
such a report (circulated) in relation to my father. 22. So this man,
being liable to that charge, for which the penalty would have been less
(than mine for this), not only was acquitted by you, but brought
disfranchisement upon a witness. And I have seen him doing that which you
know of, and I myself rescued his shield and yet am charged with a deed
so lawless and terrible. Now as I shall have the worst fate if he
escapes, and his penalty if convicted of slander will not be what he
deserves, shall I not obtain satisfaction from him? What charge have you
against me? 23. That there was justice in his accusation? But you
yourselves would not say so. That the defendant is a nobler man and from
nobler family than I? Not even he would claim that. That, having thrown
away my shield, I am accused of libel by the one who rescued it? Such is
not the story about town. 24. But remember that you rendered him that
great favor. In this matter who would not pity Dionysius that he met with
such misfortune, a noble man who fell into danger, coming from the
dicastery, saying (25) that we had made a most unfortunate expedition,
where many lost their lives and others who saved their shields were
convicted of perjury by those who threw theirs away? Were it not better
for him to have died there rather than to come home to such a fate? 26.
So do not pity Theomnestus that he is ill-spoken of as he deserves, and
do not give judgment in his favor while he insults (me) and speaks
illegally. For what greater sorrow could befall me than this, to hear
such base charges in relation to such a father? 27. He often served as
Strategus, and ran many other risks for you. And he was never made
prisoner by the enemy, nor lost a suit to the state through his audit,
and at sixty years of age he was put to death under the oligarchy through
his devotion to the people. 28. Am I not justified in my anger against
the slanderer, and in coming to my father's rescue as if he were
slandered by this charge? For what could be more distressing to him than
this, to die at the hands of enemies and to have the reproach of having
been put to death by his own children. His trophies of valor, gentlemen
of the jury, even now hang on your shrines, but the trophies of the
cowardice of this man (_Theon_) and his father are in an enemy's
temple, so inborn is their baseness. 29. And so, gentlemen of the jury,
the more these are brave to all appearances, the more they deserve our
anger, for they are evidently strong in body, but weak in spirit.

30. I hear, gentlemen of the jury, that he will resort to the argument
that he spoke in anger as I offered the same testimony as Dionysius. Bear
in mind, gentlemen of the jury, that the law gives no pardon to anger,
but fines one who cannot prove the truth of his words. And I twice gave
evidence, not realizing that you punish witnesses and pardon those who
throw away their shields. 31. So about these things I do not know what
more I ought to say. But I beg you to condemn Theon, bearing in mind that
no trial could be more important to me. For I prosecute him for slander
and by the same vote I am acquitted of the murder of my father, I, who by
myself, as soon as I came of age, indicted the Thirty in the Areopagus.
Recalling this, aid me and my father, and (stand by) the laws and the
oaths which you have taken.


ORATION XII.

ERATOSTHENES.


1. It does not seem to me difficult to begin the accusation, jurors, but
to cease speaking; things so important, and so many in number, have been
done by them, that neither by lying could I make the accusation worse
than it really is, nor, if I were willing, should I be able to tell the
whole truth; but it is necessary either for the accuser to grow weary, or
for time to fail. 2. But I think my experience will be just the opposite
of what (it has been) formerly. For formerly it was necessary for the
accusers to show the enmity which they had toward the accused; but now it
is necessary to ask from the accused what enmity they had toward the
state, on account of which they venture to do such wrongs to it. But I do
not use these words as if not having private enmities and misfortunes,
but as if there were plenty of reason for all to be angry, on account of
their private and public affairs. 3. In my own case, jurors, having never
pleaded either my own cause or that of others, I now have been compelled
by what has taken place, to accuse this man, so that I often have felt
the greatest despondency, lest, on account of my inexperience, I should
make the accusation, for my brother and myself, unworthily and
unskillfully; still, I will endeavor to run over the facts as briefly as
I can.

4. My father, Cephalus, was persuaded by Pericles to come to this land,
and lived there thirty years; and neither we nor he ever brought an
accusation against anybody, or were accused ourselves; but we lived in
such a manner under the Democracy, that we neither wronged others nor
were wronged by others. 5. But when the Thirty, being villains and
sycophants, were established in power, affirming that it was necessary to
rid the city of those doing wrong, and turn the remaining citizens to
virtue and justice,--though making such professions, they did not
venture to do such things, as I, speaking first in my own behalf, and in
behalf of you, shall try to remind you. 6. For Theognis and Piso said,
among the Thirty, in regard to the metics, that there were some
dissatisfied with the form of government; therefore there was a very good
pretext to seem to punish them, but in reality to get their money, for
the city was poor in every respect, and the government needed money. 7.
And they had no difficulty in persuading their hearers, for they thought
it of no account to kill men, but to take their money they considered of
the utmost importance. Therefore they decided to arrest ten, and, of
these, two poor men, in older that they might have a defense, in respect
to the others, that these things were not done for the sake of money, but
in the interest of the state, as if doing something reasonably. 8.
Accordingly they distributed the houses and went to them. They found me
entertaining guests, whom they drove out, and then gave me up to Piso,
and others, going to the workshop, took an inventory of the slaves. And I
asked Piso if he was willing to save me, taking a bribe; and he said he
would, if there was much of it. 9. Therefore I said that I was ready to
give him a talent of silver, and he agreed to do it. I knew that he
regarded neither gods nor men; still, in view of the existing state of
affairs, it seemed to me to be absolutely necessary to take a pledge from
him. 10. And when he swore, imprecating destruction upon himself and
children, that he would save me, on condition of receiving a talent, I
went to my chamber and opened the chest. Piso seeing this came in, and,
seeing what was therein, called two of his servants, and commanded them
to take what was in the chest. 11. But as he did not confine himself to
the sum agreed upon, jurors, but took three talents of silver, four
hundred cyziceni, a hundred darics, and four bowls of silver, I besought
him to give me my traveling expenses; whereupon he told me to rejoice if
I saved my life. 12. Melobius and Mnesitheides, returning from the
workshop, met Piso and myself, coming out (of the house). They overtook
us at the very doors, and asked us where we were going; he said to my
brother's (house), to see what was in that house; then they told him to
go on, but bade me accompany them to Damnippus. 13. And Piso, approaching
me, told me to keep silence, and be of good cheer, as he would come
there; and we found Theognis there, guarding the others; having given me
up to him, they went back; and, under such circumstances, it seemed best
to me to run any risk whatever, as if death were already at hand. 14. So,
having called Damnippus, I spoke to him as follows: "You happen to be a
friend of mine, and I have come to your house; I have done no wrong, but
I am about to be put to death on account of my property; do you,
therefore, in consideration of my wretched plight, kindly use your
influence in my behalf to secure my safety." And he promised to do it.
But it seemed better to him to mention it to Theognis, for he thought
that he would do anything, if one should give him money. 15. And, while
he was conversing with Theognis (as I happened to be acquainted with the
house, and knew that there were two doors), it seemed best to me to try
to save myself, thinking that, if I should escape detection, I should be
safe, but, if I should be taken, I thought that, if Theognis should be
persuaded by Damnippus to receive a bribe, I should get off nevertheless,
but otherwise I should die all the same. 16. Having thought of these
things, I fled while they were stationing a guard at the hall-door, and
of the three doors through which I must pass, all happened to be open;
then, coming to the (house) of Archeneus, the shipmaster, I sent him to
the town to learn about my brother; and he came, and said that
Eratosthenes had seized him in the road and led him off to prison, (17)
and I, having learned these things, on the following night sailed to
Megara. And the Thirty gave the command to Polemarchus, made customary by
them, to drink hemlock, before telling the accusation, on account of
which he was about to die, so far he failed of trial, and making his
defense. 18. And when he was carried out the prison-house dead, although
we had three houses, they permitted him to be carried out from neither of
them; but, having hired a bier, they laid him out. And, although there
was much clothing, they gave none to us, when we asked it for his burial,
but of his friends, one gave a garment, another a pillow, and what each
one happened to have, he gave for his burial. 19. And although we had
seven hundred shields belonging to us, together with gold, silver, brass,
ornaments, furniture and women's clothing to an amount far beyond their
expectations, besides a hundred and twenty slaves, of whom they took the
best, and threw the rest into prison, they reached such a pitch of
insatiable desire and avarice, that they showed their character; for from
the ears of the wife of Polemarchus, Melobius took the golden earrings
which she happened to be wearing, as soon as he came into the house. 20.
And not in the least part of our property did we receive compassion from
them; but they so wronged us, on account of our property, as others would
in anger for great wrongs, though we did not deserve these things from
the city, but we had paid the expenses of all the choruses, and many
taxes, and showed ourselves orderly, and did everything ordered, and had
no private enemy, but freed many of the Athenians from their enemies.
Such things they thought we deserved, although as metics we had conducted
ourselves better than those who are citizens. 21. For they drove out many
of the citizens to their enemies, and, killing many unjustly, left them
unburied; and many who enjoyed the full rights of citizenship in this
city, they deprived of them; and they prevented the daughters of many
from being married. 22. And now they have become so audacious, that they
come here to defend themselves, declaring that they have done nothing
wrong or disgraceful; and I wish that they spoke the truth, for not the
least share in this good would come to me. 23. But now they have no such
pleas either before the city or me, for, as I said before, Eratosthenes
killed my brother, not having been wronged by him privately, or seeing
him injuring the city, but zealously assisting his own transgression of
the law.

24. And having come up here, I wish, to question him, jurors, for this is
my opinion; with a view to this man's advantage, I think it impious to
converse even with another about him; but to his injury I consider it to
be holy and honorable to speak even to himself; therefore rise up, and
answer me what I ask you. 25. Did you lead away Polemarchus, or not?
"Through fear I did what was commanded by the Thirty." Were you in the
council chamber when speeches were made about us? "I was." Did you agree
with those advising to kill, or did you oppose? "I opposed." That we
might not be killed? "That you might not be killed." Thinking that we
would suffer unjustly or justly? "Unjustly." 26. Then, O basest of all
men! did you oppose, in order to save us, but arrest us, in order to kill
us? And, when the majority of you had our safety in your hands, do you
say you opposed those wishing to destroy us, but, when it was in your
power alone both to save Polemarchus and not, did you lead him away to
prison? Then because, as you say, by opposing you did no good, do you
claim to be considered an honest man? But, because you arrested and tried
to kill us, do you not think that you should suffer punishment for this?

27. And, moreover, it is not reasonable to believe him in this (if he
speaks the truth in saying that he opposed), that it was commanded him.
For surely, in the case of the metics, they did not take a pledge from
him. To whom then was it less likely to be commanded than (to one) who
happened to oppose them, and declared his opinion? For who was less
likely to be a servant in these things than the man who opposed what they
wished to be done? 28. And still it seems to me that there is a
sufficient excuse for the other Athenians, to lay the blame of what has
happened upon the Thirty. But how is it reasonable for you to accept the
statements of the Thirty themselves, if they throw the blame on each
other? 29. For, if there had been in the city any greater power than that
by which he was ordered to kill men unjustly, you might justly pardon
him; but now from whom will you ever exact punishment if it shall be
possible for the Thirty to say that they did what was commanded by the
Thirty? 30. And while it was possible to save him and abide by the
commands of the Thirty, he arrested him, not in his house, but in the
street, and led him off. And you are all angry with as many as came into
your houses making a search for you or for anything of yours. 31. But, if
it was necessary to pardon those who have killed others for their own
safety, you would more justly pardon these, for it was dangerous for
those who were sent not to go, and if caught to deny it. But it was
possible for Eratosthenes to say, first, that he did not meet him;
secondly, that he did not see him; for these things had neither proof nor
trial, so that they would not have been investigated, even by those
wishing to be enemies. 32. But you ought, Eratosthenes, if you had been
an honest man, far rather to have informed those about to be put to death
unjustly, than to arrest those about to perish unjustly; but now your
acts have been evident as those not of one troubled, but of one pleased
with what has taken place. 33. So that it is necessary for the jury to
give their decision from facts rather than from words, taking as proofs
of the things then said, what they know to have happened, since it is not
possible to furnish witnesses about these things; for it was not only
impossible for us to be present, but in our homes, so that it is in the
power of those who have done it for their own safety! 34. I do not,
however, shrink from the issue, but rather confess to you that I am
utterly opposed (to their statements). Indeed, I wonder what in Heaven's
name you would have done if in harmony with the Thirty, since when
opposing them you killed Polemarchus. Come now, what would you do if you
happened to be brother or son of his? Would you acquit him? For
Eratosthenes, jurors, must show one of two things, either that he did not
lead him away, or that he did this justly; but he has confessed that he
arrested him unjustly, so that he has made your decision about him easy.
35. And now many, both of the citizens and of the strangers, have come to
learn your opinion about these things, some of whom, being your own
citizens, will go away having learned either that they will suffer
punishment for the crimes they shall commit, or, having done what they
desire, will become tyrants of the city, but, failing, will be on equal
terms with you; but the foreigners in the city will know whether they
banished the Thirty from their city justly or unjustly, for, if the very
men who have suffered ill, shall acquit those whom they arrested, truly
they will think that they themselves have been over-zealous in taking
vengeance in your behalf. 36. Is it not then a hard thing if you punished
by death the generals who conquered in the naval battle because they said
they were not able to rescue their companions from the sea on account of
the storm, thinking it was necessary to exact punishment from them on
account of the valor of the dead, but these, who, as private citizens,
did all in their power to be defeated in the naval battle, and, when they
were established in power, confessed that they willingly put to death
many of the citizens without a trial,--is it not necessary that both they
themselves and their children should be punished by you with the most
extreme punishments?

37. I then, jurors, think that sufficient accusation has been made, for I
think it is necessary to carry the accusation up to this point until the
accused shall appear to have done things worthy of death; for this is the
most extreme punishment we can inflict upon them, so that I do not know
what need there is to make many accusations against men who would not be
able to give satisfaction for each of their offenses even by dying twice.
38. For it is not fitting for him to do that which is customary in this
city, to make no defense against the accusations but, speaking much of
themselves, they sometimes deceive, showing to you how good soldiers they
are, or how many ships of the enemy they took when in command of
triremes, or how many cities which were hostile they made friendly. 39.
For command him to show where he killed as many of the enemy as of the
citizens, or where he took as many ships as they themselves betrayed, or
what city they acquired so great as this one of ours which they enslaved.
40. For did they take as many arms from the enemy as they have taken from
you? Did they take such walls as those of their own country which they
dismantled? Who took away the garrisons about Attica, and made it plain
to you that they did not dismantle the Piraeus because the Lacedaemonians
commanded it, but because they thought that thus their own power would be
firmer?

41. Therefore I often wondered at the audacity of those speaking in their
behalf, except when I consider that it is in their power both to do all
evils and to praise those like them. 42. For this is not the first time
he has acted contrary to your majority; but in the time of the Four
Hundred, having set up an oligarchy in the camp, he fled from the
Hellespont, deserting his ship, although the commander of it, with
Iatrocles and others whose names I do not need to mention; and, having
come here, he opposed those who favored a democracy. And of these things
I will bring you witnesses.

WITNESSES.

43. I will pass over then his intervening life; but after the sea-fight
and the disaster to the city took place, there being still a democracy,
five men were made Ephors by the so-called secret societies (whence they
began a sedition), to assemble the citizens, lead the conspirators, and
oppose your democracy. Among them were Eratosthenes and Critias. 44. And
they appointed commanders over the guards, and they directed what ought
to be voted and who ought to rule, and, if they wished to do anything
else, they were masters; so not only enemies, but also those who were
citizens plotted against you, in order that you might vote nothing good,
and might be in want of many things. 45. For this they knew, that they
could not get the upper hand in any other way, but success for them
depended on your misfortune; and they thought that you, wishing to be
freed from your present evils, would not consider about future ones. 46.
That it was in the power of the Ephors at that time, I will bring
witnesses to you, not those then co-operating with him (for I should not
be able), but those who heard Eratosthenes himself. 47. But, if they had
been prudent, they would have borne witness against them, and would have
severely punished the teachers of their crimes, and, if they had been
wise, would not have considered their oaths binding to the extent of
wronging the citizens, but for the good of the state they would have
easily transgressed them; therefore I say such things to them. Call
witnesses for me, and come forward.

WITNESSES.

48. You have heard the witnesses. At last, being established in power, he
took part in no good deed, but in many of an opposite character. If,
however, he were an honest man, he ought, in the first place, not to rule
contrary to law; secondly, to inform the council concerning all the
reports, that they were false, and that Batrachus and Aeschylides did not
announce the truth, but told things invented by the Thirty, as agreed
upon for the injury of the citizens. 49. And indeed, jurors, all who were
ill disposed toward you, remained quiet just the same; for there were
others saying and doing things which were greater evils than what could
(otherwise) come to the city. But for those who said they were well
disposed, why did they not show it there, both by speaking what was best
themselves, and preventing men from doing wrong?

50. But perhaps he might be able to say he was afraid, and this will be a
sufficient excuse to some of you. (Observe) then, if he shall appear to
be opposing the Thirty in speech; otherwise it will be evident that these
things pleased him, and he had so much power that, although, he opposed,
he suffered no evil from them. And he ought to have this zeal for your
safety, but not for Theramenes, who has wronged you in many respects. 51.
But that he considered the city hostile and your enemies his friends, I
shall establish by many proofs; likewise that the quarrels with each
other arose not on your behalf, but on theirs, to determine who shall do
these things and govern the state. 52. For, if they made the revolt in
behalf of those who had been wronged, when would there have been a better
opportunity for a ruler to show his friendship than when Thrasybulus had
taken possession of Phyle? But he, instead of announcing or doing
anything good toward those at Phyle, came with his fellow-rulers to
Salamis and Eleusis, and led away three hundred of the citizens to
prison, and by one vote condemned them all to death. 53. But when we came
to the Piraeus, and disputes arose, and speeches were made about a
reconciliation, we each had many hopes of behaving towards each other, as
both parties gave indications; for the Piraeus party, being superior,
permitted them to depart, (54) and they, having come to the city, drove
out the Thirty, except Pheido and Eratosthenes, and chose as leaders
those most opposed to them, thinking justly that by the same persons both
the Thirty would be hated, and the Piraeus party loved. 55. Of these,
then, Pheido, who had been one of the Thirty, and Hippocles, and
Epichares of Lamptrae, and others seeming to be the most opposed to
Charicles and Critias and their club, when they were established in
power, created much greater party-feeling against the Piraeus party for
the city party. 56. And they openly showed that they were making the
disturbance, not on behalf of the Piraeus party, nor on behalf of those
perishing unjustly, neither did they trouble themselves about the dead,
nor those who were going to be put to death, but those who had more power
and were getting rich faster. 57. For, having seized the offices and the
city, they made war upon both parties, both the Thirty who had done all
evils, and you who had suffered all evils; and this was evident to all,
that, if the former were accused unjustly, you (were accused) justly, but
if you unjustly, the Thirty justly, for they were banished from the city,
not having been guilty of other things, but of these things. 58. So that
it is necessary to be exceedingly indignant that Pheido, having been
chosen to conciliate you and restore you, did the same things as
Eratosthenes, and with the same mind was ready to injure those who were
in the majority in their own party by means of you; and he was not
willing to restore the city to you in unjust exile, but, having come to
Sparta, he tried to persuade them to begin hostilities, falsely saying
that the city would fall into the power of the Boeotians, and other
things besides by which he hoped to persuade them. 59. But not being able
to obtain this, either because the sacred rites were in the way, or
because they themselves did not wish it, he borrowed a hundred talents in
order that he might be able to hire mercenaries; and they chose Lysander
as leader, who was very friendly to the oligarchy, and most hostile to
the state, especially the Piraeus party. 60. Then having hired all men
for the destruction of the city, and inciting cities, and finally the
Lacedaemonians, and such of their allies as they could persuade, they
made preparations not to restore but to destroy the city (and would have
succeeded), had it not been for certain brave men, to whom I charge you
to show your gratitude by punishing these wretches. 61. You know these
things yourselves, and I know it is not necessary to provide witnesses,
nevertheless (I will), for I need to stop speaking, and it is more
pleasant for you to hear the same words from as many as possible.

WITNESSES.

62. Come now, I will show you about Theramenes as briefly as I can, and I
request you to hear me, both on behalf of myself and the city. And let no
one think that I am accusing Theramenes while Eratosthenes is on trial.
For I learn that he will make this defense, that he was a friend of his,
and took part in the same acts. 63. But I suppose that he, as a citizen,
would pretend that he was acting with Themistocles, in order that the
walls might be built, since (he says he is acting) with Theramenes, in
order that they may be destroyed; for they do not seem to me to be worthy
of a comparison, for he built them up against the will of the Spartans,
but this man has torn them down, after deceiving the citizens. 64. For
the opposite has happened to the city from what was natural. For it was
right that the friends of Theramenes should be ruined with him, except if
one happened to be acting in opposition to him; but now I see that the
defense is thrown upon him, but that his companions are trying to get
honor, as if he had been the cause of many blessings, and not of great
evils. 65. In the first place, he was the chief cause of the former
oligarchy, having persuaded you to choose the constitution, in the time
of the Four Hundred. His father, being one of the commissioners, did
these things, and he himself seeming to be in full sympathy with the
affair, was chosen general by them. 66. And while he was in office, he
showed himself faithful (to the city); but, when he saw that Pisander and
Callaeschrus and others were superior to him, and that you no longer
wished to hear them, then, on account of his enmity towards them, and his
fear of you, he took part with Aristocrates. 67. And, wishing to seem to
be faithful to you, he accused and put to death, Antiphon and
Archeptolemus, who were great friends of his, and reached such a pitch of
wickedness, that at the same time, on account of his faith to them, he
enslaved you, and on account of his (faith) to you he destroyed his
friends. 68. Then being honored, and thought worthy of the greatest
things, he himself, having announced that he would save the city,
destroyed it, saying he had done a great and valuable thing. And he
promised to make peace, without giving hostages, without dismantling the
walls, and without giving up the ships, and wishing to say these things
to no one, he commanded you to trust him. 69. But you, Athenians, while
the council of the Areopagus was acting for safety, and many were
opposing Theramenes, though you knew that other men keep secrets on
account of the enemy, while he, even among his own citizens, was
unwilling to state those things which he was going to state to the enemy,
nevertheless intrusted to him your country, children, wives and
yourselves. 70. But he did nothing which he promised; on the contrary, he
reflected that the city ought to be small and weak, so that he endeavored
to persuade you to do those things which no one of the enemy ever
mentioned, or of the citizens ever expected; not being compelled by the
Lacedaemonians, but himself giving orders to them, both to destroy the
walls of the Piraeus, and to break up the existing state of government,
well knowing that, if you were not in despair, you would inflict speedy
punishment upon him. 71. And finally, jurors, he did not permit the
assembly to be held until the opportunity mentioned by him
(_Lysander_) was carefully watched by him, and he had summoned the
ships from Samos with Lysander, and the camp of the enemy was in the
city. 72. Then, this being the state of affairs, and Lysander and
Philochares and Miltiades being present, they made an assembly concerning
the constitution, in order that no orator might oppose or threaten them,
and that you might not choose what was advantageous, but might vote what
seemed best to them. 73. And Theramenes stood up, and advised you to
commit the city to thirty men, and abide by the constitution which
Dracontides proposed, but you, nevertheless, being so disposed, made a
tumult as if you would not do these things, for you knew that you were
deliberating that day concerning slavery and liberty. 74. But Theramenes,
jurors, (and of these things I will bring you yourselves as witnesses,)
said he cared nothing for your tumult, since he knew that many of the
Athenians were doing things like himself, and he said things which seemed
good to Lysander and the Lacedaemonians; and after him Lysander rose and
said a great deal, but particularly that he considered you faithless, and
that the question would be to you, not about a constitution, but about
safety, unless you did what Theramenes commands. 75. And of those in the
assembly, the better portion were aware of the preparation and the
crisis, and some remained and kept quiet; but others went off, knowing
this, at least, that they had voted nothing wrong to the city; while a
few base and evil schemers voted what was commanded. 76. For they were
commanded to elect ten whom Theramenes proposed, and ten whom, those
elected Ephors advised, and ten from those present; for they saw your
weakness, and they knew their own power, so that they knew beforehand
what was going to take place in the assembly. 77. And in these things it
is not necessary to believe me, but him, for all those things said by me
he said, in his defense in the council, reproaching the exiles, because
they came back through his means,--the Lacedaemonians not caring about
it,--and reviling those taking part in the government, because he himself
met with such treatment, after having been the cause of all the things
done in the ways mentioned by me, having himself given many pledges, and
received many from them. 78. And though he has been the cause of so many
other evils and disgraces, both long ago and recently, both small and
great, they will venture to declare that they are friends of his, when
Theramenes died not on your behalf, but on account of his own wickedness,
and was justly punished in an oligarchy (for he destroyed it); as he
would have been justly in a democracy; for he twice enslaved you,
despising what was present, and desiring what was absent, setting himself
up as a teacher of most horrible things, while using a most honorable
name.

79. Concerning Theramenes then, the accusations seem to me to be
sufficient; and the time has come when it is necessary not to have pardon
and pity in your decision, but to punish Eratosthenes and his fellow-
rulers, and not by fighting to be superior to our (public) enemies, and
by voting to be weaker than our private enemies. 80. Accordingly do not
favor them more for what they say they are going to do, than be angry for
what they have done; neither plot against the Thirty when absent, and
acquit them when present; neither aid yourselves in a manner worse, than
fortune has, which has given them to the city. 81. Act against
Eratosthenes and his friends, upon whom he will lay the defense, and with
whom these things were done by him; but the contest between the city and
Eratosthenes is not equal, for he was at once the accuser and judge of
what was taking place; but we are brought now to an accusation and
defense. 82. They put to death without a trial those doing no wrong; but
you think it right to try according to law those who have destroyed the
city; from whom even if you wished to exact punishment, contrary to law,
you could not exact one worthy of the crimes which they have done to the
city; for by what suffering could they suffer a punishment proportionate
to their deeds? 83. If you should kill these, and their children, should
we exact an adequate punishment for the murder of those whose fathers and
sons and brothers they put to death without a trial? Or if you should
confiscate their real estate, would it be well either for the state from
which they have taken much, or for the citizens whose houses they have
plundered? 84. Since, then, by most stringent measures you could not
exact a sufficient punishment from them, is it not a shame for you to
neglect any (penalty) whatsoever which one might wish to exact from them?
It seems to me, that he must be an audacious wretch who when no others
are the jurors except those very ones who have suffered ill, has come to
make his defense, before the very witnesses of his villainy; so much has
he either despised you or trusted others. 85. Both of these things it is
worth while to consider, reflecting that they would not be able to do
these things without the co-operation of others, neither would they have
attempted to come now, unless they thought they would be saved by those
same persons who have come here, not to rescue them, but in the belief
that there would be great security to them for what they have done, and
in future the power to do whatever they wish, if, having made the arrest,
you shall acquit those who are guilty of the greatest crimes.

86. But it is worth while to wonder about those who take their part,
whether they make their accusations as good and honorable men, showing
their own virtue worth more than the baseness of these. I wish that they
were as zealous to save the city as these to destroy it--or whether they
will defend them as skillful in speech, and will show their deeds to be
worthy. But no one of them ever endeavored to speak justly in your
behalf. 87. Again it is worth while to see the witnesses who, testifying
to these things, accuse themselves, thinking that you are very forgetful
and simple-minded, if, they think without fear to save the Thirty through
you; but thanks to Eratosthenes and his fellow-rulers, it became a
fearful thing to go even to the carrying out of the dead. 88. But these
men, if saved, would again be able to destroy the state, but those whom
they destroyed, having died, gave their life beyond the vengeance of
their enemies. Is it not a hard thing if their friends were likely to
perish with those who died unjustly, while many will undertake the
funeral of those who destroyed the state, seeing that so many are
prepared to go to the rescue? 89. And I think it far easier to resist
your wrongs than to defend the conduct of these men. But they say that
Eratosthenes did the fewest evils of the Thirty, and, on this account,
they demand that he shall be saved; but because, of (all) other Greeks,
he has done you the most wrongs, they do not think he ought to perish.
90. Now therefore you will show what opinion you hold in regard to these
matters; if you convict him, it will be evident that you are indignant at
what has taken place; but, if you acquit him, you will seem to desire the
same things as they, and yet you will not be able to say that you did
what was commanded by the Thirty. 91. For in the present case, no one
compels you to acquit contrary to your opinion. So I advise you not to
convict yourselves by acquitting these, nor think that your vote is
secret, for you will make your decision known to the city.

92. I desire to conclude, after reminding both parties of a few things,
the city party and the Piraeus party, in order that, having as proofs the
disasters which have occurred through their means, you may vote.

In the first place, you of the city party should reflect that you were so
severely governed by them, that you were compelled to wage such a war
upon your brothers, and sons, and citizens, that, if defeated in it, you
would be on an equality with those who conquered, but conquering, would
be slaves to them. 93. These villains, on the one hand, as a result of
the strife, would have enriched their private resources, but you would be
poorer on account of your war with each other, for they demanded that you
should not share their advantages, while they compelled you to share
their dishonor, having reached such a pitch of arrogance, that, without
sharing the offices with you, they kept your faith, but in sharing their
reproaches, they thought you would be friendly. 94. Wherefore do you,
being confident, as far as you are able, both exact punishment in your
own behalf and in behalf of the Piraeus party, reflecting that you were
governed by those who were most vicious, that you are living now with the
best of men, making war upon enemies, and deliberating for (the
interests) of the city, and remembering the mercenaries whom these men
made the guards of their power and your servitude in the Acropolis. 95.
This much I say to you, though there are many things besides.

And you of the Piraeus party, in the first place, should remember your
warlike deeds, that, having fought many battles in a foreign country, you
were deprived of your arms, not by enemies, but by these men in a time of
peace; secondly, that you were proclaimed exiles from the city, which our
fathers gave to you, and that they demanded you, who fled, back from the
cities (to which you fled). 96. Therefore be angry as when you went into
exile, and remember the other misfortunes which you suffered from them,
who seized some from the market-place, and others from the temple, and
put them to death, and, dragging others away from their children,
parents, and wives, compelled them to be murderers of their own kindred,
and did not permit them to receive the customary burial; thinking their
own government would be more secure from the vengeance of the gods. 97.
And those who escaped death, after having often been in danger, wandering
to other cities, and being outlawed from every place, in want of the
necessities of life, some leaving their children in their country now
become foreign, and others in a strange land, with much opposition, have
come to the Piraeus. And though there were many great dangers, being
honorable men, you freed some, and others you restored to their country.
98. But if you have been unsuccessful, and had failed in these things,
you would yourselves have fled, fearing lest you should suffer just such
wrongs as before, and neither temples nor altars, things which are a
source of safety even to those doing wrong, would have helped you,
injured through the characters of these men; and your children, as many
as were here, would be ill-treated by them; and those in a foreign land
would be slaves, on account of small debts, from the lack of those to
assist them.

99. However I am not willing to say what the future will be, not being
able to say what has been done by them; for it is not the work for one
accuser, nor for two, but for many; still (_nothing of my zeal has been
left out_), I have employed all my zeal in behalf of the temples,
which they in part have sold, and in part desecrated by entering; in
behalf of the city, which they rendered weak; in behalf of the dockyard,
which they dismantled; and in behalf of the dead, whom, now that they are
dead, you should aid, since you were not able to defend them when alive.
100. But I think they hear you, and will know that you are voting,
feeling that those who acquit these have condemned them to death; but as
many as punish these have avenged them. I shall cease my accusation. You
have heard, seen, suffered, and hold the evidence. Now pass your
judgment.


ORATION XIII.

AGORATUS.


1. It is fitting, gentlemen of the jury, for all of you to avenge the men
who died well disposed to the state, and for me not the least. For
Dionysodorus was my brother-in-law and nephew. So I have the same
hostility to this Agoratus as your party. For he did things on account of
which he is justly hated by you and me, and, if God wills, he shall be
justly punished. 2. For my brother-in-law, Dionysodorus, and many others
whose names you shall hear, being men well disposed to the people, he put
to death in the time of the Thirty, informing against them. Doing these
things he injured me not a little and all who have come here, and greatly
injured the whole state in common, as I think, by depriving it of such
men. 3. Therefore, gentlemen of the jury, I think it right by divine and
human law for each one to take as much revenge as he can. And I think if
you should do this, we should fare better at the hands of gods and men.
But, Athenians, you must hear about his deeds from the very beginning,
(4) that you may first learn in what manner your democracy was destroyed,
then how these men were put to death by Agoratus and what those about to
die charged us with. On learning all this accurately you will more
willingly and justly condemn this Agoratus. Therefore, where we can most
easily teach and you learn, there I will begin the story.

5. When your ships were destroyed and the resources of the state were in
a bad way, not long afterwards the ships of the Lacedaemonians arrived at
the Piraeus, and at the same time conferences about peace took place with
the Lacedaemonians. 6. During that period those who wished a revolution
in the city laid their plans, thinking they had hit upon the right moment
and would establish things just at that time as they themselves wished.
7. They thought nothing was in their way except the leaders of the
people, the Strategi, and the Taxiarchs. Accordingly they wanted to
remove these in some way or other, that they might more easily arrange
matters as they wished. First then, they assailed Cleophon with this
idea. 8. For when the first meeting about peace was in session, and those
who had come from the Lacedaemonians said on what terms the
Lacedaemonians were willing to make peace--if the long walls should be
destroyed for ten stadia on both sides--then you, Athenians, could not
bear to hear about the destruction of the walls, and Cleophon rose in
your behalf and said that it was not at all possible to do this. 9. Then
Theramenes, plotting against the people, rose and said if you would
appoint him ambassador with full powers he would bring it about that the
walls should not be destroyed, nor any other evil injure the state. He
thought in some other way to benefit the city at the hands of the
Lacedaemonians. 10. And you, persuaded, chose him as plenipotentiary,
although the year before you rejected him after he was chosen Strategus,
not thinking him well disposed to the people. 11. He, therefore, going to
Sparta remained there a long time leaving you in a state of siege, though
he knew that on account of the war and misfortunes the people were in
need of the very necessities of life, thinking if he brought you to a
very low state, as he did, that you would gladly make any sort of peace
that he desired. 12. Those who remained here and planned to overthrow the
government, brought Cleophon to trial on the plea that he did not come to
the camp to sleep, but really because he spoke against tearing down the
walls. When they had packed the jury, and those who desired to establish
an oligarchy had come in, they killed him on this charge. 13. Theramenes
afterwards came from Sparta. Some of the Strategi and Taxiarchs, among
them Strombichides and Dionysodorus, and other citizens who were well
disposed to you, as they afterwards showed, having gone to meet him,
became exceedingly angry. For he came bringing a peace the nature of
which we afterwards learned by actual experience. For we lost many good
citizens and we ourselves were driven out by the Thirty. 14. For instead
of destroying ten stadia of the long walls (the terms of peace) were to
destroy all the wall, and instead of finding some other good for the
city, to hand over the ships to the Lacedaemonians and to destroy the
walls about the Piraeus. 15. These men, perceiving it was a peace in
name, but in fact the destruction of the democracy, refused to allow this
to take place, not because they were sorry, Athenians, that the walls
were to fall, nor that they minded giving over the ships to the
Lacedaemonians (for this was no more their concern than yours), (16) but
learning that thus the people was to be destroyed; not (as some say)
because they did not wish there to be peace, but because they wished to
make a better peace than this for the people of Athens. They thought they
would be able and would have done this if they had not been killed by
this Agoratus.

17. Theramenes and others who were plotting against you, knowing that
there were some who were opposed to the destruction of the democracy and
would take an opposite stand for freedom, chose to bring against these
men false accusations and to place them in danger before the assembly on
peace was held, that no one there might raise objections in your cause.
18. Therefore they adopt the following plan. They persuade this Agoratus
to become an informer against the Strategi and Taxiarchs; not that he was
in their secrets, Athenians, no indeed, (for they were not so foolish and
friendless, that, when they were engaged in an affair of this size, they
would call in Agoratus, a slave and a son of slaves, as being trustworthy
and well disposed,) but because it seemed to them that he was a necessary
informer. 19. Therefore they wished him to seem to give testimony
unwillingly and with reluctance, that he might seem to you somewhat more
trustworthy.

But that he testified willingly I think you know from the case. For they
sent Theocritus, known as the son of Elaphostictus, to the Boule, which
was in session before the Thirty. And this Theocritus was a friend and
relative of Agoratus. 20. But the Boule in the time of the Thirty was
tampered with, and as you know, greatly favored an oligarchy. And the
proof is that those in that Boule served in the last one under the
Thirty. Why do I relate this to you? That you may know that the decision
of that Boule was not well disposed to you, but was entirely for the
destruction of your party, and that you may know them to be such. 21.
Theocritus coming into the Boule in secret session testified that some
were together with the intention of raising opposition to the established
government. But said he could not give their names individually, for he
had sworn the same oaths with them; that there were others who would
tell, but that he personally would never do it. 22. If he did not testify
according to a plot, why did not the Boule compel Theocritus to give
their names, and not to give testimony without names? But now this vote
was passed.

DECREE.

23. When therefore, the vote was passed, those chosen from the Boule went
to Agoratus at the Piraeus, and falling in with him in the market-place,
sought to arrest him. But Nicias and Nicomenes and a few others present,
seeing that this was not best for the state, refused to let them take
Agoratus, but took him from them and gave bail for him and pledged to
bring him into the Boule. 24. The councilors took the names of those who
had given bail, and stopped them, and then went away to the city. But
Agoratus and the bondsmen sat down on the altar of Munychia. While they
were there they planned what must be done. It seemed best to the bondsmen
and to all the others to get Agoratus out of the way as soon as possible,
(25) and as two boats were moored at Munychia they besought him by all
means to get out of Athens, and said that they themselves were willing to
go away with him until the matter was settled, saying that if he were
brought into the Boule he would perhaps be tortured and forced to tell
the names of the Athenians which those who wished harm to the state had
suggested to him. 26. Although these urged him in this way and prepared
boats, and were ready to sail with, him, this Agoratus was not willing to
obey them. Agoratus, if there was no arrangement for you, and you were
not sure of suffering no harm, why did you not go when boats were
prepared for you, and your neighbors ready to sail off with you? For you
could have done so, and the Boule had you not yet in their power. 27. But
they and you were not in equal danger. For in the first place they were
Athenians and did not fear being tortured; then leaving their own land
they were ready to sail away with you, thinking this was better than that
many citizens should be unjustly killed by you. But, first, if you
remained there was danger of your being tortured, and then, too, you had
no native land to leave. 28. So in every way it was easier for you to
make yourself scarce than for them, unless there was something in which
you trusted. Now you say you did it unwillingly, while the truth is you
willingly put to death many good Athenians. There are witnesses that
everything was prepared as I say, and the vote of the senate will witness
against you.

DECREE.

29. When this vote was passed, and those from the senate came to
Munychia, Agoratus willingly got up from the altar; now they say he was
torn away by force. When he was brought into the senate, (30) Agoratus
first wrote down the names of his bondsmen; then of the Strategi and
Taxiarchs; then also of certain other citizens. This was the beginning of
all the evil. I think he himself will confess that he wrote down the
names. But if he does not, I will convict him in the very act. Now answer
me.

TESTIMONY OF AGORATUS.

31. Accordingly they desired him, gentlemen of the jury, to hand in more
names, so strongly determined was the Boule to do evil, and he himself
did not seem to them to tell all the truth. Thus, voluntarily, he gave in
all these names, as they put no restraint on him at all. 32. When the
assembly was held in the theatre at Munychia some were so very anxious
that he should also testify in the popular assembly against the Strategi
and Taxiarchs (but as for the others the testimony in the senate was
enough) that they led him there into the assembly. Now answer me,
Agoratus. But I do not think you should deny what you did against all the
Athenians.

TESTIMONY.

33. He himself confesses it, but nevertheless the votes of the people
shall be read to you.

DECREES.

That this man Agoratus wrote down the names of these men, some in the
senate and some in the assembly, and that he is their murderer I think
you are well aware. That he was the cause of all the evils which befell
the state and is not worthy to be pitied by a single one, I think I can
show you in a few words. 34. For when these were arrested and put in
prison then Lysander sailed into your harbors, and your ships were
surrendered to the Lacedaemonians, and the walls were destroyed, and the
government of the Thirty established, and indeed what evil was not done
against the state? 35. When, therefore, the Thirty were established, they
immediately tried these men in the senate, but the people voted in the
court before two thousand. Now read the vote to me.

DECREE.

36. If they had been tried in the court, they could readily have been
saved. For you all knew in what evil the state was, although you were not
able to bring aid. But the fact was, they brought them into the Boule
before the Thirty. And you know what a farce the trial was. 37. The
Thirty sat on the seats where the Prytanes are now. Two tables were
placed in front of the Thirty. It was necessary to deposit the vote, not
in the urns, but in plain sight on the tables, the condemning vote on the
further one .... so how could any one of them be saved? 38. And with one
vote all that came into the council chamber to be tried before the Thirty
were sentenced to death, and no one except this man Agoratus did they
acquit; and they acquitted him as a doer of good. But that you may know
how many were put to death by this man, I desire to read their names to
you.

LIST.

39. When, therefore, gentlemen of the jury, the death sentence was passed
on these and they were about to be put to death, one sent for his sister
to come to the prison, another for his mother, another for his wife, and
others for whatever female relative each of them had, in order that
having embraced them for the last time they might end their life thus.
40. And Dionysodorus sent for my sister to come to the prison, for she
was his wife. And when she knew this she went, dressed in a black
garment, as was fitting on account of the terrible fate of her husband.
41. In the presence of my sister, Dionysodorus left his property as he
thought best, and said of this man Agoratus that he was responsible for
his death, and charged me and Dionysius, his brother, and all his friends
to be revenged on Agoratus in his behalf. 42. And thinking his wife was
with child he told her if a son was born to tell the boy how Agoratus had
killed his father, and to command him on his father's behalf to take
vengeance on his murderer. That I speak truth I furnish the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

43. So these men were informed against and put to death by Agoratus. When
the Thirty had removed these I think you know many misfortunes befell the
state. This man is responsible for all of this, as he put them to death.
It grieves me to be recalling the misfortunes which happened to the
state; (44) but it is necessary, gentlemen of the jury, for you to know
how much you are to pity Agoratus in this matter. For you know what sort
of men and how many there were of the citizens who were carried away from
Salamis, and what fate they met at the hands of the Thirty, and how many
of those from Eleusis experienced this misfortune; and you remember those
here who were led off to prison on account of private enmities. 45. They,
having injured the city in no way, were forced to die a most shameful and
inglorious death, some leaving aged parents who had hoped to be supported
in their old age by their sons, and at their death to be buried by them;
some leaving unmarried sisters, some little children needing their care.
46. What opinion, gentlemen of the jury, do you think they who were
deprived of their dear ones by this man would have of him? Or what vote
do you think they would cast were it in their power? And yet (you are
aware) that the walls were torn down and the ships given over to the
enemy and the shipyards destroyed, and the Spartans held your Acropolis,
and the whole power of the city was undermined so that the city was in no
way different from the smallest town. 47. Besides this you lost your
private property and finally were driven in a body by the Thirty from
your country. Those who were good men, gentlemen of the jury, having
learned this, said they would not allow peace to be made. 48. Those men,
Agoratus, wishing to do some good to the city, you put to death, on the
ground that they were plotting against the city and you are responsible
for all the misfortunes which befell the city. So now, each one,
remembering not only his own misfortunes, but also those common to the
whole city, should revenge himself on the cause of these evils.

49. I wonder, gentlemen of the jury, what he will dare urge in defense.
For he must show that he did not give convicting testimony against these
men and that he is not responsible for their death, which he will never
be able to do. 50. For in the first place the votes of the senate and
assembly testify against him, clearly showing about what Agoratus made
the accusations. Then the sentence which was passed on him by the Thirty
and revoked again clearly shows, this, "since," it runs, "he seems to
have spoken the truth." Now read it to me.

EVIDENCE.

51. Therefore he can in no way prove that he did not hand in the names.
He must make the following point clear, that he made the accusations
justly, seeing these men doing injury to the republic and not well
disposed to the people. But I do not think he will try to show this. But
in fact if they did any wrong to the people of Athens, the Thirty would
not have condemned them for fear that the people should be overcome,
taking vengeance on account of them, but I think quite the opposite of
this.

52. But perhaps he will say that he did these evils unwillingly. But I do
not think, gentlemen of the jury, that if any one with great
unwillingness did great wrongs to you, greater than which there could not
be, on this account you ought not to have revenge from him. Then remember
this, that it was possible for this Agoratus to be saved and that he sat
down at the altar of Munychia before he was brought into the Boule. For
his bondsmen prepared boats and were ready to sail away with him. 53. And
if you had heeded them, and been ready to go away with them, you would
neither willingly nor unwillingly have put to death so many Athenians.
But being persuaded by those to whom you yielded, you thought that if you
would only give in the names of the Strategi and Taxiarchs you would get
something great from them. Therefore it is not necessary for us to feel
sympathy for you since you felt none for those you put to death. 54.
Hippias of Thasos and Xenophon of Icaria, who were summoned by the Boule
on the same accusation as he, were executed, and Xenophon was tortured.
But Hippias thus .... because they did not appear worth saving to the
Thirty (for they destroyed none of the Athenians). But Agoratus was
acquitted because he appeared to have done the pleasantest things.

55. But I hear that he will put the blame on Menestratus for these
documents. But what Menestratus did was this. This same Menestratus was
informed against by Agoratus, was arrested and put in prison. And there
was Hagnodorus of Amphitrope, of the same deme as Menestratus, a
connection of Critias, one of the Thirty. This one, at the time when the
assembly was held in the theatre at Munychia, wishing Menestratus at the
same time to be saved, and as many as possible of the people to be
accused and put to death, brought him into the assembly and saved him
according to this vote.

DECREE.

56. When they had passed this vote, Menestratus made his accusations and
added the names of others of the citizens. The Thirty acquitted him, as
they did Agoratus, as he seemed to tell the truth, but you long
afterwards brought him into court as a murderer and, justly voting death
for him, gave him over to the executioner, and he was beaten to death.
57. If he was put to death then Agoratus should justly be killed, as he
was responsible for the death of Menestratus having accused him, and who
is more to blame for those killed by Menestratus than he who put him in
such a position?

58. He seems to me to be different from Aristophanes of Chollidae who was
his bondsman, and who, having boats ready at Munychia, was willing to
sail away with him. And at least as far as it depended upon him you would
have been saved, neither having destroyed any of the Athenians nor being
yourself put in any such danger. 59. But you had the audacity to accuse
your deliverer, and having informed against him you put him to death and
also your other bondsmen. As he was not a pure blooded Athenian citizen,
some wished him to be put to torture and induced the people to pass this
decree.

DECREE.

60. After this, those who had the administration of affairs at that time
went to Aristophanes and begged him to make disclosures and be saved, and
not be in danger of undergoing the extreme penalties, being tried for
usurping the rights of citizenship. But he declared he would never do it.
Such an excellent man was he toward those imprisoned, and the people of
Athens generally, that he preferred to die rather than inform against and
put to death, any of them unjustly. That man killed by you was such a
one, (61) and Xenophon was tortured, and Hippias of Thasos. But you had
nothing in common with, all these men, but you were persuaded that if
they were put to death you would have a share in the government
established, and you accused and put to death many good Athenians.

62. I wish to show you, gentlemen of the jury, of what sort of men you
were robbed by Agoratus. If there were not many of them, you should hear
about them separately, but as it is, collectively. For some of them who
had been your generals gave over the city to their successors in an
improved condition. And some held other high offices and performed the
duties of Trierarchs and never had any disgraceful charge from you. 63.
For some of them were saved and are present whom this one, as far as he
could, tried to put to death with cruelty (and indeed sentence of death,
was passed on them), but chance and providence saved them. For fleeing
from here and not being taken nor awaiting their trial, they came from
exile from Phyle and were honored by you as being brave men.

64. Of these men, I say, some Agoratus put to death, others he made
exiles from here. But who was he? For you must know that he was a slave
and the son of slaves, that you may understand what kind of a man
persecuted you. His father was Eumares, and Eumares was the slave of
Nisocles and Anticles. And now, witnesses, take the stand.

WITNESSES.

65. Now, gentlemen of the jury, it would be a long task to enumerate the
shameful and disgraceful things done by him and his brothers. As regards
his informing, either how many private suits he brought by false
accusation or how many prosecutions or dispositions he made, it is not
necessary for me to say in detail. For you all together in the assembly,
and in the court, convicted him of informing, and he was fined ten
thousand drachmae. 66. This has been sufficiently proved by you all.
Being a man of this sort, he endeavored to seduce and betray the free-born
wives of the citizens, and he was taken in adultery. Death is the
punishment for this. That I am speaking the truth, call up the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

67. Gentlemen of the jury, there were four brothers. The eldest was taken
in the act of making treasonable signals to the enemy by Lamarchus of
Sicily, and beaten to death. The second abducted a female slave in
Corinth from a woman of the place, and, being taken and put in prison,
was put to death. 68. The third, Phainippides arrested as a thief, and
you being his judges and passing death sentence on him, gave him to be
beaten to death. I think he will admit that what I say is true, and we
have witnesses.

WITNESSES.

69. Why, then, is it not proper for you all to convict this man? For if
each of them deserved death for one crime, surely, since he has committed
many offenses, both publicly against the state and privately against you,
for all of which crimes the penalty is death in our laws, you must
condemn him to death.

70. Gentlemen of the jury, he will speak and try to deceive you
(pretending) that he killed Phrynichus in the time of the Four Hundred;
and he says the people made him an Athenian on account of this. But he
lies, gentlemen of the jury, for he neither killed Phrynichus nor did the
people make him an Athenian. 71. For, gentlemen of the jury, Thrasybulus
of Calydon and Apollodorus of Megara conspired against Phrynichus. When
they came up to him as he was walking, Thrasybulus struck Phrynichus and
felled him with a blow, but Apollodorus did not even lay hands upon him.
Then a shout was raised, and they set off to escape. But Agoratus was
neither called in to help nor was he present nor did he know anything of
the deed. This decree will make it plain to you that I tell the truth.

DECREE.

72. That he did not slay Phrynichus is plain from this decree. For
nowhere is it (plain) that Agoratus is an Athenian as it is that
Thrasybulus and Apollodorus are. If he did kill Phrynichus, his having
been made an Athenian ought to be on the very same pillar as Thrasybulus
and Apollodorus ... by giving money to the orator they get their own
names inscribed on the pillars as being doers of good. And this decree
will convince you that I speak the truth.

DECREE.

73. So much does this man despise you that, although not being an
Athenian, he served on the jury and in the assembly, and brought all
manner of indictments, having himself enrolled as from Anagurius.
Phrynichus established the Four Hundred, and when he was put to death
many of the Four Hundred fled. 74. Do you think, therefore, that the
Thirty and the Boule, which was in session under the administration of
the Thirty, all of whom were of the Four Hundred exiles, if they had
captured the man who killed Phrynichus, would have let him go or punished
him on account of the exile to which they were subjected? I think they
would have punished him. If, on the one hand, he pretends to have killed
him, though he did not, he is, as I say, guilty. 75. But if you deny it
and say that you did kill Phrynichus, it is plain that by doing greater
evils to the Athenians you freed yourself to the Thirty from the charge
concerning Phrynichus. For you can never persuade any man that, having
killed Phrynichus, you would have been let off by the Thirty, unless you
did great and incurable wrongs to the people of Athens. 76. If,
therefore, he asserts that he killed Phrynichus, bear these things in
mind and take vengeance for what he has done. But if he says he did not,
ask him on what account he says he became an Athenian. If he can not show
how, punish him because he acted as a juror and served in the assembly
and accused many falsely, having his name enrolled as an Athenian.

77. I hear that he will allege in defense that he went to Phyle and came
back from Phyle with the rest, and this is his strongest plea. This was
the fact. He went to Phyle. And how could there be a greater wretch than
he who, knowing that there were many at Phyle whom he himself had
banished, dared to go there to them? 78. As soon as they saw him they
seized him and took him to kill him at the same place where they put
others to death, whenever they caught any robber or criminal. But Anytus,
who was in command at Phyle, said that they must not do this, telling
them they were not in a condition to take vengeance on some of their
enemies, but must now keep the peace, and if they ever returned home then
they would punish those who had done them injury. 79. Saying this, he
became responsible for his escape at Phyle. And they were obliged to obey
a general if they were to be saved. But more than this: no one would
receive him as a messmate or be his tent companion, nor would the
Taxiarch give him a place in his line, but as if he were accused no man
would speak to him. And call the Taxiarch to me.

WITNESS.

80. When the agreement was made with each other and the citizens from
Piraeus made a procession into the city, Aesinus was the leader of the
soldiers, and this one so audacious also was there. Having taken arms he
accompanied them and took his place in the procession with the citizens
to the city. 81. When they reached the gates and halted before going into
the city, Aesinus saw him and went to him and seized and flung down his
shield and told him to go to the crows and leave the citizens. For he
declared that a murderer should not proceed in the procession to Athens.
Thus was he driven off by Aesinus. That I tell the truth, call up my
witnesses.

WITNESSES.

82. This was the relation, gentlemen of the jury, in which he stood to
the citizens at Phyle and the Piraeus. For no one spoke to him because he
was a murderer, and Anytus is responsible for his now being alive. If,
therefore, he alleges in defense that he was on the way to Phyle, he must
answer whether Anytus was responsible for his not being killed when they
were ready to punish him, and whether Aesinus took away his shield and
would not let him join the citizens in the procession, and whether any
Taxiarch enrolled him on his list.

83. Thus you should neither receive this excuse from him, nor let him say
he is punished a long while after the crime. For I do not think there is
any limited period for such an offense; but I do think if anybody is
punished, either immediately or after a long time, he must show that he
did not do the things of which he is accused. 84. Let him prove this:
either that he did not kill these men, or that he did it justly as they
did some wrong to the people of Athens. And if we punish him a long time
after he should have been punished, he gains the time he has lived which
did not belong to him, and the men were killed by him just the same.

85. But I understand that he lays great stress upon the fact that he was
indicted and brought up as taken in the act. I think that is the most
foolish thing of all. As if he would have been liable to arrest if it had
not been added "taken in the act"! But as this has been added he thinks
there will be some relief for him. But this is the same as allowing that
he put the men to death but was not taken in the act; and he relies a
great deal on this, as if he must be saved because he killed the men but
was not taken in the act. 86. The Eleven who arrested him seem to me not
to have thought they were than sharing in the same deeds with Agoratus,
and believing that they were acting rightly, forced Dionysius to make the
arrest, and then added "taken in the act." First, then, having informed
against some in the presence of the five hundred in the senate, and then
of the whole people of Athenians in the assembly, he slew some and became
responsible for their death. 87. For he does not think this alone is
"taken in the act," if any one struck a man with a club or sword and
knocked him down, since by your argument no one appears to have slain the
men whom you deposed. For no one either knocked them down or killed them,
yet they were forced to death by your accusation. Therefore is he, who is
the author of their death, not "taken in the very act"? For who else was
the author, if not you who deposed them? So, then, in what way are you
not their murderer, taken in the very act?

88. I understand that he will talk of oaths and agreements; that he is on
trial in violation of the oaths and compacts which we in the Piraeus
confirmed with those in the city. Accordingly, putting so much trust in
these things, he confesses he is a murderer. So he puts something in the
way, either oaths or compacts or "taken in the act," but he does not
trust to the deed itself that he will come out of the trial successfully.
89. But it is not fitting for you, gentlemen of the jury, to accept his
defense on these grounds. Bid him make his defense on these points: that
he did not give in the names, or that the men were not put to death. Then
I think the compacts and agreements have nothing to do with us in this
case. For the oaths were made by those in the city to those in the
Piraeus.

90. Now if he was of the city party and we of the Piraeus, the oaths
would have some argument for him. But the truth is, he is of the Piraeus
party and Dionysius and I and all the rest of those who are taking
vengeance on him, so that there is nothing at all in our way. For those
in the Piraeus made no oaths with those in the Piraeus.

91. By all means this man seems to me to deserve not merely one death;
this man who says (he was adopted by) the people, and seems to have
treated badly the people whom he calls his father, and neglected and
betrayed those by whom he might have become better and more powerful.
One, therefore, who is found to have maltreated his father and not to
have furnished him with the necessities of life, and to have taken away
from his adopted father the property he had, does not he on this account,
by the law of maltreatment, deserve to be put to death?

92. It is the duty of all of you, gentlemen of the jury, just as of each
one of us, to take vengeance on behalf of these men. For when they died
they left this charge to you and to us, and to all others, to punish on
their behalf this Agoratus, their murderer, and to injure him as much as
each one could. If these men ever did any good to the state or to the
people--and you yourselves admit that they did--it is the duty of all of
you to be their friends and relatives, so they made this request no more
of us than of each one of you. 93. Accordingly it is right, neither by
divine nor human law, for you to let this man go. Therefore do you now,
Athenians, take vengeance on this man, their murderer, since you can do
so, as at the time the men died you were not able to aid them on account
of the circumstances which surrounded you. Remember, Athenians, that you
are not doing the cruelest act of all. But if you acquit this Agoratus
you are not only doing this, but also, by the same vote, you sanction the
death of those men whom you admit to have been well disposed to you. 94.
By acquitting the man who is the author of their death, you are deciding
that they were justly put to death. They would feel most terribly if
those to whom they had entrusted the task of revenge, as being their
friends, should cast the same vote as the Thirty on these men. 95. By the
gods, gentlemen of the jury, do not in any way, or by any act or
contrivance whatever, vote to sanction the death of these men who were
killed by the Thirty and this Agoratus for having done many good things
for you. Remembering all the evils, both those in common with the state
and those in a private way, as many as each endured when these men met
their death, take vengeance on the author of these things. It has been
clearly proved from the votes and testimony and everything else, that
Agoratus was the cause of their death. 96. Besides, it is your duty to
vote in opposition to the Thirty. Acquit those whom they condemned.
Condemn those whom they acquitted. The Thirty decreed death for those men
who were your friends whom you must acquit. They acquitted Agoratus since
he seemed to destroy those zealously; him you should condemn. 97. If you
vote in opposition to the Thirty, in the first place, you will not be
their accomplices; then again you will have avenged your own friends;
finally, you will seem to have voted in accordance with divine and human
laws.


ORATION XIV.

ALCIBIADES.


1. I presume, gentlemen of the jury, that you need to hear no reason from
those who wish to prosecute Alcibiades, for from the start he so
conducted himself in the public that it is every one's duty, even if he
happen not to be privately injured by him, to consider him an enemy from
his other actions. 2. For his sins were not trivial, nor do they deserve
pardon, nor offer any hope of his becoming better in future, but his
deeds have come to such a pitch of evil, his enemies are ashamed of those
deeds in which he glories. As for a long time, ever since a dispute arose
between our fathers, I have considered him my enemy, and now again since
he has treated me wrongly, I, gentlemen of the jury, will try to punish
him by your aid for all which he has done. 3. Archestratides has
arraigned him sufficiently about other matters, for he declared the laws
and brought evidence; but what he omitted, I will go over point by point
with you.

4. Now it is reasonable, gentlemen of the jury, for those who serve as
jurors in regard to these subjects for the first time since we made peace
to be not only jurors but lawgivers, knowing well that, as you decide
about these matters now, the city will manage in future. And it seems to
me to be the part of a good citizen and impartial juror to define the
laws as is most likely to benefit the state in future. 5. For some go so
far as to say that no one is liable (to a charge) of desertion or
cowardice; for there has been no battle and the law bids the soldiers to
try "_any one who goes to the rear through cowardice while the others
are fighting_." And the law does not provide for this case alone, but
"_whoever is not in the ranks_." Now read the law.

LAW.

6. You hear, gentlemen of the jury, that there are two provisions, for
those who go to the rear during a battle, and those who fail to appear in
the ranks. Now consider who ought to appear. Are they not those of
military age? And those whom the Strategi enroll? 7. And I think,
gentlemen of the jury, that he alone of the citizens is liable by the
whole law. For he would be convicted of not being in the ranks, as when
he was enrolled as a hoplite he did not go out with you in camp, and he
did not let himself be placed in ranks,--and of cowardice, for although
he ought to have met danger with the hoplites, he chose to go with the
cavalry. 8. But they say he will offer this defense, that in going with
the cavalry, he did no harm to the state. But I consider you have just
cause of anger against him on this account, that although the law imposes
a fine on any one in the cavalry who is not examined, he dared to enter
the cavalry without examination. Now read the law.

LAW.

9. He reached such a degree of depravity, and he had so little respect
for you and so much fear of the enemy, and he had so great a wish to join
the cavalry and cared so little for the laws that he disregarded the
risk, and was willed to be fined and have his property confiscated and be
liable to all these existing penalties, rather than to take up his
position in the ranks with the citizens and be a hoplite. 10. And others
who never served in the infantry and who were formerly in the cavalry and
did great damage to the enemy never dared mount their horses through fear
of you and the law; for they laid their plans, not as if the state would
perish, but would be secure and prosperous, and would exact punishment of
wrong-doers. But Alcibiades dared mount, neither through goodwill to the
state, nor because he had been a knight, nor understanding (cavalry
drill), nor having passed your examinations, (supposing) that the state
would be unable to exact penalty of offenders.

11. It is necessary to remember that, if it is possible to do whatever
one wishes, there is no use in having laws, nor for you to be impaneled,
nor for Strategi to be chosen. And I wonder, gentlemen of the jury, if
any one claims if a man, enrolled in the first rank, on the approach of
the enemy, is found in the second, that he should be condemned for
cowardice, but that if one, enrolled among the hoplites, appears among
the cavalry, he should be pardoned. 12. Now, gentlemen of the jury, I
think you are drawn, not only for punishing offenders, but that you may
make other offenders more discreet. If now you punish, only obscure
persons, no one will become better, for none will know whom you have
condemned; but if you punish conspicuous offenders, all will hear of it,
and in consequence of their examples the citizens will become better. 13.
If now you condemn this fellow, not only will those in the city hear of
it, but your allies and enemies will learn of it, and they will more
highly esteem the state, if they see you are aroused against such
offenses, and that those who offend against discipline in war have no
pardon. 14. Remember too, gentlemen of the jury, that there are some
soldiers who chance to be exhausted, and some who lack resources, and
some who would gladly serve (if they could) remain in towns, and others
who wish to look out for their own affairs at home, others who would have
liked to serve as light-armed soldiers and others in the cavalry; (15)
and yet you do not venture to leave the ranks nor choose what pleases
yourselves, but you fear the laws of the state more than the risk before
the enemy. Bearing these things in mind, it is now necessary to cast your
vote, and make it evident to all, that those Athenians who are unwilling
to fight with the enemy will be punished by you.

16. I am convinced, gentlemen of the jury, that the defendants will have
nothing to say about the laws or the deed itself; but they will get up
and ask and entreat you, demanding that you should not condemn the
cowardice of the son of Alcibiades on the ground that he did great good
and not much harm; for (in reality) if you had put him to death at the
same age (that his son now is), when you first discovered his offenses
against you, such misfortunes had never befallen the state. 17. It seems
to me, gentlemen of the jury, a dreadful thing for you to have passed
sentence of death upon the father, and when the son commits a crime, you
acquit him for this very reason, that he himself did not dare to fight on
your side, and that his father took part with the enemy. And when as a
child he did not yet show what he was going to be, he was almost
delivered to the Eleven for his father's offenses; and as you know not
only the deeds of the father, but the son's cowardice, will you think it
right to pity him for his father's sake? 18. Is it not terrible,
gentlemen of the jury, that these are so fortunate as to be acquitted on
account of their noble birth when they are caught in crime, while we, if
we lose by their lawlessness, could not gain any concession from the
enemy on account of the valiant deeds of our ancestors? 19. SHELLEY.

"Alastor" is written in a very different tone from "Queen Mab". In the
latter, Shelley poured out all the cherished speculations of his youth--all
the irrepressible emotions of sympathy, censure, and hope, to which the
present suffering, and what he considers the proper destiny of his
fellow-creatures, gave birth. "Alastor", on the contrary, contains an
individual interest only. A very few years, with their attendant events,
had checked the ardour of Shelley's hopes, though he still thought them
well-grounded, and that to advance their fulfilment was the noblest
task man could achieve.

This is neither the time nor place to speak of the misfortunes that chequered
his life. It will be sufficient to say that, in all he did, he at the
time of doing it believed himself justified to his own conscience; while
the various ills of poverty and loss of friends brought home to him the
sad realities of life. Physical suffering had also considerable influence
in causing him to turn his eyes inward; inclining him rather to brood
over the thoughts and emotions of his own soul than to glance abroad,
and to make, as in "Queen Mab", the whole universe the object and subject
of his song. In the Spring of 1815, an eminent physician pronounced
that he was dying rapidly of a consumption; abscesses were formed on his
lungs, and he suffered acute spasms.

Suddenly a complete change took place; and though through life he was a
martyr to pain and debility, every symptom of pulmonary disease
vanished. His nerves, which nature had formed sensitive to an unexampled
degree, were rendered still more susceptible by the state of his health.

As soon as the peace of 1814 had opened the Continent, he went abroad.

He visited some of the more magnificent scenes of Switzerland, and
returned to England from Lucerne, by the Reuss and the Rhine. The
river-navigation enchanted him. In his favourite poem of "Thalaba", his
imagination had been excited by a description of such a voyage. In the
summer of 1815, after a tour along the southern coast of Devonshire and
a visit to Clifton, he rented a house on Bishopsgate Heath, on the borders
of Windsor Forest, where he enjoyed several months of comparative
health and tranquil happiness. The later summer months were warm and
dry. Accompanied by a few friends, he visited the source of the Thames,
making a voyage in a wherry from Windsor to Crichlade. His beautiful
stanzas in the churchyard of Lechlade were written on that occasion.
"Alastor" was composed on his return. He spent his days under the
oak-shades of Windsor Great Park; and the magnificent woodland was a
fitting study to inspire the various descriptions of forest scenery we
find in the poem.

None of Shelley's poems is more characteristic than this. The solemn
spirit that reigns throughout, the worship of the majesty of nature, the
broodings of a poet's heart in solitude--the mingling of the exulting
joy which the various aspects of the visible universe inspires with
the sad and struggling pangs which human passion imparts--give a
touching interest to the whole. The death which he had often
contemplated during the last months as certain and near he here
represented in such colours as had, in his lonely musings, soothed his
soul to peace. The versification sustains the solemn spirit which
breathes throughout: it is peculiarly melodious. The poem ought rather
to be considered didactic than narrative: it was the outpouring of
his own emotions, embodied in the purest form he could conceive, painted
in the ideal hues which his brilliant imagination inspired, and softened
by the recent anticipation of death.

NOTE ON THE "REVOLT OF ISLAM", BY MRS. SHELLEY.

Shelley possessed two remarkable qualities of intellect--a brilliant
imagination, and a logical exactness of reason. His inclinations led him
(he fancied) almost alike to poetry and metaphysical discussions.
I say 'he fancied,' because I believe the former to have been paramount,
and that it would have gained the mastery even had he struggled against
it.
However, he said that he deliberated at one time whether he should
dedicate himself to poetry or metaphysics; and, resolving on the former,
he educated himself for it, discarding in a great measure his
philosophical pursuits, and engaging himself in the study of the poets
of Greece, Italy, and England. To these may be added a constant perusal
of portions of the old Testament--the Psalms, the Book of Job, the
Prophet Isaiah, and others, the sublime poetry of which filled him with
delight.

As a poet, his intellect and compositions were powerfully influenced by
exterior circumstances, and especially by his place of abode. He was
very fond of travelling, and ill-health increased this restlessness. The
sufferings occasioned by a cold English winter made him pine, especially
when our colder spring arrived, for a more genial climate. In 1816
he again visited Switzerland, and rented a house on the banks of
the Lake of Geneva; and many a day, in cloud or sunshine, was passed
alone in his boat--sailing as the wind listed, or weltering on the calm
waters. The majestic aspect of Nature ministered such thoughts as he
afterwards enwove in verse. His lines on the Bridge of the Arve, and his
"Hymn to Intellectual Beauty", were written at this time. Perhaps during
this summer his genius was checked by association with another poet whose
nature was utterly dissimilar to his own, yet who, in the poem he
wrote at that time, gave tokens that he shared for a period the more
abstract and etherealised inspiration of Shelley. The saddest events
awaited his return to England; but such was his fear to wound the
feelings of others that he never expressed the anguish he felt, and
seldom gave vent to the indignation roused by the persecutions he underwent;
while the course of deep unexpressed passion, and the sense of injury,
engendered the desire to embody themselves in forms defecated of all the
weakness and evil which cling to real life.

He chose therefore for his hero a youth nourished in dreams of
liberty, some of whose actions are in direct opposition to the opinions
of the world; but who is animated throughout by an ardent love of virtue,
and a resolution to confer the boons of political and intellectual
freedom on his fellow-creatures. He created for this youth a woman such
as he delighted to imagine--full of enthusiasm for the same objects; and
they both, with will unvanquished, and the deepest sense of the justice
of their cause, met adversity and death. There exists in this poem a
memorial of a friend of his youth. The character of the old man who
liberates Laon from his tower prison, and tends on him in sickness,
is founded on that of Doctor Lind, who, when Shelley was at Eton, had often
stood by to befriend and support him, and whose name he never mentioned
without love and veneration.

During the year 1817 we were established at Marlow in Buckinghamshire.

Shelley's choice of abode was fixed chiefly by this town being at
no great distance from London, and its neighbourhood to the Thames. The
poem was written in his boat, as it floated under the beech groves of
Bisham, or during wanderings in the neighbouring country, which is
distinguished for peculiar beauty. The chalk hills break into cliffs
that overhang the Thames, or form valleys clothed with beech; the wilder
portion of the country is rendered beautiful by exuberant vegetation; and
the cultivated part is peculiarly fertile. With all this wealth of
Nature which, either in the form of gentlemen's parks or soil dedicated
to agriculture, flourishes around, Marlow was inhabited (I hope it is
altered now) by a very poor population. The women are lacemakers, and
lose their health by sedentary labour, for which they were very ill paid.
The Poor-laws ground to the dust not only the paupers, but those who had
risen just above that state, and were obliged to pay poor-rates.
The changes produced by peace following a long war, and a bad harvest,
brought with them the most heart-rending evils to the poor. Shelley
afforded what alleviation he could. In the winter, while bringing out
his poem, he had a severe attack of ophthalmia, caught while visiting
the poor cottages.

I mention these things,--for this minute and active sympathy with his
fellow-creatures gives a thousandfold interest to his speculations, and
stamps with reality his pleadings for the human race.

The poem, bold in its opinions and uncompromising in their expression, met
with many censurers, not only among those who allow of no virtue but such
as supports the cause they espouse, but even among those whose opinions
were similar to his own. I extract a portion of a letter written in
answer to one of these friends.

It best details the impulses of Shelley's mind, and his motives:
it was written with entire unreserve; and is therefore a precious
monument of his own opinion of his powers, of the purity of his
designs, and the ardour with which he clung, in adversity and through
the valley of the shadow of death, to views from which he believed
the permanent happiness of mankind must eventually spring.

'Marlowe, December 11, 1817.

'I have read and considered all that you say about my general powers,
and the particular instance of the poem in which I have attempted to
develop them. Nothing can be more satisfactory to me than the interest
which your admonitions express. But I think you are mistaken in some
points with regard to the peculiar nature of my powers, whatever be their
amount. I listened with deference and self-suspicion to your censures
of "The Revolt of Islam"; but the productions of mine which you commend
hold a very low place in my own esteem; and this reassures me, in some
degree at least. The poem was produced by a series of thoughts which
filled my mind with unbounded and sustained enthusiasm. I felt the
precariousness of my life, and I engaged in this task, resolved to leave
some record of myself. Much of what the volume contains was written with
the same feeling--as real, though not so prophetic--as the communications
of a dying man.

I never presumed indeed to consider it anything approaching to faultless;
but, when I consider contemporary productions of the same apparent
pretensions, I own I was filled with confidence. I felt that it was in
many respects a genuine picture of my own mind. I felt that the
sentiments were true, not assumed. And in this have I long believed
that my power consists; in sympathy, and that part of the imagination
which relates to sentiment and contemplation. I am formed, if for anything
not in common with the herd of mankind, to apprehend minute
and remote distinctions of feeling, whether relative to external nature
or the living beings which surround us, and to communicate the
conceptions which result from considering either the moral or the material
universe as a whole. Of course, I believe these faculties, which perhaps
comprehend all that is sublime in man, to exist very imperfectly in my
own mind. But, when you advert to my Chancery-paper, a cold, forced,
unimpassioned, insignificant piece of cramped and cautious argument,
and to the little scrap about "Mandeville", which expressed my feelings
indeed, but cost scarcely two minutes' thought to express, as specimens
of my powers more favourable than that which grew as it were from
"the agony and bloody sweat" of intellectual travail; surely I must feel
that, in some manner, either I am mistaken in believing that I have any
talent at all, or you in the selection of the specimens of it. Yet, after
all, I cannot but be conscious, in much of what I write, of an absence
of that tranquillity which is the attribute and accompaniment of power.
This feeling alone would make your most kind and wise admonitions, on
the subject of the economy of intellectual force, valuable to me. And,
if I live, or if I see any trust in coming years, doubt not but that I
shall do something, whatever it may be, which a serious and earnest estimate
of my powers will suggest to me, and which will be in every respect
accommodated to their utmost limits.

[Shelley to Godwin.]

NOTE ON ROSALIND AND HELEN BY MRS. SHELLEY.

"Rosalind and Helen" was begun at Marlow, and thrown aside--till I found
it; and, at my request, it was completed. Shelley had no care for
any of his poems that did not emanate from the depths of his mind,
and develop some high or abstruse truth.

When he does touch on human life and the human heart, no pictures can be
more faithful, more delicate, more subtle, or more pathetic. He never
mentioned Love but he shed a grace borrowed from his own nature, that
scarcely any other poet has bestowed on that passion. When he spoke of it
as the law of life, which inasmuch as we rebel against we err and injure
ourselves and others, he promulgated that which he considered an irrefragable
truth. In his eyes it was the essence of our being, and all woe and pain
arose from the war made against it by selfishness, or insensibility,
or mistake. By reverting in his mind to this first principle, he discovered
the source of many emotions, and could disclose the secrets of all hearts,
and his delineations of passion and emotion touch the finest chords
of our nature.

"Rosalind and Helen" was finished during the summer of 1818, while we
were at the Baths of Lucca.

NOTE BY MRS. SHELLEY.

From the Baths of Lucca, in 1818, Shelley visited Venice; and, circumstances
rendering it eligible that we should remain a few weeks in the neighbourhood
of that city, he accepted the offer of Lord Byron, who lent him the
use of a villa he rented near Este; and he sent for his family
from Lucca to join him.

I Capuccini was a villa built on the site of a Capuchin convent,
demolished when the French suppressed religious houses; it was
situated on the very overhanging brow of a low hill at the foot of
a range of higher ones.

The house was cheerful and pleasant; a vine-trellised walk, a pergola, as
it is called in Italian, led from the hall-door to a summer-house at
the end of the garden, which Shelley made his study, and in which
he began the "Prometheus"; and here also, as he mentions in a letter,
he wrote "Julian and Maddalo". A slight ravine, with a road in its
depth, divided the garden from the hill, on which stood the ruins of
the ancient castle of Este, whose dark massive wall gave forth an
echo, and from whose ruined crevices owls and bats flitted forth
at night, as the crescent moon sunk behind the black and heavy
battlements.

We looked from the garden over the wide plain of Lombardy, bounded
to the west by the far Apennines, while to the east the horizon was
lost in misty distance.

After the picturesque but limited view of mountain, ravine, and chestnut-wood,
at the Baths of Lucca, there was something infinitely gratifying to the
eye in the wide range of prospect commanded by our new abode.

Our first misfortune, of the kind from which we soon suffered even
more severely, happened here. Our little girl, an infant in whose small
features I fancied that I traced great resemblance to her father,
showed symptoms of suffering from the heat of the climate. Teething
increased her illness and danger. We were at Este, and when we became
alarmed, hastened to Venice for the best advice. When we arrived at
Fusina, we found that we had forgotten our passport, and the
soldiers on duty attempted to prevent our crossing the laguna; but
they could not resist Shelley's impetuosity at such a moment.

We had scarcely arrived at Venice before life fled from the little
sufferer, and we returned to Este to weep her loss.

After a few weeks spent in this retreat, which was interspersed by visits
to Venice, we proceeded southward.

NOTE ON "PROMETHEUS UNBOUND", BY MRS.

SHELLEY.

On the 12th of March, 1818, Shelley quitted England, never to return.
His principal motive was the hope that his health would be improved by a
milder climate; he suffered very much during the winter previous to his
emigration, and this decided his vacillating purpose. In December, 1817,
he had written from Marlow to a friend, saying:

'My health has been materially worse.

My feelings at intervals are of a deadly and torpid kind, or awakened to
such a state of unnatural and keen excitement that, only to instance the
organ of sight, I find the very blades of grass and the boughs of distant
trees present themselves to me with microscopic distinctness. Towards
evening I sink into a state of lethargy and inanimation, and often
remain for hours on the sofa between sleep and waking, a prey to the most
painful irritability of thought. Such, with little intermission, is my
condition. The hours devoted to study are selected with vigilant caution
from among these periods of endurance. It is not for this that I think of
travelling to Italy, even if I knew that Italy would relieve me.

But I have experienced a decisive pulmonary attack; and although
at present it has passed away without any considerable vestige of
its existence, yet this symptom sufficiently shows the true nature
of my disease to be consumptive.

It is to my advantage that this malady is in its nature slow, and,
if one is sufficiently alive to its advances, is susceptible of
cure from a warm climate.

In the event of its assuming any decided shape, IT WOULD BE MY DUTY to
go to Italy without delay. It is not mere health, but life, that I should
seek, and that not for my own sake--I feel I am capable of trampling
on all such weakness; but for the sake of those to whom my life may be
a source of happiness, utility, security, and honour, and to some
of whom my death might be all that is the reverse.'
In almost every respect his journey to Italy was advantageous.

He left behind friends to whom he was attached; but cares of a
thousand kinds, many springing from his lavish generosity, crowded
round him in his native country, and, except the society of one or two
friends, he had no compensation. The climate caused him to consume
half his existence in helpless suffering. His dearest pleasure, the
free enjoyment of the scenes of Nature, was marred by the same
circumstance.

He went direct to Italy, avoiding even Paris, and did not make any
pause till he arrived at Milan.

The first aspect of Italy enchanted Shelley; it seemed a garden of delight
placed beneath a clearer and brighter heaven than any he had lived under
before. He wrote long descriptive letters during the first year of his
residence in Italy, which, as compositions, are the most beautiful in
the world, and show how truly he appreciated and studied the wonders of
Nature and Art in that divine land.

The poetical spirit within him speedily revived with all the power
and with more than all the beauty of his first attempts.

He meditated three subjects as the groundwork for lyrical dramas.

One was the story of Tasso; of this a slight fragment of a song of Tasso
remains. The other was one founded on the Book of Job, which he never
abandoned in idea, but of which no trace remains among his papers. The
third was the "Prometheus Unbound". The Greek tragedians were now
his most familiar companions in his wanderings, and the sublime majesty
of Aeschylus filled him with wonder and delight.

The father of Greek tragedy does not possess the pathos of Sophocles, nor
the variety and tenderness of Euripides; the interest on which he founds
his dramas is often elevated above human vicissitudes into the mighty
passions and throes of gods and demi-gods: such fascinated the
abstract imagination of Shelley.

We spent a month at Milan, visiting the Lake of Como during that interval.
Thence we passed in succession to Pisa, Leghorn, the Baths of Lucca,
Venice, Este, Rome, Naples, and back again to Rome, whither we returned
early in March, 1819. During all this time Shelley meditated the
subject of his drama, and wrote portions of it. Other poems were
composed during this interval, and while at the Bagni di Lucca he
translated Plato's "Symposium". But, though he diversified his studies,
his thoughts centred in the Prometheus. At last, when at Rome,
during a bright and beautiful Spring, he gave up his whole time to the
composition. The spot selected for his study was, as he mentions in his
preface, the mountainous ruins of the Baths of Caracalla. These are
little known to the ordinary visitor at Rome. He describes them in a
letter, with that poetry and delicacy and truth of description which render
his narrated impressions of scenery of unequalled beauty and interest.

At first he completed the drama in three acts. It was not till several
months after, when at Florence, that he conceived that a fourth act, a
sort of hymn of rejoicing in the fulfilment of the prophecies with regard
to Prometheus, ought to be added to complete the composition.

The prominent feature of Shelley's theory of the destiny of the
human species was that evil is not inherent in the system of the
creation, but an accident that might be expelled.

This also forms a portion of Christianity: God made earth and man
perfect, till he, by his fall,
'Brought death into the world and all our woe.'

Shelley believed that mankind had only to will that there should be no evil,
and there would be none. It is not my part in these Notes to notice
the arguments that have been urged against this opinion, but to mention
the fact that he entertained it, and was indeed attached to it
with fervent enthusiasm.

That man could be so perfectionized as to be able to expel evil
from his own nature, and from the greater part of the creation, was
the cardinal point of his system.

And the subject he loved best to dwell on was the image of One
warring with the Evil Principle, oppressed not only by it, but by
all--even the good, who were deluded into considering evil a necessary
portion of humanity; a victim full of fortitude and hope and the
spirit of triumph emanating from a reliance in the ultimate omnipotence
of Good.

Such he had depicted in his last poem, when he made Laon the enemy and the
victim of tyrants. He now took a more idealized image of the same subject.
He followed certain classical authorities in figuring Saturn as the
good principle, Jupiter the usurping evil one, and Prometheus as the
regenerator, who, unable to bring mankind back to primitive innocence,
used knowledge as a weapon to defeat evil, by leading mankind,
beyond the state wherein they are sinless through ignorance, to that
in which they are virtuous through wisdom. Jupiter punished the temerity
of the Titan by chaining him to a rock of Caucasus, and causing
a vulture to devour his still-renewed heart. There was a prophecy
afloat in heaven portending the fall of Jove, the secret of averting
which was known only to Prometheus; and the god offered freedom from
torture on condition of its being communicated to him. According to the
mythological story, this referred to the offspring of Thetis, who was
destined to be greater than his father.
Prometheus at last bought pardon for his crime of enriching mankind with
his gifts, by revealing the prophecy. Hercules killed the vulture, and set
him free; and Thetis was married to Peleus, the father of Achilles.

Shelley adapted the catastrophe of this story to his peculiar views. The
son greater than his father, born of the nuptials of Jupiter and Thetis,
was to dethrone Evil, and bring back a happier reign than that of Saturn.
Prometheus defies the power of his enemy, and endures centuries of
torture; till the hour arrives when Jove, blind to the real event, but
darkly guessing that some great good to himself will flow, espouses
Thetis. At the moment, the Primal Power of the world drives him
from his usurped throne, and Strength, in the person of Hercules,
liberates Humanity, typified in Prometheus, from the tortures
generated by evil done or suffered. Asia, one of the Oceanides, is
the wife of Prometheus--she was, according to other mythological
interpretations, the same as Venus and Nature.For no one saw them after the
arrest; for they did not give up their bodies for burial, and so terrible
was their fate, that besides all the rest they were deprived of this
(privilege) too. 8. But I will pass this by, for I could never finish
(the subject); but much harder I think was the fate of the sons of
Aristophanes. For though never wronging any one in public or private,
they not only lost their patrimony contrary to your laws, but also their
remaining hope was blighted of being brought up by their grandfather. 9.
Still I, deprived of kindred, of the dowry (of my sister), and having to
bring up three children, have charges brought against me, and run in
danger about the inheritance which my ancestors left me, acquired legally
(by them). And yet, gentlemen of the jury, my father during his lifetime
spent more for the state than for himself and family, and it was four
times what I have now, as I was often at hand when he was reckoning. 10.
Do not prejudge the injustice of a man who spent little for himself and
much every year for you, but (be ready to condemn those) who are
accustomed to spend their patrimony and everything else they get for
vicious pleasures. 11. It is difficult, gentlemen of the jury, to defend
myself contrary to the opinion which some hold about the property of
Nicophemus, both because of the present scarcity of money in the state,
and because the suit concerns the treasury. And yet under these
disadvantages, you will readily see that the accusations are not true.
And I beg you by every means in my power to hear me favorably to the
close, and to vote whatever you think best and in best accord with your
oaths.

12. In the first place I will inform you how they came to be connections
of mine. For Conon, commanding near the Peloponnesus, who was my father's
friend when he was Trierarch, asked him to give my sister to the son of
Nicophemus when he asked her hand. 13. And he seeing that they
(_Nicophemus and his son_) were trusted by Conon, and were
serviceable to the state, then at least conforming to her laws, promised
to give her, not realizing the bad repute into which they would fall, at
a time when any one of you would have wished to be connected with them;
that it was (done) for the sake of money, it is easy to understand from
the whole life and conduct of my father. 14. For when he was at a
suitable age, although he could have married another with a large dowry,
he married my mother who brought none, because she was the daughter of
Xenophon, son of Euripides, who not only seemed to be of good character,
but you thought him worthy to be Strategus, as I hear. 15. Moreover he
did not give my sisters to rich husbands who would have been willing to
take them without dowries, because they seemed to be of inferior birth,
but one to Philomelus of Paeania, whom they say is better in character
than wealth, another to a man who lost his property through no fault of
his own, his nephew, Phaidrus of Murrhinoute, besides giving him forty
minae, and the same to Aristophanes. 16. And besides, though I could have
(married a woman with) a large dowry, be advised a smaller one, that I
might be sure of having connections orderly and discreet. And now my wife
is the daughter of Critodemus of Alopeke, who was put to death by the
Spartans after the naval battle of the Hellespont. 17. And now, gentlemen
of the jury, is it not probable that one who married without a portion,
and gave his daughter much money, and took a small dowry for his son,
should be trusted to have sought connection with these men for no money
considerations?

18. It is easy to see that Aristophanes, already married, would have
confided in any one sooner than my father. For their ages were wide
apart, and their dispositions still more; for my father had merely his
own concerns to attend to, but Aristophanes wished to attend not only to
his own private affairs, but to public ones as well, and if he had any
money, he spent it in his desire for honor. 19. You know from what he
used to do that I speak the truth. For first, when Conon wished to send
some one to Sicily, he undertook the commission and went with Eunomus,
enjoying the friendship and hospitality of Dionysius, who benefited the
state greatly, as I heard from those in his company at Piraeus. 20. And
the hope of the expedition was to persuade Dionysius to become allied to
Evagoras, and hostile to the Spartans, and a friend and ally to your
city. And this they did in spite of dangers which threatened by sea and
from the enemy, and they persuaded Dionysius not to send the trireme
which he had prepared for the Spartans. 21. And afterwards, when
ambassadors came from Cyprus for assistance, he did cease his activity.
You gave them triremes, and voted other aid, but they lacked funds for
the expedition. For they came with little money, and asked for much; for
they (asked it) not only for the ships, but they hired mercenaries, and
bought arms. 22. Now Aristophanes himself furnished most of the money;
and when there was not enough, he persuaded his friends, asking for it
and giving securities, and having forty minae of his half-brother at his
house he used them up. And the day before he sailed, he went to my father
and asked him to lend him whatever money he had. For he said it was
needed for paying the mercenaries. We had in ready money seven minae, and
he took this and used it up. 23. Now what man, gentlemen of the jury,
ambitious, with letters from his father that he would find no lack in
Cyprus, having moreover been chosen ambassador, and being about to sail
to Evagoras, would have left everything behind, and would not, if he
could by contributing everything, please him (_Evagoras_) and make a
large profit? That this is the case, call Eunomus.

WITNESSES.

24. You hear the witnesses, both that they lent (the money) at his
demand, and that they received it back, for it was brought them on the
trireme.

From what has been said, it is easy to see that in these emergencies he
spared himself not in the least. 25. Here is the best proof: Demus, the
son of Pyrolampes, in command of the trireme for Cyprus, asked me to go
to him, saying that he had from the king of Persia a golden bowl, for
which he wished to get seventeen minae, which he would spend on his
trierarchy; when he came to Cyprus he would redeem it, paying twenty
minae; for through this pledge he would have plenty of money and other
advantages in Asia Minor. 26. Aristophanes, hearing this from Demus,
though I urged him, and although he would have taken the cup, and gained
four minae interest, said he had no money, and declared he had borrowed
from his friends besides, otherwise he would be most glad to take the
pledge and oblige us by what we asked. 27. I will bring witnesses that
these are the facts.

WITNESSES.

From the evidence it is certain that Aristophanes left no money behind;
and he had not much (in the way of) bronze. And when he entertained the
ambassadors from Evagoras he had to borrow the plate. And we will read
you what he left.

INVENTORY.

28. Perhaps some of you, gentlemen of the jury, think this is a small
inventory. Bear this in mind, that before our naval victory he only had a
little estate at Rhamnus. The naval battle was in the archonship of
Euboulus. 29. So in four or five years, as at first he had no property,
it was no easy matter for him to supply the chorus twice for tragedies,
for himself and his father, serve as Trierarch three consecutive years,
make large contributions, build a house for five minae, and get more than
three hundred plethra of land; and yet, besides all this, do you think he
necessarily left many household effects? 30. But not even families of
long-standing wealth could show much of value, for sometimes, no matter
how desirous one may be, it is not possible to buy that which always
gives pleasure to its possessor.

31. But consider this. Of others whose property you confiscated, not only
did you sell no furniture, but the doors were torn from the houses. But
when the confiscation had taken place, and my sister had left, we set a
guard in the house, that neither the doors, vases, nor anything else
might be lost. And property of more than a thousand drachmae was
reported, more than you ever took from any one else. 32. Besides, both
formerly before the commissioners and now we wish to give a pledge, the
greatest in use, that we have no money of Aristophanes, but he owes the
dowry of my sister and seven minae, which he took from my father when he
went off. 33. How then would men be more wretched than to be thought to
hold the property of others, after loss of their own? And what is the
worst of all, to receive a sister with many children, look after them,
and have nothing for myself, if you take even what we have.

34. Come now, by the Olympian gods! Look at it in this light, gentlemen
of the jury. If one of you happened to give to Timotheus, son of Conon,
his daughter or sister, and when he was deprived of civil rights, and
accused, his property was seized, and if, when all was sold, the city did
not get four talents, on this account would you think it right to ruin
his family and relatives, because the property turned out to be not even
a fraction of what you thought it? 35. All of you here know that Conon
was in command, and that Nicodemus executed his commands. It is likely
that Conon gave part of the profits to some other, so if they thought
Nicodemus had much, they would agree that Conon's share was ten times as
much. 36. And still they seem never to have had any difference of
opinion, so it is likely that they had the same ideas about money,
namely, to have here sufficient for their sons, and to take the rest with
them. For Conon had a son and wife in Cyprus, Nicodemus a wife and
daughter, and they thought their property there to be as safe as that
here. 37. And besides this, think, if some one who had not acquired his
property, but had inherited it from his father, distributed it to his
sons, that he would have reserved the most for himself. For all with
money prefer to be served by their children rather than ask it of them in
poverty. 38. Now if you should confiscate the property of Timotheus,--and
may it not happen, unless great good come to the state from it,--and
should gain less from it than came from the property of Aristophanes, for
this reason would you believe it right that his relatives should lose
their property? 39. It is not likely, gentlemen of the jury. For the
death of Conon and the will which he made in Cyprus clearly showed that
his money was a very small part of what you expected, for to Athena and
to Apollo in Delphi he dedicated five thousand staters. 40. And to his
nephew who kept guard for him and had charge of his affairs in Cyprus, he
gave ten thousand drachmae, and three talents to his brother; the rest,
seventeen talents, he left to his son. The sum total is about forty
talents. And no one can say that he was robbed or that a just return was
not made. 41. For he made his will when in sickness, in his right mind.
Now call me the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

42. Surely one would have thought, before both cases were shown, that the
property of Nicophemus was a small fraction of that of Conon.
Aristophanes purchased land and a house for more than five talents,
supplied choruses for himself and his father for five thousand drachmae,
and spent eighty minae as Trierarch. 43. And in taxes he contributed for
both no less than forty minae, and for the expedition to Sicily he spent
a hundred minae. For sending the triremes when the Cyprians came and you
gave them ten ships, for pay for the mercenaries and the purchase of
arms, he furnished thirty thousand drachmae. The amount of this is a
little less than fifteen talents. 44. So you do not charge me with
reason, since the property of Aristophanes appears to be more than a
third part of that of Conon, which is agreed was rightly reported by
himself, though appearing to be much greater. And I do not reckon what
Nicophemus had in Cyprus, where were his wife and daughter.

45. I do not believe, gentlemen of the jury, that you will ruin me after
my producing such conclusive evidence. For I have heard from my father
and other older men that both now and formerly you have been mistaken
about the property of many men, and that many while living seem to be
wealthy, and after death they turned out very different from what you
supposed. 46. For example, every one supposed Ischomachus as long as he
lived was worth more than seventy talents, as I hear; but each of his two
sons had less than ten at his death. Stephanus, son of Thallus, was said
to be worth more than fifty talents, but his property after his death
proved to be about eleven talents. 47. The estate of Nicias was expected
to be worth not less than a hundred talents, and much of it in ready
money; but when Niceratus was dying, he said himself he was not leaving
any gold or silver, and the house which he left to his son was not worth
more than fourteen talents. 48. Again Callias, son of Hipponicus, at the
recent death of his father seemed to have inherited more than any other
Greek, but as he says, his grandfather valued (the property) at two
hundred talents. His rateable property is really not worth two talents.
You all know Cleophon, that for many years he managed all the finances of
the state and was supposed to have much from the government; but at his
death there was no money, and the relatives and connections whom he left
were confessedly poor men. 49. So we are evidently much deceived in
regard to men of hereditary wealth and those who have recently become
noted. And I think the reason is that one dares to say without sufficient
grounds that so-and-so has many talents from the government. And I do not
wonder at what they say about the dead (for they cannot be confuted by
them), but at their attempt to deceive during their life. 50. For you
yourselves lately heard in the assembly that Diotimus had forty talents
more than he acknowledged from the ship captains and merchants; and no
one tested him when he came bringing his accounts and feeling bad that he
had been slandered in his absence, that too when the state was in need of
money and he wished to give a statement. 51. Think now what would happen
if after all Athens had heard that Diotimus had forty talents, he had met
his fate before sailing home. Then his relatives would have been in
greatest danger, if they had had to defend themselves against such a
charge, not knowing any of the facts. These are responsible for your
being mistaken about many, and unjustly ruining some, (these men) who
rashly venture to speak falsely and wish to bring charges against others.
52. Then I suppose you know that Alcibiades was Strategus for four or
five years, having prevailed over and conquered the Spartans, and the
cities thought best to give him twice as much as to any other general, so
that some thought he owned more than a hundred talents. But at his death
he showed it was not the case, for he left a smaller estate to his
children than he had received from his guardians.

53. That such things formerly happened is readily seen; and they say the
noblest and wisest are especially willing to change their opinions. If
then I seem to speak to the point, and bring sufficient testimony,
gentlemen of the jury, in every way favor me, as, although the accusation
is so great, I believe I shall win with truth on my side; and if there is
no way in which you are willing to be persuaded, there seems to be no
hope for me. 54. But by the Olympian gods, gentlemen of the jury, be
willing to save me with justice (on my side), rather than ruin me
unjustly; and believe they speak the truth, who even in silence during
their lives conduct themselves wisely and justly.

55. So in regard to the writ itself and how they became my connections
and that his property was not enough for the voyage, but that he borrowed
elsewhere, you have heard and testimony has been given you; but I wish to
say a few words about myself. For I at thirty years of age never spoke
wrongly to my father, nor has a citizen ever brought a charge against me,
and though living near the market-place I was never seen in the court or
assembly before this befell me. 56. So much I can say of myself, but of
my father, since the charge has been made as if he were at fault, have
patience if I declare what he spent for the state and his friends. And
(it is not) in a spirit of boasting, but to prove that it is inconsistent
with the character of a man to spend much unnecessarily and to wish to
keep common property at greatest risk. 57. There are some who spend not
only for this, but that they may gain twice as much if they are thought
by you worthy to rule. My father never wished to be a leader, but he
supplied all choruses, and was Trierarch seven times, and made many large
contributions. That you may know this, each point will be read you.

LIST OF SERVICES.

58. Hear the number of them, gentlemen of the jury. For fifty years my
father served the state with money, and in person. So in such a time,
being thought wealthy from the start, it is natural that he shrank from
no expense. Yet I will bring you witnesses.

WITNESSES.

59. The sum of all is nine talents and two thousand drachmae. Besides,
privately he helped portion the daughters and sisters of some poor
citizens, and ransomed some from the enemy, and furnished money for the
burial of others. And this he did, believing it was a brave man's duty to
help his friends, even if no one would learn of it; and now it is fitting
that you should learn of it from me. Now call in this and that one.

WITNESSES.

60. You have heard the witnesses; remember that one could assume a
character for a short time, but no one could elude detection for seventy
years if a bad man. Against my father perhaps some could bring other
charges, but no one, even an enemy, dared (to accuse him) about his money
affairs. 61. Is it then right to trust the words of the accusers, rather
than to the facts, (as to) what he did in all his life, and to time,
which to be sure is the clearest test of truth? For if he had not been
such a man, he would not have left so little from so much, since if you
are deceived by these men and confiscate my property, you will get not
two talents. So it is for your interest to acquit me not only because you
think it right, but as a question of money, for you will be the gainers
if I keep this. 62. And see how many expenditures have been made in the
past for the state, and now from what remains I am Trierarch, and my
father died while Trierach, and I shall endeavor, following his example,
to give a small amount, little at a time, for the common weal. So in
reality this (now) belongs to the state, and I shall not think I am
wronged if deprived of it, but you will have greater benefit than if you
confiscate it. 63. Besides this, it is fitting to bear in mind the nature
of my father. For whatever he wished to spend beyond the necessities of
life, it evidently was in a direction in which the city too would gain
some honor. For example, when he served in the cavalry, he purchased
horses, not only fine ones, but racers, with which he won at the Isthmian
and Nemean games, so that the city was proclaimed and he crowned. So I
beg you, gentlemen of the jury, bearing in mind these and all other words
to protect me, and not to leave men in the power of their enemies. And so
doing, you will vote justly, and for your own advantage.


ORATION XXII.

THE GRAIN DEALERS.


1. Many have come to me, gentlemen of the jury, expressing surprise that
I have entered an accusation in the Boule against the corn dealers, and
saying that you, even if you think them ever so guilty, nevertheless
think that those who bring charges against them are doing so from
personal interest. Accordingly I first wish to show you why I was
compelled to accuse them.

2. When the Prytanes reported them to the Boule, feeling ran so high that
some of the speakers said that without a trial they should be handed to
the Eleven to be put to death. The established fact, however, that
grilse and salmon, under ordinary natural circumstances, do certainly
return to their native beds, is one of great practical importance,
because it permits the plan of peopling barren rivers by the deposition
of impregnated spawn carried from more fruitful waters. It ought to be
borne in mind, however, in relation to this latter point, that these
waters must possess, in a considerable measure, the same natural
attributes which characterize the voluntary haunts of salmon. If they do
not do so, although the fry bred there will in all probability return
thither from the sea as grilse, yet the breeding process will be carried
on at first feebly, and then inefficiently, till the species finally becomes
extinct. The same observations, of course, apply to trout. It has been
proposed, we believe by Sir W.F.

Mackenzie of Gairloch, to apply the principle of one set of Mr Shaw's
experiments to the improvement of moorland lochs, or others, in which
the breed of trout may be inferior, by carrying the ova of a better
and richer flavoured variety from another locality. Now, in this
well-intentioned scheme, we think there is some confusion of cause and
effect.

It is the natural difference in food, and other physical features and
attributes, between the two kinds of lochs in question, which causes or
is intimately connected with the difference in the fleshly condition of
their finny inhabitants; and unless we can also change the characters
of the surrounding country, and the bed of the watery basin, we
shall seek in vain to people "the margins of our moorish floods"
with delicate trout, lustrous without any red of hue within, in
room of those inky-coated, muddy-tasted tribes, "indigenæ an advectæ,"
which now dwell within our upland pools.

It has been asserted by some that salmon will dwell continuously, and
even breed, in fresh water, although debarred all access to the sea.
"Near Kattrineberg," says Mr Lloyd, in his work on the field-sports of
the north of Europe, "there is a valuable fishery for salmon, ten or twelve
thousand of these fish being taken annually. These salmon are bred
in a lake, and, in consequence of cataracts, cannot have access to the
sea. They are small in size, and inferior in flavour. The year 1820
furnished 21,817." We confess we cannot credit this account of fresh
water (sea-debarred) salmon, but suppose there must be some mistake
regarding the species. Every thing that we know of the habits and
history, the growth and migrations, of these fish in Britain, is opposed
to its probability. Mr Young has conclusively ascertained that, at
least in Scotland, not only does their growth, after the assumption of
the silvery state, take place solely in the sea, but that they
actually decrease in weight from the period of their entering the
rivers; and Mr Scrope himself, (see pp. 27, 30,) although he quotes
the passage without protest, seems of the same opinion.

Besides, with their irrepressible instinctive inclination to descend
the rivers during spring when young, we don't believe that the
cataract in question would prevent their doing so, although it might
assuredly hinder their return in summer, in which case the Kattrineberg
breed would soon become extinct, even supposing that they had ever
had existence.

The alleged fact, however, is well worthy of more accurate observance
and explicit explanation than have yet been bestowed upon it by the
Scandinavian naturalists.

We are informed that Mr George Dormer of Stone Mills, in the parish of
Bridport, put a female salmon, which measured twenty inches, and
was caught in the mill-dam, into a small well, where it remained
twelve years, and at length died in the year 1842.

"The well measured only five feet by two feet four inches, and there was
only fifteen inches depth of water." We should have been well pleased to
have been told of the size of the fish when it died, in addition to that
of the prison in which it dwelt, for otherwise the fact itself is of
less consequence.[13] We presume its rate of growth would be extremely
slow, although we do not agree with Mr Young in the opinion already
quoted, that salmon actually decrease in _dimensions_ on entering
the fresh water. We doubt not they decrease in _weight_, and probably also
in circumference; but their bones and organic structure are assuredly
enlarged, and themselves lengthened, in such a way as to fit their
general form for a rapidly increased development, so soon as they
again rejoice in the fattening influences of the salubrious sea.

[Footnote 13: The following curious particulars regarding the
above-mentioned salmon are taken from a Devonshire newspaper:--"She
would come to the top of the water and take meat off a plate, and
would devour a quarter of a pound of lean meat in less time than a
man could eat it; she would also allow Mr Dormer to take her out
of the water, and when put into it again she would immediately take
meat from his hands, or would even bite the finger if presented to
her.

Some time since a little girl teased her by presenting the finger and
then withdrawing it, till at last she leaped a considerable height above
the water, and caught her by the said finger, which made it bleed
profusely: by this leap she threw herself completely out of the water
into the court. At one time a young duckling got into the well, to solace
himself in his favourite element, when she immediately seized him by
the leg, and took him under water; but the timely interference of Mr Dormer
prevented any further mischief than making a cripple of the young duck.
At another time a full-grown drake approached the well, when Mrs Fish,
seeing a trespasser on her premises, immediately seized the intruder
by the bill, and a desperate struggle ensued, which at last ended in
the release of Mr Drake from the grasp of Mrs Fish, and no sooner freed,
than Mr Drake flew off in the greatest consternation and affright;
since which time, to this day, he has not been seen to approach the well,
and it is with great difficulty he can be brought within sight of it.
This fish lay in a dormant state for five months in the year, during
which time she would eat nothing, and was likewise very shy."]
Our author next refers to a rather singular subject, which has not yet
sufficiently attracted the notice of naturalists, and the phenomena of
which (at least their final causes) have not been explained by
physiological enquirers. That fishes assume, in a great degree, the colour
of the channel over which they lie, is known to many practical observers.
We have ourselves frequently frightened small flounders from their propriety
with our shoe-points, while angling near the mouths of rivers, and
so exactly did their colour accord with the shingle beneath our
feet, that we could not detect their presence but by their own
betraying movements.

Such, however, as happened to glide towards, and settle on, a portion
of the bed of different colour from the rest, continued perceptible
for a short time; but they too seemed speedily to disappear, although
we afterwards discovered that they had not stirred an inch, but had
merely changed their tint to that of the particular portion of the basin
of the stream to which they had removed. Every angler knows, that there
is not only a difference in the colour of trouts in different streams, but
that different though almost adjoining portions of the same river, if
distinguished by some diversity of character in respect to depth, current,
or clearness, will yield him fish of varying hue. Very rapid and irregular
changes are also observable in their colours after death; and large
alternate blotches of darker and lighter hues may be produced upon
their sides and general surface, by the mode of their disposal in the
creel. Dr Stark showed many years ago, that the colour of sticklebacks,
and other small fishes, was influenced by the colour of the earthenware,
or other vessels in which they were confined, as well as modified by the
quantity of light to which they were exposed; and Mr Shaw has very recently
informed us, regarding this mutability of the outer aspect of fishes,
that if the head alone is placed upon a particular colour, (whether
lighter or darker,) the whole body will immediately assume a corresponding
shade, quite independent of the particular tint upon which the body itself
may chance to rest. We know not to what extent these, and similar phenomena,
are familiar to Sir David Brewster; but we willingly admit, that in order
to attain to their clearer comprehension, the facts themselves must
be investigated by one who, like that accomplished philosopher, is
conversant with those branches of physical science to which they are
related. They unfortunately lie beyond the range of our own optics, but
Mr Scrope's practical improvement of the subject is as follows:--
"I would recommend any one who wishes to show his day's sport in
the pink of perfection, to keep his trouts in a wet cloth, so that,
on his return home, he may exhibit them to his admiring friends,
and extract from them the most approved of epithets and exclamations,
taking the praise bestowed upon the fish as a particular compliment
to himself."

--P. 56.

British legislators ought certainly to consider the recent completion
of our knowledge both of salmon and sea-trout; and if they can
make themselves masters of their more detailed local history, so
much the better.

Mr Home Drummond's is still the regulating Act of Parliament, and
seems to have kept its ground firmly, notwithstanding many attempted
alterations, if not amendments.

In accordance with that Act, all our rivers north of the Tweed close
on the 14th of September, and do not re-open till the 1st of
February.[14] This bears hardly upon some of our northern streams.

In the Ness, for example, before the application of the existing laws, more
fish were wont to be killed in December and January than during most
other periods of the year.[15] It appears to have been clearly
ascertained that the season of a river (in respect to its being
early or late) depends mainly upon the temperature of its waters.

The Ness, which is the earliest river in Scotland, scarcely ever freezes.
It flows from the longest and deepest loch in Britain; and thus, when
the thermometer, as it did in the winter of 1807, stands at 20, 30, or
even 40 deg. below the freezing point at Inverness, it makes little
or no impression upon either lake or river. The course of the latter is
extremely short. The Shin is also an early river, flowing from a smaller
loch, though with a more extended course before it enters the Kyle of
Sutherland, where it becomes confluent with the Oykel waters. It may so
happen, that in these and other localities, a colder stream, drawing its
shallow and divided sources from the frozen sides of barren mountains,
may adjoin the lake-born river, and
"On that flood, Indurated and fix'd, the snowy weight Lies undissolved,
while silently beneath, And unperceived, the current steals away."

Now salmon don't like either snowy water, bridges of ice, or stealthy
streams, but a bold, bright, expansive, unimpeded, and accommodating
kind of highway to our inland vales.

They instinctively regard a modified temperature, and a flowing
movement, as great inducements to leave the sea in early winter,
instead of waiting until spring; and, in like manner, they avoid
"imprisoned rivers" until icy gales have ceased to blow.

The consequences are, we may have an extremely early river and a very
late one within a few hundred yards of each other, and both debouching
from the same line of coast into the sea. Now, in the autumn of 1836,
a bill was proposed and brought in by Mr Patrick Stewart and Mr
Loch, to amend the preceding Act (9th Geo. IV.) which had repealed that
of James I., (1424.) It proceeded on the preamble, that "whereas the
sand acts have been found inadequate to the purposes for which they
were passed, inasmuch as it is found that our close-time is not suitable
for all the salmon fishings and rivers throughout Scotland, and it is
expedient that the same should therefore, and in other respects, be
altered, modified, and amended." It therefore enacted that different
close-times shall be observed in different divisions of Scotland, the
whole of which is partitioned into twelve districts, as specified in
schedule A referred to in the bill. We do not know how or from whom the
necessary information was obtained; but we doubt not it was sedulously
sought for, and digested in due form. For example, the boundaries as to
time and space of the second district, are as follows:--"From Tarbet
Ness aforesaid, to Fort George Point, in the county of Nairn, including
the Beaulie Frith and the rivers connected therewith, _except the
river Ness_, from the 20th day of August to the 6th day of January,
both days inclusive; and for the said river Ness, from the 14th day
of July, to the 1st day of December, both days inclusive."

This is so far well.

But in the ninth district, the definition and directions are:--"From the
confines of the Solway Frith to the northern boundary of the county of
Ayr, from the 30th day of September to the 16th day of February, both
days inclusive." Now most anglers know that the district thus defined,
includes streams which vary considerably in their character, and cannot
be correctly classed together. Thus the Doon, which draws its chief
sources from numerous lakes among the hills, is one of the earliest
rivers in the south-west of Scotland, clean fresh-run fish occurring in
it by Christmas; while the neighbouring river Ayr, although existing
under the same general climatic influence, produces few good salmon till
the month of June. It is fed by tributaries of the common kind. The Stinchar,
in the same district, is also a late river, being seldom worked by the
tacksmen till towards the end of April, and even then few of the fish are
worth keeping. Of course, it requires to be closed in September,
although the fish are then in good case. These, and many other facts which
might be mentioned, show the difficulty of legislating even upon the
improved localizing principle which it has been attempted to introduce.
However, the bill referred to, though printed, was never passed.

[Footnote 14: The net fishings in the Tweed do not close till the
16th of October, and the lovers of the angle are allowed an additional
fortnight.

These fishings do not open (either for net or rod) till the 15th of
February.]
[Footnote 15: It was proved in evidence before the select committee of
the House of Commons in 1825, that the amount of salmon killed in
the Ness during eight years, (from 1811-12 to 1818-19,) made a total for
the months
Of December, of 2405 Of January, 3554 Of February, 3239 Of March,
3029 Of April, 2147 Of May, 1127 Of June, 170 Of July, 253 Of August,
2192 Of September, 430 ------ 18,542
It further appears, from the evidence referred to, that during these
years no _grilse_ ran up the Ness till after the month of May.

As you can help me
justly, members of the Boule, do not ruin unjustly. Do not take from me
in my old age and weakness what you gave me when young and strong; do not
receive harshly those who are pitied even by their enemies, when formerly
you seemed to be most charitable to those that had no trouble. Do not
have the heart to wrong me and so bring discouragement on others in like
condition. 8. For it would be absurd, members of the Boule, that if when
I merely had this misfortune, then it appeared I was receiving this
pension, and that now when old age and disease and their consequences had
come upon me, then I should be deprived of it. 9. It seems to me that the
accusers more clearly than any one else shows my utter poverty. For I
should be appointed as choragus for tragedies and should call on him to
exchange with me, he would prefer to be choragus ten times rather than
exchange once with me. And is it not strange for him to charge me now of
being able through my success to associate on an equality with the
wealthiest man, and to be so (poor) if anything of the sort should happen
as I said? and even more wretched?

10. And about my horsemanship, which he dares mention to you, neither
fearing fate nor ashamed before you, there is not much to say. For I
knew, members of the Boule, that all men having such a calamity seek
something like this, and study this problem, how to manage their
deformities with the least pain to themselves. I am one of these, and I
hit upon this relief for my infirmities for the long journeys I am
obliged to take. 11. It is easy to learn, members of the Boule, what is
the best proof that I ride on account of my infirmity and not from
arrogance. For if I had wealth, I should ride on a cushioned saddle, and
not on other people's horses; but now since I cannot buy such a one, I
have to use other people's horses often. 12. Now is it not inconsistent,
members of the Boule, that this very man if he had seen me on a cushioned
saddle would have held his peace, (for what could he have said?) but
because I ride borrowed horses that he tries to persuade you that I am
sound? And that I use two crutches while others use but one, (why does
he) not charge me that this is a mark of sound men? But that I ride he
uses as a proof to you that I am sound. But both of these I employ for
the same reason.

13. He surpasses all in shamelessness so much that he tries to persuade
you, he alone against so many (of you), that I am not a cripple. If he
persuades any of you, members of the Boule, what hinders my drawing lots
for the nine archons, and your taking my obol from me as being sound, and
giving it to him as a cripple? For surely you will not take away a gift
from a man as being sound while they prevent his drawing lots as being
unsound. 14. But really you do not have the same opinion as this man, nor
does he (hold it) in his better moments. For he comes here to dispute as
if my infirmity were an inheritance, and he tries to persuade you that I
am not such as you all see (me to be); but you, as if right for
reasonable men, trust the evidence of your own eyes rather than his
words.

15. But he says I am insolent and violent and licentious in my
disposition, just as if he were more likely to be speaking the truth if
he calls dreadful names, but will not accomplish this if he speaks mildly
and remains by the facts. But I think, members of the Boule, that you
clearly know what sort of men are apt to be insolent and what not. 16.
For it is not likely that the poor and needy should be insolent, but
those who have much more than they need; nor those who are infirm in
body, but those who rely on their own strength; nor those well advanced
in years, but those who are yet young and have youthful minds. 17. For
the rich buy off dangers with their wealth, but the poor are forced to
prudence by their lack of resources; and the young expect pardon from
their elders, and both blame the old equally for lapses; (18) and it is
for the strong without any cause to be insolent to whomsoever they wish,
but it is not possible for the weak if insulted to defend themselves
against those who provoke them, nor if they wish to be violent can they
overcome their victims. So that the accuser seems to me to speak about my
violence as a joke, not in earnest, not really wishing to persuade you
that I am such, but wishing to make fun of me, as if doing a fine thing.

19. And besides he says that many men gather about me who are of base
character, who have lost their property and plan against those who wish
to save their own (property). Remember all of you that in saying this he
charges me no more than any who have trades, nor those who enter my shop
more than those (who go into the shop) of other artisans. 20. For each
of you has been in the habit of going, one to a perfume shop, another to
the barber shop, one to a shoemaker's shop, others here and there, most
of all to the shops set up near the market-place, and very few to those
far from it. So if any of you charges those who come to my shop with bad
conduct, evidently you charge those who frequent other men's shops, and
if these, then all the Athenians; for you are all accustomed to go about
and spend your time somewhere or other. 21. I do not know that I ought to
weary you longer by accurately making my defense against each thing which
has been said. For if I have spoken about the main points, why should I
like him speak earnestly about trivial matters? But I beg you, members of
the Boule, to have the same mind toward me now as formerly. 22. Do not
for this man strip me of the only thing which fate has given me in
exchange for civil rights. Let him not alone persuade you to take back
what you all gave me in common. For since, members of the Boule, God has
deprived us of the highest offices, the city voted this pension, thinking
that the fortune should be alike for unfortunate and fortunate. 23.
Should I not be most wretched if I should be deprived through this
misfortune of the finest and best things, and through this accuser of
what the city intended for those in this condition? Do not, members of
the Boule, pass this vote. For why should I find you of such a
disposition? 24. Because some one in a trial ever lost his property
through me? But no one could prove that. Because I am meddlesome, and
harsh and quarrelsome? But I do not chance to have such conditions of
life for such actions. 25. But that I am violent and disorderly? But not
even he would say that if he did not wish to lie about this as the other
things. But that being in power in the reign of the Thirty I maltreated
many of the citizens? But after the democracy I fled to Chalcis on the
Euripus, and though I could have been a citizen among them without fear,
I preferred to run my risk with you all. 26. And now, members of the
Boule, having done no wrong, may I not find you such towards me as to
those who have committed many offenses, but cast the same vote for me
that the other councils (have cast), remembering that I am not giving
account of money of the state which I have managed, nor that I am not
rendering an account of any office which I have held, but I am making the
argument for an obol only. 27. And so you will understand the justice of
the matter, and I with justice from you will have this favor, and this
man for the future will learn not to plot against those weaker than
himself, but to get ahead of men like himself.


ORATION XXV.

REPLY TO "THE OVERTHROW OF THE DEMOCRACY."


1. I can easily excuse your anger, gentlemen of the jury, as you hear
such words and recall the past, towards all alike who remained in the
town; but I wonder at the accusers who neglect their own interests to
attend to other men's. And although clearly knowing who were guilty and
who not, they try to persuade you to be angry at all of us. 2. If then
they suppose they have made accusation about everything done by the
Thirty to the state, I think they are unable to speak, for they have not
told the smallest part of what they did. But if they make accusation
about these as if it concerned me, I will prove that they are all wrong,
and that I conducted myself as the best member of the Piraeus party would
have done if he remained in the town. 3. I beg you, gentlemen of the
jury, not to share the opinions of the informers. For it is their habit
to charge men who are perfectly innocent, for they get the most from
these, but it is your duty to give civil rights impartially to those who
are upright; for so you would have the most adherents for the existing
order of things. 4. And 1 beg you, gentlemen of the jury, if I shall
prove I am the cause of no calamity, and have benefited the state in many
ways, both, in person and by contributions, that I may obtain at your
hands the favor which not only those who have done good work, but those
who have done no wrong, should receive. 5. So I think it a great proof,
that if the accusers could convict me of private wrong they would not
accuse me of the crimes of the Thirty, and they would not think it
necessary to accuse others of their deeds, but to provide the offenders
themselves. But now they think the anger against them is sufficient to
destroy even the innocent. 6. But I do not think it is just if persons
have greatly aided the state, that others should gain honors and thanks
from you, nor if any have injured (the state) that the innocent should be
falsely accused and slandered on their account; for the present enemies
of the state are sufficient and think it a great gain if men are unjustly
slandered.

7. And I will try to show you what citizens I think are likely to favor
an oligarchy and a democracy. For from this you too will know, and I
shall make my defense by proving, that I have no reason to be ill-
disposed to the state's interest, either on the ground of what I did
under the oligarchy or the democracy. 8. Now in the first place, you must
bear in mind that no one favors an oligarchical or a democratic form of
government naturally, but whatever form of government is for a man's
advantage, that one he wishes to establish. Hence it rests largely with
you that as many as possible should be in favor of things as they now
stand. And that this is so, is not difficult for you to see from the
past. 9. For see, gentlemen of the jury, how often the leaders of both
parties have changed. Did not Phrynichus and Peisander and the other
demagogues of their party, after wronging you many times, in fear of the
punishment resulting from their deeds, establish the first oligarchy,
while many of the Four Hundred united with the Piraeus party, and some of
those who exiled them became themselves members of the Thirty? And some
of those who enlisted for Eleusis started out with you and besieged their
own party. 10. It is very easy to see, gentlemen of the jury, that the
differences between men are not at all dependent on the form of
government, but due to personal advantages. So you should examine
citizens with this in view, considering what their political relations
were, and inquiring what they gained by a change in conditions. In this
way you will judge most fairly about them. 11. So I believe that the men
who were dishonored under the democracy after rendering their accounts,
or were deprived of property or suffered some other misfortune, (that
these) are likely to desire a revolution, in the hope that the change
will result to their advantage. But about the men who did much good for
the state and no evil, to whom your thanks were due rather than
punishment, (about these) you should accept no accusations, even if every
one says they incline to the oligarchy. 12. To me, gentlemen of the jury,
neither in private or public affairs did any disadvantage come on account
of which. I was anxious to exchange existing evils for a different form
of government. For I have been trierarch five times, and four times I
have been in naval engagements, and have paid many extra taxes in war,
and have furnished the other contributions no less than other citizens.
13. Accordingly on this account I expended more than those appointed by
the state, that I might stand better with you, and if any misfortune came
to me that I could defend myself better. I was deprived of all advantages
from these things under the oligarchy. For they did not think that those
who had benefited the state should gain favor from themselves, but they
honored those who had Injured you most, taking this as assurance from us.
All should remember these things, and not trust the words of these men,
but from the facts investigate what each, man did. 14. For I, gentlemen
of the jury, was not of the party of the Four Hundred. Let any one who
wishes step out and confute me; nor indeed will any one prove that while
the Thirty were in power I either took part in the government nor held
any office. So if I was unwilling when I could hold office, I should
receive your honor, but if those then in power did not allow me to share
in the government, is it not evident that I prove the falsehoods of my
accusers?

15. Besides, gentlemen of the jury, you should also consider the other
things I did. For I conducted myself in the misfortunes of the state in
such a way that if all had held the same ideas as I, no one of you would
have met with any misfortune. For under the oligarchy no one will be
shown to have been arrested by me, nor did I punish one of my enemies,
nor reward a friend. 16. It is not right to wonder at this. For to act
uprightly at that time was difficult, and easy for one who wished to do
wrong. Besides, I shall not be proved to have enrolled any Athenian on
the list, nor to have decided against any, nor to have become more
wealthy from your failures. Accordingly if you are angry against those
who are responsible for what has happened, it is fitting that you should
consider those as noble men who have done no wrong. 17. Now, gentlemen of
the jury, I think I have given the greatest pledge to the democracy
about, myself. For the man who made no slip when so great an opportunity
offered is just the one who will be anxious to be of use, knowing well
that if he (_I_) does wrong, he (_I_) will pay the penalty at
once. But I am always so disposed as not to desire a revolution in time
of the oligarchy, and in the democracy to spend all I have zealously for
your interests.

18. But I think, gentlemen of the jury, that it would not be just for you
to hate those who under the oligarchy were not unfortunate, when you had
reason for anger towards those who did not flee as your enemies, but
rather those who banished you, and not those who were anxious to save
their property, but those who robbed others, not those who remained in
the town for their own safety, but those who wished to destroy others and
share in authority. But if you think it necessary to destroy those whom
they (_the oligarchy_) passed by in their career of wrong, no one of
the citizens will be left out.

19. And from these considerations, gentlemen of the jury, you should
reason, for you all know that in the former democracy many of the leaders
of the state stole public funds, some accepted bribes while the state was
in a critical state, and some by giving information made the allies
revolt. And if the Thirty punished these alone, you would think them good
men; but now because I thought the people were suffering from the wrong
these men committed, you are angry, believing it to be a terrible thing
that the wrongs of a few should come upon all the state. 20. So it is not
right to use those measures in which you see they are wrong, nor to
consider those things just when you inflict them on others, which you
believe you suffered unjustly. But you are to have the same opinion about
these when you come back to authority that you had about yourselves when
in exile. For under these conditions you will bring about the greatest
harmony, and the state will be increased, and you will legislate to the
greatest discomfiture of your enemies.

21. But you must remember, gentlemen of the jury, what happened in the
time of the Thirty, that the mistakes of your enemies may make you
legislate better for yourselves. For when you heard that the men in the
town were of one opinion, you had small hope of returning, thinking that
our harmony was the greatest hindrance in your exile; (22) but when you
learned that three thousand were revolting, and the rest of the citizens
had been banished from the town, and the Thirty were divided in opinion,
more being anxious for you than acting against you, then you expected to
return and punish your enemies. For you prayed the gods for just what you
saw them doing, believing you would be saved through the baseness of the
Thirty rather than return through the power of the exiles. 23. Therefore,
gentlemen of the jury, you must in the light of previous experiences plan
for the future, and believe those are most patriotic who wish to
harmonize you, and abide by their oaths and pledges, thinking that this
course of action is safest for the state, and the most unfortunate for
their enemies. For nothing would be harder for them than this, to learn
that we are sharing in authority, and to perceive that the citizens are
on such terms that no accusation can be made among them. 24. But ft is
right to know, gentlemen of the jury, that the exiles wish to slander and
dishonor as many of the other citizens as they can, in the hope that
those wronged by you will become their allies, and they expect that the
informers will stand well with you and come to great influence in the
state. For they believe that their baseness is safety for themselves.

25. It is worth, while to recall what was done after the Four Hundred.
For you will understand that what they advised never was for your
advantage, but what I advise is for the lasting advantage of both forms
of government. For you know, Epigenes and Demophanes and Cleisthenes as
private citizens enjoyed the privileges of the state, but in their
political career were responsible for the gravest errors. 26. For they
persuaded you to condemn to death some without a trial, to confiscate
unjustly the property of many, and to banish citizens and deprive them of
their civil rights. For they were such men as to let the guilty go for a
bribe, and to ruin the innocent by bringing information to you. And they
did not cease until they brought the state to a state of confusion and
utter ruin, and had raised themselves from poverty to wealth. 27. But you
were in such a condition that you received the exiles, restored civil
rights and swore to keep the peace. And finally you would more willingly
have aided the informer in the democracy than the leaders in the
oligarchy. Naturally too, gentlemen of the jury. For it is evident to all
that the democracy arose from the unjust conduct of men in the oligarchy,
and that the oligarchy was twice established because of the informers in
the democracy. So there is no use in taking these men as counselors, for
their advice has never been an aid. 28. And It should be realized that
those of the Piraeus party who have the greatest reputation, and risked
the most and benefited you most, advised the people to be faithful to
their oaths and agreements, considering that this was the safeguard of
the democracy. For it will bring security to the city party for the past,
and for the Piraeus party their form of government will remain the
longest time. 29. These are the ones you should trust with much more
reason than those who in exile were brought back through others and
become informers on their return. But I think, gentlemen of the jury,
that some of those who remained in the city evidently share my opinions,
both under the democracy and the oligarchy, as many as are citizens. 30.
And it is a matter for speculation what they would have done, had they
been allowed to become members of the Thirty, as they now under a
democracy do the same things as they (_the Thirty_), and suddenly
became wealthy men, never giving any account of the many offices they
hold, but they arouse, suspicion instead of harmony, have declared war
and not peace, and through them we have lost the confidence of the
Greeks. 31. They are responsible for such evils and many others, and
differ from the Thirty only that those during the oligarchy desired what
these do, while these men under the democracy desire what those do, and
both parties think it a duty to wrong whomsoever they wish, as if all
other men were guilty, while they themselves were the noblest men. 32.
Yet they are not so much to be wondered at as you, because you know the
democracy exists, while that happens which they wish, and the men are
punished, not who are wronging the people, but are not giving up their
property. 33. And they would rather have the city small than great
through others, considering that because of the dangers of the Piraeus
party they can do what they please, and if you are afterwards aided by
others they will injure these, while the former will gain greater power.
So by this very fear they stand in the way if any advantage comes to you
through others. 34. It is not hard to understand if one wishes; and these
are not anxious to escape notice, but they are ashamed not to seem base,
while you yourselves see and hear from others.

But we, gentlemen of the jury, think it our duty to abide by our
agreements and oaths, and likewise when we see the guilty paying the
penalty we pity them, remembering what was done, but when you clearly
punish the innocent as the guilty, you will bring suspicion upon us all
by the same vote.


ORATION XXVIII.

ERGOCLES.


1. The accusations are so many and so terrible, men of Athens, that I
think Ergocles could not pay, even by several deaths, a sufficient
penalty to the state for each of his deeds. For he is shown to have
betrayed cities, wronged foreign residents and citizens, and from poverty
raised himself to wealth from your resources. 2. And how could they
obtain pardon, when you see your ships which they command dispersing
through lack of funds, becoming few out of many, and these poor and needy
men sailing in them and so quickly gaining the wealth of the citizens? It
is for you, men of Athens, to be enraged against them; (3) for it would
be strange if you yourselves, so burdened by taxes, should grant pardon
to thieves and corrupt men now, but formerly, when your estates were
large as well as the state revenue, you punished with death men who
desired your property.

4. And I think you all are agreed if Thrasyboulus had announced to you he
was going to sail out with triremes, and would hand over these old ones
in place of new ones, and the risks would be yours, but the profits
belong to his friends, and he would make you poorer through the tributes,
but would make Ergocles and his followers the richest of citizens, no one
of you would have trust him to have the ships and sail out. 5. Especially
as soon as you passed a vote that he was to keep account of the money
taken from the cities, and that his fellow-commanders were to sail home
to give their accounts, Ergocles said that you were extortionate and were
holding to the old laws, and he advised Thrasyboulus to seize Byzantium,
and to keep the ships, and marry the daughter of Seuthes. 6. "That you
may thwart their extortions," he said, "for you will make them fear for
themselves, and no longer sit at home plotting against you and your
friends." So, fellow Athenians, as soon as they had their fill, and were
enjoying what belonged to you, they considered themselves aliens of the
state. 7. For as soon as they are rich they hate you, and they do not
prepare themselves to obey, but to rule you, and fearing for what they
have stolen, they are ready to seize fortified places, to set up an
oligarchy, and to do everything to place you daily in the greatest
danger; for thus they think that you will no longer pay attention to
their offenses, but that, fearing for yourselves and the state, you will
keep quiet in regard to them. 8. So Thrasyboulus, fellow Athenians (for I
need to say nothing further about him), did well to die as he did; for it
was not right for him to live planning such deeds, nor to be put to death
at your hands after his former good services to you, but to be freed from
the state as he was. 9. And we see these men on account of the assembly
of day before yesterday not sparing their money, but trying to purchase
their lives from the orators, and from their enemies, and from the
Prytanes, and bribing many Athenians. Against this charge you should
defend yourselves by punishing this man, and should show all men that
there is not enough money to weaken you so that you do not punish
offenders. 10. For remember, fellow Athenians, that this trial does not
concern Ergocles alone, but all the state. For now you will show your
leaders whether it is necessary to be just, or whether, after stealing as
much as possible of your funds, (they can) procure safety for themselves
by the same means as they now attempt (to use). It is to be clearly
known, fellow Athenians, (11) whoever in such lack of resources on your
side either betrays cities, or embezzles funds, or bribes (others), is
the sort of man to betray the walls and fleet to the enemy, and changes
our democracy to an oligarchy. It is not right for you to submit to their
schemes, but to establish a precedent to all men, and let no
considerations of gain, compassion, or anything else be of more
importance to you than their punishment.

12. I believe that Ergocles, fellow Athenians, will not attempt to defend
himself about Halicarnassus, and his office, and what he has done, but
lie will say that he came from Phyle, and was on the democratic side, and
shared your dangers. But I, fellow Athenians, think otherwise about these
things. 13. But those who aim for freedom and justice, and wish to
strengthen the laws, and hate wrong-doers I do not call bad citizens, nor
do I say that the exile of the party may not be fairly taken into
account; but against those who came down, and under the democracy annoyed
the people, and increased their own estates from your resources, we
should be more indignant than against the Thirty. 14. For these were
elected for this very purpose, that they might injure you if possible;
but to these men you entrusted yourselves, that they might make the city
great and free. Nothing of the sort has resulted for you, but as far as
these are concerned, you have been placed in greatest danger, so that,
there is more cause for pitying yourselves than them, and your children
and wives, that you are ill-treated by such fellows. 15. For when we have
made up our minds that we are in safety, we suffer more from our leaders
than from the enemy. Actually you all know that we have no hope of safety
if once unsuccessful. So it is right for you to take courage and inflict
the greatest penalty upon these men, and show the rest of Greece that you
punish offenders, and you will make your leaders better. 16. This then is
my advice to you; and it is necessary for you to know that if you follow
my advice you will legislate wisely, and if not, the rest of the citizens
will become baser. And besides, fellow Athenians, if you acquit them,
they will not thank you, but the bribes they have given, and the money
they have embezzled. 17. And moreover, men of Athens, the Halicarnassians
and the others who have been swindled by them, if you inflict the
severest penalty upon them, will think they were ruined by these fellows,
but that you came to their aid; but if you acquit them, they will think
you connived at their ill-treatment. So it is right for you to remember
all these facts, and to favor your friends, and exact punishment from the
offenders.


ORATION XXX.

NICOMACHUS.


1. It has been the case, gentlemen of the jury, that some men coming up
for trial appeared guilty, and yet by showing the valor of their
ancestors and their own services have obtained pardon from you. As you
accept this from defendants, if they show they have performed any service
to the state, I beg you also to listen to the prosecution, if they make
evident the baseness of the defendant. 2. It would take too long to tell
you that the father of Nicomachus was a public slave, and what sort of a
life this man led when a young man, and what age he was when he was
enrolled in his phratria; but while he was copyist of the laws, who does
not know how he injured the state? For when he was commanded to
transcribe the laws of Solon in four months, he made himself the lawgiver
instead of Solon, and instead of four months he gave himself the office
for six years, and while taking pay daily, he wrote some laws, and erased
some. 3. He brought matters to such a pass that we had the laws dealt out
to us by his hand, and plaintiffs and defendants quoted opposing laws in
the courts, both claiming they derived them from Nicomachus. And although
the Archons fined him and summoned him to court, he would not hand over
the laws, and the city got into the greatest difficulties before he was
deposed from his office and rendered the account of what he had done. 4.
And as he paid no penalty for that, what sort of an office has he now
established for himself? He who has written for four years when he could
have finished in thirty days? Then, though it was defined from what he
was to copy, he took matters into his own hands, and while having so much
in charge, he was the only official who did not render an account. 5. But
others give in an account of their office according to the Prytany, but
you, Nicomachus, did not think it necessary to send in yours for four
years, but you think you alone of all the citizens can hold office for a
long time, and not hand in an account, nor obey decrees, nor consider the
laws, but here you write, and there you erase, and have reached such a
pitch of arrogance as to think the property of the state is yours,
although, you are the state's slave. 6. Now it is necessary, gentlemen of
the jury, for you to bear in mind who the ancestors of Nicomachus were,
and how ungratefully he has treated you contrary to law, and to punish
him, and as you did not exact the penalty for each offense, now punish
him for them all. 7. And perhaps, gentlemen of the jury, since he cannot
defend himself, he will try to slander me. It is only then I think you
will believe what he says about me when in giving my defense I shall be
unable to prove his. But if he tries to speak as (he did) in the Boule,
you will be told I was one of the Four Hundred. From the talk of these
men, the Four Hundred will become more than a thousand. For slanderers
bring this up against men who were children at that time, and those who
were out of the city. 8. And I was so far from being one of the Four
Hundred, that I was not even one of the Five Thousand. It seems to me to
be a strange thing that if in a private suit I had so plainly convicted
him of ill-doing, he would not have thought of escaping by such a
defense, but now when the trial is in regard to state affairs he thinks
by accusing me to escape paying the penalty to you.

9. Besides, I think it strange that Nicomachus believe in trumping up old
scores against others as offenders, when I shall show that he had plots
against the people. Now hear me; for it is just, gentlemen of the jury,
to receive such a defense in regard to such men as say now they are
devoted to the people, when once they tried to ruin the people. 10. And
when the revolution was being brought about at the defeat of the fleet,
Cleophon charges the Boule, claiming that it was conspiring and not
acting for the best interests of the state. And Satyrus of Kephisia, a
member of the Boule, persuade the Boule to bind him and throw him into
prison. And they, wishing to destroy him, (11) and fearing that they
might not kill kill in prison, persuaded Nicomachides to bring up a law
that the Boule, too, must vote in judicial matters. And this basest of
all men evidently joined the plot, and on the day of the trial produced
the law. 12. One might accuse Cleophon, gentlemen at the jury, on other
accounts; but all are agreed that the men who were bent on destroying the
people wished above all to get him out of the way, and that Satyrus and
Chremon, who were members of the Thirty, accused Cleophon not because
they were incensed at him on your account, but that they might injure you
after having put him to death. 13. And this they accomplished through the
law which Nicomachus proposed. You should consider this, even as many of
you as thought Cleophon a bad citizen, that perhaps some one of those put
to death by the Thirty was base, but nevertheless that on account of such
you should be angry at the Thirty, that they killed these not for their
crimes, but on party grounds. 14. If he defends himself on these grounds,
remember this, that at such a crisis he produced the law by which the
revolution occurred, and he aided those who destroyed the democracy, and
made it possible for the Boule of that time to vote on judicial matters,
(the Boule) in which Satyrus and Chremon had great influence, and
Strombichides, and Calliades, and many other noble citizens perished.

15. I should not have spoken of these matters, had I not seen that he
would try to get himself off with justice on his side as being a friend
of the people, and that he would instance his exile as a proof of his
good-will to the people. But I, too, can show others of those who joined
in the plot against the democracy who have been put to death, some, in
exile, others deprived of civil rights, so he can have no credit for
this. 16. For he contributed some part in exiling you, and it was the
democracy which was the cause of his return. And it will be strange if
you thank him for what he suffered against his will, and do not punish
him for the wrongs he committed voluntarily.

17. And I hear that he says I am impious in abolishing sacrifices. If I
had made the laws about the copying, I think Nicomachus might have made
the charge against me; but now I claim his obedience to the common
established laws. And I wonder if he does not remember, when he claims I
am impious, and says the sacrifices must be made which are ordered on the
tablets and pillars according to the summaries, that he accuses the city
as well; for you voted on these things. Then if you think this is hard,
then you must think those men did wrong who used to sacrifice by the
tablets alone. 18. But truly, gentlemen of the jury, one should not learn
about piety from Nicomachus, but consider the facts. Our ancestors who
sacrificed by the tablets made this the largest and most prosperous of
the Greek cities, so it is right for you to perform the same sacrifices
as they, if for nothing else, for the sake of the good fortune which
resulted from those sacrifices. 19. How could any one be more pious than
I who sacrifice first according to my family customs, then as befits the
state, then what the people vote and we can pay for from our revenues.
But you, Nicomachus, have done just the opposite; for by writing more
than was prescribed you caused the revenues to be spent for these, and
left nothing for the hereditary sacrifices. 20. For example, last year
there were omitted sacrifices worth, three talents of those due on the
tablets. And it is not possible to say the city appropriations would not
have been sufficient; for if he had not copied more by six talents, there
would have been enough for the hereditary sacrifices, and the city would
have had three talents left over. I will bring witnesses as to what has
been said.

WITNESSES.

21. Remember now, gentlemen of the jury, that when we sacrifice according
to the summaries, all the hereditary sacrifices are being attended to,
and when according to his copy, many of the sacrifices are omitted. Yet
this sacrilegious fellow runs around, saying that he copied for piety,
not economy, and this does not suit you, he says to strike it off, and
from this thinks to persuade you that he commits no offense, a man who
spent in two years twelve talents more than he ought, and tried to get
six talents a year out of the city, (22) and this, too, when he saw the
state embarrassed for funds, the Spartans threatening us when we did not
send money, the Boeotians making reprisals on us because we could not pay
two talents, the docks and the walls in need of repair. He knew, too,
that the Boule of the time being when it has sufficient money for
managing affairs does not fail, but when it is embarrassed, it is forced
to admit impeachments, and to confiscate the property of citizens, and to
follow the advice of those speakers who give the worst counsel. 23.
Gentlemen of the jury, it is not right to blame those who happen to be
members of the Boule at each session, but those who bring the state into
such difficulty. Those who desire to plunder the state are interested to
see how Nicomachus will come out; if you do not punish him, you will
render them fearless; and if condemning him you shall punish him with
death, by the same vote you will make the rest better, and exact the
penalty from him. 24. And you should know, gentlemen of the jury, that it
will be a warning to others not to dare to wrong you, not because you
punish those who are not eloquent, but as you punish those who are. For
who in this city is more liable to punishment than Nicomachus? Who has
done less good or more harm to the city than he? 25. He, who, appointed
commissioner of laws relating to private life and religious duties,
tampered with both. You remember to have put many citizens to death for
embezzlement. Yet they injured you only so much as for the time being,
but this man, while transcribing the laws and making gain of the sacred
money, injures the state for all time.

26. And why should any one acquit him? On the ground of his being a man
brave against the enemy in many land and naval battles? But while you
sailed off and risked yourselves, he remained here and tampered with the
laws of Solon. Because he has spent his money, and many, many
contributions? But he never gave you anything, but took much of your
revenue. 27. On account of his ancestry? For some formerly were pardoned
by you on this account. But this man should die on his own account, and
be sold as a slave on theirs. But that he will pay you if you spare him?
He who has no remembrance of your former favors to him. For from a slave
he became a citizen, from a pauper a rich man, from an under-copyist a
commissioner. 28. One could accuse you that your ancestors chose as
lawgivers a Solon, a Themistocles, and a Pericles, thinking that the laws
would be like those who proposed them, while you (chose) a Tisamenus, son
of Mechanion, and a Nicomachus, and other under-clerks; and you think
offices are degraded by such men, and yet trust in them. 29. Here is the
strangest thing of all; the same man may not be under-clerk twice in the
same year, but you allow the same men to be in charge of the most
important matters for a long time. And finally you chose Nicomachus
commissioner of traditional laws, who has no part in the state on his
father's side. 30. And the very one who ought to have decided for the
people plainly joined in the plot against the democracy. Now you should
regret what you have done, and not endure continuous injury at their
hands, nor merely in private charge offenders, and then acquit them when
you can punish them.

31. I have said enough of these matters, but I wish to say a few words
about those who intend to beg him off. There are some ready to plead for
him, both of his friends and those who manage state affairs. I am sure
some of these would do better to defend their own deeds than to go out of
their way to save offenders. 32. And I think it remarkable, gentlemen of
the jury, that they have not tried to persuade him, a man standing by
himself, and in no way wronged by the state, that he must cease injuring
you, but they are seeking to persuade you, who are so many and have been
wronged by him, that you need not exact a penalty from him. 33. So, as
you see these trying to save their friends so zealously, you should
likewise punish your enemies, well knowing that these first of all will
think you better men when you punish offenders. And bear in mind that
neither Nicomachus nor any of his helpers has ever aided the state as
much as he has wronged it, so that you have much more reason to punish
him than to aid them. 34. These same men must realize that by entreating
the accusers they in no way persuaded us, but have entered the court to
tamper with your votes, and they hope by deceiving you to gain the
liberty for the future of doing whatever they wish. 35. We refused to be
bribed by them, and we call on you for the same, and hate baseness merely
before the trial, but during the trial punish those who degrade your
legislation. For in this way everything in the state will be managed in
accordance with law.


ORATION XXXL.

AGAINST PHILON.


1. Until now I believed, gentlemen of the Boule, that Philon would not
come to such a point of daring, as to bring himself to appear before you
for examination; but as he is audacious, not in one thing but many, and I
have come to the council-house after taking oath to legislate for the
state in the best possible way, (2) and it is contained in the oath (that
one should) declare it if he knows that a man chosen for office is not
fit to consult for the state, I will make this accusation against this
Philon here, not indeed because I follow up any private enmity, nor
rising among you because I am able and accustomed to speak, but realizing
(trusting in) the number of his crimes, and believing I must be faithful
to the oaths I have taken. 3. You will know that I am not so well
prepared to bring proof against him as he was (when) he entered on his
course of crime. Yet if I should omit some point in the accusation, he
ought not justly to benefit from this, but rather should be rejected on
ground of whatever I prove satisfactorily. 4. For I shall speak
insufficiently on account of my lack of acquaintance with all he has
done, but adequately so far as the evil goes which attaches to him. But I
beg you, as many of you as are better speakers than I, to declare that
his sins are (even) greater, and out of what I leave unsaid you are to
accuse Philon about what you yourselves know. For you should decide upon
his character not alone from what I may say.

5. If Burton had been acquainted with the Arabic text of the 21st Chapter
he, of course, would not have made that complaint; still, as his letters
show, he was aware that such a manuscript existed. Having
complained to Mr. Payne in the way referred to respecting the contents
of The Scented Garden, Burton continued, "Consequently, I have applied
myself to remedy this defect by collecting all manner of tales and of
learned material of Arab origin bearing on my special study, and I
have been so successful that I have thus trebled the original
manuscript." Thus, as in the case of The Arabian Nights, the annotations
were to have no particular connection with the text. Quite two-thirds
of these notes consisted of matter of this sort.

Mr.

Payne protested again and again against the whole scheme, and on the
score that Burton had given the world quite enough of this kind of
information in the Nights. But the latter could not see with his friend.
He insisted on the enormous anthropological and historical importance
of these notes--and that the world would be the loser were he to withold
them; in fact, his whole mind was absorbed in the subject.

Chapter XXXV 15th October 1888 to 21st July 1890 Working at the "Catullus"
and "The Scented Garden"

Bibliography:

78. Catullus translated 1890, printed 1894.
79. The Golden Ass and other works left unfinished.
162. Switzerland 15th October 1888.
From London the Burtons proceeded first to Boulogne where Sir Richard
visited the haunts of his early manhood and called upon his old
fencing master, Constantin, who was hale and well, though over
eighty; and then to Geneva, where he delivered before the local
Geographical Society what proved to be his last public lecture.
From Geneva he wrote several letters to Mr. Payne.
In that of November 21st, his mind running on the Bandello, he says,
"You would greatly oblige me by jotting down when you have a moment
to spare the names of reverends and ecclesiastics who have written
and printed facetious books.For he did not
come to the Piraeus, nor offer himself to you to be appointed for
military duty. 10. And while he dared betray us in our success, what
would he have done, if we had been unsuccessful? Those who did not share
in the risk to the state through some personal misfortune, should be
excused, for such failure is involuntary; (11) but those who pursued this
course of action on purpose are not to be pardoned, for they did so, not
through misfortune but by design. And it is agreed by all men that for
the same trespasses we should be most of all angry at those who are
perfectly able not to commit a wrong, but excuse those who are poor or
infirm, because we consider they sin involuntarily. 12. But this man
should have no excuse; for he is neither a cripple and so unable to work,
as you see, nor (unable) to contribute money as if poor, as I shall show.
How should not a man be hated with reason by you if he put the same
energy into being wicked that he might have used aiding you? 13. And you
will not incur the hatred of any of the citizens by rejecting this man;
for he evidently betrayed not one party, but both, so that it appears he
is not liked either by the city party,--for he did not consent to go
into danger with them--nor by those who took the Piraeus,--for he would
not move with them. 14. If then any of the citizens are left over who had
the same experiences as his, let him claim to legislate in their company,
if they ever,--which Heaven forbid,--take the state.

So that he took up his residence in Oropos under a patron and gained
sufficient property, and neither took arms in the town nor in the
Piraeus, that you may know that these first things which I affirm are
true, hear the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

15. Then it remains for him to say that he was incapacitated through some
weakness of body from helping against the Piraeus, but that he offered
from his resources either to give money to the majority of you or to arm
some of his fellow-citizens, just as other citizens (do) who are unable
to serve personally. 16. That it may not be possible for him to deceive
us by lying, I will show you plainly about this too, since it will not be
possible for me afterwards to convict him, if I pass this by. Now call
for me Diotimus of Acharnae, and those chosen with him to arm the
citizens from the money contributed.

EVIDENCE or THOSE CHOSEN WITH DIOTIMUS.

17. This man then did not think how he might benefit the state in so
critical a condition of the state, but made every preparation to make
some gain from your misfortunes. For he started at Oropos at one time by
himself, and at another at the head of men to whom your bad fortune was a
series of benefits, (18) and went about through, the country and met the
older citizens who remained in their demes with few possessions, and
those the bare necessities, men who were in sympathy with the government,
but were incapacitated for active service on account of their age, and he
robbed these men of their goods and thought nothing of wronging them if
he could gain even a little. These men are now unable to prosecute him
for the very reason which kept them from aiding the state then. 19. So it
is not right that he should gain advantage twice from their inability,
once when he robbed them of their possessions, and now while under
examination at your hands. But if any one of those wronged shall come,
consider it a great point, and feel the greatest hatred for this man, who
dared to rob of their goods the very men whom other men through pity have
chosen as objects of charity. Call me the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

20. I do not know why you should feel differently about him from his
relatives. For (their feelings) are such that if he had done no other
wrong, it would be right to refuse him the examination on account of them
alone. I will pass over the accusations which his mother made during her
life. It is easy for you to infer from what she did at the close of her
life, how her son conducted himself towards her. 21. For she did not dare
trust herself to him at death, but gave to Antiphanes who was not a
relative, but whom she trusted, three minae of silver for her burial,
disregarding her own son. So is it not evident that she knew well that he
would not do his duty even to a relative? 22. Then if a mother, who
naturally endures the wrongs put upon her by her children and thinks she
has great returns from them even if they render only a slight service,
because she judges what happens rather by her natural mother-love than by
any cold-blooded standard, (if she then) thought her son would rob her at
death, what should be your judgment about him? 23. For what would a man
do to those who were not connected with him if lie commits such offenses
against his own relatives? That this is true, hear the man who took the
silver and buried her.

EVIDENCE.

24. How then could you allow him to pass? As if he had done no wrong?
But he has been guilty of the greatest offenses against his country. That
he will improve? Then let him improve first and afterwards go into
political life; after he has done something as manifestly good as his
evil deeds were bad in the past. It is more prudent to show gratitude for
all his deeds, for it seems to me a dreadful thing if he shall escape
punishment for his past offenses and be rewarded for his good intentions.
25. But perhaps he should be examined that the citizens may be nobler if
they see all honored alike! But there is danger that if the good see the
bad held in equal honor they will cease from their upright mode of life,
thinking it is the same thing to honor bad men and pass by the good. 26.
But this is to be remembered, that if any one betrays a stronghold or
ships or a camp, in which there chance to be any citizens, he receives
the extreme penalty, while this man who betrayed the whole city is
planning not for punishment but for reward. So one who betrayed freedom
as evidently as this man did would justly be contending not for political
office, but against slavery and the greatest penalties.

27. But I hear that he says that if it was wrong that lie was not at hand
at that time, that a law would have expressly stated it, as about other
transgressions, For he does not think you will know that no law was
written about it on account of the enormity of the offense. For what
statesman ever thought of such a thing, or what lawgiver ever supposed a
citizen would commit such an offense? 28. For I suppose we are to think
if a man left the ranks not while his country was in danger, but while
she was acting on the offensive, that a law would be framed which
condemned him as guilty, but if he left the ranks while his country was
in danger, the law would not be framed. The fact is that such a law would
have been made, if any one had supposed that a citizen would commit such
a deed. 29. But who would not justly blame you if you reward the metics
for aiding the state as they were expected to, but do not punish this man
for betraying the state contrary to what was expected of him, if not by
some greater penalty, at least by the present dishonor? 30. But call to
mind the reasons which lead you to honor those men who were brave in
relation to the city and to punish those who were not. But lower down
in the glacier proper, where it is completely transformed into ice, its
surface becomes convex, for the following reason: The rocky walls of
the valley, as they approach the plain, partake of its higher temperature.
They become heated by the sun during the day in summer, so that the
margins of the glacier melt rapidly in contact with them. In consequence
of this, there is always in the lower part of the glacier a broad
depression between the ice and the rocky walls, while, as this effect
is not felt in the centre of the glacier, it there retains a higher
level. The natural result of this is a convex surface, arching upward
toward the middle, sinking toward the sides. It is in these broad, marginal
depressions that the lateral moraines accumulate; masses of rock,
stones, pebbles, dust, all the fragments, in short, which become
loosened from the rocky walls above, fall into them, and it is a
part of the materials so accumulated which gradually work their way
downward between the ice and the walls, till the whole side of the
glacier becomes studded with them.

It is evident, that, when the glacier runs in a northerly or southerly
direction, both the walls will be affected by the sun, one in the morning,
the other in the afternoon, and in such a case the sides will be
uniform, or nearly so. But when the trend of the valley is from east
to west, or from west to east, the northern side only will feel the full
force of the sun; and in such a case, only one side of the glacier will
be convex in outline, while the other will remain nearly on a level
with the middle. The large masses of loose materials which accumulate
between the glacier and its rocky walls and upon its margins form the
lateral moraines. These move most slowly, as the marginal portions of the
glacier advance at a much slower rate than its centre.

The medial moraines arise in a different way, though they are directly
connected with the lateral moraines.
If the points in dispute, gentlemen of the jury, were not great, I
should not have allowed these to come to you to court, believing it a
disgrace to have differences with one's relatives, and knowing that both
such offenders seem to you to be all the worse, and those who cannot bear
to be ill-treated by their relatives. But then, gentlemen of the jury,
these have been defrauded of much money, and have suffered terribly at
the hands of those for whom it was least proper, and they have appealed
to me, their brother-in-law, and so I must speak in their behalf. 2. I
married their sister, a granddaughter of Diogeiton, and having asked both
of them many times, at first I persuaded them to entrust the case to
friends, thinking it important that outsiders should not know of their
affairs. But when Diogeiton could not bring himself to trust to any of
his friends (to decide) about that which he had plainly been proved to
hold, but preferred to defend suits, and to bring them if they were not
brought (against him), and to run the greatest risks rather than by doing
justice be rid of the charges in regard to them, (3) I beg of you, if I
shall prove that they were treated under the guardianship of their
grandfather worse than any one ever was in the city even by those not
related, (I beg of you) to assist them to get justice, and if I do not
prove it, trust him in everything, and believe me wrong here-after. I
will try to tell you the whole story.

4. There were (two) brothers, gentlemen of the jury, Diodotus and
Diogeiton, with the same father and mother, and they divided the ready
money, and shared in the real estate. Now Diodotus made much money in
business, and Diogeiton persuaded him to marry his only daughter, and
they had two sons and a daughter. 5. Some time after this, Diodotus,
having enlisted with Thrasyllus in the infantry, called his wife, who was
his niece, and her father, who was his own father-in-law and son of the
same father, the grandfather and uncle of his little ones, and thinking
on account of these ties he could entrust his children to no one's care
more fittingly, he made a compact with him, and deposited with him five
talents of silver. 6. And he showed lent out on bottomry seven talents
and forty minae, and two thousand (drachmae) invested in the Chersonesus.
And he provided in case of his death a talent to be given to his wife
together with the household goods, and a talent to his daughter. And he
left for his wife twenty minae and thirty Cyzicene staters. 7. After
doing this, and leaving schedules at home, he went to join Thrasyllus.

And when he died in Ephesus, Diogeiton concealed his death from his
daughter, and took the documents which he had left sealed, claiming that
he must collect by these papers the money lent out on bottomry. 8. And
when after a time he told them of his death, and they had performed the
customary rites, for the first year they lived in Piraeus, for their
store of provisions had been left there. But when these began to give
out, he sent the sons up to the city, and married off their mother,
giving her (as dowry) five thousand drachmae, a thousand less than her
husband had appointed for her. 9. Eight years after this the elder of the
boys passed his examination (_became a citizen_), and Diogeiton
summoned them and said that their father had left them twenty silver
minae and thirty staters. "So I have spent much of my own property for
bringing you up. And as long as I had money, it made no difference to me;
but now I myself am short of funds. So you, as you are of age and have
become a citizen, are to look out to get your own living." 10. After they
heard this they were surprised, and went weeping to their mother, and
taking her with them they came to me, feeling terribly bitter because of
their trouble, and (really) miserably turned out of doors. With tears
they called on me not to allow them to be cheated out of their
inheritance and made paupers, cruelly treated by one who ought least of
all (to have done it), but to aid them both for my wife's sake and their
own. 11. It were a long story to tell you the sorrow in my house during
that time. Finally their mother begged and entreated, me to bring
together her father and their friends, saying that, although formerly
unaccustomed to speak before men, the magnitude of her misfortunes
compelled her to declare to us all their miseries. 12. And in my
indignation I went to Hegemon who had married the daughter of this
(Diogeiton), and I went into the matter with other interested persons,
and summoned him (_Diogeiton_) to an examination on what he had
done. At first Diogeiton was unwilling, but at last was compelled by his
friends. And when we had assembled, the woman asked him in what possible
spirit (_how he had the heart to_) he had treated the boys so,
"being (as you are) their father's brother, my father, and both uncle and
grandfather to them. 13. And if you feel no shame before men, you ought
to fear the gods," she said, "for when he sailed away you took five
talents which he had deposited (with you). And for (the truth of) these
things, I am willing to imprecate my children, both these and those I
have had later, wherever you may please. Truly I am not so wretched nor
think so much of money as to die having sworn falsely on my children, and
take away unjustly the property of my father." 14. Then she proved that
he had received seven talents four thousand drachmae, and she showed the
accounts of this. For in changing residence, when he moved from Collytus
to the house of Phaedrus, the boys found an account-book which had been
thrown away, and brought it to her. 15. This proved that he had received
a hundred minae loaned out on interest on a mortgage, and two thousand
drachmae, and valuable furniture; also there came in every year corn from
the Chersonesus. "And then did you go so far," she said, "with so much
money in your possession, as to say that their father left (only) two
thousand drachmae and thirty staters, the very amount which I inherited
at his death and gave over to you? 16. And you even thrust out of their
own house these grandsons of yours, thinly clad, barefooted, without an
attendant, without beds, without cloaks, without the furniture their
father had left them, without the deposit he entrusted to you. 17. And
now you are supporting at great expense the children of my stepmother,
happy children; and in this you do well, but you are wronging my
children, whom you have driven from the house, and try to make out that
they are poor instead of rich. And in such deeds you neither fear the
gods, nor are ashamed before me, your daughter, who understand you, nor
do you remember your brother, but care for your brother more than
everything else." 18. There might at first be some difficulty in procuring
food for them; but this would be easily got over at a very small expense,
and with a few adult salmon more fry may be sent to sea annually than
the whole produce of the river at present amounts to, after having
encountered the sweeping perils I have mentioned."--P. 43.

[Footnote 11: See _Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh_.
Vol.

XV.

Part iii. p. 343.]
Our author then proposes that proprietors should call meetings for the
purpose, and that parr, hitherto so named, should now, in their capacity
of young salmon, be protected by law. He advises all who have an interest
in the river, to consider the wisdom of mutual accommodation; the owners
of the more seaward banks being dependent on the upper heritors for the
protection of the spawning fish and fry, while they, on the other
hand, are equally dependent on the former for an honest adherence to
the weekly close-time.

But a thoughtful consideration of this portion of our subject would lead
us into a somewhat interminable maze, including the policy of our
ancient Acts of Parliament, and the nature of estuaries,--those mysteriously
commingled "watteris quhar the sea ebbis and flowis,"--"ubi salmunculi
vel smolti, seu fria alterius generis piscium maris vel aquæ
dulcis, (nunquam) descendunt et ascendunt,"--and then the stake-net
question stretches far before us, and dim visions of the "Sutors of
Cromarty" rise upon our inward eye, and the wild moaning of the "Gizzin
Brigs" salutes our ear, and defenders are converted into appellants, and
suspenders into respondents, and the whole habitable earth assumes for
a time the aspect of a Scotch Jury Court, which suddenly blazes
into the House of Lords.[12]
[Footnote 12: Certain river mouths and estuaries in the north of Scotland
"within flude-marke of the sea," have lately given rise to various
questions of disputed rights regarding the erection of stake-nets, and the
privilege of catching salmon with the same. These questions involve the
determination of several curious though somewhat contradictory points in
physical geography, geology, and the natural history of fishes and
marine vegetation.]

That salmon return with great regularity to the river in which they were
originally bred, is now well known. Mr Scrope, however, thinks
that they do not invariably do so, but will ascend other rivers during
spawning time, if they find their own deficient in bulk of water. Thus
many Tweed salmon are caught in the Forth, (a deep and sluggish
stream,) and a successful fishing there is usually accompanied by
a scarce one in the Tweed.Whichever course he followed, they would
have been as rich as any Athenian. But now he seems to me never to have
taken any thought of securing the property, but to keep it for himself,
thinking that his baseness should be the dead man's heir.

24. Here is the worst count of all, gentlemen of the jury. For he, while
sharing as Trierarch with Alexis, the son of Aristodicus, claimed that he
had contributed forty-eight minae, and charged half of this to these
orphan children, whom the state has made exempt, not only because they
are children, but that when they are of age they are released from
liturgies for a year. But this man, their grandfather, illegally exacts
from the children of his own daughter half of his contribution as
Trierarch. 25. And having sent to Adria a merchant-ship worth two
talents, he told their mother when he dispatched it, that the risk was
the children's, but when it arrived in safety and doubled its value, he
said the profit was his own. And yet, if he puts down their losses, and
takes himself what is saved, he will find no difficulty in setting down
on the account what has been spent, and will easily become rich himself
from the money which does not belong to him. 26. It would be too much,
gentlemen of the jury, to go through the accounts point by point; but
when with some difficulty I got the accounts from him, in the presence of
witnesses I asked Aristodicus, the brother of Alexis, for he had died, if
he had any record of the trierarchy. He said he had, and going to his
house we found that Diogeiton had given over to him (Alexis) twenty-four
minae for the trierarchy. 27. The whole expense was here shown to have
been forty-eight minae, so that he charged them with what his whole
expense had been. And what do you think could have been his conduct in
matters of which no one had any knowledge but himself, and which he
managed alone, when in transactions which were carried on through others,
and were not difficult to find out, he had the hardihood to cheat his
daughter's children out of twenty-four minae. Now bring in the witnesses.

WITNESSES.

28. You have heard the witnesses, gentlemen of the jury. Now taking as a
basis the money which he finally acknowledged to have, I will reckon from
that, taking no income into account, but spending from the principal. I
will allow what no one in the city does, for the two boys, their sister,
teacher, and maid a thousand drachmae a year, a little less than three
drachmae a day, amounting in eight years to eight thousand drachmae, (29)
which shows a balance of six talents from the seven talents twenty minae.
For he could not show that he has lost to pirates nor suffered loss, nor
paid creditors (for the father).


ORATION XXXIII.

PANEGYRIC.


1. For many noble deeds, my friends, it is well to commemorate Heracles,
but especially because he was the founder of these games through his
good-will to Greece. For at that time cities lived in enmity one with
another; (2) but then that (hero) slew the tyrants, punished the
arrogant, and established this, contest of strength, emulation of wealth,
and exhibition of mind in this most beautiful spot in Greece, that for
all these things we might assemble together, to witness and to hear. For
he believed that concourse here would be the starting-point for a common
friendship among the Greeks. 3. He then conceived the plan, and I am here
not to quibble or juggle with words. For this I believe is the part of
useless sophists needing to make a living, but it is for a brave man and
worthy citizen to speak for the highest good, seeing how low lies Greece,
much in the power of the barbarian, many cities under the foot of
tyrants. 4. And had we suffered this through weakness, we should have to
put up with our fate; but as (it resulted) from seditions and wrangling
among ourselves, why should we not put an end to these things and check
them, knowing that it is for those who are successful to love quarrels,
but for the unfortunate to have the clearest ideas about conduct? 5. For
we see great dangers threatening on all sides, and you know that power
belongs to the rulers of the sea, and the king holds the treasure and the
lives of such Greeks as can be bought, and he has many ships, and many,
too, the tyrant of Sicily. 6. His life was now spent more in thought
than action--he had lost the eager spirit which believed it could achieve
what it projected for the benefit of mankind. And yet in the converse of
daily life Shelley was far from being a melancholy man.
And most of all I wonder with what mind the Spartans watch
the conflagration of Greece, they who are not unjustly the leaders of the
Greeks through their inborn valor and knowledge of military affairs, who
are the only ones who live unsacked, without walls, with no factions,
unconquerable, with no change of customs. For these reasons there is hope
that they have imperishable freedom, and as in past dangers they were the
saviors of Greece that they will be seen as such for the future. 8. Her
glorious hair was now grown gray and thin, and it was generally hidden by
a not very becoming big yellowish wig with curls, which made her look
like a magnified Marie Antoinette.
Burton's chief pleasure in his garden was feeding the birds.For who would not feel alarm,
seeing them gaining in importance in the war with each other? And in
these disgraceful and terrible circumstances those who have been so
greatly at fault have every advantage from what has occurred, while the
Greeks (have) no means of redress.