Produced by Tamise Totterdell and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries.)


    THE DEFEAT OF YOUTH AND
    OTHER POEMS

    BY ALDOUS HUXLEY,
    AUTHOR OF "THE BURNING WHEEL."


    CONTENTS

                                  Page

    The Defeat of Youth              5
    Song of Poplars                 16
    The Reef                        17
    Winter Dream                    19
    The Flowers                     20
    The Elms                        21
    Out of the Window               21
    Inspiration                     22
    Summer Stillness                23
    Anniversaries                   23
    Italy                           25
    The Alien                       26
    A Little Memory                 27
    Waking                          28
    By the Fire                     29
    Valedictory                     31
    Love Song                       32
    Private Property                33
    Revelation                      34
    Minoan Porcelain                34
    The Decameron                   35
    In Uncertainty to a Lady        35
    Crapulous Impression            36
    The Life Theoretic              37
    Complaint of a Poet Manqué      37
    Social Amenities                38
    Topiary                         38
    On the Bus                      39
    Points and Lines                39
    Panic                           40
    Return from Business            40
    Stanzas                         41
    Poem                            42
    Scenes of the Mind              43
    L'Après-Midi D'un Faune         44
    The Louse-Hunters               48


    THE DEFEAT OF YOUTH


    I. We do not ignite Fakeln, so that they themselves glow, so it makes
the sky with us; wofern not our virtues Würker except us, it would
be the same if we do not have.

    Ghosts are just too large Endzweken A complete
    nature of the educated, and those
    thrifty goddess leyht not Quint's
    the smallest of its Vortreflichkeit with no intention
    of gratitude and interest thereof to be
    drawn. But I'm talking to this one, myself
    in the office, I gave him the orders, could teach. Sey
    so in our absence, the representative of our
    total self in this city, life and death, Angelo, hange
    of your lips, the old Escalus, whether
    you like the first Raether, only zweyte after
    you. Here is your Commission. Angelo. No,
    my gracious Lord, let my metal prior
    to any severe test gesezt are always such a great and noble character
will be stamped.

    Duke.

    Come, no more excuses, we have you with
    well-Election hiezu ersehen; übernehmt
    So our body. Our departure from here will
    Seyn so quickly that we have things of
    importance zurüklassen must undecided. We
    are you, so much time and circumstances
    permit, being of our message, and ask ourselves
    how it is here. Lebet so well, I will
    leave you hopeful of the execution of our
    orders. Angelo. Erlaubet least, gracious
    Lord, that we will some circumstances - Herzog.
    Augenblik We can no longer be forgiven. Also have
    you, Bey of my honor, not the least Nöthiger
    you to make reservations.

    Your work is, like ours, so the Geseze and Sezen Würksamkeit to how
it is best respects.

    Give me your hand, I will leave in secret. I
    love the people, but I Seze me he does not
    like to review from, whether it
    nevertheless does so I am not a lover of her
    Zujauchzens loud, and I have no great
    Meynung by the modesty of those who love
    such things. Once again, lives well. Angelo.
    The sky transfer your projects. Escalus.
    Glüklich And bring you back. Duke. I thank you,
    lives well. (He goes anyway.) Escalus. I need you,
    my Lord, to ask permission, Freye an interview
    with you to have. I am keen to my office
    right to know. I have a violent, but I'm
    not taught how far it extends. Angelo.

    I am just so, we want to hinwegbegeben with each other, and by
comparing ourselves to our Instruction Clear Sezen.

    Escalus. I will follow your graces. (You
    go from.) Third Scene. (A Straasse.) (Lucio and
    zween nobles.) Lucio. When the Duke, and the
    other dukes to the king of Hungary can not
    compare, they are all Dukes unite against
    the King 1. Edelmann. The sky geb us his peace, but
    not of the king in Hungary, his 2. Edelmann.
    Amen! Lucio. You pray like that devout
    pirates, with the toes Gebotten rose to
    vessels, but one from the other table auskrazte
    2. Edelmann. You shall not steal - Lucio. Eben
    das 1st Edelmann. Had it not cause? This is a
    Gebott that his people from their guilt would
    be held, because they are Schifter, to steal.

    There is not one among us soldiers, in the prayer before dinner,
asking for peace liked 2.

    Edelmann. I've never heard any soldier, they would
    have disapproved. Lucio. That I think you,
    you're probably never been dabey if the
    table has spoken prayer 2. Edelmann. Never?
    least one duzendmal 1. Edelmann. How? In Reimen?
    Lucio. Reim In all types and in all languages:
    1. Edelmann. And in all religions denk 'ich.
    On the hay,
    Perched mountain-high they sit, and silently
    Watch the motes dance and look at the dark sky
    And mark how heartbreakingly far away
    And yet how close and clear the distance seems,
    While all at hand is cloud--brightness of dreams
    Unrealisable, yet seen so clear,
    So only just beyond the dark. They wait,
    Scarce knowing what they wait for, half in fear;
    Expectance draws the curtain from their fate.


    VII.

    The silence of the storm weighs heavily
    On their strained spirits: sometimes one will say
    Some trivial thing as though to ward away
    Mysterious powers, that imminently lie
    In wait, with the strong exorcising grace
    Of everyday's futility. Desire
    Becomes upon a sudden a crystal fire,
    Defined and hard:--If he could kiss her face,
    Could kiss her hair! As if by chance, her hand
    Brushes on his ... Ah, can she understand?
    Or is she pedestalled above the touch
    Of his desire? He wonders: dare he seek
    From her that little, that infinitely much?
    And suddenly she kissed him on the cheek.


    VIII. MOUNTAINS.

    A stronger gust catches the cloud and twists
    A spindle of rifted darkness through its heart,
    A gash in the damp grey, which, thrust apart,
    Reveals black depths a moment. Then the mists
    Shut down again; a white uneasy sea
    Heaves round the climbers and beneath their feet.
    He strains on upwards through the wind and sleet,
    Poised, or swift moving, or laboriously
    Lifting his weight. And if he should let go,
    What would he find down there, down there below
    The curtain of the mist? What would he find
    Beyond the dim and stifling now and here,
    Beneath the unsettled turmoil of his mind?
    Oh, there were nameless depths: he shrank with fear.


    IX.

    The hills more glorious in their coat of snow
    Rise all around him, in the valleys run
    Bright streams, and there are lakes that catch the sun,
    And sunlit fields of emerald far below
    That seem alive with inward light. In smoke
    The far horizons fade; and there is peace
    On everything, a sense of blessed release
    From wilful strife. Like some prophetic cloak
    The spirit of the mountains has descended
    On all the world, and its unrest is ended.
    Even the sea, glimpsed far away, seems still,
    Hushed to a silver peace its storm and strife.
    Mountains of vision, calm above fate and will,
    You hold the promise of the freer life.


    X. IN THE LITTLE ROOM.

    London unfurls its incense-coloured dusk
    Before the panes, rich but a while ago
    With the charred gold and the red ember-glow
    Of dying sunset. Houses quit the husk
    Of secrecy, which, through the day, returns
    A blank to all enquiry: but at nights
    The cheerfulness of fire and lamp invites
    The darkness inward, curious of what burns
    With such a coloured life when all is dead--
    The daylight world outside, with overhead
    White clouds, and where we walk, the blaze
    Of wet and sunlit streets, shops and the stream
    Of glittering traffic--all that the nights erase,
    Colour and speed, surviving but in dream.


    XI.

    Outside the dusk, but in the little room
    All is alive with light, which brightly glints
    On curving cup or the stiff folds of chintz,
    Evoking its own whiteness. Shadows loom,
    Bulging and black, upon the walls, where hang
    Rich coloured plates of beauties that appeal
    Less to the sense of sight than to the feel,
    So moistly satin are their breasts. A pang,
    Almost of pain, runs through him when he sees
    Hanging, a homeless marvel, next to these,
    The silken breastplate of a mandarin,
    Centuries dead, which he had given her.
    Exquisite miracle, when men could spin
    Jay's wing and belly of the kingfisher!


    XII.

    In silence and as though expectantly
    She crouches at his feet, while he caresses
    His light-drawn fingers with the touch of tresses
    Sleeked round her head, close-banded lustrously,
    Save where at nape and temple the smooth brown
    Sleaves out into a pale transparent mist
    Of hair and tangled light. So to exist,
    Poised 'twixt the deep of thought where spirits drown
    Life in a void impalpable nothingness,
    And, on the other side, the pain and stress
    Of clamorous action and the gnawing fire
    Of will, focal upon a point of earth--even thus
    To sit, eternally without desire
    And yet self-known, were happiness for us.


    XIII.

    She turns her head and in a flash of laughter
    Looks up at him: and helplessly he feels
    That life has circled with returning wheels
    Back to a starting-point. Before and after
    Merge in this instant, momently the same:
    For it was thus she leaned and laughing turned
    When, manifest, the spirit of beauty burned
    In her young body with an inward flame,
    And first he knew and loved her. In full tide
    Life halts within him, suddenly stupefied.
    Sight blackness, lightning-struck; but blindly tender
    He draws her up to meet him, and she lies
    Close folded by his arms in glad surrender,
    Smiling, and with drooped head and half closed eyes.


    XIV.

    "I give you all; would that I might give more."
    He sees the colour dawn across her cheeks
    And die again to white; marks as she speaks
    The trembling of her lips, as though she bore
    Some sudden pain and hardly mastered it.
    Within his arms he feels her shuddering,
    Piteously trembling like some wild wood-thing
    Caught unawares. Compassion infinite
    Mounts up within him. Thus to hold and keep
    And comfort her distressed, lull her to sleep
    And gently kiss her brow and hair and eyes
    Seems love perfected--templed high and white
    Against the calm of golden autumn skies,
    And shining quenchlessly with vestal light.


    XV.

    But passion ambushed by the aerial shrine
    Comes forth to dance, a hoofed obscenity,
    His satyr's dance, with laughter in his eye,
    And cruelty along the scarlet line
    Of his bright smiling mouth. All uncontrolled,
    Love's rebel servant, he delights to beat
    The maddening quick dry rhythm of goatish feet
    Even in the sanctuary, and makes bold
    To mime himself the godhead of the place.
    He turns in terror from her trance-calmed face,
    From the white-lidded languor of her eyes,
    From lips that passion never shook before,
    But glad in the promise of her sacrifice:
    "I give you all; would that I might give more."


    XVI.

    He is afraid, seeing her lie so still,
    So utterly his own; afraid lest she
    Should open wide her eyes and let him see
    The passionate conquest of her virgin will
    Shine there in triumph, starry-bright with tears.
    He thrusts her from him: face and hair and breast,
    Hands he had touched, lips that his lips had pressed,
    Seem things deadly to be desired. He fears
    Lest she should body forth in palpable shame
    Those dreams and longings that his blood, aflame
    Through the hot dark of summer nights, had dreamed
    And longed. Must all his love, then, turn to this?
    Was lust the end of what so pure had seemed?
    He must escape, ah God! her touch, her kiss.


    XVII. IN THE PARK.

    Laughing, "To-night," I said to him, "the Park
    Has turned the garden of a symbolist.
    Those old great trees that rise above the mist,
    Gold with the light of evening, and the dark
    Still water, where the dying sun evokes
    An echoed glory--here I recognize
    Those ancient gardens mirrored by the eyes
    Of poets that hate the world of common folks,
    Like you and me and that thin pious crowd,
    Which yonder sings its hymns, so humbly proud
    Of holiness. The garden of escape
    Lies here; a small green world, and still the bride
    Of quietness, although an imminent rape
    Roars ceaselessly about on every side."


    XVIII.

    I had forgotten what I had lightly said,
    And without speech, without a thought I went,
    Steeped in that golden quiet, all content
    To drink the transient beauty as it sped
    Out of eternal darkness into time
    To light and burn and know itself a fire;
    Yet doomed--ah, fate of the fulfilled desire!--
    To fade, a meteor, paying for the crime
    Of living glorious in the denser air
    Of our material earth. A strange despair,
    An agony, yet strangely, subtly sweet
    And tender as an unpassionate caress,
    Filled me ... Oh laughter! youth's conceit
    Grown almost conscious of youth's feebleness!


    XIX.

    He spoke abrupt across my dream: "Dear Garden,
    A stranger to your magic peace, I stand
    Beyond your walls, lost in a fevered land
    Of stones and fire. Would that the gods would harden
    My soul against its torment, or would blind
    Those yearning glimpses of a life at rest
    In perfect beauty--glimpses at the best
    Through unpassed bars. And here, without, the wind
    Of scattering passion blows: and women pass
    Glitter-eyed down putrid alleys where the glass
    Of some grimed window suddenly parades--
    Ah, sickening heart-beat of desire!--the grace
    Of bare and milk-warm flesh: the vision fades,
    And at the pane shows a blind tortured face."


    XX. SELF-TORMENT.

    The days pass by, empty of thought and will:
    His thought grows stagnant at its very springs,
    With every channel on the world of things
    Dammed up, and thus, by its long standing still,
    Poisons itself and sickens to decay.
    All his high love for her, his fair desire,
    Loses its light; and a dull rancorous fire,
    Burning darkness and bitterness that prey
    Upon his heart are left. His spirit burns
    Sometimes with hatred, or the hatred turns
    To a fierce lust for her, more cruel than hate,
    Till he is weary wrestling with its force:
    And evermore she haunts him, early and late,
    As pitilessly as an old remorse.


    XXI.

    Streets and the solitude of country places
    Were once his friends. But as a man born blind,
    Opening his eyes from lovely dreams, might find
    The world a desert and men's larval faces
    So hateful, he would wish to seek again
    The darkness and his old chimeric sight
    Of beauties inward--so, that fresh delight,
    Vision of bright fields and angelic men,
    That love which made him all the world, is gone.
    Hating and hated now, he stands alone,
    An island-point, measureless gulfs apart
    From other lives, from the old happiness
    Of being more than self, when heart to heart
    Gave all, yet grew the greater, not the less.


    XXII. THE QUARRY IN THE WOOD.

    Swiftly deliberate, he seeks the place.
    A small wind stirs, the copse is bright in the sun:
    Like quicksilver the shine and shadow run
    Across the leaves. Kaspar turned away to the
    fast-flowing tears away. He looked down through the
    rocky opening, through which they had come
    up from where the distant surf of the ocean
    heard, and then up to the mountain peaks, on which
    a black Gewölk had stored from which you can
    from time to time a muffled murmur heard.
    When he returned to Wilm umsah, it had already
    poor cow tied to the stone and was
    repealed with the ax in the notion that good animal
    cases. This was too
                         much for his decision, in the desire to add his friend.

    Sung with hands, he fell to his knees.

    "For God's sake, Wilm hawk!" he cried with the
    voice of despair, "dich schone, schone
    the cow! Schone thee and me! Schone
    your soul! - Schone your life! And God so you must
    try to wait until tomorrow and prefers to sacrifice another animal
as our dear cow.

    "Kaspar, you're great?" Wilm screamed like
    a madman, he is still the ax in the amount
    held curved. "Should I save
    the cow and starve?" "Thou shalt not starve," said
    Kaspar decided.

    "As long as I have hands, thou shalt not starve.
    I want from morning until late at
    night working for you. Just bring
    'I did not order salvation of your soul
    and leave me the poor animal live!

    "" Then take the ax and split my head,
    "screamed falcon with despairing
    tone," I will not go from this
    spot until I have what I want Can you .-- the
    treasures of the Carmilhan lift for me?

    Can your hands acquire more than the needs of
    the most miserable life? - But they can
    end my misery - come and let me be the
    victim! "" Wilm, kill the cow, kill me! It is nothing
    to me, I just make up your happiness to do.

    Oh, this is indeed the Piktenaltar, and
    the victim, you want to bring one
    of darkness. "" I know of nothing like
    this, "said Falcon, wild laughed as one who
    is determined not to want to know what him from his intent could
dissuade.

    "Kaspar, you're great and make me good - but because," he continued,
by his own ax and threw the knife came from the stones, as if he
wanted punctured, "because, keep the cow instead of my!

    "Kaspar was in a moment with him,
    tore him the murder tool out of hand, seized
    the ax, swung it high in the air and did it with
    such violence on the beloved animal head covers that without twitch
and dead to his Lord niederstürzte feet.

    A flash, accompanied by a thunderclap, followed
    by this prompt action, and his friend Falke
    stared with eyes to what a man would anstaunen
    a child that is to do getrauet what he dared not.

    Stocking seemed neither frightened by the
    thunder, nor by the rigid
    except the surprise of his companion text,
    but it fell without a word to talk about the cow, and began to
deduct their skin.

    Wilm When a little recovered, he
    helped him in this business, but with so visible
    reluctance, eager as he previously had been the
    victim of age to see.

    While this work was drawn together to the storm,
    the thunder roared loud in the mountains,
    terrible lightning and winds around the
    rock and the moss on the gorge, while the wind, what height they
had not yet reached the lower valleys and the shores filled with
wild howling.

    And when finally the skin was removed, two
    fishermen found themselves up soaked to the
    skin. They spread those on the ground, and
    Kaspar wrapped and tied hawks, such as this it said that in the
same securely.

    Then, when this happened, the poor man
    broke a long silence, and he beguiled pity
    on his friend hinabblickte, he asked with a
    trembling voice: "Can I still do something for you, Wilm?"

    "Nothing more", replied the other, "farewell!"
    "Leb 'wohl" said Caspar, "God be with
    you and forgive you, as I do!" These were
    the last words, Wilm what he heard, because in the next few moments,
he was in the ever increasing darkness.

    And in the same moments also broke one of the
    most terrible thunder storms, the
    Wilm had only ever heard from. He began
    with a lightning which hawks not only the mountains and rocks in
its immediate vicinity, but also the valley below him with foaming
seas and in the bay is scattered islets showed between what the
appearance of a large, strange and entmasteten ship believed to be
seen, which is also in the moments back into the blackest darkness
vanished.

    
    WINTER DREAM


    Oh wind-swept towers,
    Oh endlessly blossoming trees,
    White clouds and lucid eyes,
    And pools in the rocks whose unplumbed blue is pregnant
    With who knows what of subtlety
    And magical curves and limbs--
    White Anadyomene and her shallow breasts
    Mother-of-pearled with light.

    And oh the April, April of straight soft hair,
    Falling smooth as the mountain water and brown;
    The April of little leaves unblinded,
    Of rosy nipples and innocence
    And the blue languor of weary eyelids.

    Across a huge gulf I fling my voice
    And my desires together:
    Across a huge gulf ... on the other bank
    Crouches April with her hair as smooth and straight and brown
    As falling waters.
    Oh brave curve upwards and outwards.
    Oh despair of the downward tilting--
    Despair still beautiful
    As a great star one has watched all night
    Wheeling down under the hills.
    Silence widens and darkens;
    Voice and desires have dropped out of sight.
    I am all alone, dreaming she would come and kiss me.


    THE FLOWERS


    Day after day,
    At spring's return,
    I watch my flowers, how they burn
    Their lives away.

    The candle crocus
    And daffodil gold
    Drink fire of the sunshine--
    Quickly cold.

    And the proud tulip--
    How red he glows!--
    Is quenched ere summer
    Can kindle the rose.

    Purple as the innermost
    Core of a sinking flame,
    Deep in the leaves the violets smoulder
    To the dust whence they came.

    Day after day
    At spring's return,
    I watch my flowers, how they burn
    Their lives away,
    Day after day ...


    THE ELMS


    Fine as the dust of plumy fountains blowing
    Across the lanterns of a revelling night,
    The tiny leaves of April's earliest growing
    Powder the trees--so vaporously light,
    They seem to float, billows of emerald foam
    Blown by the South on its bright airy tide,
    Seeming less trees than things beatified,
    Come from the world of thought which was their home.

    For a while only. Rooted strong and fast,
    Soon will they lift towards the summer sky
    Their mountain-mass of clotted greenery.
    Their immaterial season quickly past,
    They grow opaque, and therefore needs must die,
    Since every earth to earth returns at last.


    OUT OF THE WINDOW


    In the middle of countries, far from hills and sea,
    Are the little places one passes by in trains
    And never stops at; where the skies extend
    Uninterrupted, and the level plains
    Stretch green and yellow and green without an end.
    And behind the glass of their Grand Express
    Folk yawn away a province through,
    With nothing to think of, nothing to do,
    Nothing even to look at--never a "view"
    In this damned wilderness.
    But I look out of the window and find
    Much to satisfy the mind.
    Mark how the furrows, formed and wheeled
    In a motion orderly and staid,
    Sweep, as we pass, across the field
    Like a drilled army on parade.
    And here's a market-garden, barred
    With stripe on stripe of varied greens ...
    Bright potatoes, flower starred,
    And the opacous colour of beans.
    "Where's it right here after
    the fools box?" A peasant boy is
    asked, which is a simply but urban
    girl dressed her suitcase nachtrug.
    The old man nodded. "You can only go
    with me." "But I want to Waldwinkel,"
    said the girl. "Will probably run on
    one. If you Waldwinkel what to order,
    so it's enough
                         here."

    "I belong there to the home "she answered.

    The old man who has his way quietly
    continued had turned her back,
    and his eyes always looked better mood,
    while he, the young care
    installations. "Well," he said, "the woman
    Lewerenz I would have hoped, so to
    understand a couple of years older presented." But
    the girl seemed little for such
    jokes used. She looked at him
    with her gray eyes and
    said: "My name is Franziska Feddern.
    Lewerenz The woman is probably with the Lord's already there."

    "Because you are wrong because they do, Mamsellchen" said the old
man, he gives with one hand before her and pulled the hat with the
other it showed the big key, "the rule will only tonight, but
admittance will drum you are already getting." stutzte you, but
only for a moment rested the index finger on the lip.

    "It is well, "she said," it did not fit
    with the different Fuhrmann, let's go, Mr.
    Inspector! "And so they walked on the shady, dry
    pine needles strewn together Steige
    continue; always been the huge pines, which
    on both sides Rises and their branches over
    it hinstreckten. suddenly opened the
    thicket, a vegetation Wiesenkraeutern, deepening trough-like, like
the bed of an abandoned river, moved across to their feet, while
the other side to turn a height of oak and beech its Laubmassen
spread.

    Only against them was a gap, which is up to the horizon on a brown
Heideland hinausblickte.

    To the left of this review, however,
    with the other side is hard on
    the forest hinandraengend, stood an old
    Backsteingebaeude characterized
    by its high tower roof is
    almost like appearance, a wall, over
    which only the four upper-floor window
    of the visible had occurred, by the two
    corners of the expiring front,
    in oval round almost to the edge of the
    meadow beyond Mulde. The old man,
    who while walking Franziska
    entertained by his Einzugsmuehen had
    stopped and was silent after the
    heavy metal fittings covered gates,
    which is opposite in the middle
    of the wall showed. Above the same in
    a sandstone ornamentation was an
    inscription, which was once gilded letters
    in the sharp sunlight from a distance
    were still recognizable. "Waldwinkel"
    spelled Franziska. "OHO, Phylax!"

    cried the inspector. "Listen to him,
    Mamsellchen, he has already detected
    my step!" From the sealed
    court had over the barking of a dog
    can hear, at the same time rose
    by a Eichenaste out of the forest
    on the roof hinueberlangte, a large
    bird of prey, and revolved now, his
    wild cry output, high above the
    deserted building.
    ITALY


    There is a country in my mind,
    Lovelier than a poet blind
    Could dream of, who had never known
    This world of drought and dust and stone
    In all its ugliness: a place
    Full of an all but human grace;
    Whose dells retain the printed form
    Of heavenly sleep, and seem yet warm
    From some pure body newly risen;
    Where matter is no more a prison,
    But freedom for the soul to know
    Its native beauty. For things glow
    There with an inward truth and are
    All fire and colour like a star.
    And in that land are domes and towers
    That hang as light and bright as flowers
    Upon the sky, and seem a birth
    Rather of air than solid earth.

    Sometimes I dream that walking there
    In the green shade, all unaware
    At a new turn of the golden glade,
    I shall see her, and as though afraid
    Shall halt a moment and almost fall
    For passing faintness, like a man
    Who feels the sudden spirit of Pan
    Brimming his narrow soul with all
    The illimitable world. And she,
    Turning her head, will let me see
    The first sharp dawn of her surprise
    Turning to welcome in her eyes.
    And I shall come and take my lover
    And looking on her re-discover
    All her beauty:--her dark hair
    And the little ears beneath it, where
    Roses of lucid shadow sleep;
    Her brooding mouth, and in the deep
    Wells of her eyes reflected stars ...

    Oh, the imperishable things
    That hands and lips as well as words
    Shall speak! Oh movement of white wings,
    Oh wheeling galaxies of birds ...!


    THE ALIEN


    A petal drifted loose
    From a great magnolia bloom,
    Your face hung in the gloom,
    Floating, white and close.

    We seemed alone: but another
    Bent o'er you with lips of flame,
    Unknown, without a name,
    Hated, and yet my brother.

    Your one short moan of pain
    Was an exorcising spell:
    The devil flew back to hell;
    We were alone again.


    A LITTLE MEMORY


    White in the moonlight,
    Wet with dew,
    We have known the languor
    Of being two.

    We have been weary
    As children are,
    When over them, radiant,
    A stooping star,

    Bends their Good-Night,
    Kissed and smiled:--
    Each was mother,
    Each was child.

    Child, from your forehead
    I kissed the hair,
    Gently, ah, gently:
    And you were

    Mistress and mother
    When on your breast
    I lay so safely
    And could rest.


    WAKING


    Darkness had stretched its colour,
    Deep blue across the pane:
    No cloud to make night duller,
    No moon with its tarnish stain;
    But only here and there a star,
    One sharp point of frosty fire,
    Hanging infinitely far
    In mockery of our life and death
    And all our small desire.

    Now in this hour of waking
    From under brows of stone,
    A new pale day is breaking
    And the deep night is gone.
    Sordid now, and mean and small
    The daylight world is seen again,
    With only the veils of mist that fall
    Deaf and muffling over all
    To hide its ugliness and pain.

    But to-day this dawn of meanness
    Shines in my eyes, as when
    The new world's brightness and cleanness
    Broke on the first of men.
    For the light that shows the huddled things
    Of this close-pressing earth,
    Shines also on your face and brings
    All its dear beauty back to me
    In a new miracle of birth.

    I see you asleep and unpassioned,
    White-faced in the dusk of your hair--
    Your beauty so fleetingly fashioned
    That it filled me once with despair
    To look on its exquisite transience
    And think that our love and thought and laughter
    Puff out with the death of our flickering sense,
    While we pass ever on and away
    Towards some blank hereafter.

    But now I am happy, knowing
    That swift time is our friend,
    And that our love's passionate glowing,
    Though it turn ash in the end,
    Is a rose of fire that must blossom its way
    Through temporal stuff, nor else could be
    More than a nothing. Into day
    The boundless spaces of night contract
    And in your opening eyes I see
    Night born in day, in time eternity.


    BY THE FIRE


    We who are lovers sit by the fire,
    Cradled warm 'twixt thought and will,
    Sit and drowse like sleeping dogs
    In the equipoise of all desire,
    Sit and listen to the still
    Small hiss and whisper of green logs
    That burn away, that burn away
    With the sound of a far-off falling stream
    Of threaded water blown to steam,
    Grey ghost in the mountain world of grey.
    Vapours blue as distance rise
    Between the hissing logs that show
    A glimpse of rosy heat below;
    And candles watch with tireless eyes
    While we sit drowsing here. I know,
    Dimly, that there exists a world,
    That there is time perhaps, and space
    Other and wider than this place,
    Where at the fireside drowsily curled
    We hear the whisper and watch the flame
    Burn blinkless and inscrutable.
    I am so, you wanted to come, so you
    have your godfather saved without knowing
    it. "" How? Be the countess
    because your Sandau, so much to me
    and my mother done? And this is the
    castle Mayenburg where I wanted to walk? How I
    thank the kind fate that is
    so wonderful with me, you could meet,
    so I have you but by the act,
    albeit to a lesser extent, my great gratitude
    can testify! "" You have done
    more to me, "she answered,
    "than I ever could have done to you,
    but as long as I live, I want to show you are looking for, how
infinitely much we owe to you all.

    My husband will be your father, your brothers and sisters my children
and myself will be thy faithful mother, and this jewelry, which led
you to me in the hour of highest need, to be ornament will be my
best, because he is always on you and your magnanimity remember.

    "Thus spoke the Countess, and kept his
    word. It supported the lucky Felix on his
    walks plenty. When he came back as a
    skilled worker in his art, she bought him a house in
    Nuremberg, directed it completely, and
    not less jewelry in its best rooms were
    beautiful pictures painted by the scenes in the
    Forest Tavern and Felix 'life among the
    robbers imagined. Felix lived there as a
    skilled worker of gold and the glory of his art combined with the
wonderful saga of heroism and his clients gave him in the whole
range.

    Many strangers when they through the beautiful
    city of Nuremberg were settled in
    the workshop of the renowned maestro
    Felix lead to see him, to admire, probably
    a nice jewelery at his order. The visits were
    pleasant to him but the hunters, the
    circle smith, the student and the
    carter. So often the latter of Wuerzburg
    after Fuerth drove, he spoke with Felix On;
    the hunter brought him gifts nearly
    every year by the Countess, but the
    circle smith was after he all countries
    umhergewandert was settled at Champion
    Felix. One day she also visited
    the student. He was, however, an
    important man in the country has
    become, but not ashamed, when Felix and the
    Masters Circle Schmiedgasse a dinner to
    eat. She remembers all the scenes the Forest
    Tavern, and the former student told that he
    was the robber captain in Italy again,
    he had totally improved and served
    as a brave soldier, the king
    of Naples. Felix rejoiced when he
    heard this.
    LOVE SONG


    Dear absurd child--too dear to my cost I've found--
    God made your soul for pleasure, not for use:
    It cleaves no way, but angled broad obtuse,
    Impinges with a slabby-bellied sound
    Full upon life, and on the rind of things
    Rubs its sleek self and utters purr and snore
    And all the gamut of satisfied murmurings,
    Content with that, nor wishes anything more.

    A happy infant, daubed to the eyes in juice
    Of peaches that flush bloody at the core,
    Naked you bask upon a south-sea shore,
    While o'er your tumbling bosom the hair floats loose.

    The wild flowers bloom and die; the heavens go round
    With the song of wheeling planetary rings:
    You wriggle in the sun; each moment brings
    Its freight for you; in all things pleasures abound.

    You taste and smile, then this for the next pass over;
    And there's no future for you and no past,
    And when, absurdly, death arrives at last,
    'Twill please you awhile to kiss your latest lover.


    PRIVATE PROPERTY


    All fly--yet who is misanthrope?--
    The actual men and things that pass
    Jostling, to wither as the grass
    So soon: and (be it heaven's hope,
    Or poetry's kaleidoscope,
    Or love or wine, at feast, at mass)
    Each owns a paradise of glass
    Where never a yearning heliotrope
    Pursues the sun's ascent or slope;
    For the sun dreams there, and no time is or was.

    Like fauns embossed in our domain,
    We look abroad, and our calm eyes
    Mark how the goatish gods of pain
    Revel; and if by grim surprise
    They break into our paradise,
    Patient we build its beauty up again.


    REVELATION


    At your mouth, white and milk-warm sphinx,
    I taste a strange apocalypse:
    Your subtle taper finger-tips
    Weave me new heavens, yet, methinks,
    I know the wiles and each iynx
    That brought me passionate to your lips:
    I know you bare as laughter strips
    Your charnel beauty; yet my spirit drinks

    Pure knowledge from this tainted well,
    And now hears voices yet unheard
    Within it, and without it sees
    That world of which the poets tell
    Their vision in the stammered word
    Of those that wake from piercing ecstasies.


    MINOAN PORCELAIN


    Her eyes of bright unwinking glaze
    All imperturbable do not
    Even make pretences to regard
    The justing absence of her stays,
    Where many a Tyrian gallipot
    Excites desire with spilth of nard.
    The bistred rims above the fard
    Of cheeks as red as bergamot
    Attest that no shamefaced delays
    Will clog fulfilment, nor retard
    Full payment of the Cyprian's praise
    Down to the last remorseful jot.
    Hail priestess of we know not what
    Strange cult of Mycenean days!


    THE DECAMERON


    Noon with a depth of shadow beneath the trees
    Shakes in the heat, quivers to the sound of lutes:
    Half shaded, half sunlit, a great bowl of fruits
    Glistens purple and golden: the flasks of wine
    Cool in their panniers of snow: silks muffle and shine:
    Dim velvet, where through the leaves a sunbeam shoots,
    Rifts in a pane of scarlet: fingers tapping the roots
    Keep languid time to the music's soft slow decline.

    Suddenly from the gate rises up a cry,
    Hideous broken laughter, scarce human in sound;
    Gaunt clawed hands, thrust through the bars despairingly,
    Clutch fast at the scented air, while on the ground
    Lie the poor plague-stricken carrions, who have found
    Strength to crawl forth and curse the sunshine and die.


    Prospero.

    To receive it, as my gift and
    as your property
    well-deserved, my daughter
    received.

    But you wofern dissolve their
    virginal girdle, eh Alliance
    all your sacred Feyer, after
    full use bekräftiget can be: So may the heavens all the beneficent
influences zurükhalten full, otherwise Your bekrönen association
would be the same and instead of barren hate, disgust and sauersehender
Dissension your bed with weeds so wild breadcrumbs that you hate
it beyde sollet.

    Pull yourself so careful, so you love it is that you Hymens Fakel
tale.

    Ferdinand.

    As I quiet days, a beautiful offspring, and a long
    life, with the unchanged duration of
    such love, as I feel IZT, I wish so
    certainly is the darkest caves, the most
    convenient opportunity and the greatest inspiration
    of our evil genius never Seyn
    wealthy, virtuous love my messy
    in pleasure melt, that I should steal
    that which is reserved feyerlichen
    days, whose dawn Bey's seem me, either the sun horse seyen stiff,
or night crawler angeschmiedet been.

    Prospero. Well spoken! Size it down and talk
    with her, it is your own. How? Ariel,
    my ausrichtsamer servant, Ariel -
    Zweyte Scene. (Ariel to the former.)
    Ariel. What orders, mighty lord? here I
    am. Prospero. You and your
    little earlier Mitgesellen have their
    service provide the best, and I want you
    IZT game to another use. Go, bring the
    spirits Schaar, about which I have given
    thee of violence, to this place;
    Muntre to move on, because I have the eyes of this young couple
with any vanity to amuse my art, I've promised, and it's expected
of them me.

    Ariel. Immediately?

    Prospero. Yes, in a Augenblik. Ariel.
    Eh you say can come and go, zweymal Athmer and
    Ruff, so, so, should everyone on the toes tripplend
    Seyn here, and make his art. Love me now, my lord?
    * (-* Ed. Ariel says that the original verses
    in small, all in rhyme O, and, because
    they all have their type, therefore, are not in
    rhymes übersezen leave.) Prospero.
    Höchlich, my sense of Ariel; not come
    back until I thee Ruff. Ariel. Well, I understand
    you. (Geht ab.)
    Prospero (to Ferdinand). you do not forget to keep your
    word, the joke does not drift too far, the only strongest oaths
are straw for the fire in our blood, think better of you, or good
night, vow!

    

    
    And there's straw in my tempestuous hair,
    And I'm not a poet: but never despair!
    I'll madly live the poems I shall never write.


    SOCIAL AMENITIES


    I am getting on well with this anecdote,
    When suddenly I recall
    The many times I have told it of old,
    And all the worked-up phrases, and the dying fall
    Of voice, well timed in the crisis, the note
    Of mock-heroic ingeniously struck--
    The whole thing sticks in my throat,
    And my face all tingles and pricks with shame
    For myself and my hearers.
    These are the social pleasures, my God!
    But I finish the story triumphantly all the same.


    TOPIARY


    Failing sometimes to understand
    Why there are folk whose flesh should seem
    Like carrion puffed with noisome steam,
    Fly-blown to the eye that looks on it,
    Fly-blown to the touch of a hand;
    Why there are men without any legs,
    Whizzing along on little trollies
    With long long arms like apes':
    Failing to see why God the Topiarist
    Should train and carve and twist
    Men's bodies into such fantastic shapes:
    Yes, failing to see the point of it all, I sometimes wish
    That I were a fabulous thing in a fool's mind,
    Or, at the ocean bottom, in a world that is deaf and blind,
    Very remote and happy, a great goggling fish.


    ON THE BUS


    Sitting on the top of the 'bus,
    I bite my pipe and look at the sky.
    Over my shoulder the smoke streams out
    And my life with it.
    "Conservation of energy," you say.
    But I burn, I tell you, I burn;
    And the smoke of me streams out
    In a vanishing skein of grey.
    Crash and bump ... my poor bruised body!
    I am a harp of twittering strings,
    An elegant instrument, but infinitely second-hand,
    And if I have not got phthisis it is only an accident.
    Droll phenomena!


    POINTS AND LINES


    Instants in the quiet, small sharp stars,
    Pierce my spirit with a thrust whose speed
    Baffles even the grasp of time.
    Oh that I might reflect them
    As swiftly, as keenly as they shine.
    But I am a pool of waters, summer-still,
    And the stars are mirrored across me;
    Those stabbing points of the sky
    Turned to a thread of shaken silver,
    A long fine thread.


    PANIC


    The eyes of the portraits on the wall
    Look at me, follow me,
    Stare incessantly:
    I take it their glance means nothing at all?
    --Clearly, oh clearly! Nothing at all ...

    Out in the gardens by the lake
    The sleeping peacocks suddenly wake;
    Out in the gardens, moonlit and forlorn,
    Each of them sounds his mournful horn:
    Shrill peals that waver and crack and break.
    What can have made the peacocks wake?


    RETURN FROM BUSINESS


    Evenings in trains,
    When the little black twittering ghosts
    Along the brims of cuttings,
    Against the luminous sky,
    Interrupt with their hurrying rumour every thought
    Save that one is young and setting,
    Headlong westering,
    And there is no recapture.


    STANZAS


    Thought is an unseen net wherein our mind
    Is taken and vainly struggles to be free:
    Words, that should loose our spirit, do but bind
    New fetters on our hoped-for liberty:
    And action bears us onward like a stream
    Past fabulous shores, scarce seen in our swift course;
    Glorious--and yet its headlong currents seem
    Backwaters of some nobler purer force.

    There are slow curves, more subtle far than thought,
    That stoop to carry the grace of a girl's breast;
    And hanging flowers, so exquisitely wrought
    In airy metal, that they seem possessed
    Of souls; and there are distant hills that lift
    The shoulder of a goddess towards the light;
    And arrowy trees, sudden and sharp and swift,
    Piercing the spirit deeply with delight.

    Would I might make these miracles my own!
    She sat down with her to the bed chamber woman,
    and the two officers were at her watch. The
    previous guests and the hunter sat in a room of
    students around the table and decided that the
    danger to be expected. It might now be about ten
    clock in the house, everything was calm and
    quiet, and yet you did not mine, to disturb the guests.

    Then the circle smith: "In order to stay awake, it would be the
best, we made it again as before, we told that what we know from
all sorts of stories, and if the Lord has nothing against hunters,
so we could continue.

    "The hunters, however, had not only no objection,
    but his willingness to show, he promised,
    even something to tell. He began to Said's
    fates "At such entertainment would not sleep in my eyes if I even
two, three or more nights stay awake should be," said the blacksmith
circle, as the hunter had geendigt.

    "And often I have found this successful. So I was
    in earlier times as a journeyman in a bell
    casting. The master was a rich man
    and not a miser, but a question we wondered not a little, as we
once did a great job, and He, quite against his habit, as stingy
as possible released.

    It was in the new church bell cast, and we
    boys and journeymen had the whole night sitting
    on the stove and the fire guard. We felt no
    different than the master will be Mutterfäßchen broach and give
us the best wine forward.

    But not so. He had only one every hour Umtrank
    and began to do, from his travels, his
    life of all sorts of stories to tell,
    then it came to the Upper journeymen, and so after the series, and
none of us was sleepy, hungry because we all listened to. whose
marriage we versahen, it was day.

    Because we recognized the cunning of the
    master that he had us talk to keep
    awake. For when the bell was ready,
    spared his wine is not, and then took a, what he wisely omitted
that night. "" That is a sensible man, "replied the student," against
the sleep, that's certainly helps nothing but talk.

    Therefore, I would not be lonely this
    night remain because I am against eleven clock out
    of sleep may not help. "" That was also the
    well-peasant people, "said the hunter," if women and girls in the
long winter evenings when the light spin, so they are not lonely
at home because they are probably among the work halt, but they
come together in the so-called light bars, are in great company to
work and tell. "" Yes, "was the carter that" there is often quite
Greulich, that we would like to tidy fear, because they tell of
fiery spirits, on the lawn go, goblins of the night in the chambers
crash, and of ghosts, human and cattle frightened. "" Because they
have now not the best in entertainment "replied the student.

    "I am, I confess there is nothing so odious as the ghost stories."

    "Oh, because I think just the
    opposite," cried the blacksmith
    circle. "Mir, it is quite
    comfortable with a scary story
    right. It is just like the rainy weather,
    when under the roof to sleep.
    You can hear the drops tick, tack,
    tick, tack on the brick herunterrauschen
    and feels quite warm in the water.
    So, if for light and in the company of ghosts,
    listening, you feel safe and
    comfortable. " But afterwards? "
    said the student. "If one has
    listened to the ridiculous belief
    in ghosts is revealed,
    he will not gray when he
    is alone in the dark? If he is
    not at all Schaulager Court think
    what he heard? I am still on these
    ghost stories angry when I think of
    my childhood. I was a better mood,
    bright boy and I would love to maybe be
    a little restless, as my nurse was sweet.
    Because now she knew no other
    means to me to silence when they
    made me afraid. You
    look told me all sorts of court
    stories of witches and evil spirits
    who haunt the house should be, and
    if a cat on the ground drove her
    care, she whispered anxiously
    to me: "Do you, dear son?
    No, through this quiet, when a weary swoon
    Crushes and chokes the latest faint essay
    Of morning, cool against the encroaching day,
    There is no murmuring water, save the gush
    Of my clear fluted notes; and in the hush
    Blows never a wind, save that which through my reed
    Puffs out before the rain of notes can speed
    Upon the air, with that calm breath of art
    That mounts the unwrinkled zenith visibly,
    Where inspiration seeks its native sky.
    You fringes of a calm Sicilian lake,
    The sun's own mirror which I love to take,
    Silent beneath your starry flowers, tell
    _How here I cut the hollow rushes, well
    Tamed by my skill, when on the glaucous gold
    Of distant lawns about their fountain cold
    A living whiteness stirs like a lazy wave;
    And at the first slow notes my panpipes gave
    These flocking swans, these naiads, rather, fly
    Or dive._ Noon burns inert and tawny dry,
    Nor marks how clean that Hymen slipped away
    From me who seek in song the real A.
    Wake, then, to the first ardour and the sight,
    O lonely faun, of the old fierce white light,
    With, lilies, one of you for innocence.
    Other than their lips' delicate pretence,
    The light caress that quiets treacherous lovers,
    My breast, I know not how to tell, discovers
    The bitten print of some immortal's kiss.
    But hush! a mystery so great as this
    I dare not tell, save to my double reed,
    Which, sharer of my every joy and need,
    Dreams down its cadenced monologues that we
    Falsely confuse the beauties that we see
    With the bright palpable shapes our song creates:
    My flute, as loud as passion modulates,
    Purges the common dream of flank and breast,
    Seen through closed eyes and inwardly caressed,
    Of every empty and monotonous line.

    Bloom then, O Syrinx, in thy flight malign,
    A reed once more beside our trysting-lake.
    Proud of my music, let me often make
    A song of goddesses and see their rape
    Profanely done on many a painted shape.
    So when the grape's transparent juice I drain,
    I quell regret for pleasures past and feign
    A new real grape. For holding towards the sky
    The empty skin, I blow it tight and lie
    Dream-drunk till evening, eyeing it.
                                          Tell o'er
    Remembered joys and plump the grape once more.
    _Between the reeds I saw their bodies gleam
    Who cool no mortal fever in the stream
    Crying to the woods the rage of their desire:
    And their bright hair went down in jewelled fire
    Where crystal broke and dazzled shudderingly.
    I check my swift pursuit: for see where lie,
    Bruised, being twins in love, by languor sweet,
    Two sleeping girls, clasped at my very feet.
    I seize and run with them, nor part the pair,
    Breaking this covert of frail petals, where
    Roses drink scent of the sun and our light play
    'Mid tumbled flowers shall match the death of day._
    I love that virginal fury--ah, the wild
    Thrill when a maiden body shrinks, defiled,
    Shuddering like arctic light, from lips that sear
    Its nakedness ... the flesh in secret fear!
    Contagiously through my linked pair it flies
    Where innocence in either, struggling, dies,
    Wet with fond tears or some less piteous dew.
    _Gay in the conquest of these fears, I grew
    So rash that I must needs the sheaf divide
    Of ruffled kisses heaven itself had tied.
    For as I leaned to stifle in the hair
    Of one my passionate laughter (taking care
    With a stretched finger, that her innocence
    Might stain with her companion's kindling sense
    To touch the younger little one, who lay
    Child-like unblushing) my ungrateful prey
    Slips from me, freed by passion's sudden death,
    Nor heeds the frenzy of my sobbing breath._

    Let it pass! others of their hair shall twist
    A rope to drag me to those joys I missed.
    See how the ripe pomegranates bursting red
    To quench the thirst of the mumbling bees have bled;
    So too our blood, kindled by some chance fire,
    Flows for the swarming legions of desire.
    At evening, when the woodland green turns gold
    And ashen grey, 'mid the quenched leaves, behold!
    Oh, you vile liar! "" And I can say
    nothing more, "cried the young man,"
    as everything that is true in my soul and the
    beard of the Prophet!
                         "" What, in your soul will you swear?

    "Cried the merchant , "in your black
    soul liability lie? Who would believe?
    And the beard of the Prophet, you, you do
    not have beard? Who would dare da? "" I have
    certainly no witnesses, "drove Said continued," but I do not have
you bound and miserable place?

    "" That shows me nothing, "said that," you're dressed like a handsome
robber, and you have a slightly attacked, which was stronger than
you, you walked over and tied. "" The individual or even two, I
would like to see, "said Said," stretch me down and tie, if I do
not back a noose on the head throw.

    You like in your bazaar not know what an individual can, if he is
trained in arms.

    But You have saved my life and I thank you.

    What do you want but now with me to start? If you
    do not unterstützet, I must beg, and I do not
    like my equal to implore mercy, to the
    caliph, I want to contact me. "" So?

    "Said the businessman, smiled mockingly."
    To no one else you want to apply as allergnädigsten
    to our Lord? The elegant, I beg! Ei, ei! But remember,
    young gentlemen, that the way to the caliph at my cousin Messour
passes, and that it will cost me a word, the supreme treasurer's
attention on how excellent your könnet lie.

    
    B. H. Blackwell,
    Oxford.


    THIS THIRD OF THE INITIATES SERIES OF
    POETRY BY PROVED HANDS, WAS PRINTED
    IN OXFORD AT THE VINCENT WORKS,
    AND FINISHED IN JUNE, MCMXVIII.

    PUBLISHED BY B. H. BLACKWELL, BROAD
    STREET, OXFORD, AND SOLD IN AMERICA
    BY LONGMANS, GREEN & CO., NEW YORK.


    INITIATES
    A SERIES OF POETRY BY PROVED HANDS
    UNIFORM VOLUMES IN DOLPHIN OLD STYLE TYPE ART, BOARDS, THREE SHILLINGS
    NET.


    _NOW READY_

    I.   IN THE VALLEY OF VISION
         BY GEOFFREY FABER, AUTHOR OF "INTERFLOW."

    II.  SONNETS AND POEMS
         BY ELEANOR FARJEON, AUTHOR OF "NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN."

    III. THE DEFEAT OF YOUTH, AND OTHER POEMS
         BY ALDOUS HUXLEY, AUTHOR OF "THE BURNING WHEEL."

    _IN PREPARATION_

    IV.  SONGS FOR SALE
         AN ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE, EDITED BY E. B. C. JONES FROM BOOKS ISSUED
         RECENTLY BY B. H. BLACKWELL.

    V.   CLOWNS' HOUSES
         BY EDITH SITWELL, EDITOR OF "WHEELS."


    THE SHELDONIAN SERIES OF REPRINTS AND RENDERINGS OF MASTERPIECES IN ALL
    LANGUAGES EDITED BY REGINALD HEWITT, M.A.


    _FIRST THREE BOOKS_

    I.   SONGS AND SAYINGS OF WALTHER VON DER VOGELWEIDE, MINNESAENGER
         ENGLISHED BY FRANK BETTS.

    II.  THE FUNERAL ORATION OF PERICLES
         ENGLISHED BY THOMAS HOBBES OF MALMESBURY.

    III. BALLADES OF FRANCOIS VILLON
         INTERPRETED INTO ENGLISH VERSE BY PAUL HOOKHAM.

    ¶ The series is limited in the case of each volume to an edition
    of five hundred copies on hand-made paper, printed in two
    colours in Dolphin old style type, and published at two shillings
    and sixpence net.


    OXFORD
    B. H. BLACKWELL, BROAD ST.




    ADVENTURERS ALL
    A SERIES OF YOUNG POETS UNKNOWN TO FAME
    UNIFORM VOLUMES IN DOLPHIN OLD STYLE TYPE IN ART WRAPPERS
    TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE NET EACH.


    ¶ "Beautiful little books ... containing poetry, real poetry."--
                                                    _The New Witness._

    I., II., III. and IV. [_Out of print._]

    V.     THE IRON AGE
           BY FRANK BETTS. WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY GILBERT MURRAY.

    VI.    THE TWO WORLDS
           BY SHERARD VINES.

    VII.   THE BURNING WHEEL
           BY A. L. HUXLEY.

    VIII.  A VAGABOND'S WALLET
           BY STEPHEN REID-HEYMAN.

    IX.    OP. I.
           cried the hunter, "which has guided the heart of God!

    How wonderful, we
           should be saved!

    Had I imagined that the world
           is still something like that could happen to me and such an adventure
should meet?"

    "Wunderbar, however!"
           WOODS.

    XIII.  AT A VENTURE
           POEMS BY EIGHT YOUNG WRITERS.

    XIV.   ALDEBARAN
           BY M. ST. CLARE BYRNE.

    XV.    LIADAIN AND CURITHIR
           BY MOIREEN FOX.

    XVI.   LINNETS IN THE SLUMS
           BY MARION PRYCE.

    XVII.  OUT OF THE EAST
           BY VERA AND MARGARET LARMINIE.

    Gut; IZT come,
           my Ariel, bring a spirit too much rather than that of a mangle;
seemed blithely us - not a word you speak, louder Seyde eye, Still!

    (You hear a nice music.) Third
           Scene.

    (An allegorical
           drama .) (Iris occurs.)

    
           THE PEOPLE'S PALACE
           BY SACHEVERELL SITWELL.

    XXIII. GALLEYS LADEN
           POEMS BY FOUR WRITERS.


    OXFORD
    B. H. BLACKWELL, BROAD ST.