The strangers across the aisle again attracted Dr. Dale's attention. The
old man was leaning forward with both hands resting upon his cane, his
eyes were closed, and the tears were slowly trickling down the wrinkled
face, while with a plaintive, quavery voice he was joining in the
singing of his well-beloved song.

At last it was time for the sermon, but the preacher, who by his
eloquence and magnetic personality could sway thousands, felt as
helpless as a little child to perform the duty before him.

He announced his text: "Jesus saith unto him, I am the way" (John 14:6).

The audience wondered why at that particular point he stopped apparently
to offer a word of silent prayer. But then they could not see the
expression of hope flash across the face of the child, nor the old man
lean still a little farther forward that he might catch every word.

"Rosa," whispered grandpa, "didn't I tell you if we'd go to a meetin'
house with the steeple a-p'intin' straight up, we'd find the way? Yes,
yes, that's it, it surely is, Rosa, and it's all a-beginnin' to come
back. Jesus is the way, Jesus is the way! I wonder I ain't thought of it
before."

The sermon which followed, simple in every detail, began by calling
attention to the marvelously beautiful description of the heavenly land
as contained in the Scripture previously read.

"There are representatives here today of many classes and conditions of
society," said the speaker, "the high and the low, the rich and the
poor, the learned and the ignorant; but there is no eye that has not
shed bitter tears, no life unacquainted with death, sorrow, crying, or
pain. Thank God for that glad coming day when He will wipe away all
tears, when there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying,
nor pain; for these things shall have passed away!"

He spoke of the glimpse the Scripture gives of the city itself, the New
Jerusalem, with its walls and gates. "There is no language of earth by
which its glories can be fully described," he continued; "where our idea
of beauty leaves off, there heaven begins! Even its foundations are made
of the rarest jewels we know.

"But heaven's happiness consists not in mere outward things. God is
there, and the Lamb! In God's presence is fulness of joy, and at His
right hand are to be found the truest pleasures for evermore. There the
redeemed out of every nation shall serve Him, and they shall see His
face with no veil of time or sense between.

"This holy city will never be marred by the entering in of anything that
defileth, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of
life shall behold and enjoy its splendor and happiness.

"I think I hear some poor soul say: 'Then there is no hope for me!'

"Yes, there is hope!

"'But I have sinned!'

"That is true. All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God.
There is none righteous, no, not one. We are by nature and practice
strangers to God, even the new-born babe having wrapped up within its
tiny bosom a sinful heritage and bias. And the soul that sinneth shall
die. But sin can be put away, and its dreadful penalty escaped. Shall I
not tell you how?

"It is by the love and grace of our heavenly Father that we can be
justified freely through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. God
loved us in our sin and rebellion, and sent His only-begotten Son to
bring earth's inhabitants back to Himself, that they might share the
joys of the heavenly home. Ere He came to earth, an angel of the Lord
appeared and said His name should be called Jesus, for He should save
His people from their sins. When at length He was born, the angel
appeared to the wondering shepherds on the hillside near Bethlehem, and
said: 'Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to
all people: for unto you is born this day a Saviour.' He came to seek
and save the lost. For thirty years He lived a secluded but holy life at
Nazareth. Then for three years He went about doing good, working
marvelous miracles and saying wonderful words. At length they took Him,
and crucified Him on Calvary! 'Behold,' John had said, 'the Lamb of God
that taketh away the sin of the world!' Do you not see how it is? Christ
died--not for His own sins, for He was holy, harmless, undefiled, but
for your sins and mine. He bore our sins in His body on the cross.
Believe on Him, and you are saved!

"Yes, childlike trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Saviour gives
your soul peace with God and makes your entrance into the house of many
mansions sure! He went back to prepare a place for us who believe on
Him, and promised to come again and receive us unto Himself, that where
He is, there we may be also. Jesus Himself is the way home!"

So clearly did he explain the plan of salvation that Rosa began to grasp
the truth. All the pent-up love of her ardent nature she began to bestow
upon Jesus, and in the joy of this new experience forgot her crushing
sorrow.

The sermon closed by another extended reference to heaven, with special
emphasis upon the fact of its being real, and not simply a state of
blissful being, as many profess to believe, and with an appeal to the
skeptical to take Jesus at His word.

"He said, 'I go to prepare a _place_ for you.' Is it not His positive
statement sufficient? Has He ever proved untrue to His promises
concerning this life? Has He ever turned a deaf ear to the penitent
sinner's prayer? Has He ever refused to speak the word of comfort to the
heart breaking beneath its load? Has He ever called one to some
particular service in His vineyard without supplying the needed
strength? Has He ever forgotten to pour forth His abundant and
sustaining grace upon the trusting soul about the pass through the dark,
mysterious valley of death? And would He say that He was going to
prepare a _place_ for us, that where He is there we may be also, meaning
only that He was going to prepare a state of glorified--_nothingness_?
Impossible! It is an insult to our Lord.

"He who left the glory-circled throne for thirty-three years of
wandering in this world, for rejection by those whom He came to save,
for Gethsemane and for Calvary, will hold up no false hope to lure
onward those who love Him.

"He who created this beautiful world, inhabited by fallen sinful beings,
will not forget to provide a home for His own who have washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

"Yes, heaven is a place, where the power of infinity itself is exhausted
in the beautifying thereof! No sin, no sickness, no sorrow will ever
pass through those gates of pearl. The saints of all ages are there, our
loved ones whom we have lost a while are there, and above all our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ!

"Ah, if Satan has deluded you into a state of unbelief now, the time is
coming when you will believe! Some day with unwilling feet you must part
from your Lord forever to spend eternity in hell; or with hosannas and
shouts of victory upon your lips, you will pass into the presence of Him
who sits upon the throne, to praise Him and serve Him forever and ever!"

At the conclusion of the service, Dr. and Mrs. Dale left without waiting
to speak to the pastor.

Mrs. Dale, however, stopped ostensibly to greet Esther, but in reality
to look more closely at the child who had attracted her quite as much as
her husband.

