Aunt and niece walked down the path together in the direction of the
South Lodge, the latter putting innumerable questions, to which the
former replied in shocked surprise.  "What were those gardens across the
road?"--They were private property of householders in the Park.--"Did
they have fine jinks over there in summer time?"--The householders in
the park never, under any circumstances, indulged in "jinks."  They
disapproved thoroughly, and on principle, of anything connected with
jinks!--"Think of that now--the poor, deluded creatures!  What did they
use the gardens for, anyway?"--The gardens were used for an occasional
promenade; and were also valuable as forming a screen between the Park
and the houses on the Western Road.--"What was wrong with the houses on
the Western Road?"--There was nothing wrong with the houses in question.
The residents in the Park objected to see, or to be seen by, _any_
houses, however desirable.  They wished to ensure for themselves an
unbroken and uninterrupted privacy.--"My gracious!"

Mrs Phipps, the dragon of the South Lodge, came out to the doorstep,
and bobbed respectfully as Miss Briskett passed by, but curiosity was
rampant upon her features.  Cornelia smiled radiantly upon her; she
smiled upon everyone she met, and threw bright, curious glances to right
and to left.

"My! isn't it _green_?  My! isn't it still?  Where _is_ everyone,
anyway?  Have they got a funeral in every house?  Seems kind of
unsociable, muffling themselves up behind these hedgerows!  Over with
us, if we've got a good thing, we're not so eager to hide it away.  You
can walk along the sidewalk and see everything that's going on.  In the
towns the families camp out on the doorsteps.  It's real lively and
sociable. ...  Are these your stores?  They look as if they'd been made
in the year one."

They were, in truth, a quaint little row--butcher, grocer, greengrocer,
and linen-draper, all nestled into a little angle between two long,
outstanding buildings, which seemed threatening at every moment to fall
down and crush them to atoms.  The windows were small, and the space
inside decidedly limited, and this morning there was an unusual rush of
customers.  It seemed as if every housewife in the neighbourhood had
sallied forth to make her purchases at the exact hour when Miss Briskett
was known to do her daily shopping.  At the grocer's counter Cornelia
was introduced to Mrs Beaumont, of The Croft.

"My niece, Miss Cornelia Briskett.  Mrs Beaumont," murmured Miss
Briskett.

"Mrs Beau_mont_!" repeated Cornelia, loudly, with a gracious, sidelong
observance, at which unusual manner of receiving an introduction both
ladies stared in surprise.

Presently Mrs Beaumont recovered herself sufficiently to put an all-
important question.

"How do you like England?"

"I think it's lovely," said Cornelia.

In the fishmonger's shop Mrs Rhodes and Mrs Muir came up in their
turn, and opened wide eyes of surprise as the strange girl again
repeated their names in her high monotone.  Evidently this was an
American custom.  Strange people, the Americans!  The ladies simpered,
and put the inevitable query: "How do you like England?"

"I think it's sweet," said Cornelia.

The draper's shop was a revelation of old-world methods.  One anaemic-
looking assistant endeavoured to attend to three counters and half a
dozen customers, with an unruffled calm which they vainly strove to
emulate.  Miss Briskett produced a pattern of grey ribbon which she
wished to match.  Four different boxes were lifted down from the wall,
and their contents ransacked in vain, while the patient waiters received
small sops in the shape of cases and trays, shoved along to their corner
of the counter.  When persuasion failed to convince Miss Briskett that
an elephant grey exactly matched her silvery fragment--"I'll see if we
have it in stock!" cried the damsel, hopefully, and promptly disappeared
into space.  The minutes passed by; Cornelia frowned and fidgeted, was
introduced to a fourth dame, and declared that England was "'cute."
Weary waiters for flannel and small-wares looked at their watches, and
fidgeted restlessly, but no one rebelled, nor showed any inclination to
walk out of the shop in disgust.  At length the assistant reappeared,
flushed and panting, to regret that they were "sold out," and "What is
your next pleasure, madam?"

Madam's next pleasure was a skein of wool, which investigation again
failed to produce.  "But we have a very nice line in kid gloves; can I
show you something in that line this morning?"  Miss Briskett refused to
be tempted, and produced a coin from her purse in payment of a small
account.  Cornelia was interested to be introduced to "hef-a-crown," and
tried to calculate what would be left after the subtraction of a
mysterious "seven-three."  She had abundant time to calculate, for, to
the suspicious mind, it might really appear as if the assistant had
emigrated to foreign climes with the half-crown as capital in hand.  The
little shop was dull and stuffy; an odour of flannel filled the air; the
faces of the patient waiters were colourless and depressed.  Cornelia
flounced on her seat, and curled her beautiful lips.

"My stars and stripes!" she cried aloud.  "I'll take root if I sit here
much longer.  Seems as that change won't be ready till the last trump!"

She sprang from her chair as she spoke, too much absorbed in her own
impatience to note the petrifaction of horror on the faces of the
waiters at the counter, and in the doorway came face to face with a
plump, dignified little lady, accompanied by a girl in navy blue.

"How do you do, my dear?  I am Mrs Ramsden," said the stoat lady,
holding out her hand with a very pleasant friendliness.  "As the niece
of my dear friend and neighbour, allow me to give you a hearty welcome
to our shores.  This is my daughter, Elma, with whom I hope you will be
great friends.  I will leave you to talk together while I make my
purchases.  Young people always get on better alone!"

She smiled, a kind, motherly smile, nodding her head the while, until
the upright feather quivered on its stem, then disappeared through the
dingy portals, leaving the two girls on the narrow pavement staring at
each other with bright, curious eyes.

"How--how do you like England?" queried Elma, shyly, and Cornelia
answered with a happy laugh--

"I've been asked that question hef a dozen times already, and I only set
foot on these shores day before yesterday.  I think it seems a real good
place for a nerve rest, but if you want to hustle!--" She shrugged
expressively, and Elma smiled with quick understanding.

"Ah, you have been shopping at Willcox's!  But Willcox's is not
England--Norton is not England; it's just a sleepy little backwater,
shut away from the great current of life.  Don't judge England by what
you see here.  You'd like the _real_ England--you couldn't help liking
that!"

"I like _you_!" said Cornelia, bluntly.  She held out her hand with a
gesture of frank camaraderie, and Elma clasped it, thrilling with
pleasure.  A happy conviction assured her that she had found a friend
after her own heart.


CHAPTER FIVE.

By the time that Cornelia had been a week in residence at The Nook, she
had become the one absorbing topic of Norton conversation, and her
aunt's attitude towards her was an odd mingling of shame and pride.  On
principle the spinster disapproved of almost everything that the girl
did or said, and suffered every day a succession of electric shocks--
but, as we all know, such shocks are guaranteed to exercise a bracing
influence on the constitution, and Miss Briskett was conscious of
feeling brighter and more alert than for many years past.  She no longer
reigned as monarch over all she surveyed.  A Czar of Russia, suddenly
confronted by a Duma of Radical principles and audacious energy, could
not feel more proudly aggrieved and antagonistic, but it is conceivable
that a Czar might cherish a secret affection for the leader of an
opposition who showed himself honest, clever, and affectionate.  In
conclave with her own heart, Miss Briskett acknowledged that she
cherished a distinct partiality for her niece, but in view of the said
niece's tendency to conceit, the partiality was rigorously concealed.

As for Norton society, it welcomed Cornelia with open arms; that is to
say, all the old ladies of Miss Briskett's acquaintance called upon her,
inquired if she liked England, and sent their maids round the following
day with neat little notes inviting aunt and niece to take tea on a
certain afternoon at half-past four o'clock.  Lady Cecilia did not know
yet distinctly what had happened. The general pressed her to lean back
on the cushions which he was piling up behind her. Beauclerc made a
step towards Helen, but checking himself, he turned to the ecarté
table.
"Those counters, after all, that we were looking for--" As he spoke he
pulled open the drawer. The general with his back to him was
standing before Lady Cecilia, she could not see what Beauclerc was doing,
but she heard the drawer open, and cried out._Did_ you hear the latest about
the Briggs? ...  I'm going to have blue, with lace insertions..."

Cornelia bore it meekly for a week on end, and then she struck.  Two
notes were discovered lying upon the breakfast-table containing
invitations to two more tea-parties.  "So kind of them!  You will like
to go, won't you, my dear?" said Miss Briskett, pouring out coffee.

"No, I shan't, then!" answered Cornelia, ladling out bacon.  Her curling
lips were pressed together, her flexible eyebrows wrinkled towards the
nose.  If Edward B Briskett had been present he would have recognised
signals of breakers ahead!  "I guess I'm about full up of tea-parties.
I'm not going to any more, this side Jordan!"

"Not going, my dear?"  Miss Briskett choked with mingled amazement and
dismay.  "Why not, if you please?  You have no other engagements.  My
friends pay you the honour of an invitation.  It is my wish that you
accept.  You surely cannot mean what you are saying!"

She stared across the table in her most dignified and awe-inspiring
fashion, but Cornelia refused to meet her eyes, devoting her entire
attention to the consumption of her breakfast.

"You bet I do!"

"Cornelia, how often must I beg you not to use that exceedingly
objectionable expression?  I ask you a simple question; please answer it
without exaggeration.  Why do you object to accompany me to these two
parties?"

"Because it's a waste of time.  It's against my principles to have the
same tooth drawn six times over.  I know all I want to about tea-parties
in England, and I'm ready to pass on to something fresh.  I'd go clean
crazed if I'd to sit through that performance again."

"I am sorry you have been so bored.  I hoped you had enjoyed yourself,"
said Miss Briskett, stiffly, but with an underlying disappointment in
her tone, which Cornelia was quick to recognise.  The imps of temper and
obstinacy which had peeped out of her golden eyes suddenly disappeared
from view, and she nodded a cheery reassurement.

"I wasn't a mite bored at the start.  I loved going round with you and
seeing your friends, but I _have_ seen them, and they've seen me, and we
said all we want to, so that trick is played out.  You can't go on
drinking tea with the same old ladies all the days of your life?  Why
can't they hit on something fresh?"

Miss Briskett did not reply.  She was indeed too much upset for words.
Tea-drinking was the only form of dissipation in which she and her
friends indulged, or had indulged for many years past.  In more
energetic days an occasional dinner had varied the monotony, but as time
crept on there seemed a dozen reasons for dropping the more elaborate
form of entertainment.  A dinner-party upset the servants; it
necessitated the resurrection of the best dinner-service from the china
cupboard, and the best silver from the safe; it entailed late hours, a
sense of responsibility, the exertion of entertaining.  How much simpler
to buy a sixpenny jar of cream and a few shillings worth of cake welcome
your friends at half-past four, and be free at half-past five to lie
down on the sofa, and have a nap before dressing for dinner!

Miss Briskett had counted on a protracted orgy of tea-parties in her
niece's honour, and had already planned a return bout on her own accord,
to set the ball rolling a second time.  Her wildest flight of fancy had
not soared beyond tea, and here was Cornelia showing signs of rebellion
at the end of a fortnight!  It said much for the impression which that
young lady had made that there was a note of actual entreaty in the
voice in which her aunt addressed her.

"I think you must reconsider your decision, Cornelia.  I strongly wish
you to accept these invitations, and my friends will be much
disappointed if you refuse.  When you understand the position, I feel
sure you will put your own wishes on one side, and consent to do what is
right and fitting."

But Miss Cornelia tossed her head, and the impish light flashed back
into her golden eyes.

"I ken't break my word," she said bluntly.  In moments of friction her
American accent was even more strongly marked than usual, which fact was
not calculated to soften her aunt's irritation, "Poppar had me taught to
say a thing and stick to it, no matter how I suffered.  I've _said_ I
won't go, and I _won't_--not if all the old ladies in Christendom were
to come and howl at the door!  You ken tell 'em I've come out in spots,
and you reckon I'm going down with small-pox."

"That would not be true."

"Oh, shucks!" shrugged Cornelia.  "Troth is a fine institootion, but,
like most old things, it gives out at times, and then there's nothing
for it but to fall back upon good, new-fashioned imagination."

Miss Briskett rose majestically from her seat and left the room.

Cornelia lifted the remnant of bread which lay beside her plate, raised
it high above her head, and deliberately pitched it to the end of the
room.  It hit against the wall, and fell over the carpet in a shower of
crumbs.  She chuckled malevolently, gave the table a vicious shove on
one side, and rose in her turn.

On one of the tables by the window stood a neat little pile of books;
she lifted the topmost, and thrusting it under her arm, marched
deliberately down the garden path to the front gate, and thence across
the road towards the gate leading into the plantation.  It was a hot,
sunny day, and half-way up the green knoll stood an oak tree, whose
spreading branches made delightful dapplings of shade.  Here also a
gentle breeze rustled the leaves to and fro, while in the stuffy paths
below the air itself seemed exhausted and bereft of life.  Cornelia
lifted her white skirts, with a display of slim brown ankles which would
have scandalised the Norton worthies, stepped neatly and cleanly over
the wire arches, and made a bee-line across the grass for the forbidden
spot.  She was in the mood when it seemed an absolute necessity to defy
somebody, and even a printed notice was better than nothing.  She seated
herself aggressively in the most conspicuous position, on the side of
the tree facing the houses, spread wide her skirts on either side,
folded her arms, and awaited developments.

"I hope they'll _all_ look out and see me sitting on their old grass!  I
hope they'll come over, and stand in _rows_ on the path, telling me that
nice young girls never sat on the grass in England. ...  "Good!" said the
general, "he said this of his own aunt!" "Aunt! You cannot mean that
Lady Grace is his aunt?" cried Beauclerc.

"She is his mother's sister," replied the general, "and therefore
is, I conceive, his aunt."

"Be it so," cried Beauclerc; "people must tell the truth sometimes, even
of their own relations; they must know it best, and therefore I conclude
that what Beltravers said of Lady Grace is true."
"Bravo! well jumped to a conclusion, Granville, as usual," said Lady
Davenant, "But go on, general, tell us what you have heard from this
precious lord; can you have better than what Beauclerc, his own
witness, gives in evidence?"
"Better I think, and in the same line," said the general: "his
lordship has the merit of consistency.The
broom was hoisted against a tree, while he himself mounted the sloping
path, shading his eyes from the sun.  At the first glance he had
recognised the "'Merican young lady," whose doings and clothings--
particularly clothings--had formed the unvarying theme of his wife's
conversation for the last fortnight.  He had committed himself so far as
to say that he rather fancied the looks of her, but in the depths of his
heart the feeling lingered that for a born lady she was a trifle "free."
Morris was a survival of the old feudal type who "knew his place," and
enjoyed being trampled under foot by his "betters."  If an employer
addressed him in terms of kindly consideration, his gratitude was tinged
with contempt.  These were not the manners of the good old gentry in
whose service he had been trained!

Opposite the oak tree he came to a stand, and assumed his official
manner.

"Beg pardon, miss; visitors his not permitted on the graws."

"For the land's sake, why not?"

"It's against the rules, miss."

"Suppose it is!  What will happen if I break 'em?"

Morris looked discomfited, pushed his hat from his forehead, and
murmured vaguely that he 'sposed she'd be punished.

"Who by?  Who does the grass belong to, anyhow?"

"To yer Rant, miss, and the hother ladies and gentlemen that owns the
park."

"Well, and what could _they_ do?"

Morris, still vague and uncomfortable, murmured concerning prosecution.

"What's prosecution?" queried Cornelia.  "Sounds exciting, anyway.  Much
more exciting than sitting on the gravel paths.  Guess I'll stay where I
am, and find out.  You get on with your work, and keep calm, and when
the fun begins you can waltz in, and play your part.  It's no use _one_
officer trying to arrest me, though!  You'll need a _posse_, for I'll
fight to the death!  You might give them the tip!"

Morris walked down hill in stunned surprise, leaving Cornelia to chuckle
to herself in restored good humour.  Her impulses towards rebellion and
repentance were alike swift and speedy, but between the two lay a span
of licence, when she revelled in revolt, and felt the tingling of
riotous success.  Such a moment was the present as she watched Morris's
dumb retreat, and cast her dancing eyes around, in search of the next
victim.

For the moment no living creature was in sight, but the scene was
sufficiently entrancing to justify the statement that there is no
country in the world so charming as England on a fine June day.

It was hot, but not too hot to be exhausting; little fleecy white clouds
flecked the blue dome overhead; the air was sweet with the odour of
flowering trees now in the height of their beauty.  The gardener who had
planted them had possessed a nice eye for colour, and much skill in
gaining the desired effects.  The golden rain of laburnum, and deep rich
red of hawthorn, were thrown up against the dark lustre of copper-beech,
or the misty green of a graceful fir tree; white and purple lilac were
divided by a light pink thorn, and on the tall chestnuts the red and
white blossoms shone like candles on a giant Christmas tree.  It was the
one, all-wonderful week, when everything seems in bloom at the same
time; the week which presages the end of spring, more beautiful than
summer, as promise is ever more perfect than fulfilment.  Even the stiff
crescent of houses looked picturesque, viewed through the softening
screen of green.  Cornelia scanned the row of upper windows with smiling
curiosity.  No one was visible; no one ever _was_ visible at a window at
Norton Park; but discreetly hidden by the lace curtains, half a dozen
be-capped heads might even now be nodding in her direction.--"My dear,
_what_ is that white figure under the oak tree?  I thought at first it
must be a sheep, but it is evidently a female of some description.  It
looks exceedingly like--but it could not be, it could not _possibly_ be,
Miss Briskett's niece! ..."

Miss Briskett's niece chuckled, and turned her head to look up the
sloping path.  Her choice of position had been largely decided by the
fact that Elma Ramsden was due to return by this route from a weekly
music lesson somewhere about the present time.  In the course of the
past week the two girls had drunk tea in the same houses every
afternoon, and exchanged sympathetic glances across a phalanx of elderly
ladies, but the chances for _tete-a-tete_ conversations had been
disappointingly few, and this morning Cornelia had a craving for a
companion young enough to encourage her in her rebellion, or at least to
understand the pent-up vitality which had brought it to a head.

She watched eagerly for the advent of the tall, blue-robed figure.  Elma
always wore dark blue cambric on ordinary occasions.  "So useful!" said
her mother, "and such a saving in the washing bill."  Mother and
daughter ran up the plain breadths in the sewing machine, and the only
fitting in the body was compassed by a draw-string at the waist.  It did
not seem a matter of moment to Mrs Ramsden whether the said string was
an inch higher or lower, and Elma was economical in belts.  Cornelia's
expression was eloquent as she viewed the outline of the English girl's
figure as she slowly approached down the narrow path.  So far Elma had
not noticed her presence.  She was too much buried in her own dreams.
Poor pretty thing!  That was all that was left to her--to take it out in
dreams.  She had not yet begun to be awake!


CHAPTER SIX.

Twenty yards farther Elma came to a halt, eyes and lips opened wide in
gaping astonishment at the sight of the trespasser.

"Cornelia!  You are sitting on the grass."

"That's so!  Why shouldn't I, if I've a mind?"

"It's forbidden!"

"Oh, shucks!" cried Cornelia, impatiently.  "Who by?"

Elma waved her hand vaguely towards the crescent of houses.

"Everybody--all of them!  It's a rule.  They all agreed."

"Suppose they did!  I guess it would take more than ten old ladies to
prevent me doing what I want.  What's the good of grass, anyway, if you
can't enjoy it?  It's lovely up here.  I'm as cool as an otter.  You
look pretty warm after your walk.  Step over, and come right here by
me."  She patted the ground beside her, and smiled in her most
irresistible fashion.  "We'll have the loveliest talk--"

Elma hesitated, fascinated but dismayed.

"I daren't.  It's breaking the rules.  What would they say?"

"That's what we've got to find out.  They can't kill us, anyway, and
we'll have had a good time first.  You've got to pay your bills in this
wicked world.  Now, then--hustle!"

"I can't!" faltered Elma, and lifted one foot over the wire arch, "I
daren't!" and stepped completely over, lifting her skirt behind her.
The deed was done!  A tingle of excitement ran through her veins, she
reared her head and laughed aloud, looking with bright, unashamed eyes
at the curtained windows.  The moment of revolt had come; a moment long
desired in the depths of a meek, long-suffering heart, and prepared for
by many a seething inward struggle.  Cornelia had applied the match, and
the tow blazed.  Elma laughed again, and seated herself beneath the
tree.  Cornelia had tossed her hat on the ground and clasped her hands
round her knees in comfortable, inelegant position.  Elma did the same,
and the American girl, watching her, was at a loss to account for the
reckless radiance of her smile.  The sunshine flickered down between the
branches on the sweet pink and white face, the pansy blue eyes, and long
slender throat; it shone alike on the ill-fitting gown, the clumsy
shoes, the carelessly arranged hair.  Cornelia's golden eyes travelled
up and down, down and up, in earnest, scrutinising fashion.  She met
Elma's glance with a shake of the head, forbearing, yet reproachful.

"Say!  You don't know how to prink, do you?"

"Prink?"  Elma was doubtful even as to the meaning of the word.  She
arched her brows in inquiry, whereat Cornelia laughed aloud.

"You are real, genuine English!  You make me think of roses, and cream,
and honey, and mountain dew, and everything that's sweet and wholesome,
and takes no thought of the morrow.  If you lived over with us, we'd fix
you up so your own mother wouldn't know you, and there'd be paragraphs
about you in the papers every single day, saying what you did, and what
you were wearing, and how you looked when you wore it."

"`Miss Elma Ramsden sat on the grass, attired in a blue rag, with
freckles on her nose.'"

"My, no!"  Cornelia chuckled.  "They spread it pretty thick when they
once begin.  You'd have every adjective in the dictionary emptied over
you.  `The irresistible Elma,' `Radiant Miss Ramsden,' `The beauteous
English Rose.'  Half the time it's only bluff, but with you it would be
a true bill.  You _are_ beautiful.  Do you know it?"

The pink flush deepened in Elma's delicate face.

"Am I?" she asked wistfully.  "Really?  Oh, I hope you are right.  I
should be so happy if it were true, but--but, I'm afraid it can't be.
No one notices me; no one seems to think I am--nice!  I'm only just Elma
Ramsden--not radiant, nor irresistible, nor anything of the kind.  Plain
Elma Ramsden, as much a matter of course as the trees in the park.
Since you came here, in one fortnight, you've had more attention than
I've had in the whole course of my life."

"_Attention_?" echoed Cornelia, shrilly, and rolled her eyes to the
firmament.  "Attention?  You ken sit there and look me in the face, and
talk about the `attention' that's been paid me the last two weeks!
You're crazed!  Where does the attention come in, I want to know?  I
haven't spoken to a single man since the day I arrived.  You don't call
a dozen old ladies clucking round _attention_, do you?  Where _are_ all
the young men, anyhow?  I have been used to a heap of men's society, and
I'm kind of lost without it.  I call attention having half a dozen nice
boys to play about, and do whatever I want.  Don't you ever have any
nice young men to take you round?"

Elma's dissent was tinged with shocked surprise, for she had been
educated in the theory that it was unmaidenly to think about the
opposite sex.  True, experience had proved that this was an
impossibility, for thoughts took wing and flew where they would, and
dreams grew of themselves--dreams of someone big, and strong, and
tender; someone who would _understand_, and fill the void in one's heart
which ached sometimes, and called for more, more; refusing to be
satisfied with food and raiment.  Sometimes the dream took a definite
shape, insisted on the possession of grey eyes and wide square
shoulders, associating itself with the personality of a certain young
squire of racing, bridge-playing tendencies, at whom all Park dwellers
glanced askance, refusing to him the honour of their hospitality!

