Produced by Project Rastko, Nikolaj Velimirovic Project,
Rénald Lévesque and the Online Distributed Proofreaders
Europe at http://dp.rastko.net


                               THE AGONY
                             OF THE CHURCH

                               BY THE REV.
                       NICHOLAI VELIMIROVIC, D.D.
                    OF ST SAVVA'S COLLEGE, BELGRADE

                          WITH FOREWORD BY THE
                       REV. ALEXANDER WHYTE, D.D.
                  PRINCIPAL OF NEW COLLEGE, EDINBURGH
                                 LONDON

                      STUDENT CHRISTIAN MOVEMENT
                        32 RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.

                                   1917

                       Printed in Great Britain
                   by Turnbull & Spears, Edinburgh.


                                 FOREWORD


The Eastern Church, the Church of the Apostles and the Mother of us all,
in this book, speaks to her children in all lands and in all languages,
and to us, with an authority and a wisdom and a tenderness all its own.
The author and the publishers are doing us a service of the very best
kind in issuing it. May God's blessing rest upon it.


                          PUBLISHER'S FOREWORD


The contents of this book was originally given in the form of lectures
at St Margaret's, Westminster. There is, we think, a special fitness in
the lectures appearing in book form bearing the imprint of the Student
Christian Movement, for though Father Nicholas has hosts of friends in
Great Britain now, when he first came here our Movement was perhaps the
only body which had the right to claim him as being already a friend.
When the Student Christian Movement made its way to Serbia a few years
ago, Father Nicholas became one of its first friends and, the year the
war commenced and the following year, it was he who, on the Universal
Day of Prayer for Students, preached by invitation of the Student
Movement and its President, Dr. Marko Leko, to the students in the
Cathedrals of Belgrade and Nish. Members of our Movement, therefore,
will recognise that he comes under the category of persons so highly
valued in the Student Movement, namely, that of senior friend.

Both inside and outside the Student Movement to-day people are thinking
of the Church. Much has been spoken and written about the Church of
Jesus Christ in our modern world, but not so much as to leave us unready
to welcome this arresting and penetrating message from Serbia.


                         INTRODUCTORY THOUGHTS


If the official churches have had no other merit but that they have
preserved Christ as the treasury of the world, yet they are justified
thereby. Even if they have solely repeated through all the past
centuries "Lord! Lord!" still they stand above the secular world. For
they know at least who the Lord is, whereas the world does not know.

Churches may disappear, but The Church never will. For not churches are
the work of Christ, but the Church. Moreover, if the Church disappears,
as an institution, the essence of the Church cannot disappear. It is
like rivers, sea and water: when rivers disappear into the sea, the sea
remains, and if the sea disappears into steam, water still remains.

If Christ ever meant to form the Church as an institution He meant to
form it not as the end but as the means, like a boat to bring its
inmates safely over the stormy ocean of life into the quiet harbour of
His Kingdom.

Like the body in a bath, so the soul disrobes in the Church to wash. But
as soon as we get out, we clothe our soul in order to conceal it from
the curious eye. Is it not illogical that we dare to show our
imperfections to the Most Perfect, while we are ashamed to show them to
those who are just as imperfect, ugly and unclean as ourselves? The
Church, like a bath, reveals most uncleanness.

The initial and most obvious idea of the Church is collectiveness of sin
and salvation. To pray alone and for one's self is like eating alone
without regard to other people's hunger.

When the sun sees a man of science, wealth or politics, kneeling at
prayer with the poor and humble, it goes smiling to its rest.

Full of beauty and wonders are all the Christian churches, but not
because of their pretended perfections: they are beautiful and wonderful
because of Him whose shadow they are.

You are a Christian? Then do not be afraid to enter any Christian church
with prayerful respect. All the Churches have sworn allegiance to the
same Sovereign. How can you respect a cottage, in which once abided His
Majesty King Alfred, or Charles, while you would not go into a building
dedicated to His Majesty the Invisible King of kings?

The real value of any Christian community is not to be found in its own
prosperity but in its care for the prosperity of other Christian
communities. So, for example, the value of the Protestants is to be
found in their loving care for the Roman Catholics, and vice versa.

Taking the above standard, we find that all the Christian communities
are almost quite valueless as to the spirit, i.e. as to their unusual
loving care. Their actual value is more physical than spiritual, being
as they are limited to the care for themselves. Exceptions are as
refreshing as an oasis in the desert.

Church and State are like fire and water. How to connect them? For if
connected, fire always dies down under water.

There are three ages in the history of the Church: the Golden Age, when
the Church was opposed to political governments; the Iron Age, when she
was politically directing Europe's kingdoms; and the Stone Age, when she
has been subdued to the service of political governments. What a
humiliation for the present generation to live in the Stone Age of
Christianity!

Trying to unite Church and State we are trying to unite what God
separated from the beginning of our era.

To separate the Church from the State does not mean, as many think, to
separate soul from body; it means to separate two quite opposed spirits
unakin and hostile to each other, like Cross and Capitol.

The worm of comfort and human inertia has reconciled Christianity with
secular, pagan governments, and so paralysed the most divine movement in
human history. Go to the bottom of all those clever advocacies for unity
of Church and State, and you will meet, as their primus motor, the worm
of comfort and human inertia.

All Churches and Christian institutions of the present time, however
wonderful they may be, are only a dim prophecy of the coming Christian
worship in truth and spirit. Through them we look now to the future as
through a glass.

Christianity is neither monarchical nor republican. It does not care
about institutions but about the spirit living in them. That institution
is the best which is fullest of the Christian spirit. From this point of
view, an autocracy may be better than a republic, and vice versa.

The true Christianity has been hidden from us as iron and coal were
hidden from the men of the Stone Age. They walked over iron and coal but
they used stone and wood only. So we are walking over and around Christ,
still using in our daily life the pagan gods of old.

If there is to be a new geological epoch, with a new type of man, it
will be the Christian epoch. All the existing types have been made by
revolutions and influences of earth and water, or of air and fire. Now
only the Christian revolution--I mean literally and not
allegorically--can produce a higher type of the human animal.

My friend, you are dissatisfied with the existing Churches, and you are
anxious to form a new church, or sect, or some kind of religious
organisation! How childish of you! The existing Churches are the most
wonderful vessels--some in gold, others in silver or pottery--made by
thousands of years and generations. I know your dissatisfaction comes
because of the emptiness of those vessels and not because of their
ugliness. Well then, pour the divine wine into them and they will please
you just as the vessels in Cana of Galilee pleased the thirsty people
around the table. No one of those people, being thirsty, ever thought of
making new vessels for the wine, but to get wine as soon as possible
into the vessels. To pour wine into existing vessels, that is really the
needed miracle, my dear grumbler!

People say: Read the Bible! Almost would I say: Do not touch it for five
years--read other literature during this period--and then read it again,
and you will see its real greatness, power and sweetness.

The Christ's wounds have wrought more blessings in the world than the
health of all the Roman Caears.

The Eucharist does not mean a memory only but also a prophecy. The
prophecy of it is, that the whole earth will become Christ's body,
Christ's flesh and blood, so that whatever we eat or drink we eat and
drink Him.

He ought to be our daily food. Regarding all our food through Christ it
will not seem to be a prey from nature but rather nature's sacrifice for
us, reminding us of Christ's sacrifice, and through it of our own
calling to sacrifice.

You have to choose either to be proud or poor in spirit. The first will
mean a noisy destruction, the second a quiet construction.

There exists no sublime and no mean thing in the whole world of which I
could not find a representation in myself, and none in which I were
wholly unrepresented.

The beauty, glory and greatness of a field of golden wheat consists of
an association of innumerable blades of wheat, with their insignificant
beauty, glory and greatness. If you have seen that, then do not repeat
to me the old story of the beauty, glory and greatness of the human
blade called Pythagoras, Caear or Napoleon.

The wealthiest and most powerful people, that we are wont to admire and
imitate, were most pitied by Christ. To-day, as always, the most
difficult Christian mission is that among the rich.

Our real value we never reveal through the using of our rights but
through our capacity for service and sacrifice.

Easier is it for a man to get his own rights than to lose his pride.

Sacrifice without murmuring makes of our stormy life a calm holy day. We
fill all our days with the talk of the people who are loth to sacrifice
and of those who dare to sacrifice. Disgust and admiration are two baths
in which our hearts bathe from sunrise to sunset. By nothing is the
disgust towards a man more excited than by hearing: "He is incapable of
sacrifice." When this sentence is directed to ourselves, we feel as if
we had lost the whole battle of life.

The value of metaphysical systems is more for the scientific than for
the moral progress of mankind. Upon Hegel you could build a new science,
but upon St Paul only could you build a new social life and a new world
politics. Did you ever think that St Paul is the greatest prophet of a
new and desirable statesmanship?

All the Empires founded upon rights have perished and must perish. The
future belongs to the Empire of St Paul, an Empire founded upon loving
service.

It is better in humbleness to belong to the worst of the Churches than
proudly to separate one's self from the best of the Churches.

Aristocratic origin is as inscrutable as the darkness of the past night.
A mighty aristocrat of to-day may be of the meanest soul-stuff, and the
beggar at his door of the noblest. But respect both of them equally,
knowing that both of them are of the same royal origin. The Most High
names both of them His children. For the same reason respect asses and
sheep and trees and stones.

The real crucifiers of Christ in our time are those who think Christ's
Gospel could not be taken as a base for world politics. Were not His
last words to the disciples: go to all nations? The last and supreme
expression of Christianity will be in the relations of nation to nation,
as its starting expression has been the relations of man to man.

Inter-individualism has been the elementary school of Christianity.
Inter-nationalism ought to be its university.

Christian ethics, i.e. cheerful service and sacrifice, is the noblest
consequence of real belief in God. Never a shorter line can bind our
planet with the centre of the Universe than the line going through
Christ. It is the shortest way, as a straight line is the shortest
distance between two geometrical points.

Slavery means obligatory service; freedom ought to mean willing service.
Only a man or a nation educated for willing service to their neighbours
is a really free man or free nation. All other theories of freedom are
illusions. Freedom asking for rights and not for willing service means
an endless quarrel crowning with unhappiness all its champions. Neither
Pericles' republic nor Octavian's monarchy were the States of happiness,
but St Paul's pan-human state, with a single Magna Charta of willing
service, will be a State of Universal Happiness.

Every man is a battlefield of many unclean spirits, very bold in the
absence of Christ and very shy in His Presence. O how many of these
spirits that find an easy habitation in us would make even the swine to
rage and run down the steep place--into the sea!

The conception that the mentality of Machiavelli and Metternich,
Bismarck and Beaconsfield could be taken as a basis of politics, whereas
Christ's mentality could not, is the conception even of many
theologians. Yet Christ survives all these politicians as an undying
power, just because He is the fittest of all of them.

What an obscure philosophy it is which teaches that Moses and Mohamed
had some thing to do with politics and Christ has not!

Carlyle and Emerson were over-anxious to recommend every great man as a
leader of mankind more than Christ. It is the same as to say: men! take
candles and lamps to light your way in darkness, but be aware of the
sun. How quite different are Dostoievsky and Tolstoi!

I looked at men in prayer and I thought: Behold, the fallen angels! I
looked again at them in hateful quarrel and I thought: Behold, the risen
demons!

Animals are cruel but not vulgar. Yet both in cruelty and vulgarity man
is on record. If forced to chose one of two evils, we should prefer to
look at cruelty rather than vulgarity.

All our to-days are spoiled by reminiscences about yesterday and sorrows
about tomorrow. Thus we are disindividualising and emptying all our
"to-days" and degrading them to a misty meeting-place of yesterday and
tomorrow.

From the physical point of view the greatest thing in this life is its
mystery. From the moral point of view the greatest thing in man is the
optimistic interpretation of that mystery. There is no reasonable
optimism outside of Christianity.

No man could be a tyrant unless he were a slave of some moral defects.

No nation could tyrannise over another nation unless it were tyrannised
over itself by some illusions.

Nobody in the world is free but he who feels himself to be a prisoner of
Christ. The greatest champion of freedom in human history called
himself: "Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ."


                               CHAPTER I

                   THE WISDOM OF THE CHURCH SOPHIA


The most magnificent sanctuary of the Eastern Churches is called St
Sophia (Holy Wisdom), whereas the most magnificent sanctuaries of the
Western Churches are called St Peter's, St Paul's, or St John's, etc. As
every hair on our head and every line on the palm of our hand has a
certain significance, so these dedications of the Church have doubtless
certain significance. And this significance is typical of the religion
of the East and the West. Western Christianity, grown upon the soil of a
youthful individualism, preferred this or that apostle's personality and
dedicated their best temples to him. The aged East, tired of
individualistic ambitions, tired of great men, flagellated by the
phantom of human greatness, was thirsty for something higher and more
solid than any human personality. Adoration of great personalities being
the very wisdom of this world, the East stretched its hands to a
superhuman ideal, to the Holy Wisdom. It is a psychological fact that
youth sees his ideal in personal greatness, progressed age in holiness.
The East asked for something more eternal than Peter, Paul or John.
There is wisdom, and there is holy wisdom. Philosophical or personal
wisdom existed from the beginning of mankind, but Holy Wisdom entered
the world with Jesus Christ. Christ was the embodiment of God's wisdom,
the very incarnation of Holy Wisdom. This Wisdom stands above all human
wisdom and revives and illuminates it. Holy Wisdom includes the
essential wisdom of Peter, Paul, John, and any other apostle or seer, or
any other thing or creature, as the ocean includes the water of many
rivers. In the darkest times of dissension, uncertainty or suffering,
the Christian East did not rely so much upon the great apostles, either
Peter, or Paul, or John, but looked beyond time and space to the Eternal
Christ, The Logos of God, and asked for Light. And it looked to Eternity
through this church in Constantinople, St Sophia, as the all-embracing
and all-reconciling, holy symbol. Whenever Peter, or Paul, or John, or
any other apostle, or prophet, became the ground upon which the
believers quarrelled, it was in the Holy Wisdom that they sought refuge
and healing from their intellectual one-sidedness and ill-will.

Yet if Holy Wisdom has only in the East a magnificent visible symbol,
Holy Wisdom is none the less the very foundation, substance and aim of
the Western Church as well as of the Eastern, yea of the one, holy
Catholic Church. For Christianity had been destined neither for the East
alone nor for the West alone, but for the whole globe. And what means
the so-much abused word Catholic if not inclusiveness? Even such is,
too, the meaning of the Divine wisdom as revealed in Christianity from
the beginning.

I will try to show this inclusive wisdom of the Church, revealed from
the beginning, Firstly in the Church's Founder, Secondly in the Church's
organisation, and Thirdly in the Church's destination.


             THE INCLUSIVE WISDOM OF THE CHURCH'S FOUNDER


By His birth He included and bound together the lowest and the highest,
the natural and the supernatural: stable, manger, straw, sheep and
shepherds on the one hand; stars, angels, magi and Davidic royal origin
on the other.

By His life He included the austerity of the Indian monks, of John the
Baptist and the Nazarenes on the one hand; and on the other the
Confucian moderate feasting, in the houses of friends, at the marriage
feast and on other solemn occasions.

His life-drama was interwoven into the lives of all classes of people:
men, women and children, Judaists and heathen, King Herod and the
proconsul Pilate, priests and soldiers, merchants and beggars, learned
sophists and ignorant fools, the sick and the healthy, the righteous and
the sinful, Jews and Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, and all others who
could be met in Palestine, the very market of races and creeds.

