Here was a small single moss-rose plant, in a pot, which is the only one
I ever saw in France. The air is too hot for those roses, and for the
same reason none of the American plants, such as the _magnolia_ (tulip
tree) _kalmia_, &c. thrive in France, though kept in pots in the shade
and well watered; the heat of the atmosphere dries the trunk of these
trees. But there are many other plants, to the growth of which the
climate is much more favourable than it is in England. Just before you
retire read a chapter from a worth-while book. The last thoughts which
you take in at night are the ones which stick.

Leave your business in your business clothes, and get in a good night's
sleep.

Keep a sharp look-out for tendencies to change your habits and
morals.

At 50 you are walking on thin ice; look out, danger is near.

After you are 55 your habits are pretty well established. If you have
lived rightly till then you're safe thereafter and likely on your way
to a good ripe old age if you take reasonable care of yourself.

OUR SONS
They Pattern After Us; Be Worth Copying

We love our own the best; maybe that's why we indulge our own too
much.
Our duty to our boys: that's a subject old as the hills and it is as
important as it is old.
Today I had the boy problem forcibly presented to me. Today in court
twenty-four boys were brought before the Judge charged with petty
crimes. Three were sent to the penitentiary, seven to reform school
and fourteen let go temporarily on good behavior.
A friend of mine interested in criminology tells me the great bulk
of hold-ups, thefts, burglaries and murders are committed by boys
between 16 and 22 years of age.
These twenty-four boys I mention were just ordinary boys, capable
of making good citizens if they had had the right kind of home
treatment and surroundings. Most of them got in trouble through
their association with "gangs" or "the bunch," or the "crowd," and
this because daddy didn't have his hand on the rein.Small meridians of this
sort are sold in the shops; these are dials of about a foot square,
engraven on marble, with a little brass cannon and a _lens_.

The market for plants and flowers in pots, and for nosegays, is kept on
the _Quai de la Megisserie_, twice a week, very early in the morning;
the following were the most abundant: _Nerium_ double flowering
pomegranate, _vinca rosea_, (Madagascar periwinkle) _prickly lantana,
peruvian heliotropium_ (turnsole) tuberoses, with very large and
numerous single and double flowers, and very great quantities of common
sweet basil, which is much used in cookery.

I visited the apothecaries garden, and also two or three nursery gardens
in that neighbourhood, but found nothing remarkable in them.

There are many gardens in the environs of Paris which are worthy of
notice, but I was prevented from seeing them in consequence of the
disturbances hereafter mentioned. In the books which describe these
places, I find the village of _Montreuil-sous-le-Bois_ particularly
mentioned on account of its fertility. In the _Tableau de Paris_ it is
said, "Three acres of ground produce to the proprietor twenty thousand
livres annually, (near 800 guineas.) The rent of an acre is six hundred
livres, and the king's tax sixty (together about six and twenty
guineas.) The peaches which are produced here are the finest in the
world, and are sometimes sold for a crown a piece. When a prince has
given a splendid entertainment, three hundred Louis d'ors worth of these
fruits have been eaten." It is situated on a hill, just above
_Vincennes_, about three miles from the fauxbourg _Saint Antoine_, and
is likewise celebrated for its grapes, strawberries, all sorts of wall
fruit, pease, and every kind of esculent vegetables. In the garden
called _Mouceaux_ which belongs to the _ci-devant Duke of Orleans_; at
the extremity of the _fauxbourg du Roule_ are, it is said, magnificent
hot-houses, of which I have no recollection, though I was in the garden
in 1776. There is a description of these gardens in print, with sixteen
copper plates. In the _Luxembourg_ gardens only common annuals were
growing, such as marigolds, sun-flowers, &c. probably self sown; neither
were there in the _Tuileries_ gardens, which I afterwards saw, any
remarkable plants.

I bought very large peaches in the markets at 30 _sous_ each, the
ordinary ones were at 10 _sols_. The melons (which are brought to market
in waggons, piled up like turnips in England) were all of the netted
sort, and of so little flavor, that they would not be worth cultivating,
were it not for the sake of cooling the mouth in hot weather; they were
sold at 15 or 20 sous each. Strawberries were still plentiful (second
week in August.) _Cerneaux_, which are the kernel of green walnuts, were
just coming into season.

I had now no opportunity of acquiring any more knowledge of the plants
in France, and shall only add, that I passed the winter of 1783 and
1784, at _Marseille_ and at _Hieres_; and that besides oranges, lemons,
cedras,[14] pistachios, pomegranates, and a few date palm trees, I
found several species of _geranium_, myrtles, and _cactus opuntia_,
(Indian fig) growing in the soil, and likewise the _mimosa farnesiana_,
sweet scented sponge tree, or fragrant acacia, the flowers of which are
there called _fleurs de cassier_; these flowers, together with those of
the jasmine, and those which fall from the orange and lemon trees, are
sold to the perfumers of _Provence_ and _Languedoc_.

[Note 14: These trees are planted as close together as possible,
hardly eight feet asunder, and no room is left for any walks, so that
these gardens are, properly speaking, orange orchards. The oranges were
then sold at the rate of ten for a penny English.]

Among the small plants, the _arum arisarum_, (friar's cowl) and the
_ruscus aculeatus_ (butcher's broom) were the most conspicuous, this
latter is a pretty ever-green shrub, and the berries were there as large
as those of a common _solanum pseudo capsicum_, (Pliny's _amomum_, or
winter cherry) and of a bright scarlet colour, issuing from the middle
of the under surface of the leaves; I never saw any of these berries any
where else. _Parkinson_, in his _Theater of Plants_, 1640, says, after
describing three or four species of this genus, "They scarse beare
flower, much lesse fruite, in our land." Perhaps the berries might
ripen in our hot-houses.

Occupation and focusing your thoughts on your blessings, these are the
methods to employ.

As long as you dwell upon your imagined or your real sorrows you will
be miserable and the worries will magnify like gathering clouds in
April.

Take the stand of changing your thoughts to confidence, faith, and good
cheer, and busy your hands with work. Think of the happiness periods
you have had and know there is happiness dividends coming to you.

Keep this sort of thought and with it useful occupation, and the
sunshine will dispel the clouds in your thoughts like the sun dispels
the April showers and brings about a more beautiful day because of
the clouds and storms just passed.

When trouble or sorrows come, sweeten your cup with sugar remembrances
of joys you've had and joys you are to have.

Envy no one; envy breeds worry. The person you would envy has his sorrows
and shadows, too; you see him only when the sunlight is on the face,
you don't see him when he is in shadowland.

No, dear ones, I nor you, nor anyone on earth can have complete,
unruffled, continued happiness, but we can brace up and call our reserve
will power, reason, and self-confidence to bear when we come to the
marshy places along the road. We can pick our steps and get through
the mire and sooner than we believe it possible we can get on the
good solid ground; and as we travel, happiness will often come as
a reward for our poise and patience.

My friends say, "you always seem happy," and in that saying they tell
a truth, for I am happy often, very, very often and between times I make
myself seem to be happy. This making myself "seem to be happy" gives
me serenity, contentment, fortitude, and the very "seeming" soon
blossoms into a reality of the condition I seem to be in.

You can be happy often and when you are not happy, just seem to be
happy anyway; it will help you much.
SELF ACCUSATION
If You Do This You Will Always Be Miserable
Many have the habit of keeping their minds on their weaknesses or
their shortcomings.About the _Palais Royal_ persons are frequently found who offer for sale
white mice in cages; these are pretty little animals, their fur is snow
white, and their eyes are red and sparkling. Other persons carried for
sale canary-birds, linnets, and two or three other sorts of small birds,
perched on their fingers; these birds had been rendered so tame that
they did not attempt to fly away.

But the greatest curiosity in Natural History which I saw there, was a
male child with two heads and four arms; it was then three months old,
the two faces were perfectly alike, the noses aquiline, the eyes blue,
and the countenances pleasing; the two bodies were joined together at
the chest, and the remainder was just like that of a common male child;
one navel, one belly, one _penis_ one _anus_, and two legs. The two
bodies were face to face, so that they could embrace and kiss each
other; in their natural position they formed an angle of 65 degrees,
like the letter Y. I remained above an hour with this child, it's mother
and the nurse, and saw it suck at both breasts at the same time. It was
tolerably strong, the skin was very soft, and almost transparent, the
arms and legs were very lean, and the latter were crossed, and appeared
incapable of being extended voluntarily; so that if the child should
live two or three years, which I do not think probable, it is not likely
it will ever be able to walk. One head would laugh while the other
cried, one head would sleep whilst the other was awake; the inspiration
and expiration of the breath, in each, was alternate, that is to say,
one inspired while the other expired its breath. There was nothing
remarkable in the mother (a peasant's wife) except her obstinacy in
refusing to disencumber these two poor heads from a couple of thick
quilted blue sattin caps with which they had dressed them, and which I
endeavoured to convince both her and the nurse would heat the heads, so
as to be the means of shortening the child's life, and consequently of
curtailing the profits arising from this _unique_ exhibition.

To this description an English physician, who likewise saw it, adds, "It
must have had two brains, as motion and sensation were equal, and
apparently perfect, in each head and chest, and in all the four arms. It
had two hearts, and two sets of lungs; it had also two passages into the
stomach, but, as was supposed, only one set of _abdominal viscera_, as
the belly was not larger than that of a common child of that age usually
is. The hearts and arteries beat more strongly than was consistent with
a long continuance of health. The action of the arteries was plainly
seen under the skin."

Mr. Buffon, in the Supplement to his Natural History, has given the
figure and description of a monster something similar to this, part of
which description I shall give in a note, as a parallel to that of the
living child.[15]

[Note 15: "In 1701 there were born in Hungary two Girls who were
joined together by the loins; they lived above twenty-one years. At
seven years old they were shown almost all over Europe; at nine years of
age a priest purchased them, and placed them in a convent at Petersburg,
where they remained till their death, which happened in 1723. An account
of them was found among the papers of the surgeon who attended the
convent, and was sent to the Royal Society of London in 1757. In this
account we are told, that one of these twins was called _Helen_, the
other _Judith_. _Helen_ grew up and was very handy, _Judith_ was smaller
and a little hump-backed. They were joined together by the reins, and in
order to see each other they could turn their heads only. There was one
common _anus_, and of course there was only one common need of going to
stool, but each had her separate urinary passage, and separate wants,
which occasioned quarrels, because when the weakest was obliged to
evacuate, the strongest, who sometimes would not stand still, pulled her
away; they perfectly agreed in every thing else, and appeared to love
each other. When they were seen in front, they did not differ apparently
from other women. At six years old _Judith_ lost the use of her left
side by a paralytick stroke; she never was perfectly cured, and her mind
remained feeble and dull; on the contrary, _Helen_ was handsome,
intelligent and even witty. They had the small-pox and the measles at
the same time, but all their other sicknesses indispositions happened to
each separately. _Judith_ was subject to a cough and a fever, whereas
_Helen_ was generally in good health. When they had almost attained the
age of twenty-two _Judith_ caught a fever, fell into a lethargy and
died. Poor _Helen_ was forced to follow her fate; three minutes before
the death of _Judith_ she fell into an agony, and died nearly at the
same time. When they were dissected it was found, that each had her own
entrails perfect, and even, that each had a separate excretory conduit,
which however terminated at the same _anus_." Those who believe that
the now, the present, is the all important thing in man's life have
the fashionable or favorite point of view.

Man definitely knows much about the present, he knows much about
life.

He is in the midst of life--it pulsates all around him and in
him.

We know positively that the law of compensation is inexorable in its
demands for right and positive in its punishment of wrong.

We know that on this earth kindness, love, occupation, help, truth, honor
and sympathy are investments which bring happiness today. You get your
pay instantly when you have done a helpful act and you get your punishment
instantly when you have done a hurtful act.

That there is a future most of us agree, because good sense and logic
points to that sane and reasonable conclusion.

So be it, with a belief in the future estate, it is reasonable to assume
that our acts and lives in the present estate will have influence
on our future estate.

We know positively of today, and the happiness we can get from good deeds
done today.

If we will have power in the future to look back to today's acts,
well and good, if today's acts are worth while.

The other view that eternity is everything and the present is nothing
is the antiquated view, the narrow view; the, I might say, illiterate
view.

That view warps the present life; it calls for present self-chastisement,
present gloom, present sorrow and present misery.

It takes the tangible definite today, calls it nothing, and accepts the
intangible unknown eternity as everything.

It trades the definite for the indefinite. It calls life a bubble,
a vapor, a shadow. In fact, it makes gloom on today's sunshine and puts
its believers into a purgatory; a dismal unhappy punishment
antechamber where man exists and waits peeping out of his cell
windows for a little imagined view of eternity.

He waits and endures the unpleasant interval, steeled against definite
pleasures and evident life of today, and worried into an intoxicated
colored belief in the expected happiness of the undefined future.

He refuses to think of definite life of today and spoils the thought of
those who do.

He is a blockade to progress, a disagreeable part of life's picture.

He gets no happiness in the today which is in his hands, he loses this
opportunity during his definite existence, and lives on future hopes
in a future state which no man today knows what it will be.

Both theories as ultimate beliefs are wrong, yet each has some truth in
its conclusion.
By taking the words eternity and present and saying both means
everything, we avoid extremes and form a truth that is rational,
and harmonious to good reason.
The man who says present is all does so because he is an utilitarian.
He acts on the definite and refuses to believe in the abstract.
Anything that is outside the sphere of his vision and action is of
little concern to him.
The man who says eternity is all, wastes opportunity, example and
warps himself into a miserable hermit.
Life is irrevocable. Every act in our life is placed, set, and
fixed.
Every act goes in the record book of yesterday and it cannot be
changed.
Acts that hurt others will rebound and hurt us. Deeds that helped
others will rebound and help us.The following few examples are
taken from _Mr. du Laure's_ Curiosities of Paris, in two volumes, 1791,
third edition. [17] "Louis XIV. has his bust in almost every street in
Paris. After the most trifling reparation of a street it was customary
to place his great wig-block (_tête à perruque_) there. The saints have
never obtained such multiplied statues. That bully (_Fanfaron_) as
_Christina_, Queen of Sweden, used to call him, wanted to be adored even
in turn-again alleys (_culs-de-Sac._") Courtiers are here termed
_canaille de la cour_ (the rabble of the court;) the former aldermen of
Paris (_echevins_) _machines à complimens_ (complimenting machines;) and
monks _des bourreaux encapuchonnés_ (cowled executioners.)

[Note 17: The same author has likewise published, _Historical
Singularities_ of Paris, in a single volume, and a Description of the
Environs, in two volumes, 1790.]

All the following articles of information are taken from the same work:
The colossal statue of _St. Christopher_ is no longer in the church of
_Notre-Dame_; "He was, without doubt, the greatest _Saint Christopher_
in all France. This ridiculous monument of the taste and devotion of
our ancestors has lately been demolished."

"The court before the porch of this church was considerably enlarged in
1748, and at the same time a fountain was destroyed, against which
leaned an old statue, which had successively been judged to be that of
_Esculapius_, of _Mercury_, of a Mayor, and of a Bishop of Paris, and
lastly, that of J.C."

"Entering the street which leads to the _Pont-rouge_, by the cloisters
of this church, the last house on the right, under the arcades, stands
where the canon _Fulbert_, uncle to _Eloisa_, lived. Although it has
been several times rebuilt during 600 years, there are still preserved
two stone medallions, in _basso-relievo_, which are said to be the busts
of _Abelard_ and _Eloisa_."

The number of inhabitants in Paris is computed at one million, one
hundred and thirty thousand, (including one hundred and fifty thousand
strangers) two hundred thousand of which are, through poverty, exempt
from the poll-tax, and two hundred thousand others are servants.

In 1790 there were in Paris forty-eight convents of monks, containing
nine hundred and nine men; the amount of their revenue was estimated at
two millions, seven hundred and sixty thousand livres; five abbeys or
priories, estimated at six hundred and twelve thousand livres;
seventy-four convents of nuns, containing two thousand, two hundred and
ninety-two women, their income two millions and twenty-eight thousand
livres. When to these we add the revenue of the archbishoprick, and of
the fifteen collegiate churches, of one million, six thousand and five
hundred livres, we shall have a total of upwards of seven millions of
livres for the former ecclesiastical revenue in Paris only.[18]

[Note 18: Almost £300,000 sterling, about a tenth part of the Church
income of the whole kingdom. The establishment for the Royal Family, or
Civil List, is said to have been forty millions of livres. Thus the
Religion and the Monarch cost one hundred and ten millions of livres
annually (about five millions sterling) the greater part of which sum is
now appropriated to other uses. The convents are converted, or
perverted, into secular useful buildings, and their inhabitants have
been suffered to spend the remainder of their lives in their former
idleness, or to marry and mix with society. Annuities have been granted
to them from thirty-five to sixty louis per annum, according to their
age.]

There are about six hundred coffee-houses in Paris.

In the saloon of the _Louvre_ every other year is an exhibition of
pictures, in the months of August and September.

The Pont-neuf is one hundred toises in length and twelve in breadth.[19]

[Note 19: 1020 feet by 72. Westminster-bridge is 1220 feet long, but
only 44 feet wide.]

The cupola of the _Halle au Bled_, or corn and flour market, is one
hundred and twenty feet in diameter; it forms a perfect half circle,
whose centre is on a level with the cornice, forty feet from the ground.
The vault or dome is composed merely of deal boards, four feet long, one
foot broad and an inch thick.[20]

[Note 20: The inner diameter of the dome of St. Peter's, at Rome,
138 feet, which is the same size as that of the pantheon in Rome. St.
Paul's in London 108. The Invalids in Paris 50.]

Describing the church of _St. John of the Minstrels_, so called, because
it was founded by a couple of fidlers, in 1330. _M. du Laure_ says,
"Among the figures of saints with which the great door is decorated, one
is distinguished who would play very well on the fiddle, if his
fiddle-stick were not broken."

There is a parcel-post as well as a letter penny-post in Paris.

The salary of the executioner was eighteen thousand livres _per annum_;
[21] his office was to break criminals on the wheel, and to inflict
every punishment on them which they were sentenced to undergo.

[Note 21: £750 sterling; I know not the present salary.]

There are no longer any _Espions de Police_, or spies, employed by
government. "That army of thieves, of cut-throats, and rascals, kept in
pay by the ancient police, was perhaps a necessary evil in the midst of
the general evil of our old administration. A body of rogues and
traitors could be protected by no other administration than such a one
as could only subsist by crimes and perfidy. Those were the odious
resources of despotism. Liberty ought to make use of simple and open
means, which justice and morality will never disavow."

There is a school at the point of the isle of St. Louis, in the river
_Seine_, to teach swimming; persons who chuse to learn in private pay
four _louis_, those who swim among others, half that sum, or half-crown
a lesson; if they are not perfect in that art in a season, (five summer
months) they may attend the following season _gratis_.


DRESS. INNS.


THE common people are in general much better clothed than they were
before the Revolution, which may be ascribed to their not being so
grievously taxed as they were. An English Gentleman who has gone for
many years annually from Calais to Paris, remarks, that they are almost
as well dressed on working days at present, as they were on Sundays and
holidays formerly.

All those ornaments which three years ago were worn of silver, are now
of gold. All the women of the lower class, even those who sit behind
green-stalls, &c. wear gold ear-rings, with large drops, some of which
cost two or three _louis_, and necklaces of the same. Many of the men
wear plain gold ear-rings; those worn by officers and other gentlemen
are usually as large as a half-crown piece. Even children of two years
old have small gold drops in their ears. The general dress of the women
is white linen or muslin gowns, large caps which cover all their hair,
excepting just a small triangular piece over the forehead, pomatumed, or
rather plaistered and powdered, without any hats: neither do they wear
any stays, but only _corsets_ (waistcoats or jumps.) The children laugh,
play and cut up in the morning and mother says, "I don't know what I
shall do with you, you are just wearing me out." This puts a fear thought
and a weakness germ both in mother and the kiddies.

On Sunday afternoon the family is resting; mother maybe gets the blues,
and says, "What's the use, I never get anywhere, go any place, it's just
grind, work and worry all the time."
Mother worries because there's a leak in the roof and the water
stained the paper in the spare room.There is hardly any possibility of distinguishing the rank of
either man or woman by their dress at present, or rather, there are no
ranks to distinguish.

The nation in general is much improved in cleanliness, and even in
politeness. The French no longer look on every Englishman as a lord, but
as their equal.

The inns on the road from _Calais_ to _Paris_, are as well furnished,
and the beds are as clean at present as almost any in England. At
_Flixcourt_ especially, the beds are remarkably excellent, the furniture
elegant, and there is a profusion of marble and of looking-glasses in
this inn. The plates, dishes, and basons which I saw in cupboards, and
on shelves in the kitchen, and which are not in constant use, were all
of silver, to which being added the spoons and forks of the same metal,
of which the landlord possesses a great number; the ladies and gentlemen
who were with me there, going to and returning from Paris, estimated the
value at, perhaps, a thousand pounds sterling. Now, if we allow only
half this sum to be the value, it is, notwithstanding, considerable.
The doctor can stop a pain with a poison drug, but Nature's outdoor
medicine will prevent you having the disorder which makes
the pain.

No, brother, you can't get health out of a bottle or a pill box. You can
get it from the Mother Nature's laboratory where she compounds air, water,
sunshine, beauty, music, thought; where she gives you exercise and rest,
health, happiness, all summed up into cashable assets for the
human in the shape of poise, efficiency, peace and that spells
PEP.The table of the peasants is also
better supplied than it was before the revolution.


ASSIGNATS.


EXCEPTING the coins which I purchased at the mint in Paris, I did not
see a piece of gold or silver of any kind; a few brass sols and two sols
were sometimes to be found in the coffee-houses, and likewise
_Mouneron's_ tokens.

The most common _assignats_ or bills, are those of five _livres_, which
are printed on sheets; each sheet containing twenty of such _assignats_,
or a hundred _livres_; they are cut out occasionally, when wanted for
change. I do not know that there are any of above a thousand _livres_.
The lowest in value which I saw were of five _sols_, and these were of
parchment. Those of five _livres_ and upwards, have the king's portrait
stamped on them, like that on the coins.

Besides the national _assignats_, which are current all over France,
every town has its own _assignats_, of and under, but not above five
_livres_; these are only current in such town and its neighbourhood.

That's a definite promise and it is not qualified with a lot of creed
paragraphs and beliefs. That promise doesn't have any buts or ifs.
It doesn't say we shall be saved whether we are Methodists or
Catholics, or Baptists or Presbyterians.

