However simple a school is, some bookkeeping is necessary, and when with
the running of the school is combined the management of trade order
supplies and receipts the problem becomes very complicated. (See Trade
Order Work.)

I. General: A system of up-to-date bookkeeping of General Ledger,
Invoice Book, and Daily Exhibit, with details worked out in Petty Cash
and Maintenance Books, has been adopted. These few simple books so
distribute accounts of expense and receipts that one can soon see the
standing of the whole school or of a single department. All bookkeeping
is centralized in one office, except the taking of orders and the
details of filling them, which must be in the hands of the department
concerned.

II. Departmental: 1. Requisition blanks for purchases made. 2. Order
blank and duplicate for order given by customer. 3. Time slips, wherever
possible, to get exact record of time value of work done. 4. Material
slips, to keep account of what has gone into any orders. 5. Final
billing, to give data for bills sent out from main office and duplicate
filed there for final records.


THE POWER MACHINE OPERATING DEPARTMENT

Aim

To train girls to work on sewing machines run by electric power and to
put a thinker behind every machine as its operator. The department hopes
by awakening intelligent interest in the tool, _i. e._, the machine, to
kindle ambition in the workers. It is only through the intelligent use
of the tool and consequent love of work which follows that we can look
forward to supplying the skilled machine workers of the future. This
training must be given while the girls are in the formative period, to
develop habits of thought and action which will counteract the bad
effects upon the worker that follow division and subdivision of work,
with consequent subdivision of ability, which takes place in all
factories today. When a pupil has been thoroughly trained in the
intelligent use of her tool, when she has learned to construct complete
garments, if she is then, through force of circumstances such as modern
production entails, compelled to carry out one process on the machine
indefinitely, or to make one part of a garment, she still holds the
balance of power in being prepared to do something else when opportunity
or necessity demands.


General Steps in Training

I. A pupil must be given a short time to adjust herself to the workshop
environment, consequently she is put first at some simple work, such as
ripping or cutting up old garments. This gives her freedom while using
her hands to look about the workroom and to get accustomed to the sight
as well as to the sound of machines in action.

II. The pupil is taught to control the power by which the machine is
run, and is then given an intelligent understanding of the mechanism of
the machine or machines she is to operate.

III. The pupil then begins her regular course of work, and her feeling
of responsibility of the value of _time_ is awakened--that is, her
seconds, minutes, and hours, days, weeks, and months are now important
factors in her life, and they may be used for good or evil. In the
language of the department, time may be spent wisely or foolishly, and,
while studying at the Manhattan Trade School, seven hours out of every
day of the girl's life is given over to productive work and should be
accounted for. The department has developed its own plan of time
payments, which is much like the piece-work system employed in trade.
Through its rewards for time well spent it makes the fact real to the
pupils, as no form of punishment could do, that wasted time is gone
forever.

The department is divided into five classes, three of which must be
taken to make an all-round operator, namely: Elementary, two months'
course; Intermediate, four months' course; Advanced, six months' course.
In trade, salaries for such positions range from $5 to $15. The other
two classes train specialists on the electric machines, special machines
of various kinds, straw-sewing machines. Special machine work requires
from three months to one year in addition to the full course of
all-round operating. Salaries range from $6 to $30. An expert trade
worker is in charge of each class.

    _Course of Work_

    Regular Operating Course:

    1. Control of power--learning names and uses of parts of machines.
    Making bags, clothes, and operator's equipment.

    2. Straight and bias stitching, equal distance apart.

    3. Spaced bias stitching from given measurements.

    4. Making and turning square corners, stitching heavy edge for
    tension practice.

    5. Machine table apron, using former principles. This is used to
    protect operator from shafting and oil.

    6. Seams: Plain seam, plain and band seam; French seam; bag seam on
    warp; bag seam, one warp and one bias; bag seam, two biases.

    7. Hemming: Different sized hems turned by hand for correct
    measurements; hems run through hemmer to learn use of attachment and
    give speed; seams through hemmer--bag seam, flat fell.

    8. Quilting: Following designs made by pupils in Art Department.
    Practice for control of power, starting and stopping machine at
    given point.

    9. Banding: Straight and bias bands placed by measurement from
    design made in Art Department. Practice for edge stitching, turning
    corners, accuracy of measurement.

    10. Advanced seams on cloth and silk: Flannel seam, slot seam,
    umbrella seam.

    11. Yokes made and put on: Round yokes--petticoats; round front and
    straight back--drawers and petticoats; bias yokes--waists; shaped
    yokes--aprons; round yokes--children's dresses; miter corner
    yoke--dresses.

    12. Tucking: Free hand tucking for accuracy in measuring and use of
    rule; special tucking on length and widths of different materials to
    give speed and skill in handling different fabrics.

    Unless in the meantime they decide to establish a rotation providing
    that all the deputies be ministers by turns, Arthur Papillon is the
    inevitable, necessary man mentioned. In such a case, this would
    be terrible, for his eloquence would flow in torrents, and he would
be one of the most agitating of microbes in the parliamentary
culture.

    And Jocquelet? Ah!

    the two friends only need to speak his name to burst into
    peals of laughter, for the illustrious actor now fills the universe
    with his glory and ridiculousness. Jocquelet severed the chain some
    time ago which bound him to the Parisian theatres. Like the
    tricolored flag, he has made the tour of Europe several times; like
    the English standard, he has crossed every ocean. He is the
    modern Wandering Actor, and the capitals of the Old World and both
    Americas watch breathless with desire for him to deign to
    shower over them the manna of his monologues. At Chicago, they
    detached his locomotive, and he intended, at the sight of this homage
    proportioned to his merits, to become a naturalized American citizen.
    But they proposed a new tour for him in old Europe, and out of filial
    remembrance he consented to return once more among us. As usual, he
    gathered a cartload of gold and laurels.

He was painfully surprised upon reaching Stockholm by water not to
be greeted by the squadrons with volleys of artillery, as was once done
in honor of a famous cantatrice.
Let Diplomacy look sharp! Jocquelet is indifferent to the court of
Sweden!

After Paul Sillery's departure Amedee turned over in his mind various
other recollections of former days. He has been a trifle estranged
from Madame Roger since his marriage to Maria, but he sometimes takes
little Maurice to see her. She has sheltered and given each of Colonel
Lantz's daughters a dowry. Pretty Rosine Combarieu's face rises
up before him, his childhood's companion, whom he met at Bullier's and
never has seen since. What has become of the poor little creature?
Amedee almost hopes that she is dead.The course of Bonnaz (Corneli)
work covers: chain stitch, lettering, appliqué work, cording, braiding,
three-thread work.

Machine hand embroidery should be given as a supplementary course to
Bonnaz (Corneli) embroidery. It gives excellent training in design and
color work.

Special trade machine straw sewing should also be taken up after the
regular course in operating. It gives splendid exercise for quick
handling of material, but makes a poor foundation of itself on which to
build a painstaking, expert, all-round operator. Speed is the first
requisite in getting a hat properly shaped, as the straw braid is flying
through the machine at the rate of four thousand stitches a minute;
hence the general operating is given first to the pupil to train her in
the requisite neatness. As straw-sewing has long slack seasons, the
operator can during such times return to the regular operating.


DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT

Aim

The aim of the Dressmaking Department is to train girls in the elements
of the dressmaking trade, in order to enable them to immediately secure
employment as improvers and finishers or as assistants on skirts,
waists, and sleeves, and to give them a preparation which will help them
eventually to rise to positions of skill and responsibility. The
training eliminates the errand girl and apprenticeship stages, and makes
possible a living wage at the start. The result is accomplished in from
nine to seventeen months, the time depending entirely upon the
capability of the girl, her physical condition, her application to her
work, her regularity of attendance, and her previous training.


Classes

The department is divided into three sections: (1) The Elementary, which
consists of two classes for the teaching of simple sewing and machine
work. This section is rendered necessary by the poor preparation of the
students at the entrance. It would be not only practical but desirable
for elementary public and industrial schools so to train their students
that they could omit this part of the Manhattan Trade School course. (2)
The Vocational. This section also includes two classes. The work is
tradelike in character, but much time has to be given to developing
right habits of work as well as to learning specific kinds of handwork.
The public secondary schools could offer this section to advantage, and
through it train pupils for a better knowledge of the home or for future
livelihood. (3) The Trade Section. This is a business shop, which
reproduces trade conditions as nearly as possible and is subdivided into
the same progressive divisions. Although the object is to work as trade
does, the educational aim is also prominent, and the course of training
has been planned with both ends in view. Order work plays an important
part in this section, for it makes possible the quantity and variety of
material necessary to supply the many repetitions of important phases of
dressmaking, the new views of old principles, and the elaborate costume
manufacturing which are needed in the training. It would be impossible
for a school to adequately deal with the many varieties of garments in
this trade without some equivalent for the order work. The use of models
or of practice material is not satisfactory on account of the great
difference between theoretical and practical knowledge in handling
valuable materials. A girl may learn to run fine tucks on cheesecloth,
but this will not enable her to do satisfactory hand-tucking on chiffon.
Neither is it a correct educational or economic principle to cut up
quantities of good material, which the students will look upon as
"rags," and then, after working on them, to throw them into a receptacle
for waste or sell them simply to get rid of them. To secure the best
results in any line of instruction there must be interest and
enthusiasm. The aim, therefore, must be definite and the results vital.
The work is planned to foster these higher qualities. The students
produce articles for a definite use; they are given a required time in
which the work should be completed; trade itself sets the standard of
judgment, and a definite relation exists between the work of all the
classes, so that old principles may be recognized when presented in new
forms.


Courses of Work

I. Elementary Section. (1) Beginners' Class. First, a test is given each
girl when she enters which enables her instructor to judge of her
ability in sewing. It has been found necessary, in the majority of
cases, to teach all or the greater part of the following principles: the
use of sewing utensils, the making of the stitches, their application in
articles, and the running of the sewing machine. Hence the second step
has been a course of work covering the use of these needed principles,
each girl beginning at the point where she needs training. Third, the
final test. On the satisfactory completion of this very elementary
training a test is given to show a girl's ability to work, to think, and
to utilize ideas. If she is not yet fully prepared, further time is
spent in emphasizing the points she still requires.

The work in the Beginners' Class is done upon articles which have a
trade value and which are sold to customers or to the students for about
the cost of the materials. The school furnishes the materials for all
elementary work, but the students must provide their own tools and keep
them in good condition. These include a thimble, needles, scissors, a
tape measure, an emery, and a white apron.

Class instruction followed by individual criticism is the method of
teaching in the Elementary Section. Emphasis is placed upon the proper
use of the utensils, the position of the body, and the handling of the
work. Individual records are kept of the grade of work and of the time
taken to finish a problem. The course takes from two to three months to
complete, and the students are at work four and one-half hours per day.

    OUTLINE OF WORK IN BEGINNERS' CLASS

    1. Stitches and special forms of sewing: Basting, running,
    overhanding, overcasting, hemming, blind stitching, sewing on
    buttons (two hole, four hole), buttonholes, featherstitching.

    2. Seams: Plain; selvage and raw edges; French; felled; straight and
    bias edges; overhanded.

    3. Machine stitching: Straight seams and rows; hems;
    facings--points; use of tucker.

    4. Principles: Measuring, seams, hems, tucks, cutting by a thread;
    matching stripes; turning and basting hems; making casing for
    drawstrings; putting on band--by hand, by machine--one and two
    pieces; setting strings into bands; finishing ends of hems; putting
    on pockets--straight and shaped; plain placket; cutting bias strips;
    piecing bias strips; facing curved and straight edges (armholes,
    neck, waist, points); joining waist and skirt with bias facing;
    making straight tucked ruffle; inserting ruffle under tuck on skirt;
    ripping.

    5. Articles used in the work (this list is changed at will and is
    merely representative): Handwork--Pin cushion, bag, towel, white
    apron with ruffle. Machine work--Belt, gingham apron oversleeves,
    child's dress with waist, uniform apron.

    6. Supplementary work: Shoe bags, silver cases, holders, bibs, silk
    bags, darning bags, needle books, traveling cases, baby caps and
    work of a similar character.

    7. Materials used: Cotton, linen, silk.

(2) Intermediate Class. The Beginners' Class gives most of its time to
hand sewing, the Intermediate Class emphasizes machine sewing. The work
is a repetition of the principles taught in the Beginners' Class, but is
presented in a different manner, with new applications. Orders are taken
from individuals or business houses for the garments which are made in
this course. The price is that of the trade. These orders furnish a
market for the entire output of the class. A certain amount of class
instruction is given, but the girls are expected to do independent work
under supervision.

    OUTLINE OF WORK IN INTERMEDIATE CLASS

    1. Review of former principles on new garments: (1) French
    seam--straight edges, baby slips and nightgowns. (2) Hems, (_a_)
    straight, (_b_) turned by hand, on princess aprons, bloomers,
    sleeves, etc., (_c_) turned by machine--hemmer on ruffles, for
    drawers and petticoats. (3) Overcasting--seams of skirts. (4)
    Buttonholes--all garments. (5) Plackets--plain hemmed, on skirts,
    baby slips. (6) Bias bands--joining and applying to straight and
    curved edges, on princess aprons, drawers, top of petticoat. (7)
    Ruffle--joining, measuring, and applying under tuck, on skirt and
    drawers. (8) Machine instruction--threading, setting needles,
    winding bobbin, scale of thread, needle, and stitch.

    2. "You heard how I caught them!"
    Immediately twenty, thirty, a hundred spectators appeared, most
    of them very correct in white cravats, but all eager and
    with beaming countenances, asking to see the author and the interpreter,
    and to be presented to them, that they might congratulate them
    with an enthusiastic word and a shake of the hand. Yes!
    it was a success, an instantaneous one. It was certainly that rare
    tropical flower of the Parisian greenhouse which blossoms out so
    seldom, but so magnificently.
    
    One large, very common-looking man, wearing superb diamond shirt-buttons,
    came in his turn to shake Amedee's hand, and in a hoarse, husky
    voice which would have been excellent to propose tickets "cheaper
    than at the office!" he asked for the manuscript of the poem
    that had just been recited.

    "It is so that I may put you upon the first page of my tomorrow's
    edition, young man, and I publish eighty thousand. Victor
    Gaillard, editor of 'Le Tapage'. Does that please you?"
    He took the manuscript without listening to the thanks of the poet,
    who trembled with joy at the thought that his work had caught
    the fancy of this Barnum of the press, the foremost advertiser in
France and Europe, and that his verses would meet the eyes of two
hundred thousand readers.

    Yes, it was certainly a success, and he experienced the first
bitterness of it as soon as he arrived the next morning at the Cafe
de Seville, where he now went every two or three days at the hour
for absinthe.

His verses had appeared in that morning's Tapage, printed in large type
and headed by a few lines of praise written by Victor Gaillard, a la
Barnum.
It is not necessary to
have a knowledge of actual dressmaking to be able to do this work. The
ability to do good handwork rapidly is the prerequisite. In some
establishments there are opportunities for girls of ability to rise from
finisher to draper, which latter position commands a high wage.

The producing of fine, handmade underwear, waists, and dresses is
another opportunity for girls who can take but a short time in which to
prepare to earn their living. Work of this character is of a much higher
grade than that of the wholesale finishing, and demands the ability to
do extremely good hand and machine work. The worker must be able to
handle the finest kind of materials and to do the most intricate work,
such as hand tucking, setting in lace, and trimmings.

