In Spain, monasteries upon monasteries were rising day by day, as if
there were not yet receptacles enough for monks and priests, while
thousands upon thousands of Spaniards were pressing into the ranks of the
priesthood, and almost forcing themselves into monasteries, that they
might be privileged to beg, because ashamed to work. In the United
Netherlands the confiscated convents, with their revenues, were
appropriated for the good of those who were too young or too old to
labour, and too poor to maintain themselves without work. Need men look
further than to this simple fact to learn why Spain was decaying while
the republic was rising?

The ordinary budget of the United Provinces was about equal to that of
England, varying not much from four millions of florins, or four hundred
thousand pounds. But the extraordinary revenue was comparatively without
limits, and there had been years, during the war, when the citizens had
taxed themselves as highly as fifty per cent. on each individual income,
and doubled the receipts of the exchequer. The budget was proposed once a
year, by the council of state, and voted by the States-General, who
assigned the quota of each province; that of Holland being always
one-half of the whole, that of Zeeland sixteen per cent., and that of the
other five of course in lesser proportions. The revenue was collected in
the separate provinces, one-third of the whole being retained for
provincial expenses, and the balance paid into the general treasury.
There was a public debt, the annual interest of which amounted to 200,000
florins. During the war, money had been borrowed at as high a rate as
thirty-six per cent., but at the conclusion of hostilities the States
could borrow at six per cent., and the whole debt was funded on that
basis. Taxation was enormously heavy, but patriotism caused it to be
borne with cheerfulness, and productive industry made it comparatively
light. Rents were charged twenty-five per cent. A hundred per cent. was
levied upon beer, wine, meat, salt, spirits. Other articles of necessity
and luxury were almost as severely taxed. It is not easy to enumerate the
tax-list, scarcely anything foreign or domestic being exempted, while the
grave error was often committed of taxing the same article, in different
forms, four, five, and six times.

The people virtually taxed themselves, although the superstition
concerning the State, as something distinct from and superior to the
people, was to linger long and work infinite mischief among those seven
republics which were never destined to be welded theoretically and
legally into a union. The sacredness of corporations had succeeded, in a
measure, to the divinity which hedges kings. Nevertheless, those
corporations were so numerous as to be effectively open to a far larger
proportion of the population than, in those days, had ever dreamed before
of participating in the Government. The magistracies were in general
unpaid and little coveted, being regarded as a burthen and a
responsibility rather than an object of ambition. The jurisconsults,
called pensionaries, who assisted the municipal authorities, received,
however, a modest salary, never exceeding 1500 florins a year.

These numerous bodies, provincial and municipal, elected themselves
themselves by supplying their own vacancies. The magistrates were
appointed by the stadholder, on a double or triple nomination from the
municipal board. This was not impartial suffrage nor manhood suffrage.
The germ of a hateful burgher-oligarchy was in the system, but, as
compared with Spain, where municipal magistracies were sold by the crown
at public auction; or with France, where every office in church, law,
magistrature, or court was an object of merchandise disposed of in open
market, the system was purity itself, and marked a great advance in the
science of government.

It should never be forgotten, moreover, that while the presidents and
judges of the highest courts of judicature in other civilized lands were
at the mercy of an irresponsible sovereign, and held office--even
although it had been paid for in solid specie--at his pleasure, the
supreme justices of the high courts of appeal at the Hague were nominated
by a senate, and confirmed by a stadholder, and that they exercised their
functions for life, or so long as they conducted themselves virtuously in
their high office--'quamdiu se bene gesserint.'

If one of the great objects of a civilized community is to secure to all
men their own--'ut sua tenerent'--surely it must be admitted that the
republic was in advance of all contemporary States in the laying down of
this vital principle, the independence of judges.

As to the army and navy of the United Provinces, enough has been said, in
earlier chapters of these volumes, to indicate the improvements
introduced by Prince Maurice, and now carried to the highest point of
perfection ever attained in that period. There is no doubt whatever, that
for discipline, experience, equipment, effectiveness of movement, and
general organization, the army of the republic was the model army of
Europe. It amounted to but thirty thousand infantry and two thousand five
hundred cavalry, but this number was a large one for a standing army at
the beginning of the seventeenth century. It was composed of a variety of
materials, Hollanders, Walloons, Flemings, Scotch, English, Irish,
Germans, but all welded together into a machine of perfect regularity.
The private foot-soldier received twelve florins for a so-called month of
forty-two days, the drummer and corporal eighteen, the lieutenant
fifty-two, and the captain one hundred and fifty florins. Prompt payment
was made every week. Obedience was implicit; mutiny, such as was of
periodical recurrence in the archduke's army, entirely unknown. The
slightest theft was punished with the gallows, and there was therefore no
thieving.

The most accurate and critical observers confessed, almost against their
will, that no army in Europe could compare with the troops of the States.
As to the famous regiments of Sicily, and the ancient legions of Naples
and Milan, a distinguished Venetian envoy, who had seen all the camps and
courts of Christendom, and was certainly not disposed to overrate the
Hollanders at the expense of the Italians, if any rivalry between them
had been possible, declared that every private soldier in the republic
was fit to be a captain in any Italian army; while, on the other hand,
there was scarcely an Italian captain who would be accepted as a private
in any company of the States. So low had the once famous soldiery of
Alva, Don John, and Alexander Farnese descended.

The cavalry of the republic was even more perfectly organized than was
the infantry. "I want words to describe its perfection," said Contarini.
The pay was very high, and very prompt. A captain received four hundred
florins a month (of forty-two days), a lieutenant one hundred and eighty
florins, and other officers and privates in proportion. These rates would
be very high in our own day. When allowance is made for the difference in
the value of money at the respective epochs, the salaries are prodigious;
but the thrifty republic found its account in paying well and paying
regularly the champions on whom so much depended, and by whom such
splendid services had been rendered.

While the soldiers in the pay of Queen Elizabeth were crawling to her
palace gates to die of starvation before her eyes; while the veterans of
Spain and of Italy had organized themselves into a permanent military,
mutinous republic, on the soil of the so-called obedient Netherland,
because they were left by their masters without clothing or food; the
cavalry and infantry of the Dutch commonwealth, thanks to the organizing
spirit and the wholesome thrift of the burgher authorities, were
contented, obedient, well fed, well clothed, and well paid; devoted to
their Government, and ever ready to die in its defence.

Nor was it only on the regular army that reliance was placed. On the
contrary, every able-bodied man in the country was liable to be called
upon to serve, at any moment, in the militia. All were trained to arms,
and provided with arms, and there had been years during this perpetual
war in which one man out of three of the whole male population was ready
to be mustered at any moment into the field.

Even more could be said in praise of the navy than has been stated of the
armies of the republic; for the contemporary accounts of foreigners, and
of foreigners who were apt to be satirical, rather than enthusiastic,
when describing the institutions, leading personages, and customs of
other countries, seemed ever to speak of the United Provinces in terms of
eulogy. In commerce, as in war, the naval supremacy of the republic was
indisputable. It was easy for the States to place two thousand vessels of
war in commission, if necessary, of tonnage varying from four hundred to
twelve hundred tons, to man them with the hardiest and boldest sailors in
the world, and to despatch them with promptness to any quarter of the
globe.

It was recognised as nearly impossible to compel a war-vessel of the
republic to surrender. Hardly an instance was on her naval record of
submission, even to far superior force, while it was filled with the
tragic but heroic histories of commanders who had blown their ships, with
every man on board, into the air, rather than strike their flag. Such was
the character, and such the capacity of the sea-born republic.

That republic had serious and radical defects, but the design remained to
be imitated and improved upon, centuries afterwards. The history of the
rise and progress of the Dutch republic is a leading chapter in the
history of human liberty.

The great misfortune of the commonwealth of the United Provinces, next to
the slenderness of its geographical proportions, was the fact that it was
without a centre and without a head, and therefore not a nation capable
of unlimited vitality. There were seven states. Each claimed to be
sovereign. The pretension on the part of several of them was ridiculous.
Overyssel, for example, contributed two and three-quarters per cent. of
the general budget. It was a swamp of twelve hundred square miles in
extent, with some heath-spots interspered, and it numbered perhaps a
hundred thousand inhabitants. The doughty Count of Embden alone could
have swallowed up such sovereignty, have annexed all the buckwheat
patches and cranberry marshes of Overyssel to his own meagre territories,
and nobody the wiser.

Zeeland, as we have seen, was disposed at a critical moment to set up its
independent sovereignty. Zeeland, far more important than Overyssel, had
a revenue of perhaps five hundred thousand dollars,--rather a slender
budget for an independent republic, wedged in as it was by the most
powerful empires of the earth, and half drowned by the ocean, from which
it had scarcely emerged.

There was therefore no popular representation, and on the other hand no
executive head. As sovereignty must be exercised in some way, however, in
all living commonwealths, and as a low degree of vitality was certainly
not the defect of those bustling provinces, the supreme functions had now
fallen into the hands of Holland.

While William the Silent lived, the management of war, foreign affairs,
and finance, for the revolted provinces, was in his control. He was aided
by two council boards, but the circumstances of history and the character
of the man had invested him with an inevitable dictatorship.

After his death, at least after Leicester's time, the powers of the
state-council, the head of which, Prince Maurice, was almost always
absent at the wars, fell into comparative disuse. The great functions of
the confederacy passed into the possession of the States-General. That
body now came to sit permanently at the Hague. The number of its members,
deputies from the seven provinces-envoys from those seven immortal and
soulless sovereigns--was not large. The extraordinary assembly held at
Bergen-op-Zoom for confirmation of the truce was estimated by,
Bentivoglio at eight hundred. Bentivoglio, who was on the spot, being
then nuncius at Brussels, ought to have been able to count them, yet it
is very certain that the number was grossly exaggerated.

At any rate the usual assembly at the Hague rarely amounted to one
hundred members. The presidency was changed once a week, the envoy of
each province taking his turn as chairman.

Olden-Barneveld, as member for Holland, was always present in the diet.
As Advocate-General of the leading province, and keeper of its great
seal, more especially as possessor of the governing intellect of the
whole commonwealth, he led the administration of Holland, and as the
estates of Holland contributed more than half of the whole budget of the
confederacy, it was a natural consequence of the actual supremacy of that
province, and of the vast legal hand political experience of the
Advocate, that Holland should, govern the confederacy, and that Barneveld
should govern Holland.

The States-General remained virtually supreme, receiving envoys from all
the great powers, sending abroad their diplomatic representatives, to
whom the title and rank of ambassador was freely accorded, and dealing in
a decorous and dignified way with all European affairs. The ability of
the republican statesmen was as fully recognised all over the earth, as
was the genius of their generals and great naval commanders.

The People did not exist; but this was merely because, in theory, the
People had not been invented. It was exactly because there was a
People--an energetic and intelligent People--that the republic was
possible.

No scheme had yet been devised for laying down in primary assemblies a
fundamental national law, for distributing the various functions of
governmental power among selected servants, for appointing
representatives according to population or property, and for holding all
trustees responsible at reasonable intervals to the nation itself.

Thus government was involved, fold within fold, in successive and
concentric municipal layers. The States-General were the outer husk, of
which the separate town-council was the kernel or bulb. Yet the number of
these executive and legislative boards was so large, and the whole
population comparatively so slender, as to cause the original
inconveniences from so incomplete a system to be rather theoretic than
practical. In point of fact, almost as large a variety of individuals
served the State as would perhaps have been the case under a more
philosophically arranged democracy. The difficulty was rather in
obtaining a candidate for the post than in distributing the posts among
candidates.

Men were occupied with their own affairs. In proportion to their numbers,
they were more productive of wealth than any other nation then existing.
An excellent reason why the people were so, well governed, so productive,
and so enterprising, was the simple fact that they were an educated
people. There was hardly a Netherlander--man, woman, or child--that could
not read and write. The school was the common property of the people,
paid for among the municipal expenses. In the cities, as well as in the
rural districts, there were not only common schools but classical
schools. In the burgher families it was rare to find boys who had not
been taught Latin, or girls unacquainted with French. Capacity to write
and speak several modern languages was very common, and there were many
individuals in every city, neither professors nor pedants, who had made
remarkable progress in science and classical literature. The position,
too, of women in the commonwealth proved a high degree of civilization.
They are described as virtuous, well-educated, energetic, sovereigns in
their households, and accustomed to direct all the business at home. "It
would be ridiculous," said Donato, "to see a man occupying himself with
domestic house-keeping. The women do it all, and command absolutely." The
Hollanders, so rebellious against Church and King, accepted with meekness
the despotism of woman.

The last of these was William Rathbone, and I have to regret, that it
was also the last time I ever saw him. Independently of the gratitude I
owed him for assisting me in this great cause, I respected him
highly as a man. He possessed a fine understanding with a solid judgment.
He was a person of extraordinary simplicity of manners. Though he lived
in a state of pecuniary independence, he gave an example of great
temperance, as well as of great humility of mind. But however humble
he appeared, he had always the courage to dare to do that which
was right, however it might resist the customs or the prejudices
of men. In his own line of trade, which was that of a timber-merchant
on an extensive scale, he would not allow any article to be sold for
the use of a slave-ship, and he always refused those, who applied to
him for materials for such purposes. But it is evident that it was his
intention, if he had lived, to bear his testimony still more
publicly upon this subject; for an advertisement, stating the ground of
his refusal to furnish any thing for this traffic upon Christian principles,
with a memorandum for two advertisements in the Liverpool papers, was
found among his papers at his decease.

[Footnote A: In London, Bristol and Liverpool, I had already obtained the
names of more than 20,000 seamen, in different voyages, knowing what had
become of each.]

CHAPTER XIX.

_Author proceeds to Manchester--finds a spirit rising among the people
there for the abolition of the Slave-trade--is requested to deliver
a discourse on the subject of the Slave-trade--heads of it--and
extracts--proceeds to Keddleston--and Birmingham--finds a similar
spirit at the latter place--revisits Bristol--new and difficult
situation there--Author crosses the Severn at night--unsuccessful
termination of his journey--returns to London._
I now took my departure from Liverpool, and proceeded to Manchester,
where I arrived on the Friday evening.

On the Saturday morning Mr. Thomas Walker, attended by Mr. Cooper
and Mr. Bayley of Hope, called upon me. They were then strangers to me.
They came, they said, having heard of my arrival, to congratulate me
on the spirit which was then beginning to show itself, among the
people of Manchester and of other places, on the subject of the Slave-trade,
and which would unquestionably manifest itself further by breaking
out into petitions to parliament for its abolition.

I was much surprised at this information. I had devoted myself so entirety
to my object, that I had never had time to read a newspaper since
I left London.

I never knew therefore, till now, that the attention of the public had
been drawn to the subject in such a manner. And as to petitions, though
I myself had suggested the idea at Bridgewater, Bristol, Gloucester, and
two or three other places, I had only done it provisionally, and this
without either the knowledge or the consent of the commitee. The news,
however, as it astonished, so it almost overpowered me with joy. I
rejoiced in it because it was a proof of the general good disposition
of my countrymen; because it showed me that the cause was such as
needed only to be known, to be patronised; and because the manifestation
of this spirit seemed to me to be an earnest, that success would ultimately
follow.

The gentlemen now mentioned took me away with them, and introduced
me to Mr.

Thomas Phillips. We conversed at first upon the discoveries made in
my journey; but in a little time, understanding that I had been educated
as a clergyman, they came upon me with one voice, as if it had been
before agreed upon, to deliver a discourse the next day, which was
Sunday, on the subject of the Slave-trade.

I was always aware that it was my duty to do all that I could with
propriety to serve the cause I had undertaken, and yet I found
myself embarrassed at their request.

Foreseeing, as I have before related, that this cause might demand my
attention to it for the greatest part of my life, I had given up all
thoughts of my profession. I had hitherto but seldom exercised
it, and then only to oblige some friend.

I doubted too, at the first view of the thing, whether the pulpit ought
to be made an engine for political purposes, though I could not
but consider the Slave-trade as a mass of crimes, and therefore the
effort to get rid of it as a Christian duty.

I had an idea too, that sacred matters should not be entered upon
without due consideration, nor prosecuted in a hasty, but in a decorous
and solemn manner. I saw besides, that as it was then two o'clock in
the afternoon, and this sermon was to be forthcoming the next day, there
was not sufficient time to compose it properly.

All these difficulties I suggested to my new friends without any reserve.
But nothing that I could urge would satisfy them.

They would not hear of a refusal, and I was obliged to give my consent,
though I was not reconciled to the measure.

When I went into the church it was so full that I could scarcely get to my
place; for notice had been publicly given, though I knew nothing of it,
that such a discourse would be delivered.

I was surprised also to find a great crowd of black people standing round
the pulpit. There might be forty or fifty of them. The text that I
took, as the best to be found in such a hurry, was the following: "Thou
shalt not oppress a stranger, for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing
ye were strangers in the land of Egypt."
I took an opportunity of showing from these words, that Moses, in
endeavouring to promote among the Children of Israel a tender disposition
towards those unfortunate strangers who had come under their
dominion, reminded them of their own state when strangers in Egypt,
as one of the most forcible arguments which could be used on such
an occasion.

For they could not have forgotten that the Egyptians "had made them serve
with rigour; that they had made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in
mortar, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field; and that
all the service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour." The
argument therefore of Moses was simply this; "Ye knew well, when ye
were strangers in Egypt, the nature of your own feelings.

Were you not made miserable by your debased situation there? But if so, you
must be sensible that the stranger, who has the same heart, or the
same feelings with yourselves, must experience similar suffering, if
treated in a similar manner. I charge you then, knowing this, to stand
clear of the crime of his oppression."
The law, then, by which Moses commanded the Children of Israel to
regulate their conduct with respect to the usage of the stranger,
I showed to be a law of universal and eternal obligation, and for
this, among other reasons, that it was neither more nor less than
the Christian law, which appeared afterwards, that we should not
do that to others, which we should be unwilling to have done unto
ourselves.

Having gone into these statements at some length, I made an
application of them in the following words:--
"This being the case, and this law of Moses being afterwards established
into a fundamental precept of Christianity, I must apply it to facts
of the present day, and I am sorry that I must apply it
to--ourselves.

"And first, Are there no strangers, whom we oppress? I fear the wretched
African will say, that he drinks the cup of sorrow, and that he drinks
it at our hands. Torn from his native soil, and from his family and friends,
he is immediately forced into a situation, of all others the most
degrading, where he and his progeny are considered as cattle, as
possessions, and as the possessions of a man to whom he never gave
offence.

"It is a melancholy fact, but it can be abundantly proved, that great numbers
of the unfortunate strangers, who are carried from Africa to our colonies,
are fraudulently and forcibly taken from their native soil.

To descant but upon a single instance of the kind must be productive of
pain to the ear of sensibility and freedom. Consider the sensations
of the person, who is thus carried off by the ruffians, who have
been lurking to intercept him. Separated from every thing which he esteems
in life, without the possibility even of bidding his friends adieu,
behold him overwhelmed in tears--wringing his hands in despair--looking
backwards upon the spot where all his hopes and wishes lay,--while
his family at home are waiting for him with anxiety and suspense--are
waiting, perhaps, for sustenance--are agitated between hope and
fear--till length of absence confirms the latter, and they are
immediately plunged into inconceivable misery and distress.

"If this instance, then, is sufficiently melancholy of itself, and is at
all an act of oppression, how complicated will our guilt appear, who are
the means of snatching away thousands annually in the same manner,
and who force them and their families into the same unhappy situation,
without either remorse or shame!"

Having proceeded to show, in a more particular manner than I can detail
here, how, by means of the Slave-trade, we oppressed the stranger, I
made an inquiry into the other branch of the subject, or how far
we had a knowledge of his heart.

To elucidate this point, I mentioned several specific instances, out
of those which I had collected in my journey, and which I could depend
upon as authentic, of honour--gratitude--fidelity--filial, fraternal,
and conjugal affection--and of the finest sensibility, on the part of
those, who had been brought into our colonies from Africa, in the
character of slaves, and then I proceeded for a while in the following
words:--

"If, then, we oppress the stranger, as I have shown, and if, by a knowledge
of his heart, we find that he is a person of the same passions and
feelings as ourselves, we are certainly breaking, by means of the
prosecution of the Slave-trade, that fundamental principle of
Christianity, which says, that we shall not do that unto another, which
we wish should not be done unto ourselves, and, I fear, cutting
ourselves off from all expectation of the Divine blessing.

For how inconsistent is our conduct! We come into the temple of God; we
fall prostrate before him; we pray to him, that he will have mercy upon
us. But how shall he have mercy upon us, who have had no mercy upon
others! We pray to him, again, that he will deliver us from evil. But how
shall he deliver us from evil, who are daily invading the right of
the injured African, and heaping misery on his head!"
I attempted, lastly, to show, that, though the sin of the Slave-trade had
been hitherto a sin of ignorance, and might therefore have so far been
winked at, yet as the crimes and miseries belonging to it became known,
it would attach even to those who had no concern in it, if they suffered
it to continue either without notice or reproach, or if they did not exert
themselves in a reasonable manner for its suppression. I noticed
particularly, the case of Tyre and Sidon, which were the Bristol and the
Liverpool of those times. A direct judgment had been pronounced by the
prophet Joel against these cities, and, what is remarkable, for
the prosecution of this same barbarous traffic. Thus, "And what have ye
to do with me O Tyre and Sidon, and all the coasts of Palestine? Ye have
cast lots for my people. Ye have sold a girl for wine.

     The children of Judah, and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold
unto the Grecians, that ye might remove them far from their own
border.

     Behold! I will raise them out of the place whither ye have
     sold them, and will recompense your wickedness
     on your own heads." Such was the language of the
     prophet; and Tyre and Sidon fell, as he had pointed out,
     when the inhabitants were either cut off, or carried
     into slavery.
     
     Having thrown out these ideas to the notice of the
     audience, I concluded in the following words:--
     "If, then, we wish to avert the heavy national judgment which
     is hanging over our heads (for must we
     not believe that our crimes towards the innocent Africans lie
     recorded against us in heaven) let us endeavour
     to assert their cause. Let us nobly
     withstand the torrent of the evil,
     however inveterately it may be fixed among the customs
     of the times; not, however, using our liberty
     as a cloak of maliciousness against those,
     who perhaps without due consideration, have
     the misfortune to be concerned in it, but
     upon proper motives, and in a proper
     spirit, as the servants of God; so that if the
     sun should be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,
     and the very heaven should fall upon us, we may fall in the
     general convulsion without dismay, conscious that we
     have done our duty in endeavouring to succour the distressed,
     and that the stain of the blood of Africa is not
     upon us."
     From Manchester I proceeded to Keddleston in Derbyshire,
     to spend a day with Lord Scarsdale, and to
     show him my little collection of African productions, and
     to inform him of my progress since I last
     saw him. Here a letter was forwarded to me from the reverend
     John Toogood, of Keinton Magna in Dorsetshire, though I was then
     unknown to him. He informed me
     that he had addressed several letters to the inhabitants
     of his own county, through their provincial
     paper, on the subject of the Slave-trade, which
     letters had produced a considerable effect. It appeared,
     however, that, when he began
     them, he did not know of the
     formation of our commitee, or that he had a single
     coadjutor in the cause.
     
     From Keddleston I turned off to Birmingham, being
     desirous of visiting Bristol in my way
     to London, to see if any thing new had occurred since
     I was there. I was introduced by letter, at Birmingham,
     to Sampson and Charles Lloyd, the brothers of
     John Lloyd, belonging to our commitee,
     and members of the religious society of the Quakers. I was
     highly gratified in finding
     that these, in conjunction with Mr. Russell, had been
     attempting to awaken the attention of the
     inhabitants to this great subject, and
     that in consequence of their laudable efforts, a spirit
     was beginning to show itself there, as at Manchester,
     in favour of the abolition of the
     Slave-trade. The kind manner in which these received me, and
     the deep interest which they appeared to take in our
     cause, led me to an esteem for them, which,
     by means of subsequent visits, grew into a solid friendship.
     
     At length I arrived at Bristol at about ten
     o'clock on Friday morning. But what was my surprise, when
     almost the first thing I heard from my friend
     Harry Gandy was, that a letter had been dispatched to me to
Liverpool, nearly a week ago, requesting me immediately to repair
to this place; for that in consequence of notice from the Lords of
the Admiralty, advertised in the public papers, the trial of the
chief mate, whom I had occasioned to be taken up at Bristol, for
the murder of William Lines, was coming on at the Old Bailey, and
that not an evidence was to be found. This intelligence almost
paralysed me. I cannot describe my feelings on receiving it.John Wier, a physician of Grave
     Justified themselves in a solemn consumption of time
     Languor of fatigue, rather than any sincere desire for peace
     Logic of the largest battalions
     Looking down upon her struggle with benevolent indifference
     Made peace--and had been at war ever since
     Man is never so convinced of his own wisdom
     Man who cannot dissemble is unfit to reign
     Men who meant what they said and said what they meant
     Men fought as if war was the normal condition of humanity
     Much as the blind or the deaf towards colour or music
     Nations tied to the pinafores of children in the nursery
     Natural tendency to suspicion of a timid man
     Necessity of extirpating heresy, root and branch
     Negotiated as if they were all immortal
     Night brings counsel
     No retrenchments in his pleasures of women, dogs, and buildings
     No generation is long-lived enough to reap the harvest
     Not safe for politicians to call each other hard names
     Nowhere were so few unproductive consumers
     One of the most contemptible and mischievous of kings (James I)
     Passion is a bad schoolmistress for the memory
     Paving the way towards atheism (by toleration)
     Peace seemed only a process for arriving at war
     Peace founded on the only secure basis, equality of strength
     Peace was unattainable, war was impossible, truce was inevitable
     Philip of Macedon, who considered no city impregnable
     Prisoners were immediately hanged
     Privileged to beg, because ashamed to work
     Proclaiming the virginity of the Virgin's mother
     Readiness at any moment to defend dearly won liberties
     Religious persecution of Protestants by Protestants
     Repose under one despot guaranteed to them by two others
     Requires less mention than Philip III himself
     Rules adopted in regard to pretenders to crowns
     Served at their banquets by hosts of lackeys on their knees
     Sick soldiers captured on the water should be hanged
     So unconscious of her strength
     State can best defend religion by letting it alone
     Steeped to the lips in sloth which imagined itself to be pride
     Subtle and dangerous enemy who wore the mask of a friend
     Such an excuse was as bad as the accusation
     Take all their imaginations and extravagances for truths
     Taxed themselves as highly as fifty per cent
     The art of ruling the world by doing nothing
     The slightest theft was punished with the gallows
     The wisest statesmen are prone to blunder in affairs of war
     The pigmy, as the late queen had been fond of nicknaming him
     The expenses of James's household
     The People had not been invented
     The small children diminished rapidly in numbers
     This obstinate little republic
     To shirk labour, infinite numbers become priests and friars
     To negotiate was to bribe right and left, and at every step
     To doubt the infallibility of Calvin was as heinous a crime
     To negotiate with Government in England was to bribe
     Tolerate another religion that his own may be tolerated
     Toleration--that intolerable term of insult
     Triple marriages between the respective nurseries
     Unlearned their faith in bell, book, and candle
     Unproductive consumption being accounted most sagacious
     Unwise impatience for peace
     Usual expedient by which bad legislation on one side countered
     War was the normal and natural condition of mankind
     War was the normal condition of Christians
     War to compel the weakest to follow the religion of the strongest
     We have been talking a little bit of truth to each other
     What was to be done in this world and believed as to the next
     What exchequer can accept chronic warfare and escape bankruptcy
     When all was gone, they began to eat each other
     Word peace in Spanish mouths simply meant the Holy Inquisition
     Words are always interpreted to the disadvantage of the weak
     World has rolled on to fresher fields of carnage and ruin
     You must show your teeth to the Spaniard


ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS OF THE UNITED NETHERLANDS 1584-1609, COMPLETE

     A hard bargain when both parties are losers
     A penal offence in the republic to talk of peace or of truce
     A despot really keeps no accounts, nor need to do so
     A free commonwealth--was thought an absurdity
     A burnt cat fears the fire
     A pusillanimous peace, always possible at any period
     A man incapable of fatigue, of perplexity, or of fear
     A sovereign remedy for the disease of liberty
     A truce he honestly considered a pitfall of destruction
     Able men should be by design and of purpose suppressed
     About equal to that of England at the same period
     Abstinence from unproductive consumption
     Accepting a new tyrant in place of the one so long ago deposed
     Accustomed to the faded gallantries
     Act of Uniformity required Papists to assist
     Alas! we must always have something to persecute
     Alas! How shall I make known their situation, while labouring
     under painful disease, or while
     struggling in the suffocating
     holds of their prisons, like animals inclosed in
     an exhausted receiver? How
     shall I describe their feelings, as exposed to all the
     personal indignities, which lawless appetite
     or brutal passion may suggest? How shall
     I exhibit their sufferings as determining to refuse sustenance
     and die, or as resolving to break their chains,
     and, disdaining to live as slaves, to punish their
     oppressors? How shall I give an idea of their
     agony, when under various punishments and tortures for their
     reputed
     crimes?
     Indeed every part of this subject defies my
     powers, and I must therefore satisfy myself
     and the reader with a general representation,
     or in the words of a celebrated member of Parliament,
     that "Never was so much human suffering
     condensed in so small a space."
     
     I come now to the evil, as it has been
     proved to arise in the third case; or
     to consider the situation of the unhappy victims of the
     trade, when their painful voyages are over, or after
     they have been landed upon their destined shores. And
     here we are to view them first under the
     degrading light of cattle. We are to see them
     examined, handled, selected, separated, and
     sold. Alas! relatives are separated from relatives, as if,
     like cattle, they had no rational intellect,
     no power of feeling the nearness
     of relationship, nor sense of the duties
     belonging to the ties of life! We are next
     to see them labouring, and this for the
     benefit of those, to whom they are under no
     obligation, by any law
     either natural or divine, to obey. We are to see them, if
     refusing the commands of their purchasers, however weary,
     or feeble, or indisposed, subject to corporal punishments,
     and, if forcibly resisting them, to death.
     We are to see them in a state of general degradation and
     misery. The knowledge, which their oppressors have of
     their own crime in having violated the rights
     of nature, and of the disposition of the
     injured to seek all opportunities of revenge, produces
     a fear, which dictates to them the necessity of a
     system of treatment by which they shall keep up a wide distinction
     between the two, and by which the noble
     feelings of the latter shall be kept down, and their
     spirits broken. We are to see them again subject to individual
     persecution, as anger, or malice, or any
     bad passion may suggest. Hence the whip--the
     chain--the iron-collar. Hence the various modes
     of private torture, of which so many accounts have been
     truly given. Nor can such horrible cruelties be
     discovered so as to be made punishable, while
     the testimony of any number of the oppressed
     is invalid against the oppressors, however they may be offences
     against the laws. And, lastly,
     we are to see their innocent offspring, against whose
     personal liberty the shadow of an argument
     cannot be advanced, inheriting all the miseries of
     their parents' lot.
     
     The evil then, as far as it has been hitherto viewed, presents
     to us in its three several departments a measure of human suffering
     not to be equalled--not to be calculated--not
     to be described. But would that
     we could consider this part of the subject as dismissed!
     Would that in each of the departments now examined there was
     no counterpart left us to
     contemplate! But this cannot be. For if there be persons,
     who suffer unjustly, there must be others, who oppress. And
     if there be those who oppress, there must be to the
     suffering, which has
     been occasioned, a corresponding portion of immorality or guilt.
We are obliged then to view the counterpart of the evil in question,
before we can make a proper estimate of the nature of it. And, in
examining this part of it, we shall find that we have a no less
frightful picture to behold than in the former cases; or that, while
the miseries endured by the unfortunate Africans excite our pity
on the one hand, the vices, which are connected with them, provoke
our indignation and abhorrence on the other.I am ready for either
     Done nothing so long as aught remained to do
     Draw a profit out of the necessities of this state
     During this, whole war, we have never seen the like
     Each in its turn becoming orthodox, and therefore persecuting
     Eat their own children than to forego one high mass
     Elizabeth, though convicted, could always confute
     Elizabeth (had not) the faintest idea of religious freedom
     Eloquence of the biggest guns
     England hated the Netherlands
     Englishmen and Hollanders preparing to cut each other's throats
     Enmity between Lutherans and Calvinists
     Even the virtues of James were his worst enemies
     Even to grant it slowly is to deny it utterly
     Ever met disaster with so cheerful a smile
     Every one sees what you seem, few perceive what you are
     Evil is coming, the sooner it arrives the better
     Evil has the advantage of rapidly assuming many shapes
     Exorcising the devil by murdering his supposed victims
     Faction has rarely worn a more mischievous aspect
     Famous fowl in every pot
     Fed on bear's liver, were nearly poisoned to death
     Fellow worms had been writhing for half a century in the dust
     Find our destruction in our immoderate desire for peace
     Fitter to obey than to command
     Five great rivers hold the Netherland territory in their coils
     Fled from the land of oppression to the land of liberty
     Fool who useth not wit because he hath it not
     For his humanity towards the conquered garrisons (censured)
     For us, looking back upon the Past, which was then the Future
     Forbidding the wearing of mourning at all
     Foremost to shake off the fetters of superstition
     Four weeks' holiday--the first in eleven years
     French seem madmen, and are wise
     Friendly advice still more intolerable
     Full of precedents and declamatory commonplaces
     Future world as laid down by rival priesthoods
     German Highland and the German Netherland
     German-Lutheran sixteenth-century idea of religious freedom
     Gigantic vices are proudly pointed to as the noblest
     God of vengeance, of jealousy, and of injustice
     God alone can protect us against those whom we trust
     God of wrath who had decreed the extermination of all unbeliever
     God, whose cause it was, would be pleased to give good weather
     Gold was the only passkey to justice
     Gomarites accused the Arminians of being more lax than Papists
     Guilty of no other crime than adhesion to the Catholic faith
     Had industry been honoured instead of being despised
     Haereticis non servanda fides
     Hanging of Mary Dyer at Boston
     Hangman is not the most appropriate teacher of religion
     Hard at work, pouring sand through their sieves
     Hardly an inch of French soil that had not two possessors
     Hardly a distinguished family in Spain not placed in mourning
     He often spoke of popular rights with contempt
     He did his work, but he had not his reward
     He who confessed well was absolved well
     He spent more time at table than the Bearnese in sleep
     He sat a great while at a time. He had a genius for sitting
     Henry the Huguenot as the champion of the Council of Trent
     Her teeth black, her bosom white and liberally exposed (Eliz.)
     Heretics to the English Church were persecuted
     Hibernian mode of expressing himself
     High officers were doing the work of private, soldiers
     Highest were not necessarily the least slimy
     His invectives were, however, much stronger than his arguments
     His own past triumphs seemed now his greatest enemies
     His insolence intolerable
     His inordinate arrogance
     Historical scepticism may shut its eyes to evidence
     History is but made up of a few scattered fragments
     History is a continuous whole of which we see only fragments
     Holland was afraid to give a part, although offering the whole
     Holy institution called the Inquisition
     Honor good patriots, and to support them in venial errors
     Hugo Grotius
     Human fat esteemed the sovereignst remedy (for wounds)
     Humanizing effect of science upon the barbarism of war
     Humble ignorance as the safest creed
     Humility which was but the cloak to his pride
     Hundred thousand men had laid down their lives by her decree
     I will never live, to see the end of my poverty
     I am a king that will be ever known not to fear any but God
     I did never see any man behave himself as he did
     Idea of freedom in commerce has dawned upon nations
     Idiotic principle of sumptuary legislation
     Idle, listless, dice-playing, begging, filching vagabonds
     If to do be as grand as to imagine what it were good to do
     Ignorance is the real enslaver of mankind
     Imagining that they held the world's destiny in their hands
     Imposed upon the multitudes, with whom words were things
     Impossible it was to invent terms of adulation too gross
     Impossible it is to practise arithmetic with disturbed brains
     In times of civil war, to be neutral is to be nothing
     Individuals walking in advance of their age
     Indulging them frequently with oracular advice
     Inevitable fate of talking castles and listening ladies
     Infamy of diplomacy, when diplomacy is unaccompanied by honesty
     Infinite capacity for pecuniary absorption
     Inhabited by the savage tribes called Samoyedes
     Innocent generation, to atone for the sins of their forefathers
     Inquisitors enough; but there were no light vessels in The Armada
     Insensible to contumely, and incapable of accepting a rebuff
     Intelligence, science, and industry were accounted degrading
     Intentions of a government which did not know its own intentions
     Intolerable tendency to puns
     Invaluable gift which no human being can acquire, authority
     Invincible Armada had not only been vanquished but annihilated
     It is certain that the English hate us (Sully)
     John Castel, who had stabbed Henry IV.
     Indeed I had been before acquainted
     with this circumstance.
     Thompson, of the Seven Stars, had informed me that
     Frazer was the only man sailing out of that port for
     slaves, who had not been guilty
     of cruelty to his seamen: and Mr. Burges alluded to it, when
     he gave me advice not to proceed against the captain
     of the Alfred; for he then said, as I
     mentioned in a former chapter, "that he knew but one
     captain in the trade, who did
     not deserve long ago to be hanged." Mr. Falconbridge,
     however, stated, that though he had been
     thus fortunate in the Tartar and Emilia, he had been as
     unfortunate in the Alexander; for he believed
     there were no instances upon naval record, taken
     altogether, of greater barbarity, than of
     that which had been exercised towards the seamen in
     this voyage. In running over these, it
     struck me that I had
     heard of the same from some other quarter, or at
     least that these were so like the others,
     that I was surprised at their coincidence.
     On taking out my notes, I looked for the
     names of those
     whom I recollected to have been used in this manner;
     and on desiring Mr.
     Falconbridge to mention the names of those also to whom
     he alluded, they turned out to be the same. The mystery,
     however, was soon cleared up, when I told him from whom I
     had received my intelligence: for Mr. Arnold, the
     last-mentioned person in the last chapter, had been
     surgeon's mate under Mr. Falconbridge in the same vessel.
     
     There was one circumstance of peculiar importance, but
     quite new to me, which I
     collected from the information which Mr. Falconbridge
     had given me.
     This was, that many of the seamen, who left the slave-ships in
     the West Indies, were in such a weak, ulcerated, and
     otherwise diseased state, that they perished there. Several
     also of those who came home with the vessels,
     were in the same
     deplorable condition. This was the case, Mr.
     Falconbridge said, with some who returned
     in the Alexander. It was the case also with many others;
     for he had been a pupil, for twelve months,
     in the Bristol Infirmary, and had had ample means of
     knowing the fact. The greatest number of seamen, at
     almost all times, who
     were there, were from the slave-vessels. These, too, were usually
     there on account of disease, whereas those from other ships were
     usually there on account of accidents.
     The health of some of the former was so far destroyed,
     that they were never wholly to be restored. This
     information was of great importance; for it showed that they who
     were reported dead upon the muster-rolls,
     were not all that were lost to the country by the prosecution
     of this wicked trade.
     Indeed, it was of so much importance, that in all my
     future interviews with others, which were for the purpose
     of collecting evidence, I never forgot to
     make it a subject of inquiry.
     
     I can hardly say how precious I
     considered the facts with which Mr.
     Falconbridge had furnished me from his own experience, relative
     to the different branches of this commerce. They were so precious,
     that I began now to be troubled lest I should lose them.
     For, though he had thus privately unbosomed himself
     to me, it did not follow that he would come forward as
     a public evidence. I was not a little uneasy
     on this account. I was fearful lest, when I
     should put this question to him, his
     future plan of life, or some little narrow consideration
     of future interest, would prevent him from
     giving his testimony, and I delayed asking him for many days.
     During this time, however, I frequently visited
     him; and at length, when I thought I was better acquainted,
     and probably in some little
     estimation, with him, I
     ventured to open my wishes on this subject. He answered me boldly,
     and at once, that he had left the trade
     upon principle, and that he would state all he knew
     concerning it, either
     publicly or privately, and at any time when
     he should be called upon to do it. This answer produced such
     an effect upon me, after all my former disappointments,
     that I felt it all over my frame. It operated like a sudden
     shock, which often disables the impressed person for a time.
     So the joy I felt rendered me quite
     useless, as to business, for the remainder
     of the day.
     
     I began to perceive in a little time the advantage of
     having cultivated an acquaintance with Thompson of the
     Seven Stars. For nothing could
     now pass in Bristol, relative to the seamen employed in
     this trade, but it was soon brought to me.
     If there was any thing amiss, I had so arranged
     matters that I was sure to hear of it. He sent for
     me one day to inform me that several of the seamen, who
     had been sent out of Marsh-street into the
     Prince, which was then at Kingroad, and on the point of
     sailing to Africa for slaves, had, through
     fear of ill-usage on the voyage, taken the boat and
     put themselves on shore. He informed me at the
     same time that the seamen of the
     Africa, which was lying there also
     and ready to sail on a like voyage, were not
     satisfied, for that they had been made to sign their
     articles of agreement, without being permitted to see them. To
     this he added that Mr.
     Sheriff, one of the mates of the latter
     vessel, was unhappy also on this account. Sheriff had been
     a mate in the West India trade, and was a respectable man in his
     line. He had been
     enticed by the captain of the Africa, under
     the promise of peculiar advantages, to change his
     voyage.
     Having a wife and family at Bristol, he was willing to
     make a sacrifice on their account. But when he himself
     was not permitted to read the articles,
     he began to suspect bad work, and that there would be nothing
     but misery in the approaching voyage. Thompson entreated
     me to extricate him, if I could.
     He was sure, he said, if he went to the Coast with that man,
     meaning the captain, that he would never return
     alive.
     
     I was very unwilling to refuse any thing to
     Thompson. I was deeply bound to him in gratitude
     for the many services he had rendered me, but
     I scarcely saw how I could serve
     him on this occasion. I promised however, to speak to
     him in an hour's time; I consulted my friend Truman Harford
     in the interim; and the result was, that he and
     I should proceed to Kingroad in a
     boat, go on board the Africa, and charge
     the captain in person with what he had done, and desire
     him to discharge Sheriff, as no agreement, where
     fraud or force was used in the signatures, could be deemed
     valid. If we were not able to extricate Sheriff by these means,
     we thought that at least we should know, by
     inquiring of those whom we should see on board, whether the measure
     of hindering the men from seeing their articles
     on signing them had been adopted. It would be useful to
     ascertain this, because such a measure had been
     long reported to be usual in this, but was
     said to be unknown in any other trade.
     
     Having passed the river's mouth and rowed towards the sea, we
     came near the Prince first, but pursued our destination
     to the Africa. Mr. Sheriff was the person who
     received us on board. I did not know
     him till I asked his name. I then told
     him my errand, with which he seemed to be much
     pleased.
     On asking him to tell the captain that I wished
     to speak with him, he replied that
     he was on shore. This put me to great difficulty,
     as I did not know then what to do. I consulted with
     Truman Harford, and it was our opinion,
     that we should inquire of the seamen, but in a
     very quiet manner, by going
     individually to each, if they had ever demanded to see
     the articles on signing them, and if they had been refused.
     We proposed this question to them. They replied,
     that the captain had refused
     them in a savage manner, making use of threats
     and oaths. There was not one
     contradictory voice on this occasion. We then
     asked Mr. Sheriff what we were to do. He entreated us by all
     means to take him on shore. He was sure that
     under such a man as the captain, and particularly
     after the circumstance of our coming on board should be made
     known to him, he would never
     come from the coast of Africa alive.
     Upon this, Truman Harford called me aside, and told me
     the danger of taking an officer from the ship; for
     that, if any accident should happen to her, the damage might
     all fall upon me. I then inquired of Mr. Sheriff if there
     was any officer on board, who could manage the ship. He
     pointed one out to me, and I spoke to him
     in the cabin. This person told me I need be under no
     apprehension about the vessel, but that every one
     would be sorry to lose Mr.
     Sheriff. Upon this ground, Truman Harford, who
     had felt more for me than for himself,
     became now easy. We had before concluded, that the
     obtaining any signature by fraud or force would
     render the agreement illegal. We
     therefore joined in opinion, that we might take away
     the man. His chest was accordingly put into our boat. We
     jumped into it with our rowers, and he followed us,
     surrounded by the seamen, all of whom took an affectionate leave
     of him, and expressed their regret at parting. Soon after
     this there was a general cry of "Will you take me too?" from
     the deck; and such a sudden movement appeared
     there, that we were obliged to push off directly from
     the side, fearing that many would jump into our boat and
     go with us.
     
     After having left
     the ship, Sheriff corroborated the desertion of
     the seamen from the Prince, as before related to
     me by Thompson. He spoke also of the
     savage disposition of his late captain, which he
     had even dared to manifest though lying in
     an English port. I was impressed
     by this account of his rough manners; and the wind
     having risen before and the surf now rolling
     heavily, I began to think what an escape I might have
     had; how easy it would have been for the savage
     captain, if he had been on
     board, or for any one at his instigation, to
     have pushed me over the ship's side. This was the first time I
     had ever considered
     the peril of the undertaking. But we arrived safe; and though
     on the same evening I left my name at the captain's
     house, as that of the person who had taken away his
     mate, I never heard more about it.
     
     In pursuing my inquiries into the new topic suggested by
     Mr. Falconbridge, I learnt that two of three of the seamen
     of the ship Thomas, which had been arrived now nearly
     a year from the Coast, were in a very crippled and deplorable
     state. I accordingly went to see them. One
     of them had been attacked by a fever, arising from circumstances
     connected with these voyages. The inflammation,
     which had proceeded
     from it, had reached his eyes. It could not be
     dispersed; and the consequence was, that he was then
     blind. The second was lame. He had badly ulcerated legs,
     and appeared to be very weak. The third was a mere spectre.
     I think
     he was the most pitiable
     object I ever saw. I considered him as irrecoverably gone. They
     all complained to me of their bad usage on board the Thomas.
     They said they had heard of my being in
     Bristol, and they hoped I would not leave it,
     without inquiring into the murder of William Lines.
     
     On inquiring who William Lines
     was, they informed me that he had been one of the crew of
     the same ship, and that all on board believed that he had been
     killed by the chief mate; but they themselves
     had not been present when the blows were given him. They had
     not seen him till afterwards; but their shipmates had told
     them of his cruel treatment, and they knew that soon
     afterwards he had died.
     
     In the course of the next day, the mother of Lines, who lived in
     Bristol, came to me and related the case. I told
     her there was no evidence as to the fact, for that I had seen three
seamen, who could not speak to it from their own knowledge. She
said, there were four others then in Bristol who could. I desired
her to fetch them. When they arrived I examined each separately,
and cross-examined them in the best manner I was able. I could find
no variation in their account, and I was quite convinced that the
murder had taken place. The mother was then importunate that I
should take up the case. I was too much affected by the narration
I had heard to refuse her wholly, and yet I did not promise that I
would. I begged a little time to consider of it. During this I
thought of consulting my friend Burges.
But I feared he would throw cold water upon it, as he had done in
the case of the captain of the Alfred. I remembered well what he
had then said to me, and yet I felt a strong disposition to proceed.
For the trade was still going on. Every day, perhaps, some new act
of barbarity was taking place.
And one example, if made, might counteract the evil for a time. I
seemed, therefore to incline to stir in this matter, and thought,
if I should get into any difficulty about it, it would be better
to do it without consulting Mr. Burges, than, after having done it,
to fly as it were in his face. I then sent for the woman, and told
her, that she might appear with the witnesses at the Common Hall,
where the magistrates usually sat on a certain day.
We all met at the time appointed, and I determined to sit as near
to the mayor as I could get. The hall was unusually crowded. One
or two slave-merchants, and two or three others, who were largely
concerned in the West India trade, were upon the bench. For I had
informed the mayor the day before of my intention, and he, it
appeared, had informed them. I shall never forget the savage looks
which these people gave me; which indeed were so remarkable, as to
occasion the eyes of the whole court to be turned upon me. They
looked as if they were going to speak to me, and the people looked
as if they expected me to say something in return. They then got
round the mayor, and began to whisper to him, as I supposed, on the
business before it should come on. One of them, however, said aloud
to the former, but fixing his eyes upon me, and wishing me to
overhear him, "Scandalous reports had lately been spread, but sailors
were not used worse in Guineamen than in other vessels." This brought
the people's eyes upon me again. I was very much irritated, but I
thought it improper to say any thing. Another, looking savagely at
me, said to the mayor, "that he had known captain Vicars a long
time; that he was an honourable man[A], and would not allow such
usage in his ship. There were always vagabonds to hatch up things:"
and he made a dead point at me, by putting himself into a posture
which attracted the notice of those present, and by staring me in
the face, I could now no longer restrain myself, and I said aloud
in as modest a manner as I could, "You, sir, may know many things
which I do not.
But this I know, that if you do not do your duty, you are amenable
to a higher court." The mayor upon this looked at me, and directly
my friend Mr.
Burges, who was sitting as the clerk to the magistrates, went to
him and whispered something in his ear; after which all private
conversation between the mayor and others ceased, and the hearing
was ordered to come on.
[Footnote A: We may well imagine what this person's notion of another
man's honour was; for he was the purser of the Brothers and of the
Alfred, who, as before mentioned, sent the captains of those ships
out a second voyage, after knowing their barbarities in the former.It defended Cooper from the charge of vilifying his country in order
to make his works salable in England, but it defended him in this
way. No motive of that kind was necessary to be supposed. He had
an inborn disposition to pour out his bile and vent his spleen.I saw nothing but misery in the place. I had collected now, I
believed, all the evidence it would afford; and to stay in it a day
longer than was necessary, would be only an interruption for so
much time both of my happiness and of my health.The America to which he had returned seemed to him much worse than
that from which he had gone. In his opinion nearly everything had
deteriorated. Manners, morals, the whole spirit of the nation,
struck him as being on a lower level.