For many a mile not a word was spoken between Miss Mackenzie and her
niece. The mind of the elder of the two travellers was very full of
thought,--of thought and of feeling too, so that she could not bring
herself to speak joyously to the young girl. She had her doubts as to
the wisdom of what she was doing. Her whole life, hitherto, had been
sad, sombre, and, we may almost say, silent. Things had so gone with
her that she had had no power of action on her own behalf. Neither
with her father, nor with her brother, though both had been invalids,
had anything of the management of affairs fallen into her hands. Not
even in the hiring or discharging of a cookmaid had she possessed
any influence. No power of the purse had been with her--none of
that power which belongs legitimately to a wife because a wife is a
partner in the business. The two sick men whom she had nursed had
liked to retain in their own hands the little privileges which their
position had given them. Margaret, therefore, had been a nurse in
their houses, and nothing more than a nurse. Had this gone on for
another ten years she would have lived down the ambition of any more
exciting career, and would have been satisfied, had she then come
into the possession of the money which was now hers, to have ended
her days nursing herself--or more probably, as she was by nature
unselfish, she would have lived down her pride as well as her
ambition, and would have gone to the house of her brother and have
expended herself in nursing her nephews and nieces. But luckily for
her--or unluckily, as it may be--this money had come to her before
her time for withering had arrived. In heart, and energy, and desire,
there was still much of strength left to her. Indeed it may be said
of her, that she had come so late in life to whatever of ripeness was
to be vouchsafed to her, that perhaps the period of her thraldom had
not terminated itself a day too soon for her advantage. Many of her
youthful verses she had destroyed in the packing up of those two
modest trunks; but there were effusions of the spirit which had
flown into rhyme within the last twelve months, and which she still
preserved. Since her brother's death she had confined herself to
simple prose, and for this purpose she kept an ample journal. All
this is mentioned to show that at the age of thirty-six Margaret
Mackenzie was still a young woman.

She had resolved that she would not content herself with a lifeless
life, such as those few who knew anything of her evidently expected
from her. Harry Handcock had thought to make her his head nurse; and
the Tom Mackenzies had also indulged some such idea when they gave
her that first invitation to come and live in Gower Street. A word
or two had been said at the Cedars which led her to suppose that
the baronet's family there would have admitted her, with her eight
hundred a year, had she chosen to be so admitted. But she had
declared to herself that she would make a struggle to do better with
herself and with her money than that. She would go into the world,
and see if she could find any of those pleasantnesses of which she
had read in books. As for dancing, she was too old, and never yet
in her life had she stood up as a worshipper of Terpsichore. Of
cards she knew nothing; she had never even seen them used. To the
performance of plays she had been once or twice in her early days,
and now regarded a theatre not as a sink of wickedness after the
manner of the Stumfoldians, but as a place of danger because of
difficulty of ingress and egress, because the ways of a theatre were
far beyond her ken. The very mode in which it would behove her to
dress herself to go out to an ordinary dinner party, was almost
unknown to her. And yet, in spite of all this, she was resolved to
try.

Would it not have been easier for her--easier and more
comfortable--to have abandoned all ideas of the world, and have put
herself at once under the tutelage and protection of some clergyman
who would have told her how to give away her money, and prepare
herself in the right way for a comfortable death-bed? There was much
in this view of life to recommend it. It would be very easy, and
she had the necessary faith. Such a clergyman, too, would be a
comfortable friend, and, if a married man, might be a very dear
friend. And there might, probably, be a clergyman's wife, who would
go about with her, and assist in that giving away of her money.
Would not this be the best life after all? But in order to reconcile
herself altogether to such a life as that, it was necessary that she
should be convinced that the other life was abominable, wicked, and
damnable. She had seen enough of things--had looked far enough into
the ways of the world--to perceive this. She knew that she must go
about such work with strong convictions, and as yet she could not
bring herself to think that "dancing and delights" were damnable.
No doubt she would come to have such belief if told so often enough
by some persuasive divine; but she was not sure that she wished to
believe it.

After doubting much, she had determined to give the world a trial,
and, feeling that London was too big for her, had resolved upon
Littlebath. But now, having started herself upon her journey, she
felt as some mariner might who had put himself out alone to sea in
a small boat, with courage enough for the attempt, but without that
sort of courage which would make the attempt itself delightful.

And then this girl that was with her! She had told herself that it
would not be well to live for herself alone, that it was her duty to
share her good things with some one, and therefore she had resolved
to share them with her niece. But in this guardianship there was
danger, which frightened her as she thought of it.

"Are you tired yet, my dear?" said Miss Mackenzie, as they got to
Swindon.

"Oh dear, no; I'm not at all tired."

"There are cakes in there, I see. I wonder whether we should have
time to buy one."

After considering the matter for five minutes in doubt, Aunt Margaret
did rush out, and did buy the cakes.


CHAPTER III

Miss Mackenzie's First Acquaintances


In the first fortnight of Miss Mackenzie's sojourn at Littlebath,
four persons called upon her; but though this was a success as far
as it went, those fourteen days were very dull. During her former
short visit to the place she had arranged to send her niece to a
day school which had been recommended to her as being very genteel,
and conducted under moral and religious auspices of most exalted
character. Hither Susanna went every morning after breakfast, and
returned home in these summer days at eight o'clock in the evening.
On Sundays also, she went to morning church with the other girls; so
that Miss Mackenzie was left very much to herself.

Mrs Pottinger was the first to call, and the doctor's wife contented
herself with simple offers of general assistance. She named a baker
to Miss Mackenzie, and a dressmaker; and she told her what was the
proper price to be paid by the hour for a private brougham or for a
public fly. All this was useful, as Miss Mackenzie was in a state
of densest ignorance; but it did not seem that much in the way of
amusement would come from the acquaintance of Mrs Pottinger. That
lady said nothing about the assembly rooms, nor did she speak of the
Stumfoldian manner of life. Her husband had no doubt explained to
her that the stranger was not as yet a declared disciple in either
school. Miss Mackenzie had wished to ask a question about the
assemblies, but had been deterred by fear. Then came Mr Stumfold in
person, and, of course, nothing about the assembly rooms was said
by him. He made himself very pleasant, and Miss Mackenzie almost
resolved to put herself into his hands. He did not look sour at her,
nor did he browbeat her with severe words, nor did he exact from her
the performance of any hard duties. He promised to find her a seat in
his church, and told her what were the hours of service. He had three
"Sabbath services," but he thought that regular attendance twice
every Sunday was enough for people in general. He would be delighted
to be of use, and Mrs Stumfold should come and call. Having promised
this, he went his way. Then came Mrs Stumfold, according to promise,
bringing with her one Miss Baker, a maiden lady. From Mrs Stumfold
our friend got very little assistance. Mrs Stumfold was hard,
severe, and perhaps a little grand. She let fall a word or two which
intimated her conviction that Miss Mackenzie was to become at all
points a Stumfoldian, since she had herself invoked the countenance
and assistance of the great man on her first arrival; but beyond
this, Mrs Stumfold afforded no comfort. Our friend could not have
explained to herself why it was so, but after having encountered Mrs
Stumfold, she was less inclined to become a disciple than she had
been when she had seen only the great master himself. It was not
only that Mrs Stumfold, as judged by externals, was felt to be more
severe than her husband evangelically, but she was more severe also
ecclesiastically. Miss Mackenzie thought that she could probably obey
the ecclesiastical man, but that she would certainly rebel against
the ecclesiastical woman.

There had been, as I have said, a Miss Baker with the female
minister, and Miss Mackenzie had at once perceived that had Miss
Baker called alone, the whole thing would have been much more
pleasant. Miss Baker had a soft voice, was given to a good deal of
gentle talking, was kind in her manner, and prone to quick intimacies
with other ladies of her own nature. All this Miss Mackenzie felt
rather than saw, and would have been delighted to have had Miss Baker
without Mrs Stumfold. She could, she knew, have found out all about
everything in five minutes, had she and Miss Baker been able to sit
close together and to let their tongues loose. But Miss Baker, poor
soul, was in these days thoroughly subject to the female Stumfold
influence, and went about the world of Littlebath in a repressed
manner that was truly pitiable to those who had known her before the
days of her slavery.

But, as she rose to leave the room at her tyrant's bidding, she spoke
a word of comfort. "A friend of mine, Miss Mackenzie, lives next door
to you, and she has begged me to say that she will do herself the
pleasure of calling on you, if you will allow her."

The poor woman hesitated as she made her little speech, and once cast
her eye round in fear upon her companion.

"I'm sure I shall be delighted," said Miss Mackenzie.

"That's Miss Todd, is it?" said Mrs Stumfold; and it was made
manifest by Mrs Stumfold's voice that Mrs Stumfold did not think much
of Miss Todd.

"Yes; Miss Todd. You see she is so close a neighbour," said Miss
Baker, apologetically.

Mrs Stumfold shook her head, and then went away without further
speech.

Miss Mackenzie became at once impatient for Miss Todd's arrival,
and was induced to keep an eye restlessly at watch on the two
neighbouring doors in the Paragon, in order that she might see Miss
Todd at the moment of some entrance or exit. Twice she did see a
lady come out from the house next her own on the right, a stout
jolly-looking dame, with a red face and a capacious bonnet, who
closed the door behind her with a slam, and looked as though she
would care little for either male Stumfold or female. Miss Mackenzie,
however, made up her mind that this was not Miss Todd. This lady, she
thought, was a married lady; on one occasion there had been children
with her, and she was, in Miss Mackenzie's judgment, too stout, too
decided, and perhaps too loud to be a spinster. A full week passed
by before this question was decided by the promised visit,--a week
during which the new comer never left her house at any hour at which
callers could be expected to call, so anxious was she to become
acquainted with her neighbour; and she had almost given the matter
up in despair, thinking that Mrs Stumfold had interfered with her
tyranny, when, one day immediately after lunch--in these days Miss
Mackenzie always lunched, but seldom dined--when one day immediately
after lunch, Miss Todd was announced.

Miss Mackenzie immediately saw that she had been wrong. Miss Todd was
the stout, red-faced lady with the children. Two of the children,
girls of eleven and thirteen, were with her now. As Miss Todd walked
across the room to shake hands with her new acquaintance, Miss
Mackenzie at once recognised the manner in which the street door had
been slammed, and knew that it was the same firm step which she had
heard on the pavement half down the Paragon.

"My friend, Miss Baker, told me you had come to live next door to
me," began Miss Todd, "and therefore I told her to tell you that
I should come and see you. Single ladies, when they come here,
generally like some one to come to them. I'm single myself, and these
are my nieces. You've got a niece, I believe, too. When the Popes
have nephews, people say all manner of ill-natured things. I hope
they ain't so uncivil to us."

Miss Mackenzie smirked and smiled, and assured Miss Todd that she
was very glad to see her. The allusion to the Popes she did not
understand.

"Miss Baker came with Mrs Stumfold, didn't she?" continued Miss Todd.
"She doesn't go much anywhere now without Mrs Stumfold, unless when
she creeps down to me. She and I are very old friends. Have you known
Mr Stumfold long? Perhaps you have come here to be near him; a great
many ladies do."

In answer to this, Miss Mackenzie explained that she was not a
follower of Mr Stumfold in that sense. It was true that she had
brought a letter to him, and intended to go to his church. In
consequence of that letter, Mrs Stumfold had been good enough to call
upon her.

"Oh yes: she'll come to you quick enough. Did she come with her
carriage and horses?"

"I think she was on foot," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Then I should tell her of it. Coming to you, in the best house in
the Paragon, on your first arrival, she ought to have come with her
carriage and horses."

"Tell her of it!" said Miss Mackenzie.

"A great many ladies would, and would go over to the enemy before the
month was over, unless she brought the carriage in the meantime. I
don't advise you to do so. You haven't got standing enough in the
place yet, and perhaps she could put you down."

"But it makes no difference to me how she comes."

"None in the least, my dear, or to me either. I should be glad to see
her even in a wheelbarrow for my part. But you mustn't suppose that
she ever comes to me. Lord bless you! no. She found me out to be past
all grace ever so many years ago."

"Mrs Stumfold thinks that Aunt Sally is the old gentleman himself,"
said the elder of the girls.

"Ha, ha, ha," laughed the aunt. "You see, Miss Mackenzie, we run very
much into parties here, as they do in most places of this kind, and
if you mean to go thoroughly in with the Stumfold party you must tell
me so, candidly, and there won't be any bones broken between us. I
shan't like you the less for saying so: only in that case it won't be
any use our trying to see much of each other."

Miss Mackenzie was somewhat frightened, and hardly knew what answer
to make. She was very anxious to have it understood that she was not,
as yet, in bond under Mrs Stumfold--that it was still a matter of
choice to herself whether she would be a saint or a sinner; and she
would have been so glad to hint to her neighbour that she would like
to try the sinner's line, if it were only for a month or two; only
Miss Todd frightened her! And when the girl told her that Miss Todd
was regarded, ex parte Stumfold, as being the old gentleman himself,
Miss Mackenzie again thought for an instant that there would be
safety in giving way to the evangelico-ecclesiastical influence, and
that perhaps life might be pleasant enough to her if she could be
allowed to go about in couples with that soft Miss Baker.

"As you have been so good as to call," said Miss Mackenzie, "I hope
you will allow me to return your visit."

"Oh, dear, yes--shall be quite delighted to see you. You can't hurt
me, you know. The question is, whether I shan't ruin you. Not that I
and Mr Stumfold ain't great cronies. He and I meet about on neutral
ground, and are the best friends in the world. He knows I'm a lost
sheep--a gone 'coon, as the Americans say--so he pokes his fun at me,
and we're as jolly as sandboys. But St Stumfolda is made of sterner
metal, and will not put up with any such female levity. If she pokes
her fun at any sinners, it is at gentlemen sinners; and grim work it
must be for them, I should think. Poor Mary Baker! the best creature
in the world. I'm afraid she has a bad time of it. But then, you
know, perhaps that is the sort of thing you like."

"You see I know so very little of Mrs Stumfold," said Miss Mackenzie.

"That's a misfortune will soon be cured if you let her have her own
way. You ask Mary Baker else. But I don't mean to be saying anything
bad behind anybody's back; I don't indeed. I have no doubt these
people are very good in their way; only their ways are not my ways;
and one doesn't like to be told so often that one's own way is broad,
and that it leads--you know where. Come, Patty, let us be going.
When you've made up your mind, Miss Mackenzie, just you tell me.
If you say, 'Miss Todd, I think you're too wicked for me,' I shall
understand it. I shan't be in the least offended. But if my way
isn't--isn't too broad, you know, I shall be very happy to see you."

Hereupon Miss Mackenzie plucked up courage and asked a question.

"Do you ever go to the assembly rooms, Miss Todd?"

Miss Todd almost whistled before she gave her answer. "Why, Miss
Mackenzie, that's where they dance and play cards, and where the
girls flirt and the young men make fools of themselves. I don't go
there very often myself, because I don't care about flirting, and I'm
too old for dancing. As for cards, I get plenty of them at home. I
think I did put down my name and paid something when I first came
here, but that's ever so many years ago. I don't go to the assembly
rooms now."

As soon as Miss Todd was gone, Miss Mackenzie went to work to reflect
seriously upon all she had just heard. Of course, there could be no
longer any question of her going to the assembly rooms. Even Miss
Todd, wicked as she was, did not go there. But should she, or should
she not, return Miss Todd's visit? If she did she would be thereby
committing herself to what Miss Todd had profanely called the broad
way. In such case any advance in the Stumfold direction would be
forbidden to her. But if she did not call on Miss Todd, then she
would have plainly declared that she intended to be such another
disciple as Miss Baker, and from that decision there would be no
recall. On this subject she must make up her mind, and in doing so
she laboured with all her power. As to any charge of incivility which
might attach to her for not returning the visit of a lady who had
been so civil to her, of that she thought nothing. Miss Todd had
herself declared that she would not be in the least offended. But
she liked this new acquaintance. In owning all the truth about Miss
Mackenzie, I must confess that her mind hankered after the things of
this world. She thought that if she could only establish herself as
Miss Todd was established, she would care nothing for the Stumfolds,
male or female.

But how was she to do this? An establishment in the Stumfold
direction might be easier.

In the course of the next week two affairs of moment occurred to
Miss Mackenzie. On the Wednesday morning she received from London a
letter of business which caused her considerable anxiety, and on the
Thursday afternoon a note was brought to her from Mrs Stumfold,--or
rather an envelope containing a card on which was printed an
invitation to drink tea with that lady on that day week. This
invitation she accepted without much doubt. She would go and see
Mrs Stumfold in her house, and would then be better able to decide
whether the mode of life practised by the Stumfold party would be
to her taste. So she wrote a reply, and sent it by her maid-servant,
greatly doubting whether she was not wrong in writing her answer on
common note-paper, and whether she also should not have supplied
herself with some form or card for the occasion.

The letter of business was from her brother Tom, and contained an
application for the loan of some money,--for the loan, indeed, of a
good deal of money. But the loan was to be made not to him but to
the firm of Rubb and Mackenzie, and was not to be a simple lending
of money on the faith of that firm, for purposes of speculation or
ordinary business. It was to be expended in the purchase of the
premises in the New Road, and Miss Mackenzie was to have a mortgage
on them, and was to receive five per cent for the money which she
should advance. The letter was long, and though it was manifest
even to Miss Mackenzie that he had written the first page with much
hesitation, he had waxed strong as he had gone on, and had really
made out a good case. "You are to understand," he said, "that this
is, of course, to be done through your own lawyer, who will not allow
you to make the loan unless he is satisfied with the security. Our
landlords are compelled to sell the premises, and unless we purchase
them ourselves, we shall in all probability be turned out, as we have
only a year or two more under our present lease. You could purchase
the whole thing yourself, but in that case you would not be sure of
the same interest for your money." He then went on to say that Samuel
Rubb, junior, the son of old Rubb, should run down to Littlebath
in the course of next week, in order that the whole thing might be
made clear to her. Samuel Rubb was not the partner whose name was
included in the designation of the firm, but was a young man,--"a
comparatively young man,"--as her brother explained, who had lately
been admitted to a share in the business.

This letter put Miss Mackenzie into a twitter. Like all other single
ladies, she was very nervous about her money. She was quite alive to
the beauty of a high rate of interest, but did not quite understand
that high interest and impaired security should go hand in hand
together. She wished to oblige her brother, and was aware that she
had money as to which her lawyers were looking out for an investment.
Even this had made her unhappy, as she was not quite sure whether
her lawyers would not spend the money. She knew that lone women were
terribly robbed sometimes, and had almost resolved upon insisting
that the money should be put into the Three per Cents. But she had
gone to work with figures, and having ascertained that by doing so
twenty-five pounds a year would be docked off from her computed
income, she had given no such order. She now again went to work with
her figures, and found that if the loan were accomplished it would
add twenty-five pounds a year to her computed income. Mortgages, she
knew, were good things, strong and firm, based upon landed security,
and very respectable. So she wrote to her lawyers, saying that she
would be glad to oblige her brother if there were nothing amiss. Her
lawyers wrote back, advising her to refer Mr Rubb, junior, to them.
On the day named in her brother's letter, Mr Samuel Rubb, junior,
arrived at Littlebath, and called upon Miss Mackenzie in the Paragon.

Miss Mackenzie had been brought up with contempt and almost with
hatred for the Rubb family. It had, in the first instance, been the
work of old Samuel Rubb to tempt her brother Tom into trade; and he
had tempted Tom into a trade that had not been fat and prosperous,
and therefore pardonable, but into a trade that had been troublesome
and poor. Walter Mackenzie had always spoken of these Rubbs
with thorough disgust, and had persistently refused to hold any
intercourse with them. When, therefore, Mr Samuel Rubb was announced,
our heroine was somewhat inclined to seat herself upon a high horse.

Mr Samuel Rubb, junior, came upstairs, and was by no means the sort
of person in appearance that Miss Mackenzie had expected to see. In
the first place, he was, as well as she could guess, about forty
years of age; whereas she had expected to see a young man. A man who
went about the world especially designated as junior, ought, she
thought, to be very young. And then Mr Rubb carried with him an
air of dignity, and had about his external presence a something of
authority which made her at once seat herself a peg lower than she
had intended. He was a good-looking man, nearly six feet high, with
great hands and feet, but with a great forehead also, which atoned
for his hands and feet. He was dressed throughout in black, as
tradesmen always are in these days; but, as Miss Mackenzie said
to herself, there was certainly no knowing that he belonged to
the oilcloth business from the cut of his coat or the set of his
trousers. He began his task with great care, and seemed to have none
of the hesitation which had afflicted her brother in writing his
letter. The investment, he said, would, no doubt, be a good one. Two
thousand four hundred pounds was the sum wanted, and he understood
that she had that amount lying idle. Their lawyer had already seen
her lawyer, and there could be no doubt as to the soundness of the
mortgage. An assurance company with whom the firm had dealings was
quite ready to advance the money on the proposed security, and at
the proposed rate of interest, but in such a matter as that, Rubb
and Mackenzie did not wish to deal with an assurance company. They
desired that all control over the premises should either be in their
own hands, or in the hands of someone connected with them.

By the time that Mr Samuel Rubb had done, Miss Mackenzie found
herself to have dismounted altogether from her horse, and to be
pervaded by some slight fear that her lawyers might allow so
favourable an opportunity for investing her money to slip through
their hands.

Then, on a sudden, Mr Rubb dropped the subject of the loan, and Miss
Mackenzie, as he did so, felt herself to be almost disappointed. And
when she found him talking easily to her about matters of external
life, although she answered him readily, and talked to him also
easily, she entertained some feeling that she ought to be offended.
Mr Rubb, junior, was a tradesman who had come to her on business, and
having done his business, why did he not go away? Nevertheless, Miss
Mackenzie answered him when he asked questions, and allowed herself
to be seduced into a conversation.

"Yes, upon my honour," he said, looking out of the window into the
Montpelier Gardens, "a very nice situation indeed. How much better
they do these things in such a place as this than we do up in London!
What dingy houses we live in, and how bright they make the places
here!"

"They are not crowded so much, I suppose," said Miss Mackenzie.

"It isn't only that. The truth is, that in London nobody cares what
his house looks like. The whole thing is so ugly that anything not
ugly would be out of place. Now, in Paris--you have been in Paris,
Miss Mackenzie?"

In answer to this, Miss Mackenzie was compelled to own that she had
never been in Paris.

"Ah, you should go to Paris, Miss Mackenzie; you should, indeed. Now,
you're a lady that have nothing to prevent your going anywhere. If I
were you, I'd go almost everywhere; but above all, I'd go to Paris.
There's no place like Paris."

"I suppose not," said Miss Mackenzie.

By this time Mr Rubb had returned from the window, and had seated
himself in the easy chair in the middle of the room. In doing so he
thrust out both his legs, folded his hands one over the other, and
looked very comfortable.

"Now I'm a slave to business," he said. "That horrid place in the New
Road, which we want to buy with your money, has made a prisoner of me
for the last twenty years. I went into it as the boy who was to do
the copying, when your brother first became a partner. Oh dear, how I
did hate it!"

"Did you now?"

"I should rather think I did. I had been brought up at the Merchant
Taylors' and they intended to send me to Oxford. That was five years
before they began the business in the New Road. Then came the crash
which our house had at Manchester; and when we had picked up the
pieces, we found that we had to give up university ideas. However,
I'll make a business of it before I'm done; you see if I don't, Miss
Mackenzie. Your brother has been with us so many years that I have
quite a pleasure in talking to you about it."

Miss Mackenzie was not quite sure that she reciprocated the pleasure;
for, after all, though he did look so much better than she had
expected, he was only Rubb, junior, from Rubb and Mackenzie's; and
any permanent acquaintance with Mr Rubb would not suit the line of
life in which she was desirous of moving. But she did not in the
least know how to stop him, or how to show him that she had intended
to receive him simply as a man of business. And then it was so seldom
that anyone came to talk to her, that she was tempted to fall away
from her high resolves. "I have not known much of my brother's
concerns," she said, attempting to be cautious.

Then he sat for another hour, making himself very agreeable, and at
the end of that time she offered him a glass of wine and a biscuit,
which he accepted. He was going to remain two or three days in the
neighbourhood, he said, and might he call again before he left?
Miss Mackenzie told him that he might. How was it possible that
she should answer such a question in any other way? Then he got up,
and shook hands with her, told her that he was so glad he had come
to Littlebath, and was quite cordial and friendly. Miss Mackenzie
actually found herself laughing with him as they stood on the floor
together, and though she knew that it was improper, she liked it.
When he was gone she could not remember what it was that had made her
laugh, but she remembered that she had laughed. For a long time past
very little laughter had come to her share.

When he was gone she prepared herself to think about him at length.
Why had he talked to her in that way? Why was he going to call again?
Why was Rubb, junior, from Rubb and Mackenzie's, such a pleasant
fellow? After all, he retailed oilcloth at so much a yard; and little
as she knew of the world, she knew that she, with ever so much good
blood in her veins, and with ever so many hundreds a year of her own,
was entitled to look for acquaintances of a higher order than that.
She, if she were entitled to make any boast about herself--and she
was by no means inclined to such boastings--might at any rate boast
that she was a lady. Now, Mr Rubb was not a gentleman. He was not a
gentleman by position. She knew that well enough, and she thought
that she had also discovered that he was not quite a gentleman in his
manners and mode of speech. Nevertheless she had liked him, and had
laughed with him, and the remembrance of this made her sad.

That same evening she wrote a letter to her lawyer, telling him that
she was very anxious to oblige her brother, if the security was
good. And then she went into the matter at length, repeating much of
what Mr Rubb had said to her, as to the excellence of mortgages in
general, and of this mortgage in particular. After that she dressed
herself with great care, and went out to tea at Mrs Stumfold's. This
was the first occasion in her life in which she had gone to a party,
the invitation to which had come to her on a card, and of course she
felt herself to be a little nervous.


CHAPTER IV

Miss Mackenzie Commences Her Career


Miss Mackenzie had been three weeks at Littlebath when the day
arrived on which she was to go to Mrs Stumfold's party, and up to
that time she had not enjoyed much of the society of that very social
place. Indeed, in these pages have been described with accuracy all
the advancement which she had made in that direction. She had indeed
returned Miss Todd's call, but had not found that lady at home.
In doing this she had almost felt herself to be guilty of treason
against the new allegiance which she seemed to have taken upon
herself in accepting Mrs Stumfold's invitation; and she had done it
at last not from any firm resolve of which she might have been proud,
but had been driven to it by ennui, and by the easy temptation of
Miss Todd's neighbouring door. She had, therefore, slipped out, and
finding her wicked friend to be not at home, had hurried back again.
She had, however, committed herself to a card, and she knew that Mrs
Stumfold would hear of it through Miss Baker. Miss Baker's visit
she had not returned, being in doubt where Miss Baker lived, being
terribly in doubt also whether the Median rules of fashion demanded
of her that she should return the call of a lady who had simply come
to her with another caller. Her hesitation on this subject had been
much, and her vacillations many, but she had thought it safer to
abstain. For the last day or two she had been expecting the return of
Mr Rubb, junior--keeping herself a prisoner, I fear, during the best
hours of the day, so that she might be there to receive him when he
did come; but though she had so acted, she had quite resolved to
be very cold with him, and very cautious, and had been desirous
of seeing him solely with a view to the mercantile necessities of
her position. It behoved her certainly to attend to business when
business came in her way, and therefore she would take care to be at
home when Mr Rubb should call.

She had been to church twice a day on each of the Sundays that she
had passed in Littlebath, having in this matter strictly obeyed the
hints which Mr Stumfold had given for her guidance. No doubt she had
received benefit from the discourses which she had heard from that
gentleman each morning; and, let us hope, benefit also from the much
longer discourses which she had heard from Mr Stumfold's curate on
each evening. The Rev. Mr Maguire was very powerful, but he was also
very long; and Miss Mackenzie, who was hardly as yet entitled to rank
herself among the thoroughly converted, was inclined to think that
he was too long. She was, however, patient by nature, and willing to
bear much, if only some little might come to her in return. What of
social comfort she had expected to obtain from her churchgoings I
cannot quite define; but I think that she had unconsciously expected
something from them in that direction, and that she had been
disappointed.

But now, at nine o'clock on this appointed evening, she was of
a certainty and in very truth going into society. The card said
half-past eight; but the Sun had not yoked his horses so far away
from her Tyre, remote as that Tyre had been, as to have left her in
ignorance that half-past eight meant nine. When her watch showed her
that half-past eight had really come, she was fidgety, and rang the
bell to inquire whether the man might have probably forgotten to send
the fly; and yet she had been very careful to tell the man that she
did not wish to be at Mrs Stumfold's before nine.

"He understands, Miss," said the servant; "don't you be afeard; he's
a-doing of it every night."

Then she became painfully conscious that even the maid-servant knew
more of the social ways of the place than did she.

When she reached the top of Mrs Stumfold's stairs, her heart was in
her mouth, for she perceived immediately that she had kept people
waiting. After all, she had trusted to false intelligence in that
matter of the hour. Half-past eight had meant half-past eight,
and she ought to have known that this would be so in a house so
upright as that of Mrs Stumfold. That lady met her at the door, and
smiling--blandly, but, perhaps I might be permitted to say, not so
blandly as she might have smiled--conducted the stranger to a seat.

"We generally open with a little prayer, and for that purpose our
dear friends are kind enough to come to us punctually."

Then Mr Stumfold got up, and pressed her hand very kindly.

"I'm so sorry," Miss Mackenzie had uttered.

"Not in the least," he replied. "I knew you couldn't know, and
therefore we ventured to wait a few minutes. The time hasn't been
lost, as Mr Maguire has treated us to a theological argument of great
weight."

Then all the company laughed, and Miss Mackenzie perceived that Mr
Stumfold could joke in his way. She was introduced to Mr Maguire, who
also pressed her hand; and then Miss Baker came and sat by her side.
There was, however, at that moment no time for conversation. The
prayer was begun immediately, Mr Stumfold taking this duty himself.
Then Mr Maguire read half a chapter in the Bible, and after that Mr
Stumfold explained it. Two ladies asked Mr Stumfold questions with
great pertinacity, and these questions Mr Stumfold answered very
freely, walking about the room the while, and laughing often as he
submitted himself to their interrogations. And Miss Mackenzie was
much astonished at the special freedom of his manner,--how he spoke
of St Paul as Paul, declaring the saint to have been a good fellow;
how he said he liked Luke better than Matthew, and how he named
even a holier name than these with infinite ease and an accustomed
familiarity which seemed to delight the other ladies; but which at
first shocked her in her ignorance.

"But I'm not going to have anything more to say to Peter and Paul at
present," he declared at last. "You'd keep me here all night, and the
tea will be spoilt."

Then they all laughed again at the absurd idea of this great and good
man preferring his food,--his food of this world,--to that other food
which it was his special business to dispense. There is nothing which
the Stumfoldian ladies of Littlebath liked so much as these little
jokes which bordered on the profanity of the outer world, which made
them feel themselves to be almost as funny as the sinners, and gave
them a slight taste, as it were, of the pleasures of iniquity.

"Wine maketh glad the heart of woman, Mrs Jones," Mr Stumfold would
say as he filled for the second time the glass of some old lady of
his set; and the old lady would chirrup and wink, and feel that
things were going almost as jollily with her as they did with that
wicked Mrs Smith, who spent every night of her life playing cards, or
as they had done with that horrid Mrs Brown, of whom such terrible
things were occasionally whispered when two or three ladies found
themselves sufficiently private to whisper them; that things were
going almost as pleasant here in this world, although accompanied by
so much safety as to the future in her own case, and so much danger
in those other cases! I think it was this aptitude for feminine
rakishness which, more than any of his great virtues, more even than
his indomitable industry, made Mr Stumfold the most popular man in
Littlebath. A dozen ladies on the present occasion skipped away to
the tea-table in the back drawing-room with a delighted alacrity,
which was all owing to the unceremonious treatment which St Peter and
St Paul had received from their pastor.

Miss Mackenzie had just found time to cast an eye round the room and
examine the scene of Mr Stumfold's pleasantries while Mr Maguire was
reading. She saw that there were only three gentlemen there besides
the two clergymen. There was a very old man who sat close wedged
in between Mrs Stumfold and another lady, by whose joint dresses
he was almost obliterated. This was Mr Peters, a retired attorney.
He was Mrs Stumfold's father, and from his coffers had come the
superfluities of comfort which Miss Mackenzie saw around her. Rumour,
even among the saintly people of Littlebath, said that Mr Peters
had been a sharp practitioner in his early days;--that he had been
successful in his labours was admitted by all.

"No doubt he has repented," Miss Baker said one day to Miss Todd.

"And if he has not, he has forgotten all about it, which generally
means the same thing," Miss Todd had answered.

Mr Peters was now very old, and I am disposed to think he had
forgotten all about it.

The other two gentlemen were both young, and they stood very high
in the graces of all the company there assembled. They were high
in the graces of Mr Stumfold, but higher still in the graces of Mrs
Stumfold, and were almost worshipped by one or two other ladies whose
powers of external adoration were not diminished by the possession
of husbands. They were, both of them, young men who had settled
themselves for a time at Littlebath that they might be near Mr
Stumfold, and had sufficient of worldly wealth to enable them to pass
their time in semi-clerical pursuits.

Mr Frigidy, the elder, intended at some time to go into the Church,
but had not as yet made sufficient progress in his studies to justify
him in hoping that he could pass a bishop's examination. His friends
told him of Islington and St Bees, of Durham, Birkenhead, and other
places where the thing could be done for him; but he hesitated,
fearing whether he might be able to pass even the initiatory gates
of Islington. He was a good young man, at peace with all the
world--except Mr Startup. With Mr Startup the veracious chronicler
does not dare to assert that Mr Frigidy was at peace. Now Mr Startup
was the other young man whom Miss Mackenzie saw in that room.

Mr Startup was also a very good young man, but he was of a fiery
calibre, whereas Frigidy was naturally mild. Startup was already an
open-air preacher, whereas Frigidy lacked nerve to speak a word above
his breath. Startup was not a clergyman because certain scruples
impeded and prevented him, while in the bosom of Frigidy there
existed no desire so strong as that of having the word reverend
attached to his name. Startup, though he was younger than Frigidy,
could talk to seven ladies at once with ease, but Frigidy could not
talk to one without much assistance from that lady herself. The
consequence of this was that Mr Frigidy could not bring himself to
love Mr Startup,--could not enable himself to justify a veracious
chronicler in saying that he was at peace with all the world, Startup
included.

The ladies were too many for Miss Mackenzie to notice them specially
as she sat listening to Mr Maguire's impressive voice. Mr Maguire she
did notice, and found him to be the possessor of a good figure, of
a fine head of jet black hair, of a perfect set of white teeth, of
whiskers which were also black and very fine, but streaked here and
there with a grey hair,--and of the most terrible squint in his right
eye which ever disfigured a face that in all other respects was
fitted for an Apollo. So egregious was the squint that Miss Mackenzie
could not keep herself from regarding it, even while Mr Stumfold
was expounding. Had she looked Mr Maguire full in the face at the
beginning, I do not think it would so much have mattered to her; but
she had seen first the back of his head, and then his profile, and
had unfortunately formed a strong opinion as to his almost perfect
beauty. When, therefore, the defective eye was disclosed to her, her
feelings were moved in a more than ordinary manner. How was it that a
man graced with such a head, with such a mouth and chin and forehead,
nay, with such a left eye, could be cursed with such a right eye! She
was still thinking of this when the frisky movement into the tea-room
took place around her.

When at this moment Mr Stumfold offered her his arm to conduct her
through the folding doors, this condescension on his part almost
confounded her. The other ladies knew that he always did so to a
newcomer, and therefore thought less of it. No other gentleman took
any other lady, but she was led up to a special seat,--a seat of
honour as it were, at the left hand side of a huge silver kettle.
Immediately before the kettle sat Mrs Stumfold. Immediately before
another kettle, at another table, sat Miss Peters, a sister of Mrs
Stumfold's. The back drawing-room in which they were congregated
was larger than the other, and opened behind into a pretty garden.
Mr Stumfold's lines in falling thus among the Peters, had fallen
to him in pleasant places. On the other side of Miss Mackenzie sat
Miss Baker, and on the other side of Mrs Stumfold stood Mr Startup,
talking aloud and administering the full tea-cups with a conscious
grace. Mr Stumfold and Mr Frigidy were at the other table, and Mr
Maguire was occupied in passing promiscuously from one to the other.
Miss Mackenzie wished with all her heart that he would seat himself
somewhere with his face turned away from her, for she found it
impossible to avert her eyes from his eye. But he was always
there, before her sight, and she began to feel that he was an evil
spirit,--her evil spirit, and that he would be too many for her.

Before anybody else was allowed to begin, Mrs Stumfold rose from her
chair with a large and completely filled bowl of tea, with a plate
also laden with buttered toast, and with her own hands and on her own
legs carried these delicacies round to her papa. On such an occasion
as this no servant, no friend, no Mr Startup, was allowed to
interfere with her filial piety.

"She does it always," said an admiring lady in an audible whisper
from the other side of Miss Baker. "She does it always."

The admiring lady was the wife of a retired coachbuilder, who was
painfully anxious to make her way into good evangelical society at
Littlebath.

"Perhaps you will put in the sugar for yourself," said Mrs Stumfold
to Miss Mackenzie as soon as she returned. On this occasion Miss
Mackenzie received her cup the first after the father of the house,
but the words spoken to her were stern to the ear.

"Perhaps you will put in the sugar yourself. It lightens the labour."

Miss Mackenzie expressed her willingness to do so and regretted that
Mrs Stumfold should have to work so hard. Could she be of assistance?

"I'm quite used to it, thank you," said Mrs Stumfold.

The words were not uncivil, but the tone was dreadfully severe, and
Miss Mackenzie felt painfully sure that her hostess was already aware
of the card that had been left at Miss Todd's door.

Mr Startup was now actively at work.

"Lady Griggs's and Miss Fleebody's--I know. A great deal of
sugar for her ladyship, and Miss Fleebody eats muffin. Mrs Blow
always takes pound-cake, and I'll see that there's one near her.
Mortimer,"--Mortimer was the footman,--"is getting more bread and
butter. Maguire, you have two dishes of sweet biscuits over there;
give us one here. Never mind me, Mrs Stumfold; I'll have my innings
presently."

All this Mr Frigidy heard with envious ears as he sat with his own
tea-cup before him at the other table. He would have given the world
to have been walking about the room like Startup, making himself
useful and conspicuous; but he couldn't do it--he knew that he
couldn't do it. Later in the evening, when he had been sitting by
Miss Trotter for two hours--and he had very often sat by Miss Trotter
before--he ventured upon a remark.

"Don't you think that Mr Startup makes himself a little forward?"

"Oh dear yes, very," said Miss Trotter. "I believe he's an excellent
young man, but I always did think him forward, now you mention it.
And sometimes I've wondered how dear Mrs Stumfold could like so much
of it. But do you know, Mr Frigidy, I am not quite sure that somebody
else does like it. You know who I mean."

Miss Trotter said much more than this, and Mr Frigidy was comforted,
and believed that he had been talking.

When Mrs Stumfold commenced her conversation with Mr Startup, Miss
Baker addressed herself to Miss Mackenzie; but there was at first
something of stiffness in her manner,--as became a lady whose call
had not been returned.

"I hope you like Littlebath," said Miss Baker.

Miss Mackenzie, who began to be conscious that she had done wrong,
hesitated as she replied that she liked it pretty well.

"I think you'll find it pleasant," said Miss Baker; and then there
was a pause. There could not be two women more fitted for friendship
than were these, and it was much to be hoped, for the sake of our
poor, solitary heroine especially, that this outside crust of manner
might be broken up and dispersed.

"I dare say I shall find it pleasant, after a time," said Miss
Mackenzie. Then they applied themselves each to her own bread and
butter.

"You have not seen Miss Todd, I suppose, since I saw you?" Miss Baker
asked this question when she perceived that Mrs Stumfold was deep
in some secret conference with Mr Startup. It must, however, be
told to Miss Baker's credit, that she had persistently maintained
her friendship with Miss Todd, in spite of all the Stumfoldian
influences. Miss Mackenzie, at the moment less brave, looked round
aghast, but seeing that her hostess was in deep conference with her
prime minister, she took heart of grace. "I called, and I did not see
her."

"She promised me she would call," said Miss Baker.

"And I returned her visit, but she wasn't at home," said Miss
Mackenzie.

"Indeed," said Miss Baker; and then there was silence between them
again.

But, after a pause, Miss Mackenzie again took heart of grace. I
do not think that there was, of nature, much of the coward about
her. Indeed, the very fact that she was there alone at Littlebath,
fighting her own battle with the world, instead of having allowed
herself to be swallowed up by the Harry Handcocks, and Tom
Mackenzies, proved her to be anything but a coward. "Perhaps, Miss
Baker, I ought to have returned your visit," said she.

"That was just as you like," said Miss Baker with her sweetest smile.

"Of course, I should have liked it, as I thought it so good of you to
come. But as you came with Mrs Stumfold, I was not quite sure whether
it might be intended; and then I didn't know,--did not exactly
know,--where you lived."

After this the two ladies got on very comfortably, so long as they
were left sitting side by side. Miss Baker imparted to Miss Mackenzie
her full address, and Miss Mackenzie, with that brightness in her
eyes which they always assumed when she was eager, begged her new
friend to come to her again.

"Indeed, I will," said Miss Baker. After that they were parted by a
general return to the front room.

And now Miss Mackenzie found herself seated next to Mr Maguire. She
had been carried away in the crowd to a further corner, in which
there were two chairs, and before she had been able to consider the
merits or demerits of the position, Mr Maguire was seated close
beside her. He was seated close beside her in such a way as to make
the two specially separated from all the world beyond, for in front
of them stood a wall of crinoline,--a wall of crinoline divided
between four or five owners, among whom was shared the eloquence of
Mr Startup, who was carrying on an evangelical flirtation with the
whole of them in a manner that was greatly pleasing to them, and
enthusiastically delightful to him. Miss Mackenzie, when she found
herself thus entrapped, looked into Mr Maguire's eye with dismay.
Had that look been sure to bring down upon her the hatred of that
reverend gentleman, she could not have helped it. The eye fascinated
her, as much as it frightened her. But Mr Maguire was used to have
his eye inspected, and did not hate her. He fixed it apparently on
the corners of the wall, but in truth upon her, and then he began:

"I am so glad that you have come among us, Miss Mackenzie."

"I'm sure that I'm very much obliged."

"Well; you ought to be. You must not be surprised at my saying
so, though it sounds uncivil. You ought to feel obliged, and the
obligation should be mutual. I am not sure, that when all things are
considered, you could find yourself in any better place in England,
than in the drawing-room of my friend Stumfold; and, if you will
allow me to say so, my friend Stumfold could hardly use his
drawing-room better, than by entertaining you."

"Mr Stumfold is very good, and so is she."

"Mr Stumfold is very good; and as for Mrs Stumfold, I look upon her
as a very wonderful woman,--quite a wonderful woman. For grasp of
intellect, for depth of thought, for tenderness of sentiment--perhaps
you mightn't have expected that, but there it is--for tenderness of
sentiment, for strength of faith, for purity of life, for genial
hospitality, and all the domestic duties, Mrs Stumfold has no equal
in Littlebath, and perhaps few superiors elsewhere."

Here Mr Maguire paused, and Miss Mackenzie, finding herself obliged
to speak, said that she did not at all doubt it.

"You need not doubt it, Miss Mackenzie. She is all that, I tell you;
and more, too. Her manners may seem a little harsh to you at first. I
know it is so sometimes with ladies before they know her well; but it
is only skin-deep, Miss Mackenzie,--only skin-deep. She is so much in
earnest about her work, that she cannot bring herself to be light and
playful as he is. Now, he is as full of play as a young lamb."

"He seems to be very pleasant."

"And he is always just the same. There are people, you know, who say
that religion is austere and melancholy. They never could say that
if they knew my friend Stumfold. His life is devoted to his clerical
duties. I know no man who works harder in the vineyard than Stumfold.
But he always works with a smile on his face. And why not, Miss
Mackenzie? when you think of it, why not?"

"I dare say it's best not to be unhappy," said Miss Mackenzie. She
did not speak till she perceived that he had paused for her answer.

"Of course we know that this world can make no one happy. What are we
that we should dare to be happy here?"

Again he paused, but Miss Mackenzie feeling that she had been
ill-treated and trapped into a difficulty at her last reply,
resolutely remained silent.

"I defy any man or woman to be happy here," said Mr Maguire, looking
at her with one eye and at the corner of the wall with the other in
a manner that was very terrible to her. "But we may be cheerful,--we
may go about our work singing psalms of praise instead of songs of
sorrow. Don't you agree with me, Miss Mackenzie, that psalms of
praise are better than songs of sorrow?"

"I don't sing at all, myself," said Miss Mackenzie.

"You sing in your heart, my friend; I am sure you sing in your heart.
Don't you sing in your heart?" Here again he paused.

"Well; perhaps in my heart, yes."

"I know you do, loud psalms of praise upon a ten-stringed lute. But
Stumfold is always singing aloud, and his lute has twenty strings."
Here the voice of the twenty-stringed singer was heard across the
large room asking the company a riddle.

"Why was Peter in prison like a little boy with his shoes off?"

"That's so like him," said Mr Maguire.

All the ladies in the room were in a fever of expectation, and Mr
Stumfold asked the riddle again.

"He won't tell them till we meet again; but there isn't one here
who won't study the life of St Peter during the next week. And what
they'll learn in that way they'll never forget."

"But why was he like a little boy with his shoes off?" asked Miss
Mackenzie.

"Ah! that's Stumfold's riddle. You must ask Mr Stumfold, and he won't
tell you till next week. But some of the ladies will be sure to find
it out before then. Have you come to settle yourself altogether at
Littlebath, Miss Mackenzie?"

This question he asked very abruptly, but he had a way of looking at
her when he asked a question, which made it impossible for her to
avoid an answer.

"I suppose I shall stay here for some considerable time."

"Do, do," said he with energy. "Do; come and live among us, and be
one of us; come and partake with us at the feast which we are making
ready; come and eat of our crusts, and dip with us in the same dish;
come and be of our flock, and go with us into the pleasant pastures,
among the lanes and green hedges which appertain to the farm of
the Lord. Come and walk with us through the Sabbath cornfields,
and pluck the ears when you are a-hungered, disregarding the broad
phylacteries. Come and sing with us songs of a joyful heart, and let
us be glad together. What better can you do, Miss Mackenzie? I don't
believe there is a more healthy place in the world than Littlebath,
and, considering that the place is fashionable, things are really
very reasonable."

He was rapid in his utterance, and so full of energy, that Miss
Mackenzie did not quite follow him in his quick transitions. She
hardly understood whether he was advising her to take up an abode in
a terrestrial Eden or a celestial Paradise; but she presumed that he
meant to be civil, so she thanked him and said she thought she would.
It was a thousand pities that he should squint so frightfully, as in
all other respects he was a good-looking man. Just at this moment
there seemed to be a sudden breaking up of the party.

"We are all going away," said Mr Maguire. "We always do when Mrs
Stumfold gets up from her seat. She does it when she sees that her
father is nodding his head. You must let me out, because I've got to
say a prayer. By-the-bye, you'll allow me to walk home with you, I
hope. I shall be so happy to be useful."

Miss Mackenzie told him that the fly was coming for her, and then he
scrambled away into the middle of the room.

"We always walk home from these parties," said Miss Baker, who
had, however, on this occasion, consented to be taken away by Miss
Mackenzie in the fly. "It makes it come so much cheaper, you know."

"Of course it does; and it's quite as nice if everybody does it. But
you don't walk going there?"

"Not generally," said Miss Baker; "but there are some of them who
do that. Miss Trotter always walks both ways, if it's ever so wet."
Then there were a few words said about Miss Trotter which were not
altogether good-natured.

Miss Mackenzie, as soon as she was at home, got down her Bible and
puzzled herself for an hour over that riddle of Mr Stumfold's; but
with all her trouble she could not find why St Peter in prison was
like a little boy with his shoes off.


CHAPTER V

Showing How Mr Rubb, Junior, Progressed at Littlebath


A full week had passed by after Mrs Stumfold's tea-party before Mr
Rubb called again at the Paragon; and in the meantime Miss Mackenzie
had been informed by her lawyer that there did not appear to be any
objection to the mortgage, if she liked the investment for her money.

"You couldn't do better with your money,--you couldn't indeed," said
Mr Rubb, when Miss Mackenzie, meaning to be cautious, started the
conversation at once upon matters of business.

Mr Rubb had not been in any great hurry to repeat his call, and Miss
Mackenzie had resolved that if he did come again she would treat him
simply as a member of the firm with whom she had to transact certain
monetary arrangements. Beyond that she would not go; and as she so
resolved, she repented herself of the sherry and biscuit.

The people whom she had met at Mr Stumfold's had been all ladies and
gentlemen; she, at least, had supposed them to be so, not having
as yet received any special information respecting the wife of the
retired coachbuilder. Mr Rubb was not a gentleman; and though she was
by no means inclined to give herself airs,--though, as she assured
herself, she believed Mr Rubb to be quite as good as herself,--yet
there was, and must always be, a difference among people. She had no
inclination to be proud; but if Providence had been pleased to place
her in one position, it did not behove her to degrade herself by
assuming a position that was lower. Therefore, on this account, and
by no means moved by any personal contempt towards Mr Rubb, or the
Rubbs of the world in general, she was resolved that she would not
ask him to take any more sherry and biscuits.

Poor Miss Mackenzie! I fear that they who read this chronicle of her
life will already have allowed themselves to think worse of her than
she deserved. Many of them, I know, will think far worse of her than
they should think. Of what faults, even if we analyse her faults, has
she been guilty? Where she has been weak, who among us is not, in
that, weak also? Of what vanity has she been guilty with which the
least vain among us might not justly tax himself? Having been left
alone in the world, she has looked to make friends for herself; and
in seeking for new friends she has wished to find the best that might
come in her way.

Mr Rubb was very good-looking; Mr Maguire was afflicted by a terrible
squint. Mr Rubb's mode of speaking was pleasant to her; whereas she
was by no means sure that she liked Mr Maguire's speech. But Mr
Maguire was by profession a gentleman. As the discreet young man,
who is desirous of rising in the world, will eschew skittles, and in
preference go out to tea at his aunt's house--much more delectable as
skittles are to his own heart--so did Miss Mackenzie resolve that it
would become her to select Messrs Stumfold and Maguire as her male
friends, and to treat Mr Rubb simply as a man of business. She was
denying herself skittles and beer, and putting up with tea and an old
aunt, because she preferred the proprieties of life to its pleasures.
Is it right that she should be blamed for such self-denial? But now
the skittles and beer had come after her, as those delights will
sometimes pursue the prudent youth who would fain avoid them. Mr
Rubb was there, in her drawing-room, looking extremely well, shaking
hands with her very comfortably, and soon abandoning his conversation
on that matter of business to which she had determined to confine
herself. She was angry with him, thinking him to be very free and
easy; but, nevertheless, she could not keep herself from talking to
him.

"You can't do better than five per cent," he had said to her, "not
with first-class security, such as this is."

All that had been well enough. Five per cent and first-class security
were, she knew, matters of business; and though Mr Rubb had winked
his eye at her as he spoke of them, leaning forward in his chair
and looking at her not at all as a man of business, but quite in a
friendly way, yet she had felt that she was so far safe. She nodded
her head also, merely intending him to understand thereby that she
herself understood something about business. But when he suddenly
changed the subject, and asked her how she liked Mr Stumfold's set,
she drew herself up suddenly and placed herself at once upon her
guard.

"I have heard a great deal about Mr Stumfold," continued Mr Rubb, not
appearing to observe the lady's altered manner, "not only here and
where I have been for the last few days, but up in London also. He is
quite a public character, you know."

"Clergymen in towns, who have large congregations, always must so be,
I suppose."

"Well, yes; more or less. But Mr Stumfold is decidedly more, and not
less. People say he is going in for a bishopric."

"I had not heard it," said Miss Mackenzie, who did not quite
understand what was meant by going in for a bishopric.

"Oh, yes, and a very likely man he would have been a year or two ago.
But they say the prime minister has changed his tap lately."

"Changed his tap!" said Miss Mackenzie.

"He used to draw his bishops very bitter, but now he draws them mild
and creamy. I dare say Stumfold did his best, but he didn't quite get
his hay in while the sun shone."

"He seems to me to be very comfortable where he is," said Miss
Mackenzie.

"I dare say. It must be rather a bore for him having to live in the
house with old Peters. How Peters scraped his money together, nobody
ever knew yet; and you are aware, Miss Mackenzie, that old as he is,
he keeps it all in his own hands. That house, and everything that is
in it, belongs to him; you know that, I dare say."

Miss Mackenzie, who could not keep herself from being a little
interested in these matters, said that she had not known it.

"Oh dear, yes! and the carriage too. I've no doubt Stumfold will be
all right when the old fellow dies. Such men as Stumfold don't often
make mistakes about their money. But as long as old Peters lasts I
shouldn't think it can be quite serene. They say that she is always
cutting up rough with the old man."

"She seemed to me to behave very well to him," said Miss Mackenzie,
remembering the carriage of the tea-cup.

"I dare say it is so before company, and of course that's all right;
it's much better that the dirty linen should be washed in private.
Stumfold is a clever man, there's no doubt about that. If you've been
much to his house, you've probably met his curate, Mr Maguire."

"I've only been there once, but I did meet Mr Maguire."

"A man that squints fearfully. They say he's looking out for a wife
too, only she must not have a father living, as Mrs Stumfold has.
It's astonishing how these parsons pick up all the good things that
are going in the way of money." Miss Mackenzie, as she heard this,
could not but remember that she might be regarded as a good thing
going in the way of money, and became painfully aware that her face
betrayed her consciousness.

"You'll have to keep a sharp look out," continued Mr Rubb, giving her
a kind caution, as though he were an old familiar friend.

"I don't think there's any fear of that kind," said Miss Mackenzie,
blushing.

"I don't know about fear, but I should say that there is great
probability; of course I am only joking about Mr Maguire. Like the
rest of them, of course, he wishes to feather his own nest; and why
shouldn't he? But you may be sure of this, Miss Mackenzie, a lady
with your fortune, and, if I may be allowed to say so, with your
personal attractions, will not want for admirers."

Miss Mackenzie was very strongly of opinion that Mr Rubb might not
be allowed to say so. She thought that he was behaving with an
unwarrantable degree of freedom in saying anything of the kind;
but she did not know how to tell him either by words or looks that
such was the case. And, perhaps, though the impertinence was almost
unendurable, the idea conveyed was not altogether so grievous; it
had certainly never hitherto occurred to her that she might become
a second Mrs Stumfold; but, after all, why not? What she wanted
was simply this, that something of interest should be added to her
life. Why should not she also work in the vineyard, in the open
quasiclerical vineyard of the Lord's people, and also in the private
vineyard of some one of the people's pastors? Mr Rubb was very
impertinent, but it might, perhaps, be worth her while to think of
what he said. As regarded Mr Maguire, the gentleman whose name had
been specially mentioned, it was quite true that he did squint
awfully.

"Mr Rubb," said she, "if you please, I'd rather not talk about such
things as that."

"Nevertheless, what I say is true, Miss Mackenzie; I hope you don't
take it amiss that I venture to feel an interest about you."

"Oh! no," said she; "not that I suppose you do feel any special
interest about me."

"But indeed I do, and isn't it natural? If you will remember that
your only brother is the oldest friend that I have in the world, how
can it be otherwise? Of course he is much older than me, and very
much older than you, Miss Mackenzie."

"Just twelve years," said she, very stiffly.

"I thought it had been more, but in that case you and I are nearly of
an age. As that is so, how can I fail to feel an interest about you?
I have neither mother, nor sister, nor wife of my own; a sister,
indeed, I have, but she's married at Singapore, and I have not seen
her for seventeen years."

"Indeed."

"No, not for seventeen years; and the heart does crave for some
female friend, Miss Mackenzie."

"You ought to get a wife, Mr Rubb."

"That's what your brother always says. 'Samuel,' he said to me just
before I left town, 'you're settled with us now; your father has as
good as given up to you his share of the business, and you ought to
get married.' Now, Miss Mackenzie, I wouldn't take that sort of thing
from any man but your brother; it's very odd that you should say
exactly the same thing too."

"I hope I have not offended you."

"Offended me! no, indeed, I'm not such a fool as that. I'd sooner
know that you took an interest in me than any woman living. I would,
indeed. I dare say you don't think much of it, but when I remember
that the names of Rubb and Mackenzie have been joined together for
more than twenty years, it seems natural to me that you and I should
be friends."

Miss Mackenzie, in the few moments which were allowed to her for
reflection before she was obliged to answer, again admitted to
herself that he spoke the truth. If there was any fault in the matter
the fault was with her brother Tom, who had joined the name of
Mackenzie with the name of Rubb in the first instance. Where was this
young man to look for a female friend if not to his partner's family,
seeing that he had neither wife nor mother of his own, nor indeed a
sister, except one out at Singapore, who was hardly available for any
of the purposes of family affection? And yet it was hard upon her. It
was through no negligence on her part that poor Mr Rubb was so ill
provided. "Perhaps it might have been so if I had continued to live
in London," said Miss Mackenzie; "but as I live at Littlebath--" Then
she paused, not knowing how to finish her sentence.

"What difference does that make? The distance is nothing if you come
to think of it. Your hall door is just two hours and a quarter from
our place of business in the New Road; and it's one pound five and
nine if you go by first-class and cabs, or sixteen and ten if you put
up with second-class and omnibuses. There's no other way of counting.
Miles mean nothing now-a-days."

"They don't mean much, certainly."

"They mean nothing. Why, Miss Mackenzie, I should think it no trouble
at all to run down and consult you about anything that occurred,
about any matter of business that weighed at all heavily, if nothing
prevented me except distance. Thirty shillings more than does it all,
with a return ticket, including a bit of lunch at the station."

"Oh! and as for that--"

"I know what you mean, Miss Mackenzie, and I shall never forget how
kind you were to offer me refreshment when I was here before."

"But, Mr Rubb, I hope you won't think of doing such a thing. What
good could I do you? I know nothing about business; and really, to
tell the truth, I should be most unwilling to interfere--that is, you
know, to say anything about anything of the kind."

"I only meant to point out that the distance is nothing. And as to
what you were advising me about getting married--"

"I didn't mean to advise you, Mr Rubb!"

"I thought you said so."

"But, of course, I did not intend to discuss such a matter
seriously."

"It's a most serious subject to me, Miss Mackenzie."

"No doubt; but it's one I can't know anything about. Men in business
generally do find, I think, that they get on better when they are
married."

"Yes, they do."

"That's all I meant to say, Mr Rubb."

After this he sat silent for a few minutes, and I am inclined to
think that he was weighing in his mind the expediency of asking
her to become Mrs Rubb, on the spur of the moment. But if so, his
mind finally gave judgment against the attempt, and in giving such
judgment his mind was right. He would certainly have so startled
her by the precipitancy of such a proposition, as to have greatly
endangered the probability of any further intimacy with her. As it
was, he changed the conversation, and began to ask questions as to
the welfare of his partner's daughter. At this period of the day
Susanna was at school, and he was informed that she would not be home
till the evening. Then he plucked up courage and begged to be allowed
to come again,--just to look in at eight o'clock, so that he might
see Susanna. He could not go back to London comfortably, unless he
could give some tidings of Susanna to the family in Gower Street.
What was she to do? Of course she was obliged to ask him to drink tea
with them. "That would be so pleasant," he said; and Miss Mackenzie
owned to herself that the gratification expressed in his face as he
spoke was very becoming.

When Susanna came home she did not seem to know much of Mr Rubb,
junior, or to care much about him. Old Mr Rubb lived, she knew, near
the place of business in the New Road, and sometimes he came to Gower
Street, but nobody liked him. She didn't remember that she had ever
seen Mr Rubb, junior, at her mother's house but once, when he came to
dinner. When she was told that Mr Rubb was very anxious to see her,
she chucked up her head and said that the man was a goose.

He came, and in a very few minutes he had talked over Susanna. He
brought her a little present,--a work-box,--which he had bought for
her at Littlebath; and though the work-box itself did not altogether
avail, it paved the way for civil words, which were more efficacious.
On this occasion he talked more to his partner's daughter than to
his partner's sister, and promised to tell her mamma how well she
was looking, and that the air of Littlebath had brought roses to her
cheeks.

"I think it is a healthy place," said Miss Mackenzie.

"I'm quite sure it is," said Mr Rubb. "And you like Mrs Crammer's
school, Susanna?"

She would have preferred to have been called Miss Mackenzie, but was
not disposed to quarrel with him on the point.

"Yes, I like it very well," she said. "The other girls are very nice;
and if one must go to school, I suppose it's as good as any other
school."

"Susanna thinks that going to school at all is rather a nuisance,"
said Miss Mackenzie.

"You'd think so too, aunt, if you had to practise every day for an
hour in the same room with four other pianos. It's my belief that I
shall hate the sound of a piano the longest day that I shall live."

"I suppose it's the same with all young ladies," said Mr Rubb.

"It's the same with them all at Mrs Crammer's. There isn't one there
that does not hate it."

"But you wouldn't like not to be able to play," said her aunt.

"Mamma doesn't play, and you don't play; and I don't see what's the
use of it. It won't make anybody like music to hear four pianos all
going at the same time, and all of them out of tune."

"You must not tell them in Gower Street, Mr Rubb, that Susanna talks
like that," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Yes, you may, Mr Rubb. But you must tell them at the same time that
I am quite happy, and that Aunt Margaret is the dearest woman in the
world."

"I'll be sure to tell them that," said Mr Rubb. Then he went away,
pressing Miss Mackenzie's hand warmly as he took his leave; and as
soon as he was gone, his character was of course discussed.

"He's quite a different man, aunt, from what I thought; and he's not
at all like old Mr Rubb. Old Mr Rubb, when he comes to drink tea
in Gower Street, puts his handkerchief over his knees to catch the
crumbs."

"There's no great harm in that, Susanna."

"I don't suppose there's any harm in it. It's not wicked. It's not
wicked to eat gravy with your knife."

"And does old Mr Rubb do that?"

"Always. We used to laugh at him, because he is so clever at it. He
never spills any; and his knife seems to be quite as good as a spoon.
But this Mr Rubb doesn't do things of that sort."

"He's younger, my dear."

"But being younger doesn't make people more ladylike of itself."

"I did not know that Mr Rubb was exactly ladylike."

"That's taking me up unfairly; isn't it, aunt? You know what I meant;
and only fancy that the man should go out and buy me a work-box.
That's more than old Mr Rubb ever did for any of us, since the first
day he knew us. And, then, didn't you think that young Mr Rubb is a
handsome man, aunt?"

"He's all very well, my dear."

"Oh; I think he is downright handsome; I do, indeed. Miss
Dumpus,--that's Mrs Crammer's sister,--told us the other day, that
I was wrong to talk about a man being handsome; but that must be
nonsense, aunt?"

"I don't see that at all, my dear. If she told you so, you ought to
believe that it is not nonsense."

"Come, aunt; you don't mean to tell me that you would believe all
that Miss Dumpus says. Miss Dumpus says that girls should never laugh
above their breath when they are more than fourteen years old. How
can you make a change in your laughing just when you come to be
fourteen? And why shouldn't you say a man's handsome, if he is
handsome?"

"You'd better go to bed, Susanna."

"That won't make Mr Rubb ugly. I wish you had asked him to come and
dine here on Sunday, so that we might have seen whether he eats his
gravy with his knife. I looked very hard to see whether he'd catch
his crumbs in his handkerchief."

Then Susanna went to her bed, and Miss Mackenzie was left alone to
think over the perfections and imperfections of Mr Samuel Rubb,
junior.

From that time up to Christmas she saw no more of Mr Rubb; but she
heard from him twice. His letters, however, had reference solely
to business, and were not of a nature to produce either anger or
admiration. She had also heard more than once from her lawyer; and a
question had arisen as to which she was called upon to trust to her
own judgment for a decision. Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie had wanted the
money at once, whereas the papers for the mortgage were not ready.
Would Miss Mackenzie allow Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie to have the
money under these circumstances? To this inquiry from her lawyer
she made a rejoinder asking for advice. Her lawyer told her that he
could not recommend her, in the ordinary way of business, to make any
advance of money without positive security; but, as this was a matter
between friends and near relatives, she might perhaps be willing to
do it; and he added that, as far as his own opinion went, he did not
think that there would be any great risk. But then it all depended
on this:--did she want to oblige her friends and near relatives? In
answer to this question she told herself that she certainly did wish
to do so; and she declared,--also to herself,--that she was willing
to advance the money to her brother, even though there might be some
risk. The upshot of all this was that Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie
got the money some time in October, but that the mortgage was not
completed when Christmas came. It was on this matter that Mr Rubb,
junior, had written to Miss Mackenzie, and his letter had been of a
nature to give her a feeling of perfect security in the transaction.
With her brother she had had no further correspondence; but this did
not surprise her, as her brother was a man much less facile in his
modes of expression than his younger partner.

As the autumn had progressed at Littlebath, she had become more and
more intimate with Miss Baker, till she had almost taught herself
to regard that lady as a dear friend. She had fallen into the habit
of going to Mrs Stumfold's tea-parties every fortnight, and was
now regarded as a regular Stumfoldian by all those who interested
themselves in such matters. She had begun a system of district
visiting and Bible reading with Miss Baker, which had at first been
very agreeable to her. But Mrs Stumfold had on one occasion called
upon her and taken her to task,--as Miss Mackenzie had thought,
rather abruptly,--with reference to some lack of energy or indiscreet
omission of which she had been judged to be guilty by that
highly-gifted lady. Against this Miss Mackenzie had rebelled mildly,
and since that things had not gone quite so pleasantly with her. She
had still been honoured with Mrs Stumfold's card of invitation, and
had still gone to the tea-parties on Miss Baker's strenuously-urged
advice; but Mrs Stumfold had frowned, and Miss Mackenzie had felt the
frown; Mrs Stumfold had frowned, and the retired coachbuilder's wife
had at once snubbed the culprit, and Mr Maguire had openly expressed
himself to be uneasy.

"Dearest Miss Mackenzie," he had said, with charitable zeal, "if
there has been anything wrong, just beg her pardon, and you will find
that everything has been forgotten at once; a more forgiving woman
than Mrs Stumfold never lived."

"But suppose I have done nothing to be forgiven," urged Miss
Mackenzie.

Mr Maguire looked at her, and shook his head, the exact meaning of
the look she could not understand, as the peculiarity of his eyes
created confusion; but when he repeated twice to her the same words,
"The heart of man is exceeding treacherous," she understood that he
meant to condemn her.

"So it is, Mr Maguire, but that is no reason why Mrs Stumfold should
scold me."

Then he got up and left her, and did not speak to her again that
evening, but he called on her the next day, and was very affectionate
in his manner. In Mr Stumfold's mode of treating her she had found no
difference.

With Miss Todd, whom she met constantly in the street, and who always
nodded to her very kindly, she had had one very remarkable interview.

"I think we had better give it up, my dear," Miss Todd had said to
her. This had been in Miss Baker's drawing-room.

"Give what up?" Miss Mackenzie had asked.

"Any idea of our knowing each other. I'm sure it never can come to
anything, though for my part I should have been so glad. You see you
can't serve God and Mammon, and it is settled beyond all doubt that
I'm Mammon. Isn't it, Mary?"

Miss Baker, to whom this appeal was made, answered it only by a sigh.

"You see," continued Miss Todd, "that Miss Baker is allowed to know
me, though I am Mammon, for the sake of auld lang syne. There have
been so many things between us that it wouldn't do for us to drop
each other. We have had the same lovers; and you know, Mary, that
you've been very near coming over to Mammon yourself. There's a sort
of understanding that Miss Baker is not to be required to cut me.
But they would not allow that sort of liberty to a new comer; they
wouldn't, indeed."

"I don't know that anybody would be likely to interfere with me,"
said Miss Mackenzie.

"Yes, they would, my dear. You didn't quite know yourself which way
it was to be when you first came here, and if it had been my way,
I should have been most happy to have made myself civil. You have
chosen now, and I don't doubt but what you have chosen right. I
always tell Mary Baker that it does very well for her, and I dare say
it will do very well for you too. There's a great deal in it, and
only that some of them do tell such lies I think I should have tried
it myself. But, my dear Miss Mackenzie, you can't do both."

After this Miss Mackenzie used to nod to Miss Todd in the street, but
beyond that there was no friendly intercourse between those ladies.

At the beginning of December there came an invitation to Miss
Mackenzie to spend the Christmas holidays away from Littlebath, and
as she accepted this invitation, and as we must follow her to the
house of her friends, we will postpone further mention of the matter
till the next chapter.


CHAPTER VI

Miss Mackenzie Goes to the Cedars


About the middle of December Mrs Mackenzie, of Gower Street, received
a letter from her sister-in-law at Littlebath, in which it was
proposed that Susanna should pass the Christmas holidays with her
father and mother. "I myself," said the letter, "am going for three
weeks to the Cedars. Lady Ball has written to me, and as she seems
to wish it, I shall go. It is always well, I think, to drop family
dissensions." The letter said a great deal more, for Margaret
Mackenzie, not having much business on hand, was fond of writing
long letters; but the upshot of it was, that she would leave Susanna
in Gower Street, on her way to the Cedars, and call for her on her
return home.

"What on earth is she going there for?" said Mrs Tom Mackenzie.

"Because they have asked her," replied the husband.

"Of course they have asked her; but that's no reason she should go.
The Balls have behaved very badly to us, and I should think much
better of her if she stayed away."

To this Mr Mackenzie made no answer, but simply remarked that he
would be rejoiced in having Susanna at home on Christmas Day.

"That's all very well, my dear," said Mrs Tom, "and of course so
shall I. But as she has taken the charge of the child I don't think
she ought to drop her down and pick her up just whenever she pleases.
Suppose she was to take it into her head to stop at the Cedars
altogether, what are we to do then?--just have the girl returned upon
our hands, with all her ideas of life confused and deranged. I hate
such ways."

"She has promised to provide for Susanna, whenever she may not
continue to give her a home."

"What would such a promise be worth if John Ball got hold of her
money? That's what they're after, as sure as my name is Martha; and
what she's after too, very likely. She was there once before she went
to Littlebath at all. They want to get their uncle's money back, and
she wants to be a baronet's wife."

The same view of the matter was perhaps taken by Mr Rubb, junior,
when he was told that Miss Mackenzie was to pass through London on
her way to the Cedars, though he did not express his fears openly, as
Mrs Mackenzie had done.

"Why don't you ask your sister to stay in Gower Street?" he said to
his partner.

"She wouldn't come."

"You might at any rate ask her."

"What good would it do?"

"Well; I don't know that it would do any good; but it wouldn't do any
harm. Of course it's natural that she should wish to have friends
about her; and it will only be natural too that she should marry some
one."

"She may marry whom she pleases for me."

"She will marry whom she pleases; but I suppose you don't want to see
her money go to the Balls."

"I shouldn't care a straw where her money went," said Thomas
Mackenzie, "if I could only know that this sum which we have had from
her was properly arranged. To tell you the truth, Rubb, I'm ashamed
to look my sister in the face."

"That's nonsense. Her money is as right as the bank; and if in such
matters as that brothers and sisters can't take liberties with each
other, who the deuce can?"

"In matters of money nobody should ever take a liberty with anybody,"
said Mr Mackenzie.

He knew, however, that a great liberty had been taken with his
sister's money, and that his firm had no longer the power of
providing her with the security which had been promised to her.

Mr Mackenzie would take no steps, at his partner's instance, towards
arresting his sister in London; but Mr Rubb was more successful
with Mrs Mackenzie, with whom, during the last month or two, he had
contrived to establish a greater intimacy than had ever previously
existed between the two families. He had been of late a good deal in
Gower Street, and Mrs Mackenzie had found him to be a much pleasanter
and better educated man than she had expected. Such was the language
in which she expressed her praise of him, though I am disposed to
doubt whether she herself was at all qualified to judge of the
education of any man. He had now talked over the affairs of Margaret
Mackenzie with her sister-in-law, and the result of that talking
was that Mrs Mackenzie wrote a letter to Littlebath, pressing Miss
Mackenzie to stay a few days in Gower Street, on her way through
London. She did this as well as she knew how to do it; but still
there was that in the letter which plainly told an apt reader that
there was no reality in the professions of affection made in it. Miss
Mackenzie became well aware of the fact as she read her sister's
words. Available hypocrisy is a quality very difficult of attainment
and of all hypocrisies, epistolatory hypocrisy is perhaps the
most difficult. A man or woman must have studied the matter very
thoroughly, or be possessed of great natural advantages in that
direction, who can so fill a letter with false expressions of
affection, as to make any reader believe them to be true. Mrs
Mackenzie was possessed of no such skill.

"Believe her to be my affectionate sister-in-law! I won't believe
her to be anything of the kind," Margaret so spoke of the writer to
herself, when she had finished the letter; but, nevertheless, she
answered it with kind language, saying that she could not stay in
town as she passed through to the Cedars, but that she would pass
one night in Gower Street when she called to pick up Susanna on her
return home.

It is hard to say what pleasure she promised herself in going to
the Cedars, or why she accepted that invitation. She had, in truth,
liked neither the people nor the house, and had felt herself to
be uncomfortable while she was there. I think she felt it to be a
duty to force herself to go out among people who, though they were
personally disagreeable to her, might be socially advantageous. If
Sir John Ball had not been a baronet, the call to the Cedars would
not have been so imperative on her. And yet she was not a tufthunter,
nor a toady. She was doing what we all do,--endeavouring to choose
her friends from the best of those who made overtures to her
of friendship. If other things be equal, it is probable that a
baronet will be more of a gentleman and a pleasanter fellow than a
manufacturer of oilcloth. Who is there that doesn't feel that? It
is true that she had tried the baronet, and had not found him very
pleasant, but that might probably have been her own fault. She had
been shy and stiff, and perhaps ill-mannered, or had at least accused
herself of these faults; and therefore she resolved to go again.

She called with Susanna as she passed through London, and just saw
her sister-in-law.

"I wish you could have stayed," said Mrs Mackenzie.

"I will for one night, as I return, on the 10th of January," said
Miss Mackenzie.

Mrs Mackenzie could not understand what Mr Rubb had meant by saying
that that old maid was soft and pleasant, nor could she understand
Susanna's love for her aunt. "I suppose men will put up with anything
for the sake of money," she said to herself; "and as for children,
the truth is, they'll love anybody who indulges them."

"Aunt is so kind," Susanna said. "She's always kind. If you wake her
up in the middle of the night, she's kind in a moment. And if there's
anything good to eat, it will make her eyes quite shine if she sees
that anybody else likes it. I have known her sit for half an hour
ever so uncomfortable, because she would not disturb the cat."

"Then she must be a fool, my dear," said Mrs Mackenzie.

"She isn't a fool, mamma; I'm quite sure of that," said Susanna.

Miss Mackenzie went on to the Cedars, and her mind almost misgave her
in going there, as she was driven up through the dull brick lodges,
which looked as though no paint had touched them for the last thirty
years, up to the front door of the dull brick house, which bore
almost as dreary a look of neglect as the lodges. It was a large
brick house of three stories, with the door in the middle, and three
windows on each side of the door, and a railed area with a kitchen
below the ground. Such houses were built very commonly in the
neighbourhood of London some hundred and fifty years ago, and they
may still be pleasant enough to the eye if there be ivy over them,
and if they be clean with new paint, and spruce with the outer care
of gardeners and the inner care of housemaids; but old houses are
often like old ladies, who require more care in their dressing than
they who are younger. Very little care was given to the Cedars, and
the place therefore always looked ill-dressed. On the right hand as
you entered was the dining-room, and the three windows to the left
were all devoted to the hall. Behind the dining-room was Sir John's
study, as he called it, and behind or beyond the hall was the
drawing-room, from which four windows looked out into the garden.
This might have been a pretty room had any care been taken to make
anything pretty at the Cedars. But the furniture was old, and the
sofas were hard, and the tables were rickety, and the curtains which
had once been red had become brown with the sun. The dinginess of
the house had not struck Miss Mackenzie so forcibly when she first
visited it, as it did now. Then she had come almost direct from
Arundel Street, and the house in Arundel Street had itself been very
dingy. Mrs Stumfold's drawing-rooms were not dingy, nor were her own
rooms in the Paragon. Her eye had become accustomed to better things,
and she now saw at once how old were the curtains, and how lamentably
the papers wanted to be renewed on the walls. She had, however, been
drawn from the neighbouring station to the house in the private
carriage belonging to the establishment, and if there was any sense
of justice in her, it must be presumed that she balanced the good
things with the bad.

But her mind misgave her, not because the house was outwardly dreary,
but in fear of the inward dreariness of the people--or in fear
rather of their dreariness and pride combined. Old Lady Ball, though
naturally ill-natured, was not ill-mannered, nor did she give herself
any special airs; but she knew that she was a baronet's wife, that
she kept her carriage, and that it was an obligation upon her to
make up for the poverty of her house by some little haughtiness of
demeanour. There are women, high in rank, but poor in pocket, so
gifted with the peculiar grace of aristocracy, that they show by
every word spoken, by every turn of the head, by every step taken,
that they are among the high ones of the earth, and that money has
nothing to do with it. Old Lady Ball was not so gifted, nor had she
just claim to such gifts. But some idea on the subject pervaded her
mind, and she made efforts to be aristocratic in her poverty. Sir
John was a discontented, cross old man, who had succeeded greatly
in early life, having been for nearly twenty years in Parliament,
but had fallen into adversity in his older days. The loss of that
very money of which his niece, Miss Mackenzie was possessed, was,
in truth, the one great misfortune which he deplored; but that
misfortune had had ramifications and extensions with which the reader
need not trouble himself; but which, altogether, connected as they
were with certain liberal aspirations which he had entertained
in early life, and certain political struggles made during his
parliamentary career, induced him to regard himself as a sort of
Prometheus. He had done much for the world, and the world in return
had made him a baronet without any money! He was a very tall, thin,
gray-haired, old man, stooping much, and worn with age, but still
endowed with some strength of will, and great capability of making
himself unpleasant. His son was a bald-headed, stout man, somewhat
past forty, who was by no means without cleverness, having done
great things as a young man at Oxford; but in life he had failed.
He was a director of certain companies in London, at which he used
to attend, receiving his guinea for doing so, and he had some small
capital,--some remnant of his father's trade wealth, which he nursed
with extreme care, buying shares here and there and changing his
money about as his keen outlook into City affairs directed him. I do
not suppose that he had much talent for the business, or he would
have grown rich; but a certain careful zeal carried him on without
direct loss, and gave him perhaps five per cent for his capital,
whereas he would have received no more than four and a half had he
left it alone and taken his dividends without troubling himself. As
the difference did not certainly amount to a hundred a-year, it can
hardly be said that he made good use of his time. His zeal deserved a
better success. He was always thinking of his money, excusing himself
to himself and to others by the fact of his nine children. For myself
I think that his children were no justification to him; as they would
have been held to be none, had he murdered and robbed his neighbours
for their sake.

There had been a crowd of girls in the house when Miss Mackenzie had
paid her former visit to the Cedars,--so many that she had carried
away no remembrance of them as individuals. But at that time the
eldest son, a youth now just of age, was not at home. This hope of
the Balls, who was endeavouring to do at Oxford as his father had
done, was now with his family, and came forward to meet his cousin
as the old carriage was driven up to the door. Old Sir John stood
within, in the hall, mindful of the window air, and Lady Ball, a
little mindful of her dignity, remained at the drawing-room door.
Even though Miss Mackenzie had eight hundred a-year, and was
nearly related to the Incharrow family, a further advance than the
drawing-room door would be inexpedient; for the lady, with all her
virtues, was still sister to the man who dealt in retail oilcloth in
the New Road!

Miss Mackenzie thought nothing of this, but was well contented to be
received by her hostess in the drawing-room.

"It's a dull house to come to, my dear," said Lady Ball; "but blood
is thicker than water, they say, and we thought that perhaps you
might like to be with your cousins at Christmas."

"I shall like it very much," said Miss Mackenzie.

"I suppose you must find it rather sad, living alone at Littlebath,
away from all your people?"

"I have my niece with me, you know."

"A niece, have you? That's one of the girls from Gower Street, I
suppose? It's very kind of you, and I dare say, very proper."

"But Littlebath is a very gay place, I thought," said John Ball, the
third and youngest of the name. "We always hear of it at Oxford as
being the most stunning place for parties anywhere near."

"I suppose you play cards every night of your life," said the
baronet.

"No; I don't play cards," said Miss Mackenzie. "Many ladies do, but
I'm not in that set."

"What set are you in?" said Sir John.

"I don't think I am in any set. I know Mr Stumfold, the clergyman
there, and I go to his house sometimes."

"Oh, ah; I see," said Sir John. "I beg your pardon for mentioning
cards. I shouldn't have done it, if I had known that you were one of
Mr Stumfold's people."

"I am not one of Mr Stumfold's people especially," she said, and then
she went upstairs.

The other John Ball came back from London just in time for
dinner--the middle one of the three, whom we will call Mr Ball. He
greeted his cousin very kindly, and then said a word or two to his
mother about shares. She answered him, assuming a look of interest in
his tidings.

"I don't understand it; upon my word, I don't," said he. "Some of
them will burn their fingers before they've done. I don't dare do it;
I know that."

In the evening, when John Ball,--or Jack, as he was called in the
family,--had left the drawing-room, and the old man was alone with
his son, they discussed the position of Margaret Mackenzie.

"You'll find she has taken up with the religious people there," said
the father.

"It's just what she would do," said the son.

"They're the greatest thieves going. When once they have got their
eyes upon money, they never take them off again."

"She's not been there long enough yet to give any one a hold upon
her."

"I don't know that, John; but, if you'll take my advice, you'll find
out the truth at once. She has no children, and if you've made up
your mind about it, you'll do no good by delay."

"She's a very nice woman, in her way."

"Yes, she's nice enough. She's not a beauty; eh, John? and she won't
set the Thames on fire."

"I don't wish her to do so; but I think she'd look after the girls,
and do her duty."

"I dare say; unless she has taken to run after prayer-meetings every
hour of her life."

"They don't often do that after they're married, sir."

"Well; I know nothing against her. I never thought much of her
brothers, and I never cared to know them. One's dead now, and as for
the other, I don't suppose he need trouble you much. If you've made
up your mind about it, I think you might as well ask her at once."
From all which it may be seen that Miss Mackenzie had been invited to
the Cedars with a direct object on the part of Mr Ball.

But though the old gentleman thus strongly advised instant action,
nothing was done during Christmas week, nor had any hint been given
up to the end of the year. John Ball, however, had not altogether
lost his time, and had played the part of middle-aged lover better
than might have been expected from one the whole tenor of whose life
was so thoroughly unromantic. He did manage to make himself pleasant
to Miss Mackenzie, and so far ingratiated himself with her that he
won much of her confidence in regard to money matters.

"But that's a very large sum of money?" he said to her one day as
they were sitting together in his father's study. He was alluding to
the amount which she had lent to Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie, and had
become aware of the fact that as yet Miss Mackenzie held no security
for the loan. "Two thousand five hundred pounds is a very large sum
of money."

"But I'm to get five per cent, John." They were first cousins, but it
was not without some ceremonial difficulty that they had arrived at
each other's Christian names.

"My dear Margaret, their word for five per cent is no security. Five
per cent is nothing magnificent. A lady situated as you are should
never part with her money without security--never: but if she does,
she should have more than five per cent."

"You'll find it's all right, I don't doubt," said Miss Mackenzie,
who, however, was beginning to have little inward tremblings of her
own.

"I hope so; but I must say, I think Mr Slow has been much to blame.
I do, indeed." Mr Slow was the attorney who had for years acted
for Walter Mackenzie and his father, and was now acting for Miss
Mackenzie. "Will you allow me to go to him and see about it?"

"It has not been his fault. He wrote and asked me whether I would let
them have it, before the papers were ready, and I said I would."

"But may I ask about it?"

Miss Mackenzie paused before she answered:

"I think you had better not, John. Remember that Tom is my own
brother, and I should not like to seem to doubt him. Indeed, I do not
doubt him in the least--nor yet Mr Rubb."

"I can assure you that it is a very bad way of doing business," said
the anxious lover.

By degrees she began to like her cousin John Ball. I do not at all
wish the reader to suppose that she had fallen in love with that
bald-headed, middle-aged gentleman, or that she even thought of him
in the light of a possible husband; but she found herself to be
comfortable in his company, and was able to make a friend of him.
It is true that he talked to her more of money than anything else;
but then it was her money of which he talked, and he did it with an
interest that could not but flatter her. He was solicitous about her
welfare, gave her bits of advice, did one or two commissions for her
in town, called her Margaret, and was kind and cousinly. The Cedars,
she thought, was altogether more pleasant than she had found the
place before. Then she told herself that on the occasion of her
former visit she had not been there long enough to learn to like the
place or the people. Now she knew them, and though she still dreaded
her uncle and his cross sayings, and though that driving out with her
aunt in the old carriage was tedious, she would have been glad to
prolong her stay there, had she not bound herself to take Susanna
back to school at Littlebath on a certain day. When that day came
near--and it did come very near before Mr Ball spoke out--they
pressed her to prolong her stay. This was done by both Lady Ball and
by her son.

"You might as well remain with us another fortnight," said Lady
Ball during one of these drives. It was the last drive which Miss
Mackenzie had through Twickenham lanes during that visit to the
Cedars.

"I can't do it, aunt, because of Susanna."

"I don't see that at all. You're not to make yourself a slave to
Susanna."

"But I'm to make myself a mother to her as well as I can."

"I must say you have been rather hasty, my dear. Suppose you were to
change your mode of life, what would you do?"

Then Miss Mackenzie, blushing slightly in the obscure corner of the
carriage as she spoke, explained to Lady Ball that clause in her
agreement with her brother respecting the five hundred pounds.

"Oh, indeed," said Lady Ball.

The information thus given had been manifestly distasteful, and the
conversation was for a while interrupted; but Lady Ball returned to
her request before they were again at home.

"I really do think you might stop, Margaret. Now that we have all got
to know each other, it will be a great pity that it all should be
broken up."

"But I hope it won't be broken up, aunt."

"You know what I mean, my dear. When people live so far off they
can't see each other constantly; and now you are here, I think you
might stay a little longer. I know there is not much attraction--"

"Oh, aunt, don't say that! I like being here very much."

"Then, why can't you stay? Write and tell Mrs Tom that she must keep
Susanna at home for another week or so. It can't matter."

To this Miss Mackenzie made no immediate answer.

"It is not only for myself I speak, but John likes having you here
with his girls; and Jack is so fond of you; and John himself is quite
different while you are here. Do stay!"

Saying which Lady Ball put out her hand caressingly on Miss
Mackenzie's arm.

"I'm afraid I mustn't," said Miss Mackenzie, very slowly. "Much as I
should like it, I'm afraid I mustn't do it. I've pledged myself to go
back with Susanna, and I like to be as good as my word."

Lady Ball drew herself up.

"I never went so much out of my way to ask any one to stay in my
house before," she said.

"Dear aunt! don't be angry with me."

"Oh no! I'm not angry. Here we are. Will you get out first?"

Whereupon Lady Ball descended from the carriage, and walked into the
house with a good deal of dignity.

"What a wicked old woman she was!" virtuous readers will say; "what a
wicked old woman to endeavour to catch that poor old maid's fortune
for her son!"

But I deny that she was in any degree a wicked old woman on that
score. Why should not the two cousins marry, and do very well
together with their joint means? Lady Ball intended to make a
baronet's wife of her. If much was to be taken, was not much also to
be given?

"You are going to stay, are you not?" Jack said to her that evening,
as he wished her good-night. She was very fond of Jack, who was a
nice-looking, smooth-faced young fellow, idolised by his sisters over
whom he tyrannised, and bullied by his grandfather, before whom he
quaked.

"I'm afraid not, Jack; but you shall come and see me at Littlebath,
if you will."

"I should like it, of all things; but I do wish you'd stay: the house
is so much nicer when you are in it!"

But of course she could not stay at the request of the young lad,
when she had refused the request of the lad's grandmother.

After this she had one day to remain at the Cedars. It was a
Thursday, and on the Friday she was to go to her brother's house on
her way to Littlebath. On the Thursday morning Mr Ball waylaid her on
the staircase, as she came down to breakfast, and took her with him
into the drawing-room. There he made his request, standing with her
in the middle of the room.

"Margaret," he said, "must you go away and leave us?"

"I'm afraid I must, John," she said.

"I wish we could make you think better of it."

"Of course I should like to stay, but--"

"Yes, there's always a but. I should have thought that, of all people
in the world, you were the one most able to do just what you please
with your time."

"We have all got duties to do, John."

"Of course we have; but why shouldn't it be your duty to make your
relations happy? If you could only know how much I like your being
here?"

Had it not been that she did not dare to do that for the son which
she had refused to the mother, I think that she would have given way.
As it was, she did not know how to yield, after having persevered so
long.

"You are all so kind," she said, giving him her hand, "that it goes
to my heart to refuse you; but I'm afraid I can't. I do not wish to
give my brother's wife cause to complain of me."

"Then," said Mr Ball, speaking very slowly, "I must ask this favour
of you, that you will let me see you alone for half an hour after
dinner this evening."

"Certainly," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Thank you, Margaret. After tea I will go into the study, and perhaps
you will follow me."


CHAPTER VII

Miss Mackenzie Leaves the Cedars


There was something so serious in her cousin's request to her, and so
much of gravity in his mode of making it, that Miss Mackenzie could
not but think of it throughout the day. On what subject did he wish
to speak to her in so solemn and special a manner? An idea of the
possibility of an offer no doubt crossed her mind and fluttered her,
but it did not do more than this; it did not remain fixed with her,
or induce her to resolve what answer she would give if such offer
were made. She was afraid to allow herself to think that such a thing
could happen, and put the matter away from her,--uneasily, indeed,
but still with so much resolution as to leave her with a conviction
that she need not give any consideration to such an hypothesis.

And she was not at a loss to suggest to herself another subject. Her
cousin had learned something about her money which he felt himself
bound to tell her, but which he would not have told her now had she
consented to remain at the Cedars. There was something wrong about
the loan. This made her seriously unhappy, for she dreaded the
necessity of discussing her brother's conduct with her cousin.

During the whole of the day Lady Ball was very courteous, but rather
distant. Lady Ball had said to herself that Margaret would have
stayed had she been in a disposition favourable to John Ball's hopes.
If she should decline the alliance with which the Balls proposed to
honour her, then Lady Ball was prepared to be very cool. There would
be an ingratitude in such a proceeding after the open-armed affection
which had been shown to her which Lady Ball could not readily bring
herself to forgive. Sir John, once or twice during the day, took up
his little sarcasms against her supposed religious tendencies at
Littlebath.

"You'll be glad to get back to Mr Stumfold," he said.

"I shall be glad to see him, of course," she answered, "as he is a
friend."

"Mr Stumfold has a great many lady friends at Littlebath," he
continued.

"Yes, a great many," said Miss Mackenzie, understanding well that she
was being bullied.

"What a pity that there can be only one Mrs Stumfold," snarled the
baronet; "it's often a wonder to me how women can be so foolish."

"And it's often a wonder to me," said Miss Mackenzie, "how gentlemen
can be so ill-natured."

She had plucked up her spirits of late, and had resented Sir John's
ill-humour.

At the usual hour Mr Ball came home to dinner, and Miss Mackenzie, as
soon as she saw him, again became fluttered. She perceived that he
was not at his ease, and that made her worse. When he spoke to the
girls he seemed hardly to mind what he was saying, and he greeted his
mother without any whispered tidings as to the share-market of the
day.

Margaret asked herself if it could be possible that anything was very
wrong about her own money. If the worst came to the worst she could
but have lost that two thousand five hundred pounds and she would be
able to live well enough without it. If her brother had asked her for
it, she would have given it to him. She would teach herself to regard
it as a gift, and then the subject would not make her unhappy.

They all came down to dinner, and they all went in to tea, and the
tea-things were taken away, and then John Ball arose. During tea-time
neither he nor Miss Mackenzie had spoken a word, and when she got up
to follow him, there was a solemnity about the matter which ought to
have been ludicrous to any of those remaining, who might chance to
know what was about to happen. It must be supposed that Lady Ball
at any rate did know, and when she saw her middle-aged niece walk
slowly out of the room after her middle-aged son, in order that a
love proposal might be made from one to the other with advantage,
she must, I should think, have perceived the comic nature of the
arrangement. She went on, however, very gravely with her knitting,
and did not even make an attempt to catch her husband's eye.

"Margaret," said John Ball, as soon as he had shut the study door;
"but, perhaps, you had better sit down."

Then she sat down, and he came and seated himself opposite to her;
opposite her, but not so close as to give him any of the advantages
of a lover.

"Margaret, I don't know whether you have guessed the subject on which
I wish to speak to you; but I wish you had."

"Is it about the money?" she asked.

"The money! What money? The money you have lent to your brother? Oh,
no."

Then, at that moment, Margaret did, I think, guess.

"It's not at all about the money," he said, and then he sighed.

He had at one time thought of asking his mother to make the
proposition for him, and now he wished that he had done so.

"No, Margaret, it's something else that I want to say. I believe you
know my condition in life pretty accurately."

"In what way, John?"

"I am a poor man; considering my large family, a very poor man. I
have between eight and nine hundred a year, and when my father and
mother are both gone I shall have nearly as much more; but I have
nine children, and as I must keep up something of a position, I have
a hard time of it sometimes, I can tell you."

Here he paused, as though he expected her to say something; but she
had nothing to say and he went on.

"Jack is at Oxford, as you know, and I wish to give him any chance
that a good education may afford. It did not do much for me, but he
may be more lucky. When my father is dead, I think I shall sell this
place; but I have not quite made up my mind about that;--it must
depend on circumstances. As for the girls, you see that I do what I
can to educate them."

"They seem to me to be brought up very nicely; nothing could be
better."

"They are good girls, very good girls, and so is Jack a very good
fellow."

"I love Jack dearly," said Miss Mackenzie, who had already come to
a half-formed resolution that Jack Ball should be heir to half her
fortune, her niece Susanna being heiress to the other half.

"Do you? I'm so glad of that." And there was actually a tear in the
father's eye.

"And so I do the girls," said Margaret. "It's something so nice to
feel that one has people really belonging to one that one may love.
I hope they'll know Susanna some day, for she's a very nice girl,--a
very dear girl."

"I hope they will," said Mr Ball; but there was not much enthusiasm
in the expression of this hope.

Then he got up from his chair, and took a turn across the room. "The
truth is, Margaret, that there's no use in my beating about the bush.
I shan't say what I've got to say a bit the better for delaying it.
I want you to be my wife, and to be mother to those children. I
like you better than any woman I've seen since I lost Rachel, but
I shouldn't dare to make you such an offer if you had not money of
your own. I could not marry unless my wife had money, and I would not
marry any woman unless I felt I could love her--not if she had ever
so much. There! now you know it all. I suppose I have not said it as
I ought to do, but if you're the woman I take you for that won't make
much difference."

For my part I think that he said what he had to say very well. I do
not know that he could have done it much better. I do not know that
any other form of words would have been more persuasive to the woman
he was addressing. Had he said much of his love, or nothing of his
poverty; or had he omitted altogether any mention of her wealth, her
heart would have gone against him at once. As it was he had produced
in her mind such a state of doubt, that she was unable to answer him
on the moment.

"I know," he went on to say, "that I haven't much to offer you." He
had now seated himself again, and as he spoke he looked upon the
ground.

"It isn't that, John," she answered; "you have much more to give than
I have a right to expect."

"No," he said. "What I offer you is a life of endless trouble and
care. I know all about it myself. It's all very well to talk of a
competence and a big house, and if you were to take me, perhaps we
might keep the old place on and furnish it again, and my mother
thinks a great deal about the title. For my part I think it's only
a nuisance when a man has not got a fortune with it, and I don't
suppose it will be any pleasure to you to be called Lady Ball. You'd
have a life of fret and worry, and would not have half so much money
to spend as you have now. I know all that, and have thought a deal
about it before I could bring myself to speak to you. But, Margaret,
you would have duties which would, I think, in themselves, have a
pleasure for you. You would know what to do with your life, and would
be of inestimable value to many people who would love you dearly.
As for me, I never saw any other woman whom I could bring myself to
offer as a mother to my children." All this he said looking down at
the floor, in a low, dull, droning voice, as though every sentence
spoken were to have been the last. Then he paused, looked into her
face for a moment, and after that, allowed his eyes again to fall on
the ground.

Margaret was, of course, aware that she must make him some answer,
and she was by no means prepared to give him one that would be
favourable. Indeed, she thought she knew that she could not marry
him, because she felt that she did not love him with affection of the
sort which would be due to a husband. She told herself that she must
refuse his offer. But yet she wanted time, and above all things, she
wished to find words which would not be painful to him. His dull
droning voice, and the honest recital of his troubles, and of her
troubles if she were to share his lot, had touched her more nearly
than any vows of love would have done. When he told her of the heavy
duties which might fall to her lot as his wife, he almost made her
think that it might be well for her to marry him, even though she did
not love him. "I hardly know how to answer you, you have taken me so
much by surprise," she said.

"You need not give me an answer at once," he replied; "you can think
of it." As she did not immediately say anything, he presumed that she
assented to this proposition. "You won't wonder now," he said, "that
I wished you to stay here, or that my mother wished it."

"Does Lady Ball know?" she asked.

"Yes, my mother does know."

"What am I to say to her?"

"Shall I tell you, Margaret, what to say? Put your arms round her
neck, and tell her that you will be her daughter."

"No, John; I cannot do that; and perhaps I ought to say now that I
don't think it will ever be possible. It has all so surprised me,
that I haven't known how to speak; and I am afraid I shall be letting
you go from me with a false idea. Perhaps I ought to say at once that
it cannot be."

"No, Margaret, no. It is much better that you should think of it. No
harm can come of that."

"There will be harm if you are disappointed."

"I certainly shall be disappointed if you decide against me; but not
more violently so, if you do it next week than if you do it now. But
I do hope that you will not decide against me."

"And what am I to do?"

"You can write to me from Littlebath."

"And how soon must I write?"

"As soon as you can make up your mind. But, Margaret, do not decide
against me too quickly. I do not know that I shall do myself any good
by promising you that I will love you tenderly." So saying he put out
his hand, and she took it; and they stood there looking into each
other's eyes, as young lovers might have done,--as his son might have
looked into those of her daughter, had she been married young and had
children of her own. In the teeth of all those tedious money dealings
in the City there was some spice of romance left within his bosom
yet!

But how was she to get herself out of the room? It would not do for
such a Juliet to stay all the night looking into the eyes of her
ancient Romeo. And how was she to behave herself to Lady Ball, when
she should again find herself in the drawing-room, conscious as she
was that Lady Ball knew all about it? And how was she to conduct
herself before all those young people whom she had left there? And
her proposed father-in-law, whom she feared so much, and in truth
disliked so greatly--would he know all about it, and thrust his
ill-natured jokes at her? Her lover should have opened the door for
her to pass through; but instead of doing so, as soon as she had
withdrawn her hand from his, he placed himself on the rug, and leaned
back in silence against the chimney-piece.

"I suppose it wouldn't do," she said, "for me to go off to bed
without seeing them."

"I think you had better see my mother," he replied, "else you will
feel awkward in the morning."

Then she opened the door for herself, and with frightened feet crept
back to the drawing-room. She could hardly bring herself to open
the second door; but when she had done so, her heart was greatly
released, as, looking in, she saw that her aunt was the only person
there.

"Well, Margaret," said the old lady, walking up to her; "well?"

"Dear aunt, I don't know what I am to say to you. I don't know what
you want."

"I want you to tell me you have consented to become John's wife."

"But I have not consented. Think how sudden it has been, aunt!"

"Yes, yes; I can understand that. You could not tell him at once that
you would take him; but you won't mind telling me."

"I would have told him so in an instant, if I had made up my mind. Do
you think I would wish to keep him in suspense on such a matter? If
I could have felt that I could love him as his wife, I would have
told him so instantly,--instantly."

"And why not love him as his wife--why not?" Lady Ball, as she asked
the question, was almost imperious in her eagerness.

"Why not, aunt? It is not easy to answer such a question as that. A
woman, I suppose, can't say why she doesn't love a man, nor yet why
she does. You see, it's so sudden. I hadn't thought of him in that
way."

"You've known him now for nearly a year, and you've been in the house
with him for the last three weeks. If you haven't seen that he has
been attached to you, you are the only person in the house that has
been so blind."

"I haven't seen it at all, aunt."

"Perhaps you are afraid of the responsibility," said Lady Ball.

"I should fear it certainly; but that alone would not deter me. I
would endeavour to do my best."

"And you don't like living in the same house with me and Sir John."

"Indeed, yes; you are always good to me; and as to my uncle, I know
he does not mean to be unkind. I should not fear that."

"The truth is, I suppose, Margaret, that you do not like to part with
your money."

"That's unjust, aunt. I don't think I care more for my money than
another woman."

"Then what is it? He can give you a position in the world higher than
any you could have had a hope to possess. As Lady Ball you will be
equal in all respects to your own far-away cousin, Lady Mackenzie."

"That has nothing to do with it, aunt."

"Then what is it?" asked Lady Ball again. "I suppose you have no
absolute objection to be a baronet's wife."

"Suppose, aunt, that I do not love him?"

"Pshaw!" said the old woman.

"But it isn't pshaw," said Miss Mackenzie. "No woman ought to marry a
man unless she feels that she loves him."

"Pshaw!" said Lady Ball again.

They had both been standing; and as everybody else was gone Miss
Mackenzie had determined that she would go off to bed without
settling herself in the room. So she prepared herself for her
departure.

"I'll say good-night now, aunt. I have still some of my packing to
do, and I must be up early."

"Don't be in a hurry, Margaret. I want to speak to you before you
leave us, and I shall have no other opportunity. Sit down, won't
you?"

Then Miss Mackenzie seated herself, most unwillingly.

"I don't know that there is anyone nearer to you than I am, my dear;
at any rate, no woman; and therefore I can say more than any other
person. When you talk of not loving John, does that mean--does it
mean that you are engaged to anyone else?"

"No, it does not."

"And it does not mean that there is anyone else whom you are thinking
of marrying?"

"I am not thinking of marrying anyone."

"Or that you love any other man?"

"You are cross-questioning me, aunt, more than is fair."

"Then there is some one?"

"No, there is nobody. What I say about John I don't say through any
feeling for anybody else."

"Then, my dear, I think that a little talk between you and me may
make this matter all right. I'm sure you don't doubt John when he
says that he loves you very dearly. As for your loving him, of course
that would come. It is not as if you two were two young people, and
that you wanted to be billing and cooing. Of course you ought to be
fond of each other, and like each other's company; and I have no
doubt that you will. You and I would, of course, be thrown very much
together, and I'm sure I'm very fond of you. Indeed, Margaret, I have
endeavoured to show that I am."

"You've been very kind, aunt."

"Therefore as to your loving him, I really don't think there need
be any doubt about that. Then, my dear, as to the other part of
the arrangement,--the money and all that. If you were to have any
children, your own fortune would be settled on them; at least, that
could be arranged, if you required it; though, as your fortune all
came from the Balls, and is the very money with which the title was
intended to be maintained, you probably would not be very exacting
about that. Stop a moment, my dear, and let me finish before you
speak. I want you particularly to think of what I say, and to
remember that all your money did come from the Balls. It has been
very hard upon John,--you must feel that. Look at him with his heavy
family, and how he works for them!"

"But my uncle Jonathan died and left his money to my brothers before
John was married. It is twenty-five years ago."

"Well I remember it, my dear! John was just engaged to Rachel, and
the marriage was put off because of the great cruelty of Jonathan's
will. Of course I am not blaming you."

"I was only ten years old, and uncle Jonathan did not leave me a
penny. My money came to me from my brother; and, as far as I can
understand, it is nearly double as much as he got from Sir John's
brother."

"That may be; but John would have doubled it quite as readily as
Walter Mackenzie. What I mean to say is this, that as you have the
money which in the course of nature would have come to John, and
which would have been his now if a great injustice had not been
done--"

"It was done by a Ball, and not by a Mackenzie."

"That does not alter the case in the least. Your feelings should be
just the same in spite of that. Of course the money is yours and you
can do what you like with it. You can give it to young Mr Samuel
Rubb, if you please." Stupid old woman! "But I think you must feel
that you should repair the injury which was done, as it is in your
power to do so. A fine position is offered you. When poor Sir John
goes, you will become Lady Ball, and be the mistress of this house,
and have your own carriage." Terribly stupid old woman! "And you
would have friends and relatives always round you, instead of being
all alone at such a place as Littlebath, which must, I should say,
be very sad. Of course there would be duties to perform to the dear
children; but I don't think so ill of you, Margaret, as to suppose
for an instant that you would shrink from that. Stop one moment,
my dear, and I shall have done. I think I have said all now; but
I can well understand that when John spoke to you, you could not
immediately give him a favourable answer. It was much better to leave
it till to-morrow. But you can't have any objection to speaking out
to me, and I really think you might make me happy by saying that it
shall be as I wish."

It is astonishing the harm that an old woman may do when she goes
well to work, and when she believes she can prevail by means of her
own peculiar eloquence. Lady Ball had so trusted to her own prestige,
to her own ladyship, to her own carriage and horses, and to the
rest of it, and had also so misjudged Margaret's ordinary mild
manner, that she had thought to force her niece into an immediate
acquiescence by her mere words. The result, however, was exactly
the contrary to this. Had Miss Mackenzie been left to herself after
the interview with Mr Ball: had she gone upstairs to sleep upon his
proposal, without any disturbance to those visions of sacrificial
duty which his plain statement had produced: had she been allowed
to leave the house and think over it all without any other argument
to her than those which he had used, I think that she would have
accepted him. But now she was up in arms against the whole thing.
Her mind, clear as it was, was hardly lucid enough to allow of her
separating the mother and son at this moment. She was claimed as a
wife into the family because they thought that they had a right to
her fortune; and the temptations offered, by which they hoped to
draw her into her duty, were a beggarly title and an old coach! No!
The visions of sacrificial duty were all dispelled. There was doubt
before, but now there was no doubt.

"I think I will go to bed, aunt," she said very calmly, "and I will
write to John from Littlebath."

"And cannot you put me out of my suspense?"

"If you wish it, yes. I know that I must refuse him. I wish that I
had told him so at once, as then there would have been an end of it."

"You don't mean that you have made up your mind?"

"Yes, aunt, I do. I should be wrong to marry a man that I do not
love; and as for the money, aunt, I must say that I think you are
mistaken."

"How mistaken?"

"You think that I am called upon to put right some wrong that you
think was done you by Sir John's brother. I don't think that I am
under any such obligation. Uncle Jonathan left his money to his
sister's children instead of to his brother's children. If his money
had come to John, you would not have admitted that we had any claim,
because we were nephews and nieces."

"The whole thing would have been different."

"Well, aunt, I am very tired, and if you'll let me, I'll go to bed."

"Oh, certainly."

Then, with anything but warm affection, the aunt and niece parted,
and Miss Mackenzie went to her bed with a firm resolution that she
would not become Lady Ball.

It had been arranged for some time back that Mr Ball was to accompany
his cousin up to London by the train; and though under the present
circumstances that arrangement was not without a certain amount of
inconvenience, there was no excuse at hand for changing it. Not a
word was said at breakfast as to the scenes of last night. Indeed, no
word could very well have been said, as all the family was present,
including Jack and the girls. Lady Ball was very quiet, and very
dignified; but Miss Mackenzie perceived that she was always called
"Margaret," and not "my dear," as had been her aunt's custom. Very
little was said by any one, and not a great deal was eaten.

"Well; when are we to see you back again?" said Sir John, as Margaret
arose from her chair on being told that the carriage was there.

"Perhaps you and my aunt will come down some day and see me at
Littlebath?" said Miss Mackenzie.

"No; I don't think that's very likely," said Sir John.

Then she kissed all the children, till she came to Jack.

"I am going to kiss you, too," she said to him.

"No objection in life," said Jack. "I sha'n't complain about that."

"You'll come and see me at Littlebath?" said she.

"That I will if you'll ask me."

Then she put her face to her aunt, and Lady Ball permitted her cheek
to be touched. Lady Ball was still not without hope, but she thought
that the surest way was to assume a high dignity of demeanour, and
to exhibit a certain amount of displeasure. She still believed that
Margaret might be frightened into the match. It was but a mile and a
half to the station, and for that distance Mr Ball and Margaret sat
together in the carriage. He said nothing to her as to his proposal
till the station was in view, and then only a word.

"Think well of it, Margaret, if you can."

"I fear I cannot think well of it," she answered. But she spoke so
low, that I doubt whether he completely heard her words. The train
up to London was nearly full, and there he had no opportunity of
speaking to her. But he desired no such opportunity. He had said all
that he had to say, and was almost well pleased to know that a final
answer was to be given to him, not personally, but by letter. His
mother had spoken to him that morning, and had made him understand
that she was not well pleased with Margaret; but she had said nothing
to quench her son's hopes.

"Of course she will accept you," Lady Ball had said, "but women like
her never like to do anything without making a fuss about it."

"To me, yesterday, I thought she behaved admirably," said her son.

At the station at London he put her into the cab that was to take her
to Gower Street, and as he shook hands with her through the window,
he once more said the same words:

"Think well of it, Margaret, if you can."


CHAPTER VIII

Mrs Tom Mackenzie's Dinner Party


Mrs Tom was ever so gracious on the arrival of her sister-in-law, but
even in her graciousness there was something which seemed to Margaret
to tell of her dislike. Near relatives, when they are on good terms
with each other, are not gracious. Now, Mrs Tom, though she was ever
so gracious, was by no means cordial. Susanna, however, was delighted
to see her aunt, and Margaret, when she felt the girl's arms round
her neck, declared to herself that that should suffice for her,--that
should be her love, and it should be enough. If indeed, in after
years, she could make Jack love her too, that would be better still.
Then her mind went to work upon a little marriage scheme that would
in due time make a baronet's wife of Susanna. It would not suit her
to become Lady Ball, but it might suit Susanna.

"We are going to have a little dinner party to-day," said Mrs Tom.

"A dinner party!" said Margaret. "I didn't look for that, Sarah."

"Perhaps I ought not to call it a party, for there are only one or
two coming. There's Dr Slumpy and his wife; I don't know whether you
ever met Dr Slumpy. He has attended us for ever so long; and there
is Miss Colza, a great friend of mine. Mademoiselle Colza I ought to
call her, because her father was a Portuguese. Only as she never saw
him, we call her Miss. And there's Mr Rubb,--Samuel Rubb, junior. I
think you met him at Littlebath."

"Yes; I know Mr Rubb."

"That's all; and I might as well say how it will be now. Mr Rubb will
take you down to dinner. Tom will take Mrs Slumpy, and the doctor
will take me. Young Tom,"--Young Tom was her son, who was now
beginning his career at Rubb and Mackenzie's,--"Young Tom will take
Miss Colza, and Mary Jane and Susanna will come down by themselves.
We might have managed twelve, and Tom did think of asking Mr Handcock
and one of the other clerks, but he did not know whether you would
have liked it."

"I should not have minded it. That is, I should have been very glad
to meet Mr Handcock, but I don't care about it."

"That's just what we thought, and therefore we did not ask him.
You'll remember, won't you, that Mr Rubb takes you down?" After that
Miss Mackenzie took her nieces to the Zoological Gardens, leaving
Mary Jane at home to assist her mother in the cares for the coming
festival, and thus the day wore itself away till it was time for them
to prepare themselves for the party.

Miss Colza was the first to come. She was a young lady somewhat older
than Miss Mackenzie; but the circumstances of her life had induced
her to retain many of the propensities of her girlhood. She was as
young looking as curls and pink bows could make her, and was by no
means a useless guest at a small dinner party, as she could chatter
like a magpie. Her claims to be called "Mademoiselle" were not very
strong, as she had lived in Finsbury Square all her life. Her father
was connected in trade with the Rubb and Mackenzie firm, and dealt,
I think, in oil. She was introduced with great ceremony, and having
heard that Miss Mackenzie lived at Littlebath, went off at score
about the pleasures of that delicious place.

"I do so hate London, Miss Mackenzie."

"I lived here all my life, and I can't say I liked it."

"It is such a crowd, isn't it? and yet so dull. Give me Brighton! We
were down for a week in November, and it was nice."

"I never saw Brighton."

"Oh, do go to Brighton. Everybody goes there now; you really do see
the world at Brighton. Now, in London one sees nothing."

Then came in Mr Rubb, and Miss Colza at once turned her attention to
him. But Mr Rubb shook Miss Colza off almost unceremoniously, and
seated himself by Miss Mackenzie. Immediately afterwards arrived
the doctor and his wife. The doctor was a very silent man, and as
Tom Mackenzie himself was not given to much talking, it was well
that Miss Colza should be there. Mrs Slumpy could take her share in
conversation with an effort, when duly assisted; but she could not
lead the van, and required more sprightly aid than her host was
qualified to give her. Then there was a whisper between Tom and Mrs
Tom and the bell was rung, and the dinner was ordered. Seven had been
the time named, and a quarter past seven saw the guests assembled
in the drawing-room. A very dignified person in white cotton gloves
had announced the names, and the same dignified person had taken the
order for dinner. The dignified person had then retreated downstairs
slowly, and what was taking place for the next half-hour poor Mrs
Mackenzie, in the agony of her mind, could not surmise. She longed
to go and see, but did not dare. Even for Dr Slumpy, or even for his
wife, had they been alone with her she would not have cared much.
Miss Colza she could have treated with perfect indifference--could
even have taken her down into the kitchen with her. Rubb, her own
junior partner, was nothing, and Miss Mackenzie was simply her
sister-in-law. But together they made a party. Moreover she had on
her best and stiffest silk gown, and so armed she could not have been
effective in the kitchen. And so came a silence for some minutes, in
spite of the efforts of Miss Colza. At last the hostess plucked up
her courage to make a little effort.

"Tom," she said, "I really think you had better ring again."

"It will be all right, soon," said Tom, considering that upon the
whole it would be better not to disturb the gentleman downstairs just
yet.

"Upon my word, I never felt it so cold in my life as I did to-day,"
he said, turning on Dr Slumpy for the third time with that remark.

"Very cold," said Dr Slumpy, pulling out his watch and looking at it.

"I really think you'd better ring the bell," said Mrs Tom.

Tom, however, did not stir, and after another period of five minutes
dinner was announced. It may be as well, perhaps, to explain, that
the soup had been on the table for the last quarter of an hour or
more, but that after placing the tureen on the table, the dignified
gentleman downstairs had come to words with the cook, and had refused
to go on further with the business of the night until that ill-used
woman acceded to certain terms of his own in reference to the manner
in which the foods should be served. He had seen the world, and had
lofty ideas, and had been taught to be a tyrant by the weakness of
those among whom his life had been spent. The cook had alleged that
the dinner, as regarded the eating of it, would certainly be spoilt.
As to that, he had expressed a mighty indifference. If he was to have
any hand in them, things were to be done according to certain rules,
which, as he said, prevailed in the world of fashion. The cook,
who had a temper and who regarded her mistress, stood out long and
boldly, but when the housemaid, who was to assist Mr Grandairs
upstairs, absolutely deserted her, and sitting down began to cry,
saying: "Sairey, why don't you do as he tells you? What signifies its
being greasy if it hain't never to go hup?" then Sarah's courage gave
way, and Mr Grandairs, with all the conqueror in his bosom, announced
that dinner was served.

It was a great relief. Even Miss Colza's tongue had been silent,
and Mr Rubb had found himself unable to carry on any further small
talk with Miss Mackenzie. The minds of men and women become so
tuned to certain positions, that they go astray and won't act when
those positions are confused. Almost every man can talk for fifteen
minutes, standing in a drawing-room, before dinner; but where is the
man who can do it for an hour? It is not his appetite that impedes
him, for he could well have borne to dine at eight instead of seven;
nor is it that matter lacks him, for at other times his eloquence
does not cease to flow so soon. But at that special point of the day
he is supposed to talk for fifteen minutes, and if any prolonged call
is then made upon him, his talking apparatus falls out of order and
will not work. You can sit still on a Sunday morning, in the cold,
on a very narrow bench, with no comfort appertaining, and listen for
half an hour to a rapid outflow of words, which, for any purpose
of instruction or edification, are absolutely useless to you. The
reading to you of the "Quæ genus," or "As in præsenti," could not be
more uninteresting. Try to undergo the same thing in your own house
on a Wednesday afternoon, and see where you will be. To those ladies
and gentlemen who had been assembled in Mrs Mackenzie's drawing-room
this prolonged waiting had been as though the length of the sermon
had been doubled, or as if it had fallen on them at some unexpected
and unauthorised time.

But now they descended, each gentleman taking his allotted lady, and
Colza's voice was again heard. At the bottom of the stairs, just
behind the dining-room door, stood the tyrant, looking very great,
repressing with his left hand the housemaid who was behind him. She
having observed Sarah at the top of the kitchen stairs telegraphing
for assistance, had endeavoured to make her way to her friend while
Tom Mackenzie and Mrs Slumpy were still upon the stairs; but the
tyrant, though he had seen the cook's distress, had refused and
sternly kept the girl a prisoner behind him. Ruat dinner, fiat
genteel deportment.

The order of the construction of the dinner was no doubt à la Russe;
and why should it not have been so, as Tom Mackenzie either had or
was supposed to have as much as eight hundred a year? But I think
it must be confessed that the architecture was in some degree
composite. It was à la Russe, because in the centre there was a green
arrangement of little boughs with artificial flowers fixed on them,
and because there were figs and raisins, and little dishes with dabs
of preserve on them, all around the green arrangement; but the soups
and fish were on the table, as was also the wine, though it was
understood that no one was to be allowed to help himself or his
neighbour to the contents of the bottle. When Dr Slumpy once made
an attempt at the sherry, Grandairs was down upon him instantly,
although laden at the time with both potatoes and sea-kale; after
that he went round and frowned at Dr Slumpy, and Dr Slumpy understood
the frown.

That the soup should be cold, everybody no doubt expected. It was
clear soup, made chiefly of Marsala, and purchased from the pastry
cook's in Store Street. Grandairs, no doubt, knew all about it, as he
was connected with the same establishment. The fish--Mrs Mackenzie
had feared greatly about her fish, having necessarily trusted its
fate solely to her own cook--was very ragged in its appearance, and
could not be very warm; the melted butter too was thick and clotted,
and was brought round with the other condiments too late to be of
much service; but still the fish was eatable, and Mrs Mackenzie's
heart, which had sunk very low as the unconsumed soup was carried
away, rose again in her bosom. Poor woman! she had done her best, and
it was hard that she should suffer. One little effort she made at the
moment to induce Elizabeth to carry round the sauce, but Grandairs
had at once crushed it; he had rushed at the girl and taken the
butter-boat from her hand. Mrs Mackenzie had seen it all; but what
could she do, poor soul?

The thing was badly managed in every way. The whole hope of
conversation round the table depended on Miss Colza, and she was
deeply offended by having been torn away from Mr Rubb. How could
she talk seated between the two Tom Mackenzies? From Dr Slumpy Mrs
Mackenzie could not get a word. Indeed, with so great a weight on
her mind, how could she be expected to make any great effort in
that direction? But Mr Mackenzie might have done something, and she
resolved that she would tell him so before he slept that night. She
had slaved all day in order that he might appear respectable before
his own relatives, at the bottom of his own table--and now he would
do nothing! "I believe he is thinking of his own dinner!" she said to
herself. If her accusation was just his thoughts must have been very
sad.

In a quiet way Mr Rubb did talk to his neighbour. Upstairs he had
spoken a word or two about Littlebath, saying how glad he was that
he had been there. He should always remember Littlebath as one of
the pleasantest places he had ever seen. He wished that he lived
at Littlebath; but then what was the good of his wishing anything,
knowing as he did that he was bound for life to Rubb and Mackenzie's
counting house!

"And you will earn your livelihood there," Miss Mackenzie had
replied.

"Yes; and something more than that I hope. I don't mind telling
you,--a friend like you,--that I will either spoil a horn or make a
spoon. I won't go on in the old groove, which hardly gives any of us
salt to our porridge. If I understand anything of English commerce, I
think I can see my way to better things than that." Then the period
of painful waiting had commenced, and he was unable to say anything
more.

That had been upstairs. Now below, amidst all the troubles of Mrs
Mackenzie and the tyranny of Grandairs, he began again:

"Do you like London dinner parties?"

"I never was at one before."

"Never at one before! I thought you had lived in London all your
life."

"So I have; but we never used to dine out. My brother was an
invalid."

"And do they do the thing well at Littlebath?"

"I never dined out there. You think it very odd, I dare say, but I
never was at a dinner party in my life--not before this."

"Don't the Balls see much company?"

"No, very little; none of that kind."

"Dear me. It comes so often to us here that we get tired of it. I do,
at least. I'm not always up to this kind of thing. Champagne--if you
please. Miss Mackenzie, you will take some champagne?"

Now had come the crisis of the evening, the moment that was all
important, and Grandairs was making his round in all the pride of his
vocation. But Mrs Mackenzie was by no means so proud at the present
conjuncture of affairs. There was but one bottle of champagne. "So
little wine is drank now, that, what is the good of getting more? Of
course the children won't have it." So she had spoken to her husband.
And who shall blame her or say where economy ends, or where meanness
begins? She had wanted no champagne herself, but had wished to treat
her friends well. She had seized a moment after Grandairs had come,
and Mrs Slumpy was not yet there, to give instructions to the great
functionary.

"Don't mind me with the champagne, nor yet Mr Tom, nor the young
ladies."

Thus she had reduced the number to six, and had calculated that
the bottle would certainly be good for that number, with probably
a second glass for the doctor and Mr Rubb. But Grandairs had not
condescended to be put out of his way by such orders as these. The
bottle had first come to Miss Colza, and then Tom's glass had been
filled, and Susanna's--through no fault of theirs, innocent bairns,
"but on purpose!" as Mrs Mackenzie afterwards declared to her husband
when speaking of the man's iniquity. And I think it had been done on
purpose. The same thing occurred with Mary Jane--till Mrs Mackenzie,
looking on, could have cried. The girl's glass was filled full, and
she did give a little shriek at last. But what availed shrieking?
When the bottle came round behind Mrs Mackenzie back to Dr Slumpy, it
was dry, and the wicked wretch held the useless nozzle triumphantly
over the doctor's glass.

"Give me some sherry, then," said the doctor.

The little dishes which had been brought round after the fish, three
in number,--and they in the proper order of things should have been
spoken of before the champagne,--had been in their way successful.
They had been so fabricated, that all they who attempted to eat
of their contents became at once aware that they had got hold of
something very nasty, something that could hardly have been intended
by Christian cooks as food for men; but, nevertheless, there had
been something of glory attending them. Little dishes require no
concomitant vegetables, and therefore there had been no scrambling.
Grandairs brought one round after the other with much majesty, while
Elizabeth stood behind looking on in wonder. After the second little
dish Grandairs changed the plates, so that it was possible to partake
of two, a feat which was performed by Tom Mackenzie the younger. At
this period Mrs Mackenzie, striving hard for equanimity, attempted
a word or two with the doctor. But immediately upon that came the
affair of the champagne, and she was crushed, never to rise again.

Mr Rubb at this time had settled down into so pleasant a little
series of whispers with his neighbour, that Miss Colza resolved once
more to exert herself, not with the praiseworthy desire of assisting
her friend Mrs Mackenzie, but with malice prepense in reference to
Miss Mackenzie.

Miss Mackenzie seemed to be having "a good time" with her neighbour
Samuel Rubb, junior, and Miss Colza, who was a woman of courage,
could not see that and not make an effort. It cannot be told here
what passages there had been between Mr Rubb and Miss Colza. That
there had absolutely been passages I beg the reader to understand.
"Mr Rubb," she said, stretching across the table, "do you remember
when, in this very room, we met Mr and Mrs Talbot Green?"

"Oh yes, very well," said Mr Rubb, and then turning to Miss
Mackenzie, he went on with his little whispers.

"Mr Rubb," continued Miss Colza, "does anybody put you in mind of Mrs
Talbot Green?"

"Nobody in particular. She was a thin, tall, plain woman, with red
hair, wasn't she? Who ought she to put me in mind of?"

"Oh dear! how can you forget so? That wasn't her looks at all. We
all agreed that she was quite interesting-looking. Her hair was just
fair, and that was all. But I shan't say anything more about it."

"But who do you say is like her?"

"Miss Colza means Aunt Margaret," said Mary Jane.

"Of course I do," said Miss Colza. "But Mrs Talbot Green was not at
all the person that Mr Rubb has described; we all thought her very
nice-looking. Mr Rubb, do you remember how you would go on talking to
her, till Mr Talbot Green did not like it at all?"

"No, I don't."

"Oh, but you did; and you always do."

Then Miss Colza ceased, having finished that effort. But she made
others from time to time as long as they remained in the dining-room,
and by no means gave up the battle. There are women who can fight
such battles when they have not an inch of ground on which to stand.

After the little dishes there came, of course, a saddle of mutton,
and, equally of course, a pair of boiled fowls. There was also a
tongue; but the à la Russe construction of the dinner was maintained
by keeping the tongue on the sideboard, while the mutton and chickens
were put down to be carved in the ordinary way. The ladies all
partook of the chickens, and the gentlemen all of the mutton. The
arrangement was very tedious, as Dr Slumpy was not as clever with
the wings of the fowls as he perhaps would have been had he not been
defrauded in the matter of the champagne; and then every separate
plate was carried away to the sideboard with reference to the tongue.
Currant jelly had been duly provided, and, if Elizabeth had been
allowed to dispense it, might have been useful. But Grandairs was too
much for the jelly, as he had been for the fish-sauce, and Dr Slumpy
in vain looked up, and sighed, and waited. A man in such a condition
measures the amount of cold which his meat may possibly endure
against the future coming of the potatoes, till he falls utterly
to the ground between two stools. So was it now with Dr Slumpy. He
gave one last sigh as he saw the gravy congeal upon his plate, but,
nevertheless, he had finished the unpalatable food before Grandairs
had arrived to his assistance.

Why tell of the ruin of the maccaroni, of the fine-coloured
pyramids of shaking sweet things which nobody would eat, and by the
non-consumption of which nothing was gained, as they all went back to
the pastrycook's,--or of the ice-puddings flavoured with onions? It
was all misery, wretchedness, and degradation. Grandairs was king,
and Mrs Mackenzie was the lowest of his slaves. And why? Why had she
done this thing? Why had she, who, to give her her due, generally
held her own in her own house pretty firmly,--why had she lowered her
neck and made a wretched thing of herself? She knew that it would be
so when she first suggested to herself the attempt. She did it for
fashion's sake, you will say. But there was no one there who did
not as accurately know as she did herself, how absolutely beyond
fashion's way lay her way. She was making no fight to enter some
special portal of the world, as a lady may do who takes a house
suddenly in Mayfair, having come from God knows where. Her place in
the world was fixed, and she made no contest as to the fixing. She
hoped for no great change in the direction of society. Why on earth
did she perplex her mind and bruise her spirit, by giving a dinner à
la anything? Why did she not have the roast mutton alone, so that all
her guests might have eaten and have been merry?

She could not have answered this question herself, and I doubt
whether I can do so for her. But this I feel, that unless the
question can get itself answered, ordinary Englishmen must cease to
go and eat dinners at each other's houses. The ordinary Englishman,
of whom we are now speaking, has eight hundred a year; he lives in
London; and he has a wife and three or four children. Had he not
better give it up and go back to his little bit of fish and his leg
of mutton? Let him do that boldly, and he will find that we, his
friends, will come to him fast enough; yes, and will make a gala day
of it. By Heavens, we have no gala time of it when we go to dine with
Mrs Mackenzie à la Russe! Lady Mackenzie, whose husband has ever
so many thousands a year, no doubt does it very well. Money, which
cannot do everything,--which, if well weighed, cannot in its excess
perhaps do much,--can do some things. It will buy diamonds and give
grand banquets. But paste diamonds, and banquets which are only
would-be grand, are among the poorest imitations to which the world
has descended.

"So you really go to Littlebath to-morrow," Mr Rubb said to Miss
Mackenzie, when they were again together in the drawing-room.

"Yes, to-morrow morning. Susanna must be at school the next day."

"Happy Susanna! I wish I were going to school at Littlebath. Then I
shan't see you again before you go."

"No; I suppose not."

"I am so sorry, because I particularly wished to speak to you,--most
particularly. I suppose I could not see you in the morning? But, no;
it would not do. I could not get you alone without making such a fuss
of the thing."

"Couldn't you say it now?" asked Miss Mackenzie.

"I will, if you'll let me; only I suppose it isn't quite the thing to
talk about business at an evening party; and your sister-in-law, if
she knew it, would never forgive me."

"Then she shan't know it, Mr Rubb."

"Since you are so good, I think I will make bold. Carpe diem, as
we used to say at school, which means that one day is as good as
another, and, if so why not any time in the day? Look here, Miss
Mackenzie--about that money, you know."

And Mr Rubb got nearer to her on the sofa as he whispered the word
money into her ear. It immediately struck her that her own brother
Tom had said not a word to her about the money, although they had
been together for the best part of an hour before they had gone up to
dress.

"I suppose Mr Slow will settle all that," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Of course;--that is to say, he has nothing further to settle just
as yet. He has our bond for the money, and you may be sure it's all
right. The property is purchased, and is ours,--our own at this
moment, thanks to you. But landed property is so hard to convey.
Perhaps you don't understand much about that! and I'm sure I don't.
The fact is, the title deeds at present are in other hands, a mere
matter of form; and I want you to understand that the mortgage is not
completed for that reason."

"I suppose it will be done soon?"

"It may, or it may not; but that won't affect your interest, you
know."

"I was thinking of the security."

"Well, the security is not as perfect as it should be. I tell you
that honestly; and if we were dealing with strangers we should expect
to be called on to refund. And we should refund instantly, but at a
great sacrifice, a ruinous sacrifice. Now, I want you to put so much
trust in us,--in me, if I may be allowed to ask you to do so,--as to
believe that your money is substantially safe. I cannot explain it
all now; but the benefit which you have done us is immense."

"I suppose it will all come right, Mr Rubb."

"It will all come right, Miss Mackenzie."

Then there was extracted from her something which he was able to take
as a promise that she would not stir in the matter for a while, but
would take her interest without asking for any security as to her
principal.

The conversation was interrupted by Miss Colza, who came and stood
opposite to them.

"Well, I'm sure," she said; "you two are very confidential."

"And why shouldn't we be confidential, Miss Colza?" asked Mr Rubb.

"Oh, dear! no reason in life, if you both like it."

Miss Mackenzie was not sure that she did like it. But again she was
not sure that she did not, when Mr Rubb pressed her hand at parting,
and told her that her great kindness had been of the most material
service to the firm. "He felt it," he said, "if nobody else did."
That also might be a sacrificial duty and therefore gratifying.

The next morning she and Susanna left Gower Street at eight, spent
an interesting period of nearly an hour at the railway station, and
reached Littlebath in safety at one.


CHAPTER IX

Miss Mackenzie's Philosophy


Miss Mackenzie remained quiet in her room for two days after her
return before she went out to see anybody. These last Christmas weeks
had certainly been the most eventful period of her life, and there
was very much of which it was necessary that she should think. She
had, she thought, made up her mind to refuse her cousin's offer; but
the deed was not yet done. She had to think of the mode in which she
must do it; and she could not but remember, also, that she might
still change her mind in that matter if she pleased. The anger
produced in her by Lady Ball's claim, as it were, to her fortune,
had almost evaporated; but the memory of her cousin's story of his
troubles was still fresh. "I have a hard time of it sometimes, I can
tell you." Those words and others of the same kind were the arguments
which had moved her, and made her try to think that she could love
him. Then she remembered his bald head and the weary, careworn look
about his eyes, and his little intermittent talk, addressed chiefly
to his mother, about the money-market,--little speeches made as he
would sit with the newspaper in his hand:

"The Confederate loan isn't so bad, after all. I wish I'd taken a
few."

"You know you'd never have slept if you had," Lady Ball would answer.

All this Miss Mackenzie now turned in her mind, and asked herself
whether she could be happy in hearing such speeches for the remainder
of her life.

"It is not as if you two were young people, and wanted to be billing
and cooing," Lady Ball had said to her the same evening.

Miss Mackenzie, as she thought of this, was not so sure that Lady
Ball was right. Why should she not want billing and cooing as well as
another? It was natural that a woman should want some of it in her
life, and she had had none of it yet. She had had a lover, certainly,
but there had been no billing and cooing with him. Nothing of that
kind had been possible in her brother Walter's house.

And then the question naturally arose to her whether her aunt had
treated her justly in bracketing her with John Ball in that matter of
age. John Ball was ten years her senior; and ten years, she knew, was
a very proper difference between a man and his wife. She was by no
means inclined to plead, even to herself, that she was too young
to marry her cousin; there was nothing in their ages to interfere,
if the match was in other respects suitable. But still, was not he
old for his age, and was not she young for hers? And if she should
ultimately resolve to devote herself and what she had left of
youth to his children and his welfare, should not the sacrifice be
recognised? Had Lady Ball done well to speak of her as she certainly
might well speak of him? Was she beyond all aptitude for billing and
cooing, if billing and cooing might chance to come in her way?

Thinking of this during the long afternoon, when Susanna was at
school, she got up and looked at herself in the mirror. She moved up
her hair from off her ears, knowing where she would find a few that
were grey, and shaking her head, as though owning to herself that
she was old; but as her fingers ran almost involuntarily across her
locks, her touch told her that they were soft and silken; and she
looked into her own eyes, and saw that they were bright; and her hand
touched the outline of her cheek, and she knew that something of the
fresh bloom of youth was still there; and her lips parted, and there
were her white teeth; and there came a smile and a dimple, and a
slight purpose of laughter in her eye, and then a tear. She pulled
her scarf tighter across her bosom, feeling her own form, and then
she leaned forward and kissed herself in the glass.

He was very careworn, soiled as it were with the world, tired out
with the dusty, weary life's walk which he had been compelled to
take. Of romance in him there was nothing left, while in her the
aptitude for romance had only just been born. It was not only that
his head was bald, but that his eye was dull, and his step slow. The
juices of life had been pressed out of him; his thoughts were all
of his cares, and never of his hopes. It would be very sad to be
the wife of such a man; it would be very sad, if there were no
compensation; but might not the sacrificial duties give her that
atonement which she would require? She would fain do something with
her life and her money,--some good, some great good to some other
person. If that good to another person and billing and cooing might
go together, it would be very pleasant. But she knew there was danger
in such an idea. The billing and cooing might lead altogether to
evil. But there could be no doubt that she would do good service if
she married her cousin; her money would go to good purposes, and her
care to those children would be invaluable. They were her cousins,
and would it not be sweet to make of herself a sacrifice?

And then--Reader! remember that she was no saint, and that hitherto
very little opportunity had been given to her of learning to
discriminate true metal from dross. Then--she thought of Mr Samuel
Rubb, junior. Mr Samuel Rubb, junior, was a handsome man, about
her own age; and she felt almost sure that Mr Samuel Rubb, junior,
admired her. He was not worn out with life; he was not broken with
care; he would look forward into the world, and hope for things to
come. One thing she knew to be true--he was not a gentleman. But
then, why should she care for that? The being a gentleman was not
everything. As for herself, might there not be strong reason to doubt
whether those who were best qualified to judge would call her a lady?
Her surviving brother kept an oilcloth shop, and the brother with
whom she had always lived had been so retired from the world that
neither he nor she knew anything of its ways. If love could be
gained, and anything of romance; if some active living mode of life
could thereby be opened to her, would it not be well for her to give
up that idea of being a lady? Hitherto her rank had simply enabled
her to become a Stumfoldian; and then she remembered that Mr
Maguire's squint was very terrible! How she should live, what she
should do with herself, were matters to her of painful thought; but
she looked in the glass again, and resolved that she would decline
the honour of becoming Mrs Ball.

On the following morning she wrote her letter, and it was written
thus:


   7 Paragon, Littlebath, January, 186--.

   MY DEAR JOHN,

   I have been thinking a great deal about what you said to
   me, and I have made up my mind that I ought not to become
   your wife. I know that the honour you have proposed to me
   is very great, and that I may seem to be ungrateful in
   declining it; but I cannot bring myself to feel that sort
   of love for you which a wife should have for her husband.
   I hope this will not make you displeased with me. It ought
   not to do so, as my feelings towards you and to your
   children are most affectionate.

   I know my aunt will be angry with me. Pray tell her from
   me, with my best love, that I have thought very much of
   all she said to me, and that I feel sure that I am doing
   right. It is not that I should be afraid of the duties
   which would fall upon me as your wife; but that the woman
   who undertakes those duties should feel for you a wife's
   love. I think it is best to speak openly, and I hope that
   you will not be offended.

   Give my best love to my uncle and aunt, and to the girls,
   and to Jack, who will, I hope, keep his promise of coming
   and seeing me.

   Your very affectionate cousin,

   MARGARET MACKENZIE.


"There," said John Ball to his mother, when he had read the letter,
"I knew it would be so; and she is right. Why should she give up her
money and her comfort and her ease, to look after my children?"

Lady Ball took the letter and read it, and pronounced it to be all
nonsense.

"It may be all nonsense," said her son; "but such as it is, it is her
answer."

"I suppose you'll have to go down to Littlebath after her," said Lady
Ball.

"I certainly shall not do that. It would do no good; and I'm not
going to persecute her."

"Persecute her! What nonsense you men do talk! As if any woman in her
condition could be persecuted by being asked to become a baronet's
wife. I suppose I must go down."

"I beg that you will not, mother."

"She is just one of those women who are sure to stand off, not
knowing their own minds. The best creature in the world, and really
very clever, but weak in that respect! She has not had lovers when
she was young, and she thinks that a man should come dallying about
her as though she were eighteen. It only wants a little perseverance,
John, and if you'll take my advice, you'll go down to Littlebath
after her."

But John, in this matter, would not follow his mother's advice, and
declared that he would take no further steps. "He was inclined," he
said, "to think that Margaret was right. Why should any woman burden
herself with nine children?"

Then Lady Ball said a great deal more about the Ball money, giving it
as her decided opinion that Margaret owed herself and her money to
the Balls. As she could not induce her son to do anything, she wrote
a rejoinder to her niece.

"My dearest Margaret," she said, "Your letter has made both me and
John very unhappy. He has set his heart upon making you his wife,
and I don't think will ever hold up his head again if you will
not consent. I write now instead of John, because he is so much
oppressed. I wish you had remained here, because then we could have
talked it over quietly. Would it not be better for you to be here
than living alone at Littlebath? for I cannot call that little girl
who is at school anything of a companion. Could you not leave her as
a boarder, and come to us for a month? You would not be forced to
pledge yourself to anything further; but we could talk it over."

It need hardly be said that Miss Mackenzie, as she read this,
declared to herself that she had no desire to talk over her own
position with Lady Ball any further.

"John is afraid," the letter went on to say, "that he offended you
by the manner of his proposition; and that he said too much about
the children, and not enough about his own affection. Of course
he loves you dearly. If you knew him as I do, which of course you
can't as yet, though I hope you will, you would be aware that no
consideration, either of money or about the children, would induce
him to propose to any woman unless he loved her. You may take my word
for that."

There was a great deal more in the letter of the same kind, in which
Lady Ball pressed her own peculiar arguments; but I need hardly say
that they did not prevail with Miss Mackenzie. If the son could not
induce his cousin to marry him, the mother certainly never would do
so. It did not take her long to answer her aunt's letter. She said
that she must, with many thanks, decline for the present to return
to the Cedars, as the charge which she had taken of her niece made
her presence at Littlebath necessary. As to the answer which she had
given to John, she was afraid she could only say that it must stand.
She had felt a little angry with Lady Ball; and though she tried not
to show this in the tone of her letter, she did show it.

"If I were you I would never see her or speak to her again," said
Lady Ball to her son.

"Very likely I never shall," he replied.

"Has your love-making with that old maid gone wrong, John?" the
father asked.

But John Ball was used to his father's ill nature, and never answered
it.

Nothing special to our story occurred at Littlebath during the next
two or three months, except that Miss Mackenzie became more and
more intimate with Miss Baker, and more and more anxious to form an
acquaintance with Miss Todd. With all the Stumfoldians she was on
terms of mitigated friendship, and always went to Mrs Stumfold's
fortnightly tea-drinkings. But with no lady there,--always excepting
Miss Baker,--did she find that she grew into familiarity. With Mrs
Stumfold no one was familiar. She was afflicted by the weight of her
own position, as we suppose the Queen to be, when we say that her
Majesty's altitude is too high to admit of friendships. Mrs Stumfold
never condescended--except to the bishop's wife who, in return, had
snubbed Mrs Stumfold. But living, as she did, in an atmosphere of
flattery and toadying, it was wonderful how well she preserved her
equanimity, and how she would talk and perhaps think of herself, as a
poor, erring human being. When, however, she insisted much upon this
fact of her humanity, the coachmaker's wife would shake her head, and
at last stamp her foot in anger, swearing that though everybody was
of course dust, and grass, and worms; and though, of course, Mrs
Stumfold must, by nature, be included in that everybody; yet dust,
and grass, and worms nowhere exhibited themselves with so few of
the stains of humanity on them as they did within the bosom of Mrs
Stumfold. So that, though the absolute fact of Mrs Stumfold being
dust, and grass, and worms, could not, in regard to the consistency
of things, be denied, yet in her dustiness, grassiness, and worminess
she was so little dusty, grassy, and wormy, that it was hardly fair,
even in herself, to mention the fact at all.

"I know the deceit of my own heart," Mrs Stumfold would say.

"Of course you do, Mrs Stumfold," the coachmaker's wife replied. "It
is dreadful deceitful, no doubt. Where's the heart that ain't? But
there's a difference in hearts. Your deceit isn't hard like most of
'em. You know it, Mrs Stumfold, and wrestle with it, and get your
foot on the neck of it, so that, as one may say, it's always being
killed and got the better of."

During these months Miss Mackenzie learned to value at a very low
rate the rank of the Stumfoldian circle into which she had been
admitted. She argued the matter with herself, saying that the
coachbuilder's wife and others were not ladies. In a general way she
was, no doubt, bound to assume them to be ladies; but she taught
herself to think that such ladyhood was not of itself worth a great
deal. It would not be worth the while of any woman to abstain from
having some Mr Rubb or the like, and from being the lawful mother
of children in the Rubb and Mackenzie line of life, for the sake of
such exceptional rank as was to be maintained by associating with
the Stumfoldians. And, as she became used to the things and persons
around her, she indulged herself in a considerable amount of social
philosophy, turning over ideas in her mind for which they, who saw
merely the lines of her outer life, would hardly have given her
credit. After all, what was the good of being a lady? Or was there
any good in it at all? Could there possibly be any good in making a
struggle to be a lady? Was it not rather one of those things which
are settled for one externally, as are the colour of one's hair and
the size of one's bones, and which should be taken or left alone,
as Providence may have directed? "One cannot add a cubit to one's
height, nor yet make oneself a lady;" that was the nature of Miss
Mackenzie's argument with herself.

And, indeed, she carried the argument further than that. It was well
to be a lady. She recognised perfectly the delicacy and worth of the
article. Miss Baker was a lady; as to that there was no doubt. But,
then, might it not also be very well not to be a lady; and might
not the advantages of the one position be compensated with equal
advantages in the other? It is a grand thing to be a queen; but a
queen has no friends. It is fine to be a princess; but a princess has
a very limited choice of husbands. There was something about Miss
Baker that was very nice; but even Miss Baker was very melancholy,
and Miss Mackenzie could see that that melancholy had come from
wasted niceness. Had she not been so much the lady, she might have
been more the woman. And there could be no disgrace in not being a
lady, if such ladyhood depended on external circumstances arranged
for one by Providence. No one blames one's washerwoman for not being
a lady. No one wishes one's housekeeper to be a lady; and people are
dismayed, rather than pleased, when they find that their tailors'
wives want to be ladies. What does a woman get by being a lady? If
fortune have made her so, fortune has done much for her. But the good
things come as the natural concomitants of her fortunate position.
It is not because she is a lady that she is liked by her peers and
peeresses. But those choice gifts which have made her a lady have
made her also to be liked. It comes from the outside, and for it
no struggle can usefully be made. Such was the result of Miss
Mackenzie's philosophy.

One may see that all these self-inquiries tended Rubb-wards. I do not
mean that they were made with any direct intention on her part to
reconcile herself to a marriage with Mr Samuel Rubb, or that she even
thought of such an event as probable. He had said nothing to her to
justify such thought, and as yet she knew but very little of him.
But they all went to reconcile her to that sphere of life which her
brother Tom had chosen, and which her brother Walter had despised.
They taught her to believe that a firm footing below was better than
what might, after a life's struggle, be found to be but a false
footing above. And they were brightened undoubtedly by an idea that
some marriage in which she could love and be loved was possible to
her below, though it would hardly be possible to her above.

Her only disputant on the subject was Miss Baker, and she startled
that lady much by the things which she said. Now, with Miss Baker,
not to be a lady was to be nothing. It was her weakness, and I may
also say her strength. Her ladyhood was of that nature that it took
no soil from outer contact. It depended, even within her own bosom,
on her own conduct solely, and in no degree on the conduct of those
among whom she might chance to find herself. She thought it well
to pass her evenings with Mr Stumfold's people, and he at any rate
had the manners of a gentleman. So thinking, she felt in no wise
disgraced because the coachbuilder's wife was a vulgar, illiterate
woman. But there were things, not bad in themselves, which she
herself would never have done, because she was a lady. She would have
broken her heart rather than marry a man who was not a gentleman. It
was not unlady-like to eat cold mutton, and she ate it. But she would
have shuddered had she been called on to eat any mutton with a steel
fork. She had little generous ways with her, because they were the
ways of ladies, and she paid for them from off her own back and out
of her own dish. She would not go out to tea in a street cab, because
she was a lady and alone; but she had no objection to walk, with her
servant with her if it was dark. No wonder that such a woman was
dismayed by the philosophy of Miss Mackenzie.

And yet they had been brought together by much that was alike in
their dispositions. Miss Mackenzie had now been more than six months
an inhabitant of Littlebath, and six months at such places is enough
for close intimacies. They were both quiet, conscientious, kindly
women, each not without some ambition of activity, but each a little
astray as to the way in which that activity should be shown. They
were both alone in the world, and Miss Baker during the last year or
two had become painfully so from the fact of her estrangement from
her old friend Miss Todd. They both wished to be religious, having
strong faith in the need of the comfort of religion; but neither of
them were quite satisfied with the Stumfoldian creed. They had both,
from conscience, eschewed the vanities of the world; but with neither
was her conscience quite satisfied that such eschewal was necessary,
and each regretted to be losing pleasures which might after all be
innocent.

"If I'm to go to the bad place," Miss Todd had said to Miss Baker,
"because I like to do something that won't hurt my old eyes of an
evening, I don't see the justice of it. As for calling it gambling,
it's a falsehood, and your Mr Stumfold knows that as well as I
do. I haven't won or lost ten pounds in ten years, and I've no
more idea of making money by cards than I have by sweeping the
chimney. Tell me why are cards wicked? Drinking, and stealing, and
lying, and backbiting, and naughty love-making,--but especially
backbiting--backbiting--backbiting,--those are the things that the
Bible says are wicked. I shall go on playing cards, my dear, till Mr
Stumfold can send me chapter and verse forbidding it."

Then Miss Baker, who was no doubt weak, had been unable to answer
her, and had herself hankered after the flesh-pots of Egypt and the
delights of the unregenerated.

All these things Miss Baker and Miss Mackenzie discussed, and Miss
Baker learned to love her younger friend in spite of her heterodox
philosophy. Miss Mackenzie was going to give a tea-party,--nothing as
yet having been quite settled, as there were difficulties in the way;
but she propounded to Miss Baker the possibility of asking Miss Todd
and some few of the less conspicuous Toddites. She had her ambition,
and she wished to see whether even she might not do something to
lessen the gulf which separated those who loved the pleasures of the
world in Littlebath from the bosom of Mr Stumfold.

"You don't know what you are going to do," Miss Baker said.

"I'm not going to do any harm."

"That's more than you can say, my dear." Miss Baker had learnt from
Miss Todd to call her friends "my dear."

"You are always so afraid of everything," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Of course I am;--one has to be afraid. A single lady can't go about
and do just as she likes, as a man can do, or a married woman."

"I don't know about a man; but I think a single woman ought to be
able to do more what she likes than a married woman. Suppose Mrs
Stumfold found that I had got old Lady Ruff to meet her, what could
she do to me?"

Old Lady Ruff was supposed to be the wickedest old card-player in all
Littlebath, and there were strange stories afloat of the things she
had done. There were Stumfoldians who declared that she had been
seen through the blinds teaching her own maid piquet on a Sunday
afternoon; but any horror will get itself believed nowadays. How
could they have known that it was not beggar-my-neighbour? But piquet
was named because it is supposed in the Stumfoldian world to be the
wickedest of all games.

"I don't suppose she'd do much," said Miss Baker; "no doubt she would
be very much offended."

"Why shouldn't I try to convert Lady Ruff?"

"She's over eighty, my dear."

"But I suppose she's not past all hope. The older one is the more one
ought to try. But, of course, I'm only joking about her. Would Miss
Todd come if you were to ask her?"

"Perhaps she would, but I don't think she'd be comfortable; or if she
were, she'd make the others uncomfortable. She always does exactly
what she pleases."

"That's just why I think I should like her. I wish I dared to do what
I pleased! We all of us are such cowards. Only that I don't dare, I'd
go off to Australia and marry a sheep farmer."

"You would not like him when you'd got him;--you'd find him very
rough."

"I shouldn't mind a bit about his being rough. I'd marry a shoe-black
to-morrow if I thought I could make him happy, and he could make me
happy."

"But it wouldn't make you happy."

"Ah! that's just what we don't know. I shan't marry a shoe-black,
because I don't dare. So you think I'd better not ask Miss Todd.
Perhaps she wouldn't get on well with Mr Maguire."

"I had them both together once, my dear, and she made herself quite
unbearable. You've no idea what kind of things she can say."

"I should have thought Mr Maguire would have given her as good as she
brought," said Miss Mackenzie.

"So he did; and then Miss Todd got up and left him, saying out loud,
before all the company, that it was not fair for him to come and
preach sermons in such a place as that. I don't think they have ever
met since."

All this made Miss Mackenzie very thoughtful. She had thrown herself
into the society of the saints, and now there seemed to be no escape
for her; she could not be wicked even if she wished it. Having got
into her convent, and, as it were, taken the vows of her order, she
could not escape from it.

"That Mr Rubb that I told you of is coming down here," she said,
still speaking to Miss Baker of her party.

"Oh, dear! will he be here when you have your friends here?"

"That's what I intended; but I don't think I shall ask anybody at
all. It is so stupid always seeing the same people."

"Mr Rubb is--is--is--?"

"Yes; Mr Rubb is a partner in my brother's house, and sells oilcloth,
and things of that sort, and is not by any means aristocratic. I know
what you mean."

"Don't be angry with me, my dear."

"Angry! I am not a bit angry. Why should I be angry? A man who keeps
a shop is not, I suppose, a gentleman. But then, you know, I don't
care about gentlemen,--about any gentleman, or any gentlemen."

Miss Baker sighed, and then the conversation dropped. She had always
cared about gentlemen,--and once in her life, or perhaps twice, had
cared about a gentleman.

Yes; Mr Rubb was coming down again. He had written to say that it was
necessary that he should again see Miss Mackenzie about the money.
The next morning after the conversation which has just been recorded,
Miss Mackenzie got another letter about the same money, of which it
will be necessary to say more in the next chapter.


CHAPTER X

Plenary Absolutions


The letter which Miss Mackenzie received was from old Mr Slow, her
lawyer; and it was a very unpleasant letter. It was so unpleasant
that it made her ears tingle when she read it and remembered that the
person to whom special allusion was made was one whom she had taught
herself to regard as her friend. Mr Slow's letter was as follows:


   7 Little St Dunstan Court,
   April, 186--.

   DEAR MADAM,

   I think it proper to write to you specially, about the
   loan made by you to Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie, as the sum
   lent is serious, and as there has been conduct on the part
   of some one which I regard as dishonest. I find that what
   we have done in the matter has been regulated rather by
   the fact that you and Mr Mackenzie are brother and sister,
   than by the ordinary course of such business; and I
   perceive that we had special warrant given to us for this
   by you in your letter of the 23rd November last; but,
   nevertheless, it is my duty to explain to you that Messrs
   Rubb and Mackenzie, or,--as I believe to be the case, Mr
   Samuel Rubb, junior, of that firm,--have not dealt with
   you fairly. The money was borrowed for the purpose of
   buying certain premises, and, I believe, was laid out in
   that way. But it was borrowed on the special understanding
   that you, as the lender, were to have the title-deeds of
   that property, and the first mortgage upon them. It was
   alleged, when the purchase was being made, that the money
   was wanted before the mortgage could be effected, and you
   desired us to advance it. This we did, aware of the close
   family connection between yourself and one of the firm.
   Of course, on your instruction, we should have done this
   had there been no such relationship, but in that case we
   should have made further inquiry, and, probably, have
   ventured to advise you. But though the money was so
   advanced without the completion of the mortgage, it was
   advanced on the distinct understanding that the security
   proffered in the first instance was to be forthcoming
   without delay. We now learn that the property is mortgaged
   to other parties to its full value, and that no security
   for your money is to be had.

   I have seen both Mr Mackenzie and Mr Rubb, junior. As
   regards your brother, I believe him to have been innocent
   of any intention of the deceit, for deceit there certainly
   has been. Indeed, he does not deny it. He offers to
   give you any security on the business, such as the
   stock-in-trade or the like, which I may advise you to
   take. But such would in truth be of no avail to you as
   security. He, your brother, seemed to be much distressed
   by what has been done, and I was grieved on his behalf. Mr
   Rubb,--the younger Mr Rubb,--expressed himself in a very
   different way. He at first declined to discuss the matter
   with me; and when I told him that if that was his way I
   would certainly expose him, he altered his tone a little,
   expressing regret that there should be delay as to the
   security, and wishing me to understand that you were
   yourself aware of all the facts.

   There can be no doubt that deceit has been used towards
   you in getting your money, and that Mr Rubb has laid
   himself open to proceedings which, if taken against him,
   would be absolutely ruinous to him. But I fear they would
   be also ruinous to your brother. It is my painful duty
   to tell you that your money so advanced is on a most
   precarious footing. The firm, in addition to their present
   liabilities, are not worth half the money; or, I fear I
   may say, any part of it. I presume there is a working
   profit, as two families live upon the business. Whether,
   if you were to come upon them as a creditor, you could get
   your money out of their assets, I cannot say; but you,
   perhaps, will not feel yourself disposed to resort to such
   a measure. I have considered it my duty to tell you all
   the facts, and though your distinct authority to us to
   advance the money absolves us from responsibility, I must
   regret that we did not make further inquiries before we
   allowed so large a sum of money to pass out of our hands.

   I am, dear Madam,
   Your faithful servant,

   JONATHAN SLOW.


Mr Rubb's promised visit was to take place in eight or ten days from
the date on which this letter was received. Miss Mackenzie's ears, as
I have said, tingled as she read it. In the first place, it gave her
a terrible picture of the precarious state of her brother's business.
What would he do,--he with his wife, and all his children, if things
were in such a state as Mr Slow described them? And yet a month or
two ago he was giving champagne and iced puddings for dinner! And
then what words that discreet old gentleman, Mr Slow, had spoken
about Mr Rubb, and what things he had hinted over and above what he
had spoken! Was it not manifest that he conceived Mr Rubb to have
been guilty of direct fraud?

Miss Mackenzie at once made up her mind that her money was gone! But,
in truth, this did not much annoy her. She had declared to herself
once before that if anything was wrong about the money she would
regard it as a present made to her brother; and when so thinking of
it, she had, undoubtedly, felt that it was, not improbably, lost to
her. It was something over a hundred a year to be deducted from her
computed income, but she would still be able to live at the Paragon
quite as well as she had intended, and be able also to educate
Susanna. Indeed, she could do this easily and still save money, and,
therefore, as regarded the probable loss, why need she be unhappy?

Before the morning was over she had succeeded in white-washing Mr
Rubb in her own mind. It is, I think, certainly the fact that women
are less pervious to ideas of honesty than men are. They are less
shocked by dishonesty when they find it, and are less clear in their
intellect as to that which constitutes honesty. Where is the woman
who thinks it wrong to smuggle? What lady's conscience ever pricked
her in that she omitted the armorial bearings on her silver forks
from her tax papers? What wife ever ceased to respect her husband
because he dealt dishonestly in business? Whereas, let him not go
to church, let him drink too much wine, let him go astray in his
conversation, and her wrath arises against these faults. But this
lack of feminine accuracy in the matter of honesty tends rather to
charity in their judgment of others, than to deeds of fraud on the
part of women themselves.

Miss Mackenzie, who desired nothing that was not her own, who
scrupulously kept her own hands from all picking and stealing, gave
herself no peace, after reading the lawyer's letter, till she was
able to tell herself that Mr Rubb was to be forgiven for what he had
done. After all, he had, no doubt, intended that she should have the
promised security. And had not he himself come to her in London and
told her the whole truth,--or, if not the whole truth, as much of
it as was reasonable to expect that he should be able to tell her
at an evening party after dinner? Of course Mr Slow was hard upon
him. Lawyers always were hard. If she chose to give Messrs Rubb and
Mackenzie two thousand five hundred pounds out of her pocket, what
was that to him? So she went on, till at last she was angry with Mr
Slow for the language he had used.

It was, however, before all things necessary that she should put Mr
Slow right as to the facts of the case. She had, no doubt, condoned
whatever Mr Rubb had done. Mr Rubb undoubtedly had her sanction for
keeping her money without security. Therefore, by return of post, she
wrote the following short letter, which rather astonished Mr Slow
when he received it--


   Littlebath, April, 186--.

   DEAR SIR,

   I am much obliged by your letter about the money; but the
   truth is that I have known for some time that there was
   to be no mortgage. When I was in town I saw Mr Rubb at my
   brother's house, and it was understood between us then
   that the matter was to remain as it is. My brother and his
   partner are very welcome to the money.

   Believe me to be,
   Yours sincerely,

   MARGARET MACKENZIE.


The letter was a false letter; but I suppose Miss Mackenzie did not
know that she was writing falsely. The letter was certainly false,
because when she spoke of the understanding "between us," having just
mentioned her brother and Mr Rubb, she intended the lawyer to believe
that the understanding was between them three; whereas, not a word
had been said about the money in her brother's hearing, nor was he
aware that his partner had spoken of the money.

Mr Slow was surprised and annoyed. As regarded his comfort as a
lawyer, his client's letter was of course satisfactory. It absolved
him not only from all absolute responsibility, but also from the
feeling which no doubt had existed within his own breast, that he had
in some sort neglected the lady's interest. But, nevertheless, he was
annoyed. He did not believe the statement that Rubb and Mackenzie had
had permission to hold the money without mortgage, and thought that
neither of the partners had themselves so conceived when he had seen
them. They had, however, been too many for him--and too many also for
the poor female who had allowed herself to be duped out of her money.
Such were Mr Slow's feelings on the matter, and then he dismissed the
subject from his mind.

The next day, about noon, Miss Mackenzie was startled almost out of
her propriety by the sudden announcement at the drawing-room door
of Mr Rubb. Before she could bethink herself how she would behave
herself, or whether it would become her to say anything of Mr Slow's
letter to her, he was in the room.

"Miss Mackenzie," he said, hurriedly--and yet he had paused for a
moment in his hurry till the servant had shut the door--"may I shake
hands with you?"

There could, Miss Mackenzie thought, be no objection to so ordinary
a ceremony; and, therefore, she said, "Certainly," and gave him her
hand.

"Then I am myself again," said Mr Rubb; and having so said, he sat
down.

Miss Mackenzie hoped that there was nothing the matter with him, and
then she also sat down at a considerable distance.

"There is nothing the matter with me," said he, "as you are still so
kind to me. But tell me, have you not received a letter from your
lawyer?"

"Yes, I have."

"And he has done all in his power to blacken me? I know it. Tell me,
Miss Mackenzie, has he not blackened me? Has he not laid things to
my charge of which I am incapable? Has he not accused me of getting
money from you under false pretences,--than do which, I'd sooner have
seen my own brains blown out? I would, indeed."

"He has written to me about the money, Mr Rubb."

"Yes; he came to me, and behaved shamefully to me; and he saw
your brother, too, and has been making all manner of ignominious
inquiries. Those lawyers can never understand that there can be
anything of friendly feeling about money. They can't put friendly
feelings into their unconscionable bills. I believe the world would
go on better if there was no such thing as an attorney in it. I
wonder who invented them, and why?"

Miss Mackenzie could give him no information on this point, and
therefore he went on:

"But you must tell me what he has said, and what it is he wants us to
do. For your sake, if you ask us, Miss Mackenzie, we'll do anything.
We'll sell the coats off our backs, if you wish it. You shall never
lose one shilling by Rubb and Mackenzie as long as I have anything to
do with the firm. But I'm sure you will excuse me if I say that we
can do nothing at the bidding of that old cormorant."

"I don't know that there's anything to be done, Mr Rubb."

"Is not there? Well, it's very generous in you to say so; and you
always are generous. I've always told your brother, since I had the
honour of knowing you, that he had a sister to be proud of. And, Miss
Mackenzie, I'll say more than that; I've flattered myself that I've
had a friend to be proud of. But now I must tell you why I've come
down to-day; you know I was to have been here next week. Well, when
Mr Slow came to me and I found what was up, I said to myself at once
that it was right you should know exactly--exactly--how the matter
stands. I was going to explain it next week, but I wouldn't leave you
in suspense when I knew that that lawyer was going to trouble you."

"It hasn't troubled me, Mr Rubb."

"Hasn't it though, really? That's so good of you again! Now the
truth is--but it's pretty nearly just what I told you that day after
dinner, when you agreed, you know, to what we had done."

Here he paused, as though expecting an answer.

"Yes, I did agree."

"Just at present, while certain other parties have a right to hold
the title-deeds, and I can't quite say how long that may be, we
cannot execute a mortgage in your favour. The title-deeds represent
the property. Perhaps you don't know that."

"Oh yes, I know as much as that."

"Well then, as we haven't the title-deeds, we can't execute the
mortgage. Perhaps you'll say you ought to have the title-deeds."

"No, Mr Rubb, I don't want to say anything of the kind. If my money
can be of any assistance to my brother--to my brother and you--you
are welcome to the use of it, without any mortgage. I will show you a
copy of the letter I sent to Mr Slow."

"Thanks; a thousand thanks! and may I see the letter which Mr Slow
wrote?"

"No, I think not. I don't know whether it would be right to show it
to you."

"I shouldn't think of doing anything about it; that is, resenting it,
you know. Only then we should all be on the square together."

"I think I'd better not. Mr Slow, when he wrote it, probably did not
mean that I should show it to you."

"You're right; you're always right. But you'll let me see your
answer."

Then Miss Mackenzie went to her desk, and brought him a copy of the
note she had written to the lawyer. He read it very carefully, twice
over; and then she could see, when he refolded the paper, that his
eyes were glittering with satisfaction.

"Miss Mackenzie, Miss Mackenzie," he said, "I think that you are an
angel!"

And he did think so. In so much at that moment he was at any rate
sincere. She saw that he was pleased, and she was pleased herself.

"There need be no further trouble about it," she said; and as she
spoke she rose from her seat.

And he rose, too, and came close to her. He came close to her,
hesitated for a moment, and then, putting one hand behind her waist,
though barely touching her, he took her hand with his other hand. She
thought that he was going to kiss her lips, and for a moment or two
he thought so too; but either his courage failed him or else his
discretion prevailed. Whether it was the one or the other, must
depend on the way in which she would have taken it. As it was, he
merely raised her hand and kissed that. When she could look into his
face his eyes were full of tears.

"The truth is," said he, "that you have saved us from ruin;--that's
the real truth. Damn all lying!"

She started at the oath, but in an instant she had forgiven him
that too. There was a sound of reality about it, which reconciled
her to the indignity; though, had she been true to her faith as a
Stumfoldian, she ought at least to have fainted at the sound.

"I hardly know what I am saying, Miss Mackenzie, and I beg your
pardon; but the fact is you could sell us up if you pleased. I didn't
mean it when I first got your brother to agree as to asking you for
the loan; I didn't indeed; but things were going wrong with us, and
just at that moment they went more wrong than ever; and then came the
temptation, and we were able to make everything right by giving up
the title-deeds of the premises. That's how it was, and it was I that
did it. It wasn't your brother; and though you may forgive me, he
won't."

This was all true, but how far the truth should be taken towards
palliating the deed done, I must leave the reader to decide; and the
reader will doubtless perceive that the truth did not appear until
Mr Rubb had ascertained that its appearance would not injure him. I
think, however, that it came from his heart, and that it should count
for something in his favour. The tear which he rubbed from his eye
with his hand counted very much in his favour with Miss Mackenzie;
she had not only forgiven him now, but she almost loved him for
having given her something to forgive. With many women I doubt
whether there be any more effectual way of touching their hearts
than ill-using them and then confessing it. If you wish to get the
sweetest fragrance from the herb at your feet, tread on it and bruise
it.

She had forgiven him, and taken him absolutely into favour, and he
had kissed her hand, having all but embraced her as he did so; but
on the present occasion he did not get beyond that. He lacked the
audacity to proceed at once from the acknowledgment of his fault to
a declaration of his love; but I hardly think that he would have
injured himself had he done so. He should have struck while the iron
was hot, and it was heated now nearly to melting; but he was abashed
by his own position, and having something real in his heart, having
some remnant of generous feeling left about him, he could not make
such progress as he might have done had he been cool enough to
calculate all his advantages.

"Don't let it trouble you any more," Miss Mackenzie said, when he had
dropped her hand.

"But it does trouble me, and it will trouble me."

"No," she said, with energy, "it shall not; let there be an end of
it. I will write to Tom, and tell him that he is welcome to the
money. Isn't he my brother? You are both welcome to it. If it has
been of service to you, I am very happy that it should be so. And
now, Mr Rubb, if you please, we won't have another word about it."

"What am I to say?"

"Not another word."

It seemed as though he couldn't speak another word, for he went to
the window and stood there silently, looking into the street. As he
did so, there came another visitor to Miss Mackenzie, whose ringing
at the doorbell had not been noticed by them, and Miss Baker was
announced while Mr Rubb was still getting the better of his feelings.
Of course he turned round when he heard the lady's name, and of
course he was introduced by his hostess. Miss Mackenzie was obliged
to make some apology for the gentleman's presence.

"Mr Rubb was expected next week, but business brought him down to-day
unexpectedly."

"Quite unexpectedly," said Mr Rubb, making a violent endeavour to
recover his equanimity.

Miss Baker looked at Mr Rubb, and disliked him at once. It should be
remembered that she was twenty years older than Miss Mackenzie, and
that she regarded the stranger, therefore, with a saner and more
philosophical judgment than her friend could use,--with a judgment on
which the outward comeliness of the man had no undue influence; and
it should be remembered also that Miss Baker, from early age, and by
all the association of her youth, had been taught to know a gentleman
when she saw him. Miss Mackenzie, who was by nature the cleverer
woman of the two, watched her friend's face, and saw by a glance that
she did not like Mr Rubb, and then, within her own bosom, she called
her friend an old maid.

"We're having uncommonly fine weather for the time of year," said Mr
Rubb.

"Very fine weather," said Miss Baker. "I've called, my dear, to know
whether you'll go in with me next door and drink tea this evening?"

"What, with Miss Todd?" asked Miss Mackenzie, who was surprised at
the invitation.

"Yes, with Miss Todd. It is not one of her regular nights, you know,
and her set won't be there. She has some old friends with her,--a Mr
Wilkinson, a clergyman, and his wife. It seems that her old enemy and
your devoted slave, Mr Maguire, knows Mr Wilkinson, and he's going to
be there."

"Mr Maguire is no slave of mine, Miss Baker."

"I thought he was; at any rate his presence will be a guarantee that
Miss Todd will be on her best behaviour, and that you needn't be
afraid."

"I'm not afraid of anything of that sort."

"But will you go?"

"Oh, yes, if you are going."

"That's right; and I'll call for you as I pass by. I must see her
now, and tell her. Good-morning, Sir;" whereupon Miss Baker bowed
very stiffly to Mr Rubb.

"Good-morning, Ma'am," said Mr Rubb, bowing very stiffly to Miss
Baker.

When the lady was gone, Mr Rubb sat himself again down on the sofa,
and there he remained for the next half-hour. He talked about the
business of the firm, saying how it would now certainly be improved;
and he talked about Tom Mackenzie's family, saying what a grand thing
it was for Susanna to be thus taken in hand by her aunt; and he asked
a question or two about Miss Baker, and then a question or two about
Mr Maguire, during which questions he learned that Mr Maguire was not
as yet a married man; and from Mr Maguire he got on to the Stumfolds,
and learned somewhat of the rites and ceremonies of the Stumfoldian
faith. In this way he prolonged his visit till Miss Mackenzie began
to feel that he ought to take his leave.

Miss Baker had gone at once to Miss Todd, and had told that lady that
Miss Mackenzie would join her tea-party. She had also told how Mr
Rubb, of the firm of Rubb and Mackenzie, was at this moment in Miss
Mackenzie's drawing-room.

"I'll ask him to come, too," said Miss Todd. Then Miss Baker had
hesitated, and had looked grave.

"What's the matter?" said Miss Todd.

"I'm not quite sure you'll like him," said Miss Baker.

"Probably not," said Miss Todd; "I don't like half the people I meet,
but that's no reason I shouldn't ask him."

"But he is--that is, he is not exactly--"

"What is he, and what is he not, exactly?" asked Miss Todd.

"Why, he is a tradesman, you know," said Miss Baker.

"There's no harm that I know of in that," said Miss Todd. "My uncle
that left me my money was a tradesman."

"No," said Miss Baker, energetically; "he was a merchant in
Liverpool."

"You'll find it very hard to define the difference, my dear," said
Miss Todd. "At any rate I'll ask the man to come;--that is, if it
won't offend you."

"It won't in the least offend me," said Miss Baker.

So a note was at once written and sent in to Miss Mackenzie, in which
she was asked to bring Mr Rubb with her on that evening. When the
note reached Miss Mackenzie, Mr Rubb was still with her.

Of course she communicated to him the invitation. She wished that it
had not been sent; she wished that he would not accept it,--though
on that head she had no doubt; but she had not sufficient presence
of mind to keep the matter to herself and say nothing about it.
Of course he was only too glad to drink tea with Miss Todd. Miss
Mackenzie attempted some slight manoeuvre to induce Mr Rubb to go
direct to Miss Todd's house; but he was not such an ass as that; he
knew his advantage, and kept it, insisting on his privilege of coming
there, to Miss Mackenzie's room, and escorting her. He would have
to escort Miss Baker also; and things, as he thought, were looking
well with him. At last he rose to go, but he made good use of the
privilege of parting. He held Miss Mackenzie's hand, and pressed it.

"You mustn't be angry," he said, "if I tell you that you are the best
friend I have in the world."

"You have better friends than me," she said, "and older friends."

"Yes; older friends; but none,--not one, who has done for me so much
as you have; and certainly none for whom I have so great a regard.
May God bless you, Miss Mackenzie!"

"May God bless you, too, Mr Rubb!"

What else could she say? When his civility took so decorous a shape,
she could not bear to be less civil than he had been, or less
decorous. And yet it seemed to her that in bidding God bless him with
that warm pressure of the hand, she had allowed to escape from her an
appearance of affection which she had not intended to exhibit.

"Thank you; thank you," said he; and then at last he went.

She seated herself slowly in her own chair near the window,--the
chair in which she was accustomed to sit for many solitary hours, and
asked herself what it all meant. Was she allowing herself to fall in
love with Mr Rubb, and if so, was it well that it should be so? This
would be bringing to the sternest proof of reality her philosophical
theory on social life. It was all very well for her to hold a bold
opinion in discussions with Miss Baker as to a "man being a man
for a' that," even though he might not be a gentleman; but was she
prepared to go the length of preferring such a man to all the world?
Was she ready to go down among the Rubbs, for now and ever, and give
up the society of such women as Miss Baker? She knew that it was
necessary that she should come to some resolve on the matter, as
Mr Rubb's purpose was becoming too clear to her. When an unmarried
gentleman of forty tells an unmarried lady of thirty-six that she is
the dearest friend he has in the world, he must surely intend that
they shall, neither of them, remain unmarried any longer. Then
she thought also of her cousin, John Ball; and some vague shadow
of thought passed across her mind also in respect of the Rev. Mr
Maguire.


CHAPTER XI

Miss Todd Entertains Some Friends at Tea


I believe that a desire to get married is the natural state of a
woman at the age of--say from twenty-five to thirty-five, and I think
also that it is good for the world in general that it should be so. I
am now speaking, not of the female population at large, but of women
whose position in the world does not subject them to the necessity of
earning their bread by the labour of their hands. There is, I know,
a feeling abroad among women that this desire is one of which it
is expedient that they should become ashamed; that it will be well
for them to alter their natures in this respect, and learn to take
delight in the single state. Many of the most worthy women of the day
are now teaching this doctrine, and are intent on showing by precept
and practice that an unmarried woman may have as sure a hold on the
world, and a position within it as ascertained, as may an unmarried
man. But I confess to an opinion that human nature will be found to
be too strong for them. Their school of philosophy may be graced
by a few zealous students,--by students who will be subject to the
personal influence of their great masters,--but it will not be
successful in the outer world. The truth in the matter is too clear.
A woman's life is not perfect or whole till she has added herself to
a husband.

Nor is a man's life perfect or whole till he has added to himself a
wife; but the deficiency with the man, though perhaps more injurious
to him than its counterpart is to the woman, does not, to the outer
eye, so manifestly unfit him for his business in the world. Nor
does the deficiency make itself known to him so early in life, and
therefore it occasions less of regret,--less of regret, though
probably more of misery. It is infinitely for his advantage that he
should be tempted to take to himself a wife; and, therefore, for
his sake if not for her own, the philosophic preacher of single
blessedness should break up her class-rooms, and bid her pupils go
and do as their mothers did before them.

