volunteer.


Winding Paths.

By Gertrude Page.

"So many gods, so many creeds,
So many paths that wind and wind,
And just the art of being kind
Is all the sad world needs."


WINDING PATHS

CHAPTER I


There were several interesting points about Hal Pritchard and Lorraine
Vivian, but perhaps the most striking was their friendship for each
other.  From two wide-apart extremes they had somehow gravitated
together, and commenced at boarding-school a friendship which only
deepened and strengthened after their exit from the wise supervision of
the Misses Walton, and their entrance as "finished" young women into
the wide area of the world at large.

Lorraine went first.  She was six years older than Hal, and under
ordinary circumstances would hardly have been at school with her at
all.  As it was, she went at nineteen because she was not very strong,
and sea air was considered good for her.  She was a short of
parlour-boarder, sent to study languages and accomplishments while she
inhaled the sea air of Eastgate.  Why, among all the scholars, who for
the most part regarded her as a resplendent, beautifully dressed being
outside their sphere, she should have quickly developed an ardent
affection for Hal, the rough-and-ready tomboy, remained a mystery; but
far from being a passing fancy, it ripened steadily into a deep and
lasting attachment.

When Hal was fifteen, Lorraine left; and it has to be admitted that the
anxious, motherly hearts of the Misses Walton drew a deep breath of
relief, and hoped the friendship would now cease, unfed by daily
contact and daily mutual interests.  But there they under-estimated the
depth of affection already in the hearts of the girls, and their
natural loyalty, which scorned a mere question of separation, and
entered into one another's interests just as eagerly as when they were
together.

Not that they, the Misses Walton, had anything actually against
Lorraine, beyond the fact that she promised a degree of beauty likely,
they felt, coupled as it was with a charming wit and a fascinating
personality, to open out some striking career for her, and possibly
become a snare and a temptation.

On the other hand, Hal was just a homely, nondescript, untidy, riotous
type of schoolgirl, with a very strong capacity for affection, and an
unmanageable predilection for scrapes and adventures, that made her
more likely to fall under the sway of Lorraine, should it promise any
chance of excitement.

And one had only to view Lorraine among the other "young ladies" of the
seminary to fear the worst.  Miss Emily Walton would never have
admitted it; but even she, fondly clinging to the old tradition that
the terms "girls" or "women" are less impressive than "young ladies",
felt somehow that the orthodox nomenclature did not successfully fit
her two most remarkable pupils. Of course they were ladies by birth and
education, else they would certainly not have been admitted to so
select a seminary; but whereas the rest of the pupils might be said
more or less to study, and improve, and have their being in a milk and
biscuit atmosphere, Hal and Lorraine were quite uncomfortably more like
champagne and good, honest, frothing beer.

No amount of prunes and prism advice and surroundings seemed to dull
the sparkle in Lorraine, nor daunt nor suppress fearless, outspoken,
unmanageable Hal.  In separate camps, with a nice little following
each, to keep an even balance, they might merely have livened the free
hours; but as a combination it soon became apparent they would waken up
the embryo young ladies quite alarmingly, and initiate a new atmosphere
of gaiety that might become beyond the restraining, select influence
even of the Misses Walton.

I got seven dollars a month for looking after children, not taking
them out, you understand, just minding them. I did not get the
money, Mausa got it." "Don't you think that was fair?" I asked. "If you
were fed and clothed by him, shouldn't he be paid for your work?"
"Course it been fair," she answered, "I belong to him and he got
to get something to take care of me."

"My name before I was married was Susan Calder, but I married a man
name Hamlin. I belonged to Mr. Edward Fuller, he was president of the
First National Bank. He was a good man to his people till de Lord took
him.
Mr. Fuller got his slaves by marriage.

He married Miss Mikell, a lady what lived on Edisto Island, who was a
slave owner, and we lived on Edisto on a plantation. I don't remember
de name cause when Mr. Fuller got to be president of de bank we
come to Charleston to live. He sell out the plantation and say them
(the slaves) that want to come to Charleston with him could
come and them what wants to stay can stay on the island with his wife's
people. We had our choice.

Some is come and same is stay, but my ma and us children come with
Mr. Fuller.

We lived on St. Philip street. The house still there, good as ever, I
go 'round there to see it all de time; the cistern still there too,
where we used to sit 'round and drink the cold water, and eat, and
talk and laugh. Mr. Fuller have lots of servants and the ones he
didn't need hisself he hired out.

The slaves had rooms in the back, the ones with children had two rooms
and them that didn't have any children had one room, not to cook in but
to sleep in. They all cooked and ate downstairs in the hall that they
had for the colored people. I don't know about slavery but I know all
the slavery I know about, the people was good to me. Mr. Fuller was a
good man and his wife's people been grand people, all good to their
slaves.

Seem like Mr. Fuller just git his slaves so he could be good
to dem. He made all the little colored chillen love him.
If you don't believe they loved him what they all cry, and scream,
and holler for when dey hear he dead? 'Oh, Mausa dead my Mausa dead,
what I going to do, my Mausa dead.' Dey tell dem t'aint no use to
cry, dat can't bring him back, but de chillen keep on crying.

We used to call him Mausa Eddie but he named Mr. Edward Fuller, and
he sure was a good man.

"A man come here about a month ago, say he from de Government, and
dey send him to find out 'bout slavery.

I give him most a book, and what he give me? A dime. He ask
me all kind of questions. He ask me dis and he ask me dat, didn't de
white people do dis and did dey do dat but Mr.
Fuller was a good man, he was sure good to me and all his people, dey
all like him, God bless him, he in de ground now but I ain't going
to let nobody lie on him. You know he good when even the little
chillen cry and holler when he dead. I tell you dey couldn't just fix
us up any kind of way when we going to Sunday School.

We had to be dressed nice, if you pass him and you ain't dress to
suit him he send you right back and say tell your ma to see dat you dress
 right. Dey couldn't send you out in de cold barefoot
neither. I 'member one day my ma want to send me wid some milk for her
sister-in-law what live 'round de corner. I fuss cause it cold and
say 'how you going to send me out wid no shoe, and it cold?' Mausa
hear how I talking and turn he back and laugh, den he call to my
ma to gone in de house and find shoe to put on my feet and don't
let him see me barefoot again in cold weather.

When de war start going good and de shell fly over Charleston he take
all us up to Aiken for protection. Talk 'bout marching through Georgia,
day sure march through Aiken, soldiers was everywhere.

"My ma had six children, three boys and three girls, but I de only
one left, all my white people and all de colored people gone, not a
soul left but me. I ain't been sick in 25 years. I is near my church
and I don't miss service any Sunday, night or morning. I kin walk
wherever I please, I kin walk to de Battery if I want to.

The Welfare use to help me but dey shut down now, I can't find out
if dey going to open again or not. Miss (Mrs.) Buist and Miss
Pringle, dey help me when I can go there but all my own dead."
"Were most of the masters kind?" I asked.

"Well you know," she answered, "times den was just like dey is now,
some was kind and some was mean; heaps of wickedness went on
just de same as now. All my people was good people. I see some wickedness
and I hear 'bout all kinds of t'ings but you don't know whether it
was lie or not. Mr. Fuller been a Christian man."
"Do you think it would have been better if the Negroes had never left
Africa?" was the next question I asked.

"No Ma'am," (emphatically) dem heathen didn't have no religion. I tell
you how I t'ink it is. The Lord made t'ree nations, the white, the
red and the black, and put dem in different places on de earth where
dey was to stay. Dose black ignoramuses in Africa forgot God, and
didn't have no religion and God blessed and prospered the white
people dat did remember him and sent dem to teach de black people
even if dey have to grab dem and bring dem into bondage till dey
learned some sense.

The Indians forgot God and dey had to be taught better so dey land was
taken away from dem. God sure bless and prosper de white people and He
put de red and de black people under dem so dey could teach dem and
bring dem into sense wid God.

Dey had to get dere brains right, and honor God, and learn uprightness
wid God cause ain't He make you, and ain't His Son redeem you
and save you wid His precious blood. You kin plan all de wickedness you
want and pull hard as you choose but when the Lord mek up His mind you
is to change, He can change you dat quick (snapping her fingers) and
easy.

You got to believe on Him if it tek bondage to bring you to your
knees.

You know I is got converted.

I been in Big Bethel (church) on my knees praying under one of de
preachers. I see a great, big, dark pack on my back, and it had me all
 bent over and my shoulders drawn down, all hunch up. I look up and I
see de glory, I see a big beautiful light, a great light, and in de
middle is de Sabior, hanging so (extending her arms) just like He
died.

Den I gone to praying good, and I can feel de sheckles (shackles) loose
up and moving and de pack fall off. I don't know where it went to, I see
de angels in de Heaven, and hear dem say 'Your sins are forgiven.' I
scream and fell off so. (Swoon.) When I come to dey has laid me out
straight and I know I is converted cause you can't see no such sight
and go on like you is before. I know I is still a sinner but I
believe in de power of God and I trust his Holy name. Den dey put
me wid de seekers but I know I is already saved."

"Did they take good care of the slaves when their babies were born?" she
was asked.

"If you want chickens for fat (to fatten) you got to feed dem," she said
with a smile, "and if you want people to work dey got to be strong,
you got to feed dem and take care of dem too.

If dey can't work it come out of your pocket. Lots of wickedness gone
on in dem days, just as it do now, some good, some mean, black and
white, it just dere nature, if dey good dey going to be kind to
everybody, if dey mean dey going to be mean to everybody.

Sometimes chillen was sold away from dey parents. De Mausa would
come and say "Where Jennie," tell um to put clothes on dat baby, I want
um. He sell de baby and de ma scream and holler, you know how dey
carry on. Geneally (generally) dey sold it when de ma wasn't dere. Mr.
Fuller didn't sell none of us, we stay wid our ma's till we grown.

I stay wid my ma till she dead.

"You know I is mix blood, my grandfather bin a white man and my grandmother
a mulatto. She been marry to a black so dat how I get fix like I is.
I got both blood, so how I going to quarrel wid either side?"
=Source:= Interview with *Susan Hamlin, 17 Henrietta Street.

NOTE * Susan lives with a mulatto family of the better type.

The name is Hamlin not Hamilton, and her name prior to her marriage was
Calder not Collins. I paid particular attention to this and had them
spell the names for me. I would judge Susan to be in the late
nineties but she is wonderfully well preserved.

She now claims to be 104 years old.

S-260-264-N Project #1885 Augustus Ladson Charleston, S.C.

No. Words: 1195
EX-SLAVE 101 YEARS OF AGE
HAS NEVER SHAKEN HANDS SINCE 1863
WAS ON KNEES SCRUBBING WHEN FREEDOM GUN FIRED

I'm a hund'ed an' one years old now, son. De only one livin' in my crowd
from de days I wuz a slave. Mr. Fuller, my master, who was president of
the Firs' National Bank, owned the fambly of us except my father. There
were eight men an' women with five girls an' six boys workin' for
him.

Most o' them wus hired out. De house in which we stayed is still dere
with de cisterns an' slave quarters.

I always go to see de old home which is on St. Phillip Street.

My ma had t'ree boys an' t'ree girls who did well at their work.

Hope Mikell, my eldest bredder, an' James wus de shoemaker.

William Fuller, son of our master, wus de bricklayer.

Margurite an' Catharine wuz de maids an' look at de children.

My pa b'long to a man on Edisto Island. Frum what he said, his master
was very mean.

Pa real name wus Adam Collins but he took his master' name; he wus de
coachman. Pa did supin one day an his master whipped him. De next day
which wuz Monday, Pa carry him 'bout four miles frum home in de woods
an' give him de same 'mount of lickin' he wus given on Sunday.

He tied him to a tree an' unhitched de horse so it couldn't git tie-up
an' kill a self. Pa den gone to de landin' an' catch a boat dat wus
comin' to Charleston wood fa'm products. He wus permitted by his master
to go to town on errands, which helped him to go on de boat without bein'
question'. When he got here he gone on de water-front an' ax for a job
on a ship so he could git to de North.

He got de job an' sail' wood de ship. Dey search de island up an' down
for him wood houndogs en w'en it wus t'ought he wus drowned, 'cause
dey track him to de river, did dey give up.

One of his master' friend gone to New York en went in a store w'ere
Pas wus employed as a clerk.

He reconize' pa is easy is pa reconize' him. He gone back home an' tell
pa master who know den dat pa wusn't comin' back an' before he
died he sign' papers dat pa wus free.

Pa ma wus dead an' he come down to bury her by de permission of
his master' son who had promised no ha'm would come to him, but
dey wus fixin' plans to keep him, so he went to the Work House an' ax
to be sold 'cause any slave could sell e self if e could git to de Work
House.

But it wus on record down dere so dey couldn't sell 'im an' told him
his master' people couldn't hold him a slave.

People den use to do da same t'ings dey do now. Some marry an' some
live together jus' like now.

One t'ing, no minister nebber say in readin' de matrimony "let no man
put asounder" 'cause a couple would be married tonight an' tomorrow
one would be taken away en be sold.

All slaves wus married in dere master house, in de livin' room where
slaves an' dere missus an' massa wus to witness de ceremony. Brides use
to wear some of de finest dress an' if dey could afford it, have
de best kind of furniture.

Your master nor your missus objected to good t'ings.

I'll always 'member Clory, de washer. She wus very high-tempered. She
wus a mulatta with beautiful hair she could sit on; Clory didn't
take foolishness frum anybody.

One day our missus gone in de laundry an' find fault with de clothes.
Clory didn't do a t'ing but pick her up bodily an' throw 'er out
de door.

Dey had to sen' fur a doctor 'cause she pregnant an' less than two hours
de baby wus bo'n. Afta dat she begged to be sold fur she didn't want
to kill missus, but our master ain't nebber want to sell his slaves.
But dat didn't keep Clory frum gittin' a brutal whippin'. Dey
whip' 'er until dere wasn't a white spot on her body.

Dat wus de worst I ebber see a human bein' got such a beatin'.

I t'ought she wus goin' to die, but she got well an' didn't get any
better but meaner until our master decide it wus bes' to rent her
out. She willingly agree' since she wusn't 'round missus. She hated an'
detest' both of them an' all de fambly.

W'en any slave wus whipped all de other slaves wus made to watch. I
see women hung frum de ceilin' of buildin's an' whipped with only supin
tied 'round her lower part of de body, until w'en dey wus taken
down, dere wusn't breath in de body.

I had some terribly bad experiences.

Yankees use to come t'rough de streets, especially de Big Market,
huntin' those who want to go to de "free country" as dey call' it.

Men an' women wus always missin' an' nobody could give 'count of dere
disappearance. De men wus train' up North fur sojus.

De white race is so brazen.

Dey come here an' run de Indians frum dere own lan', but dey
couldn't make dem slaves 'cause dey wouldn't stan' for it. Indians use
to git up in trees an' shoot dem with poison arrow. W'en dey couldn't
make dem slaves den dey gone to Africa an' bring dere black brother
an' sister.

Dey say 'mong themselves, "we gwine mix dem up en make ourselves king.
Dats e only way we'll git even with de Indians."
All time, night an' day, you could hear men an' women screamin'
to de tip of dere voices as either ma, pa, sister, or brother wus take
without any warnin' an' sell. Some time mother who had only one chile
wus separated fur life. People wus always dyin' frum a broken
heart.

One night a couple married an' de next mornin' de boss sell de wife.
De gal ma got in in de street an' cursed de white woman fur all she
could find. She said: "dat damn white, pale-face bastard sell my
daughter who jus' married las' night," an' other t'ings. The white 'oman
treaten' her to call de police if she didn't stop, but de collud woman
said: "hit me or call de police.

I redder die dan to stan' dis any longer! De police took her to de
work House by de white woman orders an' what became of 'er, I never
hear.

W'en de war began we wus taken to Aiken, South Ca'lina w'ere
we stay' until de Yankees come t'rough.

We could see balls sailin' t'rough de air w'en Sherman wus comin'. Bumbs
hit trees in our yard. W'en de freedom gun wus fired, I wus on my
'nees scrubbin'.

Dey tell me I wus free but I didn't b'lieve it.

In de days of slavery woman wus jus' given time 'nough to deliver
dere babies.

Dey deliver de baby 'bout eight in de mornin' an' twelve had too be back
to work.

I wus a member of Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church for 67
years.

Big Zion, across de street wus my church before den an' before Old
Bethel w'en I lived on de other end of town.

Sence Lincoln shook hands with his assasin who at de same time
shoot him, frum dat day I stop shakin' hands, even in de church,
an' you know how long dat wus. I don't b'lieve in kissin' neider fur
all carry dere meannesses.

De Master wus betrayed by one of his bosom frien' with a kiss.

=Source:=
Interview with (Mrs.) Susan Hamilton, 17 Henrietta Street, who
claims to be 101 years of age. She has never been sick for twenty
years and walks as though just 40. She was hired out by her master
for seven dollars a month which had to be given her master.

Project #1655 Stiles M. Scruggs Columbia, S.C.

ANSON HARP EX-SLAVE 87 YEARS OLD.

Anson Harp, eighty-seven years old, lives out in the country on Route
#3.

He still works on the few acres he owns, raising vegetables for himself
and a few baskets to sell. He is a gray-haired, medium sized man and
his geniality is frequently noticed by white and Negro friends who know
him.

"I was born in Mississippi in 1850, on a big plantation dat b'long to
Master Tom Harp. I can see dat big rushin' river now, 'ceptin' the
mosquitoes. My daddy and mammy b'long to Master Harp and we live in a
cabin 'bout a mile from the big house of my master's home.

"One day when the slaves was choppin' cotton, a strange white man come
and watch us, and in a day or two me and three other chillun was called
in the yard of the big house and told we goin' to git to go wid the
stranger. My daddy and mammy and the other chillun's daddy and mammy
all cry when we was put in a big wagon and carried 'way to somewhere.

"We gits plenty of rations on the way and when we gits to Aiken one
mornin', we was told we was close to home and soon we was on the
big plantation of Master James Henry Hammond.

We find other boys there, too.

We go to the fields and chop cotton, after we rest up. No sah, we
wasn't flogged often. One time the grown men and women was choppin'
two rows to our one, and a straw-boss slave twit us and call us lazy.
The white overseer, who was riding by, heard him. He shake his
whip at the straw-boss and tell him: 'The young niggers not yet 'spected
to make a half hand and you do pretty well to 'tend to your own
knittin'.

"I been there for a pretty long time befo' I really talks to my great
white master, James Henry Hammond. He not at home much, and when he was
home, many big white men wid him 'most every day.

"One Saturday, we always had a half holiday on Saturday, me and my
friends 'bout the same age, was playin' a game on a big lot behind the
barn. We quit yellin' and playin' when we see Master Hammond and
three or four white men at the barn. They was lookin' at and talkin'
'bout Master Hammond's big black stallion. Master Hammond lead him out
of the stall and he stand on his hind feet.

"'Well Senator,' says one big man to Master Hammond, 'I has come a
long ways to see this famous hoss.

It's no wonder he was s'lected as a model for the war hoss of General
Jackson. I seen his statue in Washington and Nashville.'
"'And I see him in New Orleans', says another big man, in a fine black
slick suit.

"'I 'clare, Governor', says the other big man, also dressed just
lak he goin' to church, 'this grand stallion look today well as he
did when I use him for my model'.

"Then they all pat the hoss's nose and stroke him down his mane, and the
big buckra hoss steps, just lak the fine gentlemen he is, back to
his stall, while all the big men wave him goodbye!

"No, I not take the name of Hammond after we free, 'cause too many
of his slaves do. I kept the name of my old master and the one my daddy
and mammy had. No, I never hear of them in Mississippi. Lak as not they
was sold and taken far away, lak me.

"I was eleven in 1861, when the war start, 'cordin' to my count.

Master Hammond was hardly ever at home no more.

He, too, was angry at President Lincoln and I love my master, so I
used to wonder what sort of man the President was.

My Master Hammond sure did honor President Davis.

I hear him say once, dat President Davis was a Chesterfield and dat the
Lincoln fellow is coarse and heartless.

"In 1862 I was twelve years old, big for my age, and I do more than
half as much work as any grown slave.

At dat time we see many free niggers, and nearly all of them sorry lookin'.
They eat off of slave families, when they could git it.

"I come to Columbia in 1865, after all the niggers everywhere am set
free. I work for white folks 'bout town and when the Freedman's aid
was set up, I goes 'long wid some new found friends to the aid
headquarters, and was the last one to be heard. The others got
bundles of food and I see one git a piece of money, too.

When I got to the white man in charge, he eye me and zay: 'What damn rebel
did you slave for?' I forgot 'bout what I am there for and I say:
'I never slave for no damn rebel. I work for Governor Hammond and he
is the finest buckra that is.'
"Then the aid man say: 'Dat damn rebel Hammond and all lak
him yet unhung, should be, and you wid him. Go let him feed and clothe
you! When you come here again maybe you have 'nough sense to ask
for favors decent.' I so mad, I hardly 'member just what happen,
'ceptin' I come 'way just lak I go, empty handed.

"I am now an old man, as you see, but I am happy to know dat the white
folks has always been ready to help me make a livin'.

I now own a patch of ground, where I makes a livin' on the shares. My
boy, a son by my second wife, works it, and he takes care of me now. If
I had been as big, and knowed as much at the start of the war as I did
at the end of it, I would surely have gone to the front wid my
white master."

Project 1885-1 FOLKLORE Spartanburg Dist. 4 May 25, 1937

Edited by:

Elmer Turnage
STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES

"I was born in Fairfield County, S.C. near Broad River. I was de son of
John and Harriet Harper. I worked in slavery time and was a slave of
John Stanley who was a good man and easy to work with.

He give me a good whipping once when I was a boy.

We earned no money but had our place to sleep and something to eat
and wear.

We didn't have any gardens, but master had a big plantation and lots
of slaves, and worked a garden himself. I remember he whipped mother
once the last year of the war,--just about to get freedom.

"Master belonged to patrollers, and let dem come on the place and punish
the slaves if needed. They whipped my sister once. He had a house to
lock slaves in when dey was bad. He learned us to read and write. He had
a school on de plantation for his niggers. After the days work was over,
we frolicked, and Saturday afternoons we had off to do what we wanted.

We had to go to the white folks church and set in back of de church.
Corn shuckings, cotton picking and carding and quilting, the old
folks had when dey had big times and big eats.

"Weddings and funerals of slaves were about like white folks. Some would
go walking and singing to de grave in back of hearse or body. There was
a conjurer in our neighborhood who could make you do what he wanted,
sometimes he had folks killed. The Yankees marched through our place,
stole cattle, and meat.

We went behind dem and picked up lots dat dey dropped when dey left.
When de war was over, de niggers was promised small farms but dey
didn't get 'em.
"I have been preaching many years in colored Methodist churches. I
have 7 children, 22 grand-children but no great-grand-children.
"I think Abraham Lincoln was a great man, and Jefferson Davis,
too.
Booker Washington was a grand educator for the colored race. Bishop
S.D.
Chappell, colored preacher of the A.M.E. church South, one time
president of Allen University at Columbia, S.C. was a great colored
man, too. He went to Nashville, Tenn. as secretary-treasurer of the
Sunday School Union.
"I don't believe slavery was good--much better for all of us now.
"I joined the church when I was young, because I thought it right
to be a member. I think everybody ought to join some church, and
they ought to join early in life, when quite young."
=Source:= Rev. Thomas Harper (84), Newberry, S.C., interviewed
by:
G.L. Summer, Newberry, S.C. May 21, 1937.
Project #1555 W.W. Dixon Winnsboro, S.C.
ABE HARRIS EX-SLAVE 74 YEARS OLD.
Abe Harris lives about nine miles southwest of the town of Winnsboro,
South Carolina. His home is a two-room frame house, with rock
chimneys of rough masonry at each gable end. It is the property of
Mr. Daniel Heyward. Abe is one-fourth white and this mixture shows
in his features.
He is still vigorous and capable of light manual labor.
"My father was Samuel Lyles. My mother's name was Phenie Lyles. My
father and mother had fifteen chillun. I am de only one livin'. De
last one to die was my brother, Stocklin, that tended to de flowers
and gardens of people in Winnsboro for many years. He was found
dead, one mornin', in de Fortune Park woods.
"My parents b'long to Captain Tom Lyles, in slavery time. Father
was de hog man. He 'tended to de hogs; didn't pasture them as they
do now.
Marster had a drove of eighty or more in de fall of de year befo'
hog killin' time. They run 'bout in de woods for acorns and hickory
nuts and my father had to keep up wid them and bring them home.It is about a thousand years since sane and sensible men
believed all that drivel about women's only sphere being the home, and
since women were content to be mere chattels, stuck in with the rest of
the furniture, to look after the children.  Nowadays the jolly,
sensible woman that a man likes for wife or pal, is very often a busy
worker."

"Let her work busily at home, then!"

"Why, you'll want me to crochet antimacassars next, or cross-stitch a
sampler!  Just imagine the thing if I tried!  It would have dreadful
results, because I should be sure to use bad language - I couldn't help
it; and the article I should concoct would make people faint, or turn
cross-eyed or colour-blind.  I shan't do nearly so much harm in the end
as a City secretary with an actress pal."

"One thing is quite certain: you mean, as usual, to have your own way,
and my feelings go for nothing at all."

He turned away from her, and took up his hat to go out.

"Your protestations of affection, Hal, are apt to seem both insincere
and out of place."

The tears came swiftly to her eyes, and she took a quick step towards
him, but he had gone, and closed the door after him before she could
speak.  She watched his retreating figure, with the tears still
lingering, and then suddenly she smiled.

"Anyhow, I haven't got to besweet and gentle and housekeepy," was her
comforting reflection.  "I'm going to be a real worker, earning real
money, and have Lorraine for my pal as well.  Some day Dudley will see
it is all right, and I'm only about half as black as he supposes, and
that I love him better than anything else at heart.  In the meantime,
as I'm likely to get a biggish dose of dignified disapproval over this
theatre business, I'd better ask Dick to come out to tea this afternoon
to buck me up for what lies ahead.  Goodness! what a boon a jolly
cousin is when you happen to have been mated with your great-aunt for a
brother."


CHAPTER III


For a few years after that particular disagreement nothing of special
note happened.  Hal got quickly through her course of shorthand and
typewriting and became Mr. Elliott's private secretary and general
factotum, which last included an occasional flight into journalism as a
reporter.  Naturally, since this sometimes took her to out-of-the-way
places, and brought her in contact with human oddities, she loved it
beyond all things, and was ever ready for a jaunt, no matter whither it
took her.

Brother Dudley was discreetly left a little in the dark about it,
because nothing in the world would ever have persuaded him that a girl
of Hal's age could run promiscuously about London unmolested.  Hal knew
better.  She was perfectly well able to acquire a stony stare that
baffled the most dauntless of impertinent intruders; and se had,
moreover, an upright, grenadier-like carriage, and an air of
business-like energy that were safeguards in themselves.

A great deal of persuasive tact was necessary, however, to win Dudley's
consent to a year in America, whither Mr. Elliott had to go on
business; but on Mrs. Elliott calling upon him herself to explain that
she also was going, and would take care of Hal, he reluctantly
consented.

Curiously enough, it was that year in a great measure that changed the
current of Lorraine's life.  She came to the cross-roads, and took the
wrong turn.

Perhaps Miss Walton, with her knowledge of girls, could have foretold
it.  She might have said, in that enigmatical way of hers, "If Lorraine
comes to the cross-roads, where life offers a short cut to fame,
instead of a long, wearisome drudgery, she will probably take it.  Hal
will score off her own bat, or not at all.  Lorraine will only care
about gaining her end."


Anyhow the cross-roads came, and Hal, the stronger, was not there.  As
a matter of fact, for some little time the two had not seen much of
each other.  Lorraine was touring in the provinces, and rarely had time
to come to London.  Hal was tied by her work, and could not spare the
time to go to Lorraine.

There was for a little while a cessation of intercourse.  Neither was
the least bit less fond, but circumstances kept them apart, and they
could only wait until opportunity brought them together again.  Both
were too busy for lengthy correspondence, and only wrote short letters
occasionally, just to assure each other the friendship held firm, and
absence made no real difference.

Then Hal went off to America, and while she was away Lorraine came to
her cross-roads.

It is hardly necessary to review in detail what her life had been since
she joined the theatrical profession.  It is mostly hard work and
disillusion and disappointment for all in the beginning, and only a
very small percentage ever win through to the forefront.

But for Lorraine, on the top of all the rest, was a mercenary,
unscrupulous, intriguing mother, who added tenfold to what must
inevitably have been a heavy burden and strain - a mother who taxed her
utmost powers of endurance, and brought her shame as well as endless
worry; and yet to whom, let it be noted down now, to her everlasting
credit, no matter in what other way she may have erred, she never
turned a deaf ear nor treated with the smallest unkindness.

It would be impossible to gauge just what Lorraine had to go through in
her first few years on the stage.  She seemed to make no headway at
all, and at the end of the third year she felt herself as far as ever
from getting her chance.

That she was brilliantly clever and brilliantly attractive had not so
far weighed the balance to her side.  There were many others also
clever and attractive.  She felt she had practically everything except
the one thing needed - influence.

Thus her spirits were at a very low ebb.  She was still touring the
provinces, and heartily sick of all the discomfort involved.  Dingy
lodgings, hurried train journeys, much bickering and jealousy in the
company with which she was acting, and a great deal of domestic worry
over that handsome, extravagant mother, who had once taken her, in
company with the so-called uncle, to the select seminary of the Misses
Walton.

How her mother managed to live and dress as if she were rich had
puzzled Lorraine many times in those days; but when she left the
shelter of those narrow, restricting walls, where windows were
whitewashed so that even boys might not be seen passing by, she learnt
many things all too quickly.

She learnt something about the uncles too.  One of them was at great
pains to try and teach her, but with hideous shapes and suggestions
trying to crowd her mind, the thought of Hal's freshness still acted as
a sort of protection and kept her untainted.

A little later, after she had commenced to earn a salary, she found
that directly the family purse was empty, and creditors objectionably
insistent, she herself had to come to the rescue.

There were some miserable days then.  It was useless to upbraid her
mother.  She always posed as the injured one, and could not see that in
robbing her child of a real home she was strewing her path with dangers
as well, by placing her in an ambiguous, comfortless position, from
which any relief seemed worth while.

Then at last came the welcome news that Mrs. Vivian had procured a post
as lady-housekeeper to a rich stockbroker in Kensington, who had also a
large interest in a West-end theatre.

Lorraine read the glowing terms in which her mother described her new
home and employer with a deep sense of relief, seeing in the new
venture a probable escape for herself from those relentless demands
upon her own scanty purse.  A month later came the paragraph, in a
voluminous epistle:

"Mr. Raynor says you are to make his house your home whenever you are
free.  He insists upon giving you a floor all to yourself, like a
little flat, where you can receive your friends undisturbed, and feel
you have a little home of your own.  I am quite certain also that he
will try to help you in your career through his interest in the
Greenway Theatre."

If Lorraine wondered at all concerning this unknown man's interest in
her welfare she kept it to herself.

A home instead of the dingy lodgings she had grown to hate, and the
prospect of influential help, were sufficiently alluring to drown all
other reflections.

When the tour was over she went direct to Kensington, to make her home
with her mother until her next engagement.  She was already too much a
woman of the world not to notice at once that her mother and her host's
relations seemed scarcely those of employee and employer, and there was
a little passage of arms between herself and Mrs. Vivian the next
morning.

In reply to a long harangue, in which that lady set forth the
advantages Lorraine was to gain from her mother's perspicacity in
obtaining such a post, she asked rather shortly:

"And why in the world should Mr. Raynor do all this for me, simply
because you are his housekeeper?"

A red spot burned in Mrs. Vivian's cheek as she replied: "He does it
because he wants me to stay; and I have told him I cannot do so unless
he makes it possible for me to give you a comfortable, happy home here."

Lorraine's lips curled with a scorn she did not attempt to conceal, but
she only stood silently gazing across the Park.

She had already decided to make the best of her mother's deficiencies,
seeing she was almost the only relative she possessed, but she had a
natural loathing of hypocrisy, and wished she would leave facts alone
instead of attempting to gloss them over.  Ever since she left school
she had been obliged to live in lodgings, because her mother would not
take the trouble to try and provide anything more of a home.

It was a little too much, therefore, that she should now allude to her
maternal  solicitude because it happened to suit her purpose.  She felt
herself growing hard and callous and bitter under the strain of the
early struggle to succeed, handicapped as she was; and because of one
or two ugly experiences that came in the path of such a warfare.  She
was losing heart also, and feeling bitterly the stinging whip of
circumstances.  As she stood gazing across the Park, some girls about
her own age rode past, returning from their morning gallop, talking and
laughing gaily together.

Lorraine found herself wondering what life would be like with her
beauty and talent if there were no vulgarly extravagant, unprincipled
mother in the background, no insistent need to earn money, no gnawing
ambition for a fame she already began to feel might prove an empty joy.

She had not seen Hal for a year, and she felt an ache for her.  In the
shifting, unreliable, soul-numbing atmosphere of her stage career, she
still looked upon Hal as a City of Refuge; and when she had not seen
her for some time she felt herself drifting towards unknown shoals and
quicksands.

And, unfortunately, Hal was away in America, with the editor to whom
she was secretary and typist, and not very likely to be back for three
months.

No; there was nothing for it but to make te best of her mother's
explanation and the comfortable home at her feet.

As for Mr. Raynor himself, though he seemed to Lorraine vulgarly proud
of his self-made position, vulgarly ostentatious of his wealth, and
vulgarly familiar with both herself and her mother, she could not
actually lay any offence to his charge.  And in any case, he
undoubtedly could help her, if he chose, to procure at last the coveted
part in a London theatre.  With this end in view, she laid herself out
to please him and to make the most of her opportunity.

And in this way she came to chose cross-roads which had to decide her
future.

Before she had been a week in the house, Frank Raynor deserted his
housekeeper altogether, and fell in love with the housekeeper's
daughter.  Within a fortnight he had laid all his possessions a
Lorraine's feet, promising her not only wealth and devotion, but the
brilliant career she so coveted.

The man was generous, but he was no saint.  Give him herself, and she
would have the world at her feet if he could bring it there.  Give any
less, and he would have no more to say to her whatsoever.

It was the cross-roads.

Lorrain struggled manfully for a month.  She hated the idea of marrying
a man better suited in every way to her mother.  She dreaded and hated
the thought of what had perhaps been between them; yet she was afraid
to ask any question that might corroborate her worst fears.

All that was best in her of delicate and refined sensitiveness surged
upward, and she longed to run away to some remote island far removed
from the harsh realities of life.

Yet, how could she?  Without money, without influence, without rich
friends, what did the world at large hold for her?

How much easier to go with the tide - seize her opportunity - and dare
Fate to do her worst.

At the last there was a bitter scene between mother and daughter.

"If you refuse Frank Raynor now, you ruin the two of us," was Mrs.
Vivian's angry indictment.  "What can we expect from him any more?  How
are you ever going to get another such chance to make a hit?"

"And what if it ruins my life to marry him?" Lorraine asked.

"Such nonsense!  The man can give you everything.  What in the world
more do you want?  He is good enough looking; he could pass as a
gentleman, and he is rich."

A sudden nauseous spasm at all the ugliness of life shook Lorraine.
She turned on her mother swiftly, scarcely knowing what she said, and
asked:

"You are anxious enough to sell me to him.  What is he to you anyway?
What has he ever been to you?"

Mrs. Vivian blanched before the suddenness of the attack, but she held
her ground.

"You absurd child, what in the world could he be to me?  It is easy
enough to see he has no eyes for any one but you."

"And before I came?"

Lorraine took a step forward, and for a moment the two women faced each
other squarely.  The eyes of each were a little hard, the expressions a
little flinty; but behind the older woman's was a scornful,
unscrupulous indifference to any moral aspect; behind the younger's a
hunted, rather pitiful hopelessness.  The ugly things of life had
caught the one in their talons and held her there for good and all,
more or less a willing slave, the soul of the younger was still alive,
still conscious, still capable of distinguishing the good and desiring
it.

The mother turned away at last with a little harsh laugh.

"Before you came he was nothing to me.  He never has been anything."

Without waiting for Lorraine to speak, she turned again, and added:

"If you weren't a fool, you would perceive he is treating you better
than ninety-nine men in a hundred.  He has suggested marriage.  The
others might not have done."

"Oh!  I'm not a fool in that way," came the bitter reply, "but I've
wondered once or twice what your attitude would have been, supposing -
er - he had been one of the ninety-nine!"

Mrs. Vivian was saved replying by the unexpected appearance of Frank
Raynor himself.  Entering the room with a quick step, he suddenly
stopped short and looked from one to the other.  Something in their
expressions told him what had transpired.  He turned sharply on the
mother.

"You've been speaking to Lorraine about me.  I told you I wouldn't have
it.  I know your bullying ways, and I said she was to be left to decide
for herself."

Lorraine saw an angry retort on her mother's lips, and hurriedly left
the room.  She put on her hat and slipped away into the Park.  What was
she to do?... where, oh where was Hal!

Within three months the short cut was taken.  Lorraine was engaged to
play a leading part at the Greenway Theatre, and she was the wife of
Frank Raynor.


CHAPTER IV


When Hal came back from America and heard about Lorraine's marriage, it
was a great shock to her.  At first she could hardly bring herself to
believe it at all.  Nothing thoroughly convinced her until she stood in
the pretty Kensington house and beheld Mrs. Vivian's pronounced air of
triumph, and Lorraine's somewhat forced attempts at joyousness.

It was one of the few occasions in her life when Lorraine was nervous.
She did not want Hal to know the sordid facts; and she did not believe
she would be able to hide them from her.

When Hal, from a mass of somewhat jerky, contradictory information, had
gleaned that the new leading part at the London theatre had been gained
through the middle-aged bridegroom's influence, her comment was
sufficiently direct.

"Oh, that's why you did it, is it?  Well, I only hope you don't hate
the sight of him already."

"How absurd you are, Hal!...  Of course I don't hate the sight of him.
He's a dear.  He gives me everything in the world I want, if he
possibly can."

"How dull.  It's much more fun getting a few things for oneself.  And
when the only thing in all the world you want is your freedom, do you
imagine he'll give you that?"

Lorraine got up suddenly, thrusting her hands out before her, as if to
ward off some vague fear.

"Hal, you are brutal to-day.  What is the use of talking like that
now?...  Why did you go to America?...  Perhaps if you hadn't gone _"

"Give me a cigarette," said Hal, with a little catch in her voice, "I
want soothing.  At the present moment you're a greater strain than
Dudley talking down at me from a pyramid of worn-out prejudices.  I
don't know why my two Best-Belovèds should both be cast in a mould to
weigh so heavily on my shoulders."

Sitting on the table as usual, she puffed vigorously at her cigarette,
blowing clouds of smoke, through which Lorraine could not see that her
eyes were dim with tears.  For Hal's unerring instinct told her that,
at a critical moment, Lorraine had taken a wrong path.

Lorraine, however, was not looking in Hal's direction.  She had moved
to the window, and stood with her back to the room, gazing across the
Park, hiding likewise misty, tell-tale eyes.

Suddenly, as Hal continued silent, she turned to her with a swift
movement of half-expressed protest.

"Hal! you shan't condemn me, you shan't even judge me.  Probably you
can't understand, because your life is so different - always has been
so different; but at least you can try to be the same.  What difference
has it made between you and me anyhow?...  What difference need it
make?  I have got my chance now, and I am going to be a brilliant
success, instead of a struggling beginner.  What does the rest matter
between you and me?"

"It doesn't matter between you and me.  But it matters to you.  I feel
I'd give my right hand if you hadn't done it."

"How could I help doing it?  Oh, I can't explain; it's no use.  We all
have to fight our own battles in the long run - friends or no friends.
Only the friends worth having stick to one, even when it has been a
nasty, unpleasant sort of battle."

That hard look, with the hopelessness behind it, was coming back into
Lorraine's eyes.  She was too loyal to tell even Hal what her mother
had been like the last few months before the critical moment came, and
at the critical moment itself.  She could not explain just how many
difficulties her marriage had seemed a way out from.

There had been other men who had not proposed marriage.  There had been
insistent creditors - her mother's as well as her own.  There had been
that deep hunger for something approaching a real home, and for a sense
of security, in a life necessarily full of insecurities.

Obdurate, difficult theatre managers, powerful, jealous
fellow-actresses, ill health, bad luck!  Behind the glamour and the
glitter of the stage, what a world of carking care, of littleness,
meanness, jealousy, and intrigue she had found herself called upon to
do battle with.

And now, if only her husband proved amenable, proved livable with, how
different everything would be?  But in any case Hal must be there.
Somehow nothing of all this showed in her face as she fronted the
smoker, still blowing clouds of smoke before her eyes.

"What has become of Rod?" Hal asked suddenly.

Lorraine winced a little, but held her ground steadily.

"Rod had to go.  What could Rod and I have done with £500 a year?"

"My own" - from the blunt-speaking one - "it surely seems as if you
might have thought of that before you allowed Rod to run all over the
country after you, and get 'gated', and very nearly 'sent down', and
spend a year or two's income ahead in trying to give you pleasure."

Lorraine flung herself down on the sofa with a callous air, and beat
her foot on the ground impatiently.  The parting with Rod was another
thing she did not propose to describe to Hal.  It had hurt too badly,
for one thing.

"When you moralise, Hal, you are detestable.  Besides, it's so cheap.
Any one can sit on a table and hurl sarcasm about.  I daresay in my
place you would have married Rod, from a sense of duty or something,
and ruined all the rest of his life.  Or perhaps, after gently breaking
the news, you'd have let him come dangling round to be 'mothered'.
Well, I don't say I haven't been a bit of a brute to him; but anyhow I
tried to do the square thing in the end.  I cut the whole affair dead
off.  I told him I would not see him nor write to him again.  I've
since sent two letters back unopened, and though you mightn't think it,
I was just eating my heart out for a sight of him.  But what's the
good!  He's got to follow in the footsteps of whole centuries of highly
respectable, complacent, fat old bankers.  His father and mother would
have a fit if he didn't develop into the traditional fat old banker
himself, and beget another of the same ilk to follow on.

"I daresay with me he would have developed a little more soul, and a
little less stomach - but what of it? -" with a graceful shrug.  "For
the good of his country it is written that he shall acquire weight and
stolidity, instead of an ideal soul, and for the benefit of posterity I
sentenced him to speedy rotundity, and dull respectability, and the
begetting of future bankers.  He will presently marry some one named
Alice or Annie, and invite me to the first christening in a spirit of
Christian forgiveness."

Hal smiled more soberly than was her wont.

"And what of you?"

"What of me?... Oh, I don't come into that sort of scheme.  I never
ought to have been there at all.  Still, I'm glad I showed him he'd got
something in himself beside the stale accumulations of many banker
ancestors; if it's only for the sake of the next litte banker, who may
want to lay claim to an individual soul."

"But it hurt, Lorraine?... don't tell me it didn't hurt after... after
- "

"Oh yes, it hurt," with a low, bitter laugh; "but what of that eiter?
It's generally the woman who gets hurt; but I suppose I knew I was
riding for a fall."

"I don't suppose you are any more hurt than he is.  You know he
worshipped you."

"Yes; only presently it will be easy for him to get back into the old,
orthodox groove with 'Alice', and persuade himself that I was only a
youthful infatuation, whereas I - Oh, what does it matter, Hal!  Come
out of that 'great-aunt' mood, and let's be joly while we can.  I'll
ring for coffee and liqueurs, and then we'll make lots of ripping plans
to see everything in England worth seeing - until I can find time to go
abroad."

Hal sprang off het table.

"Oh, very well," she rejoined, "Let's get rowdy and sing the song 'Love
may go hang.'  When I've got it over with Dudley, we'll just go
straight on, keeping a good look out for the next fence.  You'd better
tell me something abouth this paternal husband of yours, just to
prepare me for our meeting.  He doesn't put his knife in his mouth, and
that sort of thing, does he?"

"No; not quite so bad.  His worst offence at present, I think, is to
call me 'wifey'."

"Wifey!" in accents of horror.  "Lorraine, how awful!"

"Yes; but I'm breaking him of it by degrees: that and his fondness for
a soft felt hat."

They sat on chatting together with apparent gayness, but Hal's heart
was no lighter after she had duly been presented to the paternal
husband, as she called him, and she journeyed solemnly home on a bus,
feeling rather as if she had been to a funeral.  She tried at first to
hide her feelings from Dudley - no difficult matter at all, since he
usually contributed little but a slightly absent "yes" and "no" to the
conversation, and if the conversation languished he took small notice.

However, he had to be told, and Hal rarely troubled to do much beating
about the bush, so, in order to rouse him speedily and thoroughly, just
as he was settling down to his newspaper she hurled the news at his
head without any preliminary preparation.

"What do you think Lorraine has done now?  Been and gone and married a
man old enough to be her father!"

"Married!...  Lorraine Vivian married!"

Dudley's newspaper went down suddenly on to his knee.

Hal had squatted on the hearthrug, tailor fashion, before the fire, and
she gave a little swaying movement backward and forward, to signify the
affirmative.  He looked at her a moment as if to make sure she was not
joking, and then said, with sarcastic lips:

"A man old enough to be her father? ... then it isn't even Rod Burrell!"

"No; it isn't even Rod Burrell."

"Some one with more money and influence, I suppose?  Well, I don't know
that Burrell needs any one's condolences."

"He does, badly."

"He won't for long.  The Burrells are a sensible lot, and no sensible
man frets over a hearless woman."

"Lorraine is not a heartless woman.  She has too much heart."

"She is certainly very generous with it."

"I don't know which is the more detestable, a sarcastic man or a
sensible one."  Hal shut her lips tightly, and stared at the fire.

"I imagine you hardly expect any sort of man to admire Miss Vivian's
action."

"It doesn't matter in the least what 'any sort of man' thinks.  I am
only concerned with the possibility that she will weary of matrimony
quickly and be miserable.  I told you, because I wanted you to hear it
from me instead of from a newspaper."

Dudley suddenly grew more serious, as he realised how it must in a
measure affect Hal also.

"Who is he?

"He is a stockbroker, named Frank Raynor, aged fifty."

"And of course she married him for his money ?

"I suppose so. Also he partly owns the Greenway Theatre."

"Pshaw . . . it's a mere bargain."

Hal was silent. She had rested her chin on her hands, and was now
gazing steadily at the embers.

"Of course if he is not a gentleman, you will have to leave off seeing
so much of her."

"Not at all. She would need me all the more.

"That is quite possible," drily; "but you owe something to yourself and
me."

"I couldn't owe failing a friend to any one. But he is a gentleman
almost - a self-made one, and he doesn't let you forget it."

"Then you've seen him?"

"Yes, to-day." Her lips suddenly twitched with irresistible humour. "He
called me 'Hal' and Lorraine 'wifey' We bore it bravely."

"What business had he to call you by your Christian name?"

"None. I suppose he just felt like it. He also alluded to my new hat as
a bonnet. Also he used to be an office-boy or something. He seemed
inordinately proud of it."

"I loathe a self-made man who is always cramming it down one's throat.
I don't see how you can have much in common with either of them any
more."

Hal got up, as if she did not want to pursue the subject.

"It won't make the smallest difference to Lorraine and me," she said.

Dudley knit his forehead in vexation and perplexity, remarking:

"Of course you mean to be obstinate about it."

"No," with a little laugh; "only firm."

She came round to his chair and leant over the back it.

"Dear old long-face, don't look so worried. None of the dreadful things
have happened yet that you expected to come of my friendship with
Lorraine. The nearest approach to them was the celebrated young author
I interviewed, who asked me to go to Paris with him for a fortnight,
and he was a clergyman's son who hadn't even heard of Lorraine. Next, I
think, was the old gentleman
who offered to take me to the White City. IL don't seem much the worse
for either encounter, do I ? and it's silly to meet trouble half way.

She bent her head and kissed him on the forehead.

"Dudley," she finished mischievously, "what are you going to give
Lorraine for a wedding-present?"

"I might buy her the book, 'Row to be Happy though Married,'" he said
dilly, "or write her a new one and call it 'Words of Warning for
Wifey.'"

"We'll give her something together," Hal exclaimed triumphantly,
knowing that, as usual, she had won the day.

Then she went off to bed, feigning a light-heartedness she was far from
feeling, and dreading, with vague misgivings, what the future might
bring forth.


CHAPTER V


It was a little over two years later that the crash came. There was
first a commonplace, sordid tale of bickering and quarrelling, with
passionate jealousy on the part of the middle-aged husband, and
callous, maddening indifference on the part of the now successful and
brilliant actress

To do Lorraine justice, she was not actively at fault.  Her sense of
fair play made her try sincerely to make the best of what had all along
been an inevitable fiasco. She did not sin in deed against the man to
whom she had sold herself, but in thought it was hardly possible for
her to give him anything but tolerance, or to feel much beyond the
callous indifference she purposely cultivated, to make their life
together endurable. The things that at first only irritated her grew
almost unbearable afterwards.

Lorraine's father had been a gentleman by birth, breeding, and nature.
If she inherited from her mother an ambitious, calculating spirit, she
also inherited from her father refinement, and tone, and a certain
fineness character, that showed itself chiefly in unorthodox ways, of
for the simple reason that her life and conditions were entirely
removed from a conventional atmosphere.

As a man she might merely have lived a double life, conforming to the
conventions when advisable, and following her own ambitions and bent in
secret, without ever apparently stepping over the line.

As a woman she could but cultivate callous indifference to a great
deal, and satisfy her soul by "playing fair" according to her lights,
in the path before her, but nothing could save her from a mental nausea
of the things in her husband which belonged to his plebeian origin and
nature, and which crossed with a shrivelling, searing touch her own
inherent refinement and high-born spirit.

The objectionable friends he brought to the house she found it easier
to bear than the things he said about them behind their backs; neither,
again, was his addiction to drink so trying as his mental coarseness. A
man who had drank too much could be avoided, but the lowness of Frank
Raynor's mind seemed to follow and drag hers down.

Yet for two years she held bravely on, cultivating a hard spirit, and
throwing herself heart and soul into the first delicious joy of
success. This last surprised even her friends and admirers. A moderate
hit was quite expected, but not a triumph which placed her almost in
the first rank, and was due not merely to her acting, but to a bigness
of spirit and comprehension she had never before had an opporturnty to
reveal.

It was, indeed, the justification of Hal's devotion. Hal, by her very
nature, could not love a small-minded woman. What she so unceasingly
loved and admired in Lorraine was a hidden something she alone had had
the
perspicacity to perceive, and could so instinctively rely upon. It was
the something which, given once a fair opening, carried her quickly
through the company of the lesser successes, and placed her on that
high plane which
demands soul as well as skill.

Then came the dreadful climax. In a drunken, mad moment her husband
hurled at her that he had been her mother's lover, and proposed to
return to his old allegiance - had, in fact, already done so.

Lorraine immediately packed up her own special belongings and left his
roof for ever.

Expostulations, promises, threats, passionate assurances that he had
not been responsible for what he said failed alike to move her. She
knew that whether responsible or not he had spoken the truth, and that
everything
else either he or her mother could say was false.

Finding her obdurate, he swore to ruin them both; but she told him she
would sing for bread in the streets before she would go back to him;
and he knew she meant it.

Fearing his influence against her and his sworn revenge, she went to
Italy for a year, and hid in quiet villages until his passion should
somewhat have died, finding herself in the dreadful position, not only
of being betrayed by her mother, but quite unable to obtain any sort of
freedom without revealing the black stain upon her only near
relation.

They tell us that there are such in your world, and that some of them
have goodly garters below the knee with an inscription about them
which condemns him (qui mal y pense) who shall think ill of it to be
berayed and
conskited.In the black days and weeks of despair which followed, she often felt
she must have lost her reason without Hal, and even to her she could
not tell the actual truth. Hal asked once, and then no more. Afterwards
it was like a secret, unnamed horror between them, from which the
curtain must not be raised.

For the rest there was the usual but intenser scene of remonstrance
between Dudley and Hal with the usual resentful and obdurate
termination. This time
Dudley even got seriously angry, unable to see anything but a foolish,
unprincipled woman reaping a just reward of her own sowing; and for
nearly a week his displeasure was such that he addressed no single word
to Hal if he could help it.

Hal, for once, was too wretched about everything to resent his
attitude, and merely waited for the sun to shine again and the black,
enveloping clouds to roll away.

She saw Lorraine everyday, in the apartments whence she had fled, and
helped her to make the necessary arrangements to cancel the short
remainder of an engagement and get away. She even had one interview
with the irate husband, but no one ever knew what took place, except
that Raynor sought no repetition, and seemed afterwards to have a
respectful awe of Hal's name which spoke volumes.

Accustomed to intimidating women with a curse and an oath, he had found
himself unexpectedly dealing with two who could scorch him with a scorn
and contempt far more withering than a vulgar tirade of blasphemous
language.

Finally the break was made complete. Lorraine got safely away to Italy,
her mother retired to an English village, and Raynor departed to
America for good.

Millar, near the Horse Guards, 1732, and sold by the Booksellers of
London and Westminster, price One Shilling."

The above is the title-page of a little work of eighty-six pages in my
possession, which I am inclined to think is scarce.

It appears to be a defence of the Walpole administration from the
attacks of the _Craftsman_, a periodical of the time, conducted by
Amhurst, who was supported by Bolinbroke and Pulteney, the leaders
of the opposition.

Is anything known of _J. Adamson_, the author?

H.A.E.

_Sir Thomas Moore._--Can any of your readers give any account of Sir
Thomas Moore, beyond what Victor tells of him in his _History_ of the
Theatre, ii. p. 144., "that he was the author of an absurd tragedy
called _Mangora_ (played in 1717), and was knighted by George I."
In Pope's "Epistle to Arbuthnot," he writes--
"Arthur, whose giddy son leglects the laws."
on which Warburton notes--
"_Arthur Moore, Esq._"
Who was _Arthur Moore, Esq._? and who was the "giddy son?" Was the
latter _James Moore Smith_ a gentleman whose family name was, I
think, _Moore_, and who assumed (perhaps for a fortune) the additional
name of _Smith_?

This gentleman Pope seems to call indiscriminately _Moore_, _Moor_,
and _More_: and when he says that his good nature towards the dunces was
so great that he had even "rhymed for Moor" (Ib. v. 373.), I cannot but
suspect that the Moor _for_ whom he had _rhymed_, was the _giddy son_
whom _Arthur_ accused him of seducing from the law to the Muses. There
are many allusions to this Mr.

James Moore Smith throughout Pope's satirical works, but all very
obscure; and Warburton, though he appears to have known him, affords
no explanation as to who or what he was. He was the author of a comedy
called _The Rival Modes_.

C.

_Dr. E. Cleaver, Bishop of Cork.

_--I shall feel much obliged to any of your correspondents who will
furnish me with the particulars of the consecration of Dr. Euseby Cleaver
to the sees of Cork and Ross, in March, April, or May, 1789.

Finding no record of the transaction in the Diocesan Registry of Cork,
and not being able to trace it in any other part of _Ireland_, I
am induced to believe that this consecration may have taken
place in _England_; and shall be very glad to be correctly informed upon
the point.

H. COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland.

_Gwynn's London and Westminster._--Mr. Thomas Frederick Hunt, in his
_Exemplars of Tudor Architecture_, 4to.

London, 1830, in a note at p.
23., alludes to _London and Westminster improved, by John Gywnn, London_,
1766, 4to., and has this remark:

"It is a singular fact, that in this work John Gwynn pointed out
almost all the designs for the improvement of London, which have
been _devised_ by the civil and military architects of the present
day." 
And Mr. Hunt concludes by observing,, that--
"This discovery was made by the _Literary Gazette_."
Will you permit me, through the medium of your useful publication,
to solicit information of the number and date of the _Literary
Gazette_ which recalled public attention to this very remarkable
fact?

§N.
_Coronet._--In Newbold Church, in the county of Warwick, is a
monument to the memory of Thomas Boughton of Lawford, and Elizabeth
his wife, representing him in a suit of armour, with sword and
spurs, _a coronet on his head_, and a bear at his feet, chained and
muzzled. Query.--Can any of your readers give an accurate description
of this coronet?His plans, however, quickly met with the discouragement and downfall
inevitable from the beginning.  At first he tried strategy, and Hal, in
a good-tempered, careless way, merely listened, while easily avoiding
any encounter.

Then Dudley went a step too far.

"I have to be out three evenings this week, so I asked Doris Hayward to
come and keep you company, as I thought you might be dull."

"You asked Doris to come and keep _me_ company!" repeated Hal, quite
taken aback.

"Yes; why not?  She is such a nice girl, and just your age.  I can't
think why you are not greater friends."

"It's pretty apparent," with a little curl of her lips.

"We haven't anything in common: that's all."

"But why haven't you?  You can't possibly know if you never meet.  She
seems such a far more sensible friend for you than Lorraine Vivian,"
with a shade of irritation.

"Probably that is exactly why I don't want her friendship," with a
light laugh.

"But you might try to be reasonable just once in a way.  Try to be
friendly to-morrow evening."

Hal, with her quick, light gracefulness, crossed to him, and playfully
gave him a little shake.

"Dudley, you dear old idiot.  I don't know about being reasonable, but
I can certainly be honest; and it's honest I'm going to be now.  I
think it is almost a slur on Lorraine to mention a little, silly,
dolly-faced, conceited creature like Doris in the same breath; and as
for being friendly to her to-morrow evening, that's impossible, because
I shall not be here.  I'm going to the Denisons, and I don't intend to
postpone it.  You will have to write and tell her I am engaged."

Dudley's mouth quickly assumed the rigidity which denoted he was
greatly displeased, and his voice was frigid as he replied:

"You are very injust to Doris.  You scarcely know her, and yet you
condemn her offhand: the fault you are always finding in me.  As for
any comparison between her and Miss Vivian, it is very certain she
would not sell herself to a man, and then run away from him because
things did not turn out as she wanted them."

Hal turned away, with a slight shrug and a humorous expression as of
helplessness.

"We won't argue, _mon frère_, because, since you always read books
instead of people, you are not very well up in the subject.  To put it
both candidly and vulgarly, I haven't any use for Doris Hayward at all.
 Ethel I admire tremendously, though I don't think she likes me; and
Basil is a saint straight out of heaven, suffering martyrdom for no
conceivable reason, but Doris is like a useless ornamental china
shepherdess, which ought to be put on a hight shelf where it can't get
itself nor any one else into trouble.  I'm really dreadfully afraid if
I had to spend a whole evening alone with her, I should drop her and
break her to relieve my feelings."

"Well, you needn't worry" - moving coldly away.  "I have far too much
respect for Doris to allow her to come here just to be criticised by
you.  I will explain that you are unexpectedly engaged," and he openend
a paper in a manner to close the conversation.

Hal made a little grimace at him behind it, and retired discreetly to
prepare for her daily sojourn in the City.

It happened, however, when, a year later, Lorraine came back to take up
her theatrical career again in England, there was some vague change in
her that made Dudley less severe in his criticisms.  Trouble had not
hardened her, nor softened her, but it had made her a little less sure
of herself, and a little more willing to please.

Hitherto she had taken rather a pleasure in shocking Dudley, under the
impression that it would do him good and open his mind a little.  Now
she had a greater respect for his sterling side, and could smile kindly
at his little foibles and fads.  The result was that Dudley admitted, a
trifle grudgingly, she had changed for the better, and rather looked
forward to the occasional evenings she spent with Hal at their
Bloomsbury apartments.

He also had to admit that success had in no wise spoilt her, that it
probably never would.  The year of absence, it was soon seen, had not
injured her reputation in the least.  She came back to the stage
renewed and invigorated, and with still more of that depth of feeling
and atmosphere of soul wich had so enriched her personations before.

She became, very speedily, without any question, one of the leading
actressess of the day; and the veil of mystery that hung over the
sudden termination of her short married life, if anything, enhanced her
charm to a mystery-loving public.  And all the time, as Dudley could
not but see, she never changed to Hal.

From adulation and adoration, from triumphs that might easily turn any
head she always came quickly back to the little Bloomsbury sitting-room
when she could, to have one of their old gay gossips and merry laughs.
She seemed in some way to find a rest there that she could not get
elsewhere, in the company of people who expected her to live up to a
recognised standard of individuality.

And the change in Lorraine was a change for the better in Hal too, who
began now to tone down a little, and at the same time to strenghten and
deepen in character.

They were, in fact, a pair it was good to see and good to know.  In the
first few years after the break-up of her home Lorraine was at her
handsomest.  Her dark, thick hair had a gloss on it that in some lights
showed like a bronze glow, and she wore it in thick coils round her
small head, free from any exaggerated fashion, and yet with a
distinction all its own.  Her dark eyes once more showed the roguish
lights of her schooldays, and her alluring red mouth twitched
mischievously when she was in a gay mood.

A little below the medium height, she was so perfectly built as to
escape any appearance of shortness, and carried herself so well, she
sometimes appeared almost tall.

Considering what her life had been, she looked strangely young for her
years, seeming to combine most alluringly the knowledge and sympathy of
a woman of thirty-five with the freshness and capacity for enjoyment of
twenty-five.  The irrevocable tie so far had not clashed with any new
affection; her husband remained in America and made no sign; and her
art was all-sufficing.

Hal was built on quite different lines.  Tall, and slender, and well
knit, she moved with the surging grace of the athlete, and looked out
upon the world with a joyfulness and humorous kindliness that won her
friends everywhere.  She was not beautiful in any sense that could be
compared with Lorraine, but she had pretty brown hair, and fine eyes,
and a clear, warm skin that made up for other defects, and helped to
produce a very attractive whole.

Lorraine had taught her how to dress - an art of far deeper
significance than many women trouble to realise; and wherever Hal went,
if she did not create a sensation, at least she carried a dinstinction
and pleasingness that were rarely overlooked.  Her  daily sojourn in
the City, among the bread-winners, had made her large-hearted and
generously tolerant, without hurting in any degree her own innate
womanliness and charm.

She showed in her every gesture and action how it was possible to be of
those who must scramble for buses, and press for trams, and live daily
in the midst of panting, struggling, working, grasping humans, without
losing tone, or gentleness, or a radiant, fearless spritit.

At the office of the newspaper where she filled the post of secretary
and typist, she was a sort of cheerful institution to smooth worried
faces and call up a smile amidst the irritability and frowns.

Blunderers went to her with their troubles, and felt fairly secure if
she would break the news of the blunder or mistake to the irritable and
awe-inspiring chief.  He, in his turn, would be irritable before her,
but never with her; and it was a recognised fact among the staff that
she was almost the only one who could make him laugh.

Thus a few intervening years passed happily enough, briging Lorraine to
her thirty-first birthday and Hal to her twenty-fifth, without any
further upheavals to strike a discordant note across the daily round,
except such inevitable trials as Lorraine continued to meet through her
mother, and Hal through her devotion to a non-comprehending brother.
Only, while they had each other and their work, such difficulties were
not hard to cope with; and life sang a gayer, happier song to them than
she usually sings to the mere pleasure-seekers.

For work in a wide interesting sphere is a priceless boon, and the men
who would condemn women solely to pleasure-seeking and the four walls
of their home are showing the very acme of selfishness, in that they
are endeavouring to keep solely and entirely for themselves one of the
best things life has to give.


CHAPTER VI


It will be remembered, perhaps, that an occasion has already occured
when Hal had cause to congratulate herself upon the possession of a
cousin, named Dick, who acted as an antidote to a brother who sometimes
resembled a great-aunt.

Dick, or to give him his full name, Richard Alastair Bruce, was indeed
her best friend and boon companion next to Lorraine.  He was her
earliest playmate, and likewise her latest.  For many months together
they had been companions in the wildest of wild escapades as children,
at Dick's country home; and now that they were both responsible members
of the community, in the world's greatest city, they were equally
attached.

If Hal was down on her luck, she telephoned Dick to come instantly to
the rescue, and if it was humanly possible he came.  If Dick wanted a
sympathetic or gay companion, either to go out with him or to listen to
his latest inspirations, he telephoned to Hal, and little short of an
urgent, important engagement would delay her.

At the time he become of any importance in this narrative he was
established in a flat in the Cromwell Road, as one of a trio sometimes
known as the Three Graces.  The other two were Harold St. Quintin and
Alymer Hermon.

The appellation was first given to them when they were freshmen at New
College, Oxford; partly because they were inseparable, partly because
they were a particularly good-looking trio, and partly because they all
three came up from Winchester with great cricket reputations.  Within
two years they were all playing for the 'Varsity' and one of them was
made captain.

Three years from the term of their leaving, after each had gone his own
way for a season, they gravitated together again, and finally became
established in the Cromwell Road flat, once more on the old
affectionate terms.

Dick Bruce was following a literary career, of a somewhat ambiguous
nature.  He wrote weird articles for weird papers, under weird
pseudonyms, verses, under a woman's name, for women's papers, usually
of the _Home Dressmaker_ type; occasional lines to advertise some
patent medicine or soap; one or two Salvation Army hymns of a
particularly rousing nature: and sometimes a weighty, brilliant article
for a first-class paper, duly signed in his own name.

Besides all this he visited a publisher's office most days, where he
was supposed to be meditating the acquirement of a partnership.  Hal
was very apt at terse, concise definitions, and she was quite up to her
best form when she described him as "the maddest of a mad clan run
amok."

Harold St. Quintin, or Quin, as every one called him, was idealist,
etherealist, and dreamer.  His original intention had been to enter the
Church, but having gone down into East London to give six months to
slum work, he had remained two years without showing any inclination to
give it up.  Sometimes he lived at the flat, and sometimes he was lost
for a week at a time somewhere east of St. Paul's, where one might as
well have looked for him as for the proverbial needle in a haystack.

Alymer Hermon, after a sojourn on the continent to study languages, was
now established with a barrister, waiting, it must be confessed,
without much concern, for his first brief.

Of the three he was the most striking.  Dick Bruce was only ordinarily
good-looking, with a very white skin, a fine forehead, and an arresting
pair of eyes - eyes that were like an index to a brain that held
volumes of original observations and whimsicalities, and revealed only
just as much or little as the author chose.

Harold St. Quintin was small and rather delicate, with never-failing
cheerfulness on his lips, and eyes that seemed always to have behind
them the recollection of the pitiful scenes among which he voluntarily
moved.

Alymer Hermon was Adonis returned to earth.  He stood six foot five and
a half inches in his socks, and was as perfectly proportioned as a man
may be; with a head and face any sculptor might have been proud to copy
line by line for a statue of masculine beauty.

When he was captain of the Oxford Eleven, people spoke of his beauty
more than his cricket, although the latter was quite sufficiently
striking in itself.  There were others who had sweepstakes on his
height, before the score he would make, or the men he would bowl.

The 'Varsity' was proud of him, as they had never been proud of a
captain before, because he upheld every tradition of manliness and
manhood at its best.  And they only liked him the better that so far
his attitude to his own comeliness was rather that of boredom than
anything else.  Certainly it weighed as nothing in the balance against
the joy of scoring a century and achieving a good average with his
bowling.

He was equally bored with the young girls who gazed at him in
adoration, and the women who petted him, and it was a considerable
source of worry to him that he might appear effeminate, because of his
blue eyes and golden hair, and fresh, clear complexion, when in reality
he was as manly as the plainest of hard-sinewed warriors, though the
indulgence of a slightly aesthetic manner and way of speech, learnt at
het University, increased rather than counteracted the suggestion of
effeminacy.

But, taking all things into consideration, he was singularly unspoilt
and unassuming; and sometimes blended with an old-fashioned, paternal
air a boyishness and power of enjoyment that could not fail to charm.

Whether miraculous or not, the early history of the Sacro Monte is
undoubtedly obscure, and the reader will probably have ere this
perceived that the accounts given by Fassola and Torrotti stand in some
need of reconstruction. The resemblance between Varallo and Jerusalem
is too far fetched to have had any bona fide effect upon a man of
travel and of affairs, such as Caimi certainly was; it is hardly
greater than the famous one between Monmouth and Macedon; there is,
indeed, a river--not to say two--at Varallo, and there is a river
also only twenty-five miles off Jerusalem; doubtless at one time
or another there have been crucifixions in both, but some other
reason must be sought for the establishment of a great spiritual
stronghold at the foot of the Alps, than a mere desire to find the
place which should most remind its founder of the Holy City.

Why this great effort in a remote and then almost inaccessible province
of the Church, far from any of the religious centres towards which one
would have expected it to gravitate?

The answer suggests itself as readily as the question; namely, that it
was an attempt to stem the torrent of reformed doctrines already
surging over many an Alpine pass, and threatening a moral invasion
as fatal to the spiritual power of Rome as earlier physical invasions
of Northmen had been to her material power.

Those who see the Italian sub-alpine valleys of to-day as devoted to
the Church of Rome are apt to forget how nearly they fell away
from her in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and what
efforts, both by way of punishment and allurement, she was compelled
to make before she could retain them in her grasp.

In most of them the ferment caused by the introduction of the
reformed doctrines was in the end stamped out; but in some, as in
the Valle di Poschiavo, and the Val Bregaglia, Protestantism is
still either the predominant creed or not uncommon.

I do not mention the Vaudois valleys of Piedmont, for I am told these
were Protestant before either Huss or Luther preached.

The Valsesians had ere now given proof of a tendency towards heresy,
but they were a people whom it was worth while making every effort
to retain.

They have ever been, as we have seen it said already, a vigorous, sturdy,
independent race, imbued, in virtue perhaps of their mixed descent,
with a large share of the good points both of Southern and Northern
nations.

They are Italians; but Italians of the most robust and Roman type, combining
in a remarkable degree Southern grace and versatility with Northern
enterprise and power of endurance.

It is no great stretch of imagination to suppose that Bernardino Caimi
was alive to dangers that were sufficiently obvious, and that he
began with the Val Sesia, partly as of all the sub-alpine valleys
the one most imbued with German blood--the one in which to this day
the German language has lingered longest, and in which, therefore,
ideas derived from Germany would most easily be established--and
partly because of the quasi-independence of the Val Sesia, and of
its lying out of the path of those wars from which the plains of
Lombardy have been rarely long exempt.

It may be noted that the movement set on foot by Caimi extended
afterwards to other places, always, with the exception of Crea,
on the last slopes of the Alps before the plains of Lombardy and
Piedmont begin. Varese, Locarno, Orta, Varallo, Oropa, Graglia, St.

Ignazio, not to mention St. Giovanni di Andorno, have all of them
something of the spiritual frontier fortress about them, and, I
imagine, are all more or less directly indebted to the reformation
for their inception.

Confining our attention to Varallo, the history of the Sacro Monte
divides itself into two main periods; the first, from the foundation
to the visit of S. Carlo Borromeo in 1678; the second, from the
visit of S.

Carlo to the present day. The first of these periods begins with 1486,
in which year the present Sacro Monte was no doubt formally
contemplated, if not actually commenced.

That it was contemplated is shown by the inscription on Caimi's grave
already given, and also by the first of the two deeds given in
Signor Galloni's notes, from which it appears {2} that under the
brief of December 21, 1486, Caimi had powers to take over the land
now covered by the chapels, EVEN THOUGH HE SHOULD BE ABSENT--it
being evidently intended that the land should be conveyed at once,
and before he could return from Jerusalem, for which place he started
in 1487.

Moreover, there remains one small chapel with frescoes that can hardly
be later than 1485-1490.

This is now numbered 45, and is supposed by many to be older even than
Caimi's first visit. It may be so, but there is nothing to show that
it actually was. I have seen a date scratched on it which it is said
is 1437, but the four is really a five, which in old writing is
often taken for a four, and the frescoes, which in their own way
are of considerable merit, would be most naturally assigned to about
the date 1485-1490.

I do not think there can be a doubt that we have in this chapel the
earliest existing building on the Sacro Monte, but find it impossible
to form any opinion as to whether it was in existence before
Bernardino Caimi's time, or no.

In the second of the two deeds given by Signor Galloni (p. 85), the
following passage occurs:-

"Et similiter fecerunt ipsi Sindici, et Procuratores, ut supra
introducendo ipsum Patrem Vicarium ut supra in Eremitorium sancti
Sepulchri existent. in loco ubi dicebatur super pariete, aperiendo
eidem ostia dicti Eremitorij, et dando eidem claues Ostiorum dicti
eremitorij, et eum deambulari faciendo in eo, et similiter in Hortis
dicti Eremitorij, dando eidem in gremium ut supra de terris, herbis,
et frondibus, et lapidibus existen. in locis praedictis, et similiter
in Capella existente subtus crucem, et in Capellam Ascensionis
AEdificatam super Monte praedicto.

Qui locus est de membris dicti Monasterii suprascripti."

Neither Signor Galloni, who pointed out this passage to me, nor I,
though we have more than once discussed the matter on the ground
itself, can arrive at any conclusion as to what was intended by
"the chapel now in existence under the cross," nor yet what chapel
is intended by "the chapel of the Ascension on the said mountain."

It is probable that there was an early chapel of the Ascension, and
the wooden figure of Christ on the fountain in the piazza before
the church was very likely taken from it, but there is no evidence
to show where it stood.

Signor Arienta tells me that the chapel now occupied by the Temptation
 in the Wilderness was formerly a chapel of the Ascension.

He told me to go round to the back of this chapel, and I should find
it was earlier than appeared from the front.

I did so, and saw it had formerly fronted the other way to what it
does now, but among the many dates scrawled on it could find none earlier
than 1506, and it is not likely to have been built thirteen years
before it got scrawled on.

Some hold the chapels referred to in the deed above quoted from
to have included the present Annunciation, Salutation, and sleeping
St.

Joseph block--or part of it. Others hold them to have referred
to the chapels now filled by the Pieta and the Entombment (Nos. 40
and 41); but it should not be forgotten that by 1493 the chapels
of S.

Francis and the Holy Sepulchre were already in existence, though
no mention is made of them; and there may have been other chapels also
already built of which no mention is made.

Thus immediately outside the St.

Francis chapel and towards the door leading to the Holy Sepulchre,
there is a small recess in which is placed an urn of iron that
contains the head of Bernardino Caimi with a Latin inscription; and
hard by there is another inscription which runs as follows:-
"Magnificus D.

Milanus Scarrogninus hoc Sepulcrum cum fabrica sibi contigua Christo
posuit die septimo Octobris MCCCCLXXXXI. R. P.
Frater Bernardinus de Mediolano Ordinis Minorum de Observ. sacra
hujus montis excogitavit loca, ut hic Hierusalem videat qui peragrare
nequit."

We may say with some confidence that the present chapel No. 45,
those numbered 40 and 41, the block containing the St.

Francis and Holy Sepulchre chapels, and probably the Presepio, Adoration
of the Shepherds, and Circumcision chapels--though it may be doubted
whether these last contained the figures that they now do--were in
existence before the year 1500.

Part if not all of the block containing the Sta.

Casa di Loreto, in which the Annunciation is now found, is also
probably earlier than 1500, as also an early Agony in the Garden
now long destroyed, but of which we are told that the figures were
originally made of wood.

Over and above these there was a Cena, Capture, Flagellation, and an
Ascension chapel, all of which contained wooden figures, and cannot be
dated later than the three or four earliest years of the sixteenth
century. No wooden figure is to be dated later than this, for when once
an oven for baking clay had been made (and this must have been
done soon after Gaudenzio took the works on the Sacro Monte in hand)
the use of wood was discarded never to be resumed.

According to both Fassola and Torrotti, the first chapel erected on
the Sacro Monte was that of S.

Francesco, with its adjacent reproduction of the Holy Sepulchre. According
to Bordiga the first was the entombment, containing nine figures of wood,
or, as the earlier writers say, eight. Bordiga probably means that the
Entombment was the earliest chapel with figures in it, and the
other writers that the St. Francis chapel was the first in which
mass was said.

These last speak very highly of the wooden figures in the Entombment
chapel, and so more guardedly does Bordiga.

I will return to them when I come to the present group of nine by Luigi
Marchesi, a sculptor of Saltrio, which were substituted for the old
ones in 1826.
The early writers say that there was no fresco background to this chapel,
and this suggests that the attempt to combine sculpture and painting
was not part of the initial scheme, though soon engrafted on to it,
inasmuch as this is the only chapel about which I find it expressly
stated by early writers that it was without a fresco background
("senza pittura alcuna"). {3} Though there was no fresco background,
Bordiga says there was a fresco painted, doubtless done very early
in his career, by Gaudenzio Ferrari, outside the chapel just above
the iron grating through which the visitor must look.

Probably the original scheme was to have sculptured figures inside the
chapels, and frescoes outside; by an easy modification these last
were transferred from the outside to the inside, and so designed
as to form an integral part of the composition: the daring scheme
of combining the utmost resources of both painting and sculpture
in a single work was thus gradually evolved rather than arrived at
per saltum.

Assuming, however, the currently received date of 1503 or 1504 as correct
for Gaudenzio's frescoes in the present Pieta chapel, the conception
as carried out in the greater number of the existing chapels had
then attained the shape from which no subsequent departure was made.

Returning to Gaudenzio's fresco outside the S. Francesco chapel, Bordiga
says that Caccia gave the following lines on this work:-

"Sotto un vicino portico di fuore Portato a sepelir e di pittura Un
Cristo; che non mai Zeuxi pittore Di questo finse piu bella figura, Che
un San Francesco possa pareggiare, Pinto piu inanzi sopra d'un
altare."

The reader will note that the fresco is here expressly stated to be
"di fuore" or outside and not inside the chapel.

Both Fassola and Torrotti place this fresco on the outside wall of the
chapel of St. Francis, but Bordiga is probably right in saying it
was on the Entombment chapel. No trace of it remains, nor yet of the
other works by Gaudenzio, which all three writers agree were in the S.
Francesco chapel, though they must all have been some few years later
than the chapel itself.

These consisted of portraits of Milano Scarrognini with Father Beato
Candido Ranzo Bernardino Caimi upon the gospel, or right, side of
the altar, and of Scarrognini's wife and son with Bernardino Caimi,
on the epistle side.

According to Bordiga, Gaudenzio also painted a St. Anthony of Padua,
and a St.
Helena, one on either side the grating. Inside the chapel over the altar
was a painting of St. Francis receiving the stigmata, also by Gaudenzio.
This is the only one of his works in or about the S.

Francesco chapel which still exists; it is now in the pinacoteca of the
Museum at Varallo, but is not, so far as I could judge of it, one of
his best pictures.

The other works were in a decayed condition in 1703, when they
were removed, and the chapel was redecorated by Francesco Leva, a painter
of Milan.

The Crucifixion chapel of Gaudenzio Ferrari was begun and finished
between 1520 and 1530. 1 have found three excellently written dates
of 1529 scrawled upon the fresco background.

One of them, "1529 Die 26 Octobre Johannes Antoninus," is especially
clear, and the other two leave no doubt what year was intended.

I have found no earlier date, but should not be surprised if further
search were more successful. I may say in passing that it seemed to
me as though some parts of the scar made by the inscription had been
filled with paint, while others had certainly not--as though the work
had been in parts retouched, not so very long ago.

I think this is so, but two or three to whom I showed what I took to
be the new colour were not convinced, so I must leave others to decide
the point.

The Magi chapel must be assigned to some date between the years 1530
and 1539--I should say probably to about 1538, but I will return to
this later on. Torrotti says that some of the figures on the Christ
taken for the last time before Pilate (chapel No. 32) are by Gaudenzio,
as also some paintings that were preserved when the Palazzo di
Pilato was built, but I can see no sign of either one or the other
now; nevertheless it is likely enough that several figures-
-transformed as we shall presently see that d'Enrico or his assistants
knew very well how to transform them--are doing duty in the Caiaphas,
Herod, Pilate, and Ecce Homo chapels.

So cunningly did the workmen of that time disguise a figure when they
wanted to alter its character and action that it would be no easy
matter to find out exactly what was done; if they could turn an
Eve, as they did, into a very passable Roman soldier assisting at
the capture of Christ, they could make anything out of anything.

A figure was a figure, and was not to be thrown away lightly.

Soon after the completion of the Magi chapel the work flagged in
consequence of the wars then devastating the provinces of North
Italy; nevertheless by the middle of the sixteenth century we learn
from Torrotti that some nineteen chapels had been completed.

It is idle to spend much time in guessing which these chapels were,
when Caccia's work, published in 1565, is sure to be found some
day and will settle the matter authoritatively, but the reader will
not be far wrong if he sees the Sacro Monte by the year 1550 as
consisting of the following chapels: Adam and Eve, Annunciation,
Salutation (?)

, Magi, Adoration of the Infant Jesus by the Shepherds, Adoration
by Joseph and Mary, Circumcision, (but not the present figures nor
fresco background), Last Supper, Agony in the Garden, Capture,
Flagellation, Crowning with thorns (?)

, Christ taken for the last time before Pilate, the Original journey to
Calvary, Fainting Madonna, Crucifixion, Entombment, Ascension, and the
old church of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary now removed.

There were probably one or two others, but there cannot have been
many.

In the 1586 edition of Caccia, a MS. copy of which I have before me,
the chapels are given as follows: Adam and Eve, Annunciation, and Santa
Casa di Loreto, Visit of Mary to Elizabeth, Magi, Joseph and Mary
worshipping the Infant Christ, and the Adoration of Shepherds, {4}
Circumcision, Joseph warned to fly, the chapel (but not the figures)
of the Massacre of the Innocents, Flight into Egypt Baptism,
Temptation in the Wilderness, Woman of Samaria, the chapel (but not
the figures) of the Healing of the Paralytic, and the Raising of
the Widow's son at Nain, the Raising of Lazarus, Entry of Christ
into Jerusalem, the Last Supper, Agony in the Garden, Capture,
Flagellation, Crowning with Thorns, Christ carrying His cross to
Calvary (doubtless Tabachetti's chapel), the Fainting of the Virgin,
the earlier Journey to Calvary by Gaudenzio (now dispersed or
destroyed), Crucifixion, Pieta, Holy Sepulchre, Appearance to Mary
Magdalene (now no longer existing).

I should say, however, that I find it impossible to reconcile the two
accounts of the journeys to Calvary, given in the prose introduction
to this work, and in the poetical description that follows it, or
rather to understand the topography of the poetical version at all,
for the prose account is plain enough.

I shall place a MS. copy of the 1586 edition of Caccia's book in the
British Museum, before this present volume is published, and will leave
other students of Valsesian history to be more fortunate if they
can.

Poetical descriptions are so far better than prose, inasmuch as there is
generally less of them in a page, but on the whole prose has the
advantage.

It would be interesting to see the 1565 and 1576 editions of Caccia,
and note the changes and additions that can be found in them.

The differences between the 1586 and 1590 editions (dated 1587 and
1591- the preface to the second being dated September 25, 1589), are
enough to throw considerable additional light upon the history of the
place, and if, as I believe likely, we find no mention of Tabachetti's
Calvary chapel in the edition of 1576, nor of his other chapels, we
should be able to date his arrival at Varallo within a very few
years, and settle a question which, until these two editions of
Caccia are found, appears insoluble.

I must be myself content with pointing out these libri desiderati to
the future historian.

Some say that the work on the Sacro Monte was almost discontinued
between the years 1540 and 1580.

I cannot, however, find that this was so, though it appears to have
somewhat flagged. I cannot tell whether Tabachetti came to Varallo
before S. Carlo or after him. If before, then a good deal of the second
impetus may be due to the sculptor rather than to the saint; if after,
and as a consequence of S.

Carlo's visit, then indeed S. Carlo must be considered as the second
founder of the place; but whatever view is taken about this, S.
Carlo's visit in 1578 is convenient as marking a new departure in
the history of the Sacro Monte, and he may be fairly called its
second founder.

Giussano gives the following account of his first visit, which makes
us better understand the austere expression that reigns on S.

Carlo's face, as we see it represented in his portraits:-
"It was two o'clock in the day before St.

Charles arrived at this place, and he had not broken his fast, but
before taking anything he visited the different chapels for
meditation, of which Father Adorno gave him the points.

As evening drew on, he withdrew to take his refection of bread and
water, and then returned again to the chapels till after midnight
though the weather was very cold" [end of October or beginning of
November].

"He then took two hours' rest on a chair, and at five o'clock in
the morning resumed his devotions; then, after having said his Mass,
he again allowed himself a small portion of bread and water, and
continued his journey to Milan, renewed in fervour of spirit, and
with a firm determination to begin again to serve God with greater
energy than ever." {5}
Surely one may add "according to his lights" after the words "to
serve God."

The second visit of St. Charles to Varallo, a few days before his death,
is even more painful reading, and the reader may be referred for
an account of it to chapter xi. of the second volume of the work
last quoted from.

He had a cell in the cloister, where he slept on a wooden bed, which is
still shown and venerated, and used to spend hours in contemplating
the various sacred mysteries, but most especially the Agony in the
Garden, near which a little shelter was made for him, and in which
he was praying when his impending death was announced to him by an
angel.

But this chapel, which was near the present Transfiguration Chapel,
was destroyed and rebuilt on its present site after his death, as
also the Cena Chapel, which originally contained frescoes by
Bernardino Lanini.

"Tell me who you happen to be?"  Lorraine leant back against her
cushions, with her slow, easy grace, asking the question with a
lightness that robbed it of all pointedness or snobbery.

He seemed amused, for he smiled as he answered frankly:

"I happen to be Alymer Hadstock Hermon, one fo _the_ Hermons all right,
but not the drawing-room end, so to speak; at the same time tinged with
her family shadiness  - 'blue' of course I mean - though no doubt it
applies in other ways as well.  Does that satisfy your curiosity, or do
you want to know more?"

She loved looking at him, particularly with that humorous little smile
on his lips, so she said:

"Not half.  I want to know all the rest."

"Very well.  It's quite an open book.  I was born twenty-four years
ago.  I am an only child, and, as usula, the apple of my mother's eye
and the terror of my father's pocket.  He, my father, is not much else
just now except a recluse.  He was recently a member of parliament, a
Liberal member, and, God knows, that's little enough.  I believe he
even climbed in by a Chinese pigtail.

"My grandfather was a Judge in the Divorce Court, which doesn't somehow
sound quite respectable, and my great-grandfather was a writer of law
books, for which, personally, I think he ought to have been hanged.  I
can't go any farther back; at any rate I don't want to, because I'm
certain it's all so correct and dull there isn't even a family
skeleton."

"Is it the women or the men of the family that are beautiful?"

"Oh, both," with humorous eagerness.  "Skeletons and ghosts we sought,
and clamoured for, but ugliness, never."

"Well, it's a pity you were not a woman.  Looks are wasted in a man.
Give a man a ready tongue and a taking manner, and he can usually get
what he wants, if he's as ugly as a frog.  With you, on the other hand,
things will come too easily.  You will miss all the fun of the chase.
On my soul I'm sorry for you."

"The briefs don't come anyway, nor the 'oof': that's all I can see to
be sorry for."

"You don't want them badly enough, that's all.  If you want the one,
you'll make love to an influential woman who can get them, and if you
want the other, you'll marry an heiress."

"I say, you're giving me rather a rotten character, aren't you?"

He faced  her suddenly, and a new expression dawned in his eyes, as if
he were only just awakening to the fact that she was beautiful.

"Do you really think I'm such a rotter as all that?"

She glanced away, lowering her eyelids, so that her long lashes swept
the warm olive cheeks, and with a little callous shrug answered:

"Why should you be a rotter for doing what all the rest of the world
does?  Four-fifths of mankind would give anything for your chances."

"But you just said you were sorry for me?"

"So I am.  So I should be for the four-fifths of mankind, if they got
all they wanted just for the asking."

He smiled with a sudden, charming whimsicality.

"I don't feel much in need of sympathy, you know.  It's a ripping old
world, as long as you can indulge a few mild fancies, and be left
alone."

"Mild fancies!"

She turned on him suddenly.

"What have you to do with mild fancies?  Why, you can have the world at
your feet with a little exertion.  Haven't you any ambition?  Don't you
even want to plead in the greatest law court in the world as one of the
first barristers in Europe?"

"Not particularly.  Why should I?  It would be no end of a fag.  I'd
far rather be left alone."

"You...  you... sluggard,' breaking into a laugh.  "If I were Fate, I'd
just take you by the shoulders and shake you till you woke up.  Then
I'd go on shaking to keep you awake.  You shouldn't be wasted on mere
nonentity if I held the threads."

But his blue eyes only smiled whimsically back at her.

"I'm jolly glad you haven't a say in the matter.  Why, I should have to
give up cricket, and take to working!  You're as bad as Quin with his
slumming, and Dick with his rotten verses."

"You don't know yet that I haven't a say in the matter," she remarked
daringly.  "Have a cigarette.  I'm awfully sorry I didn't remember
sooner."

"Indeed, you ought to be," was the gay rejoinder.  "I've been just
dying for the moment when you would remember."

An electric bell rang out as they were lighting their cigarettes, and a
moment later Hal danced into the room with shining eyes and glowing
cheeks.  A few paces from the door she stopped suddenly.

"Hullo, Baby," she said, addressing Hermon, "where have you sprung
from?"

"I found it wandering alone in Sloane Street," Lorraine remarked, "and
now we've been teaing together."

Alymer did not look any too pleased at Hal's frank appellation, but
former remonstrance had only been met with derision, and he knew he had
no choice but to submit with a good grace.

"I might ask the same question, Lady-Clerk," he replied.

"Don't call me a lady-clerk - I hate the term.  I'm a typist,
secretary, bachelor-girl, city-worker, anything you like, not a
lady-clerk - bah!..."

"Then don't call me Baby."

Hal's face broke into the most attractive of smiles.

"I can't help it.  Everything about you, your size, your face, your
ways just clamour to be called 'Baby'.  Of course if you'd rather be
Apollo - "

"Good Lord, no: is that the only alternative?"

"I'm afraid so; you needn't go if you don't want to," as he prepared to
depart.  "We are not going to talk grown-up secrets."

"If I were Mr. Hermon, I'd give you one good shaking, Hal," put
Lorraine.  "I'm sure you deserve it."

"Not a bit.  Nothing could do him more good than regular interviews
with me, to undo all the harm he has received in between from silly,
idiotic women, who make him think he is something out of the ordinary.
Isn't that so, Baby?  Aren't you labouring under the delusion that
you're a remarkable fine specimen of humanity?  And all the time,
Heaven knows, you've about as much  honest purpose and brains as a big
over-grown school-boy."

"I hope you are not intending to imply he is more richly endowed with
dishonest purpose?" said Lorraine.

"Oh, I wouldn't mind that," Hal declared, "so long as it was energy and
purpose of some kind."

"Even to giving you that good shaking," he asked, coming forward a step
menacingly.

"Not in here," in alarm; "you and I scrapping in Lorraine's
drawing-room would cost a hundred pounds or so in valuables.  I'll cry
'pax'," as he still advanced.  "Of course you are rather a fine boy
really, I was only pulling your leg."

Hermon subsided with a laugh, and Hal proceeded to explain that she had
come on business, having been asked by the editor of one of their small
magazines to write up an interview with the actress for him.

"I shall say I found you having a cosy tête-à-tête with a young barrister of
many inches and little brains," she laughed.  "Come, Lorraine, spout
away.  What is your favourite hors d'oeuvre?  Did you feel like a
boiled owl at your first appearance?  And which horse do you back for
next year's Derby?"

She started scribbling, to the amusement of the other two, carrying on
a desultory conversation meanwhile.

"This isn't anything to do with my department, but I like Mr. Hadley,
and he was keen about it, and offered me three guineas, so I said I'do
do it...  Are your eyes yellow or green?  For the life of me, I don't
know.  Which would you rather I called them? ...  I've got to go to
Marlboro' House to-morrow to get up a short and vivid account of a
garden party, because Miss Alton, who generally does it, is down with
'flu'.  Were you a prodigal as a kid? no; I mean a prodigy...  Fancy me
at Marlboro' House!  Awful thought, isn't it?  How they dare?

"What is your favourite pastime?  Shall I put down shooting?  I know
you don't know one end of a gun from the other, but it doesn't matter;
and it reads rather well - something unique about it in an actress."

"Why not put angling, and give some of my dear enemies a chance to ask
what for?"

"Or jam-making," suggested Alymer, "and redeem the stage in the eyes of
the British matron."

"Oh, don't talk... how can I write?  Shall I bring myself in, and dig
up the dear old chestnut of David and Jonathan?...  or shall I describe
Dudley's disapproval melting into undisguised worship," she rippled
with laughter as she scribbled on.  "Oh dear, think if Dudley were to
find it, and read it, because he hasn't even discovered yet that he has
ceased to disapprove.

"Who's your favourite poet?  I might say Dick Bruce; he would write a
book of poems at once.  And Quin might be your hero in real life.  Do
you know where you were born?  Up in the Himalayas sounds nice and
airy, and it might as well have been there as anywhere."

"If you want anymore you must get it while I eat my dinner," said
Lorraine, rising.  "I have to try and be at the theatre at seven just
now.  You may as well both dine with me, and you can come to my
dressing-room afterwards if you like, Hal."

"No, thank you"; and Hal pulled a wry face.  "I've seen quite enough of
the wings, and the green-room, and all the rest of it.  You might take
Baby, just to show him the real thing, and put him off it once for all."

She turned to Hermon.

"Have you ever been behind the scenes?  I used to go sometimes, just
for the fun of it, while it was a novelty; but it quite cured me of any
possible taste of the stage.  Most of the performers were so nervous
they could hardly speak, their teeth just chattered with cold and
fright mingled, and the gloom of it was like a vault.  And then all the
gaping, staring faces in rows, looking out of the darkness.  You can't
think how idiotic people look seen like that.  It always suggested to
me that both stage and stalls were like children playing at being
lunatics."

"That's only your dreadfully prosaic, unromantic mind, Hal.  You just
like to write newspaper articles, and type letters, and smother your
imagination under dry-and-dust facts."

"Smother my imagination," echoed Hal, with a laugh.  "Why, it would
take the imaginations of fifty ordinary people to concoct some of the
paragraphs we fix up during the week.  My imagination is a positive
goldmine at the office, at least it would be if they dare print all
that I suggest."

"You should run a paper yourself," suggested Hermon; "a few libel
actions would made it pay like anything."

"Ah, you haven't seen Dudley," with a little grimace.  "Dudley would
have a fit and die before the first action had had time to reach its
interesting stage.  I'd take you home to see him now, but he happens to
have gone up to Holloway to dinner."

"I'm dinning out myself, so I must fly."  He turned to Lorraine, with a
gay smile.  "I say, may I come and dine with you some other time?"

"Come to the Carlton on Sunday, will you?"

Lorraine hardly knew why she made the sudden decision; she only knew
perfectly well she would have to break another engagement to keep it,
and that she was foolishly gland when he accepted.

"It's all right; you needn't ask me," volunteered Hal, as her friend
glanced at her.  "I'm going motoring with Dick, and I shall insist upon
staying out until ten or eleven.  I always try and fill my Sundays full
of fresh air.  "Where are you going to-night, Baby?" she added, with a
charmingly impudent smile.

"The Albert Hall, with Lady Selon"; and a twinkle shone in his eyes.

"Goodness gracious!  What in the world are you going to the Albert Hall
for? and who is Lady Selon?"

"She is Soccer Selon's sister-in-law, and she asked me to take her to a
concert.  Is there anything else you would like to know?"

"Her age?" archly.

"Somewhere about thirty-five, I should imagine."

"Oh! your grandmother, or thereabouts.  Well, skip along.  Tell Dick to
call for me early on Sunday."

When he had said good-bye to Lorraine and departed, Hal held up her
hand, hanging in a limp fashion.

"I wish you'd teach him to shake hands, Lorry.  It feels like shaking a
blind cord and tassel.  Are you going to mother him?  What an odd idea
for you to bother with a boy!  You surely don't mean to tell me he
interests you?"

"I like to look at him.  He's such a splendid young animal.  I feel -
oh, I don't know what I feel."

"Lots of London policemen are splendid young animals, but you don't
want tête-à-tête teas with them if they are."

"You absurd child!  Is there any reason why I shouldn't have tea with
Mr. Hermon, if it amuses me?"

"None specially; but if it's just a splendid young animal to look at,
you want, I daresay it would be safer to import a polar bear from the
Zoo."

Lorraine felt a spot of colour burn in het cheeks, but she only laughed
the subject aside, and alluded to it no more before they parted at the
theatre door.

Only at a late supper-party that night she was quieter than was her
wont; and, contrary to her habit, one of the first to leave.  A
well-known rising politician, who had been paying her much attention of
late, prepared, as usual, to escort her home.  She wished he would have
stayed behind, but had no sufficient reason for refusing his company.
He taxed her with silence as they spun westwards, and she pleaded a
headache, wondering a little why all he said, and looked, and did,
somehow seemed banal and irritating to-night.

He was so sure of himself, so fashionably blasé, so carelessly clever, so
daringly frank, with all the finished air of the modern smart man,
basking callously in the assured fact of his own brilliance and
superiority.  She knew that most women would envy her the attentions of
such a one, and that his interest was undoubtedly a great compliment,
as such compliments go; but to-night she found herself remembering all
the other women who had reigned before her, all those who would
presently succeed her, and she was conscious of an impatient disgust of
all the shallowness and insincerety of the fashinable, successful man.

"May I come in?" he asked, when they reached the flat, looking rather
as if he were conferring a favour than soliciting one.

"No; it is too late.  Good-night."

"Too late!... " he laughed a little, and Lorraine felt her temper
rising.  "It is not exceptionally late, a little earlier than usual in
fact.  Why mayn't I come in?"

"Because I don't want you," she said coldly, and she saw him bite his
lip in swift vexation.

"I shall certainly not press you," he retorted, and turned away.

At the window of her drawing-room Lorraine lingered a few moments,
gazin with a half-longing expression at the gleam of the lights on the
dark flowing river.  What was it that gave her that strange sense of
heartache to-night?  Why had her usual companions bored and irritated
her?  Why did Alymer Hermon's fine, boyish, refreshing face come so
often to her mind?

She was certainly not in love with him.  The mere idea was ridiculous,
but it was equally certain that something about him had given rise to
this vague unrest and longing.  Was it perhaps that he called to her
mind the youth she had never known, the young splendid, whole-hearted
years, when it was so easy to believe and hope and enjoy that which
life had never given her time for?

True, the world was at her feet now, just as much as it would ever be
at his, but with what a difference?  For her, with the work and stain
of the knowledge of much evil, and little good.  For him, at present,
with aal the glorious freshness of the morning.

She glanced back into the dim room, and among the shadows she saw him
standing there again, towering up upon her hearthrug, before her
hearth, with that youthful, frank assurance that was so attractive.  Of
a truth he was unspoilt yet, unspoilt and splendid as the dawn of the
morning - but for how long?

What would they make of him presently, the women of the world, who must
needs worship such a man, and strew their charms before him.  How was
he to keep his freshness, when temptation hemmed him in on every side?

She felt a sudden yearning as of hungry mother-love towards him.  If he
had been her son, her very own son, how she would have fought the whole
world to help him keep his armour bright, and his colours flying high.

And instead?...

The wave of hungry mother-love was followed by one as of swift and
angry protest.  Who had ever cared whether she kept her armour bright
and her colours flying high?  Had not life itself mocked at her early
aspirations, and trampled jeeringly on her untutored, unformed high
desires?  What chance had she ever had, long as she might, to keep the
morning freshness?

Well, what of it?  She had sought and striven for fame, and fame had
come; she was a poor creature if she could not look life in the face
now, and laugh above her wounds.

And in the meantime perhaps she could help him fight some of those
other women still; the women who would drag him down for their own
satisfaction, and care nothing for the hurt to him.

Anyhow, she would try to be good pal to him, and not a temptress.  For
once she would fight for some one else's hand instead of her own, and
gain what satisfaction she could in feeling herself a true friend.


CHAPTER VIII


About the time that the three in the Chelsea flat were leave-taking, a
stream of women-clerks in the long passages of the General Post Office
proclaimed that pressure of work had again meant "overtime" to these
energetic City-workers.

In consequence, there was a lack of elasticity in the many passing
feet, and the suggestion of a tired silence in the cloak-room; for
though the girls hastened to get away from the dreary monotony of the
huge building, they were, many of them, too tired to depart as joyfully
as was their wont.

Yet most of them, behind the tiredness, looked out upon the world with
clear, capable eyes, and strong, self-reliant faces, that spoke well
for the spirit of their set.  Up there in the big office-rooms, year in
year out, these refined, well-educated women kept ledgers and accounts
and did the general office work of the Civil Service with a precision
and neatness and correctness equal to the work of any men, and
invariably to the astonishment of any interested visitor who was
permitted to inquire into the system.

Yet the majority of their salaries ranged from £90 a year to £210, and they
were obliged to pas an examination of no mean stamp to attain a post.
Small wonder that many of them, having to help support others as well
as keep themselves, had the delicate, listless, anaemic appearance of
underfed women badly in need of fresh air, good food, and wholesome
exercise.

The policy of Great Britain towards her women workers is surely one of
the greatest contradictions of our enlightened age.  Even putting aside
the vexed question of suffragism, how little has she ever done to try
and cope with the needs of working womanhood?

In som Government departments, as, for instance, the Army Clothing
Department, it is a known fact that the women are actually sweated; and
that in the higher branches, employing gentlewomen, they pay them the
lowest possible wage, not because the work is ill-done, but because,
owing to present conditions, plenty of gentlewomen are found to accept
the offer.

Many of these gentlewomen lose their health in their struggle to obtain
good food, decent lodging, and a neat appearance on  Government
salaries, knowing full well that the moment they fall out of the ranks
numbers will be waiting to fill their places.

And in the meantime enlightened authors and politicians write articles,
and make speeches, holding forth upon the charm and beauty of the Home
Woman, and drawing unflattering comparisons between her and the worker.

Comfortable elderly gentlemen, who have had successful careers and can
now afford to dine unwisely every night, and keep their daughters in
well-dressed indolence, self-satisfied, self-aggrandising,
self-advertising young politicians, who, having obtained an attentive
public, delight to cant about the rights of the citizen and the good of
the Empire, clever, intuitive, charming novelists, who apparently
possess an unaccountable vein of dense non-comprehension on some points
- all harp upon this theme of the Home Woman, and the Home Sphere, and
the infinite superiority, in their own lordly eyes, of the gentle,
domesticated scion of the family hearth.

As if one-fourth of the women wage-earners, gentle or otherwise, in
England to-day had any choice in the matter whatever.  The rapidity
with which a vacant place in the ranks is filled and the numbers
waiting for it is surely sufficient proof of that; to say nothing of
the pitiful conditions under which many, gentle and otherwise, cling to
their posts long after a merciful fate should have given them the
opportunity to save the remnants of their shattered health amidst
country breezes.

It is useless to cry out to the woman that work and competition with
men is unbecoming to her.  She _must_ work, and she _must_ compete, and
seeing this, it is surely time the British Government accepted the fact
magnanimously, and took more definite steps to assure her welfare.

If it can only be done through woman's suffrage, then woman's suffrage
must surely come, because, whether British legislators care for the
good of women or not, nature does care, and as the race moves forward
the working woman will have to be protected.

It has been seen over and over again that no band of politicians, nor
powerful men, nor tape-bound State can long defy any advancing good for
the needs of the whole.

Wheter women work or not, they are the mothers of the future; and
because this fact is greater than the sum of all other facts brought
forward by the narrowness and short- sightedness of men, we may safely
believe that, since they _must_ work, nature will see to it that they
work under the most favourable conditions, no matter what rich men have
to go the poorer for it.

Pity is that the hour is so delayed; that narrowness, and selfishness,
and self-aggrandisement still flourish, to the eternal cost of those of
England's mothers who bring weaklings into the world, through the hard
conditions of their enforced labour.

The _true patriot_ of to-day will agitate not only for the highest
possible efficiency in the Navy and Army; but, with no less resolve and
sincerety, for the best possible conditions obtainable for all
women-workers, that the Empire may not later sink suddenly to decay, in
spite of her defences, through the impoverished, feeble, sickly
off-spring who are all the men she has left.

The _true patriot_ will accept the ever-strengthening fact, however
unpalatable, that the development and emancipation of womanhood has
brought women to the front as workers, _to stay_; and he will perceive
that therefore it is incumbent upon the men to endeavour to find that
happy mean, where they can work together to the advantage of both, and
to the stability and greatness of a beloved country.

Only now the women-workers toil bravely on, heartening each other with
jests under conditions in which it is extremely likely men would merely
cavil and sulk and fill the air with their complainings; dressing
themselves daintily through personal effort in spite of meagre purses;
throwing themselves with a splendid joyousness into their few precious
days of freedom; banding themselves together often and often to wring
occasional hours of gaiety from the months of toil; keeping brave eyes
to the front and brave hearts to the task, while they wait steadfastly
for the day when their worth shall be appreciated and their claims
recognised.

Hastening to the office in the morning, or hastening home (probably to
cook their own dinner) at night, they read those clever, carefully
worded articles and speeches by the men of power and weight, harping
upon the charm and beauty and superiority of the Home Woman; and they
laugh across to each other with a frank, rather pitying, rather
irritated laughter, at the extraordinary dull-wittedness of some
brilliant brains.

They wonder gaily how these enlightened, clever gentlemen would like it
if they all became sweet Home women in the workhouses, cultivating
elegant gardens, and floating round in flowing gowns at their expense.

The men call them "new women" with derision, or mannish, or unsexed;
but those who have been among them, and known them as friends, know
that they hold in their ranks some of the most generous-hearted,
unselfish, big-souled women to exist in England to-day; and that it is
just because of that they are able to plod cheerfully on, and laugh
that indulgent, pitying little laugh, when an outraged man swells with
virtuous indignation, and waxes eloquent upon their want of womanly
attributes.

Of such as the best of these was Ethel Hayward.  Among the crowd now
hurrying more or less tiredly into the open air, she might not have
been noticed.  So many had white faces, dark-circled eyes,
shabby-genteel clothing, and just a commonplace fairness, that in the
throng it was difficult to discover distinguishing attributes.

One had to see her apart, and note the quick, urgent step, the
independent, lofty poise of her head, and the steadfastness of the
tired eyes, and firm, strong mouth, to feel that life had given her a
heavy burden, which only a noble soul could have supported with heroism.

As she left the portals of the General Post Office she hesitated a few
seconds as to her direction.  "Should she go straight back to the
little flat in Holloway, or should she go west, and get the
drawing-paper Basil was wanting?"

Doris could easily get the drawing-paper the next day, if she chose;
and at the flat Dudley Pritchard would have arrived for the evening.
She surmised hastily that it was extremely probable Doris had made some
other engagement for herself that she would be unwilling to delay, and
that Dudley would in no wise regret her own tardy return.

The last thought caused her eyes to grow a little strained, as she
walked quickly westwards - strained with the determination to face the
fact unflinchingly, and try to overcome the deep, insistent ache it
caused.

But the love of a lifetime is not dismissed at will, and looking a
little pitifully backward, though she was but twenty-eight, Ethel felt
she could not remember the time when she did not love Dudley Pritchard,
though it had perhaps only crystallised into the great feature of her
life at the time when, in silent, heroic endeavour, he had given of all
he had to win his friend back to life and health.

It was Dudley's careful savings that he had paid for the great
specialist and the big operation; Dudley's courage and devotion that
had nerved the stricken man to take up the awful burden of perpetual
invalidism; Dudley's never-failing encouragement and friendship that
helped him still to bear the dreary months of utter weariness, in the
little home kept together by his sister's salary.

High up in the dreary-looking block of flats in Holloway, attended
through the day by the erratic ministrations of Doris, and at night  by
the yearning tenderness of Ethel, Basil Hayward dragged out a weary
martyrdom, that prayed only for release.  In vain Ethel murmured over
him, that to work for him was a glory compared to what it would be to
live without him; in the silent, tedious hours of her absence, his soul
broke itself in hopeless, passionate protest against the decree that
compelled him to accept his daily bread at the hands of the sister he
would gladly have striven for day and night.

It as a martyrdom across which one can but draw a curtain, and stand
"eyes front".  Look this way, look that, what answer is there, what
reason, what explanation, of the hidden martyrdoms of the work-a-day
world, which the blank wall of heaven seems to regard with utter
unconcern?

Mankind to-day is less disposed than ever of yore to calmly fold the
hands and say, "It is the will of God."  They can no longer do so
honestly without either blaming or criticising the Divine Will that not
merely permits, but is said to send, such martyrdoms.

Better surley to accept bravely the enigma of the universe, and strive
to lessen the suffering in our own little sphere, believing that same
Divine Will is striving with us to mitigate the ills humanity has
brought upon itself through blind disobedience and careless
indifference to the laws of nature.

Uncomplaining resignation may help by its example, but the resignation
which sits with folded hands and makes no effort to amend, is only a
form of feebleness.  The strong soul accepts life silently as a field
of battle, asking for energy, resource, courage, and that fine spirit
which obeys the unseen general in unquestioning faith.

It was only in such a spirit, through those years of pain and mysgtery,
that Ethel was able to witness her passionately loved brother's
martyrdom, and give all the years of her youth to earn that pour salary
from a wealthy Empire, to keep some sort of a home for the three of
them in the little, dingy Holloway flat.

For even if Doris had been capable of sustained endeavour, the
bedridden man could not have been left alone for long, and no choice
was left them but to eke out Ethel's pitiful £110 salary between them.

Often perhaps a passionate resentment burned in her heart concerning
the heavy handicaps under which a woman achieves work equal to a man's;
but she had no time to lend herself to any open protest, and toiled on,
silently fighting her individual daily battle the better encouraged by
those brave women taking all the opprobrium of the warfare upon their
own shoulders, for the sake of working womanhood as a whole.

Only, of late a fresh burden had been added in the fear that Dudley was
growing to care for her sister Doris.

It was not that she grudged Doris the happiness, nor the prospect of a
home in which she and Dudley might together take care of Basil; but she
saw ahead the tragedy of the awakening, when Dudley learnt of the
shallow, selfish little heart behind Doris's charming exterior.

That he, of all people, should be drawn to such an one was only the
contradiction seen on all sides in life.  Because he had that
old-fashioned distrust of the independent, self-reliant woman, he must
needs go to the opposite extreme, and let himself be drawn to one
capable of little else in the world but ornamentation.  Doris, she
knew, was fitted only to be a rich man's plaything.  Dudley, she felt
instinctively, would start off by expecting of her things she had never
had to give, and in his dismay and disappointment might wreck both
their lives.

Yet she felt powerless to take any step that might save them from each
other, knowing full well that Doris, bored with her life at the flat,
had decided that even life with Dudley would be better.  And even as
Ethel hastened westwards, instead of towards home, Doris with infinite
pains put the finishing touches to her pretty hair, and took a last
survey of her dainty person before the well-known step should sound on
the stone staircase outside their unpretentious litte door.

She had been very irritable with the invalid, because he was trying to
get a plan copied quickly, and wanted a special arrangement of light,
just when she was ready to go and dress after preparing the dinner; but
when at last Dudley knocked on the door, Doris opened it to him with a
face of such charming innocence and smiles that irritability would
never have been imagined in the répertoire of her characteristics.  A
little helpless, a little childish, she might be, but what clever man
does not love a clinging woman?

"It was so nice of you to come," she said.  "It is such a dreary place
to turn out to after your long day at the office."

"But I love coming," he answered simply.  "You know I do."

He looked at her with unconscious admiration, and Doris noted for the
hundredth time that although he was not particularly tall, nor
particularly good-looking, nor particularly anything, yet his thin,
clean-shaven face had a clever, distinguished air, and he had
unmistakably the cut and breeding of a gentleman.  She knew that even
if he were only moderately well off, and could not afford the dash she
loved, he was at least good to be seen with, and a man who might one
day make his mark.  So, though she deprecated most of the qualities
which were in reality his best points, she decided in her calculating
little head she would seriously contemplate becoming Mrs. Dudley
Pritchard.

His greeting with the invalid was, for Dudley, a little boisterous -
the result of a hint from Ethel.  He would probably never have had time
to see for himself that such a man as Basil Hayward would hate a
pitying air or invalid manner, but he was sympathetic enough to respond
quickly to a suggestion that the latest cricket or football news, gaily
imparted, was far more pleasing to the invalid than a sympathetic
inquiry after his health.

For Basil Hayward, sufferer and martyr, was prouder of his near
relationship to a celebrated international cricketer than he would ever
had been of his own sublime courage had it been lauded to the skies.
Life had left him little enough, but "give me the power still to glory
in every manly and athletic achievement of my countrymen," was his
unspoken request.

So they discussed the latest sporting news of the world, and then had a
great argument on a plan of Dudley's for a competition for a
grand-stand and pavilion on a celebrated aviation ground, while they
waited for Ethel.

The small flat had only one sitting-room, and while they talked Doris
flitted gracefully about, putting the finishing touches to the table.
Afterwards she sat on a low chair under the lamp, so that the light
fell full on her pretty hair, while she bowed her head with unwonted
industry over a piece of sewing.

Occasionally she glanced up at the two men, meeting Dudley's eyes with
a pretty confiding look that only added to her charm.

"Ethel is so late.  I wonder if we had better wait," she said at last.
"She told me on no account to do so."

Basil glanced at the clock a little anxiously.

"It is too bad," he murmured; "they have no right to expect so much
overtime work.  She is sure to come soon."

"Yes; but I think she would like us to begin"; and Doris rose slowly.
"It will save time when she does come in."

It was plain Basil disapproved, but she pretended not to see it, and in
a short time she and Dudley were seated tête-à-tête, while the invalid
remained on his couch.  They were gay from spontaneity of pleasure, and
Hal would have been surprised at the cheeriness of het grave brother,
had she seen how he responded to Doris's playful mood.

Then Ethel"s key sounded in the door, and it was as though a slight
shadow fell upon them.  Doris wished she had been later still; Dudley
seemed to grow grave again, from habit, and Basil watched the door like
a big devoted dog, with eyes of hungry love.

As she entered her first glance was for him, and her nod and smile ere
she turned to greet the visitor hid all her own weariness, and was
reflected in a light of glad welcome on the sick man's face.

"I'm so glad you didn't wait," she said; "I stayed to get the
drawing-paper."

"But why did you, dear?" he asked, with quick remonstrance.  She was
born and reared in Ohio, the daughter of a family of Ohio pioneers,
a descendant of a Revolutionary soldier and also, of a warrior of
1812.

As a student of the Ohio Northern University and later as a
post-graduate worker at the University of California, Chicago
University, and Harvard Summer School, she has as she says, "graduated
sometimes and has a degree but never 'finished' her education."

Desiring to get the school out into the world as well as the world back
to the school, she has spoken and written on "Moving Into The King
Row," "Other Peoples' Children," "Spirit of the Younger Generation,"
"Vine Versus Oak," and "The Larger Service."

"Pictures Eight Hundred Children Selected," "Speaking of Automobiles,"
"The Unusual Thing," "The High Cost of Learning," and "Wanted--A
Funeral of Algebraic Phraseology;" also, some verse, "The Twentieth
Regiment Knight" and "Back to God's Country" are magazine work that
never came back.

School Science & Mathematics, a magazine to which she contributes and
of which she is an associate editor, gives hers as the only woman's
name on its staff of fifty editors.

Her book, "The Passin' On Party," raises the author to the rank of a
classic. To quote a critic: it is "a little like 'Mrs. Wiggs of the
Cabbage Patch,' a little like 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' but not
just like either of them. She reaches right down into human
breasts and grips the heart strings."

It is the busy people who find time to do things and the mother-heart of
Miss Graham finds expression in her household in West Lawn, a suburb
of Topeka. Among the members of her family are a niece and nephew whose
High School and College education she directs.

ESTHER M. CLARK.

Every Kansan, homesick in a foreign land, knows the call of Kansas and
every Kansan book lover knows Esther Clark's "Call of Kansas."
"Sweeter to me than the salt sea spray, the fragrance of summer
rains:
Nearer my heart than these mighty hills are the wind-swept Kansas
plains:
Dearer the sight of a shy, wild rose by the roadside's dusty way
Than all the splendor of poppy-fields ablaze in the sun of May.

Gay as the bold poinsetta is, and the burden of pepper trees, The
sunflower, tawny and gold and brown, is richer, to me, than these.

And rising ever above the song of the hoarse, insistent sea, The
voice of the prairie, calling, calling me.

Miss Clark was born in Neosho Co., Kansas, about twelve miles southeast
of Chanute, on a farm.

At seven years of age, the family moved to Chanute and her school days
were spent at the old Pioneer Building, where her mother went to school
before her. In 1894, she graduated here, later entering the University
of Kansas for work in English.

In 1906, "Verses by a Commonplace Person" was published.

"The Call of Kansas and Other Verse" came out in 1909. This volume
contained "My Dear" and "Good Night" which were set to music, and "Rose
O' My Heart."

"Rose o' my heart, to-day I send A rose or two, You love roses, Rose
o' my heart, I love you.

Rose o' my heart, a rose is sweet And fresh as dew.

Some have thorns, but, Rose o' my heart, None have you.

 Rose o' my heart, this day wear My roses, do!
For next to my heart, Rose o' my heart, I wear you."

"My Dear" was written for her baby brother, during an absence from
home, and is Miss Clark's favorite.

She is in the office of the Extension Department at the University of
Kansas, and has exclusive charge of club programs and does some
work in package libraries.

Just now she is contributing prose to some of the newspapers and doing
some splendid feature work.

MARY VANCE HUMPHREY.

 

Mary Vance Humphrey of Junction City, Kansas, has written a series
of short stories on the property rights of women in Kansas, a
subject that was and is, still, of vital importance to the women
of the state.

"The Legal Status of Mrs. O'Rourke" and "King Lear in Kansas" are two of
the series.

When young in heart and experience, Mrs. Humphrey wrote a number
of poems.

Her work in later years has been only prose. Her novel, "The Squatter
Sovereign" is an historical romance of pioneer days, the settlement
of Kansas in the fifties.

Mrs. Humphrey is one of the founders of the Kansas State Social Science
Club and the Woman's Kansas Day Club and the founder of the Reading
Club of Junction City.

She has served as President of the State Federation and as Director of
the General Federation of Women's Clubs and President of the Woman's
Kansas Day Club.

Her work as member of the Board of Education has done much for Junction
City and her interest in libraries has done equally as much for
the State of Kansas.

Of her record as an official, Margaret Hill McCarter has written:
"Her whole soul is in her work.

She is the genuine metal, shirking nothing, cheapening nothing, and
withal happy in the enjoyment of her obligation.

She stands for patriotism, progress and peace.

Something of the message of the shepherds heard out beyond
Bethlehem that Christmas morning long ago sounds in the chords she
strikes."

As the wife of the late Judge James Humphrey, she proved herself the
able companion of such a worthy man.

KATE A. APLINGTON.

The Kansas State Traveling Art Gallery owes its birth and much of
its success to Kate A.

Aplington, the author of that typical western story, "Pilgrims of
the Plains."

Since Feb., 1907, the Art Gallery has been a recognized state
institution, and as its Vice-President and Superintendent and as
the writer of the art lectures that accompany the work, Mrs.

Aplington's broad-minded, artistic temperament and student's
persistency have made the gallery truly a work of art.

At present, the Aplingtons are living at Miami, Florida, but for a
quarter of a century, Council Grove, the most famous spot on the
Santa Fe Trail, was their home.

Special investigations and researches on the subject of the old
Santa Fe Trail days and lecturers on educational and literary topics
resulted from years spent in that historic place.

"Pilgrims of the Plains," which came out in Feb., 1913, is worthy
of a place in the front rank of western stories.

In July of this year, Grossett and Dunlap will bring it out in their
"Popular Edition" of novels.

Mrs. Aplington is now working on a book on "Art-Museums of America" and
judging from the comments of prominent Museum Directors, this will
be as great a success as her novel.

"Florida of the Reclamation," a character story with scenes laid in and
around Miami, Florida, is also in preparation.

EMMA UPTON VAUGHN.

The author of that versatile little book of short stories, "The
Lower Bureau Drawer" is Emma Upton Vaughn, a Kansas City, Kansas
teacher.

These heart stories, showing keen insight of human nature--especially
woman nature--deal with every day life, each one a fascinating
revelation, of character and soul.

Mrs. Vaughn was born in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Her early life was spent in
Kansas. She is a graduate of the Kansas University, and has taught
in the public schools of the state.

She wrote the "Bible and the Flag in the Public Schools" and has
contributed both prose and verse to the leading magazines and
newspapers.

Feature articles and many good essays appear over her signature. Her
"Passing From Under The Partial Eclipse" did much to give
Kansas City, Kansas her recognized place commercially on the map.

A novel, "The Cresap Pension," exposing a great pension fraud, is
ready for the press.

JESSIE WRIGHT WHITECOMB.

Jessie Wright Whitcomb, a Topeka writer of juvenile books is a lawyer
in active practice with her husband, Judge George H.

Whitcomb and a mother of a remarkable family of five boys and one
girl.

The oldest son gained his A. B. in 1910 at the age of eighteen; in
1911 was appointed Rhodes scholar for Kansas; and is now a student
at Oxford. His father and mother are in England at present
visiting him.

 Mrs. Whitcomb is a contributor to the magazines and in addition, has
written "Odd Little Lass," "Freshman and Senior," "Majorbanks,"
"His Best Friend," "Pen's Venture," "Queer As She Could Be," and
"Curly Head."

She is a graduate of the University of Vermont and the Boston University
Law School and was the first woman to lecture before a man's law
school.

MYRA WILLIAMS JARRELL.

Myra Williams Jarrell, the daughter of the late Archie L.

Williams, for thirty years, the attorney for the Union Pacific Railway
in Kansas, and the grand-daughter of Judge Archibald Williams, the
first United States Circuit Judge of Kansas, appointed by Lincoln,
comes of a literary family. All of the men and some of the women
on the father's side of the family and also, on the mother's to a
great extent, had literary talent.

As a child, she cherished an ambition to write and when occasionally one
of her letters to St. Nicholas saw publication, she felt she had
crossed the Alps of her desire. Her first real story, however, was written
as she rocked the cradle of her first born. The day, when she first saw
her "stuff" in print, stands out in her memory second only to the
hallowed days of her personal history, her wedding day and the days
upon which her children were born.

Since then, Mrs. Jarrell has contributed to almost all the high class
magazines and has furnished special feature articles to newspapers.

Some years ago, a small book, "Meg, of Valencia," was written and
now, a novel, "The Hand of The Potter" is ready for publication.

In 1894, Myra Williams and J. F. Jarrell were married. This union was
blest with four children, three sons and one daughter. Mr. Jarrell
is Publicity Agent of the Santa Fe. A number of years ago, he bought
the Holton Signal and in trying to help her husband put some
individuality into the paper, Mrs.

Jarrell began a department headed "Ramblings." Later this was syndicated
and finally issued in book form.

Last winter, a play, "The Plain Clothes Man," was produced by the North
Brothers Stock Co., at the Majestic Theatre, Topeka. This well written
play, with its novel and original characterization and its effective
comedy lines, is now in the hands of two New York play brokers.

Before many months, Mrs. Jarrell will be enjoying a royalty.

In preparation, are two plays, as yet nameless; also, a play in
collaboration with Mr. North of the North Stock Co. With her brother,
Burus L. Williams, of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs.

Jarrell has written an opera, "The Mix Up in the Kingdom of Something-Like,"
which awaits only the lyrics Mr.

Williams is writing and the music. An opera, "The Kingdom of Never Come
True," also, in collaboration with Mr. Williams, is being set to music
by Arthur Pryor, the bandmaster.

A serial story, "John Bishop, Farmer," a collaboration with Albert T.

Reed, the artist, is to be published soon in the Kansas Farmer.
Later, this will appear in book form. A novel, which Mrs. Jarrell
believes will be her best work, is in construction and is clamoring to
be written.

ELLEN PALMER ALLERTON.

Ellen Palmer Allerton, the sweet and gentle poetess, beloved of
Kansas, lived at Padonia, in Brown County, when she wrote her famous
poem, "Wall of Corn."

She was past her prime when she came to Kansas from the Wisconsin home,
the subject of many of her noble gems. As she grew older, she grew
stronger in poetic strength.

Three volumes of poems have been published, "Walls of Corn and Other
Poems," "Annabel and Other Poems," and "Poems of the Prairie." Her
"Walls of Corn," written in 1884, famous from the first, as used
as railroad immigration advertising, was translated in several
languages and distributed all over Europe.

This and her "Trail of Forty-nine" are her best, although the classic
beauty of "Beautiful Things" is unsurpassed by any other American
writer.

"Beautiful twilight, at set of sun, Beautiful goal, with race well run,
Beautiful rest, with work well done."
is a fitting close to the beautiful, useful life of the author.

Mrs. Allerton was born in Centerville.

New York, in 1835 and began writing verse at the age of seventeen. Much
as she has written, yet writing was only a pastime. She never let it
interfere with her housework.

Thoroughly practical, she did all her own work, just because she loved
to do it.

Her flowers of which she had many, in doors and out, resulted in many
noble, inspiring lines. In 1862, she was
married to A. B. Allerton of Wisconsin, coming to Kansas in 1865.
She was best appreciated for her social qualities and her interest in
charity--that broader charity that praises the beauty and ignores
the blemishes.

Her last poem, "When Days Grow Dark" is a beautiful pen picture of her
sweetness and resignation in her growing blindness and her love
and trust in him who had been her companion down the years.

"You take the book and pour into my ear In accent sweet, the words
I cannot see; I listen charmed, forget my haunting fear, And think
with you as with your eyes I see.
In the world's thought, so your dear voice be left, I still have
part, I am not all bereft.

And if this darkness deepens, when for me The new moon bends no
more her silver rim, When stars go out, and over land and sea Black
midnight falls, where now is twilight dim, O, then may I be patient,
sweet and mild, While your hands lead me like a little child!"

She died in 1893, at Padonia, and was buried in a bed of her favorite
white flowers, donated by loving friends.

In the little graveyard at Hamlin, one reads "Beautiful Things" on a
modest stone at the head of her little bed.

EMMA TANNER WOOD.

Mrs. Emma Tanner Wood (Caroline Cunningham), a Topeka woman, began newspaper
work in 1872.

The result of those early years' work was "Spring Showers," a volume
of prose. After thirty years of study and experience among the defectives,
she wrote "Too Fit For The Unfit," advocating surgery for the
feeble-minded. The story of Mrs.

Benton, one of the characters, led Mrs. Wood to introduce a law
preventing children being sent to the poor house.

This was the first law purely in the interest of children ever passed
in Kansas.

Later, a law preventing traveling hypnotists from using school
children as subjects in public exhibitions was drawn up by Mrs.

Wood and passed.

Several years ago, a book on hypnotism, far in advance of the public
thought, was written and is to be published this year.

Mrs. Wood is seventy years young and as she says: "finds age the
very sweetest part of life. It is no small satisfaction to laugh at
the follies of others and know that you are past committing them.
It is equally delightful to be responsible only to one's self and
order one's life as one chooses.

Every day is a holy day to me now and the sweetness of common
things, grass, flowers, neighborly love, grand-children, and home
comforts fill me with satisfaction.

To think kindly of all things under the sun (but sin); to speak
kindly to all; to do little kindly acts is a greater good to the world
at large than we think while we are in the heat of battle."

CORNELIA M. STOCKTON.

A cheerful little room in the East wing of St. Margaret's Hospital,
Kansas City, Kansas; an invalid chair wheeled up to a window over looking
the street; and the eager, expectant face and the warm hand clasp
of the occupant, Mrs. Cornelia M. Stockton, assures the visitor
of a hearty welcome.

Greatly enfeebled by long illness and with impaired sight, this bright,
little woman's keen interest in current events and the latest "best
seller" puts to shame the half-hearted zeal of the average woman.

For four years, Mrs. Stockton has lived at St.

Margaret's, depending upon the visits of friends and the memory of an
eventful life to pass the days.

Prominence in club work in her earlier years has brought reward. The
History Club of Kansas City, Kansas, of which she was once a member,
each week sends a member to read to her and these are red letter
days to this brave, patient, little woman.

Mrs. Stockton began writing very young. When a little girl, back in
the village of Walden, New York, she stole up to the pulpit of the
church and wrote in her pastor's Bible:

"I have not seen the minister's eyes, And cannot describe his glance
divine, For when he prays he shuts them up And when he preaches he
shuts mine."
She was born in 1833 in Shawangunk, New York, and came to Kansas
City in 1859, living in Missouri some years but most of the time
in Kansas City, Kansas.
In 1892, she published a limited edition of poems, "The Shanar
Dancing Girl and Other Poems." dedicated to Mrs. Bertha M. Honore
Palmer, her ideal of the perfect type of gracious and lovely
womanhood. "The Shanar Dancing Girl" was first written for the
Friends in Council, a literary club of Kansas City, Mo. It has
received the encomiums of Thomas Bailey Aldrich, John J. Ingalls
and others for its beauty of expression and dramatic qualities.
"Invocation," an April idyl; "The Sea-shell;" and "Mountain Born"
sing of the love of nature. "In the Conservatory;" "My Summer Heart;"
and "Tired of the Storm" hint of sorrow and unrest and longing.
Then in 1886, "Compensation" was written. "Irma's Love For The King"
is a favorite; also, "'Sold'--A Picture," written for her daughter,
"yes, but she never came.
"The Sorrowful Stone" Mrs. Stockton considers her best."Odd that Hal should be so
far astray in her judgment, when she is usually so clever; but if she
knew her better she would change her mind."

As for Hal herself, she hastily tumbled into bed, still chuckling in
huge enjoyment over her evening.

"Those boys are just dears," was her thought, "and I wouldn't have
missed Lady Bounce for the world.  What a good thing Dudley was taken
with paternal affection for that little fool Doris, and I had to have a
chaperone.  Heigh-ho! what a scene there will be if he hears about it;
but what's the odds so long as you're happy?  And oh dear! what will
Lady Phyllis Fenton say when she finds out"; and once more the even
teeth flashed an irresistible smile into the darkness.


CHAPTER X


It was force of habit chiefly that caused Lorraine, as a rule, to sleep
long and late on Sunday mornings; and it was greatly to her advantage
that for so many months, and even years, no mental anxiety had robbed
her of a splendid capacity to rest.  She seemed to have a faculty for
limiting her worrying hours to the daylight, and being able to lay them
aside, like her correspondence, at night.

Yet on the following Sunday morning she found herself early awake, with
a brain only too ready to begin probing restlessly, and having little
of the calm friendliness she intended it should have towards her guest
of the evening.

To add to her unrest, her mother paid her an early visit, of a sort
that had been growing too frequent of late.  It was not enough that
Lorraine paid her rent, and gave her a handsome allowance; when there
chanced to be no one else to pay her debts, these came upon Lorraine's
shoulders also.

T-day it was a long, rambling tale of a hard-hearted dressmaker who,
having had a new frock back for alteration, had taken upon herself to
return the skirt, without the bodice, with an intimation that she was
retaining the delayed portion until her long account was settled.
Hence Mrs. Vivian found herself with what she called a most important
engagement, without the equally important new frock to go in.

Lorraine lay under the bedclothes, with only her head showing, and
watched her a little coldly, as she moved restlessly about the room
airing her woes.  She had promised Madame Luce, over and over again, to
settle in a week or two; and who would have believed the odious woman
would serve her such a trick?

Never again, if she had to go naked, would she order a garment from her
of any description whatever.  And the friends she had sent to her as
customers!  Why, half the woman's trade was owing to her introduction.

"Perhaps the friends don't pay their bills," Lorraine suggested in a
tired voice.

Mrs. Vivian drew herself up a little haughtily.

"I do not think there is any occasion to cast reflections on my
friends, even if you do not choose to be sociable to them," which
remark was intended as a dignified hit at Lorraine's invincible
determination to maintain friendly relations with her mother, without
having anything whatever to do with her mother's friends.

As many previous hits, it fell quite  harmlessly; it was doubtful if
Lorraine even heard it, half hidden there in the bedclothes with her
tired eyes.

"I suppose it isn't any use reminding you that your personal
expenditure exceeds mine?" she hinted, "and that you have already far
overstepped the allowance we stipulated?"

"You do not have time to go about as much as I do, and it makes a great
difference not having hosts of friends."

"You don't seem to get much pleasure out of them," Lorraine could not
resist saying, knowing as she did how much of her salary went into the
pockets of these so-called friends, in order to buy their adherence.

"Do I get much pleasure out of anything?" irritably.  "My only child is
one of the first actresses in London, and what is it to me?  Do I have
the pleasure of going abouth with her? or living with her? or taking
any part in her success?"

"I suppose it isn't such a small thing to live by her.  If I were not
successful, we could certainly not live here.  It might have been
Islington and omnibuses," and she smiled.

"As if that were all.  Probably, as real companions we might have been
even happier in Islington."

Lorraine stiffened.  "Companions!...  Ah, I, with whom else ever
dancing attendance, and changing in identity every few months?"

But she made no comment, for the days of her hot-headed, deep-hearted
judging were over; and from behind inscrutable eyes she looked upon the
things that one sees without seeming to see them, and accepted facts
that hurt her very soul, with a callous, cynical air that defied the
keenest shafts of probing.

It was her armour in an envious, merciless world, that would have
rejoiced before her eyes if it could have driven in a barbed arrow even
through her mother.

More than once a jealous enemy had tried and failed, routed utterly by
Lorraine's cynical, cool treatment of a fact that she knew no
persuasion nor arguing could have helped her to refute.  She did not
even weep about it now in secret.

It was as though she had shed all the tears she had to shed during that
year of utter revulsion spent in the Italian Riviera, companied by the
passionless solitudes of snowtopped mountains.  Something of a great
patience and a great gentleness had come to her then, helping her to
hide the loathing she could not crush, and place the fact of motherhood
first of all.

As her mother, she had taken Mrs. Vivian back into her heart, and given
her generously of what worldly possessions she had.  And she had done
it with a wondrous quiet and absence of all ostentation either
outwardly or inwardly.  It had never occured to Lorraine that, whether
it was a duty or not, after what had passed it was certainly a fine act
upon her part.

She had not questioned about it at all.  To her mother's apologetic
gush she had merely turned calm eyes and a strong face.

"It isn't worth while to remember the past at all," she had said; "we
will just begin again on rather different lines.  I'll always let you
have as much money as I can spare."

Mrs. Vivian had been a little taken aback by the new Lorraine who
returned from Italy; and not a little afraid before the calm,
inscrutable eyes; so that she had secretly rejoiced at the arrangement
which gave her a separate establishment of her own; but none the less,
in bursts of righteous indignation supposed to emanate from her
outraged feelings as a mother, she usually chose to make it her pet
grievance.

And still Lorraine only smiled the tired smile, and glanced carelessly
aside with the inscrutable eyes until the tirade was over, the coveted
cheque made out, and her own little sanctum once again in peaceful
possession.

Only just occasionally, if the interview had been specially trying, she
might have been seen afterwards to glance whimsically across to the
picture, recently enlarged from an old photograph, of a fine-looking
man in full hunting-rig standing beside a favourite hunter.

"Poor old dad," she murmured once; "I don't wonder you couldn't keep up
the old place.  I don't know how you got along at all without my
salary."

Once when she was feeling the drag of it all a little keenly she told
the man in the picture: "Mother is splendidly handsome, and I daresay I
owe her a good deal; but thank God you were there with your fine old
name and family to give me the things that matter most.  It sometimes
seems as if we had got each other still, dad, and, for the rest, some
are frail in one way and some another, and fretting doesn't help any
one."  The fine eyes had grown more whimsically wistful looking into
the face of the huntsman as she finished: "Anyhow, the last favourite
is second cousin to a duke, and she pointed out to me, he might have
been only a butcher."

How much Hal knew of her mother's life Lorraine had never been able to
gauge, but she had reason to think she knew something and was sporting
enough to pretend otherwise.  If so, she blessed her for it, feeling
that by that generous non-acknowledgment she rendered a service both to
her and her dead father.

Yet it seemed strange that any one so young and fresh as Hal should be
able to act thus, instead of suffering a violent repulsion.  Was it the
depth of her splendid friendship; or was it a naturally adaptable,
common-sense nature; or was it non-comprehension?

As time passed and she grew to know Hal yet better, she felt
instinctively it was the first of these, coupled with that true
sportsman-spirit which was one of her strongest attributes.

Lorraine was not the only one who felt that whether Hal had any
religion or not, or any faith, through good and ill, by easy paths and
difficult, one might be absolutely sure that she would "play the game."
 It made her feel herself richer with her one friend than with her
mother's admitted hosts, and though she seemed to hesitate and reason
on that Sunday morning, both knew the cheque would finally be written,
and the coveted garment rescued in time for the important lunch.

Only, afterwards, a shadow seemed to linger to-day that heretofore
would have vanished with the departing figure.  The sunshine crept
through the drawn curtains, lying like a shaft of hope across the
gloom, but it brought no answering gleam into the beautiful eyes, with
their tired, far-off gaze.

It was all very well for Hal to be a main feature in her life, blessing
it with her friendship, while she turned kindly, unseeing eyes away
from the corners where the murky shadows lay: Hal, who knew about the
mad, discreditable marriage and its violent termination, and probably
also of her mother's insatiable thirst for admiration and excitement at
any cost.

There was something about Hal in herself that was as a shining armour,
against which unkind barbs fell harmlessly, and enabled her to go on
her serene and joyful way in blissful non-attention.

But could it be the same with this treasured only son, who was
doubtless destined for a hight place in the world by doting parents,
and other proud bearers of the same old name?  Of course he might sup
and trifle with certain denizens of the theatrical world galore; it
would only be part of his education, and a thing to wink at, but she
already doubted whether such a slight companionship would have any
attraction.

In spite of his youthfulness, there was something in him that would
naturally and quickly respond to the fine shades in herself, and grow
into a friendship that had no part with the casual, gay
acquaintanceships of the theatre and the world.

In a sense he was like Hal, and she knew that just as she attracted
Hal's devotion in spite of all disparity of years and circumstances,
so, if she chose, she could make this young giant more or less her
slave.

But was it worht it?

What did she, on her high pedestal, want with his young admiration?
What did she want with a companion so undeveloped that she herself must
awaken his strongest forces?

Through the gloom, unheeding the shaft of sunlight, she saw him again,
towering up there on her hearth, with his young splendour, so
extraordinarily unspoilt as yet; and she knew that, reasonable or
unreasonable, she was attracted far beyond her wont.

And then she thought of his easy-going temperament, his lack of
ambition, his half-sleepy attitude towards life.

What if the wheels ran so smoothly for him that the latent forces were
never aroused, and little achieved of all that might be?

If love came at his asking, and a sufficiency of success to satisfy an
easy-going nature, what would there ever be to stir depths which she
truly believed were worth stiring?  Was it so small a thing to help a
fine soul forward to its best attainment?...  was such an aim not worth
some going aside for both?

She felt there were things she could teach him, which without her he
might entirely miss; and if without her he were the better according to
a conventional standard, he might yet be far the poorer in the big,
deep things of life.

Well, no doubt circumstances would end by suiting themselves, with or
without her agency.  In the meantime why worry, in a world that it
would seem worked out its own ends, sublimely indifferent to the
individual?

They were going to dine together to-night anyhow; their first tête-à-tête
dinner and evening: time enough to probe and worry when she was more
sure a mutual attraction existed; wiser at present to seek a counter
attraction for her own sake, that she might not uselessly build a
castle without foundations.

Prompt as ever, she reached out for the receiver beside her bed and
rang up the Albany to know if Lord Denton were awake yet.

"I'm not awake," came back a sleepy answer.  "I am asleep, and dreaming
of Lorraine Vivian.  If my man wakes me now, I shall curse him solidly
for half an hour."

"Well, will you dream you are going to take her for a spin into the
country shortly?  I happen to know she is fainting for the longing to
breathe country air."

"In my dream I am already waiting at her door, with the Yellow Peril
spluttering its heart out with delight, and eagerness to be off.  I
have even dreamt she managed to put a motor bonnet on in half-an-hour -
is it conceivable - or should it be half a day?"

"No, your dream is right.  Be outside the door in half an hour, and you
will see."

An hour later they were spinning out into Surrey at an alarming pace,
both silently revelling in the freshness and motion and the fact that
they were too old friends to need to trouble about conversation.  When
they dived into the lanes he slowed down, remarking:

"I suppose we mustn't risk scrunching any one up."

Lorraine only smiled, remaining silent a little longer, and then she
suddenly asked him:

"When you feel yourself inclined to fall in love foolishly what do you
do?"

"Well... as a rule..." he began slowly and humorously, "I either cut
and run, or I hurry to see so much of her that I am bound to get bored."

"The first plan sounds the safest, but would often be the most
difficult of execution.  Supposing the second miscarries and you don't
get bored?"

"Well, then I think - usually - there is an awful moment when I have to
tell her I can't afford both a motor and a wife; and to be motorless
would kill me."

A sudden little twitching at the corners made Lorraine's mouth
dangerously fascinating.

"Evidently you have never fallen in love with me," she said, "for you
have not been driven to either way of escape."

He looked into her face with an answering humour, and a twinkle in his
eyes as alluring as her smilling lips.

"Because when I fell in love with you I did it sensibly, and not
foolishly," was his answer; "instinct told me I couldn't have you for
my wife however much I wished it, so I said myself: 'Flip, old boy,
she'll make a thundering good pal, you close with it,' and I did."

She made no comment, and he went on more seriously:

"You see, even if you became marriageable and I cut out the motor, you
wouldn't be attracted to an ordinary sort of cove like me.  I suit you
down to the ground as a pal, but it wouldn't go any farther."

"I wonder why you think that?"

"I don't exactly _think_ it - thinking is too much bother - but it's
just there, like a commonplace fact.  You are all temperament, and
high-strung nerves, and soul, and enthusiasm, and that sort of thing,
which makes you a great actress.  I'm just a two-legged, superior sort
of animal, who hasn't much brain, but knows what he likes, and usually
does it without wasting time on pros and cons.  Consequently, I'm just
as likely to end in prison as anywhere else, and take it without much
concern as all in the day's work.  You are more likely to end in a
nunnery, as the most devout of all the nuns."

"What an odd idea!  Why a nunnery?"

"Oh, because it's an extreme of one sort or another, and you are made
for extremes.  You'll perhaps be very wicked first" - he smiled
delightfully - "after which, of course, you'd have to be very good.
It's the way you're made.  I'm cut out on quite a different plan.  I
can't be 'very' anything, unless it's very drunk after the Oxford and
Cambridge at Lord's."

"Do you think I could be very wicked?"  She asked the question with a
thoughtfulness that amused him greatly, and he answered at once:

"I haven't a doubt of it.  You are probably plotting the particular
form of wickedness at this very moment."

She laughed, and he went on in the same serio-comic mood:

"I quite envy you.  It mus be very thrilling to think to oneself, 'I've
dared to be desperately wicked.'  You cease to be a nonentity at once
and become a force.  You get right to hand-grips with the big elemental
things.  Of course that is interesting, but it usually means a
confounded lot of bother."

"You are as bad as Hal Pritchard.  She announced the other day she
would rather have a dishonest purpose than no purpose at all."

"It's the same idea, only Miss Pritchard lives up to her creed by being
full of energy and purpose; whereas I can't be anything but a mediocre
waster.  I've neither the pluck to be wicked, not the energy to be
good, nor enough purpose to regret it.  I believe I'm best described as
an aristocratic 'stiff', a 'stiff' being a person who spends his life
trying to avoid having to do things.
"I fill a niche all the same," he finished, "because I make such an
excellent foil for the other chaps, who like to pride themselves on
their superiority and hard work.  It's nice for them to be able to say
contemptuously, 'Look at Denton,' and it's nice for me to be able to
feel I'm of some use, without the bother of making an effort."

"You are certainly quite incorrigible as an idler, if that can be
called a purpose, and, Flip, don't change; I love you for it; you are
one of the most restful things I have ever known."

He glanced into her face with a keenness that somewhat belied his
professed incapacity to be in earnest, and remarked with seeming
lightness:

"Feeling a bit down on your luck, eh?  Are you thinking of falling in
love foolishly?"

"I'm thinking of trying to guard against doing so."

"You ought not to find it difficult.  Crowd him out with other
admirers."

"It seems as if he were going to do the crowding out."

"Why, is he so big?" jocularly.

"There's six foot five-and-a-half of him."

"Whew!  And thin as a lathe, I suppose; a sort of animated telegraph
pole."

"No; broad in proportion, cut to measure absolutely."

"Then he is a fine fellow," with conviction.

Lorraine felt a swift glow of pride, and then inwardly admonished
herself for being silly.  What, after all, was size?  As Hal had
trenchantly remarked, plenty of London policemen were just as big and
fine.  Half in self-defence she added:

"He has brains as well, and he is as handsome as Apollo."

"Then run," was the laconic response; "don't stop to buy a ticket; pay
the other end."

She smiled, but grew suddenly serious.  Leaning forward with eyes
straining hard to the horizon, she said: "Flip, I've had a hard life,
in spite of the success.  Shall I run?... or... shall I stay, and
snatch joy, while there is still time?"

He looked at her with a growing interest.

"If I were you I should run," he said; "but, all the same, I think
you'll stay."

"No; I don't think I shall.  There are other reasons.  He is a good
deal younger than I - and - well, I've a fair amount on my soul
already."

The tired shadow was coming back to her eyes, but she laughed suddenly
with an attempt at gaiety.

"You ought to have heard Hal Pritchard on the subject.  She remarked
there were plenty of London policemen just as big, and suggested if I
wanted a fine young animal to play with, I should be safer with a polar
bear from the Zoo."

"Well done, Hal.  We ought to have brought her.  Where is she to-day?"

"Careering across England in a haphazard fashion with her cousin Dick
Bruce.  Do you mind turning towards home now?  I'm dinning out, and
have some letters to write."

"Who's the happy man to-night? ... I thought of course I was to have
the whole day."

"With a view to getting wholesomely bored!  No, Flip, I don't propose
to let you find that way out just yet."

"I should have found it for myself long ago if it were possible.  As it
is, I have grown resigned, and accept what crumbs fall to my portion."
He paused a moment and then asked, "Is it Goliath to-night?"

"It is."

"Rash woman; and just when I have advised you to run."

"But it is not in the least serious yet.  I only asked you in view of
it becoming so."

"Which means you will try and start to run, _after_ you are firmly in
the trap."

"Not at all.  I won't go near the trap.  I'll tell him I'm old enough
to be his mother, and talk down to him from years of detestable common
sense and sagacity."

"Which sounds as if it would be even duller than dining with me."

"Oh no.  It holds novelty anyway.  You are never dull, but likewise you
are no longer novel."

They made for the high roads again, and spun along mostly in silence
until the car once more came to a standstill at Lorraine's door.

"Come in," she said, "I've lots of time."

"No,' with a little smile.  "I've had my crumbs for the day. I'm going
to have a good solid crust now to keep the balance.  Do you know Lottie
Bird?... Fourteen stone, if she's an ounce, and a tongue like a
sixty-horse-power motor.  There are times when she's so damned
practical and overpowering she does me good.  This is one of them.
Good-bye.  Don't kill the giant with a glance; and don't be silly
enough to get hurt yourself."

"All right.  I'll go in full armour," and she nodded gaily enough as he
moved off down the street.


CHAPTER XI


What Lorraine exactly meant by full armour she did not quite know, but
it might very well have been taken to mean the shining armour of her
own best loveliness.  Certainly after no small consideration she chose
what she believed to be her most becoming gown, and she was unusually
critical about the dressing of her hair.

All the same, at 7.45 she was ready, and her cavalier had not yet
arrived.  She waited five minutes until he came, and then it was
necessary to wait another five minutes that he might not know she had
been more up to time than he.  Then she entered the drawing-room in a
little bit of a hurry, and cut short his simple, direct apologies by
regretting her own tardiness, and saying she had been out motoring
until late.

But she had time to note quickly that he also had dressed himself with
special care, plastering down resolutely the unruly determination of
his fair hair to curl.  That was good.  Any suggestion of a curl must
have produced an effect of effeminacy, whereas that neat, plastered
wave showed the shapeliness of his head, and gave him a touch of manly
decision.  Her electric brougham was at the door, but she kept it
waiting a few minutes, that they might be later than the majority of
diners, and pass up a well-filled room.

In the end their arrival was equal to her best expectations.  She led
the way slowly, with a queenly grace that was one of her best
attributes; but as she nodded casually to an acquaintance here and
there, she had plenty of time to observe the curious eyes from all
around, looking with undisguised admiration, not so much at her
faultless appearance, which was more or less known, but at her striking
cavalier.

She had engaged a small table at one of the top corners and arranged
the seats sideways, so that both could look over the room if they
wanted to, and at the same time be easily seen by others.  She did this
because it amused her to see people gazing at him, and to watch his
quiet self-possession.  She almost wondered if he even realised how
much attention he attracted, but perceived that he could hardly help
doing so, though he took it all with so simple and unabashed an air.

She watched also to see if, as most of the strikingly handsome men she
had known, he courted tell-tale glances from other eyes, and sipped
honey from any flower within reach, as well as from his own particular
flower.  And when she found that his absolute and undivided attention
was given to her, and that all the power of entertaining he could
muster was called into her service, she felt a glow of gratitude to him
that he had not disappointed her, but proved himself the simple,
high-bred gentleman she longed to find him.

It made her show herself to him at her very best.  Not showily witty,
nor callously gay, nor fashionably original, but just her own self of
light humour and dainty speech and kindly sympathy, the true, best self
that held Hal's unswerving devotion through good account and ill.

Unconsciously she left the time-worn paths of beauty and success, and
became young, and fresh, and whole-hearted as he; tackling abstruse
problems with a childlike, vigorous air; holding him spell-bound with
her own charm of conversation one moment, and leading him on to talk
with ease and frankness the next.

The other diners got up and retired to the lounge, and still they sat
on; no hint of boredom, no note of disparity, no need of other
companionship.  As they were preparing to rise, she told him lightly
that he talked amazingly well for his tender years.

"Only twenty-four," he answered; "it does seem a kiddish age, doesn't
it!"

"Dreadfully kiddish.  It makes me feel old enough to be your
grandmother."

He glanced up, half-questioning, half-deprecating.

"That would be the oddest thing of all, unless I really appear to be
about twenty years before my time."

For a reason she could not have fathomed, she looked into his eyes with
a sudden seriousness and said:

"I was thirty-two last week."

She saw a quick look of surprise he did not attempt to hide, followed
by a very charming smile, as he asserted:

"It is impossible.  You could not sit there and look like that if you
were thirty-two."

"The impossible is so often the true.  I'm glad you don't think I seem
old.  It is nice to believe one can keep young at heart, in spite of
the years.  Shall we go to the lounge?"

Again they moved through the admiring crowd, but this time Lorraine
felt less idle interest and more inward wonder; and without any
misgiving she steered to a quiet alcove, where they could talk without
again being the cynosure of many eyes.

Here, in a pleasant, friendly way, she led him once again to talk of
the future, and was glad to find, in answering sincerity with
sincerity, he was ready to admit that he was a little sorry about his
own lack of ambition and want of application.  He did not pretend now
that it was of no moment.  He told her he would like to achieve, only
somehow he always found his attention wander to other things, and his
desire grow slack after a week of rigid application.

She recognised that the motive-power was missing, and that unless
something deeper than mere desire of achievement stirred him, he would
probably never attain.  He needed a goal that should make everything
else in the world pale before it, and something that seemed almost as
life and death to hang on his success.  But how get it for him?  If he
loved, and was bidden wait until he had prospered, the end was all too
sure and the love too easy.

It was something different that was needed; something that would bring
him up with dead abruptness against a blank wall, and leave him with a
taste of life that was dust and ashes unless he found a way through.
Either that or some sweet, wild, unattainable desire, that might drive
him to work and ambition by way of escape.

And there again, where should he encounter such a desire?  One had only
to look into his calm, fine face to feel that the unattainable in the
form of love, barred by marriage vows as lightly made as broken, would
never stir the depths of his heart, nor appeal to his real self in any
way whatever.

He would not love such a woman, however for a time she might fascinate
him; and afterwards there would only be the nausea and the memory that
was like an unpleasant taste.  Such a woman might teach him many things
it is no harm for a man to know; but she would never call to the best
in him, nor help him to realise himself.

"Have you seen your friend the duchess lately?" she asked, with a
disarming smile, not wishing to appear merely curious.

"Yes; I saw her on Friday, at a ball.  She was in great form."

"You danced with her?"

"Yes.  She's not a good dancer."

"Then you only had one, I suppose?"

"No, three."  He smiled a little.  "We sat out two."

"You ought to have felt highly honoured."

"Oh, I don't know.  She is very amusing.  A very funny thing happened
last week.  Out of sheer devilry, she and a friend and two men went to
the Covent Garden Fancy Dress Ball,  disguised of course, and just for
an hour or two.  To their horror, after the procession, the friend was
handed a large glass-and-silver salad bowl, as a prize for being the
best 'twostep' dancer in the room.  Of course she had to go off with
the beastly thing; but she was so proud of winning it, she couldn't
resist giving their escapade away, and it got round everywhere."

"I wonder if our escapade with Lady Bounce is out yet?  I haven't seen
Hal since Thursday."

"Oh yes, it is," eagerly; "the duchess had heard about it.  She was
pumping me to know who was in the joke.  We are longing to see Quin and
hear the latest, but he is down east."

"What an oddity he is!" thoughtfully.  "I liked him so much: but it is
difficult to reconcile him with slumming."

"He's one of the best.  Every one loves him.  And he does his slumming
in quite a way of his own.  I've been with him sometimes, and he just
goes among the rough characters down there as if he hated being a swell
and wanted to be one of them.  He positively asks them for sympathy,
and of course it takes their fancy and he is friends with them all."

"I think you are a remarkable trio altogether.  Hal's cousin Dick is
just as original in his way as St. Quintin.  And you, of course, are
somehow different to the majority.  I wonder how you will each end?
St. Quintin will perhaps become a bishop.  Dick Bruce will write an
astounding, weird novel, and bound into fame.  And you? ..."

He flushed a little. "I shall be left far behind by both of them,
futilely wishing to catch up."

"I hope not.  Your chance is just as good as theirs, if you choose to
make it so,"

"I fail to see that I have any chance at all."

"Most chances rest chiefly with ourselves.  It's a great thing to be
ready for them if they come.  I hope you'll be that."

"I hope so too, but it would be easier if one were more sure they were
coming," and he laughed with a lightness that jarred a little.

She rose to go, as it was getting late, feeling slightly disappointed
in some vague way; and when they parted she noticed that his handshake
was slightly limp, as of one who would not grasp life tightly enough to
compel it to surrender its good things to him.

But in her own sanctum she rallied herself, and hardened her heart,
asking what had it to do with her after all, and how could his success
or non-success in any way concern her.

In 1902, "Cuddy and Other Folks" was written and in 1903, "The Cottonwood's
Story."
This same year, "The Overflowing Waters," the story of the 1903 flood,
and one of her best bits of heart writing paid for the school books
of almost a thousand unfortunate children.

"Cuddy's Baby" appeared in 1908, followed the next year with "In Old
Quivera," a thread of Coronado history. "The Price of The Prairies,"
three weeks after publication in the fall of 1910, became Kansas'
best seller. "The Peace of The Solomon Valley" came out in 1911 and
proved a popular gift book. "The Wall of Men," Mrs. McCarter's 1912
offering should be one of the required books in Kansas schools. It
is authentic history and the close of the story leaves every
Kansan with a greater respect and love for the state and the heroic
pioneers who stood as a living wall between Kansas and the slave
question. 1913 gave us the "Master's Degree," considered by many
her best work.

This year we have "Winning The Wilderness."
Mrs. McCarter founded the Club Member and organized the Sorosis, serving
as president seven years and two terms as president of the Topeka
Federation of Women's Clubs. Baker University, at Baldwin, Kansas,
gave her an honorary Master's Degree in 1909, its semi-centennial
anniversary.

BESSIE MAY BELLMAN. and JUNE BELLMAN HENTHORNE.

Bessie May Bellman and June Bellman Henthorne, her daughter, hail
from Winfield.

They write both prose and verse and Mrs. Henthorne was a reporter for
years. Mrs. Bellman, when a girl, lived five years on a cattle ranch and
to those five lonely years she credits her habit of introspection,
meditation and writing. Much of her poetry and short stories are used
in platform work.

Red Leaves.

Red leaves-- Aflame in the air, aflame in the trees.
Blue streams, smoky hills-- Gold, gold the sunlight spills-- Red
leaves!

Dead Leaves--

A swirl in the air-asleep 'neath the trees.

Gone every lark and swallow-- Haunting echoes bid me follow-- Dead
leaves!
Bessie May Bellman--

Mrs. Henthorne's "If" is published in a New York reader.

"If, in a bird-heart, beating 'neath the gray There chants a song, no
matter what the day.

If, in a bird-heart happy sunbeams shine, Why not in mine?

If, in a flower-face, beat down by rain, The hope of clear skies be
in spite of pain-- If, in a flower-face a great hope shine, Why not in
mine?"

AMANDA T. JONES.

One of the few Kansas women to have a place in "Who's Who" was the
late Amanda T.

Jones of Junction City. She was one of the most prolific poets of
Kansas.

Her "Atlantic" is a story of the rebellion; "Utah and Other Poems;"
"A Prairie Idyl;" "Flowers and a Weed;" and "Rubaiyat of Solomon
Valley" are volumes of verse.

Her prose: "Children's Stories," "Fairy Arrows" and "The White
Blackbird;" "A Psychic Autobiography," published in 1908; "Man and
Priest," a story of psychic detection; "Mother of Pioneers," and a
novel ready for publication, "A Daughter of Wall St."

Miss Jones originated a working women's home and patented many inventions,
mostly household necessities.

* * * * *

CHARLOTTE F. WILDER.

Charlotte Frances Wilder, Manhattan, has been writing half a century
and it has won for her a place in Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris,
"entitled to go down to posterity, her lifework preserved as
information for future generations."

She has written "Land of The Rising Sun," "Sister Ridenour's
Sacrifice," "Christmas Cheer In All Lands," "Easter Gladness," "Mission
Ships," "The Child's Own Book" and "The Wonderful Story of Jesus."
Her essays, alone, would make a volume, original and interesting.

She has written for the press since sixteen years of age and has
been a Bible teacher forty years.

ANNA L. JANUARY.

Osawatomie claims Anna L.

January, the author of "Historic Souvenir of Osawatomie, Kansas,"
"John Brown Battle Grounds," "Calvin Monument," and "Lookout and
Park;" also, numerous poems.

Mrs. January is a native of Wilmington, Ohio, coming to Kansas in
1898.

She taught school three years and in 1901 married D. A. January of
Osawatomie. They have one child, a son of four years.

An active worker in the Congress of Mothers and interested in
temperance and suffrage work, Mrs.

January still finds time to write many short poems.

HATTIE HORNER LOUTHAN.

Hattie Horner Louthan, a former White Water, Kansas girl, is the author
of five books and many contributions to newspapers and first class
magazines. After graduation at the Normal School, Emporia, in 1883,
Miss Horner engaged in teaching and literary work. Ten years later, she
became the wife of Overton Earl Louthan, who died in 1906.

She is editor of the Great Southwest and a member of the staff of the
Denver Republican. Her first volume of poems came out in 1885; the
next year, "Some Reasons For Our Choice." "Not At Home," a book of
travels, was published in 1889; "Collection of Kansas Poetry," in
1891; and "Thoughts Adrift," in 1902.

Her work is versatile; the rhyme easy flowing and strong.

GEORGIANA FREEMAN McCOY. and MARY FREEMAN STARTZMAN.

Georgiana Freeman McCoy, Wichita, has taught music in Kansas longer than
any other teacher in the state and incidentally writes verse. She
remodeled Elizabeth Browning's "A Drama of Exile" and wrote the musical
setting for Simon Buchhalter, the Viennese pianist and composer.

A sister, Mary Freeman Startzman, while living in Fort Scott, wrote
a volume of poems, "Wild Flowers."

EVA MORLEY MURPHY.

Eva Morley Murphy of Goodland, recent candidate for Congress, is author
of two books: "The Miracle on the Smoky and Other Stories," and
"Lois Morton's Investment."

She is a descendant of Nathaniel Perry of Revolutionary fame, and of
Rodger Williams; an active temperance worker; and one of the women who
made equal suffrage possible in Kansas.

SALLIE F. TOLER.

Mrs. Sallie F. Toler, Wichita, has written on every subject from
pigs and pole cats to patriotism.

She is the author of several plays and three vaudeville sketches.

A comedy, a racing romance, "Handicapped;" "Thekla," a play in three
acts; "On Bird's Island," a four-act play; and "Waking Him Up," a
farce, are played in stock now.

Mrs. Toler contributes to many papers and lectures on "The Short
Story" and "The Modern Drama."

MARGARET PERKINS.

As a 1914 Christmas offering, Margaret Perkins, a Hutchinson High
School teacher, gave us her volume of beautiful poems.

"The Love Letters of a Norman Princess" is the love story, in verse,
of Hersilie, a ward and relative of William, The Conqueror, and
Eric, a kinsman of the unfortunate King Harold.

"I thought once, in a dream, that Love came near With silken flutter
of empurpled wings That wafted faint, strange fragrance from the
things Abloom where age and season never sear.

The joy of mating birds was in my ear, And flamed my path with dancing
 daffodils Whose splendor melted into greening hills Upseeking,
like my spirit, to revere."

"Before you came, this heart of mine A fairy garden seemed With lavender
and eglantine; And lovely lilies gleamed Above the purple-pansy
sod Where ruthless passion never trod."

"If Heaven had been pleased to let you be A keeper of the sheep, a
peasant me, Within a shepherd's cottage thatched with vine Now
might we know the bliss of days divine."

--"We are part of Heaven's scheme, You and I:
Child of sunshine and the dew I was earthly--born as you.

"Yet my little hour I go, Troubled maid, Even where the storm blasts
blow, Unafraid; Confident that from the sod All things upward wend
to God."

"Dear heart, the homing hour is here, The task is done.

Toilers, and they who course the deer Turn, one by one, At day's
demise, Where dwells a deathless glow In loving eyes.
I hear them hearthward go To castle, or to cottage on the lea; But
him I love comes never home to me."

The peaks that rift the saffron sheen Of sunset skies In purple
loveliness, when seen By nearer eyes, Are bleakly bare.

To brave those boulders gray No climbers dare.

O, in some future may This mountain mass of unfulfilled desires Be unto
me as yonder haloed spires!"

Miss Perkins is the compiler of "Echoes of Pawnee Rock," and writes
short stories and poems for the magazines.

Some of her verse is published in Woolard's "Father."

ANNA E. ARNOLD.

Anna E. Arnold, Cottonwood Falls, Superintendent of Chase County
Schools, is a thorough Kansan, and a farm product. She was born at
Whiting, Jackson County, but when a very small child, her parents
moved to Chase and all her life since has been spent in that county.

Until the last few years, she lived on a farm.

She is a graduate of the State University and has taught in the
grade and high schools.

In 1905, she became a candidate for Superintendent of Schools of Chase
County.

Her success and her unusual ability as a teacher were rewarded by
a two to one majority on a close county ticket.

At the second term, she had no opposition and out of 1214 votes cast, she
received all but 29. The present year, after four elections, is her
seventh continuous year as Superintendent of Chase County. In addition
to her official duties, Miss Arnold has written two text-books.

Her "Civics and Citizenship" in 1912 was adopted as the state
text-book on civil government for use in the public schools of
Kansas.

It is being used by a large number of womens' clubs. Many outlines
for club work on civic subjects have come from Miss Arnold's pen.

Her second textbook, "A History of Kansas," the first book printed
under the new State Publication Law, has also been adopted by the
text-book commission.

Miss Arnold is considered one of the foremost educational leaders
of the state.

Topeka gives us Anna Deming Gray, a writer of negro dialect stories,
stories for children, and some verse.

Elizabeth Barr Arthur, has written a number of books, histories of several
Kansas counties and some volumes of poems, "Washburn Ballads."

Mrs. Sarah E. Roby is a writer of both prose and verse.

A granddaughter, Marjory Roby, has written a number of stories and plays.
Eva Bland Black contributes poems and song lyrics to the magazines.

She served her apprenticeship as reporter and city editor of the
Journal and Evening News of Garnett and as associate editor of the
Concordia "Magnet."

Mrs. Isabel McArthur is a natural poet and song writer.

She has published one volume of verse, "Every Body Loves a Lover." Her
last song, "When The Bloom Is On The Cherry At Sardou" is widely
sung.

Edna E. Haywood is author of "Fifty Common Birds Around the Capital."

Mrs. Mary A. Cornelius, while a resident of Topeka, wrote four books,
"Little Wolf," "Uncle Nathan's Farm," "The White Flame," and "Why?

A Kansas Girl's Query." Another book is ready for publication. Mrs.
Mary Worrall Hudson, wife of the late General J.

K. Hudson, former editor of the Topeka Capital, is author of "Two
Little Maids And Their Friends," "Esther, The Gentile," and many
short stories and poems.

Her classic prose-poem: "In The Missouri Woods" is considered her
masterpiece.

Mrs.
Sara Josephine Albright, formerly of Topeka, now of Leavenworth,
is a sweet singer of childlife.

Her volume of verse, "With The Children" is lullabies and mother-love
poems.

A book of stories for children will soon be ready for
publication.

Jessie Lewellyn Call, deceased, the clever and beautiful daughter of
the first Populist governor of Kansas, was a well-known essayist
and short story writer.

For many years she was one of the editors of the Chicago
Inter-Ocean.

Lawrence claims Dorothy Canfield Fisher, a writer of both fiction
and text-books and many short stories.

She is the author of "Corneille And Racine In England," "English
Rhetoric And Composition," "What Shall We Do Now," "Gunhild," "The
Squirrel Cage" and "The Montessori Mother."

Louise C. Don Carlos has written "A Battle In The Smoke," one of the best
Kansas works on fiction.

She did special work on the Nashville Tennessee Banner and writes a
great deal of magazine verse.

Mrs. Anna W. Arnett, a Lawrence teacher, writes verse and songs. In
addition, she has issued a primer, the Kansas text-book and a
primary reading chart for which she has a United States patent.

Margaret Lynn, one of the faculty of Kansas University, is a writer
of short stories and "A Step-Daughter Of The Prairies."

Mrs. A. B.

Butler of Manhattan wrote "The Trial And Condemnation of Jesus
Christ From a Lawyer's Point of View;" a novel, "Ad Astra Per
Aspera;" and much newspaper work.

Mrs.

Elizabeth Champney, a former teacher in the Kansas State Agricultural
College, is the author of more than twenty books and many short
stories.

"Three Vassar Girls Abroad," "Witch Winnie Series," "Dames And
Daughters of Colonial Days," "Romance of French Abbeys," "Romance
of Italian Villas," and "Romance of Imperial Rome" are her most
popular works.

Sadie E. Lewis, Hutchinson, is the author of "Hard Times In Kansas" and
other verse.

Her daughter, Ida Margaret Glazier, is a poet and song writer.

Mrs Alice McAllily wrote "Terra-Cotta" and many other books.

Lillian W. Hale, Kansas City, is author of verse, short stories, and a
novel. Another novel will be ready for publication this autumn.

Lois Oldham Henrici, a one-time Sabetha and Parsons woman, is the
author of "Representative Women" and many good short stories.

Laura D. Congdon, a Newton pioneer, is a verse and short story
writer.

Mary H. Finn, Sedgwick, writes beautiful verse and much prose. Jennie
C.
Graves, Pittsburg, writes poetry and moving picture plays. Mrs. Johannas
Bennett, another Pittsburg woman, has written an historical novel,
"La Belle San Antone."

Florence L.

Snow, Neosho Falls, is an artistic and finished writer of verse and
prose. She is the author of "The Lamp of Gold." Sharlot M. Hall, Lincoln,
writes prose and verse. A volume of poems, "Cactus And Pine," "History
of Arizona," "A Woman of the Frontier," "The Price of The Star" and
short stories are her important works. Mrs. A. S. McMillan, Lyons, a
poetess, song writer and licensed preacher, writes clever verse,
much of which has been set to music.

"Land Where Dreams Come True" is her best known poem.

Kittie Skidmore Cowen, a former Columbus woman, is author of "An Unconditional
Surrender," a civil war story.

"The Message of Hagar," a study of the Mormon question will be in
the press soon. Miss Mary E. Upshaw, McPherson, wrote verse at the age
of seven and published her first story at fifteen. She has a book in
preparation which she expects to publish at an early date.

Jeanette Scott Benton, formerly of Fort Scott, writes short stories
novelettes, and stories for children.

May Belleville Brown of Salina, has a very clever pen, as has, also
Mrs.

Lulu R.

Fuhr of Meade, the author of "Tenderfoot Tales."

Mrs. E. M.

Adams, Mound City, writes exquisite verse and in the past, had many
short stories to her credit.

Mrs. C. W. Smith, Stockton, writes both prose and verse.

Cara A. Thomas Hoover, formerly of Halstead, Harvey County, now
living in Rialto, California, writes prose and beautiful verse. Rose
Hartwick Thorpe, the author of "Curfew Shall Not Ring To-night,"
was a Kansan in the early sixties.

She lived at Wilmington.

Miss Margaret Stevenson, Olathe, is a writer of books for the blind. She
has some short stories, nature and text-books published.

Lelia Hardin Bugg, Wichita, has written "The Prodigal Daughter,"
"The People of Our Parish," and "Orchids."

Edna Thacher Russ, also of Wichita, writes short stories and
educational articles.

Mrs. E.

Hamilton Myers, Englewood, is a dramatic writer and a poet of rare
talents. Being a musician, much of her verse is used for songs.

Mrs. Myers contributes to the English papers. Her first story was published
by a magazine which had accepted writings of her mother's.

Other than literature proper, we have Mrs. Lillian M. Mitchner, of Topeka,
a scientific writer; Mrs. Lumina C. R. Smythe, a writer of verse, also
of Topeka, who is co-author with her late husband in the revised
"Flora And Check List of Kansas."

Among the clever newspaper women of the state are Margie Webb Tennal,
Sabetha; Maud C.

Thompson, Howard; Frances Garside, formerly of Atchison, now with
the New York Journal; Mrs.

E. E.

Kelley, Toronto; Anna Carlson, Lindsborg; Mrs. Mary Riley, Kansas City;
and Isabel Worrel Ball, a Larned woman, who bears the distinction
of being the only woman given a seat in the congressional press
gallery.

Grace D. Brewer, Girard, has been a newspaper woman and magazine short
story writer for ten years.

Among the early Kansas writers are Clarinda Howard Nichols,
Mrs. A. B.
Bartlett, Lucy B.

Armstrong, Sarah Richart, Mrs.

Porter Sherman, and Mary Tenny Gray, all of Wyandotte and Mrs. C. H.
Cushing of Leavenworth.

Sara T. D. Robinson, the wife of the first governor of Kansas, was
one of the very first women writers of the state.

Her "Kansas, Interior And Exterior" was published in 1856 and went
through ten editions up to 1889.

INDEX.

Adams, Mrs. E. M.

Albright, Sara Josephine Allerton, Ellen Palmer Aplington, Kate
A.
Armstrong, Lucy B.
Arnett, Anna W.
Arnold, Anna E.

Arthur, Elizabeth Barr

Ball, Isabel Warrel Bartlett, Mrs. A. B.
Bellman, Bessie May Bennett, Mrs. Johannas Benton, Jeanette Scott
Black, Eva Bland Brewer, Grace D.
Brown, May Bellville Bugg, Leila Hardin Butler, Mrs. A. B.
Call, Jessie Lewellyn Carlson, Anna Champney, Elizabeth Clark,
Esther M."Aren't you a rather old?" she asked.

Again his ready laugh rang out.

"I'll give frankness for frankness.  I am forty-eight."

"Goodness!... and I am twenty-five."

"Is that all?  Then allow me to say you are a remarkably clever young
woman."

"A good many breadwinners are; they have to be.  Some of them are too
clever even for Cabinet Ministers," and she chuckled joyfully.

In the darkness, she did not see the quick gleam in his eyes, as he
retorted:

"I don't think many Cabinet Ministers have the luck to meet a
breadwinner who is as attractive as she is clever."

"And if the did," sarcastically, "I suppose they would drop the
notoriety yarn and find time to consider whether the working woman is
treated fairly or not.  The weakness in her defence at present seems
solely that not enough pretty women make up her defenders.  Bah!  You
all ought to have kittens to play with, and nanny goats and woolly
lambs."

"I don't know why you include me.  What have I done?"

"Well, if you're going to Downing Street?"

"Why shouldn't I be going to a dinner-party?"

She turned and glanced up with a daredevil light in her eyes that
delighted him.

"I not only think you a member of Parliament, but, judging by your
fatuous air of superiority, I should imagine you are positively a
full-blown Cabinet Minister."

He busied himself with his steering wheel, while little chuckles of
enjoyment came out of his muffler.

"And supposing I were?" he said at last.

"Goodness!...  I hope you're not?... " in quick alarm.

"Why do you hope so?"

"Oh, I don't know, except that I've never known a Cabinet Minister in
my life, and I never expected, if I met one, to treat him like... like
-"

"An old and fatuous lump of superiority!" with a gay laugh.  "Well,
little woman, you needn't be in the least sorry.  I don't know that
I've ever enjoyed a motor ride more.  When will you come again?"

"_Are_ you a Cabinet Minister?..." she asked helplessly.

"Well, I hope you won't disapprove, for I have to plead guilty to being
Sir Edwin Crathie."

"Sir Edwin Crathie?" in abashed tones.

"They called me Squib at school."  He said it in a whimsical, humorous
voice, looking down at her with very friendly eyes.

But Hal had grown silent.

"I'm afraid by your manner you do disapprove?"

"It is certainly embarrassing.  I would rather you had been... well,
just any one."

"You'll get used to it," still with the twinkle in his eyes.  "In the
meantime you haven't answered my question.  When will you come for
another ride?"

She did not reply, and he leaned a little closer.

"You will come again?"

"I'm afraid Brother Dudley wouldn't like it"; and then they both
laughed.

"Will you come in?" as they drew up before her door.

"I'm afraid I haven't time; and besides, I'm a little afraid of Brother
Dudley.  I only feel equal to the Prime Minister this evening."

She held out her hand.

"Well, thank you ever so much.  You saved me from a dreadfully tight
corner."

"The thanks should be all mine; you saved me from unmitigated boredom.
I curses my chauffeur for going down with 'flu' to-day, but now I fee
ready to raise his salary for it."

He had pulled of his thick motoring-glove, and was holding her hand in
a firm, lingering clasp, which she quickly cut short, tucking both her
hands into her ulster pockets, and standing up very straight and slim
in the lamplight.

"I'll have to go though the confessional now," she told him, "and sit
on the stool of repentance for supper."

"No; don't repent; come again."  He moved nearer.

"I'm naturally a very busy man, and I can't make engagements offhand,
but I can easily get at you on the telephone.  Will you come some
afternoon, about half-past four?"

"I think you are very rash.  How do you know I shall not bring the
colours, and wave them wildly down the street, shouting 'Votes for
Women'?"

"I'll risk it.  Will you come?"

She moved away, latch-key in hand.

"I don't know.  I won't promise, anyway.  Good-bye, and my best thanks."

There was a rush of light through an open door, a last bright smile,
and he found himself alone in the street.


CHAPTER XIII


When Hal entered the sitting-room and met Dudley's eyes she felt, as
she afterwards described it to Lorraine, that she was in for it.  Yet
it was not so very late, barely half-past nine.  On the table her
supper was still waiting for her.

"We've had a slight accident," she said, taking the bully by the horns;
"something went wrong with the steering gear, and it delayed us.  Have
you had supper?" noticing the table was still laid for two.

"I always have supper at eight on Sundays, because Mrs. White has to
clear it away herself, as you know.  Isn't Dick coming in?"

"No.  He's -" Hall stopped short, considering the advantages of
prevarication.

"I wanted to see him," testily.  "He said he would give me a particular
address to-night.  Why is he in such a hurry?"

"It wasn't Dick who brought me."

She took off her motor-bonnet and threw it on the sofa, running her
hands through her bright hair, and rubbing her cheeks, which were a
little cold.

"Not Dick?..."  Dudley looked up from his book peremptorily.  "Who did
bring you?"

Hal took her seat at the table.

"Well, you see, we had a slight accident.  We had just stopped to
examine the steering gear, when another car came round a curve and
crashed into us.  Dick's car was damaged, and..." she reached across
for the salad, and helped herself with as unconcerned an air as she
could muster...  "Oh!... onions!... how scrumptious!...  Mrs. White
always remembers my plebeian tastes, but not my patrician ones."

"Well!" he suggested coldly.  "Dick's car was damaged, and -"

"Dick had to stay and nurse it."

"Then dit you come home by train?"

"There was no train.  There was nothing else."

"Nothing else than what?"

"Nothing but the car that run into us, or going to an inn for the night
with Dick.  I was afraid you wouldn't like that," with a mischievous
gleam.

"My likes and dislikes are not, apparently, of the smallest moment to
you, or you would not have been motoring late on Sunday at all."

"Dick can't go other days."

"Who was in this other car?"

"A man."

Again he glanced up quickly.

"Any one else?"

"No.  His chauffeur is down with 'flu'."

"Was it some one you knew, then?"

"No.  He told me on the way in."

"Am I to gather that you returned to London alone, in a motor-car, with
a perfect stranger?"

"I'm afraid you are."

"Why didn't Dick come with you?  Surely if he takes you out for the day
he might at least see you safely home.  I never heard of such
proceedings in my life.  The man might have been a positive blackguard.
 Had you any idea who he was?"

"No, none; but what's the use of making a fuss!  It's all right now,
and I'm safely at home; which is surely better than being in some weird
village all night, and you wondering what on earth had become of me."

"That is not the question.  It's the whole circumstance from beginning
to end.  I consider Dick's behaviour most reprehensible."

"He couldn't leave his car alone there in the middle of a Kentish high
road.  He had to stay somewhere near."

"I think he should have considered you of more importance than the car.
 To let you return alone, at that hour, with a perfect stranger, is the
most unheard of proceeding.  I shall certainly tell Dick what I think
of him."

"It wasn't Dick's fault," loyally.  "I just took the matter into my own
hands and came.  Dick had nothing to do with it.  In fact, I insisted
upon his remaining behind."

"Oh, of course you would.  You only seem to be happy when you are
flying in the face of some convention or other.  But Dick is older than
you, and he knows my views on these matters.  He owed it to me to see
you safely home."

"But since I am safely home!..." obstinately.

"You very well might not have been.  What the stranger himself must
think of you I don't know.  Have you any idea who he was?"

"Yes.  Sir Edwin Crathie?"

"Sir Edwin Crathie!  Do you mean the Cabinet Minister?"

"So he said."

"And did you tell him who you were?"

Again there was a gleam under the lowered lashes.

"I did; but I can't say he either recognised our historie name or
seemed much impressed.  I really don't believe he had ever heard of me."

Dudley refused to smile.  Instead the frown deepened on his face.

"That is probably just as well.  Your actions of late cannot be said to
be entirely to your credit.  What is this tale about Thursday night?  I
met St. Quintin's father with Uncle Bruce this morning in the Park.
You told me Quin's aunt was going to chaperone you.  Did she or did she
not?"

"I told you Lady Bounce was going to chaperone me.  Lady Bounce _did_
chaperone me."

"Is Lady Bounce Quin's aunt?"

"That depends."  Hal pushed away her chair, wishing vaguely that
fathers and uncles would mind their own business.  Either incident
alone she could have coped with, but it was a distinct imposition to
expect her to manage both at once, and on Sunday night into the bargain.

"I can only presume you lent yourself to such a vulgar proceeding as
Quin dressing up as a woman and acting chaperone.  Is that the truth?"

"Not entirely.  You see, he wasn't an ordinary woman.  He went as his
aunt, Lady Phyllis Fenton.  His personification was a masterpiece."

Dudley began to pace the room.  His thin lips were compressed into a
straight line, and his whole air distincly worried.

"What you seem quite unable to perceive is the way in which these
incidents reflect upon your good taste and upon my guardianship."

Hal grew suddenly nettled.

"It is nonsense to talk of guardianship now.  I am twenty-five, and I
earn my own living.  I am perfectly well able to take care of myself."

"No; that is just what you are not.  You are so rash and inconsequent."

"Well, anyhow I get a good deal out of my life, while you -"

He remembered his own Thursday evening and intercepted:

"It is possible to get a great deal out of life without outraging every
convention.  Do you imagine either Ethel or Doris Hayward would do the
wild things you do?"

"Ethel Hayward is a brick.  She couldn't be straitlaced anyhow, nor
narrow-minded.  Doris would do anything under the sun that suited her
own ends."

She got up, and turned away without perceiving his frown, beginning to
gather up her paraphernalia.  He stopped short in his walk.

"If it really was Sir Edwin Crathie who brought you home, I must write
and thank him, I think."

"I shouldn't bother; probably it wasn't him at all; only some
third-rate actor."

Dudley tried to see her face, not sure if she was serious or not, but
she kept her head averted as she added:

"Quite possibly it was Lord Bounce."

"You are always treating a serious subject with levity," he complained.
 "What am I to think?  Do you or do you not believe your escort was Sir
Edwin Crathie?"

"Well, as he was awfully afraid I might be a militant suffragette, I
think he really was a Cabinet Minister."

"I hope you entirely undeceived him on that score," drily.

"Not at all.  I told him I was tingling to scratch him and bite him,"
and the ghost of a smile crossed her lips.

Dudley relapsed into silent displeasure, and for a few moments neither
spoke.  Then Hal, with her garments on her arm, came round to him with
a frank, affectionate air.

"Dudley, don't make mountains out of molehills over nothing.  I know I
am a little wild.  I can't help it - we seem to have got mixed up
somehow.  You've got all the decorum and nice, refined feelings of a
charming woman, and I've got the enterprise and 'don't-care' spirit of
a man.  It isn't any use fighting against facts.  You must take me as I
am, and make the best of it.  I can't change now; and I don't know that
I would if I could."

"I don't suppose you would.  You positively glory in the very traits
that I deplore"; but his voice sounded mollified.

"Oh well, old man, you wouldn't like me to be helpless, and foolish,
and woolly-lambified, would you?  It wouldn't be half so interesting.
Just fancy if you had a sister like Doris Hayward, can you imagine
anything tamer?"

He stiffened again, but she did not notice it.

"As for Thursday night, you never ought to have heard about it, and you
never would have done if Uncle Bruce had not been such an old telltale.
 Just wait till I get him alone; that's all.  Anyhow, he didn't think
it a heinous crime did he ?  I expect he gave a great laugh that
startled every one within hearing."

As that was exactly what had happened, Dudley made no comment.

"And Sir Edwin Crathie would only have thought me a fool if I had been
afraid to come back with him.  These things will happen occasionally.
They are not worth worrying about.  You are too anxious over trifles,
Dudley."  She moved away towards the door.  "Well, good-night, don't
forget to return thanks that anyhow I am not in a hospital, generally
smashed up."

She left him, and retired to bed, feeling a little depressed.  Of
course he had not forgiven her, nor would he see things from her point
of view.  She almost wished he did not mind; but all her life she had
had an affection that was almost adoration for her one brother, and it
always depressed her to displease him, however indifferent she might
seem.

She awoke next morning with the sense of depression still lingering,
and set off for the City in far from her usual spirits.  The office
seemed dingy and dull, and the routine wearisome.  It felt like ages
and ages since she had driven home through the darkness in Sir Edwin's
beautiful car.  She wondered if it was real at all; only what else
should make all the old friends at the office appear so uninteresting
and commonplace.

She speculated a little forlornly as to whether she would ever be
likely to see him again, and decided it was most unlikely, and that
probably he had already forgotten the whole incident.

And just when she had reached that point in her meditations, the
telephone boy came to tell her some one was asking for her.  She asked
him dispiritedly who it was, and he replied that the gentleman had
declined to give a name.

Hal shut herself into the case, took down the receiver, and, still
dispiritedly, asked: "Hullo!  Are you there?"

"Is that Miss Pritchard?" asked a voice that made her pulses hasten.

"Yes?  Who is that?"

"The mere worm," came back the cheery answer.

"What's the matter?  You sound somewhat funereal.  Was Brother Dudley
very angry?"

"Terrible.  I am still recovering.  He seemed to have grave doubts as
to whether you really were the eminent person you professed to be!"

"Oh, he did, did he?  And what did you say?"

"That it was quite possible you were only a third-rate actor all the
time."

"Thanks.  I shall not grow vain on your compliments.  Have you any
grave doubts yourself?"

"I don't mind either way."

"Thanks again.  Well, I am speaking to you from my own private sanctum
at the House of Commons; and if you want to make sure, you can take my
number, and ring up the Exchange and inquire."

"I'll take your word for it."

"Good girl.  You don't sound quite so obstreperous as you were last
night.  What's the matter?"

"I'm only Mondayfied.  The office is always boring on a Monday."

"I'm sorry I can't suggest a spin this afternoon, but I'm too much
engaged until Wednesday.  Will you come on Wednesday?  Well?" as Hal,
appeared to be meditating.

"Where do you propose going?" she asked.

"Anywhere you like.  I'd better not fetch you from the office though.
I'll pick you up just casually in St. Jame's Park.  Will you be there
at five, near the Archway?"

"All right, if I can get away.  How shall I let you know if I change my
mind?"

"Don't do anything so childish.  The run will do you good after a
stuffy office.  I'll be there to the minute.  Good-bye," and he rang
off without waiting for a reply.

Hal went back to her work, with a pleasurable sensation that instead of
grey stuffiness there was joyful sunshine.  She had never imagined for
a moment het would actually carry out his suggestion of a meetingt; and
here they were with an actual appointment.

It was so odd, too, that they had not properly seen each other yet;
only having met in the light of street lamps; and she fell to wondering
eagerly what he was like in broad daylight.  A voice whispered,
"Perhaps you won't like him at all, and will wish you had not gone";
but her love of adventure easily silenced it, and she looked forward to
her outing without any misgivings.

Once she thought she would go an tell Lorraine about it first, but
later decided it would be more enjoyable to to so afterwards, and kept
her own counsel; which perhaps was not entirely wise, seeing how much
more cause Lorraine had to know the world than she had.


CHAPTER XIV


Sir Edwin Crathie had come to the front very rapidly under the auspices
of the Liberal Government.  Without having any special worth, he was
sufficiently brilliant and unscrupulous to brush obstacles aside
without compunction, and assert himself in a manner that impressed his
hearers with the notion that he was very clever, very thorough, and
very reliable.

Those who knew him superficially believed him extra-ordinarily clever.
Those who knew him intimately sometimes shrugged their shoulders.  He
was possessed undoubtedly of a certain flashy sort of cleverness, but
some of his greatest skill existed in imposing it upon others as
strenght and insight.

As may be imagined, such a man was not much troubled with principles.
If a step was likely to help him forward with his ambitions, he took it
without considering the moral aspect.  If no help was likely to follow,
he only took it if it happened to please his fancy.  To say that he had
climbed by women was to put it mildly.

Many of his steps he had taken on women's hearts, trampling them
mercilessly in the process.  And since he was admittedly unscrupulous,
it was not surprising, for he was possessed not only of an attractive
appearance, but of great personal magnetism when he chose to exert it.

He was a bachelor because so far he had considered the single state
best forwarded his aims, but a growing and imperative need for money
was now causing him to look round among the richest heiresses for some
one to pay his debts in consideration of being made Lady Crathie.

In the meantime Hal's independent spirit and freshness suggested an
entertaining interlude; and as she attracted him more strongly than any
woman had done of late, he decided to follow up their chance friendship
just for the amusement of it.

In consequence, he felt quite boyishly eager for the hours to pass on
Wednesday, and when at last it was time to start, dismissed his
chauffeur with a curt sentence, and started off alone.  The chauffeur,
it may be mentioned, merely glanced after him, and with a shrug of his
shoulders wondered "what the master was up to now."

When Sir Edwin reached the meeting-place he was not particularly
surprised to find no signs of Hal.  He believed she would come; but
evidently she liked being perverse, and would purposely keep him
waiting.  He ran the car slowly back again, scanning each pedestrian
ahead with a certain anxious eagerness, wondering how he would like her
in broad daylight.

On returning to the Archway, and still finding no one waiting, he
alighted with a pretence of examining some part of the car, and looked
back over the paths leading down from Piccadilly.

And something in his mental regions felt rather foolishly glad when he
recognised her afar off.

He had never seen her walk, but his instinct told him Hal would move
with just the graceful, swinging stride of the tall, slim figure coming
towards him,  and carry her head and shoulders with just such a
dauntless, grenadier attitude.

He found himself standing quite still, with his hands deep in his
overcoat pockets, watching her.  Her costume, too, pleased his
fastidious taste.  Of course a first-class tailor had cut a coat and
skirt with a fit and hang like that; and the small hat, if it had
nothing Parisian about it, anyhow suited the wearer and dress to
perfection.

He noted with quiet pleasure that she showed no signs of embarrassment
when she met his watching gaze, merely crossing the road with the same
jaunty, upright walk, and a gleam of fun in her eyes.

"Hullo!" was her greeting.  "Hope I haven't kept you waiting.  I've had
a busy afternoon helping my chief to give you and The Right Honourable
Hayes Matheson a good slanging."

"Oh, you have, have you?"

The grey eyes were growing more and more approving, as he noted each
detail most likely to appeal to a man who had made a study of women for
many years.  The shapely little ears with the glossy hair curling round
them, the full, rounded throat, the determined little chin, the frank,
fearless eyes.

He still hardly knew whether she was pretty or not, but he discerned
wery quickly that she was amply blessed with that rare gift of
personality and humour that is so much more durable than a pretty face.

In spite, however, of the incomparable success of Tabachetti's work, I
am tempted to question whether quiet and reposeful sculpture is not
always most permanently pleasing, as not involving so peremptory a
demand for the change that cannot, of course, ensue. At any rate, as
one lie generally leads to others, so with the attempt to render
action without action's most essential characteristic, there is a departure
from realism which involves a host of other departures if the error
is to be distributed so as to avoid offence.

In other words, convention, or a composition between artist and spectator,
whereby, in view of admitted bankruptcy and failure of possible
payment in full, a less thing shall be taken as a greater, has superseded
nature at a very early point in the proceedings.

Nevertheless, within the limits of the composition we expect to be
paid in full; whatever the dividend is we are to have all of it,
and we sometimes take a different view of the terms of the settlement
to that taken by those with whom we are dealing.

It being admitted that the object of the Sacro Monte workmen was
to bring a scene home to the spectator in all possible fulness, we
expect to have a quotum of our own ideas of the scene, whatever
they may be, put before us, and are more or less offended when we
find a composition which we consider to be unreal even within its
own covenanted limitations.

The fault, however, rests greatly with ourselves, in forgetting
that it must be the ideal of medieval Italians and not our own that
we should look for, and that their ideas concerning the chief actors
in the sacred dramas were not as ours are.

For us, the [Greek text which cannot be reproduced] view of history
has been gathered to its fathers, and [Greek text which cannot be
reproduced] is reigning in its stead.

We believe that we have advanced upon, not degenerated from our
ancestors, except here and there as by way of back eddy, but Italians
in the Middle Ages may be excused for having been overawed by the
remains of the old splendour which met them everywhere; and even
if this had not been so, to children and half-educated people that
which happened long ago is always grander and larger than any like
thing that happened recently.

As regards the sacred dramas this grandioseness of conception extended
even to the villains of the piece, who must be greater, more
muscular, thorough-going, unredeemed villains than any now existing.

The realism which would have proved so touching and grateful now--for
we should have found it turned into idealism through the impress
of that seal which it is time's glory to set upon aged things--would
in the Middle Ages have seemed as unworthy, and as much below the
dignity of the subject as modern treatment of the same subjects,
with modern costumes, would seem to ourselves.

Ages thwart and play at cross purposes with one another, as parents
do with children; and our forefathers have been at infinite trouble
and expense to give us what we do not want, and have withheld what
they might have given with very little trouble, and we should have
held as priceless.

We cannot help it; it always has been and always will be so. Omne ignotum
pro magnifico is a condition of existence or at any rate of progress,
and the unknown of the past takes a splendour reflected from that
of the future.

The artists and public of the sixteenth century could no more find what
they deemed a worthy ideal in their own familiar, and as it seemed to
them prosaic age than we in ours, and every age must make its art
work to its own liking and not to that of other people.

Caimi was thinking mainly of his own generation; he could not wait
a couple of hundred years or so till the work should become touching
and quaint through age; he wanted it to be effective then and there,
which if the Apostles were shown as mere common peasants and fishermen
of the then present day, it would not and could not be--not at any
rate with the pit, and it was to the pit as well as to the boxes
that these pieces were being played.

Let the ablest sculptors of the present time be asked to treat sacred
subjects as was attempted at Varallo, with the condition that they
must keep closely to the costume of to-day, and they would probably
one and all of them decline the task.

We know very well that, laugh at it as we may, our costume will three
hundred years hence be as interesting as that of any other
age, but that is not to the point: it has got to be effective now,
whereas our familiarity with it has bred contempt.

In the earlier ages both of painting and sculpture these considerations,
obvious as they are, were not taken into account.

The first artists during the medieval revival of art rose as little
to theory as children do.

They found the mere doing at all so difficult that they were at the
mercy in great measure of what they could get.

The real was as much as, and more than, they could manage, and they
would have idealised long before they did, if they had not felt the
task too much for them.

They could, with infinite trouble, they hardly knew how, save themselves
yet so as by fire and get a head or figure of some sort that was
not quite unlike what it was meant for, but they could only do this
by helping their unpractised memories to the facts morsel by morsel,
treating nature as though she were a stuffed set piece, getting her
to sit as still for as long a time as she could be persuaded to do,
and then going all over her touch for touch with a brush like the
point of a pin.

If the early masters had been able to do all they would have liked
to have done, no doubt they would most of them have been as vulgar
as we are; fortunately their incompetence stood them in good stead
and saved them from becoming the Guidos, Domenichinos, and Guercinos,
that so many of their more competent successors took so much trouble
to become.

Incompetence, if amiable and painstaking, will have with it an
unconscious involuntary idealism of its own which is perhaps more
charming than any that can be attained by aiming at it deliberately;
at any rate it will take the thing portrayed apart from the everyday
familiar routine of life which is the great enemy of fancy and the
ideal; but the artists of the Sacro Monte had got far beyond the
point at which incompetence could be of much use to them, and had
to find some other means whereby to steer clear of the everyday
life which to the public for whom they had to play, would have
appeared so vulgar, and to us so infinitely more delightful than
much that they have actually left us.

These means they could only find in much the same quarters as
dramatic writers and players find them on the stage, and to a certain
extent no doubt the Varallo chapels, like all other attempts to
place a scene upon a stage, must submit to the charge of being more
or less stagey, but--more especially considering that they are seen
by daylight,--it is surprising how little stagey they are.

Also, like all other attempts to place a scene upon the stage, they will
be found to consist of a few stars, several players of secondary
importance, and a certain number of supers.

It is a mistake to attempt, as I am told is attempted at the Comedie
Francaise, to have all the actors of first-class merit.

They kill one another even in a picture, and on the whole in any
work of art it is better to concentrate the main interest on a
sufficient number of the most important figures, and to let the
setting off of these be the chief business of the remainder.

Gaudenzio Ferrari hardly understood this at all, and has no figures
which can be considered as mere stage accessories. Tabachetti understood
it, but could hardly bring himself down to the level of his supers.
D'Enrico understood it perhaps a shade too well; he was a man of
business as well as of very considerable genius, and turned his
supers over to Giacomo Ferro, who might be trusted to keep them
sufficiently commonplace to show his own work to advantage.

It must be owned, however, that the greater number of D'Enrico's chapels
would be better if there had been a little more D'Enrico in them
and less Giacomo Ferro, and if the D'Enrico had been always taking
pains.

We, of course, should have preferred the figures in the Varallo
chapels to be all of them as realistic as the artist could make
them, provided he chose good types, as a good man may be very well
trusted to do.

Whenever we get a bit of realism as in the Eve, and Sleeping St.
Joseph of Tabachetti, in the Herod, laughing boys, and Caiaphas
of D'Enrico, and still more in the Vecchietto, or in the three or
four of the figures in the St.

Eusebius Chapel at Crea, we accept it with avidity, and we may be sure
that the masters who gave us the figures above-named could have given
us any number equally realistic if they had been inclined to do so.
Tabachetti's instinct was certainly towards realism as far as he
dared, but even he is not in most cases realistic--not, I mean,
in the sense of making his personages actual life-like portraits.

That he was not more so than he is is probably due to some of the
considerations on which I have above imperfectly dwelt, and to
others that have escaped myself, but were patent enough to him.

One other practical consideration would make against realism in such
works as those at Varallo, I mean the fact that if the figures
were to be portraits of the Varallo celebrities of the time, the
whole place would have been set by the ears in the competition as
to who was to be represented and with what precedence.

It was only by passing a kind of self-denying ordinance and
forbidding portraiture at all that the work could be carried out.

Here and there, as in the case of Tabachetti's portrait of the Countess
Solomoni of Serravalle in his Journey to Calvary, or as in that
of the Vecchietto (in each case a supposed benefactress and benefactor)
an exception was made; in most others it seems to have been understood
that whatever else the figures were to be, they must not be
portraits.

CHAPTER VIII. GAUDENZIO FERRARI, TABACHETTI, AND GIOVANNI D'ENRICO.

Before going through the various chapels seriatim, it may be well
to give a short account of three out of the four most interesting
figures among the numerous artists who worked on the Sacro Monte.

By these I mean, of course, Gaudenzio Ferrari, Tabachetti, Giovanni
d'Enrico, and the sculptor, whoever he may have been, of the Massacre
of the Innocents chapel.

I take my account of Gaudenzio chiefly from Colombo's admirable
work, and from the not less excellent notice by Signor Tonetti,
that appeared in the "Museo Storico ed Artistico Valsesiano" for
July and August 1885.

Gaudenzio Ferrari was born, according to the general belief, in 1484,
but Colombo shows reasons for thinking that this date is some four
or five years too late.

His father was named Antonio Lanfranco or Franchino. {7} He too was a
painter, but nothing is known of him or his works beyond the fact that
he lived at Valduggia, where his son Gaudenzio was born, married a woman
whose surname was Vinzio, and was dead by 1510.

Gaudenzio in his early years several times signed his pictures with his
mother's name, calling himself Vincius, De Vincio, or De Vince.

He is generally said to have studied first under Gerolamo Giovenone
of Vercelli, but this painter was not born till 1491, and we have
the authority of Lomazzo for saying that Gaudenzio's chief instructor
was Stefano Scotto, a painter of Milan, who kept a school that was
more or less a rival to that of Leonardo da Vinci.

I have myself no doubt that Gaudenzio Ferrari has given Scotto's
portrait in at least three of the works he has left behind him at
Varallo, but will return to this subject when I come to deal with
the various places in which these portraits appear.

His first works of importance, or at least the earliest that remain
to us, are probably in or in the immediate vicinity of Varallo; but
little is known of his early years and work, beyond what is comprised
in the three pages that form the second chapter of Colombo's book.

There is an early ancona at La Rocca, near Varallo, another in the
parocchia of Gattinara, and possibly a greatly damaged Pieta in the
cloisters of Sta.

Maria delle Grazie at Varallo may be, as it is said to be, an early work
by Gaudenzio.

Besides these, the wreck of the frescoes on the Pieta chapel on
the Sacro Monte, and other works on the same site, now lost, belong
to his earlier years.

Some believe that about the year 1506 he travelled to Perugia, Florence,
and Rome, where he made the acquaintance of Raphael, and perhaps
studied under Perugino, but Colombo has shown on what very slender,
if any, grounds this belief is based, and evidently inclines to the
belief that Gaudenzio never went to Rome, nor indeed, probably,
outside Lombardy at all.

The only one of Gaudenzio's works in which I can myself see anything
that may perhaps be called a trace of Umbrian influence, is in the
fresco of Christ disputing with the Doctors, in the chapel of Sta.

Margherita, in the Church of Sta.
Maria delle Grazie at Varallo.

This fresco, as Signor Arienta has pointed out to me, contains a
strong reminiscence of the architectural background in Raphael's
school of Athens; it was painted--so far as an illegible hieroglyphic
signature can be taken as read, and so far as internal evidence of
style may be relied upon, somewhere about the year.

If Gaudenzio was for the moment influenced by Raphael, he soon shook
off the influence and formed a style of his own, from which he did
not depart, except as enriching and enlarging his manner with
advancing experience.

Moreover, Colombo (p. 75) points out that the works by Raphael to which
Gaudenzio's Disputa is supposed to present an analogy, were not finished
till 1511, and are hence probably later than Gaudenzio's fresco.

Perhaps both painters drew from some common source.

In 1508 he was at Vercelli, and on the 26th of July signed a contract
to paint a picture for the church of S.

Anna. He is described in the deed as "Gaudentius de Varali."
He had by this time married his first wife, by whom he had two
children, Gerolamo and Margherita, born in 1508 and 1512. In 1510 he
undertook to paint an altarpiece for the main church at Arona, and
completed it in 1511, signing the work "Magister Gaudentius
de Vince, filius quondam magistri Lanfranchi habitator vallis
Siccidae."

In 1513 he painted the magnificent series of frescoes in the church of
Sta.

Maria delle Grazie at Varallo, signing the work and dating it, this
time more legibly than he had done his earlier work in the chapel
of St.

Margaret. In July 1514 he signed a contract to paint an altarpiece for
the Basilica of S. Gaudenzio at Novara.

It was to be completed within eighteen months from the date of the
contract and doubtless was so, but Gaudenzio found a good deal of
difficulty in getting his money, which was not paid in full till
1521.

He is occasionally met with at Novara and Vercelli between the years
1515 and 1524, but his main place of abode was Varallo.

No date can be positively assigned for his great Crucifixion chapel
on the Sacro Monte, but it belongs probably to the years 1524-1528.

I have already said that I can find no dates scrawled on the walls
earlier than 1529.

Such dates may be found yet, but if they are not found, it may be
assumed that the chapel was not thrown open to the public much
before that year.

There is still a little relievo employed in the fresco background,
but not nearly so much as in the church of Sta.

Maria delle Grazie, and the increase of freedom is so evident that
it is difficult not to suppose an interval of a good many years
between the two works.

I gather that by the year 1520 Gaudenzio had abandoned the use of
gold and of relievo in painting, but he may have made an exception
in the case of a work which was to consist both of sculpture and
painting; and there is indeed a good deal to be said in favour of
relievo in such a case, as helping to unite the sculptured and
painted portions of the work.

Even in the Magi chapel, the frescoes of which are several years
later than those in the Crucifixion chapel, there are still a few
bosses of relievo in the horses' trappings.

The date usually assigned to the Crucifixion chapel is 1524, and,
in default of more precise knowledge, we shall do well to adhere
to the date 1524-1528 already suggested.

Don't display all your best allurements to Lorraine this evening,
because she isn't strong enough for it.  Remember my unhappy plight,
and let one victim satisfy you for the present."

"What about your victims?" he asked.  "Dick is kicking the toes of his
boots thin because he saw you yesterday with Sir Edwin Crathie."

Hal coloured up, much to her own disgust, and greatly to Hermon's
enjoyment, who immediately followed up his advantage with:

"I suppose we shall all have to cry small now, because of the right
honourable gentleman."

"It will be a puzzler for you to cry small," was her rather feeble
retort, as she passed out.

Hermon came back and reseated himself in the big arm chair.

"May I stay?" he asked, and Lorraine answered:

"Yes, do," in the frank spirit she had told herself must be her
attitude towards him.

So he sat on with an air of content, seeming to fill some place in the
pretty room by right of an old comradeship, or some blood-tie, or a
mutual understanding - an intangible, indefinable attitude that had
sprung into being between them of itself.

Lorraine did not talk much, because she was tired, but she let the
goodly sight of him, and the quiet rest of him, lull and soothe her
senses for the passing moment without any disturbing questioning.
Hermon likewise did not question.  He liked being there, and she seemed
willing for him to stay, and it seemed enough.

Once or twice lately he was conscious that he had been rather foolish
with different admiring friends of the fair sex; and though he was no
prig, and knew most men took kisses and caressess when offered, and
would have thought it a needless throwing away of good things to
refuse, he yet felt a little irritated with himself and the givers
without quite knowing why.

And there was another trying incident over a girl he had met at various
country-houses the previous summer, and greatly enjoyed a flirtation
with.  Unfortunately, she appeared not to have understood it in the
light of a flirtation; and now she was writing him miserable,
reproachful love-letters which had at any rate succeeded in making him
wish he had been more circumspect.  It soothed his ruffled feelings to
be with Lorraine; and it flattered his vanity to feel that she liked
him there.

They had been sitting quietly some little time when the front-door bell
announced another caller, and Jean came to inquire if her mistress
would see Lord Denton.  Lorraine half unconsciously glanced at Hermon,
and seeing an expression of disappointment on his face, said quietly.
"Ask him to come to-morrow, Jean.  I am very tired to-night."

Jean went away, and presently returned with a loverly bouquet of
malmaisons, and three or four new books.  "His lordship will call about
twelve," she said: "and he hopes, if you feel able to go out, you will
let him take you in his motor."  Then she went out, leaving them alone
again.

In the pause that followed, Lorraine lay silently watching him for some
minutes, wondering what was passing  in his mind.  Although it was only
September still, the evenings were drawing in quickly, and there was
little light in the room except the flickering glow of cheerful flames
on the hearth.  They caught the glint of his hair and shone on his
face, throwing the delicate, aristocratic features with cameo-like
dinstinctness on the black shadow beyond.

Lorraine looked again, with the eyes of a connoisseur, and she knew
that in very truth no merely handsome face and form were here, but a
nature and character corresponding to the outward beauty of line and
lineament.  She wondered once more as she lay there what it must be to
have borne such a son; and a surging, aching, tearing pain filled her
heart for the longing to have known from experience.  She felt she
could have been a saint among women for very joy, and an ideal
companion, as well as a mother to such as he.

And instead? -

Well, there were murky corners in the background for her as well as her
mother, but never from actual seeking.  When necessity had not driven
her, loneliness had, and the gnawing ache of a fine, fearless soul to
grasp some satisfaction from the sorry scheme of things.  And always
the satisfaction had passed so quickly... so quickly, driving the
starved soul back on itself again, with a little extra weight added to
its burden of bitter knowledge.

Was there then no counterpart for her - no twin soul - no strong, true
comrade, to say "You and I" when sorrow and disillusion came, and so
rob pain of its deepest sting?

Then, as if he felt her scrutiny, he turned his face to her slowly, and
looked into her eyes.

"You know you are looking rather bad," he said a little awkwardly and
shyly.  "I'm awfully sorry.  I hope you are taking care of yourself."

"I don't suppose I should worry much if left to myself," she told him,
with a touch of lightness; "but a very stern physician, and a most
resolute maid, insist upon giving me every possible attention."

"It doesn't tire you... my being here?..."

"No; I like it."

"I wonder why?"

"Do you always want to know the why of things?"

"I'm afraid I don't as a rule bother much, but this is a little
amazing, isn't it?"

"I don't see why you should think so."

He studied the fire again.

"Only that you are at the top of the ladder, and I am at the bottom."

"I was once there too."

"And did it seem  as if it would be impossible ever to reach the top?"

"Yes, often.  I don't think anything but resolute, iron determination
ever takes any one up.  Influence helps a good many up the lower rungs,
and saves them a lot of the drudgery, but it cannot do much else, and
unless one is full of grit and purpose at heart, one sticks there."

"Still, it must be a great help to be pulled through the drudgery."

"It may mean a good deal of loss also."

"How?"

"I don't suppose success that is won through favour means half so much
to the winner as success that is wrenched from Fate by one's own
resolute hands.  The only thing is, one wonders so often afterwards if
it has been worth while.""
"Do you wonder that?"

"Ah!... don't I?"

He said nothing, and she went on:

"All the same, I imagine I had to succeed or die.  I was built that
way.  Nothing less than success would have satisfied me.  I often crave
for quiet, restful happiness now, but if it had been offered then I
should have passed it by and struggled blindly for fame.  Still, it is
hard to think how easily one can take a false step, and suffer for it
till the end."

"Did you do that?"

He turned his eyes to her again, and she saw as sympathy in them that
was deeper than any feeling he had shown her yet.

"Yes.  I was in a very tight corner, and I took a short cut out.  I
married for money and influence.  The step brought me all I
anticipated, but it brought other things as well, that I had chosen not
to remember: nausea, ennui, self-disgust, loneliness, emptiness.  I
think I should never have won through without Hal."

"And is your husband living?"

"Yes.  In America.  We have not troubled each other for a long time.  I
suppose I am fortunate in being left alone."  She was silent a few
minutes, and then she told him kindly: "Hal says they always chaff you
about marrying an heiress, for the sake of being rich without any need
to work; but take my advice, and don't force the hand of Fate before
she has had time to give you good things in her own time."

He turned to her with a very engaging smile as he answered:

"They chaff me about a good many things, but most of them are a little
wide of the mark.  I haven't any leaning at present towards a paid post
as husband."

"I'm glad; but I didn't for a moment suppose you had seriously.  I
wonder what you have a leaning towards?" she added.

"I should like to succeed."  He sat forward suddenly and leaned his
chin on his hands, resting his elbows on his knees, and stared hard at
the flames.  "I care a great deal more about succeeding really than any
one believes; but I'm afraid I'm not cut out for it."

"I should like to help you," she said simply.

"You are very good," he answered, still looking hard into the fire.

Lorraine got up and moved slowly about the room, touching a flower
here, and a flower there, and rearranging them with deft fingers.  She
turned on an electric light with a soft shade, and glanced at the books
Flip Denton had brought her.

Hermon sat back in his chair and watched her.  He thought he had never
seen her lovelier than she looked in the homely simplicity of a
graceful tea-gown, and her thick black hair coiled in a large loose
knot low  on her neck.  It gave her an absurdly youthful air, that
somehow seemed far removed from the brilliant star as he knew her on
the stage.

Then she came towards him, and stood beside him, resting one foot on
the fender and one hand on the mantelpiece; and he saw, with swift
seeing, the shapeliness of the long, thin fingers and the graceful,
rounded arm.

"You are thoughtful, _mon ami_," she said, with a soft lightness.
"Tell me what you are thinking of."

"I don't know.  I don't think I am thinking at all.  I feel rather as
if I were sunning myself in your smiles, like a cat."

"You like being here, like this?"

"I love it."

"Then come often.  Why not?"

"I shall bore you."

"I think not.  It is pleasant to me also to have some one keeping me
company in such a natural, homely way.  You see, I am very much alone.
I have no women friends except Hal, who is nearly always engaged; and
there are not many men one can invite to come and sit by one's
fireside.  You seem to come so naturally and simply.  It is clever of
you.  Very few men could.  It is difficult to believe you are only
twenty-four."

"I fancy years often do not go for very much.  I have travelled about
alone a great deal.  Anyhow, you are just as young for thirty-two as I
am old for twenty-four."

"Hal has helped to keep me young.  She restores me like some patent
elixir.  I suppose I love her more than any one in the world."

"I'm not surprised," he answered.  "A good many people love Hal.  Dick
and Quin just dote on her."

She looked at him keenly a moment.

"I am spared wasting my affection," he added, "by her obvious contempt
for me."

"She doesn't mean any of it.  She only wants to rouse you."

"Still, she succeeds in making me feel rather a worm."

Lorraine made no comment, but she could not resist a little inward
smile at the thought of any one making such a man feel a worm.  She
realised there might be no harm in the leavening influence.

The clock struck seven, and he gave a start, rising quickly to his feet
beside her.  Lorraine was a little under medium height if anything, and
as they stood together he seemed to tower above her like some splendid
prehistoric human, while she appeared as some exquisite miniature, or
frail and perfect piece of Dresden china.

And again it seemed  as if his physical beauty acted upon her with some
irresistible magnetism, flowing round her and over her and through her,
till she was enveloped and obsessed by him.

His age was nothing, years are mere detail; she felt only that he was a
splendid creature, and everything in her gloried in it.  She rested her
hand lightly on his arm.

"How big you are.  You almost overpower me."

He smiled down at her, but it was just a quiet, friendly smile, and she
could not tell if her touch stirred him.

"I'm afraid I am rather a monster.  It is sometimes a nuisance."

"Ah, don't say that.  I am quite sure the first Adam was as big as you,
and Eve was frightened and ran away, but she wouldn't for the world
have had him an inch smaller.  And every true Eve since has gloried in
the man who towered above her, and was a little terrifying in his
strenght.  Don't let them spoil you," she added with a note of
wistfulness, "all the Eves who must needs follow with or without  your
bidding."

"I imagine Hal will counteract much of that; and the feeling, when I am
with you, that I am just a great, brainless, useless animal."

"No; you are not that; and you are quite extraordinarily unspoilt as
yet.  Come and see me again soon, when you've nothing better to do."

"How soon?"

He was looking hard into her face now, almost as if he were only just
fully realising her beauty, and she flushed a little as she met his
ardent eyes and answered:

"As soon as you like."

"Friday is my first free evening."

"The come and dine here quietly.  I shall not act this week at all.  I
shall run down to the sea from Saturday to Monday."

She had intended to go on Friday afternoon, but with his nearness all
Flip Denton's sage advice vanished from her mind, and instead of
running away as he urged, she went a step nearer to the temptation.

When he had gone she sat down in the arm chair he had used, and stared
hard at the fire.  Jean came in to urge her to go to bed, but she only
said:

"No; I like this room and the fire.  Bring me the fish, or whatever it
is, here.  I will go to bed about half-past eight if you like, but not
before."

So she sat on, and in her heart she saw still the fine face, with its
unspoiled freshness, and felt his presence still filling the room.

It would seem Fate had brought her and Hal together into the arena of
new happenings and new feelings, for amont the crowded houses of
Bloomsbury, in a little high-up bedroo near the sky, Hal sat on the
edge of her bed leisurely brushing her long, bright hair, and pondering
a telephone message that had asked her to go for a motor ride the
following Saturday.

"It means putting Amy off," was her final cogitation, "but I think I'll
go.  It wil be such fun, and I'm rather sick of work."

So, in spite of strong wills and common-sense warning, we still, as
ever, let our footsteps follow the alluring paths, and go boldly forth
to meet a joy, ever careless of the following sorrow that may accompany
it, until the hour of shunning is past.


CHAPTER XVI


The following Friday afternoon Lorraine went out with Flip Denton in
his motor, and among his first questions was:

"Well, how is the foolish falling in love progressing?"

"It is stationary.  I've got another friend I want to keep, Flip;
another friend like you."

"Ah, I can't pass that.  You were never even remotely in sight of
falling in love with me.  And you know what Kipling says: 'Love's like
line-work; you can't stand still, you must go backward or forward.'
Den he whip John hisself; never 'low de overseer to do it dat time.

Marse Tom pretty good to us; never whip much; never 'low de overseer,
Mr.

Wash Evans, to whip too much neither.

He would have liked to whip mo' dan he did, if de Marse would
'lowed it, but he wasn't so bad. Mr. Evans wasn't no po' white trash,
but he was kinder middlin' like. De Evans is done riz high up now.

"Newt and Anderson was my young marsters. Dey was 'long 'bout my own
age. Dey went to school at Goshen Hill. De school was near de store,
some folks called it de tradin' post in dem days.

De had barrels o' liquor settin' out from de store in a long row. Sold
de likker to de rich mens dat carried on at de race track near by.
Folks in Goshen was all rich in dem days. Rogers Church, where
de Carlisles, Jeters, Sims, Selbys, Glens, and lots of other folks
went too and de slaves, was de richest country church in dis part
o' de whole state, so I is often been told.

Ebenezer, over in Maybinton, was de onliest church in de whole country
dat tried to strive wid Rogers in de way o' finery and style.

De Hendersons, Maybins, Hardys, Douglasses, Cofields, Chicks and
Oxners was de big folks over dar. Both de churches was Methodist.

"Every summer de carried on Camp Meetin' at Rogers. All de big Methodist
preachers would come from way off den. Dey was entertained in de
Carlisle big house. Missus put on de dog (as de niggers says now)
den.

Every thing was cleaned up jes' 'fore de meetin' like us did fer de
early-spring cleanin'. Camp Meetin' come jes' after de craps was done
laid by. Den all craps was done laid by befo' July de Fourth. It was
unheard of fer anybody to let de Fourth come widout de craps out'n de
way. Times is done changed now, Lawd. Den de fields was heavy wid corn
head high and cotton up aroun' de darky's waist!

Grass was all cleaned out o' de furrow's on de las' go 'round. De
fields and even de terraces was put in 'apple pie' order fer de
gatherin' o' de craps in de fall.

"As you all knows de Fourth has allus been nigger day. Marse and
Missus had good rations fer us early on de Fourth. Den us went to barbecues
after de mornin' chores was done.

In dem days de barbecues was usually held on de plantation o'
Marse Jim Hill in Fish Dam. Dat was not fer from Goshen. Marse Jim
had a purty spring dat is still all walled up wid fine rocks.

De water come out'n dese rocks dat cold dat you can't hold your hand in
it fer more dan a minute at de longes'. Dar is a big flat rock beyond
de spring dat I 'specs kivvers more dan an acre and a half o'
ground.

A creek run along over dis rock, where de mules and de hosses could
rest in de shade of de trees and drink all de water dat de wanted.

Wild ferns growed waist high along dar den. All kinds of purty flowers
and daisies was gathered by de gals. Dem was de best days dat any
darky has ever seed. Never had nothing to aggravate your mind
den.
Plenty to eat; plenty to wear; plenty wood to burn; good house to live
in; and no worry 'bout where it was a-coming from!

"Old Marse he give us de rations fer de barbecues. Every master wanted
his darkies to be thought well of at de barbecues by de darkies from
all de other plantations. De had pigs barbecued; goats; and de Missus
let de wimmen folks bake pies, cakes and custards fer de barbecue, jes'
'zactly like hit was fer de white folks barbecue deself!

"Young ones carried on like young colts a-frolicin' in de pasture
till dey had done got so full o' vittles dat dey could not eat
another bite.

Den dey roamed on off and set down somewheres to sleep in de shade o'
de trees. When de sun started to going down den de old folks begin to
git ready to return back to dey home plantations, fer dar was de
master's stock and chickens to feed and put up fer de night, to say
nothing o' de cows to milk.

The master's work had to go on around de big house, kaise all de darkies
had been 'lowed to have such a pleasant day. Next day being Sad'day
was on dis occasion not only ration day, but de day to git ready
fer de white folks' Camp Meetin' which I has already called to
recollection several times.

"I has to drap back to my own plantation now; kaise I guesses
dat de same [TN: 'same' was crossed out in the original] thing
took place on all de neighborin' places in preparation fer de white
folks 'big Meetin'.

But I better confine my relations to dat what I really knows. At de
barbecue I seed niggers from several neighborin' plantations and I can
tell you 'bout dat. But I draps now to de doings o' my own white
folks.

"As I has said once, de fields was in lay-by shape and de Missus done
already got de house cleaned. De chilluns was put in one room to sleep
and dat make more room fer de preachers and guests dat gwine to
visit in de big house fer de nex' six weeks.

Den de plans fer cooking had to be brung 'bout.

Dey never had no ice in dem days as you well knows; but us had a dry
well under our big house. It was deep and everything keep real cool down
dar. Steps led down into it, and it allus be real dark down
dar.

De rats run aroun' down dar and de younguns skeert to go down fer
anything. So us carry a lightwood not [HW: knot] fer light when us
put anything in it or take anything out. Dar ain't no need fer me to
tell you 'bout de well house where us kept all de milk and butter,
fer it was de talk o' de country 'bout what nice fresh milk and
butter de missus allus had.

A hollow oak log was used fer de milk trough. Three times a day Cilla
had her lil' boy run fresh cool well water all through de trough. Dat
keep de milk from gwine to whey and de butter fresh and cool. In de dry
well was kept de canned things and dough to set till it had done
riz.

When company come like dey allus did fer de camp meetings, shoalts and
goats and maybe a sheep or lamb or two was kilt fer barbecue out
by Cilla's cabin. Dese carcasses was kept down in de dry well over night
and put over de pit early de next morning after it had done took
salt.

Den dar was a big box kivvered wid screen wire dat victuals was kept in
in de dry well. Dese boxes was made rat proof.

"Whilst de meats fer de company table was kept barbecued out in de
yard, de cakes, pies, breads, and t'other fixings was done in de
kitchen out in de big house yard. Baskets had ter be packed to go
to camp meetin'.

Tables was built up at Rogers under de big oak trees dat has all been
cut down now. De tables jes' groaned and creeked and sighed wid
victuals at dinner hour every day durin' de camp meetin'.

"Missus fetch her finest linens and silver and glasses to out-shine
dem brung by de t'other white folks o' quality.

In dem days de white folks o' quality in Union most all come from
Goshen Hill and Fish Dam. After de white folks done et all dey could
hold den de slaves what had done come to church and to help wid de
tables and de carriages would have de dinner on a smaller table
over clost to de spring. Us had table cloths on our table also and us
et from de kitchen china and de kitchen silver.

"Young gals couldn't eat much in public, kaise it ain't stylish fer
young courting gals to let on like dey has any appetite to speak of. I
sees dat am a custom dat still goes amongst de wimmen folks, not
to eat, so heavy.

Cullud gals tried to do jes' like de young white missus would do.

"After everything was done eat it would be enough to pack up and fetch
back home to feed all de hungry niggers what roams roun' here in Union
now. Dem was de times when everybody had 'nuff to eat and more dan
dey wanted and plenty clothes to wear!

"During de preaching us darkies sot in de back o' de church.
Our white folks had some benches dar dat didn't nobody set on 'cept
de slaves. Us wore de best clo'es dat us had. De Marse give us a coat
and a hat and his sons give all de old hats and coats 'round. Us wore
shirts and pants made from de looms. Us kept dem clean't and ironed
jes' like de Marster and de young marsters done their'n.

Den us wore a string tie, dat de white folks done let us have, to church.
Dat 'bout de onliest time dat a darky was seed wid a tie. Some de oldest
men even wore a cravat, dat dey had done got from de old marster.
Us combed our hair on Sunday fer church.

But us never bothered much wid it no other time.

During slavery some o' de old men had short plaits o' hair.

"De gals come out in de starch dresses fer de camp meeting. Dey took
dey hair down out'n de strings fer de meeting.

In dem days all de darky wimmens wore dey hair in string 'cep' when dey
'tended church or a wedding. At de camp meetings de wimmens pulled
off de head rags, 'cept de mammies.

On dis occasion de mammies wore linen head rags fresh laundered. Dey
wore de best aprons wid long streamers ironed and starched out a
hanging down dey backs. All de other darky wimmens wore de black
dresses and dey got hats from some dey white lady folks; jes' as
us mens got hats from our'n.

Dem wimmens dat couldn't git no hats, mostly wore black bonnets. De
nigger gals and winches did all de dressing up dat dey could fer
de meeting and also fer de barbecue.

"At night when de meeting dun busted till nex' day was when de darkies
really did have dey freedom o' spirit. As de waggin be creeping
along in de late hours o' moonlight and de darkies would raise a tune.
Den de air soon be filled wid the sweetest tune as us rid on
home and sung all de old hymns dat us loved.

It was allus some big black nigger wid a deep bass voice like a frog
dat ud start up de tune. Den de others mens jine in, followed up by de
fine lil voices o' de gals and de cracked voices o' de old wimmens
and de grannies.

When us reach near de big house us soften down to a deep hum dat de
missus like!

Sometime she his't up de window and tell us sing 'Swing Low Sweet Cha'ot'
for her and de visiting guests.

Dat all us want to hear. Us open up and de niggers near de big house
dat hadn't been to church would wake up and come out to de cabin
door and jine in de refrain.

From dat we'd swing on into all de old spirituals dat us love
so well and dat us knowed how to sing.

Missus often 'low dat her darkies could sing wid heaven's 'spiration
(inspiration).

Now and den some old mammie would fall out'n de waggin a shoutin' Glory
and Hallelujah and Amen! After dat us went off to lay down fer de
night.

"Young Newt and Anderson was de boys what was near de age of me and
John. Co'se dey went to school every day it was in session.

Dey had dey own hosses and dey rid 'em to school. When dey come home
dey would throw de reins to me and John and us took dem hosses and rub
dem down and feed 'em.

"Lots of times Newt and Anderson would tell me and John to come and
git under de steps while ole Marse was eating his supper.

When he git up from de table us lil' niggers would allus hear de sliding
o' his chair, kaize he was sech a big fat man. Den he go into de missus
room to set by de fire.

Dar he would warm his feets and have his Julip. Quick as lightning me
and John scamper from under de steps and break fer de big cape jasamine
bushes long de front walk. Dar we hide, till Anderson and Newt come out
a fetching ham biscuit in dey hands fer us. It would be so full
of gravy, dat sometime de gravy would take and run plumb down to
de end o' my elbow and drap off, 'fo I could git it licked offn my
wrists.

Dem was de best rations dat a nigger ever had. When dey had honey on de
white folks table, de boys never did fail to fetch a honey biscuit
wid dem.

Dat was so good dat I jest take one measley lil' bite of honey and
melted butter on my way to de 'quarter. I would jest taste a leetle.
When I git to Mammy den me and Mammy set off to ourself's and taste
it till it done all gone.

Us had good times den; like I never is had befo' or since.

"Soon atter dat dey sent me and John to de field to larn drapping. I had
to drap peas in every other hill and John had to drap de corn in
de rest. De overseer, ole man Wash Evans, come down dar to see how
us was a doing. Den us got dat skeert dat us got de corn and peas
mixed up.

He started to hit us wid de whip dat he had hung 'round his waist.
Bout dat time Marse Tom rid up. He made de overseer git out'n dem
corn rows and let us 'lone. After dat us got 'long fine wid our drapping.
When it come up everybody could see dem rows dat us had done got
mixed up on when de overseer was dar.

Marse Tom was dat good to his hands dat dey all love him all de time.
But one day when ole man Evans come through de field and see dem rows
he did call me and John off and whip us.

Dat de most dat I ever got whipped. Marse got shed o' de overseer soon
after dat.

"It was just like dis. Ole man Wash Evans was a wicked man. He take
'vantage of all de slaves when he git half chance. He was great source
of worriment to my Mammy, ole lady Lucy Price and 'nother 'oman,
ole lady Lucy Charles.

Course he 'vantage over all de darkies and fer dat reason he could
sway everything his way, most all de time. But my mammy and ole
lady Lucy was 'ligious wimmens. Dat didn't make no diffuns wid wicked
old man Evans. One day Missus sent my mammy and de other ole lady
Lucy to fetch her some blackberries by dinner.

"Me and John was wid dem a pickin' and fillin' o' de big buckets from
de lil' buckets when ole man Evans come riding up. He argued wid both
mammy and ole lady Lucy and dey kept telling him dat de missus
want her berries and dat dey was 'ligious wimmens anyhow and didn't
practice no life o' sin and vile wickedness. Finally he got down off'n
his hoss and pull out his whip and low if dey didn't submit to him
he gwine to beat dem half to death.

At [HW: that] me and John took to de woods. But we peep. My mammy and
old lady Lucy start to crying and axing him not to whip dem.

"Finally dey act like dey gwine to indulge in de wickedness wid dat ole
man. But when he tuck off his whip and some other garments, my Mammy
and ole lady Lucy grab him by his goatee and further down and hist him
over in de middle of dem blackberry bushes. Wid dat dey call me
and John.

Us grab all de buckets and us all put out fer de 'big house' fas'
as our legs could carry us.

Ole man Evans jest er hollering and er cussing down in dem briars.

Quick as us git to de big house us run in de kitchen.
Cilla call Missus. She come and ax what ailing us and why we is so
ashy looking. Well, my Mammy and ole lady Lucy tell de whole story
of dey humiliations down on de creek.

"Missus 'lowed dat it didn't make no diffuns if Marse was in Union, she
gwinter act prompt.

So she sent fer Mr. Evans and he took real long to git dar, but when he
do come, Missus, she 'low--'Mr. Evans, us does not need yo' services
on dis plantation no mo', Sir!' He 'low Marse aint here. Missus
'low--'I does not want to argue de point wid ye, Mr.

Evans, fer yo' services has come to an end on dis plantation!' Wid dat
ole man Evans go off wid his head a-hanging in shame.

Us niggers went out and tole de news wid gladness shining out from our
eyes, kaise us was dat glad dat we did not know what to do.

"All de fields was enclosed wid a split rail fence in dem days.

De hands took dey rations to de field early every morning and de wimmens
slack work round eleven by de sun fer to build de fire and cook
dinner. Missus 'low her niggers to git buttermilk and clabber, when de
cows in full, to carry to de field fer drinking at noon, dat is twelve
o'clock. All de things was fetched in waggins and de fire was built and
a pot was put to bile wid greens when dey was in season.

Over coals meat was baked and meal in pones was wrapped in poplar leaves
to bake in de ashes. 'Taters was done de same way, both sweet 'taters
and irish. Dat made a good field hand dinner.

Plenty was allud had and den 'lasses was also fetched along. Working
niggers does on less dese days.

"Does you know dat de poplar leaves was wet afo' de meal pone was put
in it? Well, it was, and when it got done de ashes was blowed off
wid your breath and den de parched leaves folded back from de cooked
pone. De poplar leaves give de ash cake a nice fresh sweet taste.

All forks and spoons was made out'n sticks den; even dem in de big
house kitchen.

Bread bowls and dough trays was all made by de skilled slaves in de
Marse's shop, by hands dat was skilled to sech as dat.

"Young chilluns and babies was kept at home by de fire and nursed
and cared fer by de ole wimmens dat couldn't do no field work.

De chief one on our plantation during my 'membrance was ole aunt Abbie.
She had head o' de chilluns all over de plantation when dey mamies
was a working in de field. Marse Tom used to ride through de 'quarters'
every day to see about ole lady Abbie and de chilluns when dey parents
was at work in de fields during de working season.

Ole lady Abbie had to see to it dat dey was kept warm by de fire
and dat dey clothes was kept up wid while dey mammies was in de
field.

Dem chilluns on our plantation was well looked after. De seamstresses
also kept our work clothes patched and darned, till new ones was
wove fer us.

"Sides dat dem chilluns was fed. Each child had a maple fork and spoon
to eat wid.

Lil' troughs was made fer dem to eat de milk and bread from.
'Shorts', low stools, was made fer dem to set up to de troughs to,
whilst dey was eating.

De other ole ladies helped wid de preparations of dey messes o'
vittals. One ole woman went her rounds wid a wet rag a wiping
dem chilluns dresses when dey would spill dey milk and bread.
Marse Tom and sometime Missus come to see de lil' babies whilst dey
was a eating.

De other ole ladies 'tended to de small babies. Sometimes it was many
as fifteen on de plantation at one time dat was too little to walk.

"Dey mammies was not worked on our plantation till de babies was big
'nough to take a bottle.

And in dem days no bottle was given no baby under a year old.
"You shall," he promised, and they sped along in silence.


CHAPTER XVII


When Hall sat on the side of her bed, brushing her hair and meditating
on her irritation, she had not misjudged when she anticipated great
enjoyment from an afternoon run with her new friend.

It would have been difficult indeed to say who enjoyed it the most.
Hal was in great form, and Sir Edwin Crathie half unconsciously took
his tone from her, dropping his usual attitude towards women he liked,
and adopting instead one as gay and careless and inconsequent as hers.

It was not in the nature of the man to desist from flirting with her,
but his pretty speeches were coupled with a humour and chaff that
robbed them of any pointedness, and merely resulted in an amusing
amount of parry and thrust, over which they both laughed
whole-heartedly.

"You are an absolute witch," he told her as they sat enjoying  a big
tea at an hotel on the south coast; "ever since we started you have
made me behave more or less like a school-boy, and a tea like this is
the climax."

"It's a good thing I am the only witness," she laughed.  "The poorness
of your jokes alone would have horrified your colleagues, but to see
you eating such a tea must have meant a request for your resignation -
it is so incompatible with the dignity of a Cabinet Minister."

"I had almost forgotten I was a Cabinet Minister.  Gad! but it's nice
to get right away from the cares of office occasionally like this.
When will you come again?"

"Oh, I don't think I must come any more," roguishly.  "I'm sure Brother
Dudley will not consent."

"What has Brother Dudley go to do with it?...  Did he consent this
time?"

"Not exactly.  I anticipated his willingness."

"You little fibber.  You mean you anticipated his firm refusal, and
took French leave, so that you need not disobey him."

"It is true that Dudley and I differ occasionally, but I do not disobey
him... if I can help it."

"Well, if you took French leave this time, you can easily do it again."

"But this time it was a novelty.  I was curious to find out how I
should enjoy an afternoon with you?"

"Rubbish.  You knew perfectly well you would enjoy it immensely.  So
did I.  Two people who like each other always know those kind of things
at once."

Hal leaned back in her chair, and her expressive mouth twitched in a
way that made him long to kiss it hard.

"There are occasions when I don't like you at all," she said.

"Fibber again.  When don't you like me?"

"Chiefly when you are quite positive certain sure that I do."

"Well, that is never; so you are a fibber."

"I thought you seemed particularly confident nine seconds ago."

"I was only teasing you.  I could hardly have been serious after you
have called me a worm, and an old man.  So now - when will you come
again?"

"In about a month.  Let's go out as Guys on the fifth of November."

"A month be blowed!  I want to know which day next week?"

"I am full up next week."

"Full up of what?"

"Lorraine Vivian, Dick Bruce, Quin, the Beloved Chief, and the Baby."

"What a list!  Is Lorraine Vivian the actress?  Who are Quin and the
Baby?"

"She is... and they are!..."

"Who does the Baby belong to?"

"It would be difficult to say.  About a dozen probably claim him."

"And doesn't he know his own mother?"

"Oh, I wasn't thinking of mothers."

"Who were you thinking of?"

"The ladies who have lost their hearts to him."

"I see.  Are you one of them?"

"I am not.  You see, his beauty has never struck me all of a heap,
because I've got so used to it."

"Is he a beautiful baby, or a youth, or a man?"

"A bit of all three.  He stands 6 ft. 5 1/2 in., and is superbly
handsome.  I call him sometimes, for variation, the stuffed
blue-and-gold Apollo."

"Well, that's better than 'a positive worm'," laughing, "but I don't
mind him.  Who is Quin?"

"Quin is a philanthropist, sentimentalist, and hero.  He spends his
life working in the East End."

"I don't mind him either, and Dick Bruce I've seen.  The actress
doesn't count, and your precious chief you see every day.  Now, then,
when will you come again?"

He got up from his seat and came round to her side of the table.  He
had a vague intention of imprisoning her hand, and perhaps her waist,
but some indescribable quality held him off.  It was difficult to
suppose she did not half guess what was in his mind, and yet, without
showing the smallest consciousness or shyness, she faced him with a
look so boyishly frank and open it utterly disarmed him.

"I am not a bit more persuasive on my right side than my left, and I
have promised next Saturday to the Three Graces - who are Dick and Quin
and Baby.  We are going to the Crystal Palace to see a football match."

"Then what about Sunday?"

"Oh, I can't come on Sunday."

"Why not?"

"I hardly know, except that it usually belongs to Dudley or Dick."

"Next Sunday needn't."

"Well, that's what I don't know."

"Yes you do."  He moved a little nearer.  "You've got to keep next
Sunday for me.  It's my turn.  We'll have a splendid day.  We'll take
Peter, and we'll start early and fly down to the New Forest.  It's
glorious in the autumn.  We'll have a picnic-lunch, and tea at an hotel
on the way back.  So that's settled."  He got up, and lifted her ulster
from the back of a chair.  "Now come along, and we'll slip home before
it gets late enough to cause trouble."

Hal let it pass for the time, and got into her ulster.  She was clever
enough to see the advantage of retaining a way of escape if she changed
her mind, or accepting the invitation if she wanted to later on.

She knew perfectly well a girl did not always go out for a whole day
with a man like Sir Edwin with impunity; but she had also something of
contempt for a girl who missed a great treat for want of pluck.  She
preferred to leave the question open, and if she badly wanted to go at
the end of the week she would not, at any rate, stay away because she
was afraid.

As it happened, circumstances played into Sir Edwin Crathie's hands.
About Wednesday, with a diffidence that made Hal secretly amused and
secretly curious, Dudley asked her if she would mind if he was away for
the whole day on Sunday.  As she was generally away herself as long as
the summer lasted, she wondered why he should ask her in that manner.
It was just as they had finished breakfast, and he busied himself with
his pipe-rack as he made the announcement.

"Of course I don't mind," she said.  "Are you going into the country?"

"Ye-es."  He seemed about to add something further, but changed his
mind.  Hal, with a little inward chuckle, divined by his manner he must
be going somewhere with a lady, and she was pleased, as she liked a man
to have woman friends, believing they made him more broad-minded and
tolerant and generous-hearted if well-chosen.

She asked no further question, however, and Dudley commenced to whistle
softly as he drew on his boots.  Evidently his mind was somewhat
relieved after the sentence was said.

So now it remained to discover Dick's attitude.  She could, of course,
quite easily put him off; but she was not quite prepared to do this of
her own initiative, as he had so generously placed all his Sundays at
her disposal.  On Friday, however, he was speaking to her through the
telephone.

"I say, Hal, you're coming to the Footer match to-morrow, aren't you?"

"Yes, of course I am.  Why?..."

"Well, it's just this way.  I was going to motor the pater to Aunt
Judith's, and I forgot all about it.  He wants me to take him on Sunday
instead.  What shall I do?...  Would you care to come too?"

Hal had not the smallest wish to go to Aunt Judith's, who belonged to
the old school, and disapproved in a most outspoken manner of
lady-clerks of every sort and description.  It was a constant grievance
to her, when she set eyes on Hal,that she did not gratefully accept £20
as secretary to a well-known, interesting editor.

In consequence, Hal encountered her as little as possible, accepted
gratefully her interesting, easy billet, and consigned the imaginary
young children to a Hades peopled with nursery governesses.

"Awfully sweet and good and kind of you, Dicky dear," she called back
to him mockingly, "but I think I'll practise a little self-denial this
time, and stay away."

"Odd you should say that," he laughed, "because I consider I'm
practising a little self-denial in going.  What shall you do with
yourself?  Will Dudley be at home?"

"No; he's going somewhere for the day, that has a nervous, apologetic
sort of air about it.  I didn't press for particulars, but I'm dying to
know.  I can't believe he would really take a gay young person out, and
yet, judging by his manner, it might be a real flyer from Daly's."

"Good old Dudley!...  Then I suppose you will go to Lorraine?"

"Yes, I daresay I shall.  Good-bye, see you Saturday."

Hal returned to her work in a meditative mood.  She was beginning to
wonder why she had not had any message from Sir Edwin all the week.
Had he changed his mind, or had he possibly forgotten?  If he rang her
up presently what was she going to say?

The notion that he had perhaps forgotten was not pleasing; and yet,
with all he must have to think about during the week, it was equally
not surprising.  As a matter of fact, it had been a most trying week
for all Ministers.

The party was emphatically growing into disfavour, and all brains had
to be utilised to find the most efficacious remedy.  Sir Edwin had been
very useful in his suggestions, for he had had considerable practice in
getting what he wanted by artfulness if no straighter mode offered.

His suggestions to His Majestu's Cabinet were masterpieces of political
trickery, and their adoption was a foregone conclusion in spite of the
Ministers who raised objections.  The party had to win back favour
somehow, and at any rate his were the best plans that offered.

But all through the stirring meetings of the week he never once forgot
Hal.  His silence was merely an adaptation of the policy he was urging
upon his colleagues.  If I leave her alone till Friday she will get
piqued," was his thought, "and then she will come."

Accordingly, soon after the luncheon hour he rang her up.

"Hullo," he called.  "At last I have got a moment to speak to you."

"What has happened to all the other moments?" she asked.

"We've had a very anxious, worrying week in the House.  I've scarcely
had time to get my meals.  You surely didn't suppose I had forgotten
you - did you?"

"I didn't suppose either way.  It didn't matter."

The man at the other end of the wire smiled openly in his empty room.
"Prevaricator," was his thought 'but, by Gad, she's game."

"Well, anyhow I hadn't, and I wasn't likely to.  I only hope you
haven't made another engagement for Sunday?  I'm badly in need of a
long day in the country.  Are you still free?"

"It depends -"

"Oh, nonsense; you can't desert me at the last moment.  If I can't get
that day off to run down to the New Forest, I shall have to go to a
tiresome political luncheon party.  Now, be patriotic, and serve your
country by attending to the needs of one of her harassed Ministers."

"I am always patriotic."

"Then that settles it.  I suppose I'd better not call for you.  I'll
pick you up at South Kensington Station at 9.30.  Peter will make an
excellent chaperone, so you needn't worry - good-bye"; and he rang off,
leaving Hal to hang up the receiver, not quite sure whether she had
been trapped or not.

At his end he moved across to a window with the smile still lingering
on his face.

"Nothing like making up a woman's mind for her," he mused; "they're all
alike when they are on the edge of the stream, hesitating about the
plunge.  Give 'em a little shove, and once they're in they swim out
boldly enough.  The trouble is, when they want to keep the whole river
for themselves and will not brook any other swimmers.

"I expect I'm going to have a devil of a time with Gladys, and she'll
take a lot of squaring.  Women are the deuce when you're short of
funds.  But I can't help being susceptible, and Hal has caught my fancy
altogether.  Dear little girl, I expect she'll want a big shove yet
before she'll take the real plunge.  But it's interesting, by Jove!
it's interesting; and when she looks a veiled defiance at me with those
candid, mischievous eyes of hers, I know I've got to win somehow."

Hal went back to her work, feeling a little as if she had been swept
off her feet; and she was not entirely without misgivings.  The
possible impropriety of going out alone with a man for the whole day
did not rouble her, but the nature of the man, she was shrewd enough to
perceive, was a doubtful point.

Of course she was perfectly aware that Aunt Judith, for instance, and
Dudley, and probably her mother, had she been alive, would have been
scandalised at such a proceeding; but then she had pluckily fended for
herself so long, she did not consider she was any longer called upon to
mould her actions according to their views.  She belonged to the large
army of women who have to spend so much of their time on office chairs
that their comparatively few hours of pleasure have no room for the
ordinary conventions that hem round the leisured, home-walled maiden.

If a treat offered, and it was reasonably within bounds, they took it
and were thankful and gave no thought to the possibly uplifted hands of
horror among possibly restricted relatives.  She was one of those who
enjoy the freedom of the American girl, without being of those who,
unfortunately, often fall short of her level-headed characteristics;
largely perhaps through those very uplifted hands which suggest harm,
where harm otherwise might never have been thought of.

It was not, now, any suggestions born of uplifted hands that gave Hal
that faint misgiving.  It was that growing doubt concerning the nature
of the man, and a consciousness that she was unduly pleased the treat
was actually to take place - a growing consciousness that in spite of
the doubt she cared more about seeing Sir Edwin Crathie than most men,
with a like recognition that this might seriously endanger her own
peace of mind.

It was all very well to go out together on a basis of good-fellowship
and mutual enjoyment, so long as neither care anything beyond; but what
if this unmistakable attraction he exercised over her deepened and
widened?  What if the commonplace, middle-class Hal Pritchard,
secretary and typist, fell in love with Sir Edwin Crathie, the Cabinet
Minister, and nephew of Lord St. Ives?

But she thrust the thought away, and apostrophised herself for a silly
goose, who deserved to get hurt if she had not more sense.  Was he not
twice her age, and brilliantly clever (so his own party said), and so
obviously out of her range altogether that it would be sheer stupidity
to allow herself to feel anything beyond the frank fellow-ship they now
enjoyed?  She insisted vigorously to herself that it would, and went
off to have dinner with Lorraine, who was once more delighting her
London audience nightly.

It was a curious thing which occured to both afterwards, that there had
been some indefinable change, observable in each to each, dating from
that particular evening.

Lorraine was more contentedly gay than she had been for some time - a
quiet, natural light-heartedness, born of some attainment that was
giving her joy.  Hal was not clever enough to actually perceive this,
but she did perceive that a certain restless, anxious indecision of
manner and plans had passed away.  For the time being Lorraine was
happy in a sense she had not been over her success.  That Alymer Hermon
had anything to do with it never entered Hal's head.  She had treated
the whole matter of Lorraine's attraction to him with the lightness
that seemed its only claim, and scarcely remembered it at all.

And yet, all the time, it was the young giant who was bringing the
soothing and restfulness into the actress's storm-tossed life.  He was
beginning to be with her constantly - to come to her with all his
doings, and his imagings, and his hopes.  And, as she had suspected,
natural or unnatural, he was the companion of all others who gave her
the most pleasure at the time.

World-wearied and brain-wearied with her own unsatisfying successes,
she found a new interest in entering into his projects, and scheming
and dreaming for his future instead of her own.

She was quite open to herself about the probability that she would have
felt nothing of the kind had he been merely a giant, or had he been
plain.  It was the rare, and indeed remarkable combination of such
physical attributes, with brains, and nobility and an utter absence of
all assumption.

She forgot about his youth and a certain natural crudity; and what he
lacked in experience and development she easily balanced with the
extraordinary physical attraction that had never ceased to sway her.

For the rest, the future might go.  Her friendship would not hurt him,
and his had become necessary to her.  If they dreamed over a volcano,
what of it?  Most dreams for such lives as hers usually were in close
proximity to sudden destruction.  Waves from nowhere came up and
overwhelmed them.  Rocks from unseen heights fell on them and crushed
them.  If she was wise she would take what the present offered, and
leave the future alone.

For Hal, on the other hand, had developed something of the restlessness
that had fallen from Lorraine.  The new element dawning in her life was
not a restful one; neihter did it lend itself to her usual spontaneous
chaff and gay badinage.

She told Lorraine about her afternoon drive, without giving half the
particulars she would have done ordinarily; and when Lorraine asked her
about Sunday, she only said she was perhaps going for another run with
Sir Edwin.  Lorraine did not press the point, because she was having a
day with Alymer, and was chiefly glad that Hal was happily provided
with a companion to take Dick's place.

Then she went off to her theatre, and Hal went home, wishing the next
day were Sunday.


CHAPTER XVIII


Dudley hardly new, himself, why he spoke diffidently about his plans
for Sunday, and why he did not tell Hal outright that he was taking
Doris Hayward to a picnic at Marlow, given by mutual friends of his and
theirs - friends of the old vigorous days, when he and Basil Hayward
had gone everywhere together, and Hal had still been a boisterous
schoolgirl.  Perhaps he felt she might seem to have been rather
unkindly left out.

As a matter of fact, an invitation to include his sister had been
given; but, for reasons he hardly stopped to face, he chose not to
mention it.  That was after he had learnt from a visit to the little
Holloway flat that nothing would persuade Ethel to leave her brother,
who had been ailing more than usual of late, and Doris would accompany
him alone.

It had been with a curious mixture of feelings he had heard this.
Things were very pitiful up at the little flat, and though his inmost
sympathy had gone out generously enough to both girls, with a
perversity born of narrow insight he had reserved the deepest of it for
Doris.

It seemed to him that she was so young to face such circumstances, and
at such an early age to become saddened by the vicissitudes of life.
In the depths of her wide blue eyes he saw unshed tears, and the little
droop of her pretty mouth went straight to his heart.  He wanted to
gather her up in his arms, and kiss her and pet her till she was again
all sunshine and smiles.

Ha was not unaware that Ethel probably suffered more, but her way of
showing it, or perhaps hiding it, appealed to him less.  Instead of
that mute distress of unshed tears, her quiet eyes wore an inscrutable
veil.  It was as if the anguish behind the veil were something too
terrible and too sacred to be looked upon by a workaday world; but
Dudley only knew that a wall of reserve was between him and her trouble.

And her firm, strong mouth had no engaging droop at the corners.  It
was only if anything a little firmer, almost to sternness.

Dudley believed that Basil was dying at last, after his weary
martyrdom, and he believed that Ethel knew it; and in some vague way it
hurt him that she gave no sign, and refused to be drawn into any speech
concerning his increased weakness.

Doris, on the other hand, spoke of it in a faltering, tearful voice,
adding a little pitifully that it made it harder for her that Ethel was
so distant and unsympathetic.

In a sense the circumstances nonplussed Dudley altogether.  Some inner
voice told him that such a depth of wondrous, unselfish devotion as
Ethel showed to her invalid brother could not live in the same heart
with hardness and want of sympathy; and yet there was the evidence of
the swimming, melting eyes and drooping lips of the younger sister left
out in the cold.

Perhaps it was unfortunate that on that very evening of Dudley's visit
Ethel had come home rather earlier than her wont, to find Doris not yet
returned from her daily outing, and, in consequence, the fire out and
the sick man shivering with cold.  He had looked so dreadfully ill that
she had hastened first to get som brandy to revive him, only to find
Doris had forgotten her promise to get the empty bottle replaced that
morning.

In desperation she had hastened to the other little flat on the same
floor, hoping its inmate might chance to have a little to lend.

The tenant was a lonely, harsh-featured spinster, who eked out a
precarious living by teaching music.  Ethel knew her slightly, as a
gaunt woman who usually toiled up the stairs with a sort of scornful
weariness of herself and everything else.

She knew that because she was not fashionable, nor striking, nor
well-dressed, she taught mostly in rather second-rate schools, and
often had to take long journeys to her pupils, coming home tired and
worn at night to an empty, comfortless little dwelling, to light her
own fire and cook her own evening meal.

She knew, too, that she was a gentlewoman, the daughter of a poor
clergyman, left penniless, to fight a hard world alone.  Had her own
home been happier, she would gladly have asked her to join them
sometimes; but the weight of Basil's illness, and her own usual
condition of weariness, had left the invitation always unspoken.

"A little brandy," the music-teacher echoed, with a quick note of
concern; "yes, I believe I have a drop.  Is it your brother?  Let me
come and see if I can help?"

"Thank you," Ethel had replied, trying not to allow her voice to show
how much she would have preferred not to accept the proffered help.  "I
think I can manage quite well."

But the gaunt spinster followed her across the little landing
obstinately.  She had seen Doris out half an hour before, and knew that
she had not yet returned.

"Ah, you have no fire," she said, in her somewhat grating voice; "if
you will let me I will light it," and without more ado she had procured
coals and wood for herself, and was down on her knees before the empty
grate.

Ethel turned away with a sick, helpless feeling over Doris'
selfishness, and after administering a few drops of brandy, chafed the
sick man's hands and feet.  When Basil felt better he glanced up
curiously at the strange, dried-up-looking female who had just
succeeded in persuading a cheerful blaze to brighten the room.  She
looked back into his face frankly.

"You needn't mind me," she informed him; "I'm only the music-teacher
from the opposite flat."

"You seem to be rather a kind sort of music-teacher," he said, with his
winsome smile, "even if you do only come from the opposite flat."

The hard face relaxed a very little, and she shrugged her shoulders.

"Oh, well, it isn't easy to be kind," she answered, "when you don't
stand for much else in the universe but a letter of the alphabet."  She
turned back to her grate and commenced sweeping up the ashes.

Basil roused himself a little further and looked interested.

"What letter do you stand for?"

"Just G."  She gave a low, harsh laugh.  "G is the letter that
distinguishes my flat from the others, and it is all I stand for to God
or man."

"I see."  His white, pain wrung face looked extraordinarily kind.
"Well, G, I'm very deeply grateful to you for coming across to light my
fire; and I'm glad there happened to be a G in the universe this
afternoon."

She turned her head away sharply, that neither of them might see the
sudden, swift mist that dimmed her eyes, but she only answered:

"All the same, if there had been no G, and no you, the universe would
have had an atom less pain in it, and no one have been any the worse."

"That's where you're wrong," he told her, "because Ethel couldn't have
done without me, and if you put your head in at my door occasionally,
and just remark to F that G is across the passage, F will be glad the
universe didn't decide to leave G out of the alphabet."

The woman looked at him a moment with a curious expression in her eyes.
 Then she said:

"Well, if _you_ can take the insult of a maimed, or joyless, or cursed
life like that, it oughtn't to be so very hard for me to be glad I
happened to be able to come over and light your fire."

"Nor so very hard to come again."

"Ah!..." she hesitated, then said to him, looking half-defiantly
towards Ethel: "Time after time, when I thought you were alone, I've
wanted to just look in and see if you were all right.  But I didn't
like to.  People don't take to me as a rule, and I'm... I'm... well,
I'm not an ingratiating sort of person, and I guessed, probably, you'd
all rather do without any help I had to give."

"It was kind of you to think of us at all," Ethel said, not quite sure
whether Basil would like her to come in or not.

"You guessed wrong," was his answer.  "_I_ think it would be very nice
of you to look in occasionally.  It certainly seems rather absurd for
you to be all alone there, and I all alone here, when we both want a
little company.  I'm sure the alphabet was not meant to be so
unsociable."

"It just depends."

She got up from her keneeling posture on the hearth, and stood, a
grotesque apparition enough, looking at him with her greenish,
nondescript eyes.  Her hay-coloured hair was tightly drawn back from a
high, bulging forehead, her eyebrows were so light they scarcely showed
at all, while her nose, which started in a nice straight line, had
failed her at the last moment by suddenly taking an upward turn in an
utterly incongruous fashion.  She had high cheek-bones, a parchment
skin, and a mouth that was not much more than a slit; the grotesque
effect of the whole being heightened by a long, thin neck, which she
made no effort to cover with a neat high collar, but accentuated by a
half-and-half untidily loose one.

She wore a cheap, ready-made blouse, with absurd little bows tacked on
down the front, which Ethel longed to abolish with one sweep, and her
skirt, which had shrunk considerably in front, sagged in a dejected
fashion behind.

Yet to Basil's kindly eyes, there was something behind it all that was
attractive.  Fore one thing, she was so eminently sincere.  One felt
she had no delusions whatever, concerning her appearance or her
oddities; and though she looked out upon life with that scornful,
resentful air, she had yet a keener sense of humour and a clearer brain
than most women.  Under different circumstances she might have been a
success.

As it was, she appeared to have got into a wrong groove altogether,
and, unable to extricate herself, to have merely become an oddity.
Basil, from his couch, looked up at her with friendly eyes, and she
finished:

"One may want a little company, without wanting just any company."

"You think you will find me even duller than nothing?" and his eyes
twinkled.

"You know I didn't mean that.  You are clever, and well-read, and
probably fastidious.  I'm... well, you see what I am! and no good for
anything except trying to restrain horrible children from thumping till
they break the notes."

"I thought you said you were a music-teacher?"

"That's what they call it," with a dry grimace; "but when I dare to be
honest, I have too much respect for music."

I should like to add the following in regard to other chapels.

Signor Arienta has found a 1523 scrawled on the frescoes of the
Crucifixion chapel.

I do not think this shows necessarily that the work was more than begun
at that date. He has also found a monogram, which we believe to be
Gaudenzio Ferrari's, on the central shield with a lion on it, given in
the illustration facing p. 210.

On further consideration, I feel more and more inclined to think
that the frescoes in this chapel have been a good deal retouched.

I hardly question that the Second Vision of St. Joseph chapel is
by Tabachetti, as also the Woman of Samaria. The Christ in this last
chapel is a restoration.

In a woodcut of 1640 the position of the figures is reversed, but
nothing more than the positions.

Lastly, the Virgin's mother does not have eggs east of Milan. It
is a Valsesian custom to give eggs beaten up with wine and sugar to
women immediately on their confinement, and I am told that the
eggs do no harm though not according to the rules.

I am told that Valsesian influence must always be suspected when the
Virgin's mother is having eggs.

November 30, 1888.

Note.--A copy of this postscript can be easily inserted into a bound
copy, and will be forwarded by Messrs.

TRUBNER & Co. on receipt of stamped and addressed envelope.

CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION.

In the preface to "Alps and Sanctuaries" I apologised for passing
over Varallo-Sesia, the most important of North Italian sanctuaries,
on the ground that it required a book to itself.

This book I will now endeavour to supply, though well aware that I
can only imperfectly and unworthily do so.

To treat the subject in the detail it merits would be a task beyond my
opportunities; for, in spite of every endeavour, I have not been able
to see several works and documents, without which it is useless
to try and unravel the earlier history of the sanctuary.

The book by Caccia, for example, published by Sessali at Novara in
1565, and reprinted at Brescia in 1576, is sure to turn up some
day, but I have failed to find it at Varallo, Novara (where it appears
in the catalogue, but not on the shelves), Milan, the Louvre, the
British Museum, and the Bodleian Library.
Through the kindness of Sac.

Ant. Ceriani, I was able to learn that the Biblioteca Ambrosiana
possessed what there can be little doubt is a later edition of this book,
dated 1587, but really published at the end of 1586, and another
dated 1591, to which Signor Galloni in his "Uomini e fatti celebri
di Valle-Sesia" (p. 110) has called attention as the first work
ever printed at Varallo.

But the last eight of the twenty-one years between 1565 and 1586 were
eventful, and much could be at once seen by a comparison of the
1565, 1576, and 1586 [1587] editions, about which speculation is a waste
of time while the earlier works are wanting. I have been able to gather
two or three interesting facts by a comparison of the 1586 and
1591 editions, and do not doubt that the date, for example, of
Tabachetti's advent to Varallo and of his great Calvary Chapel would
be settled within a very few years if the missing books were
available.

was the question that utterley undid her, finding
no reply beyond a sense of empty darkness.

She told herself she would go right away to another land - to some far
colony - where she could begin life afresh, with her haunting memories
kept in the background.  She would not stay to see the awakening come
to Dudley, if Doris were his wife, nor struggle through the long months
at the General Post Office, when the end of each day's labour brought
no welcoming smile from Basil.

She would not settle down alone in a dingy little flat as their
opposite neighbour, to become a mere letter of the alphabet to God and
man, surrounded by countless other cyphers of as little meaning and
account.  She would go away to some new, young land, with her vigour
and her courage, and carve out a path with some semblance of reality
and value.

Only, could she ever get away from the awful emptiness that would come
to her with the loss of Basil, and the utter lack of any incentive to
carry on the unequal struggle?

Basil laid his hand on her bowed head, and for a little while seemed
unable to speak.  Then he steadied his voice, and rallied her with his
brave, whimsical thoughts.

"Wouldn't the dear old pater have enjoyed G?  She's just the kind of
oddity he doted on.  Fancy her teaching music of all things.  It must
be only scales and exercises.  I think she's splendid to see the
incongruity herself, and refuse to call it music when she dare be
honest.  What a grotesque figurehead she looks, chum, doesn't she?  I
thoroughly enjoyed talking to her."

But Ethel could not answer to his cheeriness just yet.

"Basil, why are so many humans just mere letters of the alphabet in the
general scheme?"

She had slid into a sitting posture now, and leaned her head against
his arm.

"It doesn't matter so much about the men; they can go out into the
world and make friends by the way, and become something more if they
wish; but what of the single women, who have to work for their living,
and have nothing much to look forward to but a sort of terror as to
what will become of them when they can work no more?  If you could see
some of them at the office, with that drawn, dried-up, joyless look,
scraping and saving and starving for dread of the years ahead: it's so
unfair, so grossly, hideously, cruelly unfair."

"It perhaps won't be when you see all round it, chum.  It is so obvious
we only see one side of things here.  When we see the other side it
will all look so different."

"Perhaps, but in the meantime they are here, now, in our very midst,
all _these unwanted_ women.  If you saw as much of them as I do, I
think you would feel even the letter had better not have been supplied.
 A blank would have meant so much less suffering.  A penniless woman
without attractiveness, and with neither husband, child, nor father
wanting her, is such an anomaly.  She just drags on, hating her
loneliness, dreading and fearing the future or illness, merely existing
because she is called upon to do so for no apparent reason."

"But she can always make friends, chum.  If she is kind and cheerful
and hopeful she will soon win love of some sort."

"If... yes...  but, Basil, to be all that, when one is weighed down
with the inequality of chance and a horror of the future calls for a
heroine; and Life didn't bother to make many of them heroines.  She
doesn't seem to have paid much attention to them at all.  Orphans and
widows and sick people she remembers; but the lonely, ageing, hardened,
unwanted spinster!  It sometimes seems to me it is just sentimentality
to be persuaded everything is all right.

"I don't believe it is all right.  There's too much useless, silent
aching, and useless, passionate resentment over circumstances that it
seems should either never have been, or should be remedied if any
Guiding Hand has power.    I have determination and I'm strong, Basil;
the future doesn't frighten me badly yet, but when you are gone, I feel
as if the loneliness might half kill me, and as if then I ought to have
the right to become a blank if I wish, since I was never consulted
about becoming a letter in the great alphabet."

He did not seek to stay her, knowing with his deep insight that to get
such thoughts spoken was better than to brood inwardly; and because of
his unshakable faith in her courage, he was not alarmed by them.

Yet he could not offer any comfort.  Had not the enigma of useless pain
racked and torn his soul piteously through the long years of his
illness, leaving him indeed with a wonderful courage, but not with a
theory that would fit the needs of suffering mankind?  He could bear
his own ills, because he had trained and taught himself to take them as
a soldier takes the miseries of a hard campaign; but the general sum of
suffering was another matter; and he shrank from saying either that
suffering was sent by God to do good, or that it was necessary to the
human race.

All he knew was simply that ills bravely borne seemed aided by some
mysterious power outside their bearers; whereas the craven and the
grumbler seemed but to add to their own burden.  For the rest, though
he would not say it for the pain it gave her, the knowledge of his
growing weakness was already a solace to him, and he watched with
hidden eagerness for the day that should set him free.  At least a
corpse was no drain upon the slender purse of a beloved sister; and the
gnawing ache of his helplessness and uselessness would be stilled for
ever.

If only Dudley had cared for her?  From his vantage-ground of the
looker-on, with his unnaturally sharpened sensitiveness, he knew
perfectly how matters stood and how hopeless the desire seemed.

Dear old Dudlye, his life-long friend, would probably marry Doris and
learn his mistake too late; and Ethel, with her fine nature, would go
to some one else.

Well, one could not change either one's own little circle of fate, or
the universe, just to suit oneself; one could only hope for the best,
while there was still room for hope, and cultivate that soldier-spirit,
undaunted even in a losing fight.

In the meantime there was the lonely, unwanted spinster opposite, with
her immediate claim of nearness and loneness; and, as if to direct her
thoughts into another channel, he said:

"You know, chum, I believe G was quite serious about wanting to come in
here sometimes.  Why not find out which afternoons she comes home
early, and let her come and get tea and have it with me here.  Then
Doris need not worry about getting back in time."

"But if you are feeling weak it will tire you so, Basil, to have a
stranger.  You will feel obliged to talk to her."

"No, I don't think I shall; and it would be nice to feel she was rather
glad not to be a blank after all.  Let her come one afternoon and try.
Perhaps one way of grappling with the problem of human suffering - the
best way - is to try and alleviate the atom of pain that is nearest
each one of us."

She assented to please him, and then kissed his forehead with a
lingering, adoring tenderness, marvelling that such a sufferer could so
think for others.  Then she went quietly to bed, feeling, as the gaunt
spinster had tried to put it, "If _you_ can bear your ills so, surely I
might manage to bear mine more courageously."


CHAPTER XIX


The next evening Ethel crossed the little landing to the lonely flat,
and gave the invitation from F to G.

A good deal to her amusement, she found the gaunt spinster knitting
babies' socks, with a basket containing several completed pairs beside
her.  She picked a pair up, and said with a kind little smile:

"I hardly expected to find you doing this."

"Of course not," in a short way, that sounded uncivil without being so.
 "It's an occupation about as much suited to me as teaching music."

"I wonder why you do it?"

"I do it for bread, naturally.  They bring in a few shillings.  It is
just a fluke that I can make them at all.  I know as much about a
needle ordinarily as a flying-machine; but I learnt to knit once under
protest.
I sprained my ankle and was laid up for some weeks, and I told the
doctor I should go stark, staring mad if he kept me shut up in a house
doing nothing.  He said knitting was a very good preventive to madness,
and he'd send his wife along.  She was a great missionary worker, and
she pounced on me like a hawk, and started me off knitting socks for
little gutta-percha babies somewhere in the Antipodes, almost before I
knew where I was.
Such insanity!... as if white babies wanted to be bothered with socks,
much less black ones!  I told the doctor it was adding insult to injury
to allow it to appear I hadn't more common sense than to occupy my time
with garments for the heathen.  As if there weren't too many garments
in the world already, half the community over-dressed, and ready to
sell its soul for more.
'Leave them clean and healthy and naked, that's my advice, doctor,' I
told him; 'and if you weren't afraid of you wife you'd agree.'"

Ethel leaned against the table, enjoying the rugged face and comically
twisted mouth.

"But I thought you were a clergyman's daughter?" she said.

"So I am; but I don't see why I shouldn't be credited with a little
common sense even then.  I know they haven't much as a rule; what with
their sewing-classes, and praying-classes, and mothers' meetings
smothering up their minds till they can't see beyond their noses.  I
never had much to do with that part of it.  They didn't like me well
enough in the village to want to pray with me nor sew with me; which
was just as well, for if I'd prayed, I should have implored the
Almighthy to open their minds a little, and widen their views, and give
them each a good thick slab of devilry to counteract their general
soppiness and short-sighted stupidity.
Ugh!...  to hear some of those soppy folks praying to be delivered from
the Evil One, and to have strength given them to cast the devil from
their hearts!  Just as if the devil had time to bother with that
sanctimonious, chicken-hearted crew.  He wasn't very likely to do them
the compliment of acknowledging their existence."

"Did no one do any parish work then?"

"Oh, yes, the doctor's wife did most of it.  And when a new doctor came
they daren't for the life of them have a word to say to him, for fear
of the next prayer-meeting, when she would preside.  You see, she'd
pray for the lost sheep in the fold for about half an hour, and how he
went to the wolf for healing, which was the new doctor - instead of the
saviour, which was her husband, the old one, and drew lurid pictures of
the fiery poisons and deadly draughts the wolf gave the poor sheep to
kill him instead of cure him."

"And what became of the new doctor?"

"Oh, of course he had to go - which was a pity, as he was the first
person with a sense of humour who ever entered that village as a
resident.  One could positively talk sense to him, without being
regarded as a lunatic.  As a rule, you had to feign imbecility there if
you didn't want to be considered mad.
I had just made up my mind to learn to knit men's ties, instead of
babies' socks, when he departed" - and she looked at Ethel with a
grimness, and at the same time a lurking humour, that made it quite
impossible for Ethel to keep her face.

"And did you change your mind then?" seeing the gaunt spinster was not
in the least annoyed at her for laughing.

"Yes; I stuck to the babies' socks.  I thought on the whole it was less
incongruous for a woman with a face like mine to work for a baby than a
man.
And that's the nearest I ever got to a love affair.  Just to wonder if
I'd knit a man a tie, and change my mind, and knit socks for a little
black heathen whelp instead."

"O dear!" said Ethel, with a little smothered gasp, "you don't mind if
I laugh, do you?  You really are very amusing."

"Amusing!..." with a little humorous snort.  "Well, I don't mind
amusing you; but I do think it's about the most monstrous thing in the
way of a practical joke I know, for Nature to create a creature like
me, with a natural inclination to want a mate.  Just as if any man
could bear to get up every morning of his life and see me there."

"Nonsense," Ethel exclaimed.  "Basil thinks you are very attractive."

"Does he?" drily.  Then, with a sudden, swift humour, "Perhaps it's a
pity I didn't learn to knit ties after all!"

"Tell him about why you didn't instead - and abouth the village and the
doctor's wife.  He'll be so interested.  You will be a positive godsend
to him.  May I tell him to expect you to tea to-morrow?"

"Yes.  Tell him, to add to the humour of the situation, I'll bring
across a baby's sock to knit.  We're both so likely to have a mutual
interest in babies."

Ethel kept Basil entertained most of the evening with the account of
her interview, rather to the annoyance of Doris, who, for some vague
reason, was not at all pleased about the new acquaintance.

Perhaps it was because, on one or two occasions when she had remained
out later than she should, she had met the music-teacher and
encountered a fierce and disapproving glare.  Doris was quite willing
to be relieved of her charge occasionally, but she did not at all
appreciate the idea of a strong-minded individual, who would certainly
not hesitate not only to condemn her selfishness, but to look her scorn
of it.

On the evening of Dudley's visit, when she first found the gaunt
spinster at the flat, she had gone to bed feeling out of sorts with
herself and all the world.

She hated having been caught in her selfish forgetfulness; she hated
the idea of the opposite tenant coming in to help Ethel; she hated
being Doris Hayward and living in a stuffy Holloway flat.  It caused
her to turn her thoughts more seriously to a way of escape, and, as a
natural sequence, to how much Dudley's attentions might mean.

And further, if they were meant in earnest, how she would feel about
marrying him.  She made no pretence to herself of loving him;
personally, she thought love mostly sentimental nonsense; but she liked
being with him, and she liked going about with him.

On the other hand, he was not rich, and she hated poverty.  If she
waited a little longer, a richer man might turn up?...  or, again, he
might not, and Dudley might change his mind.  Certainly it was very
awkward to know which was the wisest course, but in the meantime it
would be just as well to keep Dudley attracted.

To this end she gave her hair an extra curl on Saturday evening, and
arose betimes on Sunday morning for further preparations.  Ethel took a
bow off her hat, ironed, and remade it, and finally put the finishing
touches to her appearance.

"You look very nice," she said.  "I hope you'll have a splendid day.
Rund and show yourself to Basil."

Basil told her she would certainly be the belle of the luncheon party,
and finally she departed feeling very pleased with herself.

Dudley was waiting for her at Paddington, and his eyes showed plainly
that he echoed Basil's opinion, though he did not actually express it
in words.

"How did you leave Basil?" he asked.  "I wish I felt happier about him."

"He is much brighter altogether.  I really think Ethel might have come,
as the tenant of the opposite flat would have been only too pleased to
go and sit with him.  She never seems to have any pleasure, does she?
But it is really her own fault.  I would have stayed at home to-day if
she would have let me."

"I think I'm rather glad she wouldn't; though I am sorry she could not
have had the treat as well.  We are going to have a lovely day, in
spite of its being so late in the year."

As it was only a small birthday luncheon, and the others of the party
had either gone overnight or lived near, they were easily able to get a
compartment to themselves, and Dudley was conscious of a pleasurable
quickening of his pulses at the prospect of the long tête-à-tête.

And indeed it was not surprising, for Doris looked adorably pretty and
winsome, and many a wiser man might have shared his pleased
anticipation.  Moreover, Doris was not in the least stupid or vapid,
however selfish and shallow her nature; and if she chose she could be a
very pleasant companion.

And to-day she did so choose, hovering still in indecision over the
subject that had filled her thoughts often of late.

Finally, it chanced that during much of the day they were thrown
together, and all the  time she thought how nice it was to be of so
much consequence to any one; while he enjoyed again the sense of her
clinging, engaging dependence.

And when they were once more alone in a commpartment, steaming back to
town, it was not in the least surprising that, almost before he knew
it, Dudley was pouring into her ears a tale of love.

True, it was a very calm and collected tale, but it was none the less
genuine for that; and from the bottom of his heart he believed that
she, above all women, was the one he desired as his wife.  Transports
of any description were foreign to his nature.  He imagined they always
would be.

Joyous excitement and enthusiasm he left to Hal, except such enthusiasm
as he kept for old ruins and ancient architecture.  Still, it warmed
all his blood and quickened all his pulses to have his way at last, and
hold Doris in his arms, and try to kiss away the unshed tears and the
little droop from her lips.

He took her home from the station, but did not go in because of the
lateness of the hour, and the probability that Basil was just getting
off to sleep; only kissing her again with a certain old-fashioned,
deferential air and promising to come in the course of a day or two to
see Ethel and Basil.

Doris let herself in with somewhat mixed feelings.

She had had a delightful day and thoroughly enjoyed it, but, now that
the die was cast, and the difficult point settled, she found herself
beginning to be more critical of Dudley.

She wished he were not quite so old-fashioned, nor so good.  She was a
little afraid she would find his sterling qualities distinctly boring,
and his high standard a difficult and tiresome one to bother with.

And then, of course, there was Hal.  Hal never had liked her and
probably never would.  Not that it mattered very much.  In fact, it was
rather pleasant than otherwise to think of Hal's discomfiture and
dismay, Doris wondered if she would expect to live with them, and made
up her mind then and there, very decisively, that she would never agree
to anything of the kind.

She had suffered quite enough from Ethel's superiority, without
encountering a second edition in Hal.  All the authorities without exception
say that the sculptor was a certain Giacomo Bargnola of Valsolda, who
was also called Bologna.

Fassola describes him as a "statuario virtuosissimo e glorioso per
tutta l' Europa," and Torrotti calls him "il famoso Giacomo Bargnola
di Valsoldo [sic] sopranominato Bologna."

All subsequent writers have repeated this.

At Varallo itself I found nothing known about either Bargnola or
Valsolda, but turning to Zani find Bargnola under the name Paracca.
Zani says, "Paracca, non Peracca, ne Perracca, ne Perrazza,
Giannantonio, o Giacomo, detto il Valsoldo, Valsolino, e il Valsoldino,
non Valfondino, ed anche il Bargnola, e malamente Antonio Valsado
Parravalda."

He says that he was a "plastico" and restorer of statues, came from the
neighbourhood of Como, was "bravissimo," and lived about from
1557-1587. There was a Luigi Paracca from the same place who was also
called "Il Valsoldino" and a Giacomo, and an Andrea, but of these last
three he does not say that they were noteworthy.

Nagler mentions only a Giovanni Antonio Parracca, who he says was called
Valsolda. He says that he was a sculptor of Milan, who made a reputation
at Rome about 1580 as a restorer of antique statues; that he only
worked in order to get money to spend on debauchery, and died,
according to Baglione, young, and in a hospital.

His words are -

"Paracca, Gio.

Antonio gennant Valsoldo, Bildhauer von Mailand, machte sich um
1580 in Rom als Restaurator antiker Werke einen Namen, arbeitete
aber nur, um Geld zur Schwelgerei zu bekommen. Starb jung im Hospital
 wie Baglione versichert."

I have had Baglione before me, but can find no life of Paracca either
under that name or under that of Bargnola, and suppose the reference
to him must be incidental in the life of some other artist.

I will again gratefully accept a fuller reference. I do not believe a
word about Paracca's alleged debauchery. Who ever yet worked as
Nagler says?

We have, then, to face on the one hand the authority of all writers
about the Sacro Monte, and on the other, the exceedingly explicit claim
made by Rossetti himself in the inscription given above.

Probably Bargnola began the work and Rossetti finished it. It is not
likely that the extremely circumstantial statement of Fassola
should be without any foundation, but again it is not likely that
Rossetti would have claimed the work if he had not done at any rate
the greater part of it.

If Bargnola died about 1587, he could not have done much, for in the
1586-1587 edition of Caccia it is expressly stated that the chapel alone
was done "Di questa e fatta solamente la chiesa."

And if he had lived to finish the work, he, and not Rossetti, would have
signed it.

We may conclude, then, with some certainty, that he died before
the chapel was finished, but may think it nevertheless probable
that he was originally commissioned to do it.

The question resolves itself, therefore, into how much he did, and how
soon Rossetti took the work over. It must be remembered that Michael
Angelo Rossetti is a name absolutely unknown to us.

Zani, Nagler, Cicognara, Lubke, Perkins, and all the authorities
I have consulted omit to mention him.

I find abundant reference to three, and indeed five, painters who were
called Rossetti, two of whom-- doubtless nephews of Michael Angelo
Rossetti,--did the frescoes in this very chapel we are considering,
but no one says one syllable about any Michael Angelo Rossetti, and
it is a bold thing to suppose that an unknown man should have
succeeded so admirably with such a very important work as the
Massacre of the Innocents chapel, and have lived as the inscription
shows to the age at least of fifty-seven without leaving a single
trace in any other quarter whatever.

The work, at any rate in many parts, is that of one who has been
working in clay all his life, and was a thorough master of his
craft, and this makes it all the more difficult to suppose it to
be a single tour de force.

On the other hand, such tours de force were not uncommon among
medieval Italian workmen.

Gaudenzio Ferrari's work in sculpture is little else than a succession
of tours de force, and in other parts of the work we are now considering,
there is a certain archaism which suggests growing rather than
matured power.

We should not forget, however, that an inscription in terra-cotta
cannot be surreptitiously scrawled on like a false signature on a
fresco or painting.

Here the signature was made with pomp and circumstance while the
clay was still wet, and was baked with the figure on which it
appears.

Too many people in this case would have to know about it for a false
inscription to be probable. As for the evidence of Fassola, we must
bear in mind that he is a notoriously inaccurate writer; that he did not
 write till nearly a hundred years after the work was completed;
that Torrotti is only an echo of Fassola, and all subsequent writers
little more than echoes of Fassola and Torrotti.

On the whole, therefore, the more I have considered the matter the more
I incline towards accepting the signature, and giving the greater part
of the terra-cotta work to the man who claims it--that is to say, to
Michael Angelo Rossetti, sculptor, of Claino. Signor Arienta tells me
he has found a Castel Claino mentioned in an old document, as
formerly existing near Milan.

He is himself inclined (though knowing nothing of Paracca when I last
saw him), to see two hands in the work--and here he is probably right,
but I hardly think Rossetti would have signed as he did if Bargnola or
Paracca had done the greater part or even half of it.

Proceeding to a consideration of the frescoes, we find that two of
Herod's body-guard, standing on his left hand, and corresponding to the
one on his right, on whose collar the sculptor signed his name,
have also signatures on their collars, obviously done in concert
with the sculptor.

The signatures are as follows:-

"Battista Roveri Pictor Milane AEta XXXV" and "Io Mauro Rover
Pictor."

Fassola says that the painter of the chapel was "il Fiamenghino."

If he had said the painters were "i Fiamenghini" he would have
been right, for Signor Arienta called my attention to a passage in
Lanzi, in which he has dealt with three painters bearing the name
of Rovere, two of whom, if not all three, were called "i Fiamenghini."

The three were Giovanni Mauro, Giambattista, and Marco, which last painter
does not seem to have had anything to do with the Massacre of the
Innocents.

Lanzi calls Gio. Mauro a follower, first of Camillo, and then of
Giulio Cesare Procaccini.

He describes them as painters of great facility and invention, but
as seldom taking pains to do what they very well might have done,
if they had chosen, and his verdict is, I should say, about right.

He adds:-

"I find them also called Rossetti, and they are still more often
described as 'i Fiamenghini,' their father, Richard, having come
from Flanders, and settled in Milan."

Signor Arienta explained to me that it was through this surname of
Fiamenghini, by which the brothers Rovere were known, that Giovanni
Miel D'Anvers was supposed to have had any hand in the frescoes on
the Sacro Monte.

This last-named painter was court painter to Carlo Emanuelle I. Bordiga
knew this, and seeing he came from Antwerp, concluded that he must
be "il Fiamenghino" mentioned, and all subsequent writers have
followed him.

Signor Arienta also tells me that some twenty years or so later
these same two painters signed some frescoes at Orta as follows:-

"Io Battista, et Io Maurus Aruberius, dicti Fiamenghini, pinxerunt
anno 1608 die 9 Octobris."

Doubtless their mother's name was Rossetti, and the Michael Angelo
RSTI who claims the sculptured work, and was some twenty years
their senior, was their uncle.

He also told me that one of the figures in the frescoes of the
Massacre of the Innocents chapel is wearing a collar with a clasp
on which there is an oak-tree, for which "Rovere" is the Italian,
and that he holds this to have been a portrait of the painter.

Fassola says that under the glazed aperture which is in front of
the piece there is placed a small terra-cotta car drawn by a child
and loaded with a head, or ear, of maize, a goose, and a clown; he
explains that the maize means 1000, the car 400, the clown 90, and
the goose "per il suo verso"--whatever this may mean--4, which
numbers taken together make the number of infants that were killed.

He adds that there is another like hieroglyphic, which, as it is not
very important, he will pass over.

I find no mention of this in Torrotti, nor yet in Bordiga, but when
people call attention to a thing and then say nothing about it, I
generally find they have a reason.

On a recent visit to Varallo I examined the two hieroglyphs; the second
is also a small terra-cotta car or cart drawn by a child, and containing
the bust of a monk, a die, and two or three other things that I could
not make out.

The treatment of these two hieroglyphics alone is enough to show that
they were done by a thorough master of his craft.

No doubt the import of the whole was known by Fassola to be sinister,
but I must leave its interpretation to others. He adds that the graces
vouchsafed at this chapel are chiefly on behalf of sick children.

I may conclude by saying that though nothing has been taken directly
from Tabachetti's Journey to Calvary chapel, the sculptor, whoever he
was, has nevertheless plainly felt the influence, and been animated by
the spirit of that great work, then just completed.

CHAPTER XI. CHAPELS No. 12--No. 22.

We now begin the series of chapels that deal with Christ's Manhood,
Ministry, and Passion.

The first of these is

CHAPEL No. 12. THE BAPTISM OF CHRIST BY JOHN.

The statues are of no great interest, and of unknown authorship. The
frescoes are by Orazio Gallinone di Treviglio, but they are not striking.
The date of the chapel is about 1585.

It is mentioned in the 1586 edition of Caccia, and it is added that the
water of the fountain would be brought there shortly so as to imitate
the Jordan.
This was done, but the water made the chapel so damp that it was turned
off again.

The graces, according to Fassola, are chiefly for married ladies.

CHAPEL No. 13. TEMPTATION.

This chapel is given as completed in the 1586 edition of Caccia, and
had probably been by this time reconstructed by Tabachetti, to
whom the work is universally and no doubt justly ascribed.

That the figures of Christ and of the devil have both been cut about
may be conjectured from their draperies being in part real linen
or calico, and not terra-cotta; Christ's red shirt front is real,
as also is a great part of the devil's dress.

This last personage is a most respectable-looking patriarchal old
Jewish Rabbi.

I should say he was the leading solicitor in some such town as Samaria,
and that he gave an annual tea to the choir.

He is offering Christ some stones just as any other respectable
person might do, and if it were not for his formidable two clawed
feet there would be nothing to betray his real nature.

The beasts with their young are excellent.

The porcupine has real quills. The fresco background is by Melchior
D'Enrico, and here the fall of the devil when the whole is over
is treated with a realistic unreserve little likely to be repeated. He
is dreadfully unwell. The graces in this chapel are more especially
for those tempted by the world, the flesh, and the devil, for people
who are bewitched, and for those who are in any wise troubled in mind,
body, and estate, "as the varying views of the pilgrims themselves
will best determine."

Bordiga says that the chapel was begun about 1580, and completed
in 1594, but he refers probably to Tabachetti's reconstruction, for
in the portico there is an inscription painted by order of the Bishop,
and forbidding visitors to deface the walls, that is dated 1524,
and the back of the chapel has many early 16th century scratches.

CHAPEL No. 14. THE WOMAN OF SAMARIA.

This chapel is given as completed in the 1586 edition of Caccia, so that
Bordiga and Cusa are wrong in dating it 1598.

In the poetical part of Caccia it is described as recently made and "ben
ritratto." The woman of Samaria is a fine buxom figure, but the paint
has peeled off so badly both from her and from the Christ that it
is hardly fair to judge the work at all.

I should think it was very possibly an early work by Tabachetti, but
should be sorry to hazard a decided opinion. The frescoes are without
interest. The graces at this chapel were chiefly for women who wanted
to abandon some evil practice, and for rain when the country was suffering
from long drought. This last is because Christ said to the woman of
Samaria "Give me to drink."

CHAPEL No. 15. THE PARALYTIC.

The chapel alone was completed by 1586 and 1590, so that we may be
certain Tabachetti had no hand in it.

The statues are said to be by D'Enrico, whom we meet here for the first
time. Bordiga praises them very highly, but neither Jones nor I liked
the composition as much as we should have wished to have done. Some
of the individual figures are good, especially a man with his arm
in a sling, and two men conversing on the left of the composition,
but there is too little concerted and united action, and too much
attempt to show off every figure to the best advantage, to the
sacrifice of more important considerations.

They probably date from 1620-1624, in which last year Bordiga says
that the frescoes were completed.

These are chiefly, if not entirely, by Cristoforo Martinolo, a
Valsesian artist and pupil of Morazzone, who, according to Bordiga,
though little known, has here shown himself no common artist.

Again neither Jones nor I admired them as much as we should have
been glad to do.

"All infirmities of fever, and paralysis," says Fassola, "if recommended
to the Great Saviour at this place will be dissipated, as may be
gathered from the many voti here exhibited."

CHAPEL No. 16. THE WIDOW'S SON AT NAIN.

Of this chapel the walls are alone mentioned as completed in
1590.
So that Bordiga and Cusa are again wrong in saying that the frescoes
were painted about 1580. It is not good. The walls were probably
raised soon after 1580.

Donna Mathilde di Savoia, Marchesa di Pianezza, a natural daughter
of Carlo Emmanuele I., was among the principal contributors. The
graces were "for those who had had bad falls or any accidents whereby
they had been rendered speechless, stupid, senseless, and apparently
dead."

It will be observed on referring to the plan facing p. 68, that this
chapel is given as on the ground now occupied by Christ taken before
Annas, and faces the Herod chapel on the Piazza dei Tribunali. This
may be a mere error in the plan, but the plan is generally accurate,
and it is very likely that a change was made in the middle of the
last century when the Annas chapel was built.

CHAPEL No. 17. THE TRANSFIGURATION.

This is on the highest ground of the Sacro Monte, the Transfiguration
being supposed to have happened on Mount Sinai. Inside the chapel
they have made Mount Sinai, but Fassola says that it was originally
quite too high, and the Fabbricieri had ordered it to be made lower,
"so as to render it more enjoyable by the eye."

It was begun at the end of the sixteenth century, but is mentioned
as being only "founded" in the 1586 and 1590 editions of Caccia, and
the work seems to have got little further than the foundations, until
in 1660 it was resumed; Fassola, writing in 1671, says that the
chapel was "levata in alto da terra l'anno del mille, sei cento e
sessanta," or about ten years before his book appeared; it was still
in great part unpainted, and he makes an appeal to his readers to
contribute towards its completion.

From both Fassola and Torrotti it would appear that only the group of
figures on the mountain was in existence when they wrote. They both of
them make the extraordinary statement that these figures are by
Giovanni D'Enrico, whom they must have perfectly well known to
have been dead more than a quarter of a century before Fassola wrote,
and many years before the figures could possibly have been placed
where they now are.

It is much as though I, writing now, were to ascribe Boehm's statue of
Mr. Darwin, in the Natural History Museum at South Kensington, to
Chantrey. The figures on the mountain are among the worst on the
Sacro Monte.

I see that Cusa ascribes the figures of Peter, James, and John only to
D'Enrico, but the ascription is very difficult to understand.

Bordiga does not say who did the figures of Peter, James, and
John, but he gives the Christ, Moses, and Elias to Pietro Francesco
Petera of Varallo.

The fourteen figures at the foot of the mountain he assigns to Gaudenzio
Soldo of Camasco, a pupil of the sculptor Dionigi Bussola.

In 1665 Giuseppe and Stefano Danedi, called Montalti, and pupils of
Morazzone, "painted the cupola of the chapel with innumerable angels
great and small exhibiting the most varied movements."

The
blackness of the night closed in upon her, and desolation swept across
her soul.

"If only it had been Ethel," was the vague, uncertain thought: "any one
in the world almost but Doris."

And again,

"Why had Dudley been so incredibly blind to Doris's real nature?  Why
had he of all men been caught by a pretty face?  Was it possible he
thought his life would need no other help and comfort but that of a
charming exterior in his wife?"

How childlike he seemed again to his young sister's practical, worldly
knowledge.  Of course he knew almost nothing of women, buried in his
musty old architectural lore, and giving most of his brain to the
contemplation of ancient ruins and edifices.

He had looked up from his books, and Doris had smiled at him, that
diabolically winsome, innocent smile of hers; and something in his
heart, not quite smothered and likewise not healthily developed, had
warmed into sudden, surprised pleasure, and straightway he thought
himself in love.  Hal was sure of one thingn, that if Doris had not
decided it would suit her plans to be Dudley's wife, the idea would not
have occured to him.

After all, what did he want with a wife for years to come, going along
so contentedly and placidly with his books and his thirst for
knowledge, and the peacefulness of their sojourn with Mrs. Carr?  No
servant troubles, no housekeeping worries, no taxes, no gas and
electric-light bills; everything done for them, and for company each
other.

Oh, of course, it was all Doris's doing.  She wanted to get away from
the dingy flat and the poverty, and she had hit upon Dudley as a way
out.

Hal got up suddenly with a bursting feeling.  Of course she did not
even love him, would not even try to change her nature to become more
in touch with his, would not trouble in the least what obstacles stood
between any real and deep understanding.  Perhaps she was not even
capable of love, but in any case her affections could not have been
given to any one as quiet, and studious, and old-fashioned as Dudley.

She went to the window and threw it open that she might lean out and
breathe the open air.  Her head burned and ached, and her eyes smarted
with a smouldering fire in her brain.  She felt more and more how
entirely it must have been Doris's doing.  Doris had smiled at him, and
confided in him, and managed first to convey a pathetic picture of her
own loneliness, and then to suggest how happy her life might be with
him.

And of course Dudley was all chivalry at heart, and trusting, and
tender-hearted; that was one reason why he had always deplored her,
Hal's, boyish independence and determination to fend for herself.  He
did not understand the vigorous, enterprising, working woman.

Immersed in his books and his studies, he had allowed himself to be
influenced largely by caricatures, and by the noisy stir of the
platform woman.  But he understood the Doris type, or thought he did,
and placed their engaging dependence before such spirited resolution as
her own and Ethel's.

And how to help him?  How, now, to thwart the carrying out of Doris'
cleverly carried scheme.

Her first thought was Ethel and Basil.  She would go to them, and
appeal to them to help her.

And then she remembered that "blood is thicker than water."  How could
they thwart their own sister; and in any case what would Dudley ever
see in it but a persecution that would intensify his affection?  One
hint that Doris was victimised, and she knew Dudley well enough to
realise he would only marry her the more quickly, whether he had
learned the truth or not.

Opposition of any sort would probably do far more harm than good at
present.  There was nothing for it but to meet the blow with the best
face possible, and hope time might yet bring release.

Then her thoughts went back to Sir Edwin, and quite suddenly and
unaccountably she longed to tell him about it.  He would be interested
for her sake, and he would cheer her up, and make her hopeful in spite
of herself.

And yet -

No; to see him again, feeling as she felt now, would only mean to see
him in a mood of weakness, that might make her less able to withstand
him.

She must rely only on Lorraine and Dick, and try to stand by her
previous determination.  She would see Lorraine directly she left the
office the next day, and in the meantime she would try and hide from
Dudley the extent of her dismay.

But in spite of her resolve, when she rested her head on the pillow,
the  hot tears squeezed through her closed eyelids, and in dumb misery
she told herself Dudley was lost to her for ever.

She awoke the next morning with a dull, aching sense of misery that had
robbed the sunshine of its warmth, and the day of its brightness; but
as she dressed she strengthened herself in a resolve to try and hide
her chagrin, and make some amends to Dudley for her reception of the
news.

"I suppose you felt pretty disgusted with me last night," she said at
the breakfast-table.  "I'm sorry, but you took me so violently by
surprise."

He had taken his seat, looking grave and displeased, but his face
relaxed as he replied:

"I'm afraid I was rather sudden.  It seemed the easiest" - he
hesitated, then added - "I hope you'll try to get on with Doris."

"Of course."  Hal turned away on some slight pretext.  "I'd hate giving
you up to any one - you know I would - we've - we've - been very happy
together here, and - " but her voice broke suddenly.

Dudley looked unhappy, but he steadied his voice and said cheerfully:

"Well, it needn't be very different.  If you and Doris will get fond of
each other, it will be the same, only better.  Of course you will live
with us."

"Oh no"; and she tried to smile lightly - "I couldn't - possibly live
without Mrs. Carr now.  I should never be properly dressed, for one
thing, and I should always be forgetting important engagements."  She
changed the subject quickly, seeing he was about to remonstrate.  "Have
you seen Ethel and Basil since - since - "

"No; I'm going to see Basil this afternoon, after taking Doris to
Wimbledon to see Langfier fly, and I shall stay to dinner.  Will you
come up this evening?"

"No; I'm going out.  Perhaps to-morrow - " she hesitated, as if
swallowing a lump in her throat.  "You might give my love to Doris, and
say I'll come soon."  She saw Dudley glance at her inquiringly, and
recklessly dashed into another subject, talking at random until she
left.

In the afternoon she hurried straight off to Lorraine's flat, arriving
a few minutes after Lorraine had come in from a walk in the Park.  She
was standing by the window, drawing off some long gloves, and even Hal
was struck by a sort of newness about her - a bloom and a quiet
radiance that was like a renewal of youth.

She was beautifully dressed as ever, buth with a far simpler note than
usual - something which suggested she wished to look charming, without
attracting attention; something which suppressed the actress in favour
of the woman.

It was as if, surrounded with success and attention night after night,
and for several years, she had wearied of the rôle, and put it aside
voluntarily whenever opportunity offered.  She had been wont to be
verry fashionable and striking in her dress and general appearance, but
now Hal noticed vaguely a simpler note all through.

Her face and expression seemed to have changed also.  A certain
hardness and callousness had gone.  Her smile was more genuine, and her
eyes kinder.  In some mysterious way, it was as though Lorraine had won
from the past some gleaming of the woman she might have been under
happier circumstances, and without certain harsh experiences.

And it was all owing to her feeling for Alymer Hermon and his youthful
pride in her.

They met continually now.  Her flat was open to him whenever he liked.
He came to her when he had anything interesting to relate - when he was
depressed and when he was hopeful.  With the inconsequent acceptance of
youth, he took from her what an older man would have regarded a little
shyly, and perhaps feared to take.

She was his pal, his excellent friend, who gave him such sympathy and
interest and encouragement as she could find nowhere else.  Because he
was young, he drank deep and asked no questions.

He did not imagine for a moment that she was in love with him.  True,
other women were; but then they told him so, and alarmed him with their
attentions.  Lorraine was more inclined to laugh at him and make fun of
him, in a jolly, pally sort of way, which made him feel perfectly at
home with her, and successfully banish any questions.

She was more like a man friend, only better, because a man would have
wanted an equal share of interest, whereas Lorraine seemed content to
be interested in him.  She never encouraged him to talk about her
triumphs and her other friends.  She rather implied they were so public
and apparent already she did not want to hear any more of them.

But she was always ready to talk of his hopes and aspirations, and help
him to build foundations to his aircastles.  And already, under her
tuition and help, he had made immense strides.  His work and his
objects had become real to him, ambition had taken root and begun to
push out little upward shoots.  He saw himself one of the leading
lights at the Bar, and instead of lazily scoffing, he liked the
picture.  He wanted to get there, and if Lorraine was ready to help
him, why should she not?  Why bother to ask questions?

Of course she must be fond of him, or she would not do it; but then he
was fond of her too - very fond - and why not?  The mere suggestion of
danger did not occur to him.  She was so many years his senior, and so
celebrated, it never crossed his mind to suppose she could have any
feeling for him beyond the jolly palliness that seemed to have sprung
up naturally between them.

So he came and went between the Temple and her flat and his own
quarters, and life began to assume a bigness of possibility that
drowned all else, and kept him eager and harworking and safe from the
hurtful influences and actions that attend idle hours.

And Lorraine, for the present, walked in her fool's paradise and was
content.  She watched him slowly and surely fill out both physically
and mentally into the promise of his splendid manhood.

She saw his youthful beauty solidifying into the beauty of a man, and
carefully watered and tended those budding shoots of ambition that were
to help him attain his best promise.

For the time being the thwarted mother-love that is in every woman
satisfied her with the evidence of his progress, and she lulled any
other into quiescence, hugging to herself the knowledge that it was she
alone to whom he would owe greatness, if he won it, and that even his
own doting mother had not done, and never could do, the half that she
was doing to start him on a steadfast way that should lead to fame and
usefulness.

She made it her excuse for ignoring the questions which her wider
knowledge could not entirely banish.  To what other results the
friendship might lead she turned a deaf ear.  The other results must
take care of themselves, was her thought; it was enough for her that
she could help to make him great.

She smiled  a little at the thought of the women she had won him from.
He talked to her now freely and openly, though always with that
unassuming modesty which was so attractive.  She knew what he had
already had to combat.  What a life of self-pleasing and gay-living lay
open to him if he chose to take it.  She knew that, if he chose it,
though he might still win a certain amount of fame, it would never be
the well-grounded, staunch, reliable success that she could spur him to.

And so she drew a curtain over the dangers her course might hold, and,
in a light and airy way, threw over him the glow and the warm
attractiveness of her many fascinations and allurements, that she might
keep him free from any foolish engagement or low entanglement, to
concentrate all his mind and his heart upon his work and her.

How long such an aim was likely to satisfy her, or how natural or
unnatural her course, she left with all the other questions, to be
faced, if necessary, later on, or to pass with the swift joy into
oblivion.

At least it was not the first time a woman, scarcely young, and having
her full measure of success, had turned unaccountably to a man very
much her junior, for something she apparently sought in vain from men
of her own age.  It might be strange, but it was not unique; and for
the rest, were not the ways of the little god Love like the ways of
many events - "stranger than fiction"?

His magnificent physique, his extraordinarily beautiful head, and his
no less extraordinary, unassuming modesty, attracted and held her with
links that grew stronger and stronger, and her happiest hours now were
those in which he made himself delightfully at home in her flat, and
added to his charm by talking to her with the old-fashioned,
grandfatherly air she had enjoyed from the first.

And so Hal found a younger and softer Lorraine than she had known for a
long time, waiting to hear the burden of her tale of woe.

They talked it over in every aspect, Hal sitting in her favourite
attitude on a stool at Lorraine's feet; but very little light could be
won through the clouds.  All the consolation Lorraine could suggest was
a possibility that to be engaged and married to a man like Dudley might
change Doris altogether for the better; but Hal, beyond feeling
brighter for having spoken out her dismay, felt there was little indeed
hope of that.

"Have you seen Sir Edwin Crathie again?"  Lorraine asked presently, and
she was surprised to see a spot of colour instantly flame into Hal's
cheeks.

"I've had a long motor ride with him," she said, speaking as if it were
a mere detail.

"_Have you_?" was Lorraine's very expressive rejoinder.

"Why do you say it like that?"  Hal laughed with seeming lightness.
"He just took me for a treat.  He's rather sorry for me, being boxed up
in an office, as he calls it."

"I see.  Well, don't forget he has the reputation for being rather a
dangerous man, old girl."

Hal laughed again.

"I'll tell him so, and go armed with a revolver next time."  She
noticed an inquiring look in Lorraine's eyes, and added: "Don't look so
serious, Lorry; he is old enough to be my father.  He likes a little
amusement, the same as you and Baby Hermon."

She turned away as she spoke, and did not see the swift deepening of
the look of inquiry, nor a certain strange expression that flitted
across Lorraine's face; and almost immediately the door opened, and
Alymer Hermon walked in unannounced.

"Hullo, Hal!" he exclaimed - "it's quite a long time since I ran into
you here."

"Hullo, Baby!" she retorted.  "Why, I declare, you are beginning to
look quite a man."

"If you don't mind I'll pick you up and carry you all the way down the
stairs to the street; then you'll see if I'm a man or not."

"Tut; any big creature could do that!  Got any briefs yet?"

"I have."

Lorraine looked up instantly with an eager, questioning glance - while
Hal asked gaily:

"What is it?...  He's de beef market man; he take all de rabbits and
sell 'em when I couldn't git a thing fer 'em.

Ole lady living den, and when I git home she low is I got any 'loady'
(something to eat). I come in wid beef and cow heads. Cow foots
was de best meat.

Dey throws all sech as dat away now.

Dere was allus a fuss in de house iffen I never had no 'loady'. Somehow
er another I was allus a family man and was lucky to git in wid
mens dat help me on.

Never suffered wid help frum dese kind men. Dat's de way I got along
as well as I has.

Ole Missus and Marse learn't me to never tell a lie, and she teached
me dat's de way to git along well.

I still follows dat.

"Up in age, I got in wid cap'n Perram (Mr.

George Perrin). He was de banker.

He say 'bout me, 'what I likes 'bout Gus, he never tell a lie'.

"Befo' dat, I work fer Lawyer Monroe. He had a brother named Jim and one
named George, his name Bill. His sister named Miss Sally. Dar I farm
fer dem and work on half'uns.

De Yankees camped on his place whar Mr.

Gordon Godshall now got a house.

N'used to go dar mi'night ev'y night and ev'y day.

Dey had a pay day de furs' and de fifteenth of de month. Dey's terrible
fer 'engans' (onions) and eggs.

Dey git five marbles and put dem in a ring; put up fifty cents.

Furs' man knocks out de middle-man (marble) got de game. Dey's jes'
sporty to dat.

Never had nothing but greenbacks den. Fifteen cents and ten cents
pieces and twenty-five and as high as fifty cents pieces was paper
in dem times.

"Dey larn't us a song: 'If I had ole Abe Lincoln all over dis world,
but I know I can't whip him; but I fight him 'till I dies'. Dey
low'd, 'we freeded
you alls'.

"Another song was: 'Salvation free fer all mankind; Salvation free
fer all mankind'.

I was glad er all salvation.

'Salvation free fer me'; got up dat song furs' on a moonlight night,
and us sing it all night long, going from house to house.

"'Motherless chilluns sees hard times; just ain't got no whar to
go; goes from do' to do',' dat's de song dey got up.

I doesn't know whar it come from. 'Nother one was: 'When de sun refuse
to shine; Lord I wants to be in de number, when de sun refuse to
shine.

If I had a po' mother she gone on befo', Lord I promise her I would
meet her when de saints go marching in.' Dat's what lots people is still
trying to do.

"We sot mud baskets fer cat fish; tie grapevines on dem and put dem
in de river.

We cotch some wid hooks. I went seining many times and I set nets;
bought seins and made de nets. Pull up sein after a rain and have
seventy-five or eighty fish; sometimes have none. Peter Mills made
our cat fish stew and cooked ash-cake bread fer us to eat it wid.
Water come to our necks while we seining and we git de fish while
we drifting down stream.

"We wear cotton clothes in hot weather, dyed wid red dirt or mulberries,
or stained wid green wa'nuts--dat is de hulls. Never had much
exchanging of clothes in cold weather. In dat day us haul wood eight
or ten feet long. De log houses was daubed wid mud and dey was warm.
Fire last all night from dat big wood and de house didn't git cold.

We had heavy shoes wid wood soles; heavy cotton socks which was wore
de whole year through de cold weather, but we allus go barefeeted in hot
weather.

Young boys thirteen to fifteen years old had de foots measured. When
tracks be seed in de wa'melon patch, dey was called up, and if
de measurements of dere tracks fitted de ones in de wa'melon patch,
dat was de guilty nigger.

I 'clar, you had to talk purty den.

When I go in de wa'melon patch, I git de old missus to say fer
me to go; den I could eat and nothing was said 'bout it.

"Sunday clothes was died red fer de gals; boys wore de same.

We made de gals' hoops out'n grape vines. Dey give us a dime, if dey had
one, fer a set of hoops.

"Twan't no dressing up fer marring in slavery times; just say, 'gwine
to be a marriage tonight' and you see 'bout 40 or 50 folks dar to see
it.

If it be in wa'melon time, dey had a big feast atter de wedding.
Old man preacher Tony would marry you fer nothing. De keep de wedding
cake fer three weeks befo' it was eat."
=Source:= Gus Feaster (97), 20, Stutz Ave., Union, S.C.
Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C.

Project 1885-1 FOLKLORE Spartanburg Dist. 4 July 7, 1937
Edited by:
Elmer Turnage 
STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES
"I ain't never give you dis information.

Miss Susie and Miss Tommie Carlisle, Marse Tom's onliest daughters,
died befo' de surrender. Miss Susie slipped one day wid de scissors in
her hand, and when she did dem scissors tuck and stuck in
one her eyes and put it plum' smack out and she never did see out'n
it no mo'. Dat made it so sad, and everybody cried wid her but it
never done her narry bit of good.

"When dem young ladies died, I left out and run off from my ma
and come to Union.

Mr. Eller kept a big sto' jest as you come into town. It was jest about
whar Mr. Mobley Jeter's is now. Dat's in de middle of town, but in
de fur off days I is speaking about, it was de very outskirts of dis
town. I is seed dis town grow, dat is what I is. Mr. Eller tuck me
to be his driving boy, and dat sto' sot jest exactly whar de Chevet
Charage (Chevrolet Garage) sets now.

"When I been dar six years, my ma come to Union and she found me dar.

Us was dat glad to lay eyes on one another dat we jest shouted fur joy
and my Ma tuck and smacked me wid her lips right in de mouth. She
told me dat my pa had done got shot a fixing dem old breastworks
down in Charleston and dat called fur a big cry from me and her both.
Mr. Eller, he went out'n de back of his sto' 'till us quit. He let me
go back home to de Carlisle place wid my ma. Everything done changed
and I brung my ma back to Union and kept her, kaise I was a man in
full den.

"Lawyer Shand tuck my ma to work fur him and I started being his coachman.
He ole and he live in Columbia now. When he done dat, me and ma lived
in one of his houses.

He lived on what you knows as Douglas Heights and he had de biggest
house dar.

Dat was way befo' Captain Douglas moved from Goshen Hill. Den Captain
Douglas tuck de day and built dat house you sees now aheading what dey
 calls Douglas Heights atter Lawyer Shand's house was to' (torn)
down. De house sot right on top de hill in de middle of de street
you sees. His driveway was flanked wid water oaks and it retched down
to Main street. De grounds was on each side dat drive and dey retched
to whar de white folks is got a school (high school) now. On de other
side of dat drive his grounds hit Miss Fant's (Mrs. John Fant's
property).

"You could clam up Cap Douglas' stairs and git in a run-around
(cupola) and see de whole town through dem glass winders.

(This cupola is still on the house.) Never had none of dem things in
Union afo' dat. Some years atter dat, when Col. Duncan had his house
run over (remodeled) he had one of dem run-arounds put on his'n.

To dis day wid all de fine fixings folks has in Union, dar ain't narry
one got none of dem things and dey sho' is purty.

"Let me drap back, kaise I is gone too fer along; you wants olden
times.

On our plantation Marse Tom had a nigger driver. He 'hoop and holler and
wake us up at break of day.

But befo' freedom come 'long, Marse got a bell; den dat nigger
driver rung dat bell at break of day.

He was a sorry nigger dat never had no quality in him a'tall, no
sir-ee.

"Us had to feed de mules in de dark of mornings and de black of night
when craps needed working bad.

Seed many as a dozen hoe-womens in de field at one time. Dey come
when dey finished breakfast and de plows had got a start.

"Dey used mulberry skins from fresh mulberry saplins to tie around
dere waists fer belts.

If your singletree chain broke, you fixed it wid mulberry skins; same wid
your galluses. Mulberry is mighty strong and easy to tie
anything dat break.

"Marse Tom never whipped 'bout nothing much but stealing.

He never let his overseer do no whipping if he knowed it. He burnt
you up 'bout stealing, dat he would.

"Dey never wanted us to git no larning. Edmund Carlisle, smartest
nigger I is ever seed.

He cut out blocks from pine bark on de pine tree and smooth it. Git
white oak or hickory stick. Git a ink ball from de oak trees, and
on Sadday and Sunday slip off whar de white folks wouldn't know
'bout it.

He use stick fer pen and drap oak ball in water and dat be his ink
atter it done stood all night.

He larnt to write his name and how to make figures. Marse Jule and Bill,
two of Marse Tom's boys, found out dat Edmund could write and dey
wanted to whip him, but Marse Tom wouldn't let 'em.

"One morning Edmund was making a big fire 'round all de pots, kaise
we was butchering forty hogs.

Edmund had his head under de pot a blowing up de fire dat had done
tuck and died to embers.

Jule and Bill seed him and dey broke and run and pushed Edmund plum'
under dem pots. De embers burnt his face and de hair off'n his head.
Marse Tom wo' (wore) Bill and Jule out fer it. Missus 'lowed den
dat Edmund de smartest nigger on dat plantation.

"We had Sadday afternoons to do our work and to wash.

We had all de hollidays off and a big time Christmas and July
Fourth.

"Going to funerals we used all Marse's wagons.

Quick as de funeral start, de preacher give out a funeral hymn. All in
de procession tuck up de tune and as de wagons move along wid de
mules at a slow walk, everybody sing dat hymn.

When it done, another was lined out, and dat kept up 'till we
reach de graveyard. Den de preacher pray and we sing some mo'. In dem
days funerals was slow fer both de white and de black folks.

Now dey is so fast, you is home again befo' you gits dar good.

"On de way home from de funeral, de mules would perk up a little in dey
 walk and a faster hymn was sung on de way home. When we got home,
we was in a good mood from singing de faster hymns and de funeral
soon be forgot.

"As a child everybody in dem days played marbles.

"Ma sung some of de oldest hymns dat I is ever heard: (He sang) 'O
Zion, O Zion, O Zion, wanta git home at last'.

(Another) 'Is you over, Is you over, Is you over' and the bass come
back, 'Yes thank God, Yes thank God, Yes thank God, I is over.

How did you cross? At de ferry, at de ferry, at de ferry, Yes, thank
God I is over.' If I sing dem now folks laughs at me, but ma sho'
teached dem to her chilluns.

"When boys and gals gits up some size dey feels dey-selves. At dat
age, we went bird thrashing in de moon light. Den we sing dis vulgar
song, 'I'll give you half-dollar if you come out tonight; I'll
give you half-dollar if you come out tonight'.

Den de gals charmed us wid honeysuckle and rose petals hid in dere bosoms.
Now de gals goes to de ten cent sto' and buys cheap perfume.

In dem days dey dried cheneyberries (chinaberries) and painted dem and
wo' dem on a string around dere necks to charm us.

"When us very little, ma say at night when she want us to go to bed
and we be playing marbles, 'Better come on in de house or Raw Hide and
Bloody Bones 'll git you. From den on I is seed spooks.

"Our work song was, 'John Henry was a man; he worked all over dis
town'.
Dey still uses dat song. In slavery some holler when dey be in de field
like owls; some like crows; and some like pea-fowls. Missus had de
purtiest pea-fowls in de whole country.

Don't see none now, but dar ain't nothing dat flies purtier.

"Me and Wade Carlisle was 'possum hunting one night in de fall when
de dogs bedded a 'possum in a grave. We dug down and got de 'possum.
He was dat big and fat and his hair was so shiny and purty dat we
'lowed dat he de finest 'possum we had cotch dat fall.

"Jest den, Wade struck de box dat de dead man was a-lying in. Jest as
he did dat, a light jumped out'n dat grave right in front of us and
all over Wade's shovel. Our two dogs tuck and run and holler and
stick dey tails betwix dey legs like somebody a-whipping dem.

Dem dogs never stopped running and howling 'till dey reached home, me
and Wade right behind dem. Wade had dat 'possum in his hand. Dat light
now and den jump right in front of us.

"I hollered, 'Wade, fer de Lawd in Heaven sake, drap dat 'possum.'
He drapped it and we run 'till we got home. Wade still had dat
shovel--or was it a axe--.

I jest recollects which, anyway, he still had it in his hand; and
when I looked at it, it was still shining.

I pinted my finger at it, kaise I was dat scared dat no words
wouldn't come from my mouth.
Wade throwed it in de wood pile and we run in de house wid it still
shining at us.

"I stayed dar all night, and I ain't never been hunting in no graveyard
at night since dat; and if de good Lawd give me sense I is got
now, I ain't never gwine to do it no mo'.

"It ain't no good a-'sturbing dead folks. All befo' dat I is heard it
gits you in bad, and now since den I knows it."
=Source:= Gus Feaster (col. 97), 20 Stutz Ave., Union, S.C.
Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. (7/1/37)

Project 1885-1 From Misc.

Field Notes District No. 4 May 17, 1937

Edited by:
Martha Ritter
FOLKLORE: NEGRO SLAVE.

SLAVE TIME CUSTOMS ON THE PLANTATION OF THOMAS ANDERSON CARLISLE.

"Cap', my old Master's daughter, Mrs. George Perrin (Ida Rice) and
Miss Peake (Mrs. Keitt Peake) 'lows I is done pas' 84. Miss Ida was
84 when she died and I was allus mo' older dan she was, and a long
ways at dat.

I allus figers dat Ah is 97. Miss Agnes (Mrs. Keitt Peake) and Miss Ida
was lil' gals when I driv' dem to and from school ever' day fer ole
Marse. You see I had to be a big boy to drive de Marse's chilluns
to school, 'specially when dey was lil' gals! I is a great deal older
than Mr. Bill Harris. I met him dis mornin' wid sweet 'tater in
his pocket.
He 'lowed, 'Gus, you is jes' 'bout de oldes' nigger in dis county,
ain't you?'

I raised my hat to 'im and 'lowed, Yessir, guess I is, Cap.

"Had to stay out and guard de silver and de gold jewels in de pines
when my white folks hid it dar to keep de Yankees from a-gittin' it.

Dey driv' de waggins in de pines and us unload de jewels and things and
den dey would drive de waggins out de wood. When de waggin done got
plum away us would take dry pine needles and kivver up all de
waggin tracks and hoof prints after us had done raked de dirt smooth
over dem.

We stayed wid de silver and stuff and drink coffee and eat black
crus'; dat de sweetnin' bread dat us had durin' de war.

Couldn't git no sugar den.

Sometime we used sassafras tea as we never had no coffee to grind.
De white folks was jes' as bad off as we was. From de big house dey
brung our mess of vittals after dark had done fell.

"Poke salad was et in dem days to clean a feller out. Hit cum up
tender every spring and when it cut deep down in sand it looked
white. It's an herb. Cut it; wash it and par boil; pour off water
and ball up in balls in your hand; put in frying pan of hot grease
(grease from ham or strip meat) and fry. Season with black pepper
and salt and eat with new spring onions. Tender white stems are
better than the salad and of course earlier.He looked as if he
would like to slay me, and vanished."

Doris still looked slightly disapproving, and when at last Hal rose to
go, she half-unconsciously asked Ethel with her eyes to accompany her
to get her hat, instead of her prospective sister-in-law.  And when
they were alone, Ethel looked into Hal's expressive face, and guessing
something of what she carefully hid, said sympathetically:

"You and Dudley have always been so much to each other; I am afraid you
must feel it a little having to share him already with another."

Suddenly and inexplicably Hal's eyes filled with tears, and she turned
away quite unable to answer.

Ethel pretended not to notice, but her heart bled for her, knowing how
much worse it was than just the fact of the engagement.

"I'm so wrapped up in Basil," she went on, "that if it had happened to
me I should have felt quite heartbroken, however much I told myself I
wanted his happiness."

Hal dabbed her eyes a little viciously.

"Of course I want him to be happy," she managed to say; "but it is nice
of you to understand."

"There's one thing," Ethel continued, "you will become a sort of
relation, and you've no idea how pleased Basil and I will be about
that."

"Will you?" Hal smiled through her tears, "I rather wonder at it."

"Of course we shall.  Basil and I think you are one of the finest
characters we have ever known.  You've no idea how proud we are when
you come to see us," which proved Ethel's understanding heart, for a
little generous praise is a kind healer to a sore spirit.

Hal looked into her eyes, with a pleased light in her own.

"You are too generous, but it's nice to be thought well of by any one
like you and Basil.  I shall remember it when I am silly enough to be
downhearted, and it will cheer me up."

She had to hurry away then to catch a train, and as she went her mind
was full of the thought:

"Why, oh why, had Dudley, in his blindness, wooed the younger sister?"

"Well?" he said, as she entered their sitting-room, where he was
reading over the fire.  "How did you get on?"

"Oh, splendidly" - trying to throw a little enthusiasm into her voice.
"Doris looked amazingly pretty."

She show a soft light in his eyes, and because it rather maddened her,
she hastened to add: "But I see a great change in Basil."

"Yes?...  I wondered if you would.  I was afraid he did not seem so
well."

"Dudley" - with sudden seriousness - "when Basil dies, it will just
about break Ethel up.  She idolises him."

"I know; but she can hardly wish him to live on if he continues to grow
worse."

"I suppose not; but it's rather awful to think of what it will mean to
her to lose him.  And she's so sympathetic and tender-hearted."  Hal
stood a moment looking gravely at the fire - "you know, I think she's
the most splendid person I've ever known."

"Splendid!... " a trifle testily.  "Why?  Splendid seems an odd word to
use."

"It's the one that suits Ethel Hayward best of all.  Anything else
would be too commonplace.  When I think what her life is - the endless
struggle to make both ends meet - work morning, noon, and night - and
on the top of it all the brother she adores a helpless, suffering
invalid, it quite overawes me.  If she were bitter and complaining it
would be different, but she is nearly always cheerful and hopeful and
ready to think of some one else's troubles.  And yet she isn't
goody-goody - nor what one describes as "worthy'; she's just human
through and through."

"She sometimes seems to me a little severe," he said.

"Severe!... Oh, Dudley, she is the kindest soul alive."

"Perhaps she was tired; but it seemed to me, considering Doris's youth,
she expected rather a lot of her."

"Ah!..."

Hal turned away, and picked up an evening paper.  The exclamation might
have meant anything, yet Dudley half knew it meant that in some way Hal
believed Doris had wilfully misrepresented her sister, and, naturally
resenting the inference, he returned to his book and said no more.

Hal lingered a little longer, passed one or two remarks on the evening
news, told him of her day in the country, and then went to bed.

Yet, in spite of her soreness towards Doris, something in her evening
with Ethel had unaccountably cheered and refreshed her - the kindly
praise, the warm-hearted affection, the sight of the strong, womanly
face, unembittered by its heavy sorrow.

Hal stood at her window, and glanced out over the City, and felt
renewed in her determination to withstand Sir Edwin Crathie's advances.
 She knew that he was treating her with a lack of respect he would not
have dared to show a woman in his own circle.

He was treating her as a City typist; and however much she wished to
prolong it, she knew she owed it to herself to cut it adrift.

And the next day, when the anticipated telephone call came, her
resolution was firm and unshaken.

"Tell the gentleman I am engaged," she told the call boy.

He came back again a moment later to know what time she would be
disengaged, and she gave the message:  "It is quite impossible to say.
I have some most important work on hand."

The small boy grinned in a way that made Hal long to box his ears, but
she returned to her work, and pretended not to see.

At the other end of the wire the speaker sat back in his chair and
muttered an oath; then for some moments he stared gloomily at his desk.

"Damn it!  I like her pluck," ran his thoughts; "but I don't mean to be
put off like that.  I've got to see her again somehow, if it's only to
prove I'm not the cad she thinks me."


CHAPTER XXIII


The following afternoon when Hal left the office about half-past four
she saw a motor she recognised a little way down the street, and was
almost immediately accosted by Sir Edwin himself.

"I knew you left at this time," he said frankly, "so I came to meet
you."

Hal looked a little taken aback.

"I wonder why you did that," was all she found to say.

"Well, it was the only way, since you won't come to the telephone, and
I am afraid to call on you in Bloomsbury.  I want to talk to you.  Come
along and have some tea."

Hal hesitated, looking doubtfully at the motor, but he urged her on.

"Come; surely you're not afraid to have a cup of tea with me.  We'll go
to the Carlton - or the Ritz if you prefer it - and take a conspicuous
table."

"In my office garments!" with a low laugh.  "I don't want to be taken
for your housekeeper."

"My housekeeper is a deuce of a swell," laughing in his turn.  "She
certainly wouldn't be seen in a last year's frock; but you're one of
the lucky people who manage to look smart, even in office clothes, as
you call them - so come along."

Hal got into the motor.

"Which is it to be?  Ritz or Carlton?"

"Oh, Carlton - and not the centre table."

"How do you manage it?" he said, as they glided off, looking at her
with critical, admiring eyes.

"Manage what?  I wish you wouldn't look at me like a doctor studying my
health.  I shall put my tongue out in a minute."

"Don't do that.  A colleague or an opponent would be sure to be
looking, and I don't know which would be worse.  Manage to look smart
in anything, of course I mean."

"Oh, it's Lorraine Vivian and her maid; they loathe to see me dowdy."

"With a little help from the Almighty, who gave you a haughty little
nose and a short upper lip," he told her laughingly.  "You're been very
angry with me, I'm afraid, and no doubt I deserved it, but I'm going to
make you be friends again and forgive me."

"You won't find it easy."

"I dare say not; but I'm going to try all the same.  Shall I begin with
a humble apology?"

"You couldn't be humble.  I shouldn't believe in it."

"I believe I could with you - which means a great deal.  Tell me, were
you fully determined not to speak to me on the telephone, and not to
see me again?"

"Most certainly I was."

"What nonsense!  And did you really suppose I should submit without
making an effort to see you, and persuade you to be friends again?"

Hal tilted her nose up a little, and glanced away as she replied a
trifle scathingly:

"I supposed, having found I was not the sort of girl you imagined, and
not one you could take liberties with, that possibly our friendship
would cease to interest you."

He coloured slightly.

"You hit hard, but I suppose I have deserved it.  I shall now have to
prove to you that I've turned over a new leaf, and deserve it no
longer."

They stopped before the Carlton as he spoke, and he led the way into
the lounge, and to a side table.

"I'm sure you'll trust me this far," he said; "people stare so when one
is in the middle of the room."

Hal sat down and drew off her gloves, feeling, in spite of herself,
unmistakably happy.  It was good to be there, instead of trudging home
to Bloomsbury; and it was specially good to be chatting to him again.

A dear friend may be always a dear friend, and yet not just the one one
wants at the moment.  When things are difficult, and irritating, and
disappointing, the pleasantest companion is apt to be one with so much
individual regard for us at the time that we can hold forth upon our
troubles without any fear of boring our listener.

When Hal had poured her tale of woe into Lorraine's ear, she had known
that Lorraine was genuinely interested and sorry - and yet, also, that
something else occupied her mind at the same time.  Sitting now,
opposite to Sir Edwin Crathie, it was perfectly apparent for the time
being that his mind was entirely at her service.

This was further shown by the fact that he realised something was
worrying her before she told him.

"What's the matter?" he asked abruptly; "you look as if something very
boring had happened."

"It has."

Hal kept her eyes lowered a moment, with a thoughtful air, and the
corners of the fascinating mouth drooped a little.

"What has happened?...  Tell me what is bothering you."

He spoke reremptorily, yet with an evident concern for her that made
the peremptory tone dangerously alluring.  Hal remained silent, though
she felt her pulses quicken, and he added:

"Come, we are going to be friends again; aren't we?  I've told you I'm
very sorry; I can't do more.  You will really have to forgive me now."

She looked into his face, and something in his eyes told her he was
quite genuine for the time.  Of course it might be rash, and unwise,
and various other things, but it had been a difficult, trying week, and
his sympathy was passing good now.  Sir Edwin met her gaze for a
moment, and then lowered his.

He thought it was chiefly when her eyes laughed that he wanted to kiss
her, but when they had that serious, rather appealing expression, he
began to feel they were more disturbing still.  Mastering his
unmanageable senses with an effort, he looked up again, and said:

"Well, what is it?  Of course you must tell me."

"Brother Dudley is going to be married," said Hal with her usual
directness.

"When?"  And Sir Edwin gave a low exclamation of surprise.  "Isn't it
rather sudden?"

"Very," in dry tones.

"And I suppose you don't want to love your prospective sister-in-law
all in a hurry."

"I don't want to love her at all."

"Then I don't suppose you will," with a little laugh. "Presumably you
know her."

"I have known her a long time.  If I had been asked, she is the last
girl I could have believed Dudley would care for.  I don't believe he
does care for her in the real sense.  She is very pretty, and she
wanted to marry him, and she just played on his feelings."

"What do you call 'in the real sense' ?" he asked pointedly.

"A pink spot burned in Hal's cheeks; she felt the question a little
beside the mark, and did not want to answer it.

"She has rather a dull home, and is very poor, and I think she thought
on the whole life would be improved if she were Dudley's wife."

"And that is not the real sense?" insistently.

"It certainly is not love."

"Well, you haven't yet told me what is?"

"I don't know much about it, and" - hastily - "I don't want to.  When
it's real it hurts, and when it isn't real it's just feebleness."

"Still, you must know some day."

He liked to see the spot of colour spreading in her cheeks, and the
frank eyes growing a little defiant as he pressed her against her will.

"It doesn't follow that I must.  Perhaps I shall just be feeble, and
marry for a home 	and luxuries."

"Never," with conviction.  "You'll - Hal, you'll get it badly when once
you're caught."

"I never said you might call me 'Hal'."

"Didn't you?  Well, I apologise.  May I?"

She could not help laughing.

"You evidently mean to; and I suppose you usually have your own way."

"Very often.  That's sensible of you.  Of course you are sometimes
annoying sensible and practical.  I don't know that I ever liked any
one quite so level-headed before.  It never appealed to me.  Yet,
somehow, I think you could lose your head.  You've got it in you to do
so.  I wouldn't give tuppence for a woman who hadn't."

Hal was silent, and, as usual, he pressed his point.

"Do you think you could lose your head?"

"I don't think I shall," was the evasive answer.

"I wonder," he said.

She felt him looking hard into her face, and moved restlessly beneath a
scrutiny that quickened her pulses and warmed her blood in a way that
was altogether new.  Then suddenly she looked up.

"Don't you think we are rather talking drivel?  Let's get back to the
original subject.  I don't want to lose my head - it's rather a nice
one - sound and reliable and all that."

He sat back in his chair with a laugh.

"You're very clever," he told her admiringly.  "I always seem to be
out-flanked in the end.  Very well then, Brother Dudley has got engaged
foolishly, and Hal has been quietly fretting, instead of being a
sensible little woman, and telling her friend all about it straight
away.  What are you going to do now?"

"I can't do anything.  He won't get married for a few months anyway."

"And when he does?"

"Then I shall stay where I am, and make the best of it, I suppose...
but... but" - her voice broke a little - "I'm a positive fool about
Dudley.  I can't bear to lose him."

"Poor little woman.  Well, I'll be good to you if you'll let me.  I
dare say I can brighten things up a little.  Every cloud has a silver
lining, you know."

"I don't know where Dudley's will be," with a wintry smile.  "It
wouldn't be so hard if I thought there was any chance of his being
happy.  But there isn't.  He doesn't in the least know her real
character."

They sat on until seven o'clock, and then Hal rose to go, feeling
happier than she had done ever since they last met.

"Well, am I forgiven?" he asked, as she buttoned her gloves.

"You are, for the present," with an arch glance; "but I reserve the
right to retract at a moment's notice."

"And in the meantime you will prove it by coming out to lunch on
Sunday?  We might go to the Zoo afterwards, and make friends with some
of the animals."

At the first suggestion of lunch Hal had been ready to shy away, but
the idea of the Zoo on Sunday afternoon was too much for her, and she
said with unmistakable longing:

"I should simply love the Zoo."  Then, after a pause: "Couldn't I meet
you there about three?"

"But why wait until three?"  It is not very friendly of you to refuse
to lunch with me."

"I usually go to Lorraine" - somewhat lamely.

"Why not bring Miss Vivian with you?"

"Oh, could I?" eagerly; "that would be splendid - if she is disengaged."

A curious little half smile crossed his eyes at her eagerness; but he
only said:

"Certainly, and if she cares to bring a friend, to make the party an
even number, I shall be only too pleased.  Shall we say the Piccadilly,
for a change, at 1.30?"

Hal thanked him, and as she sped homewards in a taxi he had procured
for her, she viewed the prospect with real delight.

Dudley, of course, would be spending his Sunday with Doris, and she and
Lorraine, supposing the latter were disengaged, might have found the
afternoon a little long alone.  The evening was the occasion of the
dinner-party to commemorate Alymer Hermon's first brief, so it was very
likely Lorraine would be free at midday.

One song I know I use to sing to the slaves w'en master went 'way, but
I wouldn't be so fool as to let him hear me. What I kin 'member of
it is:

Master gone away But darkies stay at home, The year of jubilee is come
An' freedom will begun.

A group of white men was in Doctor Wilson' drug store one day w'en I went
to buy something. They commence' to ax me questions concernin' some
historical happenin's an' I answer them all. So Dr. Wilson
bet 'me that I couldn't tell who fired the firs' shot on Fort
Sumter.

I tell him I did know an' he offer's dollar if I was right. I tell him
I wasn't goin' tell 'less the dollar was given to one of the men. He
did so an' I told them it was Edward Ruffin who fired the firs' shot
an' the dollar was mine.

Anderson was determine' not to leave the fort but w'en 'bout four
shells had hit the fort he was glad to be able to come out. W'en Sherman
was comin' through Columbia, he fired an' a shell lodged in the
South-East en' ef the State House which was forbidden to be fix'.
He was comin' down Main Street w'en that happens'.

The firs' two people that was hung in Charleston was Harry an' Janie;
husban' an' wife who was slaves of Mr. Christopher Black. Mr. Black had
them whip' an' they planned to kill the whole fambly. They poison the
breakast one morning an' if two of the fambly han' been sleep, they too
would a been dead. The others die almos' instantly.

An investigation was made an' the poison discovered an the two slaves
hung on the big oak in the middle of Ashley Avenue.

If'en any in your owner' fambly was goin' to be married the slaves
was dress' in linen clothes to witness the ceremony.

Only special slaves was chosen to be at the weddin'.

Slaves was alway ax how they like' the one who was comin' in
the [TN: two illegible words.] myself by sayin' nice things 'bout
the person en hate' the person at the same time.

Slaves was always bury in the night as no one could stop to do it in the
day. Ole boards was use' to make the coffin that was blackened with shoe
polish.

After the war I did garden work.

Mr.

Stiles Bee on James Islan' give track of lan' to the Negroes for a
school jus' after the war; he put up a shed-like buildin' with a
few chairs in it. It was at the place call Cut Bridge.

Henry McKinley, a Negro who ran as congressman from Charleston jus'
after the war, lived on Calhoun Street. He was a mail carrier. He
made an oath to Almighty God that if he was elected, he'd never betray
his trus'. In one of his speeches he said: "I hope God 'ill paralize me
should I do as others have done." He was elected an' never see the
Congress. One white man from Orangeburg, Samuel Dibbin, bought him
out.

An' three weeks later McKinley took a stroke that carry him to a' early
grave. James Wright, a Negro judge of Charleston in 1876 sol' out
for ten thousand dollars--a dime of which he hasn't receive' yet. He
'cross the bridge an' stay in a' ole house an' die there. The Probate
Judge, A.
Whipper, refused to give up the books of Judge Wright to the white
man he sell out to.

Judge Whipper went in Beauford jail an' die there 'cause
he wouldn't give up the books. Wright kept such a poor record that Judge
Whipper was ashamed to have them expose', an' that's why he didn't
give up the books.

Henry Smalls, owner of the Smalls Lot on Comin' Street was Second Lieutenant
on the Police Force. Henry Fordham was Second Assistant Lieutenant.
Captain James Williams, Third Assistant Lieutenant who become Captain
of the Military Department an' forme' the Carolina Light Infantry
which was recogniz' 'til Ben Tillman call' them on the Green an' take
their guns.

I was janitor at Benedict College in Columbia for two years an' at
Clafflin in Orangeburg for twelve. The Presidents under which I worke'
was: Allen Webster, grandson of the dictionary maker; J.C. Cook;
an' Dr.

Duntin.

Now all that is pass' an I'm livin' from han' to mouth.

The banks took all my money an' I can't work. I do the collectin'
for my lan'lord an' he give me a room free.

If it wasn't for that I don't know what I'd do.

=Source:=
Interview with Elijah Green, 156 Elizabeth Street, Charleston, S.C.

Project 1885-1 FOLKLORE Spartanburg, Dist. 4 Sept. 7, 1937
Edited by:
Elmer Turnage

STORIES OF EX-SLAVES

"Cap, I was born on de Bonner place, five miles from Gaffney.

Jest about de very first recollection dat sticks wid me, is my mammy
a-hiding me when de Ku Klux was riding.

She heard de hosses a-trotting and she rushed us out'n our beds and
took us and buried us in de fodder out in our barn, and told us to be
as quiet as possible.

Both my parents went and hid in de edge of de woods. De Ku Klux passed
on by widout even holding up dere hosses.

"During slavery my mother went to Mississippi wid her mistress, Artimesse
Smith Ross. Soon atter Freedom dey come back to Smith's Ford
on de Pacolet. Steers pulled 'slides', wid de white folk belongings
on de slides.

We niggers went to meeting on de slides. De ends of de slides was
curved upward. When we got to meeting, we went under de brush arbors.
Fresh brush was kept cut so dat de sun would not shine through.
Under de arbors we sat on slabs and de preacher stood on de ground. We
had better meetings den dan dey have now.

Everybody had better religion den dan dey does now. In dem days
religion went further dan it does now.

Yes sir, religion meant something den, and went somewhars.

My pappy rode a ginny to preaching.

"Dere was not as much devilment as dere is now.

Times was better fer niggers. One day last week I went to meeting and
 took dinner. We eat on a slab table and had ice tea to drink. Meas
was dere drinking on de side, and all other devilment dey could
carry on in sight of de church.

De preacher eat wid us. Some eat out of dere buckets and would not come
and be wid de crowd. Long time ago, nobody didn't act greedy like
dat.

Girls cut up like boys now, and nobody don't look down on dem.

"When I was a boy, girls acted like de old folks and dey did not carry
on. Nobody ever heard of a girl drinking and smoking den. If a girl
made a mistake in de old days she was throwed overboard.

Why when I was little, us boys went in a-washing wid de girls and
never thought nothing 'bout it.

We was most grown befo' we know'd a thing 'bout man and woman.
I was fifteen years old when I got my first shoes and dey had brass
toes.

We played ball wid de girls in de house, and sung songs like:
'Goosey, Goosey Gander'."

"We had wheat bread only once a week," said Jesse Stevenson who came up
and entered the conversation, "and dat was on Sunday.

I had a good time at Green's wedding. Green married Carrie Phillips who
lived two miles above me. We boys talked to de girls in school. We was
around twenty years old befo' we went to school. Of course dat was atter
Freedom. De teacher would light on both of us fer talking across de
books. Carrie was about a year younger dan Green. Green, tell de
gentleman (interviewer) what you said when you ax'd uncle Ben fer
Carrie."

"I say," said Green, "come out into de cool of de yard, please sir, if
you will uncle Ben; I has a question of de utmost concern to us both
to lay at your feet'. Uncle Ben say, 'Look here, young nigger, don't
you know dat I ain't got no business gwine out in no night dew--what
ails you nohow?' I 'lows, 'Uncle Ben, it is a great matter of life
and death dat I wishes to consult wid you over'.

He clear his throat and spit in de fire and say, 'Wait, I'll come
if it's dat urgent.' I took him under a tree so dat no dew wouldn't
drap on his head and give him a cold. I said, 'I want to marry your
daughter, uncle Ben.' He say, 'Which one is dat dat you wishes, Sir?'
'De purttiest one, Carrie,' says I; 'dat is, if you ain't got no
objection.'

"Befo' I axed fer Carrie I was loving two gals, but of course I drapped
de other'n after uncle Ben give me a favorable answer. Me and Carrie
married at Miss Twitty Thompson's house.

Dat whar uncle Ben had raised Carrie. Carrie's missus give her
a good wedding supper wid chicken, ham, turkey, cake and coffee, and
tater salad.

Seventy-five people is what Miss Twitty let Carrie ax to dat supper.
All dem niggers was dere, too.

"I had on a grey suit wid big stripes in it.

Carrie had on a white dress and a white veil. We used dat veil
to keep de skeeters off'n our first two babies. It made de best skeeter
net. We married one Sunday morning at 'leven o'clock and had dinner
at twelve; give de preacher twenty-five cents.

Never no one give us no presents. We stayed at my pappy's house fer
years. He give us a bed, a bureau and a washstand. Carrie's folks give
us de bed clothes, and dats what we started on. Jesse, tell de gentleman
what you did at my wedding."

"I stood wid Green," said Jesse Stevenson, "and I had on a brown suit
wid grey stripes gwine up and down it. Atter de ceremony all de gals
wanted to swing me and Green, but Carrie grabbed him and shake her head
and grin; so I got all de swinging."
Green said, "Me and Carrie never went no whar atter our marriage. We
stayed on wid my pappy and worked. We been doing well ever since."

=Source:= W. M. Green (71); Jesse Stevenson (71), Rt. 1, Gaffney,
S.C.

Interviewer: Caldwell Sims 8/23/37

Project #-1655 Phoebe Faucette Hampton County
Approx. 390 words FOLKLORE
ADELINE GREY 82 YEAR OLD Ex-Slave
Adeline Grey seemed in good health as she sat before her granddaughter's
comfortable fire.

She spoke quietly, with little excitement, and readily recalled
events of her early childhood.

"I was a girl when freedom was declare, an' I kin remember 'bout de
times. My Ma used to belong to ole man Dave Warner. I remember how she
used to wash, and iron, an' cook for de white folks durin' slavery
time.

"I member when de Yankees come through. I wuz right to de old boss'
place. It wuz on de river side. Miss Jane Warner, she wuz de missus.
De place heah now--where all de chillun raise. Mr. Rhodes got a
turpentine still dere now--jes after you pass de house. Dey burn de
ginhouse, de shop, de buggyhouse, de turkeyhouse an' de fowlhouse.

Start to set de cornhouse afire, but my Ma say: 'Please sir, don't burn
de cornhouse.
Gie it to me an' my chillun.' So dey put de fire out. I member when
dey started to break down de smokehouse door, an' ole Missus come
out an' say: 'Please don't break de door open, I got de key.'

So dey quit. I remember when dey shoot down de hog.

I remember when dey shoot de two geese in de yard. Dey choked my Ma.
Dey went to her an' dey say; 'Where is all de white people gold an'
silver?' My Ma say she don't know. 'You does know!'

dey say, an' choke her till she couldn't talk. Dey went into de
company room where de ole Miss wuz stayin' an' start tearin' up de bed.
Den de captain come an' de ole Miss say to him: 'Please don't let 'em
tear up my bed,' an' de captain went in dere an' tell 'em 'Come
out!'.

De ole Miss wasn't scared. But de young Miss May was sure scared. She
was courtin' at de time. She went off an' shut herself up in a room.
De ole Miss ask de captain: 'Please go in an' talk to de Miss, she
so scared'. So he went in an' soon he bring her out. We chillun wasn't
scared. But my brother run under de house. De soldiers went under
dere a-pokin' de bayonets into de ground to try to find where de
silver buried, an' dey ran 'cross him.

'What you doin' under heah?' dey say.

'I'se jes runnin' de chickens out, sir,' he say. 'Well, you kin go on
out,' dey say. 'We aint gwine to hurt you.'
'I remember when dey kill de hog an' cook 'em.

Cook on de fire where de little shop been. Cook 'em an' eat 'em. Why
didn't dey cook 'em on de stove in de house?

Didn't have no stoves.

Jes had to cook on de fireplace. Had an oven to fit in de fireplace.
I remember when my Ma saw de Yankees comin' dat mornin' she grab de sweet
potatoes dat been in dat oven and throw 'em in de barrel of
feathers dat stayed by de kitchen fireplace. Jes a barrel to hold
chicken feathers when you pick 'em.
Dat's all we had to eat dat day.

Dem Yankees put de meat in de sack an' go on off. It was late den, 'bout
dusk. I remember how de Missus bring us all 'round de fire. It was
dark den.

'Well chillun,' she say, 'I is sorry to tell you, but de Yankees
has carry off your Ma.

I don't know if you'll ever see her any mo.' Den we chillun all
start cryin.'

We still a-sittin' dere when my Ma come back.
She say she slip behind, an' slip behind, slip behind, an' when she
come to a little pine thicket by de side of de road, she dart into
it, drop de sack of meat dey had her carryin, an' start out for home.

When we had all make over her, we say to her den: 'Well why didn't
you bring de sack of meat 'long wid you?'

Dey took de top off ole Marse John carriage, put meat in it, an'
made him pull it same as a horse.

Carry him way down to Lawtonville, had to pull it through de branch
an' all.

Got de rock-a-way back though--an' de ole man. I remember dat well.
Had to mend up de ole rock-a-way. An' it made de ole man sick. He keep
on sick, sick, until he died. I remember how he'd say: 'Don't you all
worry'. An' he'd go out in de orchard.

Dey'd say: 'Don't bother him! Jes let him be!

He want to pray!' Atter a while he died an' dey buried him. His name
was John Stafford. Dey Massa wasn't dere. I guess he was off to de
war.

"But after freedom was de time when dey suffered more dan before.

Dese chillun don't know how dey blessed.

My Ma cooked for de white folks for one year after freedom. I remember
dey cook bread, an' dey ain't have nuthin' to eat on it. Was
thankful for a cornbread hoecake baked in de fireplace. But dey had some
things. Had buried some meat, an' some syrup. An' dey had some corn.
My Ma had saved de cornhouse. De rice burn up in de ginhouse. After
freedom, dey had to draw de best thread out of de old clothes an'
weave it again. Ole Miss had give my Ma a good moss mattress. But de
Yankees had carry dat off.

Rip it up, throw out de moss, an' put meat in it. Fill it full of
meat. I remember she had a red striped shawl.

One of de Yankee take dat an' start to put in under his saddle
for a saddle cloth. My brother go up to him an' say: 'Please sir, don't
carry my Ma's shawl. Dat de only one she got.' So he give it back to
him. To keep warm at night, dey had to make dere pallet down by de
fire; when all wood burn out, put on another piece. Didn't have nuthin'
on de bed to sleep on.

"I remember when de ole Miss used to have to make soap, out of dese red
oaks. Burn de wood, an' catches de ashes. Put de ashes in a barrel
wid a trough under it, an' pour de water through de ashes. If de lyewater
dat come out could cut a feather, it was strong.

"Used to weave cloth after freedom. Used to give a brooch (hank)
or two to weave at night.

I'se sometimes thread de needle for my Ma, or pick out de seed out de
cotton, an' make it into rolls to spin. Sometimes I'd work de foot
pedal for my Ma. Den dey'd warp de thread. If she want to dye it,
she'd dye it. She'd get indigo--you know dat bush--an' boil it.
It was kinder blue. It would make good cloth. Sometimes, de cloth
wuz kinder strip, one strip of white, an' one of blue. I remember how
dey'd warp de thread across de yard after it wuz dyed, an' I remember
seem' my Ma throw dat shuttle through an' weave dat cloth. I member when
de ole Miss made my Mamma two black dresses to wear through de
winter.

She'd keep 'em clean; had two so she could change.

"I don't know why dey didn't burn de house. Must have been 'cause
de captain wuz along.

De house dere now. One of de chimney down. I don't think dey ever put
it up again. Colored folks are in it now.

"I never did know my Pa. He was sold off to Texas when I was young.
My mother would say, 'Well, chillun, you aint never known your Pa. Joe
Smart carry him off to Texas when he went. I don't guess you'll ever
see him.' My father wuz name Charles Smart. He never did come back.

Joe Smart come back once, an' say dat our father is dead. He say
our Pa had three horses an' he want one of them to be sent to us
chillun heah; but no arrangements had been made to get it to us.

You see he had chillun out dere, too.

"Atter freedom, my Ma plow many a day, same as a man, for us chillun.
She work for ole man Bill Mars.

Den she marry again. Part of de time dey work for Mr. Benny Lawton, de
one-arm man, what lost his arm in de war.
Dese chillun don't know what hard times is. Dey don't know how to preciate
our blessings.

=Source:= Adeline Grey, 82-year old resident of Luray, S.C.

Project #1655 Everett R. Pierce Columbia, S.C.
INTERVIEW WITH FANNIE GRIFFIN EX-SLAVE 94 YEARS.
"You wants me to tell you all what I 'members 'bout slavery in
slavery time? Well ma'am, I was just a young gal then and I's a old
woman now, nigh on to ninety-four years old; I might be forgot some
things, but I'll tell you what I 'members best.
My massa, Massa Joe Beard, was a good man, but he wasn't one of de
richest men. He only had six slaves, three men and three women, but
he had a big plantation and would borrow slaves from his brother-in-law
on de 'joining plantation, to help wid de crops.
I was de youngest slave, so Missy Grace, dats Massa Joe's wife,
keep me in de house most of de time, to cook and keep de house
cleaned up. I milked de cow and worked in de garden too. My massa
was good to all he slaves, but Missy Grace was mean to us. She whip
us a heap of times when we ain't done nothing bad to be whip for.
When she go to whip me, she tie my wrists together wid a rope and
put that rope thru a big staple in de ceiling and draw me up off
de floor and give me a hundred lashes. I think 'bout my old mammy
heap of times now and how I's seen her whipped, wid de blood dripping
off of her.
All that us slaves know how to do, was to work hard. We never learn
to read and write nor we never had no church to go to, only sometimes
de white folks let us go to their church, but we never jine in de
singing, we just set and listen to them preach and pray. De graveyard
was right by de church and heap of de colored people was scared to
go by it at night, they say they see ghosts and hants, and sperits
but I ain't never see none, don't believe there is none. I more
scared of live people than I is dead ones; dead people ain't gwine
to harm you.
Our massa and missus was good to us when we was sick; they send for
de doctor right off and de doctor do all he could for us, but he
ain't had no kind of medicine to give us 'cepting sperits of
turpentine, castor oil, and a little blue mass."Only the House of Lords and a few leading Conservatives," said Lord
Denton with flippancy.  "The workingman who has the courage to refuse
to work, and the Liberal members who have the grit to demand salaries
for upsetting the Constitution, led by a few eminent Ministers who
delight to remove their neighbour's landmark, and relieve his pocket,
are the splendid fellows of the grand new opening era of prosperity and
greatness."

"Still," put in Quin hopefully, "it is very fashionable to go big-game
shooting nowadays, and an African lion may yet chew up a few of them."

"Poor lion!" quoth Lorraine; "but what a fine finale for the king of
beasts, to chew up the despoilers of kings.  Shall we go to the
drawing-room?"  And she rose to lead the way.

A Bridge table was arranged in an alcove for Hal and three of the men,
and Lorraine and Hermon sat over the fire for preference.  They were
far enough away from the players to be able to speak of them unheard,
and Hermon, in the course of their conversation, mentioned that he saw
something different in Hal to-night to what he had noticed before.

Lorraine thought she was only very lively, but Hermon looked doubtful.
He could not express what he seemed to see, but in some way her
liveliness held a new note.  He thought she had more tone and a new
kind of assurance, and he tried to explain it to Lorraine.

"I expect she's had a jolly afternoon," was all Lorraine said, with a
smile.  "She has been to the Zoo with Sir Edwin Crathie."

"Has she?" significantly, and Hermon raised his eyebrows.  "Are they
still friends, then?  I thought she only knew him slightly."

"Thas was at the beginning," and Lorraine glanced at him with the smile
deepening in her eyes.  "There always has to be a beginning - doesn't
there?"

But no answering smile shone in Alymer Hermon's face, rather a slight
shade of anxiety as he glanced across the room at Hal.  "I should not
like a sister of mine to have much to do with Sir Edwin Crathie," he
said gravely.

"Perhaps not, you dear old Solemn-acre," giving his arm a gentle pat;
"but a sister of yours would not have learned early to battle with the
world as Hal has."

"But surely if she is less protected than a sister of mine would have
been, there is the greater cause for caution."

"There is no comparision.  A sister of yours would always have known
protection, and always rely on it, and if it failed her she might find
herself in difficulties and dangers she hardly knew how to cope with.
Hal faced the difficulties and the dangers early, and learnt to be her
own defence and protector.  Some women have to, you see.  It is
necessary for them to wield weapons and armour out of their own
strength, and be prepared to be buffeted by a heartless world, and not
be afraid.  If you had a sister, you would want to keep her in
cotton-wool, and never let any rough, enlightening experience come near
her.  If I had a daughter, I should like her to have the enlightening
experience early, and learn to be strong and self-dependent like Hal;
then I shouldn't be afraid of her future."

She was silent a few moments, then added thoughtfully:  "I think it
would be better for society in general if the girls of the leisured
classes knew more about the world, and were better able to take car of
themselves; meaning, of course, with a pride like Hal's in going
straight because it's the game."

Hermon's eyes again strayed to Hal's pretty head, with its glossy brown
hair, and Lorraine continued after a pause:

"If I'm afraid of anything with Hal, it is that she might let herself
get to care for some one who isn't worth her little finger, or some one
who is out of her reach, or something generally impossible.  She
wouldn't care lightly; and she'd get dreadfully hurt."

"But surely she couldn't actually fall in love with a man like Edwin
Crathie?" he remonstrated.

"I wasn't thinking of Sir Edwin specially.  She goed about a great
deal, you know, and meets many people.  She has a strong vein of
romance too.  I always feel I shall be very glad when she is safely
anchored, if only it is to the right man."

They were interrupted then by the Bridge players, who had finished
their first rubber, and Lord Denton persuaded Hermon to change places
with him for a time, and came to sit over the fire with Lorraine.
Presently he too mentioned Hal.

"She is the best woman Bridge player I have ever met," he said.  "She
seems to be developing into something rather out of the ordinary.
Hasn't she grown much better-looking?"

Lorraine smiled, a slow, sweet smile.

"Alymer Hermon has just been praising Hal too," she said; "I like to
hear you men admire her; it shows you can appreciate sterling worth as
well - well - shall we call it daring impropriety?"

"You are a little severe."

"Am I?  Well, you see, I know a good many men pretty intimately; and I
have gleaned from various confiding moments that it is not the working
woman chiefly, relying only on her own protection, who strays into the
murky byways and muddy corners of life.  It is surprisingly often the
direction of the idle, home-guarded, bored young lady.  Flip, if it
came to a choice, I believe I would put my money on the worker.  It's
such a splendid, healthy, steadying thing to have a real purpose and a
real occupation; instead of just days and weeks of idle enjoyment.  And
as for temptations!  Well, they abound pretty fully in both cases; it
isn't the amount of temptation likely to be encountered that matters,
so much as the quality of the individual armour to meet it with."

"Still, when it comes to being hungry and cold and having no money?" he
argued.

"It doesn't make much difference in the long run, except that one hopes
The Man Above will surely find a wider forgiveness for the woman who
was hungry and cold than for the woman who was just bored, but hadn't
the grit to find an aim and purpose to renew and invigorate a
purposeless life.  All the same, I'd like to see Hal safely anchored to
a real good fellow.  Flip, if you could persuade her to try, she'd make
you a splendid wife."

"And what in the world should I do with a splendid wife?" laughing
frankly into her face - "what an appalling possession!  Lorry, old
girl, I've got a splendid woman pal, and that's good enough for me.  If
I ever want a wife you shall have the privilege of finding me one: but
it won't be until I am old and gouty, and then she had better be a
hospital nurse, inured to irritability."

"You are quite hopeless," shaking her head at him, "but I don't
particularly want to lose you as a friend, unless it is for Hal; so
we'll say no more."

"Sensible woman!  And now I must really be off.  I like your friends,
Lorry.  They're very fresh.  And of course Hermon is tremendous.  You
haven't overdrawn him at all.  Only to be careful.  Remember the burnt
child.  A man like that ought to be made to wear a mask and hideous
garments, for the protection of susceptible females."

"He would need to speak through a grating trumpet as well."

"Yes, I suppose he would.  Even I can hear the attraction in his voice.
 It will be splendid when he begins to feel his feet in the law courts.
 We'll make a celebrity of him, shall we - just for the interest of it.
 But it's to be only a hobby, Lorraine, no entanglements, mind" - and
he laughed his low, pleasant laught.

"Very well, call it a hobby, or what you like - only keep him in mind
now, Flip.  I've got him into an ambitious spirit that means
everything, if there is enough fuel at the beginning to keep it alight
until it is a glowing pile quite capable of burning gaily alone."

"Right you are.  I like him.  You fan the flame, and I'll rake up the
fuel.  I'll speak to Hodson about him to-morrow.  He's always ready to
lend a hand to a promising junior."

When they had all gone, Lorraine lingered a few moments by her fireside.

"A hobby!" she breathed; "yes, why not?  Man-making is almost equal to
man-bearing.  I have no son to spur up the Olympian heights; but what
might I not do for Alymer, if... if - "

She placed her hands on the mantelshelf, and leaned her forehead down
on them.

"Alymer," she whispered, a little brokenly, "I wonder if I ought to be
ready to give you all, and ask nothing?  Perhaps make you all the
splendid man you might be, just for some one else, and get nothing
myself but a heart-ache?"


CHAPTER XXV


The winter months passed more or less uneventfully and pleasantly.  The
case in which Hermon had held his first brief, though in only a very
secondary position, was rather splendidly won.  An unlooked-for
development in it roused public interest, and filled the Hall with
spectators.  Lord Denton went out of curiosity, and was present when
Hermon, as an unknown junior, made his first public appearance.

He was not the only man specially interested either; seniour councel on
both sides had its grandiloquent eye on the new-comer, so to speak -
interested to know how he would acquit himself.  Afterwards they
congratulated him very warmly, and Denton went to tell Lorraine he had
made a hit.

"He looked splendid," he declared enthusiastically; "and het was
delightfully calm and self-possessed.  He'll soon get another brief
now.  You see."

He did; and the future began to look very full of promise to this
favourite of fortune.

As Lorraine had predicted, his growing success filled his mind, and
kept him safe from many pitfalls; while her sympathetic companionship
satisfied him in other respects, and formed a substantial bulwark
between him and the women who would have tried to spoil him.

He had other women friends as well, but Lorraine felt they were not
dangerous, by the way he talked of them.  As long as he did not get
foolishly engaged, and cripple his career at the very outset, as he
easily might while he had no income to rely on, she did not fear.  Lord
Denton advised her to marry him to an heiress as soon as possible, but
Lorraine knew better than to risk an impeding millstone of gold, and
insisted he must just win his way through on the allowance his father
gave him.

In the meantime they were a great deal together, and though they seldom
went to any public place alone, they occasionally broke their rule; and
it was known, at any rate in theatrical circles, that Lorraine rarely
went out with her own old set, and had grown reserved and quiet.  Hal
knew something of the absorbing friendship, but she still made light of
it, and sparred with Hermon whenever she saw him - "for his good."

As a matter of fact, she did not go quite so much to Lorraine's as
usual herself; for many of the hours she had been accustomed to spend
there she now spent with Sir Edwin Crathie.  All through the winter
they continued to take motor rides into the country; and often they
went together to a quiet, unfashionable golf club, where they were both
learning to overcome the intricacies and trials of that absorbing
pastime.

It was easy for Sir Edwin to silence curious tongues.  He spoke of her
quite frankly as his niece, and Hal more or less acquiesced, because it
was simpler to arrange an afternoon's golf, for Dudley had managed to
become very thoroughly absorbed in Doris, and she aksed no questions.

The only two to raise any real objections were Dick and Alymer Hermon.
Dick had to be talked round, and thoroughly impressed with Sir Edwin's
great age (of forty-eight), and though Hal did not state the actual
years, she was perfectly correct in insisting that he was old enough to
be her father; though she need not perhaps have said it in quite such a
tone of ridiculing an absurd idea.

Anyhow, Dick was pacified up to a certain point, and obliged to see
that the new friendship did her good, keeping her cheerful and hopeful
in spite of her bitter disappointment about Dudley's engagement, and
generally brightening the whole of the winter routine for her.

With Hermon it was rather different.  Ha was less cosmopolitan than
Dick, and he insistently adhered to his first idea concerning what he
would have felt had Hal been his sister.

Why she should have been specially interested did not occur to him.
Dick, of course, actually was a sort of brother, being much more so in
a sense than many real brothers, as far as personal interest and
protection went.

When Has was first left an orphan she had been a great deal with him,
at his own home, and they had always been special friends both then and
since.

But Hermon was in no sense either a brother or a special friend.  They
had never done anything else but spar, howerver good-naturedly; and
Lorraine, in consequence,  twitted him once or twice about looking
grave over Hal's doings.

And Hermon had laughed, and coloured a little, saying something about a
feeling at the flat that they all had a sort of right in Hal, and he
didn't see what that brute, Crathie - a Liberal  into the bargain -
wanted to be taking her about for.

He even went so far as to say something to Hal herself about it; one
day, when they were alone in Lorraine's drawing-room, waiting for her
to come in, Hal had just told him frankly she had played golf with Sir
Edwin the previous day; and in a sudden burst of indignation Hermon
exclaimed:

"I can't think how you can be so friendly with the man.  Surely you
know what he is?  He has about as much principle as my foot."

Hal had turned round and stared at him in blank astonishment.

"Goodness gracious!" she exclaimed, "what an outburst!  What has Sir
Edwin done to hurt you?"

But he stood his ground steadily.

"You know it isn't that.  If you were my sister, I wouldn't let you go
out with him as you do."

"Then what a comfort for me, I'm not.  And really, Baby dear!  I'm much
more adapted to be your mother."

"Rot!"

He looked at her almost fiercely for a moment,  scarcely aware of it
himself, buth with a sudden, swift, unaccountable resentment of the old
joke.  Hal, surprised again, backed away a little, eyeing him with a
quizzical, roguish expression that made him want desperately to shake
her.

"Grandpapa," she murmured, with a mock, apologetic air, "you really
mustn't get so worked up at - at your advanced years."

His face relaxed suddenly into laughter.

'I don't know whether I want to shake you or kiss you... you... you - "

"Thanks, I'll take the shake," she interrupted promptly.   "I certainly
haven't deserved such severe punishment as a kiss."

He took a step towards her, but she stood quite still and laughed in
his face; and he could only turn away, laughing himself.

Yet he was conscious that her attitude riled him.  He was not in the
least vain, but all the same it was absurd that Hal should persist in
being the one woman who was not only utterly indifferent to his
attractions, but seemed almost to scorn him for them.  In some of the
others it would not have mattered in the least - at any rate he thought
so - but in Hal it was sheer nonsense.

He liked her better than any one, except perhaps Lorraine, and he
always enjoyed their sparring; but of course there was a limit, and she
really might be seriously friendly sometimes; and anyhow he hated Sir
Edwin Crathie.

While he thought all this more or less vaguely, Hal watched him with
undisguised amusement.

"Don't think so hard," she said; "it spoils the line of your profile."

"Hang my profile!" he exclaimed, almost crossly.  "Can't you be serious
for five minutes, you're always so - so - "

"Not at all.  I'm perfectly serious.  A frown doesn't suit you one
little bit.  Imagine a scowl on one of Raphael's cherubim."

"I don't want to imagine anything so silly, and I'm not in the least
like a cherub.  It would be more sensible if you want to do some wise
imagining, to think of Sir Edwin Crathie, and imagine yourself in the
devil's clutches."

"But I've not the smallest wish to be in Sir Edwin's clutches, so why
should I try to imagine it?...  and  you're not at all polite, are you?"

"I'm honest anyway; and I'll warrant that's more than he can rise to."

"But really, dear Alymer," reverting again to the mocking tone, "at
what period of your friendship with him have you had occasion to find
him out?"

"Your sarcasm won't frighten me.  A man knows more about this sort of
thing than a girl.  Of course he is all right in an ordinary way, but
you are so often with him...  Considering his political career, it is
positively unpatriotic of you to be such close friends."

"Such nonsense!  Do you want me to be as bigoted and narrow-minded as
those Conservatives who are continually holding the party back, because
they are quite incapable of realising there are two sides to a
question?  I don't hold the same views as Sir Edwin at all.  I'm not
likely to, being on the staff of the _Morning Mail_; but that isn't any
reason why I should object to him as a friend."

"No; but his reputation might be."

Hal stamped her foot.

"Oh, don't stand there and talk about a man's reputation in that
superior, self-satisfied fashion.  What is it to you anyhow?  My
friendship can't possibly be any concern of yours."

She moved away with a restless, ruffled manner, and threw back at him:

"Of course I'm awfully grateful to you for being so interested in my
welfare, but your concern is a little misplaced.  I am quite capable of
taking care of myself, and have been for at least seven years."

He looked hurt, and about to retort, but at that moment Lorraine's
latch-key sounded in the door, and Hal went out into the hall to meet
her.

"I'm so glad you've come," she remarked, as they re-entered together.
"Baby is in one of his insufferable, superior moods, and is lecturing
me on my friendship with Sir Edwin.  And all because I casually
mentioned I had had a game of golf with him."

Lorraine looked a little surprised, but she only remarked laughingly:

"It's a little fad of his to lecture.  I rather like it; but I wonder
he had the temerity to lecture you."

"Unfortunately, lecturing doesn't instil common sense," put in Hermon,
"and it only requires common sense to understand Sir Edwin Crathie
isn't very likely to prove a satisfactory friend."

"You mean it only requires dense, narrow-minded self-satisfaction.
Really, Baby, if you are so good to look at, there is surely a limit
even to your permissible airs and graces"; and Hal tossed her head.

"Now come, you two," interposed Lorraine; "I don't want quarreling over
my tea.  Give her some of that sticky pink-and-white cake, Alymer, and
have some yourself, and you will soon both grow amiable again."

"He hasn't got his bibliotheek," Hal snapped, "and he knows his mother
told him he was to have bread-and-butter first.  You are not to spoil
him, Lorry.  Spoilt children are odious."

"So are conceited women," he retorted.  "It's only that new hat that is
making you so pleased with yourself."

"It's a dear hat," she commented.  "You have to pin a curl on with it,
else there's a gap.  I'm in mortal dread I shall lose the curl, or find
it hanging down my back."

No more was said on the subject of Sir Edwin, but when Hal was about to
leave, and found that Hermon was staying on, she pursed up her lips
with an air of sanctimonious disapproval and said:

"I don't want to hurt any one's feelings, but I'm not at all sure _Mr._
Hermont is quite a nice friend for you, Lorraine.  His conversation is
neither elevating nor improving, and I hardly like to go off now and
leave you alone with him."

"Don't worry," Lorraine laughed.  "He is improving every day under my
tuition.  I hope you can say as much for Sir Edwin."

"I can," she answered frankly.  "He has learnt quite a lot since I took
him in hand; especially about women and the vote.  He has positively
made the discovery that they don't all want it just for notoriety, and
novelty; but I'm afraid he won't succeed in convincing the other dense
old gentlemen in the Cabinet.  Good-bye!"

"Be circumspect, O Youth and Beauty.  And don't let him over-eat
himself, Lorry," she finished, as she departed.


CHAPTER XXVI


When Hermon was finding fault with Hal's friendship for Sir Edwin
Crathie, it had not apparently occured to him that his own friends and
relations were likely enough to take precisely the same view of his
friendship with Lorraine Vivian.  He did not want to think it, any more
than Hal had done, and therefore he conveniently ignored the
probability, and indulged in the reflection that any how they were
never likely to hear of it.

Yet it was through them, and their ill-chosen mode of interference,
that the first trouble arose, when that quiet, peaceful winter was
over, and the spring arrived with renewing and vigour, and with new
happenings in other beside the natural world.

It was as though the one gladsome winter of pleasant companionship and
firesides was given to them all - Dudley and Hal, Ethel and Basil,
Lorraine and Hermon - before the wider issues of the future stepped in
and claimed their toll of sorrow before they gave the deeper joys.

Alymer Hermon's father and mother were at this time living in a
charming house at Sevenoaks, whither he went at least once a week to
see them.

His father had become more or less of a recluse, enjoying a quiet old
age with his books; but his mother was an energetic, bigoted lady of
the old school, who had allowed much natural kindliness to become
absorbed in her devotion to church precepts and church works.

When it first reached her ears that her only son, of boundless hopes
and dreams, was continually with the actress Lorraine Vivian, she was
horrified beyond words.

Undoubtedly the story had been much magnified and embroidered, and
accepted as a scandalous liaison or entanglement without any inquiry.
To make matters worse, Mrs. Hermon belonged so thouroughly to the old
school that she could not even distinguish between a clever celebrated
actress and a chorus girl.

The stage, to her, was a synonym which included all things theatrical
in one comprehensive ban of immorality and vice, with degrees, of
course, but in no case without deserving censure from the eminently
respectable, well-born British matron.  She could not have been more
upset had the heroine of the story been the under housemaid; and indeed
she placed actressess and housemaids in much the same category.

Of course the friendship must be stopped, and stopped instantly.  What
a mercy of mercies she had discovered it so soon, and that now it might
be nipped in the bud.  Just at the very outset of his career, too,
which had so astonishingly developed of late, and caused her such proud
delight.

That that surprising development, both in the career and the beloved
son, might have anything to do with this dreadful entanglement was not
to be thought of for a moment; and when Alymer's father ventured to
suggest thoughtfully and a little wonderingly that the friendship had
certainly not harmed the boy, she turned on him with bitterness, ending
up with the dictum that men were all alike when there was a woman in
the case, and could not possibly form an unbiassed opinion.

After which, she went off to church to a week-day service, partly to
pray for guidance in a matter in which she had already firmly decided
what line to take, and partly to unburden her mind to her pet
clergyman.  Of course she must speak to Alymer that very evening.  How
fortunate that it was one of the nights he almost always came to
Sevenoaks.

If only he had lived at home it would never have happened.  It was all
that hateful little flat where he lived with Bruce and St. Quintin.
She ought never to have given way so easily.  If his father had docked
his allowance, in order to compel him to live at home, he would soon
have got used to the daily train journey, and it would have been far
better for him.

Now, of course, he was not likely to hear of it; and since he was
making such good headway in his profession, it certainly did seem a
pity to risk upsetting him.  But no doubt a little quiet talk would
convince him of the unwisdom of allowing his name to be associated with
an actress just now; and once more she congratulated herself that she
had heard in time.

The Rev. Hetherington listended to her story with all the sympathetic
horror she could wish, and she felt buoyed up in her adamantine
decision, although she still harped on the intention of praying for
guidance.

The Rev. Hetherington, of morbid and woeful countenance, was one who
looked across a world glorious with spring sunshine, as if he saw
nothing but the earwigs, and black-beetles, and creepy, crawly things
of existence, and he promised readily to pray also: and perhaps God
smiled the smile He keeps for the good people who so often ask to be
guided by His Will, when they have long before decided exactly what
that Will shall be.

The pastor accompanied his parishioner to her door, walking slowly with
her through a garden bursting into a joyous splendour of crocuses, and
snowdrops, and promise of laughing daffodils in warm corners; and
together they lamented the terrible temptations of wicked sirens that
beset the paths of splendid young men in the world.

"Not that he isn't a good, affectionate son," she finished, "but he has
always been made so much of - which is not in the least surprising, and
no doubt he has grown lax.  Still, he might have remembered how proud a
name he bore, and, at least, have drawn the line at a frivolous,
painted actress.  His father says she is very clever and quite well
known, but even he cannot deny she probably paints her face; and surely
that is enough to show what her mind is!  How Alymer could endure it, I
don't know.  He has been used to such perfect ladies all his life, and
the mere sight of paint should disgust him."

"Of course, of course," murmured the mournful parson, who had great
hopes of a big subscription for his Young Women's Bible Class, and was
in two minds as to whether to regard the present moment as auspicious,
and introduce the need of educating all young women in high and holy
thoughts; or whether it was wiser to wait until his companion were in a
less perturbed frame of mind.

And the crocuses nodded and laughed, holding up their little yellow
staves gaily to the sunshine, and shouting to each other that it was
spring,  clamouring to make the most of their great day, before the
flowers came in battalions to crowd them out of sight and mind.

And the gentle little snowdrops whispered secrets to each other, which
only themselves could hear, about warmth and sunshine and the beauty of
the new spring world - too old in the wisdom of nature to pay any heed
to the two humans who would rather have had a world all maxims and
rules, and rigid straight lines from which no gladsome young hearts
ever strayed.

Finally the mournful clergyman went away without asking for his
subscription, having made mental decision that there would be far more
trouble to come over the painted woman, and yet more propitious
occasion was likely to arise.

And Alymer's mother went into the house with set, severe lips; and
pulled down all the blinds that were letting in sunlight, for fear some
of the carpets got spoiled.

She did not, however, venture into the library, where her husband sat
in a large bow window reading, with sunlight flooding all round him,
and sunshine in his quiet eyes, and the sunshine of a great man's
thoughts filling his mind.

He was too much of a philosopher to worry about his son, and, moreover
he knew Alymer well, and had great faith in his good sense; but he
realised a mother would take fright more quickly, and that it was as
well to let her have her talk with the boy, and comfort herself with
the belief that she had saved him.  As long as she did not shut out his
library sunlight, nor bring her pet clergyman into his sanctum, he
found it easy to balance her sterling companionable qualities against
certain others of a trying nature, and go serenely on his philosophical
way.

Undoubtedly Alymer was a well-selected mixture of both parents.  To his
mother he owed his fine features and his power of resolve when he chose
to exert it; and to his father his splendid stature, his quiet little
humours, and the old-fashioned, courtly protectiveness that had so
quickly won Lorraine's heart.

Yet it was a mixture that might have borne no practical results if left
to itself, but rather a retarding.

As Lorraine had so clearly seen, the spur of ambition, and a resolute
determination to succeed in other walks than that of the casual,
charming, petted favourite of fortune, were indispensable to bring his
traits into a harmony with each other that would achieve.

It was to this end that she had given him of her best encouragement and
help; too old and too wise not to have seen that whatever her own
personal feelings towards him, it was extremely probable that she had
helped him towards realising his highest promise, for some one else to
reap the deepest joy of it.

Well, at any rate she had had the interest and the companionship, and
these had not been small things.  He had come into her life just when
it was wearying of triumph and adulation; when lovely frocks and
jewels, and hosts of admirers - the very things she had craved for a
few years earlier - had commenced to pall in the light of the little
real satisfaction to be won from them.  With some women perhaps they
never palled.  Perhaps each fresh conquest renewed them, and each fresh
triumph invigorated.

In Lorraine's complex character, the love of success was blended with a
love of the deeper and richer things of life.  She was of those to
whom, at times, wide spaces, and fresh breezes, and the big, sweeping,
elemental things call loudly, above the noise of the world of fashion;
and she knew what it was to be filled with an aching  nausea of all she
had practically sold her soul to win, and a yearning _nostalgia_ for
something that might satisfy the finer instincts of her nature.

And in a measure her interest in Hermon had filled the void.  Whatever
her feeling had been in the beginning, it had undoubtedly merged now
into a definite purpose for his good, from which she meant to eliminate
- if the time came when he wanted to be free of her - any claim her
heart might clamour to assert.

Her dealings with him were, for the time being, on a par with the
generous unselfishness she had shown towards her mother.  For both of
them she found the courage and resolution to thrust herself in the
background and give of her best as the hour required.

If the friendship had been permitted to develop quietly along these
lines, a future day might have witnessed Lorraine quite naturally
outgrowing her infatuation, and happily satisfied with the result of
her unwearying interest and effort; while Hermon, from his proud
pinnacle of success, would still have felt her his best friend.

But at the critical moment the blundering, disturbing hand was
permitted to jar the harmony of the strings and spoil the melody.  To
what end?... who knows?...  Perhaps to some unseen, mysterious
widening, and deepening, and learning necessary to the onward march of
Humanity towards its goal of Perfection.


CHAPTER XXVII


Alymer knew directly he entered the house, and saw his mother, that
something had upset her, but he did not associate it with Lorraine, and
kissed her with his usual warm affection.

It was not until after dinner, when they were alone in the
drawing-room, that the subject was broached, and then, with very little
preliminary, Mrs. Hermon - bending Divine Guidance to her own will -
made a merciless attack on "the painted woman."

It was no doubt the most unwise course of action conceivable; but Mrs.
Hermon, with her quiet and philosophical husband, and her only son, had
led a sheltered, smoothly flowing married life, after a yet more
sheltered girlhood, far removed from the passionate upheavals of
society, and she had neither practical worldly knowledge nor experience
to aid her.

She told him the story that had reached her ears through the jealousy
of a sister, whose only son was very plain, and a scapegrace, and who
had been fiendishly glad to have an opportunity to cast a slur upon the
doings of the successful, handsome, steady young barrister.

"Douglas says he is always with her," had been her sister's conclusion
- "and that every one is talking about it, and there is a dreadful lot
of scandal.  I thought it was only kind to tell you, as if he goes on
in the same way he will certainly ruin his career."

Then had come the parting shot.

"We all think so much of Alymer, that I would not believe such a story
of him without proof.  Douglas said he usualy went to her flat in
Chelsea about five, when he leaves Chambers, and I went twice to see if
he came; and on each occasion he strode along, and swung into the
building almost as if he lived there."

Mrs. Hermon did not at first tell her son the source of her
information, and he did not ask her.  Neither, somewhat to her
surprise, did he attempt to exculpate himself, nor to make any denial.

He stood up on the hearth with that straight, strong look he had, when
all his faculties were acute, and heard her through to the end.  Then
she said in a hurt voice:  " You don't deny it, Alymer.  I have been
hoping you went to the flat on business, and there was some mistake."

"I deny everything that you have implied against Miss Vivian.  The
story of the friendship is true."

His quiet self-possession seemed to disconcert her a little.  She was
prepared for indignant denial, or angry remonstrance even; but this
calm self-possession was something almost new to her.  True, he had
always been calm and philosophical, like his father; but this was
something deeper and stronger than she had yet known in him.

"The fact is, mother," he went on after a pause, "you have run away
with a totally wrong idea of Miss Vivian.    If she were the sort of
actress you picture, you might perhaps be anxious; but all the same I
think you might have given me credit for rather better taste."

"My dear, an actress is an actress - and every one knows what that is;
and the mere fact of her calling, or whatever you like to name it, is
sufficient to seriously hurt your position."

He smiled a little.

"I dispute the dictum that every one knows whant an actress is, in the
sweeping sense you mean.  I do not think you know, for one.  I shall
have to try and persuade Miss Vivian to come and see you."

"Indeed I hope you will do no such thing."

Again he smiled.

"In any case I should not succeed.  She is very proud, and would resent
patronage even more than you."

Mrs. Hermon gave a significant sniff of incredulity, but she only said:

"Well, Alymer dear, you will give me a promise not to see her any more
- won't you?"

"I can't do that, mother."

"Why not?"

"It is out of the question.  For one thing, I owe too much to Miss
Vivian; and for another, I am too fond of her."

"All the more reason you should try to break off the friendship at
once, before she has succeeded in any of her schemes to entangle you."

"She has no schemes to entangle me, as you put it.  She has been a
splendid friend.  I owe my first brief to her, and a good deal else
beside."

"Well, and no doubt you have already given her a good deal in return.
Quite as much as she deserves.  There is no necessity for you to truin
your whole career, just because she happens to like being seen out with
you."

There was a silence, in which Alymer seemed to be cogitating how best
to disarm his mother's fears; and also to be reminding himself of her
natural ignorance on theatrical matters, and his own need to be patient
therefore.  At last he said quietly:

"Miss Vivian only wants to help me in my profession; and I can only
tell you again she has been a splendid friend to me.  Aunt Edith has
told you a great deal of nonsense.  She has always been glad to pick
holes in me if she could.    Most of it is lies, and you must take my
word for it.  It is useless to discus the matter.  I am sorry you have
been so worried, but I don't know how to make you understand."

"I understand far better than you think; and I know you ought to end
the friendship at once.  I want you to do so."

"It is out of the question.  But you need not worry.  You must just
forget.  No..." as she attempted further remonstrance; "don't go on.  I
cannot listen to any more against Miss Vivian.  I think I will go and
smoke a pipe with the pater.  Shall you come and sit with us?"  And a
certain expression in his eyes that reminded her of his father in his
most decisive moods told her he meant to say no more.  She rose at once.

She had failed, and she knew it, but she had not the smallest intention
of giving in.  She had started on the wrong tack, that was all.  Of
course the boy was too chivalrous to go back on a friend, particularly
as he believed he was under some obligation to her.  Her plan of
mercilessly tearing the lady to pieces had not been a good one, but she
would think of something else, and save him in spite of himself.

And comforting herself with this reflection, she allowed the subject to
drop, and went with him to the library.  Her next plan should be a more
sure one.  She would work in secret with an agent to help her, who
could see the enormity of the danger, and appreciate more thoroughly
than his father the urgent need to interfere.    She had already a
vague plan in her head that she believed an excellent one, and which
she could put into execution immediately.

It was an old-fashioned, time-worn plan, but Mrs. Hermon was a woman of
old-fashioned ideas, and she did not know but that she was the
originator.  She had not the least idea that quite the commonplace
course of action in these questions was to send a secret emissary to
the lady, to reason with her, or plead with her, or bribe her,
according to her status, on behalf of the innocent young victim of her
charms.  The great thing, she imagined, was to find a suitable agent.

Now, besides the sister who was jealous, she had a bachelor brother of
a certain well-known stamp.  A good-looking, aristocratic,
well-preserved man of independent means;  and though over sixty years
of age, still a gallant, with not much in his handsome head beyond a
pathetic desire to continue to captivate, and a belief that he was as
invincible as ever.

Very shady stories had more than once been written down to his account,
but he had the wit always to rise above them and sail serenely on to do
more mischief.

His sister rightly surmised that he would have considerable knowledge
concerning actressess and the theatrical world, and without troubling
to consult her husband, she took him into her confidence and unburdened
all her trouble.

"Phew!" murmured the elderly beau, "so the young scamp has got
entangled with an actress, has he?  Shocking!... shocking!...  But
don't worry, Ailsa; we'll soon square the lady one way or another.  Do
you - er - happen to know if she is of the nature one can offer money
to?"

"I think not.  Alymer insists she is a lady in the real sense; though,
if so, why did she go on the stage?"

"Love of excitement, I dare say.  Is she, by any chance, a chorus girl?"

"No, not exactly; though really I fail to see any difference in degree
between one actress and another.  They are all on the stage; and no
doubt they all paint their faces and snare good-looking young men."

"No doubt," agreed the man, who had more than once made it his business
to snare an unsuspecting, trusting girl.

"And you will go to see her, and persuade her to drop him; won't you,
Percy?  It is no use talking to his father; he does not see the matter
in a serious enough light.  He believes Alymer will soon tire of her.
So he may, but in the meantime she may irredeemably injure his career.
Of course, if it is a question of money we will find it all right; but
whatever it is, try to cut the whole matter off entirely.  Make love to
her yourself, Percy, if that is what she wants - you know you have
always been rather good at that sort of thing"; and she smiled at her
own astonishing wordly wisdom, feeling almost rakish at having framed
such a sentence.

"Ah!" with a deprecatory shake of his head, that did not, however, hide
a certain fitful gleam in his eyes, "I am getting too old for those
kinds of pranks now, but I will do my best to - er - "  For a moment he
wondered whether he meant to do his best to make love to the actress
himself, or try to rescue Alymer, and finally finished: "follow out
your wishes and suggestions."

"I knew you would, Percy.  It was a good idea of mine to ask you.
Don't mince matters at all, will you?  Make her thoroughly understand
she has got to give him up under any circumstances, or we shall, well -
er - take proceedings if it is possible.  Anyhow, Alymer must be
guarded against himself, and his father is too unpractical to help, so
we must do it alone."

"I quite agree.  Alymer is an exceptionally fine fellow, with an
exceptionally promising future; and if he cannot see for himself how
foolish a scandal would be just at the outset, we must, as you say,
save him on our own account.  I am fond of Alymer, very fond, and very
proud, and I will do all in my power over the matter.  What is the
actress's name, did you say?"

Jupiter's priestess, said Pantagruel, in former days would not like us
have walked under this arbour.

There was a mystical reason, answered our most perspicuous lantern, that
would have hindered her; for had she gone under it, the wine, or the
grapes of which 'tis made, that's the same thing, had been over
her head, and then she would have seemed overtopped and mastered
by wine.

Which implies that priests, and all persons who devote themselves to
the contemplation of divine things, ought to keep their minds sedate
and calm, and avoid whatever might disturb and discompose their
tranquillity, which nothing is more apt to do than drunkenness.

You also, continued our lantern, could not come into the Holy Bottle's
presence, after you have gone through this arch, did not that noble
priestess Bacbuc first see your shoes full of vine-leaves; which
action is diametrically opposite to the other, and signifies that
you despise wine, and having mastered it, as it were, tread it under
foot.

I am no scholar, quoth Friar John, for which I'm heartily sorry, yet I
 find by my breviary that in the Revelation a woman was seen with the
moon under her feet, which was a most wonderful sight. Now, as Bigot
explained it to me, this was to signify that she was not of the
nature of other women; for they have all the moon at their heads,
and consequently their brains are always troubled with a lunacy.

This makes me willing to believe what you said, dear Madam Lantern.

Chapter 5.XXXV.

How we went underground to come to the Temple of the Holy Bottle,
and how Chinon is the oldest city in the world.

We went underground through a plastered vault, on which was coarsely
painted a dance of women and satyrs waiting on old Silenus, who
was grinning o' horseback on his ass.

This made me say to Pantagruel, that this entry put me in mind of the
painted cellar in the oldest city in the world, where such paintings
are to be seen, and in as cool a place.

Which is the oldest city in the world? asked Pantagruel. 'Tis
Chinon, sir, or Cainon in Touraine, said I. I know, returned
Pantagruel, where Chinon lies, and the painted cellar also, having
myself drunk there many a glass of cool wine; neither do I doubt
but that Chinon is an ancient town --witness its blazon.

I own 'tis said twice or thrice:
Chinon, Little town, Great renown, On old stone Long has stood;
There's the Vienne, if you look down; If you look up, there's the
wood.

But how, continued he, can you make it out that 'tis the oldest city
in the world? Where did you find this written? I have found it in the
sacred writ, said I, that Cain was the first that built a town; we
may then reasonably conjecture that from his name he gave it that of
Cainon.

Thus, after his example, most other founders of towns have given them
their names: Athena, that's Minerva in Greek, to Athens; Alexander
to Alexandria; Constantine to Constantinople; Pompey to Pompeiopolis in
 Cilicia; Adrian to Adrianople; Canaan, to the Canaanites; Saba, to the
Sabaeans; Assur, to the Assyrians; and so Ptolemais, Caesarea, Tiberias,
and Herodium in Judaea got their names.

While we were thus talking, there came to us the great flask whom
our lantern called the philosopher, her holiness the Bottle's
governor.

He was attended with a troop of the temple-guards, all French bottles
in wicker armour; and seeing us with our javelins wrapped with ivy,
with our illustrious lantern, whom he knew, he desired us to come in
with all manner of safety, and ordered we should be immediately
conducted to the Princess Bacbuc, the Bottle's lady of honour, and
priestess of all the mysteries; which was done.

Chapter 5.XXXVI.

How we went down the tetradic steps, and of Panurge's fear.

We went down one marble step under ground, where there was a resting,
or, as our workmen call it, a landing-place; then, turning to the
left, we went down two other steps, where there was another
resting-place; after that we came to three other steps, turning
about, and met a third; and the like at four steps which we met
afterwards.

There quoth Panurge, Is it here? How many steps have you told? asked
our magnificent lantern. One, two, three, four, answered Pantagruel.
How much is that? asked she. Ten, returned he.
Multiply that, said she, according to the same Pythagorical
tetrad. That is, ten, twenty, thirty, forty, cried Pantagruel.
How much is the whole?

said she. One hundred, answered Pantagruel. Add, continued she,
the first cube--that's eight. At the end of that fatal number you'll
find the temple gate; and pray observe, this is the true psychogony
of Plato, so celebrated by the Academics, yet so little understood;
one moiety of which consists of the unity of the two first numbers
full of two square and two cubic numbers.

We then went down those numerical stairs, all under ground, and I can
assure you, in the first place, that our legs stood us in good
stead; for had it not been for 'em, we had rolled just like so many
hogsheads into a vault.

Secondly, our radiant lantern gave us just so much light as is in St.
Patrick's hole in Ireland, or Trophonius's pit in Boeotia; which caused
Panurge to say to her, after we had got down some seventy-eight
steps:

Dear madam, with a sorrowful, aching heart, I most humbly beseech your
lanternship to lead us back. May I be led to hell if I be not half
dead with fear; my heart is sunk down into my hose; I am afraid I
shall make buttered eggs in my breeches.

I freely consent never to marry. You have given yourself too much
trouble on my account. The Lord shall reward you in his great rewarder;
neither will I be ungrateful when I come out of this cave of
Troglodytes.

Let's go back, I pray you. I'm very much afraid this is Taenarus, the
low way to hell, and methinks I already hear Cerberus bark. Hark! I hear
the cur, or my ears tingle. I have no manner of kindness for the dog,
for there never is a greater toothache than when dogs bite us by the
shins. And if this be only Trophonius's pit, the lemures, hobthrushes,
and goblins will certainly swallow us alive, just as they devoured
formerly one of Demetrius's halberdiers for want of bridles. Art thou
here, Friar John? Prithee, dear, dear cod, stay by me; I'm almost dead
with fear. Hast thou got thy bilbo? Alas! poor pilgarlic's
defenceless.

I'm a naked man, thou knowest; let's go back. Zoons, fear nothing, cried
Friar John; I'm by thee, and have thee fast by the collar; eighteen
devils shan't get thee out of my clutches, though I were unarmed.

Never did a man yet want weapons who had a good arm with as stout a
heart.
Heaven would sooner send down a shower of them; even as in Provence,
in the fields of La Crau, near Mariannes, there rained stones (they are
there to this day) to help Hercules, who otherwise wanted wherewithal
to fight Neptune's two bastards.

But whither are we bound?

Are we a-going to the little children's limbo? By Pluto, they'll bepaw
and conskite us all. Or are we going to hell for orders? By cob's
body, I'll hamper, bethwack, and belabour all the devils, now I
have some vine-leaves in my shoes.

Thou shalt see me lay about me like mad, old boy. Which way? where the
devil are they? I fear nothing but their damned horns; but cuckoldy
Panurge's bull-feather will altogether secure me from 'em.
Lo! in a prophetic spirit I already see him, like another Actaeon,
horned, horny, hornified.
Prithee, quoth Panurge, take heed thyself, dear frater, lest, till
monks have leave to marry, thou weddest something thou dostn't
like, as some cat-o'-nine-tails or the quartan ague; if thou dost,
may I never come safe and sound out of this hypogeum, this subterranean
cave, if I don't tup and ram that disease merely for the sake of
making thee a cornuted, corniferous property; otherwise I fancy the
quartan ague is but an indifferent bedfellow.

I remember Gripe-men-all threatened to wed thee to some such thing;
for which thou calledest him heretic.

Here our splendid lantern interrupted them, letting us know this was
the place where we were to have a taste of the creature, and be
silent; bidding us not despair of having the word of the Bottle
before we went back, since we had lined our shoes with vine-leaves.

Come on then, cried Panurge, let's charge through and through all the
devils of hell; we can but perish, and that's soon done. However, I
thought to have reserved my life for some mighty battle. Move, move,
move forwards; I am as stout as Hercules, my breeches are full of
courage; my heart trembles a little, I own, but that's only an effect
of the coldness and dampness of this vault; 'tis neither fear nor
ague.

Come on, move on, piss, pish, push on. My name's William
Dreadnought.

Chapter 5.XXXVII.

How the temple gates in a wonderful manner opened of themselves.

After we were got down the steps, we came to a portal of fine jasper,
of Doric order, on whose front we read this sentence in the finest
gold, EN OINO ALETHEIA--that is, In wine truth.

The gates were of Corinthian-like brass, massy, wrought with little
vine-branches, finely embossed and engraven, and were equally joined
and closed together in their mortise without padlock, key-chain, or tie
whatsoever. Where they joined, there hanged an Indian loadstone as big
as an Egyptian bean, set in gold, having two points, hexagonal,
in a right line; and on each side, towards the wall, hung a handful
of scordium (garlic germander).

There our noble lantern desired us not to take it amiss that she went no
farther with us, leaving us wholly to the conduct of the priestess
Bacbuc; for she herself was not allowed to go in, for certain
causes rather to be concealed than revealed to mortals.

However, she advised us to be resolute and secure, and to trust to
her for the return.

She then pulled the loadstone that hung at the folding of the gates,
and threw it into a silver box fixed for that purpose; which done,
from the threshold of each gate she drew a twine of crimson silk about
nine feet long, by which the scordium hung, and having fastened it to
two gold buckles that hung at the sides, she withdrew.

Immediately the gates flew open without being touched; not with a
creaking or loud harsh noise like that made by heavy brazen gates, but
with a soft pleasing murmur that resounded through the arches of
the temple.

Pantagruel soon knew the cause of it, having discovered a small
cylinder or roller that joined the gates over the threshold, and,
turning like them towards the wall on a hard well-polished ophites
stone, with rubbing and rolling caused that harmonious murmur.

I wondered how the gates thus opened of themselves to the right and
left, and after we were all got in, I cast my eye between the gates
and the wall to endeavour to know how this happened; for one would
have thought our kind lantern had put between the gates the herb
aethiopis, which they say opens some things that are shut.

But I perceived that the parts of the gates that joined on the
inside were covered with steel, and just where the said gates
touched when they were opened I saw two square Indian loadstones
of a bluish hue, well polished, and half a span broad, mortised in
the temple wall.

Now, by the hidden and admirable power of the loadstones, the steel
plates were put into motion, and consequently the gates were slowly
drawn; however, not always, but when the said loadstone on the
outside was removed, after which the steel was freed from its power,
the two bunches of scordium being at the same time put at some
distance, because it deadens the magnes and robs it of its attractive
virtue.

On the loadstone that was placed on the right side the following
iambic verse was curiously engraven in ancient Roman characters:
Ducunt volentem fata, nolentem trahunt.

Fate leads the willing, and th' unwilling draws.

The following sentence was neatly cut in the loadstone that was on
the left:

ALL THINGS TEND TO THEIR END.

Chapter 5.XXXVIII.

Of the Temple's admirable pavement.

When I had read those inscriptions, I admired the beauty of the
temple, and particularly the disposition of its pavement, with which
no work that is now, or has been under the cope of heaven, can
justly be compared; not that of the Temple of Fortune at Praeneste
in Sylla's time, or the pavement of the Greeks, called asarotum,
laid by Sosistratus at Pergamus.

For this here was wholly in compartments of precious stones, all in their
natural colours: one of red jasper, most charmingly spotted; another
of ophites; a third of porphyry; a fourth of lycophthalmy, a stone of
four different colours, powdered with sparks of gold as small as
atoms; a fifth of agate, streaked here and there with small
milk-coloured waves; a sixth of costly chalcedony or onyx-stone;
and another of green jasper, with certain red and yellowish veins.

And all these were disposed in a diagonal line.

At the portico some small stones were inlaid and evenly joined on
the floor, all in their native colours, to embellish the design of
the figures; and they were ordered in such a manner that you would
have thought some vine-leaves and branches had been carelessly
strewed on the pavement; for in some places they were thick, and
thin in others.

That inlaying was very wonderful everywhere. Here were seen, as it were
in the shade, some snails crawling on the grapes; there, little
lizards running on the branches.

On this side were grapes that seemed yet greenish; on another, some
clusters that seemed full ripe, so like the true that they could
as easily have deceived starlings and other birds as those which
Zeuxis drew.

Nay, we ourselves were deceived; for where the artist seemed to have
strewed the vine-branches thickest, we could not forbear walking
with great strides lest we should entangle our feet, just as people
go over an unequal stony place.

I then cast my eyes on the roof and walls of the temple, that were all
pargetted with porphyry and mosaic work, which from the left side at
the coming in most admirably represented the battle in which the good
Bacchus overthrew the Indians; as followeth.

Chapter 5.XXXIX.

How we saw Bacchus's army drawn up in battalia in mosaic work.

At the beginning, divers towns, hamlets, castles, fortresses, and
forests were seen in flames; and several mad and loose women, who
furiously ripped up and tore live calves, sheep, and lambs limb
from limb, and devoured their flesh.

There we learned how Bacchus, at his coming into India, destroyed
all things with fire and sword.

Notwithstanding this, he was so despised by the Indians that they did
not think it worth their while to stop his progress, having been certainly
informed by their spies that his camp was destitute of warriors, and
that he had only with him a crew of drunken females, a low-built,
old, effeminate, sottish fellow, continually addled, and as drunk
as a wheelbarrow, with a pack of young clownish doddipolls, stark
naked, always skipping and frisking up and down, with tails and
horns like those of young kids.

For this reason the Indians had resolved to let them go through their
country without the least opposition, esteeming a victory over such
enemies more dishonourable than glorious.

In the meantime Bacchus marched on, burning everything; for, as you
know, fire and thunder are his paternal arms, Jupiter having saluted
his mother Semele with his thunder, so that his maternal house was
ruined by fire.
Bacchus also caused a great deal of blood to be spilt; which, when he
is roused and angered, principally in war, is as natural to him
as to make some in time of peace.

Thus the plains of the island of Samos are called Panema, which signifies
bloody, because Bacchus there overtook the Amazons, who fled from the
country of Ephesus, and there let 'em blood, so that they all died
of phlebotomy.

This may give you a better insight into the meaning of an ancient proverb
than Aristotle has done in his problems, viz., Why 'twas formerly
said, Neither eat nor sow any mint in time of war.

The reason is, that blows are given then without any distinction of parts
or persons, and if a man that's wounded has that day handled or eaten
any mint, 'tis impossible, or at least very hard, to stanch his
blood.

After this, Bacchus was seen marching in battalia, riding in a stately
chariot drawn by six young leopards. He looked as young as a child, to
show that all good topers never grow old. He was as red as a cherry,
or a cherub, which you please, and had no more hair on his chin
than there's in the inside of my hand.

His forehead was graced with pointed horns, above which he wore a fine
crown or garland of vine-leaves and grapes, and a mitre of crimson
velvet, having also gilt buskins on.

He had not one man with him that looked like a man; his guards and
all his forces consisted wholly of Bassarides, Evantes, Euhyades,
Edonides, Trietherides, Ogygiae, Mimallonides, Maenades, Thyades,
and Bacchae, frantic, raving, raging, furious, mad women, begirt
with live snakes and serpents instead of girdles, dishevelled, their
hair flowing about their shoulders, with garlands of vine-branches
instead of forehead-cloths, clad with stag's or goat's skins, and
armed with torches, javelins, spears, and halberds whose ends were
like pineapples.

Besides, they had certain small light bucklers that gave a loud sound
if you touched 'em never so little, and these served them
instead of drums. They were just seventy-nine thousand two hundred
and twenty-seven.

Silenus, who led the van, was one on whom Bacchus relied very much,
having formerly had many proofs of his valour and conduct.

He was a diminutive, stooping, palsied, plump, gorbellied old fellow,
with a swingeing pair of stiff-standing lugs of his own, a sharp Roman
nose, large rough eyebrows, mounted on a well-hung ass. In his fist
he held a staff to lean upon, and also bravely to fight whenever he
had occasion to alight; and he was dressed in a woman's yellow gown.

His followers were all young, wild, clownish people, as hornified as so
many kids and as fell as so many tigers, naked, and perpetually
singing and dancing country-dances. They were called tityri and
satyrs, and were in all eighty-five thousand one hundred and
thirty-three.

Pan, who brought up the rear, was a monstrous sort of a thing; for
his lower parts were like a goat's, his thighs hairy, and his horns
bolt upright; a crimson fiery phiz, and a beard that was none of the
shortest.

He was a bold, stout, daring, desperate fellow, very apt to take
pepper in the nose for yea and nay.

In his left hand he held a pipe, and a crooked stick in his right.

His forces consisted also wholly of satyrs, aegipanes, agripanes,
sylvans, fauns, lemures, lares, elves, and hobgoblins, and their
number was seventy-eight thousand one hundred and fourteen.

The signal or word common to all the army was Evohe.

Chapter 5.XL.

How the battle in which the good Bacchus overthrew the Indians was
represented in mosaic work.

In the next place we saw the representation of the good Bacchus's
engagement with the Indians.

Silenus, who led the van, was sweating, puffing, and blowing, belabouring
his ass most grievously. The ass dreadfully opened its wide jaws, drove
away the flies that plagued it, winced, flounced, went back, and
bestirred itself in a most terrible manner, as if some damned
gad-bee had stung it at the breech.

The satyrs, captains, sergeants, and corporals of companies, sounding the
orgies with cornets, in a furious manner went round the army,
skipping, capering, bounding, jerking, farting, flying out at heels,
kicking and prancing like mad, encouraging their companions to fight
bravely; and all the delineated army cried out Evohe!

First, the Maenades charged the Indians with dreadful shouts, and a
horrid din of their brazen drums and bucklers; the air rung again all
around, as the mosaic work well expressed it. And pray for the future
don't so much admire Apelles, Aristides the Theban, and others
who drew claps of thunder, lightnings, winds, words, manners, and
spirits.

We then saw the Indian army, who had at last taken the field to prevent
the devastation of the rest of their country. In the front were the
elephants, with castles well garrisoned on their backs. But
the army and themselves were put into disorder; the dreadful cries
of the Bacchae having filled them with consternation, and those
huge animals turned tail and trampled on the men of their party.

There you might have seen gaffer Silenus on his ass, putting on as hard
as he could, striking athwart and alongst, and laying about him
lustily with his staff after the old fashion of fencing.

His ass was prancing and making after the elephants, gaping and
martially braying, as it were to sound a charge, as he did when
formerly in the Bacchanalian feasts he waked the nymph Lottis, when
Priapus, full of priapism, had a mind to priapize while the pretty
creature was taking a nap.

There you might have seen Pan frisk it with his goatish shanks about
the Maenades, and with his rustic pipe excite them to behave
themselves like Maenades.

A little further you might have blessed your eyes with the sight
of a young satyr who led seventeen kings his prisoners; and a
Bacchis, who with her snakes hauled along no less than two and forty
captains; a little faun, who carried a whole dozen of standards
taken from the enemy; and goodman Bacchus on his chariot, riding
to and fro fearless of danger, making much of his dear carcass, and
cheerfully toping to all his merry friends.

Finally, we saw the representation of his triumph, which was thus: first,
his chariot was wholly lined with ivy gathered on the mountain
Meros; this for its scarcity, which you know raises the price of
everything, and principally of those leaves in India.

In this Alexander the Great followed his example at his Indian triumph.
The chariot was drawn by elephants joined together, wherein
he was imitated by Pompey the Great at Rome in his African triumph.

The good Bacchus was seen drinking out of a mighty urn, which action
Marius aped after his victory over the Cimbri near Aix in Provence.

Doubtless he would argue, as all the rest of them, that years in men
craved the freshness and revivifying of youth it was only natural, and
a woman mattered so much less.  But the mature woman herself, she has
no right to indulge in any longing for that same freshness and
revivifying.

Ten years ago this man had been lust at the age, and with just the
handsome, aristocratic appearance, in spite of iron-grey hair, that so
often attracts a girl in the early twenties. She scorns boys at that
age, and feels the compliment of being chosen by a man of the world
before the
many older women she cannot choose but see would gladly be in her
place. That it is her youth and not herself that holds the attraction
is unknown to her, and a clever man may often dupe her young affections.

Lorraine, with her romantic, imaginative temperament, had grown to
believe herself in love with him, and then had followed the old, sordid
story of insult and her consequent disillusionment.  The memories stung
her now
with a bitter stinging heightened by the feeling that life cared so
much more for Alymer's welfare than it had ever done for hers.

And then that appeal to her woman's feeling to sympathise with the
perturbed mother.

Well, because she was his mother, surely she was blessed enough. What
had she - Lorraines - to place against that great fact ? She felt
painfully that in spite of her success her life was pitifully,
hopelessly barren, scarred this way and that, torn and rent and damaged
by mistake upon mistake which could never now be rectified.

A nausea of it all made her feel in those tense moments, gazing at the
serenely flowing river, that had she a child she would be borne away on
the smooth silver water with her little one, out of the fret and
turmoil, to some quiet nest in the cliffs at its mouth ; and there for
the years that
were left her she would fill her days with the peaceful, homely joys
that had never yet been hers.

But how could she go alone?  Only in the uneventful days to find her
loneness intensified a thousand times, and without escape.

No; the river would flow on to that serene haven; but never for ever
would she and a little one of her own be borne on its motherly bosom to
the country of little things and peacefulness.

And the thought only stung her afresh; driving the sting in deep and
sharp while this man remained under her roof.

"Well," he said at last; and in the interval his voice seemed to have
regained some of its polished, self-possessed satisfaction.  "I see you
are deep in thought.  You were always tender-hearted, and I felt I
should not appeal to your womans heart in vain."

Her face was turned away, so that he could not see her expression, nor
read what was in her eyes, and purposely she let him go on.

"You will, I know, let me go back with the message Mrs. Hermon is
waiting for so anxiously.  It will be quite simple.  No doubt you have
countless admirers, and if you summon another, and let Alymer think he
is replaced, after the first hot-headed wrath he will quickly become
normal again, and apply all his faculties to his profession.  I know
you are too clever not too appreciate just everything involved, and too
generous not to give the young man his best chance."

Then he cleared his throat, stroked his moustache, and waited,
wondering a little why she did not speak.  He squared his shoulders
again, and glanced round to catch a reflection of himself in the
overmantel, then once more
stroked his moustache with a sleek air of growing satisfaction.

It had certainly been a most ticklish undertaking, and but for his
diplomacy, he believed one foredoomed to failure. But of course
Lorraine was a woman of the world, with a larger mixture of the other
kind of womanliness, perhaps, than was usual, and he in his
perspicacity had deftly appealed to both.

Then Lorraine turned round, and at the first glimpse of her face his
own fell, and suddenly he seemed to be shrinking visibly; as if he
would not ungladly have vanished through the floor.

She took a step or two forward, and stood in front of him with her head
held high, and those same scorching fires in her eyes ; and there was
something almost over-awing in the taut intensity of her whole
attitude, mental and physical.

"No," she said, in a cold, firm voice.  "You may not go back and tell
Alymer's mother that I agree to cease my friendship with him for you
and for her.  You may go back and tell her that because when I was
young you had no thought of my future, and no consideration for my
youth, I refuse absolutely to parley in the matter at all.  I shall not
change my course of action by one iota.  I shall not take any single
thought for the future. The future may take care of itself.  If you can
estrange Alymer from me,
that is your affair.  Rather than estrange him myself, I will bind him
closer.
That is my answer to you, and to the _lady_," with fine scorn, " who
sat down yesterday and penned that unheard-of letter to a fellow-woman
she knew nothing whatever against.  Yet I think I could have charged
that to her evident ignorance concerning theatrical matters, and
forgiven her, if a monstrous irony had not sent you to plead her cause
- "

"My dear Lorraine," he interposed, but she stopped him with an
imperious gesture and continued:

"There is nothing for you to say, nothing that I am in the least likely
to listen to.  You have evidently mis-understood my character from
first to last.  Probably you even credited me with wantonness in those
far-off days when I was fool enough to believe all you swore to me of
love and devotion.  However that may be, you tried to set my feet in
the wrong path, and when it suited you, gave me a push that further
evil might conveniently widen the breach between us.  Probably you have
done much the same again since, and with as little compunction.  What I
have to say to you now is just this, once again.  Your mission to-day
is not merely useless; it has considerably aggravated any danger there
may have been.  Because of every girl a middle-aged man has treated as
you sought to treat me I shall hold Alymer to his friendship if I can,
and use any influence I may have to increase rather
than decrease his visits.

"It may be fiendish of me. I don't know. I am no angel ; not even the
obliging soft-hearted fool you and Alymer's mother seem to have
concluded I might be.  And what is more, if I had a vein of kindliness
and unselfish
consideration, you have done your utmost to stamp it out.
"Most of us are half good, and half bad.  To-day, you have given the
devil in me an impetus such as it has seldom had before.  That is your
affair. Go back and explain the real truth if you dare.  Tell Mrs.
Hermon you found
the low adventuress a devil, and one that you yourself had tried to
help to make.  Tell her " - again with that low, unpleasant laugh - "
that you fear the worst for Alymer.
That is all. Now you can go."

Once more he futilely tried to speak, but she only waved him aside, and
walked with a haughty, scornful step ahead of him.

"Jean," she called to her maid, as she passed through the little hall,
"Will you open the door for this gentleman?"

In her own room, she slid down into a large cushioned chair and sobbed
her heart out.


CHAPTER XXX

It was there Hal found her.  By the merest chance she had run up to the
flat at her midday hour, to ask a question about Sir Edwin Crathie. and
a rumour concerning him that she felt an imperative need to have
answered. When she saw Lorraine in tears the question was instantly
banished for the moment.

Had Lorraine been in her normal condition, she could hardly have failed
to notice that the "Hal" who came up in haste to ask this urgent
question was not the "Hal" of a few months, a few weeks ago.  She would
probably
have observed that the vague, indefinable change Alymer had seen in her
had grown more marked anti more defined.

She seemed to have sprung suddenly into womanhood.

It was no light-hearted, careless, rather boisterous girl who appeared
unexpectedly at the flat, to give her one or two eager hugs, tell her
the latest news of her doings in gay, gossipy fashion, and eat an
unconscionable amount of chocolates, usually kept for her special
delectation.

The old, bright look was there on the surface, the ready, laughing
speech, but there was also, with it, something that approached a
dignified phase, and suggested a new reserve.  She was also distinctly
better-looking likewise, in some vague, incomprehensible way.

But Lorraine had not time to take any note of the change, for all her
faculties were bent upon shielding herself.

Of course it was useless to hide that she had been crying, but at least
Hal must not know that the crying had been soul-racking sobs.

With a look of consternation and dismay she, Hal, was across the room
in a bound, kneeling beside the big chair.

"My dear old girl, what in the world is the matter ?"

Lorraine contrived to smile with some appearance of reality, as she
dried her eyes, and said:

"I don't quite know.  It's idiotic of me, isn't it?  If you hadn't come
and stopped me, I should never have been able to appear to-night for
swollen eyes."

But Hal was not so easily put off.  She grasped both Lorraine's hands
in hers and said resolutely:

"Why are you crying, Lorry?"

Feeling it hopeless to avoid some sort of a reason, she replied:

"I had a letter this morning that upset me rather.  It is silly of me
to take any notice, and I shouldn't if I were well.  I've been
wretchedly nervy lately, and it makes me silly about things."

"What was the letter about?"

"Oh, only some one who is jealous, I suppose; trying to get a little
satisfaction out of saying a few things that may hurt me.  It is so
silly of me to mind."

Hal's mind immediately flew to Mrs. Vivian, and instead of inquiring
any further she just said:

"Poor old Lorry," and kissed her affectionately.

Then with a little laugh:

"I suppose you weren't going to have any lunch at all, but I'm
frightfully hungry.  I hope to goodness there is something in the
house."

"Run and tell Jean to see cook about it, there's a dear.  I must bathe
my eyes and try to look presentable."

While they lunched Hal chatted of many things, but she noted that
Lorraine was looking thin, and seemed to have something on her mind,
while she made no attempt to eat what was placed on her plate.

When she was pulling her gloves on later she asked:

"Why don't von take a week's holiday and go into the country, Lorry?...
It is no use going on until you are ill, as you did before."

"I think I must ask about it.  I feel as if one week would do me a
world of good.  How is Sir Edwin?   Have you seen him lately?"

"We played golf on Saturday."

A white look came suddenly into Hal's face, and she riveted her
attention on an apparently tiresome fastener as she asked, with the
greatest show of unconcern she could muster, the question that brought
her there.

"Have you heard a rumour that he is going to marry Miss Bootes?" naming
one of the richest heiresses cf the day.

"No; I hadn't heard it."

Lorraine gave a quick glance at her face, but saw only the look of
concentration on the fractious fastener.

"Well," Hal said in level tones, " I suppose she is worth about half a
million, and I don't think he is rich."

"Probably he has only been seen speaking to her, or taking her to
supper at a big reception .  That would be quite enough to make some
people link them at once, and fix the date of the wedding."

"There's a bun-fight at the Bruces' to-night," Hal ran on, "with Llaney
to play the violin, and Lascelles to sing - quite an elaborate affair :
so it is sure to be very boring ; but I suppose Alymer will be there,
looking adorably beautiful, and all the women gazing at him.  It will
be entertaining to chaff him, anyhow."

"Well, don't tell him you found nie weeping," with a little laugh. " He
might not realise it was only nerves."

"I'll tell him he's to take you away for a week's holiday," Hal replied
lightly.  " Goodness knows, you've done enough for him."

She went back to the office and settled down to her work with resolute
determination, but any one who knew her well would have seen that some
cloud seemed to have descended upon her, and that all the time she
stuck to her work she was wrestling to appear normal, in the face of
some enshrouding worry.

Through all the letter she was writing, and over the proofs she read to
aid the chief, there seemed to be one sentence dancing in letters of
glee, like a war-dance executed by little black devils on the foolscap
of her mind.

It was last night she had heard it, that ominous piece of news that
took her violently by surprise, in spite of her practical common sense.
 Some one had said it quite casually in the motor bus - one man to
another, as an item of news of the day.

"They say Sir Edwin Crathie is to marry Miss Bootes the heiress:

"What!  The Right Honourable Sir Edwin Crathie?"

" So they say.  He's very heavily in debt, I believe - over some bad
speculations - and an heiress is about the only thing to float him.
Besides, the party wants rich men, and it would be a good move on his
part."

That was all, and then the two silk-hatted, frock-coated men had got
out. Eminently well-to-do men - probably both stockbrokers, but men who
looked as if they would know.

Hal had gone on home in a sudden torment of feeling.  Of course he was
free to marry the heiress if be wished, but why, if so, had he dared
once again to drop the mask of companiable friendliness with her and
grow lover-like?

The change had been coming slowly of late, wrought with infinite
caution and care.  He had not meant to frighten her again, and find
himself in disgrace, so he had taken each step very leisurely, and made
sure of his ground before trusting himself upon it.  The next time he
kissed her, he had determined she should like it too well to resent his
action.

And the safe moment, as he deemed it, had come the previous Saturday
after a delightful afternoon at golf.  They had motored down to the
Sundridge Park Links, and stayed afterwards to dine at the club-house,
then back to Bloomsbury, and into the pretty sitting-room, where Dudley
was not likely to appear until late, because he had gone to a theatre
with Doris.

And then forthe second time he had kissed her.

But this was quite a different kiss.  It was a climax to one of the
best days he had ever had - a day in which, besides playing golf, they
had talked of State secrets and State affairs.  He had paid her the
compliment of talking to her as if she were a man, and Hal, being
exceptionally well informed on most questions of the day, was able to
hold her own with him, and to make the conversation of genuine interest.

And his quick, observant brain greatly admired her power of argument,
and her woman's directness of method, confirming the view that while a
an usually indulges in a good deal of preamble, with many doubts and
side-lights, a woman trusts to her instinct and arrives at the same
conclusion in half the time.  Of late, too, he had talked to her of
interesting modern problems; and what had been frivolous in their
earlier friendshipm had solidified into a real companionship.

And now as he stood on the hearth with his back to the fire, looking
with rather critical eyes round the pretty room that Hal had contrived
to rob of nearly all its lodging-house aspect, she stood quite
naturally and unconcernedly beside him drawing off her gloves.

"It was a good game," she was saying, "if you had not messed up that
sixth hole.  It's a brute, isn't it.  I was lucky to escape that marshy
bit."

"You are getting too good for me.  Your drives out-classed mine nearly
every time."

"But I can't approach.  I never, never, shall be able to hit a ball
just far enough.  If I loft on to the green at all it is always the far
side, with a roll."

"You'll soon master that.  A little more practice, and you'll be in
form for matches.  I think  we'll have to go away somewhere and have a
fortnight's golfing!  Why not to some little French place?  You would
finish up a first-class player."

Hal laughed lightly.

"Just imagine Brother Dudley's face when I told him I was going to
France for a fortnight with you!"

"You wouldn't have to tell him anything about me," watching her with a
sudden keenness in his eyes.  "I should have to be personated by Miss
Vivian or some one."

"Oh, I dare say Lorry would come for the matter of that.  We might
teach her to play too."

"Well, I hardly meant she should actually be there," he went on in a
meaning voice.  "She'd be rather in the way, wouldn't she?  I don't
know that I could do with any one else but you."

He stepped closer to her, and slipped his arm round her shoulders.  "A
third person will always be in the way when I am with you, Hal."

She changed colour, and breathed fitfully, moving as if to disengage
herself from his arm.

"No, don't go.  This is very harmless, and I've been exceedingly good
for a long time, now, haven't I?"

"All the greater pity to spoil your record," putting up her hand to
remove his.

But he only clasped her fingers tightly, and drew her closer, till he
could feel her heart palpitating a little wildly; and that gave him
courage.

"It has been far harder than you have the remotest idea of.  I deserve
one kiss, if only by way of encouragement."

His face was close to hers now, and with a little murmuring sound of
gladness he kissed her cheek.

"Little woman," he murmured, "I've grown desperately fond of you.  I
hardly know how to do without you.  Be a sensible little girl, won't
you?"

She disengaged herself resolutely then, but she was not angry, and her
eyes were shining.

"You are transgressing flagrantly - as I should express it in a
newspaper report.  Collect your forces, and retire gracefully, O
transgressor."

"I suppose I really must go now.  It's been such a splendid day, hasn't
it?"

He seemed to speak with a shadow of regret; and there was a shadow of
regret in his eyes also as he riveted them on her face.  Then he turned
suddenly and picked up his cap.

"Well - the best of friends must part - and the best of days come to an
end.  Good-bye, little girl."

With his cap in his hand, he suddenly put both his arms round her and
kissed her with the old passionate eagerness - then he loosed her and
turned to the door.

"I'm in love with you, Hal - head over ears in love; but it's a
devilish hard world, and Heaven only knows what's to come of it."

With which enigmatical sentence he let himself out and departed.

When he had gone Hal stood quite still where he had left her, and
looked into vacancy.  About her lips there was the ghost of a smile.
In her ears was only the recollection of the words, "I'm head over ears
in love with you."

So, it was coming at last - the great, glad day of love and fulfilment.
 If he had set out to trifle with her at first, at least he was serious
enough now.  She, too, had only trifled in the beginning, seizing a
little fun and adventure in her workaday world.  There had been no
reason to suppose it need hurt any one.  Now, she, too, was serious.

Perhaps the things detrimental to him that she had heard previously had
some truth in them then, but he was changed now.  Love had changed him.
 He was like another man.  She had seen and felt it in a thousand ways
that could not be translated into speech or writing.  It was just that
he was different, and in every particular it was to his advantage.

She was different too.  She did not resent the kiss, because she knew
that he honestly cared for her.  Ans she knew, too, that she honestly
cared for him.  The end of the enigmatical sentence rankled a little,
but she did not led herself dwell upon it.

She chose instead  to remember how he had kissed her; and that he had
confessed he was head over ears in love with her.  Which only showed
that Hal - for all her worldly wisdom and practical common sense -
could be as blind and as romantic ans any one when her heart was
touched, and her pulses romping feverishly at a memory that thrilled
all her being.

Three days later she had heard the conversation.

Of course it was absurd - manifestly so - and yet an yet -

After a miserable twenty-four hours of fighting against her own
uneasiness, she paid the flying visit to Lorraine, to see if she could
glean any light on the gossip from her, only to return to the office
baffled and tormented.

It was the enigmatical sentence that pressed forward now, instead of
the thrilling confession that he loved her.  Was it possible he was
indeed so base as to love her and tell her in the very same week that
he had asked another woman to be his wife?

And if so, what had prompted him?  What was in his mind?  Why had he
not left things as they were, and refrained both from the kiss and the
confession?

And then above her tortured feelings rose the triumphant thought,
goading and pleasing at the same time: "Whether it is true or not, he
loves _me_ - not her, the heiress, but me - Hal Pritchard - the
peniless City worker."


CHAPTER XXXI


In the evening came the party at Dick Bruce's home, and it was
necessary, she knew, to thrustl all recollection of Sir Edwin aside, in
order to give rise to no questioning and appear as usual.

So she dressed herself with special care, rubbed a pink tinge on to her
white cheeks, bathed and refreshed eyes dulled by worry and shadows,
and made her appearance, looking, inf anything, a little more radiant
than usual.

"By Jove! you look stunning, Hal," was her jovial uncle's warm
greeting.  "Who'd ever have thought, to see the ugly little imp of a
small child you were, that you would grow up into a fashionable,
striking woman?  I congratulate you.  When's the happy man coming
along?"

"When I'm tired to enjoying of myself," she laughed, "and feel equal to
coping with anything as trying as a husband.  At present a brother
keeps me quite sufficiently occupied, "and she passed on.

Across the large, well-lit room, towering above every one around him,
she saw the head and shoulders of Alymer Hermon.  All about her, as she
moved towards him, she heard the low-voiced query: "Who is he?"

No society beauty at her zenith could have caused greater interest.  He
was looking grave, too, and thoughtful, which suited him better than
laughter, giving him something of a look apart, and banishing all
suggestion of the conceit and self-satisfaction that would have spoilt
him.  Then he caught sight of Hal, and instantly all his face lit up,
and a twinkle shone in his eyes as he edged towards her.

"How late you are!  I thought you were never coming.  Did your hair
require an extra half-hour?  I suppose you've been tearing it out by
the roots over your faithless swain."

"I don't know what you mean, and anyhow I shouldn't be such a fool as
to tear my own hair out by the roots for any one.  If hair is coming
out in that fashion, it shall be his roots."

"Come and sit down.  I'll soon find you a chair."

"What's the good of that?  We can't converse unless you sit on the
floor.  I work too hard to spend my evening shouting banalities at the
ceiling."

"Well, let's hunt for a couch; there are plenty here on ordinary
occasions.  Isn't it a poser where all the furniture goes to at a
'beano' like this!  There's nothing in the hall, nor in the
dinning-room; and there doesn't seem to be much here.  Let's make for
the lounge."

"But I can't take you away.  I shall get my face scratched.  You were
made to be looked at, and half these silly people are staring their
eyes out in your direction.  I don't know how you put up with it so
serenely.  I should want to bite them all.  If I were a man, and had
been burdened with an appearance like yours, I should want to hit Life
in the face for it."

"Don't be silly.  What does it matter?  It pleases them, and it doesn't
hurt me.  I get my own back a little anyway...  when I want to" - with
a low, significant laugh.

"Oh of course lots of women are in love with you," - with a
contemptuous sniff; "but if I were a man I wouldn't give tuppence for
the woman who made me a present of her affections.  You miss all the
fun of the chase, and the victory.  It must be deadly dull."

"That's what Lorraine has sometimes said; but what can I do?  Shall I
paint my face black?"

"Oh, I've seen you look black enough, but it's rather becoming than
otherwise.  Anyhow, it isn't insipid.  But you've grown quite manly
lately, I suppose.  I hear about you occasionally positively working
hard.  Heavens! - what you owe to Lorraine!""
"I do," fervently.

"Then why in the world don't you look after her a bit?  I turned up
unexpectedly at half-past one to-day, and found her sobbing her eyes
out."

"You found Lorraine sobbing her eyes out..." incredulously.

"I did.  She told me not to tell you, as it was only nerves - but of
course it wasn't.  You know as well as I that Lorraine doesn't suffer
from weepy nerves.  It's worry again; and she is looking thoroughly
ill."

"Why again?..."

He was looking grave enough now, and there was anxiety in his voice.

"Oh, because there's often something to worry her - either her mother,
or her memories, or the future.  I suppose you haven't bothered to go
and see her lately to cheer her up?  Been too busy with your briefs!"

"I was there yesterday, to inquire how she was after a bad sick
headache.  The room was all violets and snow-drops"; and his eyes grew
soft.

"And did she sight of her robust health knock you backwards?"

Hal was irritable from the strain on her own nerves, and it pleased her
to hurl sarcasms at him, feeling somehow angry at his calm,
smoothly-flowing path to success.

"I thought she looked ill, and I advised her to go away for a week."

"That was kind of you.  And why won't she take your safe advice?"

"She won't go alone, and she said there was no one to go with her."

"Too many briefs, eh?"

"What have my briefs to do with it?"

"Oh, nothing.  She's given hours and hours to you and your future; but
of course you couldn't risk sparing a  week -"

"But!... " he began with raised eyebrows.

""Oh, don't 'but' in that inane fashion.  If you say it isn't proper I
shall scream.  Lorraine is nearly old enough to be your mother, and she
has far too much sense to be in love with you; and you wouldn't be so
idiote as to imagine it any use for you to be in love with her.
Therefore it's only a companion she wants to keep her from moping and
dwelling on sad thoughts; and you seem to be able to do that - as well
as any of us; so why can't you get another man, or boy if you prefer
it, to go for a run into the country with you?  Flip would take her by
the next train if he were there.  He wouldn't care a farthing for
scandalmongers.  But I suppose he can do that sort of thing because
he's a man.  And, anyhow, I don't suppose she would go with you, even
with a third person.  She might think a whole week of you too much of a
good thing."

His face has grown still more thoughtful, and he paid small heed to her
taunts.

Lorraine sobbing, Lorraine ailing, Lorraine unhappy, filled his mind.
What could have happened to upset her so?  True, she had not been
looking well for some weeks, and had complained of headaches and
weariness; but he felt sure something quie apart had transpired to
upset her so thoroughly.

Neither did he think it was Hal's version of the usual worries.  He
greatly feared his own people had made some move of which he was in
ignorance.  He contemplated with deep vexation the probability that he
himself was indirectly the cause of her new trouble, and he mentally
decided then and there to go to considerable lengths, if she wished it,
on her behalf.

Probably if he travelled down to some sea-side place and saw her
comfortably settled, and later on ran down to fetch her, she would be
more easily induced to go.  At any rate he would call the very next day
and see, if his proposition simplified matters at all.

Hal watched him a little impatiently, and at length remarked:

"You seem to be thinking rather hard.  Are you meditating upon
Lorraine's trouble, or my suggestion, that it is unlikely she could
endure a whole week of you, unadulterated?"

"Both," with a humorous glance at her.  "I'm thinking it would be
interesting to find out the truth in both cases."

"Well, you won't do that.  Lorraine never tells her troubles.  Not even
to me.  And she's too tender-hearted to hurt your feelings on the other
question."

"I'm not afraid of that."

His face grew a little brighter, and, as if satisfied with the result
of his cogitations, he changed the subject.

"What's making you so ratty to-night?  Is it the faithless swain?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"Perhaps you haven't seen the evening paper."

"I haven't.  I'm sick to death of papers by six o'clock."

"Well, you oughtn't to have missed it to-night, and then you'd have had
the pleasure of seeing the announcement of the faithless swain's
engagement to the rich heiress."

Hal bit her lip suddenly, and felt her blood run cold, but she kept her
outward composure perfectly, and merely commented:

"Oh, you mean about Sir Edwin Crathie and Miss Bootes!... that's very
old news."

"Well, it was only in the paper to-night anyhow; and only given as a
rumour then.  I was going to ask you if it is true.  Yhey say he's in
the dickens of a mess for money.  But of course you know all about it."

He was enjoying himself now, feeling that he was getting a little of
his own back, and it made him unconsciously merciless.

"It must have been rather a trying moment when you had to break to him
that you couldn't possibly pay any of his debts, and that therefore you
must part?"

"I don't know anything about his debts.  They don't interest me.  I can
beat him at golf, playing level, and that's far more to the point."

"Then you are going to play golf with him, while Miss Bootes bears his
proud name in return for paying his debts!  Sure, it sounds a nice
handy arrangement for him."

Then Hal got up.

"I don't want to _talk_ to you, because you are talking such drivel;
and I don't want to _look_ at you, because your pink and white and blue
and gold irritate me beyond words, so you'd better go and stand in the
middle of the room for the benefit of those who delight to gaze; and
I'll go in search of a refreshingly ugly person who can talk sense!"

Hermon gave a low chuckle of enjoyment, and continued to chuckle to
himself until she was lost to sight and his hostess was introducing
some charming débutante to him.  The débutante was pink and white and blue
and gold likewise, and gazed up at him adorably under long curling
lashes; but he might have expressed a fellow-feeling with Hal, for he
found himself merely bored, and longed to go in search, not of a
refreshingly ugly person, but of the refreshingly irritable, snappy,
unappreciative one who had just left him.

When at last he was free, however, he found Hal had complained of a
headache and gone home early, unattended.


CHAPTER XXXII


On her way home Hal stopped the taxi and bought an evening paper.  When
she got it, however, she found Dudley there, so she merely held it
under her cloak.

"You are back early," he said, in a surprised voice.

"Yes.  It was very formal and very dull, and I was tired."

He glanced up with questioning eyes.  It was something new for Hal not
to stay untill the last moment at a festivity.  He thought she looked a
little paler than usual, and there were shadows about her eyes, but she
interrupted any comment he might make by an inquiry after Doris.

"She is very well."

He stopped short rather suddenly, and seemed thoughtful.  He had been
urging Doris to fix the date of their wedding, and let him see about
taking a house or a flat, but she had seemed to avoid the subject
lately, and he was a little troubled.

"I suppose poor Basil is much the same?"

"Yes.  He and Ethel were both asking what had become of you.  They said
you hadn't been up for a long time."

"I haven't.  I'll go to-morrow.  Good-night," and she kissed him, and
went upstairs.

In her own room she sat on the bed, and read the evening paper.

Yes, it was there sure enough, but it was only given as a rumour.  "We
understand there is a rumour..."  How well she knew the phrase, with
its dangerous suggestiveness, and safe retreat.  She wondered who had
started the rumour, and how the paper had got it.

But, again, insistently she asserted it could not be true.  If it had
not been for last Saturday she might have believed it.  But after
that... no, he could not be so base.  She put the thought away from
her, and tried to sleep, but her eyes would look out into the
blackness, and her brain ask questions.

"What if it were true?"  She clenched her hands and fought the
question.  It could not be true; why worry?  Yet he had never made the
slightest suggestion of marrying her.  She remembered that, but scorned
it.

Why should he?  There had been nothing lover-like between them until
the previous Saturday; and of course had there been any one else, it
would have been so easy to go on the same and make no change that
particular afternoon.

Finding what comfort she could out of these thoughts, she fell at last
into a troubled sleep.

The following afternoon, in fulfilment of her promise, she went up to
Holloway from the office.  Doris was out, and Ethel not home yet, but
the door was opened to her by a gaunt stranger, who said:

"Come in.  This is one of my days.  I'm in charge this afternoon."

Hal looked into the angular face, which appeared to her as if it had
been roughly hewn with a chisel, by some one who was a mere amateur,
and she could not repress a little smile.

"I don't think I've met you before.  Are you - are you - a friend of
Mr. Hayward's?"

"Well, he's a friend of mine, if that will do as well.  I'm generally
know here as G.  The letter isn't stamped on my face, but it's on the
door of my flat, and that's much the same."

She stood aside for Hal to pass down the passage, adding grimly as Hal
loitered, with rather an amused, engaging expression:

"I don't stand for much more than a door, with a G on it, as I often
tell Mr. Hayward, but I suppose it's all right."

"A little more occasionally," suggested Hal.  "A door wouldn't be much
use to Mr. Hayward, anyhow."

"That's what he says.  Won't you go down to his room?"

"What are you going to do?"

"Get the tea.  It's one of the few things I can do passably well."

"Let me come and help.  It won't take long.  I'm interested in that
door.  You see, I'm not even G; and I don't possess a front door."

The music-teacher looked searchingly into her face, and was evidently
pleased with what she saw, for she adopted a friendly note, and seemed
ready to chat.  Hal followed her into the little kitchen, and commenced
to take off her hat.

"I'm an old friend," she volunteered, "and I often leave my hat in
here.  Are both Mr. Hayward's sisters out?"

"Miss Hayward will be late to-night, and her sister is uncertain.  It
depends somewhat upon which young man she is out with," in acid tones.

Hal glanced up in astonishment, but her companion was busy with the
cups and saucers, and  did not notice the look.

"All I can say is, I'm sorry for that nice gentleman who is fool enough
to think of marrying her.  Lord! he'd be safer with some one with a
face like a door-knocker, such as mine.  But there, they're all the
same; and the nicest of them are generally the biggest fools."

Hal grasped the situation at once, and instead of enlightening her
concerning her own identity, said casually:

"There's another young man as well, is there?"

"There is so.  A pawnbroker I should take him to be, who wears the
jewellery left in his care on his person for safety.  As a matter of
fact, I believe he is a South African millionaire.  He brought her home
one day, and Blakde - that's the housekeeper's husband down below -
recognised him.  He was out in South Africa in the war, and he saw him
then."

Hal drummed on the table with her fingers to assume nonchalance.

"Does Miss Hayward know?"

'Know?  Of course she doesn't.  How should she know, particularly if
that artful monkey did not want her to?  I don't know where the poor
sick man would be now but for me.  She's always off somewhere - that
minx - and I rush back from my music pupils, because I can't rest for
the thought of him here all alone.  I've given one up, who wanted a
lesson at half-past four every day.  That's the time he needs his tea."

"Why do you do all this for him?"  Hal found herself asking, a little
unaccountably.  "He is nothing to you, is he - no relation, I mean?"

"Nothing to me!...  Oh, isn't he though!  I'd like to know what is
anything, if he's nothing?"

She rattled the cups and saucers a little restlessly, and Hal, with
growing interest, waited for her to go on.

"Before I knew him, I was nothing in the world but a door with a letter
on it, as I've just told you.  That's all I stood for, a mere letter of
the alphabet who paid a monthly rent.  I told him so, when I first came
across, and he said, 'Well, I'm very glad they didn't leave G out of
the alphabet.'  That's all."
"But I'm his slave now.  Nobody cared whether there was a G or not
before.  It isn't pleasant to feel you're a mere cypher, with no
particular meaning to any one; just shot in haphazard to fill up a
blank - a mere creature, useful to teach exercises and scales to odious
children one only longs to slap.
"Fancy being expected to keep yourself alive in a dingy little flat,
for ever alone, just to do that!"  The cups rattled more restively
still.  "I say, the universe is the grimmest jester there ever was.  Me
to teach music to keep life in a body that doesn't want it!  If I'd
been employed laying out corpses in their grave-clothes there'd have
been some sense in it.  I'm not much more that a figurehead of an old
hulk myself.  But music!... music!...  Oh Lord, and I haven't one real
note of it in my whole composition."

Hal seated herself on the table.  With her quick intuition she
perceived at once entertainment of an original kind was before her, and
she promptly laid herself out to obtain all she could.

"Why do you teach music?  I don't think you do quite suggest a
musician?"

"Of course I don't."

The gaunt spinster was cutting some bread-and-butter now with a savage
air.

"Do I suggest anything, except perhaps a butcher or an undertaker?  Yet
I can only keep myself alive with music.  That's the jest of the Arch
Humorist.  My father was a clergyman.  He droned out services for fifty
years in a hamlet, with a little square church like a wooden money-box.
 I was taught music so that I could - well - make the tin-pot organ
groan, I used to call it.  I had twenty-five years of that, with never
a break.  I got so that, to keep myself from turning into a stone
gargoyle on the organ seat, I must have my little jest too.
"One way I had it was by making the organ groan dismallest at weddings
and christenings, and squeak hilariously at funerals.  Father never
noticed, he'd already turned gargoyle, you see, and as for the village
people! well, it suited them, because they always wept at weddings, and
overate themselves at funerals."

"And then?..."  Hal was so thoroughly enjoying herself now, she had
almost forgotten the invalid.

"Well, then the gargoyle died, or ran down, or something.  I should
think he got tired of sing-song the tender mercies of God to the devout
people, and His judgments on the wicked.  It always seemed to me the
good folks got the nastiest knocks; and the wicked, well, they fairly
left the green bay tree behind.
"Anyhow, I'd been devout enough, as far as sinning goes, for forty
years.  I wasn't even blessed with the chance to be anything else.
Then a new parson came, an underdone young man with new fal-da-dal
ideas.  I wonder how soon _he'd_ become a gargoyle?  'No Sir, No
Sir, Marse,' and he rid on, leaving us behind in de dust."
=Source:= Interview with Gus Feaster (C-97), ex-slave, living at 20 Stutz
Ave., Union, S.C.; interviewer - Caldwell Sims, Union, South
Carolina.

Project #-1655 Phoebe Faucette Hampton County
Approx. 388 words
ANN FERGUSON EX-SLAVE 74 YEARS

"Aunt Annie" sat in the sun of a fall afternoon on the steps of her house
across from the Baptist Church at Estill, S.C. Her short, stout form
and her kind, deeply wrinkled face beneath her white cap, were, as
always, a pleasingly familiar sight.

"I'se sure you'se come, Missus. I'se been jes' asittin' here awaitin'
for somebody to come.

I'm gittin' on in years now. Been right here for fourteen years. I was
sick last night. Suffers wid high blood, yes'm.

"Could I tell you 'bout de times before de war? Well ma'am, I was jes'
a baby den; so I cain't to say know 'bout it for meself, but I knows
what me mother told me 'bout it.

"My mother was at Old Allendale when de Yankees come through. She was
in de kitchen at de time. I was quite small. 'Round two years old--now
how old dat make me, Miss? 74? Well, I knows I
is gittin' 'long. I remember dem talkin' 'bout it all. Dey searched
de house, and take out what dey want, den set de house afire. Ma,
she run out den an' whoop an' holler.
De lady of de house wuz dere, but de Massa had went off. De
place wuz dat of Dr. Bucknor. My mother been belong to de Bucknors.
After dat, dey moved to de old home place of de Bucknors down here at
Robertville. Dey had two places. Dey jes' had to start farming all
over again. We lived dere a good bit after freedom, ma say. My mother
stay wid 'em for about three years after freedom.

"Fore freedom my mother used to go to de white folks church--white and
black used to worship together den. She jined at de old Cypress
Creek Baptist Church at Robertville. A white preacher baptized
her dere. De old church is dere at Robertville now. After freedom de
colored folks had dey own churches.

"Dey tell me dat in slav'ry time, some of de overseers treat 'em
mighty mean.

Some of 'em work 'em in de day, 'en in de night, weaving.

Now some of 'em treat 'em good; but some of 'em treat 'em mean. Dey have
to run away into de bay.

"Do I know of anybody what sees ghosts?

Yes'm, dere's a lady over dere what say she always see a ghost come and
whip a woman dat asittin' on de steps. Sometime she say she goin'
to report it to de police, but I ain't never seen none, 'ceptin' in
my dreams.

"I sure is glad you come, Missus.

I been jes' awaitin' for somebody."

=Source:= Ann Ferguson, ex-slave 74 years, Estill, S.C.

Project, 1885-(1) Prepared by Annie Ruth Davis Place, Marion,
S.C.
Date, September 21, 1937
AARON-FORD, EX-SLAVE
"I was born bout two miles bove Lake View on Zonia Rogers place.

Boys used to tell me I was born on Buck Branch.

Think I was born de 12th. day of February cause I was bout 16 years
old when freedom come. Another person born de same day en de same year
en I might look on dey tombstone en get de date."

"Miles Ford was my father en my mother, Jennie Ford, but dey didn' live
on de same place.

Father belonged to Alias Ford at Lake View en mother come from Timmonsville
what used to be called Sparrow Swamp. Railroad run through dere change
name from Sparrow Swamp to Timmonsville."
"Just like I tell you, Zonia Rogers was my boss en he wasn' so bad.

He whip me a few times when I did things dat I oughtened to do. Sometimes
I was pesty en he whip me wid a switch, but he never whip
so hard. I tell de truth, Zonia Rogers was a good man. Give his slaves
good pole houses
to live in up in de quarter. Never had but five slaves to start
wid en dat de reason he just had two slave house in de quarter. Sometimes
dey slept on de floor en den another time, some had homemade bedstead
wid de framework made out of black gum."
"We had meat en corn
bread to eat all de time en dey gave us fried meat en rye bread en flour
bread to eat every now en den.

Made rye bread in time of de war, but didn' get much flour bread to eat.
Massa would weigh meat out on his hand.

If anybody wanted meat, he hand it to dem on his hand en say, 'Here
it is.'

Den some of de slaves had gardens dat dey work at 12 o'clock en at night.
Never was much to catch possums, but was great hand to catch rabbits.
Boss had dog name Trip dat he wouldn' have taken $200.00 for.

If I had him now, I wouldn' take $200.00 for him neither cause dat
dog would stay at a tree all night.

See him stay dere from early in de day till dark."
"Slaves wore one piece garment in de summer en used thick woolen garment
in de winter. When I got large, had wrapper en little breeches to
wear.
Sometimes de clothes was all wool en sometimes dey was just half
wool.

Yes, sir, I know all bout how de cloth was made
in dat day en time.
Three treadle made dis here jeanes cloth dat was for de nigger
clothes en white people wore four treadle cloth.

Had Sunday clothes in slavery time, too, en made de shoes right dere
home. Tanned de leather en made shoes called nigger brogans dat dey
used in de turpentine woods. Dese here low quarters. I married
in 1873. Just had common clothes when I was married."
"I remember my grandfather all right.

He de one told me how to catch otters. Told me how
to set traps. Heard my grandfather tell bout whippin slaves for stealin.
Grandfather told me not to take things dat were not mine. If a pile of
corn was left at night, I was told not to bother it.
In breakin corn, sometimes people would make a pile of corn in de grass
en leave it en den come back en get it in de night. Grandfather
told me not to never bother nothin bout people's things."
"De first work
dat I remember bout doin in slavery time, I hold mules for my boss.

Drove wagon for Mr. Rogers.

If people wanted any haulin done, he told me to help dem en collect
for it. He never wouldn' ax any questions bout what I collected
for de haulin. Just let me have dat money.

I remember I bought cloth dat cost 12-1/2 cents a yard wid de first
money I get. Den I bought a girl 10 cents worth of candy en sent
it to her. Hear she stamped it in de ground wid her foot. Girl never
even mentioned it to me en I ain' never bothered wid her again.

Dis girl en me bout de same age."
"Don' remember much bout my first Missus only dat she had a bump on her
neck.

Second Missus was good to me en just like I tell you, Zonia Rogers was
a good man. He hired white men to plow, but he never put nobody ahead
of me no time. I take dogs en slip out in de woods en hunt rabbits.

White man tell on me en my boss ain' never said nothin bout dis to me
yet. Never had no overseer en no driver whe' I stay."
"Oh, dere was bout two or three hundred acres in de Rogers place.
Slaves worked from daylight till dark in de winter time. Always be
up fore day cause my boss generally called de slaves fore
day. Hear him say, 'Rob, come, come. Aaron, come, come.' We didn' work
hard though.

Didn' work in hot sun in June, July en August cause in slavery time
dey allow us to take out at 10 or 11 o'clock en go swimmin.

Den we had to be back in de field bout three o'clock. Had plenty poor
white neighbors bout dere en boss hire me to man like dat one time.
Poor man give bout 1-1/2 hours for noon whe' I get two hours back home
en I never go back de next day.
Boss say, 'Why don' you go back to work?'

I tell him dat fellow wouldn' give me long enough time for noon. My
boss wouldn' force me to go back when I tell him dat."
"I see one or two slaves whipped in slavery time, but I didn' see
anybody whipped bad.

If a slave on one place was accused of takin a thing on another place,
dey have a trial bout it.

Justice might tell dem how many licks to give him en point man to do it.
I hear dat some been whipped way off till dey died, but old man
Everett Nichols wouldn' never whip his slaves.

He had son dat whipped some rough darkies dat he got off another place
cause old man Nichols wouldn' want strange darkies to marry girls
on his place.

I hear way up de country dat dey whipped dem till dey died right dere."

"Dey had jails in slavery time at Marion for de slaves. If dey caught
slaves dat had run away, dey would put dem in jail till dey Massa sent
after dem. Sometimes dey would hold dem en sell dem for debt.

Dey tell me some put on stand en sold dere at Marion, but I never saw any
sold.

Just hear bout dat, but I remembers I saw dis. Saw six men tied
together wid a chain one Saturday evenin dat was comin from
Virginia en gwine to Texas."

"Some people helped de slaves to read en write en some of dem didn'.
Boy learnt one of my uncles to read, but didn' want him to write.
People learn to spell in dem times better den dey do now. Some of de
slaves could read de Bible en den others of dem could write
dese pass dat dey had to get from dey Massa fore dey could go from one
plantation to another. I recollects my mother's father could write
a pass."

"Dere wasn' no church on de plantation whe' I stay. Had preachin in
Mr.
Ford's yard sometimes en den another time de slaves went to white
people's church at Bear Swamp.

Boss tell slaves to go to meetin cause he say he pay de preacher.

Dean Ears, white man, gave out speech to de slaves one day dere to
Nichols. Slaves sat in gallery when dey go dere.
He tell dem to obey dey Massa en Missus. Den he say, 'God got a
clean kitchen to put you in.

You think you gwine be free, but you ain' gwine be free long as dere
an ash in Ashpole Swamp.' White folks complain bout de slaves
gettin two sermons en dey get one. After dat, dey tell old slaves not
to come to church till after de white folks had left. Dat never happen
till after de war was over."

"I sho remember when freedom come here. Remember when my boss told
me I was free.

My father come dere en say he wanted his boys.
Boss called, 'Aaron, come here, your daddy
wants you. I want you to go.' He told me
not to go till de news came though.

Please me, I felt like a new man."
"I hate to speak what I think bout slavery.

Think it a pity de slaves freed cause I know I'm worried more now den
in slavery time. Dere got to be a change made. People got to turn. I
belong to de Methodist Church en I think everybody ought to belong to
de church. God built de church for de people en dey ought to go
dere en be up en doin in de church.

Dat dey duty."
=Source:= Aaron Ford, Ex-Slave, Age 80-90, (No other information
given by interviewer.)

Personal interview by H. Grady Davis, June, 1937.

Project 1885 -1- District #4 Spartanburg, S.C.

May 28, 1937

FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES
Six miles east of Spartanburg on R.F.D.

No. 2, the writer found Aunt Charlotte Foster, a colored woman who said
she was 98 years old.

Her mother was Mary Johnson and her father's name was John Johnson. She
is living with her oldest daughter, whose husband is John
Montgomery.

She stated she knew all about slavery times, that she and her mother
belonged to William Beavers who had a plantation right on the main
road from Spartanburg to Union, that the farm was near Big Brown
Creek, but she didn't know what larger stream the creek flowed into.

Her father lived on another place somewhere near Limestone. She and
her mother were hands on the farm and did all kinds of hard work.

She used to plow, hoe, dig and do anything the men did on the plantation.
"I worked in the hot sun."

Every now and then she would get a sick headache and tell her master she
had it; then he would tell her to go sit down awhile and rest until
it got better.

She had a good master; he was a Christian if there ever was one. He had
a wife that was fussy and mean. "I didn't call her Mistus, I called
her Minnie."

But, she quickly added, "Master was good to her, just as kind and
gentle like."

When asked what was the matter with the wife, she just shook her head
and did not reply. Asked if she had rather live now or during slavery
times, she replied that if her master was living she would be
willing to go back and live with him.

"Every Sunday he would call us chilluns by name, would sit down and
read the Bible to us; then he would pray.

If that man ain't in the Kingdom, then nobody's there."
She said her master never whipped any of the slaves, but she had heard
cries and groans coming from other plantations at five o'clock in the
morning where the slaves were being beaten and whipped.

Asked why the slaves were being beaten, she replied rather vehemently,
"Just because they wanted to beat 'em; they could do it, and they
did." She said she had seen the blood running down the backs of
some slaves after they had been beaten.

One day a girl about 16 years of age came to her house and said she'd
just as leave be dead as to take the beatings her master gave her,
so one day she did go into the woods and eat some poison oak.

"She died, too."
On one plantation she saw an old woman who used to get so many beatings
that they put a frame work around her body and ran it up into a
kind of steeple and placed a bell in the steeple.

"Dat woman had to go around with that bell ringing all the time."
"I got plenty to eat in dem days, got just what the white folks ate.
One day Master killed a deer, brung it in the house, and gave me
some of the meat.

There was plenty of deer den, plenty of wild turkeys, and wild hogs.
Master told me whenever I seed a deer to holler and he would kill it."

When slaves were freed her mother moved right away to her father's
place, but she said the two sons of her master would not give her
mother anything to eat then.

"Master was willing, but dem boys would not give us anything to live on,
not even a little meal."
"After the Civil War was over and the Yankee soldiers came to our place,
dey just took what they wanted to eat, went into de stable and
leave their poor, broken-down horses and would ride off with a good
horse.
They didn't hurt anybody, but just stole all they wanted."
One day she said her master pointed out Abe Lincoln to her. A long
line of cavalry rode down the road and presently there came Abe Lincoln
riding a horse, right behind them.

She didn't have much to say about Jeff Davis, except she heard the
grown people talking about him.

"Booker Washington? Well, he was all right trying to help the colored
people and educate them. But he strutted around and didn't do much.

People ought to learn to read the Bible, but if you educate people too
high it make a fool out of them. They won't work when they gets an
education, just learns how to get out of work, learns how to steal
enough to keep alive.
They are not taught how to work, how do you expect them to work
when they ain't taught to work?

Well, I guess I would steal too before I starved to death, but I
ain't had to steal yet. No man can say he ever gave me a dollar but what
I didn't earn myself. I was taught to work and I taught my chilluns to
work, but this present crowd of niggers! They won't do."
She stated her mother had twelve children and the log house they
lived in was weatherboarded; it was much warmer in such a house
during cold weather than the houses are now.

"Every crack was chinked up with mud and we had lots of wood." Her mother
made all their beds, and had four double beds sitting in the room.
She made the ticking first and placed the straw in the mattresses.
"They beat the beds you can get now. These men make half beds, den
sell 'em to you, but dey ain't no good. Dey don't know how to make
'em."
Aunt Charlotte said she remembered when the stars fell. "That was
something awful to see. Dey just fell in every direction. Master
said to wake the chilluns up and let 'em see it. Everybody thought
the world was coming to an end. We went out on de front porch to
look at the sight; we'd get scared and go back into de house, den
come out again to see the sight. It was something awful, but I sure
saw it." (Records show that the great falling of stars happened in
the year 1833, so Aunt Charlotte must be older than she claims, if
she saw this eventful sight.So, a dauntless belief in the sunshine to come, without a ray to
promise it, may make for greater perfectness through steadfast courage
than had one beam crept through to lessen the need for effort and for
strong enduring.

Yet it was strange that the grim hand of destiny should strike at so
many in that little world at the same time, and that its blows should
be of that intimate nature which allows of no speech, even to one's
dearest friend.

Lorraine knew that the rumour of Sir Edwin Crathie's engagement was an
admitted fact; but she did not know how hard it hit Hal.  She could
only have learnt by accident, and, because of events in her own life,
she was out of the line of such a discovery.

Hal knew that Lorraine, after a nervous breakdown, had gone somewhere
into the country for a week or so, and that Alymer Hermon had run down
later to see how she was getting on, and if he could do anything for
her, but of the almost tragic circumstances that led up to his action
she knew nothing, and imagined the merest generous attention.

She saw also the preoccupied, aged look growing on Dudley's face, and
knew that the shadow was over him too.

Ethel saw the change creeping over Basil as no one else saw it, and
knew that not even the far future could shed a single gleam for her
upon the darkness coming.

Yet - for life is oversad to dwell upon rayless darkness even in books
- bright, enduring, beautiful sunshine was wrapped up in those black
clouds to flood the little world with joy at the appointed hour.

It was Lorraine's life that events moved first.  After Hal left her,
she spent a wretched, restless, brain-racking afternoon, and was only
just able to struggle through her part at night.

And afterwards she became suddenly sickened with the need to struggle.
She was not extravagant by nature, and had saved enough money from her
enormous salaries to liver very comfortably if she chose.

A nausea of the theatrical world and its incessant demands began to
obsess her.  She felt that from the first day she stood in a manager's
office, seeking the chance to start, it had given her everything except
happiness.

Money, success, position, jewels, fine clothes, admirers, friends,
adventures, gaieties - all these had come, if by slow degrees, but not
one single gift had contained the kernel of happiness.

Perhaps it was her own fault.  Perhaps the trouble lay in the wrong
start she had made and never been able to retrieve.  But at least there
was time to try another plan yet.

Finally, feeling the nerve strain of recent events was seriously
affecting her health, she decided to arrange a week's holiday to think
the matter out.

But then what of Alymer?

Nothing had changed her mood since his uncle paid his ill-chosen visit.
 She did not actually intend to try to influence Alymer against his
people, but she did intend that he should not change to her, nor pass
out of her life, if she could help it.

Because she, and she alone, had started him off on his promising
career, she meant to be there to watch it for some time to come.  Her
influence might not any longer be actually needed.  The devine fire to
achieve had already lit into a steady flame in his soul, and her
presence would make very little difference in future.  He had tasted
the sweets of success, and ambition would not let him reject all that
the future might hold.

But she must be there to see.  In her lonely life he meant everything
now.  There was no need for him to think of marriage for years yet; and
in the meantime she felt her claim upon him was as strong as any
mother's fears.

So she waited for his next visit, wondering much what would transpire
if he had heard of his uncle's call.

As it happened, he had.  In the interview he had sought with his aunt,
to request her not to interfere in his affairs, the indignant lady
hurled at him the story of the visit; or such garbled account of it as
she had received from the participator himself.

That was quite enough for Alymer - that and Hal's account of Lorraine
in tears.  He felt that his benefactress, his great friend, had been
abominably insulted, and he hastened in all the warmth of his ardour to
her side.

Lorraine was waiting for him in her low, favourite chair,  and when he
first saw her he could not suppress an exclamation to see how frail she
seemed suddenly to have grown.

Her skin of ivory whiteness, enhanced by the tinge of colour in her
cheeks, and there were shadows round her eyes placed there by no
cosmetic art.

All that was most chivalrous, most protective, most affectionate in his
nature rose uppermost, and shone in his face as he said:

"Lorraine, it is too feeble just to say I am sorry.  I heve been
cursing the blunder with all my heart ever since I knew."

"Thas was dear of you," she said; "but of course I knew that you would."

"I hoped so.  I told myself over and over, you must know it had all
happened without my knowledge."

Lorraine had no mind to make light of the matter.  She felt she would
hold him better by simply leaving it alone, and letting his own
feelings work on her side.

She knew of course that his uncle had probably tried to injure her
case; but then, Alymer was a man of the world, and she trusted him,
knowing what he must about his uncle, to judge her kindly.

But all this seemed to fade into nothingness when she saw the distress
and the affection in his eyes - the anger that any one had dared to
hurt her, and the eager wish to make amends.  It made all her
smouldering love leap up into flame, and the strength of the suddenly
roused passion almost frightened her.  She felt there was desperation
in it, the desperation of the drowning man who catches at a straw, of
the condemned man  who seizes a last joy.

Quite unexpectedly a reckless, surging desire began to take possession
of her soul.  She had lost so much already; been hit so many times;
missed so many things.

A picture came back to her, with a new allurement.  The picture of
herself with a little one of her own, floating down the peacefully
flowing river to some quiet haven, far removed from the glare of the
footlights.  Should she make a bold bid to win that much from the years
that were left?

She sat quiet, looking into the heart of the fire while the thoughts
coursed through her brain, and her long lashes hid from the man above
her the glowing dreamlights in her eyes.

Then he too pulled up a low chair and sat down, so that his head was
more nearly on a level with hers, and still his eyes looked at her with
that regretful, protecting expression.

"You must go away, Lorry," he said, using Hal's pet name; "you are
beginning to look thoroughly ill."

"I don't feel well, but I haven't the heart to go alone.  I should only
get melancholia."

"Hal seemed to think I ought to offer you a little companionship."  He
said it with a slightly bashful air.

"Hal?..." in a sharp, questioning voice.  "What has Hal been saying to
you?"

"Not much.  She was in great form at the Bruces' last night.  She
rubbed it  into me finely on various subjects, and finally went off
with her head in the air to find some one refreshingly ugly who could
talk sense."

They both laughed, but Lorraine's eyes were thoughtful.

"And what did she say about your companionship?"

"Oh, that it was only some one to talk to and be company you wanted if
you went away, and that I seemed to fill the post better than any one
just now."  He paused, then added: "Do I?"

She felt him looking hard into her face, and kept her eyes lowered.
She did not want him to know that the thought of his companionship in
the country was like the straw to the drowning man - the last joy to
the condemned one.

"You always make me forget the years, and feel young," she said slowly
and thoughtfully, "and I dare say that is a very good tonic in itself."

"You oughtn't to need help from any one for that"; and she knew there
was genuine admiration in his voice.  "You never look anything but
young.  I suppose it is temperament."

"Temperatment doesn't erase lines," with a little sad smile.

"Perhaps not, but it makes them, in some way, suit you; and they add to
the character in a face."

"It is sweet of you to say so, Alymer, but it sounds a fairy tale.  I
don't so very much mind growing old, if only it were not so...
empty-handed."

"But surely you have so much!"

"Not very much that counts.  Anyhow, I hope some day you will have a
great deal more."

"You are depressed.  You must really get away somewhere at once."

He was grandfatherly now, the mood she always loved and laughed at, and
her pulses quickened to it.  He placed one of his large, strong-looking
hand over hers - it covered them both out of sight - and he leanded a
little nearer as he said:

"I can see I shall have to take the ordering of it all.  You have done
worlds for me.  Now I shall have to take you in hand."

A harsh expression crossed her face for a moment, thiking of what his
mother had written her.

"And go straight to perdition!" she said bitterly.

He winced a little.

"I'm sure you wouldn't want me to make excuses for my own mother," he
remarked, with the quiet dignity that was aldready winning his name in
the Law Courts, side by side with his gift for light satire.  "You
cannot but know in your heart just how far removed her outlook on the
world is from ours."

She wanted to ask him if any outlook gave one woman the right to insult
another at her pleasure, but she remembered Mrs. Hermon probably dit
not realise that she would have the fineness to see the insult, and was
not even aware that she had been insulting.

"I should like you to know my father," he went on.  "He is a very
understanding man."

"But surely he..."

"No; he knew nothing about it.  When my mother spoke to him he asked
her not to interfere."

"Ah!"

For a few swift moments the generous treatment called to her own
generosity, and for the sake of the understanding father she was almost
ready to let go the straw.  Only then again came the recollection of
the uncle, and his impudent offer to substitute himself, and make
amends at the same time; and again the smouldering fires leaped up, fed
by the strong, protecting touch of the hand upon hers.

"I think Hal was right," Alymer was saying.  "If my companionship, just
to run down and see how you are, wherever you may be, will help to
cheer you up and amuse you, there is no reason why I shouldn't manage
it."

She knew he was making a concession of which he was half-afraid,
because of what he owed her, and while one half of her longed to be
self-sacrificing and release him, the other half fiercely demanded the
straw that yet might save.  And still she said nothing, gazing, gazing,
into the flames.

"What do you think?" he asked.

"I hardly know," with a tired smile.  "Of course I want you, but if -"

"Never mind the 'if'," cheerfully.  "If I promise to run down and see
you, will you go away at once, and try to get well again quickly?"

"It would make a lot of difference."

"Then that settles it.  Can you start to-morrow?"

"I think I could."

Her pulses were leaping fitfull now - leaping and bounding with a swift
delight.  Perhaps he felt it, for he withdrew his hand, and gave
himself a little shake, as if warding off something dangerous.

"Where will you go?" in a matter-of-fact voice.

"I hardly know, but I like the sea.  Any little place that is warm in
the spring.  I might as well motor down, so it doesn't matter about
trains, and the motor can come back for you."

"Shall I bring any one else?" his eyes searched her face.

"Just as you like."  She leant forward and casually stirred the fire.
"Anyhow, there is sure to be plenty of room at this time of year."

"Plenty of room, but not plenty of available companion chaperones,"
with a little laugh.

"Then we should have to make Sydney serve," naming her chauffeur.  She
got up form her seat.

"I suppose I must think about dinner," glancing at the clock.  "Are you
joining me this evening?"

"I can't; I have to go to Morrison's."

"How gay you are!"

"It is diplomatic.  Morrison could get me a brief to-morrow if he
liked."

"There is a very pretty daughter, just out; isn't there?"

"Yes."

"And is she so strikingly lovely?"

"I suppose she is; but she is so full of airs and graces she irritates
one almost past endurance."

"I'm afraid you are a severe critic.  The way is made too smooth for
you."

She had moved near to him again, and stood beside him with one hand
resting lightly on the mantelpiece, and one foot on the fender.  He was
standing as usual with his back to the fire.  He looked down into her
upturned face, fascinating now from a touch of roguishness.

"The splendid knight is hard to please; mere beauty is too commonplace."

"Isn't it sure to be?" a little smile played round his lips as he made
his gallant retort.  "How can mere beauty ever appeal to me, who have
been accustomed to all you have besides?"

"Ah,  flatterer!..." she said softly, and smiled into the fire.

There was a tense moment in which he longed to bend down and kiss her
as he had done when the room was full of violets, but instead he pulled
himself up sharply and moved away.

"Well, I must be off.  Perhaps to-night I shall have the luck to be
able to look at her from a distance, and not strike the jarring note.
I'll try to come in to-morrow to see what you have decided, and then
I'll run down on Friday afternoon for a long week-end, to see that you
are taking decent care of yourself."  As an afterthought he added: "I
suppose Hal couldn't get off?"

"I'll ask her if you like.  She would love it, if she could."

"And keep us amused too.  I should get my head bitten off, but you
could put it on again for me.  Good-bye.  Anyhow, it is a promise that
you will go"; and with rather a hurried farewell, he was gone.

Lorraine remained some moments gazing into the fire, and there was a
softness in her eyes.  She knew perfectly well that he had hurried at
the last moment because when they stood together on the hearth he had
wanted to kiss her.

And she could not help comparing his strength in refraining with what
would have been the action of most of the men she had known, who would
have professed more, and meant less.  She leaned her head down on her
hand, and wondered a little pitifully:

"Why had the best she had ever known come to her too late?"

And then followed the dangerous thought: "Is it indeed too late?"


CHAPTER XXXV


Lorraine was not able to see Hal, but she talked to her on the
telephone, and told her she was going into the country at once, and
Alymer was coming down for the week-end.  "We wondered if you could get
off too.  Do try," she said.

Hal answered at once that she could not manage it this week, but
possibly the next, if Lorraine were still away.

"I've only arranged for a week's holiday," Lorr	aine replied.  "What a
nuisance you should be unable to come this week."

As a matter of fact, Hal was only going out for the day with her cousin
on Sunday, but an urgent little note from Sir Edwin had begged her to
keep Saturday free for him;  and because the suspense was becoming
unendurable, she granted his request, determined to know the truth.

So it happened that Lorraine motored down alone to a quaint little
fishing-village on the south coast, where there was a charming,
old-fashioned, creeper-decked hotel, too far from the railway for the
ordinary week-end tourists, and patronised mainly by motorists in the
summer.

And on Friday the motor went back to town to fetch Alymer, bringing him
down about four o'clock, unaccompanied.

"So Sydney will have to be chaperone after all," Lorraine said lightly.
 "Now, what should you like to do to-morrow?"

"Is there any chance of fishing?"

He asked the question with some diffidence, fearing that it might only
bore her.

Lorraine clapped her hands.

"Exactly what I thought.  We're going to have the jolliest little
fishing-smack imaginable for the whole day; and Sunday too, if you
like; and take our lunch with us, and fish until we are tired."

A glad light leapt to Alymer's eyes.

"By gad!  You are a trump," he said.

In the meantime Hal waited a little feverishly for Saturday.  They were
to have one of their long outings.  Meet at twelve, motor for two
hours, lunch at two, then a walk; back to town to dine, without
changing, in some grill room.

Sir Edwin had mapped it all out beforehand, sitting at his desk, with
an anxious, unhappy expression, unrelieved by the evidences all around
him of what he had achieved - of the proud position that was his.
Indeed he almost wished he could will it all away, and be just an
independent, moderately successful solicitor, able to please himself in
all things; instead of bound by the demands of party and position.

And those demands just now were very exacting.  It was not an easy
party to serve, and the less so in that its ranks numbered many
soldiers of fortune of the swah-buckler type, who meant to hold the
power they had attained partly on the exploitation of a lie, by fair
means or otherwise; even if necessary by further lies - lies upon lies
- but clever, carefully manipulated ones; not bald, childish, outspoken
ones.

One of their most prominent office-holders had recently perpetrated a
lie of the latter type.  Such a barefaced, impudent, obvious lie, that
there was no possibility of covering it up, and the whole country
talked of it.  Music halls laughed at it, comic papers and comic songs
rang with it, election platforms bristled with it.

Naturally the party was very annoyed.  One could imagine them saying
indignantly to the offender: "Lie as much as you like, but for
goodness' sake have the common sense to lie cleverly.  If you can't do
that, better confine yourself to merely distorting facts."

The official in question held a post in the same department as Sir
Edwin - which meant that quite enough opprobrium had been recently
hurled at the Law without risk of any further scandal.

The party was not sufficiently strong for that.  They had fright enough
over a paragraph in the _Church Gazette_, hinting at a lady in
connection with one of their Ministers - where there should be no lady;
but prompt action had steered the ship through those shoals in safety.

But all the same, this business of The Right Honourable Sir Edwin
Crathie and the Stock Exchange had got to be attended to at once.
Under no possible consideration must it leak out that a Cabinet
Minister had been speculating so heavily, and lost to such an extent,
that nothing but an immense sum of money could save him from disgrace,
bankruptey, and ruin.

One friend and another had tided him over for some little time, but he
had continued to be reckless and incautious, relying with an unpleasant
sneer upon his title.

"Oh well!" had been his conclusion; "if the worst comes to the worst, I
can always sell my name to an heiress."

Finally, that unhappy condition had arrived.  It had further choses the
worst possible moment - the moment when the music halls and comic
papers were waxing hilarious over the badly executed lie.

Sir Edwin had been summoned to a consultation that had been the reverse
of pleasant.  The only thing was that the way of escape had been
thoughtfully  planned for him.  He had no need to hunt up the heiress
for himself.  She was considerately provided.

Miss Bootes' father was a wealthy Liberal, who had more than once
generously supplied funds to the party, in return for some small favour
he craved.  Now he wanted a celebrity, with a title, for his daughter.
Sir Edwin hardly came up to the required standard, but Mr. Bootes was
easily persuaded that there was absolutely no limit to his
possibilities, were he once set on his feet as far as money was
concerned.

The Prime Ministership, followed by a Peerage, were in his certain
grasp, had he but the necessary money to back him.

Papa Bootes said over an over to himself: "My daughter, Lady Elizabeth
Crathie" (it was really Eliza, but had been discreetly changed to suit
the fashion), and came to the conclusion that a Cabinet Minister for a
son-in-law sufficiently banished the odorous flavour patent manures had
given to his fortune.

Finally he inquired the amount of Sir Edwin's debts, and promised a
cheque if the delicate little matter were settled.

Hence the consultation, and the polite but firm intimation that Sir
Edwin must close with the offer - that he had not even the right to
choose ruin instead, because of its effect on the party.

And of course, now the crisis had come, Sir Edwin did not want to close
with the offer.  In his own mind he consigned the party, and all
belonging to it, to the very worst hell of Dante's Inferno.

But, beyond relieving his mind a little, their imaginary exodus did not
help him in the least.  He found himself in the very undesirable
position of furnishing a telling example of the utter impossibility of
serving two masters.

To do his common sense justice he had never had the least intention of
attempting to.  Without any prevarication as far as his own feelings
were concerned, he had quite honestly chosen to serve Mammon.  Having
decided thus far, he banished the very memory of any other possible
master.  He did not exist for him.  Mammon, in that it meant place, and
power, and money, was the only god he wanted to serve.

And now? -

Well, of course, the Little Girl must go.  At first he said it harshly,
shrugging his shoulders and pursing his lips.  It had only been a
pastime all through, and, thanks to her owon pluck and sense, it had
been one of those rare, delightful pastimes that, ended suddenly, might
leave only a gracious, enjoyable memory behind.  He was glad of that.

Somewhere in his heart, that was mostly impressionless india-rubber,
there had proved to be a healthy, flesh-and-blood spot after all.  She
had found it quickly - gone straight to it with the unerring directness
of a little child.  It existed still - would always exist for her.

But in future the india-rubber would have to close over it, and hide it
from all chance of discovery.  In future he must not even remember it
himself.  For that way lay weakness.  No serving of Mammon could be
achieved, whichever way he turned, with the frank, candid, clever
Little Girl.

And so she must go; and since it was inevitable, the sooner the better.

Then had come the afternoon's golf; and, without asking himself why, he
had hidden from her that there was any change.  Afterwards, because the
impending finale made him desire her as he had never desired her
before, he went into the pretty little sitting-room and kissed her.

When he hurriedly departed, he remembered only that the kiss had been
sweet.  Also that evidently no rumour had reached her yet.  But of
course it would.  Any moment of any day her newspaper office might get
the news and publish it.

He spent a wretched week, torn mercilessly by his desire to serve two
masters.  In the end, because he was a man who hated to be thwarted, he
swore a violent oath, and said that he would.

Then he sent Hal the urgent little note, and made his plans for the
day.  They all hinged largely upon his hope to get her to go to his
flat in Jermyn Street, after that grill-room dinner.  That was why when
they met he cleverly took the bull by the horns directly he saw in her
eyes that she had heard the news.  He appealed, with insight, to her
sense of humour.

"If you look at me like that," he said, "I shall punish you by sitting
down here, in St. James's Park, on the curbstone, and giving you an
explanation before all London that lasts an hour."

"I've a great mind to keep you to it," with her low, musical laugh,
"and send Peter to bring a phonograph man with a blank record to take
it down."

"And a dozen journalists with snap-shot cameras, and biograph
apparatus, to link us in notorious publicity to all eternity."

"No; I couldn't stand that.  What is your alternative?"

"A long, perfect day in this heavenly sunshine, pretending anything in
the world you like that will make us forget the stale, boresome, old
week-day world.  Then, at the end of it, the unfolding of a glorious
plan that is an explanation in itself."

Hal looked doubtful, and seemed to cogitate.  He waited in an anxiety
he could scarce conceal, watching her mobile,  sensitive face.  Finally
the sunshine and the light-hearted carelessness made the strongest
appeal, and she gave in.

"Very well.  If it had been dull and cloudy I would not have agreed.
But one daren't trifle with sunshine.  We'll take our fill of it while
it lasts."

So it happened that their last long day was one of the best they had
known - each being clever enough to carry out the suggested programme
and banish the following cloud for the time.

Hal was a little feverish - a little gayer than usual, with some hidden
strain; a little pathetically anxious to act an indifference she could
not possibly feel, concerning that rumour, and throw herself heart and
soul into their compact of forgetting everything for a little while
except the sunshine and the exhilarating dash through a spring-decked
England.

In some places the hedges were white with hawthorn; and in sheltered
nooks they sped past primroses, like pale stars in the grass.  There
were plantations of feathery, exquisite larch trees, their lovely green
enhanced by tall dark pines, standing among them like sentinels.  In
gay gardens joyous daffodils nodded and laughed to them as they whirled
past.  Sir Edwin ventured an appreciative remark.

"Don't talk," Hal said.  "Pretend you are in a worldwide cathedral, and
it is the great annual festival of spring."

"May I sing?" he asked humorously.

"No; not as you value your life.  We have only to listen to the choir.
Hush, don't you hear the birds singing the grand spring 'Te Deum'!"

But after a time she spoke herself.

Pan. What liquor? Fri. Wine.

Pan. What sort? Fri.

White.

Pan. In winter? Fri. Strong.

Pan. In the spring. Fri. Brisk.

Pan. In summer? Fri. Cool.

Pan. In autumn? Fri. New.

Buttock of a monk! cried Friar John; how plump these plaguy trulls, these
arch Semiquavering strumpets, must be! That damned cattle are so high
fed that they must needs be high-mettled, and ready to wince and
give two ups for one go-down when anyone offers to ride them below the
crupper.

Prithee, Friar John, quoth Panurge, hold thy prating tongue; stay till
I have done.

Till what time do the doxies sit up? Fri. Night.

Pan. When do they get up? Fri. Late.

Pan. May I ride on a horse that was foaled of an acorn, if this be not
as honest a cod as ever the ground went upon, and as grave as an old
gate-post into the bargain.

Would to the blessed St. Semiquaver, and the blessed worthy virgin
St. Semiquavera, he were lord chief president (justice) of Paris!
Ods-bodikins, how he'd despatch! With what expedition would he
bring disputes to an upshot!

What an abbreviator and clawer off of lawsuits, reconciler of differences,
examiner and fumbler of bags, peruser of bills, scribbler of rough
drafts, and engrosser of deeds would he not make! Well, friar, spare
your breath to cool your porridge.

Come, let's now talk with deliberation, fairly and softly, as lawyers go
to heaven.

Let's know how you victual the venereal camp. How is the snatchblatch?

Fri. Rough.

Pan.

How is the gateway? Fri. Free.

Pan. And how is it within? Fri. Deep.

Pan. I mean, what weather is it there? Fri.

Hot.

Pan. What shadows the brooks? Fri. Groves.

Pan.

Of what's the colour of the twigs? Fri. Red.

Pan. And that of the old? Fri. Grey.

Pan. How are you when you shake? Fri. Brisk.
 
Pan. How is their motion?

Fri. Quick.

Pan.

Would you have them vault or wriggle more? Fri. Less.

Pan. What kind of tools are yours? Fri. Big.

Pan. And in their helves? Fri. Round.

Pan.

Of what colour is the tip? Fri. Red.

Pan. When they've even used, how are they?

Fri.

Shrunk.

Pan. How much weighs each bag of tools? Fri. Pounds.

Pan. How hang your pouches?

Fri. Tight.

Pan. How are they when you've done? Fri. Lank.

Pan.

Now, by the oath you have taken, tell me, when you have a mind to cohabit,
how you throw 'em?

Fri. Down.

Pan. And what do they say then? Fri. Fie.

Pan.

However, like maids, they say nay, and take it; and speak the less,
but think the more, minding the work in hand; do they not?

Fri. True.

Pan. Do they get you bairns? Fri. None.

Pan. How do you pig together? Fri. Bare.

Pan. Remember you're upon your oath, and tell me justly and bona fide
how many times a day you monk it? Fri. Six.

Pan. How many bouts a-nights? Fri. Ten.

Catso, quoth Friar John, the poor fornicating brother is bashful, and
sticks at sixteen, as if that were his stint.

Right, quoth Panurge, but couldst thou keep pace with him, Friar John,
my dainty cod? May the devil's dam suck my teat if he does not look as
if he had got a blow over the nose with a Naples cowl-staff.

Pan. Pray, Friar Shakewell, does your whole fraternity quaver and shake
at that rate? Fri. All.

Pan. Who of them is the best cock o' the game? Fri. I.

Pan. Do you never commit dry-bobs or flashes in the pan? Fri. None.

Pan. I blush like any black dog, and could be as testy as an old cook
when I think on all this; it passes my understanding. But, pray,
when you have been pumped dry one day, what have you got the next? Fri.
More.

Pan. By Priapus, they have the Indian herb of which Theophrastus
spoke, or I'm much out.

But, hearkee me, thou man of brevity, should some impediment, honestly
or otherwise, impair your talents and cause your benevolence to
lessen, how would it fare with you, then?

Fri. Ill.
 

Pan. What would the wenches do? Fri. Rail.

Pan. What if you skipped, and let 'em fast a whole day? Fri. Worse.

Pan. What do you give 'em then? Fri. Thwacks.

Pan.

What do they say to this? Fri. Bawl.

Pan. And what else? Fri. Curse.

Pan. How do you correct 'em? Fri. Hard.

Pan. What do you get out of 'em then? Fri. Blood.

Pan. How's their complexion then? Fri. Odd.

Pan. What do they mend it with? Fri. Paint.

Pan. Then what do they do? Fri. Fawn.

Pan. By the oath you have taken, tell me truly what time of the year
do you do it least in? Fri. Now (August.).

Pan. What season do you do it best in? Fri. March.

Pan.

How is your performance the rest of the year? Fri. Brisk.

Then quoth Panurge, sneering, Of all, and of all, commend me to Ball;
this is the friar of the world for my money.

You've heard how short, concise, and compendious he is in his answers.
Nothing is to be got out of him but monosyllables.

By jingo, I believe he would make three bites of a cherry.

Damn him, cried Friar John, that's as true as I am his uncle. The dog
yelps at another gate's rate when he is among his bitches; there
he is polysyllable enough, my life for yours.

You talk of making three bites of a cherry! God send fools more wit
and us more money!

May I be doomed to fast a whole day if I don't verily believe he would
not make above two bites of a shoulder of mutton and one swoop of a
whole pottle of wine.

Zoons, do but see how down o' the mouth the cur looks! He's nothing but
skin and bones; he has pissed his tallow.

Truly, truly, quoth Epistemon, this rascally monastical vermin all over
the world mind nothing but their gut, and are as ravenous as any
kites, and then, forsooth, they tell us they've nothing but food
and raiment in this world.

'Sdeath, what more have kings and princes?

Chapter 5.XXIX.

How Epistemon disliked the institution of Lent.

Pray did you observe, continued Epistemon, how this damned ill-favoured
Semiquaver mentioned March as the best month for caterwauling? True,
said Pantagruel; yet Lent and March always go together, and the first
was instituted to macerate and bring down our pampered flesh, to weaken
and subdue its lusts, to curb and assuage the venereal rage.

By this, said Epistemon, you may guess what kind of a pope it was who
first enjoined it to be kept, since this filthy wooden-shoed Semiquaver
owns that his spoon is never oftener nor deeper in the porringer
of lechery than in Lent.

Add to this the evident reasons given by all good and learned physicians,
affirming that throughout the whole year no food is eaten that can
prompt mankind to lascivious acts more than at that time.

As, for example, beans, peas, phasels, or long-peason, ciches,
onions, nuts, oysters, herrings, salt-meats, garum (a kind of
anchovy), and salads wholly made up of venereous herbs and fruits,
as--
Rocket, Parsley, Hop-buds, Nose-smart, Rampions, Figs, Taragon,
Poppy, Rice, Cresses, Celery, Raisins, and others.

It would not a little surprise you, said Pantagruel, should a man
tell you that the good pope who first ordered the keeping of Lent,
perceiving that at that time o' year the natural heat (from the
centre of the body, whither it was retired during the winter's cold)
diffuses itself, as the sap does in trees, through the circumference
of the members, did therefore in a manner prescribe that sort of
diet to forward the propagation of mankind.

What makes me think so, is that by the registers of christenings
at Touars it appears that more children are born in October and
November than in the other ten months of the year, and reckoning
backwards 'twill be easily found that they were all made, conceived,
and begotten in Lent.

I listen to you with both my ears, quoth Friar John, and that with no
small pleasure, I'll assure you.

But I must tell you that the vicar of Jambert ascribed this copious
prolification of the women, not to that sort of food that we chiefly eat
in Lent, but to the little licensed stooping mumpers, your little
booted Lent-preachers, your little draggle-tailed father confessors,
who during all that time of their reign damn all husbands that run
astray three fathom and a half below the very lowest pit of hell.

So the silly cod's-headed brothers of the noose dare not then stumble any
more at the truckle-bed, to the no small discomfort of their maids, and
are even forced, poor souls, to take up with their own bodily wives.

Dixi; I have done.

You may descant on the institution of Lent as much as you please,
cried Epistemon; so many men so many minds; but certainly all the
physicians will be against its being suppressed, though I think
that time is at hand.

I know they will, and have heard 'em say were it not for Lent their
art would soon fall into contempt, and they'd get nothing, for hardly
anybody would be sick.

All distempers are sowed in lent; 'tis the true seminary and native
bed of all diseases; nor does it only weaken and putrefy bodies,
but it also makes souls mad and uneasy.

For then the devils do their best, and drive a subtle trade, and the
tribe of canting dissemblers come out of their holes.
'Tis then term-time with your cucullated pieces of formality that
have one face to God and another to the devil; and a wretched clutter
they make with their sessions, stations, pardons, syntereses,
confessions, whippings, anathematizations, and much prayer with as
little devotion.

However, I'll not offer to infer from this that the Arimaspians are
better than we are in that point; yet I speak to the purpose.

Well, quoth Panurge to the Semiquaver friar, who happened to be by,
dear bumbasting, shaking, trilling, quavering cod, what thinkest
thou of this fellow? Is he a rank heretic?

Fri. Much.

Pan. Ought he not to be singed? Fri. Well.

Pan. As soon as may be? Fri. Right.

Pan. Should not he be scalded first? Fri. No.

Pan. How then, should he be roasted? Fri. Quick.

Pan. Till at last he be? Fri. Dead.

Pan. What has he made you? Fri. Mad.

Pan. What d'ye take him to be? Fri. Damned.

Pan. What place is he to go to? Fri. Hell.

Pan. But, first, how would you have 'em served here? Fri. Burnt.

Pan. Some have been served so? Fri. Store.

Pan. That were heretics? Fri. Less.

Pan. And the number of those that are to be warmed thus hereafter is?

Fri. Great.

Pan. How many of 'em do you intend to save? Fri. None.

Pan. So you'd have them burned? Fri. All.

I wonder, said Epistemon to Panurge, what pleasure you can find in talking
thus with this lousy tatterdemalion of a monk.

I vow, did I not know you well, I might be ready to think you had
no more wit in your head than he has in both his shoulders.

Come, come, scatter no words, returned Panurge; everyone as they
like, as the woman said when she kissed her cow.

I wish I might carry him to Gargantua; when I'm married he might be
my wife's fool.
And make you one, cried Epistemon. Well said, quoth Friar John. Now,
poor Panurge, take that along with thee, thou'rt e'en fitted; 'tis a
plain case thou'lt never escape wearing the bull's feather; thy wife
will be as common as the highway, that's certain.

Chapter 5.XXX.

How we came to the land of Satin.

Having pleased ourselves with observing that new order of Semiquaver
Friars, we set sail, and in three days our skipper made the finest
and most delightful island that ever was seen.

He called it the island of Frieze, for all the ways were of frieze.

In that island is the land of Satin, so celebrated by our
court pages.

Its trees and herbage never lose their leaves or flowers, and are
all damask and flowered velvet.

As for the beasts and birds, they are all of tapestry work. There we saw
many beasts, birds on trees, of the same colour, bigness, and shape of
those in our country; with this difference, however, that these did eat
nothing, and never sung or bit like ours; and we also saw there many
sorts of creatures which we never had seen before.

Among the rest, several elephants in various postures; twelve of which
were the six males and six females that were brought to Rome
by their governor in the time of Germanicus, Tiberius's nephew.
Some of them were learned elephants, some musicians, others
philosophers, dancers, and showers of tricks; and all sat down at table
in good order, silently eating and drinking like so many fathers
in a fratery-room.
With their snouts or proboscises, some two cubits long, they draw
up water for their own drinking, and take hold of palm leaves,
plums, and all manner of edibles, using them offensively or defensively
as we do our fists; with them tossing men high into the air in
fight, and making them burst with laughing when they come to the
ground.
They have joints (in their legs), whatever some men, who doubtless
never saw any but painted, may have written to the contrary. Between
their teeth they have two huge horns; thus Juba called 'em, and
Pausanias tells us they are not teeth, but horns; however, Philostratus
will have 'em to be teeth, and not horns. 'Tis all one to me,
provided you will be pleased to own them to be true ivory. These
are some three or four cubits long, and are fixed in the upper
jawbone, and consequently not in the lowermost. If you hearken to
those who will tell you to the contrary, you will find yourself
damnably mistaken, for that's a lie with a latchet; though 'twere
Aelian, that long-bow man, that told you so, never believe him, for
he lies as fast as a dog can trot. 'Twas in this very island that
Pliny, his brother tell-truth, had seen some elephants dance on the
rope with bells, and whip over the tables, presto, begone, while
people were at feasts, without so much as touching the toping topers
or the topers toping.
I saw a rhinoceros there, just such a one as Harry Clerberg had
formerly showed me. Methought it was not much unlike a certain boar
which I had formerly seen at Limoges, except the sharp horn on its
snout, that was about a cubit long; by the means of which that
animal dares encounter with an elephant, that is sometimes killed
with its point thrust into its belly, which is its most tender and
defenceless part.
I saw there two and thirty unicorns. They are a curst sort of
creatures, much resembling a fine horse, unless it be that their
heads are like a stag's, their feet like an elephant's, their tails
like a wild boar's, and out of each of their foreheads sprouts out
a sharp black horn, some six or seven feet long; commonly it dangles
down like a turkey-cock's comb. When a unicorn has a mind to fight,
or put it to any other use, what does it do but make it stand, and
then 'tis as straight as an arrow.
I saw one of them, which was attended with a throng of other wild
beasts, purify a fountain with its horn. With that Panurge told me
that his prancer, alias his nimble-wimble, was like the unicorn,
not altogether in length indeed, but in virtue and propriety; for
as the unicorn purified pools and fountains from filth and venom,
so that other animals came and drank securely there afterwards, in
the like manner others might water their nags, and dabble after him
without fear of shankers, carnosities, gonorrhoeas, buboes, crinkams,
and such other plagues caught by those who venture to quench their
amorous thirst in a common puddle; for with his nervous horn he
removed all the infection that might be lurking in some blind cranny
of the mephitic sweet-scented hole.
Well, quoth Friar John, when you are sped, that is, when you are
married, we will make a trial of this on thy spouse, merely for
charity sake, since you are pleased to give us so beneficial an
instruction.
Ay, ay, returned Panurge, and then immediately I'll give you a
pretty gentle aggregative pill of God, made up of two and twenty
kind stabs with a dagger, after the Caesarian way. Catso, cried
Friar John, I had rather take off a bumper of good cool wine.
I saw there the golden fleece formerly conquered by Jason, and can
assure you, on the word of an honest man, that those who have said
it was not a fleece but a golden pippin, because melon signifies
both an apple and a sheep, were utterly mistaken.
I saw also a chameleon, such as Aristotle describes it, and like
that which had been formerly shown me by Charles Maris, a famous
physician of the noble city of Lyons on the Rhone; and the said
chameleon lived on air just as the other did.
I saw three hydras, like those I had formerly seen. They are a kind
of serpent, with seven different heads.
I saw also fourteen phoenixes. I had read in many authors that there
was but one in the whole world in every century; but, if I may
presume to speak my mind, I declare that those who said this had
never seen any, unless it were in the land of Tapestry; though
'twere vouched by Claudian or Lactantius Firmianus.
I saw the skin of Apuleius's golden ass.
I saw three hundred and nine pelicans.
Item, six thousand and sixteen Seleucid birds marching in battalia,
and picking up straggling grasshoppers in cornfields.
Item, some cynamologi, argatiles, caprimulgi, thynnunculs, onocrotals,
or bitterns, with their wide swallows, stymphalides, harpies,
panthers, dorcasses, or bucks, cemades, cynocephalises, satyrs,
cartasans, tarands, uri, monopses, or bonasi, neades, steras,
marmosets, or monkeys, bugles, musimons, byturoses, ophyri,
screech-owls, goblins, fairies, and griffins.Those are my sentiments.  They have been for years.
When I want a thing, I go for it bald-headed, and take it."

He drew nearer boldly, refusing to be daunted, putting all his strength
and determination against hers.

"And I want you, Hal.  Do you understand?  Don't be a little fool.
Come."

She backed away from him towards the door.

"I understand well enough," she said quietly, "and I shall never see
you again if I can help it.  All that you say does not appeal to me in
the least.  I am not a politician - thank God - and I am still
old-fashioned enough to possess an ideal.  I am going now.  Good-bye."

But when he saw she was already in the little hall, a wave of fierce
desire seemed to catch him by the throat.

"Not yet," he exclaimed hoarsely: "Not yet...  I care and you care -
you cannot go yet -"

But before he reached her, she had slipped through the front door, and
shut it behind her, and run down the stairs out into the street.


CHAPTER XXXVII


All through the next day, while motoring with her cousin Dick Bruce,
Hal made a valiant effort to appear exactly as usual; but all the fresh
spring countryside now seemed to mock her with its sudden emptiness,
and the very engine of the motor throbbed out to her that something had
gone from her life which would not come back any more.

She chatted away to Dick manfully, about all manner of things, but in
the pauses of their chatter she was silent  and still in a manner quite
unlike her old self - reattending with a start, and sometimes so
distraite she did not hear when he spoke to her.

After a time Dick began to notice, and then purposely to watch, and
finally he perceived all her gaiety was forced, and sometimes was
weighing heavily on her mind.

It was useless to say anything while they motored, so he gave all his
attention to his driving, and purposely allowed the conversation to
drop.

When they returned to Bloomsbury he went in to supper with her, as was
his habit, and, as he hoped, Dudley was away up at Holloway.  It was
not until they had finished their meal, and the landlady had cleared
away, that he attacked the subject; then, with characteristic
directness, he said:

"Now, Hal, what's the matter?"

"The matter?..." in surprise.  "What can you mean, Dick?  Why should
anything be the matter?"

She tried to meet his eyes frankly, but before the searching inquiry in
them her gaze dropped to the fire.

"Something is the matter, Hal.  Just as if I shouldn't know."

She was thoughtful a moment or two, thinking how best to put hi off the
right scent; then with overpowering suddenness came the recollection of
all the pleasure and interest and delight the lost friendship had stood
for, and her eyes filled with tears.  It was useless to attempt to hide
them, so she contrived to say as steadily as possible:

"I am a bit down on my luck about something; but it's nothing to worry
about.  Don't take any notice; there's a dear boy.  I shall soon
forget."

"But why shouldn't I take any notice?  Don't be a goose, Hal.  Tell me
what's the matter."

She was silent, and after a pause he added:

"I suppose it is Sir Edwin?"

Hal felt it useless to prevaricate, and so she said, with assumed
lightness:

"Well, it has been a little sudden, and we had some jolly times
together."

"Then he is engaged?"

"Yes."

She told him briefly why.  Dick watched her with a question in his eyes.

"Did he deliberately get engaged to the other girl, knowing he cared
for you?" he asked.

Hal tried to lie.

"Oh, there was nothing of that sort between him and me.  We were just
good pals.  But of course it can't go on the same."

"You're not a clever liar, Hal," he said, with a little smile.

She coloured and bit her lip, with an uneasy laugh.  Then the tears
shone again.

"Better tell me about it.  Perhaps I can lend a hand to get through
with."

Hal placed her hands on the mantelshelf, and leaned her forehead down
on them.

"Tell me something funny, Dick, or I shall howl in a few seconds.
Don't be serious.  Be idiotic.  Have the carrots and turnips decided
which take precedence yet?  Is her ladyship, the onion, weeping upon
the cabbage's lordly bosom?  Are the babies talking philosophy over
their bottles?  For Heaven's sake, Dick, be idiotic, and make me laugh."

"I think it would do you more good to cry."

"Oh, no, no: I hate to cry.  Do help me not to."

But Dick understood the relief it was to a woman to have it out, and he
just sat down in Dudley's big arm chair, and reached the favourite
footstool for Hal.

"Sit on the stool of confessional, and I'll make you laugh later on.
If you don't cry now, you will when I've gone."

Hal sat on the footstool, and leaning against his knee, cried quietly
for several minutes.  He played with an unruly strand of hair until she
dried her eyes, and then said:

"When we were kids, you always told me when things went wrong with you.
 Tell me all about it now."

"I left off being a kid about a month ago.  I'm ancient history now";
and she tried to smile through her tears.

"Why?"

"Oh, just because - " and then her voice broke suddenly.

"I suppose Sir Edwin was in love with you?"

She did not reply.

"And he was obliged to marry the other woman for the money."

He was thoughtful for some moments, and then added:

"All the same, when a man like that goes so far as to love a woman,
which must be a pretty novel experience for him, he doesn't let her go
lightly.  He won't let you go lightly, Hal."

"I shall not see him again."

"Has it come to that already?"

"It had to.  There was no other course."

"It sounds rather sudden and drastic."  He watched her keenly.  "A man
like that would try to get both of you.  Did he try, Hal?"

The hot blood rushed to her face, and she turned her head away.

"Well, he would think it the obvious, sensible course, I suppose, and
perhaps a good many women would, too.  What did you think, Hal?"

"I didn't think.  I hurried away.  I shall not see him any more at all."

He looked at her with a light in his eyes.

"Bravo," he said; and there was a low thrill in his voice.  "He'll
think the world more of you, Hal."

"I'm not sure; anyhow, it doesn't help very much."

"Then you wanted to go."

She stared into the fire and was silent.

"I see," he said simply.  "You are one of the women who would have
dared, only...  of course I knew you wouldn't, Hal.  And, if you had, I
shouldn't have been the one to blame you."

"Yes," she told him, still staring at the fire.  "I could have dared
under some circumstance.  But not these.  Never under pretty, ignoble
ones.  I think that all makes it worse.  There were two Sir Edwins.
There was one I knew, and another the world knew.  It was the other
that triumphed.  Mine will never come back.  It is all finished."

She bowed her head down on her arms.

"Oh, Dick," she said.  "I shall miss him badly."

"But I'm glad you let him go, Hal."  He spoke in a quiet voice full of
feeling.  "Most men are pretty casual and indifferent nowadays, and we
often say we like a woman to be broad-minded, and daring, and all that;
but, by Jove! when we know she's straight as a die, without being a
prude, we're ready to kneel down to her.

"Stand to your guns, Hal.  I... I... want to go on knowing that you are
among those one wants to kneel down to.  If he is very persistent and
persevering, and it gets harder, I dare say I can help.  You can always
'phone me at a moment's notice, and I shall consider myself at your
beck and call."

"You are a dear, Dick, but I shall not see him.  He can only wait for
me at the office, and I shall go out the back way."

"Still, if you're rather lost there are lots of things we might to to
fill up the time.  I've been going down East with Quin lately.  It's
awfully interesting.  Especially with him - he's so splendid with the
most hopeless characters.  There's a sing-song at one of the clubs on
Wednesday eve.  Come down with us.  You'll see Quin at his very best."

"I'd love to come.  Will you fetch me?"

"I'll fetch you from the office, and we'll have a sort of meat-tea meal
at the Cheshire Cheese.  Perhaps Quin will join us."

So they sat on and talked in the firelight till it was time for Dick to
go; and all the time Hal was unconsciously drawing strength and
resolution from him for the fight that lay ahead of her.

Many years ago when she broke her dolls he had tried to mend them and
comfort her.  And now, because he was a simple, manly gentleman,
blessed with the precious gift of understanding - when she was feeling
heart-broken he tried with all the old, generous affection to help to
heal the wound, and bring her consolation.

And away on the southern shore, where a little fishing-village nestled
in the cliffs, and a creeper-covered hotel awaited sleepily the coming
of the summer and the summer visitors, Lorraine came to what she deemed
her hour - the one great hour left - and, as a drowning man, caught at
her straw.  Two long perfect days they had spent on the sea, with an
old fisherman, full of anecdote, and his young grandson to sail the
boat.

Then came the dreamy twilight hour, and their utter loneness; and
Alymer, with the strong, swift blood in his veins, and the strong lust
of life in his heart, lost himself, as she meant that he should, in the
intoxicating atmosphere of her charm and fascination.


CHAPTER XXXVIII


When Hal and her cousin emerged from the office the following Wednesday
evening, the first thing Hal saw was Sir Edwin's motor, and Sir Edwin
himself standing waiting for her.  A disengaged taxi was just moving
off, having deposited a fare, and instantly, without a word to Dick,
she sprang into it.  Dick gave a sharp glance round and followed her.

"Tell him where to go," she said.

He directed the chauffeur, and then looked anxiously into her face.
She had turned very pale, and seemed for the moment overcome.

"Sir Edwin's motor?" he asked, and she nodded.

"Shall I call for you every day?" he said at once.

"No.  He can't possibly see me if I go out the other way."  Then she
added: "He won't go on for long.  He was there yesterday, but he did
not see me; and after to-day I dare say he will give it up."

Finally she added, with an effort:

"I heard this morning the wedding is already fixed for June.  It's to
be one of the weddings of the season"; and her lips curled somewhat.

"I'm more sorry for her than for you, Hal," he said quietly.  "You've a
lot of splendid years before you yet.  Heaven only knows what's ahead
of her.  I doubt he'll not give her much beside his name for his share
of the bargain."

She made no comment, leaning back in her corner, white and tired.  It
was difficult to imagine anything ever being splendid again just then;
or any man ever seeming other than tame, after Sir Edwin's clever,
virile, interesting personality.

But Dick had judged wisely in suggesting the trip down East.  Anything
West would merely have recalled painful memories.  The East of London
was new to her, and could not fail to be interesting to any one with
Hal's love of her fellows.

They went to a large parish hall, where Quin was in charge for a social
evening of dancing and music.  Factory girls were there in all their
tawdry finery to dance; rough, boisterous youths mostly made fun of
them; tired, white-faced, over-worked middle-aged women sat round the
walls, laughing weakly, but forgetting the drudgery for a little while.
 At one end of the room older men sat and smoked, and looked at
illustrated periodicals.

Hal entered with Quin and Dick on either side of her, and was
immediately accosted by a young lady, with a longer and straighter
feather than most of them, with the remark:

"Hullo, miss!... which of 'em's yer sweet'eart?"

A burst of laughter greeted this sally, but Hal, not in the least
disconcerted, replied:

"Why, both, of course... I'll be bound you've had two at a time often
enough."

The repartee delighted all within hearing, and from that moment Hal was
a brilliant succes at the social evenings.  She only wondered she had
never thought to go before; but perhaps no other moment would have been
just so propitious.

The sudden blank in her life craved some interest that was entirely
new, and made her more ready to receive fresh impressions and create
fresh occupations.  She quickly found real pleasure in teaching the
girls to dance properly, in listening to their outspoken humour, and
soon developed an interest in their varied and vigorous personalities.

As she and Dick went home together that evening he noted joyfully that
a little colour had come back to her face, and there was once more a
genuine gleam in her eyes.

"You liked it?" he asked.

"Immensely."

"It grows on one.  You'll like it better still yet.  Alymer and I have
always rather laughed at Quin, and regarded him as a crank.  But he's
not.  It's just that he loves humanity, and he gets quite close up to
the core of it down there, even if it is half-smothered in vice and
dirt.  I don't believe he'll ever take orders.  It's partly because
he's not a clergyman, and they know it, he's such a success.  To-night,
for instance, there was a big bullying chap trying to spoil all the fun
for the men who wanted to smoke peacefully and look at the books.  Quin
remonstrated, and he turned round and swore violently at him.  To my
surprise, Quin, if anything, outdid him.  I wouldn't have believed Quin
could swear like that.  I'm sure I couldn't myself.  The chap just
looked at him, and tried another oath or two doubtfully.  And Quin said:

"Go on if you like, I'm not nearly through yet.  I can't be a blank,
blank, blank bully, and I don't want to be - it's nothing to be proud
of; but I'm as much of a man as you any day."

"The other chaps laughed then, and the brute slunk off to the other
side of the room."
"I asked Quin about it later, and he said:
"Oh well, you've got to talk to them in their own language, or they
don't listen.  That's the best of not being a clergyman.  Of course one
couldn't very well curse and swear then.  But it's the way to manage
them.  That chap will come to heel in an evening or two, and be
reasonably quiet."

"You hit the right note straight off, Hal.  Quin was awfully pleased.
Talk to them on their own level first, and presently you'll be getting
them struggling up to yours almost without knowing it.  He's
frightfully keen for you to go again."

"I'm going every Wednesday," she said, "and other times as well."

They parted at the door, and Hal went in alone.

The moment she stood in the sitting-room she knew that something had
happened.  Dudley was sitting in his big chair by the fire, holding
neither book nor paper, gazing silently at the flames.

At the table she stood still.

"What's the matter, Dudley?...  What has happened?"

There were a few moments' silence, then, scarcely looking round, he
replied:

"She's gone.  Run away with another man."

"Gone!..." she echoed.  "Gone... with another man! ...  Do you mean
Doris?"

"Yes.  She was married at a Reigstry Office this morning.  A messenger
boy took the letter up this evening, after they had left for the
Continent."

Hal sat down.  It was so violently sudden she felt stunned.  After a
moment Dudley got up and moved aimlessly about the room.

"It's no use attempting to say anything, Hal.  There's nothing to say.
Of course I know you're sorry, and all that, but I'd rather you didn't
say it.  You never liked the engagement, and you never liked Doris.
Probably you were justified, but it doesn't make it any easier for me
now."

"Who has she gone with?"

"I believe he's a South African millionaire."

"Ah! - "

"You had heard of him?..." sharply.

"Only last week, from the tenant opposite.  She did not know I was your
sister, and said something about Doris having two young men, and one of
them was a South African millionaire."

He made no comment, but continued his aimless walk.

"What about Ethel and Basil?" she could not help asking.

"They are terribly upset.  As soon as I had been shown the letter I
went out to make inquiries.  Ethel could not rest for fear everything
was not square.  She wanted to go off after her at once.  But it's all
correct.  I saw the Registrar.  They were properly married, and they
left for Dover at eleven, bound for Paris."

"What in the world will become of Basil?"

He winced visibly.  Doris's flagrant selfishness to Basil hurt almost
more than her faithlessness to himself.

"She stated in the letter that her husband was allowing her a thousand
a year for herself, and she was prepared to pay a housekeeper to look
after Basil and the flat."

"Little beast," Hal breathed under her breath.  "What are they going to
do?" she said aloud.

"The tenant opposite insists upon taking Doris's place.  She was
sitting with him when Ethel got home, and the letter arrived about the
same time.  Nothing else will satisfy her.  She is going to be with him
all day, and only teach in the evenings after Ethel has got back."

"How splendid of her!" involuntarily.

"She hardly seems the kind of person Basil would like, but he appeared
quite pleased.  It may have been a little quixotism.  All he said was:

"What in the world should we have done without you, G; and there! only
a few weeks ago you were wishing you had not been born."

"How like Basil.  All gratitude and understanding as usual.  But it
must have hit him rather hard, Dudley.  Is he all right?"


"I don't know."  The gloom on Dudley's face deepened.  "I thought he
looked very ill, but I could not get Ethel to say much.  She seemed
rather to avoid me.  I don't think she likes me."

Hal was conscious of a little inward smile of gladness.  She had
guessed Ethel's secret long enough ago, and she knew the power of
uncertainty and a little thwarting.  Dudley would naturally try to
break down Ethel's dislike; and perhaps in doing so he would grow to
know her better.

"I think I must try and get up to-morrow," was all she said.  "Ethel is
so reserved.  She will get ill herself if she broods and frets on t he
top of all her work and anxiety."

"Will you?" he asked, with some eagerness.  "Basil loves to see you;
and if he is really worse, I shall get Sir John Maitland to go up and
see him again."

"Of course I'll go.  We may be able to help them between us."

She was just going away upstairs to bed, when the forlorness of
Dudley's attitude, and the thought of her own sore heart before Dick
comforted her, made her lay down her hat again and cross the room to
him.

"Dudley, don't forget you've got me still.  I know I'm very trying
sometimes, but I love you so much more than Doris ever could have."

She sat on the arm of his chair, and played with the lapel of his coat.

"Don't forget about me, Dudley.  If you are just only miserable, I
shall be miserable too."

He looked at her with a sudden greater depth of affection than she had
ever seen.

"I don't forget, Hal.  If it weren't for you, what in the world should
I do now?...  It's no use talking about it, is it?  You will understand
that; but thank God you're still here with me, and we can go on the
same again."

She stooped and kissed him hurriedly, and then left the room, that he
might not see the tears brimming over in her eyes.

The next morning she rang up Lorraine's flat, to know if she had come
back yet.  She was rather surprised when Jean her maid answered.  It
was not like Lorraine to go away without her maid.

"You don't know when to expect her?..." she repeated uncertainly.

"No; Miss Vivian said she might come any day, or she might stay over
another Sunday.  She has the motor with her."

"Is she far from a station?"  Hal asked, contemplating the possibility
of joining her on Saturday if she had not returned.

"About seven miles, I think.  She went down in the car, and is coming
back in it.  I have had one letter, in which she says she is having
lovely weather, and absolute rest, and feeling much better."

"That's good.  Well, if she comes back suddenly will you ask her to
'phone me?  I want to see her."

But neither the next day nor the one after was there any call, and in
reply to a second query on Saturday, Jean said she had only received a
wire that morning saying she was staying until Tuesday.

Hal was a little puzzled that she had not been invited down for the
second week-end, but decided Lorraine must have meant to return and
changed her mind at the last moment, leaving no time to get a message
to her.

A later encounter with Dick, however, puzzled her more than ever.

"Old Alymer is taking quite a long holiday," he said.  "We were
expecting him on Tuesday or Wednesday, but he never turned up.  He was
at the Temple on Thursday, but went away again in the evening."

"I hope Lorraine isn't ill?" she said anxiously; "but of course if she
is, she would have sent for Jean."

"Is he away with Miss Vivian?" Dick asked in some surprise.

"Yes; I made him go," loyally.  "He had scruples, but really they
seemed too silly, and Lorraine looked so ill, and he always has the
knack of cheering her up and doing her good."

Dick looked at her doubtfully.

"I hope you were wise," he said; "but they are rather fascinating
people, you know."

"Oh, nonsense!  Lorraine is quite eleven years older than Alymer, and
she only likes to look at him."

Dick had it in his mind to suggest there had been a far greater
disparity between her and Sir Edwin, but he only said:

"Well, he is good to look at, isn't he?...  and such a dear old chap.
Nothing seems to spoil him.  And of course Miss Vivian has done an
awful lot for him.  If she wanted him to go, he could hardly refuse."

"That's just what I said," with a little note of triumph.  "And Jean
told me Lorraine had said in a letter she was having absolute rest, and
feeling much better."

Yet, when Hal was alone she wondered a little again why Lorraine, after
inviting her for the first Sunday, had said nothing about the second.
It was quite unusual for her not to go for a week-end when Lorraine was
at the sea.

She felt suddenly that they wanted to be alone, yet persuaded herself
it was only because Lorraine had been so tired.


CHAPTER XXXIX


Hal's uneasiness concerning Lorraine and Alymer Hermon was swallowed up
almost immediately on Lorraine's return, by a sudden alarming change in
Basil Hayward.  The first time she went to Holloway after Doris's
elopement, she saw the decided symptoms of change, and her report to
Dudley caused the latter once more, on his own responsibility, to
request Sir John Maitland to pay a visit to the little flat.

Sir John's report was the reverse of reassuring, and they all felt the
end was at hand.  Dudley went to Holloway nearly every evening, and
sometimes stayed until the middle of the night, to sit up with the sick
man.

Hal went from the office in the afternoons, two or three days each
week.  When she was there the tenant from Flat G went home to snatch a
short rest, in case a bad night lay ahead.

Ethel went quietly on her way, looking as if already a sorrow had
wrapped her round before which human aid and human sympathy were
powerless.

She went to the office as usual, and did her usual work, in nervous
dread from hour to hour lest a telephone call should summon her in
haste.  She scarcely spoke to any one but Hal; and not very much to
her; but it was evident in a thousand little ways that she liked to
have her near.

With Dudley a new sort of coldness seemed to have sprung up.  He was
self-conscious ill at ease with her now; anxious to show his sympathy,
yet made awkward by his self-sown notion that he was antagonistic to
her.  Ethel did not notice it very much.  All her thoughts were with
Basil.

Hal saw it and was troubled.  She was afraid the slight
misunderstanding might grow into a barrier that it would be extremely
difficult to break down later on.  However, she could only watch
anxiously at present, and try in small ways to smooth out the growing
difficulty.

Basil himself was the most consistently cheerful of all.  He believed
that he was near the end of his long martyrdom, and that in another
sphere he would be given back his health and strength.

He had seemed very worried at first about Doris and Dudley, but
gradually he became philosophical over it, and hoped the future would
bring united happiness to Dudley and Ethel.  He consigned her to
Dudley's care and Hal's.

To Dudley he merely said:

"I know you'll always be a good friend to chum.  I'm thankful she will
at least have you."

Dudley did not say much in reply, but he looked sufficiently unhappy,
and withal so glad of the service, that it spoke volumes.

To Hal he said:

"Chum is very fond of you, Hal.  You'll keep an eye on her, won't you?
Perhaps there is no one else but you who can."

Quick tears shone in Hal's eyes.

"Of course I will... two eyes.. I don't know that I shall let her out
of my sight at all."

Other evening, because Dudley was so often at Holloway, Hal went to
dinner with the Three Graces.  Dick often fetched her from the office,
and they went back together.  Now that she had become interested in the
East End, they had schemes to talk over, and she and Quin were never
weary of discussing odd characters there, and odd histories, and plans
for different amusements.

Dick joined in a times, but was very busy with his new book.

Alymer Hermon had grown strangely quiet.  At intervals, for the sake of
old times, he and Hal sparring matches, but if, as wat not very usual,
he happened to be at home, he was inclined to do little else but lounge
and smoke, and watch her while presumably reading a paper.

Hal did not notice it particularly.  This made them excite those brave
nymphs to strive to reach the farthest rank, where stood the king of
the contrary party, promising them certainly to have them crowned if
they could do this. The golden nymphs were beforehand with the others,
and out of their number was created a queen, who was dressed in royal
robes, and had a crown set on her head. You need not doubt the silvered
nymphs made also what haste they could to be queens. One of them
was within a step of the coronation place, but there the golden
knight lay ready to intercept her, so that she could go no further.

The new golden queen, resolved to show herself valiant and worthy of
her advancement to the crown, achieved great feats of arms. But in
the meantime the silvered knight takes the golden warden who guarded
the camp; and thus there was a new silvered queen, who, like the
other, strove to excel in heroic deeds at the beginning of her reign.

Thus the fight grew hotter than before. A thousand stratagems, charges,
rallyings, retreats, and attacks were tried on both sides; till
at last the silvered queen, having by stealth advanced as far as the
golden king's tent, cried, God save you, sir!

Now none but his new queen could relieve him; so she bravely came and
exposed herself to the utmost extremity to deliver him out of it.
Then the silvered warden with his queen reduced the golden king
to such a stress that, to save himself, he was forced to lose his
queen; but the golden king took him at last.

However, the rest of the golden party were soon taken; and that
king being left alone, the silvered party made him a low bow,
crying, Good morrow, sir!

which denoted that the silvered king had got the day.

This being heard, the music of both parties loudly proclaimed the
victory.

And thus the first battle ended to the unspeakable joy of all the
spectators.

After this the two brigades took their former stations, and began to
tilt a second time, much as they had done before, only the music
played somewhat faster than at the first battle, and the motions
were altogether different.

I saw the golden queen sally out one of the first, with an archer
and a knight, as it were angry at the former defeat, and she had like
to have fallen upon the silvered king in his tent among his officers;
but having been baulked in her attempt, she skirmished briskly,
and overthrew so many silvered nymphs and officers that it was a
most amazing sight.

You would have sworn she had been another Penthesilea; for she behaved
herself with as much bravery as that Amazonian queen did at Troy.

But this havoc did not last long; for the silvered party, exasperated
by their loss, resolved to perish or stop her progress; and having
posted an archer in ambuscado on a distant angle, together with a
knight-errant, her highness fell into their hands and was carried
out of the field.

The rest were soon routed after the taking of their queen, who,
without doubt, from that time resolved to be more wary and keep
near her king, without venturing so far amidst her enemies unless
with more force to defend her.

Thus the silvered brigade once more got the victory.

This did not dishearten or deject the golden party; far from it.

They soon appeared again in the field to face their enemies; and
being posted as before, both the armies seemed more resolute and
cheerful than ever.

Now the martial concert began, and the music was above a hemiole the
quicker, according to the warlike Phrygian mode, such as was
invented by Marsyas.

Then our combatants began to wheel about, and charge with such a
swiftness that in an instant they made four moves, besides the usual
salutations.

So that they were continually in action, flying, hovering, jumping,
vaulting, curvetting, with petauristical turns and motions, and
often intermingled.

Seeing them then turn about on one foot after they had made their
honours, we compared them to your tops or gigs, such as boys use
to whip about, making them turn round so swiftly that they sleep,
as they call it, and motion cannot be perceived, but resembles rest,
its contrary; so that if you make a point or mark on some part of
one of those gigs, 'twill be perceived not as a point, but a continual
line, in a most divine manner, as Cusanus has wisely observed.

While they were thus warmly engaged, we heard continually the claps
and episemapsies which those of the two bands reiterated at the
taking of their enemies; and this, joined to the variety of their
motions and music, would have forced smiles out of the most severe
Cato, the never-laughing Crassus, the Athenian man-hater, Timon;
nay, even whining Heraclitus, though he abhorred laughing, the
action that is most peculiar to man.

For who could have forborne? seeing those young warriors, with their
nymphs and queens, so briskly and gracefully advance, retire, jump,
leap, skip, spring, fly, vault, caper, move to the right, to the
left, every way still in time, so swiftly, and yet so dexterously,
that they never touched one another but methodically.

As the number of the combatants lessened, the pleasure of the spectators
increased; for the stratagems and motions of the remaining forces
were more singular.

I shall only add that this pleasing entertainment charmed us to
such a degree that our minds were ravished with admiration and
delight, and the martial harmony moved our souls so powerfully that
we easily believed what is said of Ismenias's having excited Alexander
to rise from table and run to his arms, with such a warlike melody.

At last the golden king remained master of the field; and while we were
minding those dances, Queen Whims vanished, so that we saw her no more
from that day to this.

Then Geber's michelots conducted us, and we were set down among her
abstractors, as her queenship had commanded. After that we returned
to the port of Mateotechny, and thence straight aboard our ships;
for the wind was fair, and had we not hoisted out of hand, we could
hardly have got off in three quarters of a moon in the wane.

Chapter 5.XXVI.

How we came to the island of Odes, where the ways go up and down.

We sailed before the wind, between a pair of courses, and in two
days made the island of Odes, at which place we saw a very strange
thing.

The ways there are animals; so true is Aristotle's saying, that all
self-moving things are animals. Now the ways walk there. Ergo, they
are then animals.

Some of them are strange unknown ways, like those of the planets;
others are highways, crossways, and byways. I perceived that the travellers
and inhabitants of that country asked, Whither does this way go?

Whither does that way go? Some answered, Between Midy and Fevrolles,
to the parish church, to the city, to the river, and so forth.
Being thus in their right way, they used to reach their journey's
end without any further trouble, just like those who go by water
from Lyons to Avignon or Arles.

Now, as you know that nothing is perfect here below, we heard there was
a sort of people whom they called highwaymen, waybeaters, and makers
of inroads in roads; and that the poor ways were sadly afraid of them,
and shunned them as you do robbers.

For these used to waylay them, as people lay trains for wolves, and set
gins for woodcocks. I saw one who was taken up with a lord chief
justice's warrant for having unjustly, and in spite of Pallas, taken
the schoolway, which is the longest.

Another boasted that he had fairly taken his shortest, and that doing
so he first compassed his design. Thus, Carpalin, meeting once
Epistemon looking upon a wall with his fiddle-diddle, or live urinal,
in his hand, to make a little maid's water, cried that he did not
wonder now how the other came to be still the first at Pantagruel's
levee, since he held his shortest and least used.

I found Bourges highway among these. It went with the deliberation of an
abbot, but was made to scamper at the approach of some waggoners,
who threatened to have it trampled under their horses' feet, and make
their waggons run over it, as Tullia's chariot did over her father's
body.

I also espied there the old way between Peronne and St. Quentin, which
seemed to me a very good, honest, plain way, as smooth as a carpet,
and as good as ever was trod upon by shoe of leather.

Among the rocks I knew again the good old way to La Ferrare, mounted
on a huge bear. This at a distance would have put me in mind of St.

Jerome's picture, had but the bear been a lion; for the poor way
was all mortified, and wore a long hoary beard uncombed and entangled,
which looked like the picture of winter, or at least like a
white-frosted bush.

On that way were store of beads or rosaries, coarsely made of wild
pine-tree; and it seemed kneeling, not standing, nor lying flat;
but its sides and middle were beaten with huge stones, insomuch
that it proved to us at once an object of fear and pity.

While we were examining it, a runner, bachelor of the place, took
us aside, and showing us a white smooth way, somewhat filled with
straw, said, Henceforth, gentlemen, do not reject the opinion of
Thales the Milesian, who said that water is the beginning of all
things, nor that of Homer, who tells us that all things derive their
original from the ocean; for this same way which you see here had
its beginning from water, and is to return whence she came before
two months come to an end; now carts are driven here where boats
used to be rowed.

Truly, said Pantagruel, you tell us no news; we see five hundred such
changes, and more, every year, in our world.

Then reflecting on the different manner of going of those moving ways,
he told us he believed that Philolaus and Aristarchus had philosophized
in this island, and that Seleucus (Motteux reads--'that some, indeed,
were of opinion.'), indeed, was of opinion the earth turns round
about its poles, and not the heavens, whatever we may think to the
contrary; as, when we are on the river Loire, we think the trees
and the shore moves, though this is only an effect of our boat's
motion.

As we went back to our ships, we saw three waylayers, who, having been
taken in ambuscado, were going to be broken on the wheel; and a
huge fornicator was burned with a lingering fire for beating a way
and breaking one of its sides; we were told it was the way of the
banks of the Nile in Egypt.

Chapter 5.XXVII.

How we came to the island of Sandals; and of the order of Semiquaver
Friars.

Thence we went to the island of Sandals, whose inhabitants live on
nothing but ling-broth.

However, we were very kindly received and entertained by Benius the Third,
king of the island, who, after he had made us drink, took us with
him to show us a spick-and-span new monastery which he had contrived
for the Semiquaver Friars; so he called the religious men whom he
had there.

For he said that on t'other side the water lived friars who styled
themselves her sweet ladyship's most humble servants.

Item, the goodly Friar-minors, who are semibreves of bulls; the smoked-herring
tribe of Minim Friars; then the Crotchet Friars.

So that these diminutives could be no more than Semiquavers. By
the statutes, bulls, and patents of Queen Whims, they were all
dressed like so many house-burners, except that, as in Anjou your
bricklayers use to quilt their knees when they tile houses, so these
holy friars had usually quilted bellies, and thick quilted paunches
were among them in much repute.

Their codpieces were cut slipper-fashion, and every monk among them
wore two--one sewed before and another behind --reporting that
some certain dreadful mysteries were duly represented by this
duplicity of codpieces.

They wore shoes as round as basins, in imitation of those who inhabit
the sandy sea.

Their chins were close-shaved, and their feet iron-shod; and to
show they did not value fortune, Benius made them shave and poll
the hind part of their polls as bare as a bird's arse, from the
crown to the shoulder-blades; but they had leave to let their hair
grow before, from the two triangular bones in the upper part of the
skull.

Thus did they not value fortune a button, and cared no more for the goods
of this world than you or I do for hanging. And to show how much they
defied that blind jilt, all of them wore, not in their hands like
her, but at their waist, instead of beads, sharp razors, which they
used to new-grind twice a day and set thrice a night.

Each of them had a round ball on their feet, because Fortune
is said to have one under hers.

The flap of their cowls hanged forward, and not backwards, like those
of others.

Thus none could see their noses, and they laughed without fear both
at fortune and the fortunate; neither more nor less than our ladies
laugh at barefaced trulls when they have those mufflers on which
they call masks, and which were formerly much more properly called
charity, because they cover a multitude of sins.

The hind part of their faces were always uncovered, as are our faces,
which made them either go with their belly or the arse foremost, which
they pleased. When their hind face went forwards, you would have
sworn this had been their natural gait, as well on account of their
round shoes as of the double codpiece, and their face behind, which
was as bare as the back of my hand, and coarsely daubed over with
two eyes and a mouth, such as you see on some Indian nuts.

Now, if they offered to waddle along with their bellies forwards, you
would have thought they were then playing at blindman's buff. May I
never be hanged if 'twas not a comical sight.

Their way of living was thus: about owl-light they charitably began to
boot and spur one another. This being done, the least thing they did was
to sleep and snore; and thus sleeping, they had barnacles on
the handles of their faces, or spectacles at most.

You may swear we did not a little wonder at this odd fancy; but
they satisfied us presently, telling us that the day of judgment
is to take mankind napping; therefore, to show they did not refuse
to make their personal appearance as fortune's darlings use to do,
they were always thus booted and spurred, ready to mount whenever
the trumpet should sound.

At noon, as soon as the clock struck, they used to awake. You must know
that their clock-bell, church-bells, and refectory-bells were all
made according to the pontial device, that is, quilted with the
finest down, and their clappers of fox-tails.

Having then made shift to get up at noon, they pulled off their
boots, and those that wanted to speak with a maid, alias piss, pissed;
those that wanted to scumber, scumbered; and those that wanted to sneeze,
sneezed.
But all, whether they would or no (poor gentlemen!), were obliged largely
and plentifully to yawn; and this was their first breakfast (O
rigorous statute!).

Methought 'twas very comical to observe their transactions; for, having
laid their boots and spurs on a rack, they went into the cloisters.
There they curiously washed their hands and mouths; then sat them
down on a long bench, and picked their teeth till the provost gave
the signal, whistling through his fingers; then every he stretched
out his jaws as much as he could, and they gaped and yawned for
about half-an-hour, sometimes more, sometimes less, according as
the prior judged the breakfast to be suitable to the day.

After that they went in procession, two banners being carried before
them, in one of which was the picture of Virtue, and that of Fortune
in the other.

The last went before, carried by a semi-quavering friar, at whose heels
was another, with the shadow or image of Virtue in one hand and
an holy-water sprinkle in the other--I mean of that holy mercurial
water which Ovid describes in his Fasti.

And as the preceding Semiquaver rang a handbell, this shaked the
sprinkle with his fist.

With that says Pantagruel, This order contradicts the rule which Tully
and the academics prescribed, that Virtue ought to go before, and
Fortune follow.

But they told us they did as they ought, seeing their design was to breech,
lash, and bethwack Fortune.

During the processions they trilled and quavered most melodiously betwixt
their teeth I do not know what antiphones, or chantings, by turns. For
my part, 'twas all Hebrew-Greek to me, the devil a word I could
pick out on't; at last, pricking up my ears, and intensely listening,
I perceived they only sang with the tip of theirs.

Oh, what a rare harmony it was! How well 'twas tuned to the sound
of their bells!

You'll never find these to jar, that you won't. Pantagruel made a
notable observation upon the processions; for says he, Have you seen
and observed the policy of these Semiquavers?

To make an end of their procession they went out at one of their
church doors and came in at the other; they took a deal of care not
to come in at the place whereat they went out.

On my honour, these are a subtle sort of people, quoth Panurge; they
have as much wit as three folks, two fools and a madman; they are
as wise as the calf that ran nine miles to suck a bull, and when
he came there 'twas a steer.

This subtlety and wisdom of theirs, cried Friar John, is borrowed from
the occult philosophy.

May I be gutted like an oyster if I can tell what to make on't. Then the
more 'tis to be feared, said Pantagruel; for subtlety suspected, subtlety
foreseen, subtlety found out, loses the essence and very name of
subtlety, and only gains that of blockishness.

They are not such fools as you take them to be; they have more tricks
than are good, I doubt.

After the procession they went sluggingly into the fratery-room, by the
way of walk and healthful exercise, and there kneeled under the
tables, leaning their breasts on lanterns. While they were in that
posture, in came a huge Sandal, with a pitchfork in his hand, who
used to baste, rib-roast, swaddle, and swinge them well-favouredly,
as they said, and in truth treated them after a fashion.

They began their meal as you end yours, with cheese, and ended it with
mustard and lettuce, as Martial tells us the ancients did.
Afterwards a platterful of mustard was brought before every one of
them, and thus they made good the proverb, After meat comes mustard.

Their diet was this:

O' Sundays they stuffed their puddings with puddings, chitterlings,
links, Bologna sausages, forced-meats, liverings, hogs' haslets, young
quails, and teals. You must also always add cheese for the first course,
and mustard for the last.

O' Mondays they were crammed with peas and pork, cum commento, and
interlineary glosses.

O' Tuesdays they used to twist store of holy-bread, cakes, buns, puffs,
lenten loaves, jumbles, and biscuits.

O' Wednesdays my gentlemen had fine sheep's heads, calves' heads, and
brocks' heads, of which there's no want in that country.

O' Thursdays they guzzled down seven sorts of porridge, not
forgetting mustard.

O' Fridays they munched nothing but services or sorb-apples; neither were
these full ripe, as I guessed by their complexion.

O' Saturdays they gnawed bones; not that they were poor or needy,
for every mother's son of them had a very good fat belly-benefice.

As for their drink, 'twas an antifortunal; thus they called I don't
know what sort of a liquor of the place.

When they wanted to eat or drink, they turned down the back-points
or flaps of their cowls forwards below their chins, and that served
'em instead of gorgets or slabbering-bibs.

When they had well dined, they prayed rarely all in quavers and
shakes; and the rest of the day, expecting the day of judgment,
they were taken up with acts of charity, and particularly--
O' Sundays, rubbers at cuffs.

O' Mondays, lending each other flirts and fillips on the nose.

O' Tuesdays, clapperclawing one another.

O' Wednesdays, sniting and fly-flapping.

O' Thursdays, worming and pumping.

O' Fridays, tickling.

O' Saturdays, jerking and firking one another.

Such was their diet when they resided in the convent, and if the
prior of the monk-house sent any of them abroad, then they were
strictly enjoined neither to touch nor eat any manner of fish as
long as they were on sea or rivers, and to abstain from all manner
of flesh whenever they were at land, that everyone might be convinced
that, while they enjoyed the object, they denied themselves the
power, and even the desire, and were no more moved with it than the
Marpesian rock.

All this was done with proper antiphones, still sung and chanted by ear,
as we have already observed.

When the sun went to bed, they fairly booted and spurred each other
as before, and having clapped on their barnacles e'en jogged to bed
too.

At midnight the Sandal came to them, and up they got, and having well
whetted and set their razors, and been a-processioning, they clapped
the tables over themselves, and like wire-drawers under their work
fell to it as aforesaid.

Friar John des Entoumeures, having shrewdly observed these jolly
Semiquaver Friars, and had a full account of their statutes, lost all
patience, and cried out aloud: Bounce tail, and God ha' mercy guts;
if every fool should wear a bauble, fuel would be dear. A plague rot it,
we must know how many farts go to an ounce.

Would Priapus were here, as he used to be at the nocturnal festivals
in Crete, that I might see him play backwards, and wriggle and
shake to the purpose.

Ay, ay, this is the world, and t'other is the country; may I never piss
if this be not an antichthonian land, and our very antipodes. In
Germany they pull down monasteries and unfrockify the monks; here
they go quite kam, and act clean contrary to others, setting new
ones up, against the hair.

Chapter 5.XXVIII.

How Panurge asked a Semiquaver Friar many questions, and was only
answered in monosyllables.

Panurge, who had since been wholly taken up with staring at these royal
Semiquavers, at last pulled one of them by the sleeve, who was as
lean as a rake, and asked him,--
Hearkee me, Friar Quaver, Semiquaver, Demisemiquavering quaver,
where is the punk?

The Friar, pointing downwards, answered, There.

Pan. Pray, have you many? Fri. Few.

Pan. How many scores have you? Fri. One.

Pan. How many would you have? Fri. Five.

Pan. Where do you hide 'em? Fri. Here.

Pan. I suppose they are not all of one age; but, pray, how is their
shape?
Fri. Straight.

Pan. Their complexion?

Fri. Clear.

Pan. Their hair? Fri. Fair.

Pan. Their eyes? Fri. Black.

Pan. Their features? Fri. Good.

Pan. Their brows? Fri. Small.

Pan. Their graces? Fri. Ripe.

Pan. Their looks? Fri.

Free.

Pan. Their feet? Fri. Flat.

Pan. Their heels? Fri. Short.

Pan. Their lower parts? Fri. Rare.

Pan. And their arms? Fri. Long.

Pan.

What do they wear on their hands? Fri. Gloves.

Pan. What sort of rings on their fingers? Fri. Gold.

Pan. What rigging do you keep 'em in? Fri. Cloth.

Pan. What sort of cloth is it? Fri. New.

Pan. What colour? Fri. Sky.

Pan. What kind of cloth is it? Fri.

Fine.

Pan. What caps do they wear? Fri. Blue.

Pan. What's the colour of their stockings?

Fri. Red.

Pan. What wear they on their feet? Fri. Pumps.

Pan. How do they use to be? Fri. Foul.

Pan. How do they use to walk?

Fri. Fast.

Pan. Now let us talk of the kitchen, I mean that of the harlots, and
without going hand over head let's a little examine things by
particulars.

What is in their kitchens? Fri.

Fire.

Pan. What fuel feeds it? Fri. Wood.

Pan. What sort of wood is't? Fri. Dry.

Pan.
Yet as she struggled to collect her thoughts and form plans, she was
conscious of a dumb, nervous cry: "What will Dudley say?...  What in
the world will Dudley say?"


CHAPTER XLI


He came in while she was still trying to compose herself for the
struggle she anticipated; and because she had not yet made any headway,
he saw at once that something alarming had happened.

He glanced at the envelope lying on the table, then at the open letter
in her hand, and then at her face.

"What is the matter?...  Have you had bad news?"

For one dreadful moment, observing the foreign stamp, he thought
something might have happened to Ethel, who was taking her month's
holiday on the Continent.  When Hal looked blankly into his face, as if
quite unable to tell him, he added hurriedly:

"Is your letter about Ethel? ... Is she Ill?"

"No, it is not Ethel," Hal answered, noticing, in spite of her
distress, his unconcealed anxiety.  "Some one is ill, but it is not
Ethel."

"Is it Lorraine?"

He spoke with quiet, kindly concern now, being reassured concerning the
swift dread that had sized him.

"Yes," Hal said nervously.  "She is very ill.  Dudley, I must go to her
at once."

She got up as if she could not bear the strain seated, and moved away
to the window.

"It's all rather terrible," speaking hurriedly; "but don't... don't...
be upset about it.  I can't bear it.  I _must_ go, whatever you say,
and I want you to help me."

"What is the matter?"  He came close to her and tried to see her face.
"What has happened, Hal?"

"Lorry is in trouble."  She was half crying now; "I have had a letter
from Jean.  She has told me something I did not know.  I did not even
suspect it.  But I must go.  You will surley see that I must go,
Dudley."

"Tell me what it is," he said, in a voice so kind, she turned and
looked into his face, almost in surprise.  He met her eyes, and,
reading all the distress there, he added:

"Don't be afraid, Hal.  I know I was an awful prig a little while ago,
but... but... it's not the same since Doris jilted me, and since Basil
died.  I see many things differently now.  Tell me Lorraine's trouble."

"She is so ill, because if she lives until next December she will have
a little one.  Oh, do you understand, Dudley?  She is there all alone,
because she made a mess of her life and is obliged to hide.  I must go
to her.  You will help me, won't you?"

She glanced at him doubtfully, and then a swift relief seemed to fill
her face.

"Yes, certainly you must go,' he said gravely; "if Jean says she is ill
now, I think you should go at once, and see for yourself just how
things are."

"Oh, how good of you.  I was afraid you would be angry and object."

He smiled a little sadly.

"I've enough money in hand for your ticket.  You can catch the early
boat train, and I'll send some more by to-morrow's post.  Had you
better see Mr. Elliott about being absent from the office for a day or
two, or shall I see him in the morning?"

"He won't mind.  I've got everything straight since I came back, and
Miss White will do my work for a day or two.  If you would see him in
the morning, and just tell him Miss Vivian is very ill and I was sent
for.  He knows what friends we are, and would understand."

"Very well.  Now you must have some dinner, and get to bed, for you
will have a long, anxious day to-morrow."

In a sudden rush of feeling, she put her hands on his shoulders and
kissed him.

"I'm so grateful," she said, in a quivering voice.  "I can't tell you.
It has all come upon me as a shock.  I had not the faintest suspicion."

It was not natural to him to be demonstrative, and he only turned away
with a slight embarrassment, saying:

"I'm sure you hadn't.  But I feel I can trust you now, Hal, to be
discreet as well as quixotic.  Your mission, if one can call it such,
will need both."

Then he sought to distract her mind for the present, and while they
dined he talked of many things to interest her.

"Do you know that Alymer Hermon has just got the chance of his life?"
he told her, before they rose.  "I head to-day he is to appear with
Hall in this big libel case.  Sir James Jameson told me at the Club.
He said Hall had taken a great fancy to him, and if he does really well
over this case he's going to take him up.  He is very fortunate.  Not
one man in a thousand would get such a chance at his age.  I hope he
will do well; I like him; and if he isn't a success over this he may
never get such an opportunity again."

"When does the case come on?"

"Almost at once, I think, but it probably will not last more than two
or three days."

When Hal said good-night to him, she remarked shyly:

"I heard from Ethel last night.  She loves the Austrian Tyrol.  She
said she hoped you were better for your trip to Norway."

His forehead contracted a little, and he did not look up from the book
he had just opened.

"Is she better herself?  Is she any happier?"

Hal looked thoughtfully into the fire.

"I think she is very lonely.  I don't think she will be much happier
until... until... there is some one to take Basil's place."

"No one can do that."  He spoke a little shortly.  "Basil was a hero.
I do not know how she is ever to love a lesser man."

"If she loved a man, she would easily see heroic qualities in him.  She
could not love a man who was without them; but that does not mean he
need actually be a hero by any means."

She longed to say more, but was diffident of doing greater harm than
good.  At last she ventured:

"I have sometimes thought she has a warm corner in her heart for you,
Dudley."

"For me! ... "  He gave a low, harsh laugh for very misery.  "No; she
despises me.  She has done for some time.  I'm sorry.  I'd change it if
I could, but it's too late now."

Hal moved towards the door.

"It is rather a slur on Ethel to suggest that she could possibly
despise Basil's best friend.  Don't let an idea like that take root,
Dudley.  'Lookers on see most of the game," you know, and what I have
seen has suggested quite differently.  Good-night."

"Good-night.  Try to sleep.  I'll take you to Charing Cross myself."

The next morning Hal started off alone, to find her way to Lorraine's
hiding-place, and give her what comfort of friendship she could.

And all the time she asked herself with harried thoughts,  "Who has
brought this trouble into Lorraine's life?"

And at the back of her mind was the dread premonition "Was it indeed
Alymer Hermon?"


CHAPTER XLII


When Hal first saw her old friend she was almost too shocked for words
at the swift change in her.  Lorraine tried hard to smile cheerfully,
but she could not hide any longer from herself how seriously ill she
had grown, and she felt it useless to try and hide it from Hal.

Jean had not told her of the letter, and she knew nothing of Hal's
coming until she was actually in the house.  When she saw her, she
could have cried for gladness.

"How good of you, Hal... how good of you!" she breathed, and Hal, on
her knees by the couch, in an unsteady voice replied:

"Oh, why didn't you send for me sooner?  Why didn't you let me come
here instead of going to Norway?"

An hour later she went out to the little post office, and wired to
London to know if she might remain away for a week.

It was evident Lorraine was very ill indeed and needing the utmost care.

During the day she seemed to grow steadily worse, and she could not
bear Hal out of her sight.

"I don't know whether you are shocked or not," she said to her once,
"but if everything goed all right I shall not regret what I have done
for one moment.  I wanted something more real for the rest of my life
than I have had in its beginning."  Her voice dropped to a whisper.  "I
wanted his child to live for."

With a caressing hand on the sick woman's, Hal asked in a low voice:

"Why isn't he here taking care of you now?  Where is you child's
father?"

A swift surprise passed through Lorraine's eyes, as if it had not
occured to her Hal would not know the truth.  Then she said, very
softly, "Alymer."

"Ah!"

The exclamation seemed wrung from Hal unconsciously, and after it her
lips grew strangely rigid.

"Hal," Lorraine said weakly, "I've loved Alymer almost ever since I
first saw him.  I swore I would not harm his career, and I have not.  I
will not in future.  But the child is his, and I thank God for it.  I
do not believe an illegitimate child with a devoted mother is any worse
off than the legitimate child with a selfish, unloving one.  That there
is love enough matters the most.  What can any child have better than a
life's devotion?"

Later on she said:

"This is his great week, Hal.  In his last letter he tells me his big
chance has come at last through Sir Philip Hall.  We always hoped it
would.  It is the big libel case, and if Sir Philip chooses he can let
him take a very prominent part.  He will, I  am sure of it.  He is very
interested in him, and he has given him this chance on purpose.  Flip
thinks it will lead to a great deal; and of course if so it is splendid
for him."

Hal said very little.  She was overcome at the revelation Lorraine had
made, and seemed quite unable to grasp it.

Meanwhile she waited fearfully for the crisis the doctor had told her
was impending.  She was expecting him to call again, and was relieved
when at last he arrived bringing a pleasant-faced French nurse with him.

She relinquished her post then, and waited for him anxiously
downstairs.  When he came he told her he must have another opinion at
once, and Hal knew that something serious was wrong, and that he feared
the worst.

The next morning, when she saw Lorraine again, she understood that they
had saved her life, but probably only for a few days at the most.

Lorraine was almost too weak to speak, but she looked into Hal's eyes,
and in her own there was a dumb imploring.  Hal leant down and murmured:

"What is it, Lorry?...  Do you want Alymer?"

"Yes," was the faint whisper.  "I feel it is the end.  I want so much
to see him once more."

"I will go to London myself, and fetch him," Hal said, and a look of
rest crept into the dying woman's eyes.

So it happened that the day before the great libel case Hal stood in
Hermon's chambers, and delivered her message.

It was a tense moment - a moment of warring instincts, warring
inclinations, conflicting fates.  It was surely the very irony of
ironies, that within sight of his goal, with all this woman had
manoeuvred to give him almost in his hands, she should be the one to
step suddenly between him and the realisation of everything his life
had striven for.

To fail Sir Philip Hall at the eleventh hour, under such circumstance,
could only mean an irreparable disaster.  He would lose, as far as his
profession was concerned, in every single way.  It would strike a blow
at his progress, from which it might never wholly recover.

No wonder, confronted with the sudden demand life had flung at him, he
stood stock still, with rigid face, almost overcome by the swift
sword-thrust of fate, and made no reply.

Since Hal told him, in a few, rather abrupt words, her story, he had
scarcely looked at her.  When she first entered his room so
unexpectedly, his eyes had searched her face as if he would read
instantly what she had come for?...  what she had learnt?...  Before
hers, his gaze fell.

"I have come from Lorraine," she said, and he understood that she knew
all.

A dull red crept over his face and neck, and then died away, leaving
him of an ashy paleness.  He was standing by his desk, and he reached
out one hand and rested it on some books, gripping the backs of them
with a grip that made his knuckles stand out like white knots.  He did
not ask Hal to sit down.  Commonplace amenities died in the stress of
the moment.

She stood in the middle of the room, very straight and very still.  In
a close-fitting travelling-dress she looked unusually slim, almost
boyish, and something about her attitude rather suggested a youthful
knight, sword in hand, come with vengeance to the Transgressor.  Yet,
even in his shame and stunned perplexity, Hermon lost no shred of
dignity.

He towered above her, with bend head, rigid, white face, grave,
downcast eyes, and in spite of every reproach her attitude seemed to
hurl at him, het yet wore the look of nobility that was his birtright.

"When do you think I should go?" he asked at last, with difficulty.

"We ought to cross to-night."

"To-night! - I - I - have a very important case to-morrow.  It will not
last long.  It matters a great deal."

"I know," was the short, uncompromising answer.

He looked up with a swift glance of inquiry.  Then he said quietly:

"Do you know that it may wreck my future to leave London to-night?"

"Yes," said Hal.  "I know."

"And after all Lorraine did not help me to this hour of success, am I
to throw away my chance?"

"Lorraine is dying.  Her dying wish is to see you once more.  Is it
necessary to discuss anything else?"

Again there was silence between them - silence so intense, so poignant,
it was like a live thing present in the room.  Through the double
windows came a far-off, muffled sound of the traffic in the Strand, but
it seemed to have nothing whatever to do with the life of that quiet
room.  It dit not disturb the silence, in which one could almost hear
pulse-beats.  It belonged to another world.

Once Alymer raised his head and looked hard into her face.  In his eyes
there was an expression of utter hopelessness.  She had not spoken any
word of reproach or scorn, yet everything about her as she stood there
erect and passionless, and without one grain of sympathy for his
struggle, told him that, just as far as her natural broadness allowed
her to condemn any one, she condemned him.

For a moment a sort of savage recklessness seized him.  He felt
suddenly he was stranded high-and-dry on a barren rock, with nothing at
all any more in his world but his profession.  He had lost all hope of
ever winning Hal, which seemed to be all hope of anything worth having.
 Nothing remained but the hollow interest of a great name, and the lust
of power.  He had it in his mind for those brief, passionate moments,
because he had lost all else, to insist upon taking his chance.

Even one day's grace might save him.  The trial would perhaps last not
more than two, but in any case, a wire reaching him in the middle,
which he could show to Sir Philip, might mean all the difference
between success and failure.  The wire could be worded to hide what was
truly involved, and the plea of a life-and-death urgency would set him
free without any awkward questioning.

He glanced up to speak, and once again Hal's attitude arrested him.
She looked so young, so fresh, so true, so vaguely splendid, in spite
of the rigid lips that seemed to have closed down tightly upon all she
must have suffered in the last fort-eight hours.

She was not looking at him now, but, with her head thrown back a
little, she gazed silently and fatefully at the clock on his
mantelpiece.

And something about her called to him, with the calling of the great,
mysterious things, a calling that shamed and scorned that spirit of
savage recklessness; that swift, relentless lust of power.

"What is anything in the world,' it seemed to cry, "compared to being
true to one's friend; true to one's word; true to one's love?"

He saw suddenly that in any case success and triumph would bring him
little enough to gladden his heart; that whichever way he turned was
gloom and darkness; that in that gloom a possible ray of light still
linger, if he could keep always the consciousness that, at the most
critical hour of his life, he had rung true.

He raised his eyes suddenly, and straightened himself.

"What time does the next train leave?" he said.  "I am coming."


CHAPTER XLIII


After Hal had left, Lorraine sank into a stupor from weakness, and
remained thus until towards evening.  Then she revived, and seemed to
comprehend better all that had happened; all that was happening still.

She knew that the child she had dreamed of would never lie in her amrs
and look up at her with Alymer's eyes.  She knew that in the first
awful moments of realisation, and deathly weakness, her whole soul had
so craved to see Alymer again that she had asked for him.

A few moments later the stupor had come down upon her exhausted senses,
and without any further word or thought from her, Hal had gone on her
errand.

At first, in the darkened room where she had suffered so much, she
remembered only that very soon Alymer might be with her.  And the
thought, while it quickened her pulses, yet made her feel almost faint
with the longing for him to come quickly.  What if they were delayed,
and this terrible weakness took her away from him without a last
meeting.

The thought that death was approaching did not frighten her.  She
rather welcomed it.  When she left London in the summer, she had felt
that she could never go back.  She had already fixed in her mind the
picture of the quiet haven, where she would live restfully with
Alymer's child - far away from the turmoil that had marked her life
almost from its earliest beginning, and safe from slander.

She dit not mind for herself.  The things that most women valued, no
longer held much meaning for her.  She had experienced more than most;
learned more than most how empty success and triumph may become;
sounded for herself the shallowness of many things that society regards
as prizes.

She had been tired for a long time.  Now the tiredness had reached a
climax.  If the quiet haven might not bless her life, it was, on the
whole, better that she should die.

This quiet fatalism only increased her longing to see Alymer once more.
 It was the one thing in all existence left to long for.  It merged
every remaining faculty into one desire.  And Hal would bring him.  Hal
never failed any one.

Then came the night, and instead of a quiet sleep, restlessness seized
her.  The recollection of the lawsuit which was to make Alymer's name
once for all, came back again and again with merciless insistence,
fighting like some desperate thing that last, one, great desire.  Try
as she would to smother it, after a little period of rest it came back
stronger than ever.

In vain she told herself that when he knew she was dying he would have
no wish but to hasten to her.  In vain, she said also, that success
would no longer mean all it had done; that with love crying to him from
a death-bed, he would understand its emptiness and scorn it.

Another voice, the voice of her truest self, answered:  "Ah! but he is
young.  Remember he is young - young - young - and you, when you were
his age, cared terribly to succeed.  You say now that success is empty,
but at least you had the satisfaction of learning the fact for
yourself.  You did not have to take another's word for it, and let your
chance pass you by, just at the moment of grasping it.  If he is to be
left without you, what will he have then to make up for the great
moment lost?

"Nay, worse - what will he have left to spur him to try and regain his
proud position, and go on up the heights of fame?  And for you, of all
people, to deal this blow to his future - the ambitious future which
you yourself have fostered and nourished with such care."

The hours wore on, and still, in spite of the awful physical
exhaustion, the mental battle raged, draining away strength that should
have been carefully nursed for each bad hour of many days ahead.  The
nurse watched beside her with growing alarm, seeing the feverishness
and restlessness, where absolute quiet was imperative.

At last she went to her softly, and said, in a sweet, low voice:

"Madame is in trouble.  Madame is fretting.  It is not good.  Madame
must try to rest."

Lorraine turned her feverish, pain-driven eyes to the kindly face, with
a lookf of beseeching, but she made no reply.

The nurse laid her cool hand on the burning forehead.

"Madame is not a Catholic, but the priest brings healing to all.  Shall
I ask him to come and pray, that peace may be given to the sick mind?"

"I cannot confess," Lorraine breathed a little gaspingly.  "I could not
bring myself to it."

"It is not necessary.  The priest will come to pray if madame wishes."

"Yes," was the low response; "please ask him."

The little old man who took care of the souls of the little old-world
village, and had done for three parts of a century, came to her at
once, with a womanly tenderness in his face.  In a low voice he blessed
her, and then knelt down and prayed quietly.

After a time, som of the anguish died out of Lorraine's eyes.  She
turned to him weakly and said:

"I am not a Catholic.  I do not know if I am anything, but I want to
ask you something.  If one has sinned, and led another astray, might an
act of renunciation perhaps save that other from the consequences of
the sin that was not his?"

"Self-sacrifice and renunciation are ever pleasing to God," he told her
simply.  "He knows that whatever else there is in a heart, with
self-sacrifice there is also purity and nobility."

"If I thought I alone need bear the consequences, I think I could do
anything," she whispered - "bear anything, renounce anything."

Again the quiet soothing of a prayer fell on her ears.  She listened,
and heard the old priest praying God an the Holy Virgin to help her to
find the courage for the sacrifice her heart called for, that if she
were about to enter the presence of the Most High, she might take with
her the cleansing of repentance and a self-sacrificing spirit.

She lay still for some little time listening to the soft cadence of his
voice, and then she opened her eyes and looked at him with a full,
sweet look.

"I will do it, Father," she said to him.  "Perhaps, if God understands
everything, He will let my anguish of renunciation absolve that other
from all sin.  It is the most I have to ask of all the powers in heaven
and earth."

"The Holy Mother comfort you, my child," he said; and with an earnest
benediction left her.

Then Lorraine motioned to the French nurse that she wanted her, and
gathering all her remaining strength asked for a telegraph form and
pencil.  The nurse supported her in her arms, while with a trembling
hand she traced faintly the words of her message.  It ran:

"Marked change for the better.  No need for haste.  Come in a few days.
- Lorraine."

It was addressed to Alymer Hermon, at The Middle Temple.

"Please take it now at once," she said.  She knew that the Frenchwoman
could not read English, and that Jean was not yet awake.


CHAPTER XLIV


In Alymer's room at the Middle Temple he and Hal were making their
arrangements to catch the next boat.

The moment he had spoken his decision she had turned to him with a
swift expression of approval, but, for the rest, her manner was
somewhat curt and business-like, and showed little of the old
friendliness.

It made him feel that, as far as she was concerned, he had sinned past
forgiveness; and he knew with that unerring instinct that sometimes
illumines a wrong action, that she judged him harshly because she knew
he had not loved Lorraine with all his strength.  How then could he
ever hope to tell her that one reason he had not loved Lorraine thus
was because, unconsciously, another woman had won his heart; further,
that that other woman was herself?

No; of course the day would never dawn when he would dare to tell her
that.  An eternity separated them.

But he tried not to think of it now; to remember only that Lorraine,
his best friend and his benefactress, was dying, and that she had sent
Hal to fetch him to her side.

His face was very grave, and he looked white and ill as Hal explained
what time he must meet her at the station, but he gave no sign of
flinching; no triumph in the world could now weaken his resolution.

"Very well, that is all arranged," said Hal, and at that moment there
was a knock at the door.  Alymer crossed the room and opened it
himself, and was handed a telegram.  He read it, looked for a moment as
if he could not grasp it, then, telling the bearer there was no reply,
closed the door, went back to Hal, and handed it to her without a word.

Hal read, half aloud:

"Marked change for the better.  No need for haste.  Come in a few days.
- Lorraine."

For some moments there was only silence, and then she looked at him
with troubled, perplexed eyes, and said:

"I don't quite know what to make of it."

"Doesn't it mean that she has passed some crisis and will live?" he
suggested.  "I think it must."

Hal still looked doubtful; and at that moment there was another knock
at the door.

Again Alymer opened it himself.  "Lord Denton particularly wishes to
see you," he was told.

"Show him in at once," he replied, and turned to tell Hal who was
coming.

Flip Denton had come to inquire for more detailed news of Lorraine than
he could get from her letters.  He gathered from them that  she was
remaining away for the whole winter theatrical season, because her
health was bad; but any suggestion on his part to run over to Brittany
and see her was persistently negatived.  Finally he had come to Alymer.

The moment he saw them he knew that something serious was wrong, and
that it concerned Lorraine.  But when, after learning she was very ill,
he asked Hal wat was the matter, and saw the scarlet blood flame into
her face, he said no more.

"I was with her yesterday," she told him, "and the doctor said he
feared she would not live many days.  She wanted Alymer, and I came
over to fetch  him."

"And you are going at once?" Denton asked him, with a curious
expression in his eyes.

"I have arranged to."

"Doesn't your great case come on this afternoon, or to-morrow morning?"

"Yes."

Denton's grave face did not change.  "I see," he said, and turned a
little aside.

Then Hal, who had the telegram in her hand, held it out to him.

"This has just come."

He read it, and his face cleared joyously.

"Why, that is splendid news - don't you think so?"  And he regarded Hal
with a slightly puzzled air.

"I hardly know what to think," Hal said.  "Yesterday she was very ill."

"Ah, but you had to leave early," reassuringly, "and she may have been
gaining strength all the afternoon, and had a very good night.  What
are you going to do?" looking at Alymer.

Alymer looked at Hal, and waited for her decision.

Hal only looked doubtful and troubled.

"I think you should stay for the lawsuit," Denton said, to help her.
"It is evident that Lorraine wished it, and she of all people would not
have Hermon miss such a chance if possible.  I understood Hall it was
only likely to last two or three days.  He has some clinching evidence,
I think."

"That is so," Alymer answered gravely; but he still waited to take his
cue from Hal.

"You think he should stay for it?" Hal asked Lord Denton.

"I certainly think that is what Lorraine would wish him to do."

"Very well."

Hal commenced to pull on her gloves as if there were no more to say,
and then Denton asked her:

"Will you wait too?"

"No; I am going back by the next boat."

"I will come with you."

She glanced at him with slight alarm, and then at Alymer.  Denton saw
the look and seemed surprised.  Hal's eyes asked Alymer what they were
to do.  He spoke with an effort.

"I expect Miss Vivian would be glad to see so old an great a friend as
Lord Denton."

"Of course she would," he said decidedly - and to Hal:

"What time do we leave Charing Cross?"

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. .

Hal spoke very little on the journey.  A nameless dread weighed on her
spirit, and a haunting fear for Lorraine.  She was oppressed by a sense
of deep sadness for the brilliant, succesful woman she had loved since
her school days, who was now, after all her triumphs, alone in that
little foreign village, caught in a maze of tangles and perplexities
which offered no peaceful solution.

She could not understand Alymer's part at all, but she was convinced
Lorraine's absorbing devotion to him was not reciprocated in like
manner.  If Lorraine learnt this as soon as she recovered, what did the
future hold for her again but more vain dreams, and bitter hopes that
could never see fulfilment?

She felt a little pitifully that life was very hard and difficult, even
when one had a fine courage and will to face it; and a leaden pall of
sorrow seemed to fold itself round her.

What of Dudley and his hopeless love?  Ethel and her inconsolable
grief?  Sir Edwin, and his secret bitterness? the gaunt music-teacher
and her barren, joyless life?

Across her mind passed some lines, that had a strong attraction for her:

"_So manny gods, so many creeds,
so many paths that wind and wind,
And just the art of being kind
Is all the sad world needs._"

Ah! in truth it was a sad world first of all; a sad, sad world in need
of kindness and comfort.  One could but go on trying to be kind, trying
to be strong.

It was the only thing in a life of pitfalls and easily made mistakes,
to just march straight forward - eyes front - and not let anything
daunt permanently.  She felt, more profoundly than ever, it was not
wise to turn aside, looking to right and left, questioning overmuch of
right and wrong, probing into the actions of others.

Each human being was as a soldier in a vast army, and all were there
under the same colours, led by the same general, to bear, with what
courage they could, the fortunes of war.  Two might be standing
together, and one be wounded and the other untouched; many disabled,
and many unhurt; some left on the field to die, others found and nursed
back to life.

But the soldier was not there to question.  If a comrade fell, it was
no concern of his how he fell - his concern was to try and help him to
safety, then go back and fight again, undismayed if his place was but a
little insignificant one in the smoke and dust, unseen by any but a
near neighbour perhaps as insignificant as himself.

That was the true spirit of the great soldier, whether he was in the
ranks, lost in the smoke, or whether, on a magnificent charger, he led
gloriously for all the world to see.

She remembered the change in Dudley, which had led him so quickly to
respond to her cry, and refrain from judging.  He was seeing things in
that light also, learning to fight his own fight as pluckily as he
could, and only to look upon the warfare of others as one ready to help
them if it chanced that he was able - learning in place of rules and
precepts, "just the art of being kind."

Well, together perhaps they could help Lorraine - if she came out of
this last encounter bruised and broken.

Then they arrived, and she and Lord Denton hastened down the short road
to the little green-shuttered house.  At the sound of the latch on the
gate the door opened quietly, and Jean, with tears streaming down her
face, came towards them, choking back gasping sobs.

Hal stood still a second, and then ran forward blindly with
outstretched hands.

"She is better, Jean - say she is better.  Oh, she must be, she must;
she wired yesterday to say there was great improveent."

Jean broke down into helpless weeping as she sobbed out:

"She died this morning at six o'clock."

For one moment Hal seemed too stunned to understand; then she swayed,
and fell heavily into Denton's arms.

Later when she had recovered, Jean told them of the restless,
nerve-racking night; of the priest's visit, and of the fast-ebbing
strength gathered together to write some message the nurse had taken to
the post office.  After that extreme exhaustion had set in, greatly
aggravated by the mental stress, and they could only watch her sinking
from hour to hour.

"She only roused once more," Jean said, "and that was to try and write
a message for you.  I have it there," and she produced a little folded
note.

In faint, tremulous words Hal read:

"Good-bye, darling Hal.  It is hard to be without you now, but you will
inderstand why I sent the message.  I want to tell you it has never
been Alymer's fault; do not blame him.  I ask it of you.  At the last
hour I have made what reparation I could.  Don't grieve for me.  I have
made so many mistakes, and now I am too tired to go on.  Give my dear,
dear love to Alymer, and say good-bye to Flip and mother.  I am not
unhappy now - only very, very tired.
Your own
Lorry."

For the first time since she had recovered from her faint, Hal broke
down, and Jean and Denton went quietly away, knowing it would be better
for her afterwards, and left her sobbing her heart out over her letter.

Two days later, flying the colours of a great victory, and flushed with
the pleasure of warm congratulations poured upon him from all sides,
Alymer Hermon stepped out upon the little station.

He had never doubted the truth of the message, and he carried his head
a little higher and his shoulders a little squarer, proud and glad to
come to Lorraine with the news of his greatest success, and tell her of
the proud position he had won almost solely through her.  For had she
not first imbued him with ambition and the real desire to achieve, and
then, at exactly the right moment, procured him the first little
success that meant so much?

The instant he knew the great case was won, he had dashed out of the
court, scribbled her a hurried wire, and driven frantically to Charing
Cross, meditating a special train to Dover, if he were too late.  He
was not, though the guard was just about to give the signal for
departure, and the boat-train bore him from the station, full of that
glad consciousness of a great achievement, to carry the news instantly
to her feet.

On the little station in Brittany Denton was waiting for him.  And when
Alymer saw him the light faded out of his eyes, and the smile from his
lips.

"She died before we got there," Denton told him.  "We daren't let you
know, because she sent that message, on purpose to give you your chance
in the case."" Then, very kindly: "Sit down, old chap.  There's no
hurry.  Wait and rest a while here."

Alymer sat down on the little wooden station bench, and buried his face
in his hands.


About the candles Fassola says that there was a kind of automatic
arrangement for getting them like that whereby we can now buy
butter-scotch or matches at the railway stations, by dropping a
penny into a slot.

He says:-

"And as the figure of Christ can only be seen by the help of candles
(for which reason all pilgrims whose means permit are accustomed
to burn them, being naturally prompted thereto each one according
to his faith)--by throwing money into a hole wherein the same candles
lie, each pilgrim can be made quite comfortable, and contented."

["Gettando il denaro per un buco dove stanno le medesime candelette,
commodamente puo restar ogni divoto contento."]
"The mercies vouchsafed here," continues the same writer; "are
innumerable--in all parts may be seen votive pictures both old and
recent."

In the open cloister hard by is shown the wooden bed on which
S.
Carlo lay when he came to visit the Sacro Monte, and the stone which
is said to be a facsimile of the one rolled in front of the Holy
Sepulchre itself. Many years ago I spent several weeks at Varallo
sketching and painting on the Sacro Monte. A most excellent and
lovable old priest, now doubtless long since dead, took rather a
fancy to me, and used to implore me to become a Catholic.

One day he took me up to this stone and spoke long and earnestly about
it. What a marvellous miracle it was. There was the stone; I could
see it for myself. What a dumb but eloquent testimony was it not offering;
how could I account for such things?

and more to the same effect, all said obviously in good faith, and with
no idea save that of guiding me to the truth. I was powerless.
I could not go into facts or arguments--I could not be obstinate without
getting something like his consent--and he was instant in season and out
of season in endeavouring to get mine. At last I could stand it no
longer, and said, "My dearest sir, I am the son of an English
clergyman who is himself the son of another English clergyman; my
father and mother are living.

If you will tell me that I am to hold my father born in more than
common sin, to have committed a crime in marrying my mother, and
that I am to hold myself as one who ought never to have been born,
then I will accept what you have said about that stone.

Till then let me go my way, and you yours." He said not a word more,
and never again approached the subject; the nearest he ever went to it
was to say that he liked to see me sketching about the Sacro Monte,
for it could do me nothing but good. I trust that I have done it no
harm.

The chapel representing the Magdalene at the feet of the risen Christ has
disappeared. It contained two statues only, and two prophets by
Gaudenzio were painted outside on the wall. It stood "Sotto un auanzo
dei Portici antichi seguentemente al Sepolcro."

It was probably a very early work.

Through an arch under the raised portico or arcaded gallery are three
small ruined cells called now "Il Paradiso," and numbered 43, 44,
and 45; of one of these Fassola tells us that it contained "many
modern statues" by Gaudenzio Sceti, and frescoes by Gianoli; they
are all now mere wrecks.

There is no important work by Gaudenzio Sceti remaining on the Sacro
Monte, but there is a terra-cotta crucifix with a Virgin and a St. John
by him, of no great value, in the church of S. Gaudenzio. What remains
of his work on the Sacro Monte itself consists of statues of Sta. Anna
and the Virgin as a child upon her lap in the chapel or cell
numbered 43.

Chapel 44 need not detain us. What few remains of figures it contains
are uninteresting and ruined.

I have already spoken of chapel No. 45, which once represented an entombment
of the Madonna, as in all probability the oldest building, and as
certainly containing the oldest, and by no means least interesting
frescoes on the Sacro Monte.

There is nothing inside the chapel except these frescoes, but outside
it there are many scrawls, of which the earliest I have noticed
is 1520--the supposed 1437 being certainly 1537.

The writer of one of these scrawls has added the words "fuit hic" to
his signature as John Van Eyck has done to the signature of
his portrait of John Arnolfini and his wife. I have found this
addition of "fuit hic" in a signature of a certain "Cardinalis de
al . . . " who scratched his name "1389 die 19 Mag" on a fresco to
the left of the statue of S.

Zenone in the church S.
Zenone at Verona. On a fresco in the very interesting castle of Fenis
in the valley of Aosta, to which I hope to return in another work,
there is scratched "Hic sponsus cum sponsa fuit 1790 25 May," the
"May" being an English May; Jones and I thought the writer had begun
to add "London" but had stopped.

The "fuit hic," therefore, of John Van Eyck's signature should not be
translated as we might be tempted to wish to translate it, "This
was John Van Eyck."

Returning to the Sacro Monte, there remains only the Chiesa Vecchia,
removed at the end of the last century to make room for the building
that was till lately the "casa degli esercizi," or house in which
the priests on the mountain performed their spiritual exercises.

This is now let out in apartments during the summer, and is
called the Casino.

The old sacristy, now used as the archivio of the Sacro Monte, still
remains, and contains a fresco by Lanini, that bears strong traces
of the influence of his master Gaudenzio.

Besides the impress of Christ's foot and the Assumption of the Virgin,
the church contained an Annunciation by Gaudenzio and frescoes of St.
Catherine and St.

Cecilia; the Cupola was also decorated by him. This work was undertaken
in 1530, the greater angels being by Gaudenzio and the smaller by Lanini
and Fermo Stella.

These frescoes all perished when the church was pulled down.

The present Chiesa Maggiore was begun on the 9th of June 1614-- D'Enrico's
design having, so Bordiga says, been approved on the 1st of April
in that year.

Fassola says that in 1671 the only parts completed were the Choir
and Cupola, the whole body of the church being left unfinished.

Bordiga speaks of the church as having been finished in 1649, in which
year, on the feast of the Birth of the Virgin, her image was taken from
the old church and placed in the new, so when Fassola says "unfinished"
he must refer to decoration only.

The steps leading up to the church and the unfinished columns were
erected in 1825 from designs by Marchese Don Luigi Cagnola, the
architect of the Arco della Pace at Milan.

It was ere long found that the stone selected was unreliable, so
that all must be done over again; the work has, therefore, been
suspended.

The Cupola is covered with about 140 modelled figures of angels, by
Dionigi Bussola and Giambattista Volpino, Milanese sculptors,
who worked from designs made by Antonio Tempesta, a Florentine.
They did this work about the year 1660.

The brothers Montalti painted the frescoes, some more highly coloured
groups being added by Antonio Cucchi of Milan in 1750.

In the crypt there is a sumptuous shrine containing the statue of
the Madonna, said to have been made by St.

Luke.

This was erected in 1854, but on the night between the 4th and 5th of
October in the same year the crown was stolen from the Virgin's head,
and in the following year there was a solemn expiatory function,
with festivities extending over three days, in order to celebrate
the replacing of the stolen crown by a new one.

It cannot be said that any of the works of art now in the church are of
considerable interest, but an important work of art was nevertheless
produced in it at the celebration of the fourth centenary of the
birth of Gaudenzio Ferrari, which was held in 1885.

I refer to the Mass by Cagnoni, which was here performed for the
first time, and which showed that the best traditions of old Italian
ecclesiastical music are still occasionally adhered to.

I was present at the production of the work, and have heard no modern
Italian music that has pleased me nearly as much. I ventured to ask the
Maestro for the baton he had used in conducting it, and am proud
to keep it as a memorial of a fine performance of a very fine work.

The baton is several old newspapers neatly folded up and covered
with silk.

CHAPTER XVI. TABACHETTI'S WORK AT CREA.

I have now to add a short account of what remains of Tabachetti's
work at Crea, to the very inadequate description of his work at
Varallo that has been given in some earlier chapters.

Crea is most easily approached from Casale, a large opulent commercial
town upon the Po, that has already received the waters of the Dora
Baltea, and though not yet swelled by the influx of the Ticino and
Adda, has become a noble river.

The town is built entirely on the plain, but the rich colline of the
Monferrato district begin to rise immediately outside it, and
continue in an endless series of vineclad slopes and village-capped
hill-tops as far as the eye can reach.

These colline are of exquisite beauty in themselves, and from their
sides the most magnificent views of Piedmont and the Alps extend
themselves in every direction.

The people are a well-grown comely race, kind and easy to get on
with.

Nothing could exceed the civility and comfort of the Hotel Rosa
Rossa, the principal inn of the city. The town contains many picturesque
bits, but in our short stay we did not see any very remarkable architectural
features, and it does not form an exception to the rule that the
eastern cities of Northern Italy are far more beautiful than the
western.

The churches, never one would imagine very striking, have been modernised
and restored; nor were we told that there is any collection of
pictures in the town which is likely to prove of interest.

The visitor should leave Casale by the 7.58 A.M. train on the line
for Asti, and get out at Serralunga, the third station on the road.

Here the sanctuary of Crea can be seen crowning a neighbouring
collina with a chapel that has an arcaded gallery running round it,
like some of those at Varese.

Many other chapels testify to the former importance of the place; on
the whole, however, the effect of the buildings cannot compare
with that of the sanctuaries of Varallo and Varese.

Taking a small carriage, which can always be had at the station (fare,
to the sanctuary and back, eight francs), my friend, Mr. H. F. Jones,
and myself ascended to Serralunga, finding the views continually
become more and more bewitching as we did so; soon after passing
through Serralunga we reached the first chapel, and after another
zigzag or two of road found ourselves in the large open court in
front of the church.

Here there is an inn, where any one who is inclined to do so could
very well sleep.

The piazza of the sanctuary is some two thousand feet above the sea,
and the views are in some respects finer even than those from the
Sacro Monte of Varese itself, inasmuch as we are looking towards
the chain of the Alps, instead of away from them.

We have already seen that the sanctuary at Crea was begun about 1590, a
hundred years or so later than the Sacro Monte of Varallo, and a dozen
years earlier than that of Varese. The church attached to the
convent, in which a few monks still remain, contains a chapel with
good frescoes by Macrino D'Alba; they are somewhat damaged, and
the light is so bad that if the guardiano of the sanctuary had not
kindly lent us a candle we could not have seen them.

It is not easy to understand how they can have been painted in such
darkness; they are, however, the most important work of this painter
that I have yet seen, and give a more favourable impression of him
than is likely to be formed elsewhere.

Behind the high altar there is an oil picture also by Macrino d'Alba,
signed as by the following couplet, which they may scan who can:

"Hoc tibi, diva parens, posuit faciente Macrino Bladratensis opus
Johes ille Jacobus.1503."

The "Macrino," and "1503," are in red paint, the rest in black.

The picture is so dark, and the view of it so much obstructed by
the high altar, that it is impossible to see it well, but it seemed
good.

There is nothing else in the church, nor need the frescoes in the chapels
containing the terra-cotta figures be considered; we were told they
were painted by Caccia, better known as Moncalvo, but we could see
nothing in them to admire.

The sole interest of the sanctuary--except, of course, the surpassing
beauty of its position-- is vested in what few remains of Tabachetti's
work may be found there, and in the light that these may throw upon what
he has left at Varallo.

All the work by Tabachetti now remaining at Crea consists of the
Martyrdom of St.

Eusebius chapel, almost all of which is by him, perhaps a figure
or two in the Sposalizio chapel, but certainly not the figures of St.

Joseph and the Virgin, which are not even ascribed to him, the Virgin
in the Annunciation chapel, some parts of the Judith and Holofernes,
with which this subject is strangely backed; some few of the figures
in the Marriage Feast at Cana chapel, and lastly, the wreck, which
is all that remains, of the Assumption of the Virgin--commonly
called "Il Paradiso."

All the other chapels are either in a ruined state or have been
renewed with modern figures during the last thirty years, and more
especially during the last ten, at the instance, and, as we understood,
at the expense, of the present Archbishop of Milan, who does his
campagna here every summer.

The most important chapel is the Martyrdom of St. Eusebius, below
the sanctuary itself. The saint is supposed to have been martyred in
 front of the church of St. Andrea at Vercelli.

Some four or so of the figures to the spectator's right are modern
restorations; among them, however, there is a child of extreme
sweetness and beauty, which must certainly be by Tabachetti, looking
up and clinging to the dress of its mother, who has been restored,
and is as commonplace as the child is the reverse.

There are two restored or rather entirely new priests close by the mother
and child, and near these is another new figure--a girl immediately to
the child's right; this is so absurdly bad and out of proportion that
it is not easy to understand how even the restorer can have allowed
himself to make it. All the rest of the figures are by Tabachetti. A
little behind the mother and child, but more to the spectator's
right, and near to the wall of the chapel, there stands a boy one
of whose lower eyelids is paralysed, and whose expression is one
of fear and pain.

This figure is so free alike from exaggeration or shortcoming, that
it is hard to praise it too highly.

Another figure in the background to the spectator's left--that of a
goitred cretin who is handing stones to one of the stoners, has
some of the same remarkably living look as is observable in the two
already referred to; so also has another man in a green skull-cap,
who is holding a small battle-axe and looking over the stoner's
shoulders.

Two of the stoners are very powerful figures. The man on horseback, in
the background, appears to be a portrait probably of a benefactor. In
spite of restoration, the work is still exceedingly impressive.

The figures behind the saint act well together, the crowd is a
crowd--a one in many, and a many in one--not, as with every one
except Tabachetti who has tried to do a crowd in sculpture, a mere
collection of units, that, whatever else they may be, are certainly
not crowding one another.

The main drawback of the work is that the chapel is too small for
the subject- -a matter over which Tabachetti probably had no
control.

It is with very great regret that I have been unable to photograph
the work, but I was flatly refused permission to do so, though I applied
through influential people to the Archbishop himself. No one need be
at the trouble of going to see it who is not already impressed with
a sense of Tabachetti's in some respects unrivalled genius, and
who does not know how to take into consideration the evil influences
of all sorts with which he was surrounded; those, however, who
realise the magnitude of the task attempted, who will be at the
pains of putting themselves, as far as may be, in the artist's place
and judging of the work from the stand-point intended by him, and
who will also in their imagination restore the damage which three
centuries of exposure and restoration must assuredly have involved,
will find themselves rewarded by a fuller comprehension of the work
of a sculptor of the foremost rank than they can attain elsewhere
except at Varallo itself.

I have said that some of the figures in the Sposalizio chapel, except
Joseph and Mary, are ascribed to Tabachetti. I do not know on what
grounds the ascription rests; they have been restored,--clogged
with shiny paint, and suffered every ill that could well befall
them short of being broken up and carted away.

Any one who sampled Tabachetti by these figures might well be disappointed;
two or three may be by him, but hardly more.

In spite, however, of all that may be justly urged against them,
they are marked by the same attempt at concert and unity of purpose
which goes so far to redeem individual comparative want of interest.

In the background is a coloured bas- relief of Rachel and Jacob at
the well and five camels.

In the Annunciation chapel the Virgin may well be, as she is said
to be, by Tabachetti; she is a very beautiful figure, though not
so fine as his Madonna and Child in the church of St.

Gaudenzio at Varallo; she has been badly painted, and it is hard to say
how much she has not suffered in consequence. Some parts of the story
of Judith and Holofernes in the background are also good, but I do not
think I should have seen Tabachetti in them unless I had been told
that he was there.

The wreck of the chapel commonly called "Il Paradiso" crowns the
hill, conspicuous for many a mile in every direction, but on reaching
the grating we found no trace of the figures that doubtless once
covered the floor of the chapel.

All that remained was a huge pendant of angels, cherubs, and saints,
swarming as it were to the ceiling in an inextricable knot of arms,
legs, wings, faces, and flowing drapery; two circles of saints, bishops,
and others, who might be fitly placed in Paradise, rising one above
the other high up the walls of the chapel--the lower circle
full-length figures, and the other half-length; and above this a
higher and richly coloured crown of musical saints and angels in
good preservation.

In passing I may say that this is the place where the Vecchietto ought
to have come from, though it is not likely that he did so.

The pendant retains much of its original colour, and must once have
been a gorgeous and fitting climax. Still, no one can do much
with such a subject. To attempt it is to fly in the face of every canon
by the observance of which art can alone give lasting pleasure.

"You really ought, you know," she said, "out of consideration for all
the poor things left hoping against hope, and the numbers that are
yearly added to them!"

"I have made my choice," he answered; "it is not my fault about the
vain hopes.  It is the obstinacy of one woman, who is keeping the
others in the unfortunate condition you describe."

But she only smiled lightly, and put him off again, concluding with:

"I should be frightened out of my life at possessing anything so
beauteous and attractive in the way of a husband."

So Hermon worked on, and waited, believing in his star.

Yet there were times when the apparent hopelessness of it weighed
heavily on his mind - times when the very lustre of his success seemed
only to mock him, because of that one thing he craved in vain.

It was so when the greatest achievement of his life came to his hands.

It was given him to plead for a woman's life against a charge of
poisoning her husband, pitting his youth and slender experience against
the greatest advocate of the Crown.  The case caused a great stir, and
with a growing wonderment and pride she hardly dared to account for.
Hal followed the newspaper reports day by day.

The evening before the speech for the defence he came to her.  She
greeted him as usual, saying little about his present notoriety, but
she noticed that he looked careworn, as if the strain were becoming too
much for him; and then suddenly he stated his errand.

"I want you to come to the court to-morrow, Hal.  I - I - have a
feeling I want you to be there when I am speaking.  Will you come?"

She looked up doubtfully.

"Why do you want me?"

"I hardly know.  I mean to save this woman if I can.  She did not give
the poison.  I am quite certain of it; but we can't prove it
absolutely.  We can only appeal in such a way to the jury that they
will feel the case is not merely not proven against her, but that she
is innocent.  I think it would inspire me more than anything if you
were there."  He paused, then added: "I love you so much, Hal, I feel
as if I shall save her life if you are there."

Hal looked touched, and agreed to go if he would arrange everything,
and telephone to her what time to arrive.

The next day she went to the court with the card he had given, and
found herself received with the utmost deference, and ushered at once
to a seat reserved for her.

A few minutes afterwards Alymer stood up to make his great speech, and
then Hal heard a subdued murmur around her, and saw that the judge was
watching him with some interest and expectancy.

It was the first time she had seen him in his wig and gown, in court,
and her heart began to beat strangely.  She felt suddenly and
unaccountably incensed with the women all round, who whispered and
gazed.  "What was he to them anyway!  How idiotic of them to murmur to
each other how splendid he looked!  What did he care for their
approval?"

Her heart carried her a little farther.  "What is he to you?..." it
asked.  She felt a sudden warm glow of pride, and her eyes grew very
soft as she watched him.

Then he began to speak, and it seemed as if everything in heaven and
earth has paused to listen.  Surely there was no big thoroughfare with
hurrying multitudes just outside, no continual stream of noisy,
hurrying traffic; no busy newspaper offices awaiting each flying
message - nothing anywhere but that crowded hall, that white-faced
accused woman waiting for death or freedom, that man in his beauty of
manhood and power straining every nerve to save her.

An hour passed.  No one spoke, no one moved.  Sometimes a sob, hastily
stifled, broke the oppresive hush, sometimes a stifled cough.

Alymer rarely raised his voice, for his was no impassioned, heated
declaration.  It was a magnificent piece of quiet oratory, which
carried every one along by its earnestness and convincing calm, and was
intensified by the look upon his noble, resolute face.

After a time every one knew instinctively that he had won.  The tension
grew less taut and more emotinal.  Women began to weep softly and
restrainedly.  Men cleared their throats again and again.  Some one
sitting next to Hal apparently knew him, and knew her.

"My God," he breathed in her ear, "he's magnificent.  He's saved her.
I wouldn't have missed this for anything.  I'm proud to be his friend."

Hal's eyes suddenly filled with tears.  She began to feel dazed and
faint.  It had been too much for her, and the relief was overwhelming.

She thought of Lorraine, and her heart swelled to think he had so
gloriously fulfilled her vast hopes, and crowned all she had done for
him.  She longed that she might have been there, and then felt
mysteriously that she not only was there, but was speaking to her.  In
a vague, unreal, mystical way, Lorraine was pleading with her to give
him his happiness.

She looked again, confusedly, at the big, strong, calm man; and
something that had been growing in her heart for months took shape and
form.

What did the other women matter?  He was hers - hers - hers.  Why stop
to question or demur?  What did anything matter but that he had loved
her so long and faithfully; and that at last she loved him?

In a stress of unendurable emotion, she got up unsteadily, and left the
court.

A quarter of an hour later, Alymer finished his speech, and sat down
instantly turning his head to look for her.  Instead of the familiar,
eager face of the first hour, he saw the empty space, and his
overwrought mind sank to a dull level of bitter disappointment.

She was not impressed, then - not even interested enough to stay until
the end.  Oh, what did it matter?  She was hard - hard, he was a fool
to love her so.

The jury went away and came back with their verdict of "Not guilty."

There was a rush and buzz of congratulations.  He smiled, because he
had to smile, and grasped outstretched hands because he had to grasp
them.  The moment it was possible to get away, he walked blindly and
hurriedly to the entrance, and got into a taxi, before the waiting
crowd had had time to recognise him.

"Where to?" a policeman asked him, and for a moment he was at a loss to
know.  Then he gave Hal's address.  "Better have it out and done with,"
was his thought.  Once for all he would make her tell him if it was
hopeless, and if she said yes, he would go away and try to forget her
in another country.

When he was shown into Hal's little sitting-room, he found her
crouching on a footstool in the firelight, before the fire.  He stood a
moment or two and looked at her, and then he said in a slightly harsh
voice:

"I suppose you hurried away because you were bored.  I thought you
would have stayed until the end.  I was a fool.  Nothing I do ever has
interested you, or ever will."

Hal did not look round.  She was staring into the flames, with her chin
resting in her hands.  When he paused she said calmly:

"I can't hear what you say so far away."

He moved across the room and stood on the hearth beside her, towering
above her, with his eyes on the opposite wall.

"I don't know why I came here at all," he continued; "but it didn't
seem any use going anywhere else.  Why did you run away in the middle!
Did you want to punish my presumption for wishing to try and
distinguish myself before you, as well as save a woman's life and
honour?"

Dey had to go, and set in de back or in de gallery.

"When freedom come, de slaves hired out mostly as share-croppers. A little
later, some got small farms to rent. Since dat time dey have worked
at most anything dey could get to do."I haven't got a beanstalk," she added.

He leaned a little towards her.

"And if you had?" he asked tensely.

"If I had, I would perhaps climb up it."

He leaned lower still, his heart thumping yet more wildly.

"If you climbed up a ladder like that, you would be bound to climb into
my arms."

"Well - and what if I did?" she said.


THE END.