NIGHTS

Rome Venice London Paris

      *      *      *      *      *

LIFE OF
JAMES McNEILL WHISTLER

BY ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL
AND JOSEPH PENNELL

THOROUGHLY REVISED, FIFTH EDITION

The Authorized Life, with much new matter added which was not available
at the time of issue of the elaborate two-volume edition, now out of
print. Fully illustrated with 97 plates reproduced from Whistler's
works. Crown octavo. XX-450 pages, Whistler binding, deckle edge. $8.50
net. Three-quarter grain levant, $7.50 net.

OUR PHILADELPHIA

BY ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL
ILLUSTRATED BY JOSEPH PENNELL

An intimate personal record in text and in picture of the lives of the
famous author and artist in the city whose recent story will be to many
an absolute surprise--a city with a brilliant history, great beauty,
immense wealth. Mr. Pennell's one hundred and five illustrations, made
especially for this volume, will be a revelation in their interest and
as art inspired by the love of his native town. Quarto, 7-1/2 by 10
inches, XIV-552 pages. Handsomely bound in red buckram, boxed. $7.50
net.

JOSEPH PENNELL'S PICTURES
OF THE PANAMA CANAL

_FIFTH PRINTING_

Twenty-eight reproductions of lithographs made on the Isthmus of Panama,
January-March, 1912, with Mr. Pennell's introduction, giving his
experiences and impressions, and a full description of each picture.
Volume 7-1/4 by 10 inches. Beautifully printed on dull-finished paper.
Lithograph by Mr. Pennell on cover. $1.25 net.

JOSEPH PENNELL'S PICTURES
IN THE LAND OF TEMPLES

Forty reproductions of lithographs made in the Land of Temples,
March-June, 1913, together with impressions and notes by the artist.
Introduction by W.H.D. Rouse, Litt. D. Crown quarto, printed on
dull-finished paper, lithograph by Mr. Pennell on cover. $1.25 net.

[Illustration: Painting by J. McLure Hamilton
"J--."]

      *      *      *      *      *


NIGHTS

Rome Venice
in the Æsthetic Eighties

London Paris
in the Fighting Nineties

by

ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL

With Sixteen Illustrations


[Illustration]

Philadelphia and London
J. B. Lippincott Company
MCMXVI

Copyright, 1916, by J. B. Lippincott Company

Published March, 1916

Printed by J. B. Lippincott Company
at the Washington Square Press
Philadelphia, U.S.A.


PREFACE

There are times when we recall old memories much as we take down old
favourites from our bookshelves, just to see how they have worn, how
they have stood the test of years. Sometimes the books have worn so well
that we cannot put them away until we have read every word to the very
last again, we have not done with the memories until we have lived again
through every moment of the past to which they belong. It is in this
spirit that I brought my Nights of long ago to the test, and, finding
that for me they stand it triumphantly and are still as vivid and
vociferous and full of life as they were of old, I have not had the
courage to loose my hold upon them and let them drift back once more
into unfriendly silence.

It contributes to my pleasure in this revival of my Nights, that I have
been helped in many ways to give more substantial form to the familiar
ghosts who wander through them. My debt of gratitude is great. Mr.
William Nicholson has been willing for me to use his portrait of Henley
and from Mrs. Henley I have the bust by Rodin. Mr. Frederick H. Evans
has lent me the very interesting photograph he made of Beardsley, to
whom he was so good a friend, and to Mr. John Lane, the publisher of the
_Yellow Book_, I owe Beardsley's sketch of Harland. To Mr. John Ross I
am indebted for the drawing of Phil May by himself never before
published, to the Houghton Mifflin Company for the portrait of Vedder,
to Mr. Duveneck for the painting of himself by Mr. Joseph de Camp. The
photograph of Iwan-Müller and George W. Steevens reminds me of the day
so long since when I went with them and Mrs. Steevens to Mr. Frederick
Hollyer's and we were all photographed in turn, so that this record of
the visit seems surely mine by right. It was Mr. Hollyer, too, who
photographed the fine portrait "Bob" Stevenson painted of himself, and
it was Mrs. Stevenson who gave me my copy of it. I have Mr. J. McLure
Hamilton's permission to publish his portrait of J--, while J--has been
so generous with his prints, portraits of old backgrounds of the Nights,
that I can add this book to the many in which I have profited by his
collaboration. I have also to thank the Editor of the _Atlantic
Monthly_, in which my Nights in Rome and in Venice first appeared, for
his consent to their re-publication now in book form.

                          ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL

3. Adelphi Terrace House, London
      December 25, 1915


CONTENTS

    I. DAYS: A WORD TO EXPLAIN  11

   II. NIGHTS: IN ROME          27

  III. NIGHTS: IN VENICE        71

   IV. NIGHTS: IN LONDON       115

    V. NIGHTS: IN PARIS        225


ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                   PAGE

  "J--"                              _Frontispiece_
    From the Painting by J. McLure Hamilton

  OLD AND NEW ROME                                   35
    From the Etching by Joseph Pennell

  ELIHU VEDDER                                       56

  FRANK DUVENECK                                     76
    From the Painting by Joseph R. DeCamp

  THE CAFÉ ORIENTALE, VENICE                         82
    From the Etching by Joseph Pennell

  OUT OF OUR LONDON WINDOWS                         122
    From the Mezzotint by Joseph Pennell

  W.E. HENLEY                                       125
    From the Bust by Auguste Rodin

  W.E. HENLEY                                       127
    From the Painting by William Nicholson

  IWAN-MÜLLER AND GEORGE W. STEEVENS                154
    From a Photograph by Frederick Hollyer

  "BOB" STEVENSON                                   160
    From the Painting by Himself

  HENRY HARLAND                                     172
    From the Drawing by Aubrey Beardsley

  AUBREY BEARDSLEY                                  178
    From the Photograph by Frederick H. Evans

  PHIL MAY IN CAP AND BELLS                         193
    From a previously unpublished Drawing by Himself

  IN THE CHAMPS-ELYSÉES, PARIS                      235
    From the Etching by Joseph Pennell

  THE HALF HOUR BEFORE DINNER, PARIS                244
    From the Etching by Joseph Pennell

  ARISTIDE BRUANT OF THE CABARET DU MIRLITON, PARIS 290
    From the Poster by Toulouse-Lautrec


I

DAYS

A WORD TO EXPLAIN


NIGHTS

DAYS

A WORD TO EXPLAIN

I


If I wrote the story of my days during these last thirty years, it would
be the story of hard work. No doubt the work often looked to others
uncommonly like play, but it was work all the same.

From the start it must have struck those who did not understand and
who were interested, or curious enough to spare a thought, that my
principal occupation was to amuse myself. When I was young, in
America the "trip to Europe" was considered the crowning pleasure,
or symbol of pleasure, within the possibility of hope for even those
who were most given to pleasure. In Philadelphia it also stood for
money--not necessarily wealth, but the comfortably assured income
that made existence behind Philadelphia's spacious red brick fronts
the average Philadelphian's right. And it was with this trip that J.
and I began our life together. But misleading as was the impression
made to all whom it did not concern, great satisfaction as it was to
my family, who saw in it the ease and comfort it represented to the
Philadelphian, we ourselves, with the best will in the world, could
imagine it no holiday for us, nor accept it as the symbol of the
correct Philadelphia income. Our pleasure was in the fact of the
many and definite commissions which obliged us to go to Europe to
earn any sort of an income, correct or otherwise--commissions
without which we could have faced neither the trip nor marriage. I
can remember that during the two or three weeks between our wedding
and our sailing we were both kept busy, J. with drawings he had to
finish for the _Century_, and I with the last touches to an article
for the _Atlantic_. And if the days on the boat gave us breathing
space, if not much work, except in preparation, was done, the reason
was that the new commissions commenced only with our landing at
Liverpool.

From the moment of our arrival in England I see in memory my life by day
as one long vista of work. It is mostly a beautiful vista, the more
beautiful, I am ready to admit, because the work I owed the beauty to
forced me to keep my eyes open and my wits about me. Under the
circumstances, I simply could not afford to let what small powers of
observation I possess grow rusty, for, no matter what else might happen,
I had to turn my journey into some sort of readable "copy" afterwards.
If I know parts of Europe fairly well, I am indebted not to the
fashionable need of taking waters, not to following the approved routes
of travel, not to meeting my fellow countrymen in hotels as alike as two
peas no matter how different the capitals to which they belong, not to
any fatuous preference of another country to my own, but to the work
that brought us to England and the Continent and has kept us there, with
fresh commissions, ever since.

It was work that sent us from end to end of Great Britain and gave me my
knowledge of the land. As I look back to those remote days after our
arrival in Liverpool, I see J. and myself on an absurd, old-fashioned,
long-superannuated Rotary tandem tricycle riding along winding roads and
lanes, between the hedgerows and under the elms English prose and verse
had long since made familiar, in and out of little grey or red villages
clustered round the old church tower, passing through great towns of
many factories and high smoke-belching chimneys, halting for months
under the shadow of some old castle or cathedral that had been
appointed one of our stations by the way. Or I see us both trudging on
foot, knapsacks on our backs, climbing up and down the brown and purple
hills of the Highlands, circling the peaceful lochs, skirting the swift
mountain streams, tramping along the lonely roads of the far Hebrides:
summer after summer journeying to the beautiful places the usual tourist
in Britain journeys to for pleasure, but where we went because papers
and magazines at home, with a wisdom we applauded, had asked us to go
and make the drawings and write the articles by which we paid our way in
the world.

And it was work that sent us from end to end of France, and now in
looking back I see J. and myself on the neat, compact Humber
tandem,--then so new-fashioned, to-day as out-moded as the
Rotary,--riding along straight poplared roads, through well-ordered
forests and over wild hills, between vineyards, one year under the grey
skies of Flanders or among the lagoons of Picardy and another under the
brilliant sunshine of Provence or through the rich pastures of the sweet
Bourbonnais, in and out of ancient villages and towns as full of romance
as their names, with halts as long under the shadow of still nobler
churches and fairer castles, getting to know the people and their ways
and how pleasant life is in the land where beauty and thrift, gaiety and
toil, courtesy and wit, go ever hand in hand.

And again it was work that sent us still further south, to Italy which
in my younger years I had longed for the more because I fancied it as
inaccessible to me as Lhassa or the Grande Chartreuse. And again down
the beautiful vista of work I see J. and myself still on the neat
compact Humber, but now pushing up long white zigzags to grim
hill-towns, rushing down the same zigzags into radiant valleys of fruit
and flowers, winding between vineyards where the vines were festooned
from tree to tree, and fields where huge, white, wide-horned oxen pulled
the plough, bumping over the stones of old Roman roads, parting with the
wonderful tandem only for the long stay in wonderful Rome and wonderful
Venice.

And again it was work that sent us, now each on a safety bicycle--a
change that explains how time was flying--by the canals and on the flat
roads of Belgium and Holland; into Germany, through the Harz with Heine
for guide, by the castled Rhine and Moselle that may have lost their
reputation for a while but that can never lose their loveliness; into
Austria, on to Hungary, up in the Carpathians and to those heights from
which the Russian Army but the other day looked down upon the Hungarian
plain; into Spain, to sun-burnt Andalusia, for weeks in the Alhambra, to
windy Madrid, for days in the Prado; into Switzerland, the "Playground
of Europe," where our work must have seemed more than ever like play as
we climbed, on our cycles and on foot, over the highest of the high
Alpine passes, one after the other; again into Italy; again into France;
again through England; again--but they were too numerous to count, all
those journeys that claimed so many of my days and taught me, while I
worked, all I have learned of Europe.

Of such well-travelled roads anyway, it may be said people have heard as
much as people can stand, and therefore I am wise to hold my peace about
days spent upon them. But on the best-travelled road adventure lies in
wait for the traveller who seeks it, chance awaits the discoverer who
knows his business. Why, to this day J. and I are appealed to for facts
about Le Puy because a quarter of a century ago we made our discovery of
the town as the Most Picturesque Place in the World and sought our
adventure by proclaiming the fact in print. But our discoveries might
have been greater, our adventures more daring, and I should be silent
about them now for quite another and far more sensible reason, and this
is that I was not silent at the time. The tale of those old days is
told.


II

Other journeys I made had no less an air of holiday-taking and meant no
less hard labour. For most men work is bounded by the four walls of the
office or the factory, or the shop, or the school, and rigidly regulated
by hours, and they consequently suspect the amateur or the dawdler in
the artist or writer who works where and when and as he pleases.
Journalism has led me into pleasant places but never by the path of
idleness. Rare has been the month of May that has not found me in Paris,
not for the sunshine and gaiety that draw the tourist to it in that gay
sunlit season, but for industrious days, with my eyes and catalogue and
note-book, in the _Salons_. Few have been the International Exhibitions,
from Glasgow to Ghent, from Antwerp to Venice, that I have missed, and
if in my devoted attendance I might easily have been mistaken for the
tireless pleasure-seeker, if I got what fun I could at odd moments out
of my opportunities, never was I without my inseparable note-book and
pencil in my hand or in my pocket, never without good, long, serious
articles to be written in my hotel bedroom. Even in London when I might
have passed for the idlest stroller along Bond Street or Piccadilly on
an idle afternoon, oftener than not I have been bound for a gallery
somewhere with the prospect of long hours' writing as the result of it.
But though the task varied, the tale of these days as well has been
told, and has duly appeared in the long columns of many a paper, in the
long articles of many a magazine.


III

As time went on, my journeys were fewer and J. took his oftener by
himself. A new variety of task was set me that left so little leisure
for the galleries that I gave up "doing" them for my London papers. My
days went to the making of books which, whether I wrote them alone or in
collaboration with J., required my undivided attention. When these were
such books as the Life of My Uncle, Charles Godfrey Leland, or the Life
of Whistler, they called for research, days of reading in the Art
Library at South Kensington, the British Museum, the London Library,
days of seeing people and places, days of travelling, days of
correspondence, days upon days at my desk writing--these days crowded
with interesting incident, curious surprises, amusing talk, hours of
hope, hours of black despair--in their own way days of discovery and
adventure. But in this case again the tale has been told and I am not so
foolish as to sit down and tell it anew, sorely as I may be tempted.
Anybody who reads further will find that the principal truth my nights
have revealed to me is that the man who is interested--really
interested--in something, does not want to talk, and often cannot think,
about anything else. But it does not follow that he can make sure of
listeners as keen to hear about it. The writer may, in his enthusiasm,
write the same book twice, but even if it prove a "best-seller" the
first time, he runs a risk the second of seeing it disposed of as a
remainder.


IV

So it has been throughout my working life: my day's task has had no
other object than to get itself chronicled in print. If _what_ the work
was that filled my day is not known, it could not interest anybody were
I to write about it now. If _how_ I worked during all those long hours
is to me an all-absorbing subject and edifying spectacle, I am not so
vain as not to realize that I must be the only person to find it so.
Most men--and women too--were brought into the world to work, but most
of them would be so willing to shirk the obligation that the best they
ask is to be allowed to forget their own labours while they can, and not
to be bothered with a report of other people's. By nature I am inclined
to Charles Lamb's belief that a man--or a woman--cannot have too little
to do and too much time to do it in. But necessity having forced me to
give over my days to work, it happens that I, personally, would from
sheer force of habit find days without it a bore. However, I would not,
for that reason, argue that work is its own reward to any save the
genius, or that methods of work are of importance to any save the
workman who employs them.

Whatever man's endurance may be, I know one weak woman whose powers of
work are limited. There was never anybody to regulate my day of work
save myself, since I am glad to say it has not been my lot to waste the
golden years of my life in an office, and I am not the stern task-master
or tiresome trade-unionist who insists upon so many hours and so much
work in them, and will make not an inch of allowance either more or
less. Sometimes my hours were more, sometimes they were less, but always
my energy was apt to slacken with the slackening of the day. I never
found inspiration in the midnight oil and oceans of coffee. I have
always wanted my solid eight hours of sleep, and would not shrink from
nine or ten if they fitted in with a worker's life. Youth often gave me
the courage I have not now to take up work again--a promised article,
necessary reading, making notes, copying--at night. But youth never
induced me to rely upon this night work if I could help it. My nearest
approach to a rule was that at the end of the day I was at liberty to
play, that my nights at least could be free of work.

The play to many might pass for a mild form of mild amusement, for it
usually consisted in nothing more riotous than meeting my friends and
talking with them. But I confess that the talk and the quality of it,
the meeting and its informality did strike me as so singularly
stimulating as to verge upon the riotous. The manner of playing was
entirely new to me in the beginning. All conventions bind with a heavy
chain, but none with a heavier than the Philadelphia variety. Spruce
Street nights had never been so free and so vociferous and so late, and,
being a good Philadelphian, I am not sure if the nights that succeeded
have yet lost for me their novelty. As a consequence, if, in looking
back, my days appear to be wholly monopolized by work, my nights seem
consecrated as wholly to amusement. The poet's "hideous" is the last
adjective I could apply to the night my busy day sank into.

How I worked may concern nobody save myself, but how I played I cannot
help hoping has a wider interest. Those old nights were typical of a
period, and they threw me with many people, contemporaries of J.'s and
mine, who did much to make that period what it was. The nights as gay,
as stimulating, that I have spent in other people's houses I have not
the courage to recall except in the utmost privacy. Pepys and N.P.
Willis in their time, no less than a whole army of Pamelas and
Priscillas in ours, have shown the lengths and indiscretions to which so
intimate a breach of hospitality may lead. I have had my experience. For
some years a house with closely curtained windows has reproached me
daily for not understanding that the man who invites the world to stare
at him and is not happy if it won't, objects when his neighbours say
lightly what they see. I am every bit as afraid to speak openly of
those people who shared our nights and who, with us, have outlived them.
Cowardice long since convinced me that it is not of the dead, but of the
living, only good should be spoken--and if good cannot be spoken, what
then? This property Newton inherited as a descendant from the De
Bittons or Button (through Hampton), a family of great note in their
day, and residents on the site of Barres Court, a "fayr manner
place of stone," which evidently took its name from Sir John Barre,
who married Joan, the relict of Robert Greyndon, and daughter of Thomas
Roug by Catherine, who was the last heiress of that branch of De
Bittons--(she died 1485, and is buried with her first husband at
Newlond).

Of the same family were the three bishops of that name, in the
reigns of the early Edwards; one of which, _Thomas_, Bishop of
Exeter in 1299, was the pious founder of a chantry chapel adjoining
Bitton Church, over the bodies of his father and another, who were
buried there; the building itself is quite an architectural gem.

The said bishop must also have resided there, for in 1287, when
Dean of Wells, the Lord of the Manor of that part of Bitton where
his estate lay, impounded some of his cattle, and had a trial thereon
at Gloucester, as appears by a Placite Roll of that date.

I send you a copy of the Grant of Arms, as it may be interesting,
to publish--besides, it is a reply to the latter part of S.A.Y.'

s Query.

It is copied from the Ashmol.

MSS. No. 834. p. 34.

Of the Newtons of Yorkshire I know nothing; but if S.A.Y. wishes
to question me further, I shall be happy to receive his communication
under his own proper sign-manual.

In Nichols' _Leicestershire_, vol. iv. pt. 2. p. 807., is a pedigree of
Cradock bearing the same arms, and it is there laid down that Howel ap
Gronow was slain by the French in 1096, and buried at Llandilo Vawr; also
that the Judge was called Newton from his birth-place. (It is in
Montgomeryshire, I believe.) Matthew Cradock, who lies in Swansea
Church, bore different arms.

"To all and singular as well nobles and gentills as others to whom
these presents shall come, we, Sir Gilbert Dethicke, knight, alias Garter,
principall kinge of armes for the Order of the Garter, Robte.
Cooke, alias Clarenciault, kinge of armes of the south, William Flower
alias Norroy, kinge of armes of the northe, and all others the hereauldes
of armes send humble commendacion and gretinge: that whereas we being
required by Sir John Newton, of Richmond Castill, in the countie of
Somersett, knight, to make serche for the ancient armes descendinge to
him from his ancetors [sic], at whose requeste we, the said kinges and
hereauldes of armes have not only made diligent serche in our
regesters, but also therewithall perused diverse of his ancient
evidence and other monumentes, whereuppon we doe fynd that the said Sir
John Newton, knight, maye beare twelve severall cotes, that is to say,
the armes of Robte. Cradocke alias Newton, the armes of Robte.
Sherborne, the arms of Steven Angle, the armes of Steven Pirot, the armes
of John Harvie, the armes of Sir John Sheder, knight, the armes
of Richard Hampton, the armes of Sir John Bitton, knight, the armes
of Sir Matthewe Ffurneault, knight, the armes of Walter Cawdecot,
the armes of Sir Aunsell Corney, knight, and the armes of Sir Henry
Harterie, knight.

All which armes doth plainlie appere depicted in the Margent; and for that
the said Sir John Newton is yncertaine of any creaste which he
ought to beare by his owne proper name, he therefore hath also required
vs, the said kings and hereauldes of armes, to assigne and confirme
vnto him and his posteritie for ever, the creaste of Sir Auncell
Corney, knight, which Sir Auncell Corney, as it doth appere by divers
ancient evidence and other monuments of the said Sir John Newton, was
at the winnynge of Acom with Kinge Richard the First, where he toke
prisoner a kinge of the Mores: and farther, the said Sir John Newton,
knight, hath made goode proofe for the bearinge of the same
creaste, that the heires male of the said Sir Auncell Corney is
extingueshed, and the heires generall do only remaine in him. In
consideracion whereof wee, the said kinges and herehauldes of arms,
do give, confirme, and grant vnto the said Sir John Newton and his
posteritie for ever, the said creaste of Sir Auncell Corney, knight,
that is to say, vppon his helme on a torce silver and asure, a kinge
of the Mores armed in male, crowned gold, knelinge vpon his left knee
rendring vppe his sworde, as more plainly aperith depicted in this
Margent, to have and to horold the said creast to him and his posteretie,
with there due difference to vse, beare, and show in shelde, cote
armour, or otherwise, for ever, at his or their libertie and
pleasure, without impediment, let, or interruption of any parson
or parsons.

In witnesse whereof we, the said hinges and hereauldes of arms, have
caused these letters to be made patentes, and set herevnto our common
seale of corporation, given at the office of arms in London, the twelvethe
of December, and in the tenthe yeare of the reigne of our sovereign
{429} ladie Elizabeth, by the grace of God Queene of England, France and
Ireland, defender of the faithe," &c.

H.T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St George, Nov. 4. 1850.

_Cradock_--I should like to know whether the MSS. of Randle Holme, of
Chester, 1670, which afterwards were penes Dr. Latham, are still
accessible? Nichols refers to them as his authority for Cradock's
pedigree, as laid down in his _Leicestershire_ (vol. iv. part ii. p.
807.).

H.T.E.

* * * * *
REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

REPLIES BY GEORGE STEPHENS.

I beg to encloze ðe following scraps, purposely written on slips,
ðat ðe one may be destroyed and not ðe oðer if you should þink fit
so to do, and for eaze ov printing.

Pleaze to respect my orþography--a _beginning_ to a better system--if you
can and will. Ðe types required will only be ðe Ð, ð, and Þ, þ, ov our
noble Anglo-Saxon moðer-tongue, letterz in common use almost down to
ðe time ov _Shakspeare_!

If you _will_ not be charmed, ov course you are at liberty to change
it.

I have a large work in ðe press (translationz from ðe A.-Saxon) printed
entirely in ðis orþography.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Stockholm.

[Even our respect for Mr. Stephens' well-known scholarship, fails to
remove our prejudices in favour of the ordinary system of orthography.]

_On a Passage in "The Tempest"_ (Vol. ii., pp. 259. 299. 337.).--Will
you allow me to suggest that the reading of the original edition
is perfectly correct as it stands, as will be seen by simply
italicising the emphatic words:--
"_Most_ busie _least_, when I doe it."

The construction is thus merely an instance of a common ellipsis (here
of the word _busy_), and requires the comma after _least_. This is
another proof of the advantage of being slow to abandon primitive
texts.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

_Saint, Legend of a_ (Vol. ii., pp. 267.).--The circumstance alluded to
is perhaps that in the legend of _St. Patrick_. It was included by
Voragine in his life of that saint.

See the "Golden Legend" in init.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

_Cupid and Psyche_ (Vol. ii., pp. 247.).--This is probably an old
_Folk-tale_, originally perhaps an antique philosophical
temple-allegory.
Apuleius appears only to have dressed it up in a new shape. The tale is
still current, but in a form _not_ derived from him, among the _Swedes_,
_Norwegians_, _Danes_, _Scots_, _Germans_, _French_, _Wallachians_,
_Italians_, and _Hindoos_. See _Svenska Folk-sagor och Afventyr, efter
muntlig Ofverlemning samlade och utgifna of G.O.H. Cavallius och G.
Stephens_, vol. i. (Stockholm, 1844-9), p. 323.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

_Kongs Skuggsia_ (Vol. ii., pp 296. 335.).--This noble monument of Old
Norse literature was written at the close of the twelfth century by a
Norwegian of high rank, but who expresses his resolution to
remain unknown, in which he has perfectly succeeded. He probably
resided near Trondhjem.
See, for other information, the preface to the last excellent edition
lately published by _Keyser_, _Munch_, and _Unger_, as follows:--

"Speculum Regale Konungs-Skuggsjá Konge-Speilet et philosophisk-didaktisk
Skrift, forfattet i Norge mod slutningen af det tolfte aarhundrede.

Tilligemed et samtidigt Skrift om den
norske kirkes Stilling til Statem.

Med to lithographerede Blade Facsimile-Aftryck."--Christiana, 1848.
8vo.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Stockholm.

_The disputed Passage in the "Tempest"_ (Vol. ii., pp. 259. 299.
337.).

--I am the "COMMA" which MR. COLLIER claims the merit of having removed,
and I humbly protest against the removal. I adhere to the
reading of the folio of 1632, except that I would strike out the final
_s_ in labours. The passage would then read:

"But these sweet thoughts so refresh my labour Most busy least, when I do
it."
That is, the thoughts so refresh my labour, that I am "most busy least"
(an emphatic way of saying least busy), "when I do it," to wit, the
labour. MR.
HICKSON is ingenious, but he takes no notice of--
COMMA.

_Viscount Castlecomer_ (Vol. ii., p. 376.).--S.A.Y. asks whether Lord
Deputy Wandesford (not Wanderforde) "ever took up this title, and what
became of it afterwards?" He never did; for on the receipt of the
patent, in the summer of 1640, Wandesford exclaimed, "Is this a time for
a faithful subject to be exalted, when his king, the fountain of honours,
is likely to be reduced lower than ever." A few months afterwards he died
of a broken heart. We are told that he concealed the patent, and his
grandson was the first of the family--apparently by a fresh creation
in 1706--who assumed the title. The neglect of sixty-six years, perhaps,
rendered this necessary: Beatson does not notice the first creation.
The life of this active and useful statesman, the friend and relative of
Strafford, was compiled from his daughter's papers, by his descendant,
Thomas Comber, LL.D.

Of this work Dr. Whitaker availed himself in the very interesting memoir
which he has given of the Lord Deputy, in his _History of Richmondshire_,
written, as we may suppose it would be by so devoted {430} an admirer
of Charles I., with the warmest feelings of respect and admiration.

"The death of my cousin Wandesford," said Lord Strafford, "more
affects me than the prospect of my own; for in him is lost the richest
magazine of learning, wisdom, and piety that these times could boast."

J.H.M.

Bath.

_Steele's Burial-place_ (Vol. ii., pp. 375, 441.).--I have been able
to get the following particulars respecting Steele's burial-place. Steele
was buried in the chancel of St. Peter's church, Caermarthen. The entry
stands thus in the Register:--
"1729.

"Sep. 4. Sr Richard Steel."
There is no monument to his memory in St. Peter's Church; but in Llangunnor
church, about two miles from Caermarthen, there is a plain monumental
tablet with the following inscription:--
"This stone was erected at the instance of William Williams, of Ivy
Tower, owner of Penddaylwn Vawr, in Llangunnor; part of the estate there
once belonging to the deservedly celebrated Sir Richard Steele, knight,
chief author of the essays named Tatlers, Guardians, and Spectators;
and he wrote The Christian Hero, The Englishman, and The Crisis, The
Conscious Lovers, and other fine plays. He represented several places in
parliament; was a staunch and able patriot; finally, an incomparable
writer on morality and Christianity. Hence the ensuing lines in a poem,
called The Head of the Rock:--
'Behold Llangunnor, leering o'er the vale, Pourtrays a scene t'
adorn romantic tale; But more than all the beauties of its site, Its
former owner gives the mind delight.
Is there a heart that can't affection feel For lands so rich as once to
boast a Steele?

Who warm for freedom, and with virtue fraught, His country dearly
lov'd, and greatly taught; Whose morals pure, the purest style
conveys, T' instruct his Britain to the last of days.'"

Steele resided at White House (Ty Gwyn, as it is called in Welsh), a
clean farm-house half way between Caermarthen and Llangunnor church, which
is situate on a hill commanding extensive views of one of the
prettiest values in Wales. A field near the house is pointed
out as the site of Steele's garden, in the bower of which he is said
to have written his "Conscious Lovers." The Ivy Bush, formerly a private
house, and said to be the house where Steele died, is now the
principal inn in Caermarthen.

WM. SPURRELL.

Caermarthen.

_Cure for Warts_ (Vol. i., p. 482.)-- In Buckinghamshire I have heard
of the charming away of warts by touching each wart with a separate
green pea.

Each pea being wrapped in paper by itself, and buried, the wart will vanish
as the pea decays.

J.W.H.

_Etymology of "Parse"_ (Vol. ii., p. 118.).--Surely _to parse_ is to take
by itself each _pars_, or part of speech. The word does not seem to have
been known in 1611 when Brinsley published his _Posing of the Parts:
or, a most plain and easie Way of examining the Accidence and
Grammar_. This work appears to have been very popular, as I have by me
the _twelfth_ edition, London, 1669. In 1612, the same author issued
his _Ludus Literarius: or the Grammar Schoole_. Both these works interest
me in him. Can any of your readers communicate any particulars
of his history?

J.W.H.

* * * * *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Admiration of the works of Holbein in Germany, as in this country,
seems to increase with increasing years. We have received from
Messrs. Williams and Norgate a copy of a new edition of his Bible
Cuts lately published at Leipsic, under the title _Hans Holbein's
Altes Testament in funfzig Holzschnitten getreu nach den Originalen
copirt. Herausgegeben von Hugo Burkner, mit einer Einleitung von
D.F. Sotymann_, to which we direct the attention of our readers,
no less on account of the beauty and fidelity with which these
admirable specimens of Holbein's genius have been copied, than of
the interesting account of them prefixed by their new editor.
We beg to call the attention of such of our antiquaries as are
interested in the history of the Orkneys to a valuable contribution
to our knowledge of them, lately published by our accomplished
friend, Professor Munch, of the Christiana, under the title of
_Symbolæ ad Historiam Antiquiorem Rerum Norwegicarum_, which contains,
I. A short Chronicle of Norway; II.
Genealogy of the Earls of Orkney; III. Catalogue of the Kings of
Norway--from a MS., for the most part hitherto inedited, and which
appears to have been written in Orkney about the middle of the
fifteenth century.
While on the subject of foreign works of interest to English readers,
we may mention two or three others which we have been for some time
intending to bring under the notice of those who know how much light
may be thrown upon our early language and literature by a study of
the contemporary literature of the Low Countries. The first is,
_Denkmaeler Niederdeutscher Sprache und Literatur von Dr. Albert
Hoefer, Erstes Banchen_, which contains the highly curious Low
German Whitson play called _Claws Bur_. The next is a larger, more
elaborately edited, and from its introduction and extensive notes
and various illustrations, a yet more interesting work to English
philologists. It is entitled _Leven van Sinte Christina de Wonderbare_,
an old Dutch poem, now first edited from a MS. of the fourteenth
or fifteenth century, by Professor Bormans.
We have received the following Catalogues:--Thomas Kerslake's (3.
Park Street, Bristol) Books, including valuable late Purchases;
John Wheldon's {431} (4. Paternoster Row) Catalogue of valuable
Collection of Scentific Books; W.H. McKeay's (11. Vinegar Yard,
Covent Garden) Catalogue of a Portion of Stock.

* * * * *
BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.
EPISTOLAE OBSCURORUM VIRORUM.
CHOIX D'ANECDOTES ORIENTALES. Vol. 11. Paris, 1775.
*** Letters, stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_
to be sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES," 186. Fleet
Street.

* * * * * 
Notices to Correspondents.
_We venture to call attention to the communications from Bombay and
Stockholm, which appear in our present Number, as evidences of the
extending circulation, and consequently, we trust, of the increasing
utility of _NOTES AND QUERIES.

W.S.By this time I had ceased to worry about excuses and
had settled down to idleness and coffee with as little scruple as the
natives.

The _café_ we chose was the _Nazionale Aragno_ in the Corso, the largest
and most gorgeous in Rome. The three or four rooms that opened one out
of the other had a magnificence that we could never have achieved in
furnished rooms and would not have wanted to if we could, and a
succession of mirrors multiplied them indefinitely. We leaned
luxuriously against blue plush, gilding glittered wherever gilding could
on white walls, waiters rushed about with little shining nickel-plated
trays held high above their heads, spurs and swords clanked and
clattered, by the middle of the evening not a table was vacant.

It was simply the usual big Continental _café_, but to me as new and
strange as everything else in the wonderful life in the wonderful world
into which I had strayed from the old familiar ways of Philadelphia,
with a long halt between only in England where the _café_ does not
exist. To the marble-topped tables, the gilding, mirrors and plush,
novelty lent a charm they have never had since and probably would soon
have lost had we been left to contemplate them in solitary state, as it
seemed probable we should. For we knew nobody in Rome except Sandro, the
youthful enthusiastic Roman cyclist we had picked up in Montepulciano,
cycled with through the Val di Chiana on a sunny October Sunday, and run
across again in Rome where he amiably showed us the hospitality of the
capital by occasionally drinking coffee with us at our expense, and by
once introducing a friend, a tall, slim, good-looking young man of such
elegance of manner and such a princely air of condescension, that Sandro
himself was impressed and joined us again, later on the same evening, to
explain our privilege in having entertained the Queen's hair-dresser
unawares. Foreigners did not often find their way into the _Nazionale_.
They were almost as few in number as women, who were very few, for as
women in Rome never dined,--or so I gathered from my observations at the
_Posta_, the _Falcone_ and the _Cavour_,--they never drank coffee. Only
on Sundays would they descend upon the _café_ with their husbands and
children, and then it was to devour ices and cakes at a rate that
convinced me they devoured little else from one Sunday to the next. When
I asked for the _Times_--they took the _Times_ at the _Nazionale_--the
waiter almost invariably answered: "It reads itself, the _Signore
Tedesco_ has it," and the _Signore Tedesco_, a mild German student who
for his daily lesson in English read the advertisement columns from
beginning to end, was the only foreigner who appeared regularly at any
table save our own.

And yet at ours, before I could say how it came about, a little group
collected, and every evening in the furthest room J. and I began to hold
an informal reception which gave us all the advantages of social life
and none of its responsibilities. We could preside in the travel-worn
tweeds of cycling and not bother because we were not dressed; we could
welcome our friends the more cordially because, as we did not provide
the entertainment, it was no offence to us if they did not like it, nor
to them if we failed to sit it out. In the _café_ we found the "oblivion
of care," the same "freedom from solitude," though not the big words to
express it, which Dr. Johnson "experienced" in a tavern. Were all social
functions run on the same broad principles, society would not be half
the strain it is upon everybody's patience and good-nature and purse.

Almost all the group were artists. Not a handsome name, for my parents
were poor people, who lived where the quality appropriated all the nice
names; therefore they had to take what was left and divide around among
us--but it's as handsome as I am--D. Russell. Remember, all and every
one of you, that it's not Swan.

I am sure to be elected; so, one and all, great and small, short
and tall, when you come down to Jackson after the election, stop
at the auditor's office--the latch-string always hangs out; enter
without knocking, take off your things, and make yourself at home.Artists were as great a novelty to me as the _café_--I had been married
so short a time that J. had not ceased to be a problem, if he ever
has--and nothing was more amazing to me than the talk. Its volubility
took my breath away. I thought of the back parlour at home after dinner,
my Father playing interminable games of Patience, the rest of us deep in
our books until bed-time. And these men talked as if talk was the only
business, the only occupation of life.

Still more surprising was the subject of their talk. If they had so much
to say that it made me grateful I was born a listener, they had only one
thing to say it about. It was art from the moment we met until we
parted, though we might sit over our coffee for hours. Often it was next
morning when J. and I reached the house at the top of the hill, and he
dragged the huge key from his pocket, undid the ponderous lock and
struck the overgrown match, or undersized candle, by which the Roman lit
himself to his rooms, and we panted up our six flights afraid ours would
not last, for we had but the one supplied by the restaurant.

The quality of the talk was as amazing: bewildering, revolutionary, to
anybody who had never heard art talked about by artists, as I never had
before I met J. All I had thought right turned out to be wrong, all I
had never thought of was right, all that was essential to the critic of
art, to the Ruskin-bred, had nothing to do with it whatever. Any
correction or illustration of this will oblige.

C.W. BINGHAM.

Bingham's Melcombe, Blandford.

* * * * *

REPLIES.

LICENSING OF BOOKS.

(Vol. ii., p.359.)
On the 12th November, 5 & 6 Philip and Mary, 1558, a bill "That no man
shall print any book or ballad, &c., unless he be authorized thereunto
by the king and queen's majesties licence, under the Great Seal of
Englande," was read for the first time in the House of Lords, where
it was read again a second time on the 14th. On the 16th it was read
for the third time, but it did not pass, and probably never reached the
Commons; for Queen Mary died on the following day, and thereby the
Parliament was dissolved.

(_Lords' Journal_, i. 539, 540.)

Queen Elizabeth, however did by her high prerogative what her sister
had sought to effect by legislative sanction.
In the first year of her reign, 1559, she issued injunctions concerning
both the clergy and the laity: the 51st Injunction was in the following
terms:--
"Item, because there is great abuse in the printers of books, which
for covetousness chiefly regard not what they print, so they may
have gain, whereby ariseth the great disorder by publication of
unfruitful, vain, and infamous books and papers; the queen's majesty
straitly chargeth and commandeth, that no manner of person shall
print any manner of book or paper, of what sort, nature, or in what
language soever it be, except the same be first licensed by Her
Majesty by express words in writing, or by six of her privy council;
or be perused and licensed by the Archbishops of Canterbury and
York, the Bishop of London, the chancellors of both universities,
the bishop being ordinary, and the archdeacon also of the place,
where any such shall be printed, or by two of them, whereof the
ordinary of the place to be always one.

And that the names of such, as shall allow the same, to be added in the
end of every such work, for a testimony of the allowance thereof.
And because many pamphlets, plays, and ballads be oftentimes printed,
wherein regard would be had that nothing therein should be either
heretical, seditious, or unseemly for Christian ears; Her Majesty
likewise commandeth that no manner of person shall enterprise to print
any such, except the same be to him licensed by such Her Majesty's
commissioners, or three of them, as be appointed in the city of London
to hear and determine divers clauses ecclesiastical, tending to the
execution of certain statutes made the last parliament for uniformity
of order in religion. And if any shall sell or utter any manner of
books or papers, being not licensed as is abovesaid, that the same
party shall be punished by order of the said commissioners, as to
the quality of the fault shall be thought meet. And touching all other
books of matters of religion, or policy, or governance, that have been
printed, either on this side the seas, or on the other side, because
the diversity of them is great, and that there needeth good consideration
to be had of the particularities thereof, Her Majesty referreth
the prohibition or permission thereof to the order, which her said
commissioners within the city of London shall take and notify.All
his buildings were more or less reminiscent, and told again in stone the
story so often told in words at the _Nazionale_, for Death was kind and
claimed him before he had ceased to be the discoverer to become himself.

Donoghue too has gone, Donoghue the sculptor who as I knew him in Rome
was so overflowing with life, so young that I felt inclined to credit
him with the gift of immortal youth, so big and handsome and gay that
wherever he went laughter went with him. He too was a discoverer, but
his discovery was of Paris and the Latin Quarter. It had filled a year
between Chicago, where he had been Oscar Wilde's discovery, and Rome,
and he had had time to work off his first fantastic exuberance as
discoverer before I met him. "Donoghue is all right," they would say of
him at the _Nazionale_; "he has got past the brass buttons and pink
swallow tail stage, even if he does cling to low collars and tight pants
and spats."

Certainly, he had got so far as to think he ought to be beginning to
work, and he was in despair because he could not find in Rome a youth as
beautiful as himself to pose for his Young Sophocles. To listen to him
was to believe that Narcissus had come to life again. We would meet him
during our afternoon rambles in all sorts of out-of-the-way places, when
he would stop and take half an hour to assure us he hadn't time to stop,
he was hunting for a model he had just heard of, and then he would drop
into the _Nazionale_ at night to report his want of progress, for no
model ever came up to his standard. He referred to his own beauty with
the frank simplicity and vanity of a child--a real Post-Impressionist;
not one by pose, for there was not a trace of pose in him. I wish I
could say how astonishing he was to me. Life has since thrown many young
artists and writers my way and I am used to their conceits and
affectations and splendid belief in themselves. But my experience then
was of the most limited and bound by Philadelphia convention, and I
cannot imagine a greater contrast than between the Philadelphia youth to
whom I was accustomed, talking of the last reception and the next party
over his chicken salad at the Dancing Class, and Donoghue talking
dispassionately of his own surpassing beauty over a small cup of coffee
at the _Nazionale_.

Donoghue was a child, not merely in his vanity, but in everything, with
the schoolboy's sense of fun. I never knew him happier than the evening
he hurried to the _café_ from his visit to the Coliseum by moonlight to
tell us of his joke on the Americans he found waiting there in silence
for the guide's announcement that the moon was in the proper place for
their proper emotion. A friend was with him.

"And I said: '_Sprichst du Deutsch?_' very loud as we passed," was
Donoghue's story. "And he answered as loud as he could: '_Nichts!
Nichts!_' And I said: '_Zwei Bier_,' and of course the Americans took us
for Germans. Then we hid in the shadows a little further on and we both
yelled together at the top of our voices, 'Three cheers for Cleveland!'
and the Americans jumped, and they forgot the moon, and they wouldn't
listen to the guide, and I tell you it was just great."

I was not overcome myself with the wit or humour of the jest, but
Donoghue was, and he roared with laughter until none of us could help
roaring with him in sheer sympathy. He was as enchanted with his method
of learning Italian. He was reading Wilkie Collins and Bret Harte in an
Italian translation, and when he yawned in our faces and left the _café_
early, it was because the night before the Dago's _Woman in White_ or
_Luck of Roaring Camp_ had kept him up until long after dawn, though
really he knew it was a waste of time since anybody had only to get
himself half seas over and he'd talk any darned lingo in the world.

He joined us less often after he gave up the hopeless hunt for the model
who never was found and whom it would have been useless anyway to find,
for Donoghue always spent his quarter's allowance the day he got it, and
most models could not wait three months to be paid. To this conclusion
he came soon after the first of the year and settled down seriously to
posing for himself and, as the world knows, the Young Sophocles was
finished in the course of time and a very fine statue it is said to be.
"I wrote to the War Office, asking them could they kindly oblige me with
the loan of a lively little tank for pursuing purposes, but got no
answer.

I guess WINSTON had a liver on him that morning. So there was nothing for
it but to give up the hounds. I went and broke the sad news to Patsey
Mike, who was mixing stirabout at the time. 'Oh, God save us, don't
be doing that, Sor,' says he. 'Hoult hard a day or so and I'll be
afther findin' some little object to hunt, that them dirthy
blagyards won't shoot at all.'
"Two mornings later he turned up, dragging something in an oat-sack.

"I have it here that'll course out before the houn's like a shootin'-star,'
says he.

"'What is it?' says I.

"The rogue put his hand in the sack and drew out a yellow mongrel
dog.

"'Where did ye get that?' says I.

"'Shure didn't I borry it?' says he.

"'And who did ye borrow it from?' says I.

"'From Misther Flynn, no less,' says he. ''Tis his little foxey pet
dog.'
"'Does Mr. Flynn know you borrowed it from him?' says I.

"'Begob that he does not,' says he. 'Mr. Flynn is beyond in Youghal and I
borryed it in the dark dead of night over the yard wall. Faith, he'll
run home like a flick of lightning, he's that scared, the same dog.'

"'Ye did well,' said I; 'but will the hounds chase him?'
"'That they will, Sor. What with foxes one day, stags the next and
hares the next, there's sorra a born thing they wouldn't hunt given
there's smell enough in it,' says the lad. 'Have ye the laste little
trace of aniseed in the house that you could drench the crature with
the way the houn's would folly him?'
"Divil a drop of aniseed or anything else had I on the place, and I stood
there scratching my ear with my crop wondering what to do, when suddenly
I remembered that relic of my courting days, 'Florazora.' 'I have
it,' I said; 'I've got something that'll fix _that_ hare all right.'

"I fetched the bottle and rubbed a handful or so of the stuff well
into Mr.
Flynn's pet dog and let him go with a flip of my whip lash to help
him on his way.

He lit out for home as though the devil had kicked him, yelling blue
murder and laying a trail of flowers and honey across the country so
thick you could pretty nigh eat it. I gave him a fair start, then laid
the hounds on and we had a five-mile point, going like a steeplechase
all the way. Flynn lives in a lonely house about half a mile out of
Ballinknock, and the 'bag-man' got home to it and through the wee dog-hole
into the yard with just six inches to spare.

"Patsey went over the wall and borrowed the dog three times after
that. It was no trouble at all. Flynn was still away in Youghal, and
his housekeeper was that deaf Gabriel would have to announce the Crack
of Doom to her on his fingers. But it was too good to last. On the fourth
day we were nearing Flynn's house, the dog leading the pack
by not fifty yards, when I saw him cut across a field to the left, while
the hounds tumbled into a little boreen that runs up from the railway-station
and went streaking down it singing out as if they were on a breast-high
scent and in view.

"'Begob,' says I to Patsey, 'they've changed; they're running a hare, I
believe.'
"'Tis a hare in a frock-coat then, Sor,' says he, pointing with his
whip.

"Sure enough it was a man they were after. I saw him then galloping down
the boreen for dear life, coat-tails flying, hair streaming, terror in
his big white face. Flynn!

I did my damdest, but I had no hope of stopping them, not in that
little lane. When I came out on the high-road I found what was left of
the politician half-way up a telegraph post, like a treed cat, screeching
and scrambling and calling on the Saints, with old Actress swinging by
her teeth to the tails of his shirt, Cruiskeen ripping the trousers
off him a leg at a time, and the rest of the pack leaping under
him like the surf of the sea.

"I nearly rolled off my mare with laughter, though well I knew the
screeching scarecrow up the pole would have me drawn and quartered
for that day's work.

I whipped the hounds off in the end, took 'em by road
to Fermoy that same evening and boxed 'em to my brother-in-law in
Carlow.

'Twas fortunate I did, for my kennels were burnt to the ground that night."

Andy sighed, drained his glass and gazed regretfully at the bottom.

"H-m, ye-es, but there's still a point I would like cleared up," said
I.
"What made the pack change and chase Flynn?"
"Appears he was strongly addicted to 'Florazora' too," said Andy.

PATLANDER.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Odd Job Man_ (_to Gardener, discussing dinner which has
been sent them from the house_). "NASTY BIT O' MUTTON THIS, AIN'T
IT?"
_Gardener._ "'TAIN'T MUTTON--IT'S PORK."
_Odd Job Man._ "IS IT? I 'OPE IT IS. I'M VERY FOND OF A BIT O' PORK."]

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Rosamund_ (_who has had a restless night_). "NOW I THINK
OF IT, NURSE, IF YOU SHOULD FIND A FLEA IN MY BED I DON'T WANT IT KEPT."]

* * * * *
ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

From the account of a farewell meeting in honour of a retiring
Minister:--
"It was altogether a notable gathering, and perhaps the congregational
repetition of the General Thanksgiving at the opening of the meeting
gave the keynote to the whole proceedings."

--_Christian World._
* * * * *
"An immediate advance of 10s. a week for adult workers and 5s. for
juniors is being made to employers by the National Transport Workers'
Federation."--_Evening Paper._
We have always contended that the motto "For others" is the guiding
principle of Labour.

* * * * *
"There are Germans still in the Baltic Provinces--which is full of
uuuuuuuuuuuuuu eaoi aoa."--_Daily Paper._
Very suspicious.

* * * * *
[Illustration: A WOMAN OF SOME IMPORTANCE
(_Mr. ASQUITH and the Paisley Mill-hand_).

"HOW ARE YOU VOTING, MY PRETTY MAID?"
"WAIT AND YOU'LL SEE, KIND SIR," SHE SAID.]
* * * * *
[Illustration: SCENE.--_Local Hall._ DRAMA, "_The Alaskan Tiger Cat_."
_Hero_ (_after unsuccessful proposal_). "THEN, MARGARET, AM I TO TAKE IT
THAT YOU REFUSE ME?"]
* * * * *
LABOUR AND ART;
OR, THE CONVERSION OF BINKS.

You have stood at some time, I suppose, with a sense of disaster And gazed
at a picture resembling an egg on a mat, Or a sideslip of squares in the
mode of a Pimlico master?-- Well, Binks's "Rebellion" and "Afternoon Tea
in my Flat" Were extremely like that.

He was nuts upon Beauty was Binks, and from boyhood acquainted With Art,
and so bound to her side with such delicate links That I doubt if the
soul of her, much as we've written and painted, Had ever been fathomed
(for is she not strange as the Sphinx?) Till she got to know Binks.

He had hundreds of phases, and all of them highly sensational, A Cubist
unbending, a Vorticist equally stout; Scorned one thing, he said,
and one only, the Representational, Meaning, I take it, a school
where there isn't much doubt What the whole thing's about.

And at times he would say, as I stared at his riotous scrimmages And
asked what on earth was the meaning, "You must have regard To the mind
of the artist, for Art is a matter of images," And it seemed that he
thought all these things when he gazed very hard At a tub in a
yard.

But at times he would tell me that Art was a mere interweaving
Of hues and designs; he had done what he could to expel All thoughts and
all visual objects, for these were deceiving, And I told him, so far
as an ignorant layman could tell, He had done that quite well.

But I think that of all of his phases the last was most funny; He was
vestured in white when I met him by chance in the town; He had shaved
off his beard, his beard, like Apollo's, of honey; His hair was quite
short, he had lost his habitual frown, He was looking quite brown.

He told me he never exhibited now in a gallery; Commissions were filling
his time and engaging his heart; What was more, he observed, he was
making a regular salary, So I asked him to tell me the worst and explain
from the start What had happened to Art.

"I have banished Design," he informed me, "and thoughts are all duller
Than Beauty, and Beauty is Art; but no critic can grouse At the notion
of Absolute Pure Indivisible Colour As calm as Eternity, smooth as
omnipotent _nous_-- I am painting a house."
EVOE.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Visitor._ "YOUR FATHER SEEMS TO BE HAVING A STIFF TIME
WITH THE ROLLER?"
_Daughter of the House._ "OH, MUMMY ONLY SETS HIM ON TO IT WHEN
HE'S BEEN NAUGHTY."]
* * * * *
THE BEST OF THINGS.

"The New Poor?" said Holder, like myself, one of them. "Nonsense.
There are none. There are people who will not use their imaginations,
of course. They are poor, but not newly so. This so-called new poverty
doesn't touch me.
True, the money I make will not go so far as it used to, but my
imagination goes very much farther.

I have trained it, encouraged it, my wife's and boy's too. We have cast
off the absurd restraints imposed by the law of probability. In the old
days, when I used to think, say, of motors, I was invariably badgered by
the spectre of improbability. I used to think of a four-hundred-pound
car, or perhaps, in a daring moment, my thoughts would creep timidly,
like mice out into a still kitchen, on to the six-hundred- pound plane,
only to scurry back to the lower plane almost instantly. _Now_ I've
thrown all that overboard. Rubbish! When I think of motors I think in
terms of Rolls-Royces. Why think cheaply? It's a poor imagination that
won't run to a six-cylinder car at least. Strictly, I shall never
own a real motor scooter. What of it? In my mind I use Rolls-Royces.
We've rather worked the thing up at home. Come and dine with us and see
for yourself."
We had sausages and mashed potatoes, with water. And I may say that never
have I enjoyed a meal more. You see, Holder kept on telling us all
the time about the famous dinner which now, owing to the War, we should
never really eat, but which we were at perfect liberty to imagine
we were eating.

I am sorry you were not there. The _hors d'oeuvres_!

Holder describes _hors d'oeuvres_ better than any man I know. Oh, masterly,
the colour ... RUSKIN, perhaps. Anyhow, he carried us quite away.

His wife chose oysters. His description of oysters, instantly furnished,
was a little gem--a pearl, silver-grey, so much so that I too chose
oysters. His little boy, Dickie, chose caviare; but he really did not
care for it. He bit on a piece of button in his sausage, poor child.
That was why he did not appreciate the caviare. But Holder distracted
his mind with some very remarkable mushroom soup--_potage de champignons_--a
brilliant word-sketch. We all chose it.

For fish there was saus--pardon me, sole.

The little lad, Dickie, chose salmon; but Holder reminded him that he
had had salmon the previous evening; it was out of season in any case,
and he described how the sole tasted that probably Dickie will
never touch.

The boy appeared to enjoy it immensely.

I think it was the game, simple roast partridges, exquisitely cooked,
which Mrs. Holder enjoyed most.

Her eyes were frankly shining as she pensively chewed the third
quarter of her sausage, and she thrilled to the juices of the
partridge of the dinner she could no longer hope really to eat, but
which Holder, thank God, would often describe, at any rate until a
tax is put on conversation.

Even then something might be done--deaf and dumb language, possibly--an
evasion, I admit, but even the New Poor must eat occasionally.

We all enjoyed the game course most, with the exception of Dickie.
The lad had finished his sausage, and mashed potato alone is not
inspiring. But that great man, Holder, noticed it in time, and he
satisfied the child with a word-painting of the brown crisp skin of
cooked goose. Then we drank some magnificent wine. Holder ransacked
the English language for it. A vivifying champagne.

But enough of food, or you will think we were gourmands. None of us cared
for any sweets after such a meal. And that is what I like about the
Holders: with them enough is as good as the feast they will never
have.

After dinner we smoked a very fine cigar in the imaginary conservatory
which Holder has just run up, and I have rarely, if ever, heard a better
description of men smoking cigars in a conservatory. Next, Holder played
me a fast game of billiards. He allowed me to choose my own table, and I
picked the most expensive in the catalogue. Dickie marked for us. Then
he went to bed. I heard his father whisper a most convincing description
of eiderdowns and real wool blankets when he kissed him. He is only
a very little boy--big blue eyes, you know, like a girl's; they watered
a little.
Excitement....

It was a clear moonlit night with a touch of frost in the air, so Mrs.
Holder rang for the visionary footman, a good-looking, most willing,
sensible man, according to Holder's quick portrait of him, who piled
up some great logs on a bank of coals of a positively fantastic size,
and we gathered round to enjoy a run in the brand-new, latest model
Rolls-Royce which is one of the special things which Holder will
never possess in this world.

Ah, but she was a queen of cars, and the best of cars always run
better at night. I wonder why. So smoothly silky, so dreamily
sweet-running, a pouring of cream! I wish I could convey to you the
satin sound of her transmission, the low golden purr of her gears, the
fanning of her velvet wings--wheels, that is. I would sooner ride in
that verbal car of Holder's than walk round the real backyard that is my
own, unless I fall behind with the rent, as I begin to fear I shall....

Down the dreamy moon-drenched highways, across the magic silver-flecked
moors, we climbed on the wings of the peregrine to the keen, cold
uplands, soared awhile, then dropped to the warm and sheltered valley and
so home again. We felt the radiator, Holder and I, and it was quite cool.
_She_ will never boil on a stiff hill. Mrs. Holder was glowing from
her ride; for an instant she looked pink and pretty; she had lost
that wistful pinched look.

I went inside for a phrase or so of Holder's admirable idea of what cherry
brandy should be. We chatted for a little about the estate that he will
never purchase, and then I left, having promised to go round there
to-morrow for a little shooting. It will be hot work among the pheasants
if Holder has not lost his voice.

He and his wife came down the drive to the entrance-gates with
me.

"Good-night," they said; "we're glad you've enjoyed yourself."
Holder was a little hoarse, for he is a generous host.

I think too the motor run had tired them both, for their faces were again
a little haggard; and the wind had brought tears to the eyes of Mrs.
Holder.

So I said good-bye to them--and to Jack, their elder boy, whom they
will never see again.

He lies in France. But, you understand, it was as if he had been with us
all again for a little while that evening.

* * * * *
[Illustration: MORE ADVENTURES OF A POST-WAR SPORTSMAN.

CHANCING, ON THE WAY HOME, TO COME UPON HOUNDS WHEN THEY HAVE JUST
KILLED, HE PROPOSES TO SECURE THE BRUSH FOR MRS. P.-W.S., BUT CONCLUDES
THAT UPON THE WHOLE IT WOULD BE BETTER TO BUY ONE IN TOWN.]
* * * * *
HOPE FOR POSTERITY.

Full many a year has waxed and waned And sunk into its shroud Since
that first day that I obtained A diary and vowed To keep (as I informed
my wife) "The Records of a Simple Life."
Within it I resolved to state, Like Mr. PEPYS of yore, The things
that I, for instance, ate And she, my Mary, wore, Facts that would have
a curious worth When I was famed and--under earth.

And generations yet unborn Would feel a thrill to note How I upon
an April morn Left off my overcoat, Or showed a pardonable spleen
At having missed the 9.16.

Nine volumes I've commenced at least To write with eager pen; The first,
I note, abruptly ceased On January 10, While yesteryear the break
occurred, I think, upon the 23rd.

But this year, I am proud to see, Stands not as others stood; The prospects
of posterity Are really rather good, Now that my zeal (not on the
ebb) Has borne me safely into Feb.

* * * * *
MUSICAL AMENITIES.

The connection of occultism with music was recently discussed by Mr. CYRIL
SCOTT in his interesting volume on Modernism in Music. It is satisfactory
to know that the subject is not to be allowed to drop. Grave discontent
is rife in orchestral circles at the monopoly enjoyed at spiritualist
_séances_ by the tambourine, and it is reported that Mr. ERNEST NEWMAN,
the distinguished and outspoken musical critic, will shortly deliver
a public lecture on behalf of the admission of other instruments to these
mysteries, and in particular the tuba.

The claim of the tuba, Mr.

NEWMAN holds, is not only based on the profundity of its tones, but
upon long literary tradition.

Nothing could be more conclusive than the reference in the old Latin
hymn:-- 
"Tuba mirum spargens sonum Per sepulcra regionum."

It is anticipated that the discussion will be attended by Signor
MARCONI, Lord DUNSANY, Mr.

YEATS and Lieutenant JONES, the author of _The Road to En-Dor_

.

* * * * *
Meanwhile the conflicting current of musical materialism is running
strong.
_The Daily Mail_, always in the van of artistic progress, has espoused
the cause of the insurgent Georgians with intrepid zeal. Mr.
JULIUS HARRISON is extolled in a leading article for finding a theme for
an orchestral work, not in any of the misty or metaphysical abstractions
which appealed to the effete Victorian composers, but in plums. And, mind
you, not Carlsbad, but honest Worcestershire plums, without any Teutonic
taint. Mr. JULIUS HARRISON'S patriotic example is not likely to be
lost on his brother composers. Indeed it is asserted on credible
authority that Mr. GRANVILLE BANTOCK, who has completely forsworn all
Oriental and exotic subjects, is engaged on a gigantic symphony,
with choral interludes, entitled "Yorkshire Pudding;" and that Mr.
JOSEF HOLBROOKE is collaborating with Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN in a romantic
historical opera in fifteen Acts called "From Woad to Broadcloth

."
* * * * *
Mr. BERNARD SHAW, who, it may be necessary to remind youthful readers,
was a musical critic on _The Star_ and _The World_ before he achieved
fame as a dramatist, has been causing his friends and admirers serious
misgivings by his article on Sir EDWARD ELGAR in a new musical journal,
_Music and Letters_. Sir EDWARD ELGAR has a great following; he has
written oratorios; he is an O.M.; yet Mr.

SHAW salutes him as the greatest English composer, the true lineal
descendant of BEETHOVEN, one of the Immortals and the only candidate
for Westminster Abbey! To find Mr. SHAW taking a majority view is bad
enough; it is a case of proving false to the tradition of a lifetime--a
moral suicide. But why drag in BEETHOVEN? So left-handed a compliment
prompts the suspicion that, after all, what appears to be eulogy is in
reality nothing more than an essay in adroitly dissembled obloquy.
_Mutatis mutandis_, Mr. SHAW would not thank Sir EDWARD ELGAR for calling
him, for example, the Voltaire _de nos jours_. What he does enjoy is the
frank disparagement of Mr. WILFRID BLUNT, who describes him in the
second volume of _My Diary_, just published, as "an ugly fellow, his face
a pasty-white, with a red nose and a rusty red beard, and little
slaty-blue eyes."
* * * * *
An interesting but, we regret to say, decidedly hostile estimate of
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE as a musician appears in the columns of a leading
anti-Coalition daily. The critic discusses the PREMIER both as vocalist
and instrumentalist, and in both capacities finds him sadly wanting.
The volume of his voice is small, the timbre is unpleasant, the
production faulty and the intonation far from pure.

Admitting that Mr.

LLOYD GEORGE has a certain flexibility and facility common to all Welsh
singers, the critic condemns his habit of resorting to an emotional
tremolo which frequently degenerates into a mere "wobble." The PREMIER,
he continues, shows agility and spirit in florid passages, but his
declamation lacks dignity and his articulation is often indistinct. As
a pianist he is equally unsatisfactory; his repertory is extremely
limited and he is quite unable to interpret the complex harmonies
of the Russian School.

* * * * *
A painful example of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE'S ignorance is forthcoming
in the astounding fact that he is, or was, under the impression
that Karsavina was the name of a town, and that the only musician
of the name of Corelli was the author of _The Sorrows of Satan_.
The critic concludes with a masterly analysis of the results of
these short-comings on the vitality of the Coalition Cabinet, already
weakened by the withdrawal of Mr. BALFOUR, a very sound and
accomplished musician of the old school.

* * * * * 
THE EXILE.
Now I return to my own land and people, Old familiar things so to
recover, Hedgerows and little lanes and meadows, The friendliness
of my own land and people.
I have seen a world-frieze of glowing orange, Palms painted black
on a satin horizon; Palm-trees in the dusk and the silence standing
Straight and still against a background of orange;
A gorgeous magical pomp of light and colour, A dream-world, a
sparkling gem in the sunlight, The minarets and domes of an Eastern
city; And, in the midst of all the pomp of colour,
My heart cried out for my own land and people, My heart cried out
for the lush meadows of England, The hedgerows and the little lanes
of England, And for the faces of my own people.

* * * * *
"The Viceroy, fishing in the Kabini river yesterday, caught a mahseer
weighing 77 pounds. This is the best fish so far caught in one
day."-- _Weekly Rangoon Times._
We gather that the giant would not have allowed any less august
angler to land it except by instalments.

* * * * *
[Illustration: "RATTLING GOOD BOOK THIS, _COURTSHIP AND CRIME_."
"YES, I'VE READ IT."] 
[Illustration: "SPLENDIDLY WRITTEN."
"YES, I'VE READ IT."]
[Illustration: "BY JOVE, IT'S EXCITING!"
"I'VE READ IT."]
[Illustration: "THERE'S ONE THRILLING BIT WHERE--"
"YES, I'VE--"] 
[Illustration: "--THE HERO--"
"--READ IT."] 
[Illustration: "--BUT I MUST READ IT TO YOU."
"I'VE READ IT."] 
[Illustration: "I KNOW YOU'LL--"
"I'VE READ IT."] 
[Illustration: "--ENJOY IT."
"I'VE READ IT."] 
* * * * * 
GUINEA-PIGS.
It was with ill-concealed trepidation that I approached the Pontifical
Personage who presides over Messrs. Barkrod and Tomridge's Zoological
Department. The recollection of my previous and only encounter with
him still burned in my memory. I had gone thither with a young
nephew on whom in a rash moment I had urged the satisfaction to be
derived from the study of natural history and he had countered with
a birthday and a demand that I should convert precept to practice
by providing him with a pet.
The P.P. greeted us with benignant expectancy. His white apron
merely accentuated the obvious fact that he had come in a limousine.
I have since decided that he mistook me for an eccentric peer. It
seems that eccentric peers and struggling journalists are apt to
provide the same air of sartorial abandon to the eye of the
uninitiated.
It was the young nephew, however, who made the running. The entire
menagerie whistled, barked, sat up on its hind legs, performed
acrobatic feats and said, "Scratch poor Polly," at his discriminating
behest. Finally he reached a point where he simply could not decide
between a Goliath cockatoo at £22 10_s_. and a white-faced Douroucouli
at twenty-seven guineas.
At this juncture I insinuated myself into the discussion, and by
the exercise of subtle pressure got him to compromise on a pair of
white rats at half-a-crown. Never shall I forget the look of majestic
contempt with which the Personage withered me as he extracted two
torpid rodents from a congeries of their kith and, holding them by
their pink tails, dropped them into a paper bag with the air of a
Marchese depositing alms in the palm of a lazzarone.
Not lightly indeed did I again enter into the Presence.Nor was there trouble in providing for our nights. Before I left home a
romantic friend had pictured me in Venice, wrapped in black lace,
forever floating in a _gondola_ under the moon. But my Roman winter had
taught me how much more likely the gas-light of some little _trattoria_
and _café_ was to shine upon me in my well-worn tweeds, my education
having got so far advanced that any other end to my day of work could
not seem possible. The only question was upon which of the many little
_trattorie_ and _cafés_ in Venice our choice should fall, and this was
decided for us by Duveneck, whom we ran across that same morning in the
_Piazza_, and who told us that he slept in the _Casa Kirsch_, dined at
the _Antica Panada_, and drank coffee at the _Orientale_, which was as
much as to say that we might too if we liked. And of course we liked,
for it is a great compliment when a man in Venice, or any Italian
town,--especially if he is of the importance and distinction to which
Duveneck had already attained,--makes you free to join him at dinner and
over after-dinner coffee. It is more than a compliment. It launches you
in Venice as to be presented at court launches you in London.

[Illustration: Painting by Joseph R. De Camp
FRANK DUVENECK]

We began that night to dine at the _Panada_ and drink coffee at the
_Orientale_, and we kept on dining at the _Panada_ and drinking coffee
at the _Orientale_ every night we were in Venice; except when it was a
_festa_ and we followed Duveneck to the _Calcino_, where various Royal
Academicians sustained the respectability Ruskin gave it by his
patronage and Symonds tried to live up to; or when there was music in
the _Piazza_ and, happy to do whatever Duveneck did, we went with him to
the _Quadri_ or _Florian's_; or when it stormed, as it can in March, and
all day from my window I had looked down upon the dripping _Riva_ and
the wind-waved Lagoon and lines of fishing boats moored to the banks,
and no living creatures except the gulls, and the little white woolly
dogs on the fishing boats covered with sails, and the sailors miserably
huddled together, and gondoliers in yellow oilskins, and the
_Bersaglieri_ in hoods--what the _Bersaglieri_ were doing there even in
sunshine was one of the mysteries of Venice;--then we went with Duveneck
no further than the kitchen of the _Casa Kirsch_, for he hated, as we
hated, the _table d'hôte_ from which, there as everywhere, German
tourists were talking away every other nationality.

The kitchen was a huge room, with high ceiling, and brass and copper
pots and pans on the whitewashed walls, and a dim light about the
cooking stove, and dark shadowy corners. The _padrona_ laid the cloth
for us in an alcove opposite the great fireplace, while she and her
family sat at a table against the wall to the right, and the old cook
ate at a bare table in the middle, and the maid-servant sat on a stool
by the fire with her plate in her lap, and the man-servant stood in the
corner with his plate on the dresser. Having thus expressed their
respect for class distinctions, they felt no further obligation, but
they all helped equally in cooking and serving, talked together the
whole time, quarrelled, called each other names, and laughed at the old
man's stories told in the Venetian which I only wish I had understood
then as well as I did a few weeks later, when it was too late, for, with
the coming of spring, there were no storms to keep us from the _Panada_.

Just where the _Panada_ was I would not attempt to say; not from any
desire to keep it secret, which would be foolish, for Baedeker long
since found it out; but simply because I could not very well show the
way to a place I never could find for myself. I knew it was somewhere
round the corner from the _Piazza_, but I never rounded that corner
alone without becoming involved in a labyrinth of little _calli_. Nor
would I attempt to say why the artists chose it and why, because they
did, we should, for it was then the dirtiest, noisiest, and most crowded
_trattoria_ in Venice, though the last time I was there, years
afterwards, it was so spick and span, with another room and more waiters
to relieve the congestion, that I could not believe it really was the
_Panada_ and, with the inconsistency natural under the circumstances,
did not like it half so well.

No matter whether we got there early or late, the _Panada_ was always
full. As soon as we sat down we began our dinner by wiping our glasses,
plates, forks, spoons, and knives on our napkins, making such a habit of
it that I remember afterwards at a dinner-party in London catching
myself with my glass in my hand and stopping only just in time, while
Duveneck, on another occasion, got as far as the silver before he was
held up by the severe eye of his hostess. Probably it was because nobody
could hear what anybody said that everybody talked together. I cannot
recall a moment when stray musicians were not strumming on guitars and
mandolins, and the oyster man was not shrieking: "_Ostreche!_ _Fresche!
Ostreche!_" though nobody paid the least attention to him or ever bought
one of his oysters. And above the uproar was the continuous cry: "_Ecco
me! Vengo subito! Mezzo Verona! Due Calomai! Vengo subito! Ecco me!_" of
the waiters, who, though they never ceased to announce their coming,
were so slow to come that many diners brought a course or two in their
pockets to occupy them during the intervals.

The little Venetian at the next table was sure to produce a bunch of
radishes while he waited for his soup; on market days, when there was
more of a crowd than ever, few of the many baked potatoes eaten at
almost every table had seen the inside of the _Panada's_ oven; often the
shops that fill the Venetian _calli_ with the perpetual smell of frying
and where the brasses and the blue-and-white used to shine, were
patronized on the way--if dinner has to be collected in the streets, no
town, even in Italy, offers such facilities as Venice. From _Minestra_
to fruit and cheese, the Venetian in a few minutes' walk may pick up a
substantial dinner and carry it to the rooms or the street corner where
it is his habit to dine. Vance, the painter, who sometimes favoured us
at our table with his company, went further and, after he had taken off
his coat and put on his hat and emptied his pockets, seldom troubled the
establishment to provide him with more than a glass, a plate, a knife,
and a fork, for the price of a _quinto_ of Verona. His first, and as it
turned out his last, more extravagant order, was the event of the
season. The _padrone_ discussed it with him and a message was sent to
the cook that the dish was _di bistecca_. When it came it was not cooked
enough to suit Vance. A second was cooked too much. The third was done
to a turn. In the bill, however, were the three, and voices were
lowered, mandolins and guitars were stilled, the oyster man forgot his
shriek, during the five awful minutes when Vance and the _padrone_ had
it out. After that Vance made another _trattoria_ the richer by his
daily _quinto_.

J. and I had our five minutes with the _padrone_ later on once when
Rossi, our waiter, was so slow that our patience gave out and we shook
the dust of the _Panada_ from our feet. But we could not shake off
Rossi. He had arrived with our dinner just as we were vanishing from the
door and was made to pay for it. After that his leisure was spent in
trying to make us pay him back and he would appear at our bedroom door,
or waylay us on the _Riva_, or follow us into the _Orientale_, or run
us down in the _Piazza_, demanding the money as a right, begging for it
as a charity, reducing it by a _centesimo_ every time until we had only
to wait long enough for the debt to be wiped out. But this was at the
end of our stay in Venice, and months of dining at the _Panada_ had
passed before then.


III

[Illustration: Etching by Joseph Pennell
THE CAFÉ ORIENTALE, VENICE]

I would be as puzzled to explain the attraction of the _Orientale_ on
the _Riva_, unless it was the opportunity it offered for economy. In the
_Piazza_, at the _Quadri_ and _Florian's_, which are to the other
_cafés_ of Venice what St. Mark's is to the other churches, coffee was
twenty _centesimi_ and the waiter expected five more, but at the
_Orientale_ it was eighteen and the waiter was satisfied with the change
from twenty, which meant for us the saving every night of almost half a
cent. The _Orientale_ was by comparison as quiet and deserted as the
_Panada_ was crowded and noisy. Outside, tables looked upon the Lagoon
and the façade of _San Giorgio_, white in the night. In a big, new,
gilded room sailors and sergeants played checkers and more serious
Venetians worked out dismal problems in chess. But Duveneck's corner was
in the older, shabby, stuffy, low-ceilinged room, and having once
settled there we never wanted to move. As a rule we shared it with only
an elderly Englishman and his son who read the _Standard_ in the
opposite corner--after our race with them to the _café_, the winners
getting the one English paper first--and we were seldom intruded upon or
interrupted except by the occasional visit of the _caramei_ man with his
brass tray of candied fruit, impaled on thin sticks, like little birds
on a skewer, which led us into our one extravagance.

Had the old room been seedier and duller--dull our company never was--I
still would have seen it through the glamour of youth and thought it the
one place in which to study Venice and Venetian life. But nobody who
ever sat there with us could have complained of dulness so long as
Duveneck presided at our table. In Duveneck's case I cannot help
breaking my golden rule never to speak in print of the living--rules
were made to be broken. And why shouldn't I? I might as well not write
at all about our nights in Venice as to leave him out of them, he who
held them together and fashioned them into what they were. In the
_Atlantic_, as a makeshift, I called him Inglehart, the disguise under
which he figures in one of Howells's novels. But why not call him
boldly by his name when Inglehart is the thinnest and flimsiest of
masks, as friends of his were quick to tell me, and Duveneck means so
much more to all who know--and all who do not know are not worth
bothering about. It was only yesterday at San Francisco that the artists
of America gave an unmistakable proof of what their opinion of Duveneck
is now. In the Eighties "the boys" already thought as much of him and a
hundred times more.

Duveneck, as I remember him then--I have seen him but once since--was
large, fair, golden-haired, with long drooping golden moustache, of a
type apt to suggest indolence and indifference. As he lolled against the
red velvet cushions smoking his Cavour, enjoying the talk of others as
much as his own or more--for he had the talent of eloquent silence when
he chose to cultivate it--his eyes half shut, smiling with casual
benevolence, he may have looked to a stranger incapable of action, and
as if he did not know whether he was alone or not, and cared less. And
yet he had a big record of activity behind him, young as he was; he
always inspired activity in others, he was rarely without a large and
devoted following. He it was who drew "the boys" to Munich, then from
Munich to Florence, and then from Florence to Venice, and "the boys"
have passed into the history of American Art and the history of
Venice--wouldn't that give me away and explain who he was if I called
him Inglehart dozens of times over? And he also it was who packed them
off again before they learnt how easy it is to be content in Venice
without doing anything at all, though I used to fancy that he would have
been rather glad to indulge in that content himself. How far he was from
the pleasant Venetian habit of idling all day, his Venetian etchings, at
which he was working that spring--the etchings that on their appearance
in London were the innocent cause of a stirring chapter in _The Gentle
Art_--are an enduring proof. And I knew a good deal of what was going on
in his studio at the time, for J. spent many busy hours with him there,
while I, left to my own devices, stared industriously from the windows
of the _Casa Kirsch_, making believe I was gathering material, or
strolled along the _Riva_ pretending it was to market for my midday
meal, though the baker was almost next door, and the man from whom I
bought the little dried figs that nowhere are so dried and shrivelled up
as in Venice, was seldom more than a minute away. I can see now, when I
consider how my Venetian days were spent, that I came perilously near
to sinking to the deepest depths of Venetian idleness myself.

We were never alone with Duveneck at the _Orientale_. The American
Consul was sure to drop in, as he had for so many years that half his
occupation would have gone if he hadn't dropped in any longer. Martin
joined us because he loved to argue anybody into a temper and, as he was
an awful bore, succeeded with most people. He could drive me to proving
that white was black, to overturning all my most cherished idols, or to
forgetting my timidity and laying down the law upon any point of art he
might bring up. Duveneck alone refused to be roused and Martin, who
could not understand or accept his failure, was forever coming back,
making himself a bigger bore than ever, by trying again. But Shinn was
the only man I ever knew to put Duveneck into something like a temper,
and that was by asking him deferentially one night if he did not think
St. Mark's a very fine church--the next minute, however, calming him
down by inviting him out "in my gandler."

Arnold was as regular in attendance. He found the _café_ as comfortable
a place to sleep in as any other. Like Sancho Panza he had a talent for
sleeping. He had made his name and fame as one of the Harvard baseball
team in I will not say what year, and sleep had been his chief
occupation ever since. No end of stories were going the round of the
studios and _cafés_--he invited them without wanting it or meaning to.
He was supposed to be in Venice to study with Duveneck, at whose studio
he was said to arrive regularly at the same hour every morning. And as
regularly he was snoring before he had been sitting in front of his
easel for ten minutes. During his nap, Duveneck would come round and
shake him and before he slept again put a touch to the study and, as
Arnold promptly dozed off, would work on it until it was finished, and
unless it slid down the canvas with the quantity of bitumen Arnold
used--there was one story of the beautiful eyes in a beautiful portrait,
before they could be stopped, sliding into the chin of the pretty girl
who was posing--Arnold, waking up eventually, would carry off the
painting unconscious that he had not finished it himself. Nobody can say
how many Duvenecks are masquerading at home as Arnolds while their
owners wonder why Arnold has never since done any work a tenth as good.

The one thing that roused him was baseball, and he was in fine form on
the afternoons when he and a few other enthusiasts spent an hour or so
on the Lido for practice. The Englishmen did not believe in the
prodigies they heard of him as a baseball player. It wasn't easy for
anybody to believe that a man who was always tumbling off to sleep on
the slightest provocation could play anything decently. But I was told
that one day he was wide enough awake to be irritated, and he bet them a
dinner he could pitch the swell British cricketer among them three balls
not any one of which the Briton could catch. And on Easter Monday they
all went over to the Lido. The Briton asked for a high ball: it skimmed
along near the ground and then rose over his head as he stooped for it.
He asked for a low one: it came straight for his nose and, when he
dodged it, dropped and went between his legs. He asked for a medium one:
it curved away out to the right, he rushed for it, it curved back again
and took him in his manly bosom. The rest of the Britons and "the boys,"
they say, enjoyed the dinner more than he did. Such was the affair as it
was described to me and confirmed by gossip. I pretend to no authority
on a subject I understand so little as balls and the pitching of them.

A better contrast to Arnold could not have been found than the artist
with the part Spanish, part German name who called himself a Frenchman,
and who aimed to give his pose the mystery that crept, or bounded when
encouraged, into his incessant talk. I am afraid his chief encouragement
came from me. The others were as irritated by his dabbling in magic as
most of us had been in Rome by Forepaugh's theosophic adventures. But he
amused me; he did not deal in the prose of his brand of magic, the
Black, of which so much was beginning to be heard, and still more was to
be heard, in Paris. He was all innuendo and strange hints and whispered
secrets, and I-could-if-I-woulds. One of my recent winters had been
devoted, not to dabbling in magic, for which I have not the temperament,
but to reading the literature of magic or of all things psychical, and I
could then, though I could not now, have passed a fairly good
examination in the modern authorities, from Madame Blavatsky to Louis
Jacolliot. Therefore I proved a sympathetic listener and heard, for my
pains, of the revival of old religions, and above all of old rites, and
of his dignity as high-priest, a figure of mystery and command moving
here and there among shadowy disciples in shadowy sanctuaries. For one
sunk such fathoms deep in mystery he was surprisingly concerned for the
outward sign. Like Huysmans's hero, he believed in the significance of
the material background, entertaining me with a detailed description of
his apartment in Paris, and I have not yet lost the vision he permitted
me of a bedroom hung and painted with scarlet, and of himself enshrined
in it, magnificent in scarlet silk pajamas. Probably it was to deceive
the world that he carried a tiny paint-box. I never saw him open it.

But most constant of our little party was Jobbins, our one Englishman,
who came in late to the _Orientale_--where, or if, he dined none of us
could say--with the stool and canvas and paint-box he had been carrying
about all day from one _campo_, or _calle_, or _canale_, to another, in
search of a subject. Jobbins's trouble was that he had passed too
brilliantly through South Kensington to do the teaching for which he was
trained, or to be willing to do anything but paint great pictures the
subjects for which he could never find; his mistake was to want to paint
them in Venice where there is nothing to paint that has not been painted
hundreds, or thousands, or millions of times before; and his misfortune
was not to seek in adversity the comfort and hope which the philosopher
believes to be its reward. He had become, as a consequence, the weariest
man who breathed. It made me tired to look at him. Later, he was forced
to abandon his high ambition and he accepted a good post as teacher
somewhere in India. But he lived a short time to enjoy it and I am sure
he was homesick for Venice, and the search after the impossible, and the
old days when he was so abominably hard up that even J. and I were
richer. Of the complete crash by which we all gained--including the man
who got the Whistler painted on the back of a Jobbins panel--I still
have reminders in a brass plaque and bits of embroideries hung up on our
walls and brocades made into screens, which J. bought from him to save
the situation, at the risk of creating a new one from which somebody
would have to save us.

For all his weariness, Jobbins looked ridiculously young. He insisted
that this was what lost him his one chance of selling a picture. He was
painting in the Frari a subject which he vainly hoped was his own, when
an American family of three came and stared over his shoulder.

"Why, it's going to be a picture!" the small child discovered.

"And he such a boy too!" the mother marvelled.

"Then it can't be of any value," the father said in the loud cheerful
voice in which American and English tourists in Venice make their most
personal comments, convinced that nobody can understand, though every
other person they meet is a fellow countryman. A story used to be told
of Bunney at work in the _Piazza_, on his endless study of St. Mark's
for Ruskin, one bitter winter morning, when three English girls, wrapped
in furs, passed. One stopped behind him:

"Oh Maud! Ethel!" she called, "do come back and see what this poor
shivering old wretch is doing."

The talk in our corner of the _Orientale_ kept us in the past until I
began to fear that, just as some people grow prematurely grey, so J. and
I, not a year married, had prematurely reached the time for creeping in
close about the fire--or a _café_ table--and telling grey tales of what
we had been. It was a very different past from that which tourists were
then bullied by Ruskin into believing should alone concern them in
Venice--indeed, my greatest astonishment in this astonishing year was
that, while the people who were not artists but posed as knowing all
about art did nothing but quote Ruskin, artists never quoted him, and
never mentioned him except to show how little use they had for him. But
then, as I was beginning to find out, it is the privilege of the artist
to think what he knows and to say what he thinks. We were none of us
tourists at our little table, we were none of us seeing sights, being
far too busy doing the work we were in Venice to do; and no matter what
Ruskin and Baedeker taught, "the boys" gave the date which overshadowed
for us every other in Venetian history. Nothing that had happened in
Venice before or after counted, though "the boys" themselves were in
their turn a good deal overshadowed by Whistler, who had been there with
them for a while.

It was extraordinary how the Whistler tradition had developed and
strengthened in the little more than four years since he had left
Venice. I had never met him then, though J. had a few months before in
London. I hardly hoped ever to meet him; I certainly could not expect
that the day would come when he would be our friend, with us constantly,
letting us learn far more about him and far more intimately than from
all the talk at a _café_ table of those who already knew him, accepted
him as a master, and loved him as a man. But had my knowledge of him
come solely from those months in Venice I should still have realized the
power of his personality and the force of his influence. He seemed to
pervade the place, to colour the atmosphere. He had stayed in Venice
only about a year. In the early Eighties little had been written of him
except in contempt or ridicule. But to the artist he had become as
essentially a part of Venice, his work as inseparable from its
associations, as the Venetian painters like Carpaccio and Tintoretto who
had lived and worked there all their lives and about whom a voluminous
literature had grown up, culminating in the big and little volumes by
Ruskin upon which the public crowding to Venice based their artistic
creed. During those old nights I heard far more of the few little inches
of Whistler's etchings and of Whistler's pastels than of the great
expanse of Tintoretto's _Paradise_ or of Carpaccio's decorations in the
little church of _San Giorgio degli Schiavoni_. The fact made and has
left the greater impression because the winter in Rome had not worn off,
for me, the novelty of artists' talk or quite accustomed me to their
point of view, to their surprising independence in not accepting the
current and easy doctrine that everything old is sacred, everything
modern insignificant. Because a painter happened to paint a couple of
hundred years or more ago did not place him above their criticism;
because he happened to paint to-day was apt to make him more
interesting to them.

At the _Orientale_ the talk could never keep very long from Whistler. It
might be of art--question of technique, of treatment, of arrangement, of
any or all the artist's problems--and sooner or later it would be
referred to what Whistler did or did not. Or the talk might grow
reminiscent and again it was sure to return to Whistler. Not only at the
_Orientale_, but at any _café_ or restaurant or house or gallery where
two or three artists were gathered together, Whistler stories were
always told before the meeting broke up. It was then we first heard the
gold-fish story, and the devil-in-the-glass story, and the
Wolkoff-pastel story, and the farewell-feast story, and the innumerable
stories labelled and pigeon-holed by "the boys" for future use, and so
recently told by J. and myself in the greatest story of all--the story
of his Life--that it is too soon for me to tell them again. Up till then
I had shared the popular idea of him as a man who might be ridiculed,
abused, feared, hated, anything rather than loved. But none of the men
in Venice could speak of him without affection. "Not a bad chap,"
Jobbins would forget his weariness to say, "not half a bad chap!" and
one night he told one of the few Whistler stories never yet told in
print, except in the _Atlantic Monthly_ where this chapter was first
published.

"He rather liked me," said Jobbins, "liked to have me about, and to help
on Sundays when he showed his pastels. But that wasn't my game, you
know, and I got tired of it, and one Sunday when lots of people were
there and he asked me to bring out that drawing of a _calle_ with tall
houses, and away up above clothes hung out to dry, and a pair of
trousers in the middle, I said: 'Have you got a title for it, Whistler?'
'No,' he said. 'Well,' I said, 'call it an _Arrangement in Trousers_,'
and everybody laughed. I'd have sneaked away, for he was furious. But he
wouldn't let me, kept his eye on me, though he didn't say a word until
they'd all gone. Then he looked at me rather with that Shakespeare
fellow's _Et tu Brute_ look: 'Why, Jobbins, you, who are so amiable?'
That was all. No, not half a bad chap."

Now and then talk of Whistler and "the boys" reminded Duveneck of his
own student days, and would lead him into personal reminiscences, when
the stories were of his adventures; sometimes on Bavarian roads, singing
and fiddling his way from village to village, or in Bavarian convents,
teaching drawing to pretty novices, receiving commissions from stern
Reverend Mothers; and sometimes in American towns painting the earliest
American mural decoration that prepared the way, through various stages,
for the latest American series of all--at the San Francisco Exposition
where Duveneck was acclaimed as the American master of to-day. But in
his story, as he told it to us, he had not got as far as Florence when a
new turn was given to his reminiscences and to our evening talk by the
descent upon Venice of the men from Munich.


IV

They were only three--McFarlane, Anthony and Thompson, shall I call
them?--but they had not journeyed all the way from Munich to talk about
"the boys" and to drop sentimental tears over old love tales. They were
off on an Easter holiday and meant to make the most of it. Because
Duveneck was Duveneck they gave up the gayer _cafés_ in the _Piazza_ to
be with him in the sleepy old _Orientale_. But they were not going to
let it stay a sleepy old _Orientale_ if they could help themselves.
Their very first evening Duveneck called for two glasses of milk--to
steady his nerves, he said, though he politely attributed the
unsteadiness not to this new excitement but to the tea he had been
drinking. People drifted to our room from outside and from the new room
to see what the noise was about, until there was not a table to be had.
The old Englishman and his son put down the _Standard_ and laughed with
us. The _caramei_ man went away with an empty tray, I do believe the
only time he was ever bought out in his life, and McFarlane treated us
all to _tamarindo_ to drink with the fruit, and he wound up his horrible
extravagance by buying a copy of the Venetian paper "the boys" used to
call the _Barabowow_. It was nothing short of a Venetian orgy.

Nor did the transformation end here. The men from Munich were so smart,
especially McFarlane, in white waistcoat, with a flower in his
button-hole and a gold-headed cane in his hand, that we were shocked
into the consciousness of our shabbiness. Duveneck, who, until then, had
been happy in an old ulster with holes in the pockets and rips in the
seams, dazzled the _café_ by appearing in a jaunty spring overcoat. J.
exchanged his old trousers with a green stain of acid down the leg for
the new pair he had hitherto worn only when he went to call on the
Bronsons or to dine with Mr. Horatio Brown, where I could not go
because I was so much more hopelessly unprepared to dine anywhere
outside the _Panada_ or the Kitchen of the _Casa Kirsch_. But in the
_Merceria_ I could at least supply myself with gloves and veils, while
Jobbins unearthed a fresh cravat from somewhere. And we began to feel
apologetic for the dinginess and general down-at-heeledness of Venice
which bored the men from Munich to extinction--really they were so
bored, they said, that all day they found themselves looking forward to
the _caramei_ man as the town's one excitement. I thought the
illuminations on Easter Sunday evening, when the _Piazza_ was "a
fairyland in the night," and the music deafened us, and the Bengal
lights blinded us, would help to give them a livelier impression; but,
though they came with us to _Florian's_, it was plain they pitied us for
being so pleased.

They couldn't, for the life of them, see why the place had been so
cracked up by Ruskin. Nothing was right. The _Piazza_ was just simply
the town's meeting place and centre of gossip, like the country village
store, only on a more architectural and uncomfortable scale. The canals
were breeding holes for malaria. The streets wouldn't be put up with as
alleys at home. The language was not worth learning. At the _Panada_,
after we had given our order for dinner, McFarlane would murmur
languidly '_Lo stesso_' and declare it to be the one useful word in the
Italian dictionary; to this Johnson added a mysterious '_Sensa crab_'
when Rossi suggested '_piccoli fees_' under the delusion that he was
talking English; while Anthony was quite content with the vocabulary the
other two supplied him. The climate was as deplorable: either wet and
cold, when the Italian _scaldino_ wasn't a patch on the German stove and
a _gondola_ became a freezing machine; or warm and enervating when they
couldn't keep awake.

They dozed in their _gondola_, they yawned in St. Mark's and the Ducal
Palace and in all the other churches and palaces, and in front of all
the old doorways and bridges and boat-building yards and _traghettos_
and fishing boats and wells and "bits" that Camillo, their gondolier,
was inhuman enough to wake them up to look at. The beauty of Venice was
exaggerated, or if they did come to a "subject" that made them pull
their sketch books out of their pockets, Camillo was at once bothering
them to do it from just where Guardi, or Canaletto, or Rico, or
Whistler, or Ruskin, or some other old boy had painted, etched, or
drawn it--Whistler alone had finished Venice for every artist who came
after him and they were tired of his very name, and never wanted to have
his etchings and pastels thrown in their faces again. What they would
like to do was to discover the Italian town or village where no artist
had ever been seen and the word art had never been uttered.

But it was Venetian painting that got most on their nerves. They had
given it a fair chance, they protested. "Trot out your Tintorettos,"
they said to Camillo every morning, and he carried them off to the
Palace, and the Academy, and more churches than they thought there were
in the world, and at last to the _Scuola di San Rocco_. And there a
solemn man in spectacles took them in hand. They said to him too: "Trot
our your Tintorettos," and he led them up to a big, dingy canvas, and
they said: "Trot out your next," and they went the rounds of them all,
and they asked, "Where's your Duveneck?" and he said he had never heard
of Duveneck, and they said, "Why, he's here!" and they left him hunting,
and were back in their _gondola_ in ten minutes, and they guessed they
could do with Rubens! I trembled to think of the shock to tourists and
my highly intellectual friends at home, religiously studying Baedeker
and reading Ruskin, could they have heard the men from Munich talking of
art and of Venice. And I must have been painfully scandalized had I not
got so much further on with my education as to have a glimmering of the
truth Whistler was trying to beat into the unwilling head of the British
public--that an artist knows more about art than the man who isn't an
artist, and has the best right to an opinion on the subject.

Perhaps their disappointment in Venice was the reason of their
pre-occupation with Munich. Certainly "Now, at Munich" was the beginning
and end of the talk as "when 'the boys' were here" had been before they
came. They would not admit that anything good could exist outside of
Munich. I remember Duveneck once suggesting that Paris was the best
place for the student, to whom it was a help just to see what was going
on around him.

"But what does go on round the student there?" McFarlane interrupted.
"It's all fads in Paris. What do they talk about in Paris to-day but
values? [This, remember, was more than a quarter of a century ago.]
That's all they teach the student, all they think of. Look at Bisbing's
picture last year. They all raved over it, said it was the _clou_ of
the Salon, medalled it, bought it for the Luxembourg, and I don't know
what all. And what was it?--Pale green sheep in the foreground, pale
green mountains in the background, so pale you could shoot peas through
them. That's what you have to do now to make a success in Paris--get
your values so that you can shoot peas through 'em. And what will it be
to-morrow? And what help is it to the student, anyway?"

But one thing certain is, that whatever the fads and movements in the
Paris studios happened to be, the American student in those days did see
what was going on in Paris, and just to see, just to feel it, was, as
Duveneck held, a help, an inspiration. To-day, living in his own
_pensions_, studying in his own schools, loafing in his own clubs, he
does not take any interest in what is going on outside of them and will
talk about what "the Frenchmen are doing" as if he were still in
Kalamazoo or Oshkosh.

What the student, in Duveneck's and McFarlane's time saw going on round
him in Munich was, as well as I could make out, chiefly balls and
pageants. To this day I cannot help thinking of life in Munich as one
long spectacle and dance. Duveneck, who could talk with calmness of his
painting, was stirred to animation when he recalled the costumes he had
invented for himself and his friends. He could not conceal his pride in
the success of a South Sea Islander he had designed, the effect achieved
by the simple means of burnt Sienna rubbed into the poor man, but so
vigorously that it took months to get it out again, and a blanket which
he mislaid towards morning so that his walk home at dawn, like a savage
skulking in the shadows, was a triumph of realism. Pride, too, coloured
Duveneck's account of the appearance of the Socialist Carpenter of his
creation who made a huge sensation by inciting to riot in the streets of
an elaborate Old Munich--the origin of Old London and Old Paris and all
the sham Old Towns that Exhibitions have long since staled for us. But
his masterpiece was the Dissipated Gentleman, like all masterpieces a
marvel of simplicity--hired evening clothes, a good long roll in the
muddiest gutter on the way to the ball, and it was done; but the art,
Duveneck said, was in the rolling, which in this case, under his
direction, was so masterly that at the door the Dissipated Gentleman was
mistaken for the real thing and, if friends had not come up in the nick
of time, the door would have been shut in his face.

Duveneck was as enthusiastic over the Charles V. ball, though all the
artists of Munich contributed to its splendour, working out their
costumes with such respect for truth and so regardless of cost that for
months and years afterwards not a bit of old brocade or lace was to be
had in the antiquity shops of Bavaria. And the students were responsible
for the siege of an old castle outside the town, and in their
archæological ardour persuaded the Museum to lend the armour and arms of
the correct date, and, in their appreciation of the favour, fought with
so much restraint that the casualties were a couple of spears snapped.
And, in my recollection, their recollections stood for such truth and
gorgeousness that when England, years afterwards, took to celebrating
its past with pageants, more than once I found myself thinking how much
better they order these things in Munich!

And from the studios came the inspiration for that ball Munich talks of
to this day in which all the nations were represented. There was a Hindu
temple, a Chinese pagoda, and an Indian wigwam. But the crowning touch
was the Esquimaux hut. Placed in a hall apart, at the foot of a great
stairway, it was built of some composition in which pitch was freely
used, lit by tallow candles, and hung with herrings offered for sale by
nine Esquimaux dressed in woollen imitation of skins with the furry side
turned out. All evening the hut was surrounded, only towards midnight
could the crowd be induced to move on to some fresh attraction. In the
moment's lull, one of the Esquimaux was tying up a new line of herrings
when he brushed a candle with his arm. In a second he was blazing.
Another ran to his rescue. In another second the hut was a furnace and
nine men were in flames, with pitch and wool for fuel. One of the few
people still lounging about the hut, fearing a panic, gave the signal to
the band, who struck up _Carmen_. Never since, McFarlane said, had he
listened to the music of _Carmen_, never again could he listen to it,
without seeing the burning hut, the men rushing out of it with the
flames leaping high above them, tearing at the blazing wool, in their
agony turning and twisting as in some wild fantastic dance, while above
the music he could hear the laughter of the crowd, who thought it a
joke--a new scene in the spectacle.

He snatched a rug from somewhere and tried to throw it over one of the
men, but the man flew past to the top of the great stairway. There he
was seized and rolled over and over on the carpet until the flames were
out. He got up, walked downstairs, asked for beer, drank it to the
dregs, and fell dead with the glass in his hand--the first to die, the
first freed from his agony. Of the nine, but two survived. Seven lay
with their hut, a charred heap upon the ground, before the laughing
crowd realized what a pageant of horror Fate had planned for them.

Munich stories, before the night was over, had to be washed down with
Munich beer, which, at that time as still, I fancy, was best at Bauer's.
By some unwritten law, inscrutable as the written, it was decreed that,
though I might sit all evening the only woman at our table in the
_Orientale_--oftener than not the only woman in the _café_--it was not
"the thing" for me to go on to Bauer's. Therefore, first, the whole
company would see me home. It was a short stroll along the _Riva_, but
the Lagoon, dim and shadowy, stretched away beyond us, dimmer islands
resting on its waters, the lights of the boats sprinkling it with gold
under the high Venetian sky sprinkled with stars; and so beautiful was
it, and so sweet the April night, that the men from Munich could not
hold out against the enchantment of Venice in spring. I felt it a
concession when McFarlane admitted the loveliness of Venice by
starlight, and his languor dropped from him under the spell, and I knew
the game of boredom was up when, in this starlight, he decided that,
after all, there might be more in the Tintorettos than he thought if
only he had time to study them. But Easter holidays do not last for
ever, and the day soon came when the men from Munich had to go back to
where all was for the best in the best of all towns, but where no doubt,
on the principle that we always prefer what we have not got at the
moment, they told "the fellows" in the _Bier Kellars_ that only in
Venice was life worth while, that Rubens was dingy, and that they
guessed they could do with Tintoretto.


V

Somehow, we were never the same after they left us; not, I fancy,
because we missed them, but because we could hold out still less than
they against the spring. When the sun was so warm and the air so soft,
when in the little canals wistaria bloomed over high brick walls, when
boatloads of flowers came into Venice with the morning, when at noon the
_Riva_ was strewn with sleepers--then indoors and work became an
impertinence. On the slightest excuse J. and Duveneck no longer shut
themselves in the studio, I gave up collecting material from my window
and lunch from the _Riva_, Jobbins interrupted his search and Martin his
argument, the Consul fought shy of the old corner in the _café_. And in
the languid laziness that stole upon Venice, as well as upon us, I
penetrated for the first time to the inner meaning of the chapter in his
_Venetian Life_ that Howells labels _Comincia far Caldo_, the season
when repose takes you to her inner heart and you learn her secrets, when
at last you know _why_ it was an Abyssinian maid who played upon her
dulcimer, at last you recognize in Xanadu the land where you were born.

There was never a _festa_ in the _Piazza_ that we were not there,
watching or walking with the bewildering procession of elegant young
Venetians, and peasants from the mainland, and officers, and soldiers,
and gondoliers with big caps set jauntily on their curls, and beautiful
girls in the gay fringed shawls that have disappeared from Venice and
the wooden shoes that once made an endless clatter along the _Riva_ but
are heard no more, and Greeks, and Armenians, and priests, and beggars,
passing up and down between the arcades and the _café_ tables that
overflowed far into the square, St. Mark's more unreal in its splendour
than ever with its domes and galleries and traceries against the blue
of the Venetian night.

There was never a side-show on the _Riva_ that we did not interrupt our
work to go and see it; whether it was the circus in the little tent,
with the live pony, the most marvellous of all sights in Venice; or the
acrobats tumbling on their square of carpet; or the blindfolded,
toothless old fortune-teller, whose shrill voice I can still hear
mumbling "_Una volta soltanta per Napoli!_" when she was asked if
Naples, this coming summer, as the last, would be ravaged by cholera.
She was right, for in the town, cleaned out of picturesqueness, cholera
could not again do its work in the old wholesale fashion.

There was never an excursion to the Islands that we did not join it. To
visit some of the further Islands was not so easy in those days, except
for tourists with a fortune to spend on _gondolas_, and we were grateful
to the occasional little steamboat that undertook to get us there,
though with a crowd and noise and a brass band, for all the world like
an excursion to Coney Island, and though most people, except the
grateful natives, were obediently believing with Ruskin that it was the
symbol of the degeneracy of Venice and would have thought themselves
disgraced forever if they were seen on it. But the Lagoon was as
beautiful from the noisy, fussy little steamboat as from a _gondola_,
the sails of the fishing boats touching it with as brilliant colour, the
Islands lying as peacefully upon its shining waters, the bells of the
many _campanili_ coming as sweetly to our ears, the sky above as pure
and radiant; and it mattered not how we reached the Islands, they were
as enchanting when we landed.

One wonderful day was at Torcello, where nothing could mar the
loveliness of its solitude and desolation, its old cathedral full of
strange mosaics and stranger memories, the green space in front that was
once a _Piazza_ tangled with blossoms and sweet-scented in the May
sunshine, the purple hills on the mainland melting into the pale sky.
And a second day as wonderful was at Burano, with its rose-flushed
houses and gardens and traditions of noise and quarrels, and the girls
who followed the boat along the bank and pelted us with roses until
Jobbins vowed he would go and live there--and he did, but a market boat
brought him back in a week. And other excursions took us to Chioggia,
the canals there alive with fishing boats and the banks with fishermen
mending their nets; and to Murano, busy and beautiful both, with the
throb of its glass furnaces and the peace of the fields where the dead
sleep; and again and again to the _Lido_ where green meadows were
sprinkled with daisies and birds were singing.

More wonderful were the nights, coming home, when the gold had faded
from sea and sky, the palaces and towers of Venice rising low on the
horizon as in a City of Dreams, the Lagoon turned by the moon into a
sheet of silver, lights like great fireflies stealing over the water,
ghostly _gondolas_ gliding past,--then we were the real Lotus Eaters
drifting to the only Lotus Land where all things have rest.

The fussy little steamboat, I found, could rock ambition to sleep as
well as a _gondola_, and life seemed to offer nothing better than an
endless succession of days and nights spent on its deck bound for
wherever it might bear us. I understood and sympathized with the men who
lay asleep all day in the sunshine on the _Riva_ and who sang all night
on the bridge below our windows. What is more, I envied them and wished
they would take me into partnership. Were they not putting into practice
the philosophy our ancient friend Davies had preached to me in Rome? But
only the Venetian can master the secret of doing nothing with nothing to
do it on, and if J. and I were to hope for figs with our bread, or even
for bread by itself, we had to move on to the next place where work
awaited us. And so the last of our nights in Venice came before spring
had ripened into summer, and the last of our mornings when porters again
scrambled for our bags, and we again stumbled after them up the long
platform; and then there were again yells, but this time of "_Partenza_"
and "_Pronti_," and the train hurried us away from the _Panada_, and the
_Orientale_, and the Lagoon, to a world where no lotus grows and life is
all labour.


IV

NIGHTS IN LONDON


IN LONDON

I


I cannot remember how or why we began our Thursday nights. I rather
think they began themselves and we kept them up to protect our days
against our friends.

It was an unusually busy time with us--or perhaps I ought to say with
me, for, to my knowledge, J. has never known the time that was anything
else. After our years of wandering, years of hotels and rooms and
lodgings, we had just settled in London in the first place we had ever
called our own--the old chambers in the old Buckingham Street house
overlooking the river; I was doing more regular newspaper work than I
had ever done before or ever hope to do again; we were in the
Eighteen-Nineties, and I need neither the magnifying glasses through
which age has the reputation of looking backward, nor the clever young
men of to-day who write about that delectable decade and no doubt
deplore my indiscretion in being alive to write about it myself, to show
me how very much more amusing and interesting life was then than now.

There is no question that people, especially people doing our sort of
work, were much more awake in the Nineties, much more alive, much more
keen about everything, even a fight, or above all a fight, if they
thought a fight would clear the air. Those clever young men,
self-appointed historians of a period they know only by hearsay, may
deplore or envy its decadence. But because a small clique wrote anæmic
verse and bragged of the vices for which they had not the strength,
because a few youthful artists invented new methods of expression the
outsider did not understand, that does not mean decadence. A period of
revolt against decadence, of insurrection, of vigorous warfare it seemed
to me who lived and worked through it. The Yellow Nineties, the Glorious
Nineties, the Naughty Nineties, the Rococo Nineties, are descriptions I
have seen, but the Fighting Nineties would be mine. As I recall those
stimulating days, the prevailing attitude of the artist in his studio,
the author at his desk, the critic at his task, was that of Henley's Man
in the Street:

  Hands in your pockets, eyes on the pavement,
    Where in the world is the fun of it all?
  But a row--but a rush--but a face for your fist.
    Then a crash through the dark--and a fall.

Scarcely an important picture was painted, an important illustration
published, an important book written, an important criticism made, that
it did not lead to battle. Few of the Young Men of the Nineties
accomplished all the triumphant things they thought they could, but the
one thing they never failed to do and to let the world know they were
doing was to fight, and they loved nothing better--coats off, sleeves
rolled up, arms squared. Whatever happened was to them a challenge.
Whistler began the Nineties with his Exhibition at the Groupil Gallery
and it was a rout for the enemy. The harmless portrait of Desboutin by
Degas was hung at the New English Art Club and straightaway artists and
critics were bludgeoning each other in the press. Men were elected to
the Royal Academy, pictures were bought by the Chantrey Bequest; new
papers and magazines were started by young enthusiasts with something to
say and no place to say it in; new poets, yearning for degeneracy, read
their poems to each other in a public house they preferred to
re-christen a tavern; new printing presses were founded to prove the
superiority of the esoteric few; new criticism--new because honest and
intelligent--was launched; everything suddenly became _fin-de-siècle_
in the passing catchword of the day borrowed from Paris; every fad of
the Continent was adopted; but no matter what it might be, the incident,
or work, or publication that roused any interest at all was the signal
for the clash of arms, for the row and the rush. Everybody had to be in
revolt, though it might not always have been easy to say against just
what. I remember once, at the show of a group of young painters who
fancied themselves fiery Independents, running across Felix Buhot, the
most inflammable man in the world, and his telling me, with his wild
eyes more aflame than usual, that he could smell the powder. He was not
far wrong, if his metaphor was a trifle out of proportion to those very
self-conscious young rebels. A good deal of powder was flying about in
the Nineties, and when powder flies, whatever else may come of it, one
thing sure is that nobody can sleep and most people want to talk.

I had not been in London a year before I knew that there the _café_ was
not the place to talk in. I have dreary memories of the first efforts J.
and I, fresh from Italy, made to go on leading the easy, free-from-care
life in restaurants and _cafés_ we had led in Rome and Venice. But it
was not to be done. The distances were too great, the weather too
atrocious, the little restaurants too impossible, the big restaurants
too beyond our purse, and the only real _café_ was the _Café Royal_. At
an earlier date Whistler had drawn his followers to it. In the Nineties
Frederick Sandys was one of its most familiar figures. Even now,
especially on Saturday nights, young men, in long hair and strange hats
and laboriously unconventional clothes, are to be met there, looking a
trifle solemnized by their share in so un-English an entertainment. For
this is the trouble: The _café_ is not an English institution and
something in the atmosphere tells you right away that it isn't. It
might, it may still, serve us for an occasion, its mirrors and gilding
and red velvet pleasantly reminiscent, but for night after night it
would not answer at all as the _Nazionale_ had answered in Rome, the
_Orientale_ in Venice.

However, Buckingham Street made a good substitute as an extremely
convenient centre for talk, and its convenience was so well taken
advantage of that, at this distance of time, I am puzzled to see how we
ever got any work done. J. and I have never been given to inhospitality,
and we both liked the talk. But the day of reckoning came when, sitting
down to lunch one morning, we realized that it was the first time we
had eaten that simple meal alone for we could not remember how long.
The lunch for which no preparation is made and at which the company is
uninvited but amusing may be one of the most agreeable of feasts, but we
knew too well that if we went on cutting short our days of work to enjoy
it, we ran the risk of no lunch ever again for ourselves, let alone for
anybody else.

To be interrupted in the evening did not matter so much, though our
evenings were not altogether free of work--nor are J.'s even yet, the
years proving less kind in moulding him to the indolence to which, with
age, I often find myself pleasantly yielding. Our friends, when we
stopped them dropping in by day, began dropping in by night instead, and
one group of friends to whom Thursday night was particularly well
adapted for the purpose gradually turned their dropping in from a chance
into a habit until, before we knew it, we were regularly at home every
Thursday after dinner.

[Illustration: Mezzotint by Joseph Pennell
OUT OF OUR LONDON WINDOWS]

The entertainment, if it can be called by so fine a name, always
retained something of the character of chance with which it began. We
sent out no invitations, we attempted no formality. Nobody was asked to
play at anything or to listen to anything. Nobody was expected to
dress, though anybody who wanted to could--everybody was welcome in the
clothes they wore, whether they came straight from the studio or a
dinner. If eventually I provided sandwiches--in addition to the tobacco
always at hand in the home of the man who smokes and the
whiskey-and-soda without which an Englishman cannot exist through an
evening--it was because I got too hungry not to need something to eat
before the last of the company had said good-night. We did not offer
even the comfort of space. [This act passed _February_ 25, 1793.]
The zigzag line caused by this act was somewhat modified by the two
following ones, passed at different times a few years later. I think
that the very irregular boundary between the two towns, with its
eighty-six angles, as mentioned by Mr. Butler, was produced by the
subsequent annexations to Dunstable.

An Act to set of _Nathaniel Lawrence with_ his Estate, from the Town of
_Groton_, and annex them to the Town of _Dunstable_.

BE _it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General
Court assembled, and by the authority of the same_, That _Nathaniel
Lawrence_ of _Groton_, in the county of _Middlesex_, together with
his estate, which he now owns in that town, be, and hereby is set
off from said town of _Groton_, and annexed to the town of _Dunstable_,
in the same county; and shall hereafter be considered as part of
the same; there to do duty and receive privileges as other inhabitants
of said town of _Dunstable:
Provided nevertheless_, That the said _Nathaniel Lawrence_ shall
be holden to pay all taxes that have been legally assessed on him
by said town of _Groton_, in the same manner as if this Act had not
been passed.

[This act passed _January_ 26, 1796.]
An act to set off Willard Robbins with his estate from the town of
_Groton_, in the county of _Middlesex_, and to annex the same to the
town of _Dunstable_, in the same county.

Sec. 1. BE _it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in
General Court assembled, and by the authority of the same_.
That Willard Robbins, of _Groton_, in the county of _Middlesex_,
with his estate, be, and hereby is set off from said town of _Groton_,
and annexed to the town of _Dunstable_, in said county, there to do
duty and receive privileges in the same manner as other inhabitants of
the said town of _Dunstable_.

Sec. 2. _And be it further enacted_, That the said Willard Robbins
shall be holden to pay and discharge all legal assessments and taxes,
that have been assessed upon him by said town of _Groton_ prior to the
passing this act.

[This act passed _June_ 18, 1803.]

The boundary between the two
towns now remained unchanged until February 15, 1820, when another
act was passed by the Legislature making a further surrender of
territory.

It took a considerable parcel of land and gave it to Dunstable,
thereby straightening and simplifying the jurisdictional line, which
at this time formed but five angles.

In the autumn of 1794 a plan of Groton, Pepperell, and Shirley was made
by Dr. Oliver Prescott, Jr., which gives a few interesting facts. The
following notes are taken from the copy now in the office of the
Secretary of State. It will be seen that Dr. Prescott refers to the
land set off by the Act of February 25, 1793:--
This Plan contains the Bounds of three Towns, viz. Groton, Pepperrell &
Shirley,--all which, together with whatsoever is delineated on said Plan,
was taken by an actual Survey, agreeably to a resolve of the General
Court, passed June 25, 1794, & under the Inspection of the Selectmen &
Committee's from the respective towns, appointed for that purpose
in the month of Sept'r. 1794.

By OLIVER PRESCOTT, Ju'r. Surveyor.

The reputed distance of Groton from Cambridge [the shire-town] is
Thirty two Miles, & from Boston Thirty five miles; The River Nashua is
from 8 to 10 rods in width. The River Squannacoock 4 or 5 rods in
width. In Groton are twenty natural Ponds, six of which are delineated
on the Plan, by actual Survey. Several of the other Ponds are in
size, nearly equal to those on the plan, & may in the whole contain
about two Thousand Acres. There are no Mines in said Town, except one
of Iron Ore, nearly exhausted. Every other Matter directed to be
delineated, described or specifyed, may be found on the Plan.

SAM'll LAWRENCE } ZACH'h FITCH } Committee.
OLIVER PRESCOTT Ju'r.}
The reputed distance of Pepperrell from Cambridge is thirty seven
miles; from Boston forty Miles.

The River Nissitisset is about four Rods in width.

The reputed distance of Shirley from Cambridge is thirty five Miles; &
from Boston thirty Eight Miles.

Catacoonamug & Mulpus Brooks are from one to two Rods in width.
The Plan contains every thing relative to the two last mentioned Towns
necessary to be described.

OLIVER PRESCOTT, Ju'r.

What is enclosed in this Blue line, contains
about the quantity of Land set off from Groton to Dunstable, by
Act of the General Court, passed February 25, 1793.

As by said Act, the petitioners and their Farms were set off, without
specifying particular bounds, Accuracy cannot be obtained, with
respect to this Line, without very great expence and Trouble.

By an act passed February 6, 1798, a considerable portion of territory
lying on the easterly side of the Nashua river, in the south-west corner
of Groton, was annexed to Shirley. This tract continued to form a part
of Shirley until the incorporation of Ayer, on February 14, 1871, when
its political condition was again changed, and its government transferred
to the new town. The act authorizing the annexation is as follows,--and
I give it entire in order to show the loose way of describing boundary
lines during the latter part of the last century:--
An Act to set off certain Lands from the town of _Groton_, and annex
the same to the town of _Shirley_.

BE _it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General
Court assembled, and by the authority of the same_, That a tract
of Land at the south western extremity of the town of _Groton_,
bounded by a line beginning at a large white oak stump, on the
southeast side of _Nashua River_, being the northwest corner of the
town of _Harvard_; thence running southeasterly on _Harvard_ line,
as the town bounds direct, till it comes to the stump of a pine
tree lately fallen down, an antient bound mark in said town line;
thence northerly to a heap of stones by the road leading to _Harvard_
at SIMON DABY'S southerly corner, thence northeasterly on said SIMON
DABY'S line to a pine tree marked, thence northerly to a heap of
stones on a ledge of rocks; thence northerly on said SIMON DABY'S
line to a heap of stones on a large rock; thence northwesterly still
on said SIMON DABY'S line to a stake and stones in the roots of a
pine tree, fallen down, in a valley, said SIMON DABY'S northeast
corner and SAMUEL CHASE'S southerly corner, thence northerly on
said SAMUEL CHASE'S line, to the road leading to ABIL MORSE'S mill,
at a heap of stones on the north easterly side of said road, thence
northeasterly on said SAMUEL CHASE'S line by said road to a heap
of stones, thence northeasterly on said CHASE'S line, to a stake
and stones at the end of a ditch at a brook; thence down said brook
to _Nashua River_, thence up said river, to the bounds first
mentioned, together with the inhabitants thereof, be, and they are
hereby set off from the town of _Groton_ and annexed to the town
of _Shirley_, there to do duty and receive privileges in the same
manner as other lands and inhabitants of the said town of _Shirley_.

SECT. 2. _Provided nevertheless, and be it further enacted_, That the
said tract of land and the inhabitants thereof shall be liable to be
taxed by the town of _Groton_, their full proportion in a tax to the
amount of the debts now due from said town of _Groton_, in the same
manner as if this act had not been passed: _Provided_ such tax be
made and assessed within one year from the time of passing this act;
and shall also be liable to pay their proportion of all state
taxes that may be assessed on the town of _Groton_ until a new valuation
be taken.

[This act passed _February_ 6, 1798.]
All the changes of territorial jurisdiction thus far noted have been
in one direction,--from Groton to the surrounding towns; but now the
tide turns, and for a wonder she received, by legislative enactment, on
February 3, 1803, a small parcel of land just large enough for a potato-patch.
The annexation came from Pepperell, and the amount received was four
acres and twenty rods in extent. The following is a copy:--
An act to set off a certain parcel of land from the town of
_Pepperell_, in the county of _Middlesex_, and to annex the same
to the town of _Groton_, in the same county.

BE _it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General Court
assembled, and by the authority of the same_, That a certain tract
of land, bounded, beginning at the end of a wall by the road leading
by Zachariah Fitch's, in said _Groton_; thence running easterly, by land
of Jonas Fitch, to the _Nashua River_, (so called;) thence up said
river to said road, near the bridge over the same river; thence, bounding
by the same road, to the bounds first mentioned, containing four acres
and twenty rods, be, and hereby is set off from said town of
_Pepperell_ and annexed to said town of _Groton_ forever.

[This act passed _February_ 3, 1803.]
The Worcester and Nashua Railroad was opened through the township of
Groton in the month of December, 1848. It ran at that time a distance
of eight miles through its territory, keeping on the east side of the
Nashua river, which for a considerable part of the way was the dividing
line between Groton and Pepperell.

The railroad station for the people of Pepperell was on the Groton
side of the river, and in the course of a few years a small village
sprang up in the neighborhood. All the interests and sympathies of
this little settlement were with Pepperell; and under these circumstances
the Legislature, on May 18, 1857, passed an act of annexation, by
which it became in reality what it was in sentiment,--a part and
parcel of that town.

The first section of the act is as follows:--
An act to set off a part of the Town of Groton, and annex the same to
the Town of Pepperell.

_Be it enacted, &c., as follows_:

All that part of the town of Groton, in the county of Middlesex, with the
inhabitants thereon, lying north of the following described line
is hereby set off from the town of Groton, and annexed to the town
of Pepperell, to wit: Beginning at the boundary between said town
of Groton and the town of Dunstable, at a stone monument in the
wall on land of Elbridge Chapman and land of Joseph Sanderson, and
running south, eighty-six degrees west, about six hundred and sixty
rods, to a stone monument at the corner of land called the "Job
Shattuck Farm," and land of James Hobart, near the Nashua River and
Worcester and Nashua Railroad; thence in same line to the centre
of Nashua River and the boundary of said town of Pepperell: _provided,
however_, that for the purpose of electing a representative to the
general court, the said territory shall continue to be a part of
the town of Groton, until a new apportionment for representatives
is made; and the inhabitants resident therein shall be entitled to
vote in the choice of such representatives, and shall be eligible
to the office of representative in the town of Groton, in the same
manner as if this act had not been passed.

[Illustration: Map of Groton Plantation in 1884]
The latest legislation connected with the dismemberment of the
original grant--and perhaps the last for many years to come--is the
Act of February 14, 1871, by which the town of Ayer was incorporated.
This enactment took from Groton a large section of territory lying near
its southern borders, and from Shirley all that part of the town on
the easterly side of the Nashua River which was annexed to it from Groton
on February 6, 1798.

Thus has the old Groton Plantation, during a period of more than two
centuries, been hewed and hacked down to less than one-half of its
original dimensions. It has furnished, substantially, the entire territory
of Pepperell, Shirley, and Ayer, and has contributed more or less largely
to form five other towns. An examination of the accompanying map will
show these changes more clearly than any verbal or written description.

* * * * *
SAILS.

The ship's white sails are all unfurl'd To the salt breath of the sea;
And never a ship in all the world Sails on with the wind more free.

For the white sails are white hopes of youth, The breath of the future
blows; But whither the vessel flies, in truth, There is no man
that knows.

* * * * *
ELIZABETH.[1]
A ROMANCE OF COLONIAL DAYS.

BY FRANCES C. SPARHAWK, Author of "A Lazy Man's Work."
[Footnote 1: 1884, by Frances C. Sparhawk.]

CHAPTER I.

ON THE TIDE.

One August evening of the year 1743 a boat lay as if anchored
in the beautiful Piscataqua; her sail seemed swung only to show
its whiteness in the bright moonlight.

Every cord upon it hung lifeless, serving only the purpose of pictured
lines, one silvered in the light, the dark shadow of the other traced in
clear outlines on the sail. The swash of the waves against the side of
the boat was too slight to sway it; the sheet dipped in the water and
swung almost imperceptibly, while now and then a few straws floated
against it and caught there. The moon, high in the heavens, gave pearly
tints to the clouds that floated near it; the pines on the shore flung
dark masses against the oaks and maples, or stood as a Rembrandt
background for the boughs of the trees on which the moonlight fell,
or for some ghostly procession of the white birch trunks. The water,
in the shadows as dark and smooth as a Claude Lorraine glass, showed far
off in the moonlight faint quivers of its surface here and there, as if
the breeze so longed for were coming to the idle boat. But it was
too far off, or too faint, for it spent itself before reaching the watchers
there, although at the symptoms one of them rose with great show
of solemnity, and making a trumpet of his hands, blew vigorously
against the sail. But neither these movements nor the concerts of whistling
were successful. At last another of the company leaning over the side of
the boat busied himself with the sheet.

"I'll tell you the reason this boat don't go," he said, gravely,
"the rope was all twisted. I've straightened it out, and taken off the
straws."
A burst of laughter greeted him as he turned around his face, still grave,
but his dark eyes, roving from one to another, their laughing expression
hidden in the shadow, for the moon was behind him.

"What a useful member of society you are, Stephen," cried Katie Archdale.
"I don't see how we could get on without you."
"I don't think we're getting on with him _very_ fast," remarked a young
gentleman sitting opposite Katie, pointing significantly at a curve
of the shore that they had not drifted out of sight of in the
last half hour.

"At least he has roused us," returned the girl, "for I half believe I was
sleepy before."
"I believe it wholly," answered Stephen, taking his seat beside her
again and looking down into her face teazingly with a cousinly
freedom.
But it was not altogether a cousinly regard from which Katie drew back
after a moment, tossing her head coquettishly, and with a heightened
color, glancing past at her friend beyond him, who sat dipping one
hand in the water and looking dreamily at the shore. Stephen Archdale
and his cousin Katie lived within a few miles of each other, and there
had always been constant intercourse between their families. When
boy and girl, Stephen, four years the elder, the two had played together,
and they had grown up, as people said, like brother and sister. But
of late it was rumored that the conduct of young Archdale was
more loverlike than brotherly, and that, if Katie choose, the tie between
them would one day be closer than that of cousinhood. The
stranger who sat opposite Archdale, watching them both in silence,
was of the same opinion. He was rather portly for his age, which could
not have been over thirty, and as he sat in the boat he looked a taller
man than he proved to be when on his feet. His dark-brown beard was
full, his eyes, like Archdale's, were in shadow, for he had drawn down
his hat well over his brows, while Stephen and young Waldo sat bareheaded
in the August air.

"I wonder"--began Katie.

"A sturgeon!" cried Mrs. Eveleigh, the last member of the party.

But the sound proved the soft dip of the paddle in the water as a canoe
came toward them going down the stream. Its Indian occupant when he shot
by turned his gaze stealthily upon the gay party.

  
    "How many more of your red
  savages are there coming to spy
    upon us?"

And the speaker pushed back his hat a trifle, and looked up and down
the river with an anxiety that he could not quite conceal.

"You've not been out here long enough," laughed Waldo. "There's no
danger; the red savages are friendly with us just at this moment,
and will remain so until we forget our rifles some day, or they
learn that we're short of ammunition.

Shoot 'em down without mercy whenever they come spying about--it's the
only way. They're friendly so long as they are afraid, and not a
moment longer. For instance, why should that fellow stop? He saw
three men whom he knew were armed, besides that young man who's
pretending to sail the boat--why don't you do it, Kit?" and Waldo laughed
good-humoredly at the lad whose office had become a sinecure. "When you
get used to them, Mr. Harwin," he added, "they will not make you
shiver."
Some friends who came, I must confess, enjoyed it less, especially if
they were still smarting from a recent attack in the _National
Observer_. There were evenings when it took a good deal of skilful
manoeuvring on everybody's part to keep Henley and his victims at a
safe distance from each other. More than once in later days Walter Crane
laughed with us at the memory of a Thursday night, just after he had
been torn to pieces in the best _National Observer_ style, when he
gradually realized that he was being kept a prisoner in the corner into
which he had been driven on his arrival, and he could not understand why
until, breaking loose, he discovered Henley in the next room. Our alarm
was not surprising, knowing as we did what a valiant fighter Crane was
himself: as a socialist waving the red flag in the face of the world, as
an artist forever rushing into the papers to defend his theories of art,
as a man refusing to see his glory in passing by an offence. Not very
long before, J. had exasperated him in print, by the honest expression
of an opinion he did not happen to like, into threats of a big stick
ready for attack the next time J. ventured upon his walks abroad. I need
not add that J. did not bother to stay at home, that the big stick never
materialized, that, though this was only the first of many fights
between the two, Walter Crane was our friend to the end. But the little
episode gives the true spirit of the Nineties.

I can still see Beardsley dodging from group to group to escape Henley,
for he never recovered from the fright of the first encounter. He told
me the story at the time. He had gone, by special appointment, to call
on Henley, under his arm the little portfolio he was rarely without in
those early days, ready and enchanted as he always was to show his
drawings to anybody willing to look at them. As he went up the two
flights of stairs to Henley's Great College Street rooms, he heard a
voice, loud, angry, terrifying; at the top, through an open door, he saw
a youth standing in the middle of the room listening in abject terror to
a large red man at a desk whom he knew instinctively to be Henley;--one
glance, and he turned and fled, down the stairs, into the street, the
little portfolio under his arm, his pace never slackening until he got
well beyond the Houses of Parliament, through the Horse Guards into the
Park.

Other friends would not come at all on Thursday because of Henley, just
as later more than one stayed away altogether because of Whistler. I was
wretchedly nervous when they did come and brave a face-to-face meeting.
Henley was not the sort of man to shirk a fight in the open. The
principal reason for his unpopularity was just that habit of his of
saying what he thought no matter where or when or to whom. He did not
spare his friends, for he would not have kept them as friends had they
not held some opinions worth his attacking, and they understood and
respected him for it. Moreover, he said what he had to say in the
plainest language. He roared his adversary down in good, strong,
picturesque English, if that was any consolation, and with a splendidly
rugged eloquence.

I wish I could remember the words as well as the roar. Henley's
eloquence cannot be forgotten by those who ever once listened to him,
but his wit was not, like Whistler's, so keen nor his thrust so direct
that the phrase, the one word of the retort or the attack, was
unforgettable. He had his little affectations of speech as of style, and
they added to its picturesqueness. But it was what he said that counted,
the talk itself that probably inspired more sound thought and sound
writing than most talk heard in the England of the Nineties. But it fell
unrecorded on paper and memory could not be trusted after all these
years.

It is the greater pity because his books are few. He was poor when he
started in life; almost at once he married; he was generous to a fault,
and the generous man never yet lived who was not pursued by parasites;
and as he was obliged to earn money and as his books were not of the
stuff that makes the "best sellers," his criticism of life and art was
expressed mainly in journalism.

Unfortunately, no just idea of the amount or the quality of his
journalistic work is now to be had even from the files of the _National
Observer_. He had a way of editing every article sent in to him until it
became more than a fair imitation of his own. I can sympathize with his
object--the artist's desire for harmony, for the unity of the paper as a
whole. But if he succeeded, as he did, it was at the sacrifice of the
force, the effect, the character of individual contributions, and nobody
can now say for sure which were Henley's save those he re-published in
book form. When articles I wrote for him appeared in print, it was an
open question with me whether I had the right to call them mine and to
take any money for them. His _Views and Reviews_ gathered from the
_National Observer_ and other papers and periodicals, his three or four
small volumes of verse, the plays he wrote with Stevenson, an anthology
or two, a few books of his editing, are scarcely sufficient to explain
to the present generation his importance in his day and why his
influence made itself felt in literature as keenly as Whistler's in
art, through all the movements and excitements and enthusiasms of the
Nineties. The joyous wars that marked the beginning of my life in
London, when not led by Whistler's "Ha! Ha!" were commanded by Henley's
roar.

No man was ever more in need of a Boswell than Henley. Dr. Weir Mitchell
once complained to me that in America nobody waited upon great men to
report their sayings, while in England a young man was always somewhere
near with a clean cuff to scribble them on. The enthusiast, with his
cuff an impatient blank, never hung about Henley. Anyway, that was not
what our Thursday evenings were for. Of all his Young Men who climbed up
the Buckingham Street stairs with him on Thursday night and sat round
him, his devoted disciples, until they climbed down the Buckingham
Street stairs with him again, not one seems to have hit upon this useful
way of proving his devotion.

I do not need to be told that this was no excuse for my not having my
cuff ready. But, foolishly perhaps, I too often spent my Thursday nights
oppressed by other cares. For one thing, I could seldom keep my weekly
article on Cookery out of my mind. Without it Saturday's _Pall-Mall_, I
felt, would lose its brilliancy and my bank account, I knew, would grow
appreciably less, and Friday was my day for writing it. A serious
question therefore was, how, if I did not get to bed until two or three
or four o'clock on Friday morning, was I to sit down at my desk at nine
and be the brilliant authority on Eating that I thought I was?

Another distraction grew out of my mistaken sense of duty as hostess, my
feeling of responsibility in providing for all a share in the cheerful
smell of powder and the stimulating sound of strife.

Also, men being at best selfish animals, their wives, whose love of
battle was less, were often an anxiety.

These seemed big things at the time, though in retrospect they have
dwindled into trifles that I had no business to let come between me and
my opportunities to store up for future generations talk as brilliant as
any on record. Of course I heard a great deal of it, and what I missed
at home on our Thursday nights, I made up for at Henley's, and at
friends' houses on many other occasions, and few can answer better than
I for the quality of Henley's talk if I have forgotten the actual words.
Its strength was its simple directness,--no posing, no phrasing, no
attitudinizing for effect. This, I know, was always what most struck
people when they first met him on our Thursday nights, especially
Americans, for with us in America the man who has won the reputation of
greatness too often seems afraid he will lose it if he does not forever
advertise it by fireworks of cleverness and wit.

Henley's talk had too a strange mixture of the brutal and the tender,
the rough and the fine, a blending of the highest things with what might
seem to the ordinary man the most trivial. I asked two old friends of
his the other day what they remembered best of him and of his talk. The
answer of one was: "He was certainly the most stupendous Jove-like
creature who ever lived, and I did not in the least mind his calling me
Billy, which I have always hated from others." The second answer was:
"He talked as he wrote, and I know of nothing more characteristic of his
talking and his writing than that tragic poem in which, with his heart
crying for the child he had adored and lost, he could compare himself to
'an old black rotter of a boat' past service, and could see, when
criticised for it, nothing discordant in that slang _rotter_ dropped
into such verse!" A good deal of Henley is in both answers. This
curious blend must have especially struck everybody who saw him and
listened to him in his own home. I can recall summer Sunday afternoons
at Addiscombe, with Henley sitting on a rug spread on the lawn behind
his house, Mrs. Henley at his side, his eyes following with twinkling
tenderness his little daughter as she ran backwards and forwards busy
with the manifold cares of childhood, while all the time, to his Young
Men gathered round him, he was thundering against the last book, or the
last picture show, or the last new music, in language not unworthy of
Defoe or Smollett, for Henley could call a spade not only a spade but a
steam shovel when so minded. He could soar to the heights and dive to
the depths in the same breath.

But Henley's talk was animated above all by the intense and virile love
of life that I was so conscious of in him personally, that reveals
itself in every line he wrote, and that is what I liked best about him.
He was so alive, so exhilarated with the sense of being alive. The
tremendous vitality of the man, that should have found its legitimate
outlet in physical activity, seemed to have gone instead into his
thought and his expression of it--as if the very fact that fate forced
him to remain a looker-on had made him the more sensitive to the
beauty, the joy, the challenge in everything life gave him to look at.
He could wrest romance even out of the drear, drab hospital--there is
another characteristic glimpse in one of Stevenson's letters, a picture
of Henley sitting up in his hospital bed, his hair and beard all
tangled, "talking as cheerfully as if he had been in a King's palace, or
the great King's palace of the blue air."

His interest in life was far too large and all-embracing for him to be
indifferent to the smallest or most insignificant part of it. He had
none of the disdain for everyday details, none of the fear of the
commonplace that oppresses many men who think themselves great. Nothing
that lived came amiss to his philosophy or his pleasure. He could talk
as brilliantly upon the affairs of the kitchen as upon those of state,
he could appreciate gossip as well as verse, he could laugh over an
absurdity as easily as he could extol the masterpiece. Romance for him
was everywhere--in the slang of the cockney of the Strand as in a
symphony by Berlioz, in 'Arriet's feathers as in the "Don Diegos" of the
Prado--the mere sound of the title in his mouth became a tribute to the
master he honoured above most--in the patter of the latest Lion-comique
of the Halls as in the prose of Meredith or Borrow, in the disreputable
cat stealing home through the dull London dawn as in the Romanticists
emerging from the chill of Classicism--in everything, big and little, in
which he felt the life so dear to him throbbing.

And he loved always the visible sign through which the appeal came. I
have seen him lean, spell-bound, from our windows on a blue summer
night, thrilled by the presence out there of Cleopatra's Needle, the
pagan symbol flaunting its slenderness against river and sky, while in
the distance the dome of St. Paul's, the Christian symbol, hung a
phantom upon the heavens. His pleasure in the friendship of men of rank
and family might have savoured of snobbishness had not one understood
how much they stood for to him as symbols. I am sure he could fancy
himself with these friends that same King of Babylon who thrills in the
lover of his poem. I used to think that for him all the drama of
_Admiral Guinea_, one of the plays he wrote with Stevenson, was
concentrated in the tap-tap of the blind man's stick. In his _Hospital
Verses_, his _London Voluntaries_, his every _Rhyme_ and _Rhythm_, the
outward sign is the expression of the emotion, the thought that is in
him. And coming down to more ordinary matters--ordinary, that is, to
most people--I shall never forget, once when I was in Spain and he wrote
to me there, his decoration of my name on the envelope with the finest
ceremonial prefix of the ceremonious Spanish code which to him
represented the splendour of the land of Don Diego and Don Quixote.

It was this faculty of entering into the heart, the spirit of life and
all things in it that made him the inspiring companion and friend he
was, that widened his sympathies until he, whose intolerance was a
byword with his contemporaries, showed himself tolerant of everything
save sham and incompetence. The men who would tell you in their day, who
will tell you now, of the great debt they owe to Henley, are men of the
most varied interests, whose style and subject both might have been
expected to prove a great gulf to separate them. Ask Arthur Morrison
straight from the East End, or FitzMaurice Kelly fresh from Spain; ask
W.B. Blakie preoccupied with the modern development of the printed book,
or Wells adrift in a world of his own invention; ask Kipling steeped in
the real, or Barrie lost in the Kail-Yard; ask Kenneth Grahame on his
Olympian heights or George S. Street deep in his study of the prig--ask
any one of these men and a score besides what Henley's sympathy,
Henley's outstretched hand, meant to him, and some idea of the breadth
of his judgment and taste and helpfulness may be had. Why he could
condescend even to me when, in my brave ignorance, I undertook to write
that weekly column on Cookery for the _Pall-Mall_. He it was who gave me
Dumas's _Dictionnaire de la Cuisine_, the corner-stone of my collection
of cookery books--a fact in which I see so much of Henley that I feel as
if the stranger to him who to-day takes the volume down from my shelves
and reads on the fly-leaf the simple inscription, "To E.R.P. d.d.
W.E.H.," in his little crooked and crabbed writing, must see in it the
eloquent clue to his personality that it is to me.


III

I have said that Henley seldom came to us--as indeed he seldom went
anywhere or, for that matter, seldom stayed at home--without a
contingent of his Young Men in attendance. I do not believe I could ever
have gone to his rooms in Great College Street, or to his house at
Addiscombe, or in later, sadder days to the other, rather gloomy, house
on the riverside at Barnes,--turned into some sort of college the last
time I passed, with a long bare students' table in the downstairs
dining-room where I had been warmed and thrilled by so much exhilarating
talk,--that some of his Young Men were not there before me or did not
come in before I left. In London, on his journeys to and fro, they
surrounded him as a bodyguard. If on those old Thursday nights, his was
the loudest voice, theirs played up to it untiringly. There were no half
measures about them. As warriors in the cause of art and literature,
they reserved nothing from their devotion to their leader, they
exhausted every possibility of that form of flattery usually considered
the greatest. They fought Henley's battles with hardly less valour,
hardly milder roaring. On Thursday, they had been working with him all
day and all evening, they probably had lunched together, and dined
together, and yet so far from showing any desire to separate on their
arrival in our rooms, they immediately grouped themselves again round
Henley.

It was curious, anyway, how strong the tendency was with all the company
to break up into groups. Work was the common bond, but there was also a
special bond in each different kind of work. On my round as hostess I
was sure to find the writers in one corner, the artists in another, the
architects in a third--though to this day it is a question with me why
we should have had enough architects to make a group and, more puzzling,
why, having them, they should have been so unpopular, unless it was
because of their air of prosperity and respectability, always as correct
in appearance as if there was a possible client at the door. I can still
recall the triumphant glee, out of all proportion to the cause, of one
of Henley's Young Men the Thursday night he came to tell me that all the
architects were safe out of the way in the studio, and "I have shut both
doors," he added, "and now that we are rid of them we can talk." As if
any of Henley's Young Men under any circumstances ever did anything
else.

Some of Henley's staff, if I remember, never came to us, others came
only occasionally, but a few failed us as rarely as Henley himself. The
Thursday night was the exception that did not see Charles Whibley at
Henley's right hand even as he was in the pages of the _National
Observer_, not merely ready for the fight but provoking it, insisting
upon it, forcing it, boisterous in battle, looking like an
undergraduate, talking like a pastmaster of the art of invective, with a
little stammer that gave point to his lightest commonplace. Rarely
lagging very far behind came Marriott Watson, young, tall, blonde,
good-looking--a something exotic, foreign in the good looks that I put
down to New Zealand, for I suppose New Zealand as well as America has
produced a type--not quite so truculent in talk as in print, more
inclined to fight with a smile. A third was Wilfred Pollock, forgotten
save by his friends I am afraid; and a fourth, Vernon Blackburn, who
began life as a monk at Fort Augustus and finished it as a musical
critic, he too I fear scarcely more than a name; and a fifth, Jack
Stuart, and a sixth, Harold Parsons, and a seventh, and an eighth, and I
can hardly now say how many more long since dead, now for me vague
ghosts from out that old past so overflowing with life.

When William Waldorf Astor bought the _Pall Mall Gazette_ and started
the weekly _Pall Mall Budget_ and the monthly _Pall Mall Magazine_, he
presented Henley with two or three new Young Men and added to our
company on Thursday nights, little as he had either of these
achievements in view. His plunge into newspaper proprietorship was one
of the newspaper ventures that counted for most in the Nineties. It was
a venture inclining to amateurism in detail, but run on business, not
romantic, lines and therefore it was less talked about than those
purely amateur plunges into journalism which gave the Nineties so much
of their picturesqueness. But all the same, we saw revolution in it, the
possibility of wholesale regeneration, the inauguration of a new era,
when "sham" would be exposed, and "Bleat" silenced, and art grow "Human"
once more. In the _Budget_ and the _Magazine_ it was likewise to be
proved that America and France were not alone in understanding and
valuing the art of illustration:--vain hopes!

Henley and his Young Men rejoiced in a new sphere for fighting, certain
of a brilliant victory, since they were to have a share in the command.
Astor, with a fine fling for independence--his only one in public--or
else with that old gentlemanly dream of a newspaper "written by
gentlemen for gentlemen," had captured his editors in regions where
editors are not usually hunted--Henry Cust, heir to a title, for the
_Gazette_, Lord Frederick Hamilton, his title already inherited, for the
_Magazine_. Fleet Street shrugged its shoulders, laughed a little, not
believing title and rank to have the same value in journalism as in
society. Cust, to do him justice, agreed with Fleet Street, and, knowing
that he was without experience, had the sense to appeal for help to
those with it. By good luck he went to Henley, who was not free to do
much for the paper save give it his advice, offer it those of his Young
Men whom he could spare, and take under his wing the new Young Men it
invented for itself. When new enthusiasts fell into Henley's train, it
was never long before they followed him to Buckingham Street on Thursday
nights.

I could scarcely label as anybody's Young Man Iwan-Müller, huge, half
Russian, half English, all good comrade, who had come up from Manchester
and the editorship of a leading paper there to be Cust's Assistant
Editor. He was nearly Henley's contemporary, but he did not, for such a
trifle as age, let any one of Henley's Young Men exceed him in devotion,
and his laugh became the unfailing accompaniment of Henley's talk, so
much so that I am convinced if Henley still leads the talk in the land
beyond the grave, Iwan-Müller still punctuates it with the big bracing
laugh that was as big as himself.

[Illustration: Photograph by Frederick Hollyer
IWAN-MÜLLER AND GEORGE W. STEEVENS]

At the other extreme, younger than the youngest of the Young Men he
joined, came George W. Steevens, fresh from Oxford, Balliol Prize
Scholar, shy and carrying it off, in the Briton's way, with appalling
rudeness and more appalling silence. I remember J., upon whose nerves as
well as mine this silence got, taking me apart one Thursday evening
to tell me that if that young Oxford prig was too superior to talk to
anybody, why then he was too superior to come to us at all, and he must
be made to understand it. Eventually he learned to talk, with us
anyway--he was always a silent man with most people. And I got to know
him well, to like him, to admire him,--to respect him too through the
long summer when his friends were doing their best to dissuade him from
his proposed marriage with a woman many years older than he. The men of
the _National Observer_ and the _Pall Mall_ were such keen fighters that
they could not be kind or sentimental--and they grew maudlinly
sentimental over Steevens's engagement--without a fight for it. They
thought he was making a mistake, forgetting that it was his business,
not theirs, if he was. He fought alone against them, but he held his
place like a man and won. Our Thursday nights had come to an end before
he went to America, to Germany, to Khartoum with Kitchener, to South
Africa, where he passed into the great silence that no protest of ours,
or any man's can break. If his work was overrated, he himself as I knew
him was as kind and brave as in Henley's verse to his memory.

Others of the same group, the writers' group, who flit across the scene
in my memory are less intimately associated with Henley. Harold Frederic
wrote for him occasionally--wrote few things, indeed, more amusing than
his _Observations in Philistia_, a satire first published in the
_National Observer_--but his chief business was the novel and the _New
York Times_ correspondence. He was an able man, something more than the
typical clever American journalist, a writer of books that deserve to be
remembered but that have hardly outlived him. He was an amusing
companion, the sort of man it was delightful to run across by chance in
unexpected places, for which reason my most agreeable recollections of
him are not in Buckingham Street but in the streets and _cafés_ of
Berlin and Vienna that summer he was studying Jews in Southeastern
Europe, and first knew there were Jews in Vienna when J., who afterwards
began to study them for himself, introduced him to the _Juden Gasse_. He
liked a good dinner, and gave us more than one, and he was an amusing
talker over it and also on our Thursday nights until he got to the stage
he always did get to of telling tales of his boyhood when he carried
milk to the big people in his part of the Mohawk Valley, was dazzled by
his first vision of Brussels carpet on their floors, and determined to
have Brussels carpet on his own before he was many years older, and I
can answer for it that, by the time I knew him, his house was all
Brussels carpet from top to bottom. They were most creditable tales and
entertaining too at a first hearing, but they staled, as all tales must,
with repetition.

S.R. Crockett never wrote anything for Henley. Henley would have been
outraged by the bare suggestion, and Crockett the writer was never
handled with the gloves by Henley's Young Men in the _National
Observer_. But with Crockett himself they had no quarrel. We all liked
him--a large red and white Scotchman, the Scots strong in every word he
spoke, hustling us all off for a fish dinner at Greenwich on the
strength of his first big cheque for royalties; or as happy to spend the
evening sitting on our floor and diverting William Penn with the ball of
paper on the end of a string that William never wearied of pursuing,
partly for his amusement, partly because, with his innate politeness, he
knew it contributed to ours.

I cannot imagine a Thursday night without Rosamund
Marriott-Watson,--Graham R. Tomson as she was then,--beautiful,
reminiscent of Rossetti in her tall, willowy slimness, with her long
neck like a column and her great halo of black hair and her big brown
eyes, appealing, confinding, beseeching. Fashion as she, the poetess,
extolled it week by week in the _National Observer_, became a poem with
a stately measure in frocks and hats, a flowing rhythm in every frill
and furbelow. I lost sight of her later, for reasons neither here nor
there, but it pleases me to know that not many months before her death
she looked back to those years as her happiest when weekly, almost
daily, she was going up and down the Buckingham Street stairs which her
ghost, she said, must haunt until they go the way of too many old stairs
leading up to old London chambers. Violet Hunt was almost as faithful.
And both contributed, as I did, a weekly column--mine that amazing
article on cookery--to the _Pall Mall's_ daily _Wares of Autolycus_,
daily written by women and I daresay believed by us to be the most
entertaining array of unconsidered trifles that any Autolycus had ever
offered to any eager world. Graham Tomson was even moved to commemorate
our collaboration in verse the inspiration of which is not far to seek,
but of which all I remember now is the beginning:

  O, there's Mrs. Meynell and Mrs. Pennell,
        There's Violet Hunt and me!

for Mrs. Meynell contributed a fourth column, though she never
contributed her presence to Buckingham Street.

Once or twice, George Moore hovered from group to group, his childlike
eyes of wonder protruding, wide open, and his ears open too, no doubt,
for, if I can judge from his several books of reminiscences, his ears
have rarely been closed to talk going on about him. After reading the
Irish series I should suspect him not only of well-opened ears but of an
inexhaustible supply of cuffs safely stored up his sleeves. Bernard Shaw
honoured us occasionally, but I have learned that, bent as he is upon
talking about himself, whatever he has to say, he grows more fastidious
when others talk about him and say what they have to. Now and then,
Henry Norman, journalist, his title and seat in Parliament yet to come,
dropped in. Now and then Miss Preston and Miss Dodge came, both in
London to finish in the British Museum the studies begun in Rome. Rarely
a week passed that James G. Legge was not with us, then deep in his work
at the Home Office but full of joy in everything that was most joyful in
the Nineties--its fights, its books, its prints, its posters. And I
might name many besides, some forgotten, some dead, some seen no more
by me, life being often more cruel than death in the separations and
divisions it makes. But two voices above the others are almost as
persistent in my ears as Henley's--the voices of Bob Stevenson and Henry
Harland.


IV

I have no fancy for nicknames in any place or at any time. I have
suffered too much from my own. But I dislike the familiarity of them
above all in print. And yet, I could no more call Bob Stevenson anything
save Bob than I could venture to abbreviate the Robert or the Louis of
his cousin. He had been given in baptism a more formal name--in fact, he
had been given three of unquestioned dignity: Robert Alan Mowbray. But I
doubt if anybody had ever known him by them or if he had ever used them
himself. When he wrote he signed his fine array of initials, and when he
was not R.A.M.S., he was Bob.

[Illustration: Painting by Himself
"BOB" STEVENSON]

It seems to me now a curious chance, as well as a piece of good luck,
that the two most eloquent of the company in Louis Stevenson's _Talk and
Talkers_ should have come to us on our Thursday nights, for Bob was the
Spring-Heeled Jack, "the loud, copious, and intolerant talker" of
that essay just as Henley was the Burly.

He was not more spring-heeled in his talk than in evading capture for
it. In his later years he made few visits. If we wanted him we had to
gather him up by the wayside and bring him home with us. The newspaper
work I was doing then took me the rounds of the London galleries on
press days and, as he was the art critic of the _Pall Mall_, I was
continually coming across him busy about the same work in Bond Street or
Piccadilly. Nothing pleased me better than to meet him on these
occasions, for he could make the dull show that I, in my dull way, was
finding dull the most entrancing entertainment in London. His every
visit to a gallery was to him an adventure and every picture a romance,
and the best of it for his friends was that he would willingly share the
inspiration which he, but nobody else, could find in the most
uninspiring canvas, an inspiration to criticism that is, not to
admiration--he never wavered in his allegiance to the "Almighty Swells"
of Art. Once he began to talk I did not care to have him stop, and I
would say, "Why not come to Buckingham Street with me? You have not seen
J. for a long while." He would vow he couldn't, he must get back to Kew
to do his article. I would insist a little, he would waver a little, and
at last he would agree to a minute's talk with J., excusing himself to
himself by protesting that Buckingham Street was on his way to the
Underground, as it was if he chose to go out of his way to make it so.
Before he knew it, the minute had stretched out to our dinner hour when
he was persuaded that he would save time by dining with us, as he must
dine somewhere; if he went right afterwards, he could still be back at
Kew in plenty of time to finish his article for the last post.

Of course he never did go right afterwards--what talker ever did go
right anywhere immediately after dinner when the real talk is only
beginning? Presently people would filter in and now, well adrift on the
flood of his own eloquence, nothing could interrupt him and he was the
last to leave us, the later it grew the more easily induced to stay
because he knew that the last train and the last post and all the last
things of the day had gone and that he must now wait for the first
things of the morning.

If I could talk like Bob Stevenson I would not be interrupted either.
Greater excitement could not be had out of the most exciting story of
adventure, and I do not believe he knew until he got to the end any
more where his talk was going to lead him than the reader knows how the
story is going to turn out until the last chapter is reached. Louis
Stevenson described certain qualities of his talk, but made no effort to
give the talk itself, and in Bob's case, as in Henley's, it was the talk
itself that counted. There was no acting in it as in Henley's or in
Whistler's--no burying of his head in his hands and violent gestures--no
well-placed laugh and familiar phrase. The talk came in a steady stream,
laughter occasionally in the voice, but no break, no movement, no
dramatic action--the sanest doctrine set forth with almost insane
ingenuity, for he was always the "wild dog outside the kennel" who
wouldn't imitate and hence kept free, as Louis Stevenson told him;
extraordinary things treated quite as a matter of course; brilliant
flashes of imbecility passed for cool well-balanced argument; until
often I would suddenly gasp, wondering into what impossible world I had
strayed after him. And he would tell the most extravagant tales, he
would confide the most paradoxical philosophy, the most topsy-turvy
ethics, with a fantastic seriousness, never approached except in the
Arabian Nights of Prince Florizel for the puppets of whose adventures,
as for Spring-Heeled Jack, he was the sitter. It was a delightful
accomplishment, but dangerous when applied to actual life. I cannot
forget his advice once to a friend on the verge of a serious step that
might sink him into nobody could foretell what social quagmire. Bob
could see in it only the adventure and the joy of adventure, not the
price fate was bound to demand for it. To him the mistake was the unlit
lamp, the ungirt loin--the adventure lost--and, life being what it is, I
am not sure that he was not right.

I think his talk struck me as the more extraordinary because he looked
so little like it. In the Nineties he had taken to the Jaegers that
usually stand for vegetarianism, teetotalism, hygiene--all the drab
things of life. He wore even a Jaeger hat and Jaeger boots--as complete
an advertisement for Jaeger as old Joseph Finsbury was for his Doctor.
No costume could have seemed so altogether out of character with the
fantastic, delightful, extravagant creature inside of it, though,
really, none could have been more in character. It had always been Bob's
way to play the game of life by dressing the part of the moment. Before
I met him I had been told of his influence over Louis Stevenson, whose
debt to him for ideas and conceits was said to be immeasurable, and
nobody who knew Bob has doubted it. I feel convinced that Louis owed to
him also his touch of the fantastic, the unusual, in dress, since it
belonged so entirely to Bob and was no less entirely in keeping with his
attitude towards the universe and his place in it--his tendency of
always probing the real for the romantic.

Knowing one cousin and the books of the other, I should say it was Bob
who, in their childhood, originated the drama of the Lantern-Bearers and
the evil-smelling lantern under the great coat, symbol of adventure and
daring--that it was Bob who, in their gay youth, evolved the black
flannel shirts to which they owed the honour of being, with Lord
Salisbury, the only Britons ever refused admission to the Casino at
Monte Carlo, and which were worn by the Stennis Brothers in _The
Wrecker_,--that it was Bob who impressed upon Louis the importance of
being dressed for the scene until he surpassed himself in his amazing
get-up for the _Epilogue to an Inland Voyage_. Bob's own disguises
rarely got into print, but in Will Low's _Chronicle of Friendships_
there is a photograph of him in his student days, figuring as a sort of
brigand of old-fashioned comic opera, that shows he did not from the
beginning shirk the obligations he imposed upon others. I remember a
huge ring, inherited from his father to whom the Czar had given it for
engineering services in Russia, which he kept for formal occasions so
that when I saw it covering his finger, almost his hand, at the dinner
to which we had both been invited, I understood that to him the occasion
was one of ceremony and he never failed to regulate his conduct
accordingly. I was glad the ring did not appear on our Thursday nights,
so much freer of formality, and therefore more amusing, was he without
it. The large perfection of his Jaegers in his last years was no less
symbolic; in them he was dressed for the rôle of middle age which he,
who had the gift of eternal youth, had already reached when I first knew
him. It was a rôle to which, at the time, I attributed his concern about
his health--his anxiety to know if we, any of us, had influenza before
he would come home with me, his rush from the room or the house at a
sniff or a sneeze. The truth is Bob shared Henley's love of the visible
sign, or it may be nearer the truth to say that he shared his own love
of it with Henley and his cousin who rarely, either of them, wrote
anything in which it is not felt.

But Henley loved the visible sign for itself--the romance was actually
in the tap-tap of the blind man's staff, in the pagan obelisk towering
above the Christian river. Bob loved the visible sign for the hint it
gave to his imagination, the adventure upon which it sent him galloping.
He could build up a romance out of anything and nothing--he was the
modern Scheherezade, but, as time went on, with nobody to repeat his
stories. He could have made the fortune of any number of young men with
their cuffs ready, but the only young man who ever did use his cuff was
Louis Stevenson when they were young together. Bob had not the energy to
put down his stories himself--he would not have written a word for
publication had he not been forced to. For him the romance would have
been lost in the labour of recording it, and, anyway, he was always
consistent in not doing more work than he was obliged to in order to
live. He had not the talent for combining, or identifying, his pleasure
with his work. Painting was the profession for which he had been
trained, but with it he amused himself and, as far as I know, never made
a penny out of it. When he talked he would have lost his joy in the
invention, the fabrication, had he thought he must turn it to profit. Of
the curious twist of his imagination there remains but the faint
reflection here and there in Prince Florizel and the romantic
adventurers swaggering and talking splendid nonsense through the earlier
tales by Louis Stevenson, whose books grew less and less fantastic as
his path and Bob's spread wider apart. Even in the earlier tales Bob
will not be discovered by future generations who have lost the key.

For the sake of posterity, if not for my own, I would have been wiser on
Thursday nights to think less of my next morning's article than of his
inventions. As it is, I retain merely a general impression and an
occasional detail of his talk. I am glad I remember, for one thing, his
unfailing prejudice in favour of his friends, so amiable was the side of
his character it revealed--though it revealed also his weakness as
critic. He had a positive genius for veiling prosaic facts with romance
where the people he liked were concerned. How often have we laughed at
his amiability to a painter of the commonplace who had happened to be
his fellow-student in Paris, whose work, as a consequence, his friendly
imagination filled with the fine things that to us were conspicuously
missing, and whose name he dragged into every criticism he wrote, even
into his Monograph on Velasquez, nor could he be laughed, or argued out
of it.

And I am glad I remember another trick of his imagination, though it was
like to end in disaster for us all, so equally characteristic was it of
his genius in weaving romance from prose. "Six-and-thirty inches, Daughter,
Just like any other." "O isn't it thirty-five, Mother?" "No more than
thirty-seven." "Then the bonny lad that sold me plaid Will never get to
heaven."
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Passenger._ "I HEAR THEY'RE THINKING OF ELECTRIFYING
THIS PART OF THE LINE."
_Porter._ "AY; THEY'RE ALLUS UP TO SOME DAFT GAME. THEY'LL BE ELECTRIFYING
_US_ NEXT."]
* * * * *

EDWARD.

Edward has red hair, a robust appearance, and a free-and-easy way with
him.
His free-and-easy way shows itself chiefly in his habit of smiling upon
and waving his hand to all those whom he encounters on his daily walks.
He is talkative at times, but his vocabulary is limited. In my opinion
it is limited to one word, though his mother can distinguish several
words, or says so. She must have a very much keener ear than I have--or
a less rigid regard for the truth.

You will have guessed that Edward is under military age. To be exact, it
is thirteen months since he first saw the light in this troubled world.
Not that the world is a troubled one to Edward; on the contrary.

Edward takes his daily walks in his perambulator upon the sea-front
of his native town. His free-and-easy way has secured him a large
circle of acquaintance there. Elderly gentlemen stop and speak to
him, which he likes, so long as they do not pat his cheek, a habit
far too prevalent among elderly gentlemen.

Mothers of other babies are loud in his praises, though in their
hearts they are probably comparing him unfavourably with their own
offspring. Altogether Edward has a cheery life.

Upon a certain day Edward fell in with a very little man--so little,
indeed, that most people would have called him a dwarf. He was walking
in the same direction as Edward, and overtaking him, and Edward
waved his hand and smiled and waved again.

For a while the little man ignored these overtures. But at length
he felt obliged to return them, and remarked to Kate, who propels the
perambulator, "Seems friendly like;" to which Kate replied, "Oh, he
always waves to everyone."
Now the majority of people would have been rather repelled by that
remark.
For myself I may say that, though Edward always smiles when we meet, I
do not greatly value it because I know he smiles in the same way upon
everyone else.

But it was not so with the little man. To be classed with "everyone," to
be placed by Edward on an equality with the strong and graceful,
sent a warm glow to his heart.

So Edward, in his free-and-easy fashion, had, like the boy-scouts,
done one good deed that day.

* * * * *
"The system of women and girls acting as field labourers, ploughing and
shepherding, etc., in itself produces a rough state of society."--_Country
Life._
However this roughness is to be corrected, as we see by the
following:-- 
"ARRANGEMENTS FOR TO-DAY.

"Class in Elementary Polish begins, King's
College, 6."

--_The Times._ 
Splendid!

These colleges think of everything.

* * * * *
OUR CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.

So much good has notoriously been done during the great conflict by
letters to the Press that Mr. Punch, recognising the importance of
having this branch of War-work taught to the young, has engaged a
gentleman of ample leisure and few responsibilities, who hides behind
the _nom de guerre_ "Paterfamilias," to deliver a series of instructive
lectures on the subject. By the time the student has absorbed a complete
course he will he qualified to write to the papers on any topic,
and, to adopt every tone from the pleading and querulous to the indignant
and hectoring.

From this can follow nothing less than the complete rout of the
Germans.

SYLLABUS OF LECTURES.

_I.--A World in Darkness._
The world before newspapers--Unbearable thought--No Street and no Man
in it--Unfortunate position of great Generals of history, ALEXANDER,
HANNIBAL, CÆSAR, etc., in lacking support or criticism by military
experts--Their fatal ignorance of public opinion--Serious handicaps
in the past--LEONIDAS never seen at lunch by Mr. Gossip--ALCIBIADES
never stimulated by attacks in Athens journals--No brainy onlooker at
defeat of Armada.

_II.--The Growth of the Press._
The birth of a happier era--The first English newspaper--Rapid
development of the new arm--A nation made articulate--Unfortunate
quietistic tendencies: ADDISON, STEELE, JOHNSON--Foreshadowings of
the real thing--Arrival of the real thing--The Fourth Estate--The
Tenth Muse--The Editor as Dictator--The Millennium.

_III.--The Vigilant Correspondent._
The Council of Ten and the Lion's Mouth--Importance of attending to
other people's affairs--True citizenship the improvement of one's
neighbours--Neglect of one's own character a national virtue--Brief
sketch of Paul Pry--Brief sketch of Meddlesome Matty--Keepers of the
public conscience--Human alarm-clocks--Samples of reforms delayed by
absence of letters to the Press--The circulation of the blood--The law
of gravity--The movement of the solar system--Value of iteration and
undauntability.

_IV.--Range of Subject._
Every stick useful in beating dogs--Nothing too trivial to yoke
with such words as "scandal" and "outrage"--Suspicion and mistrust
the letter-writer's life-blood--Necessity for believing everyone
in office negligent or corrupt--Reasons why it is better to write
to the papers than to the individual--The sacredness of
publicity--Importance also of victim seeing the indictment--Value
of _Who's Who?

_--Postal rates for newspapers.

_V.--Signatures._
Real names and pseudonyms--Cases where real names are best--Cases where
pseudonyms are best--Danger of giving both name and address--The
Knobkerry--The Dog-Whip--The Art of Self-Defence--The Law Directory--Choice
of pseudonyms--Latin _v._ English--An Advantage of "One Who Knows"
over "Audi Alteram Partem"--"Scrutator" better than "Spectator ab
extra"--"One who is doing his bit" better than "Junius"--Reasons for
"War-Winner" being the best at present moment.

_VI.--Model Letter with Remarks._
At the present moment no type of letter is more effective than the
following:--
SIR,--Could anything be more deplorable than the spectacle, which
every hour of the day and night affords, of young and vigorous men made
up to look like grandfathers. I am told that the theatrical costumiers
and perruquiers are worn to a shadow by the overwork which these
contemptible shirkers have subjected them to, and I call on you to use
your powerful influence to stop it. I am credibly informed that if a
courageous investigator visiting those funkholes, the clubs of London,
were to snatch at the bald scalps so much in evidence there, he would
in nine cases out of ten find that they came away in his hand, revealing
the chevelure of the youthful and fit but craven. At any rate the
experiment should be tried. I shall, of course, be told that the
Tribunals are active and vigilant and their net so tightly drawn that
no one can get through; but we all know what bunglers the English
authorities are, whether at the War Office or elsewhere.

It is only in newspaper offices that true efficiency can be found. I enclose
my card and am,
Yours faithfully, "WAR-WINNER."
Analysis of above--Reasons for thinking it perfect--Importance of
compliment to editors--Estimate of its probable result.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE FOOD CONTROLLER ADDS A NEW TERROR TO MATRIMONY.]

* * * * *
Extremes.

"He spent 233 years in the 6th Dragoon Guards (Carbineers) and commanded
that famous regiment in the Boer War."--_Evening Telegraph_ (_Dundee_).

"Sergeant ----, who is 2 years of age, is married, and has two
children."--_Same Paper, same date._
* * * * *
"Mr. S.J. Rodrigo, Vidane Aratchy of Kotahena, who was bitten by a made
bog on Sunday, left for Coonoor last evening by the Talaimannar train for
treatment."--_Ceylon Independent._
But why make bogs if they are so dangerous?

* * * * * 
From a shoemaker's advertisement:
"ROUGH BOYS WELL LEATHERED."

--_High River Times_ (_Alberta, Canada_).

The good old slipper has not outlived its usefulness.

* * * * *
"To all anonymous correspondents who have recently written to me I have
the honour to reply that they are all blackguards."--_Advt. in Ceylon
Paper._
Though we ourselves should have waived this honour we are in full sympathy
with the writer.

* * * * *

[Illustration: "OH! DO WEAR YOUR KHAKI TIE, DAD, OR ELSE NO ONE WILL
KNOW YOU'RE A SOLDIER."]
* * * * *
TRAVEL WITHOUT TRAINS.

(_Suggested by some recent remarks in "The Observer" on eccentric
place names._)
Now that the rise in railway fares (At which no patriot cavils) Has
chained us elders to our chairs And circumscribed our travels, I love to
play the festive game Of astral gravitation To any neighbourhood whose
name Is fraught with fascination.

I've never sampled in the flesh The varied charms of Bootle, But mentally
I find them fresh And redolent of footle; And, though my steps to that
resort I never up till now bent, Imagination can transport My
spirit into Chowbent.

Always alert upon the track Of rich and strange emotion, To Pudsey and to
Wibsey Slack I pay my fond devotion; My heart is in the Highlands oft,
Though age its glow enfeebles, And soars triumphantly aloft At the mere
sound of Peebles.

The nightingale in leafy June, I own, divinely warbles, But equal magic
fills the tune- ful name of Scotia's Gorbals; And if you ever should
desire A subject to wax funny on, What theme more fitly can inspire The
Muse than Ballybunnion?

Some places on my astral rounds I'm strong upon tabooing, On anti-alcoholic
grounds Grogport and Rum eschewing; But no such painful stigma robs
Proud Potto of its lustre, Or rules out Crank and Smeeth and Stobs, A
memorable cluster.

The pictures rising in my brain Are strange; sometimes I muddle 'em,
Confounding Pleck with Plodder Lane, Titley with Tillietudlem; In short,
it's not a game of skill, Else I should scarce essay at; But it is
harmless, costs me _nil_; And nobody need play it.

The plan is simple; choose a spot, Then focus with decision Your
thoughts upon it till you've got A clear-cut mental vision; And though
from fact it widely errs, Remember in conclusion Only the man of prose
prefers Eyewitness to illusion.

* * * * *

FROM THE BACK OF THE FRONT.

Extract from a soldier's letter:--
"DEAR MOTHER,--I am thoroughly run down, and have grown so thin that when
I get a pain in my middle I cannot tell whether it is a backache or
a stomachache."
* * * * *
"The choristers and I.C.U. enlivened each station along the route by
rending sacred songs and solos as The Kano Express drew in."--_Lagos
Weekly Record._
"That's torn it," said the conductor.

* * * * *
"Britons never shall be slaves if they will only remember the solemn warning
of the author of the words--'To thine own self be true, and then thou
canst be false to any man.'"--_Letter in Scotch Paper._
One recognises the note of liberty, but we fear the writer must have got
hold of a German edition of "Unser Shakspeare."
* * * * *
THE HARDSHIPS OF BILLETS.

As Jim and me lies in hospital gettin' better from our wounds we talks
over what we've been through in this War.

There was the time when we was billeted with Mrs. Dawkins, just before
we went to the Front, which dwells in our memories. When the billetin'
orficer introduced us into her kitchen Mrs. Dawkins went down on the
bricks and prayed she might do her duty by the two noble defenders
of her country--she meant me and Jim--who the Lord had pleased to deliver
into her care. Then she begun unlacin' Jim's boots. In a minute Mr.
Dawkins come in; he said we was hearty welcome, and was just goin'
to shake 'ands with us when Mrs.

Dawkins turned on 'im and asked 'im what he meant by standin' there
like a gawk and not unlacin' mine. Jim and me was very
uncomfortable.

Then some little Dawkinses come in, Susan, Sammy, Billy and Elfreda,
and was told by Mrs. Dawkins to pay their respecks to us, and do
it proper or she'd know the reason why. Sammy saluted left-'anded
and she cuffed him unmerciful. Jim and me begun to feel regler
low-spirited.

After that she set out the tea. It was as butiful a tea as we could
wish for, cakes and jam, and bloater-paste and sardines, and bein'
hungry after a long march we cheered up and looked forward to
enjoyin' it. As was correck Jim 'anded all the dishes to Mrs. Dawkins
first, but she said, "No, thank you, such things are for the
defenders of the country, and it is our duty to provide them,
but bread-and-dripping is good enough for me and Mr.
Dawkins and the children."
Susan, Sammy, Billy and Elfreda all begun to cry, and their father
sat lookin' at 'em, the picture of misery. It clean took away
our appetites.
She piled our plates with jam and sardines, but we couldn't swaller a
mouthful with them poor kids sobbin' all round the table. We was
thankful they was put to bed before supper. Mrs. Dawkins fried
potaters and sausages and set 'em down in front of me Jim, with a
jug of porter, and she and Dawkins and a young man lodger sat at
the other end, behind half a Dutch cheese and some water.

All the meals was the same.

There was only three rooms upstairs, and Jim and me couldn't make out how
it was we had a bedroom apiece till we come across the lodger sleepin'
on the kitchen table, Dawkins on the mangle and Sammy in one of the dresser
drawers. Then we asked to be allowed to sleep together, with
the lodger to one side; but Mrs. Dawkins said, "I thank the Lord we're
blessed with two good beds in our house, and as long as I have two
defenders of the country in my care I should like to catch anyone
belonging to me getting into either of their beds.

If we're all getting wore out for want of sleep we can't help
ourselves, we're doing our duty."
Then she asked Jim if he was warm enough nights, and before he'd time to
think he'd blurted out he wasn't quite. That evening she come down
shiverin' to supper in her petticut, and said what did it matter her
catchin' her death of cold if them she had in her care slept warm and
comfortable under her meriner skirt. We felt downright brutes.

But what hurt us most was the way them kids took against us.
Me and Jim is fond of kids, and we wanted to make friends and
play with 'em, but it weren't no good. They was always puttin' their
tongues out at us when Mrs.
Dawkins' back was turned and talkin' loud to one another: "I say,
Sammy, I 'ates soldiers, don't you? Soldiers is greedy; poor little
children don't have nothink where soldiers is. Daddy 'ates soldiers
too. He says his 'ome is a 'ell since the soldiers come. 'Ere they are
walkin' down the street.
Quick, Billy! Mother ain't lookin'; turn yer nose up at 'em same as
me."
To make up for her kindness to us Jim and me tried to do little odd
jobs about the house for Mrs.

Dawkins, but somehow it all turned to wormwood. We slipped out early
one Sunday morning and begun siftin' the cinders in the backyard, but she
caught sight of us and 'ollered so at Dawkins she woke up all the
neighbours: "How can you lay there snorin', you great lazy good-for-nothing,
and look on while the defenders of your country is wearin'
themselves out 'siftin' your cinders?"
Dawkins tumbled off the mangle, thinkin' it was a fire, and he swore
terrible at me and Jim.

The young man lodger took against us too. When his washin' was on the line
we couldn't help noticin' he was very bad off for underclothes, and
Jim and me, havin' more shirts and socks that kind ladies had give us
than we knowed how' to wear, we took the liberty of wrappin' three of
each in paper with a label, "Hopin' no offence," and puttin' it in the
chicken-'ouse where he was in the habit of doin' his hair. We was
pleased to notice next day he had got one of the shirts on. Of course
we made no remark; no more did he. But at supper-time Mrs. Dawkins
caught sight of his cuffs. She took the poor feller by the collar and
we was afraid she would have shook the life out of him.

"You thievin' rascal!" she said. "To think I should 'arbour in my house a
man as ain't ashamed to rob the defenders of his country of the shirts
off their backs!" Then she begun callin' for the police.

Jim and me tried to explain, but it weren't no use. The first
chance he had the young man lodger got out through the door. He come
back in half a minute with his feet bare and his weskit all anyhow. The
shirts and socks was under his arm.

"Damn you and yer clothes!" he said, and flung 'em at me and Jim. It were
very disheartenin'.

When it come to leavin' we felt we ought to show our gratitude for the
treatment we had received by makin' Mrs. Dawkins a little present.
Bein' of an uncommon disposition it were difficult to choose what
would please her.
I were in favour of a pink shawl; but Jim didn't seem to fancy givin'
anybody any more clothes. In the end we chose a pair of earrings.

Directly we give 'em to her we saw we'd done wrong. She turned on
Dawkins like a hyener. "'Ave I done my duty and starved us all to
death and given them two the best in the house and slept cold every
night to be paid in gewgaws?" she said.

"Didn't I do it willin', and wouldn't I do it agen? and are you a man
or a cur that you stand there expectin' me to put them things into my
ears instead of behind the fire?" In another minute the earrings was
melted. It were some consolation to me and Jim that she didn't refuse
to shake 'ands with us when we come away; but Dawkins did, and so did
the young man lodger, and all the little Dawkinses spit at us. We
never have been able to make out who were to blame. We thinks sometimes
it were Mrs.
Dawkins.

* * * * *
How it strikes the Hyphenated.

An extract from _Los Angeles Germania_, which describes itself as "An
American newspaper printed in the German and American languages":--

"At last the mask is removed from the hypocritical face of England. The
cloven hoof of British insolence has struck square into the face of
Uncle Sam."
* * * * *
Holders of the old War Loan who are not yet converted to conversion may
be led to a decision by the discovery that "BONAR LAW" spells "War
Loan 'B.'"
* * * * *
"LADY SECRETARY. For small Nurses' Home where nurses do not sleep."--
_Women's Employment._
Applicants should beware, as insomnia is very catching.
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Sergeant._ "KEEP YER POINT UP LIKE YER DOIN' NOW,
CAN'T YER? YOU WON'T NEVER GET YER MAN IF YER DON'T KEEP YER POINT
UP. HAVE YER NEVER DONE NO BAYONET PRACTICE BEFORE?"
_Private_ (_just out of hospital, very bored_). "I'VE DONE THIS
'ERE TO THE BLOOMIN' BOSCHES, I 'AVE."
_Sergeant._ "OH. YOU 'AVE, 'AVE YOU? NO WONDER THE WAR'S LASTED TWO
AND A 'ALF YEARS."] 
* * * * * 
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.
(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks._)
Do you remember a clever, gloomy story that Mr. HUGH WALPOLE wrote,
some years ago, about a pack of schoolmasters who got so monstrously
upon one another's nerves that the result was attempted murder? I
have just been reading a new story that may be regarded as the
female counterpart of the same tragedy. _Regiment of Women_ (HEINEMANN)
is described as a first novel; and there are indeed signs of this
in a certain verbosity and diffuseness of attack. But it is at least
equally clear that the writer, CLEMENCE DANE, has the root of the
matter in her. As in the book with which I have compared it, the
setting of this is scholastic--a girls' school here, with all its
restricted outlook, its small intrigues, and exaggerated friendships,
mercilessly exposed. You will be willing to admit that it is at
least aptly named when I tell you that not till page 135 does so
much as the shadow of a man appear, and then but fleetingly as the
father of the poor child, _Louise_, the tragedy of whose death is
the central incident of the book. Naturally it can be nothing else
than a painful story; in particular the figure of _Clare_, the
adored teacher, whose cruel egoistical friendship, with its
alternations of encouragement and brutality, first drives _Louise_
to suicide, and all but wrecks the life of the young assistant-mistress,
_Alwynne_, has in it something coldly sinister that haunts the
memory. But of its power there can be no question.
On one small point of psychology I am at issue with the writer. I
doubt whether the child _Louise_ could have played _Arthur_ in the
school theatricals so marvellously as we are asked to believe without
cheering herself, by such an artistic success, out of the temptation
to suicide. But the ways of morbidity are unsearchable, and this
is no more than an expression of individual opinion. It is not meant
to qualify my admiration for the skill of this remarkable and
arresting story.

* * * * *
If the long postponement of the appearance of another novel--_Vesprie
Towers_ (SMITH, ELDER)--by the late Mr. THEODORE WATTS-DUNTON, means
(I am careful not to say it does) that the author never intended
it to see the light of day, honesty obliges one to admit that there
may have been wisdom in that decision, for the story of _Violet
Vesprie_, though touched with a certain charm and distinction, sadly
lacks the imaginative intensity of _Aylwin_. The plot is commonplace,
being the familiar record of how the country seat of a once illustrious
family nearly, but of course not quite, passed into the hands of
strangers when the last of the race came to poverty. Even the
inevitable flight to London is not spared us or the heroine, and
it is really only when the writer tires of his attempted conventionality
that he comes more nearly to his own. The return of _Violet_ to her
old home, for instance, is most fortunate in its failure to follow
the rules, that attractive young lady being quite content to be
whisked back in the turning of a page from destitution in Lambeth
to the place she loves, without knowing or caring at all how the
miracle has been wrought; while we, reader and author alike, equally
in the dark, are too happy to have her home to worry about it either,
preferring to wander with her through the dear old rooms and let
explanations go hang. Anyhow, perhaps one can forgive a certain
amount of looseness in a story that holds such pleasant things as
a family rainbow, an "osier ait" and a sailor-poet worshipping from
afar. And indeed, though far from brilliant, the book is really
rather lovable.

* * * * *
In _The Leatherwood God_ (JENKINS) Mr. W.D. HOWELLS has written a
powerful and very interesting study of an unusual theme. Religious
mania, and those queer manifestations of it that hover uncertainly
between fraud and hysteria, have always provided a subject of
attraction for the curious. Mr.
HOWELLS sets his romance in the early days of the last century, at
the backwoods settlement of _Leatherwood_, where the community of
the faithful are perturbed by the arrival amongst them of a stranger,
one _Dylks_, who claims divine origin and the power to work miracles.
Actually, this _Dylks_ was about as bad a hat as any made. He had
deserted his legal wife, _Nancy_, and allowed her, in supposed
widowhood, to marry a _de facto_ husband whom she adored. So you
will see that the turning up again of Number One, unrecognised and
surrounded by the trappings of god-head and the adoration of the
Elect, creates for _Nancy_ a very pretty and absorbing problem in
social ethics. But Mr. HOWELLS has done more than this. Having shown
_Dylks_ as the arch-villain and impostor that he is, he proceeds
to the subtler task of enlisting our sympathy for him. It is this
that gives the story its higher quality. The horror of the poor
wretch's position, driven on by his own words, almost, in time,
coming himself to a kind of belief in them, haunted always by the
increasing demands of his dupes, is most powerfully portrayed. So
much so that in the end we hear of his death (by suicide or accident)
with an emotion of relief and pity that is a real tribute to his
creator.But there was youth in
this readiness for hero-worship--youth in this tribute to the older men
whose years could not dim the brilliance nor lessen the power of their
work in the eyes of the new generation--the fragrance of youth exudes
from the pages of the _Yellow Book_ as I turn them over again, in
places the fragrance of infancy, the young contributors so young as to
seem scarcely out of their swaddling clothes. At the time the energy and
zest put into it had an equal savour of youth. And altogether it gave us
all a great deal to talk about, so that I see in it now a sort of link
to join on Thursday nights the different groups from their opposing
corners, supplying to writers and artists one subject of the same
interest to both. It even opened the door to the architects, one of whom
went so far as to neglect architecture and to emulate Ibsen in a play.

The last thing I foresaw for the _Yellow Book_ was a speedy end or, for
the matter of that, any end at all, so overflowing was it with the
spirit of youth and energy, war and enthusiasm. But the end came
surprisingly soon. To remind me, were I in danger of forgetting, another
book stands on our shelves close to the First Volume of the _Yellow
Book_:--the First Volume of the _Savoy_, on its fly-leaf again
Beardsley's inscription simple as himself, "Mrs. Pennell, with kindest
regards from Aubrey Beardsley," and only a little less than two years
between the dates of the two. And the beginning of the _Savoy_ meant the
end of the _Yellow Book_, whose life was short after Beardsley left it.
Why he left it has nothing to do with the story of our Thursday nights,
when no obstacle, great or small, would have been put in its way by us
who held youth and energy, war and enthusiasm above most things in
demand and honour. But I question if the time has come for the full
telling of the story, wherever or with whom the blame may lie. That an
objection was raised to Beardsley's presence in the _Yellow Book_,
though without Beardsley there would have been no _Yellow Book_, is
known and has been told in print, the reason being that Victorian sham
prudery and respectability had not been totally wiped out for all the
hard fighting of the Fighting Nineties. Beardsley was not slain, he was
not defeated, at once he reappeared on the battle-field with the
_Savoy_, Arthur Symons his fellow editor. But by now the enemy never yet
conquered on this earth held him in deadly grip, and the fight he had to
fight sent him from London to Bournemouth, to Saint-Germain, to Dieppe,
to Mentone in search of health. He was the youngest of that old Thursday
night crowd and he was the first to go, and the _Savoy_ went with him,
and before he had gone our Thursday nights were already but a landmark
in memory, so quickly does the flame of youth burn out.


VII

By another of our happy chances Phil May came as assiduously on our
Thursday nights as Beardsley, and they were two of the artists, though
their art was as the poles apart, who had most influence on the
black-and-white of the Nineties--it will be seen from this that I
refrain from saying what I think of J. and his influence, but it is
considered almost as indiscreet, almost as bad form, to admit the
excellence or importance of one's husband's work as to pretend to any in
one's own.

If no drawings could have been less like Beardsley's than Phil May's
neither could two men have been more utterly unlike. Some friends of
Beardsley's believe that he was happiest where there was most noise,
most people, most show, which, however, was not my impression. But when
there was the noise of people about him, he might be relied upon to
contribute his share and to take part in whatever show was going. I
question if Phil May was happy at all unless in the midst of many people
and much noise, whether at home or abroad, but to their noise, anyway,
he had not the least desire to add. Beardsley was fond of talk, always
had something to say, was always eager to say it. All Phil May asked
was not to be expected to say anything, to be allowed to smile amiably
his dissent or approval. Had the rest of our company been of his mind in
the matter, it would not have been so much easier for us to start the
talk at once than to stop it at a reasonable hour, our Thursday nights
would not have been so deafening with talk that I do not yet understand
why the other tenants in the house did not unite in an indignant protest
to the landlord.

It was not laziness that kept him silent. He had not a touch of laziness
in his composition. His drawings look so simple that people thought they
were dashed off at odd moments. But over them he took the infinite pains
and time considered by the wise to be the true secret of genius. It may
be he expressed himself so well in lines he had no use for words. The
one indisputable fact is that he would do anything to escape talking. I
recall a night--not a Thursday night though he finished it in our
rooms--when he had been invited to lecture to a Woman's Club at the
Society of Arts. He appeared on the platform with a formidable-looking
MS. in his hand, but he put it down at once and spent his appointed hour
in making drawings on big sheets of paper arranged for an occasional
illustration. He had more to say than I ever heard him say anywhere,
when we got back to Buckingham Street. The MS. was all right, he assured
us, a capital lecture written for him by a friend, but it began "Far be
it from me" something or other, he didn't wait to see what, for, as far
as he got, it did not sound like him, did it? and we could honestly
agree that it did not.

[Illustration: Drawing by Himself
PHIL MAY IN CAP AND BELLS]

He could talk. I must not give the idea that he could not. I know some
of his friends who do not share or accept unqualified my memory of him
as a silent man. But he talked most and best when he had but a single
companion, and nothing could persuade me that he was not always
relieved, when the chance came, to let others do the talking for him.

I do not know what the attraction was that made everybody like him, not
merely the riffraff and the loafers who hung about his studio and
waylaid him in the street for what they could get out of him, but all
sorts of people who asked for nothing save his company--I could never
define the attraction to myself. It was not his looks. Even before his
last years, when he was the image of J.J. Shannon's portrait of him, his
appearance was not prepossessing. He dressed well according to his
ideals. Beardsley was not more of a dandy; but Beardsley was the dandy
of Piccadilly or the Boulevards, Phil May was the dandy of the
race-course. He brought with him that inevitable, indescribable look
that the companionship of horses gives and that in those days broke out
largely in short, wide-spreading covert coats and big pearl buttons. I
have always been grateful to the man who enlivens the monotony of dress
by a special fashion of his own, provided it belongs to him. The horsy
costume did belong to May, for he rode and hunted and was a good deal
with horses, but it was borrowed by some of his admirers until it
degenerated into almost as great an affectation as the artist's velvet
jacket and long hair, or the high stock and baggy corduroys of the Latin
Quarter imported into Chelsea. When the Beggarstaff Brothers, as Pryde
and Nicholson called themselves in those old days, would wander casually
into our rooms at the end of six or eight feet of poster that they had
brought to show J. and that needed a great deal of manipulation to bring
in at all, they looked as if the stable, not the studio, was their
workshop. And one young genius of an illustrator, who could not afford
to ride, and who I do not believe had ever been on a horse in his life,
could not mount the bus in his near suburb without putting on riding
breeches. But Phil May's dress was as essentially his as his silence.

Neither his looks nor his silence, however original and personal, could
have been the cause of the charm he undeniably possessed. I think he was
one of the people whom one feels are nice instinctively, without any
reason. He was sympathetic and responsive, serious when the occasion
called for it, foolish when folly was in order. It wasn't only in his
drawings that he was ready to wear the cap and bells. I know an artist,
one of whose cherished memories of Phil May is of the Christmas Eve when
they both rang Lord Leighton's door-bell and ran away and back to Phil
May's studio on the other side of the road, and Phil May was as pleased
as if it had been a masterpiece for _Punch_. He was naturally
kind,--amiable perhaps because it was the simplest thing to be. In his
own house his amiability forced him to break his silence, but his
remarks then, as far as I heard them, were usually confined to the
monotonous offer "Have a cigar!" "Have a whiskey-and-soda!" or "Have a
drawing!" if anyone happened to express admiration for his work. Had we
accepted this last offer every time it was made to us, we would have a
fine collection of Phil May's, while, as it is, we do not own as much
as a single sketch given to us by him. Visitors who did not share our
scruples have found their steady attendance at his Sunday nights one of
the best investments they ever made.

Away from his own house, on our Thursday nights, relieved of the
necessity to offer anything, this being now our business, his
conversation was more limited than in his own place. My memory of him is
of an ugly, delightful, smiling, silent man, sitting astride a chair,
his arms resting on the back, a big cigar in his mouth, and around him a
band of devoted admirers as fully prepared and equipped to do the
talking for him as he was to let them do it. He held his court as
royally among illustrators as Henley among his Young Men, and if nobody
contributed so little to the talk as Phil May, around nobody else,
except Henley, did so much of the talk centre.

In my recollections of Phil May astride his chair on Thursday nights,
Hartrick and Sullivan are never very long absent. Nobody knew better
than they the beauty of his work--to hear them talk about his line was
to be convinced that the supreme interest in life was the expressive
quality of a line made with pen in black ink on a piece of white paper.
The appearance of _The_ _Parson and the Painter_ was one of the events
of the Nineties--though it was not boomed into notoriety as were the
performances of some other illustrators of the period as ingenious as
Barnum in the art of advertisement--and there was not an artist who did
not hail May as a master. But Hartrick and Sullivan went further. They
were not only such good artists themselves that they could appreciate
genius in others, they were young enough not to be afraid of their
enthusiasms. They gave the effect of being with May, with whom they
often arrived and stayed until the deplorably early hour of the morning
at which he started for home, in order that they might watch over him,
and, indeed, he needed watching. He was not readier in offering than in
giving anything he was asked for, which was one reason why there was
always a procession of waiters and actors and jockeys out of work at his
front door--why his pockets were always empty. They even discovered the
same genius in May's talk as in his drawing, though the mystery was when
they heard the talk. To this day they will quote Phil May while I wonder
how it is that while for me Henley's talk has not lost its thunder, nor
Bob Stevenson's its brilliant flashes of imbecility, nor Harland's its
whimsical twist, nor Beardsley's its fresh gaiety, nothing of Phil
May's remains save the familiar refrain "Have a cigar!" "Have a
whiskey-and-soda!" "Have a drawing!"

Obsessed by my old-fashioned notion as hostess that people could not
enjoy themselves unless they were kept moving, persisting in my vain
efforts to break up the groups into which the company invariably fell,
again and again I would lure Hartrick and Sullivan away from Phil May.
But it was no use. What they all wanted was to talk not only about their
shop but their own particular counter in it, and no sooner was my back
turned than there they were in the same groups again, Hartrick and
Sullivan watching over Phil May, supported by Raven Hill and Edgar
Wilson, both then deeply involved in youth's game of shocking the
_bourgeois_ by showing on the pages of _Pick-Me-Up_ how the matter of
illustration was ordered in France, and presently starting a magazine of
their own to show it the better, and to do their share as ardent rebels
in the big fight of the Nineties. On my shelves, close by the first
number of _The Yellow Book_ and of the _Savoy_ is the first volume of
_The Butterfly_ and on its fly-leaf is the inscription: "To Elizabeth
Robins Pennell with L. Raven Hill's kind regards," no more startlingly
original than Beardsley's inscriptions, but to me full of meaning and
memories. I cannot look at it without seeing myself fluttering from one
to another of the old Buckingham Street rooms, heavy with the smell of
smoke and powder, thunderous not only with the knocking--naturally I
quote the Ibsen phrase everybody was quoting in the Nineties--but the
banging, the battering, the bombarding of the younger generation at the
Victorian door against which it was desperate work to make any
impression at all.


VIII

In my less responsible intervals it amused me to find the painters
running their own shop, or their own little counter, quite apart from
the illustrators, and carrying on all by themselves their own special
campaign against that obdurate Victorian door. Their campaign, as they
ran it, required less talk than most, for they were chiefly men of the
New English Art Club--the men who gave the shows where Felix Buhot smelt
the powder--the men who were considered apostles of defiance when the
inner group held their once-famous exhibition as "London
Impressionists"--the men about whom the critics for a while did nothing
save talk--but men who had the reputation of talking so little
themselves that, when a man came up for election in their Club, his
talent for silence was said to be as important a consideration with them
as his talent for art. Not that the silence of any one of them could
rival Phil May's in eloquence--they never learned to say nothing with
his charm. Often the poverty of their conversation had the effect of
being involuntary, as if they might have had plenty to say had they
known how to say it. More than one struggled to rid himself of his
talent with at least an air of success.

The big booming voice of Charles W. Furse was frequently heard, but in
it a suspicion of an Academic note unfamiliar in our midst, so that,
young as he was, combative, enthusiastic, "a good fellow" as they say in
England, still in his Whistler and rebel period, his friends predicted
for him the Presidency of the Royal Academy. The first time I ever saw
him was the year he was showing at the New English two large upright,
full-length portraits of women, highly reminiscent of Whistler, and, on
press day, was being turned out of the gallery by the critics who, in
revolutionizing criticism, were fighting against the old-fashioned
Victorian idea of press views with the artists busy log-rolling and an
elaborate lunch, or at least whiskey and cigars behind a screen. The
New English men compromised by staying away, but they clung to the
lunch, a feast chiefly for their commissionaire and their salesman and
the grey-haired critic, a survival, who could not reconcile himself to
change and whom I heard once, in another gallery, pronounce the show
admirable, "perfect really, your show, but for one thing missing--a
decanter and cigars on the table." Furse, who had not heard the critic's
cry for reform and could not understand his banishment, lingered in the
passage, button-holing everybody who came out, trying to pick up a hint
as to what we were all going to say about him. He considered himself a
red-hot rebel and the prophetic picture of him scaling Academic heights
annoyed him extremely, though he so soon became an Associate of the
Academy that I think, had he lived, time would have proved the prophets
right.

Walter Sickert's voice, too, was frequently heard at the beginning of a
Thursday night, but his promise of brilliancy never struck me as leading
anywhere in particular, my personal impression being that with his talk,
as with his art, the fulfilment scarcely justified the promise.

D.S. MacColl, young arch-rebel at the time little as the formal official
of to-day suggests it, his bombarding of the Victorian door directed
chiefly from the sober columns of the _Spectator_, and later of the
_Saturday Review_, was always well armed with words for the Thursday
night battle, conscientious in distributing his blows and shaping them
in strict deference to his sense of style, just a touch of the preacher
perhaps in his voice and in his fight for art and freedom, as he was the
first to acknowledge; more than once I have heard him explain
apologetically that his right place was the pulpit for which he had been
designed.

Arthur Tomson, one of the best friends in the world, was a spirited
revolutionary who went to the length of founding and editing a paper of
his own to promote revolution--the _Art Weekly_, which, not being able
to afford illustrations, conducted its warfare solely by its articles,
and strong, fearless, knock-you-down articles they were since we all
wrote for the paper while it lasted. It did not last long, however, but
shared the fate of most revolutionary sheets with more brains than
capital. Arthur Tomson himself, out of print, was a quiet, if staunch
fighter, another of the old Thursday night group who knew that his years
on this earth were to be short. He was not the gayer for it as Harland
and Beardsley were, but the sadder, it may be because he foresaw the
end long before it came, and he was given to the melancholy that found
expression in so many of his paintings.

Wilson Steer, Tonks, Professor Brown passed, and no more, across the
stage of our Thursday nights, all three, as I remember them, scrupulous
in upholding the reputation for silence of their Club. Conder flitted in
and out of our rooms, always agreeable but not the man to lift up his
voice in a crowd.

Occasionally, a visitor from abroad appeared--Felix Buhot every Thursday
that one winter, or, more rarely Paul Renouard, in London for the
_Graphic_, his appearance an event for the illustrators who already
reverenced him as a veteran. Or else it was a representative, a
publisher, of _les Jeunes_ over there, bringing fresh stimulus, fresh
incentive, especially if his coming meant fresh orders and fresh
opportunity to say what had to be said freely and without restraint.
Once it was Jules Roque from Paris, of the _Courrier Français_ in which
he published the drawings of Louis Legrand and Forain and other artists
accepted as models by the young men of our Thursday nights who believed
in themselves the more defiantly when asked to figure in such good
company. Once it was Meier Graefe from Berlin, big, handsome,
enterprising, not yet encumbered with Post-Impressionism and its
outshoots, seeking American and British contributors to the German
_Pan_, a magazine as big and enterprising as himself if not always as
handsome, and the younger generation of London had the comfort of
knowing that if the Victorian door in England held firm, the door of
Europe had opened to them.

Occasionally one of the older, the very much older generation came in to
make us feel the younger for his presence--none more imposing than
Sandys, most distinguished in his old age, wearing the white waistcoat
that was the life-long symbol of his dandyism, full of Pre-Raphaelite
reminiscences, and reminiscences of the Italian Primitives could not
have seemed more remote. J. sometimes met Holman Hunt in other
haunts--at dinners of the Society of Illustrators and elsewhere--and
reported him to me as a talker who could, in the quantity and
aggressiveness of his talk, have given points to Henley and Henley's
Young Men, so I regret that he never was with us to talk over
Pre-Raphaelite days with Sandys. The only other possible representative
of Pre-Raphaelitism who came was Walter Crane, if so he can be called,
for the tradition fell lightly on his shoulders, was a mere re-echo in
his work; the only one of Sandys's contemporaries was Whistler, and
their meeting of which J. and I have written in another place, does not
belong to the story of our Thursday nights, for they were a thing of the
past when Whistler returned from Paris, where he had gone to live almost
as they began.

Nor did Sandys often appear on Thursdays. He seemed to prefer the
evenings when we were alone, to my surprise, for the homage he received
when he did come on Thursday must have been pleasant. Drawings of his
hung prominently in our rooms, J. then haunting the salesrooms for the
originals of the Sixties as industriously as the barrows and shops for
their reproductions. And to the man who prefers fame to reach him during
his lifetime, surely it should have been an agreeable experience to sit,
or to be enthroned as it were, in so friendly an atmosphere, with some
of his own finest work on the wall behind him for background, and
surrounded by a worshipping group asking nothing better than to be
allowed to sit at his feet and listen to his every word--which was a
sacrifice for his worshippers in Buckingham Street who rejoiced in the
sound of their own voices as did most of the company. But the Nineties
are not more wonderful and stimulating to the young men of to-day who
look back to them so admiringly, than the Sixties were to us whom they
kept up into the small hours of many a Friday morning, inexhaustible as
a subject of our talk, and Sandys, standing for the Sixties and all we
found in them so admirable, could command any sacrifice. The respect for
the Sixties was an article of faith, a dogma of dogmas in the Nineties.
If the now younger generation write articles and books about the
Nineties--those amazing documents in which I scarcely recognise an age I
thought I knew by heart--we were still more zealous in writing books
about the Sixties. And we collected the drawings and publications of the
Sixties. When J. and I now allowed ourselves an afternoon out, it was to
wander from Holywell Street to Mile End Road, from Piccadilly to
Holborn, searching the booksellers' barrows and shops for the unsightly,
gaudy, badly-bound volumes that contained the illustrations of the
Sixties--illustrations ranked amongst the finest ever made. Our
bookshelves that are still filled with them represent one of the most
animated phases of the Nineties. And we looked upon the "men of the
Sixties" as masters, among them giving to Sandys a leading place.

If he was not any longer doing the work for which we took off our hat to
him, he certainly looked the leader--tall, handsome, dignified, just
enough of a stoop in his shoulders to become his age, his dress
irreproachable, the white waistcoat immaculate, pale yellow hair parted
in the middle and beautifully brushed, beard not patriarchal exactly but
eminently correct and well cared for, manners princely. It was clear
that he liked the rôle of master and his voice was in keeping with the
part. But he was a master who presided at his best over a small
audience, and, no doubt knowing it, he avoided our Thursdays.

He was also a master given to small gossip. We heard from him less of
art, its aims and ideals, its mediums and methods, than of the sayings
and doings of the Pre-Raphaelites who were his friends and
contemporaries. The name of "Gabriel" was ever in his mouth. It was
Rossetti whom he most loved--or love is not the word, less of affection
revealed in his memories than a sense of injury, as if it had somehow
been the fault of "Gabriel" and the others that he had not come off as
well as they, though of all "Gabriel" had been most active in seeing
him through the tight places he so successfully got himself into. This,
no doubt, was the reason Rossetti felt entitled to a little laugh now
and then over Sandys's difficulties. Sandys was a man who needed to be
seen through tight places until the end, as we had occasion to know by
the urgent note he sent us on a Saturday night, more than once, from the
_Café Royal_, his favourite haunt in his later years, where a variety of
unavoidable accidents, with a curious faculty for repeating themselves,
would keep him prisoner until his friends came to his relief.

He was full of anecdote, which was quite in the order of things, the
Sixties having supplied anecdote for a whole library of books and
magazines. Could I tell Sandys's stories with Sandys's voice I should be
tempted to repeat them yet once again, though many were told us also by
Whistler, and these J. and I have recorded in the Life. Whistler told
them better, with more truth because with more gaiety and joy in their
absurdity. And yet, the solemnity of Sandys added a personal flavour,
gave them a character nobody else could give. I have not forgotten how
he turned into a parable the tale of the cross-eyed maid in the Morris
Shop in Red Lion Square, whose eyes were knocked straight by a shock
the company of Morris, Marshall, and Faulkner administered deliberately,
and then were knocked crooked again by a shock they had not provided for
or against. And, as Sandys recalled them, the strange beasts in
"Gabriel's" house and garden might have been let loose from out of the
Apocalypse. But Sandys's voice has been stilled forever and the
anecdotes have been published oftener, I do believe, than any others in
the world's rich store of _clichés_. The great of his day had all the
Boswells they wanted--a retinue of admirers and cuffs ready--at their
head William Michael Rossetti to pour out book after book about his
brother, to leave little untold about the group that revolved round
"Gabriel." Even the third generation, with Ford Madox Hueffer to lead,
has taken up the task. The anecdotes have grown familiar, but it is
something to have heard them from the men who were their heroes.


"Oh, they don't do that now," returned the other, indifferently,
"but, the ladies"--
"As to the ladies," laughed Katie, "one of them is quite fond of
the red-skins; the other," glancing at her friend, "has gone into
a brown study; I don't believe she's heard or seen anything for the
last half hour.

Elizabeth, when you fish up any pearls there out of the water, share them
with us, won't you?"
"No, she'll do no such thing," interposed Mistress Eveleigh; "she'll
give them all to you." The tone was so serious that Elizabeth cried,
indignantly,--
"Cousin Patience, how can you?"
"I suppose she likes to tease you," retorted Katie, still laughing, "and
so do I. It's so funny to see you wake out of a revery and find yourself."

"And not find myself, you mean," returned Elizabeth, joining in with a
ripple of merriment.

"Master Waldo knows all about the red-skins," said Archdale to his
opposite neighbor; "he had the pleasure of shooting one last
winter."
"Did you?" exclaimed Mrs. Eveleigh, while Harwin looked at the young
fellow with a new interest. "How did it happen? Tell us about it."

"Yes, tell us about it," cried Katie, turning toward Waldo. But Elizabeth
was still looking at Archdale. Suppose the shooting had been necessary,
how could he speak of killing a human being as he would an animal, and
then lean back and look at Mr. Waldo with a smile on his face?

Kenelm Waldo, on his part, gazed at the speaker in astonishment.

"'Pon honor," he cried, "I never killed a red-skin in my life, or even
had a shot at one.

Oh, I know now what he means; he is talking of a fox that I shot two miles
from his house, one that you ought to have secured yourself, Mr.
Archdale. This was the way I did it, the best way."
When he had finished his account, Katie said:--
"I have a plan for amusing ourselves. Let us make every one tell a
story, and we'll lay forfeits on the person that doesn't give us an
interesting one. Mistress Eveleigh, please begin."
"That is rather arbitrary, Mistress Katie, with no warning,"
returned that lady, smiling. "But since we've been talking about the
Indians, I will tell you something that my mother did once before she was
married, while she was living down on the Cape."
"What a pity, Katie, you did not keep Mistress Eveleigh until the last,"
cried Archdale; "I know she will have the best story of us all."

"You have too high estimation of my powers," returned Mrs. Eveleigh,
flattered; "but if I do well," she added, "it must be remembered that
none of you have had forty-five years in which to find one."
The story, like a thousand others of that time, was of the presence of
mind and courage of one of the early settlers of America, and was
listened to with the attention it deserved. All, with one exception,
were outspoken in admiration of its heroine.

"You say nothing, Mistress Royal," said Waldo; "but it may be you've heard
it before, since you and Mistress Eveleigh are in the same house."
"Yes," she answered, "I have heard it before."

She moved her head quickly as she spoke, and as the moonlight struck her
face, Archdale fancied that he saw a moist brightness in her eyes.
But certainly no tear fell, and when the next moment Katie declared
it Elizabeth's turn for a story, she told some trifling anecdote that
had in it neither sentiment nor heroism. It was laughable though, and
was about to receive its deserts of praise when at Archdale's first word
Elizabeth cried, eagerly:--
"Don't, please. It was not worth telling; only I could remember
nothing else."
At this entreaty Harwin stared at her, and his lip curled disdainfully
under the hand that partially covered his face. "Have you so much
wealth of fascination, young lady," his thoughts ran, "that you
can afford to scatter your coins in this way?

I rather think not." His eyes rested upon her for a moment as she
sat looking at Katie Archdale, and the scorn of his mouth deepened.
"Admiration of one woman for another," he commented. "Pshaw! the girl
lavishes everything; she will soon be bankrupt. She is drinking in
the intoxication of Katie's beauty just as--no, not like me, of course.
If ever there could be excuse for such a thing it would be
here, for Katie is bewitching, she is perfect; affectionate, too, but
with no nonsense about _her_. She reserves her admiration for--for whom
does she reserve it? For the proud young nabob beside her, or for the
good-humored little coxcomb over here? It shall be for neither; it
shall be for me. I, too, can be fascinating when I take the trouble.
Fair lady, I have plans for you."
"Master Harwin," cried the girl's clear voice, interrupting his thoughts,
"why don't you begin? We're waiting for you."
"Pardon me," he answered, "I was not aware of it. Well, since you
are inexorable, I'll try. I will not attempt anything in this New World,
which you all know so much more about than I do, for then there'd be every
chance of my being heavily fined. But if you want a story of Old England,
perhaps on that ground I can barely escape my forfeit."
"We shall be delighted," said Miss Royal, courteously, for Katie, to whom
she saw that he was speaking, was at the moment claimed by Archdale;
he was saying something to her in a low voice, and she gave him willing
attention.

Only a flash in the narrator's eyes as he began showed that he noticed
this.

CHAPTER II.

OPPORTUNITY.

"Once upon a time, then," he said, "in Scotland, no matter in what
part, there dwelt two disconsolate people. They ought to have
been very happy, for they were lovers, but, as you may have noticed,
lovers are happy only under the condition that love runs smooth, and
here it was extremely rough. The suitor was of ancient family and poor,
the lady was charming, and wilful--and an heiress? You are all waiting
to hear me say that--no, she was poor, too. And so you see that a doubling
of impecuniosity was quite impossible, for poverty rolls up fast in
a geometrical progression. But the lovers had no such scruples. It's a
romantic story enough if I could tell it to you in detail."
"And why not?" cried Katie, whose interest was making him wish that
were possible.

"I should have to go back for generations, and tell you of family feuds
as old as the families themselves, a Montague and Capulet state of affairs,
although each family had so much respect for the golden amenities of
life that its possession by the other would have softened the
asperity of feeling.

But each was poor,--poor, I mean, for people in that station.

"The lady, as I said, was a beauty; the gentleman had extra will enough
when it was roused to make up for the absence of beauty, although, indeed,
the lady was not lacking in that quality either, and so, opposition made
them only more determined to have their own way. It was impossible to
run away,--she was too well guarded; defiance was the only thing, and
I must confess that from what I knew of them both, I think they enjoyed
it.

The Capulets, as I will call them, were dissenters, the Montagues belonged
to the Established Church. Now, the Capulets were very zealous, and
at this time a famous itinerant preacher came into their neighborhood.
They, being the greatest people in the place, invited him to stay
at their house during his visit. He often preached in the open air.
One day, at the end of one of those eloquent discourses, a young
man in countryman's dress came up and asked him to marry himself and a
young woman whom he had been waiting upon a long time, but who had refused
to be married unless this very preacher could perform the ceremony.
'She said it would be a blessed wedlock of your joining,' pursued the
young fellow.

The preacher, although he was a great man, was only human,--it is well,
I suppose, that we never outgrow our humanity,--and felt flattered by
the young girl's belief in his sanctity. He proposed the next day for
the ceremony, and was arranging to marry the rustic couple on the
lawn before the house of his host when the young man interrupted him
by stating that it must be gone through with immediately, for his lady-love
was so shy that it was with difficulty she had been persuaded
to come to-night, and she would never consent if he gave her all that
time to think the matter over in, nor would she be willing to come up
on the lawn with the great people. She was at hand with one of her friends;
everything was prepared; would he marry them then? At that moment? The
bewildered minister looked up the road before him, where the carriage
of the Capulets was disappearing at the top of the hill; he had been
told that the daughter would remain with him, and that the carriage
would return as soon as Mamma Capulet had made inquiries about a
cottager who was ill; for his congregation had been crowding about
him with questions and tearful confessions of sins, and the good
Capulets, who had the opportunity to make their confessions in
private, were in haste to be gone.

Where was his fair companion? He looked about him; he had lost sight
of her in the throng.
But in a few moments she came forward, accompanying the bride, who the
groom explained was a protégée of hers. Miss Capulet had drawn down
her veil, and in answer to this statement nodded to the reverend gentleman
and murmured an assent. The bride's face, too, was hidden by her bonnet
and by her shyness, which prevented her from once looking up. The name
of the groom lingered with surprise on the minister's lips, for it was
not a clodhopper's name, I assure you; but he had heard nothing
of the love affair. When he came to the bride's name, however, he did
pause, for it was that of the Capulet. 'How is this?' he asked.
'How has she the same name as you, my child?' Before the veiled lady
could answer, the groom informed him that the bride's family, being old
retainers of the other, had the same last name, as it was in Scottish
clans, and that the bride herself, born on the same day as the young
lady at the great house, had received also the same Christian name,
which explained her being under Miss Capulet's protection. The good
man was conscious that, though his piety was eminent, his knowledge
of all genealogy but Bible was deficient, and when both women softly
assented to this statement, his air of perplexity gave place to the manner
of a man who understands the business of the hour. He was in a hurry,
and in an incredibly short time the two were one. 'Is it all over?'
asked the groom. 'Are we securely married?' 'You are joined
in the holy bonds of matrimony until death do you part,' returned the
clergyman, solemnly, beginning to add his blessing. But this died
half-uttered on his lips, for the bride slowly raised her head, threw
back her bonnet, and the haughty face and laughing eyes of the
Capulet were before him. 'Bear witness,' she said, her shyness
completely gone, 'that I'm this gentleman's wife.' 'You are, indeed,'
he stammered. 'But how--why--who is this?' and he reached out a
trembling hand toward the veiled lady. 'My maid,' returned the bride;
'she came here like one of the cottagers, and we exchanged gowns while
you were talking to the people.' 'I hope, I sincerely hope, it's all
right,' returned the poor man; 'but if I had known, I would have spoken
to your honored parent, first.' 'Yes, I'm sure of that,' she
laughed, 'and then we should not have been so happy.' At the moment
a post-chaise drove up, into which the bridal pair and the servant
made haste to get.
'Pardon me that I cannot accompany you home,' laughed the lady, leaning
out to give the minister her hand in farewell. 'You cannot know how
grateful to you we are. I shall never be able to reward you; I can only
give you my thanks and prayers--and be sure to tell them at home
how firmly you have married us.'

The chaise drove off, and the good man was left alone. He felt inclined
to think that he had been dreaming, until he looked down and saw in his
hand a purse of gold pieces that the groom had slipped into it, whispering,
'If you refuse for yourself, be my almoner and give it to the poor.'
Before the preacher had recovered his wits the carriage of the Capulets
reappeared. The lovers, however, did not re-appear for two years,
and by that time Montague had unexpectedly fallen heir to a fortune and
a title, and was received with open arms by the new relatives. In our
days it's always the one who was not the prodigal who has the fatted
calf killed for him."

"I'm afraid the poor minister was not very welcome when he had told his
story," said Elizabeth.

"Clever enough, on my word," cried Archdale.

"Not quite to your liking, I fancy, though," answered Harwin.

"Do you think he would have had the wedding indoors, in the teeth of
everybody?" laughed Katie.

Harwin assented, adding that he felt convinced that Master Archdale would
have insisted upon all the accompaniments of a grand wedding at
any cost.

"Yes, I shall have that when my time comes," returned Stephen, looking
straight before him a trifle haughtily. But Harwin noticed that directly
his eyes fell in passing back to their watching of the shore, and
that one sweeping glance was given to Katie.

"But can people be married in such an instant?" asked Waldo. "I always
thought it was a work of time--rather a formidable piece of business."

"Oh! when you come to two or three ministers of the Church of England,
and the benedictions, and all that, so it is," said Harwin; "but
the real business part is an affair of--I was going to say less
than a minute."

He sat silent after this, with his head bent, then, lifting it suddenly,
before anybody had spoken, he fixed his glance, with a musing expression,
upon Waldo. "I was wondering if I could remember the formula," he said;
"I think I can. Mistress Royal, allow Master Archdale to take
your hand a moment, if you please."
Elizabeth made no responsive movement, and Archdale, for an instant,
failed to turn toward her. He had been looking at Katie while Harwin
was speaking; but Katie drew back, hastily.

"Oh, do, Elizabeth!" she cried. "I want to see what it is like; do
try with Stephen, and let us hear." As she spoke, Archdale turned
toward Elizabeth, courteously.

"Come, Mistress Royal," he said, as Harwin was explaining that he had
asked her because she happened to be on the proper side for a bride,
"let us make an effective tableau for the amusement of these mariners,
who, since they are becalmed themselves, persist in wanting something
going on."
Elizabeth had heard the entreaty in Katie's light words. She knew that
if she herself had cared for Mr. Archdale she could never have jested at
marrying him. It made her all the more sure that Katie did care,
because, otherwise, the girl would have found it great fun to rouse
a little jealousy in the two admirers opposite, watching every
movement.
She yielded her hand to the light clasp that held it, and listened with
less interest than the others to Mr.

Harwin's distinct and rapid words until he came to the sentence,
"I pronounce you man and wife."

Then she shivered, and he had scarcely finished the adjuration that
follows--"What God hath joined together let not man put asunder,"
when she snatched her hand away.

"It is too solemn," she cried, "it is too much; we ought not to
have jested so."

Harwin laughed.

"Pardon me if I've made you uncomfortable," he said; "but you will
forget it in five minutes, and even for that time you must blame
Master Waldo's curiosity."

"And mine," added Katie, at which young Waldo gave her a grateful glance.
Then he joined with her in breaking the hush that had fallen on the
others. "Stephen," she said, "now for your story. Do you think you are
coming off scot-free?"
"I thought we had performed our parts," he said, turning to Elizabeth
with a smile.

"Mistress Royal has already told her story," cried Waldo, "There's no
escape for you."
"Escape would be difficult now, I confess."
"So begin."

He began obediently, but fortune was kinder than he had expected, for he
had not fairly started when Kit cried out,--
"A breeze! Here it comes. Heads to larboard!" And down went Archdale's
and those of the two ladies with him as the sail was shifted and the
boat began to skim the water before the breeze which freshened
every minute. Soon they had gained the cove where they were to land,
and Archdale's story was never finished.

* * * * *
THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN.

BY ERNEST NUSSE.J., during
several years, spared the time from more important things to fight as
critic the empty criticism of the moment, the old-fashioned criticism
that recognised no masterpiece outside of Burlington House and saw
nothing in a picture or a drawing save a story: a thankless task, for
already the old-fashioned criticism threatens to become the
new-fashioned again. I, for my part, was kept as busy as I knew how to
be, and busier, for the _Nation_ and my London papers. Others went
because they were artists and wanted to see what Paris was doing and May
was the season when Paris was doing most and was most liberal in letting
everybody see it. Beardsley and Furse seldom failed, and I do not
suppose a year passed that we did not chance upon one or more unexpected
friends in a gallery or a _café_ and add them to our party. Sometimes a
Publisher was with us, his affairs an excuse for a holiday, or sometimes
an Architect to show the poor foreigner how respectable British
respectability can be and, incidentally, to make his a guarantee of ours
that we could have dispensed with. Harland and Mrs. Harland were always
there, I do believe for sheer love of Paris in the May-time, and I
rather think theirs was the wisest reason of all.

During no week throughout my hard-working year did I have to work
harder than during that May week spent in Paris. I am inclined now, in
the more leisurely period of life at which I have arrived, to admire
myself when I recall how many articles I had to write, how many prints
and drawings, statues and pictures, I had to look at in order to write
them, and my success in never leaving my editors in the lurch. My
admiration is the greater because nobody could know as well as I how
slow I have always been with my work and also, to do myself justice, how
conscientious, as I do not mind saying, though to be called
conscientious by anybody else would seem to me only less offensive than
to be called good-natured or amiable. As a critic I never could get to
the point of writing round the pictures and saying nothing about them
like many I knew for whom five minutes in a gallery sufficed, nor, to be
frank, did I try to. Neither could I hang an article on one picture. I
might envy George Moore, for an interval the critic of the _Speaker_,
now the London _Nation_, because he could and did. I can remember him at
an Academy Press View making the interminable round with a business-like
briskness until, perhaps in the first hour and the last room, he would
come upon the painting that gave him the peg for his eloquence, make an
elaborate study of it, tell us his task was finished, and hurry off
exultant. But envy him as I might, I couldn't borrow his briskness. I
had to plod on all morning and again all afternoon until the Academy
closed, to look at every picture before I could be sure which was the
right peg or whether there might not be a dozen pegs and more. And I had
to collect elaborate notes, not daring to trust to my memory alone, and
after that to re-write pages that did not satisfy me. Just to see the
Academy meant an honest day's labour and in Paris there were two
_Salons_, each immeasurably bigger, and innumerable smaller shows into
the bargain. And yet, that laborious May week never seemed to me so much
toil as pleasure.

There was a great deal about Paris the toil left me no chance to find
out. I should not like to say how many of its sights I have failed
regularly to see during the visit I have paid to it every year now for
over a quarter of a century. But at least I have learned the best thing
worth knowing about it, which is that in no other town can toil look so
uncommonly like pleasure, in no other town is it so easy to play hard
and to work hard at the same time: precisely the truth the Baedeker
student has a knack of missing, the truth the special kind of foreigner,
for whom Paris would not be Paris if he could not believe it the
abomination of desolation, goes out of his way to miss. I have met some
of my own countrymen who have seen everything in Paris but never Paris
itself--the old story of not seeing the wood for the trees--and who are
absolutely convinced that it is a town in which all the people think of
is amusement and that a more frivolous creature than the Parisian never
existed. From their comfortable seat of judgment in the correct hotels
and the correct show places, they cannot look as far as the schools and
factories that make Paris the centre of learning for the world and of
industry for France, and they are in their way every bit as dense as the
English who take their pleasure so seriously they cannot understand the
French who take their work gaily. "_Des blagueurs même au feu_," a
Belgian officer the other day described to me the French soldiers who
had been fighting at his side, and I think it rather finer to face
Death--or Work--laughing than in tears. If Paris were not so gay on the
surface I am sure I should not find it so stimulating, though how it
would be if I lived there I have never dared put to the test, unwilling
to run whatever risk there might be if I did. I prefer to keep Paris in
reserve for a working holiday or, indeed, any sort of holiday, a
preference which, if Heine is to be trusted, I share with _le bon Dieu_
of the old French proverb who, when he is bored in Heaven, opens a
window and looks down upon the _Boulevards_ of Paris.

At the first sight, the first sound, the first smell of Paris, the
holiday feeling stirred within us. The minute we arrived we began to
play at our work as we never did in London, as it never would have
occurred to us there that we could.

The Academy, only the week before, had given us the same chance to meet,
the same chance to talk, the same chance to lunch together, and of the
lunch it had got to be our habit to make a Press Day function. Nowadays
at the Academy Press View, when I am hungry, I run up to Stewart's at
the corner of Bond Street for a couple of sandwiches, and excellent they
are, but, as I eat them in my solitary corner, no flight of my sluggish
imagination can make them seem to me more than a stern necessity. There
was, however, a festive air about the old Press Day lunch when, towards
one o'clock, some six or eight of us adjourned to Solferino's, another
vanished landmark of my younger days in London. It was in Rupert Street,
the street of Prince Florizel's Divan, which was appropriate, for Bob
Stevenson was always with us and but for Bob Prince Florizel might never
have existed to run a Divan in Rupert or any other street. Solferino's
had a Barsac that Bob liked to order, chiefly I fancy for all it
represented to him of Paris and Lavenue's and Barbizon and student days,
and the old memories warming him over it as lunch went on, he would
unfold one theory of art after another until suddenly a critic, more
nervous than the rest, would take out his watch, and the hour he saw
there would send us post-haste back to Piccadilly and the Academy, which
at that time thought one Press Day sufficient.

But the lunch that seemed a festivity at Solferino's never gave us the
holiday sense Paris filled us with from the early hour in the morning
when, after our little breakfast, we met downstairs in the unpretentious
hotel in the Rue St. Roch where most of us stayed--if we did not stay
instead at the Hotel de l'Univers et Portugal for the sake of the name.
The Rue St. Roch was convenient and if we were willing to climb to the
top of the narrow house, where the smell of dinner hung heavy on the
stairs all through the afternoon and evening, we could have our room for
the next to nothing at all that suited our purse, and the
dining-room--the Coffee Room in gilt letters on its door would have
frightened us from it in any case--was so tiny it was a kindness to the
_patron_ not to come back for the midday breakfast or the dinner that we
could not have been induced to eat in the hotel, under any
circumstances, for half the big price he charged. The day's talk was
already in full swing as we steamed down the Seine, or walked under the
arcade of the _Rue de Rivoli_ and along the _Quais_, in the cool of the
May morning, to the new _Salon_ which was then in the _Champ-de-Mars_.
And one morning at the _Salon_ made it clear to me, as years at the
Academy could not, why French criticism permits itself to speak of art
as a "game" and of the artist's work as "amusing" and "gay." There were
words that got into my article as persistently as the lilacs and the
horse-chestnuts.


II

If we brought to Paris a talent for talk and youth for enjoyment, Paris
at the moment was providing liberally more than we could talk about or
had time to enjoy. Coincident symptoms are disturbance in the functions
of the sweat and sebaceous secretion, thinning and loss of hair in the
regions involved, especially the eyebrows, and disorders of
sensibility. Later results, are a nasal catarrh, atrophy of the sexual
organs in both sexes, with impairment or loss of procreative power,
hopeless blindness.

However the course of the disease is very
slow, and years may elapse before these several changes are
accomplished.

Often the disease appears quiescent for months at a time, after which
fever occurs and with it acute or sub-acute manifestations appear,
including gland disease, orchitis, ulcerative processes, slow or rapid,
followed by gangrene and a relatively rapid progress is made
toward a fatal conclusion.

Toward the last the mutilations effected by the disease may result.
Parts of the fingers or toes, whole fingers or toes, and entire hand or
foot may become wholly or partially detached by the ulcerative and other
degenerations. This stage of this type of the disease may extend through
ten or more years. After it has fully developed the dejected countenance
of the leper, with his leonine expression and general appearance is
highly characteristic.

[240 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]
LEPRA MACULOSA.--This form is more common in tropical countries
and is distinguished chiefly by its macular (spotty) lesions. In size
they vary from a small coin to areas as large as a platter. They are
diffused or circumscribed, roundish or shaped irregularly, yellowish,
brownish or bronzed in color, often shiny or glazed. They may be
infiltrated and may be elevated, or on a level with the adjacent
tissues.

The patches are usually at first very sensitive, but they finally
become insensitive, so that a knife can be thrust deeply into them without
being felt. The regions chiefly affected by this type are the back,
exposed parts, the backs of the hands and wrists, the forehead, the cheeks,
ears, back of the feet, and ankles. The eruptions may be scanty or
general; conspicuous or insignificant. The eruptive symptoms are
associated commonly, early or late, with the serious phenomena described
below.

LEPRA ANAESTHETICA. (Nerve Leprosy. Atrophic Leprosy. Lepra
Trophoneurotica).--Before the development of this form of
leprosy there may be one or two years of ill-health. Usually the skin
at this time becomes in localized patches over-sensitive, sometimes
there is over-sensitiveness and special nerves, because of their enlargement,
become accessible to the touch. Those named later become tender, and the
seat of lancinating or shooting pains. This clinical variety may be
commingled in its symptoms with each of the other types. With or without
such commingling, however, there commonly is noted, after exposure
to cold or after being subject to chills first an eruption, red
(erythematous) patches, or of "bullae," size of a bean on cheeks, ears,
back of the feet, and ankles. The eruption may be outer skin covering
(epidermis) and filled with a clear tinted or blood-mixed serum, and
usually occurring upon the extremities. The scars that follow are shrunken
(atrophic) patches, each often greater in extent than the base of
the original trouble, color whitish, shiny, glazed, or better described
as a tint suggesting the hue of mica; their outline is circular and
form also the dumb-bell figure by running (coalescing) together,
or juxtaposition. These scars are always without sensitiveness (anaesthetic),
and they may exist together with spotted and non-sensitive patches upon
the trunk or other parts such as the face, hands, feet, ankles, thighs,
but rarely on the palms and soles.

Neither those of the one class nor of the other, however, are
disposed over the surface of the body in lines, bands or curves,
corresponding with the distribution of the skin (cutaneous) nerves.
Sometimes the ulnar and other nerves (median, posterior tibial, peroneal,
facial and radial) that are accessible to the touch are swollen,
tender, insensitive or as rigid as hardened cords. Reddish-gray swellings
may be recognized by the eye along the nerve tract. General shrinking
skin symptoms follow. The skin becomes dry and harsh; there
is little or no sebaceous product and the skin of the face seems tightly
drawn over the bones. As a consequence of deforming shrinking (atrophy)
of the eyelids, a persistent overflow of tears, consequent eye changes
follow, and a constant flow of saliva escapes from the parted lips.
The fingers are half drawn into the palm of the hands; the nails are
distorted and ulceration occurs later. These ulcers are irregular,
oval, roundish or linear in form covered with thin blackish, flattened,
tenacious crusts with soft bases, and their floors covered with a soft
debris mixed with blood, the whole insensitive to every foreign body,
and external application. At last the symptoms of mutilating lepra
(leprosy) may occur, digits or portions of the wrist, part of hand
(meta carpus) or corresponding portions of the foot may be
detached from the body. Death may occur at any time during the course
of the disease. In this form it is said to last from eighteen to
twenty years and is thus not so rapidly fatal as the tubercular
variety.

[INFECTIOUS DISEASES 241]
Treatment.--The main treatment is the isolation and segregation of all
lepers from contact with the well; wholesome laws are enforced in some
countries where leprosy prevails, and provision is made not only
for the isolation and segregation, but also for their care.

On account of its relative variety America has not yet awakened and
legislation only forbids the entry of infected persons. At Molokai,
in the Hawaiian Islands, provision is made for the care of lepers.
Many of the public hospitals for the care of the sick poor refuse to
receive lepers. The child of a leprous woman should be removed from
the mother after birth and not nursed by another woman. No medicines are
known to have any curative effect. An immediate change of residence and
climate should be made if the patient happens to live in a district
where the disease prevails. A highly nutritious diet should be taken.

The outlook.--The future is in general dark for the leper. It is often
of a malignant character, and a fatal result is the rule. A change of
climate and conditions may help. Scandinavian lepers who have removed
to the United States have been greatly benefited by the change, but there
is no known cure. The isolation should be as effective as that
for tuberculosis.

It is not contagious but infectious.

HYDROPHOBIA.--Rabies and hydrophobia are two different terms, meaning
the same disease, the former meaning to rage or become mad. This term
applies more especially to the disease as it exists in the maniacal
form in the lower animals, while hydrophobia comes from the Greek,
meaning "dread of water." As we occasionally find this dread of water
only in the human subject, the term is properly used in such a case.
The lower animals frequently attempt to drink water even though
the act brings on a spasmodic contraction of the swallowing (deglutitory)
muscles. Hydrophobia is an acute infectious disease communicated to
man by the bite of an animal suffering from rabies.

It is due to a definite specific virus which is transmitted through the
saliva by the bite of a rabid animal. Its natural habitat (location)
is the nervous system, and it does not retain its virulence when
introduced into any other system of organs. It is essentially a
nervous disease and transmitted by the saliva of rabid animals. When
inoculated into a wound this virus must come in contact with a broken
nerve trunk in order to survive and reproduce itself. If by accident it
attacks the end of the broken nerve trunk, it slowly and gradually
extends to the higher nerve centers and eventually produces the
disease.

[242 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]
The incubation, or the time it takes for the disease to develop,
varies, but usually is from three to six months. There is a recorded
case where the person began to show symptoms of the disease thirteen
days after having received a severe wound on the head. The incubation
period is seldom longer than six months. The symptoms of the disease
in the human being vary within narrow limits. There are three classic
symptoms usually encountered, and these are fear, apprehension or
excitement, together with deglutitory (swallowing) spasms, terminating
in general paralysis. The patient remains conscious of his agony to the
end, but the period of illness is of short duration, lasting from
one to three days.

The bites of rabid dogs cause ninety per cent of the cases in man and
animals. The cat is the next important factor in spreading the disease
and about six per cent of the cases are caused by this animal. For
other cases four per cent come from bites of horses, wolves, foxes,
etc. The wolf in Russia, or other animals like it, may be the chief cause
there; but dogs cause ninety per cent, taking all the cases found. Man,
dog, cat, horse, cattle, sheep, goat, hog, deer, etc., are subject to
the disease either naturally or experimentally. The disease is confined
commonly to dogs, because the dog naturally attacks animals of his
own species and thus keeps the disease limited mainly to his own kind.
Naturally the dog follows this rule, but on the other hand, in the
latter stages of the disease he usually goes to the other extreme and
even attacks his own master, etc. The dogs that are the most dangerous
and do the greatest damage are of the vicious breeds.

The rabbit or guinea pig is used for demonstration in the laboratory.

Guinea pigs respond to the virus more rapidly than do other animals
and therefore they are especially useful in diagnostic work.

Rabbits, however, on account of the convenient size and ease with which
they are operated upon, are usually the choice in the production of
material used in treating patients.

The director of one Pasteur Institute says, "We have two classes of
patients to deal with in the Pasteur institute. The larger
class, of course, are those inoculated by the bite of rabid animals,
but we also have a few who are infected by the rabid saliva accidentally
coming in contact with wounds already produced. In these accidental
eases the disease is almost as likely to result as in those to whom
the virus is directly communicated by the bite." The wounds considered
most dangerous are the recent fresh wounds.

The possibility of infection decreases
with the formation of the new connective tissue which protects the
ends of the broken nerve fibres.

One must remember, however, that wounds over joints, especially on the
hands, are likely to remain open for some time. A dog ill of this disease
can give the disease to man through licking a wound.
Such a case has been recorded. This dog licked the child's hands
before it was known to be mad. The child died from the disease. As
stated before ninety per cent of the cases are inoculated by the
bites of rabid animals.

[INFECTIOUS DISEASES 243]
The wounds are considered according to their severity and
location.
Lacerating, tearing wounds upon uncovered surfaces, especially the head,
are the most dangerous. This is due to the fact of the closeness of the
brain and the large amount of infection in such a wound, and
for this reason treatment should be immediately given. But smaller
wounds should also be treated for the smallness of the wound furnishes
no sure criterion as to the future outcome of the disease. All possible
infections should be regarded as dangerous when considering the
advisability of taking the Pasteur Treatment. The small wound has usually
a longer period of incubation, because of the small amount of infection,
still it may cause a fatal termination. A dog never develops rabies
from a lack of water or from being confined or overheated during the
summer months. A spontaneous case of rabies has never been known.
It must be transmitted from animal to animal and the history of
the case will point to a previous infection by a diseased animal.

Where rigid quarantine rules exist the disease does not occur. In Australia
they quarantine every dog, that comes to that country, for six months,
and in consequence they have never had a case of rabies. In Russia they
have had many cases. In Constantinople the disease frequently "runs
riot." France has lost as many as 2,500 dogs in one year. Before
the Pasteur Treatment was instituted (in 1885) there was an average of
sixty deaths in human beings in the Paris hospitals.

Belgium and Austria average one thousand dogs annually. There was a
yearly average in Germany of four hundred dogs, dying of rabies, until
the law requiring the muzzling of dogs was strictly enforced and
since that time the disease is practically unknown. We do not have strict
quarantine laws against dogs, and the result is death from hydrophobia
in many states annually. It was formerly believed that rabies was
a hot weather disease.
The number of cases during the winter months of late years has disproved
that belief, for the records of the institute for treatment of
hydrophobia at Ann Arbor have shown a decrease of cases during the
summer months. This was before 1908. This shows that rabies is not a
hot weather disease.

[244 MOTHERS' REMEDIES ]
Ordinarily cases of rabies occur here and there (sporadic), but if the
conditions are favorable epidemics break out. One dog may bite several
dogs and these dogs bite others and thus spread the disease to many. Not
every animal bitten by a mad dog develops the disease. The disease
does not always follow the bite.

Only about forty per cent of all animals bitten by a mad dog contract the
disease. This is given by a noted authority. Statistics also show that
in man the disease develops in only about twenty per cent of the
cases in those who have been bitten by rabid dogs. But in dealing with
those who have been bitten such measures should be taken as would be
if they were certain of developing the disease; one cannot tell how
much poison enters the system in such cases and preventive procedures
should be taken. There are reasons why everyone who is bitten does not
contract the disease.

The location and character of the bite must be considered. Bites on
the head, neck and hands have been recognized as more dangerous, from
early times, and such bites produce fatal results quicker than do bites
on other parts of the body, and the reason is largely due to the
fact that the other parts of the body are more or less protected
by the clothing, and this clothing prevents the entrance of so much
poison into the system.
Bites on the head give a high mortality rate and are rapidly fatal. The
close proximity to the brain is one reason.

The part the clothing plays in protection is clearly shown by the following
quotation from an eminent authority: "In India where the natives
dress very scantily, the mortality was exceedingly high up to a few years
ago, at which time the British introduced the Pasteur laboratories.
The clothing protects the body and it holds back the saliva and can
be looked upon as a means of filtering the saliva of the rabid
animal, most of the saliva is held back as the teeth pierce the clothing,
so that upon entering the flesh the teeth are practically dry, and
only a portion of the virus is introduced. Upon entering the wound
this small amount of virus is further diluted by the tissue juices to
the non-infectious point.
We know from actual experimental work in the laboratory that the higher
dilution will not kill."
If a portion of the brain of an animal dead from street virus is taken
and made up in a dilution of one to five hundred, and this is
injected, we find that it does not produce death. But a dilution
of one to three hundred will invariably kill. This is practically what
very often happens when one is bitten through the clothing. The
saliva may be filtered and held back so that a small amount is
introduced; perhaps a dilution of one to five hundred of the virus
may get into the wound, but this is usually not enough to cause the
disease. There is no possible way of estimating the amount of the
inoculation.

In such cases one's chances of never contracting the disease are only
decreased; that is all we can say.

The treating of individuals, bitten by rabid animals, in the Pasteur
Institutes, is simply the practical application of results obtained
by Pasteur from his original work on rabies virus. Pasteur was a French
chemist living in Paris, and he began his search for the cause and cure
of rabies in 1880. He hoped to find a sure method of preventing the
development of the dread disease, even if he could not find a cure for
it after it had developed. While he was pursuing this research Pasteur
had access to the cases of rabies in the Paris hospitals, and these
numbered sixty each year. He had practically an unlimited supply, for
France could furnish him with twenty-five hundred more mad dogs,
and a large number of other animals each year.

[INFECTIOUS DISEASES 245]
Pasteur devoted the remainder of his life to the study of this subject.
He collected some saliva from the mouth of a child, on December 11,
1880, who had died at the Hospital Trousseau four hours before. This
saliva he diluted with distilled water, and this mixture he injected
into rabbits, and they all died, and the saliva taken from these rabbits
when injected into other rabbits caused their death with rabies. He
found also that saliva from rabid dogs almost always caused the disease.
The incubation period varied within wide limits, and very often the animals
lived. He then used the blood of rabid dogs for inoculation, but these
blood inoculations always failed to produce the disease. Pasteur was
convinced after careful study of rabid animals during the many months
necessary to complete his experiments, that rabies was a disease of the
nervous system, and that the poison (virus) was transmitted from the
wound to the brain by the way of the nerve trunks. Then to prove
his theory Pasteur removed a portion of the brain of a dog that had
died of rabies. A part of this was rubbed up in sterile water and
used to inoculate other animals; and subcutaneous inoculations
with this material almost always produced death.

After this Pasteur tried a new method and injected directly into the
nervous system, either into the nerve trunk or directly into the brain,
after trephining, and all such injections produced rabies in the
injected animal and death. He also found that rabbits inoculated in the
brain always died in the same length of time. When he injected into the
nerve trunk the inoculation period was longer, depending upon the distance
from the brain. Two problems now remained for Pasteur to solve, and these
were, how could he obtain the definite virulence and how could
he reduce the virulence regularly and gradually, so that it could be
used by inoculation safely as a vaccine to produce immunity to rabies
in healthy animals, and also to prevent the development of rabies
in animals bitten by rabid animals. He first tried successive
inoculations. These inoculations were made, after trephining, directly
to the brain, and he used a portion of the brain as a virus each time.
He inoculated rabbit number one with a portion of brain taken from a
rabid dog, and this rabbit died on the fifteenth day. He then inoculated
rabbit number two with a portion of the brain of rabbit number one;
from the brain of rabbit number two the virus was supplied for inoculating
rabbit number three, and thus the brain of each inoculated rabbit was
taken, after its death, for material to inoculate the next rabbit in
the series. This experimentation showed him that each rabbit in the
series died a little sooner, showing that the virus was becoming
more virulent, till no increase in activity of the poison was shown
after the fiftieth successive inoculation.

"Rabbits inoculated with a brain suspension of rabbit number fifty
all died in seven days." This caused Pasteur to name the virus of
number fifty "virus fixe," a virus of definite length. He now had obtained
a virus of definite strength and the next question was, how could the
virulence be gradually and definitely reduced.

[246 MOTHERS' REMEDIES]
This he accomplished after many experiments. He proved that pieces of
the "medulla oblongata" suspended in sterile tubes which contained
fragments of caustic potash, steadily and gradually reduced their
virulence as they dried, till the fourteenth day, when they were practically
inert.

New specimens were prepared each day and cords which had dried in one
day Pasteur called "one-day virus;" cords which had dried in two days,
"two day's virus," and so on up to the fourteenth day. With this graduated
virus he now experimented on dogs, and the injection he used on the first
day consisted of an emulsion of fourteen-day virus; for the second
day, the thirteen-day virus, thus using a stronger virus each day, until
on the fourteenth day he used the full strength virus. This treatment
produced what is called immunity in the dog, and even the direct inoculation
into the brain of the strong virus would not produce death.

After Pasteur had thoroughly satisfied himself by repeated trials, he
announced his wonderful discovery, and it was in 1886 that Pasteur
considered the preventive inoculation in human beings as resting
upon a satisfactory experimental basis. During these five years this
eminent man proved that it was possible to protect or immunize the
lower animals, rabbits and dogs, against inoculation with the
virulent virus.
The efficiency of this immunity was given trials by different methods
of inoculation. It was found that sixty per cent of dogs inoculated
under the "dura" (a membrane of the brain) were saved if treatment
was given the second day. This test is more severe than is required
to meet the ordinary infection of rabies. Pasteur, after a series
of these final tests were so convincing, prescribed the preventive
inoculations in human beings and on July 6th, 1886, the first human
patient received the first treatment of his series of inoculations.
The method of obtaining the attenuated virus used in the treatment
is as follows: A rabbit is inoculated by the brain method before
described, each day, with suspension of the fresh, fixed virus.
These rabbits die in six days after the inoculation. In this way a
rabbit dies each day; the spinal cord is removed, divided into
sections, and suspended in a flask containing potassium hydrate.
The action of potassium hydrate is drying (desiccating). A series
of these cords, which have been hung on fourteen successive days,
are always kept in stock for the treatment of patients.
The virus becomes less active with each successive day of exposure
to drying (desiccation) and finally the virulence is altogether
lost.
When the patient comes for treatment the fourteenth and thirteenth-day
cords are used for the first inoculation, and on each successive
day the patient receives inoculation, the strength of which has
been regulated by the number of days the cord has been hanging.
During the first four days patients receive injections of six cubic
centimeters of emulsions made from cords aging from fourteen to
seven days, and from the fifth day until the completion of the
course of treatment patients receive emulsions from cords of higher
immunizing properties, but no cords desiccated for less than four
days are used.

[INFECTIOUS DISEASES 247]
Death rate from 1878-1883 before Pasteur treatment was instituted
taken from documents in the department of the Seine:
1878 143 bitten. 24 deaths.
1879 76 " 12 " 1880 68 " 5 " 1881 156 " 22 " 1882 67 " 11 " 1883
45 " 6 "
Average of one death to every six bitten, or seventeen per cent
mortality.But to go to the _Cabaret Lyonnais_ unwilling to swallow my
scruples with my fish would have been as useless as to go to Simpson's
in London and object to a cut from the joint, as I do object, which is
why I seldom go. Anyway, we did not have to see the beef killed for the
_filet_ which at the _Cabaret_ we were expected to eat after the tench
and with the potatoes to which the city of Lyons also gives its name, so
associating itself forever with the perfume of the onion. And, as in
the Provinces, the wine was the _petit vin gris_ which I never can drink
without a vision of the straight, white, poplar-lined roads of France,
sunshine, a tandem tricycle or two bicycles, J. and myself perched upon
them, and by the way friendly little inns with a good breakfast or
dinner waiting, and a big carafe of the pale light wine served with it.
That my dinner was comparatively cheap would at normal times have been
for me delightfully in its favour. But that it was the cheapest of all
in that week of dinners meant that I came out last in the race when, by
every law of justice, I should have been first. In Paris as in London my
"greedy column," as my friends called it with the straightforwardness
peculiar to friends, had to be written every week for the _Pall Mall_
and mine was the enviable position of finding my copy in eating good
dinners no less than in going to the _Salons_. If any one had an
irreproachable excuse for extravagant living, it was I.

But even I, with the excuse, could not afford the extravagance--one
weekly article did not pay for one cheap dinner for eight--at the
_Cabaret Lyonnais_. And as the rest of the party were without the excuse
and no better equipped for the extravagance, we never again gave each
other dinners on the same lavish scale and rarely on any scale,
henceforward ordering them on the principle of what Philadelphia in my
youth called "a Jersey treat." I do not say that economy was invariably
our rule. We could be, on occasions, so rash that before our week was up
we had to begin to count our francs, put by for the boat sandwich and
the reluctant tips of the return journey, and eat the last meals of all
in the Duval, which, if admirable as a place to economize in, is no more
conducive to gaiety than a London A.B.C. shop or Childs's in New York.
Once we were so reduced that at noon I was left to a lonely _brioche_ at
the _Salon_, and the men went to breakfast at the nearest cabman's
eating-house, where they made the sensation of their lives, without
meaning to and without finding in it any special compensation. The most
respectable of the respectable architectural group of our Thursday
nights was of the party and where he went the top hat and frock coat, in
which I used to think he must have been born, went too. If his
fashion-plate correctness--men wore frock coats then--made him
conspicuous at our Thursday nights it can be imagined what he was
sitting with his coat tails in the gutter at the cabman's table where
the glazed hat and the three-caped coat of the Paris _cocher_ set the
fashion. He had the grace to be ashamed of himself, often apologizing
for his clothes and assuring us that he could not help himself, which
was his reason, I fancy, for accepting at an early age the professorial
chair where the decorum of his hat and coat was in need of no apology.


IV

I have said we were young. It seems superfluous to add that now and
then, in the sunshine of the perfect May day, with the call of the
lilacs and the horse-chestnuts getting into our heads as well as into my
copy, the _Salon_ grew stuffy beyond endurance, work became a crime, and
we put up our catalogues and note-books before the closing hour and
hurried anywhere just to be out-of-doors, as if our sole profession in
life was to idle it away. After all, only the prig can be in Paris when
May is there and not play truant sometimes.

The year Paris chose our week to show how hot it can be in May when it
has a mind to, was the year I got to learn something of the Paris
suburbs. The joyous expedition which ended our every day that year was
so in the spirit of Harland that I should be inclined to look upon him
as the tempter, had we not, with the usual amiability of the tempted,
met him more than half way. Still, he excelled us all in the knack of
collecting us from our work, no matter how it had scattered us or in
what quarter of the town we might be, and carrying us off suddenly out
of it in directions we none of us had dreamed of the minute before, just
as he would collect and carry us off suddenly in London. Only, he was
more resourceful in Paris because in Paris more resources were made to
his hand. There are as beautiful places round London--that is, beautiful
in the English way--as round Paris, but they do not invite to a holiday
with the charm no sensible man can resist. The loveliness of Hampton
Court and Richmond and Hampstead Heath and the River is not to be denied
and yet, gay as the English playing there manage to look, the only
genuine gaiety is the Bank Holiday maker's. Tradition consecrates the
loveliness bordering upon Paris to the gaiety to which Gavarni and
Mürger are the most sympathetic guides, and none could have been more to
Harland's fancy. He was very like his own favourite heroes, or I ought
to say his own favourite heroes were very like him. For it is Harland
who talks through his own pages with his own charming fantastic blend of
philosophy and nonsense, Harland who refuses to believe in an age of
prose and prudence, Harland who is determined to see the romance, the
squalor, the pageantry, the humour of this jumble-show of a world, not
merely at ease from the stalls, but struggling with the principal _rôle_
on the stage, or prompting from behind the scenes. When he was bent upon
leading us to the same near, inside, part in the spectacle, it was
extraordinary how, as if by inspiration, he always hit upon the right
expedition for the time of the year and the mood of the moment.

I remember the afternoon he said St. Cloud it seemed as inevitable that
we must go there as if St. Cloud had been our one thought all day long,
the evening reward promised for our day's labour; just as on the boat
steaming down the Seine and in the park wandering under the trees and
among the ruins, I felt that the afternoon was the one of all others
predestined for our delight there. The beauty provided by St. Cloud and
the mood we brought for its enjoyment met at the hour appointed from all
eternity.

Artists, it is supposed, and not without reason, are trained to see
beauty more clearly and therefore to feel it more acutely than other
people. But my long experience has taught me that it is the lover of
beauty who can dare to be flippant in the face of it, just as it is the
devout who can afford to talk familiarly of holy things. Besides,
artists work so hard that they have the sense to know how important it
is to be foolish at the right time. That is the secret of all the
delicious absurdities of what the French called the _Vie de Bohème_
until the outsider who did not understand made a tiresome _cliché_ of
it. The right time for our folly we felt was the golden May evening and
the right place a beautiful Paris suburb, time and place consecrated to
folly by generations of artists and students. Below us, at St. Cloud,
stretched the wide beautiful French landscape, with its classical
symmetry and its note of sadness, in the pure clear light of France, the
Seine winding through it towards Paris; round us was the park as
classical in its lines and masses, and with its note of sadness the
stronger because of the tragic memories that haunt it; in the foreground
were my companions agreeably playing the fool and posing as living
statues on the broken columns: he whose solemnity of demeanour accorded
with his belief that his real sphere was the pulpit, throwing out an
unaccustomed leg as Mercury on one column, and on another the Architect,
an apologetic Apollo in frock coat with silk hat for lyre. In my
lightheartedness, and accustomed to the ways of the English, I thought
them absurd but funny. A French family, however, who passed by chance
looked as if they wondered, as the French have wondered for centuries,
at the sadness with which the Englishman takes his pleasures.

Beardsley was one of the party. It was the first time he was with us in
Paris, the first time, for that matter, he had ever been there. He had
clutched beforehand, like the youth he was, at the pleasure the visit
promised, and I remember his joy in coming to tell me of it one morning
in Buckingham Street. I remember too how amazing I thought it that, when
he got there, he seemed at once to know Paris in the mysterious way he
knew everything.

We had not heard of his arrival until we ran across him at the
_Vernissage_ in the New _Salon_. I think he had planned the dramatic
effect of the chance meeting, counting upon the impression he would make
as we met. I have said he was always a good deal of a dandy and I could
see at what pains he had been to invent the costume he thought Paris and
art demanded of him. He was in grey, a harmony carefully and quite
exquisitely carried out, grey coat, grey waistcoat, grey trousers, grey
Suède gloves, grey soft felt hat, grey tie which, in compliment to the
French, was large and loose. An impression of this grey elegance is in
the portrait of him by Blanche, painted, I think, the same year. As he
came through the galleries towards us with the tripping step that was
characteristic of him, a little light cane swinging in his hand, he was
the most striking figure in them, dividing the stares of the staring
_Vernissage_ crowd with the _clou_ of the year's New _Salon_: that
portrait by Aman-Jean of his wife, with her hair parted in the middle
and brought simply down over her ears, which set a mode copied before
the season was over by women it disfigured, heroines who could dare the
unbecoming if fashion decreed it. Beardsley knew he was being stared at
and of course liked it, and probably would not have exchanged places
with anybody there, not even with Carolus-Duran when, splendidly
barbered, in gorgeous waistcoat, and with an air of casualness, the
_cher maître et président_ strolled into the restaurant at the supreme
moment, carefully chosen, all the crowd there before him, their
breakfast ordered, their first pangs of hunger stilled, and their
attention and enthusiasm at liberty for the greeting he counted upon,
and got.

It may be that this scene of the older generation's triumph and the
power of officialism in art told on Beardsley's nerves, or it may be it
was simply because he was still young enough to believe nobody had ever
been young before, but certainly by evening he had worked himself up
into a fine frenzy of revolt. When we had got through our foolish game
of living statues, and had settled down to dinner in a little
restaurant, where a parrot's greeting of "_Après vous, madame! Après
vous, monsieur!_" had vouched for the excellence of its manners, and
where we could look across the river and see for ourselves how true were
the effects that Cazin used to paint and that seemed so false to those
who knew nothing of French twilight, and when Beardsley had finished his
first glass of very ordinary wine well watered, he let us know what he
thought about _les vieux_ and their stultifying observance of worn-out
laws and principles.

That started Bob Stevenson, who saw an argument and, for the sake of it,
became ponderously patriarchal, hoary with convention. In point of
years, it is true, he was older than any of us, but no matter what his
age according to the Family Bible he was to the end, and would have
been had he lived to be a hundred, the youngest in spirit of any company
into which he ever strayed or could stray. His way, however, was, as
Louis Stevenson described it, "to trans-migrate" himself into the
character or pose he assumed for the moment and no Heavy Father was ever
heavier than he that night at St. Cloud. He spoke with the air of
superior knowledge calculated to aggravate youth. With years, he assured
Beardsley, men learned to value law and order in art, as in the state,
at their worth; and, more and more inspired by his theme, as was his
way, he grew preposterously wise and irritating, and he talked himself
so successfully into every exasperating virtue of age that I could not
wonder at the fierceness with which Beardsley turned upon him and
denounced him roundly as conventional and academic and prejudiced and
old-fashioned and all that to youth is most odious and that to Bob, when
not playing a part, was most impossible. In harmony with his new _rôle_,
he showed himself a miracle of forbearance under Beardsley's reproaches
and sententious beyond endurance, actually called Beardsley young, his
cardinal offence, for the young hate nothing so much as to be reminded
of the youth for which the old envy them. Bob's almost every sentence
began with the unendurable "at my age," which irritated Beardsley the
more, while we roared at the farce of it in the mouth of one to whom
years never made or could make a particle of difference. He wound up by
the warning in soothing tones that Beardsley, in his turn burdened with
years, would understand, would be able to make allowances, as all must
as they grow older, or life would be an endless battle for the
individual as for the race. Beardsley, luckily for himself, did not live
to lose his illusions, and I fancy that to not one of us who listened to
their talk did it occur that we were in danger of losing ours with age,
so immortal does youth seem while it lasts.

The adventure of other afternoons worked out so surprisingly in
Harland's vein that he might have invented it for his books or we might
have borrowed it from them. The encounter with a peacock at a _café_ in
the _Bois_, to which he swept us off at the end of the hottest of those
hot May days, was one of many that he afterwards made use of. Had he
not, I might hesitate to recall it, knowing as I do that its wit must be
lost upon the younger generation of to-day who face life and work with a
severity, a solemnity, that alarms me. Their inability to take
themselves with gaiety is what makes the young men of the Twentieth
Century so hopelessly different from the young men of the
Eighteen-Nineties. Their high moral ideal and concern with social
problems would not permit them to see anything to laugh at in the
experiment of feeding a peacock on cake steeped in absinthe, but it
struck us, in our deplorable frivolity, as humorous at the time, our
consciences the less disturbed because the bird was led into temptation
in the manner of one to whom it was no new thing to yield. Harland, when
he wrote the story with the mock seriousness he was master of, suggested
that the crime was in its having been committed by an irreproachable
British author, the sober father of a family. More momentous to us,
accessories to the crime, was the fact that the cake stuck, a
conspicuous lump, in the peacock's conspicuous throat. For what seemed
hours we waited in tense agitation, torn between our desire to make sure
the lump would disappear and our fears of discovery before it did. But
the peacock was a gentleman in his cups and reeled away to swallow the
lump and, I hope, to sleep off his debauch, in some more secluded spot
where, if he were discovered, we should not be suspected.

There was another afternoon I wonder Harland did not make use of which,
had I been in a pedantic mood, I might have taken as an object-lesson in
the art and occupation of shocking the _bourgeois_. We had been tempted
and had yielded as unreservedly as the peacock, with the difference that
our temptation took the form of the sunshine and the convenience of the
train service at St. Lazare. No sane person with such sunshine
out-of-doors could stay shut up in the _Salon_ and a train was ready at
St. Lazare, whenever we chose to catch it, to carry us off to
Versailles. We were on our way at once after our midday breakfast.

Versailles was too beautiful on that beautiful day to ask anything of us
except to live in the beauty, to make it ours for the moment; too
beautiful to spare us time for bothering about those who had been there
before us; too beautiful to allow the guide-book's fine print and maps
and diagrams to blind our eyes to the one essential fact that the sun
was shining, that the trees were in the greenest growth of their
May-time, that the flowers were radiant with the fulfilment of spring
and the promise of summer. As a place full of history we must have known
it, had we never heard its name. History stared at us from the grey
palace walls, history waylaid us in the formal alleys, lurked in the
formal waters, haunted the formal gardens, overshadowed all the leafy
pleasant places. There is no getting very far from history at Versailles
no matter how hard one may try to. But we had no intention to let the
dead past blot out the new life rekindling--to give its chill to the
young spring day and its sadness to the foolish young people out for a
holiday--to wither the fresh beauty that makes it good just to be alive,
just to have eyes to see and freedom to use them.

I can write this now, but I would not have dared to say it then. Not
only I, but every one of us, would have been as ashamed to be caught
indulging in sentiment, or "bleating," as the _National Observer_. The
chances are we were talking as much nonsense as could be talked to the
minute, for there was nothing we liked to talk better, nothing that
served us so well to disguise the emotion we thought out of place in the
world in which so obviously the self-respecting man's business was to
fight. But if I had not felt the beauty it would not now, so many years
after, remain as my most vivid impression of the day.

We had Versailles to ourselves at first. We were alone in the park,
alone in the alleys and avenues, alone in the gardens,--and the palace
and its paintings could not tempt us in out of the sunshine. But such
good luck naturally did not last and while we were loitering near the
great fountain we saw a party of women with the eager, harassed,
conscientious look that marks the personally-conducted school-ma'am on
tour, bearing briskly down upon us, each with a red book in one hand, a
pencil in the other, all engrossed in the personally-conducted
school-ma'am's holiday task of checking off the sight disposed of,
pigeon-holing the last guide-book fact verified. Their methodical
progress was an offence to us in the mood we were in, would be an
offence on a May day to the right-minded in any mood. I admit they could
have turned upon us and asked what we were, anyway, but tourists as,
after a fashion, no doubt we were. But they could not have accused us of
the horrible conscientiousness, the deadly determination to see the
correct things and to think the correct thoughts about them that dulls
the personally-conducted to the world's real beauty and its meaning--the
same tendency of the multitude to follow like sheep the accepted leader
and never venture to explore fresh fields for themselves, that drove
Hugo to writing his _Hernani_, and Gautier to wearing his red
waistcoat, and all the other Romanticists to their favourite pastime of
shocking the _bourgeois_. Versailles was so wonderful on the face of it
that we resented the presence of people who needed a book to tell them
so and to explain why; and we made our protest against the _bourgeois_
in our own fashion or, to be exact, in Furse's fashion. He was then
blessedly young, fresh from the schools and not yet sobered by Academic
honours, though already a youthful member of the New English Art Club,
from whom an attitude of general defiance was required. He raged and
raved in his big booming voice, declared that tourists ought to be wiped
off the face of the earth, that the women were a hideous blot on the
landscape, that the guide-books were disgracefully out of tone, that it
was unbearable and he wasn't going to bear it, and by his sudden
satisfied smile I saw he had found out how not to. As the school-ma'ams
came within earshot:

"It's beastly hot," he boomed to us, "what do you say to a swim?"

And he took off his coat, he took off his waistcoat, he took off his
necktie, he unbuttoned his collar,--but already the school-ma'ams had
scuttled away, the more daring glancing back once or twice as they
went, their dismay tempered by curiosity.

Furse was pleased as a child over his success, vowed he was ready for
all the tourists impudent enough to think they had a right to share
Versailles with us, and, when a group of Germans talked their guttural
way towards us, he had us all down on our knees, before we knew it,
nibbling at the grass like so many Nebuchadnezzars escaped from
Charenton--an amazing sight that brought the chorus of "Colossals" to an
abrupt stop, and sent the Germans flying.

It may be objected that we were behaving in a fashion that children
would be sent to bed without any supper for, that it was worse than
childish to take pleasure in shocking innocent tourists much better
behaved than ourselves. But there wasn't any pleasure in it. If we set
out to shock them, it was to get rid of them, that was all we wanted,
and it made me see that the succession of young rebels who have loved to
_épater le bourgeois_ never wanted anything more either--except the
self-conscious young rebels who play at rebellion because they fancy it
the surest and quickest way "to arrive."

It is less easy to say why a beautiful day at Versailles should have
sent us back to Paris singing American songs--or to give credit, if
credit is due, it was the rest of the party who returned to the music of
their own voices; I, who to my sorrow cannot as much as turn a tune,
never am so imprudent as to raise my voice in song and so add my discord
to any singing in public or in private. Had they been heard above the
noise of the train, the explanation of those who saw us when we got to
St. Lazare probably would have been that we were a company of nigger
minstrels. By accident, or sheer inattention, when we climbed upstairs
on the double-decked suburban train, we chose the car just behind the
locomotive and memory has not cleaned away the black that covered our
faces when we climbed down again.

It was all very foolish--and no less foolish were the afternoons in the
depths of Fontainebleau or the sunlit green thickets of
Saint-Germain--no less foolish any of those afternoons in the forest or
the park to which a long drive by train, or tram, had carried us. And I
am prepared to admit the folly to-day as I sit at my elderly desk and
look out to the London sky, grey and drear as if the spring had gone
with my youth. But if I never again can be so foolish, at least I am
thankful that once I could, that once long ago I was young in Paris,
"the enchanted city with its charming smile for youth,"--that once I
believed in folly and, in so believing, had learned more of the true
philosophy of life than the most industrious student can ever dig out of
his books.


V

The afternoon at Versailles was the rare exception. We were too keen
about our work, or too dependent on it, to play truant often, however
gay the sunshine and convenient the trains. Nor was it any great
hardship not to, especially after we had broken loose once or twice so
successfully as to make sure we had not forgotten how. If we did stay in
the _Salon_ until we were turned out, the last to leave, Paris was
neither so dull nor so ugly at night that we need sigh for the suburbs.
It was an amusement simply to drink our coffee in front of a _café_, to
go on with the talk that must have had a beginning sometime somewhere,
but that never got anywhere near an end, and to watch the life of the
Paris streets.

I had got my initiation into _café_ life that first year in Italy and
had finished my education by cycle on French roads, where every evening
taught me the difference between the country where there is a _café_ to
pass an hour in over a glass of coffee after dinner, and England where
choice in the small town then lay between immediate bed or the
intolerable gloom of the Coffee Room. It is the real democrat like the
Frenchman or the Italian who knows how to take his ease in a _café_; the
Englishman, who hasn't an inkling of what the democracy he boasts of
means, fights shy of it. He does not mind making use of it when he is
away from home, but he is likely to be thanking his stars all the time
that in his part of the world nothing so promiscuous is possible. I
tried to point out its advantages once to an English University man.

"Aoh!" he said, "you know at Oxford we had our wines and we weren't
bothered by people."

But it is just the people part of it that is amusing, the more so if the
background is the Street of a French or an Italian town.

Some nights we went to the _Café de la Paix_ on the _Rive Droite_; other
nights, to the _Café d'Harcourt_ on the _Rive Gauche_; and occasionally
to the _Café de la Régence_ where many artists went, especially foreign
artists, and more especially Scandinavians. I seem to retain a vision of
Thaulow, a blond giant more than fitting in the corner of the little
raised enclosure in the front of the _café_. My one other recollection
is of a story I heard there, though of the painter who told it I can
recall only that he was a Belgian. If I recall the story so well, it
must be because it struck me at the time as characteristic and in memory
became forever after associated with the little open space I was looking
over to as I listened, amused and interested, while the flower women
pushed past their barrows piled high with the big round bunches of
budding lilies-of-the-valley you see nowhere save in Paris. It is
impossible for me to think of the _café_ without thinking of the little
_Place_, nor of the little _Place_ without at once hearing again the
artist's voice lingering joyfully over the adventures of his youth.

The story was one of a kind I had often listened to at the _Nazionale_
in Rome and the _Orientale_ in Venice--a story of student days--a story
of two young painters coming to Paris in their first ripe enthusiasm,
with devotion to squander upon the masters, upon none more lavishly than
upon Jules Breton, which explains what ages ago it was and how young
they must have been. They were at the _Salon_, standing in silent
worship before Breton's peasant woman with a scythe against a garish
sunset, when they heard behind them an adoring voice saying the things
they were thinking to one they knew must be the _cher maître_ himself,
and they felt if they could once shake his hand life could hold no
higher happiness. The worship of the young is pleasant to the old.
Breton let them shake his hand and, more, he kept them at his side until
his visit to the _Salon_ was finished, and then sent them away walking
on air. They were leaving the next day. In the morning they went to the
_Rue de Rivoli_ to buy toys to take home to their little brothers and
sisters, and one selected a dog and the other a mill, and when wound up
the dog played the drum and cymbals and the mill turned its wheel and,
children themselves, they were ravished and would not have the toys
wrapped up but carried them back in their arms to the hotel, stopping in
the _Avenue de l'Opéra_ to wind up the mill and see the wheel go round
again. And as they stood enchanted, the mill wheel turning and turning,
who should come towards them but the _cher Maître_. It was too late to
run, too late to hide the mill with its turning wheel and the dog with
its foolish drum. They longed to sink through the ground in their
mortification--they, the serious students of yesterday, to be caught
to-day playing like silly children in the open street. But how
ineffable is the condescension of the great! The master joined them.

"_Tiens_," he said, "and the wheel, it goes round? But it works
beautifully. Let us wind it up again!"

Cannot you see the little comedy,--the fine old prophet with the red
ribbon in his button-hole, the two trembling, adoring students, the toy
with its revolving wheel, all in the gay sunlight of the _Avenue de
l'Opéra_, and not a passer-by troubling to look because it was Paris
where men are not ashamed to be themselves. The two painters preserved
this impression of the kindness of the master long after they ceased to
worship at the shrine of the peasant with her scythe posed against the
sunset.

One duty the Boulevards of the Left Bank imposed upon us in the Nineties
was the search for Verlaine and Bibi-la-Purée, and many another poet for
all time and celebrity for the day, in the _cafés_ where they waited to
be found and I do not doubt were deeply disappointed if nobody came to
find them. The fame of these great men, who were easily accessible when
the _café_ they went to happened to be known, had crossed to London with
so much else London was labelling _fin-de-siècle_. To have met them, to
be able to speak of them in intimate terms, to be authorities on the
special vice of each, was the ambition of the yearning young decadents
on the British side of the Channel, who imagined in the intimacy a proof
of their own emancipation from it would have been hard to say what,
their own genius for revolution if it was not clear what reason they had
to revolt. We, who cultivated a withering scorn for decadence and the
affectation of it, were moved by nothing more serious or ambitious than
youth's natural desire to see and to know everything that is going on,
and we could not have been very ardent in our search, for I never
remember once, on the nights we devoted to the hunt, tracking these
lions to their lair. However, at least one of our party had better luck
when he started on the hunt without us. According to a rumour at the
time, the respectable British author, sober father of a family, who fed
the peacock on cake steeped in absinthe, was once seen in broad daylight
with the _Reine de Golconde_ on his arm, walking down the _Boul' Mich'_
at the head of a band of poets.

Verlaine I did meet, but it was in London, where admiring, or
philanthropic, young Englishmen brought him one winter to lecture and
the subject as announced was "Contemporary French Poetry," and through
all these years I have managed to preserve the small sheet of
announcement with Arthur Symons's name and "kind regards" written below,
a personal little document, for it was Symons who got up the show, and
he and Herbert P. Horne who sold the tickets. Instead of lecturing,
Verlaine read his verses to the scanty audience, all of whom knew each
other, in the dim light of Barnard's Inn Hall, and the music of their
rhythm was in his voice so that I was not conscious of the satyr-like
repulsiveness of his face and head so long as he was reading. When he
was not reading, the repulsiveness was to me overpowering and I shrank
from his very presence. Nor was the shrinking less when I talked with
him the night after his lecture, at a dinner where my place was next to
his. He was like a loathsome animal with his decadent face, his yellow
skin, and his little bestial eyes lighting up obscenely as he told me of
the two women who would fight for the money in his pockets when he got
back to Paris. Beyond this I have no recollection of his talk. The
prospect before him apparently absorbed his interest, was the only good
he had got out of his visit to London. The beauty of his own beautiful
poems, I felt in disgust, should have made such vicious sordidness
impossible. It revolted me that a man so degraded and hideous physically
could write the verse I had loved ever since his _Romances sans Paroles_
first fell into my hands, or, writing it, could be content to remain
what he was. To be sure, the genius is rare whom it is not a
disappointment to meet, and the hero-worshipper may be thankful when his
great man is guilty of nothing worse than the famous writer in
Tchekhof's play--so famous as to have his name daily in the papers and
his photograph in shop windows--whose crime was to condescend to fish
and to be pleased when he caught something.


VI

The Nineties would not let us off from another entertainment as
characteristic--as _fin-de-siècle_, the Englishman under the impression
that he knew his Paris would have classified it--nor did we want to be
let off, though it lured us indoors.

The big theatres had no attraction: to sit out a long play in a hot
playhouse was not our idea of what spring nights were made for. Neither
had the "Hells" and "Heavens," the fatuous, vulgar, indecent
performances with catchpenny names, run for the foreigner who went to
Paris so that he might for the rest of his life throw up hands of
horror and say what an immoral place it was.

Once or twice we tried the out-door _Café-Chantant_, and we heard Paulus
in the days when all Paris went to hear him, and Yvette Guilbert when
she was still slim and wore the V-shaped bodice and the long black
gloves, as you may see her in Toulouse-Lautrec's lithographs.

Once or twice we tried the big stuffy music-halls, also adapted to
supply the travelling student of morals with the specimens he was in
search of, but not dropping all local character in the effort. We seemed
to owe it to the memory of Manet to go to the _Folies-Bergère_ which
cannot be forgotten so long as his extraordinary painting of the barmaid
in the ugly fashions of the late Seventies is saved to the world. That
natural desire of youth just to see and to know, that had carried us up
and down the _Boulevards_ of the _Rive Gauche_ in pursuit of its poets,
sent us to the _Casino de Paris_ and the _Moulin Rouge_. But a first
visit did not inspire us with a desire for a second, though I would not
have missed the _Casino_ if only for the imperishable memory of the most
solemn of our critics dancing there with a patroness of the house and
looking about as cheerful as a martyr at the stake, nor the _Moulin_
_Rouge_ for another memory as imperishable of the most socially
pretentious leaving his partner, after his dance, with the "thanks
awfully" of the provincial ball-room. I thought both dull places which
nothing save their reputation could have recommended, even to those
determined young decadents in London who were no prouder of their
friendship with Bibi and Verlaine than of their freedom of the French
music-halls, and who wrote of them with a pretence of profound knowledge
calculated to _épater le bourgeois_ at home, referring by name with easy
familiarity to the dancers in the _Quadrille Naturaliste_, as celebrated
in its way as Bibi in his, and explaining solemnly the _chahut_ and the
_grand écart_ and _le port d'armes_ and every evolution in that
unpleasant dance. How it brought it all back to me the other day when I
found in _The Gypsy_--the direct but belated offspring of _The Savoy_--a
poem to _Nini-patte-en-l'air_. When I was ordered to go, I went;
'charge,' I charged; and 'break for the chaperel'--you had better believe
I beat a quarter nag in doing my duty.

My competitor, Swan, is a bird of golden plumage, who has been swimming
for the last four years in the auditor's pond at 5000 dollars a year. I
am for rotation. I want to rotate him out, and to rotate myself in.
There's a plenty of room for him to swim outside of that pond;
therefore _pop_ in your votes for me--I'll _pop_ him out, and _pop_
myself in.The entertainment worth the exchange of the pure May night for a
smoke-laden, stuffy interior was in none of these places. Where we
looked for it--and found it--was in the little _café_ or _cabaret_--the
_cabaret artistique_ as it was then known in Paris--with a flair for the
genius the world is so long in discovering, where the young poet read
his verses, the young musician interpreted his music, the young artist
showed his work in any manner the chance was given him to, to say
nothing of the posters he sometimes designed for it and decorated Paris
with: theatre and performance and advertisement impossible in any other
town or any other atmosphere. London is too clumsy. Berlin is too
ponderous, New York has not the right material home-grown, and the
spirit of the original dies in the self-conscious imitation. Even in
Paris a Baedeker star is its death-blow, the private guide's attention
spells immediate ruin, nor can it survive more legitimate honours at
home when they come. Like most good things it has its times and its
seasons, and it was in the Nineties it gave forth its finest blossoms.
We knew it was a pleasure to be snatched this year, for next who could
say where it might be, and we set out to snatch it with the same
diligence we had devoted one spring to eating dinners and another to
playing in the suburbs, though we could make no pretence in a week to
exhaust it.

Night after night we dined, we drank our coffee at the nearest _café_,
we scrambled to the top of the big omnibus with the three white horses,
now as dead as the performance it was taking us to, we journeyed across
Paris to see or to hear the work of the young genius on the threshold of
fame or oblivion. And if in an access of conscientiousness we had felt
the need--as we never did--of a reason for our eagerness, we might have
had it in the way our evening's entertainment invariably turned out to
be the legitimate sequel of our day's work. For there wasn't a _cabaret_
of them all that did not reflect somehow the things we had been busy
studying and wrangling over ever since our arrival in Paris, the merit
they shared in common being their pre-occupation with the art and
literature of the day to which they belonged. The tiresome performance
known as a _Revue_, which is all the vogue just now in the London
music-halls, undertakes to do something of the same kind: to be, that
is, a reflection of the events and interests and popular excitements of
the day. And boldness, it seemed, was to be rewarded. As I approached
the Pontifical Personage it appeared certain that he did not remember
me. And why, I asked myself, should he?

Had I been the Duke of BEDFORD or the President of the Ladies' Kennel
Club I might have expected a place in his august memory. But an
insignificant uncle buying white rats--it was absurd, of course, to
fear recognition.

I plunged straightway _in medias res_. "I have here," I said, "a
journal of unimpeachable veracity which declares that the Pasteur
Institute in Paris is suffering from a guinea-pig shortage. Please
oblige me with your expert opinion on this momentous matter."
The P.P. smiled slightly, cleared his throat and, waving me to the
further end of the menagerie, proceeded to answer my question. "The common
or Sicilian guinea-pig," he began, "the _Porculus Auriferus Excubitor_
of BUFFON, is still fairly common, though I may say that it is
many a day since they could be purchased for a guinea.

An allied species, the Chinese or edible guinea-pig, the Sing Fat Soo of
the Cantonese restaurateur, is indeed quite plentiful, but for some
reason or other has never found favour with the leading English
fanciers. The fact is that since the War our customers have become
more discerning, and the common guinea-pig, being no longer called
for, is not bred and has therefore ceased to be available for scientific
purposes. A few of the art shades, notably _tête-nègre_ and _beige_
pigs, are still in request by the furriers; but the public demand is
for something more select.

"Now here"--and reaching into an adjoining cage the Pontifical
Personage extracted between finger and thumb a pinch of twitching
fluff--"is the most highly-prized of the race, the blue Himalayan
pig.

Only five specimens have so far reached this country. The first pair
were presented to the Duchess of Snoblands by the Maharajah of
Khidmutgar about three years ago, but the sow met with an unfortunate
accident in her ladyship's absence, being dipped into a box of face-powder
by a thoughtless maidservant. The third specimen, a fine boar, was
brought from China as the mascot of H.M.S.
_Colossus_, but just after reaching harbour was accidentally devoured
by the ship's cat. The remaining two I have here. They are expensive,
of course, a hundred-and-five guineas the pair, but quite unique.

"Of greater zoological interest perhaps is this little fellow,
_Porculus Auriferus Decaudatus_, an arboreal species from the Solomon
Islands; or the striated guinea-pig of Central Nicaragua, which I
am happily able to show you."

He placed Nicaragua's most valuable product in my hand, and it promptly
bit me. That I did not drop it into a cageful of terrier-pups was wholly
due to the native vigour with which _Striatus_ hung on.

"The price of that is forty-five guineas," continued the Pontifical
Person smoothly, as he restored it to its cage. I shivered.

"Now here," he went on, "is a pig of real historic interest. I have a
fair number of them just in from my collectors in the Persian Gulf
and can do them at eighteen pounds the pair." He motioned me towards a
larger cage wherein a bevy of dun-coloured piglets were holding a
soviet. "The Sumerian or Desert Pig," he explained, "of the _Oxyrhynchus
Papyri_, erroneously identified by GRENFELL and HUNT with the Southern
form of the Tree Hyrax."
It was at this point that my intelligence forsook me. I had been
getting on too well. It was the old story of over-confidence.From days in the _Salons_, from the illustrated
papers and magazines and books we filled our bags with to take back to
London, we could not measure the full powers of men like Willette and
Caran d'Ache and Rivière and Louis Morin until we had seen also _The
Prodigal Son_, _The March of the Stars_, and all the stories they told
in those dramatic silhouettes--those marvellous little black figures,
cut in tin, only a few inches high, moving across a white space small in
due proportion, but so designed and posed and grouped by the artist as
to give the swing and the movement and the passing of great armies until
one could almost fancy one heard the drums beat and the trumpets call,
or to suggest the grandeur and solemnity of the desert, the vastness of
the sky, the mystery of the night. They have been imitated. Only a few
months ago I saw an imitation in a London music-hall, with all that late
inventions in photography and electric light could do for it. But no
touch of genius was in the little figures and the elaboration was no
more than clever stagecraft. The simplicity of the _Chat Noir_ was gone,
and gone the gaiety of the performers, and the pretence of gaiety is
sadder than tragedy. Salis knew how to catch his poet, his musician, his
artist, young,--that is where he scored.

It is possible that I was the more impressed by the beauty of the show
because it was not of that side of the _Chat Noir_ I had heard most. Its
British admirers or critics, when they got back to London, had far more
to say of it as a haunt of vice, if not as decadents to parade their
wide and experienced knowledge of Paris, then as students who had gone
there very likely to gather further confirmation of the popular British
belief in Paris as the headquarters of vice and frivolity. To this day
the hero or heroine of the British novel who is led astray is apt to
cross the Channel for the purpose. It was a delicate matter to
accomplish this in the Nineties when the novelist happened to be a
woman, for even the "New Woman" cry, if it armed her with her own
front-door key, could not draw all the bolts and bars of convention for
her. I can remember the plight of the highly correct Englishwoman, upon
whom British fiction depended for its respectability, who wanted to send
her young hero from the English provinces to the _Chat Noir_ in the
course of a rake's progress, and who avoided facing the contamination
herself by shifting to her husband the task of collecting the necessary
local colour on the spot. She did well, for had she gone she could not
have been so scandalized as the young Briton in her book was obliged to
be for the sake of the story. Those who had eyes and ears for it could
see and hear all the license they wanted, those who had eyes and ears
for the beauty could rest content with that, and as far as my impression
of the place goes, Salis, if he allowed license at the _Chat Noir_,
refused to put up with either the affectation or the advertisement of
it. I cannot forget the night when a young American woman took her
cigarette case from her pocket and lit a cigarette. It would not have
seemed a desperate deed in proper England where every other woman had
begun to smoke in public, probably more in public than in private, for
with many smoking was part of the "New Woman" crusade--"I never liked
smoking," an ardent leader in the cause told me once, "but I smoked
until we won the right to." No printing-press was to be allowed
elsewhere than in London (except one in each University); and no book
was to be printed until first seen and perused by the Archbishop of
Canterbury or Bishop of London; with an exception in favour of the
queen's printer, and books of the common law, which were to be
allowed by the Chief Justices and Chief Baron, or one of them.

Extensive and arbitrary powers of search for unlicensed books and presses
were also given to the wardens of the Stationers' Company.
(Strype's _Life of Archbishop Whitgift_, 222.; Records, No.XXIV.) On the
1st July, 1637, another decree of a similar character was made by the
Court of Star Chamber. (Rushworth's _Historical Collections_, Part ii.
p.450.) The Long Parliament, although it dissolved the Star Chamber, seems
to have had no more enlightened views as respects the freedom of the
press than Queen Elizabeth or the Archbishops Whitgift and Laud; for on
the 14th June, 1643, the two Houses made an ordinance prohibiting
the printing of any order or declaration of either House, without
order of one or both Houses; or the printing or sale of any book,
pamphlet, or paper, unless the same were approved and licensed under the
hands of such persons as both or either House should appoint for licensing
the same. (_Parliamentary History_, xii. 298.) The names of the licensers
appointed are given in Neal's _History of the Puritans_ (ed. 1837,
ii. 205.).

It was this ordinance which occasioned the
publication, in or about 1644, of Milton's most noble defence of
the liberty of the press, entitled _Areopagitica; a Speech for the
Liberty of unlicensed Printing, To the Parliament of England_.

After setting out certain Italian imprimaturs, he remarks:

"These are the pretty responsories, these are the dear antiphonies that
so bewitched of late our prelates and their chaplains with the
godly echo they made and besotted, as to the gay imitation of a
lordly imprimatur, one from Lambeth House, another from the west end
of Paul's; so apishly romanising, that the word of command still was
set down in Latin, as if the learned grammatical pen that wrote it
would cast no ink without Latin; or, perhaps, as they thought, because
no vulgar tongue was worthy to express the pure conceit of an imprimatur;
but rather, as I hope, for that our English, the language of men ever
famous and foremost in the achievements of liberty, will not easily find
servile letters enow to spell such a dictatory presumption
englished."
On the 28th September, 1647, the Lords and Commons passed a still
more severe ordinance, which imposed pains and penalties on all persons
printing, publishing, selling, or uttering any book, pamphlet,
treatise, ballad, libel, or sheet of news, without the licence of both,
or either House of Parliament, or such persons as should be thereunto
authorised by one or both Houses. Offending hawkers, pedlars, and
ballad-chappers were to be whipped as common rogues.
(_Parliamentary History_, xvi. 309.) We get some insight into the probable
cause of this ordinance from a letter of Sir Thomas Fairfax to the
Earl of Manchester, dated "Putney, 20th Sept., 1647."

He complains of some printed pamphlets, very scandalous and abusive,
to the army in particular, and the whole kingdom in general; and
expresses his desire that these, and all of the like nature, might
be suppressed for the future. In order, however, to satisfy the
kingdom's expectation for intelligence, he advises that, till a
firm peace be settled, two or three sheets might be permitted to
come out weekly, which might be licensed; and as Mr. Mabbott had
approved himself faithful in that service of licensing, and likewise
in the service of the House and the army, he requested that he might
be continued in the said place of licenser.
The place was free from
tourists, we were the only foreigners, the handsome Aristide
evidently sang his songs for the pleasure of himself and the people.

It was after we had sat down at our little table and given the order
required of us that the incidents of the evening began to play so neatly
and effectively into Harland's plot. A scowl was on Bruant's handsome
face as he strode up and down his _café_-museum, for the striding, it
seemed, was only part of the regular performance. He should at the same
time have been singing the songs we had come to hear, and he could not
without the pianist who accompanied him, and the pianist had chosen
this night of all others to be late. The scowl deepened, I felt
something like a stir of uneasiness through the room, and I did not
wonder, for Bruant looked as if he had a temper it might be dangerous to
trifle with. And then the strange thing happened and, to our surprise
and his, our party whom he had met with such disdain saved the
situation. How we did it may be read, with the variations necessary to
fit his tale, in Harland's book. We had our own musician--her name was
not Mademoiselle Miss--and when she discovered what was the matter, and
why Bruant was scowling so abominably, she was moved by the sympathy of
one artist for another and offered her services. Bruant led her to the
piano, she accompanied him as best she could, the music being new to
her, he sang us his _St. Lazare_ and _La Soularde_, all the while
striding up and down with magnificent swagger, and was about to begin a
third of his most famous songs when the pianist arrived, his
unmistakable fright quickly lost in his bewilderment at being received
with an amiability he had not any right to expect, and allowed to slip
into his place at the piano unrebuked. Bruant, with the manners, the
courteous dignity, of a prince, led our Mademoiselle Miss back to us,
ordered bocks for her, for me--the only other woman at our table--and
for himself, touched his with his lips, bowed, was gone and singing
again before we could show that we had not yet learned to drain our
glasses in the fashion approved of at the _Mirliton_.

So far Harland used this little episode much as it happened and made the
most of it--I hope the curious who consult his story will be able to
distinguish between his realism and his romance. But being mere man he
missed the sequel which to the original of his Mademoiselle Miss and to
me was the most dramatic and disturbing event of the evening. Gradually,
as we sat at our table, watching Bruant and the company, it dawned upon
us that Bruant did not exhaust the formalities of his entertainment upon
the coming guest but reserved one for the parting guest which in our
judgment was scarcely so amusing. For to every woman who left his
_café_, Bruant's goodbye was a hearty kiss on both cheeks. We had the
sense to know that, as we had come to the _Mirliton_ of our own free
will, we had no more right to quarrel with its rules than to refuse to
show our press ticket at the _Salon_ turnstile, or to give up our
umbrellas at the door of the _Louvre_, or to question the regulations of
any other place in Paris we chose to go to. If we insisted upon being
made the exceptions to the farewell ceremony, and if Bruant would not
let us off, could we resent it? And if the men of our party resented it
for us, and if Bruant resented their resentment, how would that improve
matters?

It was about as unpleasant a predicament as I have ever found myself in.
We talked it over, but could see no way out of it, and in our discomfort
kept urging the men to stay for just one more song and then just one
more, greatly to their amazement, for they were accustomed to not
wanting to go and having to beg us to stay. The evil moment, however,
could not be put off indefinitely, and, with our hearts in our boots, we
at last got up from the table. We might have spared ourselves our agony.
Bruant, with the instinct and intelligence of the Frenchman, realized
our embarrassment and I hope I am right in thinking he had his laugh
over us all to himself, so much more than a laugh did we owe him. For
what he did when we got to the door was to shake hands with us
ceremoniously, each in turn, to repeat his thanks for our visit and his
gratitude to the musician for her services, to take off his wide-brimmed
hat--the only time that night--and to bow us out into the darkness of
the _Boulevard Rochechouart_.

Following the example of Mademoiselle Miss in the story, unless it was
she who was following ours, we finished the evening which had begun at
the _Mirliton_ by eating supper at the _Rat Mort_. It was an experience
I cared less to repeat even than the visits to the _Casino de Paris_ and
the _Moulin Rouge_. As light and satisfying a supper could have been
eaten in many other places, late as was the hour. Neither wit nor art
entered into the entertainment as at the _Chat Noir_ and Bruant's. Vice
was at no trouble to disguise itself. On the contrary, it made rather a
cynical display, I thought, and cynicism in vice is never agreeable. I
give my impressions. I may be wrong. I have not forgotten that the
harmless portrait by Degas of Desboutin at the _Nouvelle Athènes_
scandalized all London in the Nineties. Everything depends on the point
of view.

Anyway, another adventure I liked better was still to come before that
long Paris night was at an end. It was so characteristic of Harland and
his joy in the humorous and the absurd that I do not quite see why he
did not let his Mademoiselle Miss share it. Outside the _Rat Mort_, in
the early hours of the next morning, we picked up an old-fashioned
one-horse, closed cab, built to hold two people, and of a type almost as
extinct in Paris as the three-horse omnibus. It was the only cab in
sight and we packed into and outside of it, not two but eight. As it
crawled down one of the steep streets from _Montmartre_ there was a
creak, the horse stopped and, as quickly as I tell it, the bottom was
out of the cab and we were in the street. Gilbert Mabbott was accordingly
appointed licenser of such weekly papers as should be printed, but
resigned the situation 22nd May, 1649.
(_Commons' Journals_, vi. 214.) It seems he had conscientious
objections to the service, for elsewhere it is recorded, under the same
date, "Upon Mr.
Mabbott's desire and reasons against licensing of books to be printed, he
was discharged of that imployment." (Whitelock's _Memorials_, 389.)
On the 20th September, 1649, was passed a parliamentary ordinance
prohibiting printing elsewhere than in London, the two Universities,
York, and Finsbury, without the licence of the Council of State
(Scobell's _Ordinances_, Part ii. 90.); and on the 7th January, 1652-3,
the Parliament passed another ordinance for the suppression of unlicensed
and scandalous books. (Scobell's _Ordinances_, Part ii. 231.) In 1661 a
bill for the regulation of printing passed the Lords, but was rejected
by the Commons on account of the peers having inserted a clause exempting
their own houses from search; but in 1662 was passed the statute 13
& 14 Car.

II. c. 33., which required all books to be licensed as follows:--Law books
by the Lord Chancellor, or one of the Chief Justices, or Chief Baron;
books of history and state, by one of the Secretaries of State; of heraldry,
by the Earl Marshal, or the King-at-Arms; of divinity, physic, philosophy,
or whatsoever other science or art, by the Archbishop of Canterbury or
the Bishop of London: or if printed at either University, by the
chancellor thereof. The number of master printers (exclusive of the
king's printers and the printers of the Universities) was to be reduced
to twenty, and then vacancies were to be filled up by the Archbishop of
Canterbury and Bishop of London, and printing was not to be allowed
elsewhere than in London, York (where the Archbishop of York was
to license all books), {427} and the two Universities.

This Act was to continue for two years, from 10th June, 1662.

It was renewed by the 16 Car.
Again, I would have my Whistler nights, the background now not our
chambers, but the memorable apartment in the Rue du Bac
_rez-de-chaussée_ opening upon the spacious garden where, in the
twilight, often we lingered to listen to the Missionary Monks in their
spacious garden on the other side of the wall, singing the canticles for
the Month of Mary so dear to me from my convent days--nights in the
dining-room with its beautiful blue-and-white china, the long table and
the Japanese "something like a birdcage" hanging over it in the centre,
many once-friendly faces all about me, Whistler presiding in his place
or filling the glasses of his guests as he passed from one to the other,
always talking, saying things as nobody else could have said them,
witty, serious, exasperating, delightful things, laughing the gay laugh
or the laugh of malice that said as much as his words;--nights in the
blue and white drawing-room, with the painting of Venus over the mantel,
and the stately Empire chairs, and the table a litter of papers among
which was always the last correspondence to be read, interrupted by his
own comments that to those who heard were the best part of it--nights
that will never perish as long as even one man, or woman, who shared in
them lives to remember;--Whistler nights even after Whistler had left us
for the land where there is neither night nor day: nights these with the
old friends who had loved him, with the painter Oulevey and the sculptor
Drouet who had been his fellow students, with Théodore Duret who had
been faithful during his years of greatest trial, friends who rejoiced
in talking of Whistler and of all that had gone to make him the great
personality and the greater artist; but of the Whistler nights in Paris,
as in London, I have already made the record with J. The story of them
is told.

And along the same rich Corridors, I would come to nights only less
worth preserving in the studios of artists, American and English, who
studied and worked and lived in Paris--nights that have bequeathed to me
the impression of great space, and lofty ceilings, and many canvases,
and big easels, and bits of tapestry, and the gleam of old brass and
pottery, and excellent dinners, and, of course, vehement talk, and a
friendly war of words--nights with men irrevocably in the movement,
whose work was conspicuous on the walls of the New _Salon_ and had
probably, a few hours earlier, kept us busy arguing in front of it and
writing voluminous notes in our note-books--nights not the least
stirring and tempestuous of the many I have spent in Paris, but nights
of which my safe rule of silence where the living are concerned forbids
me to tell the tale.

And one special year stands out when the little hotel in the Rue St.
Roch was deserted for the Grand Hotel, and when all the nights seemed
swallowed up in the International Society's business--not the
International Society of Anarchists, but the International Society of
Sculptors, Painters, and Gravers in London, which, in those terribly
enterprising Nineties, sent its deputation--J. included in it--to
collect all that was most individual and distinguished in the _Salons_
for its next Exhibition. It was a year of many wanderings in many
directions to many studios of French artists, or foreign artists working
in Paris--a year of many meetings of many artists night after night. But
this clearly is not a story for me to tell, since the International was
J.'s concern, not mine. In the hours away from my work I looked on, an
outsider, but an amused outsider, marvelling as I have never ceased to
marvel since the faraway nights in Rome, at the inexhaustible wealth of
art as a subject of talk wherever artists are gathered together.

And rambling still further into that past, I would stumble into
American nights--nights with old friends, established there or passing
through and run across by chance--nights of joy in being with my own
people again, of hearing not English, but my native tongue and having
life readjusted to the American point of view. Nobody knows how good it
is to be with one's fellow-countrymen who has not been years away from
them. But these also are nights that come within the forbidden zone--the
zone where Silence is Golden.


VIII

I have put down these memories of Paris nights and my yearly visit to
Paris in the year when, for the first time since I began my work in its
galleries, no _Salon_ has opened to take me there in the springtime.
With the coming of May the lilacs and horse-chestnuts bloomed with the
old beauty and fragrance along the _Champs-Elysées_ outside the _Grand
Palais_, but inside no prints and paintings were on the walls, no
statues in the great courts. To those admitted, the only exhibition was
of the wounded, the maimed, the dying. Does it mean, I wonder, the end
of all old days and nights for me in Paris, as the war that has shut
fast the _Salon_ door means the end of the old order of things in the
Europe I have known? Shall I never go to Paris again in the season of
lilacs and horse-chestnuts? Already I have ceased to meet my old friends
by day in front of the picture of the year and to quarrel with them over
it by night at a _café_ table, or in the peaceful twilight of the
suburban town and park and garden. Am I to lose as well the link with
the past I had in the _Salon_, am I to lose perhaps Paris? Who can say
at the moment of my writing, when the echo of shells and bullets is
thundering in my ears? A briefe of the golden calf (the world's idol).
The golden ass well managed, and Midas restored to reason. Written by
J. Rod, Glauber, and Jehior, the three principles or originall of
all things. Published by W.C., Esquire, 8vo.
Lond. Printed for William Cooper, at the Pellican, in Little Britain,
1673."
With a long catalogue of chemical books, in three parts, at the end.
My copy has two titles, the first being an engraved one, with ten small
circles round it, containing hieroglyphical figures, and an engraved
frontispiece, which is repeated in the volume, with some other cuts.

There are two dedications, one to Robert Boyle, Esq., and the other
to Elias Ashmole, Esq.; both signed "W.C. or twice five hundred,"
which signature is repeated in other parts of the book.

  What is the meaning of "W.C. or twice five hundred"?

  T. CR.

  

  _Brandon the Juggler.

  _--Where is any information to be obtained of Brandon the Juggler,
who lived in the reign of King Henry VIII.?

  T. CR.

  

  _Jacobus Præfectus Siculus.

  _--I have a beautiful copy of a poem by this person, entitled _De
Verbo DEI Cantica_.

  The binding expresses its date:
"Neapoli, 1537."

  It is not, I believe, the work which suggested to Milton his greater
songs, though it is a pretty complete outline of the _Paradise Lost_
and _Regained_/ What is known about the author, or any other works
of his?

  J.W.H.

  

  _The Word "after" in the Rubric--Canons of 1604._-- 
1.

  Can any of your correspondents who may have in their possession any
old Greek, or Latin, or other versions, of the Book of Common Prayer,
kindly inform me how the word _after_ is rendered in the rubrics
of the General Confession, the Lord's Prayer in the Post Communion,
and the last prayer of the Commination Service?

  Is it in the sense of _post_ or _secundum_?

  2.

  Where can any account of the translation of the Canons of 1604 into
English be found?

  It is apprehended the question is one more difficult to answer than
might be supposed.

  T.Y.

  

  _Hard by.

  _--Is not _hard by_ a corruption of the German _hierbei_?

  I know no other similar instance of the word _hard_, that is to
say, as signifying _proximity_, without the conjoint idea of
_pressure_ or _pursuit._ 
K.

  _Thomas Rogers of Horninger.

  _--Can any of the readers of your valuable publication give me, or
put me in the way of obtaining, any information about one Thomas
Rogers, who was in some way connected with the village of Horninger
or Horringer, near Bury St.

  Edmunds, was author of a work on the Thirty-nine Articles, and died
in the year 1616?

  S.G.

  

  Corpus Christi Col., Cambridge.

  _Armorial Bearings.

  _--Three barrulets charged with six church bells, three, two, and
one, is a shield occurring in the Speke Chauntry, in Exeter Cathedral.

  Can this coat be assigned?

  J.W.H.

  

  _Lady Compton's Letter to her Husband.

  _--In Bishop Goodman's _Court of King James I.,_ edited by John S.

  Brewer, M.A.

  (vol. ii. p. 127..), is a letter from Lady Compton to her husband,
William Lord Compton, afterwards Earl of Northampton, written upon
occasion of his coming into possession of a large fortune.

  This letter, with some important variations, is also given in
Knight's _London_ (vol. i. p. 324.), and, if my memory does not
deceive me, in Hewitt's _Visits to Remarkable Places_.

  This letter is very curious, but I can hardly think it genuine.

  Can any of your correspondents throw any light on the matter?

  Was it printed before 1839, when Mr.

  Brewer's work appeared?

  Where is the original, or supposed original, to be seen?

  Above all, is it authentic?

  If not, is it known when, and by {425} whom, and under what
circumstances it was written?

  C.H. COOPER.

  

  Cambridge, November 15. 1850.

  _Romagnasi's Works.

  _--In a "Life of G.D. Romagnasi," in vol. xviii.

  _Law Mag._, p. 340., after enumerating several of his works, it is
added, "All these are comprised in a single volume, Florentine edit.
of 1835."

  I have in vain endeavoured to procure the work, and have recently
received an answer from the first book establishment in Florence,
to the effect that no such edition ever appeared either at Florence
or elsewhere.

  This is strange after the explicit statement in the _Law Mag._, and
I shall be obliged to receive through the medium of your useful
pages any information regarding the work in question.

  F.R.H.

  

  _Christopher Barker's Device.

  _--I have often been puzzled to understand the precise meaning of
the inscription on Christopher Barker's device.

  

  
                                   Fisher), 174

  Debussy, Achille Claude, 286

  Degas, H.G.E., 119, 296

  Desboutin, 296

  "Dial, The," London, 177

  Dinners in Paris, 244-247

  "Diogenes of London," 215

  Discussions over art, 46-65

  Dodge, Miss Louise, 65, 159

  "Dome," the, London, 177

  Donnay, Maurice, 286

  Donoghue the sculptor, 48-49, 50, 53

  Dowie, Ménie Muriel, 185

  Drouet, C., 300

  Ducal Palace, Venice, 75, 100

  Duclaux, Madame, 129

  Dumas's Dictionnaire de la Cuisine, 149, 245

  Duret, Théodore, 300

  Duveneck, Frank, 76-108


  Edelfelt, 239

  Eighteen-eighties, 27-114

  Eighteen-nineties, 115-304
    Their so-called decadence, 118

  English tourists, 92

  Etty, William, 123

  "Evergreen," the, London, 177


  Falcone, the, Rome, 37, 38, 43

  Fig-Tree House, 130

  Fighting nineties, 118

  Finck, Henry T., 245

  "Finsbury, Michael," 131, 132

  Fisher, W.J., 174

  Fitzgerald, Edward, 62

  Flaubert, Gustave, 173

  Florence, 29, 74, 84, 97

  Florian's, Venice, 77, 82, 99

  Florizel, Prince, 163, 168, 173, 232

  Folies-Bergère, Paris, 280

  Fontainebleau, Forest of, 271

  Forain, 203, 240

  "Forepaugh," 52-56, 89

  Frederic, Harold, 156, 214, 215

  Furse, Charles W., 200, 201, 211, 228, 269, 270

  Futurists, the, 248


  Garnett, Dr. Edward, 65

  Gauguin, 249

  Gautier, Theophile, 268

  Gavarni, 257

  "Gazette, Pall Mall," 153

  "Gentle Art of Making Enemies, The," 85, 217

  "Germ, The," 176

  German tourists, 77, 270

  Germany, 17

  Ghetto, Rome, 30

  Gigi, 53

  Gosse, Edmund, 174, 188

  Goupil Gallery, London, 119

  Graefe, Meier, 204

  Grahame, Kenneth, 148, 185, 213

  Grand Palais, Paris, 302

  "Graphic," the, London, 203

  Great College Street office, Henley's, 130-137, 139, 149

  "Greedy Autolycus," 186, 254

  Guardi, 100

  Guilbert, Yvette, 280

  "Gypsy, The," 176, 281


  Hamerton, Philip Gilbert, 188

  Hamilton, Lord Frederick, 153

  Harland, Henry, 160, 172-177, 197, 211, 228, 257, 258, 264, 265, 266,
                  290-294, 297

  Harrison, Alexander, 250

  Harte, Bret, 51

  Hartrick and Sullivan, 196, 198, 222

  Henley, Madge, 214

  Henley, William Ernest, 118, 125-149, 163, 166, 196, 197, 211, 213, 240

  Henley's "Young Men," 125, 133, 134, 142, 145, 149, 150, 176, 179, 196,
                        213, 214

  Hill, L. Raven, 198

  Hobbes, John Oliver (Mrs. Cragie), 185

  "Hobby-horse," the, 176

  Horne, Herbert P., 278

  "Hospital Verses," 126, 147

  Hostess, author as, 126, 198

  Hotel de l'Univers et Portugal, Paris, 233
      d'Italie, London, 185, 187

  Howells, William Dean, 83, 109

  Hueffer, Ford Madox, 209

  Hugo, Victor, 268

  Hunt, Holman, 204, 239

  Hunt, Violet, 158

  Huysmans, Joris Karl, 89, 238


  Ibsen, 199, 251

  Impressionism, 238

  Indolence, 22, 60, 84, 86, 108, 112, 122

  "Inland Voyage, An," 165

  International Exhibitions, 19

  International Society of Sculptors, Painters, and Gravers, 301

  Italian Primitives, 204

  Italy, 17, 29

  Iwan-Müller, 154, 211


  "J--" (Joseph Pennell), 13, 20, 24, 29, 40, 44, 45, 53, 73, 81, 85, 91,
                          98, 108, 113, 117, 120, 121, 122, 129, 130, 137,
                          154, 161, 174, 178, 179, 184, 204, 205, 210, 214,
                          217, 227, 228, 245, 254, 301

  James, Henry, 188

  Japanese art, 178

  Jobbins, 90, 95, 111

  Journalism, 19, 117, 228-229

  Journeyings in Europe, 15-19


  Kelly, FitzMaurice, 148

  Kelmscott Press, 178, 213

  Kennedy, E.G., 218, 219

  Kensington Gardens, London, 52, 176

  Khayyam, Omar, 62, 63

  Khnopf, 240

  Kipling, Rudyard, 148, 213

  Kitchener, Lord, 155


  La Pérouse, Paris, 247

  Lagoon, the, Venice, 77, 107, 111, 112

  Lamb, Charles, 22

  "Land of the Dollar," 215

  Lane, John, 185, 187

  Lang, Andrew, 41, 63

  "Lantern Bearers, The," 165, 173

  Latin Quarter, 194

  Lavenue's, Paris, 249

  Le Puy, 18

  Legge, James G., 159

  Legrand, Louis, 203, 240

  Leighton, Lord, 195

  Leland, Charles Godfrey, 20, 56

  Lhermitte, 239

  Lido, the, 76, 88, 112

  London, 38, 115-223, 253

  "London Impressionists," 199

  "London Voluntaries," by Henley, 147

  Low, Will, 165

  Lucca, 74

  Luska, Sydney (Henry Harland), 173

  Luxembourg, Paris, 103


  MacColl, D.S., 201, 227, 241

  "Mademoiselle Miss," 290, 294, 296

  "Magazine of Art," London, 129

  Manet, Edouard, 249, 280

  Margherita, Queen, 66

  Marguery's, Paris, 250

  Marino, 66

  Marriott-Watson, Rosamund, 157

  Martin, at Venice, 86

  May, Phil, 191-199, 211, 222

  McFarlane, Venice, 97, 98, 100, 106, 107

  Meissonier, J.L.E., 236

  Merceria, the, Venice, 99

  Meynell, Mrs. Alice, 158, 159

  Millet, F.D., 54

  Mistral, 65

  Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, 142

  Monet, Claude, 238

  Montepulciano, 42

  Montmartre, 297

  Moore, George, 159, 185, 215, 229

  Morelli, 46

  Morin, Louis, 287

  Morris, William, 209

  Morrison, Arthur, 148, 213

  "Morte d'Arthur," illustrated by Beardsley, 178

  Moulin Rouge, 280, 281, 296

  Munich, 84, 97, 98, 102
    Accident at ball, 105

  Murano, 111

  Mürger, Henri, 257

  Music of "Carmen," the, 106


  Naples, 66, 67, 74, 110

  "Nation," the, London, 228, 229

  "National Observer," London, 125, 128, 130, 135, 136, 137, 138, 141,
                               151, 155, 157, 211, 214, 229, 267

  New English Art Club, London, 119, 199, 200, 201, 269

  New Gallery, 227

  New York "Times," 156

  Nicholson, William, 127, 128, 194

  Norman, Henry, 159

  Norwegian at Rome, the, 60

  Nouvelle Athènes, the, Paris, 249


  "Observations in Philistia," by Harold Frederic, 156

  Orvieto, 74

  Ostia, 66

  Oulevey, H., 300


  "Pageant," the, London, 177

  Palais Royal, 243

  Pall-Mall, the, "Budget," "Gazette" and "Magazine," 142, 149, 152, 155,
                                                      161, 186, 227, 254

  "Pan," London, 204.

  I have reason to say so.

  --The finest sight
    in the metropolis is that of the Mail-Coaches setting off from
Piccadilly.

  The horses paw the ground, and are impatient to be gone, as if
conscious of the precious burden they convey.

  There is a peculiar secresy and despatch, significant and full of
meaning, in all the proceedings concerning them.

  Even the outside passengers have an erect and supercilious air, as
if proof against the accidents of the journey.

  In fact, it seems indifferent whether they are to encounter the
summer's heat or winter's cold, since they are borne through the
air in a winged chariot.

  The Mail-Carts drive up; the transfer of packages is made; and, at
a signal given, they start off, bearing the irrevocable scrolls
that give wings to thought, and that bind or sever hearts for ever.

  How we hate the Putney and Brentford stages that draw up in a line
after they are gone!

  Some persons think the sublimest object in nature is a ship launched
on the bosom of the ocean; but give me, for my private satisfaction,
the Mail-Coaches that pour down Piccadilly of an evening, tear up
the pavement, and devour the way before them to the Land's End!

  In Cowper's time, Mail-Coaches were hardly set up; but he has
beautifully described the coming in of the Post-Boy:-- 
"Hark!

  'tis the twanging horn o'er yonder bridge, That with its wearisome
but needful length Bestrides the wintry flood, in which the moon
Sees her unwrinkled face reflected bright;-- He comes, the herald
of a noisy world, With spattered boots, strapped waist, and frozen
locks; News from all nations lumbering at his back.

  True to his charge, the close packed load behind, Yet careless what
he brings, his one concern Is to conduct it to the destined inn;
And having dropped the expected bag, pass on.

  He whistles as he goes, light-hearted wretch!

  Cold and yet cheerful; messenger of grief Perhaps to thousands, and
of joy to some; To him indifferent whether grief or joy.

  Houses in ashes and the fall of stocks.

  Births, deaths, and marriages, epistles wet With tears that trickled
down the writer's cheeks Fast as the periods from his fluent quill,
Or charged with amorous sighs of absent swains Or nymphs responsive,
equally affect His horse and him, unconscious of them all."

  

  "Honestly now, old chap," I said, "and strictly between ourselves,
do you ever sell any of the little beasts?"

  His face lit up in a brilliant smile.

  "No, Sir," he replied, drawing himself up majestically and looking
me squarely in the eye, "we keep these to show to inquisitive
customers.

  _We only sell_ WHITE RATS!"

  I fled.

  As I crossed the interminable length of floor that separated me from
                                          the door I could feel that contemptuous smile rowelling my shrinking
vertebræ.

  
                           It must not be supposed, however, that, even in an Arcadia like
this, 
"The course of true love _always_ did run smooth."

  There was one young girl, called Julie, who was cruel enough to
have depopulated a whole nation of lovers.Paul's, London, 147

  Street, George S., 148, 213

  "Strike at Arlingford, The," 215

  Stuart, Jack, 152

  "Studio, The," 178

  Symbolism, 238

  Symonds, John Addington, 77

  Symons, Arthur, 183, 190, 278


  "Talk and Talkers," 160

  Talk on Thursday nights, 124-125

  Thaulow, Fritz, 273

  Théâtre Français, 220

  Theosophy, 55

  Thompson, Venice, 97

  Thursday nights, our, 117, 122-125, 129, 142, 168, 177, 223, 255

  "Times," London, 43

  Tintoretto, 94, 108

  Tivoli, 66

  Tomson, Arthur, 202, 211

  Tomson, Graham R., 157, 158, 214, 215

  Tonks, 203

  Torcello, 111

  Toulouse-Lautrec, H. de, 240, 280, 291

  Tour d'Argent, Paris, 251, 252

  Trattoria Cavour, Rome, 38, 43
    Falcone, 37-38, 43
    Posta, Rome, 36-39, 43

  "Treasure Island," 127

  Tréteau de Tabarin, Paris, 284

  Tricycle, 15, 16, 29, 254

  Tudor classics, the, 214


  Val di Chiana, 42

  Vale Press, 213

  Vance, the painter, 80

  Van Dyke, John, 221

  Van Gogh, 248, 249

  Vedder, Elihu, 56-64

  Velasquez, 132, 169, 173, 215

  "Venetian Life," by W.D. He took the kettle off the fire.

  He poked a stick into it and found only bones.

  Then he said, "Indeed, the meat has all fallen off."

  So he took a spoon and dipped it out; nothing was there but bones.

  This is the story of Unktomi and the Bad Songs.

  HOW THE PHEASANT BEAT CORN 
_Cherokee_
Once Pheasant saw a woman beating corn in a wooden mortar in front
of her lodge.

  "I can do that, too," said Pheasant.

  "I don't believe you," said the woman.

  "Yes, I can," said Pheasant.

  So Pheasant went into the woods behind the lodge.

  He flew to a hollow log and drummed with his wings until the people
thought he really was beating corn.

  That is why the Indians have the Pheasant dance, as a part of the
Green-corn dance.

  WHY THE TURKEY GOBBLES 
_Cherokee_
In the old days, Grouse had a good voice and Turkey had none.

  Therefore Turkey asked Grouse to teach him.

  But Grouse wanted pay, so Turkey promised to give him some feathers
for a collar.

  That is how the Grouse got his collar of turkey feathers.

  So the Grouse began to teach Turkey.

  At last Grouse said, "Now you must try your voice.

  You must halloo."
                           Turkey said, "Yes."
                           Grouse said, "I'll stand on this hollow log, and when I tap on it,
you must halloo as loudly as you can."

  So Grouse climbed upon a log, ready to tap on it, but when he did
so, Turkey became so excited that when he opened his mouth, he only
said, "_Gobble, gobble, gobble!

  _"

  That is why the Turkey gobbles whenever he hears a noise.

  

  Sir John Newton, to whom
   the grant was made, lies buried at East
   Harptree; and on his tomb may be seen (besides his effigies
   as large as life) the twelve quarterings in their original (?)
blazoning, impaled with those of his wife, one of the Pointz family.