Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Josephine Paolucci
and PG Distributed Proofreaders


MARTIN CONISBY'S VENGEANCE

BY JEFFERY FARNOL


1921


TO MY DEAR AUNTS

MRS. He is remarkable for absence of mind; is charitable and kind in his
disposition, but of quick temper.

His amusements are few; the friend and conversation only; and in
the "flow of soul" there are few men possessing more companionable
qualities.

His heart is
perhaps one of the best that beats in a human bosom: "it is,"
observes a biographer, "that which should belong to the poet of
_Gertrude,_ his favourite personification."

To exhibit the poet in the social circle, as well as to introduce
a very piquant portrait, drawn by a friend, we subjoin a leaf or
two from Leigh Hunt's _Lord Byron and some of his Contemporaries_[5]--displaying
all the graphic ease for which Mr.

Hunt is almost without a rival:--
[5] We are aware of part of the subsequent extract having appeared
in vol. xi. of THE MIRROR, but the additional interest which it
bears in juxtaposition with this Memoir, induces us to repeat it
here.

I forget how I became acquainted with Mr.

Hill, proprietor of the _Monthly Mirror;_ but at his house at
Sydenham I used to meet his editor, Mr.

Dubois, Mr.

Campbell, who was his neighbour, and the two Smiths, authors of
_The Rejected Addresses._ Once or twice I saw also Mr.

Theodore Hook, and Mr.

Matthews, the comedian.

Our host (and I thought him no older the other day than he was then)
was a jovial bachelor, plump and rosy as an abbot: and no abbot
could have presided over a more festive Sunday.

For the pain I suffer, may I see him
suffer; for the anguish that is mine, so may I watch his agony! Thou art a
just God, so, God of Justice, give to me vengeance!"

And having spoken this, which had been my prayer for three weary years, I
composed myself to slumber. But even so, I started up broad awake and my
every nerve a-tingle, only to see the moonlight flooding my solitude and
nought to hear save the rustle of the soft night wind beyond the open door
of the cave that was my habitation and the far-off, never-ceasing murmur
that was the voice of those great waters that hemmed me in,--a desolate
ocean where no ships ever sailed, a trackless waste that stretched away to
the infinite blue.

He has issued a proclamation, forbidding his subjects to leave the country
under penalty of a heavy fine, so that it will not be possible for them to
go and join the tribesmen.

He is doing all in his power to keep faith with England, but it is said that
he is much pleased that he has secured the aid of Russia to protect him
in case of need.

* * * * *
In the Soudan, the English are steadily advancing on Khartoum.

The Mahdists are making a strong stand there, and it is expected
that the decisive battle will be fought in the near neighborhood
of that city.

A newspaper correspondent who is with the Soudan expedition writes a
most interesting account of the rapid way the soldiers are building a
railroad across the desert.

The road is being finished at the rate of nearly two miles a day,
and when completed will enable the army to bring men and supplies
from Cairo in a few days instead of the many weary weeks which are
now required.

The building of the railway through the desert has been entrusted to
the engineer corps.

These engineers are soldiers whose duty it is to build fortifications,
railroads, bridges, or any works which the commander of the force may think
necessary.

In building a railroad the first thing to be done is to prepare the road-bed,
so that it will not give way under the weight of the trains that are to pass
over it. This is done by digging out or banking up the earth so that the
bed shall be level. When the earth-bank has been made as high and as
solid as necessary, huge wooden beams, called sleepers, are placed across
it at regular intervals, and on these sleepers the rails are laid.

The correspondent describes the laying of the rails as follows:

"A great sight was the actual work of laying the line. We went out in a car
drawn by a spare engine, to see this at the place where the work was in
progress. The second construction train had reached the scene of
active operations just before we arrived, and the desert fairly
hummed with busy turmoil.Almost three years, forgotten alike of God and man. And so albeit I prayed
no more (since I had proved prayers vain) hope yet lived within me and
every day, night and morn, I would climb that high hill the which I had
named the Hill of Blessed Hope, to strain my eyes across the desolation
of waters for some sign which should tell me my time of waiting was
accomplished.

Now as I sat thus, lost in bitter thought, I rose to my feet, letting fall
the gown to lie all neglected, for borne to me on the gentle wind came a
sound there was no mistaking, the sharp report of a musket.

For a moment I stood utterly still while the shot yet rang and re-echoed
in my ears and felt all at once such an ecstasy of joy that I came nigh
swooning and needs must prop myself against the rocky wall; then, the
faintness passing, I came hasting and breathless where I might look seaward
and beheld this:

Hard beyond the reef (her yards braced slovenly aback) a ship. Betwixt this
vessel and the reef a boat rowed furiously, and upon the reef itself a man
fled shorewards marvellous fleet and nimble. Presently from his pursuers in
the boat came a red flash and the report of a musquetoon followed by divers
others, whereat the poor fugitive sped but the faster and came running
to that strip of white beach that beareth the name Deliverance. There he
faltered, pausing a moment to glance wildly this way and that, then (as
Fortune willed) turned and sped my way. Then I, standing forth where he
might behold me in the moon's radiance, hailed and beckoned him, at the
which he checked again, then (as reassured by my looks and gesture) came
leaping up that path which led from the beach. Thus as he drew nearer I saw
he was very young, indeed a mere stripling. From him I glanced towards
his pursuers (they being already upon the reef) and counted nine of them
running hitherward and the moon aglint on the weapons they bore. Thereupon
I hasted to my cave and brought thence my six muskets, the which I laid
ready to hand.

And presently comes this poor fugitive, all panting and distressed with his
exertions, and who (clambering over that rampire I had builded long ago to
my defence) fell at my feet and lay there speechless, drawing his breath
in great, sobbing gasps. But his pursuers had seen and came on amain with
mighty halloo, and though (judging by what I could see of them at the
distance) they were a wild, unlovely company, yet to me, so long bereft of
all human fellowship, their hoarse shouts and cries were infinitely welcome
and I determined to make them the means of my release, more especially as
it seemed by their speech that some of them were Englishmen. To this end I
waited until they were close, then, taking up my nearest piece, I levelled
wide of them and fired. Startled by the sudden roar they incontinent
scattered, betaking them to such cover as they might. Then I (yet kneeling
behind my rampire) hailed them in mighty kindly fashion.

"Halt, friends!" cries I. "Here is harm for no man that meaneth none. Nay,
rather do I give ye joyous welcome in especial such of you as be English,
for I am an Englishman and very solitary."

But now (and even as I spake them thus gently) I espied the fugitive on his
knees, saw him whip up one of my muskets (all in a moment) and fire or
ever I might stay him. The shot was answered by a cry and out from the
underbrush a man reeled, clasping his hurt and so fell and lay a-groaning.
At this his comrades let fly their shot in answer and made off forthwith.
Deserted thus, the wounded man scrambled to hands and knees and began to
creep painfully after his fellows, beseeching their aid and cursing them by
turns. Hearing a shrill laugh, I turned to see the fugitive reach for and
level another of my weapons at this wounded wretch, but, leaping on him
as he gave fire, I knocked up the muzzle of the piece so that the bullet
soared harmlessly into the air. Uttering a strange, passionate cry, the
fugitive sprang back and snatching out an evil-looking knife, made at me,
and all so incredibly quick that it was all I could do to parry the blow;
then, or ever he might strike again, I caught that murderous arm, and, for
all his slenderness and seeming youth, a mighty desperate tussle we made of
it ere I contrived to twist the weapon from his grasp and fling him panting
to the sward, where I pinned him beneath my foot. Then as I reached for
the knife where it had fallen, he cried out to me in his shrill, strangely
clear voice, and with sudden, fierce hands wrenched apart the laces and
fine linens at his breast:

"Stay!" cried he. "Don't kill me--you cannot!"

Now looking down on him where he lay gasping and writhing beneath my foot,
I started back all in a moment, back until I was stayed by the rampire, for
I saw that here was no man but a young and comely woman.


CHAPTER II

MY TROUBLES BEGIN


Whiles I yet stood, knife in hand, staring at her and mute for wonder, she
pulled off the close-fitting seaman's bonnet she wore and scowling up at me
shook down the abundant tresses of her hair.

"Beast!" said she. "Oh, beast--you hurt me!"

"Who are you?" I questioned.

"One that doth hate you!" Here she took a silver comb from her pocket and
fell to smoothing her hair; and as she sat thus cross-legged upon the
grass, I saw that the snowy linen at throat and bosom was spotted with
great gouts of blood.

"Are ye wounded?" quoth I, pointing to these ugly stains.

"Bah! 'Tis none of mine, fool! 'Tis the blood of Cestiforo!"

"Who is he?"

"The captain of yon ship."

"How cometh his blood on you?"

"'Twas when I killed him."

"You--killed him?"

"Aye--he wearied me. So do all my lovers, soon or late."

Now as I looked on this woman, the strange, sullen beauty of her (despite
her masculine apparel) as she sat thus combing her long hair and foul with
a dead man's blood, I bethought me of the wild tales I had heard of female
daemons, succubi and the like, so that I felt my flesh chill and therewith
a great disgust and loathing of her, insomuch that, not abiding the sight
of her, I turned away and thus beheld a thing the which filled me with
sudden, great dismay: for there, her sails spread to the fitful wind, I saw
the ship standing out to sea, bearing with her all my hopes of escape from
this hated island. Thus stood I, watching deliverance fade on my sight,
until the ship was no more than a speck upon the moon-bright waters and all
other thoughts 'whelmed and lost in raging despair. And now I was roused by
a question sudden and imperious:

"Who are you?"

"'Tis no matter."

"How came you here?"

"'Tis no matter for that, either."

"Are you alone?"

"Aye!"

"Then wherefore trouble to shave your beard?"

"'Tis a whim."

"Are you alone?"

"I was."

"And I would you were again."

"So do I."

He says, when he comes home he will bring mother a nice shawl and
me some fine playthings.

I hope he will not get lost at sea, as some poor sailors have been.

[Illustration]

THE DEAD ROBIN.

See, Charles, how little Robin lies:
The film is on his gentle eyes; His pretty beak is parted wide, And
blood is flowing from his side.

And Willy, when from school he comes, Will run and get some little
crumbs, And fling them round, and wait to see Robin hop lightly
from the tree,
To pick the crumbs up, one by one, And sing and chirp, when he has
done;-- Then when I show him Robin dead, How many bitter tears he'll
shed!

[Illustration]

THE RIDE.

This little girl is having a ride. She has a nice carriage, and a
pretty goat for a horse.

I think her brother must be very kind to her.

I had a ride in a goat carriage once; it was on Boston Common; father put
little Arthur and me into the carriage, and we rode along, holding the
reins, as happy as could be. After the ride was over, we went to the
Public Garden and fed the ducks and fishes, and then we had a sail in the
boat. I hope we shall go again next summer.

[Illustration]

THE LION.

Let me tell you a short story about a Lion. Once a poor Negro found that a
Lion was following him, as he was walking along through the woods. The
Lion was watching for a chance to spring upon him. The man was very much
frightened, but walked swiftly along till he came to a very steep bank;
here he quickly placed his hat and cloak on a bush, to make it
look like a man, and then he crept away.

The Lion, thinking it was the man, was silly enough to spring upon
the cloak, and tumbled on the rocks below.

[Illustration]
LEARNING TO READ.

Come, little brother, come to me; I'll teach you soon your A, B, C.

You're three years old; you must, indeed, Begin at once to learn
to read.

Be careful now, don't tear the book, And where I point there you must
look.
That's A, that's B, and that is C; Now say them plainly after
me.

That's very well! How very nice!
You'll learn your letters in a trice.
And then you'll quickly learn to spell, And soon, I hope, read very
well.

[Illustration] 
GETTING UP.
Baby, baby, Ope your eye, For the sun Is in the sky;
And he's peeping once again, Through the frosty window pane.
Little baby, do not keep Any longer fast asleep.
There, now, sit in mother's lap, That she may untie your cap; For
the little strings have got Twisted into such a knot!
[Illustration] 

SUSY BROWN."God preserve me from such!" quoth I fervently.

"You--you?" cried she. "What thing are you that seeming man must blench at
a little blood? Are you yourself so innocent, you that know Tressady o' the
Hook?"

"Howbeit I am no murderer, woman."

"Ah--bah!" cried she, with flick of scornful fingers. "Enough of words,
Master Innocent. Bring me where I may eat and bed me till morning."

Thereupon (and mighty unwilling) I brought her into the cave and lighting
two candles of my own contriving, I set before her such viands as I had,
together with bread I had newly baked, and with no word of thanks this
strange, fierce creature fell to eating with a voracity methought very
disgusting.

Now the more I saw of her the more grew my disgust and the end of it was
I determined to put the whole length of the island betwixt us and that at
once. To this end I began collecting such articles as I should want, as
my light hatchet, sword, pistols, etc. I was buckling on my belt when her
voice arrested me, albeit she spoke me very sweetly and soft:

"You go now to your woman--your light of love--yes?"

"There is no woman but yourself," said I, frowning.

"Liar! Then what of this?" and she pointed slender finger; then I saw that
tattered garment lying where I had dropped it and this woman spurning
it with her foot. So I stooped forthwith, and snatching it from her
desecrating touch, folded it across my arm, whereat she fell to sudden
laughter very ill to bear.

"Ah--ah!" said she, softer than before and most hatefully a-smiling, "'tis
for her sake your chin goeth bare and smooth--yes? She is over-nice in the
matter of--"

"I tell you she is gone!" said I in fury.

"Gone--gone, is she? And you alone here, longing but for her return,
through weeks and months and years waiting for her to come back to you; is
not this the truth of it, yes?" Now I, knowing this for very truth, could
but scowl, finding no word to say, whiles this creature nodded and flashed
white teeth in her hateful smile. "You loved this woman," said she, "do
love her; dead or living, rotting bones or another's delight, you do love
her yet, poor, miserable fool!"

All unheeding, I folded the garment with reverent hands while she taunted
me thus, until, seeing me nothing moved, she fell to rank vileness,
bespattering that pure memory with tongue so shamelessly foul that I
(losing all patience) turned on her at last; but in this moment she was on
her feet and snatching my sword made therewith a furious pass at me, the
which I contrived to parry and, catching the blade in this beloved garment,
I wrenched the weapon from her. Then, pinning her in fierce grip and
despite her furious struggles and writhing, I belaboured her soundly with
the flat of the blade, she meanwhile swearing and cursing at me in Spanish
and English as vilely as ever I had done in all my days, until her voice
broke and she choked upon a great sob. Thereupon I flung her across my bed
and taking such things as I needed, strode out of the cave and so left her.

But scarce was I without the cave than she came following after me; and
truly never was greater change, for in place of snarling daemon here was
tender maid all tearful sighs, gentle-eyed and with clasped hands reached
out to me in supplication and (despite her male attire) all woman.

Perceiving the which, I turned my back upon her and hasted away all the
faster.

So here was I, that had grieved in my solitude and yearned amain for
human fellowship, heartily wishing myself alone again and full of a new
apprehension, viz: That my island being so small I might chance to find the
avoidance of this evil creature a matter of some difficulty, even though
I abandoned my caves and furniture to her use and sought me another
habitation.

Now as I went I fell to uneasy speculation regarding this woman, her
fierce, wild beauty, her shameless tongue, her proud and passionate temper,
her reckless furies; and bethinking me of all the manifest evil of her, I
felt again that chill of the flesh, that indefinable disgust, insomuch
that (the moon being bright and full) I must glance back, more than once,
half-dreading to see her creeping on my heels.

Having traversed Deliverance Sands I came into that cleft or defile, 'twixt
bush-girt, steepy cliffs, called Skeleton Cove, where I had builded me a
forge with bellows of goatskin. Here, too, I had set up an anvil (the which
had come ashore in a wreck, together with divers other tools) and a bench
for my carpentry. The roof of this smithy backed upon a cavern wherein I
stored my tools, timber and various odds and ends.

This place, then, I determined should be my habitation henceforth, there
being a little rill of sweet water adjacent and the cave itself dry and
roomy and so shut in by precipitous cliffs that any who might come to my
disturbance must come only in the one direction.

And now, as I judged, there being yet some hours to sunrise, I made myself
as comfortable as might be and having laid by sword and belt and set my
pistols within easy reach, I laid down and composed myself to slumber. But
this I could by no means compass, being fretted of distressful thought
and made vain and bitter repining for this ship that had come and sailed,
leaving me a captive still, prisoned on this hateful island with this wild
creature that methought more daemon than woman. And seeing myself thus
mocked of Fortune (in my blind folly) I fell to reviling the God that made
me. Howbeit sleep overtook me at last, but an evil slumber haunted by
visions of this woman, her beauty fouled and bloody, who sought out my
destruction where I lay powerless to resist her will. Low she bent above
me, her dusky hair a cloud that choked me, and through this cloud the
glitter of her eyes, red lips that curled back from snapping teeth, fingers
clawed to rend and tear; then as I gazed, in horror, these eyes grew soft
and languorous, these vivid lips trembled to wistful smile, these cruel
hands clasped, soft-clinging, and drew me near and ever nearer towards that
smiling, tender mouth, until I waked in a panic to behold the dawn and
against the sun's growing splendour the woman standing and holding my
pistols levelled at me as I lay.

Now I do think there is no hale man, howsoever desperate and careless of
life, but who, faced with sudden, violent death, will not of instinct
blench and find himself mighty unready to take the leap into that dark
unknown whose dread doth fright us one and all; howbeit thus was it with
me, for now as I stared from the pistol muzzle to the merciless eyes behind
them, I, that had hitherto esteemed death no hardship, lay there in dumb
and sweating panic, and, knowing myself afraid, scorned and hated myself
therefor.

"Ah--ah!" said she softly but with flash of white teeth. "Will ye cower
then, you beater of women? Down to your knees--down and sue pardon of me!"
But now, stung by her words and the quaking of my coward flesh, I found
voice.

"Shoot, wanton!" said I. "Shoot, lest I beat you again for the vile,
shameless thing you are." At this she flinched and her fierce eyes wavered;
then she laughed loud and shrill:

"Will ye die then? Yes? Will ye die?"

"Aye," I nodded, "So I may be quit of you."

"Hath dying then no fears for you--no?"

"'Tis overpast!" quoth I.

"Liar!" said she. "Wipe the craven sweat from you! You beat me, and for
this you should die, but though you fear death you shall live to fear me
more--aye, you shall live awhile--take your life!"

So saying, she tossed the pistols down beside me and laughed.

"When I wish to kill and be done with you, my steel shall take you in
your sleep, or you shall die by poison; there be many roots and berries
hereabout, Indian poisons I wot of. So your life is mine to take whensoever
I will."

Nevertheless one can clearly discern through the litter of packing-cases
which completely surrounds the house that there was originally a
garden there.

I thought something ought to be done about this, so I bought a little book
on gardening, and, turning to September, began to read.

"September," said the man, "marks the passing of summer and the
advent of autumn, the time of ripening ruddy-faced fruits and the
reign of a rich and gloriously-coloured flora."

About the first part of this statement I have no observation to make.

It is probably propaganda, subsidised by the Meteorological Office in order
to persuade us that we still have a summer; it has nothing to do
with my present theme.

But with regard to the ripening ruddy-faced fruits I should like to point
out that in my garden there are none of these things, because the
previous tenants took them all away when they left.

Not a ruddy-faced fruit remains. As for the rich and gloriously-coloured
flora, I lifted the edges of all the packing-cases in turn and looked
for it, but it was not there either. It should have consisted, I gather,
of "gorgeously-coloured dahlias, gay sunflowers, Michaelmas daisies,
gladioli and other autumn blossoms, adding brightness and gaiety to our
flower-garden."

"Gaiety" seems to be rather a strong point with this author, for a little
further on he says, "The garden should be gay throughout the month with the
following plants," and then follows a list of about a hundred names
which sound like complicated diseases of the internal organs. I cannot
mention them all, but it seems that my garden should be gay throughout with
_Lysimachia clethroides, Kniphofia nobilis_ and _Pyrethrum uliginosum_.
It is not. How anything can be gay with _Pyrethrum uliginosum_ I cannot
imagine. An attitude of reverent sympathy is what I should have expected
the garden to have. But that is what the man says.

Then there is the greenhouse. "From now onwards," he writes, "the greenhouse
will meet with a more welcome appreciation than it has during the summer
months. The chief plants in flower will be _Lantanas_, _Campanula pyramidalis_,
_Zonal Pelargoniums_," and about twenty more. "Oh, they will, will
they?" I thought, and opened the greenhouse door and looked in. Against the
wall there were two or three mouldering peach-trees, and all over the roof
and floor a riot of green tomatoes, a fruit which even when it becomes
ruddy-faced I do not particularly like. In a single large pot stood a
dissipated cactus, resembling a hedgehog suffering from mange.

But what was even more bitter to me than all this ruin and desolation was the
thought of the glorious deeds I might have been doing if the garden
had been all right.

Phrases from the book kept flashing to my eye.

"Thoroughly scrub the base and sides of the pots, and see that the
drainage-holes are not sealed with soil." How it thrilled the blood!

"Damp the floors and staging every morning and afternoon, and see
that the compost is kept uniformly moist."

What a fascinating pursuit!

"Feed the plants once a week with liquid manure." It went like a clarion
call to the heart.

And here I was condemned to _ennui_ and indolence when I might have
been sitting up all night dosing the _Zonal Pelargoniums_ with hot
beef-tea and taking the temperature of the _Campanula pyramidalis_.

Even with the ruddy-faced fruits there would have been plenty to do.

"Wooden trays with open lath bottoms made to slide into a framework afford
the best means of storing apples and pears. The ripening of pears may be
accelerated by enclosing them in bran or dry clean sand in a closed tin
box." It did not say how often one was to clean out the cage, nor whether
you put groundsel between the bars.

I told the man next door of my sorrows.

"Well, there 's plenty to do," he said. "Get a spade and dig the garden all
over."
Dig it all over indeed when I ought to be plucking nosegays of _Lysimachia
clethroides_ and _Pyrethrum uliginosum_ to put in my buttonhole! I prefer
to dream my dreams.

EVOE.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Mistress_. "SO IT'S THE CHAUFFEUR THAT'S GOING TO BE THE
LUCKY MAN, MARY?

I WAS UNDER THE IMPRESSION THAT THE BUTLER WAS THE FAVOURED ONE."
_Cook_. "THAT WAS SO, MUM; BUT MR. WILLOUGHBY LET ME SLIP THROUGH HIS
FINGERS."]

* * * * *
THE CABMAN AND THE COIN.

"We must wait a minute or two for Sir Charles," said our hostess.

"Everyone else is here," and she beamed around the room.

The various _mauvais quart d'heure_ dialogues that this speech had interrupted
were resumed, most of them switching on to the question of punctuality.
And then a cab was heard to stop outside and after a minute or so,
presumably spent in financial transactions, the bell rang and the knocker
knocked.

"That's Sir Charles," said our hostess; "there he is;" and a few
moments later the guest we all awaited so fervently was in the room,
full of apologies.

"Never mind why you're late," said our hostess, "I'm sure you couldn't
help it. Now we'll eat," and once again a dozen Londoners fell
into ark- approaching formation and moved towards repletion.

The party was familiar enough, after certain solvents of speech had
been applied, for conversation to become general; and during the
_entrée_ we were all listening to Sir Charles telling the famous
story of the eminent numismatist who, visiting the British Museum,
was taken for a thief.

By way of making the narration the more vivid he felt in his pocket
for a coin with which to illustrate the dramatic crisis, when his
expression became suddenly alarmed and fixed.

"Good heavens!"

he said, fumbling nervously all over his clothes, "I've given it
to the cabman.

Of all the infernal idiocy! I knew I should.

I had a presentiment that I should get it muddled up with my other
money and give it away."

"What was it?" he was asked.

"Was it something very valuable?"

"Was it a rare coin?"

Murmurs of sympathy made a low accompaniment.

"It was a goldmohur," said Sir Charles. "A very beautiful coin of the Moguls.
I keep it as a kind of mascot.

I've had it for years, but left it behind and it reached me from
India only this morning.

Having come away without it I sent a cable for it to be forwarded on. And
now! It's the rottenest luck."

"What was it worth?" our hostess asked.

"Not very much. Thirty pounds perhaps. But that isn't it. The money is
nothing--it's the sentimental associations that make the loss so
serious."

"Well," said a practical man, "you needn't despair. Ring up Scotland Yard
and ask them the best thing to do."
"Did you take the cabman's number?" some one asked.

"Of course he didn't," our hostess replied. "Who ever does a thing like
that?"
"As a matter of fact," said Sir Charles, "I sometimes do.

But this time, of course, I didn't." He groaned. "No, it's gone for ever.
The cabman will see it's gold and sell it. I wouldn't trust your modern
taxi-chauffeur with anything."
"If you would feel any happier," said our hostess, "do telephone
now."

"No," said Sir Charles, "no. It's no use. A coin like that would never
be surrendered. It's too interesting; even a cabman would realise
that.
Umbrellas they'll take back, of course--umbrellas and bags, but not a
goldmohur. He'll either keep it to show his pals in public-houses or have
it fixed up as a brooch for his wife."
As Sir Charles finished speaking and once more turned gloomily to his
neglected plate the knocker was heard again to knock, and then one of the
maids approached her mistress and spoke to her in low tones.

Our hostess brightened. "Now, Sir Charles," she said, "perhaps you'll
revise your opinion of our taxi-drivers. Tell Sir Charles what it is," she
said to the maid.

"If you please," the maid began, "there's a cabman at the door. He says he
brought a gentleman here and----" Here she faltered.

"Go on, Robins," said her mistress.

  "If you please, I don't
  like to," said the girl.
  "It's so--so----"
  "I should like to hear it
  exactly," said Sir
  Charles.

"Well," said the maid with a burst of courage, "he says there's a gentleman
here who--who bilked him--who passed a piece of bad money on him in the
dark. Here it is," and she handed Sir Charles the goldmohur. "And he says
if he doesn't get an honest shilling in exchange for it he'll have the
law on him."
E.V.L.

* * * * *
THE KNELL OF THE NAVY.

Spooner is a remarkable fellow. His duties on board this ship are to fly
once a week off the deck, revolve twice round the masts and sink
thankfully down into the water, where we haul him out by the breeches
and hang his machine up to dry on the fo'c's'le.

By performing these duties four times a month, he leads us to believe
he is preparing the way for the ultimate domination of Air Power.

We of the Navy are obsolete, and our hulls are encrusted with the Harwich
barnacle.

The argument proceeds on these lines: One day there will be another
war--perhaps to-morrow.

We of the Navy, coalless and probably by that time rumless as well,
will rush blindly from our harbours, our masts decked with Jolly
Rogers and our sailors convulsed with hornpipe, to seek the enemy.

But, alas, before the ocean spray has wetted our ruby nostrils we
shall find ourselves descended upon from above and bombed promiscuously
in the middle watch.

It will be all over inside a nautical second.

The sky will be black with hostile aircraft, and there will be lead in the
stew and bleeding bodies in the bilge.

Hollow laughter will sound from the bridge, where the Captain will
find the wheel come away in his hand, and the gramophone will revolve
eternally on a jazz rune because no one will be alive to stop it.

When all these things occur we of the Navy will know that our day is
past and done.

Why our Mr. Spooner is such a remarkable fellow is because he can sit
deep in an easy-chair and recite these things without turning a single hair
on his top lip. Of course he realises that the work of the Navy must go
on--until the crash descends. But it is rather unsettling for us. It seems
to give us all a sort of impermanent feeling.

Quite naturally we all ask what is the use of keeping up the log
and painting the ship?

Why isn't all the spare energy in the ship bent to polishing up our
boat-drill?

or why aren't the people who can afford it encouraged to buy
unsinkable waistcoats?

The Admiralty must know all about it if they are still on speaking
terms with the Air Ministry.

It's a beastly feeling.

Yesterday a formation of powerful aeroplanes, which Spooner called the
"Clutching Hand," came out from the land and flew round us, and
simply prodded us with their propellers as we lay defenceless on
the water.

The bogey is undoubtedly spreading. The Admiral came aboard this
afternoon to inspect our new guns. He yawned the whole time in his beard
and did not ask a single question. We suppose he realises that the whole
business is merely a makeshift arrangement for the time being and
not worth bothering about as long as the brass is polished and the
guns move up and down easily.

Well, as far as we are concerned it only remains for Number One, who has a
brother in the Air Force, to cancel his winter order with Breezes,
the naval tailors, and we shall all go below and pack our trunks
and get ready to hand the ship over to Spooner.

If the Navy of the future must be under water there is no particular reason
why we should be there too.

* * * * *

[Illustration: MANNERS AND MODES.

FASHIONABLE METEOROLOGY FOR MICHAELMAS. BRITISH ISLES: TEMPERATURE, WARM
TO CHILLY (ACCORDING TO TASTE).]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Jarvey._ "YE'RE ON THE WRONG SIDE AV YERE ROAD, MICK."

_Mick._ "SURE THE COUNTRY'S OUR OWN NOW AND WE CAN DHRIVE WHERE WE
LIKE

."]

* * * * *
THE CONSPIRATORS.

1.

My Dear Charles,--You continue to ask me what I am doing, and why,
and when I am going to sign the Peace, like everyone else, and
return to honest work.

The answer is in the negative. Though I am very fond of peace, I don't like
work. And, as for being honest, I tend rather to politics.

Have I never told you that I take a leading part on the Continent
in the great Class War now raging?

And, by the way, has anyone let you know that it is only a matter of time
before the present order of society is closed down, the rule of the proletariat
established and people like Charles set on to clean the streets or
ruthlessly eliminated?

LENIN began to worry about you as long ago as 1915, and you know what
happens to people when LENIN really starts to worry about them. He wasn't
satisfied that enough violent interest was being taken in you; the mere
Socialists he regarded as far too moderate and genteel. As for their First
and their Second International--he wanted something thoroughgoing,
something with a bit of ginger to it. So at the Zimmerwald Congress on
the 5th September of that year all the out-and-outs unanimously
declared war to the knife agin the Government, whatever and wherever
the Government might be.

  How many long and weary years
  have you waited, Charles,
  to be told what Zimmerwaldianism might be--a religious tendency,
a political aspiration, a valvular disease of the appendix or
something to do with motor-cars?

Ah, but that is as nothing to the secrets I am going to let you
into, to force you into, before I have done with you.

It was not until well into 1918 that I myself began to worry about
LENIN.

He had left Switzerland by that time, having got tired of the jodelling
Swiss and their infernally placid mountains. When the revolution broke
out in Russia he felt it was just the thing for him, and his German backers
felt he was just the man for it. So LENIN, whose real name isn't LENIN,
went into partnership with TROTSKY, whose real name isn't TROTSKY, and set
up in business in Moscow. But the thing was too good to be confined to
Russia; an export department was clearly called for. It was when they
began in the "off-licence" trade, in the "jug-and-bottle" business, that
they ran up against your Henry.

With the view of upheaving Switzerland, LENIN and Co. sent a Legation to its
capital, the principle being, no doubt, that before you cut another people's
throat you must first establish friendly relations. This Legation arrived
in May, 1918, when we were all so occupied with the War, making returns
and indents and things, that it hoped to pass unnoticed. But there was
something about that Legation which caught the eye; it had not the Foreign
Office look about it--smart Homburg hats, washleather gloves, attaché-cases
with majestic locks, spats ... there was something missing.
It looked as if it might be so many Anarchists plotting a bomb affair.

And that's what it was. I suppose you will say I am inventing it when I tell
you that it used to sit round a table, in the basement of an Italian
restaurant, devising schemes for getting rid of people (especially
people like Charles) _en bloc_; that it didn't provide the Italian
restaurant- keeper with as much money as he thought he could do
with; that the Italian restaurant-keeper came round to see us after
dark; wouldn't give his name; came into the room hurriedly; locked
the door behind him; whispered "H'st!"

and told us all about it. It requires an Italian to do that sort of thing
properly; but this fellow was better than the best. I couldn't go to a
cinema for months afterwards because it lacked the thrill of real
life.

We were so impressed with his performance that we asked him his trade.
He dropped the sinister, assumed the bashful and told us that he was an
illusionist and juggler before he took to restaurant-keeping and
sleuthing.

He juggled four empty ink-pots for our entertainment and made one of them
disappear. Not quite the way to treat a world-revolution; but there! This
was all in the autumn of 1918, when we were naturally a bit above
ourselves.

Switzerland has four frontiers--German, Austrian, Italian and French.
Lenin's Legation had opened up modestly and without ostentation as becomes
a world's reformer, a distributing office on each one of the four. Somehow
I could never work myself up to be really alarmed at jolly ANNA BALABANOFF,
but I fancy she has done as much harm since as most people achieve
here on earth.

Her job was to work into Italy; but in those days, when war conditions
still prevailed, she couldn't do much more than stand on the shores of
the Lake of Lugano and scowl at the opposite side, which is Italian.

Do you remember the lady's photograph in our daily Press?

If so you will agree with me that even that measure was enough to start
unrest in Italy....

Charles, my lad, let us break off there and leave you for a week
all of a tremble.

In the course of these Sensational Revelations we are going to see
something of the arrangements made for the break-up of the old
world, which, with all its faults, we know we still love.

The process of reconstruction is not yet defined, and will probably
not be attempted in our time.

In any case, when things arrive at that stage, there will be no
Charles and, I am still more sorry to say, no Henry.

Now, whatever you may think about it, I for one am not prepared to be
scrapped and to become part of a dump of oddments waiting instructions
for removal from a Bolshevist Disposals Board.

You know what these Disposal Boards are; one's body might lie out
in the rain for years while the minutes were being passed round the
Moscow Departments.

I have worried myself to death about it, and now I am going to worry you.
I am going to make your flesh creep and your blood run cold.

No use your telling me you don't care what is coming along in the
future, provided you can be left in peace for the present.

_I shall tap you on the shoulder and shall whisper into your ear
the resolutions passed with regard to you as recently as the end
of July last at Moscow._.

I'll make you so nervous that you daren't get into bed, and, once
in bed, daren't get out again.

I expect to have you mad in about three weeks, and even then I shall
pass more copies of this paper, with more revelations in them,
through the bars of your asylum window.

All that for sixpence a week is not expensive, is it, dear Charles?

Yours ever,
HENRY.

(_To be continued._)
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Officer._ "WHEN YOU SEE A MOON LIKE THAT, THOMPSON,
DOESN'T IT SOMETIMES MAKE YOU FEEL A LITTLE BIT SENTIMENTAL?"

_P.O._ "NO, SIR, I CAN'T SAY IT DO. THE ON'Y TIME I GETS SLOPPY NOW
IS WHEN I'VE 'AD A FEW NICE-LOOKIN' PINTS O' BEER."]
* * * * * 
COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.
"Do not delay. The above coats will last only few hours."And I am
foolish to suffer such as you to anger me, but needs must I vex you a
little in quittance, yes."

At this I did but shrug my shoulders and turned to study again the
problem--how to set about launching my boat.

"Art a something skilful carpenter, eh, Martino," said she in a while;
"'twas you made the table and chairs and beds in the caves up yonder, eh,
Martino?"

"Aye."

"And these the tools you made 'em with, eh, Martino?" and she pointed where
they lay beside the boat.

"Nay," quoth I, speaking on impulse, being yet busied with my problem, "I
had nought but my hatchet then and chisels of iron."

"Your hatchet--this?" she questioned, taking it up.

"Aye!" I nodded. "The hatchet was the first tool I found after we were cast
destitute on this island."

"Ah--ah--then she was with you when you found it--the woman that wore this
gown before me, eh, Martino?"

"Aye--and what then?"

"This!" cried she and wheeling the hatchet strong-armed, she sent it
spinning far out to sea or ever I might stay her.

Now, beholding the last of this good hatchet that had oft known my dear
lady's touch, that had beside, been, as it were, a weapon to our defence
and a means to our comfort, seeing myself (as I say) now bereft of it thus
wantonly, I sprang to my feet, uttering a cry of mingled grief and rage.
But she, skipping nimbly out of reach, caught up one of my pistols where
she had hid it behind a rock and stood regarding me with her hateful smile.

"Ah, ah!" says she, mocking, "do I then vex you a little, _amigo mio_? So
is it very well. Ha, scowl, fool Martino, scowl and grind your teeth; 'tis
joy to me and shall never bring back your little axe."

At this, seeing grief and anger alike unavailing, I sat me down by the boat
and sinking my head in my hands, strove to settle my mind to this problem
of launching; but this I might by no means do, since here was this devilish
creature perched upon an adjacent rock to plague me still.

"How now, Martino?" she questioned. "What troubleth your sluggish brain
now?" And then, as she had read my very thought: "Is't your boat--to bring
her afloat? Ah--bah! 'tis simple matter! Here she lies and yonder the sea!
Well, dig you a pit about the boat as deep as may be, bank the sand about
your pit as high as may be. Then cut you a channel to high-water mark
and beyond, so with the first tide, wind-driven, the sea shall fill your
channel, pour into your pit, brimming it full and your banks being higher
than your boat she shall swim and be drawn seaward on the backwash. So,
here's the way on't. And so must you sweat and dig and labour, and I joy
to watch--Ah, yes, for you shall sweat, dig and labour in vain, except you
swear me I shall sail with you." So saying, she drops me a mocking courtsey
and away she goes.

She gone and night being at hand, I set aside two or three stout spars
should serve me as masts, yards, etc., together with rope and cordage for
tackle and therewith two pair of oars; which done, I got me to my cave and,
having supped, to bed.

Early next morning I set myself to draw a circle about my boat and mark out
a channel thence to the sea (even as she had suggested) since I could hit
upon no better way. This done, I fell to with spade and mattock but found
this a matter of great labour since the sand, being very dry and loose
hereabouts, was constantly shifting and running back upon me.

And presently, as I strove thus painfully, cometh my tormentor to plague me
anew (albeit the morning was so young) she very gay and debonnaire in her
'broidered gown.

"Ha!" said she, seating herself hard by. "The sun is new-risen, yet you do
sweat wofully, the which I do joy to see. So-ho, then, labour and sweat, my
pretty man: it shall be all vain, aha--vain and to no purpose."

But finding I heeded her no more than buzzing fly, she changed her tune,
viewing me tender-eyed and sighing soft:

"Am I not better as a woman, eh, Martino?" asked she, spreading out her
petticoats. "Aye, to be sure your eyes do tell me so, scowl and mutter as
you will. See now, Martino, I have lived here three days and in all this
woful weary time hast never asked my name, which is strange, unless dost
know it already, for 'tis famous hereabouts and all along the Main; indeed
'tis none so wonderful you should know it--"

"I don't!" said I. "Nor wish to!"

"Then I will tell you--'tis Joan!" Hereupon I dropped my spade and she,
seeing how I stared upon her, burst into a peal of laughter. "Ah, ah!"
cried she. "Here is pretty, soft name and should fit me as well as another.
Why must you stare so fool-like; here is no witchcraft, for in the caves
yonder 'Joan' meeteth me at every turn; 'tis carven on walls, on chairs, on
table, together with 'Damaris' and many woful, lovesick mottoes beside."

Now I, knowing this for truth, turned my back and ground my teeth in
impotent anger, whiles this woman mocked me with her laughter.

"Damaris--Joan!" said she. "At first methought these two women, but now do
I know Joan is Damaris and Damaris Joan and you a poor, lovelorn fool. But
as for me--I am Joanna--"

Now at this I turned and looked at her.

"Joanna?" said I, wondering.

"Ah, you have heard it--this name, before--yes?"

"Aye, in a song."

"Oh, verily!" said she and forthwith began singing in her deep, rich voice:

  "There's a fine Spanish dame
  And Joanna's her name
  Shall follow wherever you go--"

"Aha, and mark this, Martino:

  "Till your black heart shall feel
  Your own cursed steel
  Black Bartlemy--Bartlemy, ho!"

"But this was my mother--"

"Ha--she that stabbed and killed the pirate Bartlemy ere he slew her? But
she was a Spanish lady."

"Nay, she was English, and lieth buried hereabouts, 'tis said; howbeit,
she died here whiles I was with the Indians. They found me, very small and
helpless, in the ruins of a burned town and took me away into the mountains
and, being Indians, used me kindly and well. Then came white men, twenty
and two, and, being Christians, slew the Indians and used me evilly and
were cruel, save only one; twenty and two they were and all dead long ago,
each and every, save only one. Aha, Martino, for the evil men have made me
endure, I have ever been excellent well avenged! For I am Joanna that some
call 'Culebra' and some 'Gadfly' and some 'Fighting Jo.' And indeed there
be few men can match me at swordplay and as for musket and pistol--watch
now, Martino, the macaw yonder!" She pointed to a bird that stood preening
itself on a rock at no little distance and, catching up the pistol,
levelled and fired; and in place of the bird was nought but a splash of
blood and a few poor, gaudy feathers stirring lazily in the gentle wind.

"See," cried she, with a little, soft laugh, "am I not a goodly _camarado_
for any brave fellow, yes?"

"Truly," said I, turning away, "I think your breeches do become you best--"

"Liar!" she cried. "You know I am handsomer thus! Your eyes ha' told me so
already. And look ye, I can be as soft and tender, as meek and helpless as
any puling woman of 'em all, when I will. And if I hate fiercely, so is my
love--ha, d'ye blench, fool, d'ye shrink; you thing shaped like a man, must
ye cringe at the word 'love'?"

"Aye!" said I, over my shoulder. "On your lips 'tis desecration!"

"Desecration--desecration?" quoth she, staring on me great-eyed and biting
at her scarlet nether lip. "Ha, dare ye say it, dog?" And crying thus, she
hurled the pistol at me with aim so true that I staggered and came nigh
falling. Stung by the blow I turned on her in a fury, but she leapt to her
feet and showed me my own knife glittering in her fist.

"Ah, bah--back to your labour, slave!" she mocked.

"Have done, woman!" I cried. "Have done, or by the living God, you will
goad me into slaying you yet--"

"Tush!" said she, "I am used to outfacing men, but you--ha, you should be
fed on pap and suckets, you that are no man! 'Tis small wonder you lost
your Joan--Damaris; 'tis no wonder she fled away and left you--"

Now at this (and nothing heeding her knife) I sprang at her and she,
letting fall the knife, leapt towards me; and then I had her, felt her all
soft and palpitant in my furious grip, heard a quivering sigh, saw her
head sway back across my arm and she drooping in my embrace, helpless and
a-swoon. And holding her thus 'prisoned and crushed against me, I could not
but be conscious of all the tender, languorous beauty of her ere I hasted
to lay her upon the sand. My arms were yet about her (and I upon my knees)
when her bosom heaved to sudden, tremulous sigh and opening her eyes, she
smiled up at me.

"Ah, Martino," sighed she softly, "do not these petticoats become me vastly
well, yes?" And reaching up, she set her arms about me. "Am I not better
than dream-woman, I that men have died for--I, Joanna?"

Now hereupon I shivered and loosing her hold rose to my feet and stood with
head averted that I might not behold her. Presently she arose also and
coming where lay the knife, took it up and stood turning it this way and
that.

"Martin," said she in her soft, dreamy speech, "you are mightily strong
and--mightily gentle, and I do think we shall make a man of you yet!"

So saying, she turned and went away, the knife glittering in her hand. As
for me I cast myself down and with no thought or will to labour now, for it
seemed that my strength was gone from me.


CHAPTER V

TELLETH HOW ALL MY TRAVAIL CAME TO NOUGHT


That night, the moon being at the full and I very wakeful, I lay harassed
of a thousand fretting thoughts, and each and every of this woman Joanna;
and turning on my sleepless couch I cursed that hour the which had set her
in my company.

Yet, even so, I must needs bethink me of all the supple warmth of her as
she lay in my arms, of the velvety touch of her cheek that had by chance
brushed my hand. Hereupon I would strive to turn my thoughts upon the
labours of to-morrow only to find myself recalling the sound of her voice,
now deep and soft and infinite sweet, now harsh and shrill and hatefully
shrewish; or her golden-brown eyes, thick-lashed and marvellous quick in
their changes from sleepy languor to flaming malevolence.

Thus lay I, haunted of her memory and all the sudden, bewildering changes
of her moods until at last I started up, and coming to the entrance of my
cave, saw her standing without and the moon bright on her face.

"Art wakeful too, Martino?" asked she softly. "'Tis the moon belike, or the
heat of the night." Here she came a slow pace nearer; and her eyes were
sweet and languorous and on her vivid mouth a smile infinite alluring.
Slowly she drew near, thralling me as it were with the wonder of her look
that I had neither power nor will to move or speak. Confident of herself
and assured in her beauty she reached out her hands to me, her long lashes
swept down, veiling her eyes; but, even then, I had seen their flash of
triumph, and in that moment, bursting the spell that bound me, I turned
from her.

"Go--leave me!" said I, finding my voice at last. "Here is no place for
you!" And I stood thereafter with head averted, dreading her sighs and
tears; instead (and to my unutterable relief) she brake out into a storm
of sea-oaths, beslavering me with vile abuse and bitter curses. Now,
hearkening to this lewd tirade, I marvelled I should ever have feared and
trembled because of the womanhood of creature so coarse and unsexed. Thus
she continued alternately mocking at and reviling me until she must needs
pause for lack of breath; then I turned to look at her and stood amazed to
behold that passionate head bowed upon her hands.

"Aye, I weep," she sobbed. "I weep because I am woman, after all, but in
my heart I hate you and with my soul I despise you, for you are but a mock
man,--the blood in your veins skim milk! Ah, by God, there is more of
vigorous life in my little finger than in all your great, heavy, clod-like
carcase. Oh, shame!" Here she lifted her head to scowl on me and I, not
enduring her look, glanced otherwhere. "Ha--rot me!" cried she, wagging
scornful finger. "Rot me but you are afraid of me--afraid, yes!"

"True!" said I. "So will I win free of you so soon as I may--"

"Free of me?" cried she, and throwing herself on the sands, sat crouched
there, her head upon her knees and sobbing miserably. "So you will abandon
me then?" said she at last.

"Aye."

"Even though I--vow myself your slave?"

"I want no slave."

"Even though I beseech you on my knees?"

"'Twere vain, I sail hence alone."

"You were wiser to seek my love than my hate."

"But I was ever a fool."

"Aye, verily!" she cried passionately. "So do you yearn ever for your
light-o'-love, for your vanished Joan--your Damaris that left you--"

"Now I pray you go!" said I.

"I wonder," sighed she, never stirring, "I wonder why I do not kill you? I
hate you--despise you and yet--"

Slowly she got to her feet and moved away with dragging step but paused
anon and spake again with head a-droop:

"Living or dead, you shall not leave the island except I go with you!"
Then she went her way and something in her attitude methought infinitely
desolate.

Left alone, I stood awhile in gloomy thought, but rousing presently, I
betook me into my cave, and lying down, fell at last to uneasy slumber. But
waking suddenly, I started up on elbow full of an indefinable fear, and
glancing without the cave, I saw a strange thing, for sand and rock and
bush-girt cliff had on an unfamiliar aspect, the which I was wholly unable
to account for; rocks and trees and flowering vines shone throbbing upon my
vision with a palpitant glow that came and went, the like of which I had
never seen before.

Then, all at once, I was up and running along Skeleton Cove, filled with a
dreadful apprehension, and coming out upon Deliverance Beach, stood quaking
like one smitten with a palsy; for there, lapped about in writhing flame
and crackling sparks, was all that remained of my boat, and crouched upon
the sands, watching me by the light of this fire, was she who called
herself Joanna.

And now, perceiving all the wanton cruelty of this thing, a cold and
merciless rage took me and staring on this woman as she stared on me, I
began to creep towards her.

"I warned you, fool, I warned you!" cried she, never moving. "'Tis a brave
fire I've made and burns well. And now you shall kill me an you will--but
your boat is lost to you for ever, and so is--your Damaris!"

Now at sound of this loved name I stopped and stood a great while staring
at the fire, then suddenly I cast myself on my knees, and lifting up my
eyes to the stars already paling to dawn, I prayed God to keep me from the
sin of murder.

When at last I rose to my feet, Joanna was gone.

The sun was high-risen when I came again, slow and heavy-footed, to behold
what the fire had left of my boat; a heap of ashes, a few fragments of
charred timber. And this the sorry end of all my fond hopes, my vain
schemes, my sweat and labour.

And as I gazed, in place of my raging fury of last night was a hopeless
despondency and a great bitterness against that perverse fate that seemed
to mock my every endeavour.

As I stood thus deject and bitterly cast down, I heard the step of this
woman Joanna and presently she cometh beside me.

"You will be hating me for this, hating me--yes?" she questioned; then,
finding me all regardless of her, she plucked me by the sleeve. "Ah--and
will you not speak to me?" cried she. Turning from her, I began to pace
aimlessly along beside the lagoon but she, overtaking, halted suddenly in
my path. "Your boat would have leaked and swamped with you, Martino!" said
she, but heeding her no whit I turned and plodded back again, and she ever
beside me. "I tell you the cursed thing would ha' gone to pieces at the
first gust of wind!" she cried. But I paced on with neither word nor look
until, finding me thus blind and deaf to her, she cursed me bitterly and so
left me alone and I, following a haphazard course, presently found myself
in a grove of palmetto trees and sat me down in this pleasant shade where
I might behold the sea, that boundless, that impassable barrier. But in a
while, espying the woman coming thitherwards, I rose and tramped on again
with no thought but to save myself from her companionship.

All the morning then I rambled aimlessly to and fro, keeping ever amid the
woods and thickets, staying my hunger with such fruit as I fell in with,
as grapes and plantains; or sitting listlessly, my hands idle before me, I
stared out across these empty, sun-smitten waters, until, dazzled by their
glare, I would rise and wander on again, my mind ever and always troubled
of a great perplexity, namely: How might I (having regard to the devilish
nature of this woman Joanna) keep myself from slaying her in some fit of
madness, thereby staining my soul with her murder.

So came I at last to my habitation in Skeleton Cove and chancing to espy
my great powderhorn where it hung, I reached it down and going without the
cave, scattered its contents broadcast, this being all the powder I had
brought hither.

It being now late noon and very hot, I cast myself down in the shade of a
rock, and lying there, I presently came to the following resolution, viz:
To shun the woman Joanna's company henceforth as well as I might; moreover
(and let her haunt me how she would) to heed her neither by word or look,
bearing all her scorns and revilings patiently, making no answer, and
enduring all her tyranny to the uttermost. All of which fine conceits were
but the most arrant folly and quickly brought to nothing, as you shall
hear. For even now as I sat with these high-flown notions buzzing in my
head, I started to her sudden call:

"Martino--Martino!"

Glancing up, I beheld her poised upon the rocks above me and a noose of
small cord in her hand. As I watched, she began to whirl this around her
head, fast and faster, then, uttering a shrill, strange cry, she let fly
the noose the which, leaping through the air, took me suddenly about the
throat and she, pulling on it, had me half-strangled all in a moment. Then
as, choking, I loosed this devilish noose from me (and or ever I could
rise) she came running and casting herself down before me, clasped my feet
and laid her head upon them.

"Martino!" she cried, "Oh man, beat me an you will, trample on me, kill me;
only heed me--heed me a little!"

Now seeing her thus miserably abject and humbled, I grew abashed also and
fain would have loosed me from her clasp but she held me only the faster;
and thus, my hand coming upon her head, she caught that hand and kissed it
passionately, wetting it with her tears.

"Oh, Martino," said she, wofully a-sobbing, "I do know at last wherefore--I
may not kill you. 'Tis because I love you. I was fool not to guess it ere
this, but--I have never loved man ere now. Aye, I love you--I, Joanna, that
never loved before, do love you, Martino--"

"What of your many lovers?"

"I loved no one of them all. 'Tis you ha' learned me--"

"Nay, this is no love--"

"Aye, but it is--in very truth. Think you I do not know it? I cannot
sleep, I cannot eat--except you love me I must die, yes. Ah, Martino, be
merciful!" she pleaded. "For thee I will be all woman henceforth, soft and
tender and very gentle--thine always! Oh, be merciful--"

"No," I cried, "not this! Be rather your other self, curse me, revile me,
fetch the sword and fight with me--"

"Fight thee--ah, no, no! The time for this is passed away. And if I did
grieve thee 'twas but that I might cherish and comfort thee--for thou art
mine and I thine henceforth--to death and beyond! Look, Martino! See how I
do love thee!"

And now her arms were about me, soft and strong, and beholding all the
pleading beauty of her, the tender allure of her eyes, the quiver of her
scarlet mouth and all her compelling loveliness, I stooped to her embrace;
but even so, chancing to lift my gaze seaward, I broke the clasp of these
twining arms and rose suddenly to my feet. For there, her rag of sail
spread to the light-breathing air, was a boat standing in for the island.


CHAPTER VI

HOW I SUCCOURED ONE DON FEDERIGO, A GENTLEMAN OF SPAIN


I was out upon the reef, waving my arms like any madman and shouting to
the vague figure huddled in the stern sheets. As the boat drew nearer, I
discovered this figure to be a man in Spanish half-armour, and the head of
this man was bowed meekly upon steel-clad breast like one overcome with
great weariness. But presently as I watched he looked up, like one awaking
from sleep, and gestured feebly with his arm, whiles I, beholding here the
means to my deliverance, babbled prayers of thankfulness to God.

After some while, the boat being within hail, I began to call out to this
solitary voyager (for companion had he none, it seemed) how he must steer
to avoid the rocks and shoals. At last, the boat being come near enough and
the sea very smooth, I waded out and, watching my chance, clambered aboard
over the bows and came, all dripping, eager to welcome this heavensent
stranger and thus beheld the boat very foul of blood and him pale and
hollow-cheeked, his eyes dim and sunken; moreover his rich armour was
battered and dinted, whiles about one leg was knotted a bloody scarf.

"Señor," said I, in my best Spanish, "a lonely man, giveth you right hearty
greeting!"

"I thank you, sir," he answered and in very excellent English, "though I do
much fear you shall abide solitary, for as I do think I am a-dying. Could
you--bring me--water--"

The words ended in a sigh and his head drooped so that I feared he was
already gone. But, finding he yet breathed, I made haste to lower the sail
and, shipping oars, paddled towards that opening in the reef that gave upon
the lagoon. Being opposite this narrow channel I felt the boat caught by
some tide and current and swept forward ever more rapidly, insomuch that
I unshipped the oars and hasting into the bow, caught up a stout spar
wherewith to fend us off from the rocks. Yet more than once, despite all my
exertions, we came near striking ere, having passed through this perilous
gut, we floated into the placid waters of the lagoon beyond.

Very soon I had beached the boat as securely as I might on that spit of
sand opposite Skeleton Cove, and finding the Spaniard yet a-swoon I lifted
him, albeit with much ado, and setting him across my shoulder, bore him
thus into the cool shade of the cave. There I laid him down beside the
little rill to bathe his head and wrists with the sweet water and moisten
his parched lips. At this he revived somewhat and, lifting his head,
eagerly drank so much as I would allow, his sunken eyes uplift to mine in
an ecstasy.

"Young sir," said he in stronger voice, "for your kind charity and this
good water may the Saints requite thee. 'Tis three nights and two days
since I drank--"

A shadow fell betwixt us and looking up I beheld Joanna. Now in one hand
she grasped the Spaniard's sword she had stolen out of his boat and her
other hand was hid behind her, wherefore I watched her narrowly, as she
stood gazing down at this wounded man; and at first she scowled at him, but
slowly her look changed and I saw her vivid lips curl in her baleful smile.

"Oh," said she very softly, "Oh, marvel of marvels! Oh, wonder of wonders,
even and in very truth it is Don Federigo de Rosalva y Maldonada, wafted
hither by wind and tide to Joanna and judgment. Oh, most wonderful!"

Now hereupon this poor wounded wretch lifted himself to peer up into her
smiling face with hanging jaw, like one amazed beyond all speech, whiles
she, slim and shapely in her 'broidered gown, nodded her handsome head.
"Verily," quoth she, "'tis the hanging, bloody governor of Nombre de Dios
come to Justice! I pray you, Señor, how many of our company ha' you strung
aloft since last we met?"

Here, though with much painful ado, the Don got to his feet and made her a
prodigious fine bow.

"The Señorita Joanna honours me by her notice," said he. "I should have
doubtless known her at once but for her change of habit. And I am happy to
inform the Señorita I have been so fortunate as to take and hang no
less than five and twenty of her pirate fellowship since last I had the
gratification of meeting her."

"Ha, you lie!" cried she passionately. "You lie!"

"They swing in their chains along the mole outside Nombre de Dios to
witness for my truth, Señorita. And now," said he, propping himself against
the rock behind him, "it is my turn to die, as I think? Well, strike,
lady--here, above my gorget--"

"Die then!" cried she and whipped a pistol from behind her, but as she
levelled I struck up the weapon and it exploded harmless in the air.
Uttering a scream of bitter rage, she thrust with the sword, but I put up
the stroke (thereby taking a gash in the arm) and gripping the rapier by
the guards I twisted it from her hold. And now she turned on me in a very
frenzy:

"Kill me then!" she panted, striving to impale herself on the sword in my
hand. "If this man is to come betwixt us now, kill me in mercy and free
me from this hateful woman's flesh--" But here, spying my arm bloody, she
forgot her anger all in a moment. "Are ye hurt?" said she. "Are ye hurt and
all to save this miserable fool!" And suddenly (or ever I might prevent)
she caught my arm, kissing the wound, heedless of the blood that bedabbled
her cheek in horrid fashion.

"Oh, Martino," said she, leaning 'gainst a rock when at last I broke from
her, "you are mine now and always, as you were in other times long since
forgot. In those days your blood was on my lips, I mind, and your kisses
also ere you died.. Mine you are to death, aye, and through death to life
again--mine. And to-day is to-day and death not for you or me--yet awhile!"

When she was gone I turned to find this wounded man upon his knees, his
head bowed above a little gold crucifix between his hands.

"Sir, what would you?" I questioned, struck by his expression, when at last
he looked up.

"I make my peace with God, Señor, since I am soon to die--"

"Nay, sir, I do trust your hardships are ended--"

"Shall be, Señor, to-day, to-morrow, the day after?" said he, smiling
faintly and shrugging his shoulders. "A sudden shot, steel i' the
back--'tis better than death by famine in an open boat. You, Señor, have
saved me alive yet a little, doubtless for your own ends, but my death
walketh yonder as I know, death in form shapely and fair-seeming, yet sure
and unpitying, none the less."

"Ha, d'ye mean yon woman?" I questioned.

"The Señorita Joanna--verily, Señor."

"Never think it!" quoth I. "'Tis wild, fierce creature, yet is she but a
woman and young--"

Now hereupon this wounded man lifted weary head to stare on me, his eyes
very bright and keen.

"Señor," says he, "either you do mock me, or you nothing know this woman.
But I do know her well and too well. Señor, I have warred with and been
prisoner to you English, I have fought Indians, I have campaigned again
buccaneers and pirates these many years, but never have I encountered foe
so desperate, so bold and cunning as this Señorita Joanna. She is the very
soul of evil; the goddess of every pirate rogue in the Indies; 'tis she
is their genius, their inspiration, her word their law. 'Tis she is ever
foremost in their most desperate ploys, first in attack, last in retreat,
fearless always--I have known her turn rout into victory. But two short
months ago she vowed my destruction, and I with my thousands at command
besides divers ships well armed and manned; to-day I am a woful fugitive,
broken in fortune, fleeing for my life, and, Señor, Fate has brought me,
through shipwreck and famine all these weary miles, into the grasp of her
slender, cruel hands. Thus and thus do I know myself for dead man and shall
die, howsoever I must, as becometh me."

His keen eyes lost their fire, his head drooped, and looking down on him as
he lay huddled against the rock, I did not doubt but that much of this was
no more than the raving of his disordered fancy.

So I set my arm about this poor gentleman and brought him into my
habitation, where I loosed off his chafing armour and set myself to feed
and cherish him, bathing the hurt in his leg, the which I found very angry
and inflamed. This done I bade him be of good comfort and yield himself to
slumber. But this he could no way accomplish, being restless and fevered
and his mind harping continually on the strange fate had set him thus in
Joanna's power and the sure belief that he must die, soon or late, at her
hands.

"For look now, Señor," said he, "and observe my strange destiny. Scarce two
months since I set out in a well-found galleon, I and three hundred chosen
men, to hunt down and destroy this very woman--her and her evil company.
One of their ships we fell in with, which ship, after long and sharp
debate, we sunk. But it coming on to blow and our own vessels being much
shattered by their shot, we sprung a leak, the which gaining on us, we
were forced to take to our boats; but the wind increased and we were soon
scattered. On the third day, having endured divers perils, we made the
land, I with Pedro Valdez my chief captain and ten others and, being short
of water, they went ashore one and all, leaving me wounded in the boat.
And I lying there was suddenly aware of great uproar within the thickets
ashore, and thereafter the screams and cries of my companions as they died.
Then cometh Pedro Valdez running, crying out the Indians were on us, that
all was lost and himself sore wounded. Nevertheless he contrived to thrust
off the boat and I to aid him aboard. That night, he died and the wind
drove me whither it would; wherefore, having committed Pedro Valdez his
body to the deep, I resigned myself to the will of God. And God hath
brought me hither, Señor, and set me in the power of the Señorita Joanna
that is my bitter foe; so am I like to die sudden and soon. But, Señor,
for your kindness to me, pray receive a broken man's gratitude and dying
blessing. Sir, I am ever a Maldonada of Castile and we do never forget!"
There he reached out to grasp my hand. "Thus, Señor, should this be my last
night of life, the which is very like, know that my gratitude is of the
nature that dieth not."

"Sir," said I, his hand in mine and the night deepening about us, "I am a
very solitary man and you came into my life like a very angel of God (an
there be such) when I stood in direst need, for I was sick of my loneliness
and in my hunger for companionship very nigh to great and shameful folly.
Mayhap, whiles you grow back to strength and health, I will tell you my
story, but this night you shall sleep safe--so rest you secure."


CHAPTER VII

I AM DETERMINED ON MY VENGEANCE, AND MY REASONS THEREFOR


I found this Spanish gentleman very patient in his sickness and ever of a
grave and chivalrous courtesy, insomuch that as our fellowship lengthened
so grew my regard for him. He was, beside, a man of deep learning and
excellent judgment and his conversation and conduct a growing delight to
me.

And indeed to such poor wretch as I that had been forced by my bitter
wrongs to company with all manner of rogues and fellows of the baser sort,
this Don Federigo (and all unknowing) served but to show me how very far I
had sunk from what I might have been. And knowing myself thus degenerate
I grieved mightily therefore and determined henceforth to meet Fortune's
buffets more as became my condition, with a steadfast and patient serenity,
even as this gentleman of Spain.

It was at this time he recounted, in his courtly English, something of the
woes he and his had suffered these many years at the hands of these roving
adventurers, these buccaneers and pirates whose names were a terror all
along the Main. In this manner they are able to inflict great injury without
suffering much themselves.

It is reported that an entire battalion of Spanish soldiers, eight
hundred strong, has deserted in a body to the rebels.

The soldiers in the Philippines are suffering just as severely for food
and pay as their brother soldiers in Cuba, and finding that the
rebels feed their soldiers well, and treat them better than the
Spaniards, great numbers are constantly deserting and joining the
rebel ranks.

* * * * *
Affairs in Greece are still unsettled.

When the Prime Minister told the Boulé[A] or parliament the terms
of the treaty, there was much dissatisfaction expressed by the
members.

Mr. Ralli, the Prime Minister, stated that he was fully aware how hard the
terms of the treaty were, but he thought that Greece must accept
and make the best of them.

He told the Boulé that it was not possible for Greece to continue the war;
she had neither men nor money to do it with; but he wished it understood
that he was merely stating his opinion; he would not attempt to
advise the nation on such a serious point.

If the Boulé decided to accept the terms offered by Turkey, he
stated that the ministry was prepared to carry them out, and do all
in its power to assist the country in the crisis; he, however, asked
the Boulé, on behalf of the ministry, for a vote of confidence,
that is, an expression of belief that the ministers were doing the
best that could be done for the good of the country.

When Mr. Ralli had finished speaking, a member of the House rose to his
feet, and began to blame the ministry for all the ills that Greece
was called upon to endure.

This turned the members against Mr. Ralli and the rest of the ministers,
and the vote of confidence was refused. Mr. Ralli was thereupon obliged
to send his resignation to the King.

King George has already chosen the new Premier, and a Greek prince of high
rank has been selected to go to Constantinople and arrange the
treaty, the Boulé having decided to accept the terms offered.

cried a voice, and glancing about, I
espied Joanna leaning in the opening to the cave. She was clad in her
male attire as I had seen her first, save that by her side she bore
the bejewelled Spanish rapier. Thus lolled she, smiling on me
half-contemptuous, hand poised lightly on the hilt of her sword, all
graceful insolence.

"Eye for eye, Martino," said she, nodding. "Tooth for tooth, blood for
blood: 'tis a good law and just, yes! How say you, Señor Don Federigo; you
agree--no?"

With an effort Don Federigo got to his feet and, folding his cloak about
his spare form, made her a prodigious deep obeisance.

"'Tis a law ancient of days, Señorita," said he.

"And your health improves, Señor, I hope--yes?"

"The Señorita is vastly gracious! Thanks to Don Martino I mend apace. Oh,
yes, and shall soon be strong enough to die decorously, I trust, and in
such fashion as the Señorita shall choose."

"Aha, Señor," said she, with flash of white teeth, "'tis an everlasting joy
to me that I also am of noble Spanish blood. Some day when justice hath
been done, and you are no more, I will have a stone raised up to mark where
lie the bones of a great Spanish gentleman. As for thee, my poor Martino,
that babblest o' vengeance, 'tis not for thee nor ever can be--thou that
art only English, cold--cold--a very clod! Oh, verily there is more life,
more fire and passion in a small, dead fish than in all thy great, slow
body! And now, pray charge me my pistols; you have all the powder here." I
shook my head. "Fool," said she, "I mean not to shoot you, and as for Don
Federigo, since death is but his due, a bullet were kinder--so charge now
these my pistols."

"I have no powder," said I.

"Liar!"

"I cast it into the sea lest I be tempted to shoot you."

Now at this she must needs burst out a-laughing.

"Oh, Englishman!" cried she. "Oh, sluggard soul--how like, how very like
thee, Martino!" Then, laughing yet, she turned and left me to stare after
her in frowning wonderment.

This night after supper, sitting in the light of the fire and finding the
Don very wakeful, I was moved (at his solicitation) to tell him my history;
the which I will here recapitulate as briefly as I may.

"I was born, sir, in Kent in England exactly thirty years ago, and being
the last of my family 'tis very sure that family shall become a name soon
to be forgotten--"

"But you, Señor, so young--"

"But ancient in suffering, sir."

"Oh, young sir, but what of love; 'tis a magic--"

"A dream!" quoth I. "A dream sweet beyond words! But I am done with idle
dreaming, henceforth. I come then of one of two families long at feud, a
bloody strife that had endured for generations and which ended in my father
being falsely accused by his more powerful enemy and thrown into prison
where he speedily perished. Then I, scarce more than lad, was trepanned
aboard ship, carried across seas and sold a slave into the plantations.
And, mark me, sir, all this the doing of our hereditary enemy who, thus
triumphant, dreamed he had ended the feud once and for all. Sir, I need not
weary you with my sufferings as a planter's slave, to labour always 'neath
the lash, to live or die as my master willed. Suffice it I broke free at
last and, though well-nigh famished, made my way to the coast. But here my
travail ended in despair, for I was recaptured and being known for runaway
slave, was chained to an oar aboard the great _Esmeralda_ galleas where
such poor rogues had their miserable lives whipped out of them. And here my
sufferings (since it seemed I could not die) grew well-nigh beyond me to
endure. But from this hell of shame and anguish I cried unceasing upon God
for justice and vengeance on mine enemy that had plunged me from life and
all that maketh it worthy into this living death. And God answered me in
this, for upon a day the _Esmeralda_ was shattered and sunk by an English
ship and I, delivered after five bitter years of agony, came back to my
native land. But friends had I none, nor home, since the house wherein I
was born and all else had been seized by my enemy and he a power at Court.
Him sought I therefore to his destruction, since (as it seemed to me) God
had brought me out of my tribulation to be His instrument of long-delayed
vengeance. So, friendless and destitute, came I at last to that house had
been ours for generations and there learned that my hopes and labour were
vain indeed, since this man I was come to destroy had himself been captured
and cast a prisoner in that very place whence I had so lately escaped!"

Here the memory of this disappointment waxing in me anew, I must needs
pause in my narration, whereupon my companion spake in his soft,
dispassionate voice:

"Thus surely God hath answered your many prayers, young sir!"

"And how so?" cried I. "Of what avail that this man lie pent in dungeon
or sweating in chains and I not there to see his agony? I must behold him
suffer as I suffered, hear his groans, see his tears--I that do grieve a
father untimely dead, I that have endured at this man's will a thousand
shames and torment beyond telling! Thus, sir," I continued, "learning that
his daughter was fitting out a ship to his relief I (by aid of the master
of the ship) did steal myself aboard and sailed back again, back to
discover this my enemy. But on the voyage mutiny broke out, headed by that
evil rogue, Tressady. Then was I tricked and cast adrift in an open boat by
Adam Penfeather, the master--"

"Penfeather, young sir, Adam Penfeather! Truly there was one I do mind
greatly famous once among the buccaneers of Tortuga."

"This man, then, this Penfeather casts me adrift (having struck me
unconscious first) that I might secure to him certain treasure that lay
hid on this island, a vast treasure of jewels called 'Black Bartlemy's
treasure.'"

"I have heard mention of it, Señor."

"Here then steered I, perforce, and, storm-tossed, was cast here, I and--my
comrade--"

"Comrade, Señor?"

"Indeed, sir. For with me in the boat was a woman and she the daughter of
my enemy. And here, being destitute of all things, we laboured together to
our common need and surely, aye, surely, never had man braver comrade or
sweeter companion. She taught me many things and amongst them how to
love her, and loving, to honour and respect her for her pure and noble
womanhood. Upon a time, to save herself from certain evil men driven hither
by tempest she leapt into a lake that lieth in the midst of this island,
being carried some distance by a current, came in this marvellous fashion
on the secret of Black Bartlemy's hidden treasure. But I, thinking her
surely dead, fought these rogues, slaying one and driving his fellow back
to sea and, being wounded, fell sick, dreaming my dear lady beside me
again, hale and full of life; and waking at last from my fears, found this
the very truth. In the following days I forgot all my prayers and the great
oath of vengeance I had sworn, by reason of my love for this my sweet
comrade. But then came the pirate Tressady and his fellows seeking the
treasure, and after him, Penfeather, which last, being a very desperate,
cunning man, took Tressady by a wile and would have hanged him with his
comrade Mings, but for my lady. These rogues turned I adrift in one of
the boats to live or die as God should appoint. And now (my vengeance all
forgot) there grew in me a passionate hope to have found me peace at last
and happiness in my dear lady's love, and wedded to her, sail back to
England and home. But such great happiness was not for me, it seemed. I was
falsely accused of murder and (unable to prove my innocence) I chose rather
to abide here solitary than endure her doubting of; me, or bring shame or
sorrow on one so greatly loved. Thus, sir, here have I existed a solitary
man ever since."

"And the Señorita Joanna, young sir?"

When I had told him of her coming and the strange manner of it, Don
Federigo lay silent a good while, gazing into the fire.

"And your enemy, Señor?" he questioned at last. "Where lieth he now to your
knowledge?"

"At Nombre de Dios, in the dungeons of the Inquisition, 'tis said."

"The Inquisition!" quoth Don Federigo in a whisper, and crossed himself.
"Sir," said he, and with a strange look. "Oh, young sir, if this be so
indeed, rest you content, for God hath surely avenged you--aye, to the very
uttermost!"


CHAPTER VIII

HOW THE DAYS OF MY WATCHING WERE ACCOMPLISHED


Our fresh meat being nearly all gone, I set out next morning with my
bow and arrows (in the management of which I had made myself extreme
dexterous); I set out, I say, minded to shoot me a young goat or, failing
this, one of those great birds whose flesh I had found ere now to be very
tender and delicate eating.

Hardly had I waved adieu to the Don (him sitting in the shade propped in
one of my great elbow chairs) than I started a goat and immediately gave
chase, not troubling to use my bow, for what with my open-air life and
constant exercise I had become so long-winded and fleet of foot that I
would frequently run these wild creatures down.

Away sped the goat and I after it, along perilous tracks and leaping from
rock to rock, joying in the chase, since of late I had been abroad very
little by reason of Don Federigo's sickness; on I ran after my quarry, the
animal making ever for higher ground and more difficult ways until we were
come to a rocky height whence I might behold a wide expanse of ocean.

Now, as had become my wont, I cast a look around about this vast horizon
and stopped all at once, clean forgetting my goat and all else in the world
excepting that which had caught my lonely glance, that for which I had
looked and waited and prayed for so long. For there, dim-seen 'twixt the
immensity of sea and sky, was a speck I knew for the topsails of a ship.
Long stood I staring as one entranced, my hands tight clasped, and all
a-sweat with fear lest this glimmering speck should fade and vanish utterly
away. At last, dreading this be but my fancy or a trick of the light, I
summoned enough resolution to close my eyes and, bowing my head between my
hands, remained thus as long as I might endure. Then, opening my eyes, I
uttered a cry of joy to see this speck loom more distinct and plainer than
before. Thereupon I turned and began to hasten back with some wild notion
of putting off in Don Federigo's boat (the which lay securely afloat in the
lagoon) and of standing away for this ship lest peradventure she miss
the island. Full of this dreadful possibility I took to running like any
madman, staying for nothing, leaping, scrambling, slipping and stumbling
down sheer declivities, breasting precipitous cliffs until I reached and
began to descend Skeleton Cove.

I was half-way down the cliff when I heard the clash of steel, and
presently coming where I might look down into the cove I saw this: with his
back to a rock and a smear of blood on his cheek stood Don Federigo, armed
with my cut-and-thrust, defending himself against Joanna; and as I watched
the flash of their whirling, clashing blades, it did not take me long to
see that the Don was no match for her devilish skill and cunning, and
beholding her swift play of foot and wrist, her lightning volts and passes,
I read death in every supple line of her. Even as I hasted towards them, I
saw the dart of her long blade, followed by a vivid, ever-widening stain on
the shoulder of the Don's tattered shirt.

"Ha-ha!" cried she and with a gasconading flourish of her blade. "There's
for Pierre Valdaigne you hanged six months agone! There's for Jeremy Price!
And this for Tonio Moretti! And now for John Davis, sa-ha!" With every name
she uttered, her cruel steel, flashing within his weakening guard, bit into
him, arm or leg, and I saw she meant to cut him to pieces. The sword was
beaten from his failing grasp and her point menaced his throat, his
breast, his eyes, whiles he, leaning feebly against the rock, fronted her
unflinching and waited death calm and undismayed. But, staying for no more,
I leapt down into the cove and fell, rolling upon the soft sand, whereupon
she flashed a look at me over her shoulder and in that moment Don Federigo
had grappled her sword-arm; then came I running and she, letting fall her
sword, laughed to see me catch it up.

"Ha, my brave English clod," cried she. "There be two swords and two
men against one defenceless woman! Come, end me, Martino, end me and be
done--or will you suffer the Don to show you, yes?" And folding her arms
she faced me mighty high and scornful. But now, whiles I stared at her
insolent beauty and no word ready, Don Federigo made her one of his grand
bows and staggered into the cave, spattering blood as he went.

And in a little (staying only to take up the other sword) I followed him,
leaving her to stand and mock me with her laughter. Reaching the Don I
found him a-swoon and straightway set myself to bare his wounds and staunch
their bleeding as well as I might, in the doing of which I must needs
marvel anew at Joanna's devilish skill, since each and every of these hurts
came near no vital spot and were of little account in themselves, so that a
man might be stabbed thus very many times ere death ended his torment.

After awhile, recovering himself somewhat, Don Federigo must needs strive
to speak me his gratitude, but I cut him short to tell of the ship I had
seen.

"I pray what manner of ship?"

"Nay, she is yet too far to determine," said I, glancing eagerly seawards.
"But since ship she is, what matter for aught beside?"

"True, Señor Martino! I am selfish."

"How so?"

"Unless she be ship of Spain, here is no friend to me. But you will be
yearning for sight of this vessel whiles I keep you. Go, young sir, go
forth--make you a fire, a smoke plain to be seen and may this ship bring
you to freedom and a surcease of all your tribulations!"

"A smoke!" cried I, leaping up. "Ha, yes--yes!" And off went I, running;
but reaching Deliverance I saw there was no need for signal of mine, since
on the cliff above a fire burned already, sending up huge columns of thick
smoke very plain to be seen from afar, and beside this fire Joanna staring
seaward beneath her hand. And looking whither she looked, I saw the ship
so much nearer that I might distinguish her lower courses. Thus I stood,
watching the vessel grow upon my sight, very slowly and by degrees, until
it was evident she had seen the smoke and was standing in for the island.
Once assured of this, I was seized of a passion of joy; and bethinking me
of all she might mean to me and of the possibility that one might be aboard
her whose sweet eyes even now gazed from her decks upon this lonely island,
my heart leapt whiles ship and sea swam on my sight and I grew blinded by
stinging tears. And now I paced to and fro upon the sand in a fever of
longing and with my hungry gaze turned ever in the one direction.

As the time dragged by, my impatience grew almost beyond enduring; but
on came the ship, slow but sure, nearer and nearer until I could
discern shroud and spar and rope, the guns that yawned from her high,
weather-beaten side, the people who crowded her decks. She seemed a great
ship, heavily armed and manned, and high upon her towering poop lolled one
in a vivid scarlet jacket.

I was gazing upon her in an ecstacy, straining my eyes for the flutter of
a petticoat upon her lofty quarter-deck, when I heard Don Federigo hail me
faintly, and glancing about, espied him leaning against an adjacent rock.

"Alas, Señor," says he, "I know yon ship by her looks--aye, and so doth the
Señorita--see yonder!" Now glancing whither he pointed, I beheld Joanna
pacing daintily along the reef, pausing ever and anon to signal with her
arm; then, as the ship went about to bear up towards the reef, from her
crowded decks rose a great shouting and halloo, a hoarse clamour drowned
all at once in the roar of great guns, and up to the main fluttered a black
ancient; and beholding this accursed flag, its grisly skull and bones, I
cast me down on the sands, my high hopes and fond expectations 'whelmed in
a great despair.

But as I lay thus was a gentle touch on my bowed head and in my ear Don
Federigo's voice:

"Alas, good my friend, and doth Hope die for you likewise? Then do I grieve
indeed. But despair not, for in the cave yonder be two swords; go fetch
them, I pray, for I am over-weak."

"Of what avail," cried I bitterly, looking up into the pale serenity of his
face, "of what avail two swords 'gainst a ship's company?"

"We can die, Señor!" said he, with his gentle smile. "To die on our own
steel, by our own hands--here--is clean death and honourable."

"True!" said I.

"Then I pray go fetch the swords, my friend; 'tis time methinks--look!"
Glancing towards the ship, I saw she was already come to an anchor and a
boatful of men pulling briskly for the reef where stood Joanna, and as they
rowed they cheered her amain:

"La Culebra!" they roared. "Ahoy, Joanna! Give a rouse for Fighting Jo!
Cap'n Jo--ha, Joanna!"

The boat being near enough, many eager hands were reached out to her and
with Joanna on board they paddled into the lagoon. Now as they drew in to
Deliverance Beach they fell silent all, hearkening to her words, and I
saw her point them suddenly to Skeleton Cove, whereupon they rowed amain
towards that spit of sand where we stood screened among the rocks, shouting
in fierce exultation as they came. Don Federigo sank upon his knees with
head bowed reverently above his little crucifix, and when at last he looked
up his face showed placid as ever.

"Señor," quoth he gently, "you do hear them howling for my blood? Well,
you bear a knife in your girdle--I pray you lend it to me." For a moment I
hesitated, then, drawing the weapon forth, I sent it spinning far out to
sea.

"Sir," said I, "we English do hold that whiles life is--so is hope.
Howbeit, if you die you shall not die alone, this I swear."

Then I sprang forth of the rocks and strode down where these lawless
fellows were beaching their boat.


CHAPTER IX

WE FALL AMONG PIRATES


At my sudden coming they fell silent, one and all, staring from me to
Joanna, where she stood beside a buxom, swaggering ruffling fellow whose
moustachios and beard were cut after the Spanish mode but with a monstrous
great periwig on his head surmounted by a gold-braided, looped hat. His
coat was of scarlet velvet, brave with much adornment of gold lace; his
legs were thrust into a pair of rough sea-boots; and on his hip a long,
curved hanger very broad in the blade.

Our Mark Twains and Bill Nyes are flat indeed, when compared to that
straight-faced clown, the American legislator, who would give an
unchangable value to either the shoes we wear or the money we use.

This whole question of currency has as little to do with the prevailing
misery as the missing button off your vest would have to do with
your being frozen to death.

England not only has enough money to carry on her own business, but also has
$15,000,000,000 to lend to outsiders. It is not the wealth of a country, but
how it is distributed that tells the story

.

-

The single taxers of whom Henry George is the great apostle, are also
claiming the floor, but a patient hearing finds the distressed turning away
for relief that the single taxer can not give. They are cultivating a
century plant, and while we are waiting for it to bloom three generations
of human beings will have met their millionaire masters and taken their place
in the line that leads to the soup house and the pauper's grave.

The masterly logic of these reformers is the work of serene-tempered
and well-fed men, whose cosy library with windows facing to the south,
and the open fire-place with its soothing and cheerful glow, is
conducive to the developing of a red-tape reform that must be an
inspiring subject for discussion at an afternoon tea.

Because they are well fed is the reason why they can play a waiting game,
but the despairing and maddened people, for whose benefit this single tax
contract, with its long deferred payment, is being drawn up, will have
as little use for it as they will have for the plate-glass window when
their bread riots begin.

The land owner alone is the one these one-horse-chaise reformers
would start their Dobbin after.

The large landowner should be cut down in his holdings, and their plan is
just the one to fix him and make him let go.
They will tax him in such a way that he cannot pay, and then they have got
him, they tell us, as they leisurely jog along over their pleasant
highway.

Now, why this dilly-dallying with the large land-owner, or any one else,
that has something that he should surrender for the general good?

When the owning of 50,000 acres of land by one man is wrong, then it is
wrong to let him own it, and if there was one drop of the John Brown
blood in this crew of house-gown and plush-slipper reformers, they
would go into the enemy's camp, and never let up on their open warfare until
what belonged to the people was returned to them.

Taxing an enemy to make him give up his plunder!

When hunger and plenty is found side by side what solution can there
be but to set a limit to what the overendowed can tag with his name,
and to put his forfeited surplus where the underfed can, with
reasonable labor, get possession of it.

If the single taxer is given plenty of time, he will accomplish something,
undoubtedly, but the whole thing will be over long before poor old
Dobbin gets on to the scene

.

-
The millionaire land-owner and the millionaire capitalist are as
much out of place in a republic as is the man with a title; and the
laws which permitted the growth of the first two are the primary
cause of the disgraceful conditions that exist in this Republic
to-day.

When we know that people in actual want are to be found in every section of
the United States, we ought to be able to say that it is Nature that has
failed us for the time being; but it is not Nature, but the wretched
laws of man's own making that are at fault.

Had we the economic laws that belong to a republic, instead of those that
belong to a despotism, the foreign markets could be entirely closed to
us, and all our people would still have enough of all things that are
necessary to life.

And those able men who have gone into the domain of natural philosophy,
to see what they could find to advance and benefit the human race,
have found so much, and brought about such a change in the industrial
world, that they have completely bewildered our political philosophers,
who have been utterly unable to make room for the labor-saving
inventions and discoveries of those men, until the confusion and
distress resulting from the incompetence of our political philosophers
to adjust the laws to meet the changed conditions are beginning to
make us look upon the inventors as our enemies, instead of our
benefactors.

The work of the world consists principally in raising food and manufacturing
the things we wear, and the forwarding of both to the consumer.

And the great inventions of the McCormicks, Howes, Fultons,
Stephensons, and rest have made this work so easy that the labor
done in two months now is equivalent to the labor done in twelve
months a few years ago.

That is why they are great inventions.

Yet our law-makers are still legislating for conditions that disappeared
with the ox-goad, hand loom, lapstone, and sickle, and are continually
trying to devise ways and means by which the labor of the country
can be kept employed the year round.

What doing? When they find out how to make you wear twenty pairs of shoes
at a time, they will have found out how to keep the shoe factories running
the year round, not before.

The natural philosopher can overcome physical difficulties; the political
philosopher cannot overcome economic ones.

We would reside on a certain hill were it not for the climb. A Hallidie
lays his cable, and puts us at the top without further trouble. We
find Egypt cutting into our cotton market, Argentine into our wheat
market, France and Germany have shut their doors against our meats,
and England will not approve of silver.

Many throughout this country find their very bread falling short through
these conditions abroad, and the sufferers call in our political economists
to help them to at least keep the necessaries of life within their reach.

Of the various nostrums prescribed by these political quacks, two
have been thoroughly tried, but the aggravating results have only
cut the eye-teeth of the humbugged; and when they take the field
themselves as political economists they will have a preparation of
their own that will be bitter enough to the taste of those to whom
they will apply it.

III.

What rainbow-chasers these McKinleys, Wilsons, and J. P. Joneses are!
Do they not see this country with its limitless resources? Do they not see
the surfeited millionaire, and the hungry laborer with his starving
dependents? Do they not see that they must break down the one if they
would build up the other? Do not these miserable bunglers see that this
noble ship of the fathers is foundering because of her uneven load?

See the imbeciles rushing hither and thither in frantic despair! This, one
with his wad of wool to stop a leak that does not exist; that one with
his tears and kisses falling on the silver charm that hangs about his neck;
this other at the masthead high shouting to foreign Shores for help we do
not need.

Never did the black flag of a Caesar or a Napoleon III. bear down on a
richer-laden prey than this helpless hulk and its jabbering crew

.

-

Through Confiscation, and Confiscation alone, can we restore the conditions
that are necessary to the life of the Republic.

Confiscation is a forbidding word. We associate it with the sheriff's writ,
and with the idea of distress in some form, and with bloody war itself,
its greatest field of operation. It is one of the few words in the
vocabulary of Might.

Without Might there would be no such word, and the weak have ever been the
prey of both. But it is a plain word. As plain as are the conditions under
which we are now living. There is no mistaking its meaning. And having the
same momentous work ahead of us - of gaining our freedom, and throwing
off the yoke of our latest master - as that which confronted the
founders of the Republic, we cannot go to a nursery rhyme for a
word to describe that work.

It is the way in which Might is to restore our lost liberties and
resources that is of the gravest concern to all, and not the word used
to describe the result of what Might shall do.

Justice is due. But how is it to arrive? By way of the ballot, or over
the same bloodstained road in use before the ballot was discovered?

If the plundered and starving have lost faith in the ballot, and sheer want
has brutalized them until they see no way but the brute's way of saving
themselves, then place the horror of it all at the doors of incompetence
and grasping greed where it belongs.

It is a plain word. As plain as are the conditions under which we are now
living. As plain as is the wide-spread want and hunger that is in this
land to-day, while there is more than enough for all.

And those who have gained possession of our resources are responsible for
this hunger, and are enemies just as much as if they were invaders.
Whatever progress external foes could make in landing on these shores would
be only temporary, and not a blow could they strike, or a step make, without
our knowing it. Not so the millionaire. His is the work of the
thief in the night and we know nothing till his work is done. And then,
because we would resort to the same process of recovery that we would
in the case of any common enemy, we hold back, forsooth, because that process
is called Confiscation.

Those whom we find to be inimical to the life of the republic will look upon
an anarchist as a cooing dove compared to the man who would advocate
Confiscation.

They have nothing to fear from the anarchist, except a stray bomb
now and then, for they know full well that the "plain" people will
always stand between them and that wild-eyed dreamer of the
impractical.

What those favored people think, however, does not interest us.

What is of more concern to us, and to all others who have no doubt
but what there is something wrong in the present scheme of things,
is that the doctrine of Confiscation should be first understood
before it is rejected.

If it is found to conflict with law and order; if it is found to obstruct
in any way the material welfare necessary to any man, woman, or
child in the	United States; if if takes from any man, woman, or
child in these United States a solitary privilege or right that is
essential to their well being; if it makes one more tramp, convict,
or outcast of the street; if it fills one more pauper's bed or
potter's grave, then our Search is not ended, for it is only another
delusion, and of them we have more than enough already.

If, on the other hand, it does away with hunger and rags in a land of plenty.
Does away with the cause of ignorance, namely poverty. Does away with
the cause of eighty-five per cent. of crime, namely, poverty. Does away
with the cause of strikes and rioting, namely, poverty. Destroys the power
of one man to bribe one or fifty, and with his thumb at his nose
defies the law to reach him.

Makes robbery of the people by way of the lobby a thing of the past, and
makes unnecessary a third house for the investigation of the other
two, a stage we have already reached.

Does away with the millionaire and his charity - the beggar and his need of
it. Gives the conditions which makes individual and national improvement
possible, and securing every such national improvement by making
all the people its willing defenders, which they are far from being
now in their hunger and wretchedness.

Makes employment easy to obtain, with just wages in return for the labor done,
putting within the reach of all, those comforts and luxuries,
which, in this age of the world with its skill for quick and easy
production, should be looked upon as a matter of course, but which
in fact are unknown to a large part of the working people of the
country.

If Confiscation, then, can do all this, why should it not be made
to supersede all other policies that have been tried, and all those that
are now courting public favor, but which, like the rest are based upon
unrepublican economic laws, and must end, therefore, like the rest, in
failure and disappointment?

With our resources restored to the people, which can be done only through
Confiscation, prosperity would diffuse itself throughout the country
as easily as the sun scatters its light.

We will now outline, as briefly as we may, what will be the effects of
Confiscation, and what Confiscation means. It means the limiting of every
individual fortune in the United States to $100,000.

And the excess of every fortune now exceeding that amount to be
confiscated and turned into the public treasury.

No exceptions to be made as to persons or the thing owned. Money,
land, buildings, bonds, stocks, everything - wherever an excess is found,
confiscate.

The anarchist! It is justice and the intelligence of the people that
these new tyrants dread. The equity of this reform should be evident to every
one who knows that this government was originally established for
the good of all.

And the time has now come when the work commenced in 1776 should be again
resumed, and our latest masters got rid of some way or other.

But, it will be asked, will not a fifty times millionaire give
employment to as many men as will 500 men with $100,000 each.

No. Not even if madam and himself are at home from toadying up and down through
Europe in search of a princeling.

(Stop this fad of the spoiled darlings of fortune and you stop a
leak through which over $1,000,000,000 of American money has already
disappeared.

We will sustain this with facts in its proper place.)

One million dollars divided among ten men will do ten times more good
than if owned by one man. One million dollars owned by one man is like one
million acres owned by one man. He will certainly make some kind of
use of his acres, but the very best he can do will be as nothing
compared to the use a thousand men or more can make of them.

It is the same with a million of money. And an enterprise calling for one
million dollars of capital can be carried on just as well if that
capital is owned by fifty men, as it could if it is owned by one man.

We will have more to say on this point before we are done.

The American millionaire has also the power to squander outside of
our own territory that which is much needed in his country.

And the thousands in money which he sends to Europe for something to hang
on his walls would pay for a much needed improvement in some city
or town in the country where the money was made.

The American millionaire is a detriment to his own country any way you take
him, although a great many people are thoughtless enough to say
that we cannot get along without the millionaire.

The capital which he controls will be still here after he is legislated
out of office, just as it is when Father Time gathers him in.

He not only injures our country by taking its capital away, but he
checks development by tying up the resources which he has got title
to.

He incloses thousands of acres for a few deer or some such to browse in
when the whole should be thrown open, and those in need of homes
allowed to settle it.

There can be no doubt but what this is a great waste of land when
we remember how rapidly those reservations were settled when they
were thrown open within the last few years.

Those large inclosures may or may not contain land suitable for those in
need of homes, but a look through the foothills and mountains of
California will show that homes can be made among the rocks and canyons
even - when people are forced to it. And it is this power of millionaire to
compel us to takes his refuse that we have to do with here, and
not with the quality of the land in his game preserves.

Strip him of this power and you make the "decoration for his wall." the "deer
park," and the "princeling" impossible, and the people will once
more have come into their own.

Let him retain it and he will soon drive us to beat the bush for game that
he himself will bag, as he has already bagged the wealth we produced.
Let him retain it, and his sixty miles of fencing may or may not inclose
worthless land, but it will not be the land, but the idea represented by
the deer inside, that will set us to thinking of the aristocratic
parasite and of the pauperism and slavery that is a part of his
belongings where-ever he is found.

Let him retain it a little while longer, and the soldier, who is steadily
working his way on to the scene, will be here, and then the power to help
ourselves will be gone, for the grip will be at our throats.

Those who are watching the mighty drama that is slowly unfolding
itself on the world's stage of to-day, saw during the strike of
last summer with what astounding ease a great people can be subjugated
by a few disciplined men.

And we no longer labor under the mistake of thinking that because
they are our own people they will not shoot to kill.

Put your brother - aye, your son - into a uniform, and he needs but
the word to snuff you out as quick as he would a red handed Apache.

He has been drilled to believe that he himself would be snuffed out
if he disobeyed.

And this result of disobedience is ever present with the man in
uniform, and has been engraved into his very soul, for his only God
is the drum-head court-martial.

This is the creature that has made the aristocratic parasite a fixture in
Europe, and he is all that is needed to make the same curse a
fixture in our own country, and every attempt to increase his number
should be resisted with all the means in our power, until the plunder
he is wanted to guard shall have found its way back to its rightful
owners.

IV.

We will now show how the principle of Confiscation should work in the
case of railroads.

This class of property, by the way, should never have been given
over to private ownership to begin with.

They are for the convenience of the public, just as much as any harbor
or navigation ever was.
So saying, she seated herself on the cushioned locker whereby
I lay and, setting her foot upon my breast and elbow on knee, leaned above
me, dimpled chin on fist, staring down on me with her sombre gaze. "You
are mine," said she again, "to use as I will, to exalt or cast down. I can
bestow on ye life or very evil death. By my will ye are alive; when I
will you must surely die. Your wants, your every need must you look to me
for--so am I your goddess and ruler of your destiny, yes! Ah, had you been
more of man and less of fish, I had made you captain of this ship, and
loved you, Martino, loved you--!"

"Aye," cried I bitterly, "until you wearied of me as you have wearied of
this rogue Belvedere, it seems--aye, and God knoweth how many more--"

"Oh, la-la, fool--these I never loved--"

"Why, then," said I, "the more your shame!"

As I uttered the words, she leaned down and smote me lightly upon my
swollen lips and so left me. But presently back she came and with her three
of the crew, bearing chains, etc., which fellows at her command (albeit
they were something gone in liquor) forthwith clapped me up in these
fetters and thereafter cut away the irksome cords that bound me. Whiles
this was a-doing, she (quick to mark their condition) lashed them with her
tongue, giving them "loathly sots," "drunken swine," "scum o' the world"
and the like epithets, all of the which they took in mighty humble fashion,
knuckling their foreheads, ducking their heads with never a word and mighty
glad to stumble away and be gone at flick of her contemptuous finger.

"So here's you, Martino," said she, when we were alone, "here's you in
chains that might have been free, and here's myself very determined you
shall learn somewhat of shame and be slave at command of such beasts as
yonder. D'ye hear, fool, d'ye hear?" But I heeding her none at all, she
kicked me viciously so that I flinched (despite myself) for I was very
sore; whereat she gave a little laugh:

"Ah, ah!" said she, nodding. "If I did not love you, now would I watch you
die! But the time is not yet--no. When that hour is then, if I am not your
death, you shall be mine--death for one or other or both, for I--"

She sprang to her feet as from the deck above came the uproar of sudden
brawl with drunken outcry.

"Ah, Madre de Dios!" said she, stamping in her anger. "Oh, these bestial
things called men!" which said, she whipped a pistol from her belt, cocked
it and was gone with a quick, light patter of feet. Suddenly I heard the
growing tumult overhead split and smitten to silence by a pistol-shot,
followed by a wailing cry that was drowned in the tramp of feet away
forward.

As for me, my poor body, freed of its bonds, found great easement thereby
(and despite my irons) so that I presently laid myself down on one of
these cushioned lockers (and indeed, though small, this cabin was rarely
luxurious and fine) but scarce had I stretched my aching limbs than the
door opened and a man entered.

And surely never in all this world was stranger creature to be seen. Gaunt
and very lean was he of person and very well bedight from heel to head, but
the face that peered out 'twixt the curls of his great periwig lacked for
an eye and was seamed and seared with scars in horrid fashion; moreover the
figure beneath his rich, wide-skirted coat seemed warped and twisted beyond
nature; yet as he stood viewing me with his solitary eye (this grey and
very quick and bright) there was that in his appearance that somehow took
my fancy.

"What, messmate," quoth he, in full, hearty voice, advancing with a
shambling limp, "here cometh one to lay alongside you awhile, old
Resolution Day, friend, mate o' this here noble ship _Happy Despatch_,
comrade, and that same myself, look'ee!"

But having no mind to truck with him or any of this evil company, I bid him
leave me be and cursed him roundly for the pirate-rogue he was.

"Pirate," said he, no whit abashed at my outburst. "Why, pirate it is. But
look'ee, there never was pirate the like o' me for holiness--'specially o'
Sundays! Lord love you, there's never a parson or divine, high church or
low, a patch on me for real holiness--'specially o' Sundays. So do I pray
when cometh my time to die, be it in bed or boots, by sickness, bullet or
noose, it may chance of a Sunday. And then again, why not a pirate? What o'
yourself, friend? There's a regular fire-and-blood, skull-and-bones look
about ye as liketh me very well. And there be many worse things than a mere
pirate, brother. And what? You'll go for to ask. Answer I--Spanishers,
Papishers, the Pope o' Rome and his bloody Inquisition, of which last I
have lasting experience, _camarado_--aye, I have I!"

"Ah?" said I, sitting up. "You have suffered the torture?"

"Comrade, look at me! The fire, the pulley, the rack, the wheel, the
water--there's no devilment they ha'n't tried on this poor carcase o' mine
and all by reason of a Spanish nun as bore away with my brother!"

"Your brother?"

"Aye, but 'twas me she loved, for I was younger then and something kinder
to the eye. So him they burned, her they buried alive and me they tormented
into the wrack ye see. But I escaped wi' my life, the Lord delivered me
out o' their bloody hands, which was an ill thing for them, d'ye see, for
though I lack my starboard blinker and am somewhat crank i' my spars alow
and aloft, I can yet ply whinger and pull trigger rare and apt enough for
the rooting out of evil. And where a fairer field for the aforesaid rooting
out o' Papishers, Portingales, and the like evil men than this good ship,
the _Happy Despatch?_ Aha, messmate, there's many such as I've despatched
hot-foot to their master Sathanas, 'twixt then and now. And so 'tis I'm a
pirate and so being so do I sing along o' David: 'Blessed be the Lord my
strength that teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight.' A rare
gift o' words had Davy and for curses none may compare." Hereupon, seating
himself on the locker over against me, he thrust a hand into his great side
pocket and brought thence a hank of small-cord, a silver-mounted pistol and
lastly a small, much battered volume.

"Look'ee, comrade," said he, tapping the worn covers with bony finger,
"the Bible is a mighty fine book to fight by; to stir up a man for battle,
murder or sudden death it hath no equal and for keeping his hate agin his
enemies ever a-burning, there is no book written or ever will be--"

"You talk blasphemy!" quoth I.

"Avast, avast!" cried he. "Here's no blasphemy, thought or word. I love
this little Bible o' mine; His meat and drink to me, the friend o' my
solitude, my solace in pain, my joy for ever and alway. Some men, being
crossed in fortune, hopes, ambition or love, take 'em to drink and the like
vanities. I, that suffered all this, took to the Bible and found all my
needs betwixt the covers o' this little book. For where shall a wronged
man find such a comfortable assurance as this? Hark ye what saith our
Psalmist!" Turning over a page or so and lifting one knotted fist aloft,
Resolution Day read this:

"'I shall bathe my footsteps in the blood of mine enemies and the tongues
of the dogs shall be red with the same!' The which," said he, rolling his
bright eye at me, "the which is a sweet, pretty fancy for the solace of one
hath endured as much as I. Aye, a noble book is Psalms. I know it by heart.
List ye to this, now! 'The wicked shall perish and the enemies of the Lord
be as the fat of rams, as smoke shall they consume away.' Brother, I've
watched 'em so consume many's the time and been the better for't. Hark'ee
again: 'They shall be as chaff before the wind. As a snail that melteth
they shall every one pass away. Break their teeth in their mouth, O God!'
saith Davy, aye and belike did it too, and so have I ere now with a pistol
butt. I mind once when we stormed Santa Catalina and the women and children
a-screaming in the church which chanced to be afire, I took out my Bible
here and read these comfortable words: 'The righteous shall rejoice when he
seeth the vengeance, he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked so
that a man shall say: Verily there is a reward for the righteous.' Aha,
brother, for filling a man wi' a gust of hate and battle, there's nought
like the Bible. And when a curse is wanted, give me David. Davy was a man
of his hands, moreover, and so are you, friend. I watched ye fight on the
sand-spit yonder; twelve to one is long enough odds for any man, and yet
here's five o' the twelve wi' bones broke and never a one but wi' some mark
o' your handiwork to show, which is vastly well, comrade. Joanna's choice
is mine, messmate--"

"How d'ye mean?" I demanded, scowling, whereupon he beamed on me
friendly-wise and blinked his solitary eye.

"There is no man aboard this ship," quoth he, nodding again, "no, not one
as could keep twelve in play so long, friend, saving only Black Pompey--"

"I've heard his name already," said I, "what like is he and who?"

"A poor heathen, comrade, a blackamoor, friend, a child of Beelzebub
abounding in blood, brother--being torturer, executioner and cook and
notable in each several office. A man small of soul yet great of body,
being nought but a poor, black heathen, as I say. And ashore yonder you
shall hear our Christian messmates a-quarrelling over their rum as is the
way o' your Christians hereabouts--hark to 'em!"

The _Happy Despatch_ lay anchored hard by the reef and rode so near the
island that, glancing from one of her stern-gallery windows I might behold
Deliverance Beach shining under the moon and a great fire blazing, round
which danced divers of the crew, filling the night with lewd, unholy riot
of drunken singing and shouts that grew ever more fierce and threatening. I
was gazing upon this scene and Resolution Day beside me, when the door was
flung open and Job the quartermaster appeared.

"Cap'n Jo wants ye ashore wi' her!" said he, beckoning to Resolution, who
nodded and thrusting Bible into pocket, took thence the silver-mounted
pistol, examined flint and priming and thrusting it into his belt, followed
Job out of the cabin, locking the door upon me. Thereafter I was presently
aware of a boat putting off from the ship and craning my neck, saw it was
rowed by Resolution with Joanna in the stern sheets, a naked sword across
her knees; and my gaze held by the glimmer of this steel, I watched them
row into the lagoon and so to that spit of sand opposite Skeleton Cove.
I saw the hateful glitter of this deadly steel as Joanna leapt lightly
ashore, followed more slowly by Resolution. But suddenly divers of the
rogues about the fire, beholding Joanna as she advanced against them thus,
sword in hand, cried out a warning to their fellows, who, ceasing from
their strife, immediately betook them to their heels, fleeing before her
like so many mischievous lads; marvelling, I watched until she had pursued
them out of my view.

Hereupon I took to an examination of my fetters, link by link, but finding
them mighty secure, laid me down as comfortably as they would allow and
fell to pondering my desperate situation, and seeing no way out herefrom
(and study how I might) I began to despond; but presently, bethinking me of
Don Federigo and judging his case more hopeless than mine (if this could
well be), and further, remembering how, but for me, he would by death have
delivered himself, I (that had not prayed this many a long month) now
petitioned the God to whom nothing is impossible that He would save alive
this noble gentleman of Spain, and thus, in his sorrows, forgot mine own
awhile.

All at once I started up, full of sudden great and joyful content in all
that was, or might be, beholding in my fetters the very Providence of God
(as it were) and in my captivity His answer to my so oft-repeated prayer;
for now I remembered that with the flood this ship was to sail for Nombre
de Dios, where, safe-dungeoned and secure against my coming lay my
hated foe and deadly enemy, Richard Brandon. And now, in my vain and
self-deluding pride (my heart firm-set on this miserable man, his undoing
and destruction) I cast me down on my knees and babbled forth my passionate
gratitude to Him that is from everlasting to everlasting the God of Mercy,
Love and Forgiveness.


CHAPTER XI

HOW I FOUGHT IN THE DARK WITH ONE POMPEY, A GREAT BLACKAMOOR


I was yet upon my knees when came Job the quartermaster with two men
who, at his command, dragged me to my feet and out upon deck; cursing my
hampering fetters, they tumbled me down the quarter-ladder and so down into
the waist of the ship.

Now as I went I kept my eyes upraised to the serene majesty of the heavens;
the moon rode high amid a glory of stars, and as I looked it seemed I had
never seen them so bright and wonderful, never felt the air so good and
sweet upon my lips.

Being come to the fore-hatchway I checked there, despite my captors'
buffets and curses, to cast a final, long look up, above and round about
me, for I had a sudden uneasy feeling, a dreadful suspicion that once I
descended into the gloom below I never should come forth alive. So I stared
eagerly upon these ever-restless waters, so bright beneath the moon, upon
the white sands of Deliverance Beach, on lofty palmetto and bush-girt cliff
and then, shivering despite all my resolution, I suffered them to drag me
down into that place of shadows.

I remember a sharp, acrid smell, the reek of bilge and thick, mephitic air
as I stumbled on betwixt my captors through this foul-breathing dimness
until a door creaked, yawning suddenly upon a denser blackness, into which
I was thrust so suddenly that I fell, clashing my fetters, and lying thus,
heard the door slammed and bolted.

So here lay I in sweating, breathless expectation of I knew not what, my
ears on the stretch, my manacled hands tight-clenched and every nerve
a-tingle with this dreadful uncertainty. For a great while it seemed I lay
thus, my ears full of strange noises, faint sighings, unchancy rustlings
and a thousand sly, unaccountable sounds that at first caused me direful
apprehensions but which, as I grew more calm, I knew for no more than the
flow of the tide and the working of the vessel's timbers as she strained at
her anchors. All at once I sat up, crouching in the dark, as from somewhere
about me, soft yet plain to hear, came a sound that told me some one was
stealthily drawing the bolts of the door. Rising to my feet I stood,
shackled fists clenched, ready to leap and smite so soon as chance should
offer. Then came a hissing whisper:

"Easy all, brother! Soft it is, comrade! 'Tis me, messmate, old Resolution,
friend, come to loose thy bilboes, for fair is fair. Ha, 'tis plaguey dark,
the pit o' Acheron ain't blacker, where d'ye lay--speak soft for there's
ears a-hearkening very nigh us."

In the dark a hand touched me and then I felt the muzzle of a pistol at my
throat.

"No tricks, lad--no running for't if I loose ye--you'll bide here--come
life, come death? Is't agreed?"

"It is!" I whispered. Whereupon and with no more ado, he freed me from my
gyves, making scarcely any sound, despite the dark.

"I'll take these wi' me, friend and--my finger's on trigger."

"Resolution, how am I to die?"

"Black Pompey!" came the hissing whisper.

"Hath Joanna ordered this?"

"Never think it, mate--she's ashore and I swam aboard, having my
suspicions."

"Resolution, a dying man thanks you heartily, purely never, after all, was
there pirate the like o' you for holiness. Could I but find some weapon to
my defence now--a knife, say." In the dark came a griping hand that found
mine and was gone again, but in my grasp was a stout, broad-bladed knife.

"'Let the heathen rage,' saith Holy Writ, so rage it is, says I, only smite
first, brother and smite--hard. And 'ware the starboard scuttle!" Hereafter
was the rustle of his stealthy departure, the soft noise of bolts, and
silence.

And now in this pitchy gloom, wondering what and where this scuttle might
be, I crouched, a very wild and desperate creature, peering into the gloom
and starting at every sound; thus presently I heard the scrape of a viol
somewhere beyond the bulkheads that shut me in and therewith a voice that
sang, the words very clear and distinct:

  "Oh, Moll she lives in Deptford town,
  In Deptford town lives she;
  Let maid be white or black or brown.
  Still Moll's the lass for me;
  Sweet Moll as lives in Deptford town,
  Yo-ho, shipmates, for Deptford town,
  Tis there as I would be."

The long train moves slowly toward the end of the rails, getting as near
to the bare bank as is possible. So soon as she stops, an eager army of
workers attack her, with, of course, much wild noise of strange
rhythmic chant.

To the uninitiated this onslaught of the workers on the train bears all
the appearance of a raid, yet, should one watch awhile, it gradually
dawns upon one that marvellous orderliness and most studied method
underlie every seemingly wild movement.

  The engine stops--say, ten rail
  lengths from the end of the
  track--and the game begins.
  The rail-cars
  are in front, just behind the tender,
  with the rails neatly ranged
  on racks. At once to either
  side of each rail-car rushes a party of, if Egyptians, eight men,
if blacks, ten, upon whose padded shoulders the ton of sun-heated
metal is placed by the car party.

Then they run--they do literally run--away with the unwieldy thing
to its destined place, where, once it is placed on the sleepers, the
gaugers and strikers get at it, and it is put in position and pinned (to
each alternate sleeper, the operation being completed after the
heavy train has passed over the newly laid rails) in an incredibly
short time, at the end of which a bugle sounds, the steam whistle
blows, the engine moves slowly forward over the rails that less
than five minutes ago were stacked on the cars behind her, and the
whole operation is repeated

  ."
  * * * * *
  Hawaiian affairs continue to
  progress
  peacefully, notwithstanding
  the fact that the story of
  Japanese soldiers being
  introduced in Hawaii disguised as laborers has been confirmed by
so many people that our Government has no longer any doubt of its
truth.

Orders have therefore been sent to the commander of the fleet at Honolulu
to be on the alert, and in case Japan should attempt any hostile movement
to land a company of marines and sailors, run up the American flag, and
take possession of the island in the name of the United States.

The gunboats _Wheeling_ and _Concord_ have been sent to the Sandwich
Islands, and a cruiser and several gunboats will be kept at Honolulu until
all fear of trouble is over.

The Japanese ship, the _Naniwa_, has gone back to her own country to be
cleaned and repaired, but will return to Hawaii as soon as this has been
done.

And now in this
dreadful dark I heard a deep and gusty breathing, like that of some
monstrous beast, heard this breathing checked while he listened for me a
stealthy rustling as he felt here and there to discover my whereabouts. But
I stood utterly still, breathless and sweating, with a horror of death at
this great blackamoor's hands, since, what with the palsy of fear by reason
of the loss of my knife, I did not doubt but that this monster would soon
make an end of me and in horrid fashion.

Presently I heard him move again and (judging by the sound) creeping on
hands and knees, therefore as he approached I edged myself silently along
the bulkhead and thus (as I do think) we made the complete circuit of the
place; once it seemed he came upon the lanthorn and dashing it fiercely
aside, paused awhile to listen again, and my heart pounding within me so
that I sweated afresh lest he catch the sound of it. And sometimes I would
hear the soft, slurring whisper his fingers made against deck or bulkhead
where he groped for me, and once a snorting gasp and the crunch of his
murderous knife-point biting into wood and thereafter a hoarse and
outlandish muttering. And ever as I crept thus, moving but when he moved,
I felt before me with my foot, praying that I might discover my knife and,
this in hand, face him and end matters one way or another and be done with
the horror. And whiles we crawled thus round and round within this narrow
space, ever and anon above the stealthy rustle of his movements, above his
stertorous breathing and evil muttering, above the wild throbbing of my
heart rose the wail of the fiddle and the singing:

  "Who will not kiss a maid,
  Let him hang, let him hang;
  Who fears to kiss a maid,
  Let him hang.
  Who will not kiss a maid
  Who of woman is afraid,
  Is no better than a shade;
  So let him hang, let him hang!"

until this foolish, ranting ditty seemed to mock me, my breath came and
went to it, my heart beat to it; yet even so, I was praying passionately
and this my prayer, viz: That whoso was waiting above us for my death-cry
should not again lift the scuttle lest I be discovered to this man-thing
that crept and crept upon me in the dark. Even as I prayed thus, the
scuttle was raised and, blinded by the sudden glare of a lanthorn, I heard
Job's hoarse voice:

"Below there! Pompey, ahoy! Ha'n't ye done yet an' be curst?"

And suddenly I found in this thing I had so much dreaded the one chance to
my preservation, for I espied the great blackamoor huddled on his knees,
shading his eyes with both hands from the dazzling light and, lying on the
deck before him a long knife.

"Oh, marse mate," he cried, "me done fin' no curs' man here'bouts--"

Then I leaped and kicking the knife out of reach, had him in my grip, my
right hand fast about his throat. I remember his roar, the crash of the
trap as it closed, and after this a grim and desperate scuffling in the
dark; now he had me down, rolling and struggling and now we were up, locked
breast to breast, swaying and staggering, stumbling and slipping, crashing
into bulkheads, panting and groaning; and ever he beat and buffeted me with
mighty fists, but my head bowed low betwixt my arms, took small hurt, while
ever my two hands squeezed and wrenched and twisted at his great, fleshy
throat. I remember an awful gasping that changed to a strangling whistle,
choked to a feeble, hissing whine; his great body grew all suddenly lax,
swaying weakly in my grasp, and then, as I momentarily eased my grip, with
a sudden, mighty effort he broke free. I heard a crash of splintering wood,
felt a rush of sweet, pure air, saw him reel out through the shattered door
and sink upon his knees; but as I sprang towards him he was up and fleeing
along the deck amidships, screaming as he ran.

All about me was a babel of shouts and cries, a rush and trampling of feet,
but I sped all unheeding, my gaze ever upon the loathed, fleeing shape
of this vile blackamoor. I was hard on his heels as he scrambled up the
quarter-ladder and within a yard of him as he gained the deck, while behind
us in the waist were men who ran pell-mell, filling the night with raving
clamour and drunken halloo. Now as I reached the quarter-deck, some one of
these hurled after me a belaying pin and this, catching me on the thigh,
staggered me so that I should have fallen but for the rail; so there clung
I in a smother of sweat and blood while great moon and glittering stars
span dizzily; but crouched before me on his hams, almost within arm's
reach, was this accursed negro who gaped upon me with grinning teeth and
rolled starting eyeballs, his breath coming in great, hoarse gasps. And I
knew great joy to see him in no better case than I, his clothes hanging in
blood-stained tatters so that I might see all the monstrous bulk of him.
Now, as he caught his breath and glared upon me, I suffered my aching body
to droop lower and lower over the rail like one nigh to swooning, yet very
watchful of his every move. Suddenly as we faced each other thus, from the
deck below rose a chorus of confused cries:

"At him, Pompey! Now's ye time, boy! Lay 'im aboard, lad, 'e be
a-swounding! Ha--out wi' his liver, Pompey--at him, he's yourn!"

Heartened by these shouts and moreover seeing how feebly I clutched at the
quarter-rail, the great negro uttered a shrill cry of triumph and leapt at
me; but as he came I sprang to meet his rush and stooping swiftly, caught
him below the knees and in that same moment, straining every nerve, every
muscle and sinew to the uttermost, I rose up and hove him whirling over my
shoulder.

I heard a scream, a scurry of feet, and then the thudding crash of his fall
on the deck below and coming to the rail I leaned down and saw him lie,
his mighty limbs hideously twisted and all about him men who peered and
whispered. But suddenly they found their voices to rage against me, shaking
their fists and brandishing their steel; a pistol flashed and roared and
the bullet hummed by my ear, but standing above them I laughed as a madman
might, jibing at them and daring them to come on how they would, since
indeed death had no terrors for me now. And doubtless steel or shot would
have ended me there and then but for the man Diccon who quelled their
clamour and held them from me by voice and fist:

"Arrest, ye fools--stand by!" he roared. "Yon man be the property o'
Captain Jo--'tis Joanna's man and whoso harms him swings--"

"Aye, but he've murdered Pompey, ain't 'e?" demanded Job.

"Aye, aye--an' so 'e have, for sure!" cried a voice.

"Well an' good--murder's an 'anging matter, ain't it?"

"An' so it be, Job--up wi' him--hang him--hang him!"

"Well an' good!" cried Job again. "'Ang 'im we will, lads, all on us, every
man's fist to the rope--she can't hang us all, d'ye see. You, Diccon, where
be Belvedere; he shall be in it--"

"Safe fuddled wi' rum, surely. Lord, Job, you do be takin' uncommon risks
for a hatful o' guineas--"

So they took me and, all unresisting, I was dragged amidships beneath the
main yard where a noose was for my destruction; and though hanging had
seemed a clean death by contrast with that I had so lately escaped at
the obscene hands of this loathly blackamoor, yet none the less a sick
trembling took me as I felt the rope about my neck, insomuch that I sank to
my knees and closed my eyes.

Kneeling thus and nigh to fainting, I heard a sudden, quick patter of
light-running feet, a gasping sigh and, glancing up, beheld Job before
me, also upon his knees and staring down with wide and awful eyes at an
ever-spreading stain that fouled the bosom of his shirt; and as he knelt
thus, I saw above his stooping head the blue glitter of a long blade that
lightly tapped his brawny neck.

"The noose--here, Diccon, here, yes!"

As one in a dream I felt the rope lifted from me and saw it set about the
neck of Job.

"So! Ready there? Now--heave all!"

I heard the creak of the block, the quick tramp of feet, a strangling cry,
and Job the quartermaster was snatched aloft to kick and writhe and dangle
against the moon.

"Diccon, we have lost our quartermaster and we sail on the flood; you are
quartermaster henceforth, yes. Ha--look--see, my Englishman is sick! Dowse
a bucket o' water over him, then let him be ironed and take him forward to
the fo'castle; he shall serve you all for sport--but no killing, mind."
Thus lay I to be kicked and buffeted and half-drowned; yet when they had
shackled me, cometh the man Diccon to clap me heartily on the shoulder and
after him Resolution to nod at me and blink with his single, twinkling eye:

"Oh, friend," quoth he, "Oh, brother, saw ye ever the like of our Captain
Jo? Had Davy been here to-day he might perchance ha' wrote a psalm to her."

That morning with the flood tide we hove anchor and the _Happy Despatch_
stood out to sea and, as she heeled to the freshening wind, Job's
stiffening body lurched and swayed and twisted from the main yard. And thus
it was I saw the last of my island.


CHAPTER XII

OF BATTLE, MURDER AND RESOLUTION DAY, HIS POINT OF VIEW


And now, nothing heeding my defenceless situation and the further horrors
that might be mine aboard this accursed pirate ship, I nevertheless knew
great content for that, with every plunge and roll of the vessel, I was so
much the nearer Nombre de Dios town where lay prisoned my enemy, Richard
Brandon; thus I made of my sinful lust for vengeance a comfort to my
present miseries, and plotting my enemy's destruction, found therein much
solace and consolation.

I had crept into a sheltered corner and here, my knees drawn up, my back
against one of the weather guns, presently fell a-dozing. I was roused by
a kick to find the ship rolling prodigiously, the air full of spray and a
piping wind, and Captain Belvedere scowling down on me, supporting himself
by grasping a backstay in one hand and flourishing a case-bottle in the
other.

"Ha, 's fish, d'ye live yet?" roared he in drunken frenzy. "Ha'n't Black
Pompey done your business? Why, then--here's for ye!" And uttering a great
oath, he whirled up the bottle to smite; but, rolling in beneath his arm, I
staggered him with a blow of my fettered hands, then (or ever I might avoid
him) he had crushed me beneath his foot: and then Joanna stood fronting
him. Pallid, bare-headed, wild of eye, she glared on him and before this
look he cowered and shrank away.

"Drunken sot!" cried she. "Begone lest I send ye aloft to join yon
carrion!" And she pointed where Job's stiff body plunged and swung and
twisted at the reeling yard-arm.

"Nay, Jo, I--I meant him no harm!" he muttered, and turning obedient to her
gesture, slunk away.

"Ah, Martino," said Joanna, stooping above me, "'twould seem I must be for
ever saving your life to you, yes. Are you not grateful, no?"

"Aye, I am grateful!" quoth I, remembering my enemy.

"Then prove me it!"

"As how?"

"Speak me gently, look kindly on me, for I am sick, Martino, and shall be
worse. I never can abide a rolling ship--'tis this cursed woman's body o'
mine. So to-day am I all woman and yearn for tenderness--and we shall have
more bad weather by the look o' things! Have you enough knowledge to handle
this ship in a storm?"

"Not I!"

"'Tis pity," she sighed, "'tis pity! I would hang Belvedere and make
you captain in his room--he wearies me, and would kill me were he man
enough--ah, Mother of Heaven, what a sea!" she cried, clinging to me as a
great wave broke forward, filling the air with hissing spray. "Aid me aft,
Martino!"

Hereupon, seeing her so haggard and faint, and the decks deserted save for
the watch, I did as she bade me as well as I might by reason of my fetters
and the uneasy motion of the ship, and at last (and no small labour) I
brought her into the great cabin or roundhouse under the poop. And now she
would have me bide and talk with her awhile, but this I would by no means
do.

"And why not, Martino?" she questioned in soft, wheedling fashion. "Am I so
hateful to you yet? Wherefore go?"

"Because I had rather lie in my fetters out yonder at the mercy o' wind and
wave!" said I.

Now at this she fell to sudden weeping and, as suddenly, to reviling me
with bitter curses.

"Go then!" cried she, striking me in her fury. "Keep your chains--aye, I
will give ye to the mercy of this rabble crew ... leave me!" The which I
did forthwith and, finding me a sheltered corner, cast myself down there
and fell to hearkening to the rush of the wind and to watching the
awful might of the racing, foam-capped billows. And, beholding these
manifestations of God's majesty and infinite power, of what must I be
thinking but my own small desires and unworthy schemes of vengeance! And
bethinking me of Don Federigo (and him governor of Nombre de Dios) I
began planning how I might use him to my purpose. My mind full of this, I
presently espied the mate, Resolution Day, his laced hat and noble periwig
replaced by a close-fitting seaman's bonnet, making his way across the
heaving deck as only a seaman might (and despite his limp) and as he drew
nearer I hailed and beckoned him.

"Aha, and are ye there, camarado!" said he. "'Tis well, for I am a-seeking
ye."

"Tell me, Resolution, when shall we sight Nombre de Dios?"

"Why look now, if this wind holdeth fair, we should fetch up wi' it in some
five days or thereabouts."

"Don Federigo is governor of the town, I think?"

"Verily and so he is. And what then?"

"Where lieth he now?"

"Safe, friend, and secure. You may lay to that, brother!"

"Could you but get me speech with him--"

"Not by no manner o' means whatsoever, _amigo_! And the reason why? It
being agin her orders."

"Is he well?"

"Well-ish, brother--fairly bobbish, all things considered, mate--though not
such a hell-fire, roaring lad o' mettle as yourself, comrade. David slew
Goliath o' Gath wi' a pebble and you broke Black Pompey's back wi' your
naked hands! Here's a thing as liketh me mighty well! Wherefore I grieve to
find ye such an everlasting fool, brother."

"How so, Resolution?"

"When eyes look sweetness--why scowl? When lips woo kisses--wherefore take
a blow instead? When comfort and all manner o' delights be offered--why
choose misery forrard and the bloody rogues o' her fo'castle? For 'tis
there as you be going, mate--aye, verily!" Here he set a silver whistle to
his mouth and blew a shrill blast at which signal came two fellows who, at
his command, dragged me to my feet and so away forward.

Thus true to her word, Joanna banished me from the gilded luxury of cabin
and roundhouse and gave me up to the rogues forward, a wild and lawless
company of divers races and conditions so that they seemed the very scum of
the world, and yet here, in this reeking forecastle, each and every of them
my master.

Nor can any words of mine justly paint the wild riot and brutal licence
of this crowded 'tween-deck, foul with the reek of tobacco and a thousand
worse savours, its tiers on tiers of dark and noisome berths where men
snored or thrust forth shaggy heads to rave at and curse each other; its
blotched and narrow table amidships, its rows of battered sea chests, its
loathsome floor; a place of never-ceasing stir and tumult, dim-lighted by
sputtering lamps.

My advent was hailed by an exultant roar and they were all about me, an
evil company in their rage and draggled finery; here were faces scarred by
battles and brutalised by their own misdeeds, this unlovely company now
thrust upon me with pointing fingers, nudging elbows, scowls and mocking
laughter.

"What now--is he to us, then?" cried one. "Hath Jo sent us her plaything?"

"Aye, lads, and verily!" answered Resolution. "Here's him as she calleth
Martin O; here's him as out-fought Pompey--"

"Aye, aye--remember Pompey!" cried a bedizened rogue pushing towards me,
hand on knife.

At the present time, too, if a laborer, through errors of judgment, should
lose the savings of his years of youth and strength, he can rarely recover
the ground lost, and finds that paying his way from day to day thereafter
is all he can do, and when his work days are gone for good he must
either go to the poor-house or be cared for by his relations, whose
own load is about all they can bear up under.

With the income kept where it is made all this is would be changed, for
then, instead of having work only a part of the time, and poor wages besides,
the laborer, when his work for private parties gave out, could get work
from the local Government, which always has it to give, and the money to pay
for it. And should a laborer here and there through some unforeseen cause,
be forced by poverty and age to accept food and shelter that he cannot pay
for, his relations can provide for him, for the getting of the mere food
and clothing will not be the momentous question that it is now. And
this power of the local Government to give work will save many a one from
a fate that should never overtake the honest and willing.

Pauperism and crime can never be eliminated from society, any more than
the susceptibility to sickness and disease can be eliminated from
flesh and blood, but as civilization grows older its accumulating
wisdom should be more than a match for poverty, the parent germ of
both pauperism and crime; but the discouraging fact is that these
two diseases of civilized society are advancing faster than
civilization itself, and we build larger poor houses and jails, and
then sit down and nurse the hideous disorders, as if they were the
incurable rot of leprosy instead of being the result of economic
laws that allow the able to rob the weak.

There is not a county or State but what has plenty of work
had it the money to do it.

The question of good roads is becoming prominent, but if they are ever built
under our present system of economics they will be built by slave labor
pure and simple.

It is absolutely out of the question for the people to raise the money
for running the Government; pay interest on bonds; pay for the bonds
themselves; pay pensions; carry on the costly work of giving the whole
country macadamized roads, and care for the millionaire, and remain free
at the same time.

Government expenses.

Pensions.

Interest on bonds.

Matured bonds.

Macadamized roads.

Care of millionaire.

To think of carrying such a load and remain free is madness.

We are contending that the country is already crushed with debt; that
she is saddled with such a tremendous load, that, like the mortgaged farm,
improvement and progress is utterly out of the question. We have the resources
for any and every improvement that the country needs, but they are
wasted and squandered paying interest to foreign capitalists, and
supporting our mushroom growth of millionaire parasites, who are
the cause of our poverty of capital, and the foreigners' ability
to lend us money.

Do away with interest paying and the millionaire, and the required roads
could be commenced at once, and as for the Nicaragua canal, we
would make as light of it as does the farmer in hoeing a hill of
beans.

XII.

The silver interest asserts that we will never stop our headlong rush to
the devil if we do not get free coinage of silver.

Silver, like pork or potatoes, is something for sale, and its owners
have given up their whole attention to finding it a market. Whoever heard
of J. P.

Jones interesting himself in anything except silver. Never in all of his
twenty years of public life did he show that he was anything more than "a
man from one of the Silver States."

Ever and always whenever he fills the air with his noise, you have only to
look and there you will find him still knocking at the public
treasury for a customer that already has had enough of him.

He has become a monomaniac on silver, and, although one of the principal
owners of the Mariposa land grant, will not open it up because it
is silver he wants and the grant only shows gold.

It is this dementia that secures him a life-lease of the Senatorship from
Nevada. For Nevada has only one interest, and that is silver. Silver is her
wool, her cotton, her wheat, her coal, her iron, her lumber, her
manufactures. It made her a State. It made her first representative to
Congress and her last.

It made Jones - Jones the drummer whose one sample is silver, who talks of
silver, who sings of silver, who dreams of silver, and who gets his
inspirations of the past, present, and future as he looks down the shaft
of his silver mine in Nevada.

Never did the tail of the dog work harder than does this little
bob-tailed thing called silver, that we find moving around among
our legs, trying to trip us up every time the political procession
makes a move.

There is distress because there is not money enough in circulation, say these
peddlers of silver. It is a well understood fact that every sound
bank in the country has idle money in its vaults looking for
investment.

Money is precisely like the laborer - it, too, is on the lookout for work.
Show money where it can make interest, and it will come out of
those vaults as quick as the hungry laborer will answer the knock
at his door.

Whatever distress the laborer is suffering, however, be sure that
the millionaire owner of that idle money feels it not.

His belly is well filled and his back well covered, and he knows
nothing of the jolt of the box-car as he listens to the rhythm of
the wheels of his Pullman sleeper.

And it matters little to this millionaire, this flower of a foreign
clime, when his increase sets in again.

He has millions, a word we little comprehend the meaning of, and
he will never know distress, any more than the laborer will know
plenty again while this vampire of progress is permitted to survive.

But the time must come when labor will get to work again for a few
months each year, the usual thing now, to produce the needed stock
of necessaries for the country, and then he will see the man of
millions step off and collect his usual toll, and enough besides
to make good any shrinkage in the principal.

This owner of immense capital, this traveler in the Pullman, who
makes his regular rounds through the country collecting toll off
every laborer in every section, preparatory to his flight to Europe,
is twin brother to the great land owner, and there is no hope for
our country until both are legally or otherwise exterminated

.

-
We could undo the capitalist by making interest illegal, as this would
force him. to draw on his principal.

We do not object, however, to the interest capital receives. Banks have no
enemy in this proposed change, and we suspect either the motives or the
judgment of those whose stock in trade is a howl against banks,
and what they call usury.

Money has its place in civilization, and the bank where it is dealt
in is a shop just as much as is the dry goods store or grocery, and
is entitled to its profits just the same.

If a man earns $5,000 he should be allowed to charge something for its use
the same as for the wagon be made or the house he built.

Neither the wagon nor house is any more the result of his labor than
is this money, and no one will question his right to charge something
for the use of the first two.

It is here where the banks are of service - the man with money takes it to
a place - the bank - where the man who wishes to hire it knows
where to look for it.

Good sense will not deny a market to a man with potatoes; neither
will it deny him a market for any other product of his labor, be
it capital or what not.

Interest is wrong only when it is being drawn by a millionaire,
who, of course, did not earn the principal.

Those millions is where the danger lies, when found with an individual
owner, whether they are in bank vaults or on the shelves of the
millionaire merchant.

Besides, it is a slow process, this breaking up the millionaire
owner of some thing by stopping his interest.

This earth should be ours while we are alive to enjoy it, and there is
no hope of getting it by applying the graduated tax idea to either land or
capital. When a curse like poverty can be removed the quicker it is done
the better.

Interest is wrong (we are not justifying extortion) when it is drawn by the
millionaire, not only because his labor did not earn the principal,
but because he has the power to take it out of the country where
it was earned.

And he does take it out thereby impoverishing the country of the capital
that is needed to carry on developments that should never be allowed
to stop.

There is, as has been said, idle money now, but the millionaire owners
care nothing for the general welfare, and the people cannot get this idle
money because they find it impossible to pay interest for its use, and
carry at the same time the fearful burdens they are now loaded
with.

An individual can be forced to submit to any kind of terms when his necessities
are driving him.

When those necessities are satisfied he must stop and let development go, for
he cannot stand the terms.

He is willing to go ahead, but he simply finds his physical being unequal
to the task. As it is with one individual so it is with a nation of
individuals. They also can be forced to submit to any kind of terms when
their necessities are driving them, and when their necessities are
supplied they too must stop and let development go, for they cannot stand
the terms. In other words, the capacity of people, singly or collectively,
is limited, and if they are compelled to exhaust that capacity in supporting
millionaire parasites at home, and paying for their extravagance abroad,
they cannot improve themselves or develop their country.

Complicity, then, and negligence on the part of our law makers has
made a few men the absolute owners of the financial or money branch
of our economics, and the people find it impossible to move except
when these masters find it to their interests to let them.

Progress under such conditions will never be more than a dream.

We could find use for all the capital that is now in the country,
and all that has been and is being taken out of it, but we should
first loosen the grip of these legalized despoilers and see how far
what we have got would go before we talk of issuing more, which
would soon turn up missing like the rest.

XIII.

We hear much about what we are losing by the balance of trade being against
us, but not a word about that other floodgate through which our
capital is rushing, namely, our millionaire class making its purchases
abroad, and their other expenses while living among the foreign
birds of a like feather.

Their idle money is left here for investment. They do not look to that
quarter for income.

The world over there is under the feet of a few as it is here, and the
result is the same - idle money looking for interest.

No less an authority than the late Ward McAllister has said that up to last
year two hundred and eighty American women had married foreign titles.

$1,000,000,000 was the war indemnity demanded of France by the Germans, and
so vast is this sum that the civilized world believed the Germans
wanted to retain possession of the conquered country and demanded
what the French could not pay.

Yet the amount of American money it took to buy those two hundred and eighty
titles is far in excess of that war indemnity.

At four millions each it would exceed $1,000,000,000. But the average cost
must have been more than four millions. One of our millionaire flour mill
owners, who is a mere tallow candle in this constellation, paid $7,000,000
for the title his daughter is now wearing. And this $7,000,000 must have
been a mere bagatelle compared to what it cost Huntington to get the
lively Hatzfeldt. The poor flour mill man could not have paid that fellow's
"debts of honor." This buying of titles, however, is but one way by which
the millionaires are beggaring the American people.

So much of their time is now spent over there that they have come to look
upon the United States as their rented farm, and Europe as the place where
they, in their high roller way, must get rid of its income. Call to mind
the millionaire families who live a large part of their time in Europe.
Call to mind those who have made Europe their permanent home, with their
income drawn from the United States.
Call to mind the great European estates, that have been first cleared
of their peasantry, and then leased by American millionaires, that
they may have the exclusive right to shoot at something.

Call to mind the New York City millionaire, who purchased an English estate,
one to fit the title he is lick-spittling after, and where he can rest,
after airing his mind in his great London Daily and Monthly; all
three, estate and periodicals, being a source of loss, that is made
good by American earned money.

Call all these things to mind, and if we are poor in capital have we not
found the reason why?

Europe is the Broadway of these people, and they are there to squander money,
not to make it. And the European visitor to our shores does not make up the
loss.

He comes, looks at some of our landscape, Niagara, the Yosemite, etc.,
and is out of the country and home again. His is but a drop to the ocean
we lose.

Need we wonder at our gold disappearing? Our bonds and stocks, Government
and corporation, are scattered broadcast over the whole of Europe, and
those decrepit titles, that were dying out, have been put on their
feet again by American money, and are now living off the interest of American
bonds of one kind or another.

Nor should we have to borrow foreign capital. It is over a century since
this government was established, and it is time we had enough capital of our
own.

But the United States Treasury is, and has been for over thirty years, the
clearing house for the foreign holders of American securities.

We are a mortgaged nation, and the office of our National Treasury is the
place of all others where our foreign owners should get their interest.

We are still in possession of the office, however, and in this we are ahead
of Egypt, but it will take much hair-splitting to show any substantial
difference in the results.

History does not contain, the imagination cannot evolve, a more damnable
exhibition of incompetence than this failure of our scrub statesmen
to extricate their country from the clutch of its foreign masters.

Ruling one or the three principal gold producers of the world, they are
compelled to resort, to all the shifts known to the desperate bankrupt in
order to keep a few millions of it in the Treasury, and thereby save our
whole monetary system from going to the dogs. For let us not delude
ourselves; the moment the United States Treasury cannot give gold for
its greenbacks, that moment will the history of the greenback begin to
repeat itself. And we are not saving ourselves by making greenbacks
lean on silver. They cannot be made stronger than the thing they lean
on.

Gold we must have as our standard.

We are in commercial relations with all nations, and the laws of trade are
inexorable, and say: You must have money that is acceptable to those you
buy from. Bring any other, and you can call the fifty cents it contains one
hundred, but your laws are for the United States only, and you must accept
the fifty cents or take back the mongrel that in your own barnyard crows
so loud, for the United States has induced a swindle that she is powerless
to enforce beyond her own borders.

No law is necessary to make us take gold. Just out of the mine or just
out of the mint, we want it - the whole world wants it.

Finance, if not as old as the hills, is at least pretty near as old as the
graves at the foot of them. There is nothing new to be learned regarding
her laws. And those laws do not shut out tin, copper, paper, rags, nails,
or silver from being used as money as long as it is agreeable to the
interested. But the wisdom of the world comes from her experience, and if
she calls for gold money it is because she has never found a better.
All other kinds fade before it as fades the moon before the rising
sun.

There is but one central orb in the world's monetary systems, and
that is Gold. And its satellites, paper or silver, will never be
able to get out of their orbits where the fixed and unalterable laws
of the world's financial systems have placed them. Temporary disturbances
may deceive the searcher, but he has mistaken his calling who cannot
distinguish planets from the sun around which they are moving.

The different governments of Europe, that are not gold producers, have gold
as the basis of their monetary systems, and, what is more, the gold is
there. The United States, that is a gold producer, would also have it as
the basis of its monetary system, but this nation, the one independent
nation that is all extensive and the leading producer of the metal
that the enlightened world approves of as making the best of all
moneys, cannot retain enough of it to give future stability to her
own currency.

This nation, the greatest of to-day, or any day!

This nation, that has given more to the rest of the world than it
has ever received!

This nation - of all others on this earth - must be content with
the money of the enslaved East Indian coolie; must be content with
the money of the decaying Chinaman; must be content with the money
of the half savage republics to the south of us!

This nation, whose chief magistrate is the embodiment of power never
dreamed of by the Caesars and Napoleons in their palmiest days!

This nation, that is impregnable against the combined armies of the world,
is being sapped and mined of its wealth under the very eyes of its driveling
lawmakers, and silver is becoming the badge of its humiliation and
inferiority!

XIV.

The national debt of France is $7,000,000,000. This exceeds the combined
national debts of the United States, England, and Germany.

In territory, France is not as large as California.

Her population is[2] ....................... 37,000,000 The population
of the United States is ..... 65,000,000 The population of England
is ............... 37,000,000 The population of Germany is
............... 40,000,000 ____________ Total ..................................
142,000,000
The French navy is a fairly close second to that of England.

Her army is as large as that of Germany.

France, then, supports an army and navy of the first class, and has only
37,000,000 people to do it with. And this same 37,000,000 people pays
interest on a debt that is greater than that of the 142,000,000
people in the three countries named.

Yet there is no wail of distress, such as we are familiar with, heard in
this France, with its great army and navy, and its fabulous
interest-bearing, debt.

What is the secret of it?

France is the greatest producer of luxeries in the world, and, of course,
has the rich the world over for her customers; and she is a nation of small
owners, her resources, land and all else, being subdivided among
her people to an extent unknown elsewhere.

This is only half the secret.

There is a natural increase of wealth in every country. Keep that natural
increase in the country where it is made, and there will always be a surplus
left after the mere live and wear expenses are paid, and this surplus can
be used either to support an army or to build macadamized roads.

This then is the other half, without which she would be where we are: France
legislates to keep her wealth in her own country - and her loss on that
canal is only one plum out of her heeping bushel.

The foreign sapper and miner does no work on French soil. His field of
operation is the whole American continent, beginning in Canada and on down
through, without a skip, till he reaches Magellan and the Horn,
scattering his due bills all the way.

The French law-maker, in spite of his clatter, is without a peer,
and he dwarfs none so much as our own, who will become the butt of
his own sneer if he ever gets his eyes open.

This foreign master of the art of governing legislates in the
interests of his own people, who are the only source of his country's
power or greatness, and he leaves the income of the large farm or
small one where it is made.

And when the issuing of bonds is the only alternative he issues them in sizes
those small incomes can buy.

Their labor pays the debt in the end, and it is their interests that are
first consulted when profits from bond issues are considered.

He makes the size of the bond fit their ability to buy, and not that of the
millionaire syndicate, as is the case in this misgoverned land, where
the matchless ignorance and complicity of the law-maker is made to serve
the matchless corruption and greed of its millionaire master.

No French syndicate makes its five to ten per cent. profits off
every issue of bonds.

Thousands among our toilers could have secured their ten-dollar savings could
they have bought Government bonds of that denomination but they could
not, and were forced to become the victims of swindling bankers.

Individual greed cares nothing for its victims as they are thrown on the
streets and its ways.

When this enterprising foreigner, with his surplus capital, the result
of wise laws, started for Panama to do a much needed work for this Western
world, that this great gold producing country could not find the
capital to do, our blackmailers worked the Monroe Doctrine on him
and all the while he was quieting the rascals, the sappers and
miners were splitting their sides at our treasury door.

Congress is opened by a chaplain. It should be opened by a physician and
a warrant - bibs for the drooling chins of some and the rest to jail.

[2] The writer is not within hundreds of miles of works of reference; but
these figures are substantially correct.

The quibbler, however, is welcome to anything he may find.

Conclusion.

A policy that keeps our increase of wealth in the country, and prevents it
from lodging in a few hands, can work no injury whatever. No enterprise
worthy of notice will languish for the want of the necessary
capital.

The savings banks are the depositories of the people, and the capital
of those institution in all the cities of the country exceeds that of
the commercial or capitalistic banks, and the "statements" of the savings
banks should dispel any fears as to whether capital can be concentrated
afterit once gets into the hands of the people. $50,000,000 is the assets
of more than one savings bank in the City of New York. And our own San
Francisco has its Hibernia and other banks of its kind, with from
$5,000,000 to $30,000,000 of capital. And when it is remembered that the
total deposits of an individual in most of those institutions is not allowed
to exceed $3,000, we can see that the people will not fail us as
"concentrators" when their help is needed.

Now being on my knees, I began to whisper in passionate prayer until,
roused by a shambling step, I glanced up to find Resolution Day beside me.

"What, d'ye pray, brother? 'Tis excellent well!" Said he, setting a
musquetoon ready to hand and glancing at the primings of his pistols. "Pray
unceasing, friend, plague the Throne wi' petitions, comrade, and a word or
so on behalf of old Resolution ere the battle joins, for there's--"

"I pray God utterly destroy this accursed ship and all aboard her!" I
cried.

"And do ye so?" said he, setting the pistols in his belt. "Why, then, 'tis
as well you're safe i' your bilboes, _amigo_, and as to your blasphemous
praying, I will offset it wi' prayerful counterblast--Ha, by my deathless
soul--what's doing yonder?" he cried, and leant to peer across at the
chase, and well he might. For suddenly (and marvellous to behold) this ship
that had sailed so heavily seemed to throw off her sluggishness and, taking
on new life, to bound forward; her decks, hitherto deserted, grew alive
with men who leapt to loose and haul at brace and rope and, coming about,
she stood towards us and right athwart our course. So sudden had been this
manoeuvre and so wholly unexpected that all men it seemed could but stare
in stupefied amaze.

"Ha!" cried Resolution, smiting fist on the rail before him. "Tricked,
by hookey! She's been towing a sea anchor! Below there!" he hailed.
"Belvedere, ahoy--go about, or she'll rake us--"

And now came Belvedere's voice in fierce and shrill alarm:

"Down wi' your helm--down! Let go weather braces, jump, ye dogs, jump!"

I heard the answering tramp of feet, the rattle and creak of the yards as
they swung and a great flapping of canvas as the _Happy Despatch_ came up
into the wind; but watching where our adversary bore down upon us, I beheld
her six guns suddenly multiplied and (or ever we might bring our broadside
to bear) from these gaping muzzles leapt smoke and roaring flame, and we
were smitten with a hurricane of shot that swept us from stem to stern.

Dazed, deafened, half-stunned, I crouched in the shelter of the mizzen
mast, aware of shrieks and cries and the crash of falling spars, nor moved
I for a space; lifting my head at last, I beheld on the littered decks
below huddled figures that lay strangely twisted, that writhed or crawled.
Then came the hoarse roar of a speaking trumpet and I saw Resolution, his
face a smother of blood, where he leaned hard by across the quarter-rail.

"Stand to't, my bullies!" he roared, and his voice had never sounded so
jovial. "Clear the guns, baw-cocky boys; 'tis our turn next--but stand by
till she comes about--"

From the companion below came one running, eyes wild, mouth agape, and I
recognised the man Ford who had been my chief persecutor in the forecastle.

"What now, lad--what now?" demanded Resolution, mopping at his bloody face.

"Death!" gasped Ford. "There be dead men a-lay-ing forward--dead,
look'ee--"

"Likely enough, John Ford, and there'll be dead men a-laying aft if ye're
not back to your gun and lively, d'ye see?" But the fellow, gasping again,
fell to his knees, whereupon Resolution smote him over the head with his
speaking trumpet and tumbled him down the ladder.

"Look'ee here," quoth he, scowling on me, "this all cometh along o' your
ill-praying us, for prayer is potent, as I know, which was not brotherly in
you, Martin O, not brotherly nor yet friendly!" So saying, he squatted on
the gun beside me and sought to staunch the splinter-gash in his brow; but
seeing how ill he set about it, I proffered to do it for him (and despite
my shackles), whereupon he gave me the scarf and knelt that I might come
at his hurt the better; and being thus on his knees, he began to pray in a
loud, strong voice:

"Lord God o' battles, close up Thine ear, hearken to and regard not the
unseemly praying of this mail Martin that hath not the just point o' view,
seeing through a glass darkly. Yonder lieth the enemy, Lord, Thine and
mine, wherefore let 'em be rooted out and utterly destroyed; for if these
be Portingales and Papishers--if--ha--if--?" Resolution ceased his prayer
and glancing up, pointed with stabbing finger: "Yon ship's no more
Portingale than I am--look, friend, look!"

Now glancing whither he would have me, I saw two things: first, that the
_Happy Despatch_ had turned tail and second that our pursuers bore at her
main the English flag; beholding which, a great joy welled up within me so
that I had much ado to keep from shouting outright.

"English!" quoth Resolution. "And a fighting ship--so fight we must, unless
we win clear!"

"Ha, will ye run then?" cried I in bitter scorn.

"With might and main, friend. We are a pirate, d'ye see, w' all to lose and
nought to gain, and then 'tis but a fool as fighteth out o' season!"

Even as he spoke the English ship yawed and let fly at us with her
fore-chase and mingled with their roar was the sharp crack of parting
timbers and down came our main-topmast.

"Why, so be it!" quoth Resolution, scowling up at the flapping ruin where
it hung. "Very well, 'tis a smooth sea and a fighting wind, so shall you
ha' your bellyful o' battle now, friend, for yonder cometh Joanna at last!"

And great wonder was it to behold how the mere sight of her heartened our
sullen rogues, to hear with what howls of joy they welcomed her as she
paced daintily across the littered deck with her quick glance now aloft,
now upon our determined foe.

"Ha, 'tis so--'tis our Jo--our luck! Shout for Cap'n Jo and the luck o' the
Brotherhood!"

And now at her rapid commands from chaos came order, the decks were
cleared, and, despite wrecked topmast, round swung the _Happy Despatch_
until her broadside bore upon the English ship. Even then Joanna waited,
every eye fixed on her where she lolled, hand on hip, watching the approach
of our adversary. Suddenly she gestured with her arm and immediately the
whole fabric of the ship leapt and quivered to the deafening roar of her
guns; then, as the smoke cleared, I saw the enemy's foreyard was gone and
her sides streaked and splintered by our shot, and from our decks rose
shouts of fierce exultation, drowned in the answering thunder of their
starboard broadside, the hiss of their shot all round about us, the crackle
of riven woodwork, the vicious whirr of flying splinters, wails and screams
and wild cheering.

And thus began a battle surely as desperate as ever was fought and which
indeed no poor words of mine may justly describe. The enemy lay to windward
and little enough could I see by reason of the dense smoke that enveloped
us, a stifling, sulphurous cloud that drifted aboard us ever more thick
as the fight waxed, a choking mist full of blurred shapes, dim forms that
flitted by and vanished spectre-like, a rolling mystery whence came all
manner of cries, piercing screams and shrill wailings dreadful to hear,
while the deck beneath me, the air about me reeled and quivered to the
never-ceasing thunder of artillery. But ever and anon, through some rent
in this smoky curtain, I might catch a glimpse of the English ship, her
shot-scarred side and rent sails, or the grim havoc of our own decks. And
amidst it all, and hard beside me where I crouched in the shelter of the
mizzenmast, I beheld Resolution Day limping to and fro, jovial of voice,
cheering his sweating, powder-grimed gun-crews with word and hand. Suddenly
I was aware of Joanna beside me, gay and debonnaire but ghastly pale.

"Hola, Martino!" cried she. "D'ye live yet? 'Tis well. If we die to-day we
die together, and where a properer death or one more fitting for such as
you and I, for am I killed first, Resolution shall send you after me to
bear me company, yes."

So saying, she smiled and nodded and turned to summon Resolution, who came
in limping haste.

"What, are ye hurt, Jo?" cried he, peering. "Ha, Joanna lass, are ye hit
indeed?"

"A little, yes!" said she, and staggering against the mast leaned there as
if faint, yet casting a swift, furtive glance over her shoulder. "But death
cometh behind me, Resolution, and my pistol's gone and yours both empty--"

Now glancing whither she looked, I saw Captain Belvedere come bounding up
the ladder, cutlass in one hand and pistol in the other.

"Are ye there, Jo, are ye there?" he cried and stood to scowl on her.

"Resolution," said she, drooping against the mast, "fight me the ship--"

"And what o' me?" snarled Belvedere.

"You?" cried she. "Ah--bah!" and turning, she spat at him and, screaming,
fell headlong as his pistol flashed. But over her prostrate form leapt
Resolution and there, while the battle roared about them, I watched as,
with steel that crashed unheard in that raging uproar, they smote and
parried and thrust until an eddying smoke-cloud blotted them from my view.
Now fain would I have come at Joanna where she lay, yet might not for my
bonds, although she was so near; suddenly as I watched her (and struggling
thus vainly to reach her) I saw she was watching me.

"And would you aid your poor Joanna, yes?" she questioned faintly.

"'Twas so my thought--"

"Because I am dying, Martino? Doth this grieve you?"

"You are over-young to die!"

"And my life hath been very hard and cruel! Would you kiss a dying woman
an' she might creep to your arms, Martino?"

Slowly and painfully she dragged herself within my reach and, beholding the
twisted agony of her look, reading the piteous supplication in her eyes,
I stooped to kiss the pale brow she lifted to my lips and--felt two arms
about me vigorous and strong and under mine the quivering passion of her
mouth; then she had loosed me and was before me on her knees, flushed and
tremulous as any simple maid.

I was yet gazing on her in dumb and stark amaze, when from somewhere
hard by a man cried out in wild and awful fashion, and as this agonised
screaming swelled upon the air, Joanna rose up to her feet and stood
transfigured, her eyes fierce and wild, her clenched teeth agleam 'twixt
curling lips; and presently through the swirling smoke limped Resolution
Day, a dreadful, bedabbled figure, who, beholding Joanna on her feet,
flourished a dripping blade and panted exultant.

"He is dead?" she questioned.

"Verily and thoroughly!" said Resolution, wringing blood from his beruffled
shirt sleeve. "And a moist end he made on't. But thee, Joanna, I grieved
thee surely dead--"

"Nay, I screamed and dropped in time, but--hark, the Englishman's fire
is ceasing and see, Resolution--look yonder!" and she pointed where our
antagonist, sore battered in hull and spars, was staggering out of the
fight.

And now in place of roaring battle was sudden hush, yet a quietude this,
troubled by thin cryings, waitings and the like distressful sounds; and
the smoke lifting showed something of the havoc about us, viz: our riven
bulwarks, the tangled confusion of shattered spars, ropes and fallen
gear, the still and awful shapes that cumbered the spattered decks, more
especially about the smoking guns where leaned their wearied crews, a
blood-stained, powder-grimed company, cheering fitfully as they watched the
English ship creeping away from us.

To us presently cometh Diccon, his blackened face streaked with sweat,
hoarse-voiced but hearty:

"Aha, Captain Jo--your luck's wi' us as ever! Yon curst craft hath her
bellyful at last, aye, has she!"

"I doubt!" quoth Resolution, shaking his head, whiles Joanna, leaning
against the mast, pointed feebly and I noticed her sleeve was soaked with
blood and her speech dull and indistinct:

"Resolution is i' the--right--see!"

And sure enough the English ship, having fetched ahead of us and beyond
range of our broadside guns, had hauled her wind and now lay to, her people
mighty busy making good their damage alow and aloft, stopping shot-holes,
knotting and splicing their gear, etc. Hereupon Diccon falls to a passion
of vain oaths, Resolution to quoting Psalms and Joanna, sighing, slips
suddenly to the deck and lies a-swoon. In a moment Resolution was on his
knees beside her.

"Water, Diccon, water!" said he. "The lads must never see her thus!" So
Diccon fetched the water and between them they contrived to get Joanna to
her feet, and standing thus supported by their arms, she must needs use her
first breath to curse her weak woman's body:

"And our mainmast is shot through at the cap--we must wear ship or 'twill
go! Veer, Resolution, wear ship and man the larboard guns ... they are cool
... I must go tend my hurt--a curst on't! Wear ship and fight, Resolution,
fight--to the last!"

So saying, she put by their hold and (albeit she stumbled for very
weakness) nevertheless contrived to descend the quarter-ladder and wave
cheery greeting to the roar of acclaim that welcomed her.

"And there's for ye!" quoth Resolution. "Never was such hugeous great
spirit in man's body or woman's body afore, neither in this world or any
other--no, not even Davy at Adullam, by hookey! Down to your guns, Diccon
lad, and cheerily, for it looks as we shall have some pretty fighting,
after all!"

But at the hoarse roar of Resolution's speaking trumpet was stir and
clamorous outcry from the battle-wearied crew who came aft in a body.

"Oho, Belvedere!" they shouted, "Us ha' fought as long as men may, and now
what?"

"Fight again, bullies, and cheerily!" roared Resolution. At this the uproar
grew; pistols and muskets were brandished.

"We ha' fought enough! 'Tis time to square away and run for't--aye,
aye--what saith Belvedere, Belvedere be our Cap'n--we want Belvedere!"

"Why then, take him, Bullies, take him and willing!" cried Resolution;
then stooping (and with incredible strength) up to the quarter-railing he
hoisted that awful, mutilated thing that had once been Captain Belvedere
and hove it over to thud down among them on the deck below. "Eye him over,
lads!" quoth Resolution. "View him well, bawcock boys! I made sure work,
d'ye see, though scarce so complete as the heathen Pompey might ha' done,
but 'tis a very thoroughly dead rogue, you'll allow. And I killed him
because he would ha' murdered our Joanna, our luck--and because he was for
yielding us up, you and me, to yon ship that is death for us--for look'ee,
there is never a ship on the Main will grant quarter or show mercy for we;
'tis noose and tar and gibbet for every one on us, d'ye see? So fight,
bully boys, fight for a chance o' life and happy days--here stand I to
fight wi' you and Diccon 'twixt decks and Captain Jo everywhere. We beat
off you Englishman once and so we will again. So fight it is, comrades all,
and a cheer for Captain Jo--ha, Joanna!"

Cheer they did and (like the desperate rogues they were) back they went,
some to their reeking guns, others to splice running and standing rigging,
to secure our tottering mainmast and to clear the littered decks; overboard
alike went broken gear and dead comrade. Then, with every man at his
quarters, with port fires burning, drums beating, black flag flaunting
aloft, round swung the _Happy Despatch_ to face once more her indomitable
foe (since she might not fly) and to fight for her very life.

So once again was smoke and flame and roaring battle; broadside for
broadside we fought them until night fell, a night of horror lit by the
quivering red glare of the guns, the vivid flash of pistol and musket
and the pale flicker of the battle lanthorns. And presently the moon was
casting her placid beam upon this hell of destruction and death, whereas I
lay, famished with hunger and thirst, staring up at her pale serenity with
weary, swooning eyes, scarce heeding the raving tumult about me.

I remember a sudden, rending crash, a stunning shock and all things were
blotted out awhile.


CHAPTER XIV

TELLETH HOW THE FIGHT ENDED


When sight returned to me at last, I was yet staring up at the moon, but
now she had climbed the zenith and looked down on me through a dense maze,
a thicket of close-twining branches (as it were) whose density troubled me
mightily. But in a little I saw that these twining branches were verily a
mass of ropes and cordage, a twisted tangle that hung above me yet crushed
me not by reason of a squat column that rose nearby, and staring on this
column I presently knew it for the shattered stump of the mizzenmast. For a
great while I lay staring on this (being yet much dazed) and thus gradually
became aware that the guns had fallen silent; instead of their thunderous
roar was a faint clamour, hoarse, inarticulate, and very far away. I was
yet wondering dreamily and pondering this when I made the further discovery
that by some miraculous chance the chain which had joined my fettered
wrists was broken in sunder and I was free. Nevertheless I lay awhile
blinking drowsily up at the moon until at last, impelled by my raging
thirst, I got to my knees (though with strange reluctance) and strove to
win clear from the tangle of ropes that encompassed me; in the which labour
I came upon the body of a dead man and beyond this, yet another. Howbeit I
was out of this maze at last and rising to my feet, found the deck to heave
oddly 'neath my tread, and so (like one walking in a dream) came stumbling
to the quarter-ladder and paused there awhile to lean against the
splintered rail and to clasp my aching head, for I was still greatly
bemused and my body mighty stiff and painful.

Looking up after some while I saw the _Happy Despatch_ lay a helpless
wreck, her main and mizzenmasts shot away and her shattered hull fast
locked in close conflict with her indomitable foe. The English ship had
run us aboard at the fore-chains and as the two vessels, fast grappled
together, swung to the gentle swell, the moon glinted on the play of
vicious steel where the fight raged upon our forecastle. Mightily heartened
by this, I strove to shake off this strange lethargy that enthralled me and
looked about for some weapon, but finding none, got me down the ladder (and
marvellous clumsy about it) and reaching; the deck stumbled more than once
over stiffening forms that sprawled across my way. Here and there a battle
lanthorn yet glimmered, casting its uncertain beam on writhen legs, on
wide-tossed arms and shapes that seemed to stir in the gloom; and beholding
so many dead, I marvelled to find myself thus unharmed, though, as I
traversed this littered deck, its ghastliness dim-lit by these flickering
lanthorns and the moon's unearthly radiance, it seemed more than ever that
I walked within a dream, whiles the battle clamoured ever more loud. Once
I paused to twist a boarding-axe from stiffening fingers, and, being come
into the waist of the ship, found myself beside the main hatchway and
leaned there to stare up at the reeling fray on the forecastle where pike
darted, axe whirled, sword smote and the battle roared amain in angry
summons. But as I turned obedient to get me into this desperate fray, I
heard a low and feverish muttering and following this evil sound came upon
one who lay amid the wreckage of a gun, and bending above the man knew him
for Diccon the quartermaster.

"How now, Diccon?" I questioned, and wondered to hear my voice so strange
and muffled.

"Dying!" said he. "Dying--aye, am I! And wi' two thousand doubloons hid
away as I shall ne'er ha' the spending on--oh, for a mouthful o' water--two
thousand--a pike-thrust i' the midriff is an--ill thing yet--'tis better
than--noose and tar and gibbet--yet 'tis hard to die wi' two thousand
doubloons unspent--oh, lad, I parch--I burn already--water--a mouthful for
a dying man--"

So came I to the water-butt that stood abaft the hatchway, and filling a
pannikin that chanced there with some of the little water that remained,
hastened back to Diccon, but ere I could reach him he struggled to his
knees and flinging arms aloft uttered a great cry and sank upon his face.
Then, finding him verily dead, I drank the water myself and, though
lukewarm and none too sweet, felt myself much refreshed and strengthened
thereby and the numbness of mind and body abated somewhat.

And yet, as I knelt thus, chancing to lift my eyes from the dead man before
me, it seemed that verily I must be dreaming after all, for there, all
daintily bedight in purple gown, I beheld a fine lady tripping lightly
among these mangled dead; crouched in the shadow of the bulwark I watched
this approaching figure; then I saw it was Joanna, saw the moon glint
evilly on the pistol she bore ere she vanished down the hatchway. And now,
reading her fell purpose, I rose to my feet and stole after her down into
the 'tween-decks.

An evil place this, crowded with forms that moaned and writhed fitfully in
the light of the lanthorns that burned dimly here and there, a place foul
with blood and reeking with the fumes of burnt powder, but I heeded only
the graceful shape that flitted on before; once she paused to reach down
a lanthorn and to open the slide, and when she went on again, flames
smouldered behind her and as often as she stayed to set these fires
a-going, I stayed to extinguish them as well as I might ere I hasted after
her. At last she paused to unlock a door and presently her voice reached
me, high and imperious as ever:

"Greeting, Don Federigo! The ship's afire and 'tis an ill thing to burn, so
do I bring you kinder death!"

Creeping to the door of this lock-up, I saw she had set down the lanthorn
and stood above the poor fettered captive, the pistol in her hand.

"The Señorita is infinitely generous," said Don Federigo in his courtly
fashion; then, or ever she might level the weapon, I had seized and wrested
it from her grasp. Crying out in passionate fury, she turned and leapt at
me.

"Off, murderess!" I cried, and whirling her from me, heard her fall and lie
moaning. "Come, sir," said I, aiding the Don to his feet, "let us be gone!"
But what with weakness and his fetters Don Federigo could scarce stand, so
I stooped and taking him across my shoulder, bore him from the place. But
as I went an acrid smoke met me and with here and there a glimmer of flame,
so that it seemed Joanna had fired the ship, my efforts notwithstanding. So
reeled I, panting, to the upper air and, loosing Don Federigo, sank to the
deck and stared dreamily at a dim moon.

And now I was aware of a voice in my ear, yet nothing heeded until, shaken
by an importunate hand, I roused and sat up, marvelling to find myself so
weak.

"Loose me, Señor Martino, loose off my bonds; the fire grows apace and I
must go seek the Señorita--burning is an evil death as she said. Loose off
my bonds--the Señorita must not burn--"

"No, she must not--burn!" said I dully, and struggling to my feet I saw a
thin column of smoke that curled up the hatchway. Gasping and choking,
I fought my way down where flames crackled and smoke grew ever denser.
Suddenly amid this swirling vapour I heard a glad cry:

"Ah, _Martino mio_--you could not leave me then to die alone!" And I saw
Joanna, with arms stretched out to me, swaying against the angry glow
behind her. So I caught her up in my embrace and slipping, stumbling, blind
and half-choked, struggled up and up until at last I reeled out upon deck,
and with Joanna thus clasped upon my breast, stood staring with dazed and
unbelieving eyes at the vision that had risen up to confront me. For there
before me, hedged about by wild figures and brandished steel, with slender
hands tight-clasped together, with vivid lips apart and eyes wide, I
thought to behold at last my beloved Damaris, my Joan, my dear, dear lady;
but knowing this false, I laughed and shook my head.

"Deluding vision," said I, "blest sight long-hoped and prayed for--why
plague me now?"

I was on my knees, staring up at this beloved shape through blinding tears
and babbling I know not what. And then arms were about me, tender yet
strong and compelling, a soft cheek was pressed to mine and in my ear
Joan's voice:

"Oh, my beloved--fret not thyself--here is no vision, my Martin--"

"Joan!" I panted. "Oh, Damaris--beloved!" And shaking off these fettering
arms, I rose to my feet. "Joan, is it thou thyself in very truth, or do I
see thee in heaven--"

And now it seemed I was sinking within an engulfing darkness and nought to
see save only the pale oval of this so loved, oft-visioned face that held
for me the beauty of all beauteous things. At last her voice reached me,
soft and low, yet full of that sweet, vital ring that was beyond all
forgetting.

"Martin--Oh, Martin!"

Out towards me in the growing dark I saw her hands reach down to me: and
then these eager, welcoming hands were seized and Joanna was between us on
her knees.

"Spare him--Oh, lady, in mercy spare my beloved--kill me an you will, but
spare this man of mine--these arms have cradled him ere now, this bosom
been his pillow--"

"Joan!" I muttered, "Oh, Damaris, beloved--"

But seeing the stricken agony of her look and how she shrank from my touch,
I uttered a great cry and turning, sped blindly away and stumbling, fell
and was engulfed in choking blackness.


CHAPTER XV

HOW I FELL IN WITH MY FRIEND, CAPTAIN SIR ADAM PENFEATHER


It was the pommel of the long rapier dangling from the chair-back that
first drew and held my eye, for this pommel was extremely bright and
polished and gleamed on me like a very keen and watchful eye as I watched,
though conscious also of the luxury of panelled walls, of rich floor
coverings and tapestried hangings, and the man who sat writing so
studiously at the carven table. And presently, roused by the scratch of his
industrious quill, I fell to watching him, his bowed head, the curve of his
back as he stooped. A small, lean man but very magnificent, for his coat of
rich purple velvet sat on him with scarce a wrinkle, his great peruke fell
in such ample profusion of curls that I could see nought but the tip of
his nose as he bent to his writing, and I wondered idly at his so great
industry. Now presently he paused to read over what he had written and
doing so, began to push and pull at his cumbrous wig and finally, lifting
it off, laid it on the table. Thus I saw the man was white-haired and that
his ears were mighty strange, being cut and trimmed to points like a dog's
ears; and beholding the jut of brow and nose and resolute chin, I fell to
sudden trembling, and striving to lift myself on the bed, wondered to find
this such a business.

"Adam!" said I, my voice strangely thin and far away, "Adam Penfeather!"

In one movement, as it seemed to me, he was out of the chair and leaning
above me. "Why, Martin," said he. "Why, comrade! Lord love you, Martin, are
ye awake at last? Here you've lain these twelve hours like a dead man and
small wonder, what with your wound--"

"So you have come--at last, Adam?"

"And in good time, shipmate!"

"Where am I?"

"Safe aboard my ship, the _Deliverance_."

"'Twas you fought the _Happy Despatch_?"

"Aye, Martin, and should have very properly destroyed every rogue aboard
but for my lady--"

"My lady?" said I, sitting up. "My lady--Joan?"

"Aye, verily--"

"Then 'tis true--all true!" said I, and fell a-trembling. "My lady's here?"

"She is, Martin, and more's the pity. For look'ee, having boarded yon
devil's craft and cut down such as resisted, I was very properly for
hanging such as remained, when down on me comes my lady and is for carrying
the rogues to trial, the which is but vain labour and loss o' time, since
each and all of my twenty and three prisoners is bound to swing soon or
late, as I told her, but, 'No matter, Sir Adam,' says she. 'Law is law, Sir
Adam,' quo' she. When cometh Godby, running, to say the cursed ship was
afire, and coming to the main hatchway, I beheld, half-strangled in the
smoke, yourself, shipmate, and a woman in your arms--"

"Ha--'twas Joanna!" said I, leaping in the bed. "What of her, Adam--what of
her, man?"

"A fine woman, I'll allow, Martin, and by her looks a lady of quality--"

"Say a demon rather--a very she-devil!"

"Why, as you will, Martin, as you will!" said he. "Only rest you, lest the
fever take you again."

"How was I wounded, then?"

"A flying splinter in the head, Martin, so Surgeon Penruddock says. But
then you have a marvellous stout skull, as I do know, shipmate."

"What ha' you done with Joanna--where is she?"

"Content you, Martin, she is safe enough and well cared for; you shall see
her anon," said he, stroking his long chin and viewing me with his quick,
keen eyes, "But first you shall eat!" And he rang the small silver bell
that stood upon the table, whereon in dame a soft-footed serving-man in
handsome livery, who, receiving Adam's commands, presently bowed himself
out again.

Hereupon Adam set on his periwig and fell to pacing slowly to and fro, his
feet soundless upon the rich carpet, viewing me now and then like one
that ponders some problem. Now, beholding his air of latent power and
indomitable mastery, the richness of his habit, the luxury that surrounded
him, it seemed in very truth that he was the great gentleman and I the
merest poor suppliant for his bounty; whereupon I must needs contrast his
case with mine and perceiving myself no better than I had been three weary
years since, to wit: the same poor, destitute wretch, I fell into a black
and sullen humour:

"You go vastly fine these days!" quoth I, scowling (like the surly dog I
was).

"Aye, Martin--I am so vastly rich!" he sighed. "I am a baronet, shipmate!"
he nodded dolefully. "And what is worse, I own many rich manors and
countless broad acres besides divers castles, mansions, houses and the
like. Thus all men do protest friendship for me, and at this moment there
be many noble ladies do sigh for me or the manors and castles aforesaid.
And there was a duchess, Martin, was set upon wedding my riches (and me
along of 'em) but I have no leaning to duchesses, though this one was young
and comely enough. So went I to the King, who by his grace suffered me to
fit out, provision, arm and man this ship at my own expense, Martin, and
square away for the Spanish Main to sink, burn and utterly destroy such
pirate vessels as I can bring to action. So here am I, shipmate, since I
had rather fight rogues when and where I may than marry a duchess once. And
here cometh what shall do you a world o' good, Martin--broth with a dash
o' rum--which is good for a man, soul and body!" said he, as the
serving-fellow appeared, bearing a silver tray whereon stood broth in a
silver bowl of most delectable odour. And indeed, very good broth I found
it.

So whiles I ate, Adam, sitting near, told me much of his doings since he
left me solitary on Bartlemy's Island, but of my lady Joan Brandon he spoke
no word.

"'Tis but three short years since we parted, shipmate, three short years--"

"Three long, empty years!" said I bitterly.

"Aye, truth!" quoth he. "You had a mind to nought but vengeance, which is
an empty thing, as belike you'll allow, Martin, you being now three long,
empty years the wiser?"

Here, what with the hot broth and my hotter anger, I came nigh to choking,
whereupon he rose and, seeing the bowl empty, took it from me and
thereafter set another pillow to my back, the while I reviled him
impotently.

"There, there, Martin!" said he, patting my shoulder as I had been a
petulant child. "Never miscall Adam that is your friend, for if you have
wasted yourself in a vanity, so have I, for here you see me full of
honours, Martin, a justice, a member o' Parliament, a power at Court with
great lords eager for my friendship and great ladies eager to wed me. 
Spreckels is a millionaire who has made most of his money through his
vast sugar interests in the Sandwich Islands. He was so afraid that
his business would be hurt by annexation, that he threatened to
spend half his fortune to prevent it.

Besides his sugar interests, he owns a line of steamers between Hawaii and
San Francisco, and he controlled so many votes in Hawaii that he
was a dangerous enemy to the project.

President Dole of the Sandwich Islands has been endeavoring to break
Mr.

Spreckels' power, but has made very little progress until the other day,
when he granted permission to one of the Pacific mail steamers to
enter into competition with Mr.

Spreckels' boats for the carrying trade of the islands. The permission stated
that the President would allow the Pacific Mail Company to increase the
number of vessels on the line if they desired to do so.

This was a dreadful blow to Mr. Spreckels.

The carrying trade with Hawaii is hardly large enough for several
companies to make money at it, and as the new line will endeavor
by reduced rates and increased accommodations to get the trade away
from Mr.

Spreckels, the chances are that he will lose a good deal of money through
it.

It is in consequence of this that he is reported to have promised
not to oppose the annexation of Hawaii if his interests are not
interfered with.

It is said that President Dole is so anxious that nothing shall
interfere with the annexation treaty that he is willing to promise
Mr.

Spreckels anything he asks in return for his assistance.

* * * * *
Central America is in a very disturbed condition once more.

Revolutions are in progress, or have just been suppressed in Guatemala, Costa
Rica, and Nicaragua; and Honduras is again in an unsettled state.

In addition to this, there is bad feeling between Costa Rica and Nicaragua,
which may break out into war at any moment.

As this last quarrel concerns the Nicaraguan Canal, in which our
country is so much interested, it is perhaps better to tell you
about it before we speak of the more serious troubles in Guatemala.

The cause of the unpleasantness between Nicaragua and Costa Rica is the
boundary line which divides them.

This boundary question involves the mouth of the Nicaragua Canal.

In 1858 it was agreed between the two countries that the channel of the
Rio San Juan del Norte at its exit into the ocean should be the
dividing line between them.

Owing to changes of current and other causes, the course of this river
has changed, until it is now several miles farther south than it
was in 1858.

Costa Rica claimed that the boundary should be the spot where the old channel
was; Nicaragua, that the treaty called for the channel of the river where
it emptied itself into the sea, and that therefore the new mouth of the
river is the boundary.

It is a serious matter for Nicaragua, for the opening to the Nicaragua Canal
on the Atlantic Ocean side is through the Rio San Juan del Norte.
If Costa Rica were to own the mouth of the canal while Nicaragua
owns its body, there would be no end to the complications and
troubles which would arise.

The matter was therefore submitted to arbitration, President Cleveland
appointing the arbitrator.

The decision has just been rendered, and is against Costa Rica. The
arbitrator decides that the old treaty holds good, and that the
boundary line of Nicaragua is the channel of the river as it flows
into the ocean, and that no matter how far the Rio San Juan del
Norte creeps down into Costa Rican territory, Nicaragua will always
own to the channel where it flows into the sea.

Have you got her fast in the bilboes--safe
under lock and key?"

"Lord love you--no. Martin!" said he, viewing me askance as I were raving.
"So young, Martin! And a bullet wound i' the arm and mighty brave, despite
her tenderness, so says Penruddock our surgeon."

"Why then, in God's name--where is she?"

"Where should she be, seeing she was wounded and solitary, but with my lady
Joan!"

"God forbid!" cried I.

"Why, Martin, 'tis my lady's whim--they walk together, talk, eat, aye, and
sleep together, for aught I know--"

"Adam," said I, grasping him by the arm. "You know Captain Tressady of old,
and Mings and Red Rory, Sol Aiken and others of the Coast Brotherhood, but
have you ever met the fiercest, bravest, greatest of these rogues; have you
ever heard tell of Captain 'Jo'?"

"Aye, truly, Martin, some young springald that hath risen among 'em since
my time, a bloody rogue by account and one I would fain come alongside
of--"

"Captain Jo lies in your power, Adam; Captain Jo is aboard; Captain Jo is
Joanna herself! 'Twas Joanna fought the _Happy Despatch_ so desperately!"

Now hereupon Adam fell back a pace and stood staring down on me and
pinching his chin, but with never a word. And seeing him thus incredulous
still, I strove to get me out of bed.

"Easy, Martin!" said he, restraining me. "These be wild and whirling words
and something hard to believe--"

"Why, then, if you doubt me still, summon hither Don Federigo an he be yet
alive--"

"Look now, Martin," said he, seating himself on the bed beside me. "Since
we left England I have burned or scuttled four rascally pirate craft and
each and every a fighting ship, yet no one of them so mauled and battered
us as this _Happy Despatch_ (whereby I have lost fourteen good fellows dead
besides thirty wounded) the which as I do know was captained by one calling
himself Belvedere--"

"Tush!" cried I. "He was a man of straw and would have run or struck to you
after your first broadside! 'Twas Joanna and Resolution Day fought the ship
after Belvedere was dead--"

"Ah, dead, is he? Why, very good!" said Adam, rising and seating himself
at the table. "Here is yet another name for my journal. You saw him dead,
Martin?" he questioned, taking up his pen.

"Most horribly! He was killed by the mate, Resolution Day--"

"Ha!" says Adam, turning to his writing. "'Tis a name sticks in my
memory--a man I took out o' prison and saved from burning along with divers
others, when we took Margarita--a tall, one-eyed man and scarred by the
torment--?"

"'Tis the same! But, God forgive you, Adam, why must you be wasting time
over your curst journal and idle talk--"

"I think, Martin! I meditate! For, if this be true indeed, we must go like
Agog--delicately--Martin--delicately!"

"Folly--oh, folly!" cried I. "Joanna may be firing the ship as you sit
scribbling there, or contriving some harm to my dear lady--act, man--act!"

"As how, Martin?" he questioned, carefully sanding what he had writ.

"Seize her ere she can strike, set her fast under lock and key, have her
watched continually--"

"Hum!" said Adam, pinching his chin and viewing me with his keen gaze. "If
she be so dangerous as you say, why not slay her out of hand--"

"No!" said I. "No!"

"But she is a pirate, you tell me?"

"She is! And I do know her for murderess beside!"

"How came you in her company, Martin?"

Hereupon in feverish haste I recounted much of what I have already set down
concerning this strange, wild creature, to all of which he hearkened mighty
attentive, pinching at his chin and a frown on his face.

"Verily!" said he, when I had done. "Never heard man stranger story!" But
seeing how he regarded me in the same dubious manner, I leapt out of bed
ere he might prevent and staggered with weakness. "Lord love you, Martin,"
said he, snatching me in his iron grip, "Lord love you, what would you
be at? Here's Surgeon Penruddock and his two mates with their hands full
enough, as it is, God knoweth, and you sick o' your wound--" So saying,
Adam bundled me back into bed, willy-nilly.

"Why, then, question Don Federigo, who knoweth her better than I--summon
him hither--"

"Impossible, Martin, he lieth very nigh to death."

"And what of Joanna? She is as swift as a snake and as deadly--she is a
lurking danger--a constant menace, beyond thought subtle and crafty--"

"Hist!" quoth Adam, catching me by the arm and turning suddenly as came a
soft rapping; then the door opened and Joanna herself stood before us, but
indeed a Joanna such as I had never seen. Timid, abashed, great-eyed and
wistful, she stood looking on me, her slender hands tight-clasped, her
tremulous, parted lips more vivid by reason of the pallor of her cheeks,
all shy and tender womanhood from the glossy ringlets at her white brow to
the dainty shoe that peeped forth of her petticoat; as for me, I sank back
among my pillows amazed beyond--all speech by the infinite change in her,
for here was a transformation that went beyond mere lace and velvets; the
change was in her very self, her look, her voice, her every gesture.

"_Martino mio_!" said she at last, and sure this pen of mine may never tell
all the languorous caress of these two words; and then, or ever I might
speak or stir, she was beside me and had caught my hand to her lips. And
then I saw Joan standing in the doorway, the Damaris of my dreams, and
though her lips smiled upon us, there was that in her eyes that filled me
with bitter shame and an agony beyond the telling.

"Damaris!" I groaned and freed my hand so suddenly that Joanna stumbled
and would have fallen, but for Adam's ready arm. "Damaris!" I cried. "Ah,
God,'--look not so! All these weary years I have lived and dreamed but
of you--Joan, beloved, 'twas thy sweet memory made my solitude worth the
living--without thee I had died--" Choking with my grief, I reached out my
hands in passionate supplication to that loved shape that drooped in the
doorway, one white hand against the carven panelling; and then Joanna was
on her knees, her soft cheek pressed to my quivering fist, wetting it with
her tears:

"Martino!" she sobbed. "Ah, _caro mio_, art so strange--dost not know thy
Joanna--dost not know me, Martino?"

"Aye, I know you, Captain Jo," I cried. "Well I know you to my cost,
as hath many another: I know you for 'La Culebra,' for Joanna that is
worshipped, obeyed and followed by every pirate rogue along the Main. Oh,
truly I know you to my bitter sorrow--"

Now at this she gave a little, pitiful, helpless gesture and looked from me
to the others, her eyes a-swim with tears.

"Alas!" she sobbed. "And is he yet so direly sick?" Then, bowing her head
to the pillow beside me, "Oh, loved Martino," she sighed, "art so sick not
to remember all that is betwixt us, that which doth make thee mine so long
as life shall be to me--the wonder I have told to my lady Damaris--"

Now here I caught her in savage gripe. "What," cried I, shaking her to and
fro despite my weakness, "what ha' you told my lady?"

"Beloved Martino--I confessed our love--alas, was I wrong, Martino--I told
her my joyous hope to be the mother of your child ere long--"

"Oh, shame!" cried I. "Oh, accursed liar!" W. T. B. Williams, President Byrd
Prillerman, Dr. C. V. Roman, Prof. George E. Haynes, Mr. Monroe N.
Work, President W. J. Hale, Dean Benjamin G. Brawley, Bishop I. N.
Ross, Prof. J. R. Hawkins, Mr. R. P. Hamlin, Mr. C. H. Tobias, and
Mr.

A. L. Jackson.

The meeting was further honored with the presence of some of the
most useful and distinguished white persons in the country, namely:
Mrs.

Louis F. Post, the wife of the Assistant Secretary of Labor; Dr. Thomas
Jesse Jones, Educational Expert of the United States Bureau of Education;
Dr. James H. Dillard, Director of the John F. Slater Fund; Mr. George
Foster Peabody, the New York banker; and Mr. Julius Rosenwald, the
well-known philanthropist.

The morning session proved to be the most interesting of all. The
introductory address was delivered by Dr. J. E. Moorland, the
Secretary-Treasurer, who, in the absence of the President, presided
throughout the meeting.

In his remarks Dr.

Moorland gave a brief account of what the Association had undertaken and
endeavored to show how important the work is and how successfully it
is being prosecuted under tremendous difficulties. He paid a high tribute
to the Director of Research and Editor as the one who has done most of the
work and contributed most of the money to finance the movement.

Mr. Monroe N. Work then read a very carefully prepared and illuminating paper
on "The Negro and the World War." Taking a world-wide view of the
great struggle, Mr.

Work discussed the social, economic and political roots of the war as it
concerns the black race and explained how the interests of these
people connect with the upheaval in all its ramifications.

As Dr. R. R.

Wright, Jr., was unavoidably absent, all the time allowed for the discussion
of the paper was given to Prof.

George E. Haynes. Basing his remarks on the actual facts of the migration
of the Negroes to the North, Professor Haynes spoke of the war as
a rejuvenating and regenerating factor in enabling the Negro to
know his possibilities and to come into his own.

Dr. C. G. Woodson followed Mr.

Work, making a clear statement as to the meaning of the movement
to study Negro life and history and setting forth the plans to save
the records of the black race that the Negro may not, like the
Indian, leave no written account of his thoughts, feelings,
aspirations, and achievements.

Dr.

Woodson went into detail to explain how necessary it is to have trained
investigators to undertake this work immediately, before it is too
late, as many valuable documents bearing on the Negro are being
destroyed for the reason that persons now possessing them do not
know their value and the facilities for collection of such materials
now afforded are inadequate.

This topic was further discussed by Dr. C. V.
Roman and Dr. Thomas Jesse Jones. Dr.

Roman restricted his remarks largely to a definition of civilization to
determine whether or not the Negro has made any contribution to it.

"Martin," said he, his eyes steady again, "I will confess to you that is my
blood-brother and comrade sworn, I have--thought better of--of her than any
proud lady or duchess of 'em all--"

"Despite the foul and shameful lie you heard her utter?"

"Despite everything, Martin."

"Then God help you, Adam!"

"Amen," said he.

"You are surely crazed--"

"Why, very well, Martin, though you know me for a timid man--"

"Tush!" quoth I, turning my back on him.

"And a cautious, more especially in regard to women, having known but few
and understanding none. Thus, Martin, though I seem crazed and foolish,
'tis very well, so long as I have eyes to see and ears to hear, and now
I'll away and use 'em awhile. And here," said he, rising as a knock sounded
on the door, "should be an old friend o' yours that got himself something
scorched on your account." And opening the door he disclosed a squat,
broad-shouldered fellow of a sober habit, his head swathed in a bandage,
but the eyes of him very round and bright and his wide mouth up-curving in
a smile.

"Godby!" said I, and reached but my hand to him.

"Why, Mart'n!" cried he. "Oh, pal--here's j'y, choke me wi' a rammer else!
Lord, Mart'n--three years--how time doth gallop! And you no whit changed,
save for your beard! But here's me wi' a fine stocked farm t'other side
Lamberhurst--and, what's more, a wife in't as be sister to Cecily as you'll
mind at the 'Hoppole'--and, what's more, a blessed infant, pal, as I've
named Tom arter myself, by reason that my name is God-be-here, and Mart'n
arter you, by reason you are my pal and brought me all the good fortun'
as I ever had. Aha, 'twas a mortal good hour for me when we first struck
hands, Mart'n."

"And you're more than quits, Godby, by saving me from the fire--"

"Why, pal, you fell all of a swound, d'ye see, and there's my Lady Brandon
and t'other 'un a-running to fetch ye, flames or no--so what could I do--"

"My lady Joan?"

"Aye and t'other 'un--the Spanish dame as you come up a-cuddling of,
Mart'n--and a notable fine piece she be, as I'm a gunner--"

"Is my lady on deck?"

"Which on 'em, pal?"

"Joan, man--my Lady Brandon!"

"Aye, and mighty downcast by her look. 'Godby,' says she to me a while
back, 'if I find not my father now, I do think my poor heart will break!'
And the sweet sad eyes of her, pal--"

"I'll get up!" said I, tossing off the bed clothes.

"Lord, Mart'n, what'll Cap'n Adam say--"

"'Tis no matter!"

"Are ye strong enough, pal?"

"To be sure!" said I, and getting upon my feet, reeled for very weakness
and should have fallen but that Godby propped me with his shoulder;
supported thus and despite Godby's remonstrances, I staggered to and fro
and gradually found my strength return in some small measure, whereupon I
began to dress myself forthwith.

"Whither are we sailing, Godby?"

"To the nearest secure anchorage, Mart'n, for what wi' storm and battle we
are so battered and sprung, alow and aloft--and small wonder, here's four
ships we've destroyed since we left Old England, battle, murder and sudden
death, pal!"

So with Godby's help I got me out upon the broad quarter-deck and saw
the _Deliverance_ for a fine, roomy ship, very clean and trim, her decks
new-scoured, her brass-work gleaming in the sun; though here and there the
carpenters were still repairing such damage as she had taken in the fight.

"A noble ship, pal," says Godby, as I sat me down on one of the guns, "and
looks vasty different to what she did three days since, her foreyard and
main-to'-gallant mast shot away and her starboard bulwarks shattered fore
and aft and three shot-holes under water as can't be come at till we
careen."

"'Twas hot fight--I marvel your damage was no greater," says I, glancing
hither and thither for sight of my lady, and my heart throbbing with
expectation.

"Nay, Mart'n, 'twas guile, 'twas craft, 'twas seamanship. Lord love
your eyes, pal, Cap'n Adam seized him the vantage point by means of a
fore-course towing under water, and kept it. For look'ee, 'tis slip our
floating anchor, up wi' our helm and down on 'em 'thwart-hawse and let fly
our larboard broadside, veer and pound 'em wi' our starboard guns, keeping
the weather gauge, d'ye see, pal, till their fire slackens and them blind
wi' our smoke and theirs. Then to close wi' 'em till our gun muzzles are
nigh touching and whiles we pound 'em below, 'tis grappling irons and
boarders away! Aha, a wonderful man is Cap'n Adam--oh, 'tis beautiful sight
to watch him take ship into action; 'tis sight to warm a man's in'nards and
make archangels sing for j'y, pal. Aye, deafen, blind and choke me but a
man o' men is Cap'n Adam Penfeather!"

"He is come to great repute, I hear!" said I, my hungry gaze wandering.

"Verily he hath, Mart'n; the King do honour him vastly especially since
he pinked a strutting, quarrelsome gentleman through the sword-arm in St.
James's Park, and him a nearl, pal!"

"At last!" says I.

"Anan, pal?" he questioned, but looking where I looked. "Aye," he nodded,
"'tis my Lady Brandon, and mighty despondent by her looks as I told ye,
Mart'n." All unconscious of me she crossed the deck slow-footed and coming
to the lee bulwark, paused there, her lovely head down-bent upon her hands.

Now watching her as she stood thus, my eager gaze dwelling on every line of
the beloved shape, I was filled with such overmastering emotion, an ecstasy
so keen, that I fell a-trembling and my eyes filled with sudden, blinding
tears; and bowing my face on my hand, I sat thus a while until I had
composed myself. Then I arose and made my way towards her on stumbling
feet.

Suddenly she turned and espying me, started and fell a-trembling, even as
I.

"Martin," said she below her breath. "Oh, Martin!"

"Damaris!" I muttered. "Beloved--!"

Now at this she gave a little gasp and turned to gaze away across the
placid waters, and I saw her slender hands clasp and wring each other.

"Have you no word of greeting for me?"

"I rejoice to--to see you well again, Martin!"

"Have you no word of--love for me, after all these years, Damaris?" At this
she shrank away and, leaning 'gainst the bulwark, shook her head, and again
I saw that hopeless gesture of her quivering hands.

"Is your love for me dead, then?" I questioned, coming a pace nearer.

"Ah, never that, Martin!" she whispered. "Only I have--buried it
deep--within my heart--where it shall lie for ever hid for thy sake and her
sake and--and that--which is to be--this poor Joanna hath told me--"

Now hereupon I laughed and caught her hands and kissed them and they, the
pretty things, trembling 'neath my kisses.

"God love thee for sweet and noble woman, my Damaris," said I, sinking to
my knees before her, "and now, thus kneeling in the sight of God and thee,
hear me swear that hateful thing of which you speak never was and never
shall be!" Here I clasped my arms about her, felt her yield and sway to my
embrace, saw a dawning glory in her eyes.

"Martin," said she, quick-breathing, "if this be so indeed--"

"Indeed and indeed, Joanna spake a shameful lie--a woman prone to every
evil, being a murderess and--"

"A murderess, Martin?"

"Aye, by her own confession, and I do know her for a pirate beside, more
desperate and resolute than any, known to every rogue along the Main as
Captain Jo."

Now here my lady stirred in my embrace and looked down on me with troubled
gaze.

"And yet, dear Martin, you lived with her on--on our island?"

"Aye, I did--to my torment, and prayed God I might not slay her." And here
in breathless fashion I told my lady of Joanna's coming and of the ills
that followed; but seeing the growing trouble in her look, my arms fell
from her and great bitterness filled me. "Ah, God in heaven, Damaris!" I
cried, "never say you doubt my word--"

"Martin!"

I rose to my feet to behold Joanna within a yard of us. For a long and
breathless moment she looked from me to other of us and then, shuddering,
hid her face in her two hands.

"Dear my lady," said she at last, "if by reason of his wound my loved
Martin hath grown strange to me and all his love for me forgot--if indeed
you do love him--to you that have been more than sister and gentle friend
to miserable Joanna, to you I do yield my love henceforth, nor will I
repine, since my love for thee shall teach me how to bear my shame, yes--"

"Ha, damned liar!" I cried, and turned on Joanna with clenched fists; and
then my lady's restraining arms were about me and I sank half-swooning
against the ship's side.

"Dear Martin," said she, viewing me tearful-eyed, "you are not yourself--"

"No!" cried I, burying my throbbing head betwixt my arms. "I am Fortune's
Fool--the world is upside down--God help me, I shall run mad in very truth.
Oh, damned Fortune--curst Fate!" and I brake out into futile raving awhile.
When at last I raised my head it was to behold my lady clasping this vile
creature in her arms and cherishing her with tender words and caresses, the
which sight wrought me to a very frenzy of cold and bitter rage. Said I:

"My Lady Brandon, God knoweth I have greatly loved you, wherein I have
wasted myself on a vain thing as is to me right manifest. So now, since
you have buried your love, mine do I tear from me and cast utterly away;
henceforth I am no more than an instrument of vengeance--"

"Martin!" cried she. "Oh, dear Martin, for the love of God--"

But (Oh, vain folly! Oh, detestable pride!) I heeded not this merciful
appeal nor the crying of my own heart, but turning my back upon my noble
lady, stumbled away and with never another word or look. The writer, who
is a common toiler like the rest, finds the moving world a sealed book
to him, for he cannot spare the needed dollar, and live.

And those editors who will fiercely rend and tear, with all the power of
their trained brains and skilled pens, at this vital need of our
times may live to see the day when they too will believe this world
is round, and that calling the original believers fools, thieves,
scoundrels, rascals, and enemies to civilization was a repetition
of an old mistake.

It will be the day when they can be our guides, philosophers, and
friends without the itching palm stuck out behind.

It will be the day when we can accept, without doubt or a curl of the lip,
the admonition.
from the sixteen stories of steel, because we will then know, that
the conscience of the man within is not itself all awry.

To whatever cause the existing rot is chargeable the editor, at
least of all others, had the power to stop or check it, and failure
to meet this great responsibility shows that the strut of this great
personage is assumed, and that, like the rest, his necessities have
been used by the master to bend and break him till he no longer
dare call his soul his own.

We can expect the screech of this helpless tool to fill the land as his
desperate master nags him on in the revolution that is coming.

VII.

The mammoth hotel where the parasite of greater or lesser degree
sojourns, where the popping corks of the costly imported champagne
is heard, can still be a hotel, but the profits of its millions of
invested capital must no longer he taken away by one or two men and
it therefore must have many more owners than it has now.

It, too, must go to the people, if its millionaire owner can find
no more relations to share with and begins to suspect his "friends"
of having had a hand in bringing about the upheaval.

And if the "plain" people never expect to enjoy the material results
of the inventive wit of man as they are focused within its luxurious
interior, they at least have some reason for being satisfied when
they know that the profits will stay where they were made and help
those who made them.

This reference to hotels brings to mind a corroborative fact that
proves the charge we make when we say that all these colossal fortunes
are nothing more than the accumulations of able rascality of some form
or other: bilking, cornering, lobbying, watering stock, or charging
all the traffic will bear.

The Palace Hotel in San Francisco was built by a speculator and
floater of mining shares, and cost millions that he cashed in, after
cleaning out the simple minded laborer and servant girl, whom he
deluded, with all the art known to his tribe, into believing that
there was still more for their rainy day if they would only invest
the little they already had.

The law makes a felon of the rascal with the bogus gold brick, but
that clumsy worker in the field of robbery does not get the returns
which the scienced work of his brother professional brings in;
therefore, when outraged law gives this petty malefactor the knock-out
blow, the satisfied spectators, chattering about the majesty of
something, depart and the curtain is rung down on another exhibition
of what the American people are said to like - namely, humbug.

Let us say in passing, that the American does not like humbug. Take the
average of him as he is found in the little world in which the
routine work of his life is done and you will find him alert and
close enough to deal with, and that in all things in which he has
his experience to rely on humbug (swindling) is practically
impossible.

But when he gets outside of that experience, then, like the experienced
traveler, he patiently submits to imposition when resistance might
mean a loss greater than the original.

But even the traveler must have enough to continue on with, and
when imposition reaches that stage resistance begins.

So it will be with the man who is said to like humbug (robbery), when he
finds humbug (slavery) closing in on him. He too will resist. He did
before and the rightful owners gained possession, as this same man, who is
said to like humbug, will again recover possession of what is being so
stealthily taken from him.

When outraged law is asked to administer justice to the scoundrel who
has deluded thousands into buying worthless mining shares or some such
swindling bait, the victims are told that the whole swindle has been
legitimized by the great seal of the state, and that their loss
is the profits of a business conducted by a licensed trader.

The man with the bogus gold brick goes to jail. The man with the bogus gold
mine goes free.

Why this difference when the principle in the two crimes is the same?

Is it because the millionaire swindler has, in fact, been given rights
under the law that is denied to the smaller fry? Or is it because the
larger bird of prey makes enough to go all around?

Certain it is, however, that Labor in its contests with Capital
never got a decision in its favor yet - in time to be of any
service.

These wholesalers found the concubining of justice herself a necessity to the
success of their rascalities and the delays and decisions of this
harlot are but the echoes of her paramour's orders.

And at no time does the debasement of this whited sepulchre display itself
more than when the miserable and friendless criminal whose crime
is, assuredly, nothing more than the natural and to be expected
outcome of the wrong and inexcusable crime developing conditions
under which he is compelled to live, is at her altar for Justice,
which She renders in ringing tones such as are never heard when Her
paramour or his hirelings are before Her.

When Labor does finally get a decision it is as worthless to it as is its
pass-book on the gutted savings bank.

Make the millionaire an extinct species, and the above assertion will not
have logic to sustain it, and our courts will not be making terrible
"examples" of the friendless, while the thief who ruins thousands is
allowed to go free.

-

There must be a radical change made in our laws if we ever expect to stop the
sharks from preying on us.

Our laws, like a hole in a fence, makes access easy, and the endless raids
will never cease until the holes are stopped up.

Constant watching, even with the light from former experiences, will all
count for nothing while those holes and breaks are left open. The persistent
work of the crew of sharpers that has the Nicaragua canal steal
in tow shows this necessity for a change in the economic laws of
the country.

Duplicating the scheme by which the Huntingtons and Oakes Ameses robbed
the people they submitted their prospectus for endorsement, and,
lo, this whole coast grovels in the dust to these new Moseses, who
are to show them the way out of the wilderness into which their
original, Huntington, has led them.

The canal should be built.

But the estimated cost of the whole enterprise was $66,000,000
according to their own expert, whose report, eight years ago, was
published in "Harper's Weekly" - (published as news, by the way,
but was an advertisement, and paid for as such.

And that Julian Ralph stuff that appeared in that same weekly lately
is more of that peculiar kind of news that is being constantly
ground out by the capitalistic sharks to catch the unwary, and was
paid for by Spreckels - another Moses, that has come to the succor
of our beleaguered coast.

The "Journal of Civilization" is a fit organ for the millionaire corruptionist
and the civilization that he is degrading) - and although they
have gone over the ground again and again since that report was
made, the maximum estimate is still well inside $100,000,000.

Yet they now want to issue $100,000,000 in stock; want the people to guarantee
principal and interest on $70,000,000 of bonds, and the right to
issue $30,000,000 of bonds themselves.

No wonder it was called a steal on the floor of the Senate.

The public treasury will ever be the objective point of such wholesalers
until the inducement is removed.

Humanity, Honor, Patriotism, each and all are powerless before this
all conquering appetite of Individual Greed.

What can such people as they care for this people, their country and
its benign form of government? What use have such as they for a government
that denies them the title that distinguishes their kind over the sea?

Ay, what is to prevent them from using the vast power that goes with the
wealth they are absorbing day by day, and to gratify the one
unsatisfied wish of their purse-proud and selfish souls, and establish
an Empire in place of the Republic?

The Republic is but a shell and their work would be easy.

The sophistry about the inalienable right of one man to crush another has had
its day, and their hypocritical wail about civilization and this inalienable
right, when these conscienceless rascals find their race is run,
will be like the yelling of remorseless wolves that have been trapped
and kicked into the vanishing distance.

VIII.

Understanding the principle of Confiscation, it will be easily seen how it
must work in every individual case; and, therefore, it is needless to
dwell on or elaborate its workings when it is applied to banks,
breweries, sugar refineries, water works, gas works, street railways,
etc.

It will not destroy capital or business.

It may lessen the value of real estate on the principal streets in
large cities, and fall in values is not certain even there.

It will trouble no one, however, if it does; not the present owner,
even, for the value of property in favored localities is so great now that,
however much one man can own now, he can own but a fraction of it under the
proposed change. The owner of, say, a $400,000 building and lot on such a
street as we are now considering may find a shrinkage of $100,000.

This will give him two partners instead of three.
The shrinkage, therefore, will be to his liking; for, be it known, the
aristocrat is a proud bird, and likes to flock by itself. And any designs
against these two partners will be so fruitless of results to himself that
a word in his ear now and then by his friends and well-wishers, about the
public treasury, will end in his cultivating, such a lamblike submission
to the new dispensation that his eloquence, born of the new light and an
awakened conscience, will make his titled sister over the way give up her
bauble when he shows her the cost of its pomp to the struggling
poor.

Such will be the effect of the change on a man who now carries the law in his
pocket, when he hasn't it under his feet.

Moving the laborer so far away from the centre of the city, and
where there is room to build habitable homes, will be a serious
objection, it will be urged.

They cannot get to their work on time without getting up at all hours. They
can just have time to snatch a bite and be away again.

And the whole of Sunday must be given to sleep they cannot get at
any other time.

They will be strangers in the near-by theatre, and the near-by library will
be given up to the spider and his web, and the little garden of flowers
that the once half-starved women have made a delight will be unknown
to the worn out bread-winner, who will be the same old slave we
premised to unshackle.

Better clothes surely, and his home shows what it is to be a citizen
of a republic that is a republic in fact as well as in name; but
he has only time to snatch a bite and be away again.

Will it never occur to those critics that we are here dealing with the
greatest creation of the Almighty, and of all time - civilized man;
and that we must make the conditions fit him, and not he the
the conditions.

Everything he eats, wears, and uses in twelve months can be produced
in two.

Why, then, should he be compelled to labor twelve months for that which can
be produced or made in one-sixth of that time? The reason is plain. When
two laborers make an exchange there is wholesale robbery committed
by the non-producing and idle parasites, while the fruits of Labor
are on the way to those who alone are entitled to the whole.

"And I," says the millionaire, "say this robbery must go on, for I am
an impossibility without it." That gnawing canker never had any doubts
as to where his surfeit comes from. And now that it has become a question
of life and death with those he has been plundering, he should be
dragged to the bar of justice and compelled to disgorge.

And then labor, too, can come in on the eight and nine o'clock
train, and be no later for its work than is the banker and the rest
of his class that have had Labor under their heels so long.

The capacity of the modern world to produce has entirely outstripped her
capacity to consume, and trying to solve the economic problems of the day,
by further denial or ignoring of this fact, that should be self-evident,
will be to build a structure with only half the foundation laid,
and the inevitable collapse is bound to follow.

There will always he plenty of room in the heart of a city for those
who must live close to their work.

But the inventor has made night work, except by the parasitical leeches,
unnecessary to the masses, a few hours of daylight being more than sufficient
to supply all the needs of the country. We are not insisting, be it understood,
on a four-hour or eight-hour system of labor.

No industry or occupation will be hampered or meddled with by doing
justice to the laborer in the way proposed.

The railroad employee, printer, baker, factory hand, etc., can work on as
now, but they must be compensated with just wages for the labor done. This
will enable them to retire before decrepitude comes on, and orders
are left for the poorhouse ambulance to call on its way out.

If every city occupied three times the ground they now do, they would be
gainers in all ways, and the moral degradation into which large
sections of them have sunk would disappear with the conditions that
produced them.

The capacity of Europe to feed her people is being crowded, we are told,
and then our flag is again run-up, and during the whole exhibition the
Chinese system of bunking is quietly fastening itself in every city of
consequence in the country.

When those sorely pressed people, whose very existence is being threatened
by these foreigners of a degraded civilization, awaken to the extremity of
their danger, the bunking system and its introducers will find perjury and
the habeus corpus mill powerless to save them.

Mark this, however. The big capitalist imported the Chinaman, and his powerful
influence has defeated all attempts to remove him. It follows, then, that
we must break up the big capitalist, if we ever expect to get at the thing
behind him.

We are not indifferent to the hardships of the oppressed of other
nations, but we cannot get out of our own perplexities by saying
that we are more favored in some way than are others.

There are rocks ahead of ourselves, and watching others going to pieces
and firing congratulatory guns will not help them or save us from, a
like fate.

Whatever is in the near future for Europe, we, at least, have nothing to
fear as to the capacity of our country to support all her people.

And as it is with room for producing, so it is with room in which
to live.

There is plenty of both, and we should show ourselves worthy of the legacy
left us by that handful of brave men who established liberty in
our country, and insist on getting plenty of both before the armed
hireling appears and it is too late.

IX.

We will now apply the principle of Confiscation to land, and we will see
that Confiscation alone can undo the wrong that has of late become
apparent to even the law makers in Washington. Up to within three years
or so there were two ways by which farming lands could be obtained from the
Government - by homesteading and preempting.

It is unnecessary to give the laws of either, but so fast was this class
of land going that Congress repealed the preemption law.

In other words, the amount you could obtain was cut down one half - from 320
acres to 160. What was more significant still of their barn door work
after the horse was gone, they made the owning of 160 acres, regardless
from whom it was got, private purchase or Government, a bar to the taking
up of Government farm land. Prior to the repeal every citizen, and
those intending to become citizens, had certain land rights, and owning
half a State did not impair them; which all goes to show that even this
free and easy-going Government thought it about time to call a halt.

But that was all it did do.

As it was not necessary to give the laws under which the homesteader and
preemptor got title, neither is it necessary to here ask how some men
became owners of all the way from 1,000 to 60,000 acres, every acre of
which was Government land years after California became a State. (We
are using California facts.

The rest of the Western part of the United States has an abundance of the
same kind.) Suffice it to say, that they now own them; and suffice it too,
that Confiscation is the only way by which we can dispossess them of
plunder, that the welfare of the country demands should be returned?

In Confiscation alone will the people find a servant who will not condone
the past, but will follow up this breed of the grabber and restore
what it finds, as it has already done with others of his tribe.

It will be the re-discovering of America.

Never did kind and beneficent laws show what men, with the right kind of
stuff in them, could do, as did our land laws. Men who now own territory
as large as some of the Eastern States started in without a dollar.
They had something better. They had consciences that was good for any tests
that the scoundrels could put them to. Never did gangs of "floaters"
help the political boss and ward-heeler rob the public treasury with
greater success than did this other brand of the bastard citizen help
his boss to hog the public domain.

In the fertile valley of the Sacramento, land that would give one hundred and
sixty acre homes to ten thousand families (fifty thousand people) is owned
by one hundred individuals, all average of sixteen thousand acres
to each owner.

This is but a fraction of the valley and leaves out the owners of less
than sixteen thousand acres.

In the great San Joaquin valley, the laborer in search of work can
walk for days in one direction alongside of fencing that incloses
land belonging to one firm.

And this immense fortune-in land was obtained by robbery, just as
the other millionaire fortunes were obtained.

In the land office we see the miserable tool and his master.

In the legislative halls we see the miserable tool and his master.

And we see the leaves on Liberty's Tree droop and wither as these
deadly borers do their work under the bark below.

Up among the peaks and valleys of the Sierra Nevada lies the town
of Mariposa, settled by gold seekers whose rich findings gave world
wide fame to this hamlet among the mountains. Aluvial gold and
quartz bearing gold was scattered with lavish hand through the
surrounding hills, and in the beds of the summer-dried streams.
Generous laws of their own making, gave ample room, and the eager
workers toiled on, forgetting the past hardships of the long journey
where so many fell by the way, and the rugged hills became endeared
to them as they marked out the shaded spots on their shelving sides
where their coming dear ones could look down on the busy scene below.

But the camp follower with ready knife never finished the wounded brave
quicker than did the "land grant" swindler finish Mariposa when her riches
became the theme of every gold camp throughout the world. And to-day the
big hearted and stalwart miner goes to fever-laden Africa and
ice-bound Alaska, when there are whole mountains of the best mineral
bearing land in the world in his own country, but which our present
laws forbid him to touch.

Our people should no more bow to a Mexican land grant title than
to a superstition of their cave-dwelling ancestors.

What matters it, however, in what way these colossal robberies were
committed; by coffee-stained lie from Mexico, or perjured oath of
faithless citizen; it has been done, and it is time for the undoing.

Man developed the school house, and for this each is indebted
to the other, and the mutual debt is acknowledged by making the
school free to all.

The Creator developed the Earth from chaos to the habitable home of man,
free to all, but this debt is not acknowledged, and the many are driven
into the highway by the few.

Give us all the conveniences of modern life, railroads, telegraphs,
etc., etc., etc., but give us back the land, that is our natural
heritage as much as is the water we drink or the air we breath.

Give us back this birthright, or take your railroads, and so on, and your
civilization, and sink them deep in the depths of hell, for the starving
have no use for them, and we'll take the savage state that knows no
hunger except in the time of famine.

X.

Limit the ownership of land, be it arable, grazing, timber, or any
other kind, to 160 acres.

As no one shall own more than $100,000 worth of property all told, this 160
acres will have to be reduced as we get near to the centres of population.
This will still give the owner of such convenient land an advantage over
those living further out, who will always be willing to exchange should
the first rather follow the coarser grades of farming to dairying or
gardening.

Neither is there any reason why the owning of great sections of timber land
by one or two men should be necessary to the running of sawmills
and supplying the people with lumber.

The mills are capable of doing just as good work if the fifty quarter
sections are owned by fifty men as they are if owned by one man.

And the waste of timber seen on every hand wherever you find a mill
owned and operated by capitalists would have been unknown if there
had been an individual owner to each quarter section.

The wanton waste of this breed of the capitalist, in his hurry to pile up,
would have been impossible had his mill been a "custom" mill, to saw the
timber from your quarter section and mine instead of his fifty or
five hundred.

And the poor unskilled laborer would not have to go to make room for the
chinaman, or that member of a worthless tribe who sold his "claim"
to the "company" for so much and the promise of a job.

The small owner cannot afford the waste of the large one.

His income will not be so great that he can afford to waste the
principal from which it comes.

As to any friction about whose turn it is to run his timber through,
it is only necessary to say that the business will be then carried
on by those who are now doing the labor, and it will be no worse
to accept wages from the man on the neighboring claim for helping
him to make lumber than it was to accept wages from the man who was
dethroned, and he will probably pay you as much as you could make
running your own logs through.

If this is not satisfactory, sell out at once to one of the many
that are waiting to buy, and go, for you will not find anything in
what we are advocating that interferes in the least with the liberty
of the individual.

Some may think differently, but then they are the ones who brought
all eyes to the window to see what was going on in the street.

And as you travel on you will miss the once eager dog at the farm
house by the way, and no palsied hand will be lifting the corner
of the curtain as you are passing by, for the tramp has disappeared,
and the rare survivor and incurable will be doing it on bread and
water, for he must be a useless thing not to have drawn his last
breath with his compatriot at the other end of the scale.

Having landed such things as we required and lighted a fire, while
Resolution busied himself preparing a meal, I began to look about me
and found this island marvellous fertile, for here on all sides flowers
bloomed, together with divers fruits, as lemons, plantains, limes, grapes,
a very wonder to behold. Now I chanced to reach a certain eminent place
whence I might behold the general trend of the island; and now I saw that
this was the smallest of three islands and remembered how Resolution had
named them to me as Fore, Main and Mizzen islands. I was yet staring at
these islands, each with its fringe of white surf to windward where the
seas yet broke in foam, when my wandering gaze chanced to light on that
which filled me with sudden and strange foreboding, for, plain to my view
despite the distance, I saw the royal yards and topgallant masts of a great
ship (so far as I could judge) betwixt Fore and Mainmast islands, and I
very full of question as to what manner of ship this should be.

In my wanderings I chanced upon a little glen where bubbled a limpid stream
amid a very paradise of fruits and flowers; here I sat me down well out
of the sun's heat, and having drunk my fill of the sweet water, fell to
munching grapes that grew to hand in great, purple clusters. And now, my
bodily needs satisfied and I stretched at mine ease within this greeny
bower where birds whistled and piped joyously amid flowery thickets and the
little brook leapt and sang as (one and all) vaunting the wondrous mercy of
God, I, lying thus (as I say) surrounded by His goodly handiworks (and yet
blind to their message of mercy) must needs set my wits to work and cast
about in my mind how I might the soonest win free of this goodly place and
set about the accomplishment of my vengeance. Once or twice I thought to
hear Resolution hallooing and calling my name but, being drowsy, paid
no heed and thus, what with the peace and comfort of my surroundings, I
presently fell asleep.

But in my slumbers I had an evil dream, for I thought to hear a voice,
hoarse yet tuneful, upraised in song, and voice, like the song, was one
heard long ago, the which in my dreaming troubled me mightily, insomuch
that I started up broad awake and infinitely glad to know this no more than
idle fancy. Sitting up and looking about me, I saw the sun low and nigh to
setting, and great was my wonder that I should have slept so long, yet I
found myself vastly invigorated thereby and mightily hungered, therefore I
arose, minded to seek my companions.

But scarce was I gone a yard than I stopped all at once, as from somewhere
in the gathering shadows about me, plain to be heard, came the sound of a
voice hoarse but tuneful, upraised in song, and these the words:

  "Some by the knife did part wi' life
  And some the bullet took O.
  But three times three died plaguily
  A-wriggling on a hook O.
  A hook both long and sharp and strong
  They died by gash o' hook O."

For a long time (as it seemed) I stood motionless with the words of this
hateful chanty yet ringing in my brain, until the sun flamed seawards,
vanished, and it was night. And here amid the gloom sat I, chin on knees,
my mind busied upon a thousand memories conjured up by this evil song. At
last, being come to a determination, I arose and, stumbling in the dark,
made the best of my way towards that narrow, shelving beach where we had
made our landing. In a little, through a tangle of leafy thickets, I espied
the glow of a fire and heard a sound of voices; and going thitherwards,
paused amid the leaves and hid thus, saw this fire was built at the mouth
of a small cave where sat Joanna with Resolution at her elbow, while
opposite them were five wild-looking rogues with muskets in their hands
grouped about a tall, great fellow of a masterful, hectoring air, who stood
staring down on Joanna, his right hand upon the silver-hafted dagger in his
girdle and tapping at his square chin with the bright steel hook he bore in
place of his left hand. And as he stood thus, feet wide apart, tapping at
his chin with his glittering hook and looking down on Joanna, she, leaning
back against the side of the cave, stared up at him eye to eye.

"So-ho!" quoth he at last. "So you are Captain Jo, eh--Captain Jo of the
Brotherhood?"

"And you," said she gently, "you are he that killed my father!"

Now here ensued a silence wherein none moved, it seemed, only I saw
Resolution's bony hand creep and bury itself in his capacious side
pocket. Then, putting by the screening branches, I stepped forth into the
firelight.

"What, Tressady," said I, "d'ye cheat the gallows yet?"

Almost as I spoke I saw the flash and glitter of his whirling hook as he
turned, pinning me with it through the breast of my doublet (but with so
just a nicety that the keen point never so much as touched my skin) and
holding me at arm's length upon this hateful thing, he viewed me over, his
pale eyes bright beneath their jut of shaggy brow. But knowing the man and
feeling Joanna's gaze upon me, I folded my arms and scowled back at him.

"Who be you, bully, who and what?" he demanded, his fingers gripping at the
dagger in his girdle whose silver hilt was wrought to the shape of a naked
woman. "Speak, my hearty, discourse, or kiss this Silver Woman o' mine!"

"I am he that cut you down when you were choking your rogue's life out in
Adam Penfeather's noose--along of Abnegation Mings yonder--"

As I spoke I saw Mings thrust away the pistol he had drawn and lean towards
me, peering.

"Sink me!" cried he. "It's him, Roger; 'tis Martin sure as saved of us from
Penfeather, curse him, on Bartlemy's Island three years agone--it's him,
Roger, it's him!"

"Bleed me!" said Tressady, nodding. "But you're i' th' right on't, Abny.
You ha' th' right on't, lad. 'Tis Marty, sure enough, Marty as was bonnet
to me aboard the _Faithfull Friend_ and since he stood friend to us in
regard to Adam Penfeather (with a' curse!) it's us shall stand friends t'
him. Here's luck and a fair wind t' ye, Marty!" So saying, he loosed me
from his hook, and, clapping me on the shoulder, brought me to the circle
about the fire.

"Oh, sink me!" cried Mings, flourishing a case-bottle under my nose. "Burn
me, if this aren't pure joy! I know a man as don't forget past benefits and
that's Abnegation! Sit down, Martin, and let us eat and, which is better,
drink together!"

"Why, so we will, Abny, so we will," said Tressady, seating himself within
reach of Joanna. "'Twas pure luck us falling in wi' two old messmates like
Marty and Resolution and us in need of a few hell-fire, roaring boys! 'Tis
like a happy family, rot me, all love and good-fellowship and be damned!
Come, we'll eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow--we sail, all on us,
aboard my ship _Vengeance_, as lieth 'twixt Fore and Main islands yonder,
ready to slip her moorings!"

"Avast, friend!" said Resolution, blinking his solitary eye at Tressady.
"The captain o' the Coast Brotherhood is Joanna here--Captain Jo, by the
Brotherhood so ordained; 'tis Captain Jo commands here--"

"Say ye so, Resolution, say ye so, lad?" quoth Tressady, tapping at chin
with glittering hook. "Now mark me--and keep both hands afore ye--so, my
bully--hark'ee now--there's none commands where I am save Roger Tressady!"
said he, looking round upon us and with a flourish of his hook. "Now if so
be any man thinks different, let that man speak out!"

"And what o' Captain Jo?" demanded Resolution.

"That!" cried Tressady, snapping finger and thumb. "Captain Jo is not,
henceforth--sit still, lad--so! Now lift his barkers, Abny--in his pockets.
Still and patient, lad, still and patient!" So Resolution perforce suffered
himself to be disarmed, while Joanna, pale and languid in the firelight,
watched all with eyes that gleamed beneath drooping lashes.

"So now," quoth Tressady, "since I command here, none denying--"

"And what o' Captain Jo?" demanded Resolution.

"Why, I'll tell ye, bully, look'ee now! A man's a man and a woman's a
woman, but from report here's one as playeth t'other and which, turn about.
But 'tis as woman I judge her best, and as woman she sails along o' me,
lad, along o' me!" So saying, he nodded and taking out a case-bottle,
wrenched at the cork with his teeth.

"And how say you, Joanna?" questioned Abnegation.

"Tush!" said she, with a trill of laughter. "Here is one that talketh very
loud and fool-like and flourisheth iron claw to no purpose, since I heed
one no more than t'other--"

"Here's death!" cried he fiercely, stabbing the air with his hook. "Death,
wench!"

"Tush!" said she again, "I fear death no more than I fear you, and as for
your claw--go scratch where you will!"

Goaded to sudden fury, he raised his hook and would have smitten the
slender foot of her that chanced within his reach, but I caught his arm and
wrenched him round to face me.

"Hold off, Tressady!" said I. "Here's a man to fight an you're so minded.
But as for Joanna, she's sick of her wounds and Resolution's little better;
but give me a knife and I'm your man!" And I sprang to my feet. Here for a
moment Joanna's eyes met mine full of that melting tenderness I had seen
and wondered at before; then she laughed and turned to Tressady:

"Sick or no, I am Joanna and better than any man o' you all, yes. Here
shall be no need for fight, for look now, Tressady, though you are fool,
you are one I have yearned to meet--so here's to our better acquaintance."
And speaking, she leaned forward, twitched the bottle from his hand, nodded
and clapped it to her mouth all in a moment.

As for Tressady, he gaped, scowled, fumbled with the dagger in his girdle,
loosed it, slapped his thigh and burst into a roar of laughter.

"Oh, burn me, here's a soul!" he cried. "'Tis a wench o' spirit, all
hell-fire spirit and deviltry, rot me! Go to't, lass, drink hearty--here's
you and me agin world and damn all, says I. Let me perish!" quoth he,
when he had drunk the toast and viewing Joanna with something of respect.
"Here's never a man, woman or child dared so much wi' Jolly Roger all his
days--oh, sink me! Why ha' we never met afore--you and me might rule the
Main--"

"I do!" said she.

"And how came ye here--in an open boat?"

"By reason of Adam Penfeather!"

"What, Adam again, curse him!"

"He sank the _Happy Despatch_!"

"Burn me! And there's a stout ship lost to us."

"But then--we stayed to fight, yes!"

"What then?" said Tressady, clenching his fist. "Will ye say I ran away--we
beat him off!"

"Howbeit Adam sank and took us, and swears to hang you soon or late--unless
you chance to die soon!"

"Blind him for a dog--a dog and murderous rogue as shall bite on this hook
o' mine yet! A small, thieving rogue is Penfeather--"

"And the likest man to make an end o' the Brotherhood that ever sailed!"
nodded Joanna.

"Where lays his course?"

"Who knows!"

"And what o' Belvedere?"

"Dead and damned for rogue and coward!"

"Why, then, drink, my bullies," cried Tressady, with a great oath. "Drink
battle, murder, shipwreck and hell-fire to Adam Penfeather, with a curse!
Here's us safe and snug in a good stout ship yonder, here's us all love and
good-fellowship, merry as grigs, happy as piping birds, here's luck and
long life to each and all on us."

"Long life!" said Joanna, frowning. "'Tis folly--I weary of it already!"

So we ate and drank and sprawled about the fire until the moon rose, and
looking up at her as she sailed serene, I shivered, for to-night it seemed
that in her pallid beam was something ominous and foreboding, and casting
my eyes round about on motionless tree and shadowy thicket I felt my flesh
stir again.

Now ever as the time passed, Tressady drew nearer and nearer to Joanna,
until they were sitting cheek by jowl, he speaking quick and low, his pale
eyes ever upon her, she all careless languor, though once I saw her take
hold upon his gleaming hook and once she pointed to the dagger in his
girdle and laughed; whereupon he drew it forth (that evil thing) and
holding it up in her view fell suddenly a-singing:

  "Oh, I've sought women everywhere
  North, South and East and West;
  And some were dark and some were fair
  But here's what I love best!
  Blow high, blow low, in weal or woe
  My Silver Woman's best."

Thus sang Tressady, looking from the languorous woman at his side to the
languorous woman graven on the dagger-hilt and so thrust it back into his
girdle.

And in a while Joanna rose, drawing the heavy boat-cloak about her
shapeliness:

"There is a small bower I wot of down in the shadows yonder shall be my
chamber to-night," said she, staring up at the moon. "And so good night!
I'm a-weary!" Then she turned, but doing so her foot touched Resolution's
leg where he sat, whereat he did strange thing, for at this soft touch he
started, glanced up at her, his eye very wide and bright, and I saw his two
powerful hands become two quivering fists, yet when he spoke his voice was
calm and even.

"Good night, Joanna--fair dreams attend thee." Then Joanna, eluding
Tressady's clutching hand, went her way, singing to herself very sweet and
low.

Hereupon Tressady grew very boisterous and merry and perceiving Mings and
his fellows inclined for slumber, roared them to wakefulness, bidding them
drink with him and damning them for sleepy dogs. Yet in a while he fell
silent also and presently takes out his dagger and begins fondling it. Then
all at once he was on his feet, the dagger glittering evilly in his hand
the while he glared from me to Resolution and back again.

"Good night, my bullies!" said he. "Good night--and let him follow that
dare!" And with a sound 'twixt a growl and a laugh, he turned and strode
away, singing as he went. Now hereupon, nothing doubting his intent, I
sprang to my feet and made to follow, but felt myself caught in an iron
grip and stared down into the grim face of Resolution.

"Easy, friend--sit down, comrade--here beside me, brother."

"Aye, truly, you were wiser, Martin!" said Mings, winking and tapping the
pistol in his belt.

Now Resolution sat in the mouth of the small cave I have mentioned and I
noticed he had slipped his right hand behind him and sat thus, very still,
his gaze on the dying fire like one hearkening very eagerly for distant
sounds, wherefore I did the like and thus, from somewhere amid the shadowy
thickets, I heard Tressady sing again that evil song of his:

  "Two by the knife did lose their life
  And three the bullet took O.
  But three times three died plaguily
  A-wriggling--"

The singing ended suddenly and indescribably in a sound that was neither
cry nor groan nor choke, yet something of each and very ghastly to be
heard.

"What was yon!" cried Mings, starting and blinking sleep from his eyes to
peer towards those gloomy thickets.

"What should it be but Captain Jo!" said Resolution; and now I saw his
right hand, hid no longer, grasped a pistol levelled across his knees. "Sit
still, all on ye," he commanded. "Let a man move a leg and that man's dead!
Mark now what saith Davy. 'He hath graven and digged a pit and is fallen
himself into the destruction he made for others. For his travail shall come
upon his own head and his wickedness fall on his own pate.'"

"Nay, look'ee," says Mings, wiping sweat from him, "nay, but I heard
somewhat--aye, I did, an unchancy sound--"

"Peace, Abnegation, peace!" quoth Resolution. "Mew not and hark to the
words o' Davy: 'The Lord is known to execute judgment, the ungodly is
trapped in the work of his own hands'--"

"Nay, but," says Mings, pointing. "See--who comes yonder?"

And now we saw Joanna, a dark figure against the splendour of the moon,
walking daintily, as was her wont, and as she came she falls a-singing that
same evil song I had heard long ago:

  "There's a fine Spanish dame
  And Joanna's her name
  Shall follow wherever ye go
  Till your black heart shall feel
  Your own cursed steel--"

She stopped suddenly and stood in the light of the fire, looking from one
to the other of us with that smile I ever found so hateful.

"I am Joanna," said she softly and nodding at Mings; "I am your Captain Jo
and command here. Get you and your fellows aboard and wait my bidding."

"Aye, aye!" said Mings in strangled voice, his eyes fixed and glaring. "But
what o' Cap'n Tressady? Where's my comrade, Roger?"

From behind her back Joanna drew forth a slender hand, awfully bedabbled
and let fall a reeking thing at Abnegation's feet and I saw this for
Tressady's silver-hilted dagger.

"Black Tressady is dead!" said she. "I have just killed him!"

"Dead!" gasped Mings, shrinking. "Roger dead! My comrade--murdered--I--"
Uttering a wild, passionate cry he whipped forth his pistol, but in that
moment Resolution fired, and rising to his feet, Abnegation Mings groaned
and pitched upon his face and lay mute and still.

"Glory to God!" said Resolution, catching up the dead man's weapon and
facing the others. "Come, my lads," quoth he; "if Tressady be as dead as
Mings, he can't walk, wherefore he must be carried. And wherefore carried,
you'll ask? Says I, you shall take 'em along wi' you. You shall bring 'em
aboard ship, you shall tell your mates as Captain Jo sends these dead
men aboard to show 'em she's alive. So come and bring away Tressady
first--march it is for Roger, and lively, lads!"

Now when they were gone, Joanna came beside me where I sat and stood a
while, looking down on me in silence.

"He forced me to it!" said she at last. "Oh, Martino, there--was none other
way. And he killed my father."

But I not answering, she presently sighed and went away, leaving me staring
where Mings lay huddled beyond the dying fire. And presently my gaze
chanced to light on Tressady's dagger of the Silver Woman where it lay,
stained by his life's blood, and leaping to my feet, I caught it up and
sent the evil thing whirling and glittering far out to sea.


CHAPTER XIX

HOW JOANNA CHANGED HER MIND


"So there's an end o' Tressady and Mings and their fellows, comrade!" said
Resolution, staring away into distant haze where showed the topsails of the
_Vengeance_ already hull down. "And God's will be done, says I, though here
be we as must go solitary awhile and Joanna sick to death, comrade."

"Resolution," said I, staring up at his grim figure, "she schemed to lure
Tressady to his death?"

"Aye, she did, brother. What other way was there? She hath wit womanish and
nimble--"

"She smote him in the shadows--"

"Most true, friend! She hath a man's will and determination!"

"He had no chance--"

"Never a whit, Martin! She is swift as God's lightning and as infallible.
Roger Tressady was an evil man and the evil within him she used to destroy
him and all very right and proper! And now she lieth sick in the cave
yonder and calls for you, brother."

So I arose and coming within the cave found Joanna outstretched upon a
rough bed contrived of fern and the boat-cloaks.

"Alas, Martino, I cannot sleep," said she. "I am haunted by the man
Tressady, which is surely very strange--oh, very strange. For he was evil
like all other men save you and Resolution--and Adam Penfeather. Can you
not say somewhat to my comfort? Did he not merit death?"

"Aye, most truly. Had you not killed him--I would."

"For my sake, Martino?"

"Aye," said I, "for yours."

"Why, then 'tis strange I should grieve thus--I have killed men ere this,
as you do know, nor troubled; belike 'tis my sickness--or the memory of my
lady Joan--Damaris, her gentleness. Howbeit I am sorry and sad and greatly
afraid."

"Nay," said I. "What should fright you that do fear nothing?"

"Myself, Martino--I have been--minded to kill you--more than once!"

"Yet do I live."

"And yet do I fear!" said she, with a great sigh.

"And your wound pains you belike?"

"A little, Martino."

"Show me!"

Mutely she suffered me to uncover her arm and unwind the bandages and I
saw the tender flesh was very angry and inflamed, whereupon I summoned
Resolution from his cooking, who at my desire brought the chest of
medicines with water, etc., and set myself to soothe and cherish this
painful wound as gently as I might, and though she often blenched for the
pain of it she uttered no complaint.

"Do I hurt you overmuch?" I questioned.

"Nay," said she, catching her breath for pain of it, "I am none so tender.
D'ye mind how I burned the boat you had so laboured at?"

"Aye, I do!"

"And how I gave you an evil draught that was agony?"

"Aye, I do so!"

"And how I plagued you--"

"Nay, why remember all this, Joanna?"

"It helpeth me to endure this pain!"

When I had anointed and bound up her wound she must needs praise my skill
and vow she was herself again and would be up and about, whereat Resolution
reached down to aid her to rise, but this I would by no means suffer,
telling her that she must rest and sleep the fever from her blood. At this
she scowled, then all of a sudden laughed.

"Why, then, you shall stay and talk with me!"

"Rather shall Resolution mix you a sleeping draught."

"Verily, brother, two have I mixed, but she'll not take 'em!"

"Why, then, being two to one, we must force her to drink," said I.

"Force her to drink, comrade? Force Joannas--God's light--!"

"Mix the potion, man, or teach me!" So in the end Resolution did as I bade;
then kneeling beside Joanna, I raised her upon my arm and set the pannikin
to her lips, whereupon, though she frowned, she presently drank it off
meekly enough, to Resolution's no small wonder and her own, it seemed.

"I grow marvellous obedient!" said she. "And 'tis hateful stuff!"

"Now sleep," quoth I. "'Tis life to you--"

"Wouldst have me live, to plague you again, mayhap?" she questioned.

"This is as God wills!"

"Nay, this is as you will, Martino. Wouldst have me live, indeed?"

Now seeing how she hung upon my answer, beholding the wistful pleading of
her look, I nodded.

"Aye, I would indeed!" said I.

"Why, then I will, Martino, I will!" And smiling, she composed herself to
slumber and smiling, she presently fell asleep, whereupon Resolution crept
stealthily out of the little cave and I after him. Being outside, he turned
and suddenly caught and wrung my hand.

"Friend," said he, his grim features relaxing to unwonted smile. "Brother,
you are a man--the only man could ha' done it. I thought Death had her sure
last night, she all of a fever and crying out for Death to take her."

"She'll do better out in the air!" said I, glancing about.

"The air, comrade?"

"Aye, I must contrive her a shelter of sorts to her comfort where she may
sleep. 'Neath yonder tree should serve--"

"She'll live, Martino, she'll live and all by reason o' her love for
you--the promise you made her--"

"I made no promise, man!"

"Why, 'twas good as promise, comrade."

"How so?"

"'Wouldst ha' me live,' says she, 'to plague you again,' says she. 'Aye,
that would I indeed,' says you! And what's that but a promise, Martin?"

"God forgive you!" quoth I. "'Twas no promise I intended, as you very well
know."

"Why, as to that, comrade, how if Joanna think as I think?"

"'Twill be vain folly!" quoth I in petulant anger and strode away, leaving
him to scowl after me, chin in hand.

Howbeit (and despite my anger) I presently took such tools as we had and
set about making a small hut or rather bower, where an invalid might find
such privacy as she wished and yet have benefit of the pure, sweet air
rather than lie mewed in the stifling heat of the little cave. And
presently, as I laboured, to me cometh Resolution full of praise for my
handiwork and with proffer of aid. At this I turned to him face to face.

"Did I make Joanna any promise, aye or no?" I demanded.

"Aye, brother. You vowed Joanna must live to plague you, forsooth, how and
when and where she would, comrade. In the which assured hope she lieth
even now, sleeping herself to health and strength and all to pleasure you,
Martin. And sure, oh, sure you are never one so vile to deceive the poor,
sweet soul?"

Now perceiving all his specious sophistry and wilful misunderstanding of
the matter, I came nigh choking with anger.

"Liar!" quoth I. "Liar!"

"Peace, brother, peace!" said he. "From any other man this were a fighting
word, but as it is, let us reason together, brother! The Lord hath--"

"Enough!" cried I.

"Friend, the Lord hath set--"

"Leave Him out!" quoth I.

"What, Martin--will ye blaspheme now? Oh, shame on ye! 'The mouth o' the
blasphemer is as an open sepulchre!' But as I say, the Lord hath set you
here i' this flowery garden like Adam and her like Eve--"

"And yourself like the serpent!" said I.

"Ha' done, Martin, ha' done! 'The Lord shall root out deceitful lips and
the tongue that speaks proud things!' mark that!"

"And mark you this, Resolution, an you fill Joanna's head with aught of
such folly, whatsoever sorrow or evil befalls her is upon your head."

"Why, observe, friend and brother, for any man shall cause Joanna such,
I have this, d'ye see!" And he showed me the butt of the pistol in his
pocket; whereat I cursed him for meddlesome fool and turning my back went
on with my labour, though my pleasure in it was gone. Howbeit I wrought
this, rather than sit with idle hands, wasting myself in profitless
repining. And presently, being intent on the business, I forgot all else
and seeing this little bower was turning out much better than I had hoped,
I fell a-whistling, until, hearing a step, I turned to find Joanna leaning
upon Resolution's arm and in her eyes such a look of yearning tenderness as
filled me with a mighty disquiet.

"And have you--made this for--me, Martino?" she questioned, a little
breathlessly.

"Aye," I nodded, "because I do hate idleness--"

"Hark to him!" said Resolution. "And him picturing to me how snug you would
lie here--"

"As to that, Resolution," said I, scowling, "you can lie anywhere."

"Why, true," said he, ignoring my meaning. "Since Jo sleeps here, I shall
sleep 'neath the tree hard by, leaving you the cave yonder, friend."

That night Joanna lay in the bower and from this time she mended apace, but
as for me, with every hour my impatience to be gone grew upon me beyond all
measure, and as the time passed I waxed surly and morose, insomuch that
upon a day as I sat frowning at the sea, Joanna stole upon me and stooping,
kissed my hand or ever I might stay her.

"Do I offend?" she questioned with a strange, new humility. "Ah, prithee,
why art grown so strange to me?"

"I am as I always was!"

"Nay, in my sickness thou wert kind and gentle--"

"So should I have been to any other!"

"You builded me my little house?"

"I had naught else to do."

"Martino," said she, sinking on her knees beside me. "Oh, _caro mio_,
if--if you could kiss me in my sickness when I knew naught of it--wherefore
not now when I am all awake and full of life--"

"I never did!" said I, speaking on rageful impulse "If Resolution told you
this, he lies!" At this she shrank as I had struck her.

"And did you not--kiss me in my sickness--once, no?"

"Never once!"

Here, bowing her head upon her hands, she rested silent awhile.

"Nay, Joanna, wherefore seek the impossible. In these latter days I have
learned to--to respect you--"

"Respect!" cried she, clenching her fists, "Rather give me hate; 'twere
easier endured--"

"Why, then, this island is a rendezvous for the Brotherhood, soon will you
have friends and comrades; give me then the boat and let me go--"

"To seek her? Nay, that you shall never do. I will kill you first, yes--for
the cold, passionless thing you are!" So she left me and knowing that she
wept, I felt greatly heartsick and ashamed.

Now the little cave wherein I slept gave upon that stretch of sandy beach
where lay the boat and this night the weather being very hot and no wind
stirring, I came without the cave and sat to watch the play of moonlight on
the placid waters and hearken to their cool plash and ripple. Long time I
sat thus, my mind full of foreboding, mightily cast down and hot with anger
against Resolution, whose subtle lies had set Joanna on this vain folly of
love, teaching her hopes for that which might never be; and guessing some
of her pain therefor, I grieved for her and felt myself humbled that I
(though all unwitting) should cause her this sorrow.

Sitting thus, full of heavy thoughts, my gaze by chance lighted upon the
boat and, obeying sudden impulse, I arose and coming hither, fell to sudden
temptation, for here she lay afloat; once aboard it needed but to slip
her moorings and all these my present troubles would be resolved. And yet
(thinks I) by so doing I should leave two people on this solitary island
cut off from their kind. And yet again they run no chance of hardship or
starvation, God knows, and this being a known meeting-place for their
fellows, they shall not lack for company very long.

I was yet debating this in my mind when, roused by a sound behind me, I
turned to find Resolution scowling on me and pistol in hand.

"Ha!" said he 'twixt shut teeth, "I ha' been expecting this and watched
according. So you'll steal the boat, will ye--leave us marooned here, will
ye?"

"I haven't decided yet!" quoth I.

"And what's to let me from shooting ye?"

"Nought in the world," said I, watching for a chance to close with him,
"only bear witness I have not touched rope or timber yet--"

"'Tis a rule o' the Coast to shoot or hang the like o' you!" quoth he,
and I heard the sharp click of the pistol as he cocked it and then with a
flutter of petticoats Joanna burst upon us.

"Resolution, what is't?" she questioned breathlessly, looking from one to
other of us.

"He was for stealing the boat, Jo!"

"Is this true?" she demanded, her face set and very pale. But here, seeing
speech was vain, I shook my head and turning my back on them came into my
cave and cast myself down on my rough bed. Lying thus I heard the murmur
of their talk a great while, yet I nothing heeded until Joanna spoke close
without the cave.

"Bide you there, Resolution!" Then the moonlight was dimmed and I saw her
form outlined in the mouth of the cave.

"What would you, Joanna?" said I, starting up.

"Talk with you a small while," said she and came where we might behold each
other. "Nay, do not fear. I will come no nearer, only I would speak to you
now as I would speak if I lay a-dying, I would have you answer as you would
if--if Death stood ready to strike these our bodies and bear our souls out
to the infinite and a better life."

"Speak!" said I, wondering to see her shaken as by an ague-fit.

"You do not--love me, then? No?"

"No."

"You--never could love me, mind and heart and body? No?"

"No."

"You could not endure me beside you, to--to live--with me near you?"

"'Twould mean only pain, Joanna."

"Then go!" cried she. "I am not so base-souled to weep and wheedle, to
scheme and pray for thing that can never be truly mine, or to keep you
here in hated bondage--go! The boat lieth yonder; take her and what you
will--only--get you gone!"

Now at this I rose and would have taken her hands but she snatched them
behind her, and now I wondered at her deathly pallor,--her very lips were
pale and set.

"Joanna," I stammered, "do you mean--am I--"

"Go!"

"Nay, first hear me say that wheresoever I go needs must I--"

"Respect me!" cried she with a strange, wild laugh. "Oh, begone!"

"Joanna," said I, "for any harsh word I have spoke you in the past, for any
pain you have suffered because of me, I do most surely grieve and would
most humbly crave your forgiveness and for this generous act I--I--"

"Respect me?" said she in a small voice. "Ah, cannot you see--how you--hurt
me?" And now all suddenly I did strange thing for, scarce knowing what I
did, I caught her in my arms and kissed her hair, her eyes, her cold lips
and then, half ashamed, turned to leave her.

"Stay!" said she, but I never heeded. "Martino!" she called, but I never
paused; and then, being come to the mouth of the cave, I heard the quick,
light sound of her feet behind me and as I stepped into the moonlight
felt two arms that swung me aside, saw Joanna leap before me as the
night-silence was split by a ringing, deafening roar; and then I had her in
my arms and she, smiling up at me with blood upon her lips, hid her face
in my breast. "Here in thine arms do I lie for the third time--and last,
Martino!" she sighed, and so Resolution found us.

"What!" he gasped. "Oh, God! What--?"

"Some one has shot Joanna!"

"Aye, Martin, 'twas I!" and I saw the pistol yet smoking in his hand--"I
shot her thinking 'twas you--Oh, God!"

"Nay, Resolution," said Joanna, opening her eyes. "You did very
right--'twas only that I--being a woman--changed my mind--at the last.
'Twas I bid him--kill you, Martino--if you came forth, but I--I dreamed
you--you would not leave me. Nay, let be, Resolution, I'm a-dying--yes!"

"Ah, forbid it, God--Oh, God of Mercies, spare her!" he cried, his hands
and eyes uplift to the radiant, starry heavens.

"Nay, grieve not, Resolution--dear friend!" she murmured painfully. "For
oh, 'tis--a good thing to die--by your hand and with--such reason! Martino,
when--you shall wed your Joan--Damaris, say I--gave you to her with--my
life because I loved you--better than life--and Death had--no fears. I go
back to life--a better life--where I shall find you one day, Martino, and
learn what--happiness is like--mayhap. Resolution," she whispered, "when
I--am dead, do not let me lie a poor, pale thing to grieve over--bury
me--bury me so soon as I--am dead. Dig me a grave--above the tide! Promise
this!"

"I promise!"

"Now kiss me--you were ever true and kind--kiss me? And you, Martino,
wilt kiss me--not in gratitude--this last time?" And so I kissed her and
thereafter she lay silent awhile, looking up at me great-eyed.

"Somewhere," she whispered, "some day--we shall--meet again, beloved--but
now is--farewell. Oh, 'tis coming--'tis coming, Martino!" And then in
stronger voice, "Oh, Death!" she cried. "Oh, welcome Death--I do not fear
thee! Lift me, Martino--lift me--let me die--upon my feet!"

Very tenderly we lifted her betwixt us and then suddenly with a soft,
murmurous cry, she lifted her arms to the glory of the wide firmament above
us and with shuddering sigh let them slowly fall, and with this sigh the
strange, wild soul of her sped away back to the Infinite whence it had
come.

And now Resolution, on his knees beside this slender form that lay so mute
and still, broke out into great and awful sobs that were an agony to hear.

"Dead!" he gasped. "Oh, God--dead! And by my hand! I that loved her all her
days--that would ha' died for her--Oh, smite me, merciful God--cast forth
Thy lightnings--shoot forth Thine arrows and consume me an Thou be merciful
indeed." All at once he arose and hasting away on stumbling feet, presently
came back again, bearing spade and mattock.

"Come, friend," said he in strange, piping tones. "Come now, let us dig
grave and bury her, according to my promise. Come, brother!" Now looking on
him as he stood all bowed and shaking, I saw that he was suddenly become an
old man; his twisted frame seemed shrunken, while spade and mattock shook
and rattled in his palsied hands. "Come, lad, come!" cried he querulously.
"Why d'ye gape--bring along the body; 'tis nought else! Ah, God, how still
now, she that was so full o' life! Bring her along to high water-mark and
tenderly, friend, ah, tenderly, up wi' her to your heart!" So I did as he
bade and followed Resolution's bowed and limping form till he paused well
above where any sea might break and hard beside a great rock.

"She'll lie snug here, friend," quoth he, "snug against howling wind and
raging tempest!" So together we dug the grave deep within that shelving,
golden sand, and laying her tenderly therein, knelt together while the moon
sank and shadows lengthened; and when Resolution had recited the prayers
for the dead, he broke into a passion of prayer for himself, which done we
rose and plied spade and mattock in silence; nor would Resolution pause or
stay until we had raised mound sufficiently high to please him. When at
last all was completed to his satisfaction, he dropped his spade and wiping
sweat from him seated himself beside the grave, patting the mound very
tenderly with his open palm.

"The moon is wondrous bright, friend," said he, staring up at it, "but so
have I seen it many a night; but mark this, never in all our days shall we
see again the like o' her that sleeps, Martino, that sleeps--below here!"
And here he falls to soft mutterings and to patting that small mound of
sand again.

"Come!" said I at last, touching his bowed shoulder. "Come!"

"Where away, _camarado_?" he questioned, looking up at me vacantly. "Nay,
I'm best here--mayhap she'll be lonesome-like at first, so I'll bide
here, lad, I'll bide here a while. Go your ways, brother, and leave old
Resolution to pray a little, aye--and, mayhap weep a little, if God be
kind."

So in the end I turned, miserably enough, and left him crouched there,
his head bowed upon his breast. And in my mind was horror and grief and
something beside these that filled me with a great wonder. Reaching the
cave, I saw the sand there all trampled and stained with the blood she had
shed to save mine own, and hard beside these, the print of her slender
foot. It was set to an old Irish air, of the most touching pathos, and
will perish only with the language.

Campbell travelled over a great part of Germany and Prussia--visiting the
Universities, and storing his mind with German literature.

From the walls of a convent he commanded a view of part of the field of
Hohenlinden during that sanguinary contest, and proceeded afterwards in
the track of Moreau's army over the scene of combat.

This impressive sight produced the _Battle of Hohenlinden_--an ode
which is as original as it is spirited, and stands by itself in
British literature.

The poet tells a story of the phlegm of a German postilion at this
time, who was driving him post by a place where a skirmish of cavalry
had happened, and who alighted and disappeared, leaving the carriage
and the traveller alone in the cold (for the ground was covered
with snow) for a considerable space of time.

At length he came back; and it was found that he had been employing himself
in cutting off the long tails of the slain horses, which he coolly placed
on the vehicle, and drove on his route. Campbell was also in Ratisbon when
the French and Austrian treaty saved it from bombardment.

In Germany Campbell made the friendship of the two Schlegels, of many of the
first literary and political characters, and was fortunate enough to pass
an entire day with the venerable Klopstock, who died just two years
afterwards. The proficiency of Campbell in the German language was
rendered very considerable by this tour, and his own indefatigable perseverance
in study. His travels in Germany occupied him thirteen months; when he
returned to England, and, for the first time, visited London. He soon
afterwards composed those two noble marine odes, _The Battle of
the Baltic,_ and _Ye Mariners of England_, which, with his
_Hohenlinden_, stand unrivalled in the English tongue; and though,
as Byron lamented, Campbell has written so little, these odes alone
are enough to place him unforgotten in the shrine of the Muses.

In 1803 the poet married Miss Sinclair, a lady of Scottish descent,
and considerable personal beauty, but of whom he was deprived by
death in 1828.

He resided at Sydenham, and the entire neighbourhood of that pleasant
village reckoned itself in the circle of his friends; nor did he
quit his suburban retreat until, in 1821, literary pursuits demanded
his residence in the metropolis.

It was at Sydenham, in a house nearly facing the reservoir, that the
poet produced his greatest work, _Gertrude of Wyoming_, written in the
Spenserian stanza. About the same time Campbell was appointed Professor of
Poetry in the Royal Institution, where he delivered lectures which have
since been published. He also undertook the editorship of _Selections from
the British Poets_, intended as specimens of each, and accompanied with
critical remarks.[3]

[3] This work is in seven handsome library volumes; a new edition was
announced two or three years since, but has not yet appeared.

Having close-reefed my sail and lashed the tiller, I rolled myself in a
boat-cloak and, nothing fearing, presently fell asleep and dreamed Joanna
sat above me at the helm, stooping to cover me from the weather as she had
done once before.

Waking next morning to a glory of sun, I ate and drank (albeit sparingly)
and fell to studying Adam's chart, whereby I saw I must steer due
southwesterly and that by his calculation I should reach the mainland in
some five or six days. Suffice it that instead of five days it was not
until the tenth day (my water being nigh exhausted and I mightily downcast
that I had sailed out of my proper course) that I discovered to my
inexpressible joy a faint, blue haze bearing westerly that I knew must be
the Main. And now the wind fell so that it was not until the following
morning that I steered into a little, green bay where trees grew to the
very water's edge and so dense that, unstepping my mast, I began paddling
along this green barrier, looking for some likely opening, and thus
presently came on a narrow cleft 'mid the green where ran a small creek
roofed in with branches, vines and twining boughs, into which I urged my
boat forthwith (and no little to-do) and passed immediately from the hot
glare of sun into the cool shade of trees and tangled thickets. Having
forced myself a passage so far as I might by reason of these leafy tangles,
my next thought was to select such things as I should need and this took me
some time, I deeming so many things essential since I knew not how far
I might have to tramp through an unknown country, nor in what direction
Nombre de Dios lay. But in the end I narrowed down my necessities to the
following, viz:

A compass
A perspective-glass
A sword
Two pistols
A gun with powder-horn and shot for same
A light hatchet
A tinder-box and store of buccaned meat.

And now, having belted on sword and pistols and wrapping the other things
in one of the boat-cloaks, I strapped the unwieldy bundle to my shoulders
and taking up the gun, scrambled ashore, and having found my bearing, set
off due southwesterly.

Hour after hour I struggled on, often having to hew myself a passage with
my axe, until towards evening I came out upon a broad ride or thoroughfare
amid the green, the which greatly heartened me, since here was evidence of
man's handiwork and must soon or late bring me to some town or village;
forthwith, my weariness forgotten, I set off along this track, my face set
ever westwards; but presently my vaunting hopes were dashed to find the
track could be very little used nowadays, since here and there great trees
had fallen and lay athwart my going, and presently the way itself narrowed
to a mere path and this crossed here and there by hanging vines which was
sure proof that few, if any, had passed this way these many months, mayhap
years. Hereupon I stopped to lean despondent on my gun and looked about me;
and with dejection of mind came weariness of body and seeing night was at
hand, I determined to go no farther and turned in among the trees, minded
to sleep here, though the place was wild and forbidding enough.

I had just loosed off my heavy pack when the pervading stillness was broken
by a wailing cry, so sudden, so shrill and evil to hear that my flesh crept
and I huddled against a tree, peering into the deepening shadows that had
begun to hem me in. At first I judged this some wild beast and reached for
my musket; then, as the sound rose again, I knew this for human cry, for I
heard these words:

"Mercy, señors, mercy for the love o' God!"

Hereupon I began to run towards whence came this dismal outcry and
presently espied the glow of a fire, and creeping thither discovered four
men grouped about a fifth and him fast bound to a tree, and this poor
wretch they were torturing with a ramrod heated in the fire; even as I
watched he writhed and screamed for the intolerable pain of it. Staying for
no more, I burst upon them and levelling my piece at the chief tormentor,
pulled the trigger, whereupon was no more than a flash of the flint; it
seemed that in my hurry to begone I had forgotten to load it. Howbeit,
loaded or not, it served me well enough, for, swinging it by the barrel,
I was upon them or ever they were aware and smote down two of the rogues,
whereupon their comrades betook them to their heels with the utmost
precipitation. I therefore proceeded to cut the sufferer loose who, sinking
to the earth, lay there, muttering and groaning.

"Are ye much hurt?" I questioned, stooping above him: whereupon he spat
forth a string of curses by which I judged him English and very far from
dying as I had feared. I now found myself master of four very good guns,
a sword, a steel headpiece, two cloaks and other furniture, with food
a-plenty and three flasks of wine. I was yet examining these and watching
against the return of their late owners when, hearing a sound, I saw the
late poor captive bending above the two men I had felled.

"Are they dead?" I questioned.

"Nay, not yet, master; give 'em six minutes or say ten and they'll be as
dead as the pig you ate of last--"

"How so?" I demanded, staring at the wild, ragged figure of the speaker.

"By means o' this, master!" said he, and stooping towards the fire showed
me a middling-sized black thorn upon his open palm. "Not much to look at,
master--no, but 'tis death sure and sarten, howsomever. I've many more
besides; I make 'em into darts and shoot 'em through a blowpipe--a trick
I larned o' the Indians. Aye, I spits 'em through a pipe--which is better
than your guns--no noise, no smoke, and sure death wherever it sticketh."

"Are you an Englishman?"

"I am that! Born within sound o' Bow Bells; 'tis all o' twenty years since
I heard 'em but they ring in my dreams sometimes. I shipped on a venture
to the Main twenty years ago and fought and rioted as a man may and by
ill-luck fell into the hands o' the bloody Spaniards along o' six other
good lads--all dead long since, master. Then the Inquisition got me and was
going to burn me but not liking the thought on't, I turned Roman. Then they
made me a slave, but I got away at last. Aha, all Spanishers are devils
for cruelty, but their Churchmen are worst and of all their Churchmen the
coldest, softest, bloodiest is Alexo Valdez, Chief Inquisitor of Nombre de
Dios yonder--"

"Ha, you know Nombre de Dios?"

"I ha' lived and suffered there, master, and 'tis there I be a-going for to
make an end o' Bloody Valdez, if God be kind."

"Then," said I, "we will travel so far together--"

"And what doth an Englishman the like o' you want with the accursed place;
the Inquisition is strong there--"

"'Tis a matter of life and death," said I.

"Death!" said he, "Death--they should all be dead and rotting, if I had my
way." So saying, this strange man, whose face I had scarce seen, laid him
down beyond the fire and composed himself to slumber.

"How then," I demanded, "will ye sleep here in the wild and no watch?"

"I will that!" said he. "I know the wilderness and I have endured much o'
hardship o' late and as to watching, there's small need. The rogues you
fell upon, being Spaniards, will doubtless be running yet and nigh unto
Nombre, by now."

"How far is it hence?"

"Twelve leagues by road, but less the ways I travel."

"Good!" said I.

"Though 'tis hard going."

"No matter."

"Why, then, sleep, for we march at dawn. And my name is John."

"And mine Martin."

"Why, then, Martin, good night."

"Good night, John."

Howbeit though (and despite his hurts) my companion presently slept and
snored lustily, and though I kept myself awake and my weapons to hand,
yet I fell a-nodding and at last, overcome with weariness, sank to sleep
likewise.

I waked to find the sun up and the man John shaking me, a wild, unlovely,
shaggy fellow, very furtive of eye and gesture, who cringed and cowered
away as I started up.

"Lord, man," quoth I, "I am no enemy!"

"I know it!" said he, shaking tousled head. "But 'tis become nat'ral to
me to slink and crawl and blench like any lashed cur, all along o' these
accursed Spaniards; I've had more kicks and blows than I've lived days," he
growled, munching away at the viands he had set forth.

"Have ye suffered so much then?"

"Suffered!" cried he with a snarl. "I've done little else. Aha, when I
think o' what I've endured, I do love my little blowpipe--"

"Blowpipe?" I questioned.

"Aye--this!" And speaking, from somewhere among the pitiful rags that
covered his lank carcase he drew forth a small wooden pipe scarce two foot
long and having a bulbous mouthpiece at one end. "The Indians use 'em
longer than this--aye, six foot I've seen 'em, but then, Lord! they'll blow
ye a dart from eighty to a hundred paces sometimes, whereas I never risk
shot farther away than ten or twenty at most; the nearer the surer, aha!"
Hereupon he nodded, white teeth agleam through tangled beard, and with a
swift, stealthy gesture hid the deadly tube in his rags again.

"What of the two Spaniards I struck down last night?" I questioned, looking
vainly for them.

"In the bushes yonder," said he and with jerk of thumb. "I hid 'em, master,
they being a little unsightly--black and swol--as is the natur' o'
this poison!" Hereupon I rose and going whither he pointed, parted the
undergrowth and saw this was indeed so, insomuch that my stomach turned and
I had no more desire for food.

"You murdered those men!"

"Aye, that I did, master, an you call it murder. Howbeit, there's more
shall go the same road yet, notably Alexo Valdez, a curse on him!"

"And you are an Englishman?"

"I was, but since then I've been slave to be whipped, dog to be kicked,
Lutheran dog to be spat upon, and lastly Indian--"

"And what now?"

"A poor soul to be tormented, shot, hanged, or burned as they will, once
I'm taken."

"And yet you will adventure yourself to Nombre de Dios?"

"Why, Alexo Valdez is lately come there and Alexo Valdez burned my friend
Dick Burbage, as was 'prentice wi' me at Johnson's, the cutler's, in Friday
Street nigh St. Paul's, twenty odd years agone."

And in a while, being ready to start, I proffered this wild fellow one of
the Spaniard's guns, but he would have none of it, nor sword, nor even
cloak to cover his rags, so in the end we left all things behind, and there
they be yet, for aught I know.

Now as we journeyed on together, in answer to my questioning I learned from
this man John something of the illimitable pride and power of the Church
of Rome; more especially he told me of the Spanish Inquisition, its cold
mercilessness and passionless ferocity, its unsleeping watchfulness, its
undying animosity, its constant menace and the hopelessness of escape
therefrom. He gave me particulars of burnings and rackings, he described
to me the torments of the water, the wheel and the fire until my soul
sickened. He told me how it menaced alike the untrained savage, the peasant
in his hut and the noble in his hall. I heard of parents who, by reason
of this corroding fear, had denounced their children to the torment and
children their parents.

"Aye, and there was a Donna Bianca Vallambrosa, a fine woman, I mind, was
suspected of Lutheranism--so they racked her and she in torment confessed
whatsoever they would and accused her sister Donna Luisa likewise. So they
burned 'em both and made 'em pay for stake and chain and faggots too, afore
they died."

Many other horrors he recounted, but ever and always he came back to the
name of Alexo Valdez to vomit curses upon until at last I questioned him as
to what manner of man this was to behold.

"Master," said John, turning to regard me, every hair upon his sunburned
face seeming to bristle, "think o' the most sinful stench ever offended
you, the most loathly corruption you ever saw and there's his soul; think
o' the devil wi' eyes like dim glass, flesh like dough and a sweet, soft
voice, and you have Alexo Valdez inside and out, and may every curse ever
cursed light on and blast him, says I!"

"Are there many English prisoners in the Inquisition at Nombre?"

"Why, I know of but one--though like enough there's more--they are so
cursed secret, master."

"Did ye ever hear of an English gentleman lost or taken hereabouts some six
years since and named Sir Richard Brandon?"

"Nay, I was slaving down Panama way six years ago. Is it him you come
a-seeking of, master?"

"Aye," I nodded. "A very masterful man, hale and florid and of a full
habit."

"Miss Bassett is, or was, one of those funny old spinsters who always look
the same and always ridiculous. Dry twigs, you know.

One size all the way down. Very little hair, and no emotions. If it weren't
for the sake of cats, one would wonder why such people are born. But they're
always cat-lovers.

I suppose that's why they're so often called old cats."
She uttered a little high-pitched laugh, and got up.

"Don't be too long," she said to me carelessly as I opened the dining-room
door for her. "I want to sing 'Ohé Charmette' to you.

"I won't be long," I answered, thinking what exquisite eyes she had.

She turned, and went out in her delicious, thin way.

No wonder she had made skeletons the rage in London. When I came
back to the dinner-table Inley was sitting with both his brown hands
clenched on the cloth.

His black eyes--inherited from his dead mother, who had been one of the
Neapolitan aristocracy--were glittering.

"What is it, Nino?" I asked as I sat down.

We had been such intimate friends that even my five years' absence abroad
had not built up a barrier between us.

"I wonder if it is Miss Bassett?" he said, looking at me earnestly.

"But was she a great friend of yours?" I said.

"If Lady Inley's description of her is accurate, I can hardly imagine
so."
"Vere doesn't know what she's saying."
"Then Miss Bassett----"
"Oh, she does look like that; dried up, unemotional, tame, English, even
comic."

"The regular spinster, eh?"
"She looks it. But, damn it all, Vere has no business to say she has no
emotions, to wonder why such people are born. But she doesn't know--Vere
doesn't know."
His agitation grew, and was inexplicable to me. But I knew Inley, knew that
he was bound to tell me what was on his mind. He could be reserved, but
not with me. So I took a cigar, cut the end off it deliberately, struck a
match, lighted it, and began to smoke in silence. He followed my example
quickly, and then said:
"Vere talks like that, and, but for Miss Bassett, Vere would have
been murdered two years ago."

I started, and dropped my cigar on the table.

"Murdered!"
"Yes; and I----"

He fixed his eyes on me, and put his hand up to his throat. Nino was half
Neapolitan, and I saw a man being hanged. I picked up my cigar
with a hand that slightly shook.

"But," I said, "I always thought Lady Inley and you were very happy
together."
It sounded banal, even ridiculous, but I hardly knew what to say.

I was startled. The tolling of the bell, too, was getting on my nerves.

"One doesn't write such things," he said.

"You've been abroad for years."
"It's all right now?"
He nodded.

"I suppose so. Vere has never had the least suspicion."
He drew his chair closer to mine, and was about to go on speaking when the
servants came in with the coffee.

"Who's the bell tolling for, Hurst?"

he said to the butler.

"I couldn't say, my lord."
When the servants had gone Inley continued, at first in a calmer voice:

"Miss Bassett lived in the red cottage just beyond the gate of the South
Lodge from time immemorial. You generally came to us in Scotland, I
know, but I should think you must have seen her."
Suddenly a recollection flashed upon me--a recollection of a long, flat
figure, a drab face, thin hair coming away from a wrinkled forehead under
a mushroom hat, flapping, old-fashioned golden earrings.

"Not the person I used to call 'the Plank'?" I said.

"Did you?"

He thought for a moment.

"Yes; I believe you did-.

I'd forgotten."

"She was always in church twenty minutes before the service began,
and always dropped her hymn-book coming out if there were visitors
in the Abbey pew!"

"Yes, yes; that's it. Miss Bassett is very nervous in little ways."
"I remember her now perfectly. And you say she----"
I looked at him, and hesitated.

"She saved Vere's life and, indirectly, mine. I'll tell you now we're together
again at last. I shall never tell Vere."
He looked towards the windows, across which dark blue silk curtains
were drawn, as if he could see the passing-bell swinging in the old
square tower.

Then he turned to me.

"You know how mad I was about Vere. It's always like that with me.
Unless I'm stone I'm fire. After we were married I got even madder.
Having her all to myself was like enchantment, and in Italy, too, my other
native land."
I thought of Lady Inley's eyes.

"I can understand," I said.

"Of course, when we got back it had to be different. Friends came in, and
she was run after and admired and written about. You know the publicity
of life in modern London."
"City of public-houses and society spies."

"I bore it, because it's supposed to be the thing.

And Vere rather likes it, somehow.

So I let her have her fun, as long as it was fun.

I didn't intend it should ever be anything else."
He frowned.

When he did that, and his thick eyebrows nearly met, he looked all
Italian.

"We did the usual things--Paris, Ascot, Scotland, and so on--till
Vere had to lie up."

"Your boy?"

"Yes; Hugo came along. I was glad when that was over. I thought she
was going to die. You knew Seymour Glynd?"
"Life Guards? Killed hunting a year ago?"
Inley nodded.

"He was a great deal with us soon after Hugo's birth. I thought nothing
of it. I'd known the fellow all my life. But then one nearly always has."

He laughed bitterly.

"To cut that part short, two years ago in autumn we had Glynd staying
with us down here for shooting.

There were some others, of course--Mrs.
Jack, Bobbie Elphinton, and Lady Bobbie--but you know the lot."
"I did."

"Ah," he said, "you've been well out of it these years.

Well, the shoot was to break up on a Friday, and I'd arranged to go to town
that day with the rest. Vere didn't intend to come. She said she was feeling
tired, and was going to have a Friday to Monday rest cure. That's the
thing, you know, nowadays. You get a Swedish _masseuse_ down to stay, and
go to bed and drink milk. Vere had engaged a _masseuse_ to come on the
Friday night.

On the Thursday, the day before we were all going to town, Glynd
hurt his foot getting over a fence into a turnip field--at least I
thought so."

He stopped.

"Everyone thought so, I believe--except, of course, Vere. I wonder if they
did, though?" he added moodily. "Or whether I was the only--But what does
it matter now? Glynd said he only wanted a couple of days' rest to be
all right again, and asked me if he might stay on at the Abbey till the
Monday.

Of course I said 'Yes; if he wouldn't want a hostess.' Because Vere said
to me, when she heard of it, that she must have her rest cure all the
same. Glynd swore he'd be quite happy alone.
So he stayed, and the rest of us came up to town on the Friday. Well,
on the Saturday morning I was walking across the park when I met the
Swedish _massense_ who was to have gone down to Vere on the Friday
night. I knew her, because Vere had often had her before in London.
'Hullo!' I said. 'You ought to be down at Inley Abbey with my wife.' 'No,
my lord,' she said. 'Why not?' 'I've had a wire from Lady Inley
not to go.'

'A wire!' I said. 'When did you get it?' 'On Thursday night, my
lord.'

You mean last night?' I said, thinking Vere must have changed her mind after
we had left.

'No,' said the woman; 'on Thursday night, late.' Then I remembered that,
after Glynd had hurt his foot and asked to stay, Vere had gone out
alone for a drive in her cart, to get a last breath of air before
the rest cure.

She must have sent the telegram herself then.

All of a sudden I seemed to understand a lot of things.'"
He had let his cigar out, and now he noticed that he had.

He tossed it into the fire.

"I said, 'Good-morning' to the woman quite quietly, went back to the
house, and told my man I shouldn't be at home that night."

He put his hand on my arm.

"I felt perfectly calm. Wasn't that strange?"
I nodded.

"There was a train from town reaching Ashdridge Station at nine o'clock at
night. I took it.

I didn't care to go to Inley Station, where everybody would know me, and
wonder what I was up to. I didn't take any luggage. My man asked if he should
pack, and I said 'No.' I didn't dine.
I was at Pad-dington three-quarters of an hour before the train was
due to start.

At last it came in to the platform. Going down I read the evening papers
just like any man going home from business. Soon after we got away from
London I saw there was rain on the carriage windows. That seemed to me
right. We were a little late at Ashdridge. It was still wet, and I had
my coat collar turned up. I don't believe they recognised me there. I set
out to walk to Inley."

"What did you mean to do?"
"I told you before."

I looked into his face, and believed him.

Then I thought of Lady Inley's childish, delicate beauty, of her slightly
affected manner, the manner of a woman who has always been spoilt, whose
paths have been made very smooth. And here she was living, apparently
happily, with a man who had deliberately travelled down in the
night to kill her.

How ignorant we are!

"You are condemning me," Inley said, with a touch of hot anger.

"I was only thinking----"
"Yes?"
"That we don't know each other much in the greatest intimacy."
"That's what I thought then."
He said that in a way which suddenly put me on his side. He must have seen
the change in my feelings, for he went on, with his former
unreserve:

"I walked fast in the dark.

I didn't think very much, but I remember that all the trees--there's a lot
of woodland, you know, between Ashdridge and Inley--seemed alive. Everything
seemed to me to be alive that night. I've never had that sensation before
or since."

I realised what the condition of the man had been when he said that, as if
I were a doctor and a patient had told me the symptom which put me in
possession of his malady.

"When I reached Inley it was late, and the long village street was
deserted. There were lights in the inn and in the schoolmaster's house,
but there were no people about. I got through without meeting a soul, and
came on towards the gates of the Abbey."
"You meant to go into the house?"
"Yes.

I was sure--somehow I was sure; but I intended to see before I acted,
merely for my own justification. But I was quite sure, as if Vere herself
had told me everything. Soon after I had got clear of the village I heard
a sound of wheels behind me. I stood up against the hedge, and in a
minute or two a fly passed me going slowly. I saw the driver's face. It
wasn't a man from Inley. Evidently the fly had come from a distance. It
was splashed with mud, and the horse looked tired.
I followed it till it came to the turning just below Miss Bassett's cottage,
where there's a narrow lane going to Charfield through the woods. It went a
little way down this lane, and stopped. I waited at the turning. I could
see the light from the lamps shining on the wet road, and in the circle
of light the driver's breath. He bent down, and I saw him looking at a
big silver watch. Then he put it back. But he didn't drive on. I knew what
he was waiting for. Vere was going with--with Glynd. That was more than I
had ever thought of, that she would go. I put my hand into my pocket, took
out my revolver, and went on till I was close to the red cottage. By this
time the rain had stopped. I came up to within a few yards of the Abbey
gates, stood for a moment, and then returned till I was at the wicket
of Miss Bassett's garden.

It's bounded by a yew hedge, beyond which there is a path shaded by
mulberry-trees.
The hedge is low. The path is dark. It was a blackguardly thing to do,
but I thought of nothing except myself, my wrong, and how I was to wipe
it out. I opened the wicket, came into the path, and stood there under the
mulberry-trees behind the hedge. Here I was in cover, and could see the
road. I held my revolver in my hand, and waited. It never struck me that
Miss Bassett might be up. I saw no light in the cottage, and I had a sort
of idea that people like her went to bed at about eight. While I was standing
there listening I felt something rub against my legs. It made me start.
Then I heard a little low noise. I looked down, and there was a great cat
holding up its tail and purring. Its pleasure was horrible to me. I pushed
it away with my foot, but it came back, bending down its head, arching its
back, and pressing against me. I was thinking what to do to get rid of it
when I heard a shrill, husky voice call out:

"'Johnny--John-nee!'
"It was Miss Bassett. I held my breath, and pushed away the cat.

"'Johnny, Johnny--John-nee!' went the voice again.

"The cat wouldn't leave me. God knows why it wished to stay.

I was determined to get rid of it, so I put the revolver down on the
path, picked the cat up in my arms, and dropped it over the hedge into the
road.

Just as I had caught up the revolver again I was confronted by Miss
Bassett.

She had come in slippers up the path in the dark to look for her
cat."

I uttered a slight exclamation.

Inley went on: "She had a handkerchief tied over her cap and under
her chin, and a small lantern in her hands, on which she wore black
mittens.

I can see her now. We stood there on the path for a minute staring
at each other without a word.

The light from the lantern flickered over the revolver, and I saw Miss Bassett
look down at it."

He stopped, poured out a glass of water, and drank it off like a
man who has been running.

"Didn't she show surprise--fear?"

I asked.

"Not a bit. Women are so extraordinary, even old women who've never been in
touch with life, that I'm certain now she understood directly her eyes fell
on the revolver."
"What did she do?"
"After a minute she said: 'Lord Inley, I'm looking for my cat. Have you
seen him?'
"'Yes,' I said; 'he's run into the house.'

"It was a lie, but I wanted her to go in.

I had slipped the revolver back into my pocket, and tried to assume
a perfectly simple, natural air.

I fancied it would be very easy to impose on Miss Bassett when I heard her
question. It sounded so innocent, as if the old lady was full of her pet. I
even thought, perhaps, she had not known what the revolver was
when she looked at it.

"'Did he run into the house?' she said, still looking at me from under her
wrinkled eyelids.

"'Yes; when you came out. He was here on the path with me. You called
"Johnny!" and he ran off there between the mulberry-trees.'
"All the time I was speaking to her I had an eye to the road, and
my ears were listening like an Indian's when he puts his head to
the ground to hear the pad of his enemy.

"Miss Bassett stood there quietly for a moment as if she were considering
something. She looked prim. I remember that even now--prim as a caricature.
It was only a moment, but it seemed to me an hour.

'If they should come,' I thought, 'while she is out here!' The sweat came out
all over my face with impatience--an agony of impatience.

I longed to take the old lady by the shoulders, push her into the
cottage, lock her in, and be alone, able to watch the bit of road
from the Abbey gates to the wicket.

But I could do nothing.

I was obliged to repress every sign of agitation.

It was devilish."
He got up with a sudden jerk from his chair, and stood by the fire.

Even the telling of that moment had set beads of moisture on his
square, low forehead.

"At last she spoke again.

"'I wonder if you'd mind coming in for a minute to help me see if Johnny
really is in the house?' she said.

"I don't know what I should have done--refused, I believe, refused her
with an oath, for I began to feel mad; but just at that instant up came
the cat once more, purring like fury, and lifting up his tail. He made
straight for me, and began to rub himself against my legs again.

"'Oh!' said Miss Bassett, 'there he is! Naughty Johnny, naughty boy!
Lord Inley, perhaps you'd be so good as just to lif t him up and put him
inside the door for me. I always have such a job to get him to come in of
a night. He likes hunting in the woods. Doesn't he, the naughty Johnny?'

"'Now's my chance to get rid of her!' I thought.

"I bent down, picked the cat up, and went along the path towards the
cottage, Miss Bassett following close behind me. The cat was an immense
beast, awfully heavy, and just as I turned out of the yew path to
go up to the cottage door he began struggling to get away, and
scratching.

I held on to him, but it wasn't easy, and I got my hand torn before I
dropped him down inside the little hall. Away he ran, towards the kitchen,
I suppose. Miss Bassett was very grateful, but I cut her gratitude
short.

"'Very glad to have been able to help you,' I said.

'Good-night.'
"'Good-night, Lord Inley,' she said.

"I thought her voice sounded a little bit odd when she said that, and I
just glanced at her funny old face, lit up by the lantern she was holding
in one mittened hand. She didn't look at me this time as she had in the
garden.

Then I went out, and she immediately shut the door.

"'Thank God!' I thought, and I hurried to the wicket. I didn't dare stay
in the garden now. Seeing her had made me realise my blackguardism in
coming in at all, considering my reason. I resolved to hide in the
field at the corner where the road turns off to Charfield. As I opened
the wicket, instinctively I put my hand into my pocket for my
revolver."

He bent down, looking full into my eyes.

"It wasn't there."
"Miss Bassett!" I exclaimed.

"In a moment I realised that Miss Bassett must have grasped the
situation; that her asking me to carry in her cat was a ruse, and
that while the beast was struggling between my hands she must have
stolen the revolver from behind.

I say I knew that, and yet even then, when I thought of her look, her
manner, the sort of nervous old thing she was, I couldn't believe what I
knew. Then I remembered her voice when she said 'Good-night' to me
in the passage, her eyes looking down instead of at me, and that she
was only holding the lantern in one hand, whereas in the garden she was
using two. She must have had the revolver in her other hand concealed in
the folds of her dress. I ran back to the cottage door, and knocked--hard.
Not that I thought she'd open. I knew she wouldn't, but she did directly.
I could hardly speak. I was afraid of myself just then. At last I
said:

"'Miss Bassett, you know what I want.'
"'You can't have it,' she said, looking straight at me.
"I kept quiet for a second, then I said:
"'Miss Bassett, I don't think you know that you're running into
danger.' For I felt that there was danger for her then if she went
against me.
She knew it, too, perhaps better than I did. I saw her poor old
hands, all blue veins, beginning to tremble.
"'You can't have it, Lord Inley,' she repeated.
"There wasn't the ghost of a quiver in her voice.
"'I must, I will!' I said, and I made a movement towards her--a
violent movement I know it was.
"But the old thing stood her ground. Oh, she was a gallant old
woman.
"'Do what you like to me,' she said. 'I'm old. What does it
matter?
She's young.' 
"Then I knew she understood.
"'You've seen them together!' I said. 'Since I went!'
"She wouldn't say. Not a word. I was mad. I forgot decency,
everything.
I took her. I searched her for the revolver. I searched her
roughly--God forgive me. She trembled horribly, but never said a
word. It wasn't on her. She must have hidden it somewhere in that
moment when she was alone in the cottage. That was another ruse to
keep me searching in there while-- But I saw it almost directly. I
broke away, and rushed out and down the road. Something seemed to
tell me they had passed. I got into the lane that leads to Charfield.
The fly was gone. Then, all of a sudden, I felt perfectly calm. I
turned, and went up to the Abbey gates.
I knocked them up at the lodge. The keeper came out. When he saw
me he said:

"'You, my lord! However did you know?'
"'Go on!' I said. 'Know what?' 
"'About Master Hugo?'
"I didn't say one way or the other.
"'The doctor says it's a bitter bad quinsy, but there's just a
chance.
Her ladyship's nearly mad. It only came on a few hours ago quite
sudden.'
"I went up to the Abbey, and found Vere by the child's bed. She
looked flushed, and was breathing hard, as if she had just been
running." 
He stopped, and took out his cigar-case.
"Running!" I said.
"She had parted finally from Glynd in front of Miss Bassett's
cottage," he said. "He told me that afterwards."
There was a moment's silence. Then he spoke more calmly.
"I went up to town when the child was safe, and had it out with
Glynd.
They had meant to go that night. It was the boy who stopped them
and they took it as a judgment. You know how women are. Glynd swore
she was stopped in time. You understand?" 
"Yes."
"He didn't lie to me." 
"And your wife?"
"I never spoke of it to her. I saw her with the boy, and--well, I
saw her with the boy, and what she was to him when he was close to
death." 
His voice went for a moment. Then he added:
"I told her I'd had a presentiment Hugo was ill. She believed me,
I think. If not, she's kept her secret."
Just then the dining-room door opened, and Lady Inley put in her
pretty head.
"Are you never coming?" she said with her little childish drawl.
I got up, and went towards her.
"By the way, Nino," she added, "the bell was for poor, funny old
Miss Bassett. What will her cat do, I wonder?"
As I followed her towards the drawing-room I heard Inley's voice
mutter behind me:

"_Requiescat in Pace_."And yet in these features, gaunt and haggard by
suffering, furrowed and lined by pain, was a serene patience and nobility
wholly unfamiliar.

Thus it seemed God had hearkened to my oft-repeated prayers, had given up
to me mine enemy bound; here at last, beneath my hand, lay the contriver of
my father's ruin and death and of my own evil fortunes. But it seemed the
sufferings that had thus whitened his hair, bowed his once stalwart frame
and chastened his fierce pride had left behind them something greater and
more enduring, before which my madness of hate and passionate desire
of vengeance shrank abashed. Now as I stood thus, lost in frowning
contemplation of my enemy, he groaned of a sudden and starting to his
elbow, stared up at me haggard-eyed.

"Ah, my lord!" said he, meeting my threatening look. "Is the hour of
vengeance at hand--seek ye my life indeed? Why, then, I am ready!"

But, nothing speaking, I got me back to my gloomy corner and crouched
there, my knees up-drawn, my head bowed upon my arms; and now, my two hands
gripping upon the empty air, I prayed again these words so often wrung from
me by past agonies: "Oh, God of Justice, give me now vengeance--vengeance
upon mine enemy. His life, Oh, God, his life!" But even as I spake these
words within myself I knew the vengeance I had dreamed of and cherished so
dearly was but a dream indeed, a fire that had burned utterly away, leaving
nought but the dust and ashes of all that might have been. And realising
somewhat of the bitter mockery of my situation, bethinking me of all I had
so wantonly cast away for this dream, and remembering the vain labour and
all the wasted years, I fell to raging despair, insomuch that I groaned
aloud and casting myself down, smote upon the stone floor of my prison with
shackled fists. And thus I presently felt a touch and glanced up to behold
my enemy bending above me.

"My lord--" said he.

"Devil!" I cried, smiting the frail hand from me. "I am no more than the
poor outcast wretch you ha' made of me!" Thus, with curses and revilings, I
bade him plague me no more and presently, wearied mind and body by my long
vigil, I fell a-nodding, until, wakened by the opening of the door, I
looked up to behold one of the black-robed familiars, who, having set down
meat and drink, vanished again, silent and speechless.

Roused by the delectable savours of this meat, which was hot and
well-seasoned, I felt myself ravenous and ate with keen appetite, and
taking up the drink, found it to be wine, very rich and comforting. So
I ate and drank my fill, never heeding my companion, and thereafter,
stretching myself as comfortably as I might, I sank into a deep slumber.
But my sleep was troubled by all manner of dreams wherein was a nameless
fear that haunted me, a thing dim-seen and silent, save for the stealthy
rustling of a trailing robe. And even as I strove to flee it grew upon me
until I knew this was Death in the shape of Fra Alexo. And now, as I strove
vainly to escape those white, cruel fingers, Joanna was betwixt us; I heard
her shrill, savage cry, saw the glitter of her steel and, reeling back, Fra
Alexo stood clutching his throat in his two hands, staring horribly ere
he fell. But looking upon him as he lay I saw this was not Fra Alexo, for
gazing on the pale, dead face, I recognised the beloved features of my lady
Joan. But, sudden and swift, Joanna stooped to clasp that stilly form,
to lay her ruddy mouth to these pallid lips; and lo, she that was dead
stirred, and rose up quick and vivid with life and reached out yearning
arms to me, seeing nothing of Joanna where she lay, a pale, dead thing.

I started up, crying aloud, and blinked to the glare of a lanthorn; as I
crouched thus, shielding my eyes from this dazzling beam, from the darkness
beyond came a voice, very soft and tenderly sweet, the which set me
shivering none the less.

"Most miserable man, forswear now the error of thy beliefs, or prepare thy
unworthy flesh to chastisement. In this dead hour of night when all do
sleep, save the God thou blasphemest and Holy Church, thou shall be brought
to the question--"

"Hold, damned Churchman!" cried a voice, and turning I beheld my enemy, Sir
Richard Brandon, his gaunt and fettered arms upraised, his eyes fierce and
steadfast. "Heed not this bloody-minded man! And you, Fra Alexo and these
cowled fiends that do your evil work, I take you to witness, one and all,
that I, Richard Brandon, Knight banneret of Kent, do now, henceforth and
for ever, renounce and abjure the oath you wrung from my coward flesh by
your devilish tortures. Come, do to my body what ye will, but my soul--aye,
my soul belongs to God--not to the Church of Rome! May God reckon up
against you the innocent blood you have shed and in every groan and tear
and cry you have wrung from tortured flesh may you find a curse in this
world and hereafter!"

The loud, fierce voice ceased; instead I heard a long and gentle sigh, a
murmured command, and Sir Richard was seized by dim forms and borne away,
his irons clashing. Then I sprang, whirling up my fetter-chains to smite,
was tripped heavily, felt my limbs close-pinioned and was dragged forth of
the dungeon. And now, thus helpless at the mercy of these hideous, hooded
forms that knew no mercy, my soul shrank for stark horror of what was to
be, and my body shook and trembled in abject terror.

In this miserable state I was dragged along, until once again I heard the
murmur of that sweet, soft voice, whereupon my captors halted, a door
was unlocked, and I was cast into a place of outer darkness there to lie
bruised and half-stunned yet agonised with fear, insomuch that for very
shame I summoned up all my resolution, and mastering my fear, I clenched
chattering teeth and sweating palms, determined to meet what was to be with
what courage and fortitude I might. Slowly the shivering horror passed and
in its place was a strange calm as I waited for them to bear me to the
torture.

Suddenly my heart leapt to a shrill scream and thereafter I heard an
awful voice, loud and hoarse and tremulous, and between each gasping cry,
dreadful periods of silence:

"Oh, God ... Oh, God of pity, aid me ... make me to endure ... Lord God,
strengthen my coward soul ... help me to be worthy ... faithful at last ...
faithful to the end...."

As for me, well knowing the wherefore of these outcries, the meaning of
these ghastly silences, a frenzy of horror seized me so that I shouted and
raved, rolling to and fro in my bonds. Yet even so I could hear them at
their devils work, until the hoarse screams sank to a piteous wailing, a
dreadful inarticulate babble, until, wrought to a frenzy, I struggled to my
feet (despite my bonds) and (like the madman I was) leapt towards whence
these awful sounds came, and falling, knew no more.

From this blessed oblivion I was roused by a kindly warmth and opening my
eyes, saw that I lay face down in a beam of sunshine that poured in through
the small grille high in the wall like a blessing; being very weary and
full of pain, and feeling this kindly ray mighty comforting, I lay where I
was and no desire to move, minded to sleep again. But little by little I
became conscious of a dull, low murmur of sound very distressful to hear
and that set me vaguely a-wondering. Therefore, after some while, I
troubled to lift my head and wondered no more.

A twisted heap of blood-stained rags, the pallid oval of a face, the dull
gleam of a chain, this much I saw at a glance, but when I came beside Sir
Richard's prostrate form and beheld the evils they had wrought on him, a
cry of horror and passionate anger broke from me, whereupon he checked his
groaning and opening swimming eyes, smiled wanly up at me.

"Glory--and thanks to God--I--endured!" he whispered. Now at this I sank on
my knees beside him, and when I would have spoken, could not for a while;
at last:

"Is there aught I may do?" I questioned.

"Water!" he murmured feebly. So I reached the water and setting my arm
'neath his neck (and despite my fetters) lifted him as gently as I might
and held the jar to his cracked lips. When he had drank what he would
I made a rough pillow for his head and rent strips from my shirt for
bandages, and finding my pitcher full-charged with wine, mixed some with
water and betook me to bathing his divers hurts (though greatly hampered by
the chain of my fetters) and found him very patient to endure my awkward
handling, in the midst of which, meeting my eye, he smiled faintly:

"Martin Conisby," he whispered. "Am I not--your--enemy?"

"Howbeit you endured!" quoth I.

"Thanks be to God!" said he humbly. "And is it for this. You will cherish
thus--and comfort one--hath wronged you and yours--so bitterly?"

But at this I grew surly and having made an end of my rough surgery, I went
and cast myself upon my bed of straw and, lying there, watching the sunbeam
creep upon the wall, I fell to pondering this problem, viz: How came I thus
striving to soothe the woes of this man I had hunted all these years to his
destruction; why must I pity his hurts and compassionate his weakness--why?

And as I sat, my fists clenched, scowling at the sun-ray, it verily seemed
as he had read these my thoughts.

"Martin Conisby," said he, his voice grown stronger. "Oh, Martin, think it
not shame to pity thine enemy; to cherish them that despitefully use you;
this is Godlike. I was a proud man and merciless but I have learned much
by sufferings, and for the wrongs I did you--bitterly have I repented. So
would I humbly sue forgiveness of you since I am to die so soon--"

"To die?"

"Aye, Martin, at the next auto-da-fé--by the fire--"

"The fire!" said I, clenching my fists.

"They have left me my life that I may burn--"

"When?" I demanded 'twixt shut teeth. "When?"

"To-day--to-morrow--the day after--what matter? But when the flames have
done their work, I would fain go to God bearing with me your forgiveness.
But if this be too much to hope--why, then, Martin, I will beseech God to
pluck you forth of this place of horror and to give you back to England, to
happiness, to honour and all that I reft from you--"

"Nay, this were thing impossible!" I cried.

"There is nought impossible to God, Martin!" Here fell silence awhile and
then, "Oh, England--England!" cried he. "D'ye mind how the road winds
'twixt the hedgerows a-down hill into Lamberhurst, Martin; d'ye mind the
wonder of it all--the green meadows, the dim woods full of bird song and
fragrance--you shall see it all again one day, but as for me--ah, to
breathe just once again the sweet smell of English earth! But God's will be
done!"

For a while I sat picturing to my fancy the visions his words had conjured
up; lifting my head at last, I started up to see him so pale and still and
bending above him, saw him sleeping, placid as any child, yet with the
marks of tears upon his shrunken cheek.


CHAPTER XXIII

HOW I FOUND MY SOUL


The torment by fire, torture by water, rack and thumbscrews, pulley and
wheel, the weights, the press, the glove and the boot,--these the devices
men hath schemed out for the plaguing of his neighbour, the hellish engines
he hath troubled to invent and build for the crushing, twisting, tearing
and maiming of his fellow-man, yet of all these devilish machines nought
is there so constant, so pitiless and hard of endurance as the agony of
suspense; there is a spectre mopping and mowing at our shoulder by day and
haunting the misery of our nights; here is a disease slowly but surely
sapping hope and courage and life itself.

Howbeit it was thus I found it in the time that followed, for little by
little I became the prey of a terror that grew, until the opening of the
door would bring me to my feet in sweating panic, or the mere rattle of my
fellow-prisoner's chains fill me with shivering despair. And because of
these sick fears I felt great scorn of myself, and knowing I was in this
place of horror by my own will and contrivance, to despair and scorn was
added a bitter self-hatred. And now, remembering how Adam had vowed to
rescue Sir Richard, I prayed for his coming, at one moment full of hope,
the next in an agony of despair lest he should come too late. Thus I fell
to my black mood, speaking no word or answering my companion but by curses;
and thus would I sit for hours, sullen and morose, gnawing my knuckles and
staring on vacancy. Or again, beholding my enemy so serene, so placid and
unmoved (and his case no better than my own) I would fall to sudden bitter
revilings of him, until, meeting the gentle patience of his look, I would
fall silent for very shame.

At last, upon a night, tossing upon my wretched bed in dire torment of
soul, I chanced to espy my enemy and him sleeping; whereat I fell to fierce
anger.

"Ha, Brandon!" I cried. "Will ye sleep, man, will ye sleep and I in
torment. Wake--wake and tell me, must we die soon? Wake, I say!" At this
he raised himself to blink at me in the beam of the lanthorn. "Must we die
soon, think ye?" I demanded fiercely.

"In God's time, Martin!" said he.

"Think ye they will--torture me first?" Now here, seeing his troubled look
and how he groped for an answer, I cursed and bade him tell me, aye or no.

"Alas, I do fear it!" said he.

"We are beyond hope?" I demanded.

"Nay, there is always God," said he. "But we are beyond all human aid. This
do I know by reason of this airy dungeon and the luxury of food and light.
Fra Alexo doeth nought unreasonably; thus we have our lanthorn that we,
haply waking from dreams of home and happiness, may behold our prison walls
and know an added grief. Instead of the water-dungeon or the black terror
of cell deep-hidden from the blessed day, he hath set us in this goodly
place that we, beholding the sun, may yearn amain for the blessed freedom
of God's green world--"

"Ha!" quoth I. "And for those he dooms to the torment he sendeth rich food
and generous wine--aye, aye, I see it now--a man strong and full-blooded
may endure more agony and longer. So they will torture me--as they did
you--but when, ah, God--when?" And here I sank face down upon my bed and
lay there shuddering. And presently I was aware of my companion kneeling
beside me, his hand upon my shoulder, his gentle voice in my ear:

"Comfort ye, Martin, comfort ye, God shall give ye strength--"

"Nay, I am a coward!" I cried bitterly, "A shameful craven!"

"Yet you do not fear! You have endured! The fire hath no terrors for you!"

"Because I am old in suffering, and am done with fear, because, beyond
smoke and flame, I shall find God at last."

"Think ye there is a God?"

"I know it, Martin!"

"Yet am I coward!" I groaned. "Though 'tis not death I fear, nor the
torture so much, 'tis rather to be thus counting the hours--"

"I know," said he, sighing. "I know. 'Tis the waiting for what is to be,
ah, the weary, weary waiting--'tis this doth shake the strongest; the hour
of suffering may be now, or to-morrow, or a month hence."

"God send it be to-night!" said I fervently. "And to-night, and while I am
yet the man I am, know this; I, that lived but for vengeance, dying, do
renounce it once and for ever. I, that came hither seeking an enemy, find,
in place of hated foe, a man ennobled by his sufferings and greater than
myself. So, as long as life remains to us, let there be peace and good will
betwixt us, Sir Richard. And as you once sued forgiveness of me, now do I
sue your friendship--"

"Martin!" said he in choking voice, and then again, "Oh, Martin Conisby,
thus hath God answered my prayer and thus doth the feud betwixt Conisby and
Brandon end--"

"Yes!" said I. "Yes--so do I know at last that I have followed a vain thing
and lost all the sweetness life had to offer."

Now here, seeing me lie thus deject and forlorn, he stooped and set his
ragged arm about me.

"Grieve not, Martin," said he in strange, glad voice, "grieve not, for in
losing so much you have surely found a greater thing. Here, in this dread
place, you have found your soul."

And presently, sheltered in the frail arm of the man had been my bitter
enemy, I took comfort and fell to sweet and dreamless slumber.

Another day had dragged its weary length: Sir Richard lay asleep, I think,
and I, gloomy and sullen, lay watching the light fade beyond the grating in
the wall when; catching my breath, I started and peered up, misdoubting my
eyes, for suddenly, 'twixt the bars of this grating, furtive and silent
crept a hand that opening, let fall something white and shapeless that
struck the stone floor with a sharp, metallic sound, and vanished
stealthily as it had come. For a while I stared up at this rusty grating,
half-fearing I was going mad at last, yet when I thought to look below,
there on the floor lay the shapeless something where it had fallen. With
every nerve a-thrill I rose and creeping thither, took it up and saw it was
Adam's chart, the which had been taken from me, with all else I possessed;
this wrapped about a key and a small, sharp knife; on the back of which,
traced in a scrawling hand, I read these words, viz:

  "A key to your fetters. A knife to your release.
  Once free of your dungeon take every passage
  Bearing to the left; so shall you reach the postern.
  There one shall wait, wearing a white scarf.
  Follow him and God speed you.
  You will be visited at sunset."

To be lifted thus from blackest despair to hope's very pinnacle wrought on
me so that I was like one entranced, staring down at knife and paper and
key where they had fallen from my nerveless hold; then, catching up the
knife, I stood ecstatic to thumb over point and edge and felt myself a man
once more, calm and resolute, to defy every inquisitor in Spanish America,
and this merely by reason of the touch of this good steel, since here was
a means whereby (as a last resource) I might set myself safe beyond their
devilish torments once and for all. And now my soul went out in passionate
gratitude to Don Federigo since this (as I judged) must be of his
contrivance.

But the shadows deepening warned me that the sun had set wherefore I
slipped off my shoes as softly as possible not to disturb Sir Richard's
slumbers, and made me ready to kill or be killed.

And presently I heard the creak of bolts and, creeping in my stockinged
feet, posted myself behind the door as it opened to admit the silent,
shrouded form of a familiar bearing a lanthorn. Now, seeing he came alone,
I set the knife in my girdle and, crouched in the shadow of the door,
watched my time; for a moment he stood, seeming to watch Sir Richard who,
roused by the light, stirred and, waking, blinked fearfully at this silent
shape.

"Ah, what now?" he questioned. "Is it me ye seek?" For answer the familiar
set down the lanthorn and beckoned with his finger. Then, as Sir Richard
struggled painfully to his feet, I sprang and grappled this hateful,
muffled form ere he could cry out, had him fast by the throat, and dragging
him backwards across my knee, I choked him thus, his hoarse whistling gasps
muffled in his enveloping hood. And then Sir Richard was beside me.

"Will ye slay him, Martin?" cried he.

"Aye!" I nodded and tightened my grip.

"Nay, rather spare him because he is an enemy; thus shall your soul go
lighter henceforth, Martin."

So in the end I loosed my hold, whereupon the familiar sank to the floor
and lay, twitching feebly. Hereupon I rent off hood and robe and found him
a poor, mean creature that wept and moaned, wherefore I incontinent gagged
him with stuff from his own habit and thereafter locked him securely into
my fetters. And now, trembling with haste, I donned his habit and, catching
up the lanthorn, turned on Sir Richard:

"Come!" said I.

"Nay!" said he, wringing his fettered hands. "Nay--alas, I should but
hamper you--"

"Come!" said I, my every nerve a-tingle to be gone. "Come--I will aid
you--hurry, man--hurry!"

"Nay, 'twere vain, Martin, I can scarce walk--'twere selfish in me to let
you run such needless risks. Go, Martin, go--God bless you and bring you
safe out of this evil place."

Without more ado I tucked my shoes into my bosom, caught up the lanthorn
and hasted away.

But as I went I must needs remember the pitiful eagerness of Sir Richard's
look and the despairing gesture of those helpless, fettered hands.

Hereupon I cursed fiercely to myself and, turning about, came running back
and, finding him upon his knees, hove him to his feet and, or ever he
guessed my purpose, swung him across my shoulder and so away again, finding
him no great burden (God knows) for all his fetters that clanked now and
then despite his efforts. Presently espying a passage to my left, thither
hurried I and so in a little to another; indeed it seemed the place was a
very maze and with many evil-looking doors that shut in God only knew what
of misery and horror. So I hasted on, while my breath laboured and the
sweat ran from me; and with every clank of Sir Richard's fetters my heart
leapt with dread lest any hear, though indeed these gloomy passageways
seemed quite deserted. And ever as we went, nought was to see save these
evil doors and gloomy walls, yet I struggled on until my strength began to
fail and I reeled for very weariness, until at last I stopped and set Sir
Richard on his feet since I could carry him no further, and leaned panting
against the wall, my strength all gone and my heart full of despair, since
it seemed I had missed my way.

Suddenly, as I leaned thus, I heard the tinkle of a lute and a voice
singing, and though these sounds were dull and muffled, I judged them at no
great distance; therefore I began to creep forward, the knife ready in one
hand, the lanthorn in the other, and thus presently turning a sharp angle,
I beheld a flight of steps surmounted by a door. Creeping up to this door,
I hearkened and found the singing much nearer; trying the door, I found it
yield readily and opening it an inch or so beheld a small chamber lighted
by a hanging lamp and upon a table a pair of silver-mounted pistols;
coming to the table I took them up and found them primed and loaded. I now
beckoned Sir Richard who crept up the stairs with infinite caution lest his
fetter-chains should rattle.

The chamber wherein we stood seemed the apartment of some officer, for
across a small bed lay a cloak and plumed hat together with a silver-hilted
rapier, which last I motioned Sir Richard to take. Beyond the bed was
another door, and coming thither I heard a sound of voices and laughter,
so that I judged here was a guard-room. As I stood listening, I saw Sir
Richard standing calm and serene, the gleaming sword grasped in practised
hand and such a look of resolution on his lined face as heartened me
mightily. And now again came the tinkle of the lute and, giving a sign to
Sir Richard, I softly raised the latch and, plucking open the door, stepped
into the room behind, the pistols levelled in my hands.

Before me were five men--four at cards and a fifth fingering a lute, who
turned to gape, one and all, at my sudden appearance.

"Hold!" said I in Spanish, through the muffing folds of my hood. "Let a man
move and I shoot!" At this they sat still enough, save the man with the
lute, a small, fat fellow who grovelled on his knees; to him I beckoned.
"Bind me these fellows!" I commanded.

"No ropes here!" he stammered.

"With their belts, fool; their arms behind them--so!" Which done, I
commanded him to free Sir Richard of his gyves; whereupon the little fellow
obeyed me very expeditiously with one of the many keys that hung against
the wall. Then I gave my pistols to Sir Richard and seizing on the little,
fat man, bound him also. Hereupon I gagged them all five as well as I might
and having further secured their legs with their scarves and neckerchiefs,
I dragged them one by one into the inner chamber (the doors of which I
locked) and left them there mightily secure. Then, catching up a good,
stout sword and a cloak to cover Sir Richard's rags, I opened another door
and, having traversed a sort of anteroom, presently stepped out into the
free air.

It was a dark night; indeed I never saw Nombre de Dios any other than in
the dark, yet the stars made a glory of the heavens and I walked awhile,
my eyes upraised in a very ecstasy, clean forgetting my companion until he
spoke.

"Whither now, Martin?"

"I am directed to a postern, and one bearing a white scarf."

"The postern?" quoth Sir Richard. "I know it well, as doth many another
unhappy soul; 'tis the gate whereby suspects are conveyed secretly to the
question!"

We kept to the smaller streets and lanes, the which, being ill-lighted,
we passed without observation; thus at last, following the loom of a high
wall, very grim and forbidding, we came in sight of a small gateway beneath
a gloomy arch, where stood two shadowy figures as if on the lookout,
whereupon I stopped to reconnoitre them, loosening my sword in the
scabbard. But now one of these figures approached and, halting to peer at
us, spoke in strange, muffled tones.

"Seek ye the white scarf?" questioned the voice in Spanish.

"We do!" said I. At this the man opened the long cloak he wore and
flourished to view a white scarf.

"Aye, but there were two of you," said I. "What is come of your fellow?"

"He but goeth before, Señor." And true enough, when I looked, the other dim
form had vanished, the which I liked so little that, drawing my sword, I
clapped it to the fellow's breast.

"Look now," quoth I, "play us false and you die!"

"The Señor may rest assured!" says he, never flinching.

"Why, then, lead on!" I commanded.

Now as we followed this unknown, I had an uncanny feeling that we were
being dogged by something or some one that flitted in the darkness,
now behind us, now before us, now upon our flank, wherefore I walked
soft-treading and with my ears on the stretch. And presently our guide
brought us amid the denser gloom of trees whose leaves rustled faintly
above us and grass whispered under foot; and thus (straining my ears, as
I say) I thought to catch the sound of stealthy movement that was neither
leaf nor grass, insomuch that, shifting the sword to my left hand, I drew
forth and cocked one of the pistols. At last we came out from among the
trees and before us was the gleam of water and I saw we were upon the bank
of a stream. Here our guide paused as if unsure; but suddenly was the gleam
of a lanthorn and I heard Don Federigo's welcome voice:

"Is that Hualipa?"

Our guide moved forward and, pausing in the glare of the lanthorn, let fall
his cloak and I, beholding that pallid, impressive face, the dull eyes,
small mouth, and high thin nose, knew him for Fra Alexo, Chief Inquisitor
of Nombre de Dios. Then, lifting one hand to point slim finger at Don
Federigo, he spoke in his soft, sweet voice:

"Don Federigo, long hath Holy Church suspected thee--and Holy Church hath
many eyes--and hands. So is thy messenger dead and so I favoured the escape
of these declared heretics that through them thou mightest be taken in thy
shameful treachery. Even now come armed servants of the Church to take
again these doomed heretics and with them--thee also. Now kill me an you
will, but thine apostasy is uncovered; the Holy Inquisition hath thee safe
at last. Thy good name, thy pride of birth and place shall not shelter thee
from the avenging fire--oh, most treacherous one--"

Suddenly he choked, clapped his two hands to his throat, staring horribly;
and betwixt his fingers I saw a small, tufted thing deep-buried in his
throat. Then all at once there burst from his writhen lips an awful,
gasping scream, dreadful to hear, and then he was down, writhing and
gasping awhile, with Don Federigo and Sir Richard bending above him.

But I, well knowing what this was and remembering the unseen thing that had
tracked us, turned to the shadow of a bush hard by and thus beheld a shaggy
head that peered amid the leaves, a hairy face with wild, fierce eyes and
teeth that gleamed.

So the man John stared down at his handiwork, flourished his deadly
blowpipe and was gone.

"He is dead!" said Don Federigo. "'Tis an Indian poison I have met with ere
this--very sudden and deadly. Fra Alexo stands at the tribunal of his God!"
and baring his head, Don Federigo glanced down at the dark, contorted shape
and thence to the gloomy trees beyond, and beckoning, brought me to a boat
moored under the bank hard by.

"Señor Martino," said he, "'tis time you were gone, for if Don Alexo hath
turned out the guard--"

"Nay, sir," quoth I, "they must be some while a-coming," and I told him
briefly how we had secured the watch.

"And Fra Alexo is dead!" said he.

Here I would fain have told him something of my gratitude for the dire
risks and perils he had run on my behalf, but he caught my hands and
silenced me.

"My friend Martino," said he in his careful English, "you adventured your
life for me many times; if therefore I save yours, it is but just. And your
vengeance--is it achieved?"

"Indeed, sir," quoth Sir Richard, "achieved to the very uttermost, for he
hath carried that enemy out from the shadow of death, hath perilled his
own chances of life that I might know the joys of freedom--I that was his
bitter enemy."

"So may all enmity pass one day, I pray God," sighed Don Federigo. "And
now, as for thee, Martino my friend, vengeance such as thine is thing so
rare as maketh me to honour thy friendship and loath to lose thee, since we
shall meet no more in this life. Thus I do grieve a little, for I am an old
man, something solitary and weary, and my son, alas, is dead. This sword
was my father's and should have been his; take you it, I pray, and wear it
in memory of me." And speaking, he loosed off his sword and thrust it upon
me.

"Noble sir," said I, "dear and good friend, it doth not need this to mind
me of all your high courage and steadfast friendship--and I have nought to
offer in return--"

"I shall ever remember your strange method of vengeance!" said he. And when
we had embraced each other, I got me into the boat and aided Sir Richard in
beside me.

"Look now," warned Don Federigo as I loosed the mooring rope, "pull across
the river and be wary, for in a little the whole town will be roused upon
you. Get clear of the river as speedily as you may. And so, farewell, my
friend, and God go with you!"

For answer I waved my hand, then, betaking me to the oars, I pulled
out--into the stream farther and farther, until the stately form of Don
Federigo was merged and lost in the gloom.

Sure enough, scarcely had we come into the shadows of the opposite bank
than the silence gave place to a distant clamour, lost all at once in a
ringing of bells, a rolling of drums and a prodigious blowing of horns and
trumpets; the which set me a-sweating in despite the cool night wind, as,
chin on shoulder, I paddled slowly along, unsure of my going and very
fearful lest I run aground. In the midst of which anxieties I heard Sir
Richard's voice, calm and gentle and very comforting:

"With a will, Martin--pull! I know the river hereabouts; pull, Martin, and
trust to me!" Hereupon I bent to the oars and with no fear of being heard
above the din ashore, since every moment bells and drums and trumpets waxed
louder. Thus presently we came opposite the town, a place of shadows where
lights hovered; and seeing with what nicety Sir Richard steered, keeping
ever within the denser shadow of the tree-clad bank, I rowed amain until we
were past the raving town, and its twinkling lights were blotted out by a
sudden bend of the river.

Suddenly I saw Sir Richard stand up, peering, heard his voice quick and
commanding:

"Ship your oars!" Then came a chorus of hoarse shouts, a shock, and we were
rocking, gunwale and gunwale, with a boat where dim figures moved, crying
shrill curses. I remember letting drive at one fellow with an oar and
thereafter laying about me until the stout timber shivered in my grasp. I
remember the dull gleam of Sir Richard's darting blade and then the two
boats had drifted apart. Tossing aside my shattered oar, I found me another
and rowed until, gasping, I must needs pause awhile and so heard Sir
Richard speaking:

"Easy, Martin, easy! There lieth the blessed ocean at last; but--see!"

Resting on my oars and glancing whither he pointed, I saw a light suspended
high in air and knew this for the riding-lanthorn of a ship whose shadowy
bulk grew upon me as I gazed, hull and towering masts outlined against the
glimmer of stars and the vague light of a young moon. Hereupon I bowed my
head, despairing, for this ship lay anchored in midstream, so that no boat
might hope to pass unchallenged; thus I began to debate within me whether
or no to row ashore and abandon our boat, when Sir Richard questioned me:

"Can you sing ever a Spanish boat song, Martin?"

"No," said I, miserably. "No--"

"Why, then, I must, though mine is a very indifferent voice and rusty from
lack o' use; meantime do you get up the mast; the wind serves." Which said,
Sir Richard forthwith began to sing a Spanish song very harsh and loud,
whiles I sweated amain in panic fear; none the less I contrived to step
mast and hoist sail and, crouched on the midship thwart, watched the great
galleon as we bore down upon her.

And presently came a voice hailing us in Spanish with demand as to who and
what we were, whereat Sir Richard broke off his song to shout that we were
fishermen, the which simple answer seemed to reassure our questioner, for
we heard no more and soon the great ship was merely a vague shadow that,
fading on our vision, merged into the night and was gone.

And thus in a while, having crossed the troubled waters of the bar, I felt
the salt wind sweet and fresh on my brow like a caress, felt the free lift
and roll of the seas; and now, beholding this illimitable expanse of sky
and ocean, needs must I remember the strait prison and dire horrors whence
God had so lately delivered me, and my soul swelled within me too full of
gratitude for any words.

"Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for
ever!"

Turning, I espied Sir Richard upon his knees, one hand grasping the tiller
sailorly, the other upraised to the glimmering firmament; hereupon I knelt
also, joining him in this prayer of thanksgiving. And thus we began our
journey.


CHAPTER XXIV

OF OUR ADVENTURE AT SEA


Dawn found us standing easterly before a gentle wind with the land bearing
away upon our right, a fair and constantly changing prospect of sandy
bays, bold headlands and green uplands backed by lofty mountains blue with
distance.

And what with all the varied beauties of earth, the blue heaven, the
sparkle of sea, the soft, sweet wind, it verily seemed the late gloomy
terrors of my dungeon were no more than a nightmare until, hearing a moan,
I turned to see my companion stirring in uneasy slumber, his haggard
features contorted as by some spasm, whereupon I touched him to
wakefulness, bidding him see if we had aught aboard to eat or drink; but
he crouched motionless as one rapt in an ecstasy, staring eager-eyed from
cloudless heaven to sapphire sea and round about upon the glory of the dawn
and fell suddenly a-laughing as from pure joy and as suddenly hid his face
within his shrivelled hands.

"This--O, glory of God! This, instead of black despair!" said he in weeping
voice. "This sweet, healing wind instead of searing flame--and you, Martin,
'tis you have given all this! I dreamed me back in the hell you brought me
from! Sun and wind and sea--oh, God love thee--these be your gifts to me
that was your enemy--"

"Nay, our enmity is dead and done with--"

"Martin Conisby," said he, looking on me through his tears, "through you,
by God's grace, I know again the joy of living, and, God aiding me, you
shall yet know the like happiness an I may compass it!"

Now seeing him thus deeply moved I grew abashed and, beckoning him to take
the tiller, began to overhaul the contents of the boat's lockers and thus
found that Don Federigo had furnished us to admiration with all things
to our comfort and defence. Forthwith I set out breakfast, choosing such
things as I judged the most perishable, and we ate and drank mighty
cheerful.

But as Sir Richard sat thus in his rags, staring upon all things with
ineffable content, the bright sun showed me the hideous marks of his many
sufferings plain and manifest in his bent and twisted frame, the scars
that disfigured him and the clumsy movements of his limbs misshapen by the
torment, and moreover I noticed how, ever and anon, he would be seized of
violent tremblings and shudderings like one in an ague, insomuch that I
could scarce abide to look on him for very pity and marvelled within myself
that any man could endure so much and yet live.

"Oh friend!" said he suddenly, "'tis a wondrous world you have given back
to me; I almost grow a man again--"

Even as he uttered these brave words the shuddering took him once more, but
when I would have aided him he smiled and spake 'twixt chattering teeth:

"Never heed me, Martin--this cometh of the water-dungeons--'twill soon
pass--"

"God knoweth you have suffered over-much--"

"Yet He hath brought me forth a better man therefor, though my body
is--something the worse, 'tis true. Indeed, I am a sorry companion for a
voyage, I doubt--"

"Howbeit," said I, "last night, but for your ready wit, we had been
taken--"

"Say you so, Martin? Here is kind thought and comforting, for I began to
dread lest I prove an encumbrance to you.

"Nay, sir, never think it!" said I. "For 'tis my earnest hope to bring you
to the loving care of one who hath sought you long and patiently--"

"Is it Joan? Oh, mean you my daughter Joan? Is she in these latitudes?"

"Even so, sir. For you she hath braved a thousand horrors and evils."

And here, in answer to his eager questioning, I told him much of what I
have writ here concerning the Lady Joan, her resolute spirit and numberless
virtues, a theme whereof I never wearied. Thus, heedless of time, of thirst
or hunger, I told of the many dire perils she had encountered in her quest,
both aboard ship and on the island, to all of which Sir Richard hearkened,
his haggard gaze now on my face, now fixed yearningly on the empty
distances before us as he would fain conjure up the form of her whose noble
qualities I was describing. When at last I had made an end, he sat silent a
great while.

"I was a proud, harsh man of old," said he at last, "and a father most
ungentle--and 'tis thus she doth repay me! You and she were children
together--playfellows, Martin."

"Aye, sir, 'twas long ago."

"And in my prideful arrogance I parted you, because you were the son of my
enemy, but God hath brought you together again and His will be done. But,
Martin, if she be yet in these latitudes, where may we hope to find her?"

"At Darien, in the Gulf!"

"Darien?" said he. "Why there, Martin? 'Tis a wild country and full of
hostile Indians. I landed there once--"

So I told him how Adam had appointed a place of meeting there, showing
him also the chart Adam had drawn for my guidance, the which we fell to
studying together, whereby we judged we had roughly but some eighty leagues
to sail and a notable good sea-boat under us, and that by keeping in sight
of the Main we could not fail of fetching up with the rendezvous, always
suppose we lost not our bearings by being blown out to sea.

"Had I but quadrant and compass, Martin--"

"How, sir," said I, "can you navigate?"

"I could once," said he, with his faint smile. Hereupon I hasted to reach
these instruments from one of the lockers (since it seemed Don Federigo
had forgot nothing needful to our welfare), perceiving which, Sir Richard
straightened his bowed shoulders somewhat and his sallow cheek flushed.
"Here at last I may serve you somewhat, Martin," said he and, turning his
back to the sun, he set the instrument to his eye and began moving the
three vanes to and fro until he had the proper focus and might obtain the
sun's altitude; whereby he had presently found our present position, the
which he duly pricked upon the chart. He now showed me how, by standing out
on direct course instead of following the tortuous windings of the coast,
we could shorten our passage by very many miles. Hereupon we shaped our
course accordingly and, the wind freshening somewhat, by afternoon the high
coast had faded to a faint blur of distant mountain peaks, and by sunset we
had lost it altogether.

And so night came down on us, with a kindly wind, cool and refreshing after
the heats of the day, a night full of a palpitant, starry splendour and lit
by a young, horned moon that showed us this wide-rolling infinity of waters
and these vast spaces filled, as it seemed, with the awful majesty of God,
so that when we spake (which was seldom) it was in hushed voices. It being
my turn to sleep, I lay down, yet could not close my eyes for a while for
the wonder of the stars above, and with my gaze thus uplift, I must needs
think of my lady and wonder where she might be, with passionate prayers for
her safety; and beholding these heavenly splendours, I thought perchance
she might be viewing them also and in this thought found me great solace
and comfort. And now what must my companion do but speak of her that was
thus in my thought.

"Martin," he questioned suddenly, "do you love her?"

"Aye, I do!" said I, "mightily!"

"And she you?"

"God grant it!"

"Here," said he after some while, "here were a noble ending to the feud,
Martin?"

"Sir, 'tis ended already, once and for all."

"Aye, but," said he with a catch in his voice, "all my days I--have
yearned--for a son. More especially now--when I am old and so feeble."

"Then, sir, you shall lack no longer, if I can thus make up in some small
measure for all you have suffered--"

At this he fell silent again but in the dark his trembling hand stole down
to touch me lightly as in blessing; and so I fell asleep.

Prom this slumber I was suddenly aroused by his calling on my name and,
opening drowsy eyes, beheld (as it were) a luminous veil that blotted out
moon and stars and ocean, and, looking about, saw we lay becalmed in a
white mist.

"Martin," said Sir Richard, his face a pale oval in the dimness, "d'ye hear
aught?"

"No more than the lapping of the waves," I answered, for indeed the sea was
very calm and still.

"Nay, listen awhile, Martin, for either I'm mad or there's some one or
something crying and wailing to larboard of us, an evil sound like one in
torment. Three times the cry has reached me, yet here we lie far out to
sea. So list ye, son, and tell me if my ears do play me false, for verily
I--"

His speech died away as from somewhere amid the chill and ghostly vapour
there stole a long-drawn, wailing cry, so woful, so desolate, and so
unearthly here in this vasty solitude that I caught my breath and stared
upon this eddying mist with gaze of fearful expectancy.

"You heard it, Martin; you heard it?"

"Aye!" I nodded.

"'Tis like one cries upon the rack, Martin!"

"'Tis belike from some ship hid in the fog yonder," said I, handing him a
musket from the arms-locker.

"There was no ship to see before this fog came down on us," quoth Sir
Richard uneasily; howbeit he took the weapon, handling it so purposefully
as was great comfort to see, whereupon I took oars and began to row towards
whence I judged this awful cry had come. And presently it rose again,
dreadful to hear, a sound to freeze the blood. I heard Sir Richard cock
his piece and glanced instinctively to make sure Don Federigo's sword lay
within my reach. Three times the cry rose, ere, with weapon poised for
action, Sir Richard motioned for me to stop rowing, and glancing over my
shoulder, I saw that which loomed upon us through the mist, a dim shape
that gradually resolved itself into a large ship's boat or pinnace. Sword
in one hand and pistol in the other, I stood up and hailed lustily, yet got
no sound in reply save a strange, dull whimpering.

Having shouted repeatedly to no better purpose, I took oars again and
paddled cautiously nearer until at last, by standing on the thwart, I might
look into this strange boat and (the fog being luminous) perceived three
dark shapes dreadfully huddled and still; but as I gazed, one of these
stirred slightly, and I heard a strange, dull, thumping sound and then I
saw this for a great hound. Hereupon I cast our boathook over their gunwale
and while Sir Richard held the boats thus grappled, scrambled aboard them,
pistol in hand, and so came upon two dead men and beside them this great
dog.

And now I saw these men had died in fight and not so long since, for the
blood that fouled them and the boat was still wet, and even as I bent over
them the hound licked the face of him that lay uppermost and whined. And
men and dog alike seemed direly thin and emaciate. Now it was in my mind
to shoot the dog out of its misery, to which end I cocked my pistol,
but seeing how piteously it looked on me and crawled to lick my hand, I
resolved to carry it along with us and forthwith (and no little to-do)
presently contrived to get the creature into our boat, thereby saving both
our lives, as you shall hear.

So we cast off and I sat to watch the boat until like a phantom, it melted
into the mist and vanished away. Turning, I beheld the hound, his great
head on Sir Richard's knee, licking the hand that fondled him.

"He is pined of hunger and thirst, Martin; I will tend him whiles you
sleep. He shall be a notable good sentinel and these be very keen of
scent--the Spaniards do use them to track down poor runaway slaves withal,
but these dogs are faithful beasts and this hath been sent us, doubtless,
to some good end."


CHAPTER XXV

WE ARE DRIVEN ASHORE


And now were days of stifling heat, of baffling airs and maddening calms,
wherein we rolled helpless, until in my impatience I would betake me to the
oars in a fever of desire to reach our destination and row until the sweat
poured from me.

What with sea, wind and fierce sun we grew brown as any Indians, but Sir
Richard seemed to mend apace and to my great joy, for as time passed my
respect for him deepened and with it a kindlier feeling; for in these
long days and nights of our fellowship I grew to know how, by suffering
patiently borne, a man might come by a knowledge of himself and his fellows
and a kindly sympathy for their sins and sorrows that is (as I do think)
the truest of all wisdom.

Fain would I set down some of these heart-searching talks, but I fear lest
my narration grows over-long; suffice it that few sons ever bore tenderer
reverence and love to their father than I to this, my erstwhile enemy.

So will I now, passing over much that befell us on these treacherous seas,
as scorching calms, torrential rains and rageful winds, and how in despite
all these we held true on our course by reason of Sir Richard's sailorly
skill, I will (I say) come to a certain grey dawn and myself at the tiller
whiles Sir Richard slept and beside him the great hound that we had named
Pluto, since he had come to us from the dead.

Now presently I saw the dog stir uneasily and lift his head to sniff the
air to windward; thereafter, being on his legs, he growled in his throat,
staring ever in the one direction, and uttered a loud, deep bay, whereupon
up started Sir Richard, full of question.

"Sir, look at the dog!" said I, pointing where Pluto stood abaft the mast,
snuffing and staring to windward; seeing which, Sir Richard took the
perspective-glass and swept with it the hazy distance.

"There is wind yonder, Martin; we must reef!" said he, the glass at his
eye. So presently, whiles he steered, I shortened sail but saw his gaze
bent ever to windward. "Dogs have strange senses!" quoth he. "Take the
glass, Martin; your eyes are very keen; tell me if you see aught yonder in
the mist against the cloudbank bearing about three points." Looking whither
he directed, I made out a dim shape that loomed amid the mist.

"You see it, Martin?"

"Aye, a ship!" said I, and even as I spoke, the wind freshening, the
rain ceased, the mist thinned away, and I saw a large vessel ahead of us
standing in for the land which bore some five miles to leeward, a high,
rugged coast, very grim and forbidding.

"How is she heading, Martin?"

"Southwesterly, I make it, which should bring her close upon us mighty
soon, if the wind hold." And passing Sir Richard the glass, I sat staring
on this distant ship in no little apprehension, since I judged most vessels
that plied hereabouts could be but one of two sorts, viz: pirates or
Spaniards.

"She is a great ship, Martin, and by her cut I think Spanish."

"I had liefer she were a pirate!" said I, scowling.

"Your wish may be granted soon enough, for she is going free and much wind
astern of her."

Now whiles Sir Richard watched this oncoming vessel, I took up Don
Federigo's sword, and, struck by its beauty, began to examine it as I had
not done hitherto. And indeed a very noble weapon it was, the hilt of rare
craftsmanship, being silver cunningly inlaid with gold, long and narrow in
the blade, whereon, graven in old Spanish, I saw the legend:

TRUST IN GOD AND ME.

A most excellent weapon, quick in the hand by reason of its marvellous
poise and balance. But looking upon this, I must needs remember him that
had given it and bethinking me how he had plucked me forth from the horror
of death and worse, I raised my head to scowl again upon the oncoming ship,
and with teeth hard-set vowed within myself that no power should drag me
a living man back to the terrors of dungeon and torment. And now as I
crouched thus, scowling on the ship, the naked sword across my knees, Sir
Richard called to me:

"She is Spanish-built beyond all doubting and whoever chance to be aboard,
they've seen us," said he, setting by the glass. "Come now, let us take
counsel whether to go about, hold on, or adventure running ashore, the
which were desperate risk by the look of things--"

"Let us stand on so long as we may," quoth I, "for if the worst come, we
have always this," and reaching a pistol, I laid it on the thwart beside
me.

"Nay, Martin," said he, his hand on my shoulder, "first let us do all we
may to live, trusting in God Who hath saved and delivered us thus far. We
have arms to our defence and I can still pull trigger at a pinch, or at
extremity we may run ashore and contrive to land, though 'tis an evil coast
as you may see and I, alack! am a better traveller sitting thus than afoot.
As to dying, Martin, if it must be so, why then let us choose our own
fashion, for as Sir Richard Grenville hath it, 'better fall into the hands
of God than into the claws of Spain!"

Thus spake my companion mighty cheering, his serene blue eyes now on me,
now on the distant ship, as he held our heeling boat to the freshening
wind; hereupon, greatly comforted I grasped his hand and together we vowed
never to be taken alive. Then, seeing the ship come down on us apace, I
busied myself laying to hand such arsenal as Don Federigo had furnished us
withal, viz: four muskets with their bandoliers and two brace of pistols;
which done, I took to watching the ship again until she was so close I
might discern her lofty, crowded decks. And then, all at once, the wind
died utterly away, and left us becalmed, to my inexpressible joy. For now,
seeing the great ship roll thus helpless, I seized the oars.

"Inshore!" I cried, and began to row might and main, whereat those aboard
ship fired a gun to windward and made a waft with their ensign as much as
to bid us aboard them. But I heeding no whit, they let fly a great shot at
us that, falling short, plunged astern in a whirl of spray. Time and again
they fired such fore-chase guns as chanced to bear, but finding us out of
range, they gave over wasting more powder and I rejoiced, until suddenly I
espied that which made me gloomy enough, for 'twixt the ship and us came
a boat full of men who rowed lustily; and they being many and I one, they
began to overhaul us rapidly despite my efforts, till, panting in sweating
despair, I ceased my vain labour and made to reach for the nearest musket.

"Let be, my son!" quoth Sir Richard, on his knees in the stern sheets.
"Row, Martin, the boat rides steadier. Ha!" said he, with a little
chuckling laugh, as a bullet hummed over us. "So we must fight, after all;
well, on their own heads be it!" And as he took up and cocked a musket, I
saw his eyes were shining and his lips upcurled in grim smile. "Alas, I was
ever too forward for fight in the old days, God forgive me, but here, as I
think, is just and sufficient cause for bloodshed."

"They come on amain!" I gasped, as I swung to the heavy oars, wondering to
behold him so unconcerned and deliberate.

"Let them come, Martin!" said he, crouching in the stern sheets, "only keep
you an even stroke--so, steady it is! Aye, let them come, Martin, and God's
will be done!"

And now our pursuers began firing amain, though for the most part their
shooting was very wild; but presently, finding we made no reply, they grew
bolder, hallooing and shouting blithely and taking better aim, so that
their shot hummed ever nearer and once or twice the boat was struck. And as
I hearkened to their ribald shouting and the vicious hiss of their bullets,
fierce anger took me and I began to curse Sir Richard's delay; then came
the roar of his piece and as the smoke cleared I saw a man start up in the
bows of the pursuing boat and tossing up his arms, fall backwards upon the
rowers, thereby throwing them into clamorous confusion so that their boat
fell off and lay rolling helplessly.

"Load, Martin!" quoth Sir Richard 'twixt shut teeth. "Load as I fire--for
now by God I have 'em--see yonder!" And thrusting towards me his smoking
weapon, he caught up the next, levelled and fired again, whereupon their
shouting and confusion were redoubled.

Thus Sir Richard fired on them repeatedly and with deadly effect, judging
by their outcries, for I was too busy loading and priming to afford them
a glance, so that Sir Richard maintained as rapid a fire as possible. How
long we fought them thus I know not; indeed I remember little of the matter
save smoke and noise, Sir Richard's grim figure and the occasional hiss of
a bullet about us. Suddenly Sir Richard turned to stare up at me, wild-eyed
and trembling, as in one of his ague-fits.

"Enough, Martin!" he gasped. "God forgive me, I ha' done enough--and here's
the wind at last!"

Seeing this indeed was so, I sprang to loose out the reefs, which done, I
saw the enemy's boat lie wallowing in the trough and never so much as an
oar stirring. But beyond this was another boat hasting to their assistance
and beyond this again the ship herself, so that I joyed to feel our little
vessel bounding shore-wards. But hearing a groan, I saw Sir Richard
crouched at the tiller, his white head bowed upon his hand.

"God love me--are you hurt, sir?" I cried, scrambling towards him.

"No, Martin, no!" And then, "Ah, God forgive me," he groaned again, "I fear
I have been the death of too many of them--more than was needful."

"Nay, sir," said I, wondering. "How should this be?"

"I killed--for the joy of it, Martin."

"'Twas them or us, Sir Richard. And we may have to kill again--see yonder!"
And I pointed where the ship was crowding sail after us with intent to
cut us off ere we could make the shore--a desolation of shaggy rocks and
tree-girt heights that looked ever the more formidable; yet thither we held
our course, since it seemed the lesser of two evils.

Our boat, as I have said, was a good sailer; none the less the great ship
overhauled us until she was near enough to open on us with her fore-chase
guns again. But presently (being yet some distance from the shore) the
water began to shoal, whereupon the ship bore up lest she run aground,
and let fly her whole broadside, the which yet was short of us. In this
comparative safety we would have brought to, but seeing the second boat had
hoisted sail and was standing into these shallows after us, we perforce ran
on for the shore. Soon we were among rocks and before us a line of breakers
backed by frowning rocks, very dreadful to behold.

And now, at Sir Richard's command, I struck our sail and, taking to the
oars, began to row, marvelling at the skill with which he steered amid
these difficult waters, and both of us looking here and there for some
opening amid the breakers whereby we might gain the land.

Presently, sure enough, we espied such a place, though one none would have
attempted save poor souls in such desperate case. The air about us seemed
full of spume and the noise of mighty waters, but Sir Richard never
faltered; his eyes looked upon the death that roared about us, serene and
untroubled. And now we were amid the breakers; over my shoulder, through
whirling spray, I caught a glimpse of sandy foreshore where lay our
salvation; then, with sudden, rending crash, we struck and a great wave
engulfed us. Tossed and buffeted among this choking smother, I was whirled,
half-stunned, into shoal water and stumbling to my knees, looked back for
Sir Richard. And thus I saw the dog Pluto swimming valiantly and dragging
at something that struggled feebly, and plunged back forthwith to the good
beast's assistance, and thus together we brought Sir Richard ashore and lay
there a while, panting and no strength to move.

At last, being recovered somewhat, I raised myself to behold my companion,
his frail body shaking in an ague, his features blue and pinched. But
beholding my look, he smiled and essayed a reassuring nod.

"Thanks to you and--the dog, I am very well, Martin!" said he, 'twixt
chattering teeth. "But what of the boat; she should come ashore." Looking
about, sure enough I espied our poor craft, rolling and tossing helplessly
in the shallows hard by, and running thither, was seized of sudden despair,
for I saw her bilged and shattered beyond repair. Now as she rolled thus,
the sport of each incoming wave, I beheld something bright caught up in her
tangled gear, whereupon I contrived to scramble aboard and so found this to
be Don Federigo's rapier, the which was some small mitigation of my gloom
and put me to great hopes that I might find more useful things, as compass
or sextant, and so found a small barrico of water firm-wedged beneath a
thwart; but save for this the boat was swept bare. So having secured the
barrico (and with no small to-do) I hove it ashore and got myself after it,
and so came mighty despondent where sat Sir Richard as one deep in thought,
his gaze on the sea, his shrivelled hand upon the head of the dog Pluto
crouched beside him. "Truly we are in evil case, Martin!" quoth he, when
I had told him the result of my search. "Aye, we are in woful plight! And
this land of Darien is very mountainous and ill-travelling as I remember."

"Yet needs must we adventure it," said I gloomily.

"You must, Martin; but as for me, I bide here."

"Here?" said I, glancing around on the barren, unlovely spot. "Sir, you
talk wildly, I think; to stay here is to die."

"Aye, Martin, so soon as God shall permit."

"Surely our case is not so hopeless you despair thus soon?"

"Sit down, here beside me," said he, smiling up at me. "Come and let us
reason the matter, since 'tis reason lifteth man above the brutes."

So there, on the coast of this vast, unknown wilderness, sat we two poor
castaways, the great hound at our feet, his bright eyes looking from one to
other of us as we spake and reasoned together thus:

Sir Richard: First of all, we are destitute, Martin.

Myself; True.

Sir Richard: Therefore our food must be such game as we can contrive to
take and kill empty-handed.

Myself: This shall be my duty.

Sir Richard: Second, 'tis a perilous country by reason of wild Indians,
and we are scant of arms. Third, 'tis a country of vasty mountains, of
torrents, swamps and thickets and I am a mighty poor walker, being weak of
my leg-joints.

Myself: Then will I aid you.

Sir Richard: Fourthly, here is a journey where though one may succeed, two
cannot: full of peril and hardship for such as have a resolute spirit and
strong body, and _I_ am very weak.

Myself: Yet shall your resolute spirit sustain you.

Sir Richard: Fifthly and lastly, I am a cripple, so will I stay here,
Martin, praying God to bring you safe to your weary journey's end.

Myself: I had thought you much stronger of late.

Sir Richard: Indeed so I am, but my joints have been so oft stretched on
the rack that I cannot go far and then but slowly, alas!

There was silence awhile, each of us gazing out across the troubled waters,
yet I, for one, seeing nothing of them. Glancing presently at Sir Richard,
I saw his eyes closed, but his mouth very resolute and grim.

"And what of Joan?" I demanded. "What of your daughter?"

Now at this he started and glancing at me, his mouth of a sudden lost its
grimness and he averted his head when he answered:

"Why, Martin, 'tis for her sake I will not hamper you with my useless
body."

"So is it for her sake I will never leave you here to perish!"

"Then here," says he in a little, "here is an end to reason, Martin?"

"Aye, indeed, sir!"

"God love thee, lad!" cried he, clasping my hand. "For if 'tis reason
raiseth us 'bove the brutes 'tis unselfishness surely lifts us nigh to
God!"


CHAPTER XXVI

OUR DESPERATE SITUATION


"And now," quoth Sir Richard, "since you are bent on dragging this worn-out
carcase along to be your careful burden (for the which may God bless you
everlastingly, dear lad!) let us see what equipment Fortune hath left us
beside your sword and the water." Herewith, upon investigation we found our
worldly possessions amount to the following:

In Sir Richard's Pockets:

1 ship's biscuit (somewhat spoiled by water).
A small clasp knife.
A gunflint.

In Mine:

A length of small cord.
Adam's chart (and very limp).
9 pistol balls.

These various objects we set together before us and I for one mighty
disconsolate, for, excepting only the knife, a collection of more useless
odds and ends could not be imagined. Sir Richard, on the contrary, having
viewed each and every with his shrewd, kindly eyes, seemed in no wise cast
down, for, said he.

"We might be richer, but then we might be poorer--for here we have in this
biscuit one meal, though scant 'tis true and not over tasty. A sword and
knife for weapons and tools, a flint to make us fires, three yards of small
cord wherewith to contrive snares for small game, and though we ha' lost
our compass, we have the coast to follow by day and the stars to guide us
by night and furthermore--"

"Nine pistol balls!" quoth I gloomily.

"Hum!" said he, stroking his chin and eyeing me askance. "Having neither
weapons nor powder to project them--"

"They shall arm me arrows!"

"Aye, but will they serve?" he questioned doubtfully.

"Well enough, supposing we find aught to shoot at--"

"Never fear, in Darien are beasts and fowls a-plenty."

"Well and good, sir!" said I, gathering up the bullets, and doing so,
espied a piece of driftwood carrying many bent and rusty nails, the which
(the wood being very dry and rotten) I presently broke out and to my nine
bullets I added some dozen nails, pocketing them to the same purpose. And
now having collected our possessions (of more value to us than all the
treasures of Peru), we set forth upon our long and toilsome journey, our
gaze bent ever upon the cliffs that frowned upon our right hand, looking
for some place easy of ascent whereby we might come to the highlands above
(where we judged it easier travelling) and with Pluto stalking on before
like the dignified animal he was, looking back ever and anon as if bidding
us to follow.

And as I watched this great beast, the thought occurred to me that here was
what should save us from starvation should we come to such extremity; but
I spake nothing of this to Sir Richard who had conceived a great affection
for the dog from the first. And after some while we came to a place where
the cliff had fallen and made a sloping causeway of earth and rocks, topped
by shady trees. This we began to mount forthwith and, finding it none so
steep, I (lost in my thoughts) climbed apace, forgetful of Sir Richard in
my eagerness, until, missing him beside me, I turned to see him on hands
and knees, dragging himself painfully after me thus, whereon I hasted back
to him full of self-reproaches.

"'Tis only my legs!" he gasped, lifting agonised face. "My spirit is
willing, Martin, but alas, my poor flesh--"

"Nay--'tis I am selfish!" quoth I. "Aye, a selfish man ever, dreaming only
of my own woes!" Saying which, I raised him and, setting an arm about his
wasted form, aided him as well as I might until, seeing how he failed
despite his brave struggles, I made him sit and rest awhile, unheeding his
breathless protestations, and thus at last, by easy stages, we came to the
top of the ascent amid a grove of very tall trees, in whose pleasant shade
we paused awhile, it being now midday and very hot.

Behind us lay the ocean, before us a range of mighty mountains blue with
distance that rose, jagged peak on peak, far as eye could see, and betwixt
them and us a vast and rolling wilderness, a land of vivid sun and stark
shadow, dazzling glare on the uplands, gloom in the valleys and above swamp
and thicket and trackless forests a vapour that hung sullen and ominous
like the brooding soul of this evil country.

"Fever!" quoth Sir Richard, stabbing at the sluggish mist with bony
fingers. "Ague, the flux--death! We must travel ever by the higher levels,
Martin--and I a cripple!"

"Why, then," said I, "you shall have a staff to aid you on one side and
my arm on t'other, and shall attempt no great distance until you grow
stronger." So having found and cut a staff to serve him, we set off
together upon our long and arduous pilgrimage.

By mid-afternoon we reached a place of rocks whence bubbled a small rill
mighty pleasant to behold and vastly refreshing to our parched throats and
bodies. Here, though the day was still young and we had come (as I judged)
scarce six miles, I proposed to camp for the night, whereon Sir Richard
must needs earnestly protest he could go further an I would, but finding me
determined, he heaved a prodigious sigh and stretching himself in the cool
shadow, lay there silent awhile, yet mighty content, as I could see.

"Martin," quoth he at last, "by my reckoning we have some hundred and fifty
miles to go."

"But, sir, they will be less to-morrow!" said I, busied with my knife on
certain branches I had cut.

"And but half a ship's biscuit to our sustenance, and that spoiled."

"Why, then, throw it away; I will get us better fare!" said I, for as we
came along I had spied several of those great birds the which I knew to be
very excellent eating.

"As how, my son?" he questioned.

"With bow and arrows." At this he sat up to watch me at work and very eager
to aid me therein. "So you shall, sir," said I, and having tapered my
bow-stave sufficiently, I showed him how to trim the shafts as smooth and
true as possible with a cleft or notch at one end into which I set one of
my rusty nails, binding it there with strips from my tattered shirt; in
place of feathers I used a tuft of grass and behold! my arrow was complete,
and though a poor thing to look at yet it would answer well enough, as I
knew by experience. So we fell to our arrow-making, wherein I found Sir
Richard very quick and skilful, as I told him, the which seemed to please
him mightily.

"For," said he miserably, "I feel myself such a burden to thee, Martin,
that anything I can do to lighten thy travail be to me great comfort."

"Sir," said I, "these many years have I been a solitary man hungering for
companionship, and, in place of enemy, God hath given me a friend and one I
do love and honour. Making a good use of our means in our home and business
affairs is good economics.

Making a poor use of them is bad economics.

That is all there is to this word, whether it is our private affairs
or those of the nation that are being considered.

If we live up to our laws, and yet want and privation exist while there
is more than sufficient for all, then the fault must, be in those
laws.

Making a scapegoat of the foreigner for those conditions because he will not
buy our wheat, or use a metal that we have an overplus of, places us side
by side with the witch-burner of old. We are just as ignorant in one way,
as he was in another.

At his door who has been writing on this subject does the blame of
this universal ignorance of it belong. He takes up this plain, simple
subject, and becomes an intellectual aristocrat and a snob of exclusiveness
from that time on, and, like the aristocrat of wealth, will have nothing
further to do with the common people, cutting off all former connections
by turning out a mass of intellectual mud that, only leisure and education
can penetrate. And dear to him is the dignity of bulk, the dignity of paunch,
using, as he does, twenty words where three would do better work. The living
and the dead if his species are alike in this hunt for the "Absolutely
Pure" to puff out their little dough.

Dissecting "Co-operation," the writer of Progress and Poverty must
drag the poor remains through over 800 words - almost enough to
bury the single tax theory itself.

Co-operation means getting rid of the middleman. With organized labor it,
means keeping out all whose admittance would cause a surplus of labor among
those who have organized to prevent that as well as injustice by the
employer. But what has become of that middleman and black-balled
laborer?

One is ruined and the other is a helpless chip that is drifting into - some
State prison for forty years.

Co-operation is the savior of some, but the ruination of others, and her
plea of justifiable homicide cannot be accepted while this earth has
more than enough for her own.

Not a God-like wisdom, nor the assumption of it, is needed to either conceive
a remedy for our present troubles, or to formulate laws for its application.
Plain sense we most all have, let us use it, then, and we will have no
further use for either the bookworm or the logic chopper.

Confiscation.

I.

Running a republic under the economic laws of a monarchy must of necessity
result in producing the same conditions - great wealth for some and great
poverty for the rest. This may be a government by the people, but it
certainly is no longer a government for the people.
Heretofore individual greed has had full swing in the United States, and
naturally enough the ablest returned in possession of everything
worth grabbing.

And naturally enough, too, if a republic means a country owned by
all its people, it cannot be a republic if it is owned by only a few.

All the power of a country is bound to be in the hands of those who
own it.

If its wealth is in the hands of a few, its power is there with it.
In the hands of a few it must be, if it would be a kingdom or empire. In
the hands of all it must be, if it would be a republic. To insist on having
the personal liberty that goes with a republic, and at the same
time not to set a limit to the resources an individual can own, is
a contradiction.

A republic has economic laws that are essential to her existence. Any
others mean her destruction. And it is utterly out of the question for any
political party to improve the conditions of the people, while they use
the present economic laws as the basis of their proposed
legislation.

You must begin at the foundation. Individual greed should be made to respect
the right of others to exist, and made to conform itself to laws that are
as necessary to the life of a republic as is the ballot itself.
The ballot, in fact, has lost its power. It is the key to a house we have
lost possession of, and if we would regain possession and make the ballot
something more than a mere symbol of a thing that is dead, we have no
choice but to resort to the one process by which the resources of the
country can be returned to its people, and the blight of poverty and
pauperism that is settling down on the country and is becoming permanent
can be removed - namely, confiscation.

Man, in the beginning, seeing annihilation staring him in the face,
combined and gave us the Government of the Tribe; out of that developed the
Despotic form; out of that developed the Constitutional Monarchy, out of
which developed the Republic, the highest type of them all; and this work
of development must ever go on, if we would not lapse into former
conditions.

The founders of the republic could not have expected their work to so soon
come to the Chinese halt that has overtaken it, until we now find ourselves
floating on an ebbing sea back to the shores we thought we had
forever left behind.

The founders of the republic met the needs of their hour, and expelled the
foreigner. We have failed to meet the need of our hour in not discarding
the economic laws that were of that foreigner's bringing; the economic
laws of the monarchist and despotic forms of government, that is
making this republic a republic only in name: the economic laws of the
monarchist and despotic forms of government that has built up an aristocracy
of wealth here as they have there, that must of necessity depend here for
its existence as it does there, on the enslavement of the people. Do
not let a mere word further deceive you. The word republic means a free
people - we are slaves. For great revenue, be it of king or millionaire,
has the same magician's wand - the overladen back of the enslaved
toiler.

In the face of our boasted intelligence what an appalling sight does this
country offer to the All-seeing Eye. An abundance of everything and
people starving by the thousands. When our lawmakers in Washington learned
that the death penalty was to be inflicted on those who were convicted
of treason for trying to overthrow the established government in Hawaii,
they said it must not be done, and busied themselves to save those people's
lives.

And during all their agitation to save these men who were to suffer a
punishment that is meted out to such by all governments, thousands
of their own people were perishing for the want of something to eat
- not inhuman or hard-hearted, but simply do not see how they can
prevent it.

There is no law by which they can stop starvation. The legislator in a
monarchy knows that poverty is inseparable from that form of government
and are reconciled to it.

Our legislators are reconciled to the same conditions. They do not see the
incongruity of conforming the legislation of a republic to the economic
laws of a monarchy. They do not know what a government by the people and for
the people means. If they did, they would know that there was something
wrong when one man has $50,000,00 while another has not enough to get his
shoes cobbled: and another has 50,000 acres of land, while others must be
buried four in a grave.

And none of the political parties shows a way of escape out of this
miserable state of affairs, as a brief review of their positions will
show.

We once had the Free States and the Slave States, and these two terms were
designative of two sections into which the country was then divided on
the question of slavery. To-day we have "Free Coinage of Silver,"
"Protection," and "Free Trade."

These three terms, Free Coinage of Silver, Protection, and Free Trade, are
as truly designative of three different sections into which the country
is divided to-day on economic or industrial questions as were the terms
Free States and Slave States designative of two sections in the
past.

Thus the preponderating interest in one section is the mining of silver,
and this interest is represented by the Populist Party, who demands the
coinage of more Silver.

The preponderating interest of the second section, or East, is manufactures,
and is represented by the Republican Party, who demands protection. The
preponderating interest of the third section, or South, is
agriculture, and is represented by the Democratic Party, who demands
free trade.

This is substantially correct, although the Populists seem to be
as strong in the agricultural South as in the silver-producing West.

The Populist Party, indeed, originated among, the agriculturists of the South,
and was the outgrowth of discontent among the farmers; and in saying
that Populism has its stronghold in the West, or silver-producing section,
we simply mean that the farmers' organization has been captured
by the silver interest.

They seem to think that their own prosperity is linked with that of the
silver producers, and that the free coinage of silver means the salvation
of both.

With this political manoeuvering, however, we have nothing to do. There
are three political parties in the field, each with the preponderating
interest of some section in charge, which it is bound to see through
regardless of the interests of the other two.

The industrial rivalry that is going on throughout the whole world has entered
these United States, and each of the three different sections are struggling
to obtain legislation favorable to itself, with the same indifference to
the interests of the others that is shown by France to England or by England
to the United States.

Even the naked savage has found that it is a good thing to have something
to sell, and our agriculturists are brought into competition with territory
the New World over where a plow or harvester was unknown ten years ago;
instead of having a monopoly in the European markets, as was the case
a few years ago, where they could dispose of their surplus, they are now
compelled to feed it to their hogs, which, as a source of profit, ranks
even now with the thing they are fed on.

But we are not depending on foreign markets for enough to eat and
wear.

Those things are here, not there. We may have lost the foreigner as a
customer, but what prevents us from eating that which he refuses to buy.

We look back a hundred or more years, and cry out in horror at the inhumanity
of those then in power, in allowing human beings to be burned alive and
living creatures to be torn to pieces on the rack. Those who will look back
to these times will be no less astounded at the inhumanity and
imbecility of those now in power in allowing starvation while food
is actually rotting for the want of consumers.

The question, then, is, can we not formulate a policy that will work
harmoniously throughout the whole country for the benefit of all sections
and every individual?

Can we not find some way out of the swamp into which the masterful greed
of a few and the dense stupidity of their legislative tools have
mired us?

If we cannot, then let us submit, with the best grace possible to our
masters who know how to lay on the lash when their dividends are at stake.

The resources of the United States have hardly been touched upon; but in
less than a hundred years individual greed has done its work, and the people
are bankrupt. They have been legislated out of everything, and the one
function of our government, as at present conducted, is to see that this
legislation is enforced. Yes, it is beyond the reach of contradiction
that this government, that was founded in the interests of All, has
degenerated into a merciless taskmaster, ever ready to beat into
submission the slaves of the country, when their few owners give the word.

But this treatment should be expected.

It goes with ownership.

Give me the ownership of men, and all else goes with the title -
how I shall clothe, feed, and lodge them, and how I shall keep them
on the grind.

Of course, the wise ones will say, Was it not our own chosen representatives
who made all those laws that gave our resources and the people
themselves over to the favored few, and must not we, the principals,
grin and bear it, and live up to whatever contracts those
representatives, our agents, made in our name?

It is not, however, how we were despoiled, but how we are to recover the
plunder, that is interesting us just now. Is there a way out of the night
of despair? is the question that should be met, and, if possible, answered.
Finding a way out of a difficulty is one thing, however, and having the
courage to take it is another. Modern surgery has discovered much, but
without the courage to use the knife mankind would not have been the
gainer. The prayer meeting has its uses, but those who expect to obtain
political or industrial deliverance in that quarter can set out their
rain-gauges and go there; but those who know the nature of the fellow who
has been grabbing all in sight will make him let go in the old-time
way by using a force superior to his own - a force that he will
feel when it comes down, supposing the power to feel is left in him.

We have no hatred of the rich - nor love of the poor, for that matter.
They are both fishers for gain, and one gets it, and the other don't; but
his basket is just as large. But we are a lover of justice, and if one is
too much for the other would handicap him, and thereby make the struggle
for existence more even for both. The weakling, will always be a weakling,
whatever laws are passed for his benefit, and the drudgery of the world
will ever be his portion; from it he can never escape, but he is entitled
to his life, and if the able denies him, what is necessary to it, then
Justice must step in and take his part.

Volumes could be padded in showing how this can be done, but we can
demonstrate in this brief work how poverty can be obliterated as a feature
of our national life, and if it does not make justice more even-handed for
all, and the people of this country as prosperous as any on earth, then
the fault must be in the plan itself, and not in the resources
which we possess, for of those we have enough to empty every poorhouse
in the land, and eighty-five per cent. of the jails and
penitentiaries.

Let our wrongs be righted without physical force, by all means. History,
however, has no encouragement for such a hope. The contentions with those
on top have ever been of the blood-red order. Power once obtained has
never been surrendered only through conquest. The ballot should do much,
and had it been in use in the past history might have had less of blood in
it, as it should have less of it in the future.

But the ballot for a long number of years has, like a great many stomachs of
late, been working on wind - the wind of the Protectionist, the wind
of the Free Trader, and the wind of the latest cure-all, the fellow who
is hunting a market for his silver.

If something substantial to work on is not soon given to this man with the
ballot, he will drop it - and then let the blame of it rest with the
fools and rascals who have been deluding him so long.

The average man makes a better soldier than he does a voter. He can get the
range of an object easier than he can comprehend an economic truth -
this one, for instance: If the capitalists have obtained possession of
the money issued in the past, what is to prevent them from getting
possession of all that will be issued in the future? His answer will be to
issue more. He has been told so by his political mentor.

When the man with the ballot loses confidence in this mentor, he will
start a game of his own, and then the jig will be up with that
idiot.

We use the word idiot advisedly here. When a tax was assessed against
the incomes of the rich, this driveler would score a point gained in
favor of the people.
This claim of itself shows the institution to which he should be
consigned.

Victoria, Empress and Queen, rules a country where, pauperism is steadily
on the increase, and the potter's field received the bodies of eighty of
her subjects that were frozen to death in London in four days of January
last. Yet the rich have been paying an income tax in that country for
generations past.

When the rich merchant, or rich anything else, insures what he is dealing
in, he adds the cost of his policy to the thing he sells. The income
tax is but another premium, and he tags that on where he pinned the other.
The laborer has always paid the expenses of the rich, and always will.
The laborer can never dictate terms to the rich. The labor leaders even
have come to recognize the hopelessness of the unequal contest. The
power of the rich to do as they like can never be destroyed while
they are allowed to retain the riches that gives them this power.

A readjustment and a limit set to the amount an individual can own is
the only remedy. And the sooner that unassailable truth is recognized
and acted upon, the sooner will you get rid of the lobbiest and
the pauper.

II.

We need more money per capita: say some more would-be leaders, who have
found the only way out of the land of bondage. Increase the currency
to $50 per capita, and business and prosperity will once more fill
the land. Money has become scarcer, they continue, and therefore
dearer.
Those who contracted monetary obligations last week find that they
are now paying more for the use of that money than it was worth
when the debt was made.
This is a hardship on the borrower, and can be prevented by increasing
the amount of money in circulation.
This is the very essence of what is claimed by those who are for
increasing the volume of money in circulation. Money has changed
in value, and those who are mortgaged, or otherwise under interest-paying
obligations, have found that money is scarcer, in this instance
through contraction	of the currency, and therefore harder to get.And thus we beheld six men
approaching and one a horseman; nearer they came until we could see them
sweating beneath their armour and the weapons they bore, and driving before
them a poor, blood-stained wretch tied to the horseman's stirrup, yet who,
despite wounds and blows, strode with head proudly erect, heeding them no
whit. Yet suddenly he stumbled and fell, whereupon the horseman swore again
and the captive was kicked to his feet and so was dragged on again, reeling
for very weariness; and I saw this poor creature was an Indian.

"Martin," said Sir Richard, when this sorry cavalcade was gone by, "it
would, I think, be action commendable to endeavour rescue of this poor
soul."

"It would, sir!" quoth I. "And a foolhardy."

"Mayhap," said he, "yet am I minded to adventure it"

"How, sir--with one sword and a knife?"

"Nay, Martin, by God's aid, strategy and a dog. Come then, let us follow;
they cannot go far, and I heard them talk of camping hereabouts. Softly,
lad!"

"But, sir," said I, amazed at this audacity, "will you outface five lusty
men well-armed?"

"And wherefore not, Martin? Is the outfacing of five rogues any greater
matter than outfacing this God's wilderness? Nay, I am not mad," said he,
meeting my glance with a smile, "there were times when I adventured greater
odds than this and to worse end, God forgive me! Alas, I have wrought so
much of evil in the past I would fain offset it with a little good, so bear
with me, dear lad--"

"Yet this man you risk your life for is but a stranger and an Indian at
that!"

"And what then, Martin? Cannot an Indian suffer--cannot he die?" Here,
finding me silent, he continued. "Moreover, there be very cogent reasons do
urge a little risk, for look now, these rogues do go well shod--and see our
poor shoes! They bear equipment very necessary to us that have so far to go
and their horse should be useful to us. Nor dream I would lightly hazard
your life, Martin, for these men have been drinking, will drink more and
should therefore sleep sound, and I have a plan whereby Pluto and I--"

"Sir Richard," said I, "where you go, I go!"

"Why, very well, Martin, 'twere like you--but you shall be subject to my
guidance and do nought without my word."

As he spoke, his eyes quick and alert, his face grimly purposeful, there
was about him that indefinable air of authority I had noticed more than
once. Thus, with no better weapons than his staff and knife, and my sword,
bow and poor arrows, we held on after these five Spanish soldiers, Sir
Richard nothing daunted by this disparity of power but rather the more
determined and mighty cheerful by his looks, but myself full of doubts
and misgiving. Perceiving which, he presently stopped to slap me on the
shoulder:

"Martin," said he, "if things go as I think, we shall this night be very
well off for equipment and all without a blow, which is good, and save a
life, which is better!"

"Aye, but, sir, how if things go contrary-wise?"

"Why, then, sure a quick death is better than to perish miserably by the
way, for we have cruel going before us, thirsty deserts and barren wilds
where game is scarce; better steel or bullet than to die raving with thirst
or slow starvation--how say ye, lad?"

"Lead on!" quoth I and tightened my belt.

"Ha!" said he, halting suddenly as arose a sudden crack of twigs and
underbrush some distance on our front. "They have turned in to the
water--let us sit here and watch for their camp fire." And presently, sure
enough, we saw a red glow through the underbrush ahead that grew ever
brighter as the shadows deepened; and so came the night.

How long we waited thus, our eyes turned ever towards this red fire-glow, I
know not, but at last I felt Sir Richard touch me and heard his voice in my
ear:

"Let us advance until we have 'em in better view!" Forthwith we stole
forward, Sir Richard's grasp on Pluto's collar and hushing him to silence,
until we were nigh enough to catch the sound of their voices very loud and
distinct. Here we paused again and so passed another period of patient
waiting wherein we heard them begin to grow merry, to judge by their
laughter and singing, a lewd clamour very strange and out of place in these
wild solitudes, under cover of which uproar we crept upon them nearer and
nearer until we might see them sprawled about the fire, their muskets piled
against a tree, their miserable captive lashed fast to another and drooping
in his bonds like one sleeping or a-swoon. So lay we watching and waiting
while their carouse waxed to a riot and waned anon to sleepy talk and
drowsy murmurs and at last to a lusty snoring. And after some wait, Sir
Richard's hand ever upon Pluto's collar, we crept forward again until we
were drawn close upon that tree where stood the muskets. Then up rose Sir
Richard, letting slip the dog and we were upon them, all three of us, our
roars and shouts mingled with the fierce raving of the great hound. At the
which hellish clamour, these poor rogues waked in sudden panic to behold
the dog snapping and snarling about them and ourselves covering them with
their own weapons, and never a thought among them but to supplicate our
mercy; the which they did forthwith upon their knees and with upraised
hands. Hereupon Sir Richard, scowling mighty fierce, bid such of them as
loved life to be gone, whereat in the utmost haste and as one man, up
started they all five and took themselves off with such impetuous celerity
that we stood alone and masters of all their gear in less time than it
taketh me to write down.

"Well, Martin," said Sir Richard, grim-smiling, "'twas none so desperate a
business after all! Come now, let us minister to this poor prisoner."

We found him in sorry plight and having freed him of his bonds I fetched
water from the brook near by and together we did what we might to his
comfort, all of the which he suffered and never a word: which done, we
supped heartily all three on the spoil we had taken. Only once did the
Indian speak, and in broken Spanish, to know who we were.

"Content you, we are no Spaniards!" answered Sir Richard, setting a cloak
about him as he lay.

"Truly this do I see, my father!" he murmured, and so fell asleep, the
which so excellent example I bade Sir Richard follow and this after some
demur, he agreed to (though first he must needs help me collect sticks for
the fire), then commanding me wake him in two hours without fail, he rolled
himself in one of the cloaks and very presently fell soundly asleep like
the hardy old campaigner he was.

And now, the fire blazing cheerily, Pluto outstretched beside me, one
bright eye opening ever and anon, and a pistol in my belt, I took careful
stock of our new-come-by possessions and found them to comprise the
following, viz:

  3 muskets with powder and shot a-plenty.
  2 brace of pistols.
  3 swords, with belts, hangers, etc.
  3 steel backs and breasts.
  4 morions.
  1 beaver hat excellent wide in the brim, should do for Sir
  Richard; he suffering much by the sun despite the hat of leaves
  I had made him.
  1 axe heavy and something blunted.
  2 excellent knives,
  2 wine skins, both empty.
  3 flasks, the same.
  Good store of meat with cakes of very excellent bread of cassava.
  1 horse with furniture for same,
  5 cloaks, something worn.
  3 pair of boots, very serviceable.
  1 tinder box.
  1 coat.

One brass compass in the pocket of same and of more value to us, I thought,
than all the rest, the which pleased me mightily; so that for a long time I
sat moving it to and fro to watch the swing of the needle and so at last,
what with the crackle of the fire and the brooding stillness beyond and
around us, I presently fell a-nodding and in a little (faithless sentinel
that I was) to heavy slumber.


CHAPTER XXVIII

WE FALL IN WITH ONE ATLAMATZIN, AN INDIAN CHIEF


I waked to a scream, a fierce trampling, an awful snarling, this drowned in
the roar of a gun, and started up to see a glitter of darting steel that
Sir Richard sought to parry with his smoking weapon. Then I was up, and,
sword in hand, leapt towards his assailant, a tall, bearded man whose
corselet flashed red in the fire-glow and who turned to meet my onset,
shouting fiercely. And so we fell to it point and point; pushing
desperately at each other in the half-light and raving pandemonium about us
until more by good fortune than skill I ran him in the arm and shoulder,
whereupon, gasping out hoarse maledictions, he incontinent made off into
the dark. Then turned I to find myself alone; even the Indian had vanished,
though from the darkness near at hand was a sound of fierce strife and a
ringing shot. Catching up a musket I turned thitherward, but scarce had I
gone a step than into the light of the fire limped Sir Richard and Pluto
beside him, who licked and licked at his great muzzle as he came.

"Oh, Martin!" gasped Sir Richard, leaning on his musket and bowing his
head, "oh, Martin--but for Pluto here--" And now, as he paused, I saw the
dog's fangs and tongue horribly discoloured.

"'Tis all my fault!" said I bitterly. "I fell asleep at my post!"

"Aye!" he groaned, "whereby are two men dead and one by my hand, God
forgive me!"

"Nay, but these were enemies bent on our murder!"

"Had they seen you wakeful and vigilant they had never dared attack us.
As it is, I have another life on my conscience and I am an old man and
soul-weary of strife and bloodshed, yet this it seems is my destiny!"

[Illustration: LIVINGSTONE HALL.

A gift mainly from Mrs. Valeria G. Stone.]
THERE HAS BEEN ROMANCE IN ALL ITS LIFE. Never for a year has the hard work,
the distasteful drudgery, the, at the time, apparently fruitless toil
been undertaken on the basis of cold calculating judgment; from its birth
to the present hour, ideals that to most men would have seemed dreams
and wild fancies, have animated the leaders of this enterprise--such ideals
as have underlain the world's greatest achievements and have given heart
to the world's victors.

[Illustration: FISK MEMORIAL CHAPEL.

Erected with the bequest of Gen. Fisk. Seats 1,000.]
WISDOM AND PAINSTAKING ATTENTION to the material interests of the
University, that have challenged the admiration of those who have
watched its growth, have been coupled with all this romance.

The ideal has been made actual. This has not been due to one man, nor one
sex, nor one race. For a quarter of a century and more, have men and women,
white and black, worked with an unanimity rarely equaled, with patience
and self-sacrifice. As the outcome there is

FISK OF TO-DAY.

The building of Jubilee Hall set the pace for the progress of the
institution. Thorough workmanship, good taste and belief in a large future,
have prevented the erection of buildings which could be used only a
short time and must be replaced by structures adapted to the work. Eight
substantial buildings afford the facilities now needed and are so
grouped that in the near future the Central and Music Halls can
be erected, to complete the general plan.

Already the large enrolment of pupils, coming, as they do, from more than a
score of the states of our Union, is making the proposed buildings a necessity
and affording other givers the opportunity to bless humanity that has been
so handsomely met by those large-minded donors who have built the structures
already erected.

[Illustration: THEOLOGICAL HALL.

Builded mainly by the A. M. A., a band of Jubilee Singers assisting.]
[Illustration: THE 1899 FOOTBALL TEAM.]
THE EVERY-DAY LIFE OF THE UNIVERSITY is first of all religious. With no cant,
with the avoidance of undue emotion, with a constant appeal to Christian
manhood and womanhood, men and women loyal to Jesus, seeking less
their rights than to faithfully perform their duties, are being
reared.

For nine months in a year the faculty of Fisk, like those who in large cities
man college settlements, day and night seek in every way and by all
means to arouse and perpetuate the highest Christian ideals. Added to
these are intellectual training, musical culture and a spirit of true
gentility. The student body honors scholarship, awakens ambitions, cultivates
good manners, frowns upon untidyness of appearance, while by firmly sustained
legislation the faculty forbids any display of extravagance in attire.
Patches and darns are expected; soiled or neglected garments the
school will not permit.

In a word, what one would expect to find in a Caucasian institution, composed
of pupils of moderate means, with high ideals and gentle manners, are
found at Fisk. The choicest of the recently emancipated race are here
seeking a training. As always and everywhere, none reach the highest
ideal.
Some are found who fail to aspire to it; a few are intractable, but
to one who recalls the life of the race and the treatment it has
received before and since it was freed, life at Fisk is a constant
miracle.

[Illustration: INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AND GYMNASIUM.

Erected through a legacy by Mr. Howard, of Nashville, and gift of Dr. A. J.
Burrell, of Oberlin, O.]
[Illustration: "AS GOOD AS NEW."]

THE FISK IDEA is an expression often on the lips of its alumni. It
may be summed up in this: The rudiments of learning for all, manual training
for those that are adapted to it and will use it in their after life, the
best of culture for those who are capable of receiving and employing
it.

In a word, capacity not color, Christianity not caste, is to decide the
question as to the kind of education a youth is to receive, whether he dwell
in the North or South, whether he be an Ethiopian or an Anglo-Saxon.
Exceeding few in comparison with the vast multitude of their race will be
those who receive their diploma at Fisk; but they are to be the leaders
of a people sorely needing leadership. And Fisk's determination to rear
such leaders is an abiding protest against the spirit which denies to
any human being a chance, and a declaration that the Church, like its
divine Master, is to minister especially to those who most need help.

FISK PRODUCTS are the test of its work. Each year it publishes to the
world its list of graduates, and over against each name what he is doing
for the world. It does not hesitate to compare this list with a like catalogue
of any institution with equipment equal to its own. It has faith to believe
that the demon of prejudice will not always hold its flaming sword to bar
true manhood deserving success at the threshold of life. It would do its
part to overcome this demon by producing self-respecting manhood,
which in the eyes of all true men commands respect.

FISK'S NEEDS are great. It needs such an endowment as shall enable it to
decline help from that truest foster mother--the A. M. A. Its chairs
professorial and for instructors should be placed upon a permanent footing.
In no other way can its fine plant be utilized.
If Northern institutions of learning must rely upon endowments to pay from
two-thirds to three-quarters of the cost of educating their students, certainly
an institution educating the youth of a race scarcely forty years out of
the house of bondage, and hence poor beyond all expression, needs vastly
more the income of an endowment to supplement the meagre tuitions
which its pupils pay.

Here is an opportunity for the man of large means to bestow a princely gift,
while the man of slender means none the less can invest in the same
undertaking.

The man or men who shall thus endow Fisk, will have ever the favor of Him
who has declared Himself the friend of the poor and needy.

[Illustration: DANIEL HAND MODEL SCHOOL.

Erected by the A. M.

A. with money from the income of the Daniel Hand bequest.]
Fisk's greatest need is an answer to the prayer of God's people for that
constant indwelling of the divine Spirit which shall keep in stout
heart those who, with personal self-sacrifice, are doing its work

.

* * * * *
CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHOE INDIANS.

REV. W. M. WELLMAN, OKLAHOMA.

Christian work among the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians of Oklahoma was first
entered upon some ten years ago.

It was begun by two Christian Indians who labored with their own
people until they were discouraged and the work well-nigh died.

Afterwards several young men, one after another, came into the field, but
though they were individually earnest, their work did not make much impression.
They procured tables, chairs and reading matter and fitted up a room, but
nine out of ten of those to whom they were sent could neither read nor write,
and of course did not seem to be greatly drawn to current literature.
In 1893, however, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Woodward took charge, and did
most excellent service, remaining almost a year until they left
to become missionaries in India.

[Illustration: (1) MISSION, DARLINGTON, OKLAHOMA.]
[Illustration: (2) MR.

AND MRS. WELLMAN AND INDIAN WOMAN AND CHILD.]

Up to this time, for lack of funds and steady workers, the work had been but
poorly organized, and though the men who had been leading were wise, earnest
and true, yet as a force for permanent good, it was somewhat in question.

In 1895 Rev. R. H. Harper, coming to take charge, found, he says, one cheap
two-room cottage, one pony, an old wagon and harness and besides these a
table and a few chairs. He knew that unless more buildings could be procured,
the work would amount to nothing.

Upon request, the Interior Department set aside two acres of land near
the government school for the use of the mission.

The Church-Building Society has at different times extended generous help,
as a result of which the mission finally secured a beautiful chapel,
with rooms and apartments above and below. Mr. Harper did much excellent
service throughout his stay, until 1897, when, his wife's health
giving way, he was compelled to leave the field.

[Illustration: ON THE ROAD.]
I succeeded him at once, and the work went forward, apparently without
abatement. I organized the work at the two government schools carefully,
and instituted evangelistic work in both. This phase of the work was so
successful that on the following Easter, 37 Indian young people gave their
hearts to God and were baptized, and on Children's Day, in June following,
29 others came in the same way.

A fervent religious interest prevailed in both of the government schools,
so that, at Christmas time, 35 others came into the Church on an intelligent
confession of faith. This most blessed work could not be kept within the
narrow bounds of the schoolroom.
It spread to the camp and field. The parents came to me to learn, and I
had many requests to go to them and tell them about Jesus, till in at least
two places, 18 and 20 miles distant from the Agency, the camp Indians
have asked to have a church organized and a house built.

On Easter Sunday, 1898, the climax was reached, so far as numbers were
concerned, when 67 young people, from ten to twenty-six years of age, from
both tribes, gave themselves to Christ, and presented themselves
for baptism.

The interest is still general though somewhat abated in intensity.

Several times in the last few months have smaller numbers united with the
Church.

[Illustration: IN CAMP.]

A few weeks ago I returned to my work from the East, where dear friends
showed me every courtesy and sympathy possible, and while at the
Mohonk Conference of Indian Workers I met many whose hearts and
purses were open to pray for and help the helpless and abused red
man.

During my visit East I found a general interest and sympathy from
churches and individuals, and money was put into my hands sufficient
to add two or three warm rooms to our parsonage, which we have
vacated and turned over to the sick and distressed Indians for a
hospital.

With the rooms we have just added--work is now going on--this parsonage
hospital has one kitchen, one general work-room, two rooms sufficient
for four beds, a room for reading and study, a laundry or general
purpose room, and a bathroom; this latter, however, we cannot finish
at present for lack of money to provide water facilities.

Chairs and tables will be put in, and bead and embroidery work, done in both
silk and worsted, will be persistently encouraged, so far as funds
will allow.

There is attached to the mission a free medical dispensary, to which a great
many come. It is, however, only intended to be supplemental to the general
medical work under the direction of the stationed Government physician,
who is not only a thoroughly trained and competent physician, but
a careful and painstaking one as well.

A great many questions mingled with doubt are frequently asked us,
by those who look upon the Indian more as a curiosity than a human
being, or as a painted entity watching for an opportunity to wreak
vengeance on the white man.

"Do you really think these young people and camp Indians understand
what they are doing," etc., etc.

[Illustration: IN WINTER QUARTERS.]
I say, "We certainly do, when a boy or girl, or a young man or woman, no
matter what color the skin may be, comes to us of his own will, and says,
'I want to have a good heart and love Jesus and want to be a Christian,'
and then in the presence of both white and red scoffers, is baptized and
unites with the Church, and lives a consistent and prayerful life, I have
no reason or no right to doubt."

A few months ago there walked into the church, just as service had begun
one Sunday morning, eleven fine-looking Arapahoe Indians.

They were not richly attired, but they were clean. Only one could even
partially understand my words, but they were quiet and attentive. After
service they lingered. I said, addressing the leader, "Coyote, what do
you want?" "We Indians come 20 miles, want to talk about Jesus. We hear
you talk some days back, down on Big River. You say, God love Indian
just the same He love white man.
You say, Jesus came to help Indian be good just the same as white man. Indian
want good heart, to know how to love squaw and children.
Indian love Jesus and Indian give Jesus heart and brain and hand
and feet."

"Well," I said, "let us pray and ask God." We knelt. I prayed, Coyote prayed,
and, with some hesitation, they all, in turn, prayed fervently. I have no
doubt they understood, although I have not taken them into the Church
yet.

A few weeks ago an old Indian woman with gray hair came into the church.
She could not talk much, but in their sign language I asked, "Are you a
Christian?" "Yes, yes," she replied; "I could not live if Jesus leave
me," and then making the sign as if washing on a wash-board, and the sign
for spirit (soul), pointing to my white cuff--Jesus has washed my soul
white--do they not understand? Can we, dare we, turn one of these, His little
ones, away?

* * * * *
SOUTHERN FIELD NOTES.

BY REV. GEORGE W. MOORE.

Quite a number of students and graduates of our A. M. A. schools are
in business and professional life in northern and western cities, as
well as in the South. A growing number of colored youth from the North
attend our Southern institutions.

Thus Dr. Dubois, the noted negro scholar and writer, came from Massachusetts
to Tennessee to take his college training at Fisk University. But it is of
the Southern field, as I have seen it during the last six weeks, that I
wish to speak.

Our Chandler Institute at Lexington, Ky., is filled with earnest students,
under the direction of Miss Fanny J. Webster and her associates. Every year
well-trained young people go out from this school to their life-work.
During a gospel meeting recently held with the Lexington Church, more
than fifty of the pupils of Chandler School avowed their faith in Christ.

The church is built upon the site of an old slave-pen, the key of which
is preserved as a relic of those dark days.

The neat chapel now stands as a symbol of light and truth to the people.
The pastor, Rev. W. L. Johnson, is a graduate of Fisk, and his wife is from
Le Moyne Institute. She has taught in our service at Memphis and Mobile.

Some of the most representative and influential citizens are members of
our Lexington Church, among whom are the two leading physicians, the
supervising principal and several teachers of the public schools.

A directory of the negro in business reports: four physicians, two dentists,
two lawyers, an editor, two undertaking establishments, several groceries,
a drug store and other business enterprises, besides mechanics, farmers,
etc. They support a home for orphans, and maintain a number of benevolent
organizations.

The colored people of Lexington hold an Annual Fair at the State Fair
Grounds, which is a most attractive feature of Kentucky life.
During the week of the Fair the city is crowded, and the daily attendance
numbers thousands of the best people of both races.

The Negro Fair Association is entirely under the management of colored
men, and has a paid-up capital of several thousand dollars.

The thrift and intelligence of the colored people can be seen by the
large number of neat and well-appointed homes owned by them.

Plymouth Church, at Louisville, is making hopeful progress under the
ministry of Rev. E. G. Harris. Among the members of this church are three
teachers of the Colored High School, who are Fisk graduates.

The president of the Christian Endeavor is Dr. Whipple, a physician of note,
and the superintendent of the Sunday-school is Professor Perry,
the principal of a large public school of over a thousand pupils.

Some of the most active workers are mechanics and people in humble life.

Rev. Gilbert Walton was present at one of our meetings and gave an interesting
address on the work among the people of the mountains of Kentucky and
Tennessee.

The colored people of Louisville are also making encouraging, material
progress. Dr. Whedbee and other colored physicians have opened a
medical school under the auspices of the Colored State College.
They have also opened a free sanitarium in the central part of the
city, which is supported by the colored people.Amongst all of which Sir
Richard began searching and had his patience rewarded, for presently he
came on that he desired; viz: a travelling writing case with pens, paper,
and a sealed bottle of ink, though why he should want such was beyond me,
as I told him, whereat he did but smile, nothing speaking.

So back we came and unloosed our dog (and he mighty rejoiced to see us)
whereafter, by Atlamatzin's command, we were lodged in a chamber very
sumptuous and with servants observant to our every want; for our meals were
dishes a-plenty, savoury and excellent well cooked and seasoned, and for
our drink was milk, or water cunningly flavoured with fruits, as good as
any wine, to my thinking. And cups and platters, nay, the very pots, were
all of pure gold.

This night, having bathed me in a small bathhouse adjacent and very
luxurious, I get me to bed early (which was no more than a mat) but Sir
Richard, seated upon the floor hard by (for of chairs there were none),
Sir Richard, I say, must needs fall to with pen and ink, the great hound
drowsing beside him, so that, lulled by the soft scratching of his busy
quill, I presently slumbered also.

Next morning I awoke late to find Sir Richard squatted where he had sat
last night, but this time, instead of writing case, across his knees lay a
musket, and he was busied in setting a flint to the lock.

"Why, sir--what now?" I questioned.

"A musket, lad, and fifty-and-five others in the corner yonder and all
serviceable, which is well."

Now as I stared at him, his bowed figure and long white hair, there was
about him (despite his benevolent expression) a certain grim, fighting look
that set me wondering; moreover, upon the air I heard a stir that seemed
all about us, a faint yet ominous clamour.

"Sir," quoth I, getting to my feet, "what's to do?"

"Battle, Martin!" said he, testing the musket's action.

"Ha!" cried I, catching up my sword. "Are we beset?"

"By an army of Spaniards and hostile Indians, Martin. In the night came
Atlamatzin to say news had come of Indians from the West, ancient enemies
of this people, led on by Spanish soldiers, cavalry and arquebuseros, and
bidding us fly and save ourselves before the battle joined. But you were
asleep, Martin, and besides, it seemed ill in us, that had eaten their
bread, to fly and leave this poor folk to death--and worse--"

"True enough, sir," said I, buckling my weapons about me, "but do you dream
that we, you and I, can hinder such?"

"'Twere at least commendable in us to so endeavour, Martin. Nor is it thing
so impossible, having regard to these fifty-and-five muskets and the brass
cannon, seeing there is powder and shot abundant."

"How then--must we stay and fight?" I demanded. And beholding the grim set
of his mouth and chin, at such odds with his white hair and gentle eyes, I
knew that it must be so indeed.

"'Twas so I thought, Martin," said he a little humbly, and laying his hands
upon my shoulders, "but only for myself, dear lad, I fight better than I
walk, so will I stay and make this my cumbersome body of some little use,
perchance; but as for thee, dear and loved lad, I would have you haste
on--"

"Enough, sir," quoth I, catching his hands in mine, "if you must stay to
fight, so do I."

"Tush, Martin!" said he, mighty earnest. "Be reasonable! Atlamatzin hath
vowed, supposing we beat off our assailants, to provide me bearers and
a litter, so shall I travel at mine ease and overtake you very soon;
wherefore, I bid you go--for her sake!"

But finding me no whit moved by this or any other reason he could invent,
he alternate frowned and sighed, and thereafter, slipping his arm in mine,
brought me forth to show me such dispositions as he had caused to be made
for the defence. Thus came we out upon the highest terrace, Pluto at our
heels, and found divers of the Indians labouring amain to fill and set up
baskets of loose earth after the manner of fascines, and showed me where he
had caused them to plant our cannon where it might sweep that stair I have
mentioned, and well screened from the enemy's observation and sheltered
from his fire. And hard beside the gun stood barrels of musket balls, and
round-shot piled very orderly, and beyond these, powder a-plenty in covered
kegs.

And now he showed me pieces of armour, that is, a vizored headpiece or
armet, with cuirass, backplates, pauldrons and vambraces, all very richly
gilded, the which it seemed he had chosen for my defence.

"So, then, sir, you knew I should stay?"

"Indeed, Martin," he confessed, a little discountenanced, "I guessed you
might." But I (misliking to be so confined) would have none of this gilded
armour until, seeing his distress, I agreed thereto if he would do the
like; so we presently armed each other and I for one mighty hot and
uncomfortable.

Posted upon this, the highest terrace, at every vantage point were Indians
armed with bows and arrows--men and women, aye and children--and all gazing
ever and anon towards that belt of forest to the West where it seemed
Atlamatzin, with ten chosen warriors, was gone to watch the approach of
the invading host. Presently, from these greeny depths came a distant shot
followed by others in rapid succession, and after some while, forth of the
woods broke six figures that we knew for Atlamatzin and five of the ten, at
sight of whom spear-points glittered and a lusty shout went up.

"See now, Martin," quoth Sir Richard, speaking quick and incisive, a grim
and warlike figure in his armour, for all his stoop and limping gait,
"here's the way on't: let the Indians shoot their arrows as they may (poor
souls!) but we wait until the enemy be a-throng upon the stair yonder, then
we open on them with our cannon here,--'tis crammed to the muzzle with
musket balls; then whiles you reload, I will to my fifty-and-five muskets
yonder and let fly one after t'other, by which time you, having our brass
piece ready, will reload so many o' the muskets as you may and so, God
aiding, we will so batter these merciless Dons they shall be glad to give
over their bloody attempt and leave these poor folk in peace."

As he ended, came Atlamatzin, telling us he had fallen suddenly on the
enemy's van and slain divers of them, showing us his axe bloody, and so
away to hearten his people.

At last, forth of the forest marched the enemy, rank on rank, a seemingly
prodigious company. First rode horsemen a score, and behind these I counted
some sixty musketeers and pikemen as many, marching very orderly and
flashing back the sun from their armour, while behind these again came
plumed Indians beyond count, fierce, wild figures that leapt and shouted
high and shrill very dreadful to hear. On they came, leaping and dancing
from the forest, until it seemed they would never end, nearer and nearer
until we might see their faces and thus behold how these Spaniards talked
and laughed with each other as about a matter of little moment. Indeed, it
angered me to see with what careless assurance these steel-clad Spaniards
advanced against us in their insolent might, and bold in the thought that
they had nought to fear save Indian arrows and lances and they secure
in their armour. Halting below the first terrace, they forthwith began
assault, for whiles divers of the pikemen began to ascend the stairway,
followed by their Indian allies, the musketeers let fly up at us with their
pieces to cover their comrades' advance and all contemptuous of the arrows
discharged against them. But hard beside the cannon stood Sir Richard,
watching keen-eyed, and ever and anon blowing on the slow-match he had
made, waiting until the stairway was choked with the glittering helmets and
tossing feathers of the assailants.

A deafening roar, a belch of flame and smoke that passing, showed a sight
I will not seek to describe; nor did I look twice, but fell to work with
sponge and rammer, loading this death-dealing piece as quickly as I might,
while louder than the awful wailing that came from that gory shambles rose
a wild hubbub from their comrades,--shouts and cries telling their sudden
panic and consternation. But as they stood thus in huddled amaze, Sir
Richard opened on them with his muskets, firing in rapid succession and
with aim so deadly that they forthwith turned and ran for it, nor did they
check or turn until they were out of range. Then back limped Sir Richard,
his cheek flushed, his eyes bright and fierce in the shade of his helmet,
his voice loud and vibrant with the joy of battle, and seeing how far the
gun was recoiled, summoned divers of the Indians to urge it back into
position; while this was doing, down upon this awful stair leapt Atlamatzin
and his fellows and had soon made an end of such wounded as lay there.

"I pray God," cried Sir Richard, harsh-voiced, as he struck flint and steel
to relight his match, "I pray God this may suffice them!"

And beholding the wild disorder of our assailants, I had great hopes this
was so indeed, but as I watched, they reformed their ranks and advanced
again, but with their Indians in the van, who suddenly found themselves
with death before them and behind, for the Spanish musketeers had turned
their pieces against them to force them on to the attacks. So, having no
choice, these poor wretches came on again, leaping and screaming their
battle cries until the stair was a-throng with them; on and up they rushed
until Death met them in roaring flame and smoke. But now all about us was
the hum of bullets, most of which whined harmlessly overhead, though some
few smote the wall behind us. But small chance had I to heed such, being
hard-set to prime and load as, time after time, these poor Indians, driven
on by their cruel masters, rushed, and time after time were swept away; and
thus we fought the gun until the sweat ran from me and I panted and cursed
my stifling armour, stripping it from me piece by piece as occasion
offered. And thus I took a scathe from bullet or splinter of stone, yet
heeded not until I sank down sick and spent and roused to find Pluto
licking my face and thereafter to see Sir Richard kneeling over me, his
goodly armour dinted and scarred by more than one chance bullet.

"Drink!" he commanded, and set water to my lips, the which mightily
refreshed me.

"Sir, what o' the fight?" I questioned.

"Done, lad, so far as we are concerned," said he. "Atlamatzin fell upon 'em
with all his powers and routed them--hark!"

Sure enough, I heard the battle roar away into the forest and beyond until,
little by little, it sank to a murmurous hum and died utterly away. But all
about us were other sounds, and getting unsteadily to my legs, I saw the
plain 'twixt town and forest thick-strewn with the fallen.

"So then the town is saved, sir?"

"God be praised, Martin!"

"Why, then, let us on--to meet my dear lady!" But now came an Indian to
bathe my hurt, an ugly tear in my upper arm, whereto he set a certain
balsam and a dressing of leaves and so bound it up very deftly and to my
comfort.

And now was I seized of a fierce desire to be gone; I burned in a fever to
tramp those weary miles that lay 'twixt me and my lady Joan; wherefore,
heedless alike of my own weakness, of Sir Richard's remonstrances and
weariness, or aught beside in my own fevered desire, I set out forthwith,
seeing, as in a dream, the forms of Indians, men, women and children, who
knelt and cried to us as in gratitude or farewell; fast I strode, all
unmindful of the old man who plodded so patiently, limping as fast as he
might to keep pace with me, heeding but dimly his appeals, his cries,
hasting on and on until, stumbling at last, I sank upon my knees and,
looking about, found myself alone and night coming down upon me apace. Then
was I seized of pity for him and myself and a great yearning for my lady,
and sinking upon my face I wept myself to sleep.


CHAPTER XXX

WE RESUME OUR JOURNEY


I waked in a place of trees, very still and quiet save for the crackle of
the fire that blazed near by. Close beside me lay my musket; pendant from
a branch within reach dangled my sword. Hereupon, finding myself thus
solitary, I began to call on Sir Richard and wondered to hear my voice so
weak; yet I persisted in my shouting and after some while heard a joyous
bark, and to me bounded Pluto to rub himself against me and butt at me with
his great head. While I was caressing this good friend, cometh Sir Richard
himself and in his hand a goodly fish much like to a trout.

"Lord, Martin!" said he, sitting beside me, "'tis well art thyself again,
lad. Last evening you must set out, and night upon us, must stride away
like a madman and leave me alone; but for this good dog I should ha' lost
you quite. See now, lad, what I have caught for our breakfast. I was a
notable good angler in the old days and have not lost my cunning, it
seems."

Now as he showed me his fish and set about gutting and preparing it, I
could not but mark his drawn and haggard look, despite his brave bearing,
and my heart smote me.

"Sir, you are sick!" quoth I.

"Nay, Martin, I am well enough and able to go on as soon as you will. But
for the present, rest awhile, lest the fever take you again, this cloak
'neath your head--so!"

"What o'clock is it?"

"Scarce noon and the sun very hot."

"How came I here in the shade?"

"I dragged you, Martin. Now sleep, lad, and I'll to my cooking."

At this I protested I had no mind for sleep, yet presently slumbered amain,
only to dream vilely of fire and of Adam and his fellows in desperate
battle, and above the din of fight heard my lady calling on my name as one
in mortal extremity and waking in sweating panic, my throbbing head full of
this evil vision, was for setting out instantly to her succour. But at
Sir Richard's desire I stayed to gulp down such food as he had prepared,
telling him meanwhile of my vision and something comforted by his assurance
that dreams went by contrary. Howbeit, the meal done, we set out once more,
bearing due northeast by the compass Sir Richard had brought from the Maya
city. So we journeyed through this tangled wilderness, my' head full of
strange and evil fancies, cursing the wound that sapped my strength so that
I must stumble for very weakness, yet dreaming ever of my lady's danger,
struggling up and on until I sank to lie and curse or weep because of my
helplessness.

Very evil times were these, wherein I moved in a vague world, sometimes
aware of Sir Richard's patient, plodding form, of the dog trotting before,
of misty mountains, of rushing streams that must be crossed, of glaring
heats and grateful shadow; sometimes I lay dazzled by a blazing sun,
sometimes it was the fire and Sir Richard's travel-worn figure beyond,
sometimes the calm serenity of stars, but ever and always in my mind was
a growing fear, a soul-blasting dread lest our journey be vain, lest the
peril that me thought threatened Joan be before us and we find her dead.
And this cruel thought was like a whip that lashed me to a frenzy, so that
despite wound and weakness I would drive my fainting body on, pursuing the
phantom of her I sought and oft calling miserably upon her name like the
madman I was; all of the which I learned after from Sir Richard. For, of
an early morning I waked to find myself alone, but a fire of sticks burned
brightly and against an adjacent rock stood our two muskets, orderly and to
hand.

Now as I gazed about, I was aware of frequent sighings hard by and going
thitherward, beheld Sir Richard upon his knees, absorbed in a passion of
prayer, his furrowed cheeks wet with tears. But beyond this I was struck
with the change in him, his haggard face burned nigh black with fierce
suns, his garments rent and tattered, his poor body more bent and shrunken
than I had thought. Before him sat Pluto, wagging his tail responsive
to every passionate gesture of those reverently clasped hands, but
who, espying me, uttered his deep bark and came leaping to welcome me;
whereupon, seeing I was discovered, I went to Sir Richard and, his prayer
ended, lifted him in my arms.

"Ah, Martin, dear lad," said he, embracing me likewise, "surely God hath
answered my prayer. You are yourself again." And now, he sitting beside the
fire whiles I prepared such food as we had, he told me how for five days
I had been as one distraught, wandering haphazard and running like any
madman, calling upon my lady's name, and that he should have lost me but
for the dog.

"Alas, dear sir," quoth I, abashed by this recital, "I fear in my fool's
madness I have worn you out and nigh beyond endurance."

"Nay, Martin," said he, "it doth but teach me what I knew, that lusty youth
and feeble age are ill travelling companions, for needs must you go, your
soul ever ahead of you, yet schooling your pace to mine, and for this I
do love you so that I would I were dead and you free to speed on your
strength--"

"Never say so, dear father," quoth I, folding my arm about his drooping
form, "my strength shall be yours henceforth."

And presently he grew eager to be gone, but seeing me unwilling, grew the
more insistent to travel so far as we might before the scorching heats
should overtake us. So we started, I carrying his musket beside my own and
despite his remonstrances.

An evil country this, destitute of trees and all vegetation save small
bushes few and prickly cactus a-many, a desolation of grim and jagged rocks
and barren, sandy wastes full of sun-glare and intolerable heat. And now,
our water being gone, we began to be plagued with thirst and a great host
of flies so bold as to settle on our mouths, nostrils and eyes, so that we
must be for ever slapping and brushing them away. Night found us faint and
spent and ravenous for water and none to be found, and to add further to
our agonies, these accursed flies were all about us still, singing and
humming, and whose bite set up a tickling itch, so that what with these and
our thirst we got little or no rest.

"Martin," said Sir Richard, hearing me groan, "we should be scarce four
days from the sea by my reckoning--"

"Aye," said I, staring up at the glory of stars, "but how if we come on no
water? Our journey shall end the sooner, methinks."

"True, Martin," said he, "but we are sure to find water soon or late--"

"God send it be soon!" I groaned. Here he sets himself to comfort Pluto who
lay betwixt us, panting miserably, with lolling tongue or snapping fiercely
at these pestilent flies.

And thus we lay agonising until the moon rose and then, by common consent,
we stumbled on, seeking our great desire. And now as I went, my mouth
parched, my tongue thickening to the roof of my mouth, I must needs think
of plashing brooks, of bubbling rills, of sweet and pellucid streams, so
that my torment was redoubled, yet we dared not stop, even when day came.

Then forth of a pitiless heaven blazed a cruel sun to scorch us, thereby
adding to this agony of thirst that parched us where we crawled with
fainting steps, our sunken eyes seeking vainly for the kindly shade of some
tree in this arid desolation. And always was my mind obsessed by that
dream of gurgling brooks and bubbling rills; and now I would imagine I was
drinking long, cool draughts, and thrusting leathern tongue 'twixt cracking
lips, groaned in sharper agony. So crept we on, mile after mile, hoping the
next would show us some blessed glimpse of water, and always disappointed
until at last it seemed that here was our miserable end.

"Martin," gasped Sir Richard, sinking in my failing clasp, his words scarce
articulate, "I can go no farther--leave me, sweet son--'tis better I die
here--go you on--"

"No!" groaned I, and seeing Sir Richard nigh to swooning, I took him in my
arms. Reeling and staggering I bore him on, my gaze upon a few scattered
rocks ahead of us where we might at least find shade from this murderous
sun. Thus I struggled on until my strength failed and I sank to this
burning sand where it seemed we were doomed to perish after all, here in
this pitiless wild where even the dog had deserted us. And seeing Death so
near, I clasped Sir Richard ever closer and strove to tell him something of
my love for him, whereupon he raised one feeble hand to touch my drooping
head.

Now as I babbled thus, I heard a lazy flap of wings and lifting weary eyes,
beheld divers of these great birds that, settling about, hopped languidly
towards us and so stood to watch us, raffling their feathers and croaking
hoarsely. So I watched them, and well-knowing what they portended, drew
forth a pistol and, cocking it, had it ready to hand. But as I did so they
broke into shrill clamour and, rising on heavy wings, soared away as came
Pluto to leap about us, uttering joyous barks and butting at us with his
head. And then I saw him all wet, nay, as I gazed on him, disbelieving my
eyes, he shook himself, sprinkling us with blessed water. Somehow I was
upon my feet and, taking Sir Richard's swooning body across my shoulder,
I stumbled on towards that place of rocks, Pluto running on before and
turning ever and anon to bark, as bidding me hasten. So at last, panting
and all foredone, came I among these rocks and saw them open to a narrow
cleft that gave upon a gorge a-bloom with flowers, a very paradise; and
here, close to hand, a little pool fed by a rill or spring that bubbled up
amid these mossy rocks.

So took I this life-giving water in my two hands and dashed it in Sir
Richard's face, and he, opening his eyes, uttered a hoarse cry of rapture.
And so we drank, kneeling side by side. Yet our throats and tongues so
swollen we could scarce swallow at the first, and yet these scant drops a
very ecstasy. But when I would have drunk my fill, Sir Richard stayed
me lest I do myself an injury and I, minding how poor souls had killed
themselves thus, drank but moderately as he bade me, yet together we
plunged our heads and arms into this watery delight, praising God and
laughing for pure joy and thankfulness. Then, the rage of our thirst
something appeased, we lay down within this shadow side by side and
presently fell into a most blessed slumber.

I waked suddenly to a piteous whining and, starting up, beheld Pluto
crawling towards me, his flank transfixed with an Indian arrow. Up I sprang
to wake Sir Richard and peer down into the shadowy gorge below, but saw
no more than flowering thickets and bush-girt rock. But as I gazed thus,
musket in hand, Sir Richard gave fire and while the report yet rang and
echoed, I saw an Indian spring up from amid these bushes and go rolling
down into the thickets below.

"One, Martin!" quoth Sir Richard and, giving me his piece to reload, turned
to minister to Pluto's hurt. Where he lay whining and whimpering. Suddenly
an arrow struck the rock hard beside me and then came a whizzing shower,
whereupon we took such shelter as offered and whence we might retort upon
them with our shot. And after some while, as we lay thus, staring down into
the gorge, came the report of a musket and a bullet whipped betwixt us.

"Lord, Martin!" quoth Sir Richard cheerily, his eyes kindling. "It was
vastly unwise to fall asleep by this well in so thirsty a country; 'tis a
known place and much frequented, doubtless. Wisdom doth urge a retreat so
soon as you have filled our water bottles; meantime I will do all I may to
dissuade our assailants from approaching too near."

So saying, he levelled his piece and, dwelling on his aim, fired, whiles
I, screened from bullets and arrows alike, filled our flasks and doing
so, espied a small cave, excellent suited to our defence and where two
determined men might hold in check a whole army.

Hereupon I summoned Sir Richard who, seeing this cave commanded the gorge
and might only be carried in front, approved it heartily, so thither we
repaired, taking Pluto with us and him very woful. And lying thus in our
little fort we laid out our armament, that is, our two muskets and four
pistols, and took stock of our ammunition, I somewhat dashed to find we had
but thirty charges betwixt us, the pistols included. Sir Richard, on the
other hand, seemed but the more resolute and cheery therefor.

"For look now, Martin," said he, cocking his musket and levelling it
betwixt the boulders we had piled to our better defence, "here we have
fifteen lives, or say twenty, though you are better with sword than musket
I take it; should these not suffice, then we have two excellent swords
and lastly our legs, indifferent bad as regards mine own, but in a little
'twill be black dark, the moon doth not rise till near dawn. So here are we
snug for the moment and very able to our defence these many hours, God be
thanked!" And thus he of his own indomitable spirit cheered me. Suddenly he
pulled trigger and as the smoke cleared I saw his bullet had sped true, for
amid certain rocks below us a man rose up, clad in Spanish half-armour, and
sinking forward, lay there motionless, plain to our view.

"Two!" quoth Sir Richard, and fell to reloading his piece, wadding the
charge with strips from his ragged garments.

The fall of this Spaniard caused no little stir among our unseen
assailants, for the air rang with fierce outcries and the shrill battle
hootings of the Indians, and a shower of arrows rattled among the rocks
about us and thereafter a volley of shot, and no scathe to us.

"War is a hateful thing!" quoth Sir Richard suddenly. "See yon Spaniard I
shot, God forgive me--hark how he groaneth, poor soul!" And he showed me
the Spaniard, who writhed ever and anon where he lay across the rock and
wailed feebly for water. "Methinks 'twere merciful to end his sufferings,
Martin!"

"Mayhap, sir, though we have few enough charges to spare!"

"Thus speaketh cold prudence and common sense, Martin, and yet--"

But here the matter was put beyond dispute for, even as Sir Richard
levelled his musket, the wounded Spaniard slipped and rolled behind the
rock and lay quite hid save for a hand and arm that twitched feebly ever
and anon.

"And he was crying for water!" sighed Sir Richard, "Thirst is an agony, as
we do know. Hark, he crieth yet! Twere act commendable to give drink to a
dying man, enemy though he be."

"Most true, sir, but--nay, what would you?" I said, grasping his arm as he
made to rise.

"Endeavour as much good as I may in the little of life left to me, Martin.
The poor soul lieth none so far and--"

"Sir--sir!" quoth I, tightening my hold. "You would be shot ere you had
gone a yard--are ye mad indeed or--do you seek death?" Now at this he was
silent, and I felt him trembling.

"This is as God willeth, Martin!" said he at last. "Howbeit I must go;
prithee loose me, dear lad!"

"Nay!" cried I harshly. "If you will have our enemy drink, I shall bear it
myself--"

"No, no!" cried he, grappling me in turn as I rose. "What I may do you
cannot--be reasonable, Martin--you bulk so much greater than I, they cannot
fail of such a mark--"

Now as we argued the matter thus, each mighty determined, Pluto set up a
joyous barking and, rising on three legs, stood with ears cocked and tail
wagging, the which put me in no small perplexity until, all at once,
certain bushes that grew hard by swayed gently and forth of the leaves
stepped an Indian clad for battle, like a great chief or cacique (as 'tis
called) for on arm and breast and forehead gold glittered, and immediately
we knew him for Atlamatzin.

"Greeting to ye, father and brother!" said he, saluting us in his grave and
stately fashion. "Atlamatzin and his people are full of gratitude to ye and
because ye are great and notable warriors, scornful of the white man's God,
Atlamatzin and his warriors have followed to do ye homage and bring ye safe
to your journey's end, and finding ye, lo! we find also our enemies, whose
eyes seeing nought but ye two, behold nought of the death that creepeth
about them; so now, when the shadow shall kiss the small rock yonder, do
you make your thunder and in that moment shall Atlamatzin smite them to
their destruction and, if the gods spare him, shall surely find ye again
that are his father and brother!"

Something thus spake he below his breath in his halting Spanish, very grave
and placid, then saluting us, was gone swift and silent as he came.

"An inch!" quoth Sir Richard, pointing to the creeping shadow and so we
watched this fateful shade until it was come upon the rock, whereupon I
let off my piece and Sir Richard a moment after, and like an echo to
these shots rose sudden dreadful clamour, shouts, the rapid discharge of
firearms; but wilder, fiercer, and louder than all the shrill and awful
Indian battle cry. And now, on bush-girt slopes to right and left was
bitter strife, a close-locked fray that burst suddenly asunder and swirled
down till pursued and pursuer were lost amid that tangle of blooming
thickets where it seemed the battle clamoured awhile, then roared away as
the enemy broke and fled before the sudden furious onset of Atlamatzin's
warriors.

As for us, we lay within our refuge, nor stirred until this din of conflict
was but a vague murmur, for though we might see divers of the fallen where
they lay, these neither stirred nor made any outcry since it seemed their
business was done effectually.

"And now, Martin," said Sir Richard, rising, "'tis time we got hence lest
any of our assailants come a-seeking us."

So being out of the cave, I set myself to see that we had all our gear to
hand, to empty and refill my flask with this good water and the like until,
missing Sir Richard, I turned to behold him already hard upon that rock
where lay the wounded Spaniard, Pluto limping at his heels. Being come to
the rock, Sir Richard unslung his water bottle and stopped, was blotted out
in sudden smoke-cloud, and, even as the report reached me, I began to run,
raving like any madman; and thus, panting out prayers and curses, I came
where stood Sir Richard leaning against this rock, one hand clasped to his
side, and the fingers of this hand horribly red. And now I was aware of a
shrill screaming that, ending suddenly, gave place to dreadful snarling and
worrying sound, but heedless of aught but Sir Richard's wound, I ran to
bear him in my arms as he fell.

"Oh, Martin," said he faintly, looking up at me with his old brave smile,
"'tis come at last--my journeying is done--"

Scarce knowing what I did, I gathered him to my bosom and bore him back to
the cave; and now, when I would have staunched his hurt, he shook feeble
head.

"Let be, dear lad," said he, "nought shall avail--not all your care and
love--for here is friend Death at last come to lift me up to a merciful
God!"

None the less I did all that I might for his hurt save to probe for the
pistol ball that was gone too deep. And presently, as I knelt beside him in
a very agony of helplessness, cometh Pluto, fouled with blood other than
his own, and limping hither, cast himself down, his great paw across Sir
Richard's legs, licking at those weary feet that should tramp beside us no
farther. And thus night found us.

"Martin," said Sir Richard suddenly, his voice strong, "bear me out where I
may behold the stars, for I--ever loved them and the wonder of them--even
in my--unregenerate days." So I bore him without, and indeed the heavens
were a glory.

"Dear lad," said he, clasping my hand, "grieve not that I die, for Death
is my friend--hath marched beside me these many weary miles, yet spared me
long enough to know and love you ever better for the man you are.--Now as
to Joan, my daughter, I--grieve not to see her--but--God's will be done,
lad, Amen. And because I knew I must die here in Darien, I writ her a
letter--'tis here in my bosom--give it her, saying I--ever loved her
greatly more than I let her guess and that--by my sufferings I was a
something better man, being--humbler, gentler, and of--a contrite heart.
And now, Martin--thou that didst forgive and love thine enemy, saving him
at thine own peril and using him as thy dear friend--my time is come--I go
into the infinite--Death's hand is on me but--a kindly hand--lifting me--to
my God--my love shall go with ye--all the way--you and her--alway. Into Thy
hands, O Lord!"

And thus died my enemy, like the brave and noble gentleman he was, his head
pillowed upon my bosom, his great soul steadfast and unfearing to the last.

And I, a lost and desolate wretch, wept at my bitter loss and cried out
against the God who had snatched from me this the only man I had ever truly
loved and honoured. --And whom doth he intend To name as his successor?

KRUSHCHOV.

He shows not His purposes, but it would seem he destines Feodor, his young
son, to be our tsar.

PRETENDER. His reckonings, maybe, will yet prove wrong.
Who art thou?

KARELA.

  A Cossack; from the Don I am sent To thee, from the free troops,
from the brave hetmen From upper and lower regions of the Cossacks,
To look upon thy bright and royal eyes, And tender thee their
homage.

PRETENDER. Well I knew The men of Don; I doubted not to see The Cossack
hetmen in my ranks. We thank Our army of the Don. Today, we know, The Cossacks
are unjustly persecuted, Oppressed; but if God grant us to ascend The
throne of our forefathers, then as of yore We'll gratify the free and
faithful Don.

POET. (Approaches. bowing low, and taking Gregory by the hem of his caftan.)
Great prince, illustrious offspring of a king!

PRETENDER. What wouldst thou?

POET. Condescendingly accept This poor fruit of my earnest toil.

PRETENDER.

What see I?

Verses in Latin! Blest a hundredfold The tie of sword and lyre; the
selfsame laurel Binds them in friendship. I was born beneath A northern
sky, but yet the Latin muse To me is a familiar voice; I love The blossoms
of Parnassus, I believe The prophecies of singers. Not in vain The
ecstasy boils in their flaming breast; Action is hallowed, being glorified
Beforehand by the poets! Approach, my friend.
In memory of me accept this gift.

(Gives him a ring.)
When fate fulfils for me her covenant, When I assume the crown of my forefathers,
I hope again to hear the measured tones Of thy sweet voice, and thy inspired
lay.
Musa gloriam Coronat, gloriaque musam.
And so, friends, till tomorrow, au revoir.

ALL. Forward! Long live Dimitry! Forward, forward!
Long live Dimitry, the great prince of Moscow!

CASTLE OF THE GOVERNOR

MNISHEK IN SAMBOR
Dressing-Room of Marina
MARINA, ROUZYA (dressing her), Serving-Women
MARINA.
(Before a mirror.) Now then, is it ready?

Cannot you make haste?

ROUZYA. I pray you first to make the difficult choice; Will you the
necklace wear of pearls, or else The emerald half-moon?

MARINA. My diamond crown.

ROUZYA. Splendid! Do you remember that you wore it When to the palace you
were pleased to go?

They say that at the ball your gracious highness Shone like the sun;
men sighed, fair ladies whispered-- 'Twas then that for the first time
young Khotkevich Beheld you, he who after shot himself.
And whosoever looked on you, they say That instant fell in love.

MARINA. Can't you be quicker?

ROUZYA. At once. Today your father counts upon you.
'Twas not for naught the young tsarevich saw you; He could not hide his
rapture; wounded he is Already; so it only needs to deal him A resolute
blow, and instantly, my lady, He'll be in love with you. 'Tis now a month
Since, quitting Cracow, heedless of the war And throne of Moscow, he has
feasted here, Your guest, enraging Poles alike and Russians.
Heavens! Shall I ever live to see the day?-- Say, you will not, when to
his capital Dimitry leads the queen of Moscow, say You'll not forsake
me?

MARINA. Dost thou truly think I shall be queen?

ROUZYA. Who, if not you? Who here Dares to compare in beauty with my
mistress?
The race of Mnishek never yet has yielded To any. In intellect you are
beyond All praise.--Happy the suitor whom your glance Honours with its
regard, who wins your heart-- Whoe'er he be, be he our king, the dauphin
Of France, or even this our poor tsarevich God knows who, God knows
whence!

MARINA. The very son Of the tsar, and so confessed by the whole world.

ROUZYA. And yet last winter he was but a servant In the house of
Vishnevetsky.

MARINA. He was hiding.

ROUZYA. I do not question it: but still do you know What people say about
him? That perhaps He is a deacon run away from Moscow, In his own
district a notorious rogue.

MARINA. What nonsense!

ROUZYA. O, I do not credit it!
I only say he ought to bless his fate That you have so preferred him to the
others.

WAITING-WOMAN. (Runs in.) The guests have come already.

MARINA. There you see; You're ready to chatter silliness till daybreak.
Meanwhile I am not dressed--
ROUZYA. Within a moment 'Twill be quite ready.

(The Waiting-women bustle.)

MARINA. (Aside.) I must find out all.

A SUITE OF LIGHTED ROOMS.

VISHNEVETSKY, MNISHEK
MNISHEK. With none but my Marina doth he speak, With no one else consorteth--and
that business Looks dreadfully like marriage.

Now confess, Didst ever think my daughter would be a queen?

VISHNEVETSKY. 'Tis wonderful.--And, Mnishek, didst thou think My servant would
ascend the throne of Moscow?

MNISHEK. And what a girl, look you, is my Marina.
I merely hinted to her: "Now, be careful!
Let not Dimitry slip"--and lo!

Already He is completely tangled in her toils.

(The band plays a Polonaise. The PRETENDER and MARINA advance as the
first couple.)
MARINA. (Sotto voce to Dimitry.) Tomorrow evening at eleven, beside The
fountain in the avenue of lime-trees.

(They walk off. A second couple.)
CAVALIER. What can Dimitry see in her?

DAME. How say you?
She is a beauty.

CAVALIER. Yes, a marble nymph; Eyes, lips, devoid of life, without a
smile.

(A fresh couple.)

DAME. He is not handsome, but his eyes are pleasing, And one can see he is
of royal birth.

(A fresh couple.)
DAME. When will the army march?

CAVALIER.

When the tsarevich Orders it; we are ready; but 'tis clear The lady Mnishek
and Dimitry mean To keep us prisoners here.

DAME. A pleasant durance.

  
  CAVALIER. Truly, if you...
  
  (They walk off; the rooms become empty.)

  MNISHEK. We old ones dance no longer; The
  sound of music lures us not; we press not Nor kiss the hands of
charmers--ah!

My friend, I've not forgotten the old pranks! Things now Are not what
once they were, what once they were!
Youth, I'll be sworn, is not so bold, nor beauty So lively;
everything--confess, my friend-- Has somehow become dull.

So let us leave them; My comrade, let us go and find a flask Of old
Hungarian overgrown with mould; Let's bid my butler open an old
bottle, And in a quiet corner, tete-a-tete, Let's drain a draught,
a stream as thick as fat; And while we're so engaged, let's think
things over.

Let us go, brother.

VISHNEVETSKY.

Yes, my friend, let's go.

NIGHT
THE GARDEN. THE FOUNTAIN

PRETENDER. (Enters.) Here is the fountain; hither will she come.

I was not born a coward; I have seen Death near at hand, and face to
face with death My spirit hath not blenched. A life-long dungeon Hath
threatened me, I have been close pursued, And yet my spirit quailed
not, and by boldness I have escaped captivity.

But what Is this which now constricts my breath? What means This overpowering
tremor, or this quivering Of tense desire? No, this is fear. All day I have
waited for this secret meeting, pondered On all that I should say to
her, how best I might enmesh Marina's haughty mind, Calling her queen of
Moscow. But the hour Has come--and I remember naught, I cannot Recall
the speeches I have learned by rote; Love puts imagination to confusion--
But something there gleamed suddenly--a rustling; Hush--no, it was the moon's
deceitful light, It was the rustling of the breeze.

MARINA. (Enters.) Tsarevich!

PRETENDER. 'Tis she. Now all the blood in me stands still.

MARINA. Dimitry! Is it thou?

PRETENDER. Bewitching voice!

(Goes to her.)
Is it thou, at last?

Is it thou I see, alone With me, beneath the roof of quiet night?
How slowly passed the tedious day! How slowly The glow of evening died
away! How long I have waited in the gloom of night!

MARINA. The hours Are flitting fast, and time is precious to me.

I did not grant a meeting here to thee To listen to a lover's tender
speeches.
No need of words. I well believe thou lovest; But listen; with thy stormy,
doubtful fate I have resolved to join my own; but one thing,
Dimitry, I require; I claim that thou Disclose to me thy secret
hopes, thy plans, Even thy fears, that hand in hand with thee I may
confront life boldly--not in blindness Of childlike ignorance, not
as the slave And plaything of my husband's light desires, Thy
speechless concubine, but as thy spouse, And worthy helpmate of the
tsar of Moscow.

PRETENDER. O, if it be only for one short hour, Forget the cares and
troubles of my fate!
Forget 'tis the tsarevich whom thou seest Before thee.

O, behold in me, Marina, A lover, by thee chosen, happy only In thy regard.
O, listen to the prayers Of love! Grant me to utter all wherewith My heart
is full.

MARINA. Prince, this is not the time; Thou loiterest, and meanwhile
the devotion Of thine adherents cooleth. Hour by hour Danger becomes more
dangerous, difficulties More difficult; already dubious rumours Are current,
novelty already takes The place of novelty; and Godunov Adopts his
measures.

PRETENDER. What is Godunov?
Is thy sweet love, my only blessedness, Swayed by Boris? Nay, nay. Indifferently
I now regard his throne, his kingly power.
Thy love--without it what to me is life, And glory's glitter, and the
state of Russia?
On the dull steppe, in a poor mud hut, thou-- Thou wilt requite me for the
kingly crown; Thy love--
MARINA. For shame! Forget not, prince, thy high And sacred destiny; thy
dignity Should be to thee more dear than all the joys Of life and its
allurements. It thou canst not With anything compare. Not to a boy, Insanely
boiling, captured by my beauty-- But to the heir of Moscow's throne
give I My hand in solemn wise, to the tsarevich Rescued by destiny.

PRETENDER. Torture me not, Charming Marina; say not that 'twas my rank And
not myself that thou didst choose. Marina!
Thou knowest not how sorely thou dost wound My heart thereby.

What if--O fearful doubt!-- Say, if blind destiny had not assigned me A
kingly birth; if I were not indeed Son of Ivan, were not this boy, so long
Forgotten by the world--say, then wouldst thou Have loved me?

MARINA. Thou art Dimitry, and aught else Thou canst not be; it is
not possible For me to love another.

PRETENDER. Nay! Enough-- I have no wish to share with a dead body A
mistress who belongs to him; I have done With counterfeiting, and
will tell the truth.

Know, then, that thy Dimitry long ago Perished, was buried--and will not rise
again; And dost thou wish to know what man I am?
Well, I will tell thee.

I am--a poor monk.

Grown weary of monastic servitude, I pondered 'neath the cowl my
bold design, Made ready for the world a miracle-- And from my cell
at last fled to the Cossacks, To their wild hovels; there I learned
to handle Both steeds and swords; I showed myself to you.

I called myself Dimitry, and deceived The brainless Poles. What say'st thou,
proud Marina?
Art thou content with my confession? Why Dost thou keep silence?

MARINA. O shame! O woe is me!

(Silence.)
PRETENDER.

(Sotto voce.) O whither hath a fit of anger led me?
The happiness devised with so much labour I have, perchance, destroyed for
ever.

Idiot, What have I done? (Aloud.) I see thou art ashamed Of love not princely;
so pronounce on me The fatal word; my fate is in thy hands.

Decide; I wait.

(Falls on his knees.)

MARINA. Rise, poor pretender! Think'st thou To please with genuflex on my
vain heart, As if I were a weak, confiding girl?
You err, my friend; prone at my feet I've seen Knights and counts nobly born;
but not for this Did I reject their prayers, that a poor monk--
PRETENDER.

(Rises.) Scorn not the young pretender; noble virtues May lie perchance
in him, virtues well worthy Of Moscow's throne, even of thy priceless
hand--

MARINA. Say of a shameful noose, insolent wretch!

PRETENDER. I am to blame; carried away by pride I have deceived God and the
kings--have lied To the world; but it is not for thee, Marina, To
judge me; I am guiltless before thee.

No, I could not deceive thee. Thou to me Wast the one sacred being, before
thee I dared not to dissemble; love alone, Love, jealous, blind, constrained
me to tell all.

MARINA. What's that to boast of, idiot? Who demanded Confession of thee? If
thou, a nameless vagrant Couldst wonderfully blind two nations,
then At least thou shouldst have merited success, And thy bold fraud
secured, by constant, deep, And lasting secrecy.

Say, can I yield Myself to thee, can I, forgetting rank And maiden modesty,
unite my fate With thine, when thou thyself impetuously Dost thus with
such simplicity reveal Thy shame? It was from Love he blabbed to me!
I marvel wherefore thou hast not from friendship Disclosed thyself ere
now before my father, Or else before our king from joy, or else Before
Prince Vishnevetsky from the zeal Of a devoted servant.
PRETENDER. I swear to thee That thou alone wast able to extort My
heart's confession; I swear to thee that never, Nowhere, not in the
feast, not in the cup Of folly, not in friendly confidence, Not
'neath the knife nor tortures of the rack, Shall my tongue give
away these weighty secrets.
MARINA. Thou swearest! Then I must believe. Believe, Of course! But
may I learn by what thou swearest?
Is it not by the name of God, as suits The Jesuits' devout adopted
son?
Or by thy honour as a high-born knight?
Or, maybe, by thy royal word alone As a king's son? Is it not so?
Declare.
PRETENDER. (Proudly.) The phantom of the Terrible hath made me His
son; from out the sepulchre hath named me Dimitry, hath stirred up
the people round me, And hath consigned Boris to be my victim.
I am tsarevich. Enough! 'Twere shame for me To stoop before a haughty
Polish dame.
Farewell for ever; the game of bloody war, The wide cares of my
destiny, will smother, I hope, the pangs Of love. O, when the heat
Of shameful passion is o'erspent, how then Shall I detest thee! Now
I leave thee--ruin, Or else a crown, awaits my head in Russia;
Whether I meet with death as fits a soldier In honourable fight,
or as a miscreant Upon the public scaffold, thou shalt not Be my
companion, nor shalt share with me My fate; but it may be thou shalt
regret The destiny thou hast refused.
MARINA. But what If I expose beforehand thy bold fraud To all
men?
PRETENDER. Dost thou think I fear thee? Think'st thou They will
believe a Polish maiden more Than Russia's own tsarevich? Know,
proud lady, That neither king, nor pope, nor nobles trouble Whether
my words be true, whether I be Dimitry or another. What care they?
But I provide a pretext for revolt And war; and this is all they
need; and thee, Rebellious one, believe me, they will force To hold
thy peace. Farewell.

MARINA. Tsarevich, stay!
At last I hear the speech not of a boy, But of a man. It reconciles
me to thee.
Prince, I forget thy senseless outburst, see Again Dimitry. Listen;
now is the time!
Hasten; delay no more, lead on thy troops Quickly to Moscow, purge
the Kremlin, take Thy seat upon the throne of Moscow; then Send me
the nuptial envoy; but, God hears me, Until thy foot be planted on
its steps, Until by thee Boris be overthrown, I am not one to listen
to love-speeches.

PRETENDER. No--easier far to strive with Godunov.
Or play false with the Jesuits of the Court, Than with a woman.
Deuce take them; they're beyond My power. She twists, and coils,
and crawls, slips out Of hand, she hisses, threatens, bites. Ah,
serpent!
Serpent! 'Twas not for nothing that I trembled.
She well-nigh ruined me; but I'm resolved; At daybreak I will put
my troops in motion.

THE LITHUANIAN FRONTIER
(OCTOBER 16TH, 1604)
PRINCE KURBSKY and PRETENDER, both on horseback. Troops approach
the Frontier
KURBSKY. (Galloping at their head.) There, there it is; there is
the Russian frontier!
Fatherland! Holy Russia! I am thine!
With scorn from off my clothing now I shake The foreign dust, and
greedily I drink New air; it is my native air. O father, Thy soul
hath now been solaced; in the grave Thy bones, disgraced, thrill
with a sudden joy!
Again doth flash our old ancestral sword, This glorious sword--the
dread of dark Kazan!
This good sword--servant of the tsars of Moscow!
Now will it revel in its feast of slaughter, Serving the master of
its hopes.
PRETENDER. (Moves quietly with bowed head.) How happy Is he, how
flushed with gladness and with glory His stainless soul! Brave
knight, I envy thee!
The son of Kurbsky, nurtured in exile, Forgetting all the wrongs
borne by thy father, Redeeming his transgression in the grave, Ready
art thou for the son of great Ivan To shed thy blood, to give the
fatherland Its lawful tsar. Righteous art thou; thy soul Should
flame with joy.
KURBSKY. And dost not thou likewise Rejoice in spirit? There lies
our Russia; she Is thine, tsarevich! There thy people's hearts Are
waiting for thee, there thy Moscow waits, Thy Kremlin, thy
dominion.
PRETENDER. Russian blood, O Kurbsky, first must flow! Thou for the
tsar Hast drawn the sword, thou art stainless; but I lead you Against
your brothers; I am summoning Lithuania against Russia; I am showing
To foes the longed-for way to beauteous Moscow!
But let my sin fall not on me, but thee, Boris, the regicide!
Forward! Set on!

KURBSKY. Forward! Advance! And woe to Godunov.
(They gallop. The troops cross the frontier.)
THE COUNCIL OF THE TSAR 
The TSAR, the PATRIARCH and Boyars
TSAR. Is it possible? An unfrocked monk against us Leads rascal
troops, a truant friar dares write Threats to us! Then 'tis time
to tame the madman!
Trubetskoy, set thou forth, and thou Basmanov; My zealous governors
need help. Chernigov Already by the rebel is besieged; Rescue the
city and citizens.
BASMANOV. Three months Shall not pass, Sire, ere even rumour's
tongue Shall cease to speak of the pretender; caged In iron, like
a wild beast from oversea, We'll hale him into Moscow, I swear by
God.

(Exit with TRUBETSKOY.)
TSAR. The Lord of Sweden hath by envoys tendered Alliance to me.
But we have no need To lean on foreign aid; we have enough Of our
own warlike people to repel Traitors and Poles. I have
refused.--Shchelkalov!
In every district to the governors Send edicts, that they mount
their steeds, and send The people as of old on service; likewise
Ride to the monasteries, and there enlist The servants of the
churchmen. In days of old, When danger faced our country, hermits
freely Went into battle; it is not now our wish To trouble them;
no, let them pray for us; Such is the tsar's decree, such the resolve
Of his boyars.And beholding thus my long and weary journey so
nearly ended, and bethinking me how many times God had preserved me and
brought me safe through so many dire perils of this most evil country, I
bowed my head and strove to tell Him my heart's gratitude. My prayer ended
(and most inadequate!) I began to run, my weariness all forgot, the breath
of the sea sweet in my nostrils, nor stayed until I might look down on the
foaming breakers far below and hear their distant roar.

Long stood I, like one entranced, for from this height I could make out
the blue shapes of several islands and beyond these a faint blur upon the
horizon, the which added greatly to my comfort and delight, since this I
knew must be the opposite shore of Terra Firma or the Main, and this great
body of water the Gulf of Darien itself. And so came night.

All next day I followed the coast, keeping the sea upon my left, looking
for some such landlocked harbourage with its cliff shaped like a lion's
head as Adam had described, yet though I was at great pains (and no small
risk to my neck) to peer down into every bay I came upon, nowhere did I
discover any such bay or cliff as bore out his description; thus night
found me eager to push on, yet something despondent and very weary. So I
lighted my fire and ate my supper, harassed by a growing dread lest I was
come too far to the east, after all.

And presently up came the moon in glory; indeed, never do I remember seeing
it so vivid bright, its radiance flashing back from the waters far below
and showing tree and bush and precipitous cliff, very sharp and clear. Upon
my left, as I sat, the jagged coast line curved away out to sea, forming
thus the lofty headland I had traversed scarce an hour since, that rose
sheer from the moon-dappled waters, a huge, shapeless bluff. Now after some
while I arose, and seeing the moon so glorious, shouldered my gun, minded
to seek a little further before I slept. I had gone thus but a few yards,
my gaze now on the difficult path before me, now upon the sea, when,
chancing to look towards the bluff I have mentioned, I stopped to stare
amazed, for in this little distance, this formless headland, seen from
this angle, had suddenly taken a new shape and there before me, plain and
manifest, was the rough semblance of a lion's head; and I knew that betwixt
it and the high cliff whereon I stood must be Adam's excellent secure
haven. This sudden discovery filled me with such an ecstacy that I fell
a-trembling, howbeit I began to quest here and there for some place where I
might get me down whence I might behold this bay and see if Adam's ship
lay therein. And in a little, finding such a place, I began to descend and
found it so easy and secure it seemed like some natural stair, and I did
not doubt that Adam and his fellows had belike used it as such ere now.

At last I came where I could look down into a narrow bay shut in by these
high, bush-girt cliffs and floored with gleaming, silver sand, whose
waters, calm and untroubled, mirrored the serene moon, and close under the
dense shadows of these cliffs I made out the loom of a great ship. Hereupon
I looked no more, but gave all my attention to hands and feet, and so,
slipping and stumbling in my eagerness, got me down at last and began
running across these silvery sands. But as I approached the ship where she
lay now plain in my view, I saw her topmasts were gone, and beholding
the ruin of her gear and rigging, I grew cold with sudden dread and came
running.

She lay upon an even keel, her forefoot deep-buried in the shifting sand
that had silted about her with the tide, and beholding her paint and
gilding blackened and scorched by fire, her timbers rent and scarred by
shot, I knew this fire-blackened, shattered wreck would never sail again.
And now as I viewed this dismal ruin, I prayed this might be some strange
ship rather than that I had come so far a-seeking and, so praying, waded
out beneath her lofty stern (the tide being low) and, gazing up, read as
much of her name as the searing fire had left: viz:

D E L.... A N C E

And hereupon, knowing her indeed for Adam's ship, I took to wandering round
about her, gazing idly up at this pitiful ruin, until there rushed upon me
the realisation of what all this meant. Adam was dead or prisoner, and my
dear lady lost to me after all; my coming was too late.

And now a great sickness took me, my strength deserted me and, groaning, I
sank upon the sand and lying thus, yearned amain for death. Then I heard a
sound, and lifting heavy head, beheld one who stood upon the bulwark above
me, holding on by a backstay with one hand and pistol levelled down at me
in the other. And beholding this slender, youthful figure thus outlined
against the moon, the velvet coat brave with silver lace, the ruffles at
throat and wrist, the silken stockings and buckled shoes, I knew myself
surely mad, for this I saw was Joanna--alive and breathing.

"Shoot!" I cried, "Death has reft from me all I loved--shoot!"

"Martin!" cried she, and down came the pistol well-nigh upon me where I
lay. "Oh, dear, kind God, 'tis Martin!"

"Joan?" said I, wondering, "Damaris--beloved!"

I was on my feet and, heaving myself up by means of the tangle of gear that
hung from the ship's lofty side I sprang upon the deck and fell on my knees
to clasp this lovely, trembling youth in my hungry arms, my head bowed
against this tender woman's body, lest she see how I wept out of pure joy
and thankfulness. But now she raised my head, and thus I saw her weeping
also, felt her tears upon my face; and now she was laughing albeit she wept
still, her two hands clasping me to her.

"Such a great--fierce--wild man!" she sobbed; and then: "My man!" and
stooping, she kissed me on the lips. But as for me, I could but gaze up at
her in rapture and never a word to say. Then she was on her knees before me
and thus we knelt in each other's fast clasping arms. "Oh, Martin!" said
she. "Oh, loved Martin--God hath answered my ceaseless prayers!"

And now when she would have voiced to Him her gratitude, I must needs crush
her upon my heart to look down into this flushed and tear-wet face that
held for me the beauty of all the world and to kiss away her prayers and
breath together, yet even so did she return my kisses.

At last we arose but had gone scarce a step when we were in each other's
arms again, to stand thus fast clasped together, for I almost dreaded she
might vanish again and feared to let her go.

"We have been parted so cruelly--so often!" said I.

"But never again, my Martin!"

"No, by God!" quoth I fervently. "Not even death--"

"Not even death!" said she.

And thus we remained a great while, wandering to and fro upon the
weather-beaten deck, very silent for the most part, being content with each
other's nearness and, for myself, merely to behold her loveliness was joy
unutterable.

She brought me into Adam's great cabin under the poop, lighted by a great
swinging silver lamp, its stern windows carefully shaded, lest any see this
betraying beam; and standing amid all the luxury of tapestried hangings and
soft carpets, I felt myself mighty strange and out of place; and presently,
catching sight of myself in one of the mirrors, I stood all abashed to
behold the unlovely object I was in my rough and weather-stained garments,
my face burned nigh black by the sun and all set about in a tangle of wild
hair and ragged beard.

"Is it so great wonder I should not know you at first, dear Martin, and you
so wild and fierce-seeming?"

"Indeed I am an ill spectacle," quoth I; at this, beholding me thus rueful,
she fell to kissing me, whereat I did but miscall myself the more, telling
her 'twas great marvel she should love one so ill-matched with her; for,
said I, "here are you beautiful beyond all women, and here stand I, of
manners most uncouth, harsh-featured, slow of tongue, dull-witted, and one
you have seldom seen but in sorry rags!"

"Oh, my dearest heart," said she, nestling but closer in my embrace, "here
is long catalogue and 'tis for each and every I do love you infinitely more
than you do guess, and for this beside--because you are Martin Conisby that
I have loved, do love, and shall love always and ever!"

"And there's the marvel!" quoth I, kissing her bowed head.

"And you do think me--very beautiful, Martin?"

"Aye, I do."

"Even clad--in these--these things?" she questioned, not looking at me.

"Aye, truly!"

"I had not meant you to see me thus, Martin, but it was my custom to watch
for your coming, and 'twas hard to climb the cliff in petticoats, and
besides, since I have been alone, there was so much to do--and it didn't
matter."

"Aye, but how came you alone, what of Adam and the rest?"

"Nay, 'tis long story."

"But why are you thus solitary, you that do so fear solitude, as I
remember."

"When Adam marched away, I stayed to wait for you, Martin."

"For me?"

"Yes, Martin!"

"Were you not afraid?"

"Often," said she, clasping me tighter, "but you are come at last, so are
my fears all past and done. And, more than the loneliness I feared lest you
should come and find this poor ship all deserted, and lose hope and faith
in God's mercy."

"Oh, my brave, sweet soul!" said I, falling on my knees to kiss her hands.
"Oh, God love you for this--had I found you not, I should have dreamed you
dead and died myself, cursing God."

"Ah hush," said she, closing my lips with her sweet fingers. "Rather will
we bless Him all our days for giving us such a love!"

And now having no will or thought to sleep, she sets about preparing
supper, while I with scissors, razors, etc. (that she had brought at my
earnest entreaty), began to rid my face of its shaggy hair, and busied with
my razor, must needs turn ever and anon for blessed sight of her where she
flitted lightly to and fro, she bidding me take heed lest I cut myself. Cut
myself I did forthwith, and she, beholding the blood, must come running
to staunch it and it no more than a merest nick. And now, seeing her thus
tender of me who had endured so many hurts and none to grieve or soothe, I
came very near weeping for pure joy.

And now as she bustled to and fro, she fell silent and oft I caught her
viewing me wistfully, and once or twice she made as to speak yet did not,
and I, guessing what she would say, would have told her, yet could think of
no gentle way of breaking the matter, ponder how I might, and in the end
blurted out the bald truth, very sudden and fool-like, as you shall hear.
For, at last, supper being over (and we having eaten very little and no
eyes for our food or aught in the world save each other) my lady questioned
me at last.

"Dear Martin, what of my father?"

"Why, first," said I, avoiding her eyes, "he is dead!"

"Yes!" said she faintly, "this I guessed."

"He died nobly like the brave gentleman he was. I buried him in the
wilderness, where flowers bloomed, three days march back."

"In the wilderness?" says she a little breathlessly. "But he was in
prison!"

"Aye, 'twas there I found him. But we escaped by the unselfish bravery and
kindness of Don Federigo. So together we set out to find you."

"Together, Martin?"

"Yes, and he very cheery, despite his sufferings."

"Sufferings, Martin?"

"He--he halted somewhat in his walk--"

"Nay, he was strong, as I remember--ah, you mean they--had tortured him--"

"Aye," said I, dreading to see her grief. "Yet despite their devilish
cruelties, he rose triumphant above agony of body, thereby winning to a
great and noble manhood, wherefore I loved and honoured him beyond all
men--"

"He was--your enemy--"

"He was my friend, that comforted me when I was greatly afraid; he was
my companion amid the perils of our cruel journey, calm and undismayed,
uncomplaining, brave, and unselfish to his last breath, so needs must I
cherish his memory."

"Martin!" Lifting my head I saw she was looking at me, her vivid lips
quivering, her eyes all radiant despite their tears, and then, or ever I
might prevent, she was kneeling to me, had caught my hand and kissed it
passionately.

"Oh, man that I love--you that learned to--love your enemy!"

"Nay, my Damaris, 'twas he that taught me how to love him, 'twas himself
slew my hatred!"

And now, drawing her to my heart, I told her much of Sir Richard's
indomitable spirit and bravery, how in my blind haste I would march him
until he sank swooning by the way, of our fightings and sufferings and he
ever serene and undismayed. I told of how we had talked of her beside our
camp fires and how, dying, he had bid me tell her he had ever loved her
better than he had let her guess, and bethinking me of his letter at last,
I gave it to her. But instead of reading it, she put this letter in her
pocket.

"Come," said she, "'tis near the dawn, and you weary with your journey,
'tis time you were abed." And when I vowed I was not sleepy, she took my
hand (as I had been a child) and bringing me into that had been Adam's
cabin, showed me his bed all prepared. "It hath waited for these many
weeks, dear Martin!" said she, smoothing the pillows with gentle hand.

"But we have so much to tell each other--"

"To-morrow!"

Hereupon she slipped past me to the door and stood there to shake
admonishing finger:

"Sleep!" said she, nodding her lovely head mighty determined, "and scowl
not, naughty child, I shall be near you--to--to mother you--nay, come and
see for yourself." So saying, she took my hand again and brought me into
the next cabin, a fragrant nest, dainty-sweet as herself, save that in the
panelling above her bed she had driven two nails where hung a brace of
pistols. Seeing my gaze on these, she shivered suddenly and nestled into my
arm.

"Oh, Martin," said she, her face hid against me, "one night I seemed to
hear a foot that crept on the deck above, and I thought I should have died
with fear. So I kept these ever after, one for--them, and the other for
myself."

"And all this you endured for my sake!" quoth I.

"And God hath sent you safe to me, dear Martin, to take care of me, so am I
safe with nought to fright or harm me henceforth."

"Nothing under heaven," quoth I. Very gingerly she took down the pistols
and gave them to me and, bringing me to the door, kissed me.

"Good night, dear heart!" said she softly. "God send you sweet dreams!"

Thus came I back to my cabin and laying by the pistols, got me to bed, and
mighty luxurious, what with these sheets and pillows, and yet, or ever I
had fully appreciated the unwonted comfort, I was asleep.

I waked to the sudden clasp of her soft arms and a tear-wet cheek against
mine, and opening my eyes, saw her kneeling by my bed in the grey dawn.

"Oh, loved Martin," said she, "I love you more than I guessed because you
are greater than I dreamed--my father's letter hath told me so much of
you--your goodness to your enemy--how you wiped away his tears, ministered
to his hurts, carried him in your arms. I have read it but now and--'tis
tale so noble--so wonderful, that needs must I come to tell you I do love
you so much--so much. And now--"

"You are mine!" said I, gathering her in my arms. "Mine for alway."

"Yes, dear Martin! But because I am yours so utterly, you will be gentle
with me--patient a little and forbearing to a--very foolish maid--"

For answer I loosed her, whereupon she caught my hand to press it to her
tender cheek, her quivering lips.

"Oh, Martin!" she whispered. "For this needs must I worship thee!" And so
was gone.


CHAPTER XXXIII

OF DREAMS


I waked marvellous refreshed and full of a great joy to hear her sweet
singing and the light tread of her foot going to and fro in the great
cabin, where she was setting out a meal, as I guessed by the tinkle of
platters, etc., the which homely sound reminded me that I was vastly
hungry. Up I sprang to a glory of sun flooding in at shattered window and
the jagged rent where a round-shot had pierced the stout timbering above;
and having washed and bathed me as well as I might, found my lady had
replaced my ragged, weather-stained garments by others chosen from the
ship's stores. And so at last forth I stepped into the great cabin, eager
for sight of my dear lady, albeit somewhat conscious of my new clothes and
hampered by their tightness.

"Indeed," said she, holding me off, the better to examine me, "I do find
you something better-looking than you were!"

"Nay, but I am burned browner than any Indian."

"This but maketh your eyes the bluer, Martin. And then you are changed
besides--so much more gentle--kindlier--the man I dreamed you might
become--" Here I kissed her.

"And you," said I, "my Damaris that I have ever loved and shall do, you are
more beautiful than my dream of you--"

"Am I, Martin--in spite of these things?" "Indeed," said I heartily, "they
do but reveal to me so much of--"

Here she kissed me and brought me to the table. Now, seeing her as she sat
thus beside me, I started and stared, well-nigh open-mouthed.

"What now?" she questioned.

"Your hair!"

"'Twill grow again, Martin. But why must you stare?"

"Because when you look and turn so, and your hair short on your shoulders,
you are marvellously like to Joanna." Now at this, seeing how my lady
shrank and turned from me, I could have cursed my foolish tongue.

"What of her, Martin?"

"She is dead!" And here I described how bravely Joanna had met Death
standing, and her arms outstretched to the infinite. When I had done, my
lady was silent, as expecting more, and her head still averted.

"And is this--all?" she questioned at last.

"Yes!" said I. "Yes!"

"Yet you do not tell me of the cruel wrong she did you--and me! You do not
say she lied of you."

"She is dead!" said I. "And very nobly, as I do think!"

Hereupon my lady rose and going into her cabin, was back all in a moment
and unfolding a paper, set it before me. "This," said she, "I found after
you were fled the ship!" Opening this paper, I saw there, very boldly writ:

"I lied about him and 'twas a notable lie, notably spoke. Martino is not
like ordinary men and so it is I do most truly love him--yes--for always.
So do I take him for mine now, so shall lie become truth, mayhap.

"JOANNA."

And even as I refolded this letter, my lady's arms were about me, her
lovely head upon my shoulder:

"Dear," said she, "'twas like you to speak no harsh thing of the dead. And
she gave you back to me with her life--so needs must I love her memory for
this."

And so we presently got to our breakfast,--sweet, white bread new-baked,
with divers fish she had caught that morning whiles I slept. And surely
never was meal more joyous, the sun twinkling on Adam's silver and cut
glass, and my lady sweeter and more radiant than the morn in all the vigour
of her glowing beauty.

Much we talked and much she said that I would fain set down, since there is
nothing about her that is not a joy to me to dwell upon, yet lest I weary
my readers with overmuch of lovers' talk, I will only set down all she now
told me concerning Adam.

"For here were we, Martin," said my lady, "our poor ship much wounded with
her many battles and beset by a storm so that we all gave ourselves up for
lost; even Adam confessed he could do no more, and I very woful because
I must die away from you, yet the storm drove us by good hap into these
waters, and next day, the wind moderating, we began to hope we might make
this anchorage, though the ship was dreadfully a-leak, and all night and
all day I would hear the dreadful clank of the pumps always at work. And
thus at last, to our great rejoicing, we saw this land ahead of us that was
to be our salvation. But as we drew nearer our rejoicing changed to dismay
to behold three ships betwixt us and this refuge. So Sir Adam decided to
fight his way through and sailed down upon these three ships accordingly.
And presently we were among them and the battle began, and very dreadful,
what with the smoke and shouting and noise of guns--"

"Ah!" cried I. "And did not Adam see you safely below?"

"To be sure, Martin, but I stole up again and found him something hurt by
a splinter yet very happy because Godby had shot away one of the enemy's
masts and nobody hurt but himself, and so we won past these ships for all
their shooting, and I bound up Adam's hurt where he stood conning the ship,
shouting orders and bidding me below, all in a breath. But now cometh Amos
Marsh, the carpenter, running, to say the enemy's shot had widened our
leaks and the water gaining upon the pumps beyond recovery and that we were
sinking. 'How long will she last?' said Adam, staring at the two ships
that were close behind, and still shooting at us now and then. 'An hour,
Captain, maybe less!' said the carpenter. ''Twill serve,' said Adam, in his
quiet voice. 'Do you and your lads stand to the pumps, and we will be
safe ashore within the hour. But mark me, if any man turn laggard or
faint-hearted, shoot that man, but pump your best, Amos--away wi' you!'"

"Aye," quoth I, clasping tighter the hand I held, "that was like Adam;
'tis as I had heard him speak. And you in such dire peril of death, my
beloved--"

"Why, Martin, I did not fear or grieve very much, for methought you were
lost to me forever in this life perchance, but in the next--"

"This and the next I do pray God," quoth I, and kissed her till she bade me
leave her breath for her story. The which she presently did something as
followeth:

"And now, whiles Godby and his chosen gunners plied our stern cannons,
firing very fast and furious, Adam calls for volunteers to set more sail
and himself was first aloft for all his wounded arm--"

"And where were you?"

"Giving water to Godby and his men, for they were parched. And presently
back cometh Adam, panting with his exertions. 'God send no spars carry
away,' quoth he, 'and we must lay alongside the nearest Spaniard and
board.' ''Tis desperate venture,' said Godby, 'they be great ships and full
o' Dons.' 'Aye,' said Adam, 'but we are Englishmen and desperate,' And so
we stood on, Martin, and these great ships after us, and ever our own poor
ship lying lower and lower in the water, until I looked to see it sink
under us and go down altogether. But at last we reached this bay and none
too soon, for to us cometh Amos Marsh, all wet and woebegone with labour,
to say the ship was going. But nothing heeding, Adam took the helm,
shouting to him to let fly braces, and with our sails all shivering we ran
aground, just as she lies now, poor thing. While I lay half-stunned with
the fall, for the shock of grounding had thrown me down, Adam commanded
every one on shore with muskets and pistols, so I presently found myself
running across the sands 'twixt Adam and Godby, nor stayed we till we
reached the cliff yonder, where are many caves very wonderful, as I will
show you, Martin. And then I saw the reason of this haste, for the greatest
Spanish ship was turning to bring her whole broadside to bear, and so began
to shoot off all their cannon, battering our poor ship as you see. Then
came Spaniards in boats with fire to burn it, but our men shot so many of
these that although they set the ship on fire, yet they did it so hastily
because of our shooting that once they were gone, the fire was quickly put
out. But the ship was beyond repair which greatly disheartened us all, save
only Adam, who having walked around the wreck and examined her, chin in
hand, summoned all men to a council on the beach. 'Look now, my comrades,'
said he (as well as I remember, Martin), 'we have fought a sinking ship so
long as we might, and here we lie driven ashore in a hostile country but
we have only one killed and five injured, which is good; but we are
Englishmen, which is better and bad to beat. Well, then, shall we stay here
sucking our thumbs? Shall we set about building another vessel and the
enemy come upon us before 'tis done? Shall we despair? Not us! We stand
a hundred and thirty and two men, and every man a proved and seasoned
fighter; so will we, being smitten thus, forthwith smite back, and smite
where the enemy will least expect. We'll march overland on Carthagena--I
know it well--fall on 'em in the dead hush o' night, surprise their fort,
spike their guns and down to the harbour for a ship. Here's our vessel
a wreck--we'll have one of theirs in place. So, comrades all, who's for
Carthagena along with me; who's for a Spanish ship and Old England?'"

"Why, then," cried I, amazed, "my dream was true. They have marched across
country on Carthagena--"

"Yes, Martin, but what dream--?"

"With four guns, mounted on wheels?"

"Yes, Martin; they built four gun-carriages to Adam's design. But what of
your dream?"

So I told her of Atlamatzin and the visions I had beheld; "and I saw you
also, my loved Joan; aye, as I do remember, you knelt on the deck above,
praying and with your arms reached out--"

"Why, so I did often--one night in especial, I remember, weeping and
calling to you, for I was very fearful and--lonely, dear Martin. And that
night, I remember, I dreamed I saw you, your back leaned to a great rock as
you were very weary, and staring into a fire, sad-eyed and desolate. Across
your knees was your gun and all around you a dark and dismal forest, and
I yearned to come to you and could not, and so watched and lay to weep
anew.--Oh, dear, loved Martin!"

Here she turned, her eyes dark with remembered sorrow, wherefore I took and
lifted her to my knee, holding her thus close upon my heart.

"Tell me," said I after some while, "when Adam marched on his desperate
venture, did he name any day for his likely return?"

"Yes, Martin!"

"And when was that?"

"'Twas the day you came."

"Then he is already late," quoth I. "And he was ever mighty careful and
exact in his calculations. 'Tis an adventure so daring as few would have
attempted, saving only our 'timid' Adam. And how if he never returns, my
Damaris--how then?"

"Ah, then--we have each other!" said she.

"And therein is vast comfort and--for me great joy!" quoth I.


CHAPTER XXXIV

OF LOVE


My first care was to see how we stood in regard to stores, more especially
powder and shot great and small, the which I found sufficient and to spare,
as also divers weapons, as muskets, pistols, hangers, etc. The more I
thought, the more I was determined to put the ship into as good a posture
of defence as might be, since I judged it likely the Spaniards might pay
us a visit soon or late, or mayhap some chance band of hostile Indians. To
this end and with great exertion, by means of lever and tackle, I hauled
inboard her four great stern-chase guns, at the which labour my lady
chancing to find me, falls to work beside me right merrily.

"Why, Martin," said she, when the four pieces stood ready to hand, "I
have seen five men strain hard to move one of these; indeed you must be
marvellous strong."

At this I grew so foolishly pleased that I fell to charging these pieces
amain, lest she should see aught of this.

"Strong, great men be usually the gentlest," said she.

Whatever physical characteristics distinguishes the genius of
leadership from the ordinary man; whether it is long legs or short;
long nose or pug; big heads or little, one thing is certain - history
tells you on her every page that leadership is never found in
combination with beef.

Cleveland and Reed!

How they stew and swelter in positions they cannot fill.

How these Jonahs have grown till they have become the whale itself. How
their fat will spot the pages to come, and float on the sea where
the Republic went down.

And Ingersoll - let us not forget Ingersoll - the thumber over of past woes,
whose five hundred dollar opera ticket identifies the class to which he now
belongs, and proves his success as a fifteenth century reformer.

The people made and keep up the acquaintance of this man by way of the
ticket office, but instead of considering him as they would any other
footlight performer, who had struck a paying vein and was working
it for all it was worth, and who can only be heard at so much per
ticket, they have come to look upon the character he has been acting
as the man himself, and their friend who would make their cause his
own.

No fee is collected at the door of the little church that is found along
the byways of every Christian land, and its humble preacher can
be heard free of cost.

But abuse of this follower and disciple of Jesus, whose teachings are in no
way responsible for the crimes of Individual Greed, has been the source
of large profits to this man, who has even gone so far as to tell
his hearers not to give a dollar to the support of a preacher -
meaning, doubtless, while you could see his performance for half
the money.

This man, whose audience is world-wide, uses his great opportunity for
helping mankind by inclosing the scenes of former struggles, and
collecting the gate receipts.

This bogus friend of the people answers the cry of distress that is heard
all over this bountiful land by a shrug, and a nod to the master
to drop a few more crumbs, as if the people were hungry dogs under
the table.

Ingersoll a friend of the oppressed?

He would render justice to the enslaved toiler by lengthening his hours of
labor.

A sham reformer, who would destroy the Inquisition of this day by plunging
his spotless blade into an Inquisition whose sun has set, never to rise
again.

Ingersoll of the tender soul, who shows the sincerity of his exhibition-tears
for the persecuted dead by riding, rough-shod, over the sensibilities of
the blameless living.

Warrior Ingersoll, furiously charging up and down an abandoned battle-field,
rattling the bleaching bones of a dead and gone enemy - for an admission
fee.

Ingersoll the capper, who would turn all eyes to the ashes of a
burned-out bell, while another is being dug in our rear.

Cleveland - Reed - Ingersoll,
The Three
C A G L I O S T R O S

.
This done, I brought hammer, nails, etc., from the carpenter's stores and
set myself to mend such shot-holes, cracks, and rents in the panelling and
the like as I judged would incommode us in wind or rain, and while I did
this (and whistling cheerily) needs must I stay ever and anon to watch my
sweet soul busy at her cookery (and mighty savoury dishes) and she pause
to look on me, until we must needs run to kiss each other and so to our
several labours again.

For now indeed came I to know a happiness so calm and deep, so much greater
than I had ventured to hope that often I would be seized of panic dread
lest aught came to snatch it from me. Thus lived we, joying in each hour,
busied with such daily duties as came to hand, yet I for one finding these
labours sweet by reason of her that shared them; yet ever our love grew and
we ever more happy in each other's companionship.

And here I, that by mine own folly of stubborn pride had known so little of
content and the deep and restful joy of it; here, I say, greatly tempted am
I to dwell and enlarge upon these swift-flying, halcyon days whose memory
Time cannot wither; I would paint you her changing moods, her sweet
gravity, her tender seriousness, her pretty rogueries, her demureness, her
thousand winsome tricks of gesture and expression, the vital ring of her
sweet voice, her long-lashed eyes, the dimple in her chin, and all the
constant charm and wonder of her. But what pen could do the sweet soul
justice, what word describe her innumerable graces? Surely not mine, so
would it be but vain labour and mayhap, to you who take up this book, great
weariness to read.

So I will pass to a certain night, the moon flooding her radiance all
about me and the world very hushed and still with nought to hear save the
murmurous ripple and soft lapping of the incoming tide, and I upon my bed
(very wakeful) and full of speculation and the problem I pondered this:
Adam (and he so precise and exact in all things) had named to my lady a
day for his return, which day was already long past, therefore it was but
natural to suppose his desperate venture against this great fortified city
a failure, his hardy fellows scattered, and his brave self either slain or
a prisoner. What then of our situation, my dear lady's and mine, left thus
solitary in a hostile country and little or no chance of ever reaching
England, but doomed rather to seek some solitude where we might live secure
from hostile Indians or the implacable persecution of the Spaniards. Thus
we must live alone with Nature henceforth, she and I and God. And this
thought filled me alternately with intoxicating joy for my own sake, since
all I sought of life was this loved woman, and despair for her sake, since
secretly she must crave all those refinements of life and civilisation as
had become of none account to myself. And if Adam were slain indeed and
England thus beyond our reach, how long must we wait to be sure of this?

Here I started to hear my lady calling me softly:

"Art awake, dear Martin?"

"Yes, my Joan!"

"I dreamed myself alone again. Oh, 'tis good to hear your voice! Are you
sleepy?"

"No whit."

"Then let us talk awhile as we used sometimes on our loved island."

"Loved you it--so greatly, Joan?"

"Beyond any place in the world, Martin."

"Why, then--" said I and stopped, lest my voice should betray the sudden
joy that filled me.

"Go on, Martin."

"'Twas nought."

"Aye, but it was! You said 'Why, then.' Prithee, dear sir, continue."

Myself (sitting up and blinking at the moon): Why, then, if
you--we--are--if we should be so unfortunate as to be left solitary in
these cruel wilds and no hope of winning back to England, should you grieve
therefor?

She (after a moment): Should you, Martin?

Myself (mighty fervently): Aye, indeed!

She (quickly): Why, Martin--pray why?

Myself (clenching my fists): For that we should be miserable outcasts cut
off from all the best of life.

She: The best? As what, Martin?

Myself: Civilisation and all its refinements, all neighbourliness,
the comforts of friendship, all security, all laws, and instead of
these--dangers, hardship, and solitude.

She (softly): Aye, this methinks should break our hearts. Indeed, Martin,
you do fright me.

Myself (bitterly): Why, 'tis a something desolate possibility!

She (dolefully): And alas, Adam cometh not!

Myself: Alas, no!

She: And is long overdue.

Myself: He marched on a perilous venture; aye, mighty hazardous and
desperate.

She: Indeed, dear Martin, so desperate that I do almost pity the folk of
Carthagena.

Myself (wondering): Then you do think he will succeed--will come sailing
back one day?

She: Yes, Martin, if he hath to sail the ship back alone.

Myself: And wherefore believe this?

She: I know not, except that he is Adam and none like to him.

Myself: Yet is he only mortal, to be captured or slain one way or another.
How if he cometh never back?

She: Why then, Martin--needs must I forego all thought of England, of home,
of the comfortable joys of civilisation, of all laws, and instead of all
these cleave to you--my beloved!

Myself: Damaris!

She: Oh, Martin, dear, foolish blunderer to dream you could fright me with
tales of hardship, or dangers, or solitude when you were by, to think I
must break my heart for home and England when you are both to me. England
or home without you were a desert; with you the desert shall be my England,
my home all my days, if God so will it.

Myself: Oh, loved woman, my brave, sweet Joan! And the laws--what of the
laws?

She: God shall be our law, shall give us some sign.

Myself: Joan--come to me!

She (faintly): No! Ah, no!

Myself: Come!

She: Very well, Martin.

In a little I heard her light step, slow and something hesitant, and then
she stood before me in her loveliness, wrapped about in my travel-stained
boat-cloak; so came she to sink beside me on her knees.

"I am here, Martin," said she, "since I am yours and because I know my
will, thine also. For sure am I that Adam will yet come and with him cometh
law and England and all else; shall we not rest then for God's sign, be it
soon or a little late, and I honour thee the more hereafter. If this indeed
be foolish scruple to your mind, dear Martin, I am here; but if for this
you shall one day reverence your wife the more--beloved, let me go!"

"Indeed--indeed, sign or no sign, thus do I love thee!" said I, and loosed
her. And now, as she rose from my reluctant arms, even then, soft and faint
with distance but plain and unmistakable came the boom of a gun.


CHAPTER XXXV

THE COMING OF ADAM AND OF OUR GREAT JOY THEREIN


The moon was paling to daybreak as, having climbed that rocky stair I have
mentioned, we came upon the cliff and stood, hands tight-clasped, where
we might behold the infinity of waters; and after some while, looming
phantom-like upon the dawn, we descried the lofty sails of a great ship
standing in towards the land and growing ever more distinct. To make
that race true free men was a task much more vast than to emancipate
them. The parting of the ways had come.
An illiterate people must be taught.

No longer should it be a crime to instruct them. The rather was he the
criminal who should deny them an education.

It was an hour for the voice of a prophet. With the ken of a seer, Chaplain
Cravath, representing the American Missionary Association, Jan. 9th,
1866, made the proclamation, that the founding of the school inaugurated
that day was the beginning of a great educational institution, that
should give to the emancipated race the opportunities and advantages
of education which had so long been furnished to the white race
in their colleges and universities.

[Illustration: THE RAW MATERIAL.]
Gen.

Fisk, the brilliant soldier and ardent philanthropist, lent invaluable aid
and consented to have the institution, so problematical in its existence,
bear his name. Governor Brownlow and the pioneer educator of colored youth,
Professor John Ogden, added the weight of their words and helpful deeds,
and Fisk had come into being.

[Illustration: FISK'S FINISHED PRODUCT.]
ROMANCE ATTENDED THE EARLY LIFE OF THE UNIVERSITY.--Nearly four years had
passed, when the Professor of music started out with a band of colored
youth, who had been named the Jubilee Singers. That they could sing with
incomparable sweetness he knew. That the songs they were to sing had
incomparable pathos no one who heard them doubted. But nothing short of
sublimest faith could have sent forth this band of friendless youth on their
mission. They often were penniless as they went from town to town. They
arrived at Oberlin and were permitted to sing before the National Council,
then in session at that stronghold of the colored man. The tide turned.
It rose with rapidity. Plymouth, Brooklyn, and other churches were opened
to them. The entire North gave them welcome. They crossed the Atlantic; that
gracious friend of humanity Queen Victoria, gave them audience. Her incomparable
prime minister, Gladstone, made them his guests at Hawarden. Germany
and France heard them."Praise God!" said he, halting suddenly to flourish off his battered hat
and glance from one to other of us with his old, whimsical look. "Praise
God I do see again two souls, the most wilful and unruly in all this world,
yet here stand ye that should be most thoroughly dead (what with the peril
consequent upon wilfulness) but for a most especial Providence--there stand
ye fuller of life and the joy o' living than ever."

"And you, Adam," reaching her hands to him in welcome, "you that must march
'gainst a mighty city with men so few! Death surely hath been very nigh you
also, yet here are you come back to us unscathed save for your arm; surely
God hath been to us infinitely kind and good!"

"Amen!" said Adam and stooping, raised these slender hands to his lips.
"Howbeit, my Lady Wilfulness," quoth he, shaking his head, "I vow you ha'
caused me more carking care than any unhanged pirate or Spaniard on the
Main! You that must bide here all alone, contemning alike my prayers and
commands, nor suffering any to stay for your comfort and protection and all
for sake of this hare-brained, most obstinate comrade o' mine, that must
go running his poor sconce into a thousand dangers (which was bad) and
upsetting all my schemes and calculations (which was worse, mark you!)
and all to chase a will-o'-the-wisp, a mare's nest, a--oh, Lord love you,
Martin--!" And so we clasped hands.

In a little, my dear lady betwixt us, and Adam discoursing of his
adventures and particularly of his men's resolution, endurance and
discipline, we got us aboard the _Deliverance_ which the men were already
stripping of such stores as remained, filling the air with cheery shouts,
and yo-ho-ing as they hove at this or hauled at that. Climbing to the
quarter-deck we came at last to the great cabin, where Adam was pleased
to commend the means I had taken to our defence, though more than once I
noticed his quick glance flash here and there as if seeking somewhat. At
last, my lady having left us awhile, he turns his sharp eyes on me:

"Comrade, how goeth vengeance nowadays?" he questioned. "What of Sir
Richard, your enemy?"

"Dead; Adam!"

"Aha!" said he, pinching his chin and eyeing me askance, "was it steel or
did ye shoot him, comrade?"

"God forgive you for saying such thing, Adam!" quoth I, scowling into his
lean, brown face.

"Aha," said he again, and viewing me with his furtive leer. "Do ye regret
his murder then, Martin?"

"Aye, I do from my heart--now and always!"

"Hum!" said he, seating himself on my tumbled bed and glancing whimsically
at me, "Martin," quoth he, "friend--brother--you that talked bloody murder
and hell-fire with a heart inside you clean and gentle as a child's,
thou'rt plaguey fool to think thy friend Adam be such fool as not to know
thee better. Hark'ee now, here's your fashion: If you found the enemy you
sought so long and him in a Spanish prison, first you cursed, then you
comforted, then eased his pains, watched your chance, throttled your gaoler
and away to freedom, bearing your enemy along wi' you--is't not something
the way of it--come?"

"Truly, Adam!" said I, all amazed, "though how you chance to know this--"

"Tush!" said he. "'Tis writ plain all over thee, Martin, and yonder cometh
our lady, as peerless a maid as ever blessed man's sight--for all of the
which I do love thee, Martin. Come, now, I will take ye aboard the prize
and hey for England--this night we sail!" So we joined my lady and coming
down to the boat were presently rowed to the Spanish ship, a great vessel,
her towering stem brave with gilding and her massy timbers enriched by all
manner of carved work.

"She had a name well-nigh long as herself, Martin," said Adam, "but Godby
christened her _The Joyous Hope_ instead, which shall serve well enough."
So we came beneath her high, curving side, where leaned familiar
figures--lean, bronzed fellows who welcomed us with cheer that waked many
an echo. Upon the quarter-deck was Penruddock the surgeon, who bustled
forward to greet us himself as loquacious as ever and very loud in praise
of the cure he had once wrought in me; and here, too, was Godby, to make a
leg to my lady and grasp my hand.

"Why, Mart'n--why, pal, here's j'y, scorch me wi' a port-fire else!" quoth
he, then, hearing a hail from the beach, rolled away to look to his many
duties.

"She's good enough vessel--to look at, Martin," said Adam, bringing us into
the panelled splendour of the coach or roundhouse; "aye, she's roomy and
handsome enough and rich-laden, though something heavy on her helm; of guns
fifty and nine and well-found in all things save clothes, hence my scurvy
rags; but we'll better 'em when our stores come aboard."

And now, my lady being retired; he showed me over this great galleon, so
massy built for all her gilding and carved finery, and so stout-timbered as
made her well-nigh shot-proof.

"She's a notable rich prize, Adam!" said I, as we came above deck again,
where the crew were at work getting aboard us the stores from the
_Deliverance_ under Godby's watchful eye.

When the girls came home with their berries, they all gave Susy some, for
every body loves Susy.

[Illustration]

THE SQUIRREL-TRAP.

Henry had seen a squirrel in a cage; he had watched him whirling about and
cracking his nuts, and he longed to have one of his own; so he
built a trap-cage, and set it near the great nut tree.

He set it in the morning, and then went to school, but he could not
study much for thinking of the trap. After school it did not take him long
to visit the old nut tree, and lo! there was a little squirrel in his trap;
but little squirry soon got away, as you see, and ran off to the woods,
happy enough to get his liberty again.

[Illustration]

THE SQUIRREL.

One pleasant summer morning A little boy was seen Beneath a spreading oak
tree Upon a village green.

And to a merry squirrel The child was heard to say-- "How is it, Mr. Muncher,
You always are at play?"
"I laid up nuts, last autumn, So I can frolic now," Replied the merry
squirrel, And frisked along the bough.

[Illustration]
"And you, my little school-boy, Must study all you can, And lay up stores of
knowledge, To use when you're a man."

Near by a bird was stopping To rest its pretty wing-- "Pray, tell me,"
said the youngster, "Who taught you how to sing?"
"I never had a master," The little bird replied; "But when my mate was
sitting, To comfort her I tried;
"And if you like my singing, Its secret I will tell-- All that we do for
love, sir, We surely shall do well."
And now, dear little children, If you open wide your eyes, You will
see the pretty lessons In creatures, birds, and skies.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]
How doth the little busy bee Improve each shining hour, And gather
honey all the day From every opening flower!

In books, or work, or healthful play, Let my first years be passed, That
I may give for every day Some good account at last.
[Illustration] 

THE SWING.
"Oh! is it not a nice swing!" said Amy to her little brother; "how
cool it makes you to swing in the shade! I love papa for fixing
this swing, don't you? We will kiss him when he comes home."
Amy loves to swing her little brother better than to swing herself;
but sometimes she swings, and holds little Eddie in her lap. What
nice times little children have, when they love each other, and try
to please!

[Illustration] 

THE POOR BEGGAR.
"Mother, I am so hungry," said Charley Gray, as he returned from
school. "Why!" said his mother, "did you not eat the dinner that
you carried with you?" "No, dear mother; as I was going to school,
I saw, sitting by the roadside, a poor old man and a little girl;
they looked so sad and tired that I stopped to speak to them; they
said they were very hungry--so I gave them my dinner, and went
without myself. I am glad I did it, for it must be dreadful to
suffer from hunger." 

[Illustration] 

THE DIRTY BOY.
Here is a poor boy; he is going to have a wash at the pump. His
clothes are all torn and soiled, but he can keep his face clean,
and he will soon be old enough to earn some better clothes.
Some little boys who have good clothes, and kind parents to keep
them clean, hate to be washed. I have heard of a boy who had to be
hired to have his face washed, and he would often cry about it, as
though it was a dreadful thing. Children, to be loved, should be
nice and clean.

SUMMER TIME.
I love to hear the little birds That carol on the trees; I love the
gentle murmuring stream, I love the evening breeze.And now cometh my
lady, dressed in gown I thought marvellous becoming, and herself beautiful
beyond all women, as I told her, whereat she cast down her eyes and
smoothed her dainty silks with her pretty hands.

"Fie, Martin!" said she, mighty demure. "Is it well to be so extravagant in
praise of your own?" Which last words put me to such ecstasy that I fell
dumb forthwith; noting the which, she came a little nearer to slip her cool
fingers into mine, "Though, indeed," quoth she, "I am glad to find you so
observant! And my hair? Doth it please you, thus?" And now I saw her silky
tresses (and for all their mutilation) right cunningly ordered, and amid
their beauty that same wooden comb I had made for her on the island. "Well,
dear sir?" said she, leaning nearer. At this, being ever a man scant of
words (and the deck deserted hereabouts) I kissed her. And now, hand in
hand, we stood silent awhile to watch this cruel land of Darien fade upon
our sight. At last she turned and I also, to view that vast horizon that
lay before us.

"What see you, yonder in the distance, dear Martin?" she questioned.

"Yourself!" said I. "You fill my world. God make me worthy! Aye, in the
future--ever beside me henceforth, I do see you, my Damaris!"

"Why, to be sure, loved man! But what more?"

"I want for no more!"

"Nay, do but look!" said she, soft cheek to mine. "There I do see
happiness, fortune, honours--and--mayhap, if God is kind to us--" She
stopped, with sound like a little sob.

"What, my Joan?" I questioned, fool-like.

"Greater blessings--"

"But," said I, "what should be greater--"

"Ah, Martin--dear--cannot you guess?"

"Why, Joan--oh, my beloved!" But stepping out of my hold, she fled from me.
"Nay," cried I, "do not leave me so soon."

"I must, dear Martin. You--you will be wanting to speak with Adam--"

"Not I--Lord, no!"

"Why, then--you shall!" said she and vanished into the roundhouse
forthwith, leaving me wondering like the dull fellow I was until (and all
at once) I understood and my wonder changed to joy so great I might scarce
contain myself; wherefore, beholding Adam coming, I hasted to meet him and
had clapped him in my arms or ever he was aware.

"Marry us, Adam!" said I. "Marry us, man!"

"What, ha' ye just thought on't at last, Martin?"

"Aye, I have!"

"Tush!" said he. "'Twas all arranged by my lady and me hours agone. Come
into the coach."

And thus, upon the high seas, Adam (being both captain and magistrate)
married us forthwith, and because I had no other, I wed my Damaris with
my signet ring whereon was graven the motto of my house, viz: a couchant
leopard and the words, "Rouse me not." And who so sweet and grave as my
dear lady as she made the responses and hearkened to Adam, and he mighty
impressive. For witnesses we had Master Penruddock the surgeon and Godby,
and now, my lady retiring, we must crack a bottle, all four, though I know
not what we drank.

And presently Adam drew me out upon the quarter-deck, there to walk with me
a while under a great moon.

"Martin," said he suddenly, "you have come by rough seas and mighty
roundabout course to your happiness, but there be some do never make this
blessed haven all their days."

"God comfort them, poor souls!" quoth I.

"Amen!" said he; and then in changed voice, and his keen gaze aloft amid
the swelling sail, "What o' the lady Joanna, shipmate?" So I told him all
the best I remembered of her and described how nobly she had died; and he
pacing beside me said never a word.

"Whom can it be for?" asked Inley.

"Miss Bassett, probably," Lady Inley replied carelessly, helping
herself to a bonbon from a little silver dish.

Inley started.

"Miss Sarah Bassett! What makes you think so?"
"Oh, while you were away in town she got ill.

Didn't you know?" 
"No," said Inley.
I could see that he was moved. His dark, short face had changed
suddenly, and he stopped eating his fruit. Lady Inley went on
crunching the bonbon between her little white teeth with all the
enjoyment of a pretty marmoset."Aye, 'tis mighty well,
for nought under heaven is there to compare with true friendship, except
it be the love of a noble woman. So now go, comrade, go to her who hath
believed in you so faithfully, hath steadfastly endured so much for
you--get you to your wife!"