The conduct of the American general in so tamely surrendering is
inexplicable, as Detroit contained an ample supply of ammunition and
provisions for nearly a month, besides an abundance of wheat in the
territory, with mills to grind any quantity into flour. One of his
officers, Colonel Cass, in a long letter to the Honorable William
Eustis, the secretary of war at Washington, said: "I have been informed
by Colonel Findley, who saw the return of the quartermaster-general the
day after the surrender, that their whole force, of every description,
white, red, and black, was 1,030.[72] They had twenty-nine platoons,
twelve in a platoon, of men dressed in uniform. Many of these were
evidently Canadian militia. The rest of their militia increased their
white force to about 700. The number of Indians could not be ascertained
with any degree of precision--not many were visible. And in the event of
an attack upon the town and fort, it was a species of force which could
have afforded no material advantage to the enemy.... It might have been
Johnson, or Smith, or Howard, or any body, in short."
"It is a man nearly six feet high," said I, "thin, and remarkably well
made, of a pale complexion, light eyes, and very black hair, mustachios
and whiskers. I saw him with you once in the Bois de Boulogne, and
once in a hell in the Palais Royal. Surely, now you will recollect
who he is?"
Thornton was evidently disconcerted. "Oh!" said he, after a short
pause, and another of his peculiarly quick, sly glances--"Oh, that
man; I have known him a very short time.Whether the philanthropic reason assigned by him is a
sufficient justification for surrendering a fortified town, an army, and
a territory, is for the government to determine. Confident I am, that
had the courage and conduct of the general been equal to the spirit and
zeal of the troops, the event would have been brilliant and successful
as it is now disastrous and dishonorable." Hull's behaviour, then, can
only be accounted for by the supposition that the boldness of his
adversary's movements led him to believe he had to contend with far
greater numbers; or, that having threatened to refuse quarter to the
white man found fighting by the side of the Indian, he was
apprehensive, in the event of defeat, that this threat would be visited
with severe retaliation, particularly by the Indians, whose fury, in a
successful assault, it might have been very difficult to restrain. To
their honor, however, be it said, that although they took a few
prisoners on the advance, the enemy sustained no loss of life beyond
that caused by the British batteries; and in general orders, at Detroit,
they were told, that in nothing could they testify more strongly their
love to the king, their great father, than in following the dictates of
honor and humanity by which they had hitherto been actuated.

"The news of the surrender of Detroit," says the American historian,
Brown, "was so unexpected, that it came like a clap of thunder to the
ears of the American people. No one would believe the first report. The
disastrous event blasted the prospects of the first campaign, and opened
the northern and western frontiers of Ohio to savage incursions.

"Previous to the surrender of Detroit, the governors of Ohio and
Kentucky, in obedience to the directions of the war department, had
detached powerful reinforcements to the aid of General Hull. Had he
deferred the capitulation but a few days longer, his army, Detroit, and
the Michigan territory, would have been saved.

"The forces advancing to his support consisted of 2,000 militia, under
Brigadier-General Payne, and a battalion of mounted riflemen, under
Colonel R.M. Johnson, from Kentucky; a brigade of Ohio militia, under
the orders of Brigadier-General Tupper;[73] and nearly 1,000 regulars,
under the command of General Winchester. They had reached the St. Mary's
River when the news of the capture of Detroit was received. But for the
well-timed arrival of the above force a wide scene of flight and misery,
of blood and desolation, must have ensued. Nearly half of the territory
of Ohio must have been depopulated, or its inhabitants fallen victims to
the scalping knife."

"The chagrin felt at Washington," observes James in his Military
Occurrences, "when news arrived of the total failure of this the first
attempt at invasion, was in proportion to the sanguine hopes entertained
of its success. To what a pitch of extravagance those hopes had been
carried, cannot better appear than in two speeches delivered upon the
floor of congress, in the summer of 1812. Dr. Eustis, the secretary at
war of the United States, said: 'We can take the Canadas without
soldiers; we have only to send officers into the provinces, and the
people, disaffected towards their own government, will rally round our
standard.' The honorable Henry Clay seconded his friend, thus: 'It is
absurd to suppose we shall not succeed in our enterprize against the
enemy's provinces. We have the Canadas as much under our command as she
(Great Britain) has the ocean; and the way to conquer her on the ocean
is to drive her from the land. I am not for stopping at Quebec, or any
where else; but I would take the whole continent from them, and ask them
no favors. Her fleets cannot then rendezvous at Halifax, as now; and,
having no place of resort in the north, cannot infest our coast as they
have lately done. It is as easy to conquer them on the land, as their
whole navy would conquer ours on the ocean. We must take the continent
from them. _I wish never to see a peace till we do._ God has given us
the power and the means: we are to blame if we do not use them. If we
get the continent, she must allow us the freedom of the sea.' This is
the gentleman who, afterwards, in the character of a commissioner--and
it stands as a record of his unblushing apostacy--signed the treaty of
peace."

Tecumseh, who was slain the year following, headed a party of his
warriors on this occasion, and in the rough sketch already mentioned,
Major-General Brock remarked: "Among the Indians whom I found at
Amherstburg, and who had arrived from distant parts of the country,
there were some extraordinary characters. He who most attracted my
attention was a Shawanee chief, Tecumseh, the brother of the prophet,
who for the two last years has carried on, contrary to our
remonstrances, an active war against the United States. A more sagacious
or a more gallant warrior does not, I believe, exist. He was the
admiration of every one who conversed with him. From a life of
dissipation he has not only become in every respect abstemious, but he
has likewise prevailed on all his nation, and many of the other tribes,
to follow his example." Previously to crossing over to Detroit,
Major-General Brock inquired of Tecumseh what sort of a country he
should have to pass through in the event of his proceeding further.
Tecumseh, taking a roll of elm bark, and extending it on the ground,
drew forth his scalping knife, and with the point presently edged upon
the back a plan of the country, its hills, woods, rivers, morasses, and
roads--a plan which, if not as neat, was fully as intelligible as if a
surveyor had prepared it. Pleased with this unexpected talent in
Tecumseh, with his defeat of the Americans near Brownstown, and with his
having, by his characteristic boldness, induced the Indians, not of his
own tribe, to cross the river prior to the embarkation of the white
troops, Major-General Brock, soon after Detroit was surrendered, took
off his sash and publicly placed it round the body of the chief.
Tecumseh received the honor with evident gratification, but was the next
day seen without the sash. The British general, fearing that something
had displeased the Indian, sent his interpreter for an explanation.
Tecumseh told him, that not wishing to wear such a mark of distinction
when an older, and, as he said, an abler warrior than himself was
present, he had transferred the sash to the Wyandot chief,
Roundhead.[74]

The unfortunate General Hull, on his return to the United States, was
tried by a court martial and condemned to death; but the sentence was
remitted by the president, in consideration of his age and services
during the war of independence.[75] His name was, however, struck off
the rolls of the army. His son, and aide-de-camp at Detroit, Captain
Hull, was killed in July, 1814, in the hard-fought battle near the Falls
of Niagara.

Major-General Brock's services throughout this short campaign, closed by
an achievement which his energy and decision crowned with such
unqualified success, were highly appreciated by the government at home,
and were immediately rewarded with the order of the bath, which was then
confined to one degree of knighthood only. He was gazetted to this mark
of his country's approbation, so gratifying to the feelings of a
soldier, on the 10th of October; but he lived not long enough to learn
that he had obtained so honorable a distinction, the knowledge of which
would have cheered him in his last moments. Singularly enough his
dispatches, accompanied by the colours of the U.S. 4th regiment, reached
London early on the morning of the 6th of October, the anniversary of
his birth. His brother William, who was residing in the vicinity, was
asked by his wife why the park and tower guns were saluting. "For
Isaac, of course," he replied; "do you not know that this is his
birth-day?" "What," said Montfanon, "in Poland? I saw him this morning
as plainly as I see you. He passed the Fountain du Triton in a cab.
If I had not been in such haste to reach Ribalta's in time to
save the Montluc, I could have stopped him, but we were both in too
great a hurry."

    "You are sure that Gorka is in Rome--Boleslas Gorka?"

      insisted Dorsenne.

"What is there surprising in that?" said Montfanon. "It is quite
natural that he should not wish to remain away long from a city
where he has left a wife and a mistress. I suppose your Slav and your
Anglo-Saxon have no prejudices, and that they share their Venetian
with a dilettanteism quite modern.

It is cosmopolitan, indeed.... Well, once more, adieu.... Deliver my
message to him if you see him, and," his face again expressed a childish
malice, "do not fail to tell Mademoiselle Hafner that her father's
daughter will never, never have this volume. It is not for intriguers!"
And, laughing like a mischievous schoolboy, he pressed the book more
tightly under his arm, repeating: "She shall not have it.
Listen.... And tell her plainly. She shall not have it!"

CHAPTER II
THE BEGINNING OF A DRAMA
"There is an intelligent man, who never questions his ideas," said
Dorsenne to himself, when the Marquis had left him. "He is like the
Socialists. What vigor of mind in that old wornout machine!" And for a
brief moment he watched, with a glance in which there was at least
as much admiration as pity, the Marquis, who was disappearing down the
Rue de la Propagande, and who walked at the rapid pace characteristic of
monomaniacs. They follow their thoughts instead of heeding objects.
However, the care he exercised in avoiding the sun's line for the
shade attested the instincts of an old Roman, who knew the danger
of the first rays of spring beneath that blue sky. For a moment
Montfanon paused to give alms to one of the numerous mendicants who
abound in the neighborhood of the Place d'Espagne, meritorious in
him, for with his one arm and burdened with the prayer-book it
required a veritable effort to search in his pocket.Three or
four years after the war, the houses were so numerous and so close
together upon the banks of the Detroit, that there was an appearance of
a succession of villages for more than ten miles. The farms were very
narrow in front, extending a long way back, and were allotted in this
awkward and inconvenient form, that their respective occupants might be
able to render each other assistance when attacked by the Indians, who
were at one time very numerous and troublesome in this vicinity.

The banks of the river Detroit are the Eden of Upper Canada, in so far
as regards the production of fruit. Apples, pears, plums, peaches,
grapes, and nectarines, attain the highest degree of perfection, and
exceed in size, beauty, and flavour, those raised in any other part of
the province. Cider abounds at the table of the meanest peasant, and
there is scarcely a farm that has not a fruitful orchard attached to it.
This fineness of the fruit is one consequence of the amelioration of
climate, which takes place in the vicinity of the Detroit river and Lake
St. Clair. The seasons there are much milder and more serene than they
are a few hundred miles below, and the weather is likewise drier and
less variable. Comparatively little snow falls during the winter,
although the cold is often sufficiently intense to freeze over the
Detroit river so strongly, that persons, horses, and even loaded
sleighs, cross it with ease and safety. In summer, the country presents
a forest of blossoms, which exhale the most delicious odours; a cloud
seldom obscures the sky; while the lakes and rivers, which extend in
every direction, communicate a reviving freshness to the air, and
moderate the warmth of a dazzling sun; and the clearness and elasticity
of the atmosphere render it equally healthy and exhilarating.[76]

