 If he knows that Christ died for him, that there
is a future beyond the grave, it makes all the difference between
despair and hope, between misery and consolation, between the helpless
frailty of a being that is puffed out like a candle, and the joyful
power of an endless life.

My brethren, we must work and pray for a true revival of Christian
doctrine in our age. We must deepen our own hold upon the truths which
Christ has taught us. We must preach them more simply, more
confidently, more reasonably, more earnestly. We must draw from them the
happiness and the help, the comfort and the inspiration, that they have
to give to the souls of men. But most of all, we must keep them in close
and living touch with the problems of daily duty and experience. For no
doctrine, however high, however true, can make men happy until it is
translated into life.

ii. _Our next Number, which will complete our First Volume, will do
the same, as it is obviously for the convenience of our readers
that the_ REPLIES _should, as far as possible, appear in the same
Volume with the_ QUERIES _to which they relate_

.
There is no peace, no
real and lasting felicity for a human life until the gulf is closed, and
the continent of conduct meets the continent of creed, edge to edge, lip
to lip, firmly joined forever.

It is not a blessing to know the things that Christ teaches, and then go
on living as if they were false or doubtful. It is a trouble, a torment,
a secret misery. To know that God is our Father, and yet to withhold
our love and service from Him; to know that Christ died for us, and yet
to deny Him and refuse to follow Him; to know that there is an immortal
life, and yet to waste and lose our souls in the pursuit of sensual
pleasure and such small portion of the world as we may hope to
gain,--surely that is the deepest of all unhappiness.

But the right kind of knowing carries in its heart the doing of the
truth. And the right kind of doing leads to a fuller and happier
knowing. "If any man will do God's will," declares Christ, "he shall
know of the doctrine."

Let a man take the truth of the Divine Fatherhood and begin to conform
his life to its meaning. Let him give up his anxious worryings, his
murmurings, his complainings, and trust himself completely to his
Father's care. Let him do his work from day to day as well as he can and
leave the results to God. Let him come to his Father every day and
confess his faults and ask for help and guidance. Let him try to obey
and please God for love's sake. Let him take refuge from the trials and
confusions and misunderstandings of the world, from the wrath of men and
the strife of tongues, in the secret of his Father's presence. Cunningham's
_Handbook_, and treat rather of present London and its amusements
than those of historical and literary associations which give a
charm to Mr.

Cunningham's volume.

We are glad to find that the most mysterious and mystified portion of the
Greek Geometry is likely to receive at last a complete elucidation--we
mean the "Porisms." There are so many questions arising out of this
subject, respecting the development of the Grecian intellect, that a
full discussion of them is no easy task; especially of those arising out
of the conflicting testimonies furnished by history, and by the internal
evidences contained in the existing works of the "fathers of Geometry."
Surely the man who does these things will be happy. It will be
with him as with Lazarus, in Robert Browning's poem, "The Epistle of
Karshish." Others will look at him with wonder and say:

  "Whence has the man the balm that brightens all?
  This grown man eyes the world now like a child."

Yes, my brethren, this is the sure result of following out the doctrines
of Christ in action, of living the truths that He teaches,--a simple
life, a childlike life, a happy life. And this also the Church needs
to-day, as well as a true revival of doctrine.

A revival of simplicity, a revival of sincerity, a revival of work: this
will restore unto us the joy of salvation. And with the joy of salvation
will come a renewal and expansion of power.

The inconsistency of Christians is the stronghold of unbelief. The lack
of vital joy in the Church is the chief cause of indifference in the
world. The feeble energy, the faltering and reluctant spirit, the
weariness in well-doing with which too many believers impoverish and
sadden their own hearts, make other men question the reality and value
of religion and turn away from it in cool neglect.

What, then, is the duty of the Church? What must she do to win the
confidence of the world? What is the best way for her to "prove her
doctrine all divine"?

First, she must increase her labours in the love of men: second, she
must practice the simple life, deepening her trust in God.

Suppose that a fresh flood of energy, brave, cheerful, joyous energy,
should be poured into all the forms of Christian work. Suppose that
Foreign Missions and Home Missions should no longer have to plead and
beg for support, but that plenty of money should come flowing in to send
out every missionary that wants to go, and that plenty of the strongest
and best young men should dedicate their lives to the ministry of
Christ, and that every household where His gospel is believed should
find its highest honour and its greatest joy in helping to extend His
kingdom.

And then suppose that the Christian life, in its daily manifestation,
should come to be marked and known by simplicity and happiness. Suppose
that the followers of Jesus should really escape from bondage to the
evil spirits of avarice and luxury which infect and torment so much of
our complicated, tangled, artificial, modern life. Mr.
Lettsom has however just published a most successful translation
of it under the title of _The Fall of the Nibelungers_. Few will
rise from a perusal of the English version of this great national epic--which
in its present form is a work of the thirteenth century--without being
struck with the innate power and character of the original poem; and
without feeling grateful to Mr. Lettsom for furnishing them with so
pleasing and spirited a version of it.

Suppose they should truly find and show their happiness
in the knowledge that God loves them and Christ died for them and heaven
is sure, and so set their hearts free to rejoice in life's common
mercies, the light of the sun, the blue of the sky, the splendour of the
sea, the peace of the everlasting hills, the song of birds, the
sweetness of flowers, the wholesome savour of good food, the delights of
action and motion, the refreshment of sleep, the charm of music, the
blessings of human love and friendship,--rejoice in all these without
fear or misgiving, because they come from God and because Christ has
sanctified them all by His presence and touch.

We shall be glad if his slight notice of the intended work shall bring
some accession of aid to the undertaking in the form of
subscriptions: as upon adequate support, it appears, must depend whether
the work shall go to press, or the project be abandoned.This is the message which I have to bring to you, my brethren, in this
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church. You may wonder that it is
not more distinctive, more ecclesiastical, more specially adapted to the
peculiarities of our own denomination. You may think that it is a
message which could just as well be brought to any other Church on any
other occasion. With all my heart I hope that is true. The things that I
care for most in our Church are not those which divide us from other
Christians but those which unite us to them. The things that I love most
in Christianity are those which give it power to save and satisfy, to
console and cheer, to inspire and bless human hearts and lives. 
Williams and Norgate's (14. Henrietta Street) No. 24. of German Book
Circular, a Quarterly List of the principal New Publications on the
Continent; C.J. Stewart's (11. King William Street, West Strand)
Catalogue of Dogmatical, Polemical, and Ascetical TheologyThe Church that the Twentieth Century will hear most gladly and honour
most sincerely will have two marks. It will be the Church that teaches
most clearly and strongly the truths that Jesus taught. It will be the
Church that finds most happiness in living the simple life and doing
good in the world.


THE BATTLE OF LIFE

    <i>Romans vii. 21: Overcome evil with good.</i>

The Battle of Life is an ancient phrase consecrated by use in
Commencement Orations without number. Two modern expressions have taken
their place beside it in our own day: the Strenuous Life, and the Simple
Life.

Each of these phrases has its own significance and value. It is when
they are overemphasized and driven to extremes that they lose their
truth and become catch-words of folly. The simple life which blandly
ignores all care and conflict, soon becomes flabby and invertebrate,
sentimental and gelatinous. The strenuous life which does everything
with set jaws and clenched fists and fierce effort, soon becomes
strained and violent, a prolonged nervous spasm.

Somewhere between these two extremes must lie the golden mean: a life
that has strength and simplicity, courage and calm, power and peace. But
how can we find this golden line and live along it? Some truth there
must be in the old phrase which speaks of life as a battle. No conflict,
no character. Without strife, a weak life. But what is the real meaning
of the battle? What is the vital issue at stake? What are the things
worth fighting for? As the owner does not recollect to whom it was lent,
and is very anxious to refer to it, he will be obliged by its
immediate return, either to himself directly, or, if more convenient,
to the Editor of "NOTES AND QUERIES

.
For here we find the three things
that we need most: a call to the real battle of life; a plan for the
right campaign; and a promise of final victory.

I. Every man, like the knight in the old legend, is born on a field of
battle. But the warfare is not carnal, it is spiritual. "A work of
great merit; not less acceptable as a book of travel than valuable as
an auxiliary to the archæology of the Holy Scriptures."--_Standard_.

VII.

MADAME PULSZKY'S MEMOIRS; with interesting Details of the LATE
EVENTS in HUNGARY.The fairy tale that the old serpent told to Eve is a
poetic symbol of the lie fundamental,--the theory that sin does not mean
death, because it has no real existence and makes no real difference.
This ancient falsehood has an infinite wardrobe of disguises.

You will find it pranked out in philosophic garb in the doctrines of
those who teach that all things are linked together by necessity of
nature or Divine will, and that nothing could ever have happened
otherwise than just as it has come to pass. Such a theory of the
universe blots out all difference between good and evil except in name.
It leaves the fence-posts standing, but it takes away the rails, and
throws everything into one field of the inevitable.

