He did not leave the house that afternoon.  He kept his post on the
veranda, watching the valley.  With an iron kind of calmness he was
facing a strange event.  It was full of the element of chance, and he had
been taking chances all his life.  With the chances of fortune he had
won; with the chances of love and happiness he had lost.  He knew that
the horseman on the mountain-side was Cayley; he knew that Cayley would
not be near his home without a purpose.  Besides, Cayley had said he
would come--he had said it in half banter, half threat.  Houghton had had
too many experiences backward and forward in the world, to be afflicted
with littleness of mind.  He had never looked to get an immense amount of
happiness out of life, but he thought that love and marriage would give
him a possible approach to content.  He had chanced it, and he had lost.
At first he had taken it with a dreadful bitterness; now he regarded it
with a quiet, unimpassioned despair.  He regarded his wife, himself, and
Cayley, as an impartial judge would view the extraordinary claims of
three desperate litigants.  He thought it all over as he sat there
smoking.  When the servants came to him to ask him questions or his men
ventured upon matters of business, he answered them directly, decisively,
and went on thinking.  His wife had come to take coffee with him at
the usual hour of the afternoon.  There was no special strain of manner
or of speech.  The voices were a little lower, the tones a little more
decided, their eyes did not meet; that was all.  When coffee-drinking was
over the wife retired to her room.  Still Houghton smoked on.  At length
he saw the horseman entering into the grove of palms before the door.  He
rose deliberately from his seat and walked down the pathway.

"Good day to you, Houghton," the horseman said; "we meet again, you see."

"I see."

"You are not overjoyed."

"There's no reason why I should be glad.  Why have you come?"

"You remember our last meeting five years ago.  You were on your way to
be married.  Marriage is a beautiful thing, Houghton, when everything is
right and square, and there's love both sides.  Well, everything was
right and square with you and the woman you were going to marry; but
there was not love both sides."

While they had been talking thus, Houghton had, of purpose, led his
companion far into the shade of the palms.  He now wheeled upon Cayley,
and said sternly: "I warn you to speak with less insolence; we had better
talk simply."

Cayley was perfectly cool.  "We will talk simply.  As I said, you had
marriage without love.  The woman loved another man.  That other man
loved the woman--that good woman.  In youthful days at college he had
married, neither wisely nor well, a beggar-maid without those virtues
usually credited to beggar-maidens who marry gentlemen.  Well, Houghton,
the beggar-maid was supposed to have died.  She hadn't died; she had
shammed.  Meanwhile, between her death and her resurrection, the man came
to love that good woman.  And so, lines got crossed; things went wrong.
Houghton, I loved Alice before she was your wife.  I should have married
her but for the beggar-maid."

"You left her without telling her why."

"I told her that things must end, and I went away."

"Like a coward," rejoined Houghton.  "You should have told her all."

"What difference has it made?" asked Cayley gloomily.

"My happiness and hers.  If you had told her all, there had been an end
of mystery.  Mystery is dear to a woman's heart.  She was not different
in that respect from others.  You took the surest way to be remembered."

Cayley's fingers played with his horse's mane; his eyes ran over the
ground debatingly; then he lifted them suddenly, and said: "Houghton, you
are remarkably frank with me; what do you mean by it?"

"I'll tell you if you will answer me this question: Why have you come
here?"

The eyes of both men crossed like swords, played with each other for a
moment, and then fixed to absolute determination.  Cayley answered
doggedly: "I came to see your wife, because I'm not likely ever to see
her or you again.  I wanted one look of her before I went away.  There,
I'm open with you."

"It is well to be open with me," Houghton replied.  He drew Cayley aside
to an opening in the trees, where the mountain and the White Bluff road
could be seen, and pointed.  "That would make a wonderful leap," he said,
"from the top of the hill down to the cliff edge--and over!"

"A dreadful steeplechase," said Cayley.

Houghton lowered his voice.  "Two people have agreed to take that fence."

Cayley frowned.  "What two people?"

"My wife and I"

"Why?"

"Because there has been a mistake, and to live is misery."

"Has it come to that?" Cayley asked huskily.  "Is there no way--no
better way?  Are you sure that Death mends things?"  Presently he put his
hand upon Houghton's arm, as if with a sudden, keen resolve.  "Houghton,"
he said, "you are a man--I have become a villain.  A woman sent me once
on the high road to the devil; then an angel came in and made a man of me
again; but I lost the angel, and another man found her, and I took the
highway with the devil again.  I was born a gentleman--that you know.
Now I am .  .  ."  He hesitated.  A sardonic smile crept across his face.

"Yes, you are--?" interposed Houghton.

"I am--a man who will give you your wife's love."

"I do not understand," Houghton responded.  Cayley drew Houghton back
from where they stood and away from the horse.

"Look at that horse," he said.  "Did you ever see a better?"

"Never," answered Houghton, running him over with his eye, "never."

"You notice the two white feet and the star on the forehead.  Now,
listen.  Firefoot, here!"

"My God!" said Houghton, turning upon him with staring eyes, "you are--"

"Whose horse is that?" interjected Cayley.  Firefoot laid his head upon
Cayley's shoulder.

Houghton looked at them both for a moment.  "It is the horse of Hyland
the bushranger," he said.  "All Queensland knows Firefoot."  Then he
dazedly added: "Are you Hyland?"

"A price is set on my head," the bushranger answered with a grim smile.

Houghton stood silent for a moment, breathing hard.  Then he rejoined:
"You are bold to come here openly."

"If I couldn't come here openly I would not come at all," answered the
other.  "After what I have told you," he added, "will you take me in and
let me speak with your wife?"

Houghton's face turned black, and he was about to answer angrily, but
Cayley said: "On my honour--I will play a fair game," he said.

For an instant their eyes were fixed on each other; then, with a gesture
for Cayley to follow, Houghton went towards the house.

Five, minutes later Houghton said to his wife: "Alice, a stranger has
come."

"Who is it?" she asked breathlessly, for she read importance in his
tone.

"It is the horseman we saw on the hillside."  His eyes passed over her
face pityingly.  "I will go and bring him."

She caught his arm.  "Who is it?  Is it any one I know?"

"It is some one you know," he answered, and left the room.  Bewildered,
anticipating, yet dreading to recognise her thoughts, she sat down and
waited in a painful stillness.

Presently the door opened, and Cayley entered.  She started to her feet
with a stifled, bitter cry: "Oh, Harry!"

He hurried to her with arms outstretched, for she swayed; but she
straightway recovered herself, and, leaning against a chair, steadied
to his look.

"Why have you come here?" she whispered.  "To say good-bye for always,"
was his reply.

"And why--for always?" She was very white and quiet.

"Because we are not likely ever to meet again."

"Where are you going?" she anxiously asked.  "God knows!"

Strange sensations were working in her.  What would be the end of this?
Her husband, knowing all, had permitted this man to come to her alone.
She had loved him for years; though he had deserted her years ago, she
loved him still--did she love him still?

"Will you not sit down?" she said with mechanical courtesy.

A stranger would not have thought from their manner that there were lives
at stake.  They both sat, he playing with the leaves of an orchid, she
opening and shutting her fan absently.  But she was so cold she could
hardly speak.  Her heart seemed to stand still.

"How has the world used you since we met last?" she tried to say
neutrally.

"Better, I fear, than I have used it," he answered quietly.

"I do not quite see.  How could you ill-use the world?"  There was faint
irony in her voice now.  A change seemed to have come upon her.

"By ill-using any one person we ill-use society--the world"--he meaningly
replied.

"Whom have you ill-used?"  She did not look at him.

"Many--you chiefly."

"How have you--most-ill-used me?"

"By letting you think well of me--you have done so, have you not?"

She did not speak, but lowered her head, and caught her breath slightly.
There was a silence.  Then she said: "There was no reason why I should--
But you must not say these things to me.  My husband--"

"Your husband knows all."

"But that does not alter it," she urged firmly.  "Though he may be
willing you should speak of these things, I am not."

"Your husband is a good fellow," he rejoined.  "I am not."

"You are not?" she asked wearily.

"No.  What do you think was the reason that, years ago, I said we could
never be married, and that we must forget each other?"

"I cannot tell.  I supposed it was some duty of which I could not know.
There are secret and sacred duties which we sometimes do not tell, even
to our nearest and dearest .  .  .  but I said we should not speak of
these things, and we must not."  She rose to her feet.  "My husband is
somewhere near.  I will call him.  There are so many things that men can
talk of-pleasant and agreeable things--"

He had risen with her, and as her hand was stretched out to ring, stayed
it.  "No, never mind your husband just now.  I think he knows what I am
going to say to you."

"But, oh, you must not--must not!" she urged.

"Pardon me, but I must," was his reply.

"As I said, you thought I was a good fellow.  Well, I am not; not at all.
I will tell you why I left you.  I was--already married."

He let the bare unrelieved fact face her, and shock her.

"You were--already married--when--you loved me," she said, her face
showing misery and shame.

He smiled a little bitterly when he saw the effect of his words, but said
clearly: "Yes.  You see I was a villain."

She shuddered a little, and then said simply: "Your face was not the face
of a bad man.  Are you telling me the truth?"

He nodded.

"Then you were wicked with me," she said at last, with a great sigh,
looking him straight in the eyes.  "But you--you loved me?" she said
with injured pride and a piteous appeal in her voice.  "Ah, I know you
loved me!"

"I will tell you when you know all," he answered evenly.

"Is there more to tell?" she asked heavily, and shrinking from him now.

"Much more.  Please, come here."  He went towards the open window of the
room, and she followed.  He pointed out to where his horse stood in the
palms.

"That is my horse," he said.  He whistled to the horse, which pricked up
its ears and trotted over to the window.  "The name of my horse," he
said, "maybe familiar to you.  He is called Firefoot."

"Firefoot!" she answered dazedly, "that is the name of Hyland's horse--
Hyland the bushranger."

"This is Hyland's horse," he said, and he patted the animal's neck gently
as it thrust its head within the window.

"But you said it was your horse," she rejoined slowly, as though the
thing perplexed her sorely.

"It is Hyland's horse; it is my horse," he urged without looking at her.
His courage well-nigh failed him.  Villain as he was, he loved her, and
he saw the foundations of her love for him crumbling away before him.  In
all his criminal adventures he had cherished this one thing.

She suddenly gave a cry of shame and agony, a low trembling cry, as
though her heart-strings were being dragged out.  She drew back from him
--back to the middle of the room.

He came towards her, reaching out his arms.  "Forgive me," he said.

"Oh, no, never!" she cried with horror.

The cry had been heard outside, and Houghton entered the room, to find
his wife, all her strength gone, turning a face of horror upon Cayley.
She stretched out her arms to her husband with a pitiful cry.  "Tom," she
said, "Tom, take me away."

He took her gently in his arms.

Cayley stood with his hand upon his horse's neck.  "Houghton," he said in
a low voice, "I have been telling your wife what I was, and who I am.
She is shocked.  I had better go."

The woman's head had dropped on her husband's shoulder.  Houghton waited
to see if she would look up.  But she did not.

"Well, good-bye to you both," Cayley said, stepped through the window,
and vaulted on his horse's back.  "I'm going to see if the devil's as
black as he's painted."  Then, setting spurs to his horse, he galloped
away through the palms to the gate.

                    ......................

A year later Hyland the bushranger was shot in a struggle with the
mounted police sent to capture him.

The planter's wife read of it in England, whither she had gone on a
visit.

"It is better so," she said to herself, calmly.  "And he wished it, I am
sure."

For now she knew the whole truth, and she did not love her husband less
--but more.


BARBARA GOLDING

The last time John Osgood saw Barbara Golding was on a certain summer
afternoon at the lonely Post, Telegraph, and Customs Station known as
Rahway, on the Queensland coast.  It was at Rahway also that he first and
last saw Mr. Louis Bachelor.  He had had excellent opportunities for
knowing Barbara Golding; for many years she had been governess (and
something more) to his sisters Janet, Agnes and Lorna.  She had been
engaged in Sydney as governess simply, but Wandenong cattle station was
far up country, and she gradually came to perform the functions of
milliner and dressmaker, encouraged thereto by the family for her
unerring taste and skill.  Her salary, however, had been proportionately
increased, and it did not decline when her office as governess became
practically a sinecure as her pupils passed beyond the sphere of the
schoolroom.  Perhaps George Osgood, father of John Osgood, and owner of
Wandenong, did not make an allowance to Barbara Golding for her services
as counsellor and confidant of his family; but neither did he subtract
anything from her earnings in those infrequent years when she journeyed
alone to Sydney on those mysterious visits which so mightily puzzled the
good people of Wandenong.  The boldest and most off-hand of them,
however, could never discover what Barbara Golding did not choose to
tell.  She was slight, almost frail in form, and very gentle of manner;
but she also possessed that rare species of courtesy which, never
declining to fastidiousness nor lapsing into familiarity, checked all
curious intrusion, was it ever so insinuating; and the milliner and
dressmaker was not less self-poised and compelling of respect than the
governess and confidant.

In some particulars the case of Louis Bachelor was similar.  Besides
being the Post, Telegraph, and Customs Officer, and Justice of the Peace
at Rahway, he was available and valuable to the Government as a
meteorologist.  The Administration recognised this after a few years of
voluntary and earnest labour on Louis Bachelor's part.  It was not,
however, his predictions concerning floods or droughts that roused this
official appreciation, but the fulfilment of those predictions.  At
length a yearly honorarium was sent to him, and then again, after a
dignified delay, there was forwarded to him a suggestion from the Cabinet
that he should come to Brisbane and take a more important position.  It
was when this patronage was declined that the Premier (dropping for a
moment into that bushman's jargon which came naturally to him) said,
irritably, that Louis Bachelor was a "old fossil who didn't know when
he'd got his dover in the dough," which, being interpreted into the slang
of the old world, means, his knife into the official loaf.  But the
fossil went on as before, known by name to the merest handful of people
in the colony, though they all profited, directly or indirectly, by his
scientific services.  He was as unknown to the dwellers at Wandenong as
they were to him, or he again to the citizens of the moon.

It was the custom for Janet and Agnes Osgood to say that Barbara Golding
had a history.  On every occasion the sentiment was uttered with that
fresh conviction in tone which made it appear to be born again.  It
seemed to have especially pregnant force one evening after Janet had been
consulting Barbara on the mysteries of the garment in which she was to be
married to Druce Stephens, part owner of Booldal Station.  "Aggie,"
remarked the coming bride, "Barbara's face flushed up ever so pink when I
said to her that she seemed to know exactly what a trousseau ought to be.
I wonder!  She is well-bred enough to have been anybody; and the Bishop
of Adelaide recommended her, you know."

Soon after this Druce Stephens arrived at Wandenong and occupied the
attention of Janet until suppertime, when he startled the company by the
tale of his adventures on the previous evening with Roadmaster, the
mysterious bushranger, whose name was now in every man's mouth; who
apparently worked with no confederates--a perilous proceeding, though it
reduced the chances of betrayal.  Druce was about to camp on the plains
for the night, in preference to riding on to a miserable bush-tavern a
few miles away, when he was suddenly accosted in the scrub by a gallant-
looking fellow on horseback, who, from behind his mask, asked him to give
up what money he had about him, together with his watch and ring.  The
request was emphasised by the presence of a revolver held at an easy but
suggestive angle.  The disadvantage to the squatter was obvious.  He
merely asked that he should be permitted to keep the ring, as it had many
associations, remarking at the same time that he would be pleased to give
an equivalent for it if the bushranger would come to Wandenong.  At the
mention of Wandenong the highwayman asked his name.  On being told, he
handed back the money, the watch, and the ring, and politely requested a
cigar, saying that the Osgoods merited consideration at his hands, and
that their friends were safe from molestation.  Then he added, with some
grim humour, that if Druce had no objection to spending an hour with
Roadmaster over a fire and a billy of tea, he would be glad of his
company; for bushranging, according to his system, was but dull work.
The young squatter consented, and together they sat for two hours, the
highwayman, however, never removing his mask.  They talked of many
things, and at last Druce ventured to ask his companion about the death
of Blood Finchley, the owner of Tarawan sheep-run.  At this Roadmaster
became weary, and rose to leave; but as if on second thought, he said
that Finchley's companion, whom he allowed to go unrobbed and untouched,
was both a coward and a liar; that the slain man had fired thrice
needlessly, and had wounded him in the neck (the scar of which he showed)
before he drew trigger.  Druce then told him that besides a posse of
police, a number of squatters and bushmen had banded to hunt him down,
and advised him to make for the coast if he could, and leave the country.
At this Roadmaster laughed, and said that his fancy was not sea-ward yet,
though that might come; and then, with a courteous wave of his hand, he
jumped on his horse and rode away.

The Osgoods speculated curiously and futilely on Roadmaster's identity,
as indeed the whole colony had done.  And here it may be said that people
of any observation (though, of necessity, they were few, since Rahway
attracted only busy sugar-planters and their workmen) were used to speak
of Louis Bachelor as one who must certainly have a history.  The person
most likely to have the power of inquisition into his affairs was his
faithful aboriginal servant, Gongi.  But records and history were only
understood by Gongi when they were restricted to the number of heads
taken in tribal battle.  At the same time he was a devoted slave to the
man who, at the risk of his own life, had rescued him from the murderous
spears of his aboriginal foes.  That was a kind of record within Gongi's
comprehension, from the contemplation of which he turned to speak of
Louis Bachelor as "That fellow budgery marmi b'longin' to me," which, in
civilised language, means "my good master."  Gongi often dilated on this
rescue, and he would, for purposes of illustration, take down from his
master's wall an artillery officer's sabre and show how his assailants
had been dispersed.

From the presence of this sword it was not unreasonably assumed that
Louis Bachelor had at some time been in the army.  He was not, however,
communicative on this point, though he shrewdly commented on European
wars and rumours of wars when they occurred.  He also held strenuous
opinions of the conduct of Government and the suppression of public
evils, based obviously upon military views of things.  .  For bushrangers
he would have a modern Tyburn, but this and other tragic suggestions
lacked conviction when confronted with his verdicts given as Justice of
the Peace.  He pronounced judgments in a grand and airy fashion, but as
if he were speaking by a card, the Don Quixote whose mercy would be
vaster than his wrath.  This was the impression he gave, to, John Osgood
on the day when the young squatter introduced himself to Rahway, where he
had come on a mission to its one official.  The young man's father had a
taste for many things; astronomy was his latest, and he had bought from
the Government a telescope which, excellent in its day, had been
superseded by others of later official purchase.  He had brought it to
Wandenong, had built a home for it, and had got it into trouble.  He had
then sent to Brisbane for assistance, and the astronomer of the
Government had referred him to the postmaster at Rahway, "Prognosticator"
of the meteorological column in The Courier, who would be instructed to
give Mr. Osgood every help, especially as the occultation of Venus was
near.  Men do not send letters by post in a new country when personal
communication is possible, and John Osgood was asked by his father to go
to Rahway.  When John wished for the name of this rare official, the
astronomer's letter was handed over with a sarcastic request that the
name might be deciphered; but the son was not more of an antiquary than
his father, and he had to leave without it.  He rode to the coast, and
there took a passing steamer to Rahway.  From the sea Rahway looked a
tropical paradise.  The bright green palisades of mangrove on the right
crowded down to the water's edge; on the left was the luxuriance of a
tropical jungle; in the centre was an are of opal shore fringed with
cocoa-palms, and beyond the sea a handful of white dwellings.  Behind was
a sweeping monotony of verdure stretching back into the great valley of
the Popri, and over all the heavy languor of the South.

But the beauty was a delusion.  When John Osgood's small boat swept up
the sands on the white crest of a league-long roller, how different was
the scene!  He saw a group of dilapidated huts, a tavern called The
Angel's Rest, a blackfellow's hut, and the bareness of three Government
offices, all built on piles, that the white ants should not humble them
suddenly to the dust; a fever-making mangrove swamp, black at the base as
the filthiest moat, and tenanted by reptiles; feeble palms, and a sickly
breath creeping from the jungle to mingle with the heavy scent of the
last consignment of augar from the Popri valley.  It brought him to a
melancholy standstill, disturbed at last by Gongi touching him on the arm
and pointing towards the post-office.  His language to Gongi was strong;
he called the place by names that were not polite; and even on the
threshold of the official domain said that the Devil would have his last
big muster there.  But from that instant his glibness declined.  The
squatters are the aristocracy of Australia, and rural postmasters are not
always considered eligible for a dinner-party at Government House; but
when Louis Bachelor came forward to meet his visitor the young fellow's
fingers quickly caught his hat from his head, and an off-hand greeting
became a respectful salute.

At first the young man was awed by the presence of the grizzled
gentleman, and he struggled with his language to bring it up to the
classic level of the old meteorologist's speech.  Before they had spoken
a dozen words John Osgood said to himself: "What a quaint team he and the
Maid of Honour would make!  It's the same kind of thing in both, with the
difference of sex and circumstance."  The nature of his visitor's
business pleased the old man, and infused his courtesy with warmth.  Yes,
he would go to Wandenong with pleasure; the Government had communicated
with him about it; a substitute had been offered; he was quite willing to
take his first leave in four years; astronomy was a great subject, he had
a very good and obedient telescope of his own, though not nearly so large
as that at Wandenong; he would telegraph at once to Brisbane for the
substitute to be sent on the following day, and would be ready to start
in twenty-four hours.  After visiting Wandenong he would go to Brisbane
for some scientific necessaries--and so on through smooth parentheses of
talk.  Under all the bluntness of the Bush young Osgood had a refinement
which now found expression in an attempt to make himself agreeable--not a
difficult task, since, thanks to his father's tastes and a year or two at
college, he had a smattering of physical science.  He soon won his way to
the old man's heart, and to his laboratory, which had been developed
through years of patience and ingenious toil in this desolate spot.

Left alone that evening in Louis Bachelor's sitting-room, John Osgood's
eyes were caught by a portrait on the wall, the likeness of a beautiful
girl.  Something about the face puzzled him.  Where had he seen it?  More
than a little of an artist, he began to reproduce the head on paper.  He
put it in different poses; he added to it; he took away from it; he gave
it a child's face, preserving the one striking expression; he made it
that of a woman--of an elderly, grave woman.  Why, what was this?
Barbara Golding!  He would not spoil the development of the drama, of
which he now held the fluttering prologue, by any blunt treatment; he
would touch this and that nerve gently to see what past connection there
was between:

          "These dim blown birds beneath an alien sky."

He mooned along in this fashion, a fashion in which his bushmen friends
would not have known him, until his host entered.  Then, in that
auspicious moment when his own pipe and his companion's cigarette were
being lighted, he said: "I've been amusing myself with drawing since you
left, sir, and I've produced this," handing over the paper.

Louis Bachelor took the sketch, and, walking to the window for better
light, said: "Believe me, I have a profound respect for the artistic
talent.  I myself once had--ah!"  He sharply paused as he saw the
pencilled head, and stood looking fixedly at it.  Presently he turned
slowly, came to the portrait on the wall, and compared it with that in
his hand.  Then, with a troubled face, he said: "You have much talent,
but it is--it is too old--much too old--and very sorrowful."

"I intended the face to show age and sorrow, Mr. Bachelor.  Would not the
original of that have both?"

"She had sorrow--she had sorrow, but," and he looked sadly at the sketch
again, "it is too old for her.  Her face was very young--always very
young."

"But has she not sorrow now, sir?" the other persisted gently.

The grey head was shaken sadly, and the unsteady voice meditatively
murmured: "Such beauty, such presence!  I was but five-and-thirty then."
There was a slight pause, and then, with his hand touching the young
man's shoulder, Louis Bachelor continued: "You are young; you have a good
heart; I know men.  You have the sympathy of the artist--why should I not
speak to you?  I have been silent about it so long.  You have brought the
past back, I know not how, so vividly!  I dream here, I work here; men
come with merchandise and go again; they only bind my tongue; I am not of
them: but you are different, as it seems to me, and young.  God gave me a
happy youth.  My eyes were bright as yours, my heart as fond.  You love--
is it not so?  Ah, you smile and blush like an honest man.  Well, so much
the more I can speak now.  God gave me then strength and honour and love
--blessed be His name!  And then He visited me with sorrow, and, if I
still mourn, I have peace, too, and a busy life."  Here he looked at the
sketch again.

"Then I was a soldier.  She was my world.  Ah, true, love is a great
thing--a great thing!  She had a brother.  They two with their mother
were alone in the world, and we were to be married.  One day at Gibraltar
I received a letter from her saying that our marriage could not be; that
she was going away from England; that those lines were her farewell; and
that she commended me to the love of Heaven.  Such a letter it was--so
saintly, so unhappy, so mysterious!  When I could get leave I went to
England.  She--they--had gone, and none knew whither; or, if any of her
friends knew, none would speak.  I searched for her everywhere.  At last
I came to Australia, and I am here, no longer searching, but waiting, for
there is that above us!"  His lips moved as if in prayer.  "And this is
all I have left of her, except memory," he said, tenderly touching the
portrait.

Warmly, yet with discreet sympathy, the young man rejoined: "Sir, I
respect, and I hope I understand, your confidence."  Then, a little
nervously: "Might I ask her name?"

The reply was spoken to the portrait: "Barbara--Barbara Golding."

With Louis Bachelor the young squatter approached Wandenong homestead in
some excitement.  He had said no word to his companion about that Barbara
Golding who played such a gracious part in the home of the Osgoods.  He
had arranged the movement of the story to his fancy, but would it occur
in all as he hoped?  With an amiability that was almost malicious in its
adroit suggestiveness, though, to be sure, it was honest, he had induced
the soldier to talk of his past.  His words naturally, and always,
radiated to the sun, whose image was now hidden, but for whose memory no
superscription on monument or cenotaph was needed.  Now it was a scrap of
song, then a tale, and again a verse, by which the old soldier was
delicately worked upon, until at last, as they entered the paddocks of
Wandenong, stars and telescopes and even Governments had been forgotten
in the personal literature of sentiment.

Yet John Osgood was not quite at his ease.  Now that it was at hand, he
rather shrank from the meeting of these ancient loves.  Apart from all
else, he knew that no woman's nerves are to be trusted.  He hoped fortune
would so favour him that he could arrange for the meeting of the two
alone, or, at least, in his presence only.  He had so far fostered this
possibility by arriving at the station at nightfall.  What next?  He
turned and looked at the soldier, a figure out of Hogarth, which even
dust and travel left unspoiled.  It was certain that the two should meet
where John Osgood, squatter and romancer, should be prompter, orchestra,
and audience, and he alone.  Vain lad!

When they drew rein the young man took his companion at once to his own
detached quarters known as the Barracks, and then proceeded to the house.
After greetings with his family he sought Barbara Golding, who was in the
schoolroom, piously employed, Agnes said, in putting the final touches to
Janet's trousseau.  He went across the square to the schoolroom, and,
looking through the window, saw that she was quite alone.  A few moments
later he stood at the schoolroom door with Louis Bachelor.  With his hand
on the latch he hesitated.  Was it not fairer to give some warning to
either?  Too late!  He opened the door and they entered.  She was sewing,
and a book lay open beside her, a faded, but stately little figure whose
very garments had an air.  She rose, seeing at first only John Osgood,
who greeted her and then said: "Miss Golding, I have brought you an old
friend."

Then he stepped back and the two were face to face.  Barbara Golding's
cheeks became pale, but she did not stir; the soldier, with an
exclamation of surprise half joyful, half pathetic, took a step forward,
and then became motionless also.  Their eyes met and stayed intent.  This
was not quite what the young man had expected.  At length the soldier
bowed low, and the woman responded gravely.  At this point Osgood
withdrew to stand guard at the door.

Barbara Golding's eyes were dim with tears.  The soldier gently said,
"I received--" and then paused.  She raised her eyes to his.  "I received
a letter from you five-and-twenty years ago."

"Yes, five-and-twenty years ago."

"I hope you cannot guess what pain it gave me."

"Yes," she answered faintly, "I can conceive it, from the pain it gave to
me."

There was a pause, and then he stepped forward and, holding out his hand,
said: "Will you permit me?"  He kissed her fingers courteously, and she
blushed.  "I have waited," he added, "for God to bring this to pass."
She shook her head sadly, and her eyes sought his beseechingly, as though
he should spare her; but perhaps he could not see that.

"You spoke of a great obstacle then; has it been removed?"

"It is still between us," she murmured.

"Is it likely ever to vanish?"

"I--I do not know."

"You can not tell me what it is?"

"Oh, you will not ask me," she pleaded.

He was silent a moment, then spoke.  "Might I dare to hope, Barbara, that
you still regard me with--" he hesitated.

The fires of a modest valour fluttered in her cheeks, and she pieced out
his sentence: "With all my life's esteem."  But she was a woman, and she
added: "But I am not young now, and I am very poor."

"Barbara," he said; "I am not rich and I am old; but you, you have not
changed; you are beautiful, as you always were."

The moment was crucial.  He stepped towards her, but her eyes held him
back.  He hoped that she would speak, but she only smiled sadly.  He
waited, but, in the waiting, hope faded, and he only said, at last, in a
voice of new resolve grown out of dead expectancy: "Your brother--is he
well?"

"I hope so," she somewhat painfully replied.  "Is he in Australia?"

