The door again opened, and Gagniere glided in softly, like a
will-o'-the-wisp. He had come straight from Melun, and was quite
alone, for he never showed his wife to anybody. When he thus came to
dinner he brought the country dust with him on his boots, and carried
it back with him the same night on taking the last train. On the other
hand, he did not alter; or, rather, age seemed to rejuvenate him; his
complexion became fairer as he grew old.

'Hallo! Why, Gagniere's here!' exclaimed Sandoz.

Then, just as Gagniere was making up his mind to bow to the ladies,
Mahoudeau entered. He had already grown grey, with a sunken,
fierce-looking face and childish, blinking eyes. He still wore
trousers which were a good deal too short for him, and a frock-coat
which creased in the back, in spite of the money which he now earned;
for the bronze manufacturer for whom he worked had brought out some
charming statuettes of his, which one began to see on middle-class
mantel-shelves and consoles.

Sandoz and Claude had turned round, inquisitive to witness the meeting
between Mahoudeau and Mathilde. However, matters passed off very
quietly. The sculptor bowed to her respectfully, while Jory, the
husband, with his air of serene unconsciousness, thought fit to
introduce her to him, for the twentieth time, perhaps.

'Eh! It's my wife, old fellow. Shake hands together.'

Thereupon, both very grave, like people of society who are forced
somewhat over-promptly into familiarity, Mathilde and Mahoudeau shook
hands. Only, as soon as the latter had got rid of the job and had
found Gagniere in a corner of the drawing-room, they both began
sneering and recalling, in terrible language, all the abominations of
yore.

Dubuche was expected that evening, for he had formally promised to
come.

'Yes,' explained Henriette, 'there will only be nine of us. Fagerolles
wrote this morning to apologise; he is forced to go to some official
dinner, but he hopes to escape, and will join us at about eleven
o'clock.'

At that moment, however, a servant came in with a telegram. It was
from Dubuche, who wired: 'Impossible to stir. Alice has an alarming
cough.'

'Well, we shall only be eight, then,' resumed Henriette, with the
somewhat peevish resignation of a hostess disappointed by her guests.

And the servant having opened the dining-room door and announced that
dinner was ready, she added:

'We are all here. Claude, offer me your arm.'

Sandoz took Mathilde's, Jory charged himself with Christine, while
Mahoudeau and Gagniere brought up the rear, still joking coarsely
about what they called the beautiful herbalist's padding.

The dining-room which they now entered was very spacious, and the
light was gaily bright after the subdued illumination of the
drawing-room. The walls, covered with specimens of old earthenware,
displayed a gay medley of colours, reminding one of cheap coloured
prints. Two sideboards, one laden with glass and the other with silver
plate, sparkled like jewellers' show-cases. And in the centre of the
room, under the big hanging lamp girt round with tapers, the table
glistened like a _catafalque_ with the whiteness of its cloth, laid in
perfect style, with decorated plates, cut-glass decanters white with
water or ruddy with wine, and symmetrical side-dishes, all set out
around the centre-piece, a silver basket full of purple roses.

They sat down, Henriette between Claude and Mahoudeau, Sandoz with
Mathilde and Christine beside him, Jory and Gagniere at either end;
and the servant had barely finished serving the soup, when Madame Jory
made a most unfortunate remark. Wishing to show herself amiable, and
not having heard her husband's apologies, she said to the master of
the house:

'Well, were you pleased with the article in this morning's number?
Edouard personally revised the proofs with the greatest care!'

On hearing this, Jory became very much confused and stammered:

'No, no! you are mistaken! It was a very bad article indeed, and you
know very well that it was "passed" the other evening while I was
away.'

French hounds, whose necks are aching Still from the chain they crave,
In dog-day madness breaking The dog-leash, thus may rave:
But the seas that for ages have fostered and fenced her Laugh, echoing
the yell of their kennel against her And their moan if destruction
draw near them And the roar of her laughter to hear them; For she
knows that if Englishmen be men Their England has all that she
craves; All love and all honour from free men, All hatred from
slaves.

VI.

All love that rests upon her Like sunshine and sweet air, All
light of perfect honour And praise that ends in prayer, She wins not
more surely, she wears not more proudly, Than the token of tribute
that clatters thus loudly, The tribute of foes when they meet That
rattles and rings at her feet, The tribute of rage and of rancour, The
tribute of slaves to the free, To the people whose hope hath its
anchor Made fast in the sea.

VII.

No fool that bows the back he Feels fit for scourge or brand, No scurril
scribes that lackey The lords of Lackeyland, No penman that yearns,
as he turns on his pallet, For the place or the pence of a peer or
a valet, No whelp of as currish a pack As the litter whose yelp it
gives back, Though he answer the cry of his brother As echoes might
answer from caves, Shall be witness as though for a mother Whose
children were slaves.

VIII.

But those found fit to love her, Whose love has root in faith, Who hear,
though darkness cover Time's face, what memory saith, Who seek not the
service of great men or small men But the weal that is common for
comfort of all men, Those yet that in trust have beholden Truth's
dawn over England grow golden And quicken the darkness that stagnates
And scatter the shadows that flee, Shall reply for her meanest as
magnates And masters by sea.

It was a sight
to see the famous Naudet amid the rout; he had held out at first, he
had invented 'the dodge of the Yankee'--the unique picture hidden deep
in some gallery, in solitude like an idol--the picture of which he
would not name the price, being contemptuously certain that he could
never find a man rich enough to purchase it, but which he finally sold
for two or three hundred thousand francs to some pig-dealer of
Chicago, who felt glorious at carrying off the most expensive canvas
of the year. But those fine strokes of business were not to be renewed
at present, and Naudet, whose expenditure had increased with his
gains, drawn on and swallowed up in the mad craze which was his own
work, could now hear his regal mansion crumbling beneath him, and was
reduced to defend it against the assault of creditors.

'Won't you take some more mushrooms, Mahoudeau?' obligingly
interrupted Henriette.

The servant was now handing round the undercut. They ate, and emptied
the decanters; but their bitterness was so great that the best things
were offered without being tasted, which distressed the master and
mistress of the house.

'Mushrooms, eh?' the sculptor ended by repeating. 'No, thanks.' And he
added: 'The funny part of it all is, that Naudet is suing Fagerolles.
Oh, quite so! he's going to distrain on him. Ah! it makes me laugh! We
shall see a pretty scouring in the Avenue de Villiers among all those
petty painters with mansions of their own. House property will go for
nothing next spring! Well, Naudet, who had compelled Fagerolles to
build a house, and who furnished it for him as he would have furnished
a place for a hussy, wanted to get hold of his nick-nacks and hangings
again. But Fagerolles had borrowed money on them, so it seems. You can
imagine the state of affairs; the dealer accuses the artist of having
spoilt his game by exhibiting with the vanity of a giddy fool; while
the painter replies that he doesn't mean to be robbed any longer; and
they'll end by devouring each other--at least, I hope so.'

Gagniere raised his voice, the gentle but inexorable voice of a
dreamer just awakened.

'Fagerolles is done for. Besides, he never had any success.'

The others protested. Well, what about the hundred thousand francs'
worth of pictures he had sold a year, and his medals and his cross of
the Legion of Honour? But Gagniere, still obstinate, smiled with a
mysterious air, as if facts could not prevail against his inner
conviction. He wagged his head and, full of disdain, replied:

'Let me be! He never knew anything about chiaroscuro.'

Jory was about to defend the talent of Fagerolles, whom he considered
to be his own creation, when Henriette solicited a little attention
for the _raviolis_. There was a short slackening of the quarrel amid
the crystalline clinking of the glasses and the light clatter of the
forks. The table, laid with such fine symmetry, was already in
confusion, and seemed to sparkle still more amid the ardent fire of
the quarrel. And Sandoz, growing anxious, felt astonished. What was
the matter with them all that they attacked Fagerolles so harshly?
Hadn't they all begun together, and were they not all to reach the
goal in the same victory? For the first time, a feeling of uneasiness
disturbed his dream of eternity, that delight in his Thursdays, which
he had pictured following one upon another, all alike, all of them
happy ones, into the far distance of the future. But the feeling was
as yet only skin deep, and he laughingly exclaimed:

'Husband your strength, Claude, here are the hazel-hens. Eh! Claude,
where are you?'

Since silence had prevailed, Claude had relapsed into his dream,
gazing about him vacantly, and taking a second help of _raviolis_
without knowing what he was about; Christine, who said nothing, but
sat there looking sad and charming, did not take her eyes off him. He
started when Sandoz spoke, and chose a leg from amid the bits of
hazel-hen now being served, the strong fumes of which filled the room
with a resinous smell.

'Do you smell that?' exclaimed Sandoz, amused; 'one would think one
were swallowing all the forests of Russia.'

But Claude returned to the matter which worried him.

'Then you say that Fagerolles will be entrusted with the paintings for
the Municipal Council's assembly room?'

And this remark sufficed; Mahoudeau and Gagniere, set on the track, at
once started off again. Ah! a nice wishy-washy smearing it would be if
that assembly room were allotted to him; and he was doing plenty of
dirty things to get it. He, who had formerly pretended to spit on
orders for work, like a great artist surrounded by amateurs, was
basely cringing to the officials, now that his pictures no longer
sold. Could anything more despicable be imagined than a painter
soliciting a functionary, bowing and scraping, showing all kinds of
cowardice and making all kinds of concessions? It was shameful that
art should be dependent upon a Minister's idiotic good pleasure!
Fagerolles, at that official dinner he had gone to, was no doubt
conscientiously licking the boots of some chief clerk, some idiot who
was only fit to be made a guy of.

'Well,' said Jory, 'he effects his purpose, and he's quite right.
_You_ won't pay his debts.'

'Debts? Have I any debts, I who have always starved?' answered
Mahoudeau in a roughly arrogant tone. 'Ought a fellow to build himself
a palace and spend money on creatures like that Irma Becot, who's
ruining Fagerolles?'

At this Jory grew angry, while the others jested, and Irma's name went
flying over the table. But Mathilde, who had so far remained reserved
and silent by way of making a show of good breeding, became intensely
indignant. 'Oh! gentlemen, oh! gentlemen,' she exclaimed, 'to talk
before _us_ about that creature. No, not that creature, I implore you!

After that Henriette and Sandoz, who were in consternation, witnessed
the rout of their menu. The truffle salad, the ice, the dessert,
everything was swallowed without being at all appreciated amidst the
rising anger of the quarrel; and the chambertin and sparkling moselle
were imbibed as if they had merely been water. In vain did Henriette
smile, while Sandoz good-naturedly tried to calm them by making
allowances for human weakness. Not one of them retreated from his
position; a single word made them spring upon each other. There was
none of the vague boredom, the somniferous satiety which at times had
saddened their old gatherings; at present there was real ferocity in
the struggle, a longing to destroy one another. The tapers of the
hanging lamp flared up, the painted flowers of the earthenware on the
walls bloomed, the table seemed to have caught fire amid the upsetting
of its symmetrical arrangements and the violence of the talk, that
demolishing onslaught of chatter which had filled them with fever for
a couple of hours past.

And amid the racket, when Henriette made up her mind to rise so as to
silence them, Claude at length remarked:

'Ah! if I only had the Hotel de Ville work, and if I could! It used to
be my dream to cover all the walls of Paris!'

They returned to the drawing-room, where the little chandelier and the
bracket-candelabra had just been lighted. It seemed almost cold there
in comparison with the kind of hot-house which had just been left; and
for a moment the coffee calmed the guests. Nobody beyond Fagerolles
was expected. The house was not an open one by any means, the Sandozes
did not recruit literary dependents or muzzle the press by dint of
invitations. The wife detested society, and the husband said with a
laugh that he needed ten years to take a liking to anybody, and then
he must like him always. But was not that real happiness, seldom
realised? A few sound friendships and a nook full of family affection.
No music was ever played there, and nobody had ever read a page of his
composition aloud.

On that particular Thursday the evening seemed a long one, on account
of the persistent irritation of the men. The ladies had begun to chat
before the smouldering fire; and when the servant, after clearing the
table, reopened the door of the dining-room, they were left alone, the
men repairing to the adjoining apartment to smoke and sip some beer.

Sandoz and Claude, who were not smokers, soon returned, however, and
sat down, side by side, on a sofa near the doorway. The former, who
was glad to see his old friend excited and talkative, recalled the
memories of Plassans apropos of a bit of news he had learnt the
previous day. Pouillaud, the old jester of their dormitory, who had
become so grave a lawyer, was now in trouble over some adventure with
a woman. Ah! that brute of a Pouillaud! But Claude did not answer,
for, having heard his name mentioned in the dining-room, he listened
attentively, trying to understand.

Jory, Mahoudeau, and Gagniere, unsatiated and eager for another bite,
had started on the massacre again. Their voices, at first mere
whispers, gradually grew louder, till at last they began to shout.

'Oh! the man, I abandon the man to you,' said Jory, who was speaking
of Fagerolles. 'He isn't worth much. And he out-generalled you, it's
true. Ah! how he did get the better of you fellows, by breaking off
from you and carving success for himself on your backs! You were
certainly not at all cute.'

Mahoudeau, waxing furious, replied:

'Of course! It sufficed for us to be with Claude, to be turned away
everywhere.'

'It was Claude who did for us!' so Gagniere squarely asserted.

And thus they went on, relinquishing Fagerolles, whom they reproached
for toadying the newspapers, for allying himself with their enemies
and wheedling sexagenarian baronesses, to fall upon Claude, who now
became the great culprit. Well, after all, the other was only a hussy,
one of the many found in the artistic fraternity, fellows who accost
the public at street corners, leave their comrades in the lurch, and
victimise them so as to get the bourgeois into their studios. But
Claude, that abortive great artist, that impotent fellow who couldn't
set a figure on its legs in spite of all his pride, hadn't he utterly
compromised them, hadn't he let them in altogether? Ah! yes, success
might have been won by breaking off. If they had been able to begin
over again, they wouldn't have been idiots enough to cling obstinately
to impossible principles! And they accused Claude of having paralysed
them, of having traded on them--yes, traded on them, but in so clumsy
and dull-witted a manner that he himself had not derived any benefit
by it.

'Why, as for me,' resumed Mahoudeau, 'didn't he make me quite idiotic
at one moment? When I think of it, I sound myself, and remain
wondering why I ever joined his band. Am I at all like him? Was there
ever any one thing in common between us, eh? Ah! it's exasperating to
find the truth out so late in the day!'

'And as for myself,' said Gagniere, 'he robbed me of my originality.
Do you think it has amused me, each time I have exhibited a painting
during the last fifteen years, to hear people saying behind me,
"That's a Claude!" Oh! I've had enough of it, I prefer not to paint
any more. All the same, if I had seen clearly in former times, I
shouldn't have associated with him.'

It was a stampede, the snapping of the last ties, in their
stupefaction at suddenly finding that they were strangers and enemies,
after a long youth of fraternity together. Life had disbanded them on
the road, and the great dissimilarity of their characters stood
revealed; all that remained in them was the bitterness left by the old
enthusiastic dream, that erstwhile hope of battle and victory to be
won side by side, which now increased their spite.

'The fact is,' sneered Jory, 'that Fagerolles did not let himself be
pillaged like a simpleton.'

But Mahoudeau, feeling vexed, became angry. 'You do wrong to laugh,'
he said, 'for you are a nice backslider yourself. Nay: but the true is
not the false heart's brother:

Love cannot love disloyalty: the name That else it wears is love
no more, but shame.

_ON THE DEATH OF RICHARD DOYLE._

A light of blameless laughter, fancy-bred, Soft-souled and glad and
kind as love or sleep, Fades, and sweet mirth's own eyes are fain
to weep Because her blithe and gentlest bird is dead.

Weep, elves and fairies all, that never shed Tear yet for mortal
mourning: you that keep The doors of dreams whence nought of ill
may creep, Mourn once for one whose lips your honey fed.

Let waters of the Golden River steep The rose-roots whence his grave
blooms rosy-red And murmuring of Hyblæan hives be deep About the
summer silence of its bed, And nought less gracious than a violet
peep Between the grass grown greener round his head.

_IN MEMORY OF HENRY A. BRIGHT._

Yet again another, ere his crowning year, Gone from friends that
here may look for him no more.

Never now for him shall hope set wide the door, Hope that hailed him
hither, fain to greet him here.
All the gracious garden-flowers he held so dear, Oldworld English
blossoms, all his homestead store, Oldworld grief had strewn them
round his bier of yore, Bidding each drop leaf by leaf as tear by
tear; Rarer lutes than mine had borne more tuneful token, Touched
by subtler hands than echoing time can wrong, Sweet as flowers had
strewn his graveward path along.

Now may no such old sweet dirges more be spoken, Now the flowers whose
breath was very song are broken, Nor may sorrow find again so sweet a
song.

_A SOLITUDE._

Sea beyond sea, sand after sweep of sand, Here ivory smooth, here
cloven and ridged with flow Of channelled waters soft as rain or snow,
Stretch their lone length at ease beneath the bland Grey gleam of
skies whose smile on wave and strand Shines weary like a man's who
smiles to know That now no dream can mock his faith with show, Nor
cloud for him seem living sea or land.

Is there an end at all of all this waste, These crumbling cliffs
defeatured and defaced, These ruinous heights of sea-sapped walls
that slide Seaward with all their banks of bleak blown flowers
Glad yet of life, ere yet their hope subside Beneath the coil of
dull dense waves and hours?

_VICTOR HUGO: L'ARCHIPEL DE LA MANCHE._

Sea and land are fairer now, nor aught is all the same, Since a
mightier hand than Time's hath woven their votive wreath.
Rocks as swords half drawn from out the smooth wave's jewelled sheath,
Fields whose flowers a tongue divine hath numbered name by name,
Shores whereby the midnight or the noon clothed round with flame
Hears the clamour jar and grind which utters from beneath Cries of
hungering waves like beasts fast bound that gnash their teeth, All
of these the sun that lights them lights not like his fame; None of
these is but the thing it was before he came Where the darkling
overfalls like dens of torment seethe, High on tameless moorlands,
down in meadows bland and tame, Where the garden hides, and where
the wind uproots the heath, Glory now henceforth for ever, while
the world shall be, Shines, a star that keeps not time with change
on earth and sea.But all the comfort, all the feast for the eyes and the
fine perfume of the tea did not move their hearts. The conversation
again turned on the success that some men achieved and the ill-luck
that befell others. For instance, was it not shameful that art should
be dishonoured by all those medals, all those crosses, all those
rewards, which were so badly distributed to boot? Were artists always
to remain like little boys at school? All the universal platitude came
from the docility and cowardice which were shown, as in the presence
of ushers, so as to obtain good marks.

They had repaired to the drawing-room once more, and Sandoz, who was
greatly distressed, had begun to wish that they would take themselves
off, when he noticed Mathilde and Gagniere seated side by side on a
sofa and talking languishingly of music, while the others remained
exhausted, lacking saliva and power of speech. Gagniere philosophised
and poetised in a state of ecstasy, while Mathilde rolled up her eyes
and went into raptures as if titillated by some invisible wing. They
had caught sight of each other on the previous Sunday at the concert
at the Cirque, and they apprised each other of their enjoyment in
alternate, far-soaring sentences.

'Ah! that Meyerbeer, monsieur, the overture of "Struensee," that
funereal strain, and then that peasant dance, so full of dash and
colour; and then the mournful burden which returns, the duo of the
violoncellos. Ah! monsieur, the violoncellos, the violoncellos!'

'And Berlioz, madame, the festival air in "Romeo." Oh! the solo of the
clarionets, the beloved women, with the harp accompaniment! Something
enrapturing, something white as snow which ascends! The festival
bursts upon you, like a picture by Paul Veronese, with the tumultuous
magnificence of the "Marriage of Cana"; and then the love-song begins
again, oh, how softly! Oh! always higher! higher still--'

'Did you notice, monsieur, in Beethoven's Symphony in A, that knell
which ever and ever comes back and beats upon your heart? Yes, I see
very well, you feel as I do, music is a communion--Beethoven, ah, me!
how sad and sweet it is to be two to understand him and give way--'

'And Schumann, madame, and Wagner, madame--Schumann's "Reverie,"
nothing but the stringed instruments, a warm shower falling on acacia
leaves, a sunray which dries them, barely a tear in space. Wagner! ah,
Wagner! the overture of the "Flying Dutchman," are you not fond of
it?--tell me you are fond of it! As for myself, it overcomes me. There
is nothing left, nothing left, one expires--'

Their voices died away; they did not even look at each other, but sat
there elbow to elbow, with their faces turned upward, quite overcome.

Sandoz, who was surprised, asked himself where Mathilde could have
picked up that jargon. In some article of Jory's, perhaps. Besides, he
had remarked that women talk music very well, even without knowing a
note of it. And he, whom the bitterness of the others had only
grieved, became exasperated at sight of Mathilde's languishing
attitude. No, no, that was quite enough; the men tore each other to
bits; still that might pass, after all; but what an end to the evening
it was, that feminine fraud, cooing and titillating herself with
thoughts of Beethoven's and Schumann's music! Fortunately, Gagniere
suddenly rose. He knew what o'clock it was even in the depths of his
ecstasy, and he had only just time left him to catch his last train.
So, after exchanging nerveless and silent handshakes with the others,
he went off to sleep at Melun.

'What a failure he is!' muttered Mahoudeau. 'Music has killed
painting; he'll never do anything!'

He himself had to leave, and the door had scarcely closed behind his
back when Jory declared:

'Have you seen his last paperweight? He'll end by sculpturing
sleeve-links. There's a fellow who has missed his mark! To think that
he prided himself on being vigorous!'

But Mathilde was already afoot, taking leave of Christine with a curt
little inclination of the head, affecting social familiarity with
Henriette, and carrying off her husband, who helped her on with her
cloak in the ante-room, humble and terrified at the severe glance she
gave him, for she had an account to settle.

Then, the door having closed behind them, Sandoz, beside himself,
cried out: 'That's the end! The journalist was bound to call the
others abortions--yes, the journalist who, after patching up articles,
has fallen to trading upon public credulity! Ah! luckily there's
Mathilde the Avengeress!'

Of the guests Christine and Claude alone were left. The latter, since
the drawing-room had been growing empty, had remained ensconced in the
depths of an arm-chair, no longer speaking, but overcome by that
species of magnetic slumber which stiffened him, and fixed his eyes on
something far away beyond the walls. He protruded his face, a
convulsive kind of attention seemed to carry it forward; he certainly
beheld something invisible, and heard a summons in the silence.

Christine having risen in her turn, and apologised for being the last
to leave, Henriette took hold of her hands, repeated how fond she was
of her, begged her to come and see her frequently, and to dispose of
her in all things as she would with a sister. But Claude's sorrowful
wife, looking so sadly charming in her black dress, shook her head
with a pale smile.

'Come,' said Sandoz in her ear, after giving a glance at Claude, 'you
mustn't distress yourself like that. He has talked a great deal, he
has been gayer this evening. He's all right.'

But in a terrified voice she answered:

'No, no; look at his eyes--I shall tremble as long as he has his eyes
like that. You have done all you could, thanks. What you haven't done
no one will do. Ah! how I suffer at being unable to hope, at being
unable to do anything!'

Then in a loud tone she asked:

'Are you coming, Claude?'

She had to repeat her question twice, for at first he did not hear
her; he ended by starting, however, and rose to his feet, saying, as
if he had answered the summons from the horizon afar off:

'Yes, I'm coming, I'm coming.'

When Sandoz and his wife at last found themselves alone in the
drawing-room, where the atmosphere now was stifling--heated by the
lights and heavy, as it were, with melancholy silence after all the
outbursts of the quarrelling--they looked at one another and let their
arms fall, quite heart-rent by the unfortunate issue of their dinner
party. Henrietta tried to laugh it off, however, murmuring:

'I warned you, I quite understood--'

But he interrupted her with a despairing gesture. What! was that,
then, the end of his long illusion, that dream of eternity which had
made him set happiness in a few friendships, formed in childhood, and
shared until extreme old age? Ah! what a wretched band, what a final
rending, what a terrible balance-sheet to weep over after that
bankruptcy of the human heart! And he grew astonished on thinking of
the friends who had fallen off by the roadside, of the great
affections lost on the way, of the others unceasingly changing around
himself, in whom he found no change. His poor Thursdays filled him
with pity, so many memories were in mourning, it was the slow death of
all that one loves! Would his wife and himself have to resign
themselves to live as in a desert, to cloister themselves in utter
hatred of the world? Ought they rather to throw their doors wide open
to a throng of strangers and indifferent folk? By degrees a certainty
dawned in the depths of his grief: everything ended and nothing began
again in life. He seemed to yield to evidence, and, heaving a big
sigh, exclaimed:

'You were right. We won't invite them to dinner again--they would
devour one another.'

As soon as Claude and Christine reached the Place de la Trinite on
their way home, the painter let go of his wife's arm; and, stammering
that he had to go somewhere, he begged her to return to the Rue
Tourlaque without him. She had felt him shuddering, and she remained
quite scared with surprise and fear. Somewhere to go at that hour
--past midnight! Where had he to go, and what for? He had turned round
and was making off, when she overtook him, and, pretending that she
was frightened, begged that he would not leave her to climb up to
Montmartre alone at that time of night. This consideration alone
brought him back. He took her arm again; they ascended the Rue Blanche
and the Rue Lepic, and at last found themselves in the Rue Tourlaque.
And on reaching their door, he rang the bell, and then again left her.

'Here you are,' he said; 'I'm going.'

He was already hastening away, taking long strides, and gesticulating
like a madman. Without even closing the door which had been opened,
she darted off, bent on following him. In the Rue Lepic she drew near;
but for fear of exciting him still more she contented herself with
keeping him in sight, walking some thirty yards in the rear, without
his knowing that she was behind him. On reaching the end of the Rue
Lepic he went down the Rue Blanche again, and then proceeded by way of
the Rue de la Chaussee-d'Antin and the Rue du Dix Decembre as far as
the Rue de Richelieu. When she saw him turn into the last-named
thoroughfare, a mortal chill came over her: he was going towards the
Seine; it was the realisation of the frightful fear which kept her of
a night awake, full of anguish! And what could she do, good Lord? Go
with him, hang upon his neck over yonder? She was now only able to
stagger along, and as each step brought them nearer to the river, she
felt life ebbing from her limbs. Yes, he was going straight there; he
crossed the Place du Theatre Francais, then the Carrousel, and finally
reached the Pont des Saints-Peres. After taking a few steps along the
bridge, he approached the railing overlooking the water; and at the
thought that he was about to jump over, a loud cry was stifled in her
contracted throat.

But no; he remained motionless. Was it then only the Cite over yonder
that haunted him, that heart of Paris which pursued him everywhere,
which he conjured up with his fixed eyes, even through walls, and
which, when he was leagues away, cried out the constant summons heard
by him alone? She did not yet dare to hope it; she had stopped short,
in the rear, watching him with giddy anxiety, ever fancying that she
saw him take the terrible leap, but resisting her longing to draw
nearer, for fear lest she might precipitate the catastrophe by showing
herself. Oh, God! to think that she was there with her devouring
passion, her bleeding motherly heart--that she was there beholding
everything, without daring to risk one movement to hold him back!

He stood erect, looking very tall, quite motionless, and gazing into
the night.

It was a winter's night, with a misty sky of sooty blackness, and was
rendered extremely cold by a sharp wind blowing from the west. Paris,
lighted up, had gone to sleep, showing no signs of life save such as
attached to the gas-jets, those specks which scintillated and grew
smaller and smaller in the distance till they seemed but so much
starry dust. The quays stretched away showing double rows of those
luminous beads whose reverberation glimmered on the nearer frontages.
On the left were the houses of the Quai du Louvre, on the right the
two wings of the Institute, confused masses of monuments and
buildings, which became lost to view in the darkening gloom, studded
with sparks. It was the dawn of winter: sword in sheath, Change, veiled
and mild, came down the gradual air With cold slow smiles that hid
the doom beneath.
Five days to die in yet were autumn's, ere The last leaf withered
from his flowerless wreath.And in the Seine there
shone the nocturnal splendour of the animated water of cities; each
gas-jet there cast a reflection of its flame, like the nucleus of a
comet, extending into a tail. The nearer ones, mingling together, set
the current on fire with broad, regular, symmetrical fans of light,
glowing like live embers, while the more distant ones, seen under the
bridges, were but little motionless sparks of fire. But the large
burning tails appeared to be animated, they waggled as they spread
out, all black and gold, with a constant twirling of scales, in which
one divined the flow of the water. The whole Seine was lighted up by
them, as if some fete were being given in its depths--some mysterious,
fairy-like entertainment, at which couples were waltzing beneath the
river's red-flashing window-panes. High above those fires, above the
starry quays, the sky, in which not a planet was visible, showed a
ruddy mass of vapour, that warm, phosphorescent exhalation which every
night, above the sleep of the city, seems to set the crater of a
volcano.

The wind blew hard, and Christine, shivering, her eyes full of tears,
felt the bridge move under her, as if it were bearing her away amid a
smash up of the whole scene. Had not Claude moved? Was he not climbing
over the rail? No; everything became motionless again, and she saw him
still on the same spot, obstinately stiff, with his eyes turned
towards the point of the Cite, which he could not see.

Wouldst thou fain have all thy sons sons of thine indeed, and free?
Nay, but then no more at all as thou hast been shalt thou be:
Needs must many dwell in darkness, that some may look on light; Needs
must poor men brook the wrong that ensures the rich man's right.But farther off everything became confused, the island had
disappeared, he could not even have told its exact situation if some
belated cabs had not passed from time to time over the Pont-Neuf, with
their lamps showing like those shooting sparks which dart at times
through embers. A red lantern, on a level with the dam of the Mint,
cast a streamlet of blood, as it were, into the water. Something huge
and lugubrious, some drifting form, no doubt a lighter which had
become unmoored, slowly descended the stream amid the reflections.
Espied for a moment, it was immediately afterwards lost in the
darkness. Where had the triumphal island sunk? In the depths of that
flow of water? Claude still gazed, gradually fascinated by the great
rushing of the river in the night. He leant over its broad bed, chilly
like an abyss, in which the mysterious flames were dancing. And the
loud, sad wail of the current attracted him, and he listened to its
call, despairing, unto death.

By a shooting pain at her heart, Christine this time realised that the
terrible thought had just occurred to him. She held out her quivering
hands which the wind was lashing. But Claude remained there,
struggling against the sweetness of death; indeed he did not move for
another hour, he lingered there unconscious of the lapse of time, with
his eyes still turned in the direction of the Cite, as if by a miracle
of power they were about to create light, and conjure up the island so
that he might behold it.

When Claude at last left the bridge, with stumbling steps, Christine
had to pass in front and run in order to be home in the Rue Tourlaque
before him.


                                XII

IT was nearly three o'clock when they went to bed that night, with the
bitter cold November wind blowing through their little room and the
big studio. Christine, breathless from her run, had quickly slipped
between the sheets so that he might not know that she had followed
him; and Claude, quite overcome, had taken his clothes off, one
garment after another, without saying a word. For long months they had
been as strangers; until then, however, she had never felt such a
barrier between them, such tomb-like coldness.

She struggled for nearly a quarter of an hour against the sleepiness
coming over her. She was very tired, and a kind of torpor numbed her;
still she would not give way, feeling anxious at leaving him awake.
None would dream that all this moorland's glow and gloss Could be
dark as tombs that strike the spirit acold Even in eyes that
opened here, and here behold Now no sun relume from hope's belated
spark Any comfort, nor may ears of mourners hark Though the ripe woods
ring with golden-throated glee, While the soul lies shattered, like a
stranded bark On the wrathful woful marge of earth and sea.

Death and doom are they whose crested triumphs toss On the proud
plumed waves whence mourning notes are tolled.Then,
resistance being impossible, she succumbed and glided into the slumber
following upon great weariness.

An hour later, the consciousness of something missing, the anguish of
uneasiness awoke her with a sudden start. She at once felt the bed
beside her, it was already cold: he was no longer there, she had
already divined it while asleep. And she was growing alarmed, still
but half awake, her head heavy and her ears buzzing, when through the
doorway, left ajar, she perceived a ray of light coming from the
studio. She then felt reassured, she thought that in a fit of
sleeplessness he had gone to fetch some book or other; but at last, as
he did not return, she ended by softly rising so as to take a peep.
What she beheld quite unsettled her, and kept her standing on the
tiled floor, with her feet bare, in such surprise that she did not at
first dare to show herself.

Claude, who was in his shirt-sleeves, despite the coldness of the
temperature, having merely put on his trousers and slippers in his
haste, was standing on the steps in front of his large picture. His
palette was lying at his feet, and with one hand he held the candle,
while with the other he painted. His eyes were dilated like those of a
somnambulist, his gestures were precise and stiff; he stooped every
minute to take some colour on his brush, and then rose up, casting a
large fantastic shadow on the wall. And there was not a sound;
frightful silence reigned in the big dim room.

