
The =Nave= was entirely rebuilt by Sir Arthur Blomfield in 1890-1897.
Not the least difficult part of the architect's work was the removal
of the unsatisfactory structure, of 1839-1840, without destroying the
few Norman and Early English features imbedded in the plaster and
brickwork, which it was desired to recover as far as possible, and
preserve intact and _in situ_. This has to a great extent been done,
thanks to the care with which the debased nave was taken to pieces,
every stone that was worth preserving being carefully released from
its accretions, measured, and reinstated in its proper place in the
new work. Fortunately the earlier nineteenth century builders had not
disturbed the bases of the old piers, but had contented themselves
with building round them, and when their superstructure was cleared
off, enough of the old work remained to show the position of every
pier, as well as the lines of the original ground plan. In nearly
every part also the old foundations were found satisfactory, though,
of course, they were thoroughly tested, and renovation generally
applied. The old lines have been adhered to throughout the
restoration, and the new nave is a practical reproduction of its Early
English predecessor in every detail, with the single exception to be
afterwards noticed. This minute adherence to the original includes
such intentional irregularities as the unequal distances between the
piers and the varying width of the aisles, which not only differ from
each other, but are not of the same width throughout in each case.

Ancaster stone has been chiefly employed, except in the roof, where
the ribs of the vaulting are of Bath stone, the filling being made up
of chalk and firestone.

The nave consists of seven bays on each side, divided by piers,
alternately circular and octagonal, like those in the choir, with
triple vaulting shafts on the north and south sides (the central shaft
in each case being of Purbeck), and a single shaft on the east and
west, corresponding with the interior order of the arches. The
vaulting shafts are banded. The deeply moulded arches are somewhat
loftier and more acutely pointed than those in the choir, placing the
triforia on a slightly higher level, but the triforia of nave and
choir are alike in that in both cases they consist of four arched
openings in each bay. Every bay is walled off from its neighbours on
either side, but has an opening at the back into a passage above the
aisles, which is continuous throughout nave and choir. In the
westernmost bay on either side, the triforium arcade has a wall
immediately behind the shafts. In the other bays it is recessed, and
open above the level of the aisle vaulting. In these respects the
architect has reversed the old arrangement, as in the original nave
the two westernmost bays had open triforia, the others simply
containing a shallow arcading. This arrangement, taken in conjunction
with traces of an incipient tower discovered within the two western
bays, seems to show that these bays were intended to form a narthex,
or vestibule, to the church, but it does not appear that the tower was
ever erected, or that the vestibule ever went beyond the conception.
The clerestory is lighted by plain lancet windows, enclosed in an
elegant arcading.

Entering the church by the great doorway at the south-west, and
looking towards the east, we get a fine perspective of over two
hundred feet, including the nave arcading in its three stages, the
groined and vaulted roof, and a good view of the choir, terminating in
Bishop Fox's fine stone screen, with the three-light window above it.

   [Illustration: _Photo._     _G.P. Heisch._
   THE CHOIR VAULT.]

In both aisles there is an interesting series of modern windows
intended to memorialise the great names associated with the Church,
the Borough of Southwark, and the history of England--all excellent
specimens of the revived art of glass-staining, and all at present
designed by Mr. C.E. Kempe. The visitor will find it convenient to
begin his examination of the interior at the =North Aisle=. The window
at the extreme west end of this aisle contains a figure of St.
Augustine of Hippo, as Patron of the Augustinian Canons, introduced
early in the twelfth century, when the Collegiate Church was
transformed into a monastery.

The next three windows are at present vacant, but they are already
destined for three great names included in the memorial scheme, viz.:
Oliver Goldsmith, Dr. Johnson, and Dr. Sacheverell, each of whom has a
place in the history of Southwark entitling him to commemoration in
the church. Goldsmith once set up as a medical practitioner at
Bankside. His friend Dr. Johnson was on friendly terms with the Thrale
family, whose successors (Messrs. Barclay, Perkins and Co.) still
retain the Doctor's chair on their premises. Dr. Sacheverell was
Chaplain at St. Saviour's from 1705 to 1709, and appears to have
engaged Johnson's attention, as a preacher, in his childhood.[22]

Beneath the Goldsmith window there is a fine relic in the shape of a
late =Norman Recess=, which has escaped serious mutilation. A
segmental arch, surmounted with a simple chamfered moulding with
quirks, supported at each end by a column with moulded base and
capital, would seem to indicate a seat rather than a tomb, and the
date as about the end of the twelfth century. Beneath the Johnson
window there is another Norman relic, of about the same date, in the
outline of the old =Canons' Doorway=, formerly connecting the aisle
with the cloisters. The extreme plainness of the moulding will be
contrasted with the elaborate work in the Prior's entrance further
east, on the exterior of the same wall. The next window contains a
memorial to Alexander Cruden, compiler of the Scripture Concordance,
who died on 1st November, 1770, and was buried in the parish. This
window is the gift of Mr. W.H. Francis.

John Bunyan is commemorated in the window beyond it, as having
preached and worked in Southwark, and as author of the immortal
"Pilgrim's Progress." The cost was defrayed by subscriptions from
children of the parish.

The next bay is occupied by a short two-light window (at present
plain), and by =John Gower's Tomb= in the space below. This fine
monument was removed to the east side of the south transept during the
destructive alterations of the early nineteenth century, but had been
worse treated by its friends in 1748, when a large sum was spent on
its "embellishment." Its history, combined with that of the Priors who
erected it, may be summed up in the opening words of the inscription
which was placed in a marble tablet at the back of the tomb to
commemorate the embellishment referred to, not without a touch of
sarcasm, though, of course, unintentional: "Hoc viri inter inclytos
memorandi." Gower died in 1408, eight years after his friend Chaucer.
He had been a liberal benefactor to the Church, and founded a chantry
in the Chapel of St. John the Baptist, where he was eventually buried.
The chapel and chantry are no more, but the monument marks the spot,
having been restored in 1894 to its first position. It is in the
Perpendicular style, and consists of an altar-tomb, with a dado,
ornamented by seven panels in front, on which lies the effigy of the
poet, surmounted by a canopy of three ogee arches, with an inner order
of five cusps, and terminating in crocketed pinnacles. There is a
pilaster set angle-wise at each end, banded at the separate divisions
of the monument, and also rising into crocketed pinnacles. There are
similar pinnacles between the arches of the canopy. Behind the canopy
is a screen, divided into open panels of three trefoil-headed lights.
The cornice at the top is modern, and the hands and nose of the figure
are restorations.

The poet is represented lying on his back, with his hands joined in
prayer, and his head resting upon the three volumes on which his fame
depends, the "Speculum Meditantis," "Vox Clamantis," and "Confessio
Amantis." He is vested in a long dark habit, buttoned down to the
feet, after the manner of a cassock, the ordinary dress of an English
gentleman at the time. There is a garland of four roses round his
head, and at his feet a lion couchant. The SS collar adorns the neck,
with a pendant jewel, on which a swan is engraved--the device of
Richard II, to whom Gower was Poet Laureate. On the wall of the
canopy, at the foot of the tomb, there is a sculptured and coloured
representation of the poet's own shield of arms, crest, and helmet. On
the back wall of the recess, above the effigy, there were formerly
three painted figures, representing Charity, Mercy, and Pity, each
bearing a scroll with an invocation, in Norman-French, for the soul of
the departed. After undergoing repainting more than once, with
modifications, the figures were scarcely recognisable in 1832, when
the monument was repaired, but the figures were unfortunately
obliterated. The inscription along the ledge of the tomb, which had
also been destroyed, is now replaced: "Hic jacet I. Gower, Arm. Angl:
poeta celeberrimus ac hoc sacro benefac. insignis. Vixit temporibus
Edw. III, Ric. II, et Henri IV." The short window above Gower's tomb
is not without suggestion in its vacancy. The last bay of the aisle
was occupied by the Prior's doorway, the existing fragments of which
are preserved _in situ_ on the exterior.

The window above it is most appropriately dedicated to Gower's
contemporary, Chaucer. It was presented by General A.W. Pigott in
memory of his sister, and was unveiled by the present Poet Laureate on
25th October, 1900, the fifth centenary of Chaucer's death. The artist
has succeeded in compressing a rather large subject into the single
lancet. The middle compartment depicts the pilgrims setting out from
the old "Tabard" inn, above which (in the upper division) rise the
tower of St. Saviour's and the spire of Canterbury, the starting-point
and the goal of the pilgrimage. The compartment beneath contains a
full-length figure of Thomas Becket, a study in ecclesiastical
vestments, his right hand raised in blessing, the left holding the
archiepiscopal cross. The whole is crowned with a medallion portrait
of the author of "The Canterbury Tales."

If the visitor will now turn to the right and take up a position
outside the chancel railings, he will probably be at the best point
for seeing the =East Window=, unless a strong light happens to be
behind it to bring out the details at a distance.

   [Illustration: JOHN GOWER'S MONUMENT.
   _From an engraving in the Crowle-Pennant Collection, British
   Museum, 1801._]

It is placed in an elegant quintuplet arcading, the outer arches of
which are blind, leaving the central arches for the three lancets
composing the window. It contains the Crucifixion in the central
light, with the attendant figures of St. John and the Blessed Virgin
at the sides, the whole thus forming a pictorial substitute for the
rood-screen that formerly stood before the choir. The design of this
window is also by Mr. Kempe, but it shows a certain departure from his
characteristic style in that it is more of a picture and less of a
kaleidoscope than most of his other windows. In colouring and accuracy
of delineation (anatomical and otherwise) it is perhaps more modern
and less mediaeval in treatment than we should be led to expect from
the artist's better known manner. The predominant tone is blue,
relieved by a delicate base and canopy of amber, and the whole
composition is full of the devotional spirit of the old masters in
stained glass, though obviously subject to modern influences. A
complete contrast, in subject and in colouring, is presented in the
great =West Window=, by Mr. Henry Holiday. This window also consists
of three lancet lights, which, though considerably longer than those
at the east end, scarcely afford room for the many details of the
extensive theme that has been chosen. It is a combination of the six
"Days" of Creation with the _Benedicite omnia opera_ as a hymn of
praise from created nature. In some respects the treatment of the
subject suggests the influence of the school that we associate with
the names of Burne-Jones, William Morris, and Rossetti. This gift to
the Cathedral came from Mr. T.H. Withers. The space beneath the west
window, usually occupied by a porch, is lined with two series of
arched panels, seven in the higher row, nine in the lower. The latter
are less acutely pointed, and much shorter, than the others, and also
differ from them in that the shafts are of Purbeck marble.

On the inner south-west wall there are some extremely interesting
fragments of the ancient thirteenth-century wall arcade. The peculiar
construction can be inferred from the three arches that are left,
viz., that in every bay one of the three arches rested on a corbel,
while the others were supported by shafts, with moulded bases and
foliated capitals; a precedent which has been followed in the new
arcading on the west wall.

The =South Aisle.=--The window in the western wall contains a figure
of St. Swithun, in cope and mitre. He is here commemorated as having
converted the original "House of Sisters" into a College of Priests,
and, as it were, to balance the other conversion referred to in the
companion window in the north aisle.

   [Illustration: _Photo._     _G.P. Heisch._
   THE CHOIR FROM THE NAVE.]

Above the Early English arcading the westernmost bay contains a window
commemorating St. Paulinus. After the defeat of his patron, Edwin, at
the battle of Hatfield the saint fled from Northumbria into Kent
(_circa_ 633), where he acted as Bishop of Rochester till his death in
644. The connection of St. Saviour's with the See of Rochester, though
quite modern and now severed, is fittingly indicated by this memorial.
This extreme bay of the aisle constitutes the Baptistery, and the
scene chosen for illustration from the life of St. Paulinus represents
him in the act of baptizing a large number of people in a river.[23]

The =Font= stands below this window in its proper place near the
entrance. There was a time in the history of the English Church when
the symbolism of position was thought of less account than the
administration of the initial Sacrament "in the presence of all the
congregation" (_see_ the Rubric of 1549, repeated in Elizabeth's
Prayer Book), an object supposed to be defeated where the Baptistery
was at the west end, and enclosed, as was frequently the case. The
font was consequently removed in many churches towards the east, and
at St. Saviour's a special pew was provided near to it for the
sponsors. It was known as the "Christening Pew," but has long since
gone the way of the other incongruous wooden fittings. The new font,
in the old position, was presented by Mrs. Barrow in memory of her
husband, and designed by Mr. G.F. Bodley. It is made of Verde di Prato
marble, octagonal in shape, and rests upon a circular base surrounded
by detached pillars, all of the same material. The faces of the
octagon are concave, and without decoration, except that towards the
east, which displays a star in a sunk gilded panel.

=Dramatic Windows.=--The chief feature of this aisle is the fine
series of windows representative of the drama in the Golden Age of
Queen Elizabeth. The first of the series is devoted to Edward Alleyn
(1566-1626), who was "bred a stage player," and lived near the group
of theatres in Southwark, but is perhaps better known as the founder
of the splendid College of "God's Gift" at Dulwich.

The window was presented by the governor, old scholars, and friends of
the College, and was unveiled by the Duke of Connaught on 22nd June,
1898. Alleyn himself is represented as the central figure, reading the
charter of his foundation in the College Chapel, attended by Bacon,
Inigo Jones, and other contemporaries. The upper part of the window
contains Alleyn's portrait, and the lowest compartment a figure of
Charity holding a scroll with the appropriate quotation from Psalm
XXXIV, II.

The next three windows commemorate Francis Beaumont (1585-1616), John
Fletcher (1579-1625), and Philip Massinger (1583-1639). The first and
second of these great dramatists, so intimately associated in their
lives and in their writings, could hardly be separated in any
commemoration. They are accordingly here represented, not only in
adjacent windows, but combined by allegorical allusion in the first.
The design portrays David and Jonathan, with an inscription from the
opening verse of Psalm CXXXII (Vulgate): "Ecce quam bonum, et
jucundum: habitare fratres in unum."

   [Illustration: _Photo._     _G.P. Heisch._
   THE FONT AND THE THIRTEENTH-CENTURY WALL-ARCADE.]

The Scripture parallel was not quite verified in the case of the
poets. Fletcher certainly lies somewhere in St. Saviour's, but no man
knows the exact place of his burial. Beaumont lies in the more famous
Poets' Corner at Westminster. The "Beaumont" window was presented by
Mr. W.H. Francis, in memory of his father. The "Fletcher" window, in
the next bay, came from Mr. T.F. Rider, whose firm were the builders
of the nave. The subject chosen for illustration was suggested by the
dramatist's "Knight of Malta." St. John the Baptist stands in the
lower compartment, as Patron of the Knights of St. John, holding a
standard displaying the suitable word "Concordia." The ceremony of
Investiture, with attendant figures, fills the space above, surmounted
by the poet's head crowned with bay leaves.

The mantle of these great dramatists is acknowledged to have fallen on
Philip Massinger, commemorated in the next window. It was the first of
the series to be inserted, and was unveiled by Sir Walter Besant in
1896.[24] The subject is taken from Massinger's fine play, "The Virgin
Martyr," and represents an angel bearing flowers and fruits of
Paradise from the martyr (St. Dorothea) to a sceptical lawyer who had
asked for the token for his conviction. Below this central compartment
is a figure of St. Dorothea, and above it a medallion portrait of the
dramatist.

Massinger is buried in the church, as certified by an entry in the
"Parochial Monthly Accounts," but the same uncertainty attends his
remains as those of his friend Fletcher. There is a tradition that
they were both interred in one grave, which is not at all unlikely,
but no one knows where it is, their names on the chancel floor being
modern and counting for nothing.

The series of windows could only be appropriately concluded by one
great name, "the protagonist on the great arena of modern poetry, and
the glory of the human intellect" (De Quincey).

The Shakespeare window was presented by Sir Frederick Wigan, Bart., in
memory of his brother-in-law, Arthur Cecil Blunt. It is a triplet, and
displays in its central light an allegorical figure of "Poetry,"
supported by Shakespeare and Spenser in the lights on either hand.
Above the Muse the sacred Dove is hovering, symbolical of the divine
inspiration which we may presume guided the poets in their work, and
at the base is a quotation from Wisdom, viii, 4 (Vulgate): "Doctrix
disciplinae Dei, et electrix operum illius."

The faces of Edmund Shakespeare[25] and A.C. Blunt are introduced in
the quatrefoils of the heading, the former as buried in the church,
the latter the gentleman commemorated by the donor.

William Shakespeare is known to have lived near the old Bear Garden
and his own theatre, "The Globe," in Southwark, where his brother
Edmund also lived while trying his fortune on the stage. The immortal
name has, therefore, a direct association with St. Saviour's Church
and parish, entitling it to the special memorial.

The =Choir= was erected by Peter de Rupibus in the early part of the
thirteenth century. In its more mature and elaborate work it shows a
considerable advance on the simplest form of Early English, though the
apparently low elevation, and massiveness of the piers and lower
arcading, are obviously not free from Norman influences. It is divided
into five bays by alternate circular and octagonal piers, the dwarfed
appearance of which is relieved by triple vaulting shafts on the north
and south sides, and single shafts to support the arch mouldings. The
central shafts are not of Purbeck, as in the nave, and they are not
banded, except where crossed by the abacus moulding of the capitals
and the triforium string-course. The piers have all plain capitals and
well cut base mouldings. The triforium arcade, like that in the nave,
consists of four arched openings in each bay, and, unlike the
clerestory, has no continuous passage along the choir wall. Each bay,
however, has an opening at the back into the space between the vault
and roof of the aisle.

While both sides of the choir are alike in their main features, there
is an interesting difference in detail, especially to be noticed in
the greater simplicity of the south side, where the triforium capitals
are less elaborate, and the dog-tooth ornament is omitted from the
outer jambs of the openings.

On the south side, moreover, the arches have corbels, with sculptured
heads, to support their inner mouldings, in place of the full-length
shafts which occur on the responds at the ends, and on all the piers
of the opposite side. These differences, though perhaps partly
referable to the delightful vagaries of Gothic architecture, are
supposed to have a special significance at St. Saviour's, where the
north was the side of the Prior.

   [Illustration: _Photo._     _G.P. Heisch._
   THE CHOIR AND ALTAR SCREEN.]

The roof is not strictly original, most of it having been rebuilt in
1822-1824, when, however, the old material was worked in again as far
as possible, and the old quadripartite groining adhered to. It may be
noticed that the vaulting is carried out very systematically and
correctly, the only defect being that the wall-ribs die into the
vaulting surfaces, instead of being brought down to the clerestory
sill. The plough-share surfaces (as they are called) are nevertheless
well cut back to concentrate the lateral pressures against the
external buttresses. In the nave the new vaulting has the wall-ribs
properly supported by light shafts in the angles of the clerestory
openings, whilst in the transepts the inner archivolt of the windows
answers the same purpose.

   [Illustration: _Photo._     _G.P. Heisch._
   THE TRIFORIUM AND CLERESTORY OF THE CHOIR.]

It is highly probable that the choir formerly extended to the western
side of the tower, as indicated by the step between the nave and tower
pavement.

The =Altar-platform=, though raised seven steps above the nave
pavement, gives the altar a rather low elevation as compared with the
lofty Continental altars, whether abroad, or introduced here in recent
years on the Continental example. Herein it exhibits a peculiarity of
the English use, as illustrated in many pre-Reformation churches,
where the occasional deviations from rule can generally be accounted
for by the lofty crypt beneath, as, _e.g._, at Canterbury.[26]

