At that school I saw some five or six hundred girls collected in
one room, and heard them sing.  The singing was very pretty, and it
was all very nice; but I own that I was rather startled, and to
tell the truth somewhat abashed, when I was invited to "say a few
words to them."  No idea of such a suggestion had dawned upon me,
and I felt myself quite at a loss.  To be called up before five
hundred men is bad enough, but how much worse before that number of
girls!  What could I say but that they were all very pretty?  As
far as I can remember, I did say that and nothing else.  Very
pretty they were, and neatly dressed, and attractive; but among
them all there was not a pair of rosy cheeks.  How should there be,
when every room in the building was heated up to the condition of
an oven by those damnable hot-air pipes.

In England a taste for very large shops has come up during the last
twenty years.  A firm is not doing a good business, or at any rate
a distinguished business, unless he can assert in his trade card
that he occupies at least half a dozen houses--Nos. 105, 106, 107,
108, 109 and 110.  The old way of paying for what you want over the
counter is gone; and when you buy a yard of tape or a new carriage--
for either of which articles you will probably visit the same
establishment--you go through about the same amount of ceremony as
when you sell a thousand pounds out of the stocks in propria
persona.  But all this is still further exaggerated in New York.
Mr. Stewart's store there is perhaps the handsomest institution in
the city, and his hall of audience for new carpets is a magnificent
saloon.  "You have nothing like that in England," my friend said to
me as he walked me through it in triumph.  "I wish we had nothing
approaching to it," I answered.  For I confess to a liking for the
old-fashioned private shops.  Harper's establishment for the
manufacture and sale of books is also very wonderful.  Everything
is done on the premises, down to the very coloring of the paper
which lines the covers, and places the gilding on their backs.  The
firm prints, engraves, electroplates, sews, binds, publishes, and
sells wholesale and retail.  I have no doubt that the authors have
rooms in the attics where the other slight initiatory step is taken
toward the production of literature.

New York is built upon an island, which is I believe about ten
miles long, counting from the southern point at the Battery up to
Carmansville, to which place the city is presumed to extend
northward.  This island is called Manhattan, a name which I have
always thought would have been more graceful for the city than that
of New York.  It is formed by the Sound or East River, which
divides the continent from Long Island by the Hudson River, which
runs into the Sound, or rather joins it at the city foot, and by a
small stream called the Harlem River, which runs out of the Hudson
and meanders away into the Sound at the north of the city, thus
cutting the city off from the main-land.  The breadth of the island
does not much exceed two miles, and therefore the city is long, and
not capable of extension in point of breadth.  In its old days it
clustered itself round about the Point, and stretched itself up
from there along the quays of the two waters.  The streets down in
this part of the town are devious enough, twisting themselves about
with delightful irregularity; but as the city grew there came the
taste for parallelograms, and the upper streets are rectangular and
numbered.  Broadway, the street of New York with which the world is
generally best acquainted, begins at the southern point of the town
and goes northward through it.  For some two miles and a half it
walks away in a straight line, and then it turns to the left toward
the Hudson.  From that time Broadway never again takes a straight
course, but crosses the various avenues in an oblique direction
till it becomes the Bloomingdale Road, and under that name takes
itself out of town.  There are eleven so-called avenues, which
descend in absolutely straight lines from the northern, and at
present unsettled, extremity of the new town, making their way
southward till they lose themselves among the old streets.  These
are called First Avenue, Second Avenue, and so on.  The town had
already progressed two miles up northward from the Battery before
it had caught the parallelogramic fever from Philadelphia, for at
about that distance we find "First Street".  First Street runs
across the avenues from water to water, and then Second Street.  I
will not name them all, seeing that they go up to 154th Street!
They do so at least on the map and I believe on the lamp-posts.
But the houses are not yet built in order beyond 50th or 60th
Street.  The other hundred streets, each of two miles long, with
the avenues, which are mostly unoccupied for four or five miles, is
the ground over which the young New Yorkers are to spread
themselves.  I do not in the least doubt that they will occupy it
all, and that 154th Street will find itself too narrow a boundary
for the population.

I have said that there was some good architectural effect in New
York, and I alluded chiefly to that of the Fifth Avenue.  The Fifth
Avenue is the Belgrave Square, the Park Lane, and the Pall Mall of
New York.  It is certainly a very fine street.  The houses in it
are magnificent--not having that aristocratic look which some of
our detached London residences enjoy, or the palatial appearance of
an old-fashioned hotel in Paris, but an air of comfortable luxury
and commercial wealth which is not excelled by the best houses of
any other town that I know.  They are houses, not hotels or
palaces; but they are very roomy houses, with every luxury that
complete finish can give them.  Many of them cover large spaces of
the ground, and their rent will sometimes go up as high as 800
pounds and 1000 pounds a year.  Generally the best of these houses
are owned by those who live in them, and rent is not, therefore,
paid.  But this is not always the case, and the sums named above
may be taken as expressing their value.  In England a man should
have a very large income indeed who could afford to pay 1000 pounds
a year for his house in London.  Such a one would as a matter of
course have an establishment in the country, and be an earl, or a
duke, or a millionaire.  But it is different in New York.  The
resident there shows his wealth chiefly by his house; and though he
may probably have a villa at Newport or a box somewhere up the
Hudson, he has no second establishment.  Such a house, therefore,
will not represent a total expenditure of above 4000 pounds a year.

There are churches on each side of Fifth Avenue--perhaps five or
six within sight at one time--which add much to the beauty of the
street.  They are well built, and in fairly good taste.  These,
added to the general well-being and splendid comfort of the place,
give it an effect better than the architecture of the individual
houses would seem to warrant.  I own that I have enjoyed the vista
as I have walked up and down Fifth Avenue, and have felt that the
city had a right to be proud of its wealth.  But the greatness and
beauty and glory of wealth have on such occasions been all in all
with me.  I know no great man, no celebrated statesman, no
philanthropist of peculiar note who has lived in Fifth Avenue.
That gentleman on the right made a million of dollars by inventing
a shirt collar; this one on the left electrified the world by a
lotion; as to the gentleman at the corner there, there are rumors
about him and the Cuban slave trade but my informant by no means
knows that they are true.  Such are the aristocracy of Fifth
Avenue, I can only say that, if I could make a million dollars by a
lotion, I should certainly be right to live in such a house as one
of those.

The suburbs of New York are, by the nature of the localities,
divided from the city by water.  Jersey City and Hoboken are on the
other side of the Hudson, and in another State.  Williamsburg and
Brooklyn are on Long Island, which is a part of the State of New
York.  But these places are as easily reached as Lambeth is reached
from Westminster.  Steam ferries ply every three or four minutes;
and into these boats coaches, carts, and wagons of any size or
weight are driven.  In fact, they make no other stoppage to the
commerce than that occasioned by the payment of a few cents.  Such
payment, no doubt, is a stoppage; and therefore it is that Jersey
City, Brooklyn, and Williamsburg are, at any rate in appearance,
very dull and uninviting.  They are, however, very populous.  Many
of the quieter citizens prefer to live there; and I am told that
the Brooklyn tea parties consider themselves to be, in esthetic
feeling, very much ahead of anything of the kind in the more
opulent centers of the city.  In beauty of scenery Staten Island is
very much the prettiest of the suburbs of New York.  The view from
the hillside in Staten Island down upon New York harbor is very
lovely.  It is the only really good view of that magnificent harbor
which I have been able to find.  As for appreciating such beauty
when one is entering a port from sea or leaving it for sea, I do
not believe in any such power.  The ship creeps up or creeps out
while the mind is engaged on other matters.  The passenger is
uneasy either with hopes or fears, and then the grease of the
engines offends one's nostrils.  But it is worth the tourist's
while to look down upon New York harbor from the hillside in Staten
Island.  When I was there Fort Lafayette looked black in the center
of the channel, and we knew that it was crowded with the victims of
secession.  Fort Tompkins was being built to guard the pass--worthy
of a name of richer sound; and Fort something else was bristling
with new cannon.  Fort Hamilton, on Long Island, opposite, was
frowning at us; and immediately around us a regiment of volunteers
was receiving regimental stocks and boots from the hands of its
officers.  Everything was bristling with war; and one could not but
think that not in this way had New York raised herself so quickly
to her present greatness.

But the glory of New York is the Central Park--its glory in the
minds of all new Yorkers of the present day.  The first question
asked of you is whether you have seen the Central Park, and the
second is as to what you think of it.  It does not do to say simply
that it is fine, grand, beautiful, and miraculous.  You must swear
by cock and pie that it is more fine, more grand, more beautiful,
more miraculous than anything else of the kind anywhere.  Here you
encounter in its most annoying form that necessity for eulogium
which presses you everywhere.  For in truth, taken as it is at
present, the Central Park is not fine, nor grand, nor beautiful.
As to the miracle, let that pass.  It is perhaps as miraculous as
some other great latter-day miracles.

But the Central Park is a very great fact, and affords a strong
additional proof of the sense and energy of the people.  It is very
large, being over three miles long and about three-quarters of a
mile in breadth.  When it was found that New York was extending
itself, and becoming one of the largest cities of the world, a
space was selected between Fifth and Seventh Avenues, immediately
outside the limits of the city as then built, but nearly in the
center of the city as it is intended to be built.  The ground
around it became at once of great value; and I do not doubt that
the present fashion of Fifth Avenue about Twentieth Street will in
course of time move itself up to Fifth Avenue as it looks, or will
look, over the Park at Seventieth, Eightieth, and Ninetieth
Streets.  The great water-works of the city bring the Croton River,
whence New York is supplied, by an aqueduct over the Harlem River
into an enormous reservoir just above the Park; and hence it has
come to pass that there will be water not only for sanitary and
useful purposes, but also for ornament.  At present the Park, to
English eyes, seems to be all road.  The trees are not grown up;
and the new embankments, and new lakes, and new ditches, and new
paths give to the place anything but a picturesque appearance.  The
Central Park is good for what it will be rather than for what it
is.  The summer heat is so very great that I doubt much whether the
people of New York will ever enjoy such verdure as our parks show.
But there will be a pleasant assemblage of walks and water-works,
with fresh air and fine shrubs and flowers, immediately within the
reach of the citizens.  All that art and energy can do will be
done, and the Central Park doubtless will become one of the great
glories of New York.  When I was expected to declare that St.
James's Park, Green Park, Hyde Park, and Kensington Gardens
altogether were nothing to it, I confess that I could only remain
mute.

Those who desire to learn what are the secrets of society in New
York, I would refer to the Potiphar Papers.  The Potiphar Papers
are perhaps not as well known in England as they deserve to be.
They were published, I think, as much as seven or eight years ago;
but are probably as true now as they were then.  What I saw of
society in New York was quiet and pleasant enough; but doubtless I
did not climb into that circle in which Mrs. Potiphar held so
distinguished a position.  It may be true that gentlemen habitually
throw fragments of their supper and remnants of their wine on to
their host's carpets; but if so I did not see it.

As I progress in my work I feel that duty will call upon me to
write a separate chapter on hotels in general, and I will not,
therefore, here say much about those in New York.  I am inclined to
think that few towns in the world, if any, afford on the whole
better accommodation, but there are many in which the accommodation
is cheaper.  Of the railways also I ought to say something.  The
fact respecting them, which is most remarkable, is that of their
being continued into the center of the town through the streets.
The cars are not dragged through the city by locomotive engines,
but by horses; the pace therefore is slow, but the convenience to
travelers in being brought nearer to the center of trade must be
much felt.  It is as though passengers from Liverpool and
passengers from Bristol were carried on from Euston Square and
Paddington along the New Road, Portland Place, and Regent Street to
Pall Mall, or up the City Road to the Bank.  As a general rule,
however, the railways, railway cars, and all about them are ill
managed.  They are monopolies, and the public, through the press,
has no restraining power upon them as it has in England.  A parcel
sent by express over a distance of forty miles will not be
delivered within twenty-four hours.  I once made my plaint on this
subject at the bar or office of a hotel, and was told that no
remonstrance was of avail.  "It is a monopoly," the man told me,
"and if we say anything, we are told that if we do not like it we
need not use it."  In railway matters and postal matters time and
punctuality are not valued in the States as they are with us, and
the public seem to acknowledge that they must put up with defects--
that they must grin and bear them in America, as the public no
doubt do in Austria, where such affairs are managed by a government
bureau.

In the beginning of this chapter I spoke of the population of New
York, and I cannot end it without remarking that out of that
population more than one-eighth is composed of Germans.  It is, I
believe, computed that there are about 120,000 Germans in the city,
and that only two other German cities in the world, Vienna and
Berlin have a larger German population than New York.  The Germans
are good citizens and thriving men, and are to be found prospering
all over the Northern and Western parts of the Union.  It seems
that they are excellently well adapted to colonization, though they
have in no instance become the dominant people in a colony, or
carried with them their own language or their own laws.  The French
have done so in Algeria, in some of the West India islands, and
quite as essentially into Lower Canada, where their language and
laws still prevail.  And yet it is, I think, beyond doubt that the
French are not good colonists, as are the Germans.

Of the ultimate destiny of New York as one of the ruling commercial
cities of the world, it is, I think, impossible to doubt.  Whether
or no it will ever equal London in population I will not pretend to
say; even should it do so, should its numbers so increase as to
enable it to say that it had done so, the question could not very
well be settled.  When it comes to pass that an assemblage of men
in one so-called city have to be counted by millions, there arises
the impossibility of defining the limits of that city, and of
saying who belong to it and who do not.  An arbitrary line may be
drawn, but that arbitrary line, though perhaps false when drawn as
including too much, soon becomes more false as including too
little.  Ealing, Acton, Fulham, Putney, Norwood, Sydenham,
Blackheath, Woolwich, Greenwich, Stratford, Highgate, and Hampstead
are, in truth, component parts of London, and very shortly Brighton
will be as much so.


CHAPTER XV.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.


As New York is the most populous State of the Union, having the
largest representation in Congress--on which account it has been
called the Empire State--I propose to state, as shortly as may be,
the nature of its separate constitution as a State.  Of course it
will be understood that the constitutions of the different States
are by no means the same.  They have been arranged according to the
judgment of the different people concerned, and have been altered
from time to time to suit such altered judgment.  But as the States
together form one nation, and on such matters as foreign affairs,
war, customs, and post-office regulations, are bound together as
much as are the English counties, it is, of course, necessary that
the constitution of each should in most matters assimilate itself
to those of the others.  These constitutions are very much alike.
A Governor, with two houses of legislature, generally called the
Senate and the House of Representatives, exists in each State.  In
the State of New York the Lower House is called the Assembly.  
There he enjoyed a splendid supper as before, and when it was over
Sindbad said:

"I was very happy for some time at home, but before long I began
to grow weary of leading an idle life. I longed to be upon the
sea again, to feel the good ship bounding over the waves, and to
hear the wind whistling through the rigging.

"So I set to work at once and bought all kinds of goods that I might
sell again in foreign lands, and then, having found a suitable
ship, I set sail with other merchants, and so began my second
voyage.

"We stopped at many places, and sold our goods at a great profit,
and all went well until one day when we landed on a new island. It
was a most beautiful place, fair as the garden of Eden, where
exquisite flowers made a perfect rainbow of color and
delicious fruits hung in ripe clusters above.

"Here, under the shadow of the tree, I sat down to rest and to feast
my eyes upon all the loveliness around. I ate the food I
had brought with me, drank my wine, and then closed my eyes. The
soft music of the stream which flowed close by was like a song in
my ears, and, before I knew what I was doing, I fell asleep.

"I cannot tell how long I slept, but when at last I opened my eyes,
I could not see my companions anywhere, and when I looked towards
the sea, to my horror I found the ship was gone. It was sailing away,
a white speck in the distance, and here was I, left alone upon this
desert island. I cried aloud and wrung my hands with grief, and
wished with all my heart that I had stayed safely at home.

But what was the use of wishing that now?

"So I climbed into a high tree, and looked around to see if I could
by any means find a way of escape from the island. First I
looked towards the sea, but there was no hope for me there, and
then I turned and looked inland. The first thing that caught my
eye was a huge white dome, that seemed to rise from the center of
the island, unlike anything I had ever seen before.

"I climbed down the tree, and made my way towards the white dome as
quickly as I could, but when I reached it, it puzzled me more
than ever. It was like a great smooth ball, much too slippery to
climb, and into it there was no door or entrance of any sort. I
walked round and round it, wondering what it could be, when
suddenly a dark shadow fell upon everything and it grew black as
night.
"I gazed upwards in great fear, and knew that the shadow was cast
by a great bird with outspread wings hovering over the place where
I stood and shutting out heaven's light. As I looked, it suddenly
came swooping down, and sat upon the white dome.
"Then it flashed into my mind that this must be the bird which I
had heard sailors talk of, called a roc, and the smooth white ball
must be its egg.
"Quick as thought, I unbound my turban, and twisted it into a
rope.
Then I wound it round and round my waist, and tied the two ends
tightly round the roc's leg, which was close to where I stood.
"'It will fly away soon, and carry me away with it off this desert
island,' I said to myself joyfully.In this constitution
there is a provision that it shall be overhauled and remodeled, if
needs be, once in twenty years.  Article XIII. Sec. 2.  "At the
general election to be held in 1806, and in each twentieth year
thereafter, the question, 'Shall there be a convention to revise
the constitution and amend the same?' shall be decided by the
electors qualified to vote for members of the legislature?"  So
that the New Yorkers, cannot be twitted with the presumption of
finality in reference to their legislative arrangements.

The present constitution begins with declaring the inviolability of
trial by jury, and of habeas corpus--"unless when, in cases of
rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require its
suspension."  It does not say by whom it may be suspended, or who
is to judge of the public safety, but, at any rate, it may be
presumed that such suspension was supposed to come from the powers
of the State which enacted the law.  At the present moment, the
habeas corpus is suspended in New York, and this suspension has
proceeded not from the powers of the State, but from the Federal
government, without the sanction even of the Federal Congress.

"Every citizen may freely speak, write, and publish his sentiments
on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of that right; and
no law shall be passed to restrain or abridge the liberty of speech
or of the press."  Art. I. Sec. 8.  But at the present moment
liberty of speech and of the press is utterly abrogated in the
State of New York, as it is in other States.  I mention this not as
a reproach against either the State or the Federal government, but
to show how vain all laws are for the protection of such rights.
If they be not protected by the feelings of the people--if the
people are at any time, or from any cause, willing to abandon such
privileges, no written laws will preserve them.

In Article I. Sec. 14, there is a proviso that no land--land, that
is, used for agricultural purposes--shall be let on lease for a
longer period than twelve years.  "No lease or grant of
agricultural land for a longer period than twelve years hereafter
made, in which shall be reserved any rent or service of any kind,
shall be valid."  I do not understand the intended virtue of this
proviso, but it shows very clearly how different are the practices
with reference to land in England and America.  Farmers in the
States almost always are the owners of the land which they farm,
and such tenures as those by which the occupiers of land generally
hold their farms with us are almost unknown.  There is no such
relation as that of landlord and tenant as regards agricultural
holdings.

Every male citizen of New York may vote who is twenty-one, who has
been a citizen for ten days, who has lived in the State for a year,
and for four months in the county in which he votes.  He can vote
for all "officers that now are, or hereafter may be, elective by
the people."  Art, II. Sec. 1.  "But," the section goes on to say,
"no man of color, unless he shall have been for three years a
citizen of the State, and for one year next preceding any election
shall have been possessed of a freehold estate of the value of 250
dollars, (50l.,) and shall have been actually rated, and paid a tax
thereon, shall be entitled to vote at such election."  This is the
only embargo with which universal suffrage is laden in the State of
New York.

The third article provides for the election of the Senate and the
Assembly.  The Senate consists of thirty-two members.  And it may
here be remarked that large as is the State of New York, and great
as is its population, its Senate is less numerous than that of many
other States.  In Massachusetts, for instance, there are forty
Senators, though the population of Massachusetts is barely one-
third that of New York.  In Virginia, there are fifty Senators,
whereas the free population is not one-third of that of New York.
As a consequence, the Senate of New York is said to be filled with
men of a higher class than are generally found in the Senates of
other States.  Then follows in the article a list of the districts
which are to return the Senators.  These districts consist of one,
two, three, or in one case four counties, according to the
population.

The article does not give the number of members of the Lower House,
nor does it even state what amount of population shall be held as
entitled to a member.  It merely provides for the division of the
State into districts which shall contain an equal number, not of
population, but of voters.  The House of Assembly does consist of
128 members.

It is then stipulated that every member of both houses shall
receive three dollars a day, or twelve shillings, for their
services during the sitting of the legislature; but this sum is
never to exceed 300 dollars, or sixty pounds, in one year, unless
an extra session be called.  There is also an allowance for the
traveling expenses of members.  It is, I presume, generally known
that the members of the Congress at Washington are all paid, and
that the same is the case with reference to the legislatures of all
the States.

No member of the New York legislature can also be a member of the
Washington Congress, or hold any civil or military office under the
General States government.

A majority of each House must be present, or, as the article says,
"shall constitute a quorum to do business."  Each House is to keep
a journal of its proceedings.  The doors are to be open--except
when the public welfare shall require secrecy.  A singular proviso
this in a country boasting so much of freedom!  For no speech or
debate in either House, shall the legislator be called in question
in any other place.  The legislature assembles on the first Tuesday
in January, and sits for about three months.  Its seat is at
Albany.

The executive power, Article IV., is to be vested in a Governor and
a Lieutenant-Governor, both of whom shall be chosen for two years.
The Governor must be a citizen of the United States, must be thirty
years of age, and have lived for the last four years in the State.
He is to be commander-in-chief of the military and naval forces of
the State, as is the President of those of the Union.  I see that
this is also the case in inland States, which one would say can
have no navies.  And with reference to some States it is enacted
that the Governor is commander-in-chief of the army, navy, and
militia, showing that some army over and beyond the militia may be
kept by the State.  In Tennessee, which is an inland State, it is
enacted that the Governor shall be "commander-in-chief of the army
and navy of this State, and of the militia, except when they shall
be called into the service of the United States."  In Ohio the same
is the case, except that there is no mention of militia.  In New
York there is no proviso with reference to the service of the
United States.  I mention this as it bears with some strength on
the question of the right of secession, and indicates the jealousy
of the individual States with reference to the Federal government.
The Governor can convene extra sessions of one House or of both.
He makes a message to the legislature when it meets--a sort of
Queen's speech; and he receives for his services a compensation to
be established by law.  In New York this amounts to 800l. a year.
In some States this is as low as 200l. and 300l.  In Virginia it is
1000l.  In California, 1200l.

The Governor can pardon, except in cases of treason.  He has also a
veto upon all bills sent up by the legislature.  If he exercise
this veto he returns the bill to the legislature with his reasons
for so doing.  If the bill on reconsideration by the Houses be
again passed by a majority of two-thirds in each house, it becomes
law in spite of the Governor's veto.  The veto of the President at
Washington is of the same nature.  Such are the powers of the
Governor.  But though they are very full, the Governor of each
State does not practically exercise any great political power, nor
is he, even politically, a great man.  You might live in a State
during the whole term of his government and hardly hear of him.
There is vested in him by the language of the constitution a much
wider power than that intrusted to the governor of our colonies.
But in our colonies everybody talks, and thinks, and knows about
the governor.  As far as the limits of the colony the governor is a
great man.  But this is not the case with reference to the
governors in the different States.

The next article provides that the Governor's ministers, viz, the
Secretary of State, the Controller, Treasurer, and Attorney-
General, shall be chosen every two years at a general election.  In
this respect the State constitution differs from that of the
national constitution.  The President at Washington names his own
ministers--subject to the approbation of the Senate.  He makes many
other appointments with the same limitation, and the Senate, I
believe, is not slow to interfere; but with reference to the
ministers it is understood that the names sent in by the President
shall stand.  Of the Secretary of State, Controller, etc.,
belonging to the different States, and who are elected by the
people, in a general way, one never hears.  No doubt they attend
their offices and take their pay, but they are not political
personages.

