from the 1888 Cassell & Company edition.


DISCOURSES ON SATIRE AND ON EPIC POETRY

by John Dryden


INTRODUCTION.


Dryden's discourses upon Satire and Epic Poetry belong to the latter
years of his life, and represent maturer thought than is to be found
in his "Essay of Dramatic Poesie."  That essay, published in 1667,
draws its chief interest from the time when it was written.  A Dutch
fleet was at the mouth of the Thames.  Dryden represents himself
taking a boat down the river with three friends, one of them his
brother-in-law Sir Robert Howard, another Sir Charles Sedley, and
another Charles Sackville Lord Buckhurst to whom, as Earl of Dorset,
the "Discourse of Satire" is inscribed.  They go down the river to
hear the guns at sea, and judge by the sound whether the Dutch fleet
be advancing or retreating.  On the way they talk of the plague of
Odes that will follow an English victory; their talk of verse
proceeds to plays, with particular attention to a question that had
been specially argued before the public between Dryden and his
brother-in-law Sir Robert Howard.  The question touched the use of
blank verse in the drama.  Dryden had decided against it as a
worthless measure, and the chief feature of the Essay, which was
written in dialogue, was its support of Dryden's argument.  But in
that year (1667) "Paradise Lost" was published, and Milton's blank
verse was the death of Dryden's theories.  After a few years Dryden
recanted his error.  The "Essay of Dramatic Poesie" is interesting
as a setting forth in 1667 of mistaken critical opinions which were
at that time in the ascendant, but had not very long to live.
Dryden always wrote good masculine prose, and all his critical
essays are good reading as pieces of English.  His "Essay of
Dramatic Poesie" is good reading as illustrative of the weakness of
our literature in the days of the influence of France after the
Restoration.  The essays on Satire and on Epic Poetry represent also
the influence of the French critical school, but represent it in a
larger way, with indications of its strength as well as of its
weakness.  They represent also Dryden himself with a riper mind
covering a larger field of thought, and showing abundantly the
strength and independence of his own critical judgment, while he
cites familiarly and frequently the critics, little remembered and
less cared for now, who then passed for the arbiters of taste.

We could hardly place "Sleeping in Church" under "Manners and Customs,"
and sleep altogether is rather prospective, (in dreaming,) than
"Retrospective."--Yet reader, here it is--a still subject--but fresh,
vigorous, and written for all time.)
There is one moral disadvantage to which all preaching is subject;
that those who, by the wickedness of their lives, stand in greatest
need, have usually the smallest share; for either they are absent
upon the account of idleness, or spleen, or hatred to religion,
or in order to doze away the intemperance of the week; or, if they
do come, they are sure to employ their minds rather any other way,
than regarding or attending to the business of the place.

There is no excuse so trivial, that will not pass upon some men's
consciences to excuse their attendance at the public worship of God.

Some are so unfortunate as to be always indisposed on the Lord's day,
and think nothing so unwholesome as the air of a church. Others have
their affairs so oddly contrived, as to be always unluckily prevented
by business. With some it is a great mark of wit, and deep
understanding, to stay at home on _Sundays_. Others again
discover strange fits of laziness, that seize them, particularly on
that day, and confine them to their beds. Others are absent out
of mere contempt of religion.
And, lastly, there are not a few who look upon it as a day of rest,
and therefore claim the privilege of their castle, to keep the
Sabbath by eating, drinking, and sleeping, after the toil and labour
of the week.
Now in all this the worst circumstance is, that these persons are
such whose companies are most required, and who stand most in
need of a physician.

But of all misbehaviour, none is comparable to that of those who
come here to sleep; opium is not so stupifying to many persons
as an afternoon sermon. Perpetual custom hath so brought it about,
that the words, of whatever preacher, become only a sort of uniform
sound at a distance, than which nothing is more effectual to lull
the senses.
For, that it is the very sound of the sermon which bindeth up their
faculties, is manifest from hence, because they all awake so very
regularly as soon as it ceaseth, and with much devotion receive the
blessing, dozed and besotted with indecencies I am ashamed to
repeat.

One cause of this neglect is, a heart set upon worldly things.

Men whose minds are much enslaved to earthly affairs
all the week, cannot disengage or
break the chain of their thoughts so
suddenly, as to apply to a discourse that is wholly foreign to
what they have most at heart.

Tell an usurer of charity, and mercy, and restitution, you talk to
the deaf; his heart and soul, with all his senses, are got among
his bags, or he is gravely asleep, and dreaming of a mortgage.

Tell a man of business, that the cares of the world choke the good
seed; that we must not encumber ourselves with much serving;
that the salvation of his soul is the one thing necessary. You see,
indeed, the shape of a man before you, but his faculties
are all gone off among clients and papers, thinking how to
defend a bad cause, or find flaws in a good one; or, he weareth
out the time in drowsy nods.

The universal empire made him only more known and more
powerful, but could not make him more beloved.  He had greater
ability of doing good, but your inclination to it is not less:  and
though you could not extend your beneficence to so many persons, yet
you have lost as few days as that excellent emperor; and never had
his complaint to make when you went to bed, that the sun had shone
upon you in vain, when you had the opportunity of relieving some
unhappy man.  This, my lord, has justly acquired you as many friends
as there are persons who have the honour to be known to you.  Mere
acquaintance you have none; you have drawn them all into a nearer
line; and they who have conversed with you are for ever after
inviolably yours.  This is a truth so generally acknowledged that it
needs no proof:  it is of the nature of a first principle, which is
received as soon as it is proposed; and needs not the reformation
which Descartes used to his; for we doubt not, neither can we
properly say, we think we admire and love you above all other men:
there is a certainty in the proposition, and we know it.  With the
same assurance I can say, you neither have enemies, nor can scarce
have any; for they who have never heard of you can neither love or
hate you; and they who have, can have no other notion of you than
that which they receive from the public, that you are the best of
men.  After this, my testimony can be of no farther use, than to
declare it to be daylight at high noon:  and all who have the
benefit of sight can look up as well and see the sun.

It is true, I have one privilege which is almost particular to
myself, that I saw you in the east at your first arising above the
hemisphere:  I was as soon sensible as any man of that light when it
was but just shooting out and beginning to travel upwards to the
meridian.  I made my early addresses to your lordship in my "Essay
of Dramatic Poetry," and therein bespoke you to the world; wherein I
have the right of a first discoverer.  When I was myself in the
rudiments of my poetry, without name or reputation in the world,
having rather the ambition of a writer than the skill; when I was
drawing the outlines of an art, without any living master to
instruct me in it--an art which had been better praised than studied
here in England; wherein Shakespeare, who created the stage among
us, had rather written happily than knowingly and justly; and
Jonson, who, by studying Horace, had been acquainted with the rules,
yet seemed to envy to posterity that knowledge, and, like an
inventor of some useful art, to make a monopoly of his learning--
when thus, as I may say, before the use of the loadstone or
knowledge of the compass, I was sailing in a vast ocean without
other help than the pole-star of the ancients and the rules of the
French stage amongst the moderns (which are extremely different from
ours, by reason of their opposite taste), yet even then I had the
presumption to dedicate to your lordship--a very unfinished piece, I
must confess, and which only can be excused by the little experience
of the author and the modesty of the title--"An Essay."  Yet I was
stronger in prophecy than I was in criticism:  I was inspired to
foretell you to mankind as the restorer of poetry, the greatest
genius, the truest judge, and the best patron.

Good sense and good nature are never separated, though the ignorant
world has thought otherwise.  Good nature, by which I mean
beneficence and candour, is the product of right reason; which of
necessity will give allowance to the failings of others by
considering that there is nothing perfect in mankind; and by
distinguishing that which comes nearest to excellency, though not
absolutely free from faults, will certainly produce a candour in the
judge.  This was no mean consolation, more especially when each
letter spoke of increasing health and strength. At the month's
end, I was preparing to return--my mother was slowly recovering,
and I no longer had any fears on her account; but, there are links
in our destiny fearfully interwoven with each other, and ending
only in the anguish of our ultimate doom. The day before that fixed
for my departure, I had been into a house where an epidemic disease
raged; that night I complained of oppressive and deadly illness--before
morning I was in a high fever.

"During the time I was sensible of my state, I wrote constantly to
Gertrude, and carefully concealed my illness; but for several days
I was delirious. When I recovered I called eagerly for my letters--there
were none--none! I could not believe I was yet awake; but days still
passed on, and not a line from England--from Gertrude. The instant
I was able, I insisted upon putting horses to my carriage; I
could bear no longer the torture of my suspense. By the most
rapid journeys my debility would allow me to bear, I arrived in
England. I travelled down to--by the same road that I had gone
over with her; the words of her foreboding, at that time, sunk
like ice into my heart, 'You will travel this road again before
many months are past, and I shall not be with you: perhaps, I
shall not be upon the earth.'

At that thought I could have called unto the grave to open for me.
Her unaccountable and lengthened silence, in spite of all the urgency
and entreaties of my letters for a reply, filled me with presentiments
the most fearful. Oh, God--oh, God, they were nothing to the truth!

"At last I arrived at--; my carriage stopped at the very house--my
whole frame was perfectly frozen with dread--I trembled from
limb to limb--the ice of a thousand winters seemed curdling through
my blood. The bell rung--once, twice--no answer. I would have
leaped out of the carriage--I would have forced an entrance, but I
was unable to move. A man fettered and spell-bound by an incubus,
is less helpless than I was. At last, an old female I had never
seen before, appeared.

"'Where is she? How!' I could utter no more--my eyes were fixed upon
the inquisitive and frightened countenance opposite to my own. Those
eyes, I thought, might have said all that my lips could not; I was
deceived--the old woman understood me no more than I did her;
another person appeared-- I recognized the face--it was that of a
girl, who had been one of our attendants. Will you believe,
that at that sight, the sight of one I had seen before, and could
associate with the remembrance of the breathing, the living, the
present Gertrude, a thrill of joy flashed across me--my fears
seemed to vanish--my spell to cease?

"I sprung from the carriage; I caught the girl by the robe. 'Your
mistress,' said I, 'your mistress--she is well--she is alive--speak,
speak?' The girl shrieked out; my eagerness, and, perhaps, my emaciated
and altered appearance, terrified her; but she had the strong nerves
of youth, and was soon re-assured. She requested me to step in,
and she would tell me all. My wife (Gertrude always went by that
name), was alive, and, she believed, well, but she had left that
place some weeks since. Trembling, and still fearful, but,
comparatively, in Heaven, to my former agony, I followed the girl
and the old woman into the house.
"The former got me some water. 'Now,' said I, when I had drank a
long and hearty draught, 'I am ready to hear all--my wife has left
this house, you say--for what place?'In this (if I may be pardoned for so bold a truth) Mr. Cowley has
copied him to a fault:  so great a one, in my opinion, that it
throws his "Mistress" infinitely below his "Pindarics" and his later
compositions, which are undoubtedly the best of his poems and the
most correct.  For my own part I must avow it freely to the world
that I never attempted anything in satire wherein I have not studied
your writings as the most perfect model.  I have continually laid
them before me; and the greatest commendation which my own
partiality can give to my productions is that they are copies, and
no farther to be allowed than as they have something more or less of
the original.  Some few touches of your lordship, some secret graces
which I have endeavoured to express after your manner, have made
whole poems of mine to pass with approbation:  but take your verses
all together, and they are inimitable.  If, therefore, I have not
written better, it is because you have not written more.  You have
not set me sufficient copy to transcribe; and I cannot add one
letter of my own invention of which I have not the example there.

It is a general complaint against your lordship, and I must have
leave to upbraid you with it, that, because you need not write, you
will not.  Mankind that wishes you so well in all things that relate
to your prosperity, have their intervals of wishing for themselves,
and are within a little of grudging you the fulness of your fortune:
they would be more malicious if you used it not so well and with so
much generosity.

_Avodah Zarah_, fol. 17, cols. 1, 2.

Given two dry firebrands and one piece of green wood, the dry
will set fire to the green.

_Sanhedrin_, fol 93, col. 1.

With two dogs they caught the lion.

Ibid., fol. 95, col. 1.

Both these proverbs express the same idea, that a minority, be it ever
so strong, must give way to a majority.

"And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed together"
(Numb. xxii. 7). Midian and Moab were never friendly toward each
other; they were like two dogs tending a flock, always at variance.
When the wolf came upon the one, however, the other thought, "If
I do not help my neighbor to-day, the wolf may come upon myself
to-morrow;" therefore the two dogs leagued together and, killed
the wolf.

Hence, says Rabbi Pappa, the popular saying, "The mouse and the cat
are combined to make a feast on the fat of the unfortunate."
Ibid., fol. 105, col. 1.

Rabbi Yochanan, in the name of Yossi, the son of Zimra, asks, "What
is this that is written (Ps. cxx. 3), 'What shall be given unto thee,
or what shall be added unto thee, O thou false tongue'?" The Holy
One--blessed be He!--said to the tongue, "All the members of the
body are erect, thou only art recumbent; all other members are
without, thou art within, and not only so, for I have surrounded
thee with two walls, one of bone and the other of flesh. What shall
be given to thee, or what shall be added unto thee, O thou false
tongue?" Rabbi Yochanan, in the name of Yossi, says, "He who slanders
is an atheist, for it is written (Ps. xii. 4), 'Who have said, With
our tongues will we prevail; Our lips are with us; who is lord over
us?'"
_Erchin_, fol. 15, col. 2.

Here are a few sayings from the Talmud on the abuse of the tongue.

He who slanders, he who receives slander, and he who bears false
witness against his neighbor, deserve to be cast to the dogs.

_Psachim_, fol. 118, col. 1.

All animals will one day remonstrate with the serpent and say, "The
lion treads upon his prey and devours it, the wolf tears and eats
it, but thou, what profit hast thou in biting?" The serpent will
reply (Eccl.
viii. II), "I am no worse than a slanderer."

_Taanith_, fol. 8, col. 1.

Adonijah was deprived of life for no other reason than that he was
given to quarreling. It is lawful to slander one so evil disposed
as he was.

_Perek Hashalom._
God will say to the prince of hell, "I from above and thou from
below shall judge and condemn the slanderer."
_Erchin_, fol. 15, col. 2.

The third tongue (i.e., slander) hurts three parties: the slanderer
himself, the receiver of slander, and the person slandered.

Ibid.

Four classes do not receive the presence of the Shechinah: scorners,
liars, flatterers, and slanderers.

_Sanhedrin_, fol. 103, col. 1.

Where are we told that when two sit together and study the law the
Shechinah is with them? In Mal. iii. 16, where it is written, "They
that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord
hearkened and heard it." 
_Berachoth_, fol. 6, col. 1.
Why did Elijah employ two invocations, saying twice over, "Hear me!
hear me!" (1 Kings xviii. 37.) Elijah first prayed before God, "O
Lord, King of the universe, hear me!" that He might send fire down
from heaven and consume all that was upon the altar; and again he
prayed, "Hear me!" that they might not imagine that the result was
a matter of sorcery; for it is said, "Thou hast turned their heart
back again." 
_Berachoth_, fol. 9, col. 2.
The twofold invocation of Elijah, which betokens his intense
earnestness, anagrammatically expressed, is echoed in the words of
the bystanders, "The Lord He is the God, the Lord He is the God."

"I dreamed," said Bar Kappara one day to Rabbi (the Holy), "that I
beheld two pigeons, and they flew away from me." "Thy dream is
this," replied Rabbi, "thou hast had two wives, and art separated
from them both without a bill of divorcement."
Ibid., fol. 56, col. 2.
The Rabbis teach concerning the two kidneys in man, that one counsels
him to do good and the other to do evil; and it appears that the
former is situated on the right side and the latter on the left.
Hence it is written (Eccl. x. 2), "A wise man's heart is at his
right hand, but a fool's heart is at his left."
Ibid., fol. 61, col. 1.
For two sins the common people perish: they speak of the holy ark
as a box and the synagogue as a resort for the ignorant
vulgar.

_Shabbath_, fol. 32, col. 1.
On the self-same day when Jeroboam introduced the two golden calves,
the one into Bethel and the other into Dan, a hut was erected in a
part of Italy which was then subject to the Greeks.
Ibid., fol. 56, col. 2.But I
mean not the authority which is annexed to your office, I speak of
that only which is inborn and inherent to your person; what is
produced in you by an excellent wit, a masterly and commanding
genius over all writers:  whereby you are empowered, when you
please, to give the final decision of wit, to put your stamp on all
that ought to pass for current and set a brand of reprobation on
clipped poetry and false coin.  A shilling dipped in the bath may go
for gold amongst the ignorant, but the sceptres on the guineas show
the difference.  That your lordship is formed by nature for this
supremacy I could easily prove (were it not already granted by the
world) from the distinguishing character of your writing, which is
so visible to me that I never could be imposed on to receive for
yours what was written by any others, or to mistake your genuine
poetry for their spurious productions.  I can farther add with
truth, though not without some vanity in saying it, that in the same
paper written by divers hands, whereof your lordship's was only
part, I could separate your gold from their copper; and though I
could not give back to every author his own brass (for there is not
the same rule for distinguishing betwixt bad and bad as betwixt ill
and excellently good), yet I never failed of knowing what was yours
and what was not, and was absolutely certain that this or the other
part was positively yours, and could not possibly be written by any
other.

True it is that some bad poems, though not all, carry their owners'
marks about them.  There is some peculiar awkwardness, false
grammar, imperfect sense, or, at the least, obscurity; some brand or
other on this buttock or that ear that it is notorious who are the
owners of the cattle, though they should not sign it with their
names.  But your lordship, on the contrary, is distinguished not
only by the excellency of your thoughts, but by your style and
manner of expressing them.  A painter judging of some admirable
piece may affirm with certainty that it was of Holbein or Vandyck;
but vulgar designs and common draughts are easily mistaken and
misapplied.  Thus, by my long study of your lordship, I am arrived
at the knowledge of your particular manner.  In the good poems of
other men, like those artists, I can only say, "This is like the
draught of such a one, or like the colouring of another;" in short,
I can only be sure that it is the hand of a good master:  but in
your performances it is scarcely possible for me to be deceived.  If
you write in your strength, you stand revealed at the first view,
and should you write under it, you cannot avoid some peculiar graces
which only cost me a second consideration to discover you:  for I
may say it with all the severity of truth, that every line of yours
is precious.  Your lordship's only fault is that you have not
written more, unless I could add another, and that yet greater, but
I fear for the public the accusation would not be true--that you
have written, and out of a vicious modesty will not publish.

Virgil has confined his works within the compass of eighteen
thousand lines, and has not treated many subjects, yet he ever had,
and ever will have, the reputation of the best poet.  Martial says
of him that he could have excelled Varius in tragedy and Horace in
lyric poetry, but out of deference to his friends he attempted
neither.

The same prevalence of genius is in your lordship, but the world
cannot pardon your concealing it on the same consideration, because
we have neither a living Varius nor a Horace, in whose excellences
both of poems, odes, and satires, you had equalled them, if our
language had not yielded to the Roman majesty, and length of time
had not added a reverence to the works of Horace.  For good sense is
the same in all or most ages, and course of time rather improves
nature than impairs her.  What has been, may be again; another Homer
and another Virgil may possible arise from those very causes which
produced the first, though it would be impudence to affirm that any
such have yet appeared.

It is manifest that some particular ages have been more happy than
others in the production of great men in all sorts of arts and
sciences, as that of Euripides, Sophocles, Aristophanes, and the
rest, for stage-poetry amongst the Greeks; that of Augustus for
heroic, lyric, dramatic, elegiac, and indeed all sorts of poetry in
the persons of Virgil, Horace, Varius, Ovid, and many others,
especially if we take into that century the latter end of the
commonwealth, wherein we find Varro, Lucretius, and Catullus; and at
the same time lived Cicero and Sallust and Caesar.  A famous age in
modern times for learning in every kind was that of Lorenzo de
Medici and his son Leo the Tenth, wherein painting was revived, and
poetry flourished, and the Greek language was restored.

Examples in all these are obvious, but what I would infer is this--
that in such an age it is possible some great genius may arise to
equal any of the ancients, abating only for the language; for great
contemporaries whet and cultivate each other, and mutual borrowing
and commerce makes the common riches of learning, as it does of the
civil government.

But suppose that Homer and Virgil were the only of their species,
and that nature was so much worn out in producing them that she is
never able to hear the like again, yet the example only holds in
heroic poetry; in tragedy and satire I offer myself to maintain,
against some of our modern critics, that this age and the last,
particularly in England, have excelled the ancients in both those
kinds, and I would instance in Shakespeare of the former, of your
lordship in the latter sort.

When Yochanan, the son of Zachai, was sick unto death, his disciples
came to visit him; and when he saw them he wept, upon which his
disciples exclaimed, "Light of Israel! Pillar of the right! Mighty
Hammer! why weepest thou?" He replied, "If I were going to be led
into the presence of a king, who is but flesh and blood, to-day
here and to-morrow in the grave, whose anger with me could not last
forever, whose sentence against me, were it even unto death, could
not endure forever, and whom perhaps I might pacify with words or
bribe with money, yet for all that should I weep; but now that I
am about to enter the presence of the King of kings, the Holy
One--blessed be He forever and ever!--whose anger would be everlasting,
whose sentence of death or imprisonment admits of no reprieve, and
who is not to be pacified with words nor bribed with money, and
in whose presence there are two roads before me, one leading into
Paradise and the other into Hell, and should I not weep?"

Then prayed they him, and said, "Rabbi, give us thy farewell blessing;"
and he said unto them, "Oh that the fear of God may be as much upon
you as the fear of man."
_Berachoth_, fol. 28, col. 2.

Rabbi Ami says, "Knowledge is of great price, for it is placed
between two divine names, as it is written (I Sam. ii. 3), 'A God
of knowledge is the Lord,' and therefore mercy is to be denied to him
who has no knowledge; for it is written (Isa. xxvii. 11), 'It is a
people of no understanding, therefore He that hath made them will
not have mercy on them.'"
_Berachoth_ fol. 33, col. 1.

Here we have a clear law, drawn from Scripture, forbidding, or at any
rate denying, mercy to the ignorant. The words of Rabbi (the Holy)
are a practical commentary on the text worth quoting, "Woe is unto
me because I have given my morsel to an ignorant one." (_Bava
Bathra_, fol. 8, col. 1.)
But who is the ignorant one from whom this mercy is to be withheld?
Here the doctors disagree. He, says Rabbi Eliezer, who does not
read the Shema, "Hear, O Israel," etc., both morning and evening.
According to Rabbi Yehudah, he that does not put on phylacteries
is an ignorant one. Rabbi Azai affirms that he who wears no fringes
to his garment is an ignorant one, etc. Others again say he
who even reads the Bible and the Mishna but does not serve the disciples
of the wise, is an ignorant one. Rabbi Huna winds up with the words
"the law is as the others have said," and so leaves the difficulty
where he finds it.But to return to Tasso:  he borrows from the
invention of Boiardo, and in his alteration of his poem, which is
infinitely for the worse, imitates Homer so very servilely that (for
example) he gives the King of Jerusalem fifty sons, only because
Homer had bestowed the like number on King Priam; he kills the
youngest in the same manner; and has provided his hero with a
Patroclus, under another name, only to bring him back to the wars
when his friend was killed.  The French have performed nothing in
this kind which is not far below those two Italians, and subject to
a thousand more reflections, without examining their "St. Louis,"
their "Pucelle," or their "Alaric."  The English have only to boast
of Spenser and Milton, who neither of them wanted either genius or
learning to have been perfect poets; and yet both of them are liable
to many censures.  For there is no uniformity in the design of
Spenser; he aims at the accomplishment of no one action; he raises
up a hero for every one of his adventures, and endows each of them
with some particular moral virtue, which renders them all equal,
without subordination or preference:  every one is most valiant in
his own legend:  only we must do him that justice to observe that
magnanimity, which is the character of Prince Arthur, shines
throughout the whole poem, and succours the rest when they are in
distress.  The original of every knight was then living in the court
of Queen Elizabeth, and he attributed to each of them that virtue
which he thought was most conspicuous in them--an ingenious piece of
flattery, though it turned not much to his account.  When the Holy
One--blessed be He!--remembers that His children are in trouble among
the nations of the world, He drops two tears into the great ocean,
the noise of which startles the world from one end to the other,
and causes the earth to quake.

_Berachoth_, fol. 59, col. 1.

We read in the Talmud that a Gentile once came to Shamai and
said, "How many laws have you?" Shamai replied, "We have two, the
written law and the oral law." To which the Gentile made
answer, "When you speak of the written law, I believe you,
but in your oral law I have no faith.
Nevertheless, you may make me a proselyte on condition that you
teach me the written law only."

Upon this Shamai rated him sharply, and sent him away with indignant
abuse. When, however, this Gentile came with the same object,
and proposed the same terms to Hillel, the latter proceeded at once
to proselytize him, and on the first day taught him Aleph, Beth,
Gemel, Daleth. On the morrow Hillel reversed the order of these
letters, upon which the proselyte remonstrated and said, "But thou
didst not teach me so yesterday." "True," said Hillel, "but thou didst
trust me in what I taught thee then; why, then, dost thou not trust
me now in what I tell thee respecting the oral law?"
_Shabbath_, fol. 31, col. 1.

Every man as he goes on the eve of the Sabbath from the synagogue to
his house is escorted by two angels, one of which is a good angel and
the other an evil. When the man comes home and finds the lamps lit,
the table spread, and the bed in order, the good angel says, "May
the coming Sabbath be even as the present;" to which the evil angel
(though with reluctance) is obliged to say, "Amen." But if
all be in disorder, then the bad angel says, "May the coming
Sabbath be even as the present," and the good angel is (with equal
reluctance), obliged to say "Amen" to it.

Ibid., fol. 119, col. 2.

Two are better than three. Alas! for the one that goes and does not
return again.

_Shabbath_, fol. 152, col. 1.

As in the riddle of the Sphinx, the "two" here stands for youth
with its two sufficient legs, and the "three" for old age, which
requires a third support in a staff.

There were two things which God first thought of creating on the
eve of the Sabbath, which, however, were not created till after the
Sabbath had closed.

The first was fire, which Adam by divine suggestion drew forth by
striking together two stones; and the second, was the mule,
produced by the crossing of two different animals.

_P'sachim_, fol. 54, col. 1.

"Every one has two portions, one in paradise and another in hell."
Acheer asked Rabbi Meyer, "What meaneth this that is written
(Eccl. vii.
14), 'God also has set the one over against the other'?" Rabbi
Meyer replied, "There is nothing which God has created of which He
has not also created the opposite. He who created mountains and
hills created also seas and rivers." But said Acheer to Rabbi
Meyer, "Thy master, Rabbi Akiva, did not say so, but spake in this
way: He created the righteous and also the wicked; He created paradise
and hell: every man has two portions, one portion in paradise, and
the other in hell. The righteous, who has personal merit, carries
both his own portion of good and that of his wicked neighbor away
with him to paradise; the wicked, who is guilty and condemned,
carries both his own portion of evil and also that of his righteous
neighbor away with him to hell." When Rav Mesharshia asked what
Scripture guarantee there was for this, this was the reply: "With
regard to the righteous, it is written (Isa. lxi. 7), 'They shall
rejoice in their portion, therefore in their land (beyond the grave)
they shall possess the double.' Respecting the wicked it is written
(Jer. xvii. 18), 'And destroy them with double destruction.'"
_Chaggigah_, fol. 15, col. 1.
The question asked above by Acheer has been practically resolved
by all wise men from the beginning of the world, but it is the boast
of the Hegelians that it has for the first time been resolved
philosophically by their master.And it is true that in the severe notions of our faith the fortitude
of a Christian consists in patience, and suffering for the love of
God whatever hardships can befall in the world--not in any great
attempt, or in performance of those enterprises which the poets call
heroic, and which are commonly the effects of interest, ostentation,
pride, and worldly honour; that humility and resignation are our
prime virtues; and that these include no action but that of the
soul, whereas, on the contrary, an heroic poem requires to its
necessary design, and as its last perfection, some great action of
war, the accomplishment of some extraordinary undertaking, which
requires the strength and vigour of the body, the duty of a soldier,
the capacity and prudence of a general, and, in short, as much or
more of the active virtue than the suffering.  But to this the
answer is very obvious.  God has placed us in our several stations;
the virtues of a private Christian are patience, obedience,
submission, and the like; but those of a magistrate or a general or
a king are prudence, counsel, active fortitude, coercive power,
awful command, and the exercise of magnanimity as well as justice.
So that this objection hinders not but that an epic poem, or the
heroic action of some great commander, enterprised for the common
good and honour of the Christian cause, and executed happily, may be
as well written now as it was of old by the heathens, provided the
poet be endued with the same talents; and the language, though not
of equal dignity, yet as near approaching to it as our modern
barbarism will allow--which is all that can be expected from our own
or any other now extant, though more refined; and therefore we are
to rest contented with that only inferiority, which is not possibly
to be remedied.

I wish I could as easily remove that other difficulty which yet
remains.  It is objected by a great French critic as well as an
admirable poet, yet living, and whom I have mentioned with that
honour which his merit exacts from me (I mean, Boileau), that the
machines of our Christian religion in heroic poetry are much more
feeble to support that weight than those of heathenism.  Their
doctrine, grounded as it was on ridiculous fables, was yet the
belief of the two victorious monarchies, the Grecian and Roman.
Their gods did not only interest themselves in the event of wars
(which is the effect of a superior Providence), but also espoused
the several parties in a visible corporeal descent, managed their
intrigues and fought their battles, sometimes in opposition to each
other; though Virgil (more discreet than Homer in that last
particular) has contented himself with the partiality of his
deities, their favours, their counsels or commands, to those whose
cause they had espoused, without bringing them to the outrageousness
of blows.  Now our religion, says he, is deprived of the greatest
part of those machines--at least, the most shining in epic poetry.
Though St. Michael in Ariosto seeks out Discord to send her amongst
the Pagans, and finds her in a convent of friars, where peace should
reign (which indeed is fine satire); and Satan in Tasso excites
Soliman to an attempt by night on the Christian camp, and brings a
host of devils to his assistance; yet the Archangel in the former
example, when Discord was restive and would not be drawn from her
beloved monastery with fair words, has the whip-hand of her, drags
her out with many stripes, sets her on God's name about her
business, and makes her know the difference of strength betwixt a
nuncio of heaven and a minister of hell.  The same angel in the
latter instance from Tasso (as if God had never another messenger
belonging to the court, but was confined, like Jupiter to Mercury,
and Juno to Iris), when he sees his time--that is, when half of the
Christians are already killed, and all the rest are in a fair way to
be routed--stickles betwixt the remainders of God's host and the
race of fiends, pulls the devils backward by the tails, and drives
them from their quarry; or otherwise the whole business had
miscarried, and Jerusalem remained untaken.  This, says Boileau, is
a very unequal match for the poor devils, who are sure to come by
the worst of it in the combat; for nothing is more easy than for an
Almighty Power to bring His old rebels to reason when He pleases.
Consequently what pleasure, what entertainment, can be raised from
so pitiful a machine, where we see the success of the battle from
the very beginning of it? unless that as we are Christians, we are
glad that we have gotten God on our side to maul our enemies when we
cannot do the work ourselves.  For if the poet had given the
faithful more courage, which had cost him nothing, or at least have
made them exceed the Turks in number, he might have gained the
victory for us Christians without interesting Heaven in the quarrel,
and that with as much ease and as little credit to the conqueror as
when a party of a hundred soldiers defeats another which consists
only of fifty.

This, my lord, I confess is such an argument against our modern
poetry as cannot be answered by those mediums which have been used.
We cannot hitherto boast that our religion has furnished us with any
such machines as have made the strength and beauty of the ancient
buildings.

But what if I venture to advance an invention of my own to supply
the manifest defect of our new writers?  I am sufficiently sensible
of my weakness, and it is not very probable that I should succeed in
such a project, whereof I have not had the least hint from any of my
predecessors the poets, or any of their seconds or coadjutors the
critics.  Yet we see the art of war is improved in sieges, and new
instruments of death are invented daily.  Something new in
philosophy and the mechanics is discovered almost every year, and
the science of former ages is improved by the succeeding.  I will
not detain you with a long preamble to that which better judges
will, perhaps, conclude to be little worth.

It is this, in short--that Christian poets have not hitherto been
acquainted with their own strength.  If they had searched the Old
Testament as they ought, they might there have found the machines
which are proper for their work, and those more certain in their
effect than it may be the New Testament is in the rules sufficient
for salvation.  The perusing of one chapter in the prophecy of
Daniel, and accommodating what there they find with the principles
of Platonic philosophy as it is now Christianised, would have made
the ministry of angels as strong an engine for the working up heroic
poetry in our religion as that of the ancients has been to raise
theirs by all the fables of their gods, which were only received for
truths by the most ignorant and weakest of the people.

It is a doctrine almost universally received by Christians, as well
Protestants as Catholics, that there are guardian angels appointed
by God Almighty as His vicegerents for the protection and government
of cities, provinces, kingdoms, and monarchies; and those as well of
heathens as of true believers.  All this is so plainly proved from
those texts of Daniel that it admits of no farther controversy.  The
prince of the Persians, and that other of the Grecians, are granted
to be the guardians and protecting ministers of those empires.  It
cannot be denied that they were opposite and resisted one another.
St. Michael is mentioned by his name as the patron of the Jews, and
is now taken by the Christians as the protector-general of our
religion.  These tutelar genii, who presided over the several people
and regions committed to their charge, were watchful over them for
good, as far as their commissions could possibly extend.  The
general purpose and design of all was certainly the service of their
great Creator.  But it is an undoubted truth that, for ends best
known to the Almighty Majesty of Heaven, His providential designs
for the benefit of His creatures, for the debasing and punishing of
some nations, and the exaltation and temporal reward of others, were
not wholly known to these His ministers; else why those factious
quarrels, controversies, and battles amongst themselves, when they
were all united in the same design, the service and honour of their
common master?  But being instructed only in the general, and
zealous of the main design, and as finite beings not admitted into
the secrets of government, the last resorts of Providence, or
capable of discovering the final purposes of God (who can work good
out of evil as He pleases, and irresistibly sways all manner of
events on earth, directing them finally for the best to His creation
in general, and to the ultimate end of His own glory in particular),
they must of necessity be sometimes ignorant of the means conducing
to those ends, in which alone they can jar and oppose each other--
one angel, as we may suppose (the Prince of Persia, as he is
called), judging that it would be more for God's honour and the
benefit of His people that the Median and Persian monarchy, which
delivered them from the Babylonish captivity, should still be
uppermost; and the patron of the Grecians, to whom the will of God
might be more particularly revealed, contending on the other side
for the rise of Alexander and his successors, who were appointed to
punish the backsliding Jews, and thereby to put them in mind of
their offences, that they might repent and become more virtuous and
more observant of the law revealed.  But how far these controversies
and appearing enmities of those glorious creatures may be carried;
how these oppositions may be best managed, and by what means
conducted, is not my business to show or determine:  these things
must be left to the invention and judgment of the poet, if any of so
happy a genius be now living, or any future age can produce a man
who, being conversant in the philosophy of Plato as it is now
accommodated to Christian use (for, as Virgil gives us to understand
by his example, that is the only proper, of all others, for an epic
poem), who to his natural endowments of a large invention, a ripe
judgment, and a strong memory, has joined the knowledge of the
liberal arts and sciences (and particularly moral philosophy, the
mathematics, geography, and history), and with all these
qualifications is born a poet, knows, and can practise the variety
of numbers, and is master of the language in which he writes--if
such a man, I say, be now arisen, or shall arise, I am vain enough
to think that I have proposed a model to him by which he may build a
nobler, a more beautiful, and more perfect poem than any yet extant
since the ancients.

There is another part of these machines yet wanting; but by what I
have said, it would have been easily supplied by a judicious writer.
Refreshed wiv sleep Day to the mornin' mill Comes jauntily to out the
nigger, Night.
Trained to the minute, confident in skill, 'E swaggers in the East,
chock-full o' skite; Then spars a bit, an' plugs Night on the
point.
Out go the stars; an' Day 'as jumped the joint.

The sun looks up, an' wiv a cautious stare, Like some crook keekin'
o'er a winder sill To make dead cert'in everythink is square, 'E
shoves 'is boko o'er an Eastern 'ill, Then rises, wiv 'is dial all
a-grin, An' sez, "'Ooray! I knoo that we could win!"
Sure of 'is title then, the champeen Day Begins to put on dawg among
'is push, An', as he mooches on 'is gaudy way, Drors tribute from
each tree an' flow'r an' bush.

An', w'ile 'e swigs the dew in sylvan bars, The sun shouts
insults at the sneakin' stars.

Then, lo! the push o' Day rise to applaud; An' all 'is creatures
clamour at 'is feet Until 'e thinks'imself a little gawd, An'
swaggers on an' kids 'imself a treat.
The w'ile the lurkin' barrackers o' Night Sneak in retreat an' plan
another fight.

On thro' the hours, triumphant, proud an' fit, The champeen marches
on 'is up'ard way, Till, at the zenith, bli'me! 'E-is-IT!
And all the world bows to the Boshter Day.
The jealous Night speeds ethergrams thro' space 'Otly demandin'
terms, an' time, an' place.

A wile the champeen scorns to make reply; 'E's taken tickets on 'is
own 'igh worth; Puffed up wiv pride, an' livin' mighty 'igh, 'E don't
admit that Night is on the earth.

But as the hours creep on 'e deigns to state 'E'll fight for all the
earth an' 'arf the gate.

Late afternoon...Day feels 'is flabby arms, An' tells 'imself 'e don't
seem quite the thing.
The 'omin' birds shriek clamorous alarms; An' Night creeps stealthily
to gain the ring.
But see! The champeen backs an' fills, becos 'E doesn't feel the
Boshter Bloke 'e was.

Time does a bunk as us-u-al, nor stays A single instant, e'en at
Day's be'est.
Alas, the 'eavy-weight's 'igh-livin' ways 'As made 'im soft, an'
large around the vest.
'E sez 'e's fat inside; 'e starts to whine; 'E sez 'e wants
to dror the colour line.

Relentless nigger Night crawls thro' the ropes, Advancin'
grimly on the quakin' Day, Whose noisy push, shorn of their 'igh-noon
'opes, Wait, 'ushed an' anxious, fer the comin' fray.
And many lusty barrackers of noon Desert 'im one by one--traitors
so soon!

'E's out er form! 'E 'asn't trained enough!
They mark their sickly champeen on the stage, An' narked, the
sun, 'is backer, in a huff, Sneaks outer sight, red in the face
wiv rage.
W'ile gloomy roosters, they 'oo made the morn Ring wiv 'is praises,
creep to bed forlorn.

All faint an' groggy grows the beaten Day; 'E staggers drunkenly about
the ring; An owl 'oots jeerin'ly across the way, An' bats come out
to mock the fallin' King.
Now, wiv a jolt, Night spreads 'im on the floor, An' all the west grows
ruddy wiv 'is gore.

A single, vulgar star leers from the sky An' in derision, rudely
mutters, "Yah!" The moon, Night's conkerbine, comes glidin' by
An' laughs a 'eartless, silvery "Ha-ha!" Scorned, beaten, Day gives
up the 'opeless fight, An' drops 'is bundle in the lap o' Night.

* * * * * * * *
So goes each day, like some celeschil mill, E'er since I met that
shyin' little peach.
'Er bonzer voice! I 'ear its music still, As when she guv that
promise fer the beach.
An', square an' all, no matter 'ow yeh start, The commin end of
most of us is--Tart.

IV. Doreen

"I wish't yeh menat it, Bill." Oh, 'ow me 'eart Went out to
'er that evnin' on the beach.
I knew she weren't no ordinary tart, My little peach!

To 'ear 'er voice! Its gentle sorter tone, Like soft dream-music of
some Dago band.
An' me all out; an' 'oldin' in me own 'Er little 'and.

An' 'ow she blushed!
O, strike! it was divine The way she raised 'er shinin' eyes to
mine.

'Er eyes! Soft in the moon; such BOSHTER eyes!
An' when they sight a bloke...O, spare me days!
'E goes all loose inside; such glamour lies In 'er sweet gaze.
It makes 'im all ashamed uv wot 'e's been To look inter the eyes
of my Doreen.

* * * *
The wet sands glistened, an' the gleamin' moon Shone yeller on the
sea, all streakin' down.
A band was playin' some soft, dreamy choon; An' up the town We
'eard the distant tram-cars whir an' clash.
An' there I told Per 'ow I'd done me dash.

"I wish't yeh meant it." 'Struth! And did I, fair?
A bloke 'ud be a dawg to kid a skirt Like her. An' me well knowin'
she was square.
It 'ud be dirt!
'E'd be no man to point wiv her, an' kid.
I meant it honest; an' she knoo I did.

She knoo. I've done me block in on her, straight.
A cove 'as got to think some time in life An' get some decent tart,
ere it's too late, To be 'is wife.
But, Gawd! 'Oo would 'a' thort it could 'a' been My luck to strike
the likes of Per?...Doreen!

Aw, I can stand their chuckin' off, I can.
It's 'ard; an' I'd delight to take 'em on.
The dawgs! But it gets that way wiv a man When 'e's fair gone.
She'll sight no stoush; an' so I have to take Their mag, an' do a
duck fer her sweet sake.

Fer 'er sweet
sake I've gone and chucked it clean:
The pubs an' schools an' all that leery game.

Fer when a bloke 'as come to know Doreen, It ain't the same.
There's 'igher things, she sez, for blokes to do.
An' I am 'arf believin' that it's true.

Yes, 'igher things--that wus the way she spoke; An' when she
looked at me I sorter felt That bosker feelin' that comes o'er a
bloke, An' makes 'im melt; Makes 'im all 'ot to maul 'er, an' to
shove 'Is arms about'er...Bli'me? but it's love!

That's wot it is. An' when a man 'as grown Like that 'e gets a sorter
yearn inside To be a little 'ero on 'is own; An' see the pride
Glow in the eyes of 'er 'e calls 'is queen; An' 'ear 'er say 'e
is a shine champeen.

"I wish't yeh meant it," I can 'ear 'er yet, My bit o' fluff! The moon
was shinin' bright, Turnin' the waves all yeller where
it set-- A bonzer night!
The sparklin' sea all sorter gold an' green; An' on the pier the
band--O, 'Ell!... Doreen!

V. The Play

"Wots in a name?" she sez...An' then she sighs, An' clasps 'er
little 'ands, an' rolls 'er eyes.
"A rose," she sez, "be any other name Would smell the same.
Oh, w'erefore art you Romeo, young sir?
Chuck yer ole pot, an' change yer moniker!"
Doreen an' me, we bin to see a show-- The swell two-dollar touch. Bong
tong, yeh know.
A chair apiece wiv velvit on the seat; A slap-up treat.
The drarmer's writ be Shakespeare, years ago, About a barmy goat
called Romeo.

"Lady, be yonder moon I swear!" sez 'e.
An' then 'e climbs up on the balkiney; An' there they smooge a
treat, wiv pretty words Like two love-birds.
I nudge Doreen. She whispers, "Ain't it grand!" 'Er eyes is shinin';
an' I squeeze 'er 'and.

"Wot's in a name?" she sez. 'Struth, I dunno.
Billo is just as good as Romeo.
She may be Juli-er or Juli-et-- 'E loves 'er yet.
If she's the tart 'e wants, then she's 'is queen, Names never count...But
ar, I like "Doreen!"
A sweeter, dearer sound I never 'eard; Ther's music 'angs around that
little word, Doreen!...But wot was this I starts to say About
the play?

I'm off me beat. But when a bloke's in love 'Is thorts turns 'er
way, like a 'omin' dove.

This Romeo 'e's lurkin' wiv a crew-- A dead tough crowd o'
crooks--called Montague.
'Is cliner's push--wot's nicknamed Capulet-- They 'as 'em set.
Fair narks they are, jist like them back-street clicks, Ixcep'
they fights wiv skewers 'stid o' bricks.

Wot's in a name? Wot's in a string o' words?
They scraps in ole Verona with the'r swords, An' never give a bloke
a stray dog's chance, An' that's Romance.
But when they deals it out wiv bricks an' boots In Little Lon., they're
low, degraded broots.

Wot's jist plain stoush wiv us, right 'ere to-day, Is "valler" if
yer fur enough away.
Some time, some writer bloke will do the trick Wiv Ginger Mick, Of
Spadger's Lane.

'E'LL be a Romeo, When 'e's bin dead five 'undred years or
so.

Fair Juli-et, she gives 'er boy the tip.
Sez she: "Don't sling that crowd o' mine no lip; An' if you run agin
a Capulet, Jist do a get." 'E swears 'e's done wiv lash; 'e'll chuck
it clean.
(Same as I done when I first met Doreen.)
They smooge some more at that. Ar, strike me blue!
It gimme Joes to sit an' watch them two!
'E'd break away an' start to say good-bye, An' then she'd sigh "Ow,
Ro-me-o!" an' git a strangle-holt, An' 'ang around 'im like she
feared 'e'd bolt.

Nex' day 'e words a gorspil cove about A secret wedding; 'an they
plan it out.

'E spouts a piece about 'ow 'e's bewitched:
Then they git 'itched.
Now, 'ere's the place where I fair git the pip!
She's 'is ofr keeps, an' yet 'e lets 'er slip!

Ar! but'e makes me sick! A fair gazob!
'E's jist the glarsey on the soulful sob, 'E'll sigh and spruik, an'
'owl a love-sick vow-- (The silly cow!) But when 'e's got 'er,
spliced an' on the straight 'E crools the pitch, an' tries to
kid it's Fate.

Aw! Fate me foot! Instid of slopin' soon As 'e was wed, off on 'is
'oneymoon, 'Im an' 'is cobber, called Mick Curio, They 'ave to go
An' mix it wiv that push o' Capulets.
They look fer trouble; an' it's wot they gets.

A tug named Tyball (cousin to the skirt) Sprags 'em an' makes
a start to sling off dirt.
Nex' minnit there's a reel ole ding-dong go-- 'Arf round or so.
Mick Curio, 'e gets it in the neck, "Ar rats!" 'e sez, an' passes
in 'is check.

Quite natchril, Romeo gits wet as 'ell.
"It's me or you!" 'e 'owls, an' wiv a yell, Plunks Tyball through
the gizzard wiv 'is sword, 'Ow I ongcored!
"Put in the boot!" I sez. "Put in the boot!" "'Ush!" sez Doreen..."Shame!"
sez some silly coot.

Then Romeo, 'e dunno wot to do.
The cops gits busy, like they allwiz do, An' nose around until
'e gits blue funk An' does a bunk.
They wants 'is tart to wed some other guy.
"Ah, strike!" she sez. "I wish that I could die!"
Now, this 'ere gorspil bloke's a fair shrewd 'ead.
Sez 'e "I'll dope yeh, so they'll THINK yer dead." (I tips 'e was
a cunnin' sort, wot knoo A thing or two.) She takes 'is knock-out
drops, up in 'er room:
They think she's snuffed, an' plant 'er in 'er tomb.

Then things gits mixed a treat an' starts to whirl.
'Ere's Romeo comes back an' finds 'is girl Tucked in 'er little
coffing, cold an' stiff, An' in a jiff, 'E swallows lysol, throws a
fancy fit, 'Ead over turkey, an' 'is soul 'as flit.

Then Juli-et wakes up an' sees 'im there, Turns on the water-works an'
tears 'er 'air, "Dear love," she sez, "I cannot live alone!" An' wiv
a moan, She grabs 'is pockit knife, an' ends 'er cares...
_"Peanuts or lollies!_" sez a boy upstairs.

VI. The Stror 'at Coot

Ar, wimmin! Wot a blinded fool I've been!
I arsts meself, wot else could I ixpeck?
I done me block complete on this Doreen, An' now me 'eart is broke,
me life's a wreck!
The dreams I dreamed, the dilly thorts I thunk Is up the pole, an'
joy 'as done a bunk.

Wimmin! O strike! I orter known the game!
Their tricks is crook, their arts is all dead snide.
The 'ole world over tarts is all the same; All soft an' smilin'
wiv no 'eart inside.
But she fair doped me wiv 'er winnin' ways, Then crooled me pitch fer
all me mortal days.

They're all the same! A man 'as got to be Stric' master if 'e wants
to snare 'em sure.
'E 'as to take a stand an' let 'em see That triflin' is a thing'e
won't indure.
'E wants to show 'em that 'e 'olds command, So they will smooge an'
feed out of 'is 'and.

'E needs to make 'em feel 'e is the boss, An' kid 'e's careless
uv the joys they give.
'E 'as to make 'em think 'e'll feel no loss To part wiv any tart
'e's trackin' wiv.
That all their pretty ways is crook pretence Is plain to any bloke
wiv common-sense.

But when the birds is nestin' in the spring, An' when the soft
green leaves is in the bud, 'E drops 'is bundle to some fluffy
thing.
'E pays 'er 'omage--an' 'is name is Mud.

She plays wiv'im an' kids 'im on a treat, Until she 'as 'im crawlin'
at 'er feet.

An' then, when 'e's fair orf 'is top wiv love, When she 'as got 'im
good an' 'ad 'er fun, She slings 'im over like a carst-orf glove,
To let the other tarts see wot she's done.
All vanity, deceit an' 'eartless kid!
I orter known; an', spare me days, I did!

I knoo. But when I looked into 'er eyes-- Them shinin' eyes o'
blue all soft wiv love Wiv MIMIC love--they seemed to
'ipnertize.
I wus content to place 'er 'igh above.
I wus content to make of 'er a queen; An' so she seemed them
days...O, 'struth!...Doreen!

I knoo. But when I stroked 'er glossy 'air Wiv rev'rint 'ands, 'er
cheek pressed close to mine, Me lonely life seemed robbed of all
its care; I dreams me dreams, an' 'ope begun to shine.
An' when she 'eld 'er lips fer me to kiss...
Ar, wot's the use? I'm done wiv all o' this!
Wimmin!...Oh, I ain't jealous! Spare me days!
Me? Jealous uv a knock-kneed coot like that!
'Im! Wiv 'is cute stror 'at an' pretty ways!
I'd be a mug to squeal or whip the cat.
I'm glad, I am--glad 'cos I know I'm free!
There ain't no call to tork o' jealousy.
I tells meself I'm well out o' the game; Fer look, I mighter married
'er-an' then....
Ar strike! 'Er voice wus music when my name Wus on 'er lips on them
glad ev'nin's when We useter meet. An' then to think she'd go...
No, I ain't jealous--but--Ar, I dunno!
I took a derry on this stror 'at coot First time I seen 'im dodgin'
round Doreen.
'Im, wiv 'is giddy tie an' Yankee soot, Ferever yappin' like a
tork-machine About "The Hoffis" where 'e 'ad a grip....
The way 'e smiled at 'er give me the pip!
She sez I stoushed 'im, when I promised fair To chuck it, even to
a friendly spar.
Stoushed 'im! I never roughed 'is pretty 'air!
I only spanked 'im gentle, fer 'is mar.
If I'd 'a' jabbed 'im once, there would 'a' been An inquest; an' I
sez so to Doreen.
I mighter took an' cracked 'im in the street, When she was wiv 'im
there lars' Fridee night.
But don't I keep me temper when we met?
An' don't I raise me lid an' act perlite?
I only jerks me elbow in 'is ribs, To give the gentle office to 'is
nibs.
Stoushed 'im! I owns I met 'im on the quiet, An' worded 'im about
a small affair; An' when 'e won't put up 'is 'ands to fight-- ('E
sez, "Fer public brawls 'e didn't care")-- I lays 'im 'cross me
knee, the mother's joy, An' smacks 'im 'earty, like a naughty
boy.
An' now Doreen she sez I've broke me vow, An' mags about this coot's
pore, "wounded pride." An' then, o' course, we 'as a ding-dong row,
Wiv 'ot an' stormy words on either side.
She sez I done it outer jealousy, An' so, we parts fer ever--'er
an' me.

Me jealous? Jealous of that cross-eyed cow!
I set 'im 'cos I couldn't sight 'is face.
'Is yappin' fair got on me nerves, some'ow.
I couldn't stand 'im 'angin' round 'er place.
A coot like that!...But it don't matter much, She's welkim to 'im
if she fancies such.
I swear I'll never track wiv 'er no more; I'll never look on 'er
side o' the street-- Unless she comes an' begs me pardin for Them
things she said to me in angry 'eat.
She can't ixpeck fer me to smooge an' crawl.
I ain't at ANY woman's beck an' call.
Wimmin! I've took a tumble to their game.
I've got the 'ole bang tribe o' cliners set!
The 'ole world over they are all the same:
Crook to the core the bunch of 'em--an' yet We could 'a' been that
'appy, 'er an' me...
But, wot's it matter? Ain't I glad I'm free?
A bloke wiv commin-sense 'as got to own There's little 'appiness
in married life.
The smoogin' game is better left alone, Fer tarts is few that makes
the ideel wife.
An' them's the sort that loves wivout disguise, An' thinks the sun
shines in their 'usban's' eyes.
But when the birds is matin' in the spring, An' when the tender
leaves begin to bud, A feelin' comes--a dilly sorter thing That
seems to sorter swamp 'im like a flood.
An' when the fever 'ere inside 'im burns, Then freedom ain't the
thing fer wot 'e yearns.
But I 'ave chucked it all. An' yet--I own I dreams me dreams when
soft Spring breezes stirs; An' often, when I'm moonin' 'ere alone,
A lispin' maid, wiv 'air an' eyes like 'ers, 'Oo calls me "dad,"
she climbs upon me knee, An' yaps 'er pretty baby tork to me.
I sorter see a little 'ouse, it seems, Wiv someone waitin' for me
at the gate...
Ar, where's the sense in dreamin' barmy dreams, I've dreamed before,
and nearly woke too late.
Sich 'appiness could never last fer long, We're strangers--'less
she owns that she was wrong.
To call 'er back I'll never lift a 'and; She'll never 'ear frum me
by word or sign.
Per'aps, some day, she'll come to understand The mess she's made
o' this 'ere life o' mine.
Oh, I ain't much to look at, I admit.
But'im! The knock-kneed, swivel-eyed misfit?...
VII. The Siren
She sung a song; an' I sat silent there, Wiv bofe 'ands grippin'
'ard on me chair; Me 'eart, that yesterdee I thort wus broke Wiv
'umpin sich a 'eavy load o' care, Come swelling in me throat like
I would choke.
I felt 'ot blushes climbin' to me 'air.
'Twas like that feelin' when the Spring wind breaves Sad music in
the sof'ly rustlin' leaves.
An' when a bloke sits down an' starts to chew Crook thorts, wivout
quite knowin' why 'e grieves Fer things 'e's done 'e didn't ort to
do-- Fair winded wiv the 'eavy sighs 'e 'eaves.
She sung a song; an' orl at once I seen The kind o' crool an'
'eartless broot I been.
In ev'ry word I read it like a book-- The slanter game I'd played
wiv my Doreen-- I 'eard it in 'er song; an' in 'er look I seen wot
made me feel fair rotten mean.
Poor, 'urt Doreen! My tender bit o' fluff!
Ar, men don't understand; they're fur too rough; Their ways is fur
too coarse wiv lovin' tarts; They never gives 'em symperthy
enough.
They treats 'em 'arsh; they tramples on their 'earts, Becos their
own crool 'earts is leather-tough.
She sung a song; an' orl them bitter things That chewin' over lovers'
quarrils brings Guv place to thorts of sorrer an' remorse.
Like when some dilly punter goes an' slings 'Is larst, lone deener
on some stiffened 'orse, An' learns them vain regrets wot 'urts an'
stings.
'Twas at a beano where I lobs along To drown them memories o' fancied
wrong.
I swears I never knoo that she'd be there.
But when I met 'er eye--O, 'struth, 'twas strong!
'Twas bitter strong, that jolt o' dull despair!
'Er look o' scorn!...An' then, she sung a song.
The choon was one o' them sad, mournful things That ketch yeh in
the bellers 'ere, and brings Tears to yer eyes. The words was uv a
tart 'Oo's trackin' wiv a silly coot 'oo slings 'Er love aside, an'
breaks 'er tender 'eart....
But 'twasn't that; it was the way she sings.
To 'ear 'er voice!...A bloke 'ud be a log 'Oo kep' 'is block. Me
mind wus in a fog Of sorrer for to think 'ow I wus wrong; Ar, I
'ave been a fair ungrateful 'og!
The feelin' that she put into that song 'Ud melt the 'eart-strings
of a chiner dog.
I listens wiv me 'eart up in me throat; I drunk in ev'ry word an'
ev'ry note.
Tears trembles in 'er voice when she tells 'ow That tart snuffed
out becos 'e never wrote.
An' then I seen 'ow I wus like that cow.
Wiv suddin shame me guilty soul wus smote.
Doreen she never looked my way; but stood 'Arf turned away, an'
beefed it out reel good, Until she sang that bit about the grave;
"Too late 'e learned 'e 'ad misunderstood!" An' then--Gorstrooth!
The pleadin' look she gave Fair in me face 'ud melt a'eart o'
wood.

I dunno 'ow I seen that evenin' thro'.
They muster thort I was 'arf shick, I knoo.
But I 'ad 'urt Doreen wivout no call; I seen me dooty, wot I 'ad
to do.
O, strike! I could 'a' blubbed before 'em all!The reason of my opinion is
this:  that Casaubon finding little light from antiquity of these
beginnings of poetry amongst the Grecians, but only these
representations of Satyrs who carried canisters and cornucopias full
of several fruits in their hands, and danced with them at their
public feasts, and afterwards reading Horace, who makes mention of
his homely Romans jesting at one another in the same kind of
solemnities, might suppose those wanton Satyrs did the same; and
especially because Horace possibly might seem to him to have shown
the original of all poetry in general (including the Grecians as
well as Romans), though it is plainly otherwise that he only
described the beginning and first rudiments of poetry in his own
country.  The verses are these, which he cites from the First
Epistle of the Second Book, which was written to Augustus:-


"Agricolae prisci, fortes, parvoque beati,
Condita post frumenta, levantes tempore festo
Corpus, et ipsum animum spe finis dura ferentem,
Cum sociis operum, et pueris, et conjuge fida,
Tellurem porco, Silvanum lacte piabant;
Floribus et vino Genium memorem brevis aevi.
Fescennina per hunc inventa licentia morem
Versibus alternis opprobria rustica fudit."


"Our brawny clowns of old, who turned the soil,
Content with little, and inured to toil,
At harvest-home, with mirth and country cheer,
Restored their bodies for another year,
Refreshed their spirits, and renewed their hope
Of such a future feast and future crop.
Then with their fellow-joggers of the ploughs,
Their little children, and their faithful spouse,
A sow they slew to Vesta's deity,
And kindly milk, Silvanus, poured to thee.
With flowers and wine their Genius they adored;
A short life and a merry was the word.
From flowing cups defaming rhymes ensue,
And at each other homely taunts they threw."


Yet since it is a hard conjecture that so great a man as Casaubon
should misapply what Horace writ concerning ancient Rome to the
ceremonies and manners of ancient Greece, I will not insist on this
opinion, but rather judge in general that since all poetry had its
original from religion, that of the Grecians and Rome had the same
beginning.  Both were invented at festivals of thanksgiving, and
both were prosecuted with mirth and raillery and rudiments of
verses; amongst the Greeks by those who represented Satyrs, and
amongst the Romans by real clowns.

For, indeed, when I am reading Casaubon on these two subjects
methinks I hear the same story told twice over with very little
alteration.  Of which Dacier, taking notice in his interpretation of
the Latin verses which I have translated, says plainly that the
beginning of poetry was the same, with a small variety, in both
countries, and that the mother of it in all nations was devotion.
But what is yet more wonderful, that most learned critic takes
notice also, in his illustrations on the First Epistle of the Second
Book, that as the poetry of the Romans and that of the Grecians had
the same beginning at feasts and thanksgiving (as it has been
observed), and the old comedy of the Greeks (which was invective)
and the satire of the Romans (which was of the same nature) were
begun on the very same occasion, so the fortune of both in process
of time was just the same--the old comedy of the Grecians was
forbidden for its too much licence in exposing of particular
persons, and the rude satire of the Romans was also punished by a
law of the Decemviri, as Horace tells us in these words:-


"Libertasque recurrentes accepta per annos
Lusit amabiliter; donec jam saevus apertam
In rabiem verti caepit jocus, et per honestas
Ire domos impune minax:  doluere cruento
Dente lacessiti; fuit intactis quoque cura
Conditione super communi:  quinetiam lex,
Paenaque lata, malo quae nollet carmine quenquam
Describi:  vertere modum, formidine fustis
Ad benedicendum delectandumque redacti."


The law of the Decemviri was this:  Siquis occentassit malum carmen,
sive condidissit, quod infamiam faxit, flagitiumve alteri, capital
esto.  A strange likeness, and barely possible; but the critics
being all of the same opinion, it becomes me to be silent and to
submit to better judgments than my own.

But to return to the Grecians, from whose satiric dramas the elder
Scaliger and Heinsius will have the Roman satire to proceed; I am to
take a view of them first, and see if there be any such descent from
them as those authors have pretended.

Thespis, or whoever he were that invented tragedy (for authors
differ), mingled with them a chorus and dances of Satyrs which had
before been used in the celebration of their festivals, and there
they were ever afterwards retained.  The character of them was also
kept, which was mirth and wantonness; and this was given, I suppose,
to the folly of the common audience, who soon grow weary of good
sense, and, as we daily see in our own age and country, are apt to
forsake poetry, and still ready to return to buffoonery and farce.
From hence it came that in the Olympic Games, where the poets
contended for four prizes, the satiric tragedy was the last of them,
for in the rest the Satyrs were excluded from the chorus.  Amongst
the plays of Euripides which are yet remaining, there is one of
these satirics, which is called The Cyclops, in which we may see the
nature of those poems, and from thence conclude what likeness they
have to the Roman satire.

The story of this Cyclops, whose name was Polyphemus (so famous in
the Grecian fables), was that Ulysses, who with his company was
driven on the coast of Sicily, where those Cyclops inhabited, coming
to ask relief from Silenus and the Satyrs, who were herdsmen to that
one-eyed giant, was kindly received by them, and entertained till,
being perceived by Polyphemus, they were made prisoners against the
rites of hospitality (for which Ulysses eloquently pleaded), were
afterwards put down into the den, and some of them devoured; after
which Ulysses (having made him drunk when he was asleep) thrust a
great fire-brand into his eye, and so revenging his dead followers
escaped with the remaining party of the living, and Silenus and the
Satyrs were freed from their servitude under Polyphemus and remitted
to their first liberty of attending and accompanying their patron
Bacchus.

This was the subject of the tragedy, which, being one of those that
end with a happy event, is therefore by Aristotle judged below the
other sort, whose success is unfortunate; notwithstanding which, the
Satyrs (who were part of the dramatis personae, as well as the whole
chorus) were properly introduced into the nature of the poem, which
is mixed of farce and tragedy.  The adventure of Ulysses was to
entertain the judging part of the audience, and the uncouth persons
of Silenus and the Satyrs to divert the common people with their
gross railleries.

Your lordship has perceived by this time that this satiric tragedy
and the Roman satire have little resemblance in any of their
features.  The very kinds are different; for what has a pastoral
tragedy to do with a paper of verses satirically written?  The
character and raillery of the Satyrs is the only thing that could
pretend to a likeness, were Scaliger and Heinsius alive to maintain
their opinion.  And the first farces of the Romans, which were the
rudiments of their poetry, were written before they had any
communication with the Greeks, or indeed any knowledge of that
people.

And here it will be proper to give the definition of the Greek
satiric poem from Casaubon before I leave this subject.  "The
'satiric,'" says he, "is a dramatic poem annexed to a tragedy having
a chorus which consists of Satyrs.  The persons represented in it
are illustrious men, the action of it is great, the style is partly
serious and partly jocular, and the event of the action most
commonly is happy."

The Grecians, besides these satiric tragedies, had another kind of
poem, which they called "silli," which were more of kin to the Roman
satire.  Those "silli" were indeed invective poems, but of a
different species from the Roman poems of Ennius, Pacuvius,
Lucilius, Horace, and the rest of their successors.  "They were so
called," says Casaubon in one place, "from Silenus, the foster-
father of Bacchus;" but in another place, bethinking himself better,
he derives their name [Greek text which cannot be reproduced] from
their scoffing and petulancy.  From some fragments of the "silli"
written by Timon we may find that they were satiric poems, full of
parodies; that is, of verses patched up from great poets, and turned
into another sense than their author intended them.  Such amongst
the Romans is the famous Cento of Ausonius, where the words are
Virgil's, but by applying them to another sense they are made a
relation of a wedding-night, and the act of consummation fulsomely
described in the very words of the most modest amongst all poets.
Of the same manner are our songs which are turned into burlesque,
and the serious words of the author perverted into a ridiculous
meaning.  Thus in Timon's "silli" the words are generally those of
Homer and the tragic poets, but he applies them satirically to some
customs and kinds of philosophy which he arraigns.  But the Romans
not using any of these parodies in their satires--sometimes indeed
repeating verses of other men, as Persius cites some of Nero's, but
not turning them into another meaning--the "silli" cannot be
supposed to be the original of Roman satire.  To these "silli,"
consisting of parodies, we may properly add the satires which were
written against particular persons, such as were the iambics of
Archilochus against Lycambes, which Horace undoubtedly imitated in
some of his odes and epodes, whose titles bear sufficient witness of
it:  I might also name the invective of Ovid against Ibis, and many
others.  But these are the underwood of satire rather than the
timber-trees; they are not of general extension, as reaching only to
some individual person.  And Horace seems to have purged himself
from those splenetic reflections in those odes and epodes before he
undertook the noble work of satires, which were properly so called.

Thus, my lord, I have at length disengaged myself from those
antiquities of Greece, and have proved, I hope, from the best
critics, that the Roman satire was not borrowed from thence, but of
their own manufacture.  I am now almost gotten into my depth; at
least, by the help of Dacier, I am swimming towards it.  Not that I
will promise always to follow him, any more than he follows
Casaubon; but to keep him in my eye as my best and truest guide; and
where I think he may possibly mislead me, there to have recourse to
my own lights, as I expect that others should do by me.

Quintilian says in plain words, Satira quidem tota nostra est; and
Horace had said the same thing before him, speaking of his
predecessor in that sort of poetry, et Graecis intacti carminis
auctor.  Nothing can be clearer than the opinion of the poet and the
orator (both the best critics of the two best ages of the Roman
empire), that satire was wholly of Latin growth, and not
transplanted to Rome from Athens.  Yet, as I have said, Scaliger the
father, according to his custom (that is, insolently enough),
contradicts them both, and gives no better reason than the
derivation of satyrus from [Greek text which cannot be reproduced]
salacitas; and so, from the lechery of those fauns, thinks he has
sufficiently proved that satire is derived from them:  as if
wantonness and lubricity were essential to that sort of poem, which
ought to be avoided in it.  His other allegation, which I have
already mentioned, is as pitiful--that the Satyrs carried platters
and canisters full of fruit in their hands.  If they had entered
empty-handed, had they been ever the less Satyrs?  Or were the
fruits and flowers which they offered anything of kin to satire? or
any argument that this poem was originally Grecian?  Casaubon judged
better, and his opinion is grounded on sure authority:  that satire
was derived from satura, a Roman word which signifies full and
abundant, and full also of variety, in which nothing is wanting to
its due perfection.  It is thus, says Denier, that we say a full
colour, when the wool has taken the whole tincture and drunk in as
much of the dye as it can receive.  According to this derivation,
from setur comes satura or satira, according to the new spelling, as
optumus and maxumus are now spelled optimus and maximus.  Satura, as
I have formerly noted, is an adjective, and relates to the word
lanx, which is understood; and this lanx (in English a "charger" or
"large platter") was yearly filled with all sorts of fruits, which
were offered to the gods at their festivals as the premices or first
gatherings.  These offerings of several sorts thus mingled, it is
true, were not unknown to the Grecians, who called them [Greek text
which cannot be reproduced] a sacrifice of all sorts of fruits; and
[Greek text which cannot be reproduced], when they offered all kinds
of grain.  Virgil has mentioned these sacrifices in his "Georgics":-


"Lancibus et pandis fumantia reddimus exta;"


and in another place, lancesque et liba feremus--that is, "We offer
the smoking entrails in great platters; and we will offer the
chargers and the cakes."

This word satura has been afterward applied to many other sorts of
mixtures; as Festus calls it, a kind of olla or hotch-potch made of
several sorts of meats.  Laws were also called leges saturae when
they were of several heads and titles, like our tacked Bills of
Parliament; and per saturam legem ferre in the Roman senate was to
carry a law without telling the senators, or counting voices, when
they were in haste.  Sallust uses the word, per saturam sententias
exquirere, when the majority was visibly on one side.  From hence it
might probably be conjectured that the Discourses or Satires of
Ennius, Lucilius, and Horace, as we now call them, took their name,
because they are full of various matters, and are also written on
various subjects--as Porphyrius says.  But Dacier affirms that it is
not immediately from thence that these satires are so called, for
that name had been used formerly for other things which bore a
nearer resemblance to those discourses of Horace; in explaining of
which, continues Dacier, a method is to be pursued of which Casaubon
himself has never thought, and which will put all things into so
clear a light that no further room will be left for the least
dispute.

During the space of almost four hundred years since the building of
their city the Romans had never known any entertainments of the
stage.  Chance and jollity first found out those verses which they
called Saturnian and Fescennine; or rather human nature, which is
inclined to poetry, first produced them rude and barbarous and
unpolished, as all other operations of the soul are in their
beginnings before they are cultivated with art and study.  However,
in occasions of merriment, they were first practised; and this
rough-cast, unhewn poetry was instead of stage-plays for the space
of a hundred and twenty years together.  They were made extempore,
and were, as the French call them, impromptus; for which the
Tarsians of old were much renowned, and we see the daily examples of
them in the Italian farces of Harlequin and Scaramucha.  Such was
the poetry of that savage people before it was tuned into numbers
and the harmony of verse.  Little of the Saturnian verses is now
remaining; we only know from authors that they were nearer prose
than poetry, without feet or measure.  They were [Greek text which
cannot be reproduced] but not [Greek text which cannot be
reproduced].  Perhaps they might be used in the solemn part of their
ceremonies; and the Fescennine, which were invented after them, in
their afternoons' debauchery, because they were scoffing and
obscene.

The Fescennine and Saturnian were the same; for as they were called
Saturnian from their ancientness, when Saturn reigned in Italy, they
were also called Fescennine, from Fescennia, a town in the same
country where they were first practised.  The actors, with a gross
and rustic kind of raillery, reproached each other with their
failings, and at the same time were nothing sparing of it to their
audience.  Somewhat of this custom was afterwards retained in their
Saturnalia, or Feasts of Saturn, celebrated in December; at least,
all kind of freedom in speech was then allowed to slaves, even
against their masters; and we are not without some imitation of it
in our Christmas gambols.  Soldiers also used those Fescennine
verses, after measure and numbers had been added to them, at the
triumph of their generals; of which we have an example in the
triumph of Julius Caesar over Gaul in these expressions:  Caesar
Gallias subegit, Nicomedes Caesarem.  Ecce Caesar nunc triumphat,
qui subegit Gallias; Nicomedes non triumphat, qui subegit Caesarem.
The vapours of wine made those first satirical poets amongst the
Romans, which, says Dacier, we cannot better represent than by
imagining a company of clowns on a holiday dancing lubberly and
upbraiding one another in extempore doggerel with their defects and
vices, and the stories that were told of them in bake-houses and
barbers' shops.

When they began to be somewhat better bred, and were entering, as I
may say, into the first rudiments of civil conversation, they left
these hedge-notes for another sort of poem, somewhat polished, which
was also full of pleasant raillery, but without any mixture of
obscenity.  This sort of poetry appeared under the name of "satire"
because of its variety; and this satire was adorned with
compositions of music, and with dances; but lascivious postures were
banished from it.  In the Tuscan language, says Livy, the word
hister signifies a player; and therefore those actors which were
first brought from Etruria to Rome on occasion of a pestilence, when
the Romans were admonished to avert the anger of the gods by plays
(in the year ab urbe condita CCCXC.)--those actors, I say, were
therefore called histriones:  and that name has since remained, not
only to actors Roman born, but to all others of every nation.  They
played, not the former extempore stuff of Fescennine verses or
clownish jests, but what they acted was a kind of civil cleanly
farce, with music and dances, and motions that were proper to the
subject.

In this condition Livius Andronicus found the stage when he
attempted first, instead of farces, to supply it with a nobler
entertainment of tragedies and comedies.  This man was a Grecian
born, and being made a slave by Livius Salinator, and brought to
Rome, had the education of his patron's children committed to him,
which trust he discharged so much to the satisfaction of his master
that he gave him his liberty.

Andronicus, thus become a freeman of Rome, added to his own name
that of Livius, his master; and, as I observed, was the first author
of a regular play in that commonwealth.  Being already instructed in
his native country in the manners and decencies of the Athenian
theatre, and conversant in the archaea comaedia or old comedy of
Aristophanes and the rest of the Grecian poets, he took from that
model his own designing of plays for the Roman stage, the first of
which was represented in the year CCCCCXIV. since the building of
Rome, as Tully, from the Commentaries of Atticus, has assured us; it
was after the end of the first Punic War, the year before Atticus
was born.  Dacier has not carried the matter altogether thus far; he
only says that one Livius Andronicus was the first stage-poet at
Rome.  But I will adventure on this hint to advance another
proposition, which I hope the learned will approve; and though we
have not anything of Andronicus remaining to justify my conjecture,
yet it is exceeding probable that, having read the works of those
Grecian wits, his countrymen, he imitated not only the groundwork,
but also the manner of their writing; and how grave soever his
tragedies might be, yet in his comedies he expressed the way of
Aristophanes, Eupolis, and the rest, which was to call some persons
by their own names, and to expose their defects to the laughter of
the people (the examples of which we have in the fore-mentioned
Aristophanes, who turned the wise Socrates into ridicule, and is
also very free with the management of Cleon, Alcibiades, and other
ministers of the Athenian government).  Now if this be granted, we
may easily suppose that the first hint of satirical plays on the
Roman stage was given by the Greeks--not from the satirica, for that
has been reasonably exploded in the former part of this discourse--
but from their old comedy, which was imitated first by Livius
Andronicus.  And then Quintilian and Horace must be cautiously
interpreted, where they affirm that satire is wholly Roman, and a
sort of verse which was not touched on by the Grecians.  The
reconcilement of my opinion to the standard of their judgment is
not, however, very difficult, since they spoke of satire, not as in
its first elements, but as it was formed into a separate work--begun
by Ennius, pursued by Lucilius, and completed afterwards by Horace.
The proof depends only on this postalatum--that the comedies of
Andronicus, which were imitations of the Greek, were also imitations
of their railleries and reflections on particular persons.  For if
this be granted me, which is a most probable supposition, it is easy
to infer that the first light which was given to the Roman
theatrical satire was from the plays of Livius Andronicus, which
will be more manifestly discovered when I come to speak of Ennius.
In the meantime I will return to Dacier.

The people, says he, ran in crowds to these new entertainments of
Andronicus, as to pieces which were more noble in their kind, and
more perfect than their former satires, which for some time they
neglected and abandoned; but not long after they took them up again,
and then they joined them to their comedies, playing them at the end
of every drama, as the French continue at this day to act their
farces, in the nature of a separate entertainment from their
tragedies.  But more particularly they were joined to the "Atellane"
fables, says Casaubon; which were plays invented by the Osci.  Those
fables, says Valerius Maximus, out of Livy, were tempered with the
Italian severity, and free from any note of infamy or obsceneness;
and, as an old commentator on Juvenal affirms, the Exodiarii, which
were singers and dancers, entered to entertain the people with light
songs and mimical gestures, that they might not go away oppressed
with melancholy from those serious pieces of the theatre.  So that
the ancient satire of the Romans was in extempore reproaches; the
next was farce, which was brought from Tuscany; to that succeeded
the plays of Andronicus, from the old comedy of the Grecians; and
out of all these sprang two several branches of new Roman satire,
like different scions from the same root, which I shall prove with
as much brevity as the subject will allow.

A year after Andronicus had opened the Roman stage with his new
dramas, Ennius was born; who, when he was grown to man's estate,
having seriously considered the genius of the people, and how
eagerly they followed the first satires, thought it would be worth
his pains to refine upon the project, and to write satires, not to
be acted on the theatre, but read.  He preserved the groundwork of
their pleasantry, their venom, and their raillery on particular
persons and general vices; and by this means, avoiding the danger of
any ill success in a public representation, he hoped to be as well
received in the cabinet as Andronicus had been upon the stage.  The
event was answerable to his expectation.  He made discourses in
several sorts of verse, varied often in the same paper, retaining
still in the title their original name of satire.  Both in relation
to the subjects, and the variety of matters contained in them, the
satires of Horace are entirely like them; only Ennius, as I said,
confines not himself to one sort of verse, as Horace does, but
taking example from the Greeks, and even from Homer himself in his
"Margites" (which is a kind of satire, as Scaliger observes), gives
himself the licence, when one sort of numbers comes not easily, to
run into another, as his fancy dictates; for he makes no difficulty
to mingle hexameters with iambic trimeters or with trochaic
tetrameters, as appears by those fragments which are yet remaining
of him.  Horace has thought him worthy to be copied, inserting many
things of his into his own satires, as Virgil has done into his
"AEneids."

Here we have Dacier making out that Ennius was the first satirist in
that way of writing, which was of his invention--that is, satire
abstracted from the stage and new modelled into papers of verses on
several subjects.  But he will have Ennius take the groundwork of
satire from the first farces of the Romans rather than from the
formed plays of Livius Andronicus, which were copied from the
Grecian comedies.  It may possibly be so; but Dacier knows no more
of it than I do.  And it seems to me the more probable opinion that
he rather imitated the fine railleries of the Greeks, which he saw
in the pieces of Andronicus, than the coarseness of his own
countrymen in their clownish extemporary way of jeering.

But besides this, it is universally granted that Ennius, though an
Italian, was excellently learned in the Greek language.  His verses
were stuffed with fragments of it, even to a fault; and he himself
believed, according to the Pythagorean opinion, that the soul of
Homer was transfused into him, which Persius observes in his sixth
satire--postquam destertuit esse Maeonides.  But this being only the
private opinion of so inconsiderable a man as I am, I leave it to
the further disquisition of the critics, if they think it worth
their notice.  Most evident it is that, whether he imitated the
Roman farce or the Greek comedies, he is to be acknowledged for the
first author of Roman satire, as it is properly so called, and
distinguished from any sort of stage-play.

Of Pacuvius, who succeeded him, there is little to be said, because
there is so little remaining of him; only that he is taken to be the
nephew of Ennius, his sister's son; that in probability he was
instructed by his uncle in his way of satire, which we are told he
has copied; but what advances he made, we know not.

Lucilius came into the world when Pacuvius flourished most.  He also
made satires after the manner of Ennius; but he gave them a more
graceful turn, and endeavoured to imitate more closely the vetus
comaedia of the Greeks, of the which the old original Roman satire
had no idea till the time of Livius Andronicus.  And though Horace
seems to have made Lucilius the first author of satire in verse
amongst the Romans in these words -


"Quid? cum est Lucilius auses
Primus in hunc operis componere carmina morem" -


he is only thus to be understood--that Lucilius had given a more
graceful turn to the satire of Ennius and Pacuvius, not that he
invented a new satire of his own; and Quintilian seems to explain
this passage of Horace in these words:  Satira quidem tota nostra
est; in qua primus insignem laudem adeptus est Luciluis.

Thus both Horace and Quintilian give a kind of primacy of honour to
Lucilius amongst the Latin satirists; for as the Roman language grew
more refined, so much more capable it was of receiving the Grecian
beauties, in his time.  Horace and Quintilian could mean no more
than that Lucilius writ better than Ennius and Pacuvius, and on the
same account we prefer Horace to Lucilius.  Both of them imitated
the old Greek comedy; and so did Ennius and Pacuvius before them.
The polishing of the Latin tongue, in the succession of times, made
the only difference; and Horace himself in two of his satires,
written purposely on this subject, thinks the Romans of his age were
too partial in their commendations of Lucilius, who writ not only
loosely and muddily, with little art and much less care, but also in
a time when the Latin tongue was not yet sufficiently purged from
the dregs of barbarism; and many significant and sounding words
which the Romans wanted were not admitted even in the times of
Lucretius and Cicero, of which both complain.

But to proceed:  Dacier justly taxes Casaubon for saying that the
satires of Lucilius were wholly different in species from those of
Ennius and Pacuvius, Casaubon was led into that mistake by Diomedes
the grammarian, who in effect says this:- "Satire amongst the Romans
but not amongst the Greeks, was a biting invective poem, made after
the model of the ancient comedy, for the reprehension of vices; such
as were the poems of Lucilius, of Horace, and of Persius.  But in
former times the name of satire was given to poems which were
composed of several sorts of verses, such as were made by Ennius and
Pacuvius"--more fully expressing the etymology of the word satire
from satura, which we have observed.  Here it is manifest that
Diomedes makes a specifical distinction betwixt the satires of
Ennius and those of Lucilius.  But this, as we say in English, is
only a distinction without a difference; for the reason of it is
ridiculous and absolutely false.  This was that which cozened honest
Casaubon, who, relying on Diomedes, had not sufficiently examined
the origin and nature of those two satires, which were entirely the
same both in the matter and the form; for all that Lucilius
performed beyond his predecessors, Ennius and Pacuvius, was only the
adding of more politeness and more salt, without any change in the
substance of the poem.  And though Lucilius put not together in the
same satire several sorts of verses, as Ennius did, yet he composed
several satires of several sorts of verses, and mingled them with
Greek verses:  one poem consisted only of hexameters, and another
was entirely of iambics; a third of trochaics; as is visible by the
fragments yet remaining of his works.  In short, if the satires of
Lucilius are therefore said to be wholly different from those of
Ennius because he added much more of beauty and polishing to his own
poems than are to be found in those before him, it will follow from
hence that the satires of Horace are wholly different from those of
Lucilius, because Horace has not less surpassed Lucilius in the
elegancy of his writing than Lucilius surpassed Ennius in the turn
and ornament of his.  Little, indeed, could Lady Roseville, when, in
the heat of her enthusiasm, she spoke of the lofty and generous
character of Glanville, dream of the foul and dastardly crime
of which he was more than suspected; nor, while it was, perhaps,
her fondest wish to ally herself to his destiny, could her wildest
fancies anticipate the felon's fate, which, if death came not in
an hastier and kinder shape, must sooner or later await him.

Of Thornton, I had neither seen nor heard aught since my departure
from Lord Chester's; that reprieve was, however, shortly to expire.
I had scarcely got into Oxford-street, in my way homeward, when
I perceived him crossing the street with another man. I turned round
to scrutinize the features of his companion, and, in spite of a
great change of dress, a huge pair of false whiskers, and an artificial
appearance of increased age, my habit of observing countenances enabled
me to recognize, on the instant, my intellectual and virtuous friend,
Mr. Job Jonson. They disappeared in a shop, nor did I think it worth
while further to observe them, though I still bore a reminiscetory
spite against Mr. Job Jonson, which I was fully resolved to wreak,
at the first favourable opportunity.

I passed by Lady Roseville's door. Though the hour was late, and I
had, therefore, but a slight chance of finding her at home, yet I
thought the chance worth the trouble of inquiry. To my agreeable
surprise, I was admitted: no one was in the drawing-room. The servant
said, Lady Roseville was at that moment engaged, but would very shortly
see me, and begged I would wait.

Agitated as I was by various reflections, I walked (in the restlessness
of my mood) to and fro the spacious rooms which formed Lady Roseville's
apartments of reception. At the far end was a small boudoir, where
none but the goddess's favoured few were admitted. As I approached
towards it, I heard voices, and the next moment recognised the deep
tones of Glanville. I turned hastily away, lest I should overhear
the discourse; but I had scarcely got three steps, when the convulsed
sound of a woman's sob came upon my ear. Shortly afterwards, steps
descended the stairs, and the street door opened.

The minutes rolled on, and I became impatient. The servant re-entered--
Lady Roseville was so suddenly and seriously indisposed,
that she was unable to see me. I left the house, and, full of
bewildered conjectures, returned to my apartments.

The next day was one of the most important in my life. I was standing
wistfully by my fireplace, listening to a broken-winded hurdy-gurdy,
with the most mournful attention, stationed opposite to my window,
when Bedos announced Sir Reginald Glanville. It so happened, that
I had that morning taken the miniature I had found in the fatal
field, from the secret place in which I usually kept it, in order
more closely to examine it, lest any more convincing proof of its
owner, than the initials and Thornton's interpretation,
might be discovered by a minuter investigation.

The picture was lying on the table when Glanville entered:
my first impulse was to seize and secrete it; my second to suffer
it to remain, and to watch the effect the sight of it might
produce. In following the latter, I thought it, however, as well to
choose my own time for discovering the miniature; and as I moved
to the table, I threw my handkerchief carelessly over it. Glanville
came up to me at once, and his countenance, usually close and reserved
in its expression, assumed a franker and bolder aspect.

"You have lately changed towards me," he said:--"mindful of our
former friendship, I have come to demand the reason."
"Can Sir Reginald Glanville's memory," answered I, "supply him with
no probable cause?"
"It can," replied Glanville, "but I would not trust only to
that. Sit down, Pelham, and listen to me. I can read your thoughts,
and I might affect to despise their import--perhaps two years
since I should--at present I can pity and excuse them. I have come
to you now, in the love and confidence of our early days, to claim,
as then, your good opinion and esteem. If you require any explanation
at my hands, it shall be given. My days are approaching their end. I
have made up my accounts with others--I would do so with you. I
confess, that I would fain leave behind me in your breast, the
same affectionate remembrance I might heretofore have claimed,
and which, whatever be your suspicions, I have done nothing to
forfeit. I have, moreover, a dearer interest than my own to consult
in this wish--you colour, Pelham--you know to whom I allude;
for my sister's sake, if not for my own, you will hear me."
Glanville paused for a moment.

I raised the handkerchief from the miniature--I pushed the latter
towards him--"Do you remember this?" said I, in a low tone.

With a wild cry, which thrilled through my heart, Glanville sprung
forward and seized it. He gazed eagerly and intensely upon it, and
his cheek flushed--his eyes sparkled--his breast heaved. The next
moment he fell back in his chair, in one of the half swoons, to
which, upon any sudden and violent emotion, the debilitating
effects of his disease subjected him.

Before I could come to his assistance he had recovered. He looked
wildly and fiercely upon me. "Speak," he cried, "speak--where
got you this-- where?--answer, for mercy's sake!"
"Recollect yourself," said I, sternly. "I found that token of
your presence upon the spot where Tyrrell was murdered."
"True, true," said Glanville, slowly, and in an absent and abstracted
tone. He ceased abruptly, and covered his face with his hands; from
this attitude he started with some sudden impulse.

"And tell me," he said, in a low, inward, exulting tone, "was it--was
it red with the blood of the murdered man?"
"Wretch!" I exclaimed, "do you glory in your guilt?"
"Hold!" said Glanville, rising, with an altered and haughty air;
"it is not to your accusations that I am now to listen: if you
are yet desirous of weighing their justice before you decide upon
them, you will have the opportunity: I shall be at home at ten this
night; come to me, and you shall know all. At present, the sight of
this picture has unnerved me.
Shall I see you?"
I made no other rejoinder than the brief expression of my assent,
and Glanville instantly left the room.

During the whole of that day, my mind was wrought up into a state of
feverish and preternatural excitation. I could not remain
in the same spot for an instant; my pulse beat with the irregularity
of delirium.

For the last hour I placed my watch before me, and kept my eyes
constantly fixed upon it. Should any one think this exaggerated,
let him remember, that it was not only Glanville's confession that
I was to hear; my own fate, my future connection with Ellen, rested
upon the story of that night. For myself, when I called to mind
Glanville's acknowledgment of the picture, and his slow and involuntary
remembrance of the spot where it was found, I scarcely allowed my
temper, sanguine as it was, to hope.

Some minutes before the hour of ten I repaired to Glanville's
house. He was alone--the picture was before him.

I drew my chair towards him in silence, and accidentally lifting up
my eyes, encountered the opposite mirror. I started at my own face;
the intensity and fearfulness of my interest had rendered it
even more hueless than that of my companion.

There was a pause for some moments, at the end of which Glanville
thus began.

CHAPTER LXXIV.

I do but hide Under these words, like embers, every spark Of that which
has consumed me. Quick and dark The grave is yawning;--as
its roof shall cover My limbs with dust and worms, under and over,
So let oblivion hide this grief.
Julian and Maddalo.

With thee, the very future fled, I stand amid the past alone; A
tomb which still shall guard the dead Tho' every earthlier trace be
flown, A tomb o'er which the weeds that love Decay--their wild
luxuriance wreathe!
The cold and callous stone above-- And only thou and death beneath.

From Unpublished Poems by_____.

THE HISTORY OF SIR REGINALD GLANVILLE.

"You remember my character at school--the difficulty with
which you drew me from the visionary and abstracted loneliness which,
even at that time, was more consonant to my taste, than all the
sports and society resorted to by other boys--and the deep, and,
to you, inexplicable delight with which I returned to my reveries
and solitude again.

That character has continued through life the same; circumstances
have strengthened, not altered it. So has it been with you; the temper,
the habits, the tastes, so strongly contrasted with mine in boyhood,
have lost nothing of that contrast. Your ardour for the various
ambition of life is still the antipodes to my indifference; your
daring, restless, thoughtful, resolution in the pursuit, still
shames my indolence and abstraction. You are still the votary of the
world, but will become its conqueror--I its fugitive--and shall die
its victim.

"After we parted at school, I went for a short time to a tutor's in--
shire. Of this place I soon grew weary; and my father's death leaving
me in a great measure at my own disposal, I lost no time in leaving
it. I was seized with that mania for travel common enough to all
persons of my youth and disposition. My mother allowed me an almost
unlimited command over the fortune hereafter to be my own; and,
yielding to my wishes, rather than her fears, she suffered me, at
the age of eighteen, to set out for the Continent alone. Perhaps
the quiet and reserve of my character made her think me less exposed
to the dangers of youth, than if I had been of a more active and
versatile temper.

This is no uncommon mistake; a serious and contemplative disposition
is, however, often the worst formed to acquire readily the
knowledge of the world, and always the most calculated to suffer
deeply from the experience.

"I took up my residence for some time at Spa. It is, you know,
perhaps, a place dull enough to make gambling the only amusement;
every one played-- and I did not escape the contagion; nor did I
wish it: for, like the minister Godolphin, I loved gaming for
its own sake, because it was a substitute for conversation. This
habit brought me acquainted with Mr.

Tyrrell, who was then staying at Spa; he had not, at that time, quite
dissipated his fortune, but was daily progressing to so
desirable a consummation. A gambler's acquaintance is readily
made, and easily kept, provided you gamble too.

"We became as intimate as the reserve of my habits ever suffered me
to become with any one, but you. He was many years older than
me--had seen a great deal of the world--had mixed much in its best
societies, and, at that time, whatever was the grossierete of his
mind, had little of the coarseness of manner which very soon
afterwards distinguished him; evil communication works rapidly
in its results. Our acquaintance was, therefore, natural enough,
especially when it is considered that my purse was entirely at his
disposal--for borrowing is twice blessed, in him that takes and him
that gives--the receiver becomes complaisant and conceding, and the
lender thinks favourably of one he has obliged.

"We parted at Spa, under a mutual promise to write. I forget if
this promise was kept--probably not; we were not, however, the
worse friends for being bad correspondents. I continued my travels
for about another year; I then returned to England, the same melancholy
and dreaming enthusiast as before. It is true that we are the
creatures of circumstances; but circumstances are also, in a great
measure, the creatures of us. I mean, they receive their colour
from the previous bent of our own minds; what raises one would
depress another, and what vitiates my neighbour might correct
me. Thus the experience of the world makes some persons more
worldly--others more abstracted, and the indulgence of the senses
becomes a violence to one mind, and a second nature to another.

As for me, I had tasted all the pleasures youth and opulence can
purchase, and was more averse to them than ever. I had mixed with
many varieties of men--I was still more rivetted to the monotony
of self.

"I cannot hope, while I mention these peculiarities, that I am
a very uncommon character; I believe the present age has produced
many such.

Some time hence, it will be a curious inquiry to ascertain the causes
of that acute and sensitive morbidity of mind, which has been, and
still is, so epidemic a disease. You know me well enough to
believe, that I am not fond of the cant of assuming an artificial
character, or of creating a fictitious interest; and I am far
from wishing to impose upon you a malady of constitution for a
dignity of mind.

You must pardon my prolixity. I own that it is very painful to me to
come to the main part of my confessions, and I am endeavouring to
prepare myself by lingering over the prelude."
Glanville paused here for a few moments. In spite of the sententious
coolness with which he pretended to speak, I saw that he was
powerfully and painfully affected.

"Well," he continued, "to resume the thread of my narrative; after I
had stayed some weeks with my mother and sister, I took advantage
of their departure for the continent, and resolved to make a tour
through England.
Rich people, and I have always been very rich, get exceedingly tired
of the embarrassment of their riches. I seized with delight at the
idea of travelling without carriages and servants; I took merely a
favourite horse, and the black dog, poor Terror, which you see now
at my feet.

"The day I commenced this plan was to me the epoch of a new
and terrible existence. However, you must pardon me if I am not here
sufficiently diffuse. Suffice it, that I became acquainted with a
being whom, for the first and only time in my life, I loved! This
miniature attempts to express her likeness; the initials at the
back, interwoven with my own, are hers."
"Yes," said I, incautiously, "they are the initials of Gertrude
Douglas."
"What!" cried Glanville, in a loud tone, which he instantly checked,
and continued in an indrawn, muttered whisper: "How long is
it since I heard that name! and now--now--" he broke off abruptly,
and then said, with a calmer voice, "I know not how you have learnt
her name; perhaps you will explain?"
"From Thornton," said I.

"And has he told you more?" cried Glanville, as if gasping for
breath-- the "history--the dreadful--"
"Not a word," said I, hastily; "he was with me when I found the picture,
and he explained the initials."
"It is well!" answered Glanville, recovering himself; "you will see
presently if I have reason to love that those foul and sordid lips
should profane the story I am about to relate. Gertrude was an only
daughter; though of gentle blood, she was no match for me, either
in rank or fortune. Did I say just now that the world had not altered
me? See my folly; one year before I saw her, and I should not
have thought her, but myself honoured by a marriage;--twelve
little months had sufficed to--God forgive me! I took advantage of
her love--her youth--her innocence--she fled with me--but not to
the altar!"
Again Glanville paused, and again, by a violent effort, conquered
his emotion, and proceeded:

"Never let vice be done by halves--never let a man invest all his
purer affections in the woman he ruins--never let him cherish the
kindness, if he gratifies the selfishness, of his heart. A
profligate, who really loves his victim, is one of the most wretched
of beings. In spite of my successful and triumphant passion--in spite
of the delirium of the first intoxication of possession, and
of the better and deeper delight of a reciprocity of thought--feeling,
sympathy, for the first time, found;--in the midst of all the
luxuries my wealth could produce, and of the voluptuous and spring-like
hues with which youth, health, and first love, clothe the earth
which the loved one treads, and the air which she inhales: in spite
of these, in spite of all, I was any thing but happy.
If Gertrude's cheek seemed a shade more pale, or her eye less bright,
I remembered the sacrifice she had made me, and believed that she
felt it too. It was in vain, that, with a tender and generous
devotion--never found but in woman--she assured me that my love was
a recompense for all; the more touching was her tenderness, the
more poignant my remorse. I never loved but her; I have never,
therefore, entered into the common- place of passion, and I cannot,
even to this day, look upon her sex as ours do in general. I thought,
I think so still, that ingratitude to a woman is often a more odious
offence--I am sure it contains a more painful penalty--than ingratitude
to a man. But enough of this; if you know me, you can penetrate the
nature of my feelings--if not, it is in vain to expect your
sympathy.
"I never loved living long in one place. We travelled over the
greater part of England and France. What must be the enchantment
of love, when accompanied with innocence and joy, when, even in
sin, in remorse, in grief, it brings us a rapture to which all other
things are tame. Oh!
those were moments steeped in the very elixir of life; overflowing
with the hoarded fondness and sympathies of hearts too full for
words, and yet too agitated for silence, when we journeyed alone,
and at night, and as the shadows and stillness of the waning hours
gathered round us, drew closer to each other, and concentrated this
breathing world in the deep and embracing sentiment of our mutual
love! It was then that I laid my burning temples on her bosom, and
felt, while my hand clasped her's, that my visions were realized,
and my wandering spirit had sunk unto its rest.
"I remember well that, one night, we were travelling through one
of the most beautiful parts of England it was in the very height
and flush of summer, and the moon (what scene of love--whether in
reality, or romance- -has any thing of tenderness, or passion, or
divinity, where her light is not!)As for the chastity of his
thoughts, Casaubon denies not but that one particular passage in the
fourth satire (At, si unctus cesses, &c.) is not only the most
obscure, but the most obscene, of all his works.  I understood it,
but for that reason turned it over.  In defence of his boisterous
metaphors he quotes Longinus, who accounts them as instruments of
the sublime, fit to move and stir up the affections, particularly in
narration; to which it may be replied that where the trope is far-
fetched and hard, it is fit for nothing but to puzzle the
understanding, and may be reckoned amongst those things of
Demosthenes which AEschines called [Greek text which cannot be
reproduced] not [Greek text which cannot be reproduced]--that is,
prodigies, not words.  It must be granted to Casaubon that the
knowledge of many things is lost in our modern ages which were of
familiar notice to the ancients, and that satire is a poem of a
difficult nature in itself, and is not written to vulgar readers;
and (through the relation which it has to comedy) the frequent
change of persons makes the sense perplexed, when we can but divine
who it is that speaks--whether Persius himself, or his friend and
monitor, or, in some places, a third person.  But Casaubon comes
back always to himself, and concludes that if Persius had not been
obscure, there had been no need of him for an interpreter.  Yet when
he had once enjoined himself so hard a task, he then considered the
Greek proverb, that he must [Greek text which cannot be reproduced]
(either eat the whole snail or let it quite alone); and so he went
through with his laborious task, as I have done with my difficult
translation.

Thus far, my lord, you see it has gone very hard with Persius.  I
think he cannot be allowed to stand in competition either with
Juvenal or Horace.  Yet, for once, I will venture to be so vain as
to affirm that none of his hard metaphors or forced expressions are
in my translation.  But more of this in its proper place, where I
shall say somewhat in particular of our general performance in
making these two authors English.  In the meantime I think myself
obliged to give Persius his undoubted due, and to acquaint the
world, with Casaubon, in what he has equalled and in what excelled
his two competitors.

A man who is resolved to praise an author with any appearance of
justice must be sure to take him on the strongest side, and where he
is least liable to exceptions; he is therefore obliged to choose his
mediums accordingly.  Casaubon (who saw that Persius could not laugh
with a becoming grace, that he was not made for jesting, and that a
merry conceit was not his talent) turned his feather, like an
Indian, to another light, that he might give it the better gloss.
"Moral doctrine," says he, "and urbanity or well-mannered wit are
the two things which constitute the Roman satire; but of the two,
that which is most essential to this poem, and is, as it were, the
very soul which animates it, is the scourging of vice and
exhortation to virtue."  Thus wit, for a good reason, is already
almost out of doors, and allowed only for an instrument--a kind of
tool or a weapon, as he calls it--of which the satirist makes use in
the compassing of his design.  The end and aim of our three rivals
is consequently the same; but by what methods they have prosecuted
their intention is further to be considered.  Satire is of the
nature of moral philosophy, as being instructive; he therefore who
instructs most usefully will carry the palm from his two
antagonists.  The philosophy in which Persius was educated, and
which he professes through his whole book, is the Stoic--the most
noble, most generous, most beneficial to humankind amongst all the
sects who have given us the rules of ethics, thereby to form a
severe virtue in the soul, to raise in us an undaunted courage
against the assaults of fortune, to esteem as nothing the things
that are without us, because they are not in our power; not to value
riches, beauty, honours, fame, or health any farther than as
conveniences and so many helps to living as we ought, and doing good
in our generation.  In short, to be always happy while we possess
our minds with a good conscience, are free from the slavery of
vices, and conform our actions and conversation to the rules of
right reason.  See here, my lord, an epitome of Epictetus, the
doctrine of Zeno, and the education of our Persius; and this he
expressed, not only in all his satires, but in the manner of his
life.  I will not lessen this commendation of the Stoic philosophy
by giving you an account of some absurdities in their doctrine, and
some perhaps impieties (if we consider them by the standard of
Christian faith).  Persius has fallen into none of them, and
therefore is free from those imputations.  What he teaches might be
taught from pulpits with more profit to the audience than all the
nice speculations of divinity and controversies concerning faith,
which are more for the profit of the shepherd than for the
edification of the flock.  Passion, interest, ambition, and all
their bloody consequences of discord and of war are banished from
this doctrine.  Here is nothing proposed but the quiet and
tranquillity of the mind; virtue lodged at home, and afterwards
diffused in her general effects to the improvement and good of
humankind.  And therefore I wonder not that the present Bishop of
Salisbury has recommended this our author and the tenth satire of
Juvenal (in his pastoral letter) to the serious perusal and practice
of the divines in his diocese as the best commonplaces for their
sermons, as the storehouses and magazines of moral virtues, from
whence they may draw out, as they have occasion, all manner of
assistance for the accomplishment of a virtuous life, which the
Stoics have assigned for the great end and perfection of mankind.
Herein, then, it is that Persius has excelled both Juvenal and
Horace.  He sticks to his own philosophy; he shifts not sides, like
Horace (who is sometimes an Epicurean, sometimes a Stoic, sometimes
an Eclectic, as his present humour leads him), nor declaims, like
Juvenal, against vices more like an orator than a philosopher.
Persius is everywhere the same--true to the dogmas of his master.
What he has learnt, he teaches vehemently; and what he teaches, that
he practises himself.  There is a spirit of sincerity in all he
says; you may easily discern that he is in earnest, and is persuaded
of that truth which he inculcates.  In this I am of opinion that he
excels Horace, who is commonly in jest, and laughs while he
instructs; and is equal to Juvenal, who was as honest and serious as
Persius, and more he could not be.

Hitherto I have followed Casaubon, and enlarged upon him, because I
am satisfied that he says no more than truth; the rest is almost all
frivolous.  For he says that Horace, being the son of a tax-gatherer
(or a collector, as we call it) smells everywhere of the meanness of
his birth and education; his conceits are vulgar, like the subjects
of his satires; that he does plebeium sepere, and writes not with
that elevation which becomes a satirist; that Persius, being nobly
born and of an opulent family, had likewise the advantage of a
better master (Cornutus being the most learned of his time, a man of
a most holy life, the chief of the Stoic sect at Rome, and not only
a great philosopher, but a poet himself, and in probability a
coadjutor of Persius:  that as for Juvenal, he was long a declaimer,
came late to poetry, and had not been much conversant in philosophy.

It is granted that the father of Horace was libertinus--that is, one
degree removed from his grandfather, who had been once a slave.  But
Horace, speaking of him, gives him the best character of a father
which I ever read in history; and I wish a witty friend of mine, now
living, had such another.  He bred him in the best school, and with
the best company of young noblemen; and Horace, by his gratitude to
his memory, gives a certain testimony that his education was
ingenuous.  After this he formed himself abroad by the conversation
of great men.  Brutus found him at Athens, and was so pleased with
him that he took him thence into the army, and made him Tribunus
Militum (a colonel in a legion), which was the preferment of an old
soldier.  All this was before his acquaintance with Maecenas, and
his introduction into the court of Augustus, and the familiarity of
that great emperor; which, had he not been well bred before, had
been enough to civilise his conversation, and render him
accomplished and knowing in all the arts of complacency and good
behaviour; and, in short, an agreeable companion for the retired
hours and privacies of a favourite who was first minister.  So that
upon the whole matter Persius may be acknowledged to be equal with
him in those respects, though better born, and Juvenal inferior to
both.  If the advantage be anywhere, it is on the side of Horace, as
much as the court of Augustus Caesar was superior to that of Nero.
As for the subjects which they treated, it will appear hereafter
that Horace wrote not vulgarly on vulgar subjects, nor always chose
them.  His style is constantly accommodated to his subject, either
high or low.  If his fault be too much lowness, that of Persius is
the fault of the hardness of his metaphors and obscurity; and so
they are equal in the failings of their style, where Juvenal
manifestly triumphs over both of them.

The comparison betwixt Horace and Juvenal is more difficult, because
their forces were more equal.  A dispute has always been, and ever
will continue, betwixt the favourers of the two poets.  Non nostrum
est tantas componere lites.  I shall only venture to give my own
opinion, and leave it for better judges to determine.  If it be only
argued in general which of them was the better poet, the victory is
already gained on the side of Horace.  Virgil himself must yield to
him in the delicacy of his turns, his choice of words, and perhaps
the purity of his Latin.  He who says that Pindar is inimitable, is
himself inimitable in his odes; but the contention betwixt these two
great masters is for the prize of satire, in which controversy all
the odes and epodes of Horace are to stand excluded.  I say this
because Horace has written many of them satirically against his
private enemies; yet these, if justly considered, are somewhat of
the nature of the Greek silli, which were invectives against
particular sects and persons.  But Horace had purged himself of this
choler before he entered on those discourses which are more properly
called the Roman satire.  He has not now to do with a Lyce, a
Canidia, a Cassius Severus, or a Menas; but is to correct the vices
and the follies of his time, and to give the rules of a happy and
virtuous life.  In a word, that former sort of satire which is known
in England by the name of lampoon is a dangerous sort of weapon, and
for the most part unlawful.  We have no moral right on the
reputation of other men; it is taking from them what we cannot
restore to them.  There are only two reasons for which we may be
permitted to write lampoons, and I will not promise that they can
always justify us.  The first is revenge, when we have been
affronted in the same nature, or have been anywise notoriously
abused, and can make ourselves no other reparation.  And yet we know
that in Christian charity all offences are to be forgiven, as we
expect the like pardon for those which we daily commit against
Almighty God.  And this consideration has often made me tremble when
I was saying our Saviour's prayer, for the plain condition of the
forgiveness which we beg is the pardoning of others the offences
which they have done to us; for which reason I have many times
avoided the commission of that fault, even when I have been
notoriously provoked.  Let not this, my lord, pass for vanity in me;
for it is truth.  More libels have been written against me than
almost any man now living; and I had reason on my side to have
defended my own innocence.  I speak not of my poetry, which I have
wholly given up to the critics--let them use it as they please--
posterity, perhaps, may be more favourable to me; for interest and
passion will lie buried in another age, and partiality and prejudice
be forgotten.  I speak of my morals, which have been sufficiently
aspersed--that only sort of reputation ought to be dear to every
honest man, and is to me.  But let the world witness for me that I
have been often wanting to myself in that particular; I have seldom
answered any scurrilous lampoon when it was in my power to have
exposed my enemies; and, being naturally vindicative, have suffered
in silence, and possessed my soul in quiet.

There, still and motionless, I remained for hours. I remember well I
was awakened from my gloomy revery by the clock, as it struck
the first hour of the morning.
At that lone and ominous sound, the associations of romance and dread
which the fables of our childhood connect with it rushed coldly and
fearfully into my mind: the damp dews broke out upon my forehead
and the blood curdled in my limbs. In that moment I knelt down and
vowed a frantic and deadly oath--the words of which I would not
now dare to repeat--that before three days expired, hell should
no longer be cheated of its prey. I rose,--I flung myself on my bed,
and slept.

"The next day I left my abode. I purchased a strong and swift horse;
and, disguising myself from head to foot in a long horseman's
cloak, I set off alone, locking in my heart the calm and cold
conviction that my oath should be kept. I placed, concealed in my
dress, two pistols; my intention was to follow Tyrrell wherever he
went, till we could find ourselves alone, and without the chance of
intrusion. It was then my determination to force him into a contest,
and that no trembling of the hand, no error of the swimming
sight, might betray my purpose, to place us foot to foot, and the
mouth of each pistol almost to the very temple of each antagonist.
Nor was I deterred for a moment from this resolution by the
knowledge that my own death must be as certain as my victim's. On
the contrary, I looked forward to dying thus, and so baffling the
more lingering, but not less sure, disease which was daily wasting
me away, with the same fierce, yet not unquiet delight with which
men have rushed into battle, and sought out a death less bitter
to them than life.

"For two days, though I each day saw Tyrrell, fate threw into my
way no opportunity of executing my design. The morning of the third
came,-- Tyrrell was on the race-ground; sure that he would remain
there for some hours, I put up my wearied horse in the town, and,
seating myself in an obscure corner of the course, was contented
with watching, as the serpent does his victim, the distant motions
of my enemy.

Perhaps you can recollect passing a man seated on the ground and robed
in a horseman's cloak. I need not tell you that it was I whom you
passed and accosted. I saw you ride by me; but the moment you were
gone I forgot the occurrence.
I looked upon the rolling and distant crowd as a child views the
figures of the phantasmagoria, scarcely knowing if my eyes
deceived me, feeling impressed with some stupefying and ghastly
sensation of dread, and cherishing the conviction that my life was
not as the life of the creatures that passed before me.

"The day waned: I went back for my horse; I returned to the course,
and, keeping at a distance as little suspicious as possible,
followed the motions of Tyrrell. He went back to the town, rested
there, repaired to a gaming-table, stayed in it a short time,
returned to his inn, and ordered his horse.

"In all these motions I followed the object of my pursuit; and my
heart bounded with joy when I at last saw him set out alone and
in the advancing twilight.

I followed him till he left the main road. Now, I thought, was my
time. I redoubled my pace, and had nearly reached him, when some
horsemen appearing, constrained me again to slacken my pace.
Various other similar interruptions occurred to delay my plot.
At length all was undisturbed. I spurred my horse, and was nearly
on the heels of my enemy, when I perceived him join another man:
this was you; I clenched my teeth and drew my breath, as I
once more retreated to a distance. In a short time two men passed me,
and I found that, owing to some accident on the road, they stopped
to assist you. It appears, by your evidence on a subsequent event,
that these men were Thornton and his friend Dawson; at the
time they passed too rapidly, and I was too much occupied in
my own dark thoughts, to observe them: still I kept up to you and
Tyrrell, sometimes catching the outlines of your figures
through the moon, light, at others (with the acute sense of
anxiety), only just distinguishing the clang of your horses' hoofs
on the stony ground. At last a heavy shower came on: imagine
my joy when Tyrrell left you and rode off alone!

"I passed you, and followed my enemy as fast as my horse would permit;
but it was not equal to Tyrrell's, which was almost at its full
speed.
However, I came, at last, to a very steep and almost precipitous
descent.
I was forced to ride slowly and cautiously; this, however, I the less
regarded, from my conviction that Tyrrell must be obliged to use
the same precaution. My hand was on my pistol with a grasp of
premeditated revenge, when a shrill, sharp, solitary cry broke
on my ear.

"No sound followed: all was silence. I was just approaching towards
the close of the descent, when a horse without its rider
passed me.

The shower had ceased, and the moon broke
from the cloud some minutes before; by its light I recognized the
horse rode by Tyrrell; perhaps, I thought, it has thrown its master,
and my victim will now be utterly in my power.

I pushed hastily forward in spite of the hill, not yet wholly passed.
I came to a spot of singular desolation: it was a broad patch of waste
land, a pool of water was on the right, and a remarkable and withered
tree hung over it. I looked round, but saw nothing of life stirring.
A dark and imperfectly developed object lay by the side of the
pond; I pressed forward: merciful God! my enemy had escaped
my hand, and lay in the stillness of death before me!"
"What!" I exclaimed, interrupting Glanville, for I could contain myself
no longer, "it was not by you then that Tyrrell fell?" With these
words, I grasped his hand; and, excited as I had been by my
painful and wrought-up interest in his recital, I burst into tears
of gratitude and joy. Reginald Glanville was innocent: Ellen was
not the sister of an assassin!

After a short pause, Glanville continued:

"I gazed upon the upward and distorted face, in a deep and sickening
silence; an awe, dark and undefined, crept over my heart: I stood
beneath the solemn and sacred heavens, and felt that the hand of
God was upon me; that a mysterious and fearful edict had gone forth;
that my headlong and unholy wrath had, in the very midst of its
fury, been checked, as if but the idle anger of a child; that the
plan I had laid in the foolish wisdom of my heart had been traced,
step by step, by an all-seeing eye, and baffled in the moment of
its fancied success by an inscrutable and awful doom.

I had wished the death of my enemy: lo! my wish was accomplished,
--how, I neither knew nor guessed; there, a still and senseless
clod of earth, without power of offence or injury, he lay beneath
my feet: it seemed as if, in the moment of my uplifted arm, the
Divine Avenger had asserted His prerogative,--as if the angel
which had smitten the Assyrian had again swept forth, though against
a meaner victim; and while he punished the guilt of a human criminal,
had set an eternal barrier to the vengeance of a human foe!

"I dismounted from my horse, and bent over the murdered man. I drew
from my bosom the miniature, which never forsook me, and bathed
the lifeless resemblance of Gertrude in the blood of her betrayer.
Scarcely had I done so, before my ear caught the sound of steps;
hastily I thrust, as I thought, the miniature in my bosom, remounted,
and rode hurriedly away.
At that hour, and for many which succeeded to it, I believe that all
sense was suspended. I was like a man haunted by a dream, and
wandering under its influence! or as one whom a spectre pursues, and
for whose eye the breathing and busy world is but as a land of unreal
forms and flitting shadows, teeming with the monsters of darkness
and the terrors of the tomb.

"It was not till the next day that I missed the picture. I returned
to the spot; searched it carefully, but in vain; the miniature
could not be found: I returned to town, and shortly afterwards
the newspapers informed me of what had subsequently occurred. I
saw, with dismay, that all appearances pointed to me as the
criminal, and that the officers of justice were at that moment
tracing the clew which my cloak and the color of my horse afforded
them. My mysterious pursuit of Tyrrell, the disguise I had
assumed, the circumstance of my passing you on the road and of my
flight when you approached, all spoke volumes against me. A stronger
evidence yet remained, and it was reserved for Thornton to indicate
it; at this moment my life is in his hands. Shortly after my return
to town, he forced his way into my room, shut the door, bolted it,
and, the moment we were alone, said, with a savage and fiendish grin
of exultation and defiance, 'Sir Reginald Glanville, you have many a
time and oft insulted me with your pride, and more with your gifts:
now it is my time to insult and triumph over you; know that one word
of mine could sentence you to the gibbet.'
"He then minutely summed up the evidence against me, and drew from
his pocket the threatening letter I had last written to Tyrrell.
You remember that therein I said my vengeance was sworn against
him, and that, sooner or later, it should overtake him. 'Couple,'
said Thornton, coldly, as he replaced the letter in his
pocket,--'couple these words with the evidence already against you,
and I would not buy your life at a farthing's value.'
"How Thornton came by this paper, so important to my safety, I know
not:
but when he read it I was startled by the danger it brought upon me;
one glance sufficed to show me that I was utterly at the mercy of
the villain who stood before me; he saw and enjoyed my struggles.

"'Now,' said he, 'we know each other: at present I want a thousand
pounds; you will not refuse it me, I am sure; when it is gone, I
shall call again; till then you can do without me.' I flung him a
check for the money, and he departed.

"You may conceive the mortification I endured in this sacrifice of
pride to prudence; but those were no ordinary motives which induced
me to submit to it.

Fast approaching to the grave, it
mattered to me but little whether a violent death should shorten
a life to which a limit was already set, and which I was far from
being anxious to retain: but I could not endure the thought of
bringing upon my mother and my sister the wretchedness and shame
which the mere suspicion of a crime so enormous would occasion them;
and when my eye caught all the circumstances arrayed against me,
my pride seemed to suffer a less mortification even in the course
I adopted than in the thought of the felon's gaol and the criminal's
trial,--the hoots and execrations of the mob, and the death and
ignominious remembrance of the murderer.

"Stronger than either of these motives was my shrinking and loathing
aversion to whatever seemed likely to unrip the secret history of
the past. I sickened at the thought of Gertrude's name and fate
being bared to the vulgar eye, and exposed to the comment, the
strictures, the ridicule of the gaping and curious public. It seemed
to me, therefore, but a very poor exertion of philosophy to conquer
my feelings of humiliation at Thornton's insolence and triumph, and
to console myself with the reflection that a few months must rid me
alike of his exactions and my life.

"But, of late, Thornton's persecutions and demands have risen to
such a height that I have been scarcely able to restrain my
indignation and control myself into compliance. The struggle
is too powerful for my frame: it is rapidly bringing on the
fiercest and the last contest I shall suffer, before 'the wicked
shall cease from troubling, and the weary be at rest.' Some days
since I came to a resolution, which I am now about to execute:
it is to leave this country and take refuge on the Continent.

There I shall screen myself from Thornton's pursuit and the danger
which it entails upon me; and there, unknown and undisturbed, I shall
await the termination of my disease.

"But two duties remained to me to fulfil before I departed; I
have now discharged them both. One was due to the warmhearted and
noble being who honoured me with her interest and affection,--the
other to you. I went yesterday to the former; I sketched the
outline of that history which I have detailed to you. I showed
her the waste of my barren heart, and spoke to her of the disease
which was wearing me away. How beautiful is the love of woman! She
would have followed me over the world,--received my last sigh, and
seen me to the rest I shall find at length; and this without a hope,
or thought of recompense, even from the worthlessness of my
love.

"But enough!--of her my farewell has been taken. Your suspicions
I have seen and forgiven; for they were natural: it was due to me
to remove them; the pressure of your hand tells me that I have done
so; but I had another reason for my confessions. I have worn
away the romance of my heart, and I have now no indulgence
for the little delicacies and petty scruples which often stand
in the way of our real happiness. I have marked your former addresses
to Ellen, and, I confess, with great joy; for I know, amidst all
your worldly ambition and the encrusted artificiality of your
exterior, how warm and generous is your real heart,--how noble and
intellectual is your real mind: and were my sister tenfold more
perfect than I believe her, I do not desire to find on earth one
more deserving of her than yourself.

I have remarked your late estrangement from Ellen; and while I guessed,
I felt that, however painful to me, I ought to remove, the cause:
she loves you--though perhaps you know it not--much and truly; and
since my earlier life has been passed in a selfish inactivity, I would
fain let it close with the reflection of having served two beings
whom I prize so dearly, and the hope that their happiness will
commence with my death.

"And now, Pelham, I have done; I am weak and exhausted, and cannot
bear more--even of your society, now. Think over what I have last
said, and let me see you again to-morrow: on the day after, I leave
England forever."

CHAPTER LXXVI.

But wilt thou accept not The worship the heart lifts above And the
Heavens reject not, The desire of the moth for the star, Of the night
for the morrow, The devotion to something afar From the sphere of
our sorrow?
--P. B. Shelley.

It was not with a light heart--for I loved Glanville too well, not
to be powerfully affected by his history and approaching fate--but
with a chastised and sober joy, that I now beheld my friend innocent
of the guilt my suspicions had accused him of, and the only obstacle
to my marriage with his sister removed.

True it was that the sword yet hung over his head, and that while he
lived, there could be no rational assurance of his safety from the
disgrace and death of the felon. In the world's eye, therefore, the
barrier to my union with Ellen would have been far from being wholly
removed; but, at that moment, my disappointments had disgusted me
with the world, and I turned with a double yearning of heart
to her whose pure and holy love could be at once my recompence
and retreat.

Nor was this selfish consideration my only motive in the conduct I
was resolved to adopt; on the contrary, it was scarcely more prominent
in my mind, than those derived from giving to a friend who was now
dearer to me than ever, his only consolation on this earth, and to
Ellen, the safest protection, in case of any danger to her
brother. With these, it is true, were mingled feelings which, in
happier circumstances, might have been those of transport at a
bright and successful termination to a deep and devoted love; but
these I had, while Glanville's very life was so doubtful, little
right to indulge, and I checked them as soon as they arose.

After a sleepless night, I repaired to Lady Glanville's house. It
was long since I had been there, and the servant who admitted me,
seemed somewhat surprised at the earliness of my visit. I desired
to see the mother, and waited in the parlour till she came.
I made but a scanty exordium to my speech. In very few words I
expressed my love to Ellen, and besought her mediation in my behalf;
nor did I think it would be a slight consideration in my favour, with
the fond mother, to mention Glanville's concurrence with my
suit.

"Ellen is up stairs in the drawing-room," said Lady Glanville. "I
will go and prepare her to receive you--if you have her
consent, you have mine."
"Will you suffer me, then," said I, "to forestal you? Forgive
my impatience, and let me see her before you do."
Lady Glanville was a woman of the good old school, and stood somewhat
upon forms and ceremonies. I did not, therefore, await the answer,
which I foresaw might not be favourable to my success, but with my
customary assurance, left the room, and hastened up stairs. I entered
the drawing- room, and shut the door. Ellen was at the far
end; and as I entered with a light step, she did not perceive me
till I was close by.

She started when she saw me; and her cheek, before very pale,
deepened into crimson. "Good Heavens! is it you," she said,
falteringly "I--I thought--but--but--excuse me for an instant, I
will call my mother."

"Stay for one instant, I beseech you--it is from your mother that
I come- -she has referred me to you." And with a trembling and
hurried voice, for all my usual boldness forsook me, I poured
forth, in rapid and burning words, the history of my secret and
hoarded love--its doubts, fears, and hopes.

Ellen sunk back on her chair, overpowered and silent by her feelings,
and the vehemence of my own. I knelt, and took her hand; I covered
it with my kisses--it was not withdrawn from them. I raised my
eyes, and beheld in her's all that my heart had hoped, but did
not dare to pourtray.

"You--you," said she--when at last she found words--"I imagined that
you only thought of ambition and the world--I could not have dreamt
of this." She ceased, blushing and embarrassed.

"It is true," said I, "that you had a right to think so, for, till
this moment, I have never opened to you even a glimpse of my
veiled heart, and its secret and wild desires; but, do you think
that my love was the less a treasure, because it was hidden? or
the less deep, because it was cherished at the bottom of my soul?
No--no; believe me that love was not to be mingled with the ordinary
objects of life--it was too pure to be profaned by the levities and
follies which are all of my nature that I have permitted myself to
develope to the world.

Do not imagine, that, because I have seemed an idler with the idle--selfish
with the interested--and cold, and vain, and frivolous, with
those to whom such qualities were both a passport and a virtue;
do not imagine that I have concealed within me nothing more worthy
of you and of myself; my very love for you shews, that I am wiser
and better than I have seemed. Speak to me, Ellen--may I call you
by that name--one word--one syllable! speak to me, and tell me that
you have read my heart, and that you will not reject it!"
There came no answer from those dear lips; but their soft and tender
smile told me that I might hope. That hour I still recall
and bless! that hour was the happiest of my life.

CHAPTER LXXVII.

A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
--2nd Part of Henry VI.

From Ellen, I hastened to the house of Sir Reginald. The hall was in
all the confusion of approaching departure. I sprang over the
paraphernalia of books and boxes which obstructed my way, and
bounded up the stairs.
Glanville was, as usual, alone: his countenance was less pale than
it had been lately, and when I saw it brighten as I approached, I
hoped, in the new happiness of my heart, that he might baffle both
his enemy and his disease.

I told him all that had just occurred between
Ellen and myself. "And now," said I, as I clasped
his hand, "I have a proposal to make, to which you must accede:
let me accompany you abroad; I will go with you to whatever corner
of the world you may select.

We will plan together every possible method of concealing our
retreat. Upon the past I will never speak to you. In your hours
of solitude I will never disturb you by an unwelcome and ill-timed
sympathy. I will tend upon you, watch over you, bear with you,
with more than the love and tenderness of a brother. You shall
see me only when you wish it.

Your loneliness shall never be invaded. When you get better, as I
presage you will, I will leave you to come back to England, and
provide for the worst, by ensuring your sister a protector. I
will then return to you alone, that your seclusion may not be
endangered by the knowledge, even of Ellen, and you shall have me
by your side till--till--"
"The last!" interrupted Glanville. "Too--too generous Pelham, I
feel-- these tears (the first I have shed for a long, long time)
tell you, that I feel to the heart--your friendship and disinterested
attachment; but the moment your love for Ellen has become successful,
I will not tear you from its enjoyment. Believe me, all that I could
derive from your society, could not afford me half the happiness I
should have in knowing that you and Ellen were blest in each other.
No--no, my solitude will, at that reflection, be deprived of its
sting. You shall hear from me once again; my letter shall contain
a request, and your executing that last favour must console and
satisfy the kindness of your heart. For myself, I shall die as I
have lived--alone. All fellowship with my griefs would seem to me
strange and unwelcome."
I would not suffer Glanville to proceed. I interrupted him with
fresh arguments and entreaties, to which he seemed at last to submit,
and I was in the firm hope of having conquered his determination,
when we were startled by a sudden and violent noise in the hall.
"It is Thornton," said Glanville, calmly. "I told them not to admit
him, and he is forcing his way."
Scarcely had Sir Reginald said this, before Thornton burst abruptly
into the room.In few words, it is only for a poet to translate a
poet.  Holyday and Stapleton had not enough considered this when
they attempted Juvenal; but I forbear reflections:  only I beg leave
to take notice of this sentence, where Holyday says, "a perpetual
grin, like that of Horace, rather angers than amends a man."  I
cannot give him up the manner of Horace in low satire so easily.
Let the chastisements of Juvenal be never so necessary for his new
kind of satire, let him declaim as wittily and sharply as he
pleases, yet still the nicest and most delicate touches of satire
consist in fine raillery.  This, my lord, is your particular talent,
to which even Juvenal could not arrive.  It is not reading, it is
not imitation of, an author which can produce this fineness; it must
be inborn; it must proceed from a genius, and particular way of
thinking, which is not to be taught, and therefore not to be
imitated by him who has it not from nature.  How easy it is to call
rogue and villain, and that wittily! but how hard to make a man
appear a fool, a blockhead, or a knave, without using any of those
opprobrious terms!  To spare the grossness of the names, and to do
the thing yet more severely, is to draw a full face and to make the
nose and cheeks stand out, and yet not to employ any depth of
shadowing.  This is the mystery of that noble trade, which yet no
master can teach to his apprentice; he may give the rules, but the
scholar is never the nearer in his practice.  Neither is it true
that this fineness of raillery is offensive; a witty man is tickled,
while he is hurt in this manner; and a fool feels it not.  The
occasion of an offence may possibly be given, but he cannot take it.
If it be granted that in effect this way does more mischief; that a
man is secretly wounded, and though he be not sensible himself, yet
the malicious world will find it for him; yet there is still a vast
difference betwixt the slovenly butchering of a man, and the
fineness of a stroke that separates the head from the body and
leaves it standing in its place.  A man may be capable, as Jack
Ketch's wife said of his servant, of a plain piece of work, a bare
hanging; but to make a malefactor die sweetly was only belonging to
her husband.  I wish I could apply it to myself, if the reader would
be kind enough to think it belongs to me.  The character of Zimri,
in my "Absalom" is, in my opinion, worth the whole poem; it is not
bloody, but it is ridiculous enough; and he for whom it was intended
was too witty to resent it as an injury.  If I had railed, I might
have suffered for it justly; but I managed my own work more happily,
perhaps more dexterously.  I avoided the mention of great crimes,
and applied myself to the representing of blind-sides and little
extravagances; to which the wittier a man is, he is generally the
more obnoxious.  It succeeded as I wished; the jest went round, and
he was laughed at in his turn who began the frolic.

And thus, my lord, you see I have preferred the manner of Horace and
of your lordship in this kind of satire to that of Juvenal, and, I
think, reasonably.  Holyday ought not to have arraigned so great an
author for that which was his excellency and his merit; or, if he
did, on such a palpable mistake he might expect that some one might
possibly arise (either in his own time, or after him) to rectify his
error, and restore to Horace that commendation of which he has so
unjustly robbed him.  And let the manes of Juvenal forgive me if I
say that this way of Horace was the best for amending manners, as it
is the most difficult.  His was an ense rescindendum; but that of
Horace was a pleasant cure, with all the limbs preserved entire,
and, as our mountebanks tell us in their bills, without keeping the
patient within doors for a day.  What they promise only, Horace has
effectually performed.  Yet I contradict not the proposition which I
formerly advanced.  Juvenal's times required a more painful kind of
operation; but if he had lived in the age of Horace, I must needs
affirm that he had it not about him.  He took the method which was
prescribed him by his own genius, which was sharp and eager; he
could not railly, but he could declaim:  and as his provocations
were great, he has revenged them tragically.  This, notwithstanding
I am to say another word which, as true as it is, will yet displease
the partial admirers of our Horace; I have hinted it before, but it
is time for me now to speak more plainly.

This manner of Horace is indeed the best; but Horace has not
executed it altogether so happily--at least, not often.  The manner
of Juvenal is confessed to be inferior to the former; but Juvenal
has excelled him in his performance.  Juvenal has railed more
wittily than Horace has rallied.  Horace means to make his reader
laugh, but he is not sure of his experiment.  Juvenal always intends
to move your indignation, and he always brings about his purpose.
Horace, for aught I know, might have tickled the people of his age,
but amongst the moderns he is not so successful.  They who say he
entertains so pleasantly, may perhaps value themselves on the
quickness of their own understandings, that they can see a jest
farther off than other men; they may find occasion of laughter in
the wit-battle of the two buffoons Sarmentus and Cicerrus, and hold
their sides for fear of bursting when Rupilius and Persius are
scolding.  For my own part, I can only like the characters of all
four, which are judiciously given; but for my heart I cannot so much
as smile at their insipid raillery.  I see not why Persius should
call upon Brutus to revenge him on his adversary; and that because
he had killed Julius Caesar for endeavouring to be a king, therefore
he should be desired to murder Rupilius, only because his name was
Mr. King.  A miserable clench, in my opinion, for Horace to record;
I have heard honest Mr. Swan make many a better, and yet have had
the grace to hold my countenance.  But it may be puns were then in
fashion, as they were wit in the sermons of the last age, and in the
court of King Charles the Second.  I am sorry to say it, for the
sake of Horace; but certain it is, he has no fine palate who can
feed so heartily on garbage.

But I have already wearied myself, and doubt not but I have tired
your lordship's patience, with this long, rambling, and, I fear,
trivial discourse.  Upon the one-half of the merits, that is,
pleasure, I cannot but conclude that Juvenal was the better
satirist.  They who will descend into his particular praises may
find them at large in the dissertation of the learned Rigaltius to
Thuanus.  As for Persius, I have given the reasons why I think him
inferior to both of them; yet I have one thing to add on that
subject.

Barten Holyday, who translated both Juvenal and Persius, has made
this distinction betwixt them, which is no less true than witty--
that in Persius, the difficulty is to find a meaning; in Juvenal, to
choose a meaning; so crabbed is Persius, and so copious is Juvenal;
so much the understanding is employed in one, and so much the
judgment in the other; so difficult is it to find any sense in the
former, and the best sense of the latter.

If, on the other side, any one suppose I have commended Horace below
his merit, when I have allowed him but the second place, I desire
him to consider if Juvenal (a man of excellent natural endowments,
besides the advantages of diligence and study, and coming after him
and building upon his foundations) might not probably, with all
these helps, surpass him; and whether it be any dishonour to Horace
to be thus surpassed, since no art or science is at once begun and
perfected but that it must pass first through many hands and even
through several ages.  If Lucilius could add to Ennius and Horace to
Lucilius, why, without any diminution to the fame of Horace, might
not Juvenal give the last perfection to that work?  Or rather, what
disreputation is it to Horace that Juvenal excels in the tragical
satire, as Horace does in the comical?  I have read over attentively
both Heinsius and Dacier in their commendations of Horace, but I can
find no more in either of them for the preference of him to Juvenal
than the instructive part (the part of wisdom, and not that of
pleasure), which therefore is here allowed him, notwithstanding what
Scaliger and Rigaltius have pleaded to the contrary for Juvenal.
And to show I am impartial I will here translate what Dacier has
said on that subject:-

"I cannot give a more just idea of the two books of satires made by
Horace than by comparing them to the statues of the Sileni, to which
Alcibiades compares Socrates in the Symposium.  They were figures
which had nothing of agreeable, nothing of beauty on their outside;
but when any one took the pains to open them and search into them,
he there found the figures of all the deities.  So in the shape that
Horace presents himself to us in his satires we see nothing at the
first view which deserves our attention; it seems that he is rather
an amusement for children than for the serious consideration of men.
But when we take away his crust, and that which hides him from our
sight, when we discover him to the bottom, then we find all the
divinities in a full assembly--that is to say, all the virtues which
ought to be the continual exercise of those who seriously endeavour
to correct their vices."

It is easy to observe that Dacier, in this noble similitude, has
confined the praise of his author wholly to the instructive part the
commendation turns on this, and so does that which follows:-

"In these two books of satire it is the business of Horace to
instruct us how to combat our vices, to regulate our passions, to
follow nature, to give bounds to our desires, to distinguish betwixt
truth and falsehood, and betwixt our conceptions of things and
things themselves; to come back from our prejudicate opinions, to
understand exactly the principles and motives of all our actions;
and to avoid the ridicule into which all men necessarily fall who
are intoxicated with those notions which they have received from
their masters, and which they obstinately retain without examining
whether or no they be founded on right reason.

"In a word, he labours to render us happy in relation to ourselves;
agreeable and faithful to our friends; and discreet, serviceable,
and well-bred in relation to those with whom we are obliged to live
and to converse.  To make his figures intelligible, to conduct his
readers through the labyrinth of some perplexed sentence or obscure
parenthesis, is no great matter; and, as Epictetus says, there is
nothing of beauty in all this, or what is worthy of a prudent man.
The principal business, and which is of most importance to us, is to
show the use, the reason, and the proof of his precepts.

"They who endeavour not to correct themselves according to so exact
a model are just like the patients who have open before them a book
of admirable receipts for their diseases, and please themselves with
reading it without comprehending the nature of the remedies or how
to apply them to their cure."

Let Horace go off with these encomiums, which he has so well
deserved.

To conclude the contention betwixt our three poets I will use the
words of Virgil in his fifth AEneid, where AEneas proposes the
rewards of the foot-race to the three first who should reach the
goal:-


"Tres praemia primi . . .
Accipient, flauaque caput nectentur oliva."


I have often been asked to prepare an autobiography, but my objections
to the task have ever been many and various. To one urgent appeal
I sent this sonnet of refusal, which explains itself:--
"You bid me write the story of my life, And draw what secrets in
my memory dwell From the dried fountains of her failing well, With
commonplaces mixt of peace and strife, And such small facts, with
good or evil rife, As happen to us all: I have no tale Of thrilling
force or enterprise to tell,-- Nothing the blood to fire, the cheek
to pale:
My life is in my books: the record there, A truthful photograph,
is all I choose To give the world of self; nor will excuse Mine own
or others' failures: glad to spare From blame of mine, or praise,
both friends and foes, Leaving unwritten what God only knows."

In fact I always rejected the proposal (warned by recent volumes
of pestilential reminiscences) and would none of it; not only from
its apparent vainglory as to the inevitable extenuation of one's
own faults and failures in life, and the equally certain amplification
of self-registered virtues and successes,--but even still more from
the mischief it might occasion from a petty record of commonplace
troubles and trials, due to the "changes and chances of this mortal
life," to the casual mention or omission of friends or foes, to the
influence of circumstances and surroundings, and to other
revelations--whether pleasant or the reverse--of matters merely
personal, and therefore more of a private than a public character.

So that the
difference of years betwixt Aristophanes and Andronicus is 150; from
whence I have probably deduced that Livius Andronicus, who was a
Grecian, had read the plays of the old comedy, which were satirical,
and also of the new; for Menander was fifty years before him, which
must needs be a great light to him in his own plays that were of the
satirical nature.  That the Romans had farces before this, it is
true; but then they had no communication with Greece; so that
Andronicus was the first who wrote after the manner of the old
comedy, in his plays:  he was imitated by Ennius about thirty years
afterwards.  Though the former writ fables, the latter, speaking
properly, began the Roman satire, according to that description
which Juvenal gives of it in his first:-


"Quicquid agunt homines, votum, timor, ira voluptas,
Gaudia, discurses, nostri est farrago libelli."


This is that in which I have made hold to differ from Casaubon,
Rigaltius, Dacier, and indeed from all the modern critics--that not
Ennius, but Andronicus, was the first who, by the archaea comedia of
the Greeks, added many beauties to the first rude and barbarous
Roman satire; which sort of poem, though we had not derived from
Rome, yet nature teaches it mankind in all ages and in every
country.

It is but necessary that, after so much has been said of satire,
some definition of it should be given.  Heinsius, in his
Dissertations on Horace, makes it for me in these words:- "Satire is
a kind of poetry, without a series of action, invented for the
purging of our minds; in which human vices, ignorance, and errors,
and all things besides which are produced from them in every man,
are severely reprehended--partly dramatically, partly simply, and
sometimes in both kinds of speaking, but for the most part
figuratively and occultly; consisting, in a low familiar way,
chiefly in a sharp and pungent manner of speech, but partly also in
a facetious and civil way of jesting, by which either hatred or
laughter or indignation is moved."  Where I cannot but observe that
this obscure and perplexed definition, or rather description of
satire, is wholly accommodated to the Horatian way, and excluding
the works of Juvenal and Persius as foreign from that kind of poem.
The clause in the beginning of it, "without a series of action,"
distinguishes satire properly from stage-plays, which are all of one
action and one continued series of action.  The end or scope of
satire is to purge the passions; so far it is common to the satires
of Juvenal and Persius.  The rest which follows is also generally
belonging to all three, till he comes upon us with the excluding
clause, "consisting, in a low familiar way of speech" which is the
proper character of Horace, and from which the other two (for their
honour be it spoken) are far distant.  But how come lowness of style
and the familiarity of words to be so much the propriety of satire
that without them a poet can be no more a satirist than without
risibility he can be a man?  Is the fault of Horace to be made the
virtue and standing rule of this poem?  Is the grande sophos of
Persius, and the sublimity of Juvenal, to be circumscribed with the
meanness of words and vulgarity of expression?  If Horace refused
the pains of numbers and the loftiness of figures are they bound to
follow so ill a precedent?  Let him walk afoot with his pad in his
hand for his own pleasure, but let not them be accounted no poets
who choose to mount and show their horsemanship.  Holyday is not
afraid to say that there was never such a fall as from his odes to
his satires, and that he, injuriously to himself, untuned his harp.
The majestic way of Persius and Juvenal was new when they began it,
but it is old to us; and what poems have not, with time, received an
alteration in their fashion?would that she had gone down to her grave
with her dreadful secret unrevealed! would--but--"
Here Glanville's voice failed him, and there was a brief silence
before he recommenced.

"Gertrude now had many lucid intervals; but these my presence were
always sufficient to change into a delirious raving, even more
incoherent than her insanity had ever yet been. She would fly
from me with the most fearful cries, bury her face in her hands, and
seem like one oppressed and haunted by a supernatural visitation, as
long as I remained in the room; the moment I left her, she
began, though slowly, to recover.

"This was to me the bitterest affliction of all--to be forbidden
to nurse, to cherish, to tend her, was like taking from me my last
hope!

But little can the thoughtless or the worldly dream of the depths
of a real love; I used to wait all day by her door, and it was
luxury enough to me to catch her accents or hear her move, or sigh,
or even weep; and all night, when she could not know of my
presence, I used to lie down by her bedside; and when I sank into
a short and convulsed sleep, I saw her once more, in my brief and
fleeting dreams, in all the devoted love, and glowing beauty,
which had once constituted the whole of my happiness, and my
world.

"One day I had been called from my post by her door. They came to
me hastily--she was in strong convulsions. I flew up stairs, and
supported her in my arms till the fits had ceased: we then placed
her in bed; she never rose from it again; but on that bed of death,
the words, as well as the cause, of her former insanity, were
explained--the mystery was unravelled.

"It was a still and breathless night. The moon, which was at its
decrease, came through the half-closed shutters, and beneath its
solemn and eternal light, she yielded to my entreaties, and revealed
all. The man--my friend--Tyrrell--had polluted her ear with his
addresses, and when forbidden the house, had bribed the woman I had
left with her, to convey his letters--she was discharged--but Tyrrell
was no ordinary villain; he entered the house one evening, when no
one but Gertrude was there--Come near me, Pelham--nearer--bend down
your ear--he used force, violence! That night Gertrude's senses
deserted her--you know the rest.

"The moment that I gathered, from Gertrude's broken sentences, their
meaning, that moment the demon entered into my soul. All human
feelings seemed to fly from my heart; it shrunk into one burning,
and thirsty, and fiery want--that was for revenge. I would have
sprung from the bedside, but Gertrude's hand clung to me, and detained
me; the damp, chill grasp, grew colder and colder--it ceased--the
hand fell--I turned--one slight, but awful shudder, went over
that face, made yet more wan, by the light of the waning and ghastly
moon--one convulsion shook the limbs--one murmur passed the falling
and hueless lips.

I cannot tell you the rest-- you know--you can guess it.

"That day week we buried her in the lonely churchyard--where she
had, in her lucid moments, wished to lie--by the side of her mother."
CHAPTER LXXV.
I BREATHED, But not the breath of human life; A serpent round my
heart was wreathed, And stung my very thought to strife.
--The Giaour.
"Thank Heaven, the most painful part of my story is at an end. You
will now be able to account for our meeting in the church-yard at
_______.Yet Juvenal, who
calls his poems a farrago (which is a word of the same signification
with satura), has chosen to follow the same method of Persius and
not of Horace; and Boileau, whose example alone is a sufficient
authority, has wholly confined himself in all his satires to this
unity of design.  That variety which is not to be found in any one
satire is at least in many, written on several occasions; and if
variety be of absolute necessity in every one of them, according to
the etymology of the word, yet it may arise naturally from one
subject, as it is diversely treated in the several subordinate
branches of it, all relating to the chief.  It may be illustrated
accordingly with variety of examples in the subdivisions of it, and
with as many precepts as there are members of it, which all together
may complete that olla or hotch-potch which is properly a satire.

Under this unity of theme or subject is comprehended another rule
for perfecting the design of true satire.  The poet is bound, and
that ex officio, to give his reader some one precept of moral
virtue, and to caution him against some one particular vice or
folly.  Other virtues, subordinate to the first, may be recommended
under that chief head, and other vices or follies may be scourged,
besides that which he principally intends; but he is chiefly to
inculcate one virtue, and insist on that.  Thus Juvenal, in every
satire excepting the first, ties himself to one principal
instructive point, or to the shunning of moral evil.  Even in the
sixth, which seems only an arraignment of the whole sex of
womankind, there is a latent admonition to avoid ill women, by
showing how very few who are virtuous and good are to be found
amongst them.  But this, though the wittiest of all his satires, has
yet the least of truth or instruction in it; he has run himself into
his old declamatory way, and almost forgotten that he was now
setting up for a moral poet.

Persius is never wanting to us in some profitable doctrine, and in
exposing the opposite vices to it.  His kind of philosophy is one,
which is the Stoic, and every satire is a comment on one particular
dogma of that sect, unless we will except the first, which is
against bad writers; and yet even there he forgets not the precepts
of the "porch."  In general, all virtues are everywhere to be
praised and recommended to practice, and all vices to be reprehended
and made either odious or ridiculous, or else there is a fundamental
error in the whole design.

I have already declared who are the only persons that are the
adequate object of private satire, and who they are that may
properly be exposed by name for public examples of vices and
follies, and therefore I will trouble your lordship no further with
them.  Of the best and finest manner of satire, I have said enough
in the comparison betwixt Juvenal and Horace; it is that sharp well-
mannered way of laughing a folly out of countenance, of which your
lordship is the best master in this age.  I will proceed to the
versification which is most proper for it, and add somewhat to what
I have said already on that subject.  The sort of verse which is
called "burlesque," consisting of eight syllables or four feet, is
that which our excellent Hudibras has chosen.  As to what happened
after his death, we have this testimony from Rabbi Phineas, the son
of Aruba: "I myself was among the Roman magnates when an inquest
was held upon the body of Titus, and on opening his brain they
found therein a gnat as big as a swallow, weighing two selas."
Others say it was as large as a pigeon a year old and weighed two
litras. Abaii says, "We found its mouth was of copper and its claws
of iron." Titus gave instructions that after his death his body
should be burned, and the ashes thereof scattered over the
surface of the seven seas, that the God of the Jews might not find
him and bring him to judgment. (_Gittin_, fol. 56, col.
2.)
"The man with two wives, one young and the other old." Rav Ami and
Rav Assi were in social converse with Rabbi Isaac Naphcha, when one
of them said to him, "Tell us, sir, some pretty legend," and the
other said, "Pray explain to us rather some nice point of law." When
he began the legend he displeased the one, and when he proceeded
to explain a point of law, he offended the other. Whereupon he took
up this parable in illustration of the plight in which their
obstinacy placed him. "I am like the man with the two wives, the
one young and the other old. The young one plucked out all his
gray hairs (that he might look young), and the old wife pulled
out all his black hairs (that he might look old); and so between
the one and the other he became bald. So is it with me between you.
However, I've something nice for both of you. It is written (Exod.
xxii. 6), 'If a fire break out and catch in thorns, so that the
stacks of corn, or the standing corn, or the field be consumed
therewith, he that kindled the fire shall surely make restoration.'

The Holy One--blessed be He!--hath said, 'I must both judge myself
and take upon myself to indemnify the evil of the conflagration
I have caused, for I have kindled a fire in Zion,' as it is written
(Lament, iv. 11), 'He hath kindled a fire in Zion, and hath
devoured the foundations thereof.' I must therefore rebuild her with
fire, as it is written (Zech. ii. 5), 'I will be unto her a wall
of fire round about, and will be the glory in the midst of her.'"
_Bava Kama_, fol. 60, col. 2.

Rabbi Oshaia asked, "What is this that is written, (Zech. xi. 7),
'I took unto me two staves; the one I called Amiable and the other
Destroyer'?" The staff called Amiable represents the disciples of
the wise in the land of Israel, who were friendly one toward another
in their debates about the law. The staff called Destroyer represents
the disciples of the wise of Babylon, who in the like debates
were fierce tempered and not friendly toward one another. What
is the meaning of Babel or Babylon? Rabbi Yochanan says it means
"confused in the Bible, confused in the Mishna, and confused in the
Talmud." "He hath set me in dark places, as they that be dead of
old" (Lam. iii. 6). Rabbi Jeremiah said by this we are to understand
the Babylonian Talmud.

_Sanhedrin_, fol. 24, col. 1.

The Rabbis say these three hate their fellows--dogs, cocks, and
conjurors; to which some add, among others, the disciples of the
wise of Babylon. (_P'sachim_, fol. 113, col. 2.)
On his return from Babylon to the land of Israel, Rabbi Zira fasted
a hundred fasts, during which he prayed that he might be enabled to
forget the Babylonian Talmud. (_Bava Metzia_, fol.
85, col. 1.)
Rabbi Yochanan and Rabbi Yonathan traveled one day together; they
came to two roads, one of which led by the door of a place devoted
to the worship of idols, and the other by a place of ill fame.

Upon which one said to the other, "Let us go by the
former, because our inclination to the evil
that waylays us there is already extinguished."

"Nay, rather," said the other, "let us go by the latter, and curb
our desires; so shall we receive a reward in recompense."

In this resolution they went on, and as they
passed the place the women humbled themselves
before them and withdrew ashamed into their
chambers. Then Yochanan asked the other, "How
didst thou know that this would occur to us?"
He made answer, "From what is written (in Prov. ii. 2), 'Discretion
(in the law) shall preserve thee.'"And as Virgil in his fourth Georgic of the bees, perpetually raises
the lowness of his subject by the loftiness of his words, and
ennobles it by comparisons drawn from empires and from monarchs -


"Admiranda tibi levium spectacula rerum,
Magnanimosque duces, totiusque ordine gentis
Mores et studia, et populos, et praelia dicam;"


and again -


"At genus immortale manet, multosque per annos
Stat fortuna domus, et avi numerantur avorum;"


we see Boileau pursuing him in the same flights, and scarcely
yielding to his master.  This I think, my lord, to be the most
beautiful and most noble kind of satire.  Here is the majesty of the
heroic finely mixed with the venom of the other, and raising the
delight, which otherwise would be flat and vulgar, by the sublimity
of the expression.  I could say somewhat more of the delicacy of
this and some other of his satires, but it might turn to his
prejudice if it were carried back to France.

I have given your lordship but this bare hint--in what verse and in
what manner this sort of satire may be best managed.  Had I time I
could enlarge on the beautiful turns of words and thoughts which are
as requisite in this as in heroic poetry itself, of which the satire
is undoubtedly a species.  With these beautiful turns I confess
myself to have been unacquainted till about twenty years ago.  In a
conversation which I had with that noble wit of Scotland, Sir George
Mackenzie, he asked me why I did not imitate in my verses the turns
of Mr. Waller and Sir John Denham, of which he repeated many to me.
I had often read with pleasure, and with some profit, those two
fathers of our English poetry, but had not seriously enough
considered those beauties which give the last perfection to their
works.  Some sprinklings of this kind I had also formerly in my
plays; but they were casual, and not designed.  But this hint, thus
seasonably given me, first made me sensible of my own wants, and
brought me afterwards to seek for the supply of them in other
English authors.  I looked over the darling of my youth, the famous
Cowley; there I found, instead of them, the points of wit and quirks
of epigram, even in the "Davideis" (an heroic poem which is of an
opposite nature to those puerilities), but no elegant turns, either
on the word or on the thought.  Then I consulted a greater genius
(without offence to the manes of that noble author)--I mean Milton;
but as he endeavours everywhere to express Homer, whose age had not
arrived to that fineness, I found in him a true sublimity, lofty
thoughts which were clothed with admirable Grecisms and ancient
words, which he had been digging from the minds of Chaucer and
Spenser, and which, with all their rusticity, had somewhat of
venerable in them.  But I found not there neither that for which I
looked.  At last I had recourse to his master, Spenser, the author
of that immortal poem called the "Faerie Queen," and there I met
with that which I had been looking for so long in vain.  Spenser had
studied Virgil to as much advantage as Milton had done Homer, and
amongst the rest of his excellences had copied that.  Looking
farther into the Italian, I found Tasso had done the same; nay,
more, that all the sonnets in that language are on the turn of the
first thought--which Mr. Walsh, in his late ingenious preface to his
poems, has observed.  In short, Virgil and Ovid are the two
principal fountains of them in Latin poetry.  And the French at this
day are so fond of them that they judge them to be the first
beauties; delicate, et bien tourne, are the highest commendations
which they bestow on somewhat which they think a masterpiece.

An example of the turn of words, amongst a thousand others, is that
in the last book of Ovid's "Metamorphoses":-


"Heu! quantum scelus est, in viscera, viscera condi!
Congestoque avidum pinguescere corpore corpus;
Alteriusque animantem animantis vivere leto."


An example on the turn both of thoughts and words is to be found in
Catullus in the complaint of Ariadne when she was left by Theseus:-


"Tum jam nulla viro juranti faemina credat;
Nulla viri speret sermones esse fideles;
Qui, dum aliquid cupiens animus praegestit apisci,
Nil metuunt jurare, nihil promittere parcunt:
Sed simul ac cupidae mentis satiata libido est,
Dicta nihil metuere, nihil perjuria curant."


An extraordinary turn upon the words is that in Ovid's "Epistolae
Heroidum" of Sappho to Phaon:-


"Si, nisi quae forma poterit te digna videri,
Nulla futura tua est, nulla futura tua est."


Lastly a turn, which I cannot say is absolutely on words--for the
thought turns with them--is in the fourth Georgic of Virgil, where
Orpheus is to receive his wife from hell on express condition not to
look on her till she was come on earth:-


"Cum subita incautum dementia cepit amantem;
Ignoscenda quidem, scirent si ignoscere Manes."


I will not burthen your lordship with more of them, for I write to a
master who understands them better than myself; but I may safely
conclude them to be great beauties.  I might descend also to the
mechanic beauties of heroic verse; but we have yet no English
Prosodia, not so much as a tolerable dictionary or a grammar (so
that our language is in a manner barbarous); and what Government
will encourage any one, or more, who are capable of refining it, I
know not:  but nothing under a public expense can go through with
it.  And I rather fear a declination of the language than hope an
advancement of it in the present age.

I am still speaking to you, my lord, though in all probability you
are already out of hearing.  Nothing which my meanness can produce
is worthy of this long attention.  But I am come to the last
petition of Abraham:  if there be ten righteous lines in this vast
preface, spare it for their sake; and also spare the next city,
because it is but a little one.

I would excuse the performance of this translation if it were all my
own; but the better, though not the greater, part being the work of
some gentlemen who have succeeded very happily in their undertaking,
let their excellences atone for my imperfections and those of my
sons.  I have perused some of the Satires which are done by other
hands, and they seem to me as perfect in their kind as anything I
have seen in English verse.  The common way which we have taken is
not a literal translation, but a kind of paraphrase; or somewhat
which is yet more loose, betwixt a paraphrase and imitation.  It was
not possible for us, or any men, to have made it pleasant any other
way.  If rendering the exact sense of these authors, almost line for
line, had been our business, Barten Holyday had done it already to
our hands; and by the help of his learned notes and illustrations,
not only Juvenal and Persius, but, what yet is more obscure, his own
verses might be understood.

--I own it is necessary, resumed the master of the hotel, that a
stranger at Paris should have the opportunities presented to him of
buying lace and silk stockings and ruffles, et tout cela;--and
'tis nothing if a woman comes with a band-box.--O, my conscience!
said I, she had one but I never look'd into it.--Then Monsieur,
said he, has bought nothing?- -Not one earthly thing, replied
I.--Because, said he, I could recommend one to you who would use you
en conscience.--But I must see her this night, said I.--He made me
a low bow, and walk'd down.

Now shall I triumph over this maitre d'hotel, cried I,--and
what then? Then I shall let him see I know he is a dirty
fellow.--And what then? What then?--I was too near myself to say
it was for the sake of others.--I had no good answer left;--there
was more of spleen than principle in my project, and I was sick of
it before the execution.

In a few minutes the grisette came in with her box of lace.--I'll buy
nothing, however, said I, within myself.

The grisette would show me everything.--I was hard to please: she
would not seem to see it; she opened her little magazine, and laid
all her laces one after another before me;--unfolded and folded
them up again one by one with the most patient sweetness.

--I might buy,--or not;--she would let me have everything at my
own price: -- the poor creature seem'd anxious to get a penny;
and laid herself out to win me, and not so much in a manner which
seem'd artful, as in one I felt simple and caressing.

If there is not a fund of honest gullibility in man, so much the
worse;--my heart relented, and I gave up my second resolution as
quietly as the first.--Why should I chastise one for the trespass
of another? If thou art tributary to this tyrant of an host,
thought I, looking up in her face, so much harder is thy bread.

If I had not had more than four louis d'ors in my purse, there was
no such thing as rising up and showing her the door, till I had first
laid three of them out in a pair of ruffles

.

- The master of the hotel will share the profit with her;--no matter,--then
I have only paid as many a poor soul has PAID before me, for an
act he COULD not do, or think of.

THE RIDDLE. PARIS.

When La Fleur came up to wait upon me at supper, he told me how sorry
the master of the hotel was for his affront to me in bidding me
change my lodgings.

A man who values a good night's rest will not lie down with enmity
in his heart, if he can help it.--So I bid La Fleur tell the master
of the hotel, that I was sorry on my side for the occasion I had given
him;--and you may tell him, if you will, La Fleur, added I, that
if the young woman should call again, I shall not see her.

This was a sacrifice not to him, but myself, having resolved,
after so narrow an escape, to run no more risks, but to leave
Paris, if it was possible, with all the virtue I enter'd it.

C'est deroger a noblesse, Monsieur, said La Fleur, making me a bow
down to the ground as he said it.

--Et encore, Monsieur, said he, may change his sentiments;--and if
(par hazard) he should like to amuse himself,--I find no amusement
in it, said I, interrupting him. -
Mon Dieu! said La Fleur,--and took away.

In an hour's time he came to put me to bed, and was more than commonly
officious: --something hung upon his lips to say to me, or ask
me, which he could not get off: I could not conceive what it was,
and indeed gave myself little trouble to find it out, as I had
another riddle so much more interesting upon my mind, which was
that of the man's asking charity before the door of the hotel.--I
would have given anything to have got to the bottom of it; and
that, not out of curiosity,--'tis so low a principle of enquiry, in
general, I would not purchase the gratification of it with a
two- sous piece;--but a secret, I thought, which so soon and so
certainly soften'd the heart of every woman you came near, was a
secret at least equal to the philosopher's stone; had I both the
Indies, I would have given up one to have been master of it.

I toss'd and turn'd it almost all night long in my brains to no
manner of purpose; and when I awoke in the morning, I found my spirits
as much troubled with my dreams, as ever the King of Babylon had
been with his; and I will not hesitate to affirm, it would
have puzzled all the wise men of Paris as much as those of Chaldea
to have given its interpretation.

LE DIMANCHE.
PARIS.

It was Sunday; and when La
Fleur came in, in the morning,
with my coffee and roll and
butter, he had got himself so gallantly array'd, I scarce
knew him.

I had covenanted at Montreuil to give him a new hat with a silver
button and loop, and four louis d'ors, pour s'adoniser, when we got
to Paris; and the poor fellow, to do him justice, had done wonders
with it.

He had bought a bright, clean, good scarlet coat, and a pair of
breeches of the same.--They were not a crown worse, he said, for
the wearing.--I wish'd him hang'd for telling me.--They look'd so
fresh, that though I knew the thing could not be done, yet I
would rather have imposed upon my fancy with thinking I had
bought them new for the fellow, than that they had come out of
the Rue de Friperie.

This is a nicety which makes not the heart sore at Paris.

He had purchased, moreover, a handsome blue satin waistcoat,
fancifully enough embroidered: --this was indeed something the worse
for the service it had done, but 'twas clean scour'd;--the gold had
been touch'd up, and upon the whole was rather showy than
otherwise;--and as the blue was not violent, it suited with the
coat and breeches very well: he had squeez'd out of the money, moreover,
a new bag and a solitaire; and had insisted with the fripier upon
a gold pair of garters to his breeches knees.--He had purchased
muslin ruffles, bien brodees, with four livres of his own money;--and
a pair of white silk stockings for five more;--and to top all,
nature had given him a handsome figure, without costing him a sous.

He entered the room thus set off, with his hair dressed in the first
style, and with a handsome bouquet in his breast.--In a word,
there was that look of festivity in everything about him,
which at once put me in mind it was Sunday;--and, by combining
both together, it instantly struck me, that the favour he wish'd to
ask of me the night before, was to spend the day as every body in
Paris spent it besides. I had scarce made the conjecture,
when La Fleur, with infinite humility, but with a look of trust,
as if I should not refuse him, begg'd I would grant him the day,
pour faire le galant vis-a-vis de sa maitresse.

Now it was the very thing I intended to do myself vis-a-vis Madame
de R-.--I had retained the remise on purpose for it, and it
would not have mortified my vanity to have had a servant so well
dress'd as La Fleur was, to have got up behind it: I never could have
worse spared him.

But we must FEEL, not argue in these embarrassments.--The sons and
daughters of Service part with liberty, but not with nature, in their
contracts; they are flesh and blood, and have their little vanities
and wishes in the midst of the house of bondage, as well as their
task-masters;--no doubt, they have set their self-denials at a
price,--and their expectations are so unreasonable, that I would
often disappoint them, but that their condition puts it so much in
my power to do it.

BEHOLD,--BEHOLD, I AM THY SERVANT--disarms me at once of the powers
of a master. -
Thou shalt go, La Fleur! said I.

- And what mistress, La Fleur, said I, canst thou have picked up
in so little a time at Paris? La Fleur laid his hand upon his
breast, and said 'twas a petite demoiselle, at Monsieur le
Count de B-'s.-- La Fleur had a heart made for society; and,
to speak the truth of him, let as few occasions slip him as his
master;--so that somehow or other,--but how,--heaven knows,--he had
connected himself with the demoiselle upon the landing of
the staircase, during the time I was taken up with my passport;
and as there was time enough for me to win the Count to my
interest, La Fleur had contrived to make it do to win the maid to
his. The family, it seems, was to be at Paris that day, and he had
made a party with her, and two or three more of the Count's
household, upon the boulevards.

Happy people! that once a week at least are sure to lay down all your
cares together, and dance and sing and sport away the weights of
grievance, which bow down the spirit of other nations to the
earth.

THE FRAGMENT. PARIS.

La Fleur had left me something to amuse myself with for the day
more than I had bargain'd for, or could have enter'd either into his
head or mine.

He had brought the little print of butter upon a currant leaf: and as
the morning was warm, and he had a good step to bring it, he had
begg'd a sheet of waste paper to put betwixt the currant leaf and
his hand.--As that was plate sufficient, I bade him lay it upon
the table as it was; and as I resolved to stay within all day, I
ordered him to call upon the traiteur, to bespeak my dinner, and
leave me to breakfast by myself.

When I had finished the butter, I threw the currant-leaf out of the
window, and was going to do the same by the waste paper;--but
stopping to read a line first, and that drawing me on to a
second and third,--I thought it better worth; so I shut the window,
and drawing a chair up to it, I sat down to read it.

It was in the old French of Rabelais's time, and for aught I know
might have been wrote by him: --it was moreover in a Gothic letter,
and that so faded and gone off by damps and length of time, it cost
me infinite trouble to make anything of it.--I threw it down; and
then wrote a letter to Eugenius;--then I took it up again, and
embroiled my patience with it afresh;--and then to cure that, I wrote
a letter to Eliza.--Still it kept hold of me; and the difficulty
of understanding it increased but the desire.

I got my dinner; and after I had enlightened my mind with a bottle
of Burgundy; I at it again,--and, after two or three hours poring
upon it, with almost as deep attention as ever Gruter or Jacob
Spon did upon a nonsensical inscription, I thought I made sense of
it; but to make sure of it, the best way, I imagined, was to turn
it into English, and see how it would look then;--so I went on
leisurely, as a trifling man does, sometimes writing a sentence,--
then taking a turn or two,--and then looking how the world went,
out of the window; so that it was nine o'clock at night before I
had done it.

--I then began and read it as follows.

THE FRAGMENT. PARIS.

- Now, as the notary's wife disputed the point with the notary
with too much heat,--I wish, said the notary, (throwing down the
parchment) that there was another notary here only to set down
and attest all this. -
- And what would you do then, Monsieur? said she, rising hastily
up.--The notary's wife was a little fume of a woman, and the notary
thought it well to avoid a hurricane by a mild reply.--I
would go, answered he, to bed.--You may go to the devil, answer'd
the notary's wife.

Now there happening to be but one bed in the house, the other two
rooms being unfurnished, as is the custom at Paris, and the
notary not caring to lie in the same bed with a woman who had but
that moment sent him pell mell to the devil, went forth with
his hat and cane and short cloak, the night being very windy,
and walk'd out, ill at ease, towards the Pont Neuf.

Of all the bridges which ever were built, the whole world who have
pass'd over the Pont Neuf must own, that it is the noblest,--the
finest,--the grandest,--the lightest,--the longest,--the broadest,
that ever conjoin'd land and land together upon the face of the
terraqueous globe.

[By this it seems as if the author of the fragment had not been a
Frenchman.]
The worst fault which divines and the doctors of the Sorbonne can
allege against it is, that if there is but a capfull of wind in or
about Paris, 'tis more blasphemously sacre Dieu'd there than in any
other aperture of the whole city,--and with reason good and cogent,
Messieurs; for it comes against you without crying garde d'eau, and
with such unpremeditable puffs, that of the few who cross it with
their hats on, not one in fifty but hazards two livres and a half,
which is its full worth.

The poor notary, just as he was passing by the sentry, instinctively
clapp'd his cane to the side of it, but in raising it up, the
point of his cane catching hold of the loop of the sentinel's hat,
hoisted it over the spikes of the ballustrade clear into the
Seine. -
- 'TIS AN ILL WIND, said a boatman, who catched it, WHICH BLOWS
NOBODY ANY GOOD.

The sentry, being a Gascon, incontinently twirled up his whiskers, and
levell'd his arquebuss.

Arquebusses in those days went off with matches; and an old woman's
paper lantern at the end of the bridge happening to be blown out,
she had borrow'd the sentry's match to light it: --it gave a
moment's time for the Gascon's blood to run cool, and turn the
accident better to his advantage.--'TIS AN ILL WIND, said he,
catching off the notary's castor, and legitimating the capture
with the boatman's adage.

The poor notary crossed the bridge, and passing along the Rue de
Dauphine into the fauxbourgs of St. Germain, lamented himself as he
walked along in this manner: -
Luckless man that I am! said the notary, to be the sport of hurricanes
all my days: --to be born to have the storm of ill language levell'd
against me and my profession wherever I go; to be forced into
marriage by the thunder of the church to a tempest of a woman;--to
be driven forth out of my house by domestic winds, and despoil'd
of my castor by pontific ones!

--to be here, bareheaded, in a windy night, at the mercy of the
ebbs and flows of accidents!- -Where am I to lay my head?--Miserable
man! what wind in the two- and-thirty points of the whole compass
can blow unto thee, as it does to the rest of thy fellow-creatures,
good?

As the notary was passing on by a dark passage, complaining in
this sort, a voice call'd out to a girl, to bid her run for the next
notary.--Now the notary being the next, and availing himself of
his situation, walk'd up the passage to the door, and passing through
an old sort of a saloon, was usher'd into a large chamber, dismantled
of everything but a long military pike,--a breastplate,- -a rusty
old sword, and bandoleer, hung up, equidistant, in four different
places against the wall.

An old personage who had heretofore been a gentleman, and unless decay
of fortune taints the blood along with it, was a gentleman at that
time, lay supporting his head upon his hand in his bed; a little
table with a taper burning was set close beside it, and close by
the table was placed a chair: --the notary sat him down in it; and
pulling out his inkhorn and a sheet or two of paper which he had in
his pocket, he placed them before him; and dipping his pen in his
ink, and leaning his breast over the table, he disposed everything
to make the gentleman's last will and testament 
Alas!

Monsieur le Notaire, said the gentleman, raising himself up a
little, I have nothing to bequeath, which will pay the expense of
bequeathing, except the history of myself, which I could not die
in peace, unless I left it as a legacy to the world: the profits
arising out of it I bequeath to you for the pains of taking it from
me.--It is a story so uncommon, it must be read by all
mankind;--it will make the fortunes of your house.--The notary
dipp'd his pen into his inkhorn.--Almighty Director of every event
in my life!
said the old gentleman, looking up earnestly, and raising his hands
towards heaven,--Thou, whose hand has led me on through such a labyrinth
of strange passages down into this scene of desolation, assist
the decaying memory of an old, infirm, and broken-hearted man;--direct
my tongue by the spirit of thy eternal truth, that this stranger
may set down nought but what is written in that BOOK, from whose
records, said he, clasping his hands together, I am to be condemn'd
or acquitted!--the notary held up the point of his pen betwixt the
taper and his eye. -
It is a story, Monsieur le Notaire, said the gentleman, which will
rouse up every affection in nature;--it will kill the humane, and
touch the heart of Cruelty herself with pity. -
- The notary was inflamed with a desire to begin, and put his
pen a third time into his ink-horn--and the old gentleman, turning
a little more towards the notary, began to dictate his story in
these words: -
- And where is the rest of it, La Fleur? said I, as he just then enter'd
the room.

THE FRAGMENT, AND THE BOUQUET. {1} PARIS.

When La Fleur came up close to the table, and was made to comprehend
what I wanted, he told me there were only two other sheets of it,
which he had wrapped round the stalks of a bouquet to keep it
together, which he had presented to the demoiselle upon the
boulevards.--Then prithee, La Fleur, said I, step back to her to the
Count de B-'s hotel, and see if thou canst get it.--There is no doubt
of it, said La Fleur;--and away he flew.

In a very little time the poor fellow came back quite out of breath,
with deeper marks of disappointment in his looks than could arise
from the simple irreparability of the fragment. Juste Ciel!
in less than two minutes that the poor fellow had taken his last
tender farewell of her--his faithless mistress had given his gage
d'amour to one of the Count's footmen,--the footman to a young
sempstress,--and the sempstress to a fiddler, with my fragment at
the end of it.--Our misfortunes were involved together: --I gave
a sigh,--and La Fleur echoed it back again to my ear.

- How perfidious! cried La Fleur.--How unlucky! said I.

- I should not have been mortified, Monsieur, quoth La Fleur, if she
had lost it.--Nor I, La Fleur, said I, had I found it.

Whether I did or no will be seen hereafter.

THE ACT OF CHARITY. PARIS.

The man who either disdains or fears to walk up a dark entry may be
an excellent good man, and fit for a hundred things, but he will not
do to make a good Sentimental Traveller.--I count little of
the many things I see pass at broad noonday, in large and open
streets.--Nature is shy, and hates to act before spectators; but
in such an unobserved corner you sometimes see a single short
scene of hers worth all the sentiments of a dozen French plays
compounded together,--and yet they are absolutely fine;--and whenever
I have a more brilliant affair upon my hands than common, as
they suit a preacher just as well as a hero, I generally make my
sermon out of 'em;--and for the text,--"Cappadocia, Pontus and
Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia,"--is as good as any one in the Bible.

There is a long dark passage issuing out from the Opera Comique
into a narrow street; 'tis trod by a few who humbly wait for a
fiacre, {2} or wish to get off quietly o'foot when the opera
is done. At the end of it, towards the theatre, 'tis lighted by a
small candle, the light of which is almost lost before you get
half-way down, but near the door--'tis more for ornament than use:
you see it as a fixed star of the least magnitude; it burns,--but
does little good to the world, that we know of.

In returning along this passage, I discerned, as I approached within
five or six paces of the door, two ladies standing arm-in- arm with
their backs against the wall, waiting, as I imagined, for a
fiacre;--as they were next the door, I thought they had a prior
right; so edged myself up within a yard or little more of them, and
quietly took my stand.

--I was in black, and scarce seen.

The lady next me was a tall lean figure of a woman, of about
thirty-six; the other of the same size and make, of about forty:

there was no mark of wife or widow in any one part of either
of them;--they seem'd to be two upright vestal sisters, unsapped by
caresses, unbroke in upon by tender salutations.

--I could have wish'd to have made them happy: --their happiness
was destin'd that night, to come from another quarter.
A low voice, with a good turn of expression, and sweet cadence at
the end of it, begg'd for a twelve-sous piece betwixt them, for the
love of heaven. I thought it singular that a beggar should fix the
quota of an alms--and that the sum should be twelve times as much
as what is usually given in the dark.--They both seemed astonished
at it as much as myself.--Twelve sous! said one.--A twelve-sous
piece! said the other,--and made no reply.
The poor man said, he knew not how to ask less of ladies of their
rank; and bow'd down his head to the ground.
Poo! said they,--we have no money.
The beggar remained silent for a moment or two, and renew'd his
supplication.
- Do not, my fair young ladies, said he, stop your good ears against
me.--Upon my word, honest man! said the younger, we have no
change.--Then God bless you, said the poor man, and multiply those
joys which you can give to others without change!--I observed the
elder sister put her hand into her pocket.--I'll see, said she, if
I have a sous. A sous! give twelve, said the supplicant; Nature has
been bountiful to you, be bountiful to a poor man.
- I would friend, with all my heart, said the younger, if I had
it.
My fair charitable! said he, addressing himself to the elder,--what
is it but your goodness and humanity which makes your bright eyes
so sweet, that they outshine the morning even in this dark passage?
and what was it which made the Marquis de Santerre and his brother
say so much of you both as they just passed by?
The two ladies seemed much affected; and impulsively, at the same
time they both put their hands into their pocket, and each took out
a twelve-sous piece.
The contest betwixt them and the poor supplicant was no more;--it
was continued betwixt themselves, which of the two should give the
twelve-sous piece in charity;--and, to end the dispute, they both
gave it together, and the man went away.
THE RIDDLE EXPLAINED. PARIS.
I stepped hastily after him: it was the very man whose success in
asking charity of the women before the door of the hotel had so
puzzled me;--and I found at once his secret, or at least the basis
of it: --'twas flattery.
Delicious essence! how refreshing art thou to Nature! how strongly
are all its powers and all its weaknesses on thy side! how sweetly
dost thou mix with the blood, and help it through the most difficult
and tortuous passages to the heart!
The poor man, as he was not straiten'd for time, had given it here
in a larger dose: 'tis certain he had a way of bringing it into a
less form, for the many sudden cases he had to do with in the
streets: but how he contrived to correct, sweeten, concentre, and
qualify it,--I vex not my spirit with the enquiry;--it is enough
the beggar gained two twelve-sous pieces--and they can best tell
the rest, who have gained much greater matters by it.

PARIS.
We get forwards in the world, not so much by doing services, as
receiving them; you take a withering twig, and put it in the ground;
and then you water it, because you have planted it.
Monsieur le Count de B-, merely because he had done me one kindness
in the affair of my passport, would go on and do me another, the
few days he was at Paris, in making me known to a few people of
rank; and they were to present me to others, and so on.
I had got master of my SECRET just in time to turn these honours
to some little account; otherwise, as is commonly the case, I should
have dined or supp'd a single time or two round, and then, by
TRANSLATING French looks and attitudes into plain English, I should
presently have seen, that I had hold of the couvert {3} of some
more entertaining guest; and in course should have resigned all my
places one after another, merely upon the principle that I could
not keep them.--As it was, things did not go much amiss.
I had the honour of being introduced to the old Marquis de B-: in
days of yore he had signalized himself by some small feats of
chivalry in the Cour d'Amour, and had dress'd himself out to the
idea of tilts and tournaments ever since.--The Marquis de B- wish'd
to have it thought the affair was somewhere else than in his
brain.
"He could like to take a trip to England," and asked much of the
English ladies.--Stay where you are, I beseech you, Monsieur le
Marquis, said I.--Les Messieurs Anglois can scarce get a kind look
from them as it is.--The Marquis invited me to supper.
Monsieur P-, the farmer-general, was just as inquisitive about our
taxes. They were very considerable, he heard.--If we knew but how
to collect them, said I, making him a low bow.
I could never have been invited to Mons. P-'s concerts upon any
other terms.

I had been misrepresented to Madame de Q- as an esprit.Mere fustian (as Horace would tell you from behind, without pressing
forward), and more smoke than fire.  Pulci, Boiardo, and Ariosto
would cry out, "Make room for the Italian poets, the descendants of
Virgil in a right line."  Father Le Moine with his "Saint Louis,"
and Scudery with his "Alaric" (for a godly king and a Gothic
conqueror); and Chapelain would take it ill that his "Maid" should
be refused a place with Helen and Lavinia.  Spenser has a better
plea for his "Faerie Queen," had his action been finished, or had
been one; and Milton, if the devil had not been his hero instead of
Adam; if the giant had not foiled the knight, and driven him out of
his stronghold to wander through the world with his lady-errant; and
if there had not been more machining persons than human in his poem.
After these the rest of our English poets shall not be mentioned; I
have that honour for them which I ought to have; but if they are
worthies, they are not to be ranked amongst the three whom I have
named, and who are established in their reputation.

Before I quitted the comparison betwixt epic poetry and tragedy I
should have acquainted my judge with one advantage of the former
over the latter, which I now casually remember out of the preface of
Segrais before his translation of the "AEneis," or out of Bossu--no
matter which:  "The style of the heroic poem is, and ought to be,
more lofty than that of the drama."  The critic is certainly in the
right, for the reason already urged--the work of tragedy is on the
passions, and in dialogue; both of them abhor strong metaphors, in
which the epopee delights.  A poet cannot speak too plainly on the
stage, for volat irrevocabile verbum (the sense is lost if it be not
taken flying) but what we read alone we have leisure to digest.
There an author may beautify his sense by the boldness of his
expression, which if we understand not fully at the first we may
dwell upon it till we find the secret force and excellence.  That
which cures the manners by alterative physic, as I said before, must
proceed by insensible degrees; but that which purges the passions
must do its business all at once, or wholly fail of its effect--at
least, in the present operation--and without repeated doses.  We
must beat the iron while it is hot, but we may polish it at leisure.
Thus, my lord, you pay the fine of my forgetfulness,; and yet the
merits of both causes are where they were, and undecided, till you
declare whether it be more for the benefit of mankind to have their
manners in general corrected, or their pride and hard-heartedness
removed.

I must now come closer to my present business, and not think of
making more invasive wars abroad, when, like Hannibal, I am called
back to the defence of my own country.  Virgil is attacked by many
enemies; he has a whole confederacy against him; and I must
endeavour to defend him as well as I am able.  But their principal
objections being against his moral, the duration or length of time
taken up in the action of the poem, and what they have to urge
against the manners of his hero, I shall omit the rest as mere
cavils of grammarians--at the worst but casual slips of a great
man's pen, or inconsiderable faults of an admirable poem, which the
author had not leisure to review before his death.  Macrobius has
answered what the ancients could urge against him, and some things I
have lately read in Tannegui le Febvre, Valois, and another whom I
name not, which are scarce worth answering.  They begin with the
moral of his poem, which I have elsewhere confessed, and still must
own, not to be so noble as that of Homer.  But let both be fairly
stated, and without contradicting my first opinion I can show that
Virgil's was as useful to the Romans of his age as Homer's was to
the Grecians of his, in what time soever he may be supposed to have
lived and flourished.  Homer's moral was to urge the necessity of
union, and of a good understanding betwixt confederate states and
princes engaged in a war with a mighty monarch; as also of
discipline in an army, and obedience in the several chiefs to the
supreme commander of the joint forces.  To inculcate this, he sets
forth the ruinous effects of discord in the camp of those allies,
occasioned by the quarrel betwixt the general and one of the next in
office under him.  Agamemnon gives the provocation, and Achilles
resents the injury.  Both parties are faulty in the quarrel, and
accordingly they are both punished; the aggressor is forced to sue
for peace to his inferior on dishonourable conditions; the deserter
refuses the satisfaction offered, and his obstinacy costs him his
best friend.  This works the natural effect of choler, and turns his
rage against him by whom he was last affronted, and most sensibly.
The greater anger expels the less, but his character is still
preserved.  In the meantime the Grecian army receives loss on loss,
and is half destroyed by a pestilence into the bargain:-


"Quicquid delirant reges, plectuntur Achivi."


As the poet in the first part of the example had shown the bad
effects of discord, so after the reconcilement he gives the good
effects of unity; for Hector is slain, and then Troy must fall.  By
this it is probable that Homer lived when the Median monarchy was
grown formidable to the Grecians, and that the joint endeavours of
his countrymen were little enough to preserve their common freedom
from an encroaching enemy.  Such was his moral, which all critics
have allowed to be more noble than that of Virgil, though not
adapted to the times in which the Roman poet lived.  Had Virgil
flourished in the age of Ennius and addressed to Scipio, he had
probably taken the same moral, or some other not unlike it; for then
the Romans were in as much danger from the Carthaginian commonwealth
as the Grecians were from the Assyrian or Median monarchy.  But we
are to consider him as writing his poem in a time when the old form
of government was subverted, and a new one just established by
Octavius Caesar--in effect, by force of arms, but seemingly by the
consent of the Roman people.  The commonwealth had received a deadly
wound in the former civil wars betwixt Marius and Sylla.  The
commons, while the first prevailed, had almost shaken off the yoke
of the nobility; and Marius and Cinna (like the captains of the
mob), under the specious pretence of the public good and of doing
justice on the oppressors of their liberty, revenged themselves
without form of law on their private enemies.  Sylla, in his turn,
proscribed the heads of the adverse party.  He, too, had nothing but
liberty and reformation in his mouth; for the cause of religion is
but a modern motive to rebellion, invented by the Christian
priesthood refining on the heathen.  Sylla, to be sure, meant no
more good to the Roman people than Marius before him, whatever he
declared; but sacrificed the lives and took the estates of all his
enemies to gratify those who brought him into power.  Such was the
reformation of the government by both parties.  The senate and the
commons were the two bases on which it stood, and the two champions
of either faction each destroyed the foundations of the other side;
so the fabric, of consequence, must fall betwixt them, and tyranny
must be built upon their ruins.  THIS COMES OF ALTERING FUNDAMENTAL
LAWS AND CONSTITUTIONS; like him who, being in good health, lodged
himself in a physician's house, and was over-persuaded by his
landlord to take physic (of which be died) for the benefit of his
doctor.  "Stavo ben," was written on his monument, "ma, per star
meglio, sto qui."

After the death of those two usurpers the commonwealth seemed to
recover, and held up its head for a little time, but it was all the
while in a deep consumption, which is a flattering disease.  Pompey,
Crassus, and Caesar had found the sweets of arbitrary power, and
each being a check to the other's growth, struck up a false
friendship amongst themselves and divided the government betwixt
them, which none of them was able to assume alone.  These were the
public-spirited men of their age--that is, patriots for their own
interest.  The commonwealth looked with a florid countenance in
their management; spread in bulk, and all the while was wasting in
the vitals.  Not to trouble your lordship with the repetition of
what you know, after the death of Crassus Pompey found himself
outwitted by Caesar, broke with him, overpowered him in the senate,
and caused many unjust decrees to pass against him.  Caesar thus
injured, and unable to resist the faction of the nobles which was
now uppermost (for he was a Marian), had recourse to arms, and his
cause was just against Pompey, but not against his country, whose
constitution ought to have been sacred to him, and never to have
been violated on the account of any private wrong.  But he
prevailed, and Heaven declaring for him, he became a providential
monarch under the title of Perpetual Dictator.  He being murdered by
his own son (whom I neither dare commend nor can justly blame,
though Dante in his "Inferno" has put him and Cassius, and Judas
Iscariot betwixt them, into the great devil's mouth), the
commonwealth popped up its head for the third time under Brutus and
Cassius, and then sank for ever.

Thus the Roman people were grossly gulled twice or thrice over, and
as often enslaved, in one century, and under the same pretence of
reformation.  At last the two battles of Philippi gave the decisive
stroke against liberty, and not long after the commonwealth was
turned into a monarchy by the conduct and good fortune of Augustus.
It is true that the despotic power could not have fallen into better
hands than those of the first and second Caesar.  Your lordship well
knows what obligations Virgil had to the latter of them.  He saw,
beside, that the commonwealth was lost without resource; the heads
of it destroyed; the senate, new moulded, grown degenerate, and
either bought off or thrusting their own necks into the yoke out of
fear of being forced.  Yet I may safely affirm for our great author
(as men of good sense are generally honest) that he was still of
republican principles in heart.


"Secretosque pios; his dantem jura Catonem."


I think I need use no other argument to justify my opinion than that
of this one line taken from the eighth book of the AEneis.  If he
had not well studied his patron's temper it might have ruined him
with another prince.  But Augustus was not discontented (at least,
that we can find) that Cato was placed by his own poet in Elysium,
and there giving laws to the holy souls who deserved to be separated
from the vulgar sort of good spirits; for his conscience could not
but whisper to the arbitrary monarch that the kings of Rome were at
first elective, and governed not without a senate; that Romulus was
no hereditary prince, and though after his death he received divine
honours for the good he did on earth, yet he was but a god of their
own making; that the last Tarquin was expelled justly for overt acts
of tyranny and mal-administration (for such are the conditions of an
elective kingdom, and I meddle not with others, being, for my own
opinion, of Montange's principles--that an honest man ought to be
contented with that form of government, and with those fundamental
constitutions of it, which he received from his ancestors, and under
which himself was born, though at the same time he confessed freely
that if he could have chosen his place of birth it should have been
at Venice, which for many reasons I dislike, and am better pleased
to have been born an Englishman).

But to return from my long rambling; I say that Virgil having
maturely weighed the condition of the times in which he lived; that
an entire liberty was not to be retrieved; that the present
settlement had the prospect of a long continuance in the same family
or those adopted into it; that he held his paternal estate from the
bounty of the conqueror, by whom he was likewise enriched, esteemed,
and cherished; that this conqueror, though of a bad kind, was the
very best of it; that the arts of peace flourished under him; that
all men might be happy if they would be quiet; that now he was in
possession of the whole, yet he shared a great part of his authority
with the senate; that he would be chosen into the ancient offices of
the commonwealth, and ruled by the power which he derived from them,
and prorogued his government from time to time, still, as it were,
threatening to dismiss himself from public cares, which he exercised
more for the common good than for any delight he took in greatness--
these things, I say, being considered by the poet, he concluded it
to be the interest of his country to be so governed, to infuse an
awful respect into the people towards such a prince, by that respect
to confirm their obedience to him, and by that obedience to make
them happy.  This was the moral of his divine poem; honest in the
poet, honourable to the emperor (whom he derives from a divine
extraction), and reflecting part of that honour on the Roman people
(whom he derives also from the Trojans), and not only profitable,
but necessary, to the present age, and likely to be such to their
posterity.  That it was the received opinion that the Romans were
descended from the Trojans, and Julius Caesar from Iulus, the son of
AEneas, was enough for Virgil, though perhaps he thought not so
himself, or that AEneas ever was in Italy, which Bochartus
manifestly proves.  And Homer (where he says that Jupiter hated the
house of Priam, and was resolved to transfer the kingdom to the
family of AEneas) yet mentions nothing of his leading a colony into
a foreign country and settling there.  But that the Romans valued
themselves on their Trojan ancestry is so undoubted a truth that I
need not prove it.  Even the seals which we have remaining of Julius
Caesar (which we know to be antique) have the star of Venus over
them--though they were all graven after his death--as a note that he
was deified.  I doubt not but one reason why Augustus should be so
passionately concerned for the preservation of the "AEneis," which
its author had condemned to be burnt as an imperfect poem by his
last will and testament, was because it did him a real service as
well as an honour; that a work should not be lost where his divine
original was celebrated in verse which had the character of
immortality stamped upon it.

Neither were the great Roman families which flourished in his time
less obliged by him than the emperor.  Your lordship knows with what
address he makes mention of them as captains of ships or leaders in
the war; and even some of Italian extraction are not forgotten.
These are the single stars which are sprinkled through the "AEneis,"
but there are whole constellations of them in the fifth book; and I
could not but take notice, when I translated it, of some favourite
families to which he gives the victory and awards the prizes, in the
person of his hero, at the funeral games which were celebrated in
honour of Anchises.  I insist not on their names, but am pleased to
find the Memmii amongst them, derived from Mnestheus, because
Lucretius dedicates to one of that family, a branch of which
destroyed Corinth.  I likewise either found or formed an image to
myself of the contrary kind--that those who lost the prizes were
such as had disobliged the poet, or were in disgrace with Augustus,
or enemies to Maecenas; and this was the poetical revenge he took,
for genus irritabile vatum, as Horace says.  When a poet is
thoroughly provoked, he will do himself justice, how ever dear it
cost him, animamque in vulnere ponit.  I think these are not bare
imaginations of my own, though I find no trace of them in the
commentators; but one poet may judge of another by himself.  The
vengeance we defer is not forgotten.  I hinted before that the whole
Roman people were obliged by Virgil in deriving them from Troy, an
ancestry which they affected.  We and the French are of the same
humour:  they would be thought to descend from a son, I think, of
Hector; and we would have our Britain both named and planted by a
descendant of AEneas.  Spenser favours this opinion what he can.
His Prince Arthur, or whoever he intends by him, is a Trojan.  Thus
the hero of Homer was a Grecian; of Virgil, a Roman; of Tasso, an
Italian.

I have transgressed my bounds and gone farther than the moral led
me; but if your lordship is not tired, I am safe enough.

Thus far, I think, my author is defended.  But as Augustus is still
shadowed in the person of AEneas (of which I shall say more when I
come to the manners which the poet gives his hero), I must prepare
that subject by showing how dexterously he managed both the prince
and people, so as to displease neither, and to do good to both--
which is the part of a wise and an honest man, and proves that it is
possible for a courtier not to be a knave.  I shall continue still
to speak my thoughts like a free-born subject, as I am, though such
things perhaps as no Dutch commentator could, and I am sure no
Frenchman durst.  I have already told your lordship my opinion of
Virgil--that he was no arbitrary man.  Obliged he was to his master
for his bounty, and he repays him with good counsel how to behave
himself in his new monarchy so as to gain the affections of his
subjects, and deserve to be called the "Father of His Country."
From this consideration it is that he chose for the groundwork of
his poem one empire destroyed, and another raised from the ruins of
it.  This was just the parallel.  AEneas could not pretend to be
Priam's heir in a lineal succession, for Anchises, the hero's
father, was only of the second branch of the royal family, and
Helenus, a son of Priam, was yet surviving, and might lawfully claim
before him.  It may be, Virgil mentions him on that account.
Neither has he forgotten Priamus, in the fifth of his "AEneis," the
son of Polites, youngest son to Priam, who was slain by Pyrrhus in
the second book.  AEneas had only married Creusa, Priam's daughter,
and by her could have no title while any of the male issue were
remaining.  In this case the poet gave him the next title, which is
that of an Elective King.  The remaining Trojans chose him to lead
them forth and settle them in some foreign country.  Ilioneus in his
speech to Dido calls him expressly by the name of king.  Our poet,
who all this while had Augustus in his eye, had no desire he should
seem to succeed by any right of inheritance derived from Julius
Caesar, such a title being but one degree removed from conquest:
for what was introduced by force, by force may be removed.  It was
better for the people that they should give than he should take,
since that gift was indeed no more at bottom than a trust.  Virgil
gives us an example of this in the person of Mezentius.  He governed
arbitrarily; he was expelled and came to the deserved end of all
tyrants.  Our author shows us another sort of kingship in the person
of Latinus.  He was descended from Saturn, and, as I remember, in
the third degree.  He is described a just and a gracious prince,
solicitous for the welfare of his people, always consulting with his
senate to promote the common good.  We find him at the head of them
when he enters into the council-hall--speaking first, but still
demanding their advice, and steering by it, as far as the iniquity
of the times would suffer him.  And this is the proper character of
a king by inheritance, who is born a father of his country.  AEneas,
though he married the heiress of the crown, yet claimed no title to
it during the life of his father-in-law.  Socer arma Latinus hebeto,
&c., are Virgil's words.  As for himself, he was contented to take
care of his country gods, who were not those of Latium; wherein our
divine author seems to relate to the after-practice of the Romans,
which was to adopt the gods of those they conquered or received as
members of their commonwealth.  Yet, withal, he plainly touches at
the office of the high-priesthood, with which Augustus was invested
and which made his person more sacred and inviolable than even the
tribunitial power.  It was not therefore for nothing that the most
judicious of all poets made that office vacant by the death of
Pantheus, in the second book of the "AEneis," for his hero to
succeed in it, and consequently for Augustus to enjoy.  I know not
that any of the commentators have taken notice of that passage.  If
they have not, I am sure they ought; and if they have, I am not
indebted to them for the observation.  The words of Virgil are very
plain:-


"Sacra suosque tibi commendat Troja Penates."


As for Augustus or his uncle Julius claiming by descent from AEneas,
that title is already out of doors.  AEneas succeeded not, but was
elected.  Troy was fore-doomed to fall for ever:-


"Postquam res Asiae, Priamique evertere gentem,
Immeritam visum superis."--AENEIS, I. iii., line 1.


Augustus, it is true, had once resolved to rebuild that city, and
there to make the seat of the Empire; but Horace writes an ode on
purpose to deter him from that thought, declaring the place to be
accursed, and that the gods would as often destroy it as it should
be raised.  Hereupon the emperor laid aside a project so ungrateful
to the Roman people.  But by this, my lord, we may conclude that he
had still his pedigree in his head, and had an itch of being thought
a divine king if his poets had not given him better counsel.

I will pass by many less material objections for want of room to
answer them.  What follows next is of great importance, if the
critics can make out their charge, for it is levelled at the manners
which our poet gives his hero, and which are the same which were
eminently seen in his Augustus.  Those manners were piety to the
gods and a dutiful affection to his father, love to his relations,
care of his people, courage and conduct in the wars, gratitude to
those who had obliged him, and justice in general to mankind.

Piety, as your lordship sees, takes place of all as the chief part
of his character; and the word in Latin is more full than it can
possibly be expressed in any modern language, for there it
comprehends not only devotion to the gods, but filial love and
tender affection to relations of all sorts.  As instances of this
the deities of Troy and his own Penates are made the companions of
his flight; they appear to him in his voyage and advise him, and at
last he replaces them in Italy, their native country.  For his
father, he takes him on his back.  He leads his little son, his wife
follows him; but losing his footsteps through fear or ignorance he
goes back into the midst of his enemies to find her, and leaves not
his pursuit till her ghost appears to forbid his farther search.  I
will say nothing of his duty to his father while he lived, his
sorrow for his death, of the games instituted in honour of his
memory, or seeking him by his command even after death in the
Elysian fields.  I will not mention his tenderness for his son,
which everywhere is visible; of his raising a tomb for Polydorus;
the obsequies for Misenus; his pious remembrance of Deiphobus; the
funerals of his nurse; his grief for Pallas, and his revenge taken
on his murderer, whom otherwise, by his natural compassion, he had
forgiven:  and then the poem had been left imperfect, for we could
have had no certain prospect of his happiness while the last
obstacle to it was unremoved.

Of the other parts which compose his character as a king or as a
general I need say nothing; the whole "AEneis" is one continued
instance of some one or other of them; and where I find anything of
them taxed, it shall suffice me (as briefly as I can) to vindicate
my divine master to your lordship, and by you to the reader.  But
herein Segrais, in his admirable preface to his translation of the
"AEneis," as the author of the Dauphin's "Virgil" justly calls it,
has prevented me.  Scarce knowin' 'ow, I gits out in the yard, An'
leans agen the fence an' thinks reel 'ard.

A long, long time I looks at my two 'ands.
"They're all I got," I thinks, "they're all that stands Twixt this
'ard world an' them I calls me own.
An' fer their sakes I'll work 'em to the bone."
Them vows an' things sounds like a lot o' guff.
Maybe, it's foolish thinkin' all this stuff-- Maybe, it's
childish-like to scheme an' plan; But--I dunno--it's that way wiv
a man.

I only know that kid belongs to me!
We ain't decided yet wot 'e's to be.
Doreen, she sez 'e's got a poit's eyes; But I ain't got much use
fer them soft guys.

I think we ort to make 'im something great-- A bookie, or a
champeen'eavy-weight:

Some callin' that'll give 'im room to spread.
A fool could see 'e's got a clever 'ead.

I know 'e's good an' honest; for 'is eyes Is jist like 'ers; so big
an' lovin'-wise; They carries peace an' trust where e'er they goes
An', say, the nurse she sez 'e's got my nose!

Dead ring fer me ole conk, she sez it is.
More like a blob of putty on 'is phiz, I think. But 'e's a fair 'ard
case, all right.
I'll swear I thort 'e wunk at me last night!

My wife an' fam'ly! Don't it sound all right!
That's wot I whispers to meself at night.
Some day, I s'pose, I'll learn to say it loud An' careless; kiddin'
that I don't feel proud.

My son!...If there's a Gawd 'Oos leanin' near To watch our dilly little
lives down 'ere, 'E smiles, I guess, if 'E's a lovin' one Smiles,
friendly-like, to 'ear them words--My son.

XIV. The Mooch o' Life

This ev'nin' I was sittin' wiv Doreen, Peaceful an' 'appy wiv the
day's work done, Watchin', be'ind the orchard's bonzer green, The
flamin' wonder of the settin' sun.

Another day gone by; another night Creepin' along to douse Day's
golden light; Another dawnin', when the night is gone, To live
an' love--an' so life mooches on.

Times I 'ave thought, when things was goin' crook, When 'Ope
turned nark an' Love forgot to smile, Of somethin' I once seen in
some old book Where an ole sore-'ead arsts, "Is life worf w'ile?"

But in that stillness, as the day grows dim, An' I am sittin' there
wiv 'er an' 'im My wife, my son! an' strength in me to strive, I
only know--it's good to be alive!

Yeh live, yeh love, yeh learn; an' when yeh come To square the ledger
in some thortful hour, The everlastin' answer to the sum Must allus
be, "Where's sense in gittin' sour?"
Fer when yeh've come to weigh the good an' bad-- The gladness
wiv the sadness you 'ave 'ad-- Then 'im 'oo's faith in 'uman
goodness fails Fergits to put 'is liver in the scales.

Livin' an' lovin'; learnin' day be day; Pausin' a minute in
the barmy strife To find that 'elpin' others on the way Is gold
coined fer your profit--sich is life.

I've studied books wiv yearnings to improve, To 'eave meself out of
me lowly groove, An' 'ere is orl the change I ever got:
"'Ark at yer 'eart, an' you kin learn the lot."
I gives it in--that wisdom o' the mind-- I wasn't built to play no
lofty part.
Orl such is welkim to the joys they find; I only know the wisdom
o' the 'eart.
An' ever it 'as taught me, day be day, The one same lesson in the
same ole way:
"Look fer yer profits in the 'earts o' friends, Fer 'atin' never
paid no dividends." Life's wot yeh make it; an' the bloke 'oo tries
To grab the shinin' stars frum out the skies Goes crook on life,
an' calls the world a cheat, An' tramples on the daisies at 'is
feet.
But when the moon comes creepin' o'er the hill, An' when the mopoke
calls along the creek, I takes me cup o' joy an' drinks me fill,
An' arsts meself wot better could I seek.
An' ev'ry song I 'ear the thrushes sing That everlastin' message
seems to bring; An' ev'ry wind that whispers in the trees Gives me
the tip there ain't no joys like these:
Livin' an' lovin'; wand'rin' on yer way; Reapin' the 'arvest of a
kind deed done; An' watchin', in the sundown of yer day, Yerself
again, grown nobler in yer son.
Knowin' that ev'ry coin o' kindness spent Bears interest in yer
'eart at cent per cent; Measurin' wisdom by the peace it brings To
simple minds that values simple things.
An' when I take a look along the way That I 'ave trod, it seems the
man knows best, Who's met wiv slabs of sorrer in 'is day, When 'e
is truly rich an' truly blest.
An' I am rich, becos me eyes 'ave seen The lovelight in the eyes
of my Doreen; An' l am blest, becos me feet 'ave trod A land 'oo's
fields reflect the smile o' God.Having first concluded that our poet did for the best in taking the
first character of his hero from that essential virtue on which the
rest depend, he proceeds to tell us that in the ten years' war of
Troy he was considered as the second champion of his country,
allowing Hector the first place; and this even by the confession of
Homer, who took all occasions of setting up his own countrymen the
Grecians, and of undervaluing the Trojan chiefs.  But Virgil (whom
Segrais forgot to cite) makes Diomede give him a higher character
for strength and courage.  His testimony is this, in the eleventh
book:-


"Stetimus tela aspera contra,
Contulimusque manus:  experto credite, quantus
In clypeum adsurgat, quo turbine torqueat hastam.
Si duo praeterea tales Inachias venisset ad urbes
Dardanus, et versis lugeret Graecia fatis.
Quicquid apud durae cessatum est maenia Trojae,
Hectoris AEneaeque manu victoria Grajum
Haesit, et in decumum vestigia retulit annum.
Ambo animis, ambo insignes praestantibus armis:
Hic pietate prior."


I give not here my translation of these verses, though I think I
have not ill succeeded in them, because your lordship is so great a
master of the original that I have no reason to desire you should
see Virgil and me so near together.  But you may please, my lord, to
take notice that the Latin author refines upon the Greek, and
insinuates that Homer had done his hero wrong in giving the
advantage of the duel to his own countryman, though Diomedes was
manifestly the second champion of the Grecians; and Ulysses
preferred him before Ajax when he chose him for the companion of his
nightly expedition, for he had a headpiece of his own, and wanted
only the fortitude of another to bring him off with safety, and that
he might compass his design with honour.

The French translator thus proceeds:- "They who accuse AEneas for
want of courage, either understand not Virgil or have read him
slightly; otherwise they would not raise an objection so easy to be
answered."  Hereupon he gives so many instances of the hero's valour
that to repeat them after him would tire your lordship, and put me
to the unnecessary trouble of transcribing the greatest part of the
three last AEneids.  In short, more could not be expected from an
Amadis, a Sir Lancelot, or the whole Round Table than he performs.
Proxima quaeque metit galdio is the perfect account of a knight-
errant.  If it be replied, continues Segrais, that it was not
difficult for him to undertake and achieve such hardy enterprises
because he wore enchanted arms, that accusation in the first place
must fall on Homer ere it can reach Virgil.  Achilles was as well
provided with them as AEneas, though he was invulnerable without
them; and Ariosto, the two Tassos (Bernardo and Torquato), even our
own Spenser--in a word, all modern poets--have copied Homer, as well
as Virgil; he is neither the first nor last, but in the midst of
them, and therefore is safe if they are so.  Who knows, says
Segrais, but that his fated armour was only an allegorical defence,
and signified no more than that he was under the peculiar protection
of the gods? born, as the astrologers will tell us out of Virgil
(who was well versed in the Chaldean mysteries), under the
favourable influence of Jupiter, Venus, and the Sun?  But I insist
not on this because I know you believe not there is such an art;
though not only Horace and Persius, but Augustus himself, thought
otherwise.  But in defence of Virgil, I dare positively say that he
has been more cautious in this particular than either his
predecessor or his descendants; for AEneas was actually wounded in
the twelfth of the "AEneis," though he had the same godsmith to
forge his arms as had Achilles.  It seems he was no "war-luck," as
the Scots commonly call such men, who, they say, are iron-free or
lead-free.  Yet after this experiment that his arms were not
impenetrable (when he was cured indeed by his mother's help, because
he was that day to conclude the war by the death of Turnus), the
poet durst not carry the miracle too far and restore him wholly to
his former vigour; he was still too weak to overtake his enemy, yet
we see with what courage he attacks Turnus when he faces and renews
the combat.  I need say no more, for Virgil defends himself without
needing my assistance, and proves his hero truly to deserve that
name.  He was not, then, a second-rate champion, as they would have
him who think fortitude the first virtue in a hero.

But being beaten from this hold, they will not yet allow him to be
valiant, because he wept more often, as they think, than well
becomes a man of courage.

In the first place, if tears are arguments of cowardice, what shall
I say of Homer's hero?  Shall Achilles pass for timorous because he
wept, and wept on less occasions than AEneas?  Herein Virgil must be
granted to have excelled his master; for once both heroes are
described lamenting their lost loves:  Briseis was taken away by
force from the Grecians, Creusa was lost for ever to her husband.
But Achilles went roaring along the salt sea-shore, and, like a
booby, was complaining to his mother when he should have revenged
his injury by arms:  AEneas took a nobler course; for, having
secured his father and his son, he repeated all his former dangers
to have found his wife, if she had been above ground.  And here your
lordship may observe the address of Virgil; it was not for nothing
that this passage was related, with all these tender circumstances.
AEneas told it, Dido heard it.  That he had been so affectionate a
husband was no ill argument to the coming dowager that he might
prove as kind to her.  Virgil has a thousand secret beauties, though
I have not leisure to remark them.

Segrais, on this subject of a hero's shedding tears, observes that
historians commend Alexander for weeping when he read the mighty
actions of Achilles; and Julius Caesar is likewise praised when out
of the same noble envy, he wept at the victories of Alexander.  But
if we observe more closely, we shall find that the tears of AEneas
were always on a laudable occasion.  Thus he weeps out of compassion
and tenderness of nature when in the temple of Carthage he beholds
the pictures of his friends who sacrificed their lives in defence of
their country.  He deplores the lamentable end of his pilot
Palinurus, the untimely death of young Pallas his confederate, and
the rest which I omit.  Yet even for these tears his wretched
critics dare condemn him; they make AEneas little better than a kind
of St. Swithin hero, always raining.  One of these censors was bold
enough to argue him of cowardice, when in the beginning of the first
book he not only weeps, but trembles, at an approaching storm:-


"Extemplo AEneae solvuntur frigore membra:
Ingemit, et duplices tendens ad sidera palmas," &c.


But to this I have answered formerly that his fear was not for
himself, but for his people.  And who can give a sovereign a better
commendation, or recommend a hero more to the affection of the
reader?  They were threatened with a tempest, and he wept; he was
promised Italy, and therefore he prayed for the accomplishment of
that promise;--all this in the beginning of a storm; therefore he
showed the more early piety and the quicker sense of compassion.
Thus much I have urged elsewhere in the defence of Virgil:  and
since, I have been informed by Mr. Moyle, a young gentleman whom I
can never sufficiently commend, that the ancients accounted drowning
an accursed death.  So that if we grant him to have been afraid, he
had just occasion for that fear, both in relation to himself and to
his subjects.  I think our adversaries can carry this argument no
farther, unless they tell us that he ought to have had more
confidence in the promise of the gods.  Dawson, as well as the company
of Mr. Thornton; in which case I looked forward with greater confidence
to the detection of the notable pair.

I could not, however, conceal from myself, that this was but a
very unstable and ill-linked chain of reasoning, and there were
moments, when the appearances against Glanville wore so close
a semblance of truth, that all my friendship could scarcely drive
from my mind an intrusive suspicion that he might have deceived me,
and that the accusation might not be groundless.

This unwelcome idea did not, however, at all
lessen the rapidity with which I hastened towards the memorable
gin shop, where I had whilom met Mr.

Gordon--there I hoped to find either the address of that
gentleman, or of the "Club," to which he had taken me, in
company with Tringle and Dartmore: either at this said club, or
of that said gentleman, I thought it not unlikely that I might
hear some tidings of the person of Mr. Job Jonson--if not, I was
resolved to return to the office, and employ Mr.-- my mulberry-cheeked
acquaintance of the last night, in a search after the holy Job.

Fate saved me a world of trouble; as I was hastily walking onwards,
I happened to turn my eyes on the opposite side of the way, and
discovered a man dressed, in what the newspapers term, the very
height of the fashion, namely, in the most ostentatious attire that
ever flaunted at Margate, or blazoned in the Palais Royale.

The nether garments of this petit maitre,
consisted of a pair of blue tight pantaloons,
profusely braided, and terminating in Hessian
boots, adorned with brass spurs of the most
burnished resplendency; a black velvet waistcoat,
studded with gold stars, was backed by a green frock coat, covered,
notwithstanding the heat of the weather, with fur, and frogged and
cordonne with the most lordly indifference, both as to taste and
expense: a small French hat, which might not have been much too
large for my Lord of P--, was set jauntily in the centre of a system
of long black curls, which my eye, long accustomed to penetrate the
arcana of habilatory art, discovered at once to be a wig.

A fierce black mustacheo, very much curled, wandered lovingly from
the upper lip, towards the eyes, which had an unfortunate prepossession
for eccentricity in their direction. To complete the picture, we
must suppose some colouring--and this consisted in a very nice and
delicate touch of the rouge pot, which could not be called by so
harsh a term as paint; say, rather that it was a tinge.

No sooner had I set my eyes
upon this figure, than I crossed over to
the side of the way which it was adorning,
and followed its motions at a respectful but observant distance.

At length my freluquet marched into a jeweller's shop in Oxford-street;
with a careless air, I affected, two minutes afterwards, to saunter
into the same shop; the shopman was shewing his bijouterie to him of
the Hessians with the greatest respect; and, beguiled by the
splendour of the wig and waistcoat, turned me over to his
apprentice--another time, I might have been indignant at perceiving
that the air noble, on which I piqued myself far more than all other
gifts of nature, personal or mental, was by no means so universally
acknowledged as I had vainly imagined--at that moment I was too
occupied to think of my insulted dignity.

While I was pretending to appear wholly engrossed with some seals,
I kept a vigilant eye on my superb fellow customer: at last, I saw
him secrete a diamond ring, and thrust it, by a singular movement
of the fore finger, up the fur cuff of his capacious sleeve;
presently, some other article of minute size disappeared in the
like manner.

The gentleman then rose, expressed himself very well satisfied by the
great taste of the jeweller, said he should look in again on
Saturday, when he hoped the set he had ordered would be completed,
and gravely took his departure amidst the prodigal bows of the
shopman and his helpmates; meanwhile, I bought a seal of small
value, paid for it, and followed my old acquaintance, for the reader
has doubtless discovered, long before this, that the gentleman was
no other than Mr.

Job Jonson.

Slowly and struttingly did the man of two virtues perform the whole
pilgrimage of Oxford-street. He stopped at Cumberland-gate, and,
looking round, with an air of gentlemanlike indecision, seemed
to consider whether or not he should join the loungers in the park:
fortunately for that well bred set, his doubts terminated in their
favour, and Mr. Job Jonson entered the park. Every one happened to
be thronging to Kensington Gardens, and the man of two virtues
accordingly cut across the park, as the shortest, but the least
frequented way thither, in order to confer upon them the dangerous
honour of his company.

Directly I perceived that there were but few persons in the immediate
locality to observe me, and that those consisted of a tall
guardsman and his wife, a family of young children, with their
nursery-maid, and a debilitated East India captain; walking
for the sake of his liver, I overtook the incomparable Job,
made him a low bow, and thus reverently accosted him--
"Mr. Jonson, I am delighted once more to meet you--suffer
me to remind you of the very pleasant morning I passed with you in
the neighbourhood of Hampton Court. I perceive, by your mustachios
and military dress, that you have entered the army since that day;
I congratulate the British troops on such an admirable acquisition."

Mr. Jonson's assurance forsook him for a moment, but he lost no time
in regaining a quality which was so natural to his character.

He assumed a fierce look, and relevant sa moustache
sourit amerement, like Voltaire's governor [Note: Don Fernand
d'Ibarra in the "Candide"]--"D--n your eyes, Sir," he cried, "do
you mean to insult me?

I know none of your Mr.
Jonsons, and I never set my eyes upon you before."
"Lookye, my dear Mr. Job Jonson," replied I, "as I can prove not only
all I say, but much more that I shall not say--such as your
little mistakes just now, at the jeweller's shop in Oxford-street,
perhaps it would be better for you not to oblige me to create a mob,
and give you in charge-- pardon my abruptness of speech--to a
constable!

--Surely there will be no need of such a disagreeable occurrence,
when I assure you, in the first place, that I perfectly forgive you
for ridding me of the unnecessary comforts of a pocket-book and
handkerchief, the unphilosophical appendage of a purse, and the
effeminate gage d'amour of a gold bracelet; nor is this all--it
is perfectly indifferent to me, whether you levy contributions
on jewellers or gentlemen, and I am very far from wishing to intrude
upon your harmless occupations, or to interfere with your innocent
amusements. I see, Mr. Jonson, that you are beginning to understand
me; let me facilitate so desirable an end by an additional information,
that, since it is preceded with a promise to open my purse,
may tend somewhat to open your heart; I am, at this moment, in great
want of your assistance--favour me with it, and I will pay you to
your soul's content. Are we friends now, Mr. Job Jonson?"
My old friend burst out into a loud laugh. "Well, Sir, I must say
that your frankness enchants me. I can no longer dissemble with you;
indeed, I perceive, it would be useless; besides, I always adored
candour--it is my favourite virtue. Tell me how I can help you, and
you may command my services."
"One word," said I: "will you be open and ingenuous with me? I shall
ask you certain questions, not in the least affecting your own
safety, but to which, if you would serve me, you must give me (and
since candour is your favourite virtue, this will be no difficult
task) your most candid replies. To strengthen you in so righteous
a course, know also, that the said replies will come verbatim before
a court of law, and that, therefore, it will be a matter of prudence
to shape them as closely to the truth as your inclinations will
allow.

To counterbalance this information, which, I own, is not very
inviting, I repeat, that the questions asked you will be wholly
foreign to your own affairs, and that, should you prove of that
assistance to me which I anticipate, I will so testify my gratitude
as to place you beyond the necessity of pillaging rural young
gentlemen and credulous shopkeepers for the future;--all your present
pursuits need only be carried on for your private amusement."

"I repeat, that you may command me," returned Mr. Jonson, gracefully
putting his hand to his heart.

"Pray, then," said I, "to come at once to the point, how long
have you been acquainted with Mr. Thomas Thornton?"

"For some months only,"
returned Job, without the least embarrassment.

"And Mr. Dawson?" said I.

A slight change came over Jonson's countenance: he hesitated. "Excuse
me, Sir," said he; "but I am, really, perfectly unacquainted with
you, and I may be falling into some trap of the law, of which, Heaven
knows, I am as ignorant as a babe unborn."
I saw the knavish justice of this remark; and in my predominating zeal
to serve Glanville, I looked upon the inconvenience of discovering
myself to a pickpocket and sharper, as a consideration not worth
attending to. In order, therefore, to remove his doubts, and, at the
same time, to have a more secret and undisturbed place for our
conference, I proposed to him to accompany me home; at first, Mr.
Jonson demurred, but I soon half persuaded and half intimidated
him into compliance.

Not particularly liking to be publicly seen with a person of his
splendid description and celebrated character, I made him walk
before me to Mivart's, and I followed him closely, never turning my
eye, either to the right or the left, lest he should endeavour to
escape me. There was no fear of this, for Mr. Jonson was both a
bold and a crafty man, and it required, perhaps, but little of
his penetration to discover that I was no officer nor informer, and
that my communication had been of a nature likely enough to terminate
in his advantage; there was, therefore, but little need of his courage
in accompanying me to my hotel.

There were a good many foreigners of rank at Mivart's, and the waiters
took my companion for an ambassador at least:--he received their
homage with the mingled dignity and condescension natural to so
great a man.

As the day was now far advanced, I deemed it but hospitable to offer
Mr.
Job Jonson some edible refreshment.

With the frankness on which he so justly valued himself, he accepted
my proposal. I ordered some cold meat, and two bottles of wine;
and, mindful of old maxims, deferred my business till his repast
was over. I conversed with him merely upon ordinary topics,
and, at another time, should have been much amused by the singular
mixture of impudence and shrewdness which formed the stratum of
his character.

At length his appetite was satisfied, and one of the bottles
emptied; with the other before him, his body easily reclining on my
library chair, his eyes apparently cast downwards, but ever and
anon glancing up at my countenance with a searching and curious look,
Mr. Job Jonson prepared himself for our conference; accordingly
I began.

"You say that you are acquainted with Mr. Dawson; where is he at
present?"
"I don't know," answered Jonson, laconically.

"Come," said I, "no trifling--if you do not know, you can learn."

"Possibly I can, in the course of time," rejoined honest Job.

"If you cannot tell me his residence at once," said I, "our conference
is at an end; that is a leading feature in my inquiries."
Jonson paused before he replied--"You have spoken to me
frankly, let us do nothing by halves--tell me, at once, the nature
of the service I can do you, and the amount of my reward, and then
you shall have my answer.
With respect to Dawson, I will confess to you, that I did once know
him well, and that we have done many a mad prank together, which I
should not like the bugaboos and bulkies to know; you will,
therefore, see that I am naturally reluctant to tell you any thing
about him, unless your honour will inform me of the why and the
wherefore."
I was somewhat startled by this speech, and by the shrewd,
cunning eye which dwelt upon me, as it was uttered; but, however, I
was by no means sure, that acceding to his proposal would not be
my readiest and wisest way to the object I had in view.
Nevertheless, there were some preliminary questions to be got over
first: perhaps Dawson might be too dear a friend to the candid Job,
for the latter to endanger his safety; or perhaps, (and this was
more probable,) Jonson might be perfectly ignorant of any thing
likely to aid me: in this case my communication would be useless;
accordingly I said, after a short consideration--
"Patience, my dear Mr. Jonson--patience, you shall know all in
good time; meanwhile I must--even for Dawson's sake--question you
blindfold. What, now, if your poor friend Dawson were in imminent
danger, and that you might have the power to save him, would you not
do all you could?"
The small, coarse features of Mr. Job, grew blank, with a curious
sort of disappointment: "Is that all?" said he. "No! unless I were
well paid for my pains in his behalf, he might go to Botany Bay, for
all I care."
"What!" I cried, in a tone of reproach, "is this your friendship? I
thought, just now, that you said Dawson had been an old and
firm associate of yours."
"An old one, your honour; but not a firm one. A short time ago, I was
in great distress, and he and Thornton had, God knows how! about
two thousand pounds between them; but I could not worm a stiver out
of Dawson--that gripe-all, Thornton, got it all from him."
"Two thousand pounds!" said I, in a calm voice, though my heart beat
violently; "that's a great sum for a poor fellow like Dawson. How
long ago is it since he had it?"
"About two or three months," answered Jonson.

"Pray, have you seen much of Dawson lately?" I asked.

"I have," replied Jonson.

"Indeed!" said I. "I thought you told me, just now, that you
were unacquainted with his residence?"
"So I am," replied Jonson, coldly, "it is not at his own house that
I ever see him."
I was silent, for I was now rapidly and minutely weighing the
benefits and disadvantages of trusting Jonson as he had desired me
to do.

To reduce the question to the simplest form of logic, he had either
the power of assisting my investigation, or he had not: if not,
neither could he much impede it, and therefore, it mattered little
whether he was in my confidence or not; if he had the power,
the doubt was, whether it would be better for me to benefit by it
openly, or by stratagem; that is-- whether it were wiser to state the
whole case to him, or continue to gain whatever I was able by dint
of a blind examination. Now, the disadvantage of candour was,
that if it were his wish to screen Dawson and his friend, he would
be prepared to do so, and even to put them on their guard against
my suspicions; but the indifference he had testified with regard
to Dawson seemed to render this probability very small. The benefits
of candour were more prominent: Job would then be fully aware
that his own safety was not at stake; and should I make it more
his interest to serve the innocent than the guilty, I should have
the entire advantage, not only of any actual information he might
possess, but of his skill and shrewdness in providing additional
proof, or at least suggesting advantageous hints. Moreover, in
spite of my vanity and opinion of my own penetration, I could not
but confess, that it was unlikely that my cross- examination
should be very successful with so old and experienced a sinner as Mr.
Jonson. "Set a thief to catch a thief," is among the wisest of
wise sayings, and accordingly I resolved in favour of a disclosure.

Drawing my chair close to Jonson's, fixing my eye upon his
countenance, and throwing into my own the most open, yet earnest
expression I could summon, I briefly proceeded to sketch Glanville's
situation (only concealing his name), and Thornton's charges. I
mentioned my own suspicions of the accuser, and my desire of discovering
Dawson, whom Thornton appeared to me artfully to secrete. Lastly, I
concluded, with a solemn promise, that if my listener could, by any
zeal, exertion, knowledge, or contrivance of his own, procure the
detection of the men, whom I was convinced were the murderers, a
pension of three hundred pounds a-year should be immediately settled
upon him.

During my communication, the patient Job sat mute and still, fixing
his eyes on the ground, and only betraying, by an occasional
elevation of the brows, that he took the slightest interest in the
tale: when, however, I touched upon the peroration, which so tenderly
concluded with the mention of three hundred pounds a-year, a visible
change came over the countenance of Mr.

Jonson. He rubbed his hands with an air of great content, and one
sudden smile broke over his features, and almost buried his
eyes amid the intricate host of wrinkles it called forth: the smile
vanished as rapidly as it came, and Mr. Job turned round to me with
a solemn and sedate aspect.

"Well, your honour," said he, "I'm glad you've told me all; we must
see what can be done. As for Thornton, I'm afraid we shan't make
much out of him, for he's an old offender, whose conscience is
as hard as a brick- bat; but, of Dawson, I hope better things.
However, you must let me go now, for this is a matter that
requires a vast deal of private consideration. I shall
call upon you tomorrow, Sir, before ten o'clock, since you say
matters are so pressing; and, I trust, you will then see that you
have no reason to repent of the confidence you have placed in a
man of honour."
So saying, Mr. Job Jonson emptied the remainder of the bottle into
his tumbler, held it up to the light with the gusto of a connoisseur,
and concluded his potations with a hearty smack of the lips,
followed by a long sigh.

"Ah, your honour!" said he, "good wine is a marvellous whetter of
the intellect; but your true philosopher is always moderate:
for my part, I never exceed my two bottles."
And with these words, this true philosopher took his departure.On the other side, the pains and
diligence of ill poets is but thrown away when they want the genius
to invent and feign agreeably.  But if the fictions be delightful
(which they always are if they be natural) if they be of a piece; if
the beginning, the middle, and the end be in their due places, and
artfully united to each other, such works can never fail of their
deserved success.  And such is Virgil's episode of Dido and AEneas,
where the sourest critic must acknowledge that if he had deprived
his "AEneis" of so great an ornament, because he found no traces of
it in antiquity, he had avoided their unjust censure, but had wanted
one of the greatest beauties of his poem.

I shall say more of this in the next article of their charge against
him, which is--want of invention.  In the meantime I may affirm, in
honour of this episode, that it is not only now esteemed the most
pleasing entertainment of the "AEneis," but was so accounted in his
own age, and before it was mellowed into that reputation which time
has given it; for which I need produce no other testimony than that
of Ovid, his contemporary:-


"Nec pars ulla magis legitur de corpore toto,
Quam non legitimo faedere junctus amor."


Where, by the way, you may observe, my lord, that Ovid in those
words, non legitimo faedere junctus amor, will by no means allow it
to be a lawful marriage betwixt Dido and AEneas.  He was in
banishment when he wrote those verses, which I cite from his letter
to Augustus.  "You, sir," saith he, "have sent me into exile for
writing my 'Art of Love' and my wanton elegies; yet your own poet
was happy in your good graces, though he brought Dido and AEneas
into a cave, and left them there not over-honestly together:  may I
be so bold to ask your majesty is it a greater fault to teach the
art of unlawful love than to show it in the action?"  But was Ovid
the court-poet so bad a courtier as to find no other plea to excuse
himself than by a plain accusation of his master?  Virgil confessed
it was a lawful marriage betwixt the lovers; that Juno, the goddess
of matrimony, had ratified it by her presence (for it was her
business to bring matters to that issue):  that the ceremonies were
short we may believe, for Dido was not only amorous, but a widow.
Mercury himself, though employed on a quite contrary errand, yet
owns it a marriage by an innuendo--pulchramque uxorius urbem
extruis.  He calls AEneas not only a husband, but upbraids him for
being a fond husband, as the word uxorius implies.  Now mark a
little, if your lordship pleases, why Virgil is so much concerned to
make this marriage (for he seems to be the father of the bride
himself, and to give her to the bridegroom); it was to make way for
the divorce which he intended afterwards, for he was a finer
flatterer than Ovid, and I more than conjecture that he had in his
eye the divorce which not long before had passed betwixt the emperor
and Scribonia.  He drew this dimple in the cheek of AEneas to prove
Augustus of the same family by so remarkable a feature in the same
place.  Thus, as we say in our home-spun English proverb, he killed
two birds with one stone--pleased the emperor by giving him the
resemblance of his ancestor, and gave him such a resemblance as was
not scandalous in that age (for to leave one wife and take another
was but a matter of gallantry at that time of day among the Romans).
Neque haec in faedera veni is the very excuse which AEneas makes
when he leaves his lady.  "I made no such bargain with you at our
marriage to live always drudging on at Carthage; my business was
Italy, and I never made a secret of it.  If I took my pleasure, had
not you your share of it?  I leave you free at my departure to
comfort yourself with the next stranger who happens to be
shipwrecked on your coast; be as kind an hostess as you have been to
me, and you can never fail of another husband.  In the meantime I
call the gods to witness that I leave your shore unwillingly; for
though Juno made the marriage, yet Jupiter commands me to forsake
you."  This is the effect of what he saith when it is dishonoured
out of Latin verse into English prose.  If the poet argued not
aright, we must pardon him for a poor blind heathen, who knew no
better morals.

I have detained your lordship longer than I intended on this
objection, which would indeed weigh something in a Spiritual Court;-
-but I am not to defend our poet there.  The next, I think, is but a
cavil, though the cry is great against him, and hath continued from
the time of Macrobius to this present age; I hinted it before.  They
lay no less than want of invention to his charge--a capital charge,
I must acknowledge; for a poet is a maker, as the word signifies;
and who cannot make--that is, invent--hath his name for nothing.
That which makes this accusation look so strong at the first sight
is that he has borrowed so many things from Homer, Apollonius
Rhodius, and others who preceded him.  But in the first place, if
invention is to be taken in so strict a sense that the matter of a
poem must be wholly new, and that in all its parts, then Scaliger
hath made out, saith Segrais, that the history of Troy was no more
the invention of Homer than of Virgil.  There was not an old woman
or almost a child, but had it in their mouths before the Greek poet
or his friends digested it into this admirable order in which we
read it.  At this rate, as Solomon hath told us, there is nothing
new beneath the sun.  Who, then, can pass for an inventor if Homer
as well as Virgil must be deprived of that glory!  Is Versailles the
less a new building because the architect of that palace hath
imitated others which were built before it?  Walls, doors and
windows, apartments, offices, rooms of convenience and magnificence,
are in all great houses.  So descriptions, figures, fables, and the
rest, must be in all heroic poems; they are the common materials of
poetry, furnished from the magazine of nature:  every poet hath as
much right to them as every man hath to air or water


"Quid prohibetis aquas?  Usus communis aquarum est."


But the argument of the work (that is to say, its principal action),
the economy and disposition of it--these are the things which
distinguish copies from originals.  The Poet who borrows nothing
from others is yet to be born; he and the Jews' Messias will come
together.  There are parts of the "AEneis" which resemble some parts
both of the "Ilias" and of the "Odysses;" as, for example, AEneas
descended into hell, and Ulysses had been there before him; AEneas
loved Dido, and Ulysses loved Calypso:  in few words, Virgil hath
imitated Homer's "Odysses" in his first six books, and in his six
last the "Ilias."  But from hence can we infer that the two poets
write the same history?  Is there no invention in some other parts
of Virgil's "AEneis?"  The disposition of so many various matters,
is not that his own?  From what book of Homer had Virgil his episode
of Nysus and Euryalus, of Mezentius and Lausus?  From whence did he
borrow his design of bringing AEneas into Italy? of establishing the
Roman Empire on the foundations of a Trojan colony? to say nothing
of the honour he did his patron, not only in his descent from Venus,
but in making him so like her in his best features that the goddess
might have mistaken Augustus for her son.  He had indeed the story
from common fame, as Homer had his from the Egyptian priestess.
AEneadum genetrix was no more unknown to Lucretius than to him; but
Lucretius taught him not to form his hero, to give him piety or
valour for his manners--and both in so eminent a degree that, having
done what was possible for man to save his king and country, his
mother was forced to appear to him and restrain his fury, which
hurried him to death in their revenge.  But the poet made his piety
more successful; he brought off his father and his son; and his gods
witnessed to his devotion by putting themselves under his
protection, to be replaced by him in their promised Italy.  Neither
the invention nor the conduct of this great action were owing to
Homer or any other poet; it is one thing to copy, and another thing
to imitate from nature.  The copier is that servile imitator to whom
Horace gives no better a name than that of animal; he will not so
much as allow him to be a man.  Raffaelle imitated nature; they who
copy one of Raffaelle's pieces, imitate but him, for his work is
their original.  They translate him, as I do Virgil; and fall as
short of him as I of Virgil.  There is a kind of invention in the
imitation of Raffaelle; for though the thing was in nature, yet the
idea of it was his own.  Ulysses travelled, so did AEneas; but
neither of them were the first travellers:  for Cain went into the
land of Nod before they were born, and neither of the poets ever
heard of such a man.  If Ulysses had been killed at Troy, yet AEneas
must have gone to sea, or he could never have arrived in Italy; but
the designs of the two poets were as different as the courses of
their heroes--one went home, and the other sought a home.

To return to my first similitude.  Suppose Apelles and Raffaelle had
each of them painted a burning Troy, might not the modern painter
have succeeded as well as the ancient, though neither of them had
seen the town on fire?  For the drafts of both were taken from the
ideas which they had of nature.  Cities have been burnt before
either of them were in being.  But to close the simile as I began
it:  they would not have designed it after the same manner; Apelles
would have distinguished Pyrrhus from the rest of all the Grecians,
and showed him forcing his entrance into Priam's palace; there he
had set him in the fairest light, and given him the chief place of
all his figures, because he was a Grecian and he would do honour to
his country.  Raffaelle, who was an Italian, and descended from the
Trojans, would have made AEneas the hero of his piece, and perhaps
not with his father on his back, his son in one hand, his bundle of
gods in the other, and his wife following (for an act of piety is
not half so graceful in a picture as an act of courage); he would
rather have drawn him killing Androgeus or some other hand to hand,
and the blaze of the fires should have darted full upon his face, to
make him conspicuous amongst his Trojans.  This, I think, is a just
comparison betwixt the two poets in the conduct of their several
designs.  Virgil cannot be said to copy Homer; the Grecian had only
the advantage of writing first.  If it be urged that I have granted
a resemblance in some parts, yet therein Virgil has excelled him;
for what are the tears of Calypso for being left, to the fury and
death of Dido?  Where is there the whole process of her passion and
all its violent effects to be found in the languishing episode of
the "Odysses"?  A week afterwards he brought me word that Tyrrell had
died in extreme want, and from very despair. Will you credit that,
at hearing this news, my first sensations were only rage and
disappointment? True, he had died, died in all the misery my heart
could wish, but I had not seen him die; and the death-bed seemed to
me robbed of its bitterest pang.

"I know not to this day, though I have often questioned him, what
interest Thornton had in deceiving me by this tale: for my own part,
I believe that he himself was deceived; certain it is (for I inquired),
that a person very much answering to Tyrrell's description had
perished in the state Thornton mentioned; and this might, therefore,
in all probability, have misled him.This is the noble invention of our author, but it hath been copied
by so many sign-post daubers that now it is grown fulsome, rather by
their want of skill than by the commonness.

In the last place.  I may safely grant that by reading Homer, Virgil
was taught to imitate his invention--that is to imitate like him
(which is no more than if a painter studied Raffaelle that he might
learn to design after his manner).  And thus I might imitate Virgil
if I were capable of writing an heroic poem, and yet the invention
be my own; but I should endeavour to avoid a servile copying.  
These two natures, it was thought, lay side by side; according
to some, the male on the right and the female on the left; according
to others, back to back; while there were those who maintained that
Adam was created with a tail, and that it was from this appendage
Eve was fashioned. Other Jewish traditions tell us that Eve was
made from "the thirteenth rib of the right side" (Targ.
Jonath.), and that "she was not drawn out by the head, lest she
should be vain; nor by the eyes, lest she should be wanton; nor
from the mouth, lest she should be given to garrulity; nor by the
ears, lest she should be an eavesdropper; nor by the hands, lest
she should be intermeddling; nor by the feet, lest she be a gadder;
nor by the heart, for fear she should be jealous; but she was taken
out from the side.

Yet, in spite of all these precautions, she had all the faults so
carefully provided against."
If in time of national calamity a man withdraw himself from his kindred
and refuse to share in their sorrow, his two guardian angels come
and lay their hands upon his head and say, "This man has isolated
himself from his country in the day of its need, let him not live
to see and enjoy the day when God shall restore its prosperity." When
the community is in trouble, let no man say, "I will go home
and eat and drink, and say, Peace be unto thee, oh my soul!" (Luke
xii. 19); for to him Scripture hath solemnly said (Isa. xxii. 13,
14), "Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you till you
die."

A metaphor is almost all the
stage can suffer, which is a kind of similitude comprehended in a
word.  But this figure has a contrary effect in heroic poetry; there
it is employed to raise the admiration, which is its proper
business; and admiration is not of so violent a nature as fear or
hope, compassion or horror, or any concernment we can have for such
or such a person on the stage.  Not but I confess that similitudes
and descriptions when drawn into an unreasonable length must needs
nauseate the reader.  Once I remember (and but once) Virgil makes a
similitude of fourteen lines, and his description of Fame is about
the same number.  He is blamed for both, and I doubt not but he
would have contracted them had be lived to have reviewed his work;
but faults are no precedents.  This I have observed of his
similitudes in general--that they are not placed (as our unobserving
critics tell us) in the heat of any action, but commonly in its
declining; when he has warmed us in his description as much as
possibly he can, then (lest that warmth should languish) he renews
it by some apt similitude which illustrates his subject and yet
palls not his audience.  I need give your lordship but one example
of this kind, and leave the rest to your observation when next you
review the whole "AEneis" in the original, unblemished by my rude
translation; it is in the first hook, where the poet describes
Neptune composing the ocean, on which AEolus had raised a tempest
without his permission.  He had already chidden the rebellious winds
for obeying the commands of their usurping master; he had warned
them from the seas; he had beaten down the billows with his mace;
dispelled the clouds, restored the sunshine, while Triton and
Cymothoe were heaving the ships from off the quicksands, before the
poet would offer at a similitude for illustration


"Ac, veluti magno in populo cum saepe coorta est
Seditio, saevitque animis ignobile vulgus;
Jamque faces, et saxa volant; furor arma ministrat;
Tum, pietate gravem ac meritis si forte virum quem
Conspexere, silent, arrectisque auribus adstant:
Ille regit dictis animos, et pectora mulcet:
Sic cunctus pelagi cecidit fragor, aequora postquam
Prospiciens genitor, coeloque invectus aperto
Flectit equos, curruque volans dat lora secundo."


This is the first similitude which Virgil makes in this poem, and
one of the longest in the whole, for which reason I the rather cite
it.  While the storm was in its fury, any allusion had been
improper; for the poet could have compared it to nothing more
impetuous than itself; consequently he could have made no
illustration.  If he could have illustrated, it had been an
ambitious ornament out of season, and would have diverted our
concernment (nunc non erat his locus), and therefore he deferred it
to its proper place.

Silence in a Babylonian was a mark of his being of good family.

_Kiddushin_, fol. 71, col. 2.

Simeon, the son of Gamliel, said, "I have been brought up all my
life among the wise, and I have never found anything of more material
benefit than silence."
_Avoth_, chap. 1.

Rabbi Akiva said, "Laughter and levity lead a man to lewdness;
but tradition is a fence to the law, tithes are a fence to riches,
vows are a fence to abstinence, while the fence of wisdom is silence."

Ibid., chap. 3.

When they opened his brain, they found in it a gnat as big as a swallow
and weighing two selas.

_Gittin_, fol. 56, col. 2.

The context of the above states a tradition current among the Jews
in reference to Titus, the destroyer of Jerusalem. It is said
that when, after taking the city, he had shamefully violated and
profaned the Temple, he took the sacred vessels of the sanctuary,
wrapped them in the veil of the holy place, and sailed with them to
Rome. At sea a storm arose and threatened to sink the ship;
upon which he was heard reflecting, "It seems the God of these
Jews has no power anywhere but at sea. Pharaoh He drowned, and
Sisera He drowned, and now He is about to drown me also.

If He be mighty, let Him go ashore and contend with me there." Then
came a voice from heaven and said, "O thou wicked one, son of a
wicked man and grandson of Esau the wicked, go ashore. I have a
creature--an insignificant one in my world--go and fight with it."

This creature was a gnat, and is called insignificant because it
must receive and discharge what it eats by one aperture.
Immediately, therefore, he landed, when a gnat flew up his nostrils
and made its way to his brain, on which it fed for a period of seven
years. One day he happened to pass a blacksmith's forge, when the
noise of the hammer soothed the gnawing at his brain. "Aha" said
Titus, "I have found a remedy at last;" and he ordered a blacksmith
to hammer before him. To a Gentile for this he (for a time) paid
four zuzim a day, but to a Jewish blacksmith he paid nothing,
remarking to him, "It is payment enough to thee to see thy enemy
suffering so painfully."He
is driven by this storm on the coasts of Africa; he stays at
Carthage all that summer, and almost all the winter following; sets
sail again for Italy just before the beginning of the spring; meets
with contrary winds, and makes Sicily the second time.  This part of
the action completes the year.  Then he celebrates the anniversary
of his father's funerals, and shortly after arrives at Cumes.  And
from thence his time is taken up in his first treaty with Latinus;
the overture of the war; the siege of his camp by Turnus; his going
for succours to relieve it; his return; the raising of the siege by
the first battle; the twelve days' truce; the second battle; the
assault of Laurentum, and the single fight with Turnus--all which,
they say, cannot take up less than four or five months more, by
which account we cannot suppose the entire action to be contained in
a much less compass than a year and half.

Segrais reckons another way, and his computation is not condemned by
the learned Ruaeus, who compiled and published the commentaries on
our poet which we call the "Dauphin's Virgil."  He allows the time
of year when Anchises died to be in the latter end of winter or the
beginning of the spring; he acknowledges that when AEneas is first
seen at sea afterwards, and is driven by the tempest on the coast of
Africa, is the time when the action is naturally to begin; he
confesses farther, that AEneas left Carthage in the latter end of
winter, for Dido tells him in express terms, as an argument for his
longer stay -


"Quin etiam hiberno moliris sidere classem."


But whereas Ronsard's followers suppose that when AEneas had buried
his father he set sail immediately for Italy (though the tempest
drove him on the coast of Carthage), Segrais will by no means allow
that supposition, but thinks it much more probable that he remained
in Sicily till the midst of July or the beginning of August, at
which time he places the first appearance of his hero on the sea,
and there opens the action of the poem.  From which beginning, to
the death of Turnus, which concludes the action, there need not be
supposed above ten months of intermediate time; for arriving at
Carthage in the latter end of summer, staying there the winter
following, departing thence in the very beginning of the spring,
making a short abode in Sicily the second time, landing in Italy,
and making the war, may be reasonably judged the business but of ten
months.  To this the Ronsardians reply that, having been for seven
years before in quest of Italy, and having no more to do in Sicily
than to inter his father--after that office was performed, what
remained for him but without delay to pursue his first adventure?
To which Segrais answers that the obsequies of his father, according
to the rites of the Greeks and Romans, would detain him for many
days; that a longer time must be taken up in the re-fitting of his
ships after so tedious a voyage, and in refreshing his weather-
beaten soldiers on a friendly coast.  These indeed are but
suppositions on both sides, yet those of Segrais seem better
grounded; for the feast of Dido, when she entertained AEneas first,
has the appearance of a summer's night, which seems already almost
ended, when he begins his story.  Therefore the love was made in
autumn; the hunting followed properly, when the heats of that
scorching country were declining.  The winter was passed in jollity,
as the season and their love required; and he left her in the latter
end of winter, as is already proved.  This opinion is fortified by
the arrival of AEneas at the mouth of Tiber, which marks the season
of the spring, that season being perfectly described by the singing
of the birds saluting the dawn, and by the beauty of the place,
which the poet seems to have painted expressly in the seventh
AEneid:-


"Aurora in roseis fulgebat lutea bigis,
Cum venti posuere . . .
. . . variae circumque supraque
Assuetae ripis volucres, et fluminis alveo,
AEthera mulcebant cantu."


The remainder of the action required but three months more; for when
AEneas went for succour to the Tuscans, he found their army in a
readiness to march and wanting only a commander:  so that, according
to this calculation, the "AEneas" takes not up above a year
complete, and may be comprehended in less compass.

This, amongst other circumstances treated more at large by Segrais,
agrees with the rising of Orion, which caused the tempest described
in the beginning of the first book.  By some passages in the
"Pastorals," but more particularly in the "Georgics," our poet is
found to be an exact astronomer, according to the knowledge of that
age.  Now Ilioneus, whom Virgil twice employs in embassies as the
best speaker of the Trojans, attributes that tempest to Orion in his
speech to Dido:-


"Cum subito assurgens fluctu nimbosus Orion."


He must mean either the heliacal or achronical rising of that sign.
The heliacal rising of a constellation is when it comes from under
the rays of the sun, and begins to appear before daylight.  The
achronical rising, on the contrary, is when it appears at the close
of day, and in opposition of the sun's diurnal course.  The heliacal
rising of Orion is at present computed to be about the 6th of July;
and about that time it is that he either causes or presages tempests
on the seas.

Segrais has observed farther, that when Anna counsels Dido to stay
AEneas during the winter, she speaks also of Orion:-


"Dum pelago desaevit hiems, et aquosus Orion."


If therefore Ilioneus, according to our supposition, understand the
heliacal rising of Orion, Anna must mean the achronical, which the
different epithets given to that constellation seem to manifest.
Ilioneus calls him nimbosus, Anna, aquosus.  He is tempestuous in
the summer, when he rises heliacally; and rainy in the winter, when
he rises achronically.  Your lordship will pardon me for the
frequent repetition of these cant words, which I could not avoid in
this abbreviation of Segrais, who, I think, deserves no little
commendation in this new criticism.

I have yet a word or two to say of Virgil's machines, from my own
observation of them.  He has imitated those of Homer, but not copied
them.  It was established long before this time, in the Roman
religion as well as in the Greek, that there were gods, and both
nations for the most part worshipped the same deities, as did also
the Trojans (from whom the Romans, I suppose, would rather be
thought to derive the rites of their religion than from the
Grecians, because they thought themselves descended from them).
Each of those gods had his proper office, and the chief of them
their particular attendants.  Thus Jupiter had in propriety Ganymede
and Mercury, and Juno had Iris.  It was not for Virgil, then, to
Create new ministers; he must take what he found in his religion.
It cannot therefore be said that he borrowed them from Homer, any
more than from Apollo, Diana, and the rest, whom he uses as he finds
occasion for them, as the Grecian poet did; but he invents the
occasions for which he uses them.  Venus, after the destruction of
Troy, had gained Neptune entirely to her party; therefore we find
him busy in the beginning of the "AEneis" to calm the tempest raised
by AEolus, and afterwards conducting the Trojan fleet to Cumes in
safety, with the loss only of their pilot, for whom he bargains.  I
name those two examples--amongst a hundred which I omit--to prove
that Virgil, generally speaking, employed his machines in performing
those things which might possibly have been done without them.  What
more frequent than a storm at sea upon the rising of Orion?  What
wonder if amongst so many ships there should one be overset, which
was commanded by Orontes, though half the winds had not been there
which AEolus employed?  Might not Palinurus, without a miracle, fall
asleep and drop into the sea, having been over-wearied with
watching, and secure of a quiet passage by his observation of the
skies?  At least AEneas, who knew nothing of the machine of Somnus,
takes it plainly in this sense:-


"O nimium coelo et pelago confise sereno,
Nudus in ignota, Palinure, jacebis arena."


But machines sometimes are specious things to amuse the reader, and
give a colour of probability to things otherwise incredible; and,
besides, it soothed the vanity of the Romans to find the gods so
visibly concerned in all the actions of their predecessors.  We who
are better taught by our religion, yet own every wonderful accident
which befalls us for the best, to be brought to pass by some special
providence of Almighty God, and by the care of guardian angels; and
from hence I might infer that no heroic poem can be writ on the
Epicurean principles, which I could easily demonstrate if there were
need to prove it or I had leisure.

When Venus opens the eyes of her son AEneas to behold the gods who
combated against Troy in that fatal night when it was surprised, we
share the pleasure of that glorious vision (which Tasso has not ill
copied in the sacking of Jerusalem).  But the Greeks had done their
business though neither Neptune, Juno, or Pallas had given them
their divine assistance.  The most crude machine which Virgil uses
is in the episode of Camilla, where Opis by the command of her
mistress kills Aruns.  The next is in the twelfth AEneid, where
Venus cures her son AEneas.  But in the last of these the poet was
driven to a necessity, for Turnus was to be slain that very day; and
AEneas, wounded as he was, could not have engaged him in single
combat unless his hurt had been miraculously healed and the poet had
considered that the dittany which she brought from Crete could not
have wrought so speedy an effect without the juice of ambrosia which
she mingled with it.  After all, that his machine might not seem too
violent, we see the hero limping after Turnus; the wound was
skinned, but the strength of his thigh was not restored.  But what
reason had our author to wound AEneas at so critical a time?  And
how came the cuishes to be worse tempered than the rest of his
armour, which was all wrought by Vulcan and his journeymen?  These
difficulties are not easily to be solved without confessing that
Virgil had not life enough to correct his work, though he had
reviewed it and found those errors, which he resolved to mend; but
being prevented by death, and not willing to leave an imperfect work
behind him, he ordained by his last testament that his "AEneis"
should be burned.  As for the death of Aruns, who was shot by a
goddess, the machine was not altogether so outrageous as the
wounding Mars and Venus by the sword of Diomede.  Two divinities,
one would have thought, might have pleaded their prerogative of
impassibility, or at least not have been wounded by any mortal hand.
Beside that, the [Greek text which cannot be reproduced] which they
shed was so very like our common blood that it was not to be
distinguished from it but only by the name and colour.  As for what
Horace says in his "Art of Poetry," that no machines are to be used
unless on some extraordinary occasion--


"Nec deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus" -


that rule is to be applied to the theatre, of which he is then
speaking, and means no more than this--that when the knot of the
play is to be untied, and no other way is left for making the
discovery, then, and not otherwise, let a god descend upon a rope,
and clear the business to the audience.  But this has no relation to
the machines which are used in an epic poem.

In the last place, for the dira, or flying pest which, flapping on
the shield of Turnus and fluttering about his head, disheartened him
in the duel, and presaged to him his approaching death--I might have
placed it more properly amongst the objections, for the critics who
lay want of courage to the charge of Virgil's hero quote this
passage as a main proof of their assertion.  They say our author had
not only secured him before the duel, but also in the beginning of
it had given him the advantage in impenetrable arms and in his
sword; for that of Turnus was not his own (which was forged by
Vulcan for his father), but a weapon which he had snatched in haste,
and by mistake, belonging to his charioteer Metiscus.  That after
all this Jupiter, who was partial to the Trojan, and distrustful of
the event, though he had hung the balance and given it a jog of his
hand to weigh down Turnus, thought convenient to give the Fates a
collateral security by sending the screech-owl to discourage him;
for which they quote these words of Virgil:-


"Non me tua turbida virtus
Terret, ait; dii me terrent, et Jupiter hostis."


In answer to which, I say that this machine is one of those which
the poet uses only for ornament, and not out of necessity.  Nothing
can be more beautiful or more poetical than his description of the
three Dirae, or the setting of the balance, which our Milton has
borrowed from him, but employed to a different end; for, first, he
makes God Almighty set the scales for St. Gabriel and Satan, when he
knew no combat was to follow; then he makes the good angel's scale
descend, and the devil's mount--quite contrary to Virgil, if I have
translated the three verses according to my author's sense:-


"Jupiter ipse duas aequota examine lances
Sustinet, et fata imponit diversa duorum;
Quem damnet labor, et quo vergat pondere letum."


For I have taken these words Quem damnet labor in the sense which
Virgil gives them in another place (Damnabis tu quoque votis), to
signify a prosperous event.  Yet I dare not condemn so great a
genius as Milton; for I am much mistaken if he alludes not to the
text in Daniel where Belshazzar was put into the balance and found
too light.  This is digression, and I return to my subject.  I said
above that these two machines of the balance and the Dira were only
ornamental, and that the success of the duel had been the same
without them; for when AEneas and Turnus stood fronting each other
before the altar, Turnus looked dejected, and his colour faded in
his face, as if he desponded of the victory before the fight; and
not only he, but all his party, when the strength of the two
champions was judged by the proportion of their limbs, concluded it
was impar pugna, and that their chief was overmatched.  PR. He will
make such a match as he shall one day rue.[58]
IO. Celestial or mortal? If it may be spoken, tell me.

PR. But why ask its nature?

for it is not a matter that I can communicate to you.

IO. Is it by a consort that he is to be ejected from his throne?

PR.

Yes, surely, one that shall
give birth to a son mightier than the father.[59] 
IO.

And has he no refuge from this misfortune?

PR. Not he, indeed, before at any rate I after being liberated
from my shackles--
IO. Who, then, is he that shall liberate thee in despite of Jupiter?

PR. It is ordained that it shall be one of thine own descendants.

IO. How sayest thou? Shall child of mine release thee from thy ills?

PR. Yes, the third of thy lineage in addition to ten other generations.[60]

IO. This prophecy of thine is no longer easy for me to form a
guess upon.

PR. Nor seek thou to know over well thine own pangs.

IO. Do not, after proffering me a benefit,
withhold it from me.

PR. I will freely grant thee one of two disclosures.

IO. Explain to me first of what sort they are, and allow me my
choice.

PR. I allow it thee; for choose whether I shall clearly tell to thee
the residue of thy troubles, or who it is that is to be my deliverer.

CH. Of these twain do thou vouchsafe to bestow the one boon on
this damsel, and the other on me, and disdain thou not my
request. To her tell the rest of her wanderings, and to me him
that is to deliver thee; for this I long [to hear].

PR. Seeing that ye are eagerly bent upon it, I will not oppose your
wishes, so as not to utter every thing as much as ye desire.

To thee in the first place, Io, will I describe thy mazy wanderings,
which do thou engrave on the recording tablets of thy mind.

When thou shalt have crossed the stream that is the boundary
of the Continents, to the ruddy realms of morn where walks the
sun[61] ...
having passed over the roaring swell of the sea, until thou shalt
reach the Gorgonian plains of Cisthene, where dwell the Phorcides,
three swan-like aged damsels, that possess one eye in common, that
have but a single tooth, on whom ne'er doth the sun glance with his
rays, nor the nightly moon. And hard by are three winged sisters
of these, the snake-tressed Gorgons, abhorred of mortals, whom none
of human race can look upon and retain the breath of life.[62]
Such is this caution[63] which I mention to thee. Now lend an ear
to another hideous spectacle; for be on thy guard against the
keen-fanged hounds of Jupiter that never bark, the gryphons, and the
cavalry host of one-eyed Arimaspians, who dwell on the banks of the
gold-gushing fount, the stream of Pluto: go not thou nigh to these.
And thou wilt reach a far-distant land, a dark tribe, who dwell
close upon the fountains of the sun, where is the river Æthiops.
Along the banks of this wend thy way, until thou shalt have reached
the cataract where from the Bybline mountains the Nile pours
forth his hallowed, grateful stream. This will guide thee to the
triangular land of the Nile; where at length, Io, it is ordained
for thee and thy children after thee to found the distant colony. And
if aught of this is obscurely uttered, and hard to be understood,
question me anew, and learn it thoroughly and clearly: as for
leisure, I have more than I desire.

CH. If indeed thou hast aught to tell of her baleful wanderings, that
still remains or hath been omitted, say on; but if thou hast told
the whole, give to us in our turn the favor which we ask, and
you, perchance, remember.

PR. She hath heard the full term of her journeying. And that she
may know that she hath not been listening to me in vain, I will
relate what hardships she endured before she came hither, giving
her this as a sure proof of my statements. The very great multitude
indeed of words I shall omit, and I will proceed to the termination
itself of thine aberrations. For after that thou hadst come to
the Molossian plains, and about the lofty ridge of Dodona, where is
the oracular seat of Thesprotian Jove, and a portent passing belief,
the speaking oaks, by which thou wast clearly and without any
ambiguity saluted illustrious spouse of Jove that art to be; if
aught of this hath any charms for thee.[64] Thence madly rushing
along the seaside track, thou didst dart away to the vast bay of
Rhea, from which thou art tempest-driven in retrograde courses: and
in time to come, know well that the gulf of the deep shall be called
IO-nian, a memorial of thy passage to all mortals.

These hast thou as tokens of my intelligence, how that it perceives
somewhat beyond what appears.

The rest I shall tell both to you and to her in common, after
reaching the very identical track of my former narrative. There
is on the land's utmost verge a city Canopus, hard by the Nile's
very mouth and alluvial dike; on this spot Jupiter at length makes
thee sane by merely soothing and touching thee with his unalarming
hand. And named after the progeniture of Jupiter[65] thou shalt
give birth to swarthy Epaphus, who shall reap the harvest of all
the land which the wide-streaming Nile waters. But fifth in descent
from him a generation of fifty virgins shall again come to Argos,
not of their own accord, fleeing from incestuous wedlock with their
cousins; and these with fluttering hearts, like falcons left not
far behind by doves, shall come pursuing marriage such as should
not be pursued, but heaven shall be jealous over their persons;[66]
and Pelasgia shall receive them after being crushed by a deed of
night-fenced daring, wrought by woman's hand; for each bride shall
bereave her respective husband of life, having dyed in their
throats[67] a sword of twin sharp edge.

Would that in guise like this Venus might
visit my foes! But tenderness shall soften
one[68] of the maidens, so that she shall not slay the partner of
her couch, but shall be blunt in her resolve; and of the two
alternatives she shall choose the former, to be called a coward
rather than a murderess.

She in Argos shall give birth to a race of kings. There needs a long
discourse to detail these things distinctly; but from this seed
be sure shall spring a dauntless warrior renowned in archery,
who shall set me free from these toils. Such predictions did my
aged mother the Titaness Themis rehearse to me; but how and
when--to tell this requires a long detail, and thou in knowing it
all wouldst be in nought a gainer.

IO. Eleleu! Eleleu! Once more the spasm[69] and maddening frenzies
inflame me--and the sting of the hornet, wrought by no fire,[70]
envenoms me; and with panic my heart throbs violently against
my breast.
My eyes, too, are rolling in a mazy whirl, and I am carried out of
my course by the raging blast of madness, having no control of
tongue, but my troubled words dash idly against the surges of
loathsome calamity.

[_Exit_ IO.

CH. Wise was the man, ay, wise indeed, who first weighed well
this maxim, and with his tongue published it abroad, that
to match in one's own degree is best by far;[71] and that one who
lives by labor should woo the hand neither of any that have waxed
wanton in opulence, nor of such as pride themselves on nobility
of birth. Never, O Destines,[72] never ... may ye behold me approaching
as a partner the couch of Jupiter: nor may I be[73] brought to
the arms of any bridegroom from among the sons of heaven: for I
am in dread when I behold the maiden Io, contented with no mortal
lover, greatly marred by wearisome wanderings at the hand of Juno.

For myself, indeed--inasmuch as wedlock on one's
own level is free from apprehension--I feel no alarm.[74] And oh!

never may the love of the mightier gods cast on me a glance that none
can elude. This at least is a war without a conflict, accomplishing
things impossible:[75] nor know I what might become of me, for I
see not how I could evade the counsel of Jove.

PR. Yet truly shall Jove, albeit he is self-willed in
his temper, be lowly, in such[76] wedlock is he prepared to wed,
as shall hurl him out of his sovereignty and off his throne a
forgotten thing; and the curse of his father Saturn shall then at
length find entire consummation, which he imprecated when he was
deposed from his ancient throne.

From disasters such as these there is no one of the gods besides
myself that can clearly disclose to him a way of escape. I know this,
and by what means. Wherefore let him rest on in his presumption,
putting confidence in his thunders aloft, brandishing in his hand
a fire-breathing bolt.
For not one jot shall these suffice to save him from falling
dishonored in a downfall beyond endurance; such an antagonist
is he now with his own hands preparing against himself, a portent
that shall baffle all resistance; who shall invent a flame more
potent than the lightning, and a mighty din that shall surpass the
thunder; and shall shiver the ocean trident, that earth-convulsing
pest, the spear of Neptune. And when he hath stumbled upon this
mischief, he shall be taught how great is the difference between
sovereignty and slavery.

CH. Thou forsooth art boding against Jupiter the things thou wishest.

PR. Things that shall come to pass, and that I desire to boot.

CH. And are we to expect that any one will get the mastery of
Jove?

PR. Ay, and pangs too yet harder to bear than these [of mine] shall
he sustain.

CH. And how is it that thou art not dismayed blurting out words
such as these?

PR. Why at what should I be terrified to whom it is not destined to
die?

CH. Yet perchance he will provide for thee affliction more grievous
than even this.

PR. Let him do it then, all is foreseen by me.

CH. They that do homage to Adrasteia are wise.

PR. Do homage, make thy prayer, cringe to each ruler of the
day.

I care for Jove less than nothing; let him do, let him lord it for
this brief span, e'en as he list, for not long shall he rule over
the gods.

But no more, for I descry Jove's courier close at hand, the menial
of the new monarch: beyond all [doubt] he has come to announce
to us some news.

_Enter_ MERCURY.

Thee, the contriver, thee full of gall and bitterness, who sinned
against the gods by bestowing their honors on creatures of a day,
the thief of fire, I address.

The Sire commands thee to divulge of what nuptials it is that thou
art vaunting, by means of which he is to be put down from his
power. And these things, moreover, without any kind of mystery, but
each exactly as it is, do thou tell out; and entail not upon me,
Prometheus, a double journey; and thou perceivest that by such conduct
Jove is not softened.

PR. High sounding, i'faith, and full of haughtiness is thy
speech, as beseems a lackey of the gods. Young in years, ye are
young in power;[77] and ye fancy forsooth that ye dwell in a
citadel impregnable against sorrow. Have I not known two
monarchs[78] dethroned from it? And the third that now is ruler I
shall also see expelled most foully and most quickly. Seem I
to thee in aught to be dismayed at, and to crouch beneath the new
gods?

Widely, ay altogether, do I come short
[of such feelings]. But do thou
hie thee back the way by which thou
camest: for not one tittle shalt thou learn of the matter on which
thou questionest me.

MER. Yet truly 'twas by such self-will even before now that thou didst
bring thyself to such a calamitous mooring.

PR. Be well assured that I would not barter my wretched plight for thy
drudgery; for better do I deem it to be a lackey to this rock,
than to be born the confidential courier of father Jove. Thus is it
meet to repay insult in kind.

MER. Thou seemest to revel in thy present state.

PR. Revel! Would that I might see my foes thus reveling, and among
these I reckon thee.

MER. What dost thou impute to me also any blame for thy mischances?

PR. In plain truth, I detest all the gods, as many of them as,
after having received benefits at my hands, are iniquitously
visiting me with evils.

MER. I hear thee raving with no slight disorder.

PR. Disordered I would be, if disorder it be to loathe one's foes.

MER. Thou wouldst be beyond endurance, wert thou in prosperity.

PR. Woe's me!

MER. This word of thine Jove knows not.

PR. Ay, but Time as he grows old teaches all things.

MER. And yet verily thou knowest not yet how to be discreet.

PR. No i'faith, or I should not have held parley with thee, menial
as thou art.

MER. Thou seemest disposed to tell nought of the things which the
Sire desires.

PR.

In sooth, being under obligation as I am to him, I am bound to return
his favor.

MER. Thou floutest me, forsooth, as if I were a boy.

PR. Why, art thou not a boy, and yet sillier than one, if
thou lookest to obtain any information from me? There is no outrage
nor artifice by which Jupiter shall bring me to utter this, before
my torturing shackles shall have been loosened. Wherefore let his
glowing lightning be hurled, and with the white feathered shower of
snow, and thunderings beneath the earth let him confound and
embroil the universe; for nought of these things shall bend me so
much as even to say by whom it is doomed that he shall be put down
from his sovereignty.

MER. Consider now whether this determination seems availing.

PR. Long since has this been considered and resolved.

MER. Resolve, O vain one, resolve at length in consideration of
thy present sufferings to come to thy right senses.

PR. Thou troublest me with thine admonitions as vainly as [thou
mightest] a billow.[79] Never let it enter your thoughts that I,
affrighted by the purpose of Jupiter, shall become womanish,
and shall importune the object whom I greatly loathe, with effeminate
upliftings of my hands, to release me from these shackles: I want
much of that.

MER. With all that I have said I seem to be speaking to no
purpose; for not one whit art thou melted or softened in thy heart
by entreaties, but art champing the bit like a colt fresh yoked, and
struggling against the reins. But on the strength of an impotent
scheme art thou thus violent; for obstinacy in one not soundly wise,
itself by itself availeth less than nothing. And mark, if thou art
not persuaded by my words, what a tempest and three-fold surge of
ills, from which there is no escape, will come upon thee. For in
the first place the Sire will shiver this craggy cleft with thunder
and the blaze of his bolt, and will overwhelm thy body, and a
clasping arm of rock shall bear thee up. And after thou shalt have
passed through to its close, a long space of time, thou shalt come
back into the light; and a winged hound of Jupiter, a blood-thirsting
eagle, shall ravenously mangle thy huge lacerated frame,
stealing upon thee an unbidden guest, and [tarrying] all the live-long
day, and shall banquet his fill on the black viands[80] of thy liver.
To such labors look thou for no termination, until some god shall
appear as a substitute in thy pangs, and shall be willing to go
both to gloomy Hades, and to the murky depths around Tartarus.

Wherefore advise thee, since this is no fictitious vaunt, but uttered
in great earnestness; for the divine mouth knows not how to
utter falsehood, but will bring every word to pass. But do
thou look around and reflect, and never for a moment deem pertinacity
better than discretion.

CH. To us, indeed, Mercury seems to propose no unseasonable
counsel; for he bids thee to abandon thy recklessness, and seek out
wise consideration. Be persuaded; for to a wise man 'tis disgraceful
to err.

PR. To me already well aware of it hath this fellow urged his message;
but for a foe to suffer horribly at the hands of foes is no
indignity.
Wherefore let the doubly-pointed wreath of his fire be hurled at
me, and ether be torn piecemeal by thunder, and spasm of
savage blasts; and let the wind rock earth from her base, roots and
all, and with stormy surge mingle in rough tide the billow of the
deep and the paths of the stars; and fling my body into black Tartarus,
with a whirl, in the stern eddies of necessity. Yet by no
possible means shall he visit me with death.

MER. Resolutions and expressions, in truth, such as these of thine,
one may hear from maniacs. For in what point doth his fate fall
short of insanity?[81] What doth it abate from ravings? But do ye
then at any rate, that sympathize with him in his sufferings, withdraw
hence speedily some-whither from this spot, lest the harsh bellowing
of the thunder smite you with idiotcy.

CH. Utter and advise me to something else, in which too thou
mayest prevail upon me; for in this, be sure, thou hast intruded a
proposal not to be borne. How is it that thou urgest me to practice
baseness?
Along with him here I am willing to endure what is destined, for I
have learned to abhor traitors; and there is no evil which I hold in
greater abomination.

MER. Well, then, bear in mind the things of which I forewarn you:
and do not, when ye have been caught in the snares of Atè, throw the
blame on fortune, nor ever at any time say that Jove cast you into
unforeseen calamity: no indeed, but ye your ownselves: for well
aware, and not on a sudden, nor in ignorance, will ye be entangled
by your senselessness in an impervious net of Atè.

[_Exit_ MERCURY.

PR. And verily in deed and no longer in word doth the earth heave,
and the roaring echo of thunder rolls bellowing by us; and
deep blazing wreaths of lightning are glaring, and hurricanes whirl
the dust; and blasts of all the winds are leaping forth, showing
one against the other a strife of conflict gusts; and the firmament
is embroiled with the deep.[82] Such is this onslaught that
is clearly coming upon me from Jove, a cause for terror. O dread
majesty of my mother Earth, O ether that diffusest thy common light,
thou beholdest the wrongs I suffer.

THE SEVEN AGAINST THEBES.

The siege of the city of Thebes, and the description of the seven
champions of the Theban and Argive armies, The deaths of the brothers
Polynices and Eteocles, the mournings over them, by their sisters
Antigone and Ismene, and the public refusal of burial to the ashes
of Polynices, against which Antigone boldly protests, conclude the
play.

PERSONS REPRESENTED.

ETEOCLES.
A MESSENGER.
CHORUS OF THEBAN VIRGINS.
ISMENE.
ANTIGONE.
A HERALD.

SCENE. The Acropolis of Thebes.--Compare v. 227, ed.

Blomf.

TIME. Early in the morning; the length of the action can scarcely be
fixed with absolute certainty. It certainly did not exceed twelve
hours.

The expedition of "the Seven" against Thebes is fixed by Sir I.
Newton, B.C. 928. Cf. of his Chronology, p. 27. Blair carries it
as far back as B.C. 1225.--OLD TRANSLATOR.
ETEOCLES. Citizens of Cadmus! it is fitting that he should speak
things seasonable who has the care of affairs on the poop of a
state, managing the helm, not lulling his eyelids in slumber. For
if we succeed, the gods are the cause; but if, on the other hand
(which heaven forbid), mischance should befall, Eteocles alone would
be much bruited through the city by the townsmen in strains clamorous
and in wailings, of which may Jove prove rightly called the Averter
to the city of the Cadmæans.[83] And now it behooves you--both him
who still falls short of youth in its prime, and him who in point
of age has passed his youth, nurturing the ample vigor of his frame
and each that is in his prime,[84] as is best fitting--to succor
the city, and the altars of your country's gods, so that their
honors may never be obliterated; your children too, and your
motherland, most beloved nurse; for she, taking fully on herself
the whole trouble of your rearing, nurtured you when infants crawling
on her kindly soil, for her trusty shield-bearing citizens, that
ye might be [trusty[85]] for this service. And, for the present
indeed, up to this day, the deity inclines in our favor; since to
us now all this time beleaguered the war for the most part, by
divine allotment, turns out well. But now, as saith the seer, the
feeder[86] of birds, revolving in ear and thoughts, without the use
of fire, the oracular birds with unerring art--he, lord of such
divining powers, declares that the main Achæan assault is this night
proclaimed,[87] and [that the Achæans] attempt the city.
But haste ye all, both to the battlements and the gates of the tower
works; On! in full panoply throng the breastworks, and take your
stations on the platforms of the towers, and, making stand at the
outlets of the gates, be of good heart, nor be over-dismayed at the
rabble of the aliens; God will give a happy issue. Moreover, I have
also dispatched scouts and observers of the army, who will not, I
feel assured, loiter on their way; and when I have had intelligence
from these, I shall, in no point, be surprised by stratagem.
MESSENGER.--Most gallant Eteocles! sovereign of the Cadmæans, I
have come bearing a clear account of the matters yonder, from the
army; and I myself am eye-witness of the facts. For seven chieftains,
impetuous leaders of battalions, cutting a bull's throat,[88] over
an iron-rimmed shield,[89] and touching with their hands the gore
of the bull, by oath have called to witness[90] Mars, Enyo, and
Terror, that delights in bloodshed, that either having wrought the
demolition of our city they will make havoc of the town of the
Cadmæans, or having fallen will steep this land of ours in gore.
Memorials too of themselves, to their parents at home, were they
with their hands hanging in festoons[91] at the car of Adrastus,
dropping a tear, but no sound of complaint passed their lips.[92]
For their iron-hearted spirit glowing with valor was panting, as
of lions that glare battle. And the report of these my tidings is
not retarded by sluggishness. But I left them in the very act of
casting lots, that so each of them, obtaining his post by lot, might
lead on his battalion to our gates. Wherefore do thou with all speed
marshal at the outlets of the gates the bravest men, the chosen of
our city; for already the host of Argives hard at hand armed cap-à-pié
is in motion, is speeding onward, and white foam is staining the
plain with its drippings from the lungs of their chargers. Do thou
then, like the clever helmsman of a vessel, fence[93] our city
before the breath of Mars burst like a hurricane upon it, for the
main-land billow of their host is roaring. And for these measures
do thou seize the very earliest opportunity; for the sequel I will
keep my eye a faithful watch by day, and thou, knowing from the
clearness of my detail the movements of those without, shalt be
unscathed.

[_Exit_ MESSENGER.
ET. O Jupiter! and earth! and ye tutelary deities! and thou Curse,
the mighty Erinnys of my sire! do not, I pray, uproot with utter
destruction from its very base, a prey to foemen, our city, which
utters the language of Greece, and our native dwellings.[94] Grant
that they may never hold the free land and city of Cadmus in a yoke
of slavery; but be ye our strength--nay, I trust that I am urging
our common interests, for a state that is in prosperity honors the
divinities.[95] 
[_Exit_ ETEOCLES.
CHORUS.[96] I wail over our fearful, mighty woes! the army is let
loose, having quitted its camp, a mighty mounted host is streaming
hitherward in advance;[97] the dust appearing high in the air
convinces me, a voiceless, clear, true messenger; the noise of the
clatter of their hoofs upon the plain,[98] reaching even to our
couches, approaches my ears, is wafted on, and is rumbling like a
resistless torrent lashing the mountain-side.Yet Virgil has given me the example of Entellus for my
encouragement; when he was well heated, the younger champion could
not stand before him.  And we find the elder contended not for the
gift, but for the honour (nec dona moror); for Dampier has informed
us in his "Voyages" that the air of the country which produces gold
is never wholesome.

I had long since considered that the way to please the best judges
is not to translate a poet literally, and Virgil least of any other;
for his peculiar beauty lying in his choice of words, I am excluded
from it by the narrow compass of our heroic verse, unless I would
make use of monosyllables only, and these clogged with consonants,
which are the dead weight of our mother tongue.  It is possible, I
confess, though it rarely happens, that a verse of monosyllables may
sound harmoniously; and some examples of it I have seen.  My first
line of the "AEneis" is not harsh -


"Arms, and the man I sing, who forced by Fate," &c. -


but a much better instance may be given from the last line of
Manilius, made English by our learned and judicious Mr. Creech -


"Nor could the world have borne so fierce a flame" -


where the many liquid consonants are placed so artfully that they
give a pleasing sound to the words, though they are all of one
syllable.  It is true, I have been sometimes forced upon it in other
places of this work, but I never did it out of choice:  I was either
in haste, or Virgil gave me no occasion for the ornament of words;
for it seldom happens but a monosyllable line turns verse to prose,
and even that prose is rugged and unharmonious.  Philarchus, I
remember, taxes Balzac for placing twenty monosyllables in file
without one dissyllable betwixt them.

The way I have taken is not so strait as metaphrase, nor so loose as
paraphrase; some things, too, I have omitted, and sometimes have
added of my own.  Yet the omissions, I hope, are but of
circumstances, and such as would have no grace in English; and the
additions, I also hope, are easily deduced from Virgil's sense.
They will seem (at least, I have the vanity to think so), not stuck
into him, but growing out of him.  He studies brevity more than any
other poet; but he had the advantage of a language wherein much may
be comprehended in a little space.  We and all the modern tongues
have more articles and pronouns, besides signs of tenses and cases,
and other barbarities on which our speech is built, by the faults of
our forefathers.  The Romans founded theirs upon the Greek; and the
Greeks, we know, were labouring many hundred years upon their
language before they brought it to perfection.  They rejected all
those signs, and cut off as many articles as they could spare,
comprehending in one word what we are constrained to express in two;
which is one reason why we cannot write so concisely as they have
done.  The word pater, for example, signifies not only "a father,"
but "your father," "my father," "his or her father"--all included in
a word.

This inconvenience is common to all modern tongues, and this alone
constrains us to employ more words than the ancients needed.  But
having before observed that Virgil endeavours to be short, and at
the same time elegant, I pursue the excellence and forsake the
brevity.  For there he is like ambergris, a rich perfume, but of so
close and glutinous a body that it must be opened with inferior
scents of musk or civet, or the sweetness will not be drawn out into
another language.

On the whole matter I thought fit to steer betwixt the two extremes
of paraphrase and literal translation; to keep as near my author as
I could without losing all his graces, the most eminent of which are
in the beauty of his words:  and those words, I must add, are always
figurative.  Such of these as would retain their elegance in our
tongue, I have endeavoured to graff on it; but most of them are of
necessity to be lest, because they will not shine in any but their
own.  Virgil has sometimes two of them in a line; but the scantiness
of our heroic verse is not capable of receiving more than one; and
that, too, must expiate for many others which have none.  Such is
the difference of the languages, or such my want of skill in
choosing words.  Yet I may presume to say, and I hope with as much
reason as the French translator, that, taking all the materials of
this divine author, I have endeavoured to make Virgil speak such
English as he would himself have spoken if he had been born in
England and in this present age.  I acknowledge, with Segrais, that
I have not succeeded in this attempt according to my desire; yet I
shall not be wholly without praise, if in some sort I may be allowed
to have copied the clearness, the purity, the easiness, and the
magnificence of his style.  But I shall have occasion to speak
farther on this subject before I end the preface.

When I mentioned the Pindaric line, I should have added that I take
another licence in my verses; for I frequently make use of triplet
rhymes, and for the same reason--because they bound the sense.  And
therefore I generally join these two licences together, and make the
last verse of the triplet a Pindaric; for besides the majesty which
it gives, it confines the sense within the barriers of three lines,
which would languish if it were lengthened into four.  Spenser is my
example for both these privileges of English verses; and Chapman has
followed him in his translation of Homer.  Mr. Cowley has given in
to them after both; and all succeeding writers after him.  I regard
them now as the Magna Charta of heroic poetry; and am too much an
Englishman to lose what my ancestors have gained for me.  Let the
French and Italians value themselves on their regularity; strength
and elevation are our standard.  I said before, and I repeat it,
that the affected purity of the French has unsinewed their heroic
verse.  The language of an epic poem is almost wholly figurative;
yet they are so fearful of a metaphor that no example of Virgil can
encourage them to be bold with safety.  Sure, they might warm
themselves by that sprightly blaze, without approaching it so close
as to singe their wings; they may come as near it as their master.
Not that I would discourage that purity of diction in which he
excels all other poets; but he knows how far to extend his
franchises, and advances to the verge without venturing a foot
beyond it.  On the other side, without being injurious to the memory
of our English Pindar, I will presume to say that his metaphors are
sometimes too violent, and his language is not always pure.  But at
the same time I must excuse him, for through the iniquity of the
times he was forced to travel at an age when, instead of learning
foreign languages, he should have studied the beauties of his mother
tongue, which, like all other speeches, is to be cultivated early,
or we shall never write it with any kind of elegance.  Thus by
gaining abroad he lost at home, like the painter in the "Arcadia,"
who, going to see a skirmish, had his arms lopped off, and returned,
says Sir Philip Sidney, well instructed how to draw a battle, but
without a hand to perform his work.

There is another thing in which I have presumed to deviate from him
and Spenser.  They both make hemistichs, or half-verses, breaking
off in the middle of a line.  I confess there are not many such in
the "Faerie Queen," and even those few might be occasioned by his
unhappy choice of so long a stanza.  Mr. Cowley had found out that
no kind of staff is proper for an heroic poem, as being all too
lyrical; yet though he wrote in couplets, where rhyme is freer from
constraint, he frequently affects half-verses, of which we find not
one in Homer, and I think not in any of the Greek poets or the
Latin, excepting only Virgil:  and there is no question but he
thought he had Virgil's authority for that licence.  But I am
confident our poet never meant to leave him or any other such a
precedent; and I ground my opinion on these two reasons:  first, we
find no example of a hemistich in any of his Pastorals or Georgics,
for he had given the last finishing strokes to both these poems; but
his "AEneis" he left so incorrect, at least so short of that
perfection at which he aimed, that we know how hard a sentence he
passed upon it.  And, in the second place, I reasonably presume that
he intended to have filled up all these hemistichs, because in one
of them we find the sense imperfect:-


"Quem tibi jam Troja . . . " ("AEn." iii. 340.)


which some foolish grammarian has ended for him with a half-line of
nonsense:-


"Peperit fumante Creusa."


For Ascanius must have been born some years before the burning of
that city, which I need not prove.  On the other side we find also
that he himself filled up one line in the sixth AEneid, the
enthusiasm seizing him while he was reading to Augustus:-


"Misenum AEolidem, quo non praestantior alter
AEre ciere viros, . . . "


to which he added in that transport, Martemque accendare cantu, and
never was any line more nobly finished, for the reasons which I have
given in the "Book of Painting."

On these considerations I have shunned hemistichs, not being willing
to imitate Virgil to a fault, like Alexander's courtiers, who
affected to hold their necks awry because he could not help it.  I
am confident your lordship is by this time of my opinion, and that
you will look on those half-lines hereafter as the imperfect
products of a hasty muse, like the frogs and serpents in the Nile,
part of them kindled into life, and part a lump of unformed,
unanimated mud.

I am sensible that many of my whole verses are as imperfect as those
halves, for want of time to digest them better.  But give me leave
to make the excuse of Boccace, who, when he was upbraided that some
of his novels had not the spirit of the rest, returned this answer:
that Charlemagne, who made the Paladins, was never able to raise an
army of them.  The leaders may be heroes, but the multitude must
consist of common men.

I am also bound to tell your lordship, in my own defence, that from
the beginning of the first Georgic to the end of the last AEneid, I
found the difficulty of translation growing on me in every
succeeding book.  For Virgil, above all poets, had a stock which I
may call almost inexhaustible, of figurative, elegant, and sounding
words.  I, who inherit but a small portion of his genius, and write
in a language so much inferior to the Latin, have found it very
painful to vary phrases when the same sense returns upon me.  Even
he himself, whether out of necessity or choice, has often expressed
the same thing in the same words, and often repeated two or three
whole verses which he had used before.  Words are not so easily
coined as money; and yet we see that the credit not only of banks,
but of exchequers, cracks when little comes in and much goes out.
Virgil called upon me in every line for some new word, and I paid so
long that I was almost bankrupt; so that the latter end must needs
be more burthensome than the beginning or the middle; and
consequently the twelfth AEneid cost me double the time of the first
and second.  What had become of me, if Virgil had taxed me with
another book?  --The poor little fellow pressed it upon them with
a nod of welcomeness.--Prenez en--prenez, said he, looking another
way; so they each took a pinch.--Pity thy box should ever want one!
said I to myself; so I put a couple of sous into it--taking a small
pinch out of his box, to enhance their value, as I did it.

He felt the weight of the second obligation more than of the first,--'twas
doing him an honour,--the other was only doing him a charity;--and
he made me a bow down to the ground for it.

- Here! said I to an old soldier with one hand, who had been
campaigned and worn out to death in the service--here's a couple of
sous for thee.--Vive le Roi! said the old soldier.

I had then but three sous left: so I gave one, simply, pour l'amour
de Dieu, which was the footing on which it was begg'd.--The poor woman
had a dislocated hip; so it could not be well upon any other
motive.

Mon cher et tres-charitable Monsieur.--There's no opposing
this, said I.

Milord Anglois--the very sound was worth the money;--so I gave MY LAST
SOUS FOR IT. But in the eagerness of giving, I had overlooked
a pauvre honteux, who had had no one to ask a sous for him, and
who, I believe, would have perished, ere he could have ask'd one for
himself: he stood by the chaise a little without the circle, and wiped
a tear from a face which I thought had seen better days.- -Good God!
said I--and I have not one single sous left to give him.--But you
have a thousand! cried all the powers of nature, stirring within
me;--so I gave him--no matter what--I am ashamed to say HOW MUCH
now,--and was ashamed to think how little, then: so, if the reader
can form any conjecture of my disposition, as these two fixed
points are given him, he may judge within a livre or two what was
the precise sum.

I could afford nothing for the rest, but Dieu vous benisse!

- Et le bon Dieu vous benisse encore, said the old soldier, the
dwarf, &c.

The pauvre honteux could say
nothing;--he pull'd out a
little handkerchief, and wiped
his face as he turned away--and I thought he thanked me more than
them all.

THE BIDET.

Having settled all these little matters, I got into my post-chaise
with more ease than ever I got into a post-chaise in my life; and
La Fleur having got one large jack-boot on the far side of a little
bidet, and another on this (for I count nothing of his legs)--he
canter'd away before me as happy and as perpendicular as a prince.-
-But what is happiness!

what is grandeur in this painted scene of life! A dead ass, before we
had got a league, put a sudden stop to La Fleur's career;--his
bidet would not pass by it,--a contention arose betwixt them, and
the poor fellow was kick'd out of his jack- boots the very first
kick.

La Fleur bore his fall like a French Christian, saying neither
more nor less upon it, than Diable! So presently got up, and came
to the charge again astride his bidet, beating him up to it as he
would have beat his drum.

The bidet flew from one side of the road to the other, then back
again,--then this way, then that way, and in short, every way but
by the dead ass: --La Fleur insisted upon the thing--and the bidet
threw him.

What's the matter, La Fleur, said I, with this bidet of thine?
Monsieur, said he, c'est un cheval le plus opiniatre du monde.--
Nay, if he is a conceited beast, he must go his own way, replied
I.
So La Fleur got off him, and giving him a good sound lash, the bidet
took me at my word, and away he scampered back to Montreuil.-
-Peste! said La Fleur.

It is not mal-a-propos to take notice here, that though La Fleur
availed himself but of two different terms of exclamation in this
encounter,--namely, Diable! and Peste! that there are, nevertheless,
three in the French language: like the positive, comparative,
and superlative, one or the other of which serves for every
unexpected throw of the dice in life.

Le Diable!But
every man cannot distinguish betwixt pedantry and poetry; every man,
therefore, is not fit to innovate.

Upon the whole matter, a poet must first be certain that the word he
would introduce is beautiful in the Latin; and is to consider, in
the next place, whether it will agree with the English idiom.  After
this he ought to take the opinion of judicious friends, such as are
learned in both languages; and lastly, since no man is infallible,
let him use this licence very sparingly; for if too many foreign
words are poured in upon us, it looks as if they were designed not
to assist the natives, but to conquer them.

I am now drawing towards a conclusion, and suspect your lordship is
very glad of it.  But permit me first to own what helps I have had
in this undertaking.  The late Earl of Lauderdale sent me over his
new translation of the "AEneis," which he had ended before I engaged
in the same design.  Neither did I then intend it; but some
proposals being afterwards made me by my bookseller, I desired his
lordship's leave that I might accept them, which he freely granted,
and I have his letter yet to show for that permission.  He resolved
to have printed his work, which he might have done two years before
I could publish mine; and had performed it, if death had not
prevented him.  But having his manuscript in my hands, I consulted
it as often as I doubted of my author's sense, for no man understood
Virgil better than that learned nobleman.  His friends, I hear, have
yet another and more correct copy of that translation by them, which
had they pleased to have given the public, the judges must have been
convinced that I have not flattered him.

Besides this help, which was not inconsiderable, Mr. Congreve has
done me the favour to review the "AEneis," and compare my version
with the original.  I shall never be ashamed to own that this
excellent young man has shown me many faults, which I have
endeavoured to correct.  It is true he might have easily found more,
and then my translation had been more perfect.

Two other worthy friends of mine, who desire to have their names
concealed, seeing me straitened in my time, took pity on me and gave
me the life of Virgil, the two prefaces--to the Pastorals and the
Georgics--and all the arguments in prose to the whole translation;
which perhaps has caused a report that the two first poems are not
mine.  If it had been true that I had taken their verses for my own,
I might have gloried in their aid; and like Terence, have farthered
the opinion that Scipio and Laelius joined with me.  But the same
style being continued through the whole, and the same laws of
versification observed, are proofs sufficient that this is one man's
work; and your lordship is too well acquainted with my manner to
doubt that any part of it is another's.

That your lordship may see I was in earnest when I premised to
hasten to an end, I will not give the reasons why I writ not always
in the proper terms of navigation, land-service, or in the cant of
any profession.  I will only say that Virgil has avoided these
proprieties, because he writ not to mariners, soldiers, astronomers,
gardeners, peasants, &c., but to all in general, and in particular
to men and ladies of the first quality, who have been better bred
than to be too nicely knowing in the terms.  In such cases, it is
enough for a poet to write so plainly that he may be understood by
his readers; to avoid impropriety, and not affect to be thought
learned in all things.

I have emitted the four preliminary lines of the first AEneid,
because I think them inferior to any four others in the whole poem;
and consequently believe they are not Virgil's.  There is too great
a gap betwixt the adjective vicina in the second line, and the
substantive arva in the latter end of the third; which keeps his
meaning in obscurity too long, and is contrary to the clearness of
his style.  Ut quamvis avido is too ambitious an ornament to be his,
and gratum opus agricolis are all words unnecessary, and independent
of what he had said before.  Horrentia Martis arma is worse than any
of the rest.  Horrentia is such a flat epithet as Tully would have
given us in his verses.  It is a mere filler to stop a vacancy in
the hexameter, and connect the preface to the work of Virgil.

Our author seems to sound a charge, and begins like the clangour of
a trumpet:-


"Arma, virumque cano, Trojae qui primus ab oris," -


Scarce a word without an r, and the vowels for the greater part
sonorous.  The prefacer began with Ille ego, which he was
constrained to patch up in the fourth line with at nunc to make the
sense cohere; and if both those words are not notorious botches I am
much deceived, though the French translator thinks otherwise.  Yours
truly fer upendin' chunks o' soil!
The 'ealthy, 'ardy, 'appy son o' toil!

I owns I've 'ankered fer me former joys; I've 'ad me hours o' broodin'
on me woes; I've missed the comp'ny, an' I've missed the
noise, The football matches an' the picter shows.
I've missed--but, say, it makes me feel fair mean To whip the cat;
an' then see my Doreen.

To see the colour comin' in 'er cheeks, To see 'er eyes grow brighter
day be day, The new, glad way she looks an' laughs an' speaks Is
worf ten times the things I've chucked away.
An' there's a secret, whispered in the dark, 'As made me 'eart
sing like a flamin' lark.

Jist let me tell yeh 'ow it come about.

The things that I've been thro' 'ud fill a
book.
Right frum me birf Fate played to knock me out; The
'and that I 'ad dealt to me was crook!
Then comes Doreen, an' patches up me parst; Now
Forchin's come to bunk wiv me at larst.

First orf, one night poor Mar gits suddin fits, An' floats wivout
the time to wave "good-byes." Doreen is orl broke up the
day she flits; It tears me 'eart in two the way she cries.
To see 'er grief, it almost made me glad I never knowed the mar I
must 'ave 'ad.

We done poor Muvver proud when she went out A slap-up send-orf,
trimmed wiv tears an' crape.
An' then fer weeks Doreen she mopes about, An' life takes on a
gloomy sorter shape.
I watch 'er face git pale, 'er eyes grow dim; Till--like some 'airy
angel--comes ole Jim.

A cherub togged in sunburn an' a beard An' duds that shouted "'Ayseed!"
fer a mile:
Care took the count the minute 'e appeared, An' sorter shrivelled
up before 'is smile, 'E got the 'ammer-lock on my good-will The
minute that 'e sez, "So, this is Bill."
It's got me beat. Doreen's late Par, some way, Was second cousin
to 'is bruvver's wife.
Somethin' like that. In less than 'arf a day It seemed 'e'd been my
uncle orl me life.

'E takes me 'and: "I dunno 'ow it is," 'E sez, "but, lad, I
likes that ugly phiz."
An' when 'e'd stayed wiv us a little while The 'ouse begun to look
like 'ome once more.
Doreen she brightens up beneath 'is smile, An' 'ugs 'im till I
kids I'm gettin' sore.
Then, late one night, 'e opens up 'is scheme, An' passes me wot looks
like some fond dream.

'E 'as a little fruit-farm, doin' well; 'E saved a tidy bit to see
'im thro'; 'E's gettin' old fer toil, an' wants a spell; An' 'ere's
a 'ome jist waitin' fer us two.
"It's 'ers an' yours fer keeps when I am gone," Sez Uncle Jim. "Lad,
will yeh take it on?"
So that's the strength of it. An' 'ere's me now A flamin' berry
farmer, full o' toil; Playin' joo-jitsoo wiv an' 'orse an'
plough, An' coaxin' fancy tucker frum the soil, An' ]ongin', while
I wrestles with the rake, Fer days when me poor back fergits
to ache.

Me days an' nights is full of schemes an' plans To figger profits
an' cut out the loss; An' when the pickin's on, I 'ave me 'an's To
take me orders while I act the boss; It's sorter sweet to 'ave the
right to rouse....
An' my Doreen's the lady of the 'ouse.
To see 'er bustlin' 'round about the place, Full of the simple joy
o' doin' things, That thoughtful, 'appy look upon 'er face, That
'ope an' peace an' pride o' labour brings, Is worth the crowd of
joys I knoo one time, An' makes regrettin' 'em seem like a crime.
An' ev'ry little while ole Uncle Jim Comes up to stay a bit an'
pass a tip.
It gives us 'eart jist fer to look at 'im, An' feel the friendship
in 'is warm 'and-grip.
'Im, wiv the sunburn on 'is kind ole dile; 'Im, wiv the sunbeams
in 'is sweet ole smile.
"I got no time fer wasters, lad," sez 'e, "But that there ugly mug
o' yourn I trust." An' so I reckon that it's up to me To make a
bloomin' do of it or bust.
I got to take the back-ache wiv the rest, An' plug along, an' do
me little best.
Luck ain't no steady visitor, I know; But now an' then it calls--fer
look at me!
You wouldn't take me, 'bout a year ago, Free gratis wiv a shillin'
pound o' tea; Then, in a blessed 'eap, ole Forchin lands A missus
an' a farm fair in me 'ands.Somewhat of laziness was in the case,
and somewhat too of modesty; but nothing of disrespect or of
unthankfulness.  I will not say that your lordship has encouraged me
to this presumption, lest, if my labours meet with no success in
public, I may expose your judgment to be censured.  As for my own
enemies, I shall never think them worth an answer; and if your
lordship has any, they will not dare to arraign you for want of
knowledge in this art till they can produce somewhat better of their
own than your "Essay on Poetry."  It was on this consideration that
I have drawn out my preface to so great a length.  Had I not
addressed to a poet and a critic of the first magnitude, I had
myself been taxed for want of judgment, and shamed my patron for
want of understanding.  But neither will you, my lord, so soon be
tired as any other, because the discourse is on your art; neither
will the learned reader think it tedious, because it is ad Clerum:
at least, when he begins to be weary, the church doors are open.
That I may pursue the allegory with a short prayer after a long
sermon.

May you live happily and long for the service of your country, the
encouragement of good letters and the ornament of poetry, which
cannot be wished more earnestly by any man than by

Your Lordship's most humble,
Most obliged and most
Obedient servant,
JOHN DRYDEN.


POSTSCRIPT.


What Virgil wrote in the vigour of his age (in plenty and at ease) I
have undertaken to translate in my declining years; struggling with
wants, oppressed by sickness, curbed in my genius, liable to be
misconstrued in all I write; and my judges, if they are not very
equitable, already prejudiced against me by the lying character
which has been given them of my morals.  Yet steady to my
principles, and not dispirited with my afflictions, I have, by the
blessing of God on my endeavours, overcome all difficulties; and, in
some measure, acquitted myself of the debt which I owed the public
when I undertook this work.  In the first place, therefore, I
thankfully acknowledge to the Almighty Power the assistance He has
given me in the beginning, the prosecution, and conclusion of my
present studies, which are more happily performed than I could have
promised to myself when I laboured under such discouragements.  For
what I have done, imperfect as it is for want of health and leisure
to correct it, will be judged in after-ages, and possibly in the
present, to be no dishonour to my native country, whose language and
poetry would be more esteemed abroad if they were better understood.
Somewhat (give me leave to say) I have added to both of them in the
choice of words and harmony of numbers, which were wanting,
especially the last, in all our poets; even in those who being
endued with genius yet have not cultivated their mother-tongue with
sufficient care, or, relying on the beauty of their thoughts, have
judged the ornament of words and sweetness of sound unnecessary.
However, my purse was then, as before, at his disposal, and he did
not scruple to avail himself very largely of my offers. He came
frequently to our house; and poor Gertrude, who thought I had,
for her sake, made a real sacrifice in renouncing my acquaintance,
endeavoured to conquer her usual diffidence, and that more painful
feeling than diffidence, natural to her station, and even to affect
a pleasure in the society of my friend, which she was very far
from feeling.

"I was detained at--for several weeks by Gertrude's confinement. The
child--happy being!--died a week after its birth. Gertrude was
still in bed, and unable to leave it, when I received a letter
from Ellen, to say, that my mother was then staying at Toulouse,
and dangerously ill; if I wished once more to see her, Ellen besought
me to lose no time in setting off for the continent.

You may imagine
my situation, or rather you cannot, for you cannot conceive the
smallest particle of that intense love I bore to Gertrude.

To you--to any other man, it might seem no extraordinary hardship to
leave her even for an uncertain period--to me it was like tearing
away the very life from my heart.

"I procured her a sort of half companion, and half nurse; I provided
for her every thing that the most anxious and fearful love could
suggest; and with a mind full of forebodings too darkly to be
realized hereafter, I hastened to the nearest seaport, and set sail
for France.Had it been offered me and I had refused it, yet still some
gratitude is due to such who were willing to oblige me.  But how
much more to those from whom I have received the favours which they
have offered to one of a different persuasion; amongst whom I cannot
omit naming the Earls of Derby and of Peterborough.  Pitch a tale--To
trump up an excuse; to weave a romance.
Plant--To bury.
Plug--To smite with the fist.
Plug along, to--To proceed doggedly.
Plunk--An exclamation expressing the impact of a blow.
Point, to--To seize unfair advantage; to scheme.No difference of interests or
opinion has been able to withdraw his protection from me, and I
might justly be condemned for the most unthankful of mankind if I
did not always preserve for him a most profound respect and
inviolable gratitude.  I must also add that if the last AEneid shine
amongst its fellows, it is owing to the commands of Sir William
Trumbull, one of the principal Secretaries of State, who recommended
it, as his favourite, to my care; and for his sake particularly I
have made it mine.  When man can extricate himself with an equivoque
in such an unequal match,--he is not ill off.--But you can do something
else, La Fleur?

said I.--O qu'oui! he could make
spatterdashes, and play a little upon the fiddle.

--Bravo! said Wisdom.--Why, I play a bass myself, said I;--we
shall do very well. You can shave, and dress a wig a little, La
Fleur?--He had all the dispositions in the world.--It is enough
for heaven! said I, interrupting him,--and ought to be enough for
me.
Fabrini I had also sent
me from Italy, but either he understands Virgil very imperfectly or
I have no knowledge of my author.

.

- Now was I the master of this hotel, said I, laying the point of my
fore-finger on Mons. Dessein's breast, I would inevitably make a
point of getting rid of this unfortunate desobligeant;--it stands
swinging reproaches at you every time you pass by it.No wonder, therefore, if both these versions
surpass the rest; and own the satisfaction I received in his
converse, with whom I had the honour to be bred in Cambridge, and in
the same college.  The seventh AEneid was made English at Burghley,
the magnificent abode of the Earl of Exeter.  In a village belonging
to his family I was born, and under his roof I endeavoured to make
that AEneid appear in English with as much lustre as I could, though
my author has not given the finishing strokes either to it or to the
eleventh, as I perhaps could prove in both if I durst presume to
criticise my master.

The mind sits terrified at the objects she has magnified herself,
and blackened: reduce them to their proper size and hue, she overlooks
them.--'Tis true, said I, correcting the proposition,--the Bastile
is not an evil to be despised;--but strip it of its towers--fill
up the fosse,--unbarricade the doors--call it simply a confinement,
and suppose 'tis some tyrant of a distemper--and not of a man,
which holds you in it,--the evil vanishes, and you bear the other
half without complaint.This noble person
(having been pleased to give them a commendation which I presume not
to insert) has made me vain enough to boast of so great a favour,
and to think I have succeeded beyond my hopes; the character of his
excellent judgment, the acuteness of his wit, and his general
knowledge of good letters, being known as well to all the world as
the sweetness of his disposition, his humanity, his easiness of
access, and desire of obliging those who stand in need of his
protection are known to all who have approached him, and to me in
particular, who have formerly had the honour of his conversation.
Both Rashi and the Tosephoth allude to a case which justifies the
rule given here, where a woman actually carried a living
child in a coffin, in order to avoid the suspicion of an assignation
she had made with a man, who set out to join her.The
most ingenious Mr. "Then," said I, "you shall give it him; your sister
has no longer any necessity for a portion: her marriage with me
prevents that--and with regard to yourself, your wants are not
many--such as it is, you can share my fortune."
"No--no--no!" cried Glanville; and his generous nature lashing him
into fresh rage, he broke from my grasp, and moved menacingly
to Thornton.
That person still lay on the ottoman, regarding us with an air half
contemptuous, half exulting.The whole faculty has always been ready to
oblige me, and the only one of them who endeavoured to defame me had
it not in his power.  I desire pardon from my readers for saying so
much in relation to myself which concerns not them; and with my
acknowledgments to all my subscribers, have only to add that the few
notes which follow are par maniere d'acquit, because I had obliged
myself by articles to do somewhat of that kind.  Her early home was
not many miles distant from the churchyard where you once met
me, and in that churchyard her mother was buried. She had died
before Gertrude's flight; the father's death had followed it: perhaps
my sufferings were a just retribution.The unlearned may have
recourse to any poetical dictionary in English for the names of
persons, places, or fables, which the learned need not, but that
little which I say is either new or necessary, and the first of
these qualifications never fails to invite a reader, if not to
please him.