XXVI.  It would be of little importance, as well as disgusting, to add to
all this an account of the manner in which he treated his relations and
friends; as Ptolemy, king Juba's son, his cousin (for he was the grandson
of Mark Antony by his daughter Selene) [425], and especially Macro
himself, and Ennia likewise [426], by whose assistance he had obtained
the empire; all of whom, for their alliance and eminent services, he
rewarded with violent deaths.  Nor was he more mild or respectful in his
behaviour towards the senate.  Some who had borne the (270) highest
offices in the government, he suffered to run by his litter in their
togas for several miles together, and to attend him at supper, sometimes
at the head of his couch, sometimes at his feet, with napkins.  Others of
them, after he had privately put them to death, he nevertheless continued
to send for, as if they were still alive, and after a few days pretended
that they had laid violent hands upon themselves.  The consuls having
forgotten to give public notice of his birth-day, he displaced them; and
the republic was three days without any one in that high office.  A
quaestor who was said to be concerned in a conspiracy against him, he
scourged severely, having first stripped off his clothes, and spread them
under the feet of the soldiers employed in the work, that they might
stand the more firm.  The other orders likewise he treated with the same
insolence and violence.  Being disturbed by the noise of people taking
their places at midnight in the circus, as they were to have free
admission, he drove them all away with clubs.  In this tumult, above
twenty Roman knights were squeezed to death, with as many matrons, with a
great crowd besides.  When stage-plays were acted, to occasion disputes
between the people and the knights, he distributed the money-tickets
sooner than usual, that the seats assigned to the knights might be all
occupied by the mob.  In the spectacles of gladiators, sometimes, when
the sun was violently hot, he would order the curtains, which covered the
amphitheatre, to be drawn aside [427], and forbad any person to be let
out; withdrawing at the same time the usual apparatus for the
entertainment, and presenting wild beasts almost pined to death, the most
sorry gladiators, decrepit with age, and fit only to work the machinery,
and decent house-keepers, who were remarkable for some bodily infirmity.
Sometimes shutting up the public granaries, he would oblige the people to
starve for a while.

XXVII.  He evinced the savage barbarity of his temper chiefly by the
following indications.  When flesh was only to be had at a high price for
feeding his wild beasts reserved for the spectacles, he ordered that
criminals should be given them (271) to be devoured; and upon inspecting
them in a row, while he stood in the middle of the portico, without
troubling himself to examine their cases he ordered them to be dragged
away, from "bald-pate to bald-pate." [428]  Of one person who had made a
vow for his recovery to combat with a gladiator, he exacted its
performance; nor would he allow him to desist until he came off
conqueror, and after many entreaties.  Another, who had vowed to give his
life for the same cause, having shrunk from the sacrifice, he delivered,
adorned as a victim, with garlands and fillets, to boys, who were to
drive him through the streets, calling on him to fulfil his vow, until he
was thrown headlong from the ramparts.  After disfiguring many persons of
honourable rank, by branding them in the face with hot irons, he
condemned them to the mines, to work in repairing the high-ways, or to
fight with wild beasts; or tying them by the neck and heels, in the
manner of beasts carried to slaughter, would shut them up in cages, or
saw them asunder.  Nor were these severities merely inflicted for crimes
of great enormity, but for making remarks on his public games, or for not
having sworn by the Genius of the emperor.  There must have been some
deep-lying reason for this,--some reason which remained latent below the
surface as long as the United States were regarded as one integral
community, but which asserted itself as soon as Abolition and Slavery
became identified, on the one hand, with national indivisibility,
and, on the other, with disruption. It seems impossible to doubt, that,
had the maintenance or the dissolution of slavery been the sole question,
England would have continued true, without any noteworthy defection, to
her traditions and professions reprobating slavery; and that, as she
did not decisively so continue, other incentives must have intervened,--the
cause being in fact tried upon a different issue. Wherefore? It is to
that question that I now address myself.

Four motives appear to me to have been puissant in indisposing Englishmen
to the Northerners. I speak generally of all such British men and women
as sided with the South, and whom I imagine to have been not much less
than half the whole number of those who took sides at all,--but more
especially of the class in which Southern sympathy was the very prevalent
rule, and Northern sympathy the scanty exception.
This class comprehended the members of the leading professions, army, navy,
church, and bar, the writers upon events of the day in newspapers and
elsewhere, and, broadly speaking, the moneyed and leading social circles,--in
short, "the upper classes"; and, to trust my own experience, not only
these, but the great bulk of, at any rate, the professional middle
class as well.

For instance, in the Government office to which I belong,
comprising some hundreds of _employés_, of whom a tolerable percentage are
known to me, I can recollect only one person, besides myself, whom
I knew to be decidedly for the North,--and he, by the by, is an Irishman.
I have used above the term "the upper classes"; but I believe that the
aristocracy, properly so called, was by no means so Southern as the
society next below it. The first of the four motives in question is one
in whose potency it gives me no pleasure to believe, but it was, I
think, by far the most powerful of all. The English,[D] as a nation,
dislike the Americans as a nation. This is a broad statement, which I
make, because, as far as my powers and opportunities of observation
extend, I believe it to be true; but I am quite prepared to find it
contested, or summarily denied, by many of my countrymen,--the more, the
better. The dislike, be it greater or less in fact, appears to me to
rest upon two main foundations.

In the first place, the Englishman is a born Conservative, or, to
use the old phrase, a Tory.

Toryism is of two kinds,--political and social.
The majority of the nation is certainly not, at the present day, Tory
in political preferences, though there is still a large leaven of that
feeling also. But very many persons who are political Liberals are social
Tories: they venerate the aristocracy; they batten daily upon the "Court
Circular"; they cling to class distinctions in theory, and still
more in practice; they strain towards "good society" and social
conformity; their ideal is "respectability."

    Indeed, it appears to me
    that comparatively very few English people are free from some
tincture of Toryism in either political or social sentiment, or
both: one knows many Radicals, some Democrats, and even a few
theoretic Republicans; but it by no means follows that all or most
of these are not Tories in grain, in some part of their mental or
personal anatomy.

He continually reproached
the whole equestrian order, as devoting themselves to nothing but acting
on the stage, and fighting as gladiators.  Being incensed at the people's
applauding a party at the Circensian games in opposition to him, he
exclaimed, "I wish the Roman people had but one neck." [434]  When
Tetrinius, the highwayman, was denounced, he said his persecutors too
were all Tetrinius's.  Five Retiarii [435], in tunics, fighting in a
company, yielded without a struggle to the same number of opponents; and
being ordered to be slain, one of them taking up his lance again, killed
all the conquerors.  This he lamented in a proclamation as a most cruel
butchery, and cursed all those who had borne the sight of it.

XXXI.  He used also to complain aloud of the state of the times, because
it was not rendered remarkable by any public (274) calamities; for, while
the reign of Augustus had been made memorable to posterity by the
disaster of Varus [436], and that of Tiberius by the fall of the theatre
at Fidenae [437], his was likely to pass into oblivion, from an
uninterrupted series of prosperity.  This innate British temper--aristocratic,
conservative, or Tory, whichever one may term it--is the first of the two
foundations whereon English dislike of Americans appears to me to
rest.

The second is a natural, though assuredly not a laudable feeling,--the
residual soreness left by our defeat in the old American War of
Independence. Far be it from me to say that the English nation at large,
or Englishmen individually, brood gloomily over that defeat, or,
with active and conscious malignity, long for the desolation of their
brothers in blood, language, and a common history. To say that would be
as strained and exaggerated, and as contrary to British practicality and
freedom from vengefulness, as to deny that some degree of soreness and
distance remains would seem to me uncandid.
At Rome, in a
public feast, a slave having stolen some thin plates of silver with which
the couches were inlaid, he delivered him immediately to an executioner,
with orders to cut off his hands, and lead him round the guests, with
them hanging from his neck before his breast, and a label, signifying the
cause of his punishment.  A gladiator who was practising with him, and
voluntarily threw himself at his feet, he stabbed with a poniard, and
then ran about with a palm branch in his hand, after the manner of those
who are victorious in the games.  The inference was inevitable: what Moses
did not condemn in Jews thirty-three centuries ago must be the correct
thing for Anglo-Americans to uphold at the present day. Did not St. Paul
tell Onesimus to return to his master? etc., etc. Many Secessionist organs
of public opinion, no doubt, declined to commit themselves to pro-slavery
views: they started with the assumption that slavery is an evil
and a crime, and they continued protesting the same creed.
Among many other jests, this was one: As he stood by the
statue of Jupiter, he asked Apelles, the tragedian, which of them he
thought was biggest?  Upon his demurring about it, he lashed him most
severely, now and then commending his voice, whilst he entreated for
mercy, as being well modulated even when he was venting his grief.  As
often as he kissed the neck of his wife or mistress, he would say, "So
beautiful a throat must be cut whenever I please;" and now and then he
would threaten to put his dear Caesonia to the torture, that he might
discover why he loved her so passionately.

XXXIV.  In his behaviour towards men of almost all ages, he discovered a
degree of jealousy and malignity equal to that of his cruelty and pride.
Certainly, however, after all allowances made, the _prestige_ of
the Times must have received a perceptible shock. The other daily papers
which I have named, along with the Times, as Southern partisans, represent
divers sections of Liberalism; and there must be more than I am cognizant
of to say in detail of their views of various phases and at various
periods in the contest. The two Northerners, the Daily News and the Star,
(the latter being specially connected with Mr.
John Bright,) represent the more advanced section of Liberalism:
no doubt their more thorough sympathy with the cause of the North was
not unrelated to their more thorough sympathy with the political
constitution and influences of the American Republic; and the same
would be true of many private Northern adherents.He often talked of the
lawyers as if he intended to abolish their profession.  "By Hercules!"
he would say, "I shall put it out of their power to answer any questions
in law, otherwise than by referring to me!"

XXXV.  He took from the noblest persons in the city the ancient marks of
distinction used by their families; as the collar from Torquatus [441];
from Cincinnatus the curl of (276) hair [442]; and from Cneius Pompey,
the surname of Great, belonging to that ancient family.  Ptolemy,
mentioned before, whom he invited from his kingdom, and received with
great honours, he suddenly put to death, for no other reason, but because
he observed that upon entering the theatre, at a public exhibition, he
attracted the eyes of all the spectators, by the splendour of his purple
robe.  Converse with ten ordinary middle-class Englishmen,--men of business
or position, receiving or imparting the current of opinion which is
uppermost in their class,--probably nine of them will express views which
you will find amplified in the columns of the Times. That journal is
neither above their level nor below it; as matters strike them, so do
they also strike the Times. Englishmen do not particularly respect the
Times; it is like them, (or in especial like the bustling,
energetic, money-making, money-spending classes of them,) and they are
like it; but an Englishman of this sort will not feel bound to "look up
to" the Times any more than to another Englishman of the same class.

They reciprocally express each other, and with no obligation or
claim to lofty regard on either side.The Rex Nemorensis [443]
having many years enjoyed the honour of the priesthood, he procured a
still stronger antagonist to oppose him.  One Porius, who fought in a
chariot [444], having been victorious in an exhibition, and in his joy
given freedom to a slave, was applauded so vehemently, that Caligula rose
in such haste from his seat, that, treading upon the hem of his toga, he
tumbled down the steps, full of indignation, (277) and crying out, "A
people who are masters of the world, pay greater respect to a gladiator
for a trifle, than to princes admitted amongst the gods, or to my own
majesty here present amongst them."

