But it was the Duke who made the greatest efforts, and with the least
success. He had told himself again and again that he was bound by
every sense of duty to swallow all regrets. He had taken himself to
task on this matter. He had done so even out loud to his son. He had
declared that he would "let it all pass from him." But who does not
know how hard it is for a man in such matters to keep his word to
himself? Who has not said to himself at the very moment of his own
delinquency, "Now,--it is now,--at this very instant of time, that
I should crush, and quench, and kill the evil spirit within me; it
is now that I should abate my greed, or smother my ill-humour, or
abandon my hatred. It is now, and here, that I should drive out the
fiend, as I have sworn to myself that I would do,"--and yet has
failed?

That it would be done, would be done at last, by this man was very
certain. When Silverbridge assured his sister that "it would come all
right very soon," he had understood his father's character. But it
could not be completed quite at once. Had he been required to take
Isabel only to his heart, it would have been comparatively easy.
There are men, who do not seem at first sight very susceptible to
feminine attractions, who nevertheless are dominated by the grace of
flounces, who succumb to petticoats unconsciously, and who are half
in love with every woman merely for her womanhood. So it was with the
Duke. He had given way in regard to Isabel with less than half the
effort that Frank Tregear was likely to cost him.

"You were not at the House, sir," said Silverbridge when he felt that
there was a pause.

"No, not to-day." Then there was a pause again.

"I think that we shall beat Cambridge this year to a moral," said
Gerald, who was sitting at the round table opposite to his father.
Mr. Boncassen, who was next to him, asked, in irony probably rather
than in ignorance, whether the victory was to be achieved by
mathematical or classical proficiency. Gerald turned and looked at
him. "Do you mean to say that you have never heard of the University
boat-races?"

"Papa, you have disgraced yourself for ever," said Isabel.

"Have I, my dear? Yes, I have heard of them. But I thought Lord
Gerald's protestation was too great for a mere aquatic triumph."

"Now you are poking your fun at me," said Gerald.

"Well he may," said the Duke sententiously. "We have laid ourselves
very open to having fun poked at us in this matter."

"I think, sir," said Tregear, "that they are learning to do the same
sort of thing at the American Universities."

"Oh, indeed," said the Duke in a solemn, dry, funereal tone. And then
all the little life which Gerald's remark about the boat-race had
produced, was quenched at once. The Duke was not angry with Tregear
for his little word of defence,--but he was not able to bring himself
into harmony with this one guest, and was almost savage to him
without meaning it. He was continually asking himself why Destiny
had been so hard upon him as to force him to receive there at his
table as his son-in-law a man who was distasteful to him. And he
was endeavouring to answer the question, taking himself to task and
telling himself that his destiny had done him no injury, and that
the pride which had been wounded was a false pride. He was making a
brave fight; but during the fight he was hardly fit to be the genial
father and father-in-law of young people who were going to be married
to one another. But before the dinner was over he made a great
effort. "Tregear," he said,--and even that was an effort, for he
had never hitherto mentioned the man's name without the formal
Mister,--"Tregear, as this is the first time you have sat at my
table, let me be old-fashioned, and ask you to drink a glass of wine
with me."

The glass of wine was drunk and the ceremony afforded infinite
satisfaction at least to one person there. Mary could not keep
herself from some expression of joy by pressing her finger for a
moment against her lover's arm. He, though not usually given to such
manifestations, blushed up to his eyes. But the feeling produced on
the company was solemn rather than jovial. Everyone there understood
it all. Mr. Boncassen could read the Duke's mind down to the last
line. Even Mrs. Boncassen was aware that an act of reconciliation had
been intended. "When the governor drank that glass of wine it seemed
as though half the marriage ceremony had been performed," Gerald said
to his brother that evening. When the Duke's glass was replaced on
the table, he himself was conscious of the solemnity of what he had
done, and was half ashamed of it.

When the ladies had gone upstairs the conversation became political
and lively. The Duke could talk freely about the state of things
to Mr. Boncassen, and was able gradually to include Tregear in the
badinage with which he attacked the Conservatism of his son. And so
the half-hour passed well. Upstairs the two girls immediately came
together, leaving Mrs. Boncassen to chew the cud of the grandeur
around her in the sleepy comfort of an arm-chair. "And so everything
is settled for both of us," said Isabel.

"Of course I knew it was to be settled for you. You told me so at
Custins."

"I did not know it myself then. I only told you that he had asked me.
And you hardly believed me."

"I certainly believed you."

"But you knew about--Lady Mabel Grex."

"I only suspected something, and now I know it was a mistake. It has
never been more than a suspicion."

"And why, when we were at Custins, did you not tell me about
yourself?"

"I had nothing to tell."

"I can understand that. But is it not joyful that it should all be
settled? Only poor Lady Mabel! You have got no Lady Mabel to trouble
your conscience." From which it was evident that Silverbridge had not
told all.


CHAPTER LXXV

The Major's Story


By the end of March Isabel was in Paris, whither she had forbidden
her lover to follow her. Silverbridge was therefore reduced to the
shifts of a bachelor's life, in which his friends seemed to think
that he ought now to take special delight. Perhaps he did not
take much delight in them. He was no doubt impatient to commence
that steady married life for which he had prepared himself.
But nevertheless, just at present, he lived a good deal at the
Beargarden. Where was he to live? The Boncassens were in Paris, his
sister was at Matching with a houseful of other Pallisers, and his
father was again deep in politics.

Of course he was much in the House of Commons, but that also was
stupid. Indeed everything would be stupid till Isabel came back.
Perhaps dinner was more comfortable at the club than at the House.
And then, as everybody knew, it was a good thing to change the scene.
Therefore he dined at the club, and though he would keep his hansom
and go down to the House again in the course of the evening, he spent
many long hours at the Beargarden. "There'll very soon be an end of
this as far as you are concerned," said Mr. Lupton to him one evening
as they were sitting in the smoking-room after dinner.

"The sooner the better as far as this place is concerned."

"This place is as good as any other. For the matter of that I like
the Beargarden since we got rid of two or three not very charming
characters."

"You mean my poor friend Tifto," said Silverbridge.

"No;--I was not thinking of Tifto. There were one or two here who
were quite as bad as Tifto. I wonder what has become of that poor
devil?"

"I don't know in the least. You heard of that row about the hounds?"

"And his letter to you."

"He wrote to me,--and I answered him, as you know. But whither he
vanished, or what he is doing, or how he is living, I have not the
least idea."

