Produced by Suzanne Shell, Sankar Viswanathan, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


             [Illustration: GWEN IS CAUGHT BY THE STORM]


                          The Youngest Girl

                            in the Fifth


                            A School Story


                                  BY

                            ANGELA BRAZIL

              Author of "The Leader of the Lower School"
         "A Pair of Schoolgirls" "The New Girl at St. Chad's"
                    "A Fourth Form Friendship" &c.


                    _ILLUSTRATED BY STANLEY DAVIS_


                       BLACKIE AND SON LIMITED

                      LONDON GLASGOW AND BOMBAY

       *       *       *       *       *


Contents


CHAP.

I.      AN UNEXPECTED REMOVE

II.     THE GASCOYNE GIRLS

III.    A FALSE STEP

IV.     A DELICATE TRANSACTION

V.      TROUBLE IN THE FIFTH

VI.     A CASTING VOTE

VII.    DICK CHAMBERS

VIII.   GWEN RECEIVES A LETTER

IX.     KEEPING CHRISTMAS

X.      A PRODIGAL

XI.     A PRIZE ESSAY

XII.    GWEN TURNS HENWIFE

XIII.   THE SHOE PINCHES

XIV.    GWEN MEETS TROUBLE

XV.     STORM CLOUDS

XVI.    FIRST AID

XVII.   A PRESSING ACCOUNT

XVIII.  GWEN'S BRIGHT IDEA

XIX.    A SCHOOL GYMKHANA

XX.     A DAY OF RECKONING

XXI.    RETRIBUTION

XXII.   THE TENNIS TOURNAMENT

XXIII.  GWEN TO THE RESCUE

XXIV.   THE SENIOR OXFORD

       *       *       *       *       *


Illustrations


GWEN IS CAUGHT BY THE STORM      _Frontispiece_

GWEN MEETS DICK

"THINGS GO SO HARDLY WITH ME SOMEHOW, DAD"

"OH, I SAY, WELL CAUGHT!"

"YES, YOU CAN EASILY GO MILES OUT OF YOUR WAY"

"IT WAS BASIL WHO SPIED HIM FIRST"

       *       *       *       *       *


THE YOUNGEST GIRL IN THE FIFTH

CHAPTER I

An Unexpected Remove


"Gwen! Gwen Gascoyne! Gwen! Anybody seen her? I say, have you all gone
deaf? Don't you hear me? Where's Gwen? I--want--Gwen--Gascoyne!"

The speaker--Ida Bridge--a small, perky, spindle-legged Junior, jumped
on to the nearest seat, and raising her shrill voice to its topmost
pitch, twice shouted the "Gwen Gascoyne", with an aggressive energy
calculated to make herself heard above the babel of general chatter
that pervaded the schoolroom. Her effort, though far from musical, at
any rate secured her the notice she desired.

"Hello, there! Stop that noise! It's like a dog howling!" irately
commanded a girl in spectacles who was cleaning the blackboard.

"And get down from my desk this minute! Who said you might climb up
there?"

"Look here, you kid, what are you doing in our classroom?"

"Take yourself off at once! Fly! Scoot!"

The "kid", however, stood her ground.

"Shan't move till you've answered my question," she replied with
aggravating impudence. "I want Gwen Gascoyne."

"Why, there she is all the time!"

"Where?"

"Under your very nose, you stupid baby! Get down from my desk, I tell
you!"

The Junior cast what was intended to be a withering glance before she
descended.

"Gwen Gascoyne, why couldn't you answer when I called you?" she
demanded abruptly.

Gwen paused in the act of sharpening a lead pencil, and eyed the
intruder.

"Who asked you to come in here?" she retorted.

"You babes must keep to your own classrooms! Hey, presto! Vanish! And
be quick about it!" interposed Myra Johnson.

"Shan't! Not till I've spoken to Gwen."

"Cheek!"

"Suppress that kid!"

"But I've got a message!" squeaked the babe, as sundry arms of justice
thrust her summarily in the direction of the door. "Oh, I have
really--a message for Gwen from Miss Roscoe! She's to go to the
library--now!"

"Then why couldn't you say so at first?"

"You never gave me a chance!"

Gwen threw the half-sharpened pencil inside her desk and banged down
the lid.

"What does Miss Roscoe want with me?" she asked in some consternation.
"Are you sure she meant me?"

A summons from the headmistress rarely boded good fortune to the
recipient, and the girls stared at Gwen with interested sympathy.

"What have you been doing?" murmured Eve Dawkins.

"Glad I'm not in your shoes!" proclaimed Daisy Hurst.

"Oh, Gwen, I am sorry for you!" bleated Alma Richardson.

"I've not been doing anything!" protested Gwen indignantly. "You've no
need to look at me as if I were a cross between a criminal and a
martyr! Here, you babe, what did Miss Roscoe say?"

"Only that you're to go to the library; and you'd better be quick,
because she said: 'Tell her to come at once!' Said it in her snappiest
way, too! I shouldn't be a month about going if I were you. Hello!
There's the bell. Ta-ta, I'm off! I wish you luck!" and Ida Bridge
fled to the region of her own classroom, with a grin on her impish
face.

Though she might rail at the impudence of the small fry, Gwen was not
above taking a hint--headmistresses do not lightly brook being kept
waiting--so she started at a run up the passage, turning over in her
mind every possible crime which she might unwittingly have committed.

"Can't remember using the front gate, or not changing my boots, or
talking on the stairs, or--oh, wow! Here I am at the library! Well,
whatever I've done, I suppose I'm in for it now! I hope she won't
absolutely wither me up!"

So far from looking withering as Gwen entered the room, the Principal
wore an unusually encouraging and benign expression. She was a
handsome, large, imposing woman, with a stern cast of features, and
was held in great awe by the whole school. As a rule, Seniors and
Juniors quailed alike under the glance of her keen dark eyes.

"Come here, Gwen," she said blandly, as her pupil stood hesitating
near the door. "I want to have a little talk with you. I've been
looking over your reports for the last few weeks, and I find that
you've done well--so well, that I consider the standard of the Upper
Fourth is too easy for you. I think you ought to be able to manage the
work of the Fifth Form, and I'm going to move you there."

Gwen stared at Miss Roscoe, too surprised to answer. Such a proposal
as a change of Form was absolutely the last thing she could have
expected. In the middle of a term it was surely an unprecedented
happening. For the moment she scarcely knew whether to be alarmed or
flattered at the honour thus thrust upon her.

"You may find the mathematics a little difficult," continued Miss
Roscoe; "but Miss Woodville shall coach you until you've caught up the
rest of the class. She can also go over the arrears of Latin
translation with you. With that help you shouldn't be so far behind.
I've spoken to both Miss Slade and Miss Douglas about it, and they
fully agree with me. Do you think yourself you'll be able to manage
the work?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," stammered Gwen. "I expect I'm behind in
maths.--but--"

"But you must try your best. I shall trust you to make a great effort.
I should be very sorry to have to put you down again. Come with me
now, and I'll take you to your new Form."

Gwen followed the Principal with her head in a buzzing whirl. It
seemed like a dream to be suddenly translated from the Lower School to
the Upper. She wished she could have had a little time to get
accustomed to the idea: she would have liked a day's preparation at
least, so as to think the change over and discuss it at home. Miss
Roscoe, however, always did things in a hurry; she never had a moment
to waste, and at present she whisked her pupil along the corridor and
into the Fifth Form room with almost breathless energy.

"Here's Gwen Gascoyne, Miss Douglas," she announced. "We'll try if she
can manage the work, and I've arranged with Miss Woodville to give her
the extra coaching we spoke about. She can bring her books from her
old classroom at eleven."

Thus saying, she bustled away to take a history lecture, leaving the
new member of the Fifth standing in much embarrassment. The eyes of
every girl in the room naturally were glued upon Gwen, who felt
herself twitching with nervousness under the scrutiny; but Miss
Douglas motioned her to an empty desk in the back row, and went on
with the lesson as if nothing had happened. I am afraid Gwen was too
agitated to absorb much knowledge that morning. She had not brought
notebook or pencil with her, and though at Miss Douglas's request her
neighbour rather ungraciously lent her a sheet of paper and a stump of
pencil, the notes which she took were scrappy and inadequate. She kept
stealing peeps at the other girls, but turning away when she met the
anything but friendly glances directed at her. The teacher asked her
one or two questions, then, seeing that she did not quite grasp the
subject, kindly ignored her.

"Talk of a fish out of water," thought Gwen; "I feel like an eel in a
frying pan. I believe these girls are going to be detestable. I shall
have to look out for squalls."

Nor was she mistaken. At eleven o'clock the storm broke. Directly Miss
Douglas had left the room for the interval the seventeen members of
the Fifth turned upon the newcomer.

"What are you doing here, Gwen Gascoyne, I'd like to know?" demanded
Edith Arnold, opening the attack.

"We don't want any Fourth Form girls foisted on us!" proclaimed Rachel
Hunter.

"You don't belong to the Upper School!" urged Charlotte Perry hotly.

"I didn't yesterday, but I do now," retorted Gwen. "Miss Roscoe's
moved me up. Yes--and I mean to stay here, too!" she added, facing her
opponents stubbornly.

"Miss Roscoe must be mad!"

"What can she be thinking of?"

"Better go and ask her yourself," said Gwen, "if you think she's
likely to listen to you. She isn't generally very ready to enter into
explanations."

"But this is monstrous! It's an unheard-of thing!" exclaimed Louise
Mawson excitedly. "A chit like you to be brought into the Fifth! Why,
how old are you?"

"Exactly fourteen and a quarter--birthday on July 16th, if you want
exact date," returned Gwen smartly.

"Oh!" "What a shame!" "We shan't stand it!" rose in such a chorus from
all sides that Gwen took the opportunity to make her escape and go to
the dressing-room for her lunch. The interval was only ten minutes,
and she wished both to break the news to her old classmates and to
fetch some necessary books from her former desk before the bell rang.

The other members of the Fifth lingered behind in perturbed
consultation. Hypaethral temples, in which the cella was open to
the sky, are mentioned by Vitruvius, and it is probable that some
of the larger ones at any rate were partly open to the sky. But how
the openings were arranged is almost entirely a matter of conjecture.
The roof used was of a very flat pitch, one of height to four of
base, later it was even flatter, and this dictated the slope of the
pediments. This roof covered the whole of the building, that is,
both the cella and the colonnades on either side of it, and as the
Greeks were ignorant of the principle of the triangulated truss
built up of beams in compression and tension, they were at a loss
to know how to carry their roof without pushing out their walls.

Hence the great solidity of their buildings, and the rather clumsy
expedient of the colonnades in the interiors of temples which appear
to have been the only means they could think of to carry the roof. One
has to bear it in mind in thinking of Greek architecture, that the
Greeks were not constructors in the sense that the Romans were;
they built well, and the best of their masonry was extraordinarily
skilful--only by unusual skill in the cutting and setting of stone
could they have carried out the delicate curves in the columns and
other parts of their buildings--but construction, in the sense of
the invention of new methods to meet difficult conditions, did not
interest the Greek, and one cannot help thinking that the Greeks
may have been more successful with the outside of their buildings
than with the inside.

It seems clear that they devoted most of their attention to the external
elevations.

It is not really known for certain how they lit their temples, though
of course all sorts of suggestions of top-lighting have been made. It
is possible that in some cases they were lit only from the principal
entrance, and it is certain that the Greek did not want for the
interior of his temple any such floods of light as are necessary
under our northern skies.

In the first place, he enjoyed a most brilliant and penetrating
light, so that within his colonnades reflected light was amply
sufficient to show the friezes and other ornaments, and he did not
hesitate to use strong primary colours to heighten and explain their
effect, wherever he found it necessary.

In the second place, within the shrine itself, other considerations
came into play.

A certain luminous atmosphere, rather than positive light was what was
aimed at, and the deep shadows of these internal colonnades might
have helped this effect, adding to the mystery of the figure of
the God

.

[134] Vitruvius gives this as the 'aedes in antis'

.

[135] Pro-style (colonnade in front).

[136] Amphipro-style (colonnade at both ends).

[137] Peripteral (single colonnade all round)

.

[138] Dipteral (double colonnade all round).

[139] Pseudo-dipteral (inner row of columns omitted).

This, too, may be the explanation of what must strike an architect
as an anomaly of design, the Greek habit of placing enormous figures
in the interior of their temples. The Greek, in his own way, was
a very religious man. In his temple, he was doing his utmost to
set forth the majesty of his God, and if it was necessary for this
purpose he was even prepared to sacrifice his principles as an
artist, to ignore the scale of his interior and the rhythmic harmony
of his design, by the introduction of gigantic figures.

The eye judges by what it knows, and the readiest way of arriving
at some idea of the size of a building or a monument is by relating
it to the normal size of the human figure.

Vitruvius, in his confused way, suggested that the human figure was
the canon and standard of architectural design, but how is it possible
to determine the scale of a building which contained a figure at
least six times the size of a man, reaching from the floor to the
roof?

The chryselephantine figure of Zeus at Olympia, made by Pheidias,
is supposed to have been some thirty-five feet high, and to have
reached nearly to the roof, passing the double tier of columns and
the gallery above the aisles of the cella.

Moreover, this god was represented as seated on his throne, so that
by no possibility could it have been in scale with the building
so far as the architecture was concerned.

Even the gigantic temple of Zeus at Agrigentum with its external
columns 61 ft. 9 in. in height, and large enough for a man to stand
within one of the flutings of the columns, could hardly have stood
up to figures on such a scale as this.

Such a violent contrast in scale broke the principle of συμμετρια
{symmetria}, that strict relation of the part to the whole which
the Greek artists maintained elsewhere with scrupulous care.

Artists with such a consummate sense of proportion as the Greeks possessed
would hardly have made a mistake here, and the conclusion one comes
to is that where their religion was in question, everything had to
give way. Indeed, one can imagine the tremendous effect of this
colossal figure seen dimly in the half-light of the cella, filling the
whole temple with its presence. The same anomaly in scale occurred in
the Akropolis at Athens, where the vast figure of Athene Promachos
must have reduced the beautiful Caryatides of the Erechtheum to
insignificance. M.
Choisy makes a gallant effort to show that this want of relationship
in scale, and also in the siting of the temples, was deliberate and
considered. As a fact, the general rule that seems to have been
observed in the time of Pericles was that new temples should always
be built on the site of the older ones,[140] but axis lines were
neglected, and even the masses of the Propylaea, beautiful building
as it must have been, did not balance.

The Akropolis was just a collection of unrelated buildings, and in the
great Temenos of Delphi the various monuments were all anyhow.[141]
The Sacred Way meandered about like an S, and the only method it
observed was to clear the various treasuries and shrines which
appear to have been scattered about within the enclosure, with a
disregard of each other little less than brutal--a rather suggestive
symbol of the internecine rivalry of the small Greek states.

At Delphi, also, there was a huge figure of Apollo Sitalkas said to
have been seventeen metres high, which must have been hopelessly out
of scale. The fact was that Greek architects of the fifth century
had not yet arrived at the conception of the city as a whole.
They had an admirable eye for a site, for example, the position of the
Parthenon itself, and the temple of Hera Lacinia at Agrigentum placed
high above the sea, but it is unhistorical to invest even the
architects of the Parthenon and the Propylaea with a knowledge and
outlook which was not thought of till a hundred years later. Even the
Greek architects and sculptors of the fifth century B.

C. were not omniscient, yet within their limits, in their mastery
of what they set themselves to do, the artists of the age of Pericles
remain unapproachable, and theirs was the Golden Age of Architecture.

They had fixed for all time essential elements of the art, and had
set up a standard of attainment in pure form which no subsequent
architecture has ever been able to reach

.

[140] The Erechtheum was an exception.

[141] See _Delphi_, by Dr. Frederick Poulsen, p. 52. It is suggested
that the Sacred Way was in existence before the shrines were built,
and that its wanderings were necessitated by the gradients of the
hillside. No sort of attempt, however, seems to have been made to
correct this, or to treat it as an element of design.

The fall of Athens closed this splendid chapter, but Greek
architecture was by no means done with. The Silver Age, the Hellenistic
art that followed, is of intense interest. With the rise of the
Macedonian monarchy the stage of history shifted from the mainland
to the Ionian colonies on the coast of Asia Minor. Cities such
as Ephesus and Miletus became immensely prosperous, Mausolus of
Halicarnassus, the Attalids of Pergamon, possessed wealth that would
have been unimaginable to the Greeks of Marathon.

The City State, fighting desperately for its existence, inspired
by high ideals of patriotism and religion, was a thing of the
past. These Greeks of Ionia were well content to enjoy the comfort
and prosperity of a settled civilization without having to fight for
it; and the whole atmosphere of their existence must have been
different from the strenuous life of Greece in the fifth century.
Moreover, the Ionian Greek, influenced, even if subconsciously, by
the spirit of Asia, was by temperament unable to maintain the intellectual
level of the Doric architecture of the mainland; and a difference
appears in the whole orientation of art, in sculpture perhaps
even more than in architecture.

The history of Hellenistic art has yet to be written. It has been described
as decadent, and it was undoubtedly responsible for some very poor
stuff, but it also produced the 'Victory' of Samothrace, one of the
finest things ever done in sculpture, and some very remarkable
developments in architecture.

It is not to be judged by the standards of the art that preceded it.
The Ionian Greek of the fourth and third centuries B. C. broke away
from the tradition of the mainland, a tradition always rather alien
to his instincts. His interest lay less in a somewhat impersonal
religion than in the assertion of his own individuality.

He did not understand the lofty patriotism, and the high ideal of
abstract beauty that had inspired Pericles and his artists in the
Akropolis; indeed, there is a curiously modern feeling about much of
his work, which became more marked as he came under the dominance
of Rome.

The individualism, the realism, the revivalism, and the commercialism
of modern art, were all anticipated by the Hellenistic artists
of Ionia, of Rhodes, of Alexandria, and of Athens itself in the Roman
period. Civilization was becoming more complex, and one finds this
reflected in Hellenistic art, at once more florid than the Doric of
the fourth century, yet also more skilful in its handling of complicated
problems of planning and design. No one wanted archaic simplicity
when the wealth of Asia was flowing into the treasuries of the Ionian
states, and the expression of this opulent ease is found in their
magnificent temples, such as the third temple of Artemis at
Ephesus, of which the outer colonnade measured 342 ft. 6 in. by
163 ft. 9 in., or the vast temple of Apollo Didymaeus at Miletus,
165 ft. wide by 360 ft. long out to out of the colonnades; or the
amazing monument of Mausolus of Caria at Halicarnassus, or the
great altar of Pergamon.

Fragments of the columns of the Temple of Artemis, now in the British
Museum, tell of its size and richness, they also give the first
hint of the downfall of art and civilization which was to follow
centuries later.

The Greeks of the great period had kept the structural parts of their
building free of ornament. It would never have occurred to them to
interfere with the lines of the column in any way that would contradict
its purpose; but the Greek architects of Ephesus not only placed their
columns on pedestals (making them so far less stable in appearance),
but they adorned the lower part of their Ionic columns with
figures, of admirable execution, but perfectly inappropriate in
the position they occupy. One cannot imagine Pheidias making a mistake
such as this. Splendid in execution as Hellenistic sculpture often
was, it won its place at the expense of architecture; one looks in
vain for that selection and restraint which give its undying
distinction to the earlier work.

[Illustration: Fig. 4. TEMPLE OF THESEUS, ATHENS]
The Greeks of the fifth century realized that architecture is an art
with a definite purpose other than that of a mere vehicle for sculpture,
and that it makes its aesthetic appeal by its own inherent qualities
of rhythm, and proportion, spacing, mass, and outline. Though they
used sculpture and colour to heighten and intensify the effect of
their architecture, they saw very clearly the function of the arts
in relation to each other, and kept their sculpture and their colour
in strict relation to the aesthetic purpose of their architecture.

It is a point on which later architects went lamentably astray. A great
deal of early Renaissance work is mere ornamentation of buildings,
indeed in buildings such as the Certosa of Pavia the architecture
has almost ceased to exist; and most of the bad architecture of the
last fifty years is due to the deplorable fallacy that ornament is
architecture. The columns of Ephesus, the sculpture of the altar of
Pergamon, brilliant as they were in technical accomplishment, were
the first hint of that decline which was in time to undermine the whole
fabric of the Arts. Architecture was deposed from its high intellectual
dominance. It tended more and more to become a conventional affair,
and it was an easy transition from the exuberance of Hellenistic art
to the point-blank vulgarity of Roman ornamental architecture.

It was, however, inevitable that the fine simplicity of Periclean art
should vanish with its ideals, and one finds a certain compensation in
the extension of the range and outlook of architecture, which we
owe to the Hellenistic architects of the fourth and succeeding
centuries B. C.
So far as perfection of form was concerned, it was impossible to carry
the art beyond the stage to which Ictinus and Callicrates had
brought it; but there still remained something, and something very
important, to be done.

Axial planning, the consideration of the relation of building to
building, seem to have been outside the consciousness of Greeks of
the fifth century, and each building was treated as an unrelated unit.

But the inconvenience of this, its loss of opportunity, and the necessity
of order and method, must have become apparent, as civilization became
more complex and more exacting. By the end of the fourth century B. C.
the tradition of architectural technique was firmly established, and
architects were able to turn their attention to problems of large planning,
and these they seem to have handled with extraordinary skill. So far,
what had been done in this direction had been due to religious
inspiration, as in the processional ways leading to the Egyptian temples
or the avenue of figures at Branchidae. What the Hellenistic
architects did was to think out consecutive schemes of city planning,
in which the dominant motive of arrangement was artistic. They had
learnt to treat the temples, the public buildings, the open spaces and
approaches, as the elements of one harmonious composition, in which
the utmost use was made of the natural opportunities of the site. At
Ephesus, for example, there is supposed to have existed a consecutive
scheme, larger than anything of the kind carried out even in France
in the eighteenth century, though the evidence, it should be noted,
is largely conjectural. As presented by sanguine and enthusiastic
restorers the scheme was magnificent. Next the port, and facing it
on one side, was the Arsenal, a regular building opening on to a court
surrounded by a colonnade, which again opened on to the great 'Place',
a square enclosure some 850 ft. wide north and south, by 650 ft. east
and west,[142] surrounded by a colonnade on all four sides, with exhedrae,
or semicircular recesses. In the centre of this Place was an oblong
water-piece, about 300 ft. by 200 ft., and on the farther side,
opposite the Arsenal buildings, were the Senate House and other
public buildings; and behind these and to the right and left of them
the Theatre and the Stadium, partly excavated in Mount Coressus. The
Arsenal, the great Place with its water-piece, and the public buildings,
were laid out on an axis line, and on a regular rectangulated
plan.

[142] The Place Vendôme measures 450 ft. × 420 ft.; Grosvenor
Square about 650 × 530; and Lincoln's Inn Fields about 800 × 630, measured
from wall to wall of buildings.

There was a thick, bowery lime tree under whose
shade it was delightful to have tea in summer, or to lie reading books
on hot Sundays; and there was a fascinating corner of the old wall,
which the girls called "the rampart", from whence it was possible to
command an excellent view of the main road--a great convenience
sometimes to the younger ones, who would keep watch, and beat a hasty
retreat if they saw an unwelcome visitor arriving, leaving Beatrice to
offer hospitality alone.

Gwen was the worst sinner in this respect. She was bashful, and hated
to have to say "How do you do?" to callers. In spite of Beatrice's
efforts to train her in social ways, she would fly at the very
approach of a flower-trimmed hat or a white parasol.

"You scuttle off like a rabbit into its burrow," said Beatrice
indignantly on one occasion; "and if you're caught, you behave in such
a silly, awkward way that I'm ashamed of you. People will think you
haven't been properly brought up, and blame me. It's not my fault that
you've got no manners."

"I feel as if I don't know where to look when people speak to me, and
as if my hands and feet were too big," protested Gwen. "I can't help
shuffling and wrinkling up my forehead--I can't indeed! You're
awfully hard on me, Bee!"

"Perhaps she'll grow a little more accustomed to her hands and feet
when she's older," suggested Winnie, the peacemaker.

"They're useful for catching chickens at present, and that ought to be
enough for you, Win," laughed Gwen. "You'd have lost those white
Leghorns if I hadn't rescued them."

Winnie was considered chief "henwife" at the Parsonage. She could not
give as much time to the poultry as she wished, and had to delegate
many of her duties to Beatrice, or Nellie, the maid, but nevertheless
held herself responsible for the welfare of her feathered flock. On
Saturdays she delighted to array herself in an overall pinafore and
carry out improvements in the hen-yard. Armed with hammer, nails, and
pieces of wire netting, she would turn old packing-cases into chicken
coops and nesting boxes, or make neat contrivances for separating
various fussy matrons with rival broods of chicks. Winnie was really
wonderfully handy and clever, and albeit her carpentry was naturally
of a rather rough-and-ready description, it served the purpose for
which she designed it, and saved calling in the services of the
village joiner, an economy which her father much appreciated. Winnie
was determined to run her poultry systematically. She kept strict
accounts, balancing the bills for corn and meal against current market
prices for eggs and chickens, and being tremendously proud if her book
showed a profit. On the whole she did well, for the fowls had a free
run on the common at the back of the house, and could thus pick up
much for themselves. With the help of the poultry, and a good
vegetable garden, Beatrice was able to make her small housekeeping
allowance supply the needs of the family, but there were no luxuries
at the Parsonage. The girls possessed few or none of the pretty
trifles dear to their sex, their pocket money was scanty almost to
vanishing point, and they had early learnt the stern lesson of "doing
without things". Adversity may be a hard task-mistress, but she is an
excellent teacher in the school of life, and their Spartan upbringing
had given the Gascoynes a certain resourcefulness and grit of
character that they might possibly have lacked in more affluent
surroundings. They were not a perfect family by any means, and had
their squabbles and their cross moods like many another; but on the
whole they were ready to give and take, make sacrifices for each
other, and to try day by day to live a little nearer to that wonderful
high standard that Father ever set before them, and which he himself
followed so faithfully and truly.


CHAPTER III

A False Step


The morning following Gwen's promotion to the Fifth Form was wet, one
of those hopelessly wet October days when the grey sky and the
dripping trees and the sodden grass and the draggled flowers all seem
to combine to remind us that summer, lovely, gracious summer, has gone
with the swallows and left her fickle stepsister autumn in her stead.
It had been raining heavily all night, and it was pouring hard when
Nellie placed the coffee pot and the porridge on the table and rang
the breakfast bell.

"It's an atrocious, abominable morning!" grunted Gwen, peering
disconsolately through the window into the damp garden. "It's sheer
cruelty to be expected to turn out and tramp two miles through the
mud. We oughtn't to have to go to school when it rains."

"Wet at seven, fine at eleven!" chirped Beatrice at the coffee pot.

"It's all very well for you to be cheerful and quote proverbs--you
haven't to go out yourself, Madam Bee!" grumbled Gwen. "I wonder how
you'd like it if--"

"Oh, Gwen, don't whine! Come and get breakfast," interrupted Winnie.
"It's five-and-twenty to eight, and I've a strong suspicion the
clock's late."

"It is," remarked Lesbia calmly, pausing with her porridge spoon
suspended midway between plate and mouth. "Stumps put it back ten
minutes last night when Father wasn't looking. I saw him."

A chorus of united indignation followed her information, each member
of the family trying to bolt breakfast and scold the offender at the
same time.

"We've only five minutes. Oh, you naughty boy!" shrieked Winnie.

"I didn't want to go to bed--I meant to put it on again this morning
first thing--I did, honest," protested Giles, otherwise known as
"Stumps".

"Lesbia, why couldn't you say sooner?" fretted Gwen.

"Only just remembered."

"And the porridge is so hot I've burned my mouth!" wailed Basil.

"You haven't a moment to waste!" urged Beatrice. "Have you all got
your boots on? I shall tell Father what you've done, Giles, as soon as
he comes downstairs."

Even the loss of ten minutes was a serious consideration to those
members of the Gascoyne family who were bound for school. Skelwick was
such an out-of-the-way place that they had quite a journey to get to
Stedburgh, the seaside town where Rodenhurst was situated. First they
had to walk two miles along a very exposed country road to the village
of North Ditton, where they could catch the motor omnibus that would
take them the remaining four miles into Stedburgh, and then there was
a further walk of at least ten minutes before they reached the school.
The bus always started with the utmost promptitude, so it was a daily
anxiety to leave home punctually and not be obliged to run the last
half mile. On this particular morning there was more than the usual
scramble to get off. At the last moment Gwen could not find her
galoshes, and remembered that she had broken the rib of her umbrella
some days before, and had forgotten to mention the fact and ask
Beatrice to have it mended.

"You're the most tiresome girl!" scolded the harassed elder sister.
"Why couldn't you tell me and I'd have sent it to Johnson's last
night? Now I suppose I shall have to lend you mine, and very likely
you'll go and break that too!"

"I don't want yours!" snapped Gwen, tucking her hair inside her
mackintosh and putting on her "stormy-weather" cap. "I wouldn't risk
smashing it for a five-pound note. I'll go without!" and snatching her
satchel of books she rushed after the others, who had already started.

The rain was driving furiously, and the road was full of little
running rivers of yellow mud. The strong wind made Gwen's eyes smart
and water, and she was obliged to hurry to make up for lost time; so
when she arrived at North Ditton she was a breathless, rather pitiful
object, and most decidedly cross. The omnibus was so full that she was
compelled to take Lesbia on her knee and to sit wedged between a very
fat wheezy old farmer and a market gardener, who nursed a parcel of
plants.

"It's rather fun, isn't it?" laughed Lesbia, graciously accepting the
rose that her neighbour offered her. (Somehow people always gave
things to Lesbia.)

"More fun for you than for me!" growled Gwen. "I wish you knew how
heavy you are!"

A bad start does not make a good preparation for the rest of the day,
and Gwen marched into the Fifth Form room that morning in no
conciliatory frame of mind. She was quite prepared to be ill received,
so she thought she would meet possible coldness by showing a defiant
attitude. It was an extremely foolish move, for it brought about the
very state of affairs she anticipated. Several of the nicer girls in
the Form had half repented their wrath of yesterday, and were ready
not only to treat her kindly, but to influence the others in her
favour. When they saw her enter, however, with a "don't care" scowling
air and walk to her desk, without even looking in their direction,
they decided that she was an ill-conditioned, disagreeable girl, and
that they would not trouble their heads about her. Instead, therefore,
of going and speaking to her as they had intended, they let her
severely alone. As a rule, if we go through life expecting slights and
dislike, we get what we look for: the self-made martyr can find stake
and faggots waiting round every corner. Gwen raged inwardly at the
neglect of her classmates, but she did not realize in the least that
it was partly her own fault. She sat all the morning with a
thundercloud on her face, hurrying out of the room at the interval and
eating her lunch alone in a corner of the gymnasium.

"How are you getting on in the Fifth?" whispered Lesbia, who ran up
for a moment to sympathize.

"Badly," groaned Gwen. "They're boycotting me. Of course the Fourth
won't have anything to do with me now; so I'm like Mahomet's coffin,
swung between heaven and earth! It's not pleasant, I assure you."

"I should think not. I wish I could do anything."

"You can't. Go back and play basket-ball."

It was not Rodenhurst etiquette for Seniors to talk to Juniors, so
Gwen, mindful even in her forlorn state of her new dignity as a member
of the Upper School, could not indulge in the luxury of a chat with
Lesbia. She wandered down the corridor, read the time sheets and the
announcements on the notice boards, peeped into several empty
classrooms, and was glad for once when the bell rang. At one o'clock
things were no better. She was given a new place at the dinner-table
and had to sit between Rachel Hunter and Edith Arnold, both of whom
behaved as if unaware of her presence, and talked to each other across
her as though she were non-existent. When she asked for the salt
(rather shortly, certainly) Edith only stared and did not pass it. By
the end of the meal Gwen began to feel the situation was getting on
her nerves. She had been fairly popular in the Upper Fourth, so the
change was the more unpleasant.

"I'm not going to give in, though," she thought. "I believe what they
want is to make me ask Miss Roscoe to move me down again. Well,
they'll find themselves mistaken, that's all! I'll stay in the Upper
School if nobody speaks to me till next midsummer, and if I have to
stop up half the night slogging away at my work!"

"How cross that Gwen Gascoyne looks!" whispered Hilda Browne to Iris
Watson.

"Yes, she doesn't seem to want to know us, does she?"

"She needn't, I'm sure. I think she's horrid!"

It was still raining and impossible to go into the playground, so Gwen
strolled into the empty classroom, and for lack of anything else to do
began arranging and rearranging the contents of her desk. She had not
been there more than five minutes when the door opened and Netta
Goodwin, one of her new form-mates, entered, humming a tune. She
glanced at Gwen, went to her own desk, made a pretence of trying to
find a book, sat whistling for a moment or two, then finally turned
towards Gwen.

"Well, how do you like being a Senior?" she asked half mockingly.

"Too soon to tell yet," replied Gwen cautiously. "I shall know better
at the end of a week."

"You've not had a very charming reception so far, have you? I saw how
Rachel and Edith were behaving at dinner."

"I don't care!" snapped Gwen. "I don't want to talk to them, thanks!
The Form can please itself whether it's friendly or leaves me alone as
far as I'm concerned."

Netta whistled softly. There was a rather inscrutable expression on
her face.

"All the same I suppose you don't always want to go on being a kind of
leper and outlaw? Not very interesting, I should say, to come to
school every day and speak to nobody!"

Gwen was silent. She had no argument to advance.

"They're annoyed with you just at present for being moved into our
Form, but they can't keep it up long. In a little while they'll feel
accustomed to you and you'll get on all right. Then the question is,
are you going to belong to the Saints or the Sinners?"

"What do you mean?" asked Gwen.

"We're all one or other here. We call Hilda Browne and Iris Watson and
Louise Mawson and Rachel Hunter and Edith Arnold and a few more 'the
Saints'."

"Nothing very saintly about them that I can see!" sniffed Gwen.

"Well, it depends on your standards. Perhaps they thought they behaved
like saints at dinner."

"More like Pharisees! Which are you?"

Netta's brown eyes twinkled.

"I leave you to guess!" she replied sagely. "I'm not stiff and
stand-off like some of them are, at any rate. If you'd care to take a
walk down the corridor, I'll go with you."

A stroll with anyone was better than sitting alone in the classroom;
it was still only two o'clock, and there was half an hour to get
through before afternoon school began. Gwen was not averse to
exploring the upper corridor, for as a Junior it had been forbidden
ground to her. She and Netta went into the Sixth Form room, the Senior
French and German room, and even looked inside the teachers' room,
finding nobody there.

"Miss Roscoe's private sitting-room is at the end of the passage,"
said Netta. "She's down in the library, so if you like to take a peep,
you can."

The spirit of curiosity strongly urged Gwen to see what a
headmistress's private study was like, and thinking themselves
perfectly safe, the two girls entered, and began eagerly to scan the
pictures, the ornaments, the photographs, and the various objects
which were spread about on desk and tables. Burke, in his _Dormant and
Extinct Peerages_, vol. iii., makes the mistake of giving to the
father the son's proceedings at Portsmouth at the beginning of the
Civil War.

Lord Goring the son, then Colonel Goring, commanding a regiment in the
Low Countries, was, at the siege of Breda, September, 1637, severely
wounded in the leg, and had a narrow escape of losing it.

Sir William Boswell, the English ambassador at the Hague, writes to
Bramhall, then Bishop of Derry, and afterwards Archbishop of Armagh:--

"Colonel Goring having the guard of the English in the approaches, was
shot so dangerously cross the shin of his leg, a little above his ankle,
as the chirurgion at first resolved to cut off his leg to save his
life; but upon second thoughts, and some opposition by one of them
against four, they forebare; and now, thanks be to God, he is gotten
out of danger of losing life or leg this bout: his excellent merits
caused a great sorrow at his misfortune, and now as great comfort
in the hope of his recovery"--(_Rawdon Papers_, p. 39.)

That the son was already married to Lady Letitia Boyle at Christmas,
1641, appears from a letter of the Earl of Cork, the lady's father,
to the Earl of Norwich (at that time Lord Goring), in Lord Orrery's
_State Letters_ (vol. i. p. 5. Dublin edition):--
"I have scarce time to present my service to you and your lady, and
to George and my poor Letitia, whom God bless."

In Carte's _Collection of Letters_ (vol. i. p. 359.) {66} is
a letter from Lord Byron, dated "Beauvois, March 1-11, 1650," to
the Marquis of Ormond, stating that Lord Goring the son has come
to Beauvois, and is on his way to Spain, about the settlement of a
pension which had been promised him there, and also to endeavour
to get arms and money for the King's service in Ireland; and that,
having settled his business in Spain, he desires nothing better
than to serve as a volunteer under Ormond for King Charles.

You'll just have to own up, and serve you both right
for meddling."

"Is it badly broken, I wonder?" sighed Gwen, feeling the unfortunate
parcel carefully. "It seems to be a box."

"Yes, but what's inside the box is smashed. You can hear the bits
rattle when you shake it," returned Emma smartly. "It's her new
afternoon tea set, I'll be bound. She told me she was going to order
one from Parker's."

"There's Parker's name on the label," agreed Gwen despondently.

"Yes, and if you think--"

"Look here, I've got an idea," interrupted Netta. "You said the box
only arrived about five minutes ago, so Miss Roscoe can't possibly
know that it's come yet. If we could get it taken back to the shop
and ask Parker's to send some more, and we pay for it, she need never
know."

"A pretty idea!" snorted Emma.

"Oh, it would be grand!" exclaimed Gwen, grasping at any way out of
the dreadful predicament.

"You'll help us, Emma, won't you?" entreated Netta.

"Not I! It's none of my business."

"But suppose it were worth your while? Wouldn't half a crown buy you
something nice?"

"Nothing I'd care for."

"Five shillings, then?"

Emma's face showed signs of yielding.

"I don't want to get you into trouble if I can help it," she replied
more gently. "I dare say Parker's would replace the things if you was
willing to pay for them, and nothing need be said. I'm not one for
wanting scenes, and a scene there'd be if Miss Roscoe found her set
broken. She's a sharp tongue, as I know to my cost."

"Then, Emma, will you take away the box now, and hide it somewhere,
and we'll meet you in the pantry at four o'clock, and you can give it
to us, and we'll take it ourselves to Parker's, and ask them to send
some more china to-night. We'll bring you the five shillings to-morrow
morning. It shall be a present from us both, and thank you so much for
helping us! You promise you won't tell? Well, that's a weight off our
minds! Come, Gwen, we'll scoot!"


CHAPTER IV

A Delicate Transaction


Gwen had stood by, listening to Netta's proposals, and offered no
opposition. She was thankful to find any means of escape from the
terrible prospect of braving Miss Roscoe's wrath. The Principal was a
stern, even a severe woman, who never made allowances or admitted
excuses, and greatly resented any liberties. How would she regard such
an extreme liberty as an unauthorized visit to her private
sitting-room, to say nothing of the accident to the tea service? Gwen
shivered at the bare idea. She was aware that she and her sisters were
received on rather special terms at Rodenhurst. Winnie's teaching
scarcely compensated for the two younger ones' school fees, and did
not include the daily board for the three girls, which was given in by
Miss Roscoe, who knew of Mr. Gascoyne's poor circumstances. For this
reason Gwen had been urged to work her hardest, so as to be a credit
to her Form, and in some degree repay Miss Roscoe's generosity. The
Principal had shown an interest in her, particularly in relaxing an
old-established rule in her favour, and moving her up right in the
middle of a term. If she were detected in such a grave breach of
discipline, Miss Roscoe might consider her unworthy of any further
kindnesses, might even ask her father to take her away altogether from
Rodenhurst. To take her away! Why, the world would come to an end! At
home she was already regarded as the troublesome one of the family,
and if she suffered this disgrace, she could never hold up her head
again. Father--dear, patient, self-sacrificing Father--would be
grieved and worried beyond expression; he hoped great things, she
knew, from her schooling, and how could she bear to disappoint him?

Then there was Beatrice, who always seemed ready to find fault, and
think the worst of her. She would almost as soon let Miss Roscoe know
as Beatrice! No, at all costs the episode of that afternoon must be
kept a strict secret. She dared not confide it even to Winnie or
Lesbia. She must take the burden on her own shoulders, and get out of
the scrape as best she could alone. Netta had assumed the leadership
of the affair, so to Netta she turned for counsel and comfort.

"What's the next move?" she asked.

"Why, we must go to Parker's directly school's over, and take the
parcel with us."

"I shall miss the bus!"

"You can't help that; you must catch the next."

"I shall have to dodge Winnie and Lesbia."

"Dodge them, then, and make up some excuse for missing the bus. You
can say I kept you."

"How much do you think the china will cost?"

"I haven't the least idea; it depends how much is broken."

"Netta, you won't tell a soul about this, will you?"

"Tell! Am I likely to tell? No, you and I are in the same boat, and we
must shield each other. I wouldn't trust anybody in the school. One
never knows how things are talked about and get round from the most
unlikely quarters. Whatever happens, this mustn't reach Miss Roscoe's
ears."

The motor omnibus started at 4.20, and as a rule the Gascoynes had
quite a scramble to rush off and catch it. To-day Gwen managed to
avoid Winnie and Lesbia, and waiting until they were safely off the
premises, she went with Netta to the pantry. Emma was not there, but
they found the parcel behind the door and appropriated it, Gwen hiding
it carefully under her waterproof. Parker's china store was in the
principal street of the town, nearly a quarter of an hour's walk from
Rodenhurst. When the girls arrived there, several customers were in
the shop, so that they had to wait a little before anyone could attend
to them.

"You speak to him--I don't know what to say!" whispered Gwen,
thrusting the parcel into Netta's hand, as an assistant at last came
to serve them.

Netta had any amount of presence of mind, and did not at all object to
be spokeswoman. She rapidly explained that they had had an accident,
and were anxious to replace some broken articles at their own expense.
The shopman opened the box, and pulling out the shavings in which the
china was packed, laid the various pieces upon the counter. The girls
were aghast at the extent of the damage. Several cups were smashed to
atoms, the teapot had lost its lid, and the cream jug its handle.

"Have you any more like them?" asked Netta anxiously.

"Fortunately we have, miss," replied the assistant. "It is a pattern
we usually keep in stock, and--yes, I can match them all. I can repack
the box and send it out by the six-o'clock van."

Gwen heaved a great sigh of relief. Miss Roscoe would receive her
parcel that night, and would be no wiser for what had happened.

"We shall be very glad if you will do that," she said. "And will you
please tell us what we have to pay extra?"

The man took the bill which had been enclosed in the box and rapidly
glanced over the items.

"Let me see--teapot, cream jug, three cups, four plates--the sugar
basin is all right--ah! but this saucer is cracked! Sixteen and six,
seventeen and nine--it will be exactly one pound two and sixpence,
please."

Gwen felt ready to sink through the floor. She had very little notion
of the value of things, and could hardly believe that china cost so
much. She looked blankly and helplessly at Netta, who after a moment's
pause met the emergency.

"We haven't the money with us this afternoon, I'm afraid, but we'll
bring it to-morrow without fail. Will that do?"

"Yes, thank you, miss, I dare say it will be all right if you give me
the name."

"Miss Gwen Gascoyne," said Netta promptly.

"At Rodenhurst, I suppose?"

"Yes."

That ended the transaction, so the two girls left the shop.

"Well, Gwen, my child, you've let yourself in for a nice little bill!"
laughed Netta, when they found themselves in the street.

"It's impossible! I can't pay it!" gasped Gwen, with hot tears
trickling down her cheeks. "What am I to do?"

"Turn along this quiet road immediately, and don't stand mopping your
eyes in the middle of High Street! Everybody's staring at you. I
believe the policeman's going to ask if you're lost!"

And seizing her schoolmate by the arm, Netta hustled her away from the
unwelcome attention which she was attracting. The road led to the
promenade, where the girls found an unoccupied bench, and sat down to
talk matters over.

"One pound two and sixpence!" ejaculated Gwen, with a sob between the
words.

"And five shillings we promised Emma, so that makes twenty-seven and
six," agreed Netta briskly. "Of course it was you who broke the china,
so it's your business to pay for it, but I'll go shares in squaring
Emma."

"I can't--I can't ever pay it! Oh, I wish I was at the bottom of the
sea!" wailed Gwen.

"Don't be an idiot! It must be managed somehow. How much have you got
at home?"

"I've about fifteen shillings in my money-box."

"Well, look here, I'll lend you ten, and that will just do it. We'll
each give Emma half a crown to make her hold her tongue, and we'll
settle up Parker, and then the thing will be done with. You may pay me
back as soon as you can."

"You're a white angel!"

"No, I'm not. I'm anything but a saintly person. I'm ready to help a
chum out of a hole, though. I'll bring the money to school with me
to-morrow morning. And now, for goodness sake, do wipe your eyes, and
put your hat on straight, and try and make yourself look respectable
enough to walk down the promenade. I want to go home."

"So do I," said Gwen. "What's the time? I mustn't miss the next bus."

"It's twenty past five."

"Oh, horrors! And the bus goes at half-past! Can I possibly catch it?"

"I'll say goodbye if you're going to pelt along the promenade. I hate
rushing."

"Goodbye! And thank you a hundred thousand times!"

It was only as Gwen was scurrying along the asphalted walk that it
struck her that, after all, Netta was getting rather easily out of the
scrape. Of course she, Gwen, had knocked over the box of china, but it
was Netta who had taken her into Miss Roscoe's room, and who was
therefore in a sense responsible for the whole affair. Well, she was
glad enough to find help on any terms; she did not know how she was
going to repay Netta the money, but that might wait. It was sufficient
for the present that the tea set could be replaced without any fear of
discovery. She hurried breathlessly on, fearing to miss the omnibus;
taking any short cuts she knew, and breaking into a run when she
reached the Ditton Road. She could see the omnibus standing at its
starting-place, and hoped it might be just possible to arrive in time.
As she tore along the footpath, she noticed a boy a few yards in front
of her who was running equally quickly, or even faster.

"I wonder if he's trying to catch it too?" she thought, and envied his
longer legs and freedom from hampering skirts. "Oh! it's actually
going! What a shame!"

The boy made a spurt, and shouted and whistled after the retreating
omnibus, but it was not of the slightest avail; neither the conductor
nor the driver took any notice. Realizing the hopelessness of his
efforts, the boy stopped and saw Gwen, who came panting up.

"No use, it's gone too far!" he exclaimed. "It's an atrocious swindle!
Those men never look. I suppose you were trying to catch it too?"

"Yes. I always go by the 4.20."

"So do I; so it's a nuisance to miss this. We're out of luck to-day."

Gwen knew the boy quite well by sight, as for the last few weeks he
had been a fellow passenger morning and evening in the omnibus. He was
a jolly-looking fellow, about her own age or perhaps a little older,
with a brown skin and very twinkling, brown eyes. He wore a
grammar-school cap, and carried some books, so she could guess his
occupation in Stedburgh.

"I believe the next goes at half-past six," he remarked ruefully. "But
you won't catch me waiting for it I shall walk."

"So shall I," agreed Gwen. "Walking's better fun any time than
standing waiting," and she suited her action to her words. The boy
kept by her side, evidently not unpleased to have a companion to talk
to.

"You're one of the Gascoyne girls, aren't you?" he began. "I see the
whole lot of you every day cramming into the bus. Aren't you the one
they call Gwen?"

"I believe I am."

"It's you who's generally left something behind, or lost something, or
got yourself into some kind of a pickle; then the one with her hair
turned up scolds."

"That's Winnie," chuckled Gwen.

"Those two youngsters are cheeky imps. Tell them they'll get their
heads smacked some day!"

"They often do at home."

"Serve 'em right. I'm glad to hear it. How many more are there of you
at home?"

"Only two."

"Quite enough, I should think!"

"Thank you! You've asked all about my family, but you haven't told me
who you are."

"Why, I thought you knew. My name is Dick Chambers. My father is Dr.
Chambers, who's just taken Dr. Harrison's practice."

"At North Ditton?"

"Yes, we only came six weeks ago. Dr. Harrison has gone to London."

[Illustration: GWEN MEETS DICK]

"I knew Dr. Harrison," said Gwen. "He came to see us when we had
scarlatina, and gave us some loathly medicine!"

"Dad can do a little in that line!" laughed Dick. "He once made me
drink asafoetida when I was a kid, to cure me of sampling bottles in
the surgery."

"Is it nasty?"

"It smells like a defunct rat, so you can imagine the taste."

"Ugh!"

"He doesn't give such bad things to his patients, though. There's some
quite decent stuff in the dispensary, and sometimes the bottles are
coloured pink, especially if they're for girls. I'm going to be a
doctor when I grow up."

"I suppose you'll help your father. Have you any brothers and
sisters?"

"Not a single one."

"Oh, I should think that's rather slow!"

"I don't find it so. There's always plenty to do."

"Do you like North Ditton?"

"Oh, yes, pretty well! It's nicer than Essington, where we lived
before."

"Do you like the Grammar School?"

"Fairly. The chaps are rather a rotten set, and the Head's
unspeakable."

Chatting thus, Gwen found the four miles to North Ditton wonderfully
short ones, but when she had said goodbye to her new friend, and was
trudging along the road to Skelwick by herself, she had time for many
unpleasant reflections. At one blow this afternoon, she had sacrificed
not only all the money in her savings box, but had got into debt as
well--a debt which she had no present prospect of paying. It was most
aggravating to have to empty her private bank; the contents were the
accumulation of several little gifts that had been sent by her uncles
and aunts on her last birthday, and even so far back as last
Christmas. How would she explain, if Beatrice asked what had become of
her money? She groaned as she splashed, recklessly through the puddles
left by the morning's rain. She could foresee many difficulties ahead,
especially at Christmas time.

The family had finished tea when she reached home, and Beatrice, grown
uneasy at her absence, greeted her with upbraidings.

"Where have you been, Gwen? Why didn't you come with the others?
Winnie nearly lost the bus with going back to look for you. You know
quite well you mustn't stay behind like this. Answer me at once! Where
were you?"

"I went along the promenade with Netta Goodwin, then I missed the 5.30
and had to walk all the way home. That's where I've been, and you may
scold as much as you like--I don't care."

"Oh, Gwen!" exclaimed Winnie.

"I don't. I'm not going to be ordered about by Beatrice, and treated
as if I were a baby. I'm surely old enough to manage my own affairs!"

Gwen was tired out with her six-mile tramp, and hungry, and very
miserable, or I think she would not have talked in so lawless and
foolish a strain.

Beatrice gazed at her in amazement. Gwen had often been naughty, but
had never before ventured thus to wave the flag of defiance.

"I shall have to get Father to speak to you," she replied gravely.
"He's gone over to Hethersedge to take the temperance meeting. He
started at five o'clock. You'd better have tea now. Nellie has made
you some more, in the little blue pot, and we kept you a potato cake,
though you don't deserve it. Father will be very astonished and sorry
when I tell him what you've said."

Gwen ate her meal with a big lump in her throat. She had not meant to
rebel openly, but she had lost her temper, and the words had flashed
out. Beatrice's threat alarmed her. Through all the tangled skein of
Gwen's character there ran, like a thread of pure gold, the intense
passionate love for her father, and the desire to preserve his good
opinion. She could not bear to see the grieved look that came into his
eyes when he was forced to reprove her. What indeed would he think of
her when he heard Beatrice's account? She pushed the potato cake away,
feeling as if she could not swallow a morsel.

Beatrice was putting Martin to bed. Better follow her now, and try to
patch up peace. She ran upstairs and met her sister coming out of the
little fellow's bedroom, candle in hand.

"Bee! I'm awfully sorry for what I said just now! I didn't really mean
it I can't think what possessed me!" gulped Gwen.

"I try to do my best for you all. It's hard work sometimes to be
eldest," said Beatrice, and there was a quiver in her voice too. "If
only Mother were here."

"Don't!" said Gwen huskily. "I miss her so dreadfully still. Oh, Bee!
If only you wouldn't tell Father about this!"

"If I don't, will you promise faithfully always to come straight home
from school with Winnie and Lesbia, and never go anywhere without
asking?"

"On my honour!"

"Then I won't trouble him. He's enough worries, poor darling, without
adding any more to them! I only wish I could save him some of those he
already has!"

Early next morning, long before Lesbia was awake, Gwen got up very
quietly, and unlocked her savings box. It seemed dreadfully hard to
have to take her treasured fifteen shillings; pocket money was such a
scarce article at the Parsonage that she did not know when she would
have the chance of accumulating so much again. There were only two
threepenny bits and a penny left to rattle when she shook the box, so
she sighed ruefully as she locked it, and put it back in its place on
the top shelf of the bookcase. She hoped Netta would not forget to
bring the half-sovereign she had promised to lend, though how the loan
was ever to be repaid she could not imagine. For to-day it seemed
enough if she had avoided Miss Roscoe's anger, and spared casting an
added worry on Father's already overburdened shoulders.

Netta was faithful to her word; she came to school with both the
ten-shilling piece and the half-crown which was to be her share of the
"hush money" for Emma. The two girls held a long whispered conference
together during the interval.

"I can't possibly go and pay Parker's myself," said Gwen. "You've no
idea what a row I got into last night for missing the bus. Winnie'll
keep an eye on me to-day at four o'clock, I can assure you. Could you
go?"

"Very sorry, but I've got to go straight home too. Some cousins are
coming to tea, and I have to ask Miss Evans to let me out of the
drawing class ten minutes earlier. Why not get Emma to go? We shall
have to see her to give her her tip."

"A good idea," said Gwen. "Emma understands all about it."

They found the housemaid when she was helping to lay the tables for
dinner, and managed to draw her aside for a private talk.

"Did the fresh china come last night?" they asked eagerly.

"Oh, yes! it came all right, and Miss Roscoe never said a word, so you
may think yourselves lucky," replied Emma.

"Here's the little present we promised you," said Netta, slipping the
five shillings into her hand.

"I hardly like taking it!" protested Emma, though she popped it
hastily into her pocket all the same.

"Could you do something more for us?" begged Gwen. "Will you call at
Parker's and pay for the broken china? Here's the money--it's one
pound two and six. Neither Netta nor I can possibly go."

"Oh, yes, I don't mind doing that!" returned Emma. "It's my night out
this evening, and I shall be down High Street, so I can easily call at
Parker's on my road. They don't close till eight o'clock."

"And you promise you'll never breathe a single word to anybody about
this?"

"Not likely!" declared Emma, as she turned away to finish laying her
table.

"Well, I'm thankful that's done with," thought Gwen. "It might have
been an awkward affair, and I've come out of it uncommonly well. I
feel as if I'd laid a ghost, and popped a stone on its grave."

It was all very well for Gwen to congratulate herself, but she quite
forgot that ghosts have an awkward habit sometimes of disregarding
tombstones, and rising from their graves to haunt those who have
interred them. The matter of the broken china was not to be so easily
disposed of as she had imagined, and though for the present her secret
seemed safe, there was trouble ahead for her in plenty.


CHAPTER V

Trouble in the Fifth


The direct result of Gwen's transaction about the china was to fling
her into the arms of Netta Goodwin. With such a secret between them it
was impossible not to be friendly, and though Netta was hardly an
ideal chum, there seemed no choice in the matter. Moreover, she was
the only one in the Fifth who had offered advances; the other girls,
still indignant at the promotion of a Junior, turned the cold
shoulder. This unfortunate intimacy caused Gwen to be banned the more.

"I see Gwen Gascoyne has taken up with Netta Goodwin," said Hilda
Browne.

"Then that stamps her," replied Edith Arnold. "I wouldn't touch Netta
with a pair of tongs myself. I thought better of the Gascoynes!"

Netta was a type of girl that can be found in every school and almost
every Form. Rather deficient in moral fibre, and badly trained at
home, her influence was always on the wrong side. She was clever
enough, as a rule, just to avoid getting into open trouble with the
authorities, but under the surface she was a source of disturbance.
She had a certain following of gigglers and slackers, who thought her
escapades funny, and were ready to act chorus to her lead, and though
she had never done anything specially outrageous, her reputation at
headquarters was not good. Every teacher realized only too plainly
that Netta was the firebrand of the Form, and that while she might
preserve a smug exterior it was really she who was responsible for any
outbreaks of lawlessness among the others.

As Junior Mistress of the Fifth no one had more reason to be aware of
this than Winnie Gascoyne. Teaching was uphill work to Winnie. She had
not Beatrice's commanding disposition and capacity for administration,
consequently it was the more difficult for her to keep order and
enforce rules. She did her conscientious best, but girls easily find
out a governess's weak point, and at present Netta was trying how far
she could go. "Ragging Miss Gascoyne" was a favourite pastime of hers,
and one which afforded much sport to her applauders, if not to the
victim of her jokes.

A few mornings after Gwen's introduction to the Fifth there was a
class for memory map drawing with the assistant teacher. Each girl was
supposed to come prepared to make a map of India, and to mark in a
large number of places, a fairly difficult task, and one over which
many of them grumbled in unison.

"It's not fair! It takes such heaps of time to go over it at home, one
hasn't a second for anything else!" wailed Minna Jennings.

"I'd a raging headache last night, and my mother said she thought
Rodenhurst was getting too much for me," bleated Millicent Cooper.

"Poor frail flower! You look as if you'd wither at a breath! Better
pack you off to a sanatorium!" laughed Netta.

"And you to a lunatic asylum, you mad thing! Don't you ever get
headaches with all this over-swatting?"

"No, my child, for I know a dodge or two! N. G. is no infant in arms,
I assure you."

"Deign to explain, O commander of the faithful!" begged Annie Edwards.

"Well, as I told you, I'm up to a thing or two, and I flatter myself I
know just exactly how to tackle Grinnie."

"Who's Grinnie?" asked Gwen rather sharply.

The others roared.

"My sweet babe, my dear ex-Junior, let us initiate you into the
shibboleths of the Fifth! Yes, Seniors indulge in their little
nicknames as well as the Lower School, though perhaps we are rather
more cultured in our choice of them. Be it known to you then that our
respected Head, vulgarly called The Bogey by ill-trained Juniors, is
among our elect set yclept Lemonade, partly owing to her habit of
fizzing over, and partly to a certain acid quality in her temper,
otherwise hard to define. Miss Douglas, our honoured Form mistress,
being a canny Scot, goes by the familiar appellation of Thistles,
intended also to subtly convey our appreciation--or shall I say
depreciation?--of her prickly habit."

AN AFTERNOON RECEPTION 165

XII. IN THE SHADOW 182

XIII. THROUGH THE SHADOW 200
XIV. A MISSION OF THREE 213
XV. SOME MINORS 230

XVI. AND A MAJOR 254
XVII. NORA'S SECRET 274 
XVIII.

EXPERIENCES AT ENDICOTT BEACH 283

XIX. HIS BROTHER'S KEEPER 322
XX. A SOLEMN PROMISE 346
XXI. THROUGH THE SLOUGH OF DESPOND 367
XXII. AUF WIEDERSEHEN 378

WE TEN, OR THE STORY OF THE ROSES.

I.

ROSES AND ROSES.

TOLD BY JACK.

When papa said positively that only Phil could go to college, we all
felt so badly for Felix that we held a council in the schoolroom
that very afternoon.

At least, six of us did; the other four had been ruled out by Felix,
who declared that "kids were not allowed in council." Paul and
Mädel didn't mind so much,--they're the twins, they're only seven years
old; nor did Alan,--he's the baby; but Kathie was awfully mad: you
see, she's nearly ten, and she does love to hear all that's going on.

When she gets crying, there's no stopping her, and I tell you she made
things pretty lively round that schoolroom for a little while.

How she did howl! We were so afraid she'd start Alan, and that the
noise would reach papa's study; good-bye then to our council. We got
provoked with Kathie; it was so silly of her to stand there crying like
a big baby, and keeping us back that way.

First Phil called out, "You just stop, this minute, Kathie!" and then,
when she kept right on, he threw the old sofa pillow at her, and
told her to go smother herself; Nora said, "Horrid child!"

in her most disgusted tone, and Nannie and Betty coaxed and coaxed,
trying to quiet her.

[Illustration: "THE SCHOOLROOM VIXEN."]
But nothing had any effect until Felix limped over to his easel.
Felix is lame,--dear old Fee!--but my! isn't he clever!

Greek and Latin are just as easy as--as--anything to him, and he writes
stories and poems,--though nobody knows this 'cept us children and
Miss Marston, and we wouldn't tell for the world,--and he paints
the most _beautiful_ pictures you ever saw.

Well, as I was telling you, he limped over to his easel, and took
up his brush. "Just keep that charming expression on your face a few
minutes longer, Kathie," he said, "until I get it on canvas;
and I'll paint your picture as the 'Schoolroom Vixen,' and send
it to the Academy.

That's right, open your mouth _just_ a little wider--what a wonderful
cavern!

--hullo! why'd you stop crying? I'm not half through."
That quieted my lady!

You see she was afraid he was in earnest; and after Nannie had wiped
her eyes for her, and given her the last piece of chocolate in her
box, off she went to the other end of the room, and began playing
house with the twins and Alan under the schoolroom table, as nicely
as you please.

Then the council began. Nannie said it was called to discuss "ways and
means."

I suppose by that she meant to see if there was any way that Felix
could go to college too; but, as usual, in a very little while
everybody began to take "sides," and then, the first thing we knew,
we were all talking at the same time, and just as loud as ever we
could.

That's a way we have,--all talking and nobody listening.

What a din there was, until Felix scrambled up on a chair and pounded
on the floor with his cane, and shouted out louder than anybody else:
"Who _am_ I talking to? I _will_ be heard!" That made everybody laugh,
and brought us back to business; but in a few minutes we were just
as bad again.

We're the greatest family for taking sides that you ever heard
of, and we do get so excited over things! Anybody that didn't know
would surely think we were quarrelling, when really we'd just be having
a discussion.
I can't see where we got it from, for dear mamma was always just
as sweet and gentle, and goodness knows papa doesn't say ten words
in a day, and those in the very quietest voice.

I can't explain it, but it's a fact all the same that we are a noisy
family,--even Nora. Miss Marston--she's our governess--says it's very
vulgar to be noisy, and that we ought to be ashamed to be so boisterous;
but nurse declares--and I think she's right--that the reason is
'cause "the whole kit an' crew" (she means us) "come just like steps,
one after the other, an' one ain't got any more right to rule than
the other."

You see Phil is seventeen and Alan is five, and between them we
eight come in; so we are "just like steps," as she says.

[Illustration: "PLAYING HOUSE WITH THE TWINS AND ALAN UNDER THE SCHOOLROOM
TABLE."]
Perhaps I'd better tell you a little about each of us, so you'll
understand as I go on: Well, to begin, Phil is a big strong fellow,
and just as full of fun and mischief as he can stick; he just
_loves_ to play practical jokes, but he isn't so fond of study, I can
tell you, and that vexes papa, 'cause he's got it all laid out that
Phil's to be a lawyer. Being the eldest, he seems to think he can
order us children round as he pleases, and of course we won't stand
it, and that makes trouble sometimes. But Phil's generous; he'd give
us anything he's got, particularly to Felix, he thinks so much of
him,--though of course he wouldn't say so,--so we get along pretty
well with him.

Next come Felix and Nannie; they're twins too. I've told you 'most
everything about Fee already. He's awfully cross sometimes, when
he isn't well, and, as Nora says, he really orders us about more
than Phil does; but somehow we don't mind it, 'cause, with all his
queerness, he's the life of the house, and he's got some ways that
just make us love him dearly: mamma used to call him her "lovable
crank."

Nannie is devoted to Felix; they're always together. They're trying to
teach themselves the violin, and she reads the same books and
studies the same lessons as he does, to keep up with him; she's
clever, too, now I tell you,--- I'd never get my Greek and Latin
perfect if she didn't help me,--though she doesn't make any fuss
over it.

Nannie is an awfully nice girl,--I don't know what we'd do without her;
since mamma died, she's all the time looking after us children,
and making things go smoothly.

She doesn't "boss" us a bit, and yet, somehow, she gets us to do
lots of things.

She is real pretty, too,--her eyes are so brown and shiny. It's
queer, but we don't any of us mind telling Nannie when we get into
scrapes; she talks to us at the time, and makes us feel sorry and
ashamed, but she never makes us feel small while she's doing it,
and we never hear of it again.

But you wouldn't catch us doing that to Nora!

She comes next, you know, and she's really _very_ pretty, though we
never tell her so, 'cause she's so stuck up already. Felix puts
her into lots of his pictures, and I heard Max Derwent say once
that she was beautiful.

Max is papa's friend; he is a grown-up man, though he isn't as old
as papa.

He used to come here a lot, and we children like him first-rate; but
now he's in Europe. Well, to come back to Nora: she likes to be
called Eleanor, but we don't do it; she is so fussy and so very
proper that Felix has nick-named her Miss Prim, and we _do_ call
her that.

Miss Marston thinks Nora is the best behaved of us all; and sometimes,
when Nannie is in papa's study, she lets her go in the drawing-room
and entertain people that call.

You should see the airs that Nora puts on when she comes upstairs
after these occasions; it's too killing for anything!

We boys make lots of fun of her, but she doesn't care a jot. And yet,
isn't it queer! with all her primness and fine airs, of us all, Nora
cares most for Phil, and he's so untidy and rough; she almost runs
her legs off waiting on him, and half the time he doesn't even say
thank you!

The next after Nora is Betty, our "long-legged tomboy," as Felix calls
her, 'cause she is so tall and so full of mischief. Just to look
at her you'd think she was as mild as a lamb; but in reality she's
wilder than all of us boys put together. I've seen her slide down the
banisters of three flights of stairs, one flight after the other,
balancing papa's breakfast tray on one palm; and for warwhoops and
the ability to make the most hideous faces, she goes ahead of anything
I've ever heard or seen. She is as bad as Phil for playing jokes, and
when she gets in one of her wild moods, the only way Miss Marston can
manage her is to threaten to take her to papa's study; that brings her
to terms every time. For that matter, we none of us like to go
there, though I'm sure papa never scolds, as some people's fathers
do,--I almost wish he would sometimes; he just looks at us; but,
all the same, we don't like to go to the study.

I hope you won't think from what I've said that Betty is a disagreeable
girl, for she isn't at all; I'm really very fond of her, and we're
together a great deal, because I am the next in age to her.

She's awfully quick-tempered, and flies into a rage for almost nothing;
but she's very honest, and she'll own up to a fault like a soldier.
Once in a while we have a falling out, but not often, 'cause I won't
quarrel.

Nannie says that I give in sometimes when I oughtn't to,--she means when
it isn't right to; I guess that's my fault, but I do hate to squabble
with any one,--it's such a bother. I don't know what to tell you
about myself, except that I'm not very bright at my books, though
I love to read stories. It does seem so strange that we shouldn't all
be smart, when papa, as everybody knows, is such a wonderfully clever
man. I'm Jack, or, rather,--to give my full name,--John Minot Rose.
I think that's rather a nice name, but you can't think what fun the
whole family make of it; they call me "a Jack rose," and "Jacqueminot,"
and "Rosebud," and a "sweet-scented flower," and all sorts of absurd
names.
Of course it's very silly of them. Betty gets furious over it; but I
don't really care, so what's the use of being angry.

Kathie comes next to me; she is a nice little girl, only she does
love to tattle things, and that makes trouble sometimes. She's very
gentle, and just as pretty as a picture, with her long light curls and
pretty, big blue eyes; but my! isn't she obstinate! She doesn't
fly into rages, like Betty, but she keeps persisting and persisting
till she carries her point, and when she once starts in crying, you
may make up your mind she isn't going to stop in a hurry.

But she doesn't mean to be naughty, I'm sure; and she's the most polite
child, and so willing to do things for people!

Then come the other twins, Paul and Mädel.

Paul is a standing joke with us, he's so solemn; and yet he says such
bright, funny things, in his slow way, that we have to laugh: we
call him the "Judge."

Mädel is a little darling, just as jolly and round and sweet as she can
be; nurse says she's going to be a second Nannie.

We all make a great deal of her,--much more than we do of Alan; for
though he's the baby, he's so independent that he doesn't like to
be petted.

So now you know all about the Roses; it does seem as if I'd been
a long time telling about them, but you see there are such a lot of
us.

Well, to go back to the council. Fee was awfully cut up over his
disappointment, and cranky too; but nobody minded what he said, until,
all at once, Nora got in a tantrum, and declared he was "acting
_very_ mean to Phil," that he needn't always expect to have things
his own way, and that papa was perfectly right to give Phil the
first chance.

That set Fee off, and in about two minutes we were all mixed up in the
fuss,--taking "sides," you know; that is, all but Phil,--he
just sat hunched up on the arm of the old sofa, swinging one of
his long legs, and scowling, and chewing away on a piece of straw
he'd pulled out of the whisk-broom, and he didn't say a word until
Nora turned on him, and asked him, very indignantly, how he could
sit there and let Felix bully her in that way.

Then all at once he seemed to get very mad and just pitched into
Fee.

I don't remember what he said, and I'm glad that I don't, 'cause I
_know_ Phil didn't mean a word of it; but Felix felt awfully hurt.

He got two bright red spots on his cheeks, and he set his lips tight
together, and when Phil stopped to catch his breath, after an
unusually long speech, he got up and pushed his chair back.

"It is so pleasant to hear one's family's honest opinion of one's self,"
he remarked, in that sarcastic way he has. "I shall try to remember
all that you've said," bowing to Phil and Nora, "and I shall endeavour
to profit by it. And as long as I'm such a contemptible and useless
member of the community, I'll relieve you of my company." His voice
shook so he could hardly say the last words, and he started for
the door, stumbling over the furniture as he went.

Between you and me, I think his eyes were full of tears, and that
they blurred his glasses so he couldn't see,--did I tell you that
Felix is near-sighted?

Well, he is.

"Oh, Phil, how _could_ you say such mean things to your own brother!"

cried out Nannie; and with that she flew after Felix.

That cooled Phil down, and if he didn't turn on Nora! "It's all your
fault," he said angrily; "you just nagged me on to it. You're never
happy unless you're quarrelling."

This was pretty true, but I don't think it was at all nice of Phil
to say so, and I felt very sorry for Nonie when she burst out crying.
Betty and I were trying to quiet her, when in walked Miss
Marston, to know what all that loud noise and banging of doors
meant.

We didn't tell her about the _fracas_, 'cause, though she's pretty good
in a way, she isn't at all the person one would want to tell things
to.

She carried the little ones off for their early dinner, and Nora
and Betty too,--"to help," she said.

But I stayed in the schoolroom.

I knew if I went down stairs they'd just keep me trotting about
waiting on them all, and that's such a nuisance!

so I curled up on the sofa and read for a while.

The fire was so bright, and everything was so cozy, that I did
wish some of the others would come in and enjoy it. I was really pleased
when Major and Whiskers came walking in and settled down near me.
They're our dog and cat, and they're good playfellows with us; but
they will fight with each other now and then. At first I enjoyed
my story immensely; it was about a boy who was having the wildest
kind of adventures among the Indians. I wouldn't go through such
exciting times for anything; but I enjoy reading about 'em, when
I'm all safe and comfortable at home.

Well, when it grew too dark to read, I laid my book down and began to
think, and presently it seemed as if a whole pack of Indians were
dancing like wild round me, in full war-paint and feathers, and
nipping little pieces out of my arms and legs. I stood it as
long as I could, and then I began to hit out at 'em.

All at once one of the creatures commenced flourishing his tomahawk
at me, getting nearer and nearer all the time.

"I _have_ tried, but I can't get in," he said, grinning horribly, and
the voice sounded just like Phil's; "he's locked his door, and he won't
even answer me,--he's madder than hornets."
[Illustration: "'WHY, _JACK_!' SAID NANNIE."]

"I'm sure you can't blame him: what you said was very unkind, Phil;
I didn't think it of you!"

The voice was certainly Nannie's; and yet there was that horrid
old Indian still nipping me.

"I know it, Nan; you needn't rub it in," groaned Phil,--the Indian.
"But really, I didn't mean one word of it, and he ought to have
known that.

Why, Fee's got more brains than the whole crowd of us put together,
and if only one of us can go to college, he ought to be that one.

I've screwed up my courage, and I'm going to speak to father about it."

"Oh, Phil, don't, please don't; it'll be no use.

You know there is no changing papa when his mind is made up. Better
let things stand as they are until Max gets home; it won't be very
long, you know. And besides, I'm sure Felix wouldn't let you give
up college for him. But you're a dear, generous boy, to propose it."

"No, I'm not; I'm a great clumsy, cantankerous animal. Now if I could
only talk as Felix can, I wouldn't mind interviewing the _pater_
to-morrow; but just as sure as I undertake to say anything to
him, I get so nervous and confused that I act like a fool, and that
provokes him.

He seems to paralyse me. But, all the same, I'm going to talk to him
about this matter to-morrow, Nannie,"--the Indian's voice sank so
low that I could hardly hear it; "I have a feeling that mother
would want Fee to go to college."

I sat up and rubbed my arms that had gone to sleep, and looked
around; I was still on the old sofa, and just a few feet away from
me sat Phil, on the edge of the schoolroom table, and Nannie in a
chair beside him.

Confused and only half awake as I was, my one idea was to slip away
quietly and not let 'em know I'd heard what they had been saying,
for I was sure they wouldn't like that.

Nannie says I ought to have spoken right out; but I do hate to make
people feel uncomfortable. So I swung myself softly to my feet,
and--landed hard on Whiskers's tail!

Of course, after that, there was no hiding that I was there. Poor
Whiskers gave a howl of pain, and, flying at Major, boxed the
solemn old doggie's ears, much to his surprise and wrath, and they
had a free fight on the spot.

"Why, _Jack_!" said Nannie; and I got hot all over, for I just
felt by her tone that she thought I'd been listening.

"Our Jacqueminot, I declare!" cried Phil. "You are a nice young rosebud,
I must say, to be snooping around this way! Come here, sir!"
He made a dive for me, but I drew back. "I _didn't_ listen!" I called
out. And then I remembered that I really had, only I thought it was the
Indians talking; and, dipping under his arm, I rushed out of the room
as hard as I could go, before he could catch me.

II.

IN THE STUDY.

TOLD BY JACK.

"You'd be far more at home among the Juniors!" snapped Netta, rather
out of temper.

A few days after this was the Rodenhurst Annual Distribution of
Prizes. It was always held in the beginning of November, rather an
unusual date, to be sure, but Miss Roscoe found it convenient in many
ways to have it in the middle of the autumn term. It gave plenty of
time to receive examiners' reports, and to chronicle successes in the
July examinations, but on the other hand it did not interfere with
Christmas celebrations.

The function took place in the Town Hall at Stedburgh, and there was
invariably a large gathering of parents and friends. To the whole
school it seemed an important occasion, and both Gwen and Lesbia were
full of excitement when the afternoon arrived.

"Not that I need alarm myself that I shall be called upon to walk up
and receive a prize!" said Lesbia. "Never got one in my life, and
never shall!"

"You might get the Sewing or the Holiday Competitions," said Gwen,
trying to be encouraging.

"No fear! One genius is enough in a family! I'll go prepared to clap
you!"

All the girls wore white dresses and blue hair ribbons, and made quite
an imposing array as they sat in the central aisle of the large room
at the Town Hall.

"There seem to be far more of us when we're in white!" said Gwen. "We
don't look half so many in the lecture hall at school. Have a few
little angels crept in unawares?"

"You're not one of them, at any rate," laughed Netta, who was sitting
next to her.

To Gwen the great feature of the occasion was that Father was seated
on the platform, in company with several other clergymen and the
Mayor, who was to distribute the prizes. Beatrice was amongst the
audience, and had brought Martin with her, and Giles and Basil had
come with the Boys' contingent. All her family were present, and if
she were to get a prize, how pleased they would be!

The proceedings began with the usual speeches from the chairman and
others. Gwen had heard these every year, and they were always pretty
much on the same theme. It is hard to be original at prize-givings,
and the gentlemen who had been asked to "say a few words" might be
forgiven if their remarks were somewhat hackneyed. Miss Roscoe read
the examiners' report on the school, and the successes in the
Matriculation and the Senior and Junior Oxfords. These the girls knew
already, so, though they clapped heartily, it did not cause much
excitement. Everyone was waiting in suspense for the prize list.

Miss Roscoe always began with the lowest Form, so the first to walk up
to the platform was a small kindergarten child, who had won honours
for "general improvement". Neither Giles nor Basil had any luck; they
were too erratic to be serious students, but when it came to the turn
of the Middle Second, Lesbia Gascoyne was awarded the prize for plain
sewing. A perfect storm of clapping greeted pretty Lesbia as she
returned down the hall to her place. She was a tremendous favourite at
Rodenhurst, and Seniors and Juniors alike applauded. It was the first
time she had ever distinguished herself in any way, and though it was
only for plain sewing, the girls were ready to give her an ovation. At
last the Upper Fourth was reached, and Gwen knew that as she had taken
her exams with her old Form (the Middle Fourth it had been in July)
her name would be still on that list.

"First prize for Mathematics, Gwen Gascoyne," read Miss Roscoe.

Gwen's heart thumped, for a moment she did not move, till Netta gave
her an admonishing push, then she walked up the hall. The Mayor handed
her a volume of Coleridge's poems, handsomely bound in calf, and
emblazoned with the school arms; he smiled pleasantly as he did so,
and added a word of compliment. Gwen murmured "Thank you", and turned
away. Father was clapping his loudest on the platform, and there was a
nervous little applause from the rest of the family and from Netta,
but that was all. Not a single girl in either Gwen's old Form or her
new one gave her the least sign of appreciation. The colour flamed
into her face as she made her way back to her seat. It is hard at any
time to be unpopular, but it is a cruel thing when the lack of favour
is displayed before a public audience. Gwen stuck her nose in the air,
and put on the most defiant, don't care expression she could assume,
but she felt the slight deeply, especially when she heard the hearty
reception given to Iris Watson, who had won the Languages medal.

"Never mind, childie!" said Mr. Gascoyne, when at "good night" time
that evening, in the safe sanctuary of Father's study, she broke down,
and burst out crying; "you did your best, and you deserved your prize.
That's the main thing!"

"I shall hate the prize now!" sobbed Gwen. "I can't bear to look at
it; it will always remind me of this horrid afternoon. Why should they
have been so nasty to me? They clapped Lesbia!"

"Gwen, you're not jealous?" Father's voice was just a trifle anxious.

"No, no!" gulped Gwen emphatically. "Lesbia's a darling; I don't
wonder people are fond of her. But oh, Dad, it is hard sometimes to be
left out in the cold!"

"Very hard. Many older and wiser people than you have felt that. Yet
to bear neglect well is one of the bravest things in life. Don't worry
about not being appreciated; your own self-respect is worth more to
you than the opinion of other people. If you're quite sure you're
doing your duty, you can afford to ignore what the world thinks."

"I don't know why I should be so unpopular," sighed Gwen, squeezing
Father's hand tightly, and rubbing her cheek against his coat sleeve,
as if there were something comforting in the very feel of the cloth.

"You must live it down. It may take a long time, and a great deal of
patience, but I'm sure you'll win, and the girls will be proud of you
yet."

"Proud! They may get to tolerate me, but I don't believe I'll ever
make them like me, Daddy!"

"Courage! We never know what we can do till we try. If you want to be
liked, make yourself wanted. Good night, childie! Cheer up! The
world's not such a bad place, after all."

"Not while you're in it!" said Gwen, kissing the dear, plain face that
was so like her own.


CHAPTER VII

Dick Chambers


Since the afternoon when Gwen had stopped behind in Stedburgh to
arrange about the broken china, and had been obliged to walk home, she
had seen nothing more of Dick Chambers. She looked out for him every
morning on the bus, but he was not there, and she was just wondering
what had become of him when he turned up in the most unexpected
quarter. It was the Saturday morning after the prize-giving. Saturday
was a whole holiday, and therefore a blissful day, every moment of
which was appreciated. Gwen was returning about ten o'clock from an
errand she had been sent to do in the village, and as she opened the
Parsonage gate she saw in the middle of the front walk a boyish figure
that looked familiar.

"Hello! What are you doing here?" she exclaimed.

"Come on business of a rather particular character," grinned Dick.
"Didn't you know your Father's coaching me?"

"He never said so!"

"He is, though. I'm to come three days a week, from nine to ten, and
I've just made a start this morning. I say, he's a ripping chap!"

"I agree with you there," remarked Gwen. "But why aren't you going to
school?"

"Thereby hangs a tale! I happened to do an idiotic thing one
afternoon--fainted in the lab, and had to be picked up in the midst of
fragments of glass that I'd smashed to smithereens. Then Dad got some
wretched specialist to come down and see me, and the fellow said I
must stop school for this term at any rate."

"Oh, I'm so sorry! Do you feel ill?"

"No. I'm all right--but it's rather rotten, for I'm knocked off
'footer'."

"How sickening for you! I know how wild I should be if I mightn't play
hockey. What may you do?"

"Only just loaf about--not even golf."

"May you go walks?"

"Oh, yes! but it's rather slow mooning about on the moors by oneself."

"Have you been to see Stack Head, where the sea-birds build? Or the
chasms? Oh! you ought to go there! I'll show you the way if you like!"

"I wish you would!"

"There'd be heaps of time this morning--that's to say if I may go,"
added Gwen, suddenly recollecting that she had promised Beatrice on
her honour not to go anywhere without leave. "Oh, here's Dad, so I can
ask him."

"Yes, by all means take Dick to Stack Head, the walk will do him
good," replied Mr. Gascoyne. "Be careful, and don't scramble about too
much, that's all--those cliffs are dangerous, remember!"

"We'll go as cautiously as two pussy-cats," said Gwen.

"Hardly an apt simile!" laughed Mr. Gascoyne, pointing to Pluto, the
black Persian, that was careering madly up a tree at the moment.
"However, you're used to Skelwick rocks, and Dick will have to learn
his footing. Only please don't learn it at the expense of your neck,
Dick! We haven't gone far enough with the Latin prose yet!"

"You needn't be afraid for me, sir, though I came a cropper over old
Cicero this morning," laughed Dick.

It was a beautiful, sunny day in early November; one of those late
autumn days when a little crisp hoar frost lingers in the hollows, but
in the full sunshine it is almost as warm as summer. Gwen fetched a
favourite stick, her indispensable companion on the moors, and,
discarding her jacket, set forth joyously for a five-mile tramp. She
loved the great bare headland that rose behind the Parsonage; there
was a sense of freedom in leaving the houses of the village, and
seeing only sea and sky around, and feeling the short, fine grass
under her feet. It was a stiff climb to the top of the plateau, but
once up there was a tolerably flat walk of about a couple of miles to
the jagged rocks that formed the end of the promontory.

"Isn't it glorious?" said Gwen, when, the scrambling part finished,
they sat for a moment or two on a rock to take breath. Below lay the
clear, grey, even, shimmering surface of the sea, a little hazy at the
horizon, and changing to deepest green as it neared the cliffs, where
the sea-birds wheeled round screaming in sheer joy of life. "Don't you
feel as if you could take a jump from the edge and just go sailing
down like a gull, and land gently on the water, and float off?"

"Better not try the experiment unless you provide yourself with a
parachute! An aeroplane could make a good start up here. Do you ever
get any guillemots' eggs? Or puffins'?"

"Not often; though sometimes the lighthouse men bring us a few. Are
you collecting eggs?"

"Rather! I've got nearly five hundred. I could do with a razor-bill's
or a puffin's."

"You'll have to wait till next summer. June and July are the best
months. I can show you where the birds sit, though. They haven't
proper nests, they just squat on the rocks, packed as close together
as sardines. It's wonderful to see them. And the noise they make! No,
it isn't here, it's over by the chasms; we shall get there soon."

Half an hour's brisk walking brought them to what must have seemed to
the ancient inhabitants of these islands the end of the world. The
headland descended in a sheer precipice into the water, while
wicked-looking rocks showed a black point here and there among the
surf as a warning to any vessel to give them a wide berth. The cliff
was hardly less dangerous than the rocks below, for its surface was
torn into great rugged chasms, each as deep as the sea level, though
often only a few feet in breadth. These curious natural rents wound in
tortuous course to the edge of the precipice, sometimes crossing one
another, and thus leaving islands stranded between, or long
promontories, from the ends of which there would be no escape except
by a jump. Gwen and Dick picked their way carefully along. There was
scarcely need for Mr. Gascoyne's warning; each felt the entire
necessity for extreme caution. Peeping over the edges of the chasms
they could see green ferns growing in splendid clumps in clefts of the
rock, and farther down darkness or a glint of water.

"Ugh! It would be horrible to tumble there!" declared Gwen, shivering
as she gazed into the dim depths. "You don't feel as if you'd ever
come up again, do you? Why, what's that? Did you hear?"

"Nothing but the gulls."

"It's like someone shouting. There it is again--behind us."

"By Jove! it is someone calling. Has anybody slipped down one of these
holes? We'd best go and see, but do be careful. Hello, there! We're
coming!"

Walking, as Gwen had said, like cautious cats, they threaded their way
along the narrow strips of land till they reached the particular chasm
whence the shouts issued. Looking over, they could see on a ledge
about six feet down a little corduroyed, blue-jerseyed figure, and a
frightened, freckled face that peered upwards. Gwen recognized the
urchin in a moment: it was Johnnie Cass, the scapegrace of a family of
fisher folk who lived in the village, and the naughtiest boy in
Winnie's Sunday School class. He was in no immediate danger, for the
ledge was wide, but the wall of rock above him was too steep to admit
of his climbing up.

"Johnnie, what are you doing down there?" she called.

"Oh! boo-hoo-hoo!" wailed the scared voice from below. "I were
reachin' after a sea-gurt with a broke wing and down I cooms!"

"Serve you right, too! How do you intend getting back?"

"I don't know--I wish my mother was 'ere!" and again he broke into a
howl of woe.

"I'm glad she's not--she'd make a worse noise than you, from my
experience of her," murmured Gwen. "Look here!" she continued, turning
to Dick, "I suppose we've got to fish this little wretch up somehow."

"If I reach down can you catch hold of my hand and let me pull you?"
shouted Dick to the snivelling Johnnie.

"Nay! I durstn't stir an inch--oh! where's my mother?"

"He's lost his nerve--that's what's the damage. If I go down for him
could you give me a haul back?"

Gwen shook her head.

"You're too heavy. Better do it the other way. I'll go down, hand up
the kid, and then you shall pull me back. Nonsense! I'm not bothered
with nerves. Shan't mind in the least!"

It seemed the more feasible plan, for the six feet of rock that
sheered down to the ledge was so steep and smooth of surface as to
render it impossible for anyone to climb it without assistance; and it
would be comparatively easy for Dick to drag Gwen's lighter weight to
the top, though a difficult matter for her to pull him. If her heart
went into her mouth as she let herself over the edge, Gwen did not
show it. She was not given to exhibiting the white feather, and both
at school and at home kept up a well-deserved reputation for pluck.
Five seconds landed her by Johnnie's side, and once there she tried
not to look into the gulf below. After some amount of cajoling, she
persuaded the young rascal to take his dirty little fists out of his
eyes, and allow himself to be hoisted up within reach of Dick's firm
grip; then a successful heave did the rest. Johnnie was soon in
safety, but it was much harder work for Gwen to follow; there was
nobody to boost her, and not an inch of ledge on the rock to make a
foothold.

"It's good practice for Alpine climbing!" she gasped, as with
dishevelled hair and grazed face she at last scrambled back. "I
thought my arms were being dislocated."

Dick was rubbing his own arms ruefully, but he did not complain. He
had turned very white. Perhaps the effort of pulling up two people had
been rather too much for him. Gwen suddenly remembered with
compunction that he was ill, and not even allowed the exertion of
golf, much less "footer". She wished she had thought of it before and
gone to the lighthouse for help.

"I'm an idiot," she told herself. "It was I who suggested he should do
the hauling part. I hope he hasn't done himself any harm."

Meantime Johnnie Cass stood surveying Gwen with the grin of Puck.

"Yer face is bleedin', and yer hair's all over yer eyes. Aye, yer do
look a sight!" he volunteered.

Gwen shook him! She really couldn't help it; it relieved her feelings
so very much. After all, it is rather nervy work to go down a chasm;
and though she wouldn't own that she had minded in the least, her legs
seemed weak and queer, and her hands were hot and trembling, and there
was a funny buzzing sound in her head. She was rather ashamed of
herself for losing her temper, however, and tried suddenly to be
dignified.

"Johnnie Cass," she protested solemnly, "you ought to be grateful to
me for saving your life instead of making impertinent remarks!"

Dick burst out laughing.

"Bravo!" he said. "Look here, you kid, if you don't want your head
punched as well you'd best obliterate yourself."

Johnnie took the hint and fled away over the moor, bolting for home
with all possible speed and lifting up his voice as he went in a
melancholy howl. Dick and Gwen sat down on a rock to recover
themselves.

"You've got some pluck--for a girl," said Dick, throwing a pebble into
the chasm. "I didn't expect you'd really go down there and fetch him.
Girls generally stand by and shriek."

"Not modern girls," affirmed Gwen. "They used to do the shrieking
business in oldfashioned novels. It's gone out of fashion since hockey
came in."

"I thought ladies were supposed to scream and wring their slim, fair
hands!"

"Shows you haven't got any sisters! Do my hands look slim and fair?"

"Well, no, they're a good deal more like a boy's," admitted Dick.

"I often wish I were a boy," sighed Gwen regretfully.

"Don't! You're a jolly sight nicer as you are," returned Dick, getting
up to go.

The pair did not reach the Parsonage until after one o'clock, and
Beatrice and Mr. Gascoyne were beginning to wonder what had become of
them.

"I hope Dick's none the worse," said Father rather anxiously when Gwen
poured out the tale of their adventure. "I'm afraid it's been a tiring
morning for him. He had better stop to lunch and have a good rest
afterwards before he attempts to walk home. I'll go and telephone to
his father from the post office and say we're keeping him. Perhaps Dr.
Chambers will say he mustn't come here again if we let him do rash
things!"

The family laughed at the humorous account of the rescue of Johnnie
Cass which Dick and Gwen gave at the dinner table.

"You needn't have expected gratitude from that imp!" said Winnie, who
had suffered many hard experiences in Sunday School. "Possibly his
mother may thank you, but I doubt even that."

"All the same Gwen did her best, and that's a satisfaction," said
Father. "Johnnie's a clever little lad in spite of his naughtiness,
and may turn out better than we expect Some day he may even thank you
for having saved his life. Gwen must keep her eye on him. He owes her
so much it ought to make a bond between them."

"Well, I wish her joy of her protégé," said Winnie, with a dubious
shake of her head.

After that Dick spent many Saturday mornings at the Parsonage. His
father would not allow him to invite his own friends as they always
proved rather too much for him, but the boy was lonely, and found the
Gascoynes pleasant companions. Gwen especially, who was nearest his
own age, became his particular chum, and the two carried out many
experiments together in the way of photography, amateur bookbinding,
and one or two other hobbies in which they were mutually interested.
Dick's lessons with Mr. Gascoyne were over by ten o'clock, and he
generally stayed an hour or two longer, adapting himself so well to
the household that he soon seemed to be almost one of the family.
Giles and Basil adored him, and haunted his footsteps as much as they
were allowed, but their mischievous young fingers generally worked
such havoc among slides and specimens that Gwen was often forced to
turn them out and lock the door upon them.

"Monkeys from the zoo are tame and well-behaved compared with Stumps
and Bazzie," she declared. "If one wants one's things ruined commend
me to two small brothers!"

Gwen was delighted to have found so congenial a friend. Beatrice and
Winnie, being both older, were naturally companions for one another
and were inclined to treat her entirely as one of the younger ones,
forgetting how fast she was growing up, and it was difficult to make
childish little Lesbia interested in anything. Here at last was
somebody who appreciated birds' eggs, and butterflies, and collections
of shells, and pressed flowers; someone who did pen-and-ink drawings
a great deal better than herself, and who knew exactly how to make
lantern slides, and could even manage to mend the toy printing press
that Giles had broken.

Dick was clever with his fingers, and as he was not allowed to read
very much he spent long hours at home constructing wonderful boxes for
birds' eggs, or stretchers for butterflies and moths, or preparing
slides for the microscope.

"I'm going to be a doctor when I grow up," he confided to Gwen, "so
microscopic work will be a help to me. Dad's teaching me a little
scrap of dispensing now, just to amuse me."

"I hope he doesn't let you make up the bottles of medicine!" laughed
Gwen. "I pity the patients."

"Rather not, but I see what goes in them. If you'll come over to the
surgery some day I'll make you taste something for laughing!"

"We should be lost without Dick now," said Gwen one day at tea. "What
shall we do when he goes back to school?"

"I'm afraid that won't be just yet," said Mr. Gascoyne. "He doesn't
get strong as fast as his father hoped. He's a nice lad, not
brilliant, but very painstaking over his work. It's quite a pleasure
to teach him."


CHAPTER VIII

Gwen Receives a Letter


After her talk with Father on the evening of the prize-giving Gwen
went back to school determined, if she could not feel cordial just at
present towards her classmates, she would at least bury the hatchet
and take no notice of the unkindness they had exhibited. It seemed
much the most dignified course, for Gwen was far too proud to look
injured, or to show even to Netta that she had felt hurt. Perhaps the
girls were a little ashamed of themselves. Iris Watson and one or two
others spoke to her with quite an approach to friendliness, and
Elspeth Frazer asked her opinion about the costumes for the play. Gwen
was not taking a part, so she was rather a free lance in that respect,
and her advice was likely to be disinterested. Each Form got up its
own particular act with a secrecy worthy of the Freemasons. It was a
point of honour not to betray the least tiny hint of what was going to
happen, in order that the performance should be a complete surprise to
the rest of the school.

Now the Fifth had decided to give the trial scene from the _Merchant
of Venice_--rather an ambitious and decidedly a hackneyed piece to
select. The Dramatic Society was influenced in its choice, however,
by several considerations; the Form was studying _The Merchant_, and
had learnt the principal speeches for recitations, which would save a
great deal of trouble to the performers in the matter of studying
parts. Then Hilda Browne's father was a barrister and would lend his
wig for the occasion, and Louise Mawson could bring a gown that would
do excellently for Shylock's gaberdine, also two sets of tights and
doublets and feathered caps, all of which were invaluable assets in
the way of stage properties.

"We must manage the rest of the costumes as best we can," said
Elspeth. "Charlotte Perry knows of a dressmaker who makes fancy
dresses very cheaply. She does them for other schools. The chief
question is the scheme of colour: Hilda wants us to copy exactly from
some celebrated picture, and Louise says it doesn't matter as long as
everything looks very bright and gay. Here's a book of costumes. Tell
me what you think."

As Gwen turned over the pages of the little volume, with its
illustrations of Bassanio, Jessica, &c., a horrible suspicion suddenly
shot into her mind. Where had she seen that book before? And just
lately too! Why, at home, of course! She had come into the
sitting-room suddenly and found Winnie and Beatrice discussing it over
the fire. Winnie had suppressed it instantly, but not before she had
caught a glimpse both of the illustrations and the title. She
remembered them perfectly. Now Winnie, as well as being Junior
Mistress for the Fifth, was a member of a class for higher mathematics
composed of a few Senior girls and taught by a professor who came
weekly from the University at Radchester. On the strength of this
class she considered herself still one of the Sixth for special
purposes, and licensed to take part in school performances. Was the
Sixth going to act in the _Merchant of Venice_? It looked uncommonly
like it. Why else should Winnie be studying that particular book of
costumes?

Gwen was in a dilemma. She did not know what to do. Not only did the
Rodenhurst code of honour regard Form secrets as being inviolable as
those of the confessional, but further she had been continually warned
by Father and Beatrice that, now Winnie was a mistress, she and Lesbia
must be particularly careful never to repeat anything they heard at
home which might be likely to compromise their sister at school. It
was clearly impossible to betray the least hint of her suspicion, but
on the other hand it would be an exceedingly stupid _dénouement_ if
both Forms were to act the same play. She decided to try finesse.

"Have you absolutely decided on _The Merchant_?" she said. "Don't you
think it's rather stale to choose our Form subject? It's been done
before too."

"Not for three years," objected Elspeth. "That's quite time enough for
most of the girls to have forgotten it. Besides, I know the speeches."

"You could learn some fresh ones."

"Oh, I dare say! It sounds easy enough when you haven't to do it
yourself. One's homework is quite enough just now without learning
pages of blank verse. Then there are the costumes."

"Wouldn't they come in for _The Rivals_? You might do some scenes from
that. We've never had it at school before, and it's simply ripping.
Public opinion in London seems to hold that Pheidias made the whole
of the pediments and the frieze of the Parthenon; though in some
cases contiguous figures are so markedly various amid the general
likeness as to prove separate hands.

In the case of the Erechtheum at Athens there is extant a long list
of payments to a number of artists for the several figures of the
frieze. There was no general contractor, no artist who hired his
masons by the day, but every man who produced one of the figures
in relief was paid for it sixty drachmas, without regard to its
difficulty or its simplicity.

It is comparatively easy to get a set of skilled stone-masons to carry
out with exactness a plan of which all the details are worked out
for them, and which requires only faithful copying.

And it must have been easy for a set of Egyptian sculptors who made
their figures according to a rigid conventional pattern to produce a
uniform result. But for a number of skilled workers who were allowed
great liberty in detail to produce an harmonious whole was infinitely
harder.

And that the Greek masons regularly accomplished this result
shows how strong upon them was the influence of the school. Nor did
they merely work from nature; but their production was of an
idealizing kind.

It is clear that they must have had not merely similar tools and similar
mechanical processes, but the same purposes and ideals.

They must have had what we should call a collective personality. It
is more than probable that among the workers on the Parthenon were
Alcamenes and Agoracritus, two sculptors who rose to great fame. It
is certain that among the workers on the Erechtheum was Praxias,
a pupil of Calamis, and probably a relative of Praxiteles.

The distinction between artist and mason, so marked in our day,
scarcely existed in Greece. The mason who had talent became a noted
sculptor; and the sculptor, instead of making a model in wax or
plaster, set to work, like Michelangelo, on the block of marble himself.
Probably sometimes, like Benvenuto Cellini, he cast his own bronze
statues.

Generally in all great periods of art there is such fellowship.
And in sculpture in particular the design and the execution are
so closely connected that it is an abuse to assign the two functions
to different men, and even to different classes of men.

Greece was pre-eminently the land of productive guilds, of families
of artists, of groups of workers who were of one heart and one spirit,
and who therefore worked in one style. One of the closest parallels
to a Greek school of sculpture is to be found in the group of
Pre-Raphaelite artists of the middle of the last century, Morris,
Burne-Jones, Rossetti, Millais, Collins, and their companions.

This group had a religious or ideal starting-point in the revived
Anglo-Catholicism which arose in Oxford at the time, and they had
principles of art in common which they embodied in their work.

Their paintings, before they diverged one from another, form a distinct
species, and have an interest for the historian of civilization
greater than that of any other English school.

IX
In order that we may estimate the influence of Greek art on the civilization
of Europe, it is necessary briefly to trace its reappearances through
the ages. Its first conquest was Rome. The victorious Roman Generals,
Marcellus, Scipio, Flamininus, Mummius, and others, brought to
the imperial city, to adorn their triumphs, an immense quantity
of Greek sculpture and paintings, of which they robbed the great
storehouses of works of art in the temples and stoae of Hellas,
Sicily, and Asia Minor.

The earlier Emperors, especially Nero, followed their example, so
that in the time of Pliny the naturalist all the public places of
Rome were crowded with sculptures of bronze and marble and
with the painted masterpieces of great artists. It became fashionable
for wealthy Romans, such as Hortensius and Cicero, to stock their
country-houses with such works. Even so, the demand was not satisfied;
and Greek artists were imported into Rome, where they set up great
workshops, and poured out an incessant stream of fresh works of art.

Of such our modern museums are full. Generally speaking they are of
little artistic merit, copies of various degrees of excellence of the
great works of earlier generations. For the Roman plutocrats had little
taste. Because certain figures or groups had a great reputation, and
especially because they had been purchased at a high price by Greek
cities and kings, the Roman collector liked to have copies of them
in his villa; and the artists who produced these copies were mere
workers for hire, without originality and without aspirations.

       Sometimes when employed on such
          works as the Arch of Titus, or the Column of Trajan, the novelty
of the theme stimulated the artist to attempt something of a more
original kind.

And occasionally the fire within took course and produced a finer
work than ordinary.

     Under the art-loving Emperor Hadrian there was a sort of St.
     Martin's summer of sculpture; but its productions were
     smooth, elegant and refined rather than original or
     interesting.

The charm of art was not appreciated by the Roman people; only the
few who professed cultivation really cared whether a figure was
good or bad, and even the few were a little ashamed of their
preferences.

Into the Roman Empire, in the first three centuries of our era,
Christianity gradually ate its way. It originated among the Jews,
to whom all representation of living things was hateful.

And it developed under the influence of Greek oriental mysticism, which
had no kinship with sculpture and painting; and so far as it had
any expression in those arts worked in the direction of that symbolism
against which Greek art was a protest.

Thus we could not expect any fresh inspiration for art from early
Christianity; on the contrary, Christianity would work upon it
as a blighting influence.

If we examine the remains of Christian art in those early centuries,
in sarcophagus and mural painting, we find that it merely copied
the contemporary pagan art, only changing the subjects portrayed,
and introducing a further development in the symbolic interpretation
of ordinary scenes.

Christianity offered almost no field for the exercise of Greek
anthropomorphism. The latter was closely bound up with polytheism
and hero-worship.

The Christian Apostles and Saints, who took the place of the pagan
Deities, were men who had lived on the earth and whose deeds belonged
not to mythology but to history, although at the time the line
between history and mythology was not clearly drawn, and history
was largely diluted with myth.

A few impersonations of nature, such as river-gods, lingered on in the
paintings of the Roman catacombs.

And winged genii were common there, whether cupids or cherubs it
would be hard to say.

But there was no realm into which artistic fancy could stray, filling
it with super-men and super-women. Angels might be portrayed; but
they all came from the Jewish angelology; and there was no artistic
tradition as to their types: it was only later that the types of
Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and others were distinguished.

The second principle of Greek art, balance and symmetry, had almost
disappeared in pagan art in the Antonine age.

The reliefs of triumphal arches and of sarcophagi are crowded with
figures inserted without order or method.

Even the mural paintings of Pompeii have escaped from control; and
show no purposeful arrangement.

Law and order have given place to individual fancy, unless in
cases where earlier schemes are adopted. And with artistic arrangement
has disappeared all attempt to idealize, to produce forms nobler
and more beautiful than those seen every day.

The figure of Antinous is the latest in which we find any attempt
to produce a type of ideal beauty.

Even the Virgin Mary and her Son are depicted without any attempt to
render them beautiful.

Nor indeed does naturalism fare better than idealism.

The representation of the human body is no longer studied.

The figures are clothed: and the clothing is purely conventional, while
the features of the landscape are far less carefully introduced than
in Hellenistic Greek art.

In fact one feels that the artist had little interest in his art.

Scenes from the Old and the New Testament are the usual subjects. But
the depiction is little more than picture-writing, mere copies of
traditional groups.

The only thing regarded as of any interest is the meaning.

The ethical and spiritual point of view overlies and smothers any
interest in the representation.

And this predominance of the didactic element over the sense of
proportion, the love of beauty, the appreciation of nature prevails
more and more as Europe slowly moves towards the dark ages.

The lamps of Greek art burn more and more dimly. They are never
wholly extinguished; for in all ages there are born artists to whom
they are the light of life; and in mediaeval carvings one finds here
and there a touch of humanism, most often in grotesque or satyric
figures.

We must never forget that some of the later masterpieces of Greek
work, such as the Column of Trajan and the Arch of Beneventum, were
always to be seen.

And little as they were appreciated by ordinary people, an artist
here and there derived from them some appreciation of the beauty
of humanity.

Then in the thirteenth century the dry bones began to come together.
The breath of fresh life stirred Europe, or at least parts of Europe,
such as North Italy, Southern Germany, Eastern France. The magnificent
Gothic Cathedrals rising in the north called forth the talent of
the painter and the sculptor for their adornment. A great Christian
art arose, and in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries flourished
widely. Certain qualities of high art it certainly had. It was lighted
by the lamp of fellowship. The sculpture was the work not of individuals,
but of guilds, groups of workers of the same style, and inspired
by the same motives. It attained to great beauty in decoration, in the
adaptation to architectural purpose of the forms of plants and flowers.
Where it was most defective was in the rendering of the human form,
whether nude or draped, for in such matters the artists had no
schooling to be compared with that of the Greeks.

When the full Renaissance came with the dispersion of the educated
Greeks through Europe, there was a conscious reawakening of the
artistic influence of Greece, contemporaneously with the revived
interest in Greek literature and philosophy. A few great works of
ancient sculpture, the Laocoon, the Dying Gaul of the Capitol, the
Apollo Belvedere were discovered; and collections of ancient gems
and coins were formed by many of the wealthy.

We can judge from the life of Benvenuto Cellini how profound was the
effect produced by such discoveries. The great Italians of the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries felt as if they had climbed out
of darkness into light.

To rival works of Greek art was looked upon as the highest ambition which
an artist could cherish. Sculptors so great as Donatello and Michelangelo
took the scanty remains of Greek masterpieces as their models, and
measured their attainments by the degree of success which they reached
in copying them. The lamps of Greek balance and symmetry, Greek
idealism, and Greek naturalism were rekindled, and the crowd
of artists vied one with another in walking by their light.

We may mark four stages in the rediscovery of Greek sculpture. The
first is the Italian Renaissance already mentioned. The second originated
in the visit of Winckelmann to Italy in 1755, and the application by
Goethe and Lessing of his discoveries to the judgement of contemporary
art.

It tended greatly to the raising and purifying of the artistic taste
of Europe. The splendid promise of the Renaissance had degenerated
into the mannerism and extravagance of Bernini and his contemporaries.

Winckelmann called it back to simplicity, to self-restraint, to
ideality. But before long this teaching also was perverted; and
such sculptors as Thorwaldsen and Canova were misled by the defects
of the inferior examples of Greek sculpture, which were the only ones
accessible to Winckelmann, into a slavish copy of the antique or works
of an artificial grand style.

Then came the third wave of revived Greek influence, when the
sculptures of the Parthenon found a home in London, and critics were
able to observe how infinitely superior the masterpieces of a
really great age were to the copies of Roman times and the adaptations
of the Hellenistic age.

When Haydon the painter first saw the Parthenon marbles he was immensely
impressed; but that which struck him most strongly was not the ideality,
for which they have since become proverbial, but the wonderful
naturalism of much of their detail in contrast to the grandiose
conventions of his contemporaries. The fourth stage in our knowledge
of Greek sculpture comes from the very fruitful excavations on Greek
soil, especially at Athens, Olympia, and Delphi, which have shown
us how widely varied is the range of the ancient sculptors, how many
their styles, how admirable their technique.
This extension of our knowledge has not, it is true, as yet much affected
contemporary art, as art was affected by the teachings of Winckelmann
and the publishing of the marbles of the Parthenon. Until last year
there was no book in English setting forth the results of the
excavations of Delphi; and there is even now no book in English
performing the same service for the excavations at Olympia.

Sculptors are so little educated in the history of their craft,
that they do not easily learn from new sources of knowledge.

But by degrees, beyond doubt, the new views of Greek art will
filter down to them. A few recently discovered sculptures, such as
the Charioteer of Delphi, the Hermes of Praxiteles, the bronze head
from Beneventum in the Louvre, the Demeter of Cnidus, have by their
overpowering charm affected artists and art.

And most sculptors profess a great admiration for Greek works, notably
Rodin, who, although the tendency of his works is not in a classical
direction, yet uses the strongest language in praising the Greek
masterpieces.

But in general the tendency of art towards extreme individualism
and the search after novelty have more than counteracted the somewhat
shallow admiration of sculptors for what is antique.

X

At present religion and culture alike are struggling against the
waves of barbarism reinvading.

It is not my business to speak here of the forces which are trying to
crush religion among us.

But I may fitly conclude by sketching some of the tendencies
against which culture based upon that of Greece is our best antidote.
If I have rightly set forth the principles of Greek literature and art
in past pages, the nature of their influence under present conditions
will be clear.

I must venture on a parallel which seems to me very suggestive, though
some readers may regard it as risky.

There are two great standards set up in the past, to control the wayward
fanaticisms of men, and to keep them within the bounds of reason
and good sense.

The standard in religion is set by the New Testament: the standard
in art is set by Greece.

As at the Renaissance the peoples of Europe went back for their
inspiration and their models to the literature and the art of
Hellas, so at the Reformation they, or at all events the Teutonic
races, went back to the early records of Christianity, appealing
to them against the venality and corruption of the dominant Church.
And ever since, at intervals, there has arisen, alike in the
field of culture and in that of religion, an echo of the appeal to the
classical past. It is to the New Testament that Apostles like John
Wesley and George Fox made their appeal, setting up in opposition
to the conventions and worldliness of the Church in their times the
spirituality and simplicity of the apostolic age, just as Goethe and
Lessing turned men's minds from what was contrary to reason
and good taste in their surroundings to Greek beauty and simplicity.

Except in cases of dire necessity, the
Gascoynes did not indulge in the luxury of medical advice or chemist's
bills, so Gwen perforce did without a doctor, and the medicine he
would most undoubtedly have prescribed for her. So far from thinking
of rest, she was making plans sufficient to fill five holidays instead
of one; even she herself laughed sometimes at the largeness of her
projects compared with the brief month in which she was to carry them
out.

Meantime the two days of the dramatic performances had arrived. The
Seniors always had the first afternoon and the Juniors the second, the
audience being composed of the rest of the school together with the
mistresses. The outside public was not invited, as the little plays
were only intended to be acted among the girls themselves. The Sixth
naturally led off, and Gwen quaked as she sat with her Form in front
of the heavy red curtains. She was afraid an unpleasant surprise
awaited her comrades, and she wondered how they would take it. Exactly
what she expected happened. The bell rang, the curtains were drawn
aside to reveal--alas, alas, for the Fifth!--a very excellently got up
trial scene from the _Merchant of Venice_. Bessie Manners, the head of
the school, was a majestic Portia in a handsome scarlet robe; Winnie
made an attractive Nerissa; while all the other characters were
arrayed in slightly more sumptuous costumes than Elspeth and Hilda had
been able to collect.

A shudder of cold horror ran through the unfortunate Fifth, the
dramatic representatives of which listened with a kind of fascination
to their own speeches, tripped off lightly and easily by their
Seniors. It was more particularly galling as all realized that the
whole thing was on a rather higher scale than theirs; it was better
staged, much prompter, the actions were more appropriate, and the
players less stiff and self-conscious, to say nothing of the superior
dresses. In gloomy resignation they sat the scene out, and had the
magnanimity to applaud heartily at the end. Then came the crisis.

"We can't possibly give the very same thing all over again," whispered
Hilda to Elspeth. "We shall just have to announce that ours is 'off'."

Deeply humiliated and disgusted, the Fifth retired to its own
classroom to discuss the untoward event.

"It's too sickening--when I'd borrowed the wig on purpose!" wailed
Hilda. "You can't think how I had to pester Dad to lend it."

"And my Bassanio doublet and tights were made at a dressmaker's!"
lamented Louise Mawson.

"Who'd have thought of the Sixth choosing that very scene?"

"Well, I tried to persuade you to take something else instead,"
declared Gwen, offering Job's comfort to the disappointed ones.

"Gwen Gascoyne, I verily believe you knew all the time what the Sixth
were going to have."

"You must have known when your sister was in it."

"I wasn't sure, but I had an inkling," confessed Gwen.

"Then why didn't you tell?" howled the girls in chorus.

"Why? Because it didn't seem fair. Winnie hadn't said a word--I only
guessed. You know we're all supposed to keep our own secrets."

"In this case you ought to have warned us properly. It was too bad to
let us rehearse all that time, and get all the costumes together--for
this!"

"We've made ourselves ridiculous, and it's your fault entirely."

"Couldn't you act it here, just among ourselves?" suggested Gwen
humbly; but her proposal was squashed by an indignant and scornful
majority.

"Act it here indeed! Who'd care to do that, I wonder? Don't be so
idiotic. You've spoilt our performance, Gwen Gascoyne, when you might
have saved it. Why couldn't you stay in the Lower School? You haven't
sense enough to be a Senior."

It was not a very satisfactory ending to a first term, even though
Gwen had done better in the exams than she expected, so that her place
in her new Form was well assured. She still felt an outcast, and as
she shut her desk for the last time on breaking-up day, she gave a
sigh of intense relief to think that she was going to enjoy a whole
month's freedom from the society of her classmates.

Home at present was the _summum bonum_ of her wishes. She almost
danced along the road from school, and behaved so jubilantly in the
bus that Winnie had to interfere, and give her a hint to restrain her
hilarity before the other passengers. She rushed into the Parsonage
like a cyclone, and flung her satchel under the bookcase.

"There! That's done with! Hurrah! No more horrid, hateful, scrambly,
early breakfasts, and tramping off through the mud. Every day's a
Saturday, and I'm just going to have a glorious time."

"There's plenty for you to do," said Beatrice, fishing out the satchel
and putting it tidily away on Gwen's special shelf. "I haven't
finished those texts I was making for the church yet, and--"

"Oh, wow! Don't set me to work too soon! I've a heap of things of my
own that want doing first. Winnie is far cleverer at cutting texts
than I am."

"She's more to be depended upon, certainly," said Beatrice dryly.

Each member of the family was mysteriously occupied with special
secrets. There were still five days before Christmas, time for an
energetic person to get through a great deal, and Gwen hoped to
accomplish wonders. She was in a sad quandary about her Christmas
gifts. Her savings box, which ought to have contained over fifteen
shillings, only held a threepennybit and two halfpennies; and she
shook her head dismally as she reviewed her pauper condition.

"I must make presents, that's the long and short of it," she told
herself. "They can't be handsome ones. And, oh dear! they'll all think
me so horribly stingy and mean. Well, they'll have to, for I can't
explain! It's absolutely sickening, but it's inevitable."

So Gwen shut herself up in her bedroom, locked out the injured Lesbia,
who had plans of her own which she wished to pursue in privacy, put on
a thick jacket and a pair of mittens to keep herself warm, and set to
work bravely. It is rather hard to make bricks without straw, and her
supply of materials, mostly purloined from Beatrice's piece-box, was
decidedly scanty. She held a review of the articles when she had
finished, and screwed up her face over them in expressive
dissatisfaction.

"They're a shabby little lot, that's flat!" she decided.

She turned them over disconsolately--the needle-book for Beatrice, not
too tidily sewn; the blotter for Winnie, with its brown paper cover,
hastily painted with a spray of roses, and its one sheet of blotting
paper begged from Father's writing-table; the pincushion for Lesbia,
trimmed with a piece of washed ribbon; and the two postcard albums for
Basil and Giles, made out of pieces of cardboard with slits cut in the
corners.

"I can afford to spend the threepennybit on Father and Martin," she
thought; "but I must leave the halfpennies to rattle in my box, so
that it doesn't sound empty."

The village shop did not offer a very large selection of goods for an
expenditure of threepence. Gwen was almost at her wits' end what to
choose, and finally came away with a cake of oatmeal soap and a large
red chalk pencil. Walking back up the village she met Beatrice.

"I've just been to see the Casses," said the latter. "They're in awful
trouble. Thomas Cass has sprained his wrist and can't go out in his
boat, and Mrs. Cass is in bed with bronchitis. Johnnie's running about
with his toes all through his boots, and says he can't come to church
or Sunday School because he hasn't another pair."

"Haven't you an old pair of Lesbia's or Stumps's?" suggested Gwen.

"Not one. We sold them all at the Rummage Sale."

"Then he'll have to go barefoot, I suppose."

"I was wondering," said Beatrice tentatively, "if we could manage to
get him a pair ourselves. Winnie would give something, I'm sure, and
so would I, and so would Father."

Gwen was silent.

"I thought perhaps as you'd rescued him you might feel interested in
him, and you'd care--"

Beatrice did not finish the sentence, but looked at her sister
hopefully.

Gwen stared at the ground and went very red, but she said nothing, and
Beatrice, after waiting a moment, turned away and entered the post
office.

"Of all absolute frauds, I feel the meanest!" groaned Gwen. "Beatrice
will think me a perfect miser, hoarding up my money and not willing to
spend a farthing on anybody! If she only knew the bankruptcy of my
box! Was any wretched girl ever in such a fix? Oh! Gwen Gascoyne,
you've got yourself into an atrocious mess altogether, and I don't see
how you're ever going to climb out of it."

Gwen's one sheet anchor of hope, to which she clung in a kind of
desperation, was the thought of the postal orders that Grannie and
Aunt Violet almost invariably sent at Christmas. If these did not
arrive, she could not pay Netta, and then--well, any kind of
catastrophe might be expected to follow. She went about with a load of
lead on her heart, and a consequent shortness of temper highly trying
to the rest of the family. She was grumpy with the little boys,
impatient with Lesbia, and so unaccommodating over doing the
decorations in church that Beatrice finally begged her to go home,
saying she and Winnie could finish alone.

"You two always want to get rid of me!" flared out Gwen as she stumped
defiantly away.

It was not a very happy preparation for Christmas, and Gwen stood
rather forlornly in the church porch, her hands in her pockets,
watching a few snowflakes that were beginning to fall silently from
the heavy grey sky and to whiten the tops of the gravestones and the
outlines of the crooked yew trees near the gate. The peace and
goodwill that ought to have been present everywhere to-day seemed to
have vanished.

"Beatrice was just horrid," thought Gwen, quite oblivious of the fact
that the quarrel was of her own making. We are so apt to forget that
the world is like a mirror, and if we insist upon frowning into it, it
will probably frown back. We sometimes expect other people to do all
the forbearing, and then are astonished if our much-tried friends fail
in the very point in which we ourselves are so deficient.

"Why, Gwen, what a woebegone face!" exclaimed Father, who hurried in
for a moment to speak to the parish clerk. "You'd make a grand model
for an artist who wanted to paint a picture of 'Misery'. Are the
decorations finished?"

"Almost; at least my part of them."

"Then go home and open that parcel of Parish Magazines you'll find on
my study table, and deliver those that belong to the village. You know
where to find the list. Be sure to tick the names off. And don't go
farther down the road than Marriott's farm; it's getting dark."

Gwen cheered visibly. She was always glad to do something for Father,
if it were only distributing Parish Magazines, so she strode off with
a swinging step, humming the carol that the school children had been
practising with Winnie that afternoon.

    "Show us, dear Christ-Child, Thy Christmas light,
    Teach us the song of the Angels bright,
    And the love of the Mother blest.
    And help us this Christmas to learn of Thee
    All we should do, and all we should be,
    And how we can please Thee best."

Fortunately the Gascoynes were a forgiving family, and when they all
met at tea-time nobody seemed to remember Gwen's ill humour. The
evening was a busy one, for there were holly and ivy to be put up in
the Parsonage now the church was finished, and the usual mirth over a
bough of mistletoe which old Mr. Hodson, who owned the big farm by the
mill, always cut off every year from an apple tree in his orchard and
brought to them with his own hands. Gwen forgot her troubles and
romped with the rest, accepting Martin's sticky kisses in the spirit
in which they were intended. The Gascoynes did not hang up their
stockings, but laid their presents on the breakfast-table, so that
they could have the gratification of opening all their parcels
together. It was a point of honour not to take the tiniest peep inside
even the most tempting-looking package until the whole family was
assembled. Gwen had tried to make up for the poverty of her offerings
by the warmth of the greetings she wrote outside, but she did not
feel proud of her collection as she carried it downstairs. She was the
last, so she hastily made her distribution, and turned to her own
plate. She had been well remembered: a book from Father; a nightdress
case, beautifully embroidered, from Beatrice; a new purse from Winnie;
a big bottle of scent from dear little Lesbia, who to buy it must
certainly have gone without the blue-handled penknife she had coveted
so much in Bayne's window; some pencils from Giles and Basil; and a
piece of indiarubber from Martin, who had compassed seven presents on
a capital of eightpence-halfpenny. Gwen looked rather anxiously as the
others opened the packets she had addressed to them; but whatever they
thought, they all had the niceness to hide their feelings, and thanked
her as if she had given them the most expensive objects obtainable.

Father's humour, however, could not help twinkling out at the cake of
soap: "To Darling Dad, with dearest and best love, from Gwen".

"I hope it isn't a hint I need washing," he said with mock
seriousness.

"I thought you liked oatmeal soap!" protested Gwen, nearly crying.

"So I do, my dear; and I haven't had any for a long time. Like the man
in Pears's advertisement, I shall now use no other."

"Here's the postman!" shouted Giles, rushing excitedly to the door,
where that much-burdened official, with an extra man to help him, was
sorting out what belonged to the Parsonage.

"Six letters for you, Gwen, and two parcels," said Beatrice, assuming
command of the correspondence, and distributing it among the eager
family.

Gwen snatched her share nervously. Would any of the letters contain
the longed-for postal orders? No, they all had halfpenny stamps, and
were clearly only Christmas cards.

Then she fell upon the parcels. The first contained a handsome knitted
coat, and cap to match, "with love from Grannie", and the second, a
beautiful little set of Wordsworth's poems in a cloth case, "with Aunt
Violet's best wishes".

Gwen sat down on the sofa, feeling as if she had received a rude
shock. That both Grannie and Aunt Violet should have sent presents
instead of money was worse than she had calculated upon. She tried to
pull herself together, and not show her disappointment too plainly,
but the thought of what she owed was paramount. It only made it worse
that the gifts were really acceptable, and that the rest of the family
persisted in considering her extremely lucky.

"It was kind of Grannie to send that lovely coat: dark green will just
suit you. Try it on, and the cap too," said Winnie.

"It looks swank!" declared the boys.

"They'll go with your dark green skirt," affirmed Beatrice.

"The Wordsworths are scrumptious!" said Lesbia. "You've done awfully
well this Christmas!"

"Yes, but how am I going to pay my debts?" thought Gwen, as she ran
upstairs to get ready for church.


CHAPTER X

A Prodigal


As the next term seemed likely to bring its own crop of troubles,
Gwen, with a kind of grim philosophy, determined to enjoy herself
while she could, and make the most of the holidays. She helped
vigorously at the schools, where tea parties for children and
grownups, concerts and other entertainments were in full swing, and
she even wrung a few words of appreciation from Beatrice for her
active services in the way of slicing up cake, cutting ham sandwiches,
and pouring out innumerable cups of tea. Gwen liked the village
festivities, she knew everybody in the place, and found it all fun,
from listening to the comic songs of the local grocer, to playing
Oranges and Lemons with the babies in the Infant School.

"We've three real parties too," she said on December 30th, "as well as
going to the Chambers' this afternoon."

"I hardly think Mrs. Chambers will expect you," declared Beatrice,
looking out of the window at the dark sky. "It's beginning to snow
already, and I believe we shall have a heavy fall."

"Then it must keep off till to-morrow, for we've got to get to North
Ditton somehow!" announced Gwen.

Dick's mother had asked the younger Gascoynes to tea, and amongst
their various invitations it was to this that Gwen looked forward the
most. She wanted to see Dick's home, and the collection of birds' eggs
and butterflies which he had promised to show her, and his magic
lantern, and his microscope, and all the Natural History books of
which he had so often spoken. She watched the weather impatiently, and
when the snow fell faster and faster, and Beatrice decided
emphatically that the visit was impossible, she broke into open
mutiny.

"It's too bad! We shouldn't take any harm. What an old mollycoddle you
are, Beatrice!"

"I've a little more sense in my head than you have! With this wind the
roads will be deep in drifts. It's quite unfit to go out, especially
for you with that nasty cough. I should have you laid up with
bronchitis."

"My cold's better," affirmed Gwen, trying not to sound hoarse; "snow
doesn't hurt people. Father's gone out in it!"

"Father was obliged to go--it's quite a different thing for him. I'm
sorry you're disappointed, but really, Gwen, don't be so childish!
Look at Lesbia, she isn't making such a dreadful fuss!"

"Lesbia never worries about anything, so it's no virtue at all!"
snarled Gwen, knowing perfectly well that she was unfair, for Lesbia
undoubtedly added self-control to her naturally sweet disposition.
"You always hold up Lesbia! You've no right to say we must stop at
home, just because you're the eldest!"

Beatrice sighed. Sometimes she thought this turbulent cuckoo of a
younger sister was the cross of her life.

"It's no use talking in this way, Gwen! Somebody must be in authority,
and you'll have to do as you're told."

"I shan't! I don't care! You're only six years older than I am!"

And Gwen flounced out of the room in a rage. She ran upstairs, her
eyes smarting with hot tears of temper. She was disgusted with the
others for not taking the matter more to heart. How could Lesbia sit
reading so calmly, or the boys amuse themselves with their absurd
engine?

"They don't care like I do! I wish I could go without them!" she said
aloud.

The idea was an excellent one. What fun it would be to go alone, and
have Dick all to herself--no tiresome youngsters to claim his
attention, finger his books, and perhaps break his birds' eggs; not
even Lesbia to ask stupid questions about things any ordinary person
ought to know. She could easily tell Mrs. Chambers that her sister had
thought it too stormy for the little ones to venture, and probably Dr.
Chambers would drive her back in the gig.

"After all, Father never told me not to go!" she thought, "and
Beatrice is getting a perfect tyrant; I can't be expected to obey her
as if I were an infant. A girl in the Fifth is quite old enough to
decide things for herself, especially when she's as tall as I am!"

Gwen changed her dress, put on her best hair ribbon, her brooch, and
her locket, then peeped cautiously down the stairs. Although she felt
full of self-assertion, she had no wish to risk a further encounter
with Beatrice. All seemed quiet, so, donning hat and coat, she crept
to the cupboard where mackintoshes and galoshes were kept, and armed
herself to defy the weather. It was quite an easy matter to slip out
by the back door, and in less than ten seconds she was hurrying
through the village, chuckling at her own daring and cleverness. Thick
flakes were whirling everywhere: when she looked upwards they showed
as little dark patches against the neutral-tinted sky, but when they
passed the line of vision, each soft lump of crystals gleamed purest
white as it joined the ever-deepening mass below. Every gate and stump
and rubbish heap was a thing of beauty, glorified by the ethereal
covering of the snow; the dead clumps of ragwort by the road side, the
withered branches of oak, the shrivelled trails of bramble all seemed
transformed by the feathery particles into a species of fairyland.

As Gwen left the village, and took the path that led across the moor,
she seemed to walk into a cloud of whiteness that enclosed her and
shut her out from all before or behind. She stood still for a moment,
and drew in her breath with a sense of intense exhilaration. She was
all by herself in the midst of this new-found world of snow, and the
very solitude had a fascination. It is good sometimes for the spirit
to be alone; strange vague thoughts, half memories, half imaginings,
fill the brain like a full high tide; strong impressions, unfelt and
unknowable in the distraction of human company, force themselves
silently yet persistently upon us; the corporal and the tangible lose
their hard outlines and begin to merge into the in visible--in such
moments the soul grows. It is perhaps one of the disadvantages of a
large family that the members are apt to lack what one might call
spiritual elbow room, the constant close companionship, the fridging
and rubbing of the continual, daily, hourly intercourse, though an
excellent discipline for the temper, leaves scant opportunity for the
development of the individuality. The ocean-going ship is tracked by
the submarine; air-ships are used to drop bombs on defenceless cities,
some of the most notable achievements of chemistry are poison-gases.
We may of course hope that this is but a passing phase, and that
brighter times are before us. But I venture to suggest that the true
road to progress cannot be found unless we preserve the Jewish and
the Greek points of view.

We must not lose sight of the ethical and religious bearing of
science, and not be content with merely regarding it as a means of
exploiting the material world. Instead of harnessing the forces of
nature to true human ends, to happiness, we have allowed them to be
used for any purpose, moral or immoral, by any one who by cunning
or pushing has gained control of them. We have dehumanized the world,
and allowed it to ride rough shod over human life.

The discovery of man and his capacities, then, is the great gift of
Greece to the world. There were epics before the _Iliad_, but no epic
full of charm, of tragedy, of tears and laughter. There were
philosophers before Socrates; but they were busied in trying to find
the physical constituents of the world. Socrates took up the motto
of Delphi 'Know thyself', and became the progenitor of all who study
the nature of duty and of happiness.

In the same way there was much art in the world before the rise of
Greece, in Egypt, in Mesopotamia, in Crete.

But it was not a humanist art. It represented the worship of the
Gods, battles, and sieges, the life of the fields. But the human figures
in these scenes were conventional: there was nothing in them to
stir the finer feelings, to produce a love of beauty, to raise man
above the ordinary daily level. The Greeks knew of earlier works
of art; but they declined to be seduced, as the Phoenicians and
Etruscans were seduced, into a facile imitation of them. They realized,
no doubt subconsciously rather than consciously, that they were called
to set forth a new and human art, and had in them powers which could
produce it. They began a process which developed with astonishing
rapidity, and which cannot cease, unless, as seems now not impossible,
barbarism reinvades a weary world.

'Man is the measure of all things' is the doctrine ascribed
to Protagoras of Abdera, which shocked the people of Athens and
is attacked by Plato in his more constructive mood.

It is a doctrine lending itself to abuse, and still more to caricature;
but it is really the teaching of Socrates no less than of Protagoras;
and it has held its own from his times to those of the Utilitarians and
Pragmatists. Certainly it is at the basis of the Greek view of
life, in which man with his feelings, his faculties, and his endeavours,
stands in the foreground, and all else appears as a vague
background.

It was quite natural that as the Greek thinkers interpreted all
experience in relation to human powers and faculties, so the artists
of Greece thought of all nature in terms of the human body. Thus while
the stern monotheism of later Israel absolutely prohibited the
representation in art of any living thing, and especially of man,
Greek artists entirely devoted themselves to such representation.

The great result of the working of the spirit of humanism in
Greek art was the representation of the Gods in human form. There is
still prevalent among us a survival of the Jewish hatred of
the representation of the divine element in the world by the mimetic
art of sculpture. We still repeat, day by day, the Jewish commandment,
'Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven image'. Now I am not going
to find any fault with the intense feeling of iconoclasm, which
was one of the mainsprings of Jewish religion.

I have no doubt that in the development of that religion, hatred and
contempt for the idols of the surrounding nations was of inestimable
value to the race. The struggle, ever renewed, against the invasion
of idolatry was necessary to the development of that pure prophetic
religion which it was the highest mission of the Jewish race to set
forth and propagate in the world.

I would not even speak against the echoes of it in the modern
world. To the Moslems of our days, as to the ancient Jews, it appears
to be a necessary corollary of any lofty and spiritual conception
of the divine. And when we read of the destruction of religious images
by our Puritan ancestors we cannot withhold from them an inner sympathy.
The hatred of images was one side of the pure and passionate belief in
spiritual religion which it was the mission of the great Reformers
to revive and propagate in Europe.

But it is possible to appreciate this side of religion without being
blind to other aspects of it.

Our religion comes not only from Judaea, but also from Greece. The
Jewish passion for the divine righteousness lies at its roots. But
that passion is consistent with narrowness, bigotry, inhumanity. For
the modifications of it which come from the working of the spirit of
humanism we have to turn to the Hellenes, for the feeling of the
likeness in nature between God and man, the love of the beauty of
the created works of God, the joy in whatever is sweet, whatever
is comely, whatever is charming.

The beauty and majesty of God appealed to the Greek, as the
unapproachable transcendence of God inspired the Jew.

So it fell to the Greek artists to try to set forth in marble and in
bronze the gentler and more social side of the divine nature.
There is a sweet reasonableness in the words of Maximus of Tyre:
'The Greek custom is to represent the Gods by the most beautiful
things on earth--pure material, the human form, consummate art.

The idea of those who make divine images in human shape is quite
reasonable, since the spirit of man is nearest of all things to God
and most godlike.'

The whole history of Greek sculpture, from its rise in the sixth century
to its decline in the third, is inspired by this desire to represent
the divine by the most beautiful things on earth.

The sculpture of the great nations of the East, Egypt and Assyria,
is full of figures of the Gods, and of scenes of worship. But these
figures do not rise above the human.

The gods appear as conventional figures, mere ordinary men and
women.
And to distinguish them from mortal beings, the artists of the East
proceed in the manner of symbolism: they make additions to the
human types which are to signify the divine attributes, but
do not really embody them. They add wings to represent the swiftness
of the deity, wings not meant for actual flight, but only symbols of
rapid motion.
They represent them as victoriously overthrowing wild beasts and
monsters, which stand for the powers of evil, ever bent on thwarting
their action.

In some of their most archaic works, the Greeks fall into the imitation
of this way. They represent Apollo flanked by two vanquished griffins,
Artemis with wings, and holding in her hands captive lions. But their
artistic sense soon revolted against such crude and clumsy ways
of representation.

They began to try to represent the divine character of their deities,
not by arbitrary and external symbols, but by modifying the human types
in the direction of the ideal.
Sometimes, indeed, in later art we find survivals of early symbolism
in the form of an attribute.

Hermes is still winged, but the wings are transferred to his cap or
his boots. Zeus may still carry the thunderbolt, the symbol of his
rule over the storm. Apollo may be still radiate, combining human
form with the rays which proceed from the visible sun.

But these are only survivals, and do not affect the process, carried
on by artist after artist and school after school, by which the
gods absorbed ever more fully the qualities of the most perfect
manhood.

Zeus, as father of gods and men, is an idealization of the human
father, combining justice and dignity with benevolence and kindness;
Athena becomes the embodiment of the divine reason and wisdom,
perhaps the most fully idealized of all the forms of the gods,
since this armed and victorious virgin with wisdom seated on her
brow had little in common with the secluded and domestic women of
her city of Athens.

Apollo has not the muscles of the trained athlete, but in his nobleness
of countenance and perfect symmetry of shape, he stands for all that a
young man might grow towards by self-restraint and aspiration. At a
somewhat lower level Herakles bears the form of the wrestler,
admirably proportioned but more powerful than even the greatest of
athletes; Hermes is the ideal runner, every muscle adapted to swift
and lithe movements.

Thus in the types of the gods which were produced when Greek art was
at its best we have a series of supermen and superwomen who represent
the highest and best to which mortals can hope to attain, types
embodying the highest perfection of body and mind.

The influence of those types has gone on from century to century, never
in the darkest ages wholly forgotten, and serving at all times to
redeem human nature from foulness and degradation. All through the
history of art they have been acting as a raising and purifying
element.

It was not until the decay of the Olympic religion in the fourth century
that these types fell to a lower level. The sense of beauty in the
artist remained as keen as ever, the technique of art even improved,
but the religion of humanism was debased by less noble tendencies, and
the gods took on too much not the nature of man as he might become, but
the form of man as he actually is in the world.

Not the forms only of the gods, but the history of their appearances on
earth and their dealings with mankind found expression in painting
and relief. Plato, as we know, condemned the myths of the gods as
unworthy from the ethical point of view.

But we shall misjudge myths if we suppose that they were actually
believed in, or served to regulate conduct.

What they did was greatly to further the picturesqueness and joy of
life. And when they became less important in cultus they survived in
poetry, and served greatly to temper the harsh prose of actual life.

We must remember that some of the Jewish tales which have so much
interested and charmed our forefathers are hardly to be defended
on strict ethical principles, yet they have been a leavening and
widening influence.

     Who would wish to expel from churches the stories of Adam
     and Eve, of Joseph and David, on grounds of ethical purism?
     The life of the many is not so highly decorated that we should
     wish to expel from it elements so pleasing.
     
     As the Gods tend more and more to take forms beautiful but entirely
human, so do the notable features of the landscape, rivers and
mountains, sky and sea, take on themselves human shape.

Sun and moon, wind and storm, are completely humanized.

The society of Olympus, the powers manifested in nature, appear in
sculpture as a human society, but of more than human beauty and
dignity.

And such rendering of the gods leads, as we shall presently see,
to an ideal rendering of men.

As the gods come down in the likeness of men, so men are raised
to the level of the gods.

Hence the intrinsic and inexhaustible idealism of Greek sculpture,
to which I will presently return.

Few works of art more fully and more attractively show the
anthropomorphic tendency of Greek art than the sunrise vase of the
British Museum.

It shows us the whole morning pageant of nature humanized. On the right
appears the sun-god driving a chariot of winged horses, who rise out
of the sea. Before him the stars, represented as youths,
plunge into the water. To the left is the moon-goddess on horseback,
setting behind the hills, on one of which is a mountain-god in an
attitude of surprise. Before the sun hurries Eos, the winged dawn,
who by a bold citation of mythology is represented as pursuing Cephalus
the hunter, of whom she was enamoured. We have the features of the
daybreak; but they are all represented not as facts of nature, but
in their influence on Gods and men.

I do not figure this vase, as I have already done so in my _Principles
of Greek Art_; but instead I give an almost equally beautiful
representation from the lid of a toilet vase in the Sabouroff
Collection at Berlin.

We have here the same three figures of the sun-god, the moon-goddess,
and the winged dawn, who, however, in this case is driving a
chariot.

The form of the whole group and the radiate symbol in the midst
stands admirably for the vault of heaven (Fig. 1).

[Illustration: Fig. 1.

VASE REPRESENTING SUNRISE]

Another extreme example of anthropomorphism is the embodiment of
the sustaining power of the pillar in the so-called Caryatids of
the Erechtheum (Fig. 2).

Really they are Corae, maidens dedicated to Athena, and willingly
in her service bearing up the weight of the architrave of her temple.

Possibly the notion is not wholly satisfactory; but if it be
tolerated, could it have been more nobly carried out?

The square and stalwart form of the women, the mass of hair which
strengthens their necks, the easy pose, all make us feel that the
task is not beyond their strength or oppressive.

[Illustration: Fig. 2. CARYATID of Erechtheum]
Beside the Greek Caryatid I must be allowed to place a modern
version, by Rodin.

For the power and the technique of Rodin I have great admiration; but
when his works are placed beside those of Greece, we feel at once
their inferiority in dignity, in simplicity, in ideality (Fig. 3).

[Illustration: Fig. 3. CARYATID by Rodin]

II
The second lamp of Greek art is _Simplicity_. The artist sees quite
clearly what he desires to produce, and sets about producing it without
hesitation, without self-consciousness, with no beating about the
bush.
Of course the more primitive and less conventional a society is,
the easier it is for artists to be simple.

In a complicated society simplicity and directness are apt to
be confused with what is commonplace or even with the foolish. The
simplicity of Wordsworth and of Tennyson does sometimes cross the
line. The Greeks had the great advantage of coming before other
cultivated peoples, so that there was no commonplace to avoid. They
could be simple, as the wild rose and the primrose are
simple. What could be more simple than the _Iliad_? The same
simplicity marks Greek sculpture. It requires no great exercise of
the intellect to understand it.

It presents every figure in a clear and unsophisticated way.

As there is no more sure sign of a fine nature than the absence of
self-consciousness, so there is no more sure sign of greatness in art
than simplicity. The Greeks did not strive to be original, to make
people stare, to do the unusual. One of the most usual subjects in Greek
relief is a battle between male warriors and Amazons. Such battles
adorn many temples. And in every case they are distinctive
in style. One could not mistake a group from the temple at Phigaleia
for a group from the Mausoleum. And there is no sameness: almost
every group has some point or touch of its own, which makes it a
variety on the usual theme.

She spent every spare moment in reading
his biographies or his works, till she felt she had him at her
fingers' ends. Then, with a mass of notes as a foundation, she began
her essay.

Most young writers undergo the same first agonies of composition: the
vainly sought simile, the sentence that will not turn nicely, the
tiresome word that crops up too often, yet for which there seems no
adequate substitute; the sudden lack of ideas, or the non-ability to
clothe those one has in suitable language.

Gwen wrote and burnt, and wrote and burnt again, till at last she
managed something, not at all up to the ideal of her imagination, but
the best her limited literary experience could produce. She refused to
show it to anybody at home, and bore it off to school to read over and
correct during the dinner hour. She was sitting at her desk, busy
altering sentences and erasing words, when Netta came into the room.

"Hello, you old solitary hermit!" she exclaimed. "What are you doing
here, with your nose buried in an exercise book? There's no getting at
you nowadays. You'll grow old before your time, Gwen, my child! Come
out this instant, and play basket-ball."

"Can't, so that's flat," responded Gwen. "Netta, if you love me, if
you've any humanity in you, leave me alone. Basket-ball's off till
I've finished this."

"Well, you've got to tell me what you're doing, at any rate. Let me
look! No, Miss Modesty, you're not going to hide your light under a
bushel. I insist! Oho! What have we got here now?"

Netta dragged the book from Gwen's reluctant hands, and sitting on a
neighbouring desk, began hastily to skim through the essay, giving
grunts of approval as she read.

"First rate! I say, this is immense! Gwen, my hearty, I didn't think
you'd got it in you!"

"Will it do?" demanded Gwen anxiously. She had sat on metaphorical
pins to hear Netta's verdict.

"Do? I should rather think it would! If Lemonade doesn't mark it A1,
First Prize, I shall say she doesn't know her business, that's all!
You're pretty safe for that book of Browning, in my opinion."

"Wish it were cash instead! But I shan't get it in any case," sighed
Gwen. "If I did, I'd trade it for anything I could."

"You mercenary wretch!"

"I'm so hard up. I'm no nearer paying what I owe you, Netta. I
literally haven't a penny in my pocket I wish you'd take it in kind
instead of money."

Netta sat silent, drumming with her fingers on the desk.

"I've a rather decent locket, if you'd care for that--" continued
Gwen.

"Hush! Be quiet! You've given me an idea, Gwen Gascoyne."

"Or I've a really jolly writing case--almost new--"

"I don't want your lockets or your writing cases; I've heaps of my
own. I know one thing I do want, though, and if you like to trade, you
can."

"Done! Only name it, and it's yours with my blessing."

"Well, I want this essay--"

"My essay! What do you mean?"

Gwen snatched back her exercise book as a mother clutches her
first-born.

"I mean what I say. If you like to hand over 'Thomas Carlyle' to me,
I'll take it instead of the sov., and call us quits. It would be a new
experience to win a prize. How amazed everyone would be!"

"You surely wouldn't pass it off as your own?"

"Why not?"

"Why, Netta! That would be rather strong, even for you!"

"I told you long ago I was no saint. Besides, what's the harm? It's a
business arrangement. You offered to pay me in kind, and this happens
to be the 'pound of flesh', I fancy. It's perfectly fair."

"Um! Don't quite see the fairness myself."

"But it is!" protested Netta rather huffily. "I believe lots of
popular authors don't do all their own writing themselves. They engage
secretaries to help them. I've even heard of clergymen buying their
sermons."

"Oh, oh! Father doesn't!" Gwen's tone was warm.

"Well, I didn't say he did, but I believe it's done all the same. And if
a vicar can read somebody else's sermon in the pulpit as if it were his
own, I may hand in somebody else's essay. _Quod est demonstrandum_, my
child."

"Can't see it!" grunted Gwen.

"Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, you've got to see it! I've been uncommonly
patient with you, but I don't quite appreciate the joke of being done
out of that sov. I must either have it or its equivalent. You can
please yourself which."

Netta's eyes were flashing, and her mouth was twitching ominously. She
was a jolly enough fair-weather comrade, but she could be uncommonly
nasty if things went wrong.

"I suppose you don't consider it unfair to keep me waiting all this
time?" she added scathingly.

Gwen kicked the desk and groaned.

"Well, it just amounts to this: if you don't choose to come to terms,
I'll tell Lemonade. Yes, I will! I don't care a scrap if I went into
her room as well as you. You broke the china, and you'd get into the
worst row. It wouldn't be pleasant for you. I think you'd better hand
over Mr. Thomas Carlyle to me, my dear."

"And what am I to do, I should like to know?"

"Write another on a different author."

"There isn't time."

"Yes there is, heaps! I don't want it to be as good as this,
naturally. Well, are you going to trade, or are you not? I can't wait
here all day!"

For answer, Gwen held out the exercise book. She was in a desperately
tight corner; everything seemed to have conspired against her. She
knew Netta and her mad, reckless moods quite well enough to appreciate
the fact that her threat to tell Miss Roscoe was no idle one. When her
temper was roused, Netta was capable of anything.

"It's her fault more than mine if it's not fair. I really can't help
it," thought Gwen, trying to find excuses for herself.

"Oh! Glad you've come to your senses at last!" sneered Netta, as she
clutched the precious manuscript and stalked away, slamming the door
behind her. There was no one else in the room, so Gwen laid her head
down on the desk, and indulged in an altogether early Victorian
exhibition of feeling. Her essay--her cherished essay, over which she
had taken such superhuman pains, to be torn away from her like this!
It was to have brought her such credit from Miss Roscoe, for even if
it did not win the prize, it would surely be highly commended. And she
had made herself a party to a fraud, for however much she might try
to whitewash her act, she knew she had no right to allow Netta to use
her work.

"Dad would despise me! Oh, what an abominable mix and muddle it all
is! And I was going to start the New Year so straight!" wailed Gwen.

Netta in the meantime had put the essay away in her locker with the
utmost satisfaction. She felt she had decidedly scored. Neither
brilliant nor a hard worker, she had no opportunity of distinguishing
herself in the Form under ordinary circumstances: here chance had
flung into her hand the very thing she wanted. It would not take long
to copy the sixteen pages of rather sprawling writing, then "Thomas
Carlyle" would be her own.

"And a surprise for everyone!" she chuckled complacently. "Of course,
it's rather dear--a whole pound! But--yes, most undoubtedly it's worth
it!"

To Gwen, not the lightest part of the business was that she was faced
with the horrible necessity of writing another essay. Only two days
remained, so time pressed. It was impossible to look up any subject
adequately, so she chose Dickens, as being an author whose books she
knew fairly well, and by dint of much brain racking and real hard
labour contrived to give some slight sketch of his life and an
appreciation of his genius. She was painfully conscious, however, that
the result was poor, the style slipshod, and the general composition
lacking both in unity and finish. She pulled a long face as she signed
her name to it.

"That isn't going to do much for you, Gwen Gascoyne," she said to
herself. "It won't even get 'commended'. Bah! I'm sick of the whole
thing!"

She felt more sick still on the day when Miss Roscoe returned the
essays.

"I had hoped the average standard would be higher," commented the
Principal. "Very few girls have treated the subject in any really
critical spirit. There is only one paper worthy of notice--that on
Thomas Carlyle by Netta Goodwin, and it is so excellent that it stands
head and shoulders above all the others. I am very pleased, Netta,
very pleased indeed, that you should have done so well. The channeling
or fluting carries the eye of the spectator upwards to the capital
which swells outwards to support the heavy straight line of the
cornice.

Above the cornice, the grooves of the triglyphs carry on the lines
of fluting from the columns towards the roof. The walls of the temple
are not primarily intended to support, but to enclose the sacred cella,
and are adorned only at their upper edge, as a curtain might be,
with a decorative frieze.

The whole building is thought out as a home for the statue of the deity
which it encloses; and no part is allowed to adorn itself except
in subordination to this general purpose.

Like the shells of molluscs or the hives of bees, it is the direct
embodiment of an idea, a purpose, only a conscious and reflective,
not a merely instinctive purpose.

The sculptural decoration, which is so striking a feature of the temple,
is also carefully subordinated to purpose and idea.

No part of the structure which bears a strain, if we except one or two
early and unsatisfactory experiments, was decorated.

The business of column and architrave was to bear weight; and if they
were ornate they would seem less well adapted to that purpose.
Only in parts of the building which were from the point of view of
construction otiose, such as pediment and metope, was the art of
the sculptor allowed to play; and even then it was bound to play
appropriately to the nature of the deity within and the festivals
of which the temple was to be the focus.

There was no room for cross-purposes or disturbing thoughts.

This rigidity of form and subordination to reason is as characteristic
of Attic tragedies as of temples.

It would indeed be possible to work out a close parallel between
the two forms of art.

But we must return to our immediate subject, sculpture. Temple
sculpture exhibits the qualities of balance and measure in the highest
degree. In case of the pediment there is a central point, just under
the apex, where the dominant figures of the scene portrayed are
placed; and on either side of this central figure or group, figure
balances figure, until we come to the corners, which are occupied by
reclining forms, dying warriors, or river-gods or spectators. In case
of the metope, the square field is filled with two or three figures
balanced about a central line, a scheme self-contained and
harmonious, which may be compared to a geometrical diagram, and
carries simplicity to the farthest point.

Rhythm, balance, symmetry are the translation into sculpture of the
spirit of discipline and self-control, which the Greeks learned by
hard necessity. The civilization of the Ionians in Asia is
a brilliant sunrise, an overflowing of the delight in life, in beauty,
in the exercise of all the faculties, which for a time dominated Greece
itself.
And their art was joyous and free. The artists of Ionia invaded
Athens in the sixth century, visiting the luxurious court of
Peisistratus, and inspiring Peloponnesus, even Sparta, as the
excavations of the British School in Athens have abundantly shown.

But the Ionians were trodden down under the heavy foot of Persia:
excess of freedom and want of cohesion and discipline was their ruin.
The Great King of Persia was determined to trample in a like manner
on Greece Proper; and he would have succeeded but for the discipline
and devotion of the Dorians. It was the Spartans, aided by the brilliant
military talent of Miltiades and Themistocles, who saved Greece from
slavery. A military caste, like the Templars and Hospitallers of
mediaeval Europe, they furnished the backbone of the Greek army and
dispersed the hordes of Asia as easily as did the hardy Macedonians of
Alexander the Great a century and a half later.

The Athenians, with their quick wits, understood whence came their
salvation, and in the early part of the fifth century the tide of
Ionian influence was turned back, and Dorian manners, Dorian dress,
Dorian art, became dominant from Thessaly to Laconia. It is precisely
the Dorian ideas of discipline, of measure, of self-control, which
entering into the art of Greece made it a noble and continuous
development, instead of a mere brilliant flash. Plato was well aware
of the dangers which beset the Athenians from their extreme
versatility and want of reverence, and he foresaw how these qualities
would in the end destroy the civilization which they had adorned.
He so clearly saw this that he was inclined to prefer the
conventional and monotonous art of Egypt to the brilliant Greek art of
his own time. This is, of course, to carry ethical prejudice to
the length of fanaticism, and to transgress the very law of
moderation which inspired him.

But it was only in his old age that he went thus far.

This careful balance and proportion may be observed, as has often been
pointed out, in the designs of Greek vases, where the painted subject
not only is in itself a balanced scheme, but is also planned in relation
to the shape of the vases themselves.

A group suitable to an amphora would look out of place on a drinking
cup. And in the cup itself the outside requires a different treatment
from the inside. The whole is planned not merely to give free scope
to the artist, but to be appropriate, fitting, harmonious.

Our first figure well illustrates this thesis.

Even in the case of substantive sculpture, figures or groups made to
stand by themselves in market-place or portico, the Greek love of
harmony, or as they would have put it, of rhythm and symmetry
prevails:
ancient critics in those accounts of Greek sculpture, of which fragments
have come down to us in the writings of Pliny and Quintilian, lay
great stress on these features. They show us that whereas in early
art a merely external and mechanical balance had prevailed, in the
course of the fifth century this love of order and measure was
taken into the very being of art. Pythagoras of Rhegium, whose works
are unfortunately lost to us, made great progress in rhythm and symmetry.
His contemporaries, Myron and Polycleitus, who carried the athletic
art of Peloponnesus almost to its highest point, were celebrated,
Myron for the rhythm in motion which he infused into his sculpture,
Polycleitus for the careful balance of his athletes and the system
of proportion which he embodied in their figures.

Pheidias was more essentially ideal than either of these, as we
shall presently see, but he also most diligently preserved in the
Parthenon and other works a spirit of measure and reasonableness.

Measure and balance in art differ widely from mere convention.

'Order is Heaven's first law.' All fine character is formed, not by
following random impulses as they arise, but by making them conform
to reason and duty, disciplining them as wild horses are disciplined
and taught to serve mankind. Horses indeed may be over-disciplined,
and by cruelty all spirit may be taken out of them. And men may be
over-disciplined, so that their impulses die away from inanition.

The Spartans were over-disciplined; and through constant repression of
natural tendencies they became mere machines, and before long died
out. But reasonable restraint imposed on strong natural tendencies
produces noble results in all spheres of activity.

The same thing is true in art. Measure and discipline do not of course
make it easier to produce works of art; for in the nature of the
case discipline is at first grievous and is felt as a barrier. But
for the production of good and lasting works of art, discipline
and law are necessary.

Take as an example the art which is simplest, poetry. It is easier
to write blank verse than to write sonnets. But it is far easier
to write _good_ sonnets than good blank verse, simply because the
constant restraint of the form stimulates thought and invention,
prevents too great haste, exercises the ingenuity.

In the same way the somewhat rigid laws of composition of pediment
metope and frieze compelled the Greek artist to think out schemes
suitable to those forms.

It would not be possible to find a better example of order and balance
in reliefs than is furnished by the magnificent sarcophagus from Sidon
(Fig. 7), on one side of which is represented one of the victories
of Alexander the Great. At first sight it may seem a confused mêlée.
But when we look closer we see careful arrangement underlying the
apparent disorder.

Alexander, charging from the left, is balanced by Parmenio charging
from the right: the horseman in the middle between the leaders
seems to come out of the background; and on either side of him is
a fighting group, to the left a Macedonian foot soldier fighting a
Persian on foot, to the right a light-armed Greek resisting a
Persian horseman.

Two Persian archers balance one another. There are in the scene
five Greeks to eight Persians, indicating the numerical superiority
of the latter. And if we knew more about the battle we should
probably find its principal phases hinted at in the groups. The
relief tells us far more about the battle than would a naturalistic
representation of one corner of the field. The Greek artist could not
work without using his reason and his sense of order as well as his
skilled hand.

[Illustration: Fig. 7. SARCOPHAGUS FROM SIDON]

IV
The fourth notable quality of Greek art is _Naturalism_. Painting and
sculpture, being representative or mimetic arts, are dependent
for their effects on the careful observation and loving study of nature.
Probably this is not the feature in works of Greek sculpture which
would be most conspicuous to a modern eye. And it cannot be doubted
that the habit of exact observation produced by modern nature studies,
our familiarity with such helps to sight as telescopes and magnifying
glasses, our constant use of photography, have made most of us
better acquainted with the phenomena of the world about us than
were the Greeks.

But compared with the works of preceding ages, Greek sculpture must
have seemed amazingly naturalist. Even works of the archaic period,
like the pediments from Aegina, show a knowledge of the human
form infinitely more accurate than any to be found in Assyrian
palaces or Egyptian temples. There is probably always a good deal
of illusion in the minds of the schools which are constantly
springing up, which profess to break away from all conventions and
to go back to nature herself.

To reach nature except through human senses and human combinations is
quite impossible. And any artist who determines to give us nature merely
as the photographic plate or the mechanical cast gives it to us simply
wastes his powers, and produces a result of no interest whatever to
any one. According to Pliny Lysippus professed to take nature alone for
his teacher; but in fact the works of Lysippus, so far as we can
recover or trace them, are full of most definite style.

An artist has to look at nature through his own eyes, and those eyes
give to what he sees a character based in part on his own personality.
Everything he sees is refracted in the waters of his subjectivity,
from which he cannot escape.

Nevertheless, the whole historic course of Greek sculpture is steeped
in the study of nature; and we see as it proceeds more and more clearly
the results of careful observation. The artist had in fact opportunities
for the study of what he considered the one important group of
phenomena, human bodies, such as a modern artist cannot hope
to compass. In the baths and gymnasia where all young men of free
birth spent part of their mornings in running, leaping, wrestling,
or swimming, he could daily watch the beautiful bodies of athletes in
every variety of pose and action. He knew them as a trainer knows
horses, or a fancier knows dogs.
He would have little need of a special model; but would daily observe
some fresh detail of muscles, some notable pose which he could add
from memory to his conception of the human body.

But in the greatest periods of art naturalism is not predominant. Its
constantly working tendency is kept in check by noble ideas and noble
style. There is in the development of sculpture a constant approach to
nature, but nothing of the nihilism which looks on all aspects of
nature as equally fit subjects for art. The artists of the pediments
of Aegina could not bring themselves to conceal the beautiful bodies
of the fighting warriors by rigid armour like that copied in Vischer's
group.
Thus we find the paradox of armed men in battle, but without armour.

The utmost pains are taken with the nude limbs. In the wonderful bronze
charioteer found at Delphi (Fig. 4), which dates from about 470 B.

C., the garment necessary to protect the man from the rush of air is
very simply treated; but the arms and feet, which the garment does not
conceal, are wrought with marvellous accuracy and truth to nature. It
seems almost as if the artist were compensating himself for the extremely
simple work on the drapery by an almost excessively close study of
nature where it was possible. The head, on the other hand, is typical
and not individual; for in fact individual portraits were scarcely
possible at the time.

This would be the place to speak of Greek portraits, if space
allowed it.

I will only point out the erroneousness of the popular view, that
Greek portraits were conventional and uninteresting; and that it was
the Romans who introduced individuality into portraiture. It is
strange that a view which is utterly false should have gained such
currency.

It is true that Greek portraits of the fifth and even the fourth
century have in them much of the type, and individual traits are
softened in accord with the strongly idealizing tendencies of the
age.

But from the third and second centuries we have a great number of portraits
which are in the highest degree characteristic and individual,
a wonderful gallery of philosophers and poets and statesmen which
for lifelikeness cannot be surpassed. All the finest of the portraits
of Romans were by Greek artists.

I can give but one example of really fine Greek portraiture, a statue
of Demosthenes of the third century B. C. (Fig. 8). It is a portrait
indeed. The long lean arms and the pose are quite as individual and
characteristic as the face with its melancholy expression and deep lines
of anxiety. We have the man from head to foot; not as is so often
the case in modern statues, a portrait head set on a conventional
body.

[Illustration: Fig. 8.

DEMOSTHENES By Polyeuctus]
For comparison with Demosthenes I set a statue of a great modern
statesman, Abraham Lincoln, by Barnard (Fig. 9), not the best
statue of him, but one which is approved by many.

It aims at truth, but only attains caricature, by exaggerating Lincoln's
awkwardness and angularity, the size of his hands and feet, and the
anxiety in his face.
This exaggeration has been proved by a comparison with many photographs
of Lincoln, which show that he was careful in dress and by no means
wanting in dignity.

The statue of Demosthenes is marvellous for truth; but it adds a touch
of pathos; the statue of Lincoln misses the truth, through exaggerating
the least pleasing features of the subject.

[Illustration: Fig. 9.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Barnard]
When we want to ascertain how close Greek sculpture could come to
actual fact, we turn from the great ideal age to the Hellenistic
period.

Lysistratus, the brother of Lysippus, began to take moulds in
plaster from individual faces.

They were
determined to give the ducks a washing in order that they might show
them with their plumage in an absolutely spotless condition. Armed
with a tin bath, a can of warm water, some soap and a sponge, they
shut themselves in a disused pig sty and commenced operations. It is
no easy task to wash a large, struggling, flapping, protesting duck,
and though Gwen held their wings down while Winnie did the scrubbing,
both girls were splashed all over and drenched with water before they
had finished.

"But the Aylesburys look gorgeous," said Gwen, flinging her
dishevelled hair from her hot face. "They're clean to the very tips of
their beaks. The drake looks as if you'd curled his tail feather with
the curling tongs. They're fearfully upset and angry, poor dears; they
think they've been half killed. Winnie, how are we going to get them
to the Show?"

"That's what's puzzling me. We don't possess a basket big enough for
them. I believe we shall have to carry them."

"In our arms? Yes, that'll be by far the best way. They'd knock their
feathers about in a hamper and get dirty again. They've had one
breakfast already, but I think they deserve a little scrap of Indian
corn as a reward for what they've gone through."

All exhibits had to be delivered at the Show field by nine o'clock,
and precisely at half-past eight a procession set off from the
Parsonage: Lesbia carefully carrying a dozen beautiful brown eggs in a
basket, the three boys with small hampers of chickens, Dick holding a
little wooden crate containing Black Minorca cockerels, and finally
Winnie and Gwen, each clasping a huge white Aylesbury in her arms.
Dick had offered gallantly to be duck bearer, but the girls preferred
to transport their own pets.

"They know us so well, you see," said Gwen, "so they won't struggle
like they would with a stranger. Besides, we know just the dodge of
holding down their wings so that they can't flap."

They decided to take the short cut to the mill, through two meadows,
across a small stream, and over a stile that led them direct into the
Show ground. Gwen and Winnie got on very well with Dick and the boys
to open gates: it was rather perilous work crossing the stream on a
single plank, but they accomplished that in safety, and Winnie, with
infinite caution, climbed over the stile into the mill meadow, still
hugging her burden. Gwen essayed to follow with equal skill, but the
stile was a very steep and awkward one, and she needed both hands to
hold the drake. She was stepping carefully over the top bar when
somehow her foot caught and she stumbled; she put out one hand to
save herself, and the cunning drake, quick to seize his opportunity,
wriggled himself free and made a dash for liberty.

Off he went over the Show ground, flapping and fluttering like a white
whirlwind and quacking his loudest, and the Gascoyne family, popping
down hampers and baskets, followed hard behind; Winnie, much
encumbered by her duck, shouting frantic directions. It was Dick who
caught the runaway, and pinioned him cleverly until Gwen secured him,
then with much triumph they shut him up with his agitated mate in the
wire pen marked "No. 207".

"I thought we'd lost him," panted Winnie. "Oh, dear! It's no joke
bringing one's beasties to a show. I'm glad we decided not to exhibit
the pigs! Martin, you're not to open that hamper. We shall be having
the chickens escaping next! Stop him, Stumps! I feel like the 'Old
Woman who lived in a Shoe'. Gwen, you take charge of the cockerels
while I find where the Black Minorcas have to go to."

The public was not allowed in the field while the judging was in
process; so until twelve o'clock the Gascoynes were obliged to wait
with what patience they could muster. As soon as the gates were opened
they trooped into the Show.

"Hurrah! First Prize for White Aylesburys!" exclaimed Winnie
ecstatically, gazing with rapture at the large pink card that
decorated No. 207 pen. "It was worth washing them. The darlings! How
nice they look!"

"And the chickens have got a third!" yelled the boys, who had taken a
hasty round of the exhibits.

"The eggs haven't won anything, but the cockerels have 'commended'.
Mrs. Hodges' have got the first."

"We haven't done badly," said Winnie, "considering I can't devote all
my time to it like the farmers' wives. Gwen, you've helped loyally,
and I'm going to give you half a crown out of the prize money. I shall
save the rest to buy some really good White Leghorns; Mrs. Hodges says
they lay better than any others in the winter. Oh, here's Father! We
must go and tell him of our success."


CHAPTER XIII

The Shoe Pinches


The very first thing which Gwen did, when Winnie had given her the
promised half-crown out of the prize money, was to go straight to the
post office and buy a postal order for that amount and a penny stamp.
She possessed a few odd coppers, but otherwise no funds had come her
way for a long time, and she had been growing very uneasy about the
bill which she still owed to Parker's for the broken china. She now
sent them the postal order, with a note saying that she hoped very
soon to settle the remainder of the account, and begging them to wait
a little longer. She also asked them to return her a receipt addressed
"c/o Miss Netta Goodwin, The Thorns, Manor Road, Stedburgh".

"I dare say Netta'll be angry, and call it cheek on my part, but I
can't help it," thought Gwen. "I daren't get another letter sent to
school after the rowing Miss Roscoe gave me, and if it comes home,
Beatrice will want to know who's been writing to me. It's only fair
that Netta should take a little of the bother on her own shoulders.
She's certainly had the best of it in this affair. Oh, dear, I still
owe Parker's ten shillings. I haven't the ghost of a notion how I'm to
pay it!"

Gwen could not forgive Netta for appropriating her prize essay. She
still felt indignant whenever she thought about it, especially as
there was always an uneasy sensation of guilt on her own part. She
knew it was not a straight transaction, and poor Gwen, with all her
faults, loved straightness. For lack of other friendships at school
she was forced into companionship with Netta, but she never
whole-heartedly liked her. Lately, especially, Netta had taken a
rather high-handed tone, and was apt to order her chum about in a
manner that Gwen's independent spirit greatly resented. The friction
between the two was sometimes hot, but neither cared to risk a
quarrel, for each knew that the other, if turned into an enemy, might
come out with some decidedly awkward revelations. So they went on in
the old way, squabbling continually over trifles and making it up
again, but on the whole ready to stand up for each other against the
rest of the Form. Yes, alack!--the rest of the Form, for Gwen, in
spite of her well-meant efforts, had not yet won popularity in the
Fifth. She had tried to be genial and sociable, but nobody seemed to
want her. If she joined in a conversation, Rachel Hunter or Edith
Arnold would stare at her as if they thought it great impertinence on
her part to intrude herself into their concerns. They never asked her
opinion, or consulted her about anything, but simply ignored her, and
left her to her own devices. Nearly all the girls lived in Stedburgh,
and their talk was often of Stedburgh affairs, concerts, amateur
dramatic performances, and entertainments in which Gwen, living far
away at Skelwick, could have no possible part. Though she sometimes
got in a word about school matters, her remarks were never well
received, and she was always more or less conscious of being an alien
and an outsider in her Form.

She tried to pretend that she did not care about the opinion of the
others, but it was hard, all the same. Most of us like popularity,
especially when we believe we have done nothing to deserve the
reverse.

"If I'd been as pretty as Lesbia, they'd have made ever such a fuss
over me," thought Gwen. "She's the pet of her form, and the darling of
all the big girls. I'd have been a beauty if I could! They never even
give me a chance to be nice to them--they just leave me alone. Yes,
it's hard!"

But all the while, Father's New Year motto hung over the dressing
table in her bedroom, and every morning she could not help looking at
it. It seemed a stern gospel to pray for strength instead of ease, and
yet it attracted her. After all, was it not a nobler conception of
life to work away and not mind what people thought of you, than to be
always caring whether you were popular? There was a certain joy in
overcoming difficulties, and surmounting obstacles. She was already
succeeding in mastering the lessons that had baffled her at first.
Could she ever win a place for herself in the Form? It would
undoubtedly seem almost a miracle if she did.

"I wonder if I should be happier at another school?" she sometimes
thought. "Dad spoke once of the possibility of sending me to one of
the Clergy Daughters' Schools; he said I might get a scholarship. But
oh, dear! That would mean leaving home, and being a boarder! Suppose
I didn't like it any better than Rodenhurst; then it would be
perfectly awful to have to spend the whole term without once seeing
Dad or any of the others. No, I won't suggest it. I'd better stick
where I am, and peg along as best I can."

Gwen was a great home-bird. On the few occasions in her childhood,
when she had paid visits at relations' houses, she had, after a few
days, grown so intolerably homesick, and wept so hopelessly and
inconsolably, that she had had to be packed back, rather in disgrace;
and though she was now old enough to behave herself, she had not been
asked again, nor was she very enthusiastic to receive invitations. She
felt bashful, awkward, and badly dressed under the critical eyes of
Aunt Violet or Aunt Christina, and much preferred the atmosphere of
the Parsonage, and the society of her own family. To come back every
evening from school, and spend Saturday and Sunday at home, seemed
indispensable at present, though she supposed if she went to College
later on, she would have to get used to being away.

Eastertide came, and brought welcome holidays. Gwen helped to deck the
church with daffodils, and great boughs of pink almond blossom, and
bunches of sweet-smelling wallflowers. She loved the Easter
decorations far more than those at Christmas, and this time she had
rather a free hand, for Beatrice was too busy to come, and Gwen was
allowed to do the lectern and reading desk all by herself, while
Winnie undertook the pulpit. She gave infinite pains to her work, and
Father praised the result, which was a tremendous satisfaction. To do
anything for Father was a joy. Gwen often wished she could play the
organ like Winnie, but she was not clever at music. Beatrice had made
a great effort to teach her the piano, with poor success, for she was
not a docile or attentive pupil, and the lessons generally involved a
wrangle between the two sisters, Beatrice losing her patience, and
Gwen arguing hotly. Finally Father had put a stop to the lessons
altogether, on the ground that it was sheer waste of time, and Gwen
was better employed at something else. Lesbia, however, played rather
nicely; she could manage the harmonium at the Sunday School, and was
just beginning to practise the organ under Winnie's instructions. It
was the one thing Lesbia did pretty well, for she did not distinguish
herself at school. She was not a remarkably bright girl, and was very
childish for her age. Though Gwen was fond of her younger sister, and
petted her like everybody else, the two were not in any sense
companions. Lesbia was far more on a level with the little boys, and
generally amused herself with Giles or Basil; Gwen's schemes and
projects were miles above her head.

The holidays, though very enjoyable, were quite uneventful. They
slipped away much too swiftly, and the ordinary round of school and
home work began again. It was the summer term, however, and to Gwen
that meant a great deal. She took up tennis with hot enthusiasm,
practising both at home and at school in any time she could spare. Her
long arms and strong wrists stood her in good stead, and it began to
be said in the Form that "Gwen Gascoyne's play was quite decent". She
mowed and rolled the little lawn at the Parsonage vigorously, marked
out the courts with a brush, and persuaded either Beatrice or Winnie
to have a game every evening before bedtime, and Father whenever she
could catch him.

"If only I'd a better racket!" she sighed one night, "it's impossible
to do very much with a wretched old thing that's half sprung. You
should have seen my serves when Netta lent me hers yesterday!"

"Why don't you buy a new one, then?" suggested Lesbia. "You're the
Croesus of the family. Your money box must be bursting, for you've
been hoarding up for ages. How much have you got in it?"

"Ah! Wouldn't you like to know!" returned Gwen, suddenly desirous of
changing the subject.

"You really might get a new racket, Gwen," agreed Winnie. "It's a good
idea of Lesbia's. We'd all borrow it on occasion."

"Oh, I dare say! Very nice for you all, no doubt. Rackets are rather
expensive little luxuries, my dear girl. Otherwise I'd be happy to
accommodate you."

"You're a perfect old miser! What are you going to do with your
wealth? Invest it in an annuity?"

"Probably speculate on the Stock Exchange, or take up Mexican mines!"
declared Gwen, trying to turn things off with a laugh.

"Well, you're the only member of the family who keeps any money."

"A good example in thrift to the rest of you, then!"

Gwen did not dare to complain again about the poorness of her racket,
though it was a serious handicap in her games at school, where most of
the girls came supplied with the very best. In spite of this
impediment her play improved steadily, and she several times beat
Louise Mawson, though she could not vanquish Hilda Brown or Charlotte
Perry, the champions at present of the Form.

"I suppose you're going to take swimming, Gwen?" said Netta one day.
"Miss Trent says we begin this afternoon."

"Haven't heard anything about it. Please condescend to enlighten my
ignorance."

"Why, don't you know? We're going to the baths every Wednesday. It's
clean-water day, and the whole school's to go in relays. They've a
ripping teacher of swimming there now, a Miss Morris, who swam the
Channel halfway, or did something else marvellous, I forget exactly
what. Anyway, it's arranged we're to have a proper course of lessons.
I expect every girl in the Form will join."

"It sounds--well, just idyllic!" said Gwen. "Whether I can take it or
not is another question. I shall have to ask at home first."

"Oh, Mr. Gascoyne's sure to say 'yes'. Why shouldn't he? All girls
ought to learn to swim."

It was impossible to explain to Netta that the fee for the course
might prove an insurmountable barrier. Gwen was always too proud to
plead poverty, and hid her father's narrow circumstances from her
schoolmates as well as she could.

"You won't have time to ask before this afternoon," said Netta. "I
advise you to go to the baths, though. I believe the lessons don't
begin till next week, and this is only what you might call a trial
trip, so you could see how you like it. Miss Trent says we can get
bathing dresses there to-day, and bring our own afterwards."

The Rodenhurst girls had not before been taken to the public baths at
Stedburgh, and the swimming course was a new departure of Miss
Roscoe's. The idea proved extremely popular, and almost everybody
wanted at least to sample the experiment.

"Oh, yes, you might go to-day," said Winnie, whom Gwen caught and
consulted in the passage. "There's no great damage in that. You don't
pledge yourself to take the course. Lesbia can go too. Miss Roscoe
said it was to be a special afternoon."

"That's all right, then," said Gwen, rushing jubilantly away.

She was immensely anxious to learn to swim. The bay at Skelwick was so
dangerous that Father would not allow any of them to bathe there, so
as yet she had had no chance of testing her skill in natation. She
loved all kinds of physical sports, they seemed a necessity of her
active, fast-growing young body, and the prospect of trying a new
element was alluring. In the very highest of spirits she joined the
procession of Fifth Form girls that filed off at three o'clock, in
charge of Miss Douglas.

The baths at Stedburgh had only lately been enlarged and re-opened,
and in their improved shape were now quite a feature of the town. They
were supplied with salt water, and could boast great conveniences in
the matter of dressing-rooms, hair-drying apparatus, and plentiful hot
towels. Gwen had never been inside before, so she gazed with delighted
admiration, at the ladies' large bath, with its pale-green tiles, its
flights of steps, and its diving board at the deep end. There was a
cord across the middle, with a big notice that non-swimmers were to
venture no farther, and must confine themselves to the shallow end;
also that water wings could be hired.

"I hear Miss Morris won't let her pupils use those, though," said
Netta. "She calls it an amateurish dodge. I should think we shall have
to hold each other up while we practise our strokes!"

Gwen secured a bathing costume that fitted quite tolerably. She had no
mackintosh cap, but she plaited her hair very tightly instead. She did
not much care whether it got wet or not. It was most exciting to run
down the steps and slip into the lovely clear green water. She had
undressed with such record speed that she was actually the first, but
she was very soon joined by a bevy of laughing, squealing maidens. It
was an amusing, but not a picturesque sight. The Fifth Form attired in
bathing costumes were about as different from the academy pictures of
classical nymphs as a man in the street from a statue of Apollo.
Instead of floating about in graceful attitudes, with the "amber
dropping hair" of Milton's Sabrina, they "larked" like a school of
porpoises, splashing each other and playing tricks. There was no
attempt at a lesson that afternoon. The girls just enjoyed themselves
in their own way, with many cautions from Miss Douglas not to trespass
beyond the danger line. Gwen, held up by Netta, made frantic efforts
to try her strokes, though her attempts invariably ended in a plunge
from which she came up spluttering. Netta, with a very little help
from Gwen, got on much better, for she had been to the baths before,
and had had some practice. Several of the girls were already good
swimmers, and after showing their prowess, were allowed to disport
themselves at the deep end.

"I shan't be content till I can dive," declared Gwen, watching
enviously as Elspeth Frazer took a header. "I shouldn't think it's
difficult when you get the knack. It will be just having the pluck to
try. I can float the least little scrap already, so I've learnt
something this afternoon, and so have you."

"We shall both get on grandly at the lessons," assented Netta.

The whole Form agreed unanimously that the experiment was "ripping",
and everyone was extremely anxious to come again. Gwen went home mad
with enthusiasm, and Lesbia, whose Form had preceded the Fifth, was in
equal ecstasies. Both besieged their father with wild entreaties to be
allowed to take the course.

"You haven't told me the fees, and that's a very important point,"
said Mr. Gascoyne.

"I quite forgot to ask," admitted Gwen, brought down to the mundane
side of the question. "Lesbia, do you know?"

Lesbia shook her head. She rarely knew anything; as a rule other
people were ready to manage her affairs for her.

"Miss Douglas says the swimming course is to be half a guinea each,
and admission to the baths threepence a time. There is a special
arrangement for schools," said Winnie, supplying the needed
information.

"Then I must think it over," returned Father. "Times are bad just now,
chicks, and I don't know whether I can afford it. A curacy is not a
fat living, remember, and there are seven of you!"

Very much sobered, the enthusiastic bathers betook themselves to their
preparation.

"I wish everything nice didn't cost money!" sighed Gwen.

She broached the subject to Beatrice during the evening.

"I've been talking about it to Father," said the latter. "I'm afraid
he can't manage it for you both, but he might possibly for one. It
will be a choice between you and Lesbia."

"I'm the eldest!" urged Gwen quickly.

"Yes, I know you are, but on the other hand, it really is Lesbia's
turn, because you took the St. John's Ambulance last winter at the
Parish Room, and Lesbia didn't."

"Swimming's a million times nicer than ambulance!"

"It's not any more useful. Don't be selfish, Gwen! You know how hard
up we are. We can't all of us do everything, and I think this time it
certainly ought to be Lesbia."

Gwen kicked the orchard gate against which they were leaning, and
tried to keep down a lump that rose in her throat. Beatrice's
arguments were unanswerable.

"It'll be sickening to be the only one in the Form who doesn't take
swimming," she said at last. "Every single girl will join except me. I
shall have to stop behind and do prep. instead. I'll feel more utterly
out of things than ever."

"You could pay for the course yourself, if you like," suggested
Beatrice. "What have you done with all your money?"

Gwen's restless hands were hacking notches on the top bar of the gate.
Her penknife slipped suddenly, and cut her finger.

"Your own fault, if you will be so clumsy!" said Beatrice. "Come
indoors, and I'll tie it up for you. You'd better hold it under the
cold-water tap first."

Gwen groaned in spirit as she went to bed that night.

"I shall never hear the last of that wretched fifteen shillings!" she
thought "I feel like Mr. Caudle in the _Curtain Lectures_, when he'd
lent a five-pound note to a friend. That money of mine was to have
bought Christmas presents, and boots for Johnnie Cass, and a new
tennis racket, and paid for the swimming, and I don't know what else,
according to my family's ideas. Oh, dear! Being poor's a hateful
business! I wish Dad were Archbishop of Canterbury, instead of only
Curate-in-charge of Skelwick Bay!"


CHAPTER XIV

Gwen meets Trouble


    "There's a sickening author called Virgil,
    Don't I wish I were chanting his dirge--ill!
      As a door-nail he's dead
      Yet his works live instead,
    And to me they're a regular scourge--ill!"

So sang Netta, banging down her copy of _Æneid I_ and _II_ with a
force that almost dissevered its cover and made the desk ring.

"I call it absolute sickening nonsense," she continued energetically.
"Why in the name of all common sense should we girls in this modern
twentieth century be expected to bother our precious heads over
antiquated old rubbish that would be far better consigned to decent
burial? What's the use of it, I want to know?"

"'An admirable training for the intellect', my dear! to quote
Thistles," said Annie Edwards. "According to her theory you ought to
feel your mind sprouting at every fresh page, and sending out shoots
of wisdom."

"Sprouting, indeed! Just the other way!" grunted Netta. "Latin has a
paralysing effect upon my brain. Instead of sharpening me it deadens
my faculties. When I've been trying to construe a page of Virgil, my
intellect feels a pulp."

"Then the obvious moral is, don't try!" yawned Millicent Cooper.

"I don't."

"No more you do, you old slacker!"

"Why should one try when one can scrape through without?"

"Not an easy thing if Thistles puts you on a difficult bit! Have you
made any sense out of this part? It's uncommonly stiff."

"Not I--I shall throw myself as usual on Gwen's mercy. Come here,
Gwendolen mine, that's a sweet angelic cherub, and interpret these
abominable lines!"

Gwen came rather reluctantly. Of late Netta had grown into the habit
of applying to her for help with her extremely ill-prepared work, and
the habit was assuming proportions that Gwen did not like. At first it
had only been a word or two, then an odd sentence, but it was rapidly
developing into a demand for a translation of the whole lesson.

"Oh, I say, Netta, you make me a regular henchman!" she objected. "Why
should I act as providence to you continually?"

"Because you know the lesson, my hearty, and I don't. Ergo, it is your
duty and privilege to impart your information to me."

"Don't always see my privileges."

"Then you ought. If you're helped, you ought to help others."

"I'm not helped!"

"Oh, Gwen! I'm sure Grinnie helps you at home!" broke out Millicent
Cooper.

"She doesn't! She doesn't, indeed! I do all my prep, by myself."

"Can you actually swear on your honour she's never once helped you?"
said Annie Edwards.

"On my hon--" began Gwen, then stopped and stammered lamely. "Well, at
least, there was once--"

The recollection had struck her of the evening when she had caught the
rat in the hen-coop. She had been so upset and flurried on that
occasion that she had certainly applied to Winnie for assistance with
a passage that she could not have otherwise prepared.

"Once!" sneered Annie. "Oh, no doubt! Everybody in the Form knows how
it is you get on so well with your work!"

"I get no help at home!" declared Millicent self-righteously.

"Oh, drop drivelling, and let Gwen alone! She's got to tell me these
lines," said Netta. "What do I care how she prepares her work? Come,
Gwen, ma-vourneen, be a real friend!"

As Gwen translated the passage Netta wrote it rapidly down in pencil,
and even Annie and Millicent, in spite of their condemnations of
assisted preparations, seized their books and followed the words
carefully.

"A particularly nasty bit--I could never do it if I tried half a year.
Thanks awfully!" said Netta, slipping the paper inside her _Æneid_.

"Netta, you're not going to--"

"Never mind what I'm going to do. My concerns are my own," returned
Netta airily. "I'm an unlucky person, and I'm sure to get the worst
piece if there is one. It's Kismet."

Gwen's desk was close to Netta's, and when the Virgil class began she
could not help noticing the latter pop the scrap of paper on her knee
under cover of a pocket handkerchief.

Miss Douglas followed no fixed order in the Form; she called on any
girl she wished to translate, choosing from back or front desks with
strictest impartiality. As Netta had predicted, the difficult passage
fell to her lot. To the surprise of almost the whole Form she came off
with flying colours. Though Annie and Millicent had strong suspicions,
only Gwen had seen the little piece of paper hidden under Netta's
handkerchief. At lunch time she flew out on the subject.

"Look here, Netta," she began grimly, "helping you a little is one
thing, but I'm not going to act crib for you again; so just don't
think it."

"What do you mean?" gasped Netta sharply.

"What I say. You'd better prepare your own Virgil next time."

"Aren't you going to help me any more?" There was an unpleasant look
in Netta's eyes.

"Not when you write it out and crib."

"It was only one scrap. Don't be horrid, Gwen!"

"I like things square, and they've not been quite straight lately. I'm
going to put a stop to it, so I give you warning."

"Won't you tell me just the hard bits?"

"Not a single sentence."

"Then you're a mean, stingy thing, Gwen Gascoyne! I don't know why you
should have taken it into your head all of a sudden to be so
sanctimonious. You've not been so remarkably square before that you
need turn saint now. You promised you'd stand by me, and this is how
you keep your word, is it? I'll know better another time than to help
you. You may get out of your own scrapes as best you can. I'll pay you
for this, Gwen Gascoyne! I'll catch you tripping some time, see if I
don't--and then--" and with a significant nod Netta turned away.

"You can do anything you like; I don't care," grunted Gwen.

She was out of temper that morning, for it was swimming day, and the
thought of the rest of the Form jaunting off to the baths without her
filled her with despair. She did not speak to Netta during the dinner
hour, nor did the latter seek her company.

"What have those two quarrelled about? I thought they were ever so
chummy," said Charlotte Perry to Elspeth Frazer.

"I'm sure I don't know. It would be a good thing for Gwen Gascoyne if
she did quarrel with Netta, in my opinion."

"Then she'd be in a set by herself! Perhaps she thinks 'better Netta
than nobody'."

"Better nobody than Netta, I should say. Do you know, Charlotte, I
don't believe Gwen's half bad by herself, if only Netta would let her
alone. It's when they get together they're so silly."

"Um--perhaps you're right. Gwen's straight, whatever else she is, and
one can't say that for Netta."

"Hardly! I vote we watch them, and if they really are out of friends,
we'll see if we can do anything with Gwen. It's rather rough on her to
be such an outcast."

"Pity she's not as nice as Lesbia."

"Do you know," said Elspeth reflectively, "I'm not sure that she
mayn't be at bottom. Of course Lesbia's awfully sweet-tempered, but
then she's made such a fuss of, and there's really nothing in her.
Now, I think there is something in Gwen, if she were taken the right
way. I didn't like her at all at first, I don't know that I even do
very much now, but I fancy she's one of those girls whom one might get
to like if one saw the other side of her--I'm certain she has another
side, only it never comes out at school."

"It isn't nice of her to rag her own sister, though."

"That's Netta's fault; she starts all the ragging and throws it on to
Gwen."

"I'd be glad if I could really think so," returned Charlotte, and
there for the moment the matter ended.

That afternoon a joyful, jubilant, rejoicing crew of Fifth Formers set
off for the baths, duly armed with their costumes and mackintosh caps,
and from the window of the classroom one dejected, miserable girl
watched them depart. Gwen thought she had never felt quite so forlorn
in her life before. She was aggrieved with Fate, and kept muttering,
"Hard luck! hard luck!" to herself as the last school hat whisked
round the corner.

"I didn't see Netta," she thought, and then turned, for she heard
Netta's indignant, protesting voice in the passage outside in loud
altercation with Miss Trent.

"It's no use, Netta, I can't allow it," the mistress was saying. "With
that sniffly cold in your head it would be folly to bathe, and as you
say your mother is away from home, and you could not ask her
permission this morning, I must be the judge, and I say most
emphatically no."

"But, Miss Trent! If I just--"

"Not another word, Netta! Go into your own Form room at once, and do
some preparation. Do you want me to report you to Miss Roscoe? Then
go, this instant!"

A very sulky, angry, rebellious, disconsolate Netta flung herself
through the doorway and flounced to her desk. She gave one stare at
Gwen, and, frowning, began to get out her books.

"We're companions in misfortune!" ventured Gwen, but Netta took not
the very slightest notice.

"Oh, very well, madam; if you're going to cut me I'll cut you!"
thought Gwen, and she turned to the window again.

There was no mistress in the room, and Gwen knew that for the next
hour she could practically do as she liked. She would begin her
preparation soon and finish some of it before she went home, but there
was no particular hurry. The window commanded a view of a side street
and just a peep into the main street, and it amused her at present to
stand watching the passers-by. They were not remarkably
enthralling--an old gentleman in a Bath chair, a nursemaid wheeling
two babies in a perambulator, a baker's boy, a young woman with a
large parcel, a vendor of boot laces, and a man delivering circulars.
Gwen looked at them with languid attention, drumming her fingers idly
on the window sill; then quite suddenly an expression of keen interest
flashed across her face and she leaned out over the protecting iron
bars.

"Dick!" she called loudly and impulsively, "Dick!"

The boy on the pavement below stopped and gazed up.

"Hello! Why, Gwen, by all that's wonderful!"

"What are you doing in Stedburgh, Dick?"

"Come in to have my hair cut, Miss Inquisitive, if you must know!"

"Oh, what a shame! I like it curly best. Have you had it done?"

"The fatal operation has been performed," said Dick, uncovering his
closely-cropped head for a moment.

"And what are you going to do now?"

"Go home again."

"I wish I could," sighed Gwen.

"Are you supposed to be in school?" queried Dick.

"Of course I am, silly! I'm in my own Form room."

"Must be a queer sort of school, then, if they let you talk at the
window."

"They don't as a rule. But the others have all gone to the baths
to-day and I'm left here to do prep."

"Hard luck!"

"Just what I've been saying to myself. It's simply sickening. You know
what it feels like to be out of things."

"Don't I, rather!"

[Illustration: "OH, I SAY, WELL CAUGHT!"]

"I feel like a captive in a tower or a nun in a convent," continued
Gwen plaintively.

"Not much of the nun about you!" grinned Dick. "I'd be sorry for the
convent you were in. Look here, if I got you some sweets and chucked
up the bag would you catch it or muff it?"

"Try me."

"If you muff it I'll expect you to throw it down again."

"Right-o!"

"Then wait half a mo. and I'll cut round the corner to Sherrard's and
see what I can fish up for you. You really look like an object for
charity."

"You philanthropist!"

"Better wait till you've caught your catch before you bless me!"
chuckled Dick.

He was certainly not gone long; he returned almost immediately with a
most interesting-looking paper bag in his hand.

"Oh, do tell me, is it chocolate or caramels?" asked Gwen eagerly.

"Find out, madam! Now we'll see if I'm a good shot and if you're a
butter-fingers. Are you ready? All right then, here goes! Oh, I say,
well caught! Good old girl!"

"Told you I'd do it. Thanks most awfully! Have you kept any for
yourself? Then take--"

"Gwen Gascoyne!" said a stern voice suddenly at her elbow.

Gwen jumped as if she had been shot, and turning guiltily, found
herself face to face with Miss Trent. By the door stood Netta in
visible triumph.

"Gwen Gascoyne," said Miss Trent again, "is this the way you conduct
yourself when you're left to do your preparation? You're a disgrace to
the school--an absolute disgrace! We had thought our Rodenhurst girls
could be trusted to behave themselves."

"I was only talking to Dick," urged Gwen in self-defence.

"Is Dick your brother?"

"No--but--"

"Then you ought to be utterly ashamed of yourself. Such an affair has
never happened at Rodenhurst before. I sincerely hope nobody in the
street or in the houses opposite noticed the occurrence. It would be
enough to spoil the reputation of the school."

"I didn't know I was doing anything so dreadful!" retorted Gwen.

"Then it's time you learnt. Miss Roscoe will have to hear about this.
Report yourself in the study at four o'clock, and go at once to your
desk and begin your preparation. Put that paper bag on the
mantelpiece, I can't allow you to keep it."

Miss Trent sat down on Miss Douglas's vacant chair, evidently with the
intention of staying in the room to act Gorgon. Gwen walked to her
desk in the depths of humiliation. She caught Netta's glance as she
went by, and it seemed to add insult to injury.

"I know who sneaked," she thought. "Very well, Netta Goodwin, I've
done with you. You may tell any tales of me you like now; nothing
would ever induce me to be friends with you again. In for a penny in
for a pound. I expect you'll cut up nasty about that china business,
but I feel as if I don't care. I'm booked for an awful row with Miss
Roscoe! Oh, Dick, your sweets were well meant, but you little know
what they're going to cost me!"

Gwen had a very hazy remembrance of how she did her preparation that
afternoon. She wrote a French exercise almost automatically, feeling
the mistress's eye upon her the whole time. At four o'clock, with her
heart somewhere in the region of her shoes, she reported herself in
the study. Miss Trent had been beforehand; so when she entered Miss
Roscoe was already aware of the nature and extent of her crime. The
headmistress was not disposed to make light of the affair; like Miss
Trent, she considered that the reputation of the school might be
seriously compromised by Gwen's behaviour, and she did not spare the
culprit. Gwen did not often cry at school, but on this occasion she
left the Principal's room weeping like Niobe, and poor Winnie, who had
been called in to hear the tail end of the lecture, followed blinking
a little on her own account.

"You do such lunatic things, Gwen," said Winnie on the way home.

"I meant no harm," protested the still tearful Niobe.

"I dare say you don't, but they're stupid things all the same. You
might have known you'd get into trouble. I shall scold Dick about it."

"It wasn't his fault."

"Well, it's been a silly business all round, and why Miss Roscoe
should send for me and talk as if I were partly responsible I can't
imagine," said the aggrieved Winnie. "It's bad enough to have to teach
in class without being blamed for what no person in her senses could
consider my fault."

"That's Miss Roscoe all over," gulped Gwen. "If she's angry she must
fizz whether there's justice in it or not. I'm fearfully sorry, Win!
It's too bad you were dragged in."

"Well, I suppose it can't be helped now," said Winnie, somewhat
mollified. "Miss Roscoe's storms are soon over, that's one blessing. I
expect by to-morrow she'll have calmed down. You'll be in disgrace for
a while, but she'll forget about it."

"What became of the sweets?" asked Lesbia.

No stronger evidence of the genius of the Dorian invaders could
be produced than that, with this unpromising art in possession,
they were yet able in the course of three or four centuries to
create Greek architecture.

The design of the Lion Gate is a strange jumble of ill-adjusted
motives. It is set in a wall of great stones roughly squared and laid
dry. Two monolith jambs support a huge lintel, cambered in the
middle like the tie-beams of our sixteenth-century roofs. Above the
lintel the courses are gathered over, leaving between their
lower faces and the top of the lintel a triangular space of a steep
pitch (about 60°), in which was inserted a frontispiece carved on
a single stone representing two lions standing up on either side
of an archaic column supporting a fragment of a rudimentary
architrave.[129] The heraldic pose of the lions and the technique
of their sculpture, so suggestive of Assyrian reliefs with their
splendid sense of muscular form and energy, are far ahead of an
architecture that is still barbaric, scarcely architecture at all.

There is here nothing to suggest the Doric of Paestum and Selinus,
much to recall the megalithic buildings of Syria, and the sculpture
of the farther East

.

[128] Sir Arthur Evans has drawn up an ingenious chronology of Early
Minoan (2800-2200 B.

C.), Middle Minoan (2200-1700 B.

C.), and Late Minoan (1700-1200 B. C.). The evidence is almost
entirely that of pottery discovered on the site. The whole question
of the relations of Minoan to Mycenaean art, and of this archaic art
to the earlier civilizations of Egypt and Chaldea, is very obscure
and uncertain.

[129] The heraldic treatment of the lions is of Eastern origin.

The Greeks had a tradition that the chieftains of Mycenae came from
Lydia.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.

LION GATE, MYCENAE]
The Treasury of Atreus is still more remarkable, not only
because it shows more skill in building, but because its design is
based on a structural motive which seems to have been wholly abandoned
by the successors of the Mycenaean builders.

The Treasury of Atreus (or Tomb of Agamemnon) was excavated in a
hill, and consists of a long passage about 120 ft. by 21 ft. wide,
with retaining walls of megalithic masonry on either side, terminating
in a great entrance doorway.

This doorway is flanked on either side by columns tapering downwards,
and decorated with chevrons in a manner very similar to Norman work of
the eleventh century, and apparently intended solely for ornament.[130]
The entrance opened into a circular domed chamber about 48 ft. 6
in. in diameter, 45 ft. 4 in. high, out of which opened another smaller
chamber. The dome, in section, is built on the curve of a parabola,
formed with courses projecting over one another, and not set out
radial to the curve of the dome--in other words it is not a true
dome or arch, but a succession of corbels.

The internal face of the dome is dressed down, and was covered with
ornament of some sort, whether metal rosettes, or enamelled
terra-cotta, or wholly in metal, possibly the famous gold of Mycenae,
is not known.

The whole of this chamber was covered in with a mound of earth, in
accordance with the primitive custom of concealing the chieftain's
grave.

It is impossible to find, in this extremely interesting monument
or in the domed chamber of Orchomenos in Boeotia, any trace of
future developments in Greek architecture.

Both in intention and in its psychological background it seems almost
as remote from the Doric Temple as the Great Pyramid itself. In point
of fact architecture was still in a rudimentary stage. It has been
proved abundantly that Architecture comes late in the sequence of
the Arts.

People could draw well, long before they could design. Among the
cavemen, for example, there were admirable draughtsmen, but they
had to make their drawings on the sides of caves.

That there existed in the Minoan and Mycenaean ages skilful potters and
metal-workers, is shown by the vases of Knossos and the gold cups found
at Vaphio near Sparta; that they built habitable buildings and decorated
them to the best of their ability is also proved, as, for example,
the palace of Tiryns, but it has not yet been shown that their builders
reached the degree of skilled design, at which building becomes
architecture.

Architecture had not yet found itself in Greece

.

[130] Portions of these columns are now in the British Museum.

Then somewhere about 1000 B. C. came the Dorian invasions, and the
art of Crete and Mycenae vanished into space--possibly the legend
was right which said that the conquered people of the mainland
carried it away with them to Asia.

Anyhow, the three or four centuries following the Dorian invasions
are a blank which future research may fill out for us, and so far
as art is concerned, there appears to have been a _détente_, during
which the new race was settling down to its conquest, finding itself,
and assimilating something at any rate of the older civilization.

The survival of such buildings as the Treasury of Atreus show that the
Dorians were not simple barbarians, destroying all that came in their
way. Even Sparta in its earlier days was not a mere military machine.
Discoveries made in 1906-9 suggest that from the ninth to the
seventh centuries B. C.

Sparta had some sort of an art of its own showing traces of Asiatic
influence in its pottery--a little later Sparta concluded an alliance
with Croesus, King of Lydia, and Bathycles, an artist of Magnesia
in Ionia, was treated with honour in Sparta.

The Dorians were something more than fighters, they seem to have
possessed some sort of civilization, and to have been endowed with
a natural capacity for the arts, which after two or three centuries
of experiment will find its own splendid expression within very
definite and original lines.

The legend of the return of the Heracleidae was to be justified by
their later history.

No merely imitative race could have evolved the perfect manner of
the great Doric temples from the scraps of Egypt and the East,
and the rudimentary buildings of Crete and Mycenae.

Greek architecture for the purpose of this study is Dorian architecture,
and its elements are simple. It was evolved in the design of their
temples, and with the exception of their theatres it was summed up in
these temples. From the period during which Greek architecture was
being built up to its maturity, say from the seventh century B. C.
to the completion of the Parthenon in the fifth century B. C., the
whole life of the Greek was coloured and dominated by his religion
and its observances; and his religion was not the sinister mystery
of Egypt, but on the whole a cheerful open-air Pantheism that gloried
in the life and beauty of the visible world in which he lived.

He himself was content to live in a poor house, so long as he had his
market-place, his ceremonial theatre, and the glorious temples
of his Gods. Moreover, to whatever depths the Athenians may have sunk
in the time of St. Paul, in the heroic days of Pericles they were
remarkable for constancy of purpose and the steadfastness of their
ideals. They stood on the ancient ways, and it never occurred to them
to abandon the tradition of their fathers, their business was to carry
it forward to perfection. The result was that the architecture of
their temples proceeded on lines that long use had made sacrosanct;
and its technique is summed up in the history of two orders, the
Doric and the Ionic.[131]
[131] The order, I may say for the uninitiated, means the complete
ordonnance of the column, the architrave resting immediately on its
capital, the frieze and the cornice. It is the final expression
of the simple device of the post and lintel, of the beam resting on
the heads of two or more posts; and there is little doubt that in its
ultimate origin, the Order is the translation into stone of the
details of a rudimentary wooden construction.

Now, the order, its character, dimensions and disposition, with the
wall of the Cella (or enclosed shrine) within the colonnade, summed
up the elements, the vocabulary, if one may so put it, of Greek
architecture; and we come here at the outset on a curious quality
of the Greek genius, and one that differentiates it from the Roman.

The properties of wood and stone as materials are clearly different,
things can be done with the one which are impossible with the
other; but the Greeks either did not realize this or did not trouble
their heads about it.

They found that the post and lintel was a simple means of
building, and they adopted it as their permanent method of construction.
If the span became too wide, they thickened the posts (the columns of
Paestum are 7 ft. in diameter) and increased the strength of the beam
(the architrave). Hence the vast solidity of the Doric order of the
temples of Sicily and Magna Graecia. The Greek was incurious about
construction _qua_ construction.

He found, in the column and the lintel, means perfectly adequate to
realize his ideal of high unalterable beauty, and he was content.

The Romans, who for a time were satisfied with these simple
methods, became impatient of the constructive limitation of the post
and lintel. They wanted to cover in great spaces, and to leave the
floor unencumbered; and concentrating on this they arrived at the
arch, the vault, and the dome, and so became the greatest builders
of the world.

To them, the orders were a mere appanage of decoration, which they
never properly appreciated, of which they mistook the intention, adopted
the worst elements, and often enough made a gross misuse. The Greeks
took another line. They adopted the column and lintel once for
all as the only possible method of construction, and devoted all their
labours to the incessant refinement of this type, eliminating the
unessential, arriving by constant selection at the most perfect
expression of their purpose, and their purpose was not that of the
Roman and the modern architect, mainly utilitarian, it was directed
entirely to the aesthetic appeal, the appeal to the emotions through
beauty of line, of form, and in a less degree of colour. 'The whole
fabric of Greek art goes to pieces when it is brought into
contact with a purely utilitarian nation like Rome.'[132]
[132] _Hellenistic Sculpture_, by Guy Dickins, p. 85.

The author, who wrote with something of the insight of the artist
as well as the accurate knowledge of the scholar, died of wounds, on
the Somme, in 1916.

Of the two orders, the Doric and the Ionic, the Doric seems to me
the purest embodiment of the true Greek spirit, in its faultless form,
and its austere restraint and rejection of the unessential.

It was, moreover, the order _par excellence_ of the Greek temple of
the mainland. The Erechtheum was the only Ionic temple of first-rate
importance in Greece, and the employment of the Ionic order in
Greece was confined to interiors and minor buildings.

As for the Corinthian order, the favourite order of the Romans, it was
scarcely recognized by the Greeks. In all their great temples, in Greece,
in Sicily, and Magna Graecia, they used the Doric order.

[Illustration: Fig. 2. TEMPLE OF NEPTUNE AT PAESTUM]
How this order was arrived at we do not really know. Ingenious conjectures
have been made as to its origin in wooden construction, and though
some of these conjectures are more probable than others they leave
us pretty well where we were in regard to the stages by which it
reached its final form.

It has been suggested that the Doric column originated in the wooden
post of the earliest temples, such as are supposed to have existed
in the Heraion at Olympia.

The square post would have its angles taken off, and become an
octagon, and the further elimination of the angles would gradually
produce a form nearly circular in plan, in which the arrises of the
chamfered angles would remain, and this might easily suggest to
artists so sensitive as the Greeks, their further refinement and
definition by a slight hollow between the arrises which would
constitute the flutings of the Doric column.

Its derivations from the Minoan and Mycenaean columns seems most
improbable. There are two essential parts in the Doric column, the shaft
and the capital (the Greeks did not use any base for this order).

The Minoan columns taper downwards instead of upwards, an utterly
unconstructional form, and though in the palace of Knossos and at
Tiryns columns of this shape appear to have been used to carry
lintels, the stone columns on either side of the entrance to the
Treasury of Atreus at Mycenae were used for decorative and not for
structural purposes.

On the other hand columns of great massiveness tapering upwards had been
used long before in Egypt; and though there is evidence against
it, it still seems probable that the suggestion of the shaft of the
Doric column may have come from Egypt.

We first find it in Greece in the seventh century B. C. at the period
when Psammetichus I (671-617 B. C.) opened Egypt to Greek trade and
settlement. The Greek colony of Naukratis on the west side of the Nile
delta was founded by Milesians about 650 B. C. and by the middle
of the sixth century B. C. definite trade relations were established
between Naukratis and the mainland of Greece.

The Greek settlement at Daphnae on the eastern arm of the Nile
appears to have been founded at about the same time as Naukratis, in
both cases with the sanction and encouragement of the Egyptian king.
The earliest Doric temples in Greece, Sicily, and Magna Graecia
date from the end of the seventh century and early part of the sixth
century. The nearness of date makes it probable that the shaft of
the Doric order had its origin in the Egyptian column seen by some
quick-witted Greek when trading in Egypt.

When we come to the capital of the column, the rôles seem to be reversed,
for we find nothing in Egyptian architecture to suggest the echinus
moulding under the square abacus of the Doric column; whereas the
Mycenaean column had a rudimentary capital which may have suggested
the idea of the Doric capital.

But the notable thing about it is that when we first come across
the Doric capital in Sicily and Greece, it is already far in advance
of anything that had gone before it in Greece, and it is quite
different from the columns of Egypt.

In the Doric temple of Corinth (650-600 B. C.) the columns have
already reached the type form, the tapered shaft with its entasis
or slight convex curvature in outline, its massive solidity
(the ratio is one of diameter to four and a quarter of height), and
the bold parabolic curve of the echinus moulding under the abacus
of its cap.

In this form, the Doric column was an absolutely fresh note in architecture.
Archaic though they were, these columns at Corinth show that the
Greeks were already on the track of those refinements of form, those
optical corrections and compensations, which differentiate Greek
architecture from that of any other race.

The exaggeration in the entasis of the archaic column disappears, its
tapering was diminished, its height increased, and the overhang of
the capitals reduced, till in the Theseion (465 B. C.) and the
Parthenon (450-438 B. C.) we reach the final inimitable type.
"Perhaps we have been rather horrid to her," returned Charlotte
thoughtfully.

"It was mostly her own fault for putting on airs when she first came
up, and then making such friends with Netta. She couldn't expect any
of us to have anything to say to her after that."

"Probably she didn't know Netta."

"I dare say not; but it shows she's a bad judge of character. All the
same I've got Gwen a little on my conscience, and I'm going to try
what I can do. She may improve now."

Elspeth spoke the truth when she said that she had Gwen on her
conscience. It had occurred to her several times lately that perhaps
she had misunderstood her schoolfellow, and that she might have done
more to help her. "Am I my brother's keeper?" rose uneasily to her
mind. She had an uncomfortable feeling that in happier circumstances
Gwen might have made a better impression on the Form, and that she and
Hilda and Edith and Louise were partly responsible for her ill
reception.

"I'm very sorry if we've been Pharisees!" she thought. "Of course one
wanted to keep to one's own set, and not have anything to do with the
tag-end of the Form--but--Well, I mean to give Gwen Gascoyne a chance
now, anyhow."

The geological excursion was rather an event of the term. The Form had
been learning geology with Miss Roberts, who promised to take the
girls for an afternoon to Riggness, a place a few miles away on the
coast, greatly noted for its fossils, where they could have a
practical demonstration to supplement the information in their
textbooks. On the Friday afternoon chosen for the ramble everybody
started armed with hammers of all varieties, from Miss Roberts's
beautiful geological pick to stout tack hammers and even toffee
hammers.

"One never knows--one might find an ichthyosaurus embedded in the
cliffs!" declared Charlotte Perry, brandishing a wooden mallet and an
iron wedge, as if she were prepared to clear away tons of rock in the
pursuit of her researches.

"Don't I wish we could!" said Miss Roberts. "But I'm afraid a few
ammonites and belemnites will have to content us; those are quite
difficult enough to get out intact. We shall do very well if we can
only bring back some really perfect specimens for the school museum."

Riggness was on the other side of Stedburgh from Skelwick, and Gwen
had never been there before, so the excursion was new to her. It was
great fun going with the whole Form; the girls had come well prepared
to enjoy themselves, and Miss Roberts also was in a jolly frame of
mind, and had even brought with her a box of chocolates, which she
handed round impartially till the contents vanished. Three
compartments seemed to overflow with Rodenhurst hats. Gwen had just
been following Millicent Cooper and Minna Jennings when Elspeth Frazer
gripped her by the arm.

"Come in here with us, Gwen," she said, and Gwen, too much astonished
for words, complied. Why she should be invited into a carriage with
Hilda Browne, Charlotte Perry, Iris Watson, Louise Mawson, and Edith
Arnold, the most elect set in the Form, was beyond her comprehension,
but it was a very pleasant circumstance all the same. To be sure,
they did not take much notice of her, but they were not disagreeable,
and Elspeth spoke to her more than once in quite a friendly fashion.
It was so utterly different from their former attitude towards her
that Gwen almost believed she was dreaming. Perhaps it was only
because they were on a holiday this afternoon, she thought, and
to-morrow they would be as usual again. Well, at any rate, she would
take advantage of to-day, and make the most of her opportunities, so
she chatted a little with Elspeth, and sat ruminating over this
amazing change of front on the part of those girls whom Netta, in
mockery, had nicknamed "The Saints". Riggness was reached in twenty
minutes, the train stopped at the small wayside station, and the
Rodenhurst party got out in a hurry. They were to descend to the
beach, and walk along the shore to Linkthwaite Bay, a distance of
about three miles, geologizing as they went. A steep zigzag path led
down the side of the cliff to the sands, and when once her flock was
all collected at the bottom, Miss Roberts improved the occasion by
giving a short lecture on the formation of the rocks which formed the
headland, then, leading the way, she showed them how to hunt about for
the ammonites embedded in the face of the cliffs, or the long
belemnites that could be seen in flat terraces of rocks at the water's
edge.

"Miss Roberts is right--they're uncommonly difficult to get out
whole," said Elspeth, tapping gingerly round a particularly fine
specimen; "just when you think you've done it, they go smash."

"It's most aggravating," agreed Gwen, whose heavy hammer, borrowed
from Winnie's hen-yard, had been rather too forcible in its effects.
"I'd almost got the loveliest, biggest belemnite, and it broke into
three pieces like a slate pencil."

"I like my toffee hammer best," said Charlotte, tenderly fingering one
or two good specimens which she had managed to secure. "I mean to save
up and buy a real geological one like Miss Roberts's."

Tapping the rocks was a fascinating occupation, and a fairly
profitable one, for this part of the coast was rich in fossils. By the
time the girls had walked a mile along the shore they had all been
able to procure some souvenirs, though as yet nothing of very special
importance. Miss Roberts looked about with a practised eye, and the
pick end of her hammer would withdraw a specimen neatly, where
clumsier blows worked havoc.

"We'll hurry on a little farther now," she said. "Those cliffs in the
middle of the bay are a particularly good hunting ground, and if
there's anything interesting to be found, we ought to find it there."

At the place in question the rocks were intersected by a narrow gorge,
where a small stream trickled its way from the moorlands above. The
shelving platforms of the cliff were here comparatively easy to climb,
and the action of water and weather combined had carried down a mass
of stones and debris that would be worth investigation. Miss Roberts
was as active and enthusiastic as any of the girls; she jumped lightly
from stone to stone, tapping likely spots with her hammer, and
finally, seeing something protruding from a rock above, began to scale
the face of the cliff.

"I believe I've got something here at last!" she called.

"Oh! what is it?" cried the eager girls.

"I can't tell yet till I've cleared it a little."

"Oh! Is it an ichthyosaurus, do you think?" cried Charlotte Perry.

"I'm going to send down a shower of stones--stand out of the way!"
commanded Miss Roberts, and balancing herself nimbly on a narrow
ledge, she swung her hammer vigorously.

Then exactly what happened nobody quite knew. Down came the stones,
rattling like an avalanche, and down with them came Miss Roberts,
falling with a heavy thud upon a piece of rock below. It was so
utterly sudden and unexpected that the girls stood for a moment in
speechless consternation, then Hilda, Elspeth, and one or two others
ran to the teacher's assistance. Miss Roberts lay at first as if she
were almost stunned, then she tried to rise, and fell back with a
groan.

Lord Byron strongly recommends Ormond to avail himself of Goring's
services:--

"I am confident my Lord Goring may be serviceable to your Excellence
in many respects, and therefore have rather encouraged him in this
his resolution, than any ways dehorted him from it; and especially
because he is to pass by the Spanish Court, where he hath such
habitudes, by reason of the service both his father and he hath done
that crown."
In an intercepted letter of a parliamentarian, dated Jan. 8, 1649, which
is in Carte's _Letters_ (vol. i. p. 201.), is the following mention
of the Earl of Norwich, then under sentence of death by the High
Court of Justice:--
"Our great minds say, Thursday the King shall die, and two or three
great Lords with him, Capel and Loughborough being two of them.

Goring hath gotten Ireton to friend, who excuses him yet."
Sir E. Nicholas writes, April 8, 1649, to the Marquis of Ormond, that
the Earl of Norwich (as he styles him) has been reprieved at the suit
of the Spanish and Dutch ambassadors. (Carte's _Letters_, vol.
i. p. 247.)

In the following passage of a speech, in the discussions about the
House of Lords in Richard Cromwell's Parliament, there is no doubt that
the Earl of Norwich is referred to as Lord Goring: and I should infer
that George Lord Goring the son was then dead, as he had unquestionably
done more than enough to forfeit his privileges in the view of
Commonwealth men:--
"What hath the son of Lord Goring or Lord Capel done to forfeit
their right?"

--(Burton's _Diary_, iii. 421. Feb. 22. 1659.)
George Lord Goring the son is referred to in another speech
preserved in Burton's _Diary_, and is there called "young Lord
Goring." (iii. 206.)
Pepys mentions the return of "Lord Goring" from France, April 11,
1660 (vol. i. p. 54.).

Lord Braybrooke's note says that this was "Charles, who succeeded
his father as second Earl of Norwich."

Is it certain that this was not the old Earl of Norwich himself?

"I believe it's only a simple fracture, but it might become
compound with the least jolt. Elspeth, will you take hold of her
foot--yes, the left one, of course--and pull it very gently."

"I--I daren't touch her!" shivered Elspeth, who had turned almost as
white as Miss Roberts.

"I will--I don't mind!" said Charlotte, and she did what was required
under Gwen's directions.

"Now you must hold it like that till we get some splints," continued
Gwen. "You see, if the muscles contract, the rough ends of the broken
bone might pierce a blood vessel, or do dreadful damage. Some of you
bring some sand and make a pillow under her head, then she'll be more
comfortable. What we want next are the splints."

Many willing hands obeyed Gwen's orders. In less than a few minutes
the sand was heaped under Miss Roberts's head and shoulders, while
Louise constantly wetted her forehead and lips with water. Gwen, with
a few assistants, had gone in quest of splints. She had spied some
hazel bushes farther up the gorge, which she thought might suffice for
her purpose. Up the steep bed of the stream the girls climbed,
splashing recklessly in and out of the water, to save time being their
main object.

"They'll have to be thick pieces, and long too," said Gwen. "They
ought to go from above the knee to below the foot. Whose penknife is
sharpest?"

Nobody's was very sharp, and the girls had to hack and hew away slowly
and painfully before they could make the least impression on the tough
hazel boughs. At last Gwen secured several lengths which satisfied
her, and she returned to her patient.

"Now, I want all your handkerchiefs to make bandages. Thanks!
Charlotte, pull her foot just a trifle more, no--her toes should be
up--so! That's better. I'm sorry to hurt you so dreadfully, Miss
Roberts! I shall very soon have finished. There! I think those
bandages are right. Give her some more water, Louise, quick!"

Poor Miss Roberts had indeed nearly fainted again with pain, but she
recovered herself, and even smiled as she thanked her helpers.

"I've spoilt the excursion!" she murmured.

"What's to be done next? Can we carry her?" asked Hilda.

"Better not try. The quieter that leg is kept the better. She ought to
be lifted on a stretcher."

"There isn't even a farm near here."

"I know. I think for the present she's best where she is, while some
of you go to the station at Riggness for help. Possibly they may have
a railway ambulance, or at any rate they could bring a door."

"Is there a doctor there?"

"I'm afraid not, it's only a tiny village, but the stationmaster would
telegraph to Stedburgh for one. Perhaps he could come by motor, if
there's no train."

It was amazing what thoughtfulness and self-reliance had come to Gwen
with the emergency. She made her plans and arrangements as calmly as
if she were accustomed to deal every day with accidents. No one
questioned her authority, and all were willing to do what she told
them. Iris Watson and two others who were judged the quickest walkers
volunteered to go to the station for help, and they listened
attentively while Gwen gave instructions as to what they were to ask
the stationmaster to send.

"It's such a comfort you know!" said Hilda. "I wish I'd learnt
ambulance."

It seemed an interminable age to poor Miss Roberts and the girls
before a railway porter and two labourers who had been working on the
line, arrived with a stretcher, which fortunately was kept in the
inspector's office at Riggness. It was a tedious slow journey along
the shore, and up to the station. The patient was nearly worn out by
the time they placed her in the waiting-room, and was thankful to have
the cup of tea which the stationmaster's wife brought her. A doctor
arrived from Stedburgh half an hour afterwards, armed with proper
splints and bandages, and he carefully examined and reset the broken
limb.

It is in the idealism of their rendering of the body of man that the
Greeks have surpassed all other peoples and left an imperishable
record. The history of Greek art is the history of a search for beauty,
for poetry, for whatever can charm and delight.

In the earliest sculptural works of Greece, as Lange the Dane was
the first to point out, we find not a direct imitation of the facts
of the visible world, but impressions taken from that world, stored
in the memory, and put together in accordance with subjective purpose
rather than objective law.

It is indeed thus that clever children work, when in the picture-writing
of their sketch books they violate the laws of perspective by combining
separate aspects and memories of an object into an inconsistent whole.
They will not omit any peculiarity of a person which happens to have
struck them, even when in the profile which they sketch it would
be invisible.

They think of a face as turned towards them, of legs as walking
past them. Every face must have two eyes, every body two arms,
whether they would be visible under the natural conditions or not. In
early Greek reliefs it is common to find the body down to the waist
full-face, the body below the waist in profile, with no transition
between the two.

The well-known metopes from Selinus in Sicily are good examples. It is
a kind of procedure common to the early art of all peoples. But the
Greeks differ from other nations in this; that when they improved
away these early crudities they retained the predominance of thought
over things, of man over nature, in a word of the ideal element in
art.

They regarded the body of man not, as the materialists do, as man
himself, but as a shell produced by the inner working of the spirit,
to be seen by the eyes of thought and imagination, as well as by
the bodily eyes.

Hence they were always aspiring from that which exists in appearance
to that which lies behind the mere phenomenon.

They realized that nature, when she produces an individual, never
wholly succeeds, she falls short of the idea.

And the artist by a loving sympathy with the creative Spirit, may venture
to improve what she has made, to carry out her intentions more fully,
to incorporate more completely the idea. The Greek artist, appreciating
and venerating the body, tries to raise it to a higher and more
perfect level. A simple kind of idealism may be found in athletic art.
In their practice of athletics the Greeks did not, like the moderns,
think only of the number of feet an athlete could leap, or the space
of time he would take to run a distance. They thought also of his
_form_, of the rhythmic and harmonious character of his action. If
an athlete showed ugly form, they would hiss him, as they would an
incompetent actor. Most of their exercises were done to the
accompaniment of the flute. In all the statues of athletes which have
come down to us, not one shows an inharmonious development, powerful
chest and weak legs, or muscular legs and poor arms. It is more than
probable that as the features of Alexander the Great influenced the
portraits of his officers and followers, so the specially beautiful
forms of some of the athletes who were most admired, tended to
create a type, something of which appears in all the athlete figures
of the time.

No doubt any one who is well acquainted with Greek types and with
the forms of modern athletes will observe that the Greek physical
build is not identical with that of our days. The equable climate and
the unstrained life of the young men produced something more rounded
and fleshy than we see in the north. Our athletes are less
harmoniously built, with more prominent sinews, more harsh and
wiry in type.

An American trainer who is also a sculptor, Dr. Tait McKenzie, working
as some of the Greek sculptors worked, from the average measurements
of a number of young men, has produced types of strength and
beauty, by no means exactly like the statues of Greece, but in
their way almost equally beautiful.

I instance the beautiful fifth-century figures of Greek boxers,
softened by idealism, but admirable for strength and symmetry; and
the Apoxyomenos, a man scraping himself with a strigil, as was
the custom in the baths (Fig. 12).

This is a work of the third century, after the artists had imported
their knowledge of anatomy into their works, which had effects both
good and bad.

And beside the Apoxyomenos I place an athlete by Tait McKenzie, produced
from the careful comparison and measurements of hundreds of young
athletes of Harvard and Philadelphia (Fig. 13).

This is a work of modern idealism produced by similar processes to those
to which we owe the excellence of Greek athletic sculpture.

[Illustration: Fig. 12 ATHLETE WITH STRIGIL]
[Illustration: Fig. 13 ATHLETE, by Tait McKenzie]

The types of female beauty come into Greek sculpture later than the
types of male beauty.

In Ionian and early Attic sculpture women appear closely wrapped
up in drapery.

Pheidias and his contemporaries did not venture to represent undraped
women. They showed the beauties of the female form not apart from, but
by the help of, drapery. It was reserved for the age of Praxiteles and
Scopas to represent the Goddess of Love in the guise of a nude woman;
and Praxiteles made an apology for the innovation by introducing the
motive of bathing as an explanation and a palliation.

And even the Aphrodite of Praxiteles is remarkably free from all attempt
at sensuous attraction, or self-consciousness. Solid, noble, and
stately in form, she is a type or model rather than an individual.

Later sculptors, it is true, departed from this line of simple
harmoniousness, and tried to make the figure more attractive to the
average man. But it does not become weak, and it does not become vulgar.
The noble Aphrodites of the fourth century have fixed the type
of female beauty in school after school of artists down to our
own time.

This ideal is perhaps for us best incorporated in the Aphrodite of
Melos in the Louvre, a work of the Hellenistic age, combining with
the great fourth-century tradition a perfection of detail and an
informing life which belong to a later time.

But while most people of taste profess a devotion to her, that
devotion is usually untinged by knowledge or real appreciation; for
there could hardly be a greater contrast than that between the bodily
forms of the Goddess of Melos and those of the women who are most
admired in our days. I was almost disposed to figure side by side
the Goddess and the bodily forms which figure in our fashion plates.
The fashion plates do not represent women as they are, but as they
would like to be; they represent not the actual, but the modern
ideal. And what an ideal!

Some readers may smile at the notion of taking seriously these ephemeral
productions. But no one would take them lightly who was familiar
with the facts of psychology. We well know that when certain types
of women are set constantly before the rising generation as beautiful
and to be imitated they will necessarily exercise a great influence
on the future of the race. Young men will look out for such types
to admire and to court: young women will try to resemble them. The
hideous mistake in aesthetics will exercise a constant dragging
power, pulling the young away from the light and the air of heaven
towards the caves of evil spirits.

Few more charming representations of young womanhood in Greece exist
than the Artemis from Gabii already cited (Fig. 5). One must
confess that the divine element in it is but slight. But what could
be fresher, simpler, more exquisitely natural?

No doubt as in the case of men, so in the case of women, we must
make allowance for race and climate.

A full and rotund development of physique is far rarer in northern
than in southern Europe. The English race is taller, less solidly
built, slighter than the ancient Greek.
Among us hard tendons usually take the place of solid muscles. And the
practise of athletic games by women undoubtedly tends to make them
in some respects conform more to the male type. In moderation
physical exercises may improve health and strength without tending to
deprive the vital organs of nourishment. But the overtrained woman
is farther from the healthy life of nature than the overtrained
man. And whether the overexertion be of the body or of the intelligence,
it tends to destroy true womanliness.

It is a pity that some sculptor does not do for the ideal of womanhood
what Dr. Tait McKenzie has done for the ideal of athletic manhood.

Of course the process would not be the same. No one wants an ideal
type of the female athlete, unless we wish to restore the race of
Amazons, but we do sorely need to have before our eyes types which
embody the physical ideal of efficient womanhood. At present while
nude womanhood in art conforms in a great measure to the Greek
tradition, clothed womanhood follows the types of the street,
modified by the baseless caprices of fashion.

The two stand in unreconciled contrast. The Greeks when painting
women on a vase often drew their figures in outline before they
added clothes.

    But any one who tries to draw
    the outline of the female figure beneath the clothes on a fashion-plate
will stand aghast at what he has produced.

Cicero repeats an instructive story in regard to the painter Zeuxis,
who lived about 400 B.

C. He was commissioned to make for the people of Croton a painting of
Helen of Troy.

He first inquired, what seems to have been a matter of common knowledge,
who were the most beautifully made young men in that city, which was
noted for its athletes. He next asked that he should be allowed to
study the forms of the sisters of these men, judging that the
sisters must partake of the beauty of the brothers.

Out of these he selected five girls for more continued study, and
by such aid produced his picture.

We cannot suppose that he would be so clumsy as to select at random
beautiful details from each of the five; in that way he would
produce only an eclectic monstrosity.

But, working in the presence of beautiful examples, his sense of
beauty would rise in tone to the highest of which he was capable.

In this story several points are noteworthy. It shows that the type
of beauty in men was more advanced and more generally recognized
than the type of beauty in women.

And it shows the Greek artistic mind ever on the watch to catch some new
note of beauty to add to the traditional stock. Professor Brücke,
in his excellent work on the beauties of the human form, observes
that in the ideal statues of Greece many features may be discovered
which in the actual world of men and women are very rare, but the
charm of which can scarcely be disputed.

There went on from school to school, and from period to period, a
sort of accumulation of beauty which was ever increasing. Every
beautiful model which was studied added something to what Brücke
calls the stock of beauty at the disposal of artists.

VI
The sixth lamp of Greek art is _Patience_ in striving after perfection.

In the finer work of Greek sculptors one finds an utterly ungrudging
expenditure of time and care which reminds one of the working of Nature
herself, Nature who is never in a hurry, who is never contented with
a hasty sketch, but works regardless of time. We are told of
Protogenes that he spent seven years on a single figure, and I think
he would have spent seven more if he had thought that he could thereby
have improved his painting. Nothing strikes one more strongly in such
works as the charioteer of Delphi and the Hermes of Praxiteles
than the pains taken with every detail. It is by careful work,
continued through successive generations, that sculpture attained
such mastery in the representation of the muscles of the body as we
find in the Borghese fighting figure of the Louvre, and such delicacy
in the rendering of drapery as we find in the Victories of the
Balustrade at Athens, or the Victory of Samothrace.

But the delicacy and minuteness of Greek work is of course most
obvious in the reliefs of coins and in gems.

The coins were not primarily meant to please the eye, but to circulate
in the fish-market; yet a multitude of the dies are so exquisitely
finished that they lose little when magnified to many diameters,
and will bear the most critical examination.

The intaglio gems were meant for the sealing of documents, the seal
taking the place of the modern signature; but the figures upon seals
are in their way as finished as great works of sculpture. Seals
even more usually than coins gain rather than lose if they are
enlarged.

Yet they were executed without the help of magnifying glasses.
Their subjects are taken from the widest field, the figures of
deities, tales from mythology, portraits, animal forms; like the
coins they introduced as an undercurrent to the prosaic life of
every day an element of poetry and imagination.

VII
The seventh lamp, which goes as naturally with idealism as care and
patience go with naturalism, is joy, _joie de vivre_. Keats has expressed
the Greek sense of art in an immortal line, 'A thing of beauty is a
joy for ever'. It was the overflowing gladness which lies at the
root of creation and evolution which took eternal form in the
painting and sculpture of the Greeks and inspired all their works.

The same irrepressible joy which gives colour to the flowers,
sweetness to the fruit, song to the birds, and sexual desire to
mankind reached here one of its most perfect manifestations.

The life of the Greeks was by no means one of unmixed happiness. Each
city was not unfrequently at war with its neighbours; and the
penalty of complete defeat was sometimes the razing of its walls,
the slaughter of its men, and the enslavement of its women.

Disease, even plague, constantly ravaged the land; and the resources
of modern surgery and modern anaesthetics were not present to curb
their ravages.

The life of the majority in country huts, and still more in the slums
of the cities, most of all in the mines, was rougher and more
sordid than is the case in the modern world, in countries in their
normal state.

And the people had not even that hope of a blessed hereafter
which sustained the people of the Middle Ages.

Yet under all these clouds, their spirit was hopeful and aspiring. And
their art reflects ever the brighter side of things.

Surely they were wise and right. We seek out works of art not
to foster pessimism but to inspire optimism, not to show us the world
of nature on its repulsive side, but to reveal to us how much
underlying beauty is to be found in it.

''Tis life not death for which we pant, More life and fuller that
we want.'

At the same time, Greek art in some forms was extremely serious and
keenly alive to the darker side of existence. The Greeks invented
tragedy, the poetical reflection of the severity of fate. Would any
modern audience be found, which would be prepared to sit for a
whole summer day listening eagerly to the grand expression by such
poets as Aeschylus and Sophocles of the power of Nemesis, the
instability of all prosperity, the misfortunes which hunt those who
have the ill luck to displease the gods?

Surely not. And not in Greek tragedy only, but in elegiac poetry
and in epigram, we find perfect reflections of our most gloomy
moods.

But for such expressions of sorrow and despair the Greeks felt that
sculpture, and even painting, were not suitable vehicles.

They belong to moods, and are not suitable for illustration in the
market place and the temple. The roads which led to Greek cities
were frequently bordered with monumental tombs.

If in the reliefs and inscriptions of these tombs there had been any
telling echo of the sorrow and regret of bereaved survivors, every
one would have entered the cities in a black mood.

As it is, as every one who has been in the museums of Athens knows,
the sepulchral artists carefully avoided anything which might harrow
the feelings.

They represented the dead at their best, engaged in victorious
warfare, or in athletic sports or in the happy family circle. A gentle
air of melancholy could not be avoided; but there was nothing to shock,
nothing to oppress the spirits.
The deceased represented seemed still to share the occupations
and pleasures of the living, not to be shut off from the world of
happiness.

Milton has expressed, in his magnificent prose, the profound joy
of the world of the Renaissance at the recovery of the Bible, and
free liberty of reading it, after it had been shut away from the
laity by the organized Church.

Equally intense, and more exuberant, was the delight of scholars and
artists, when the asceticism and pessimism of the Middle Ages, which
had given birth to such bodies as the Carmelite monks and the
mendicant friars, gave way before the revival of Greek literature
and art.

The world seemed suddenly to have renewed its youth. No doubt the
sudden expansion led to foul excesses; but it was yet a great
landmark in human progress.

VIII

The eighth light of Greek art is _Fellowship_. Perhaps there is no
quality in it which is more instructive for our days than this. The
extreme individualism which is the most remarkable characteristic
of modern times lays the utmost stress on the right or the duty
of an artist to express _himself_ in his work, to work out his own
vein of originality, to give to the world a rendering of his own
qualities and individuality.

And no doubt no great artist can help doing this in a measure. When
he works he must be himself; he can only see the world through the
medium of his character and talents.

And as every man is a microcosm, a reflection in miniature of the
great world of human beings, what is really good and original in an
artist must appeal to something in the human world; must have a meaning
for people of a certain class or a certain training, or a certain
country. But whether an artist is the better for a conscious
attempt thus to externalize his personality; whether he is improved by
being self-conscious and reflective in his art is a different
question.

You
were ready enough to trade the essay for the sov. at the time, so what
are you grumbling about now?"

"Your meanness."

"Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, I've had enough of this! I won't hear
another word about your wretched affair. As I told you before, you
must get out of your own scrapes, and not expect other people to act
Providence for you. If you mention the subject again, I simply shan't
listen."

Gwen had scarcely expected either help or consolation from Netta,
though she felt indignant that her old chum should show her so little
sympathy in the matter. After all, it was only in accordance with
Netta's character. Grapes do not grow on thistles; and a girl so
destitute of all sense of conscience was not likely to prove a stanch
and faithful friend. Gwen was learning by slow and painful experience
that bright amusing manners may be worthless unless allied to more
sterling qualities. She had been wont to admire Netta's easy style,
and even to try to copy it; now it struck her as hollow and vapid. If
only she could have started quite afresh, with no guilty memories to
disturb her, she felt she had the chance of getting into a better set
in her Form. But what would Elspeth Frazer, Hilda Browne, Iris Watson,
or any of the nicer girls think of her conduct, both in regard to the
broken-china episode or the transferred essay? She knew it would not
accord with their code of honour.

"I wish I had the courage to tell Miss Roscoe everything," groaned
Gwen. "It would have been the straightest course if I'd gone and
confessed at once when I smashed the china. It would have saved a
great many complications. Dare I possibly tell now?"

She walked along the passage to the study. The door was open, so she
peeped cautiously in. Miss Roscoe sat correcting papers, and nobody
else was in the room. If she wished to make her confession, here was
certainly her opportunity. Her heart beat and thumped, and the words
seemed to freeze upon her lips. Miss Roscoe looked so stern as she sat
at her desk making pencil notes on the margins of the exercises; there
was a hard, uncompromising expression on her face which Gwen knew only
too well, and which did not tend in the direction of tenderness
towards wrongdoers. Gwen was still smarting from the scolding she had
received for her conversation with Dick out of the window. If Miss
Roscoe viewed that peccadillo so seriously, what would she say to the
tale which her pupil had to unfold?

"I daren't! I daren't!" thought Gwen. "No, I really can't screw up the
courage. I loathe myself for a deceitful wretch, and yet--oh,
dear!--there's nothing in this world I dread so much as being found
out!"

She ran down the passage again with a sense of relief. One voice in
her heart assured her that she had escaped a danger, though another
upbraided her for her cowardice.

"If Miss Roscoe hadn't looked quite so severe I might have ventured,"
she sighed in response to the latter. "I don't believe I'll get even
so far as the study door again."

So a golden opportunity was lost, and Gwen, who might even thus late
have chosen the straighter, harder path, shirked the disagreeable
experience, and was left perforce to reap the harvest of her own
sowing.


CHAPTER XVIII

Gwen's Bright Idea


As Gwen went down the corridor she noticed a small crowd collected
round the notice board, and, edging her way in among the crush, read
an announcement which Bessie Manners, the head girl, had just pinned
up.

"There will be a General Meeting of the Seniors at 2 p.m. in the Sixth
Form room. Business--to consider what steps can be taken for an
adequate celebration of the school anniversary. All are urged to
attend."

"Hello! Whence this thusness?" exclaimed Gwen. "What have we got to do
with the school anniversary? I thought Miss Roscoe engineered the
whole of it!"

"So she does, ordinarily," answered Moira Thompson, one of the
prefects. "But we want this to be a very special festivity; not just
the usual picnic or garden party."

"But why?"

"Haven't time to explain now. Come to the meeting and we'll expound
our views. I think it's a ripping notion of Bessie's myself."

"Do give me a hint!"

But Moira shook her head and passed on, leaving Gwen to curb her
curiosity until two o'clock, for the prefects had not imparted their
plans to anybody as yet, and none of her own Form could enlighten her.

At the hour stated nearly all the Seniors presented themselves in the
Sixth Form room. Bessie Manners was voted to the chair, and at once
began an explanation of why she had called the meeting.

"Girls," she said, "you all know that we're accustomed to have some
kind of festivity on 1st June, the day of our school anniversary. Now
it happens that this particular occasion is one of more than usual
interest. Miss Roscoe has been Principal of Rodenhurst for exactly ten
years, and it seems only fitting that due recognition should be made
of the circumstance. The question that we have met to discuss is the
shape and form in which we can adequately celebrate this event. We
feel that the suggestion ought to come from the girls themselves,
though we may need aid from the mistresses in carrying it out. I shall
be glad if anyone who has a plan to lay before the meeting will
propose it."

"I am sure," began Moira Thompson, rising in response to Bessie's nod,
"that everybody would like to show Miss Roscoe how we value her as a
headmistress. For my part I think there should be a testimonial,
subscribed for in the school, and that we might have a public
presentation of it."

"Hear! Hear!"

"What kind of a testimonial?" asked one of the girls.

"That remains to be discussed, and would, of course, depend upon how
much was collected."

"A silver tea service, or something of that kind?" enquired Natalie
Preston, one of the prefects.

"Probably: we shall have to find out what Miss Roscoe would like
best."

"And where would the celebrations come in?" asked Iris Watson.

"That also must be talked over. So far, Miss Roscoe has always
arranged a treat for the school on anniversary day, but we think this
year it ought to be the other way, and the girls arrange a treat for
Miss Roscoe and the mistresses. I'm sure they'd appreciate it."

"Each Form might have a collecting book. We ought to raise quite a
handsome sum," said Bessie Manners. "Then there could be a garden fête
for the presentation."

"Only for the school? Or would parents and friends be allowed to
come?" asked one of the Sixth.

"I don't see why they shouldn't. It would make the affair seem of more
importance. We could get up an extra fund to provide afternoon tea."

"Or get it catered for, and let people pay for their own."

"Like one does at a bazaar?"

"Exactly."

"The idea is feasible. Anybody any amendments to offer?" said Bessie.

Then a sudden and brilliant suggestion came to Gwen--one of those
lucky flashes of inspiration that occasionally, in our happier
moments, strike us.

"May I speak?" she cried impulsively, starting up.

"By all means," nodded Chairman Bessie.

"It seems to me," said Gwen, "that if we're going to do this thing at
all, it might just as easily be on a large scale as a small one. Miss
Roscoe, no doubt, would be very pleased with a silver tea service, but
I know something I believe she'd like far better. Don't you remember
how frightfully interested she is in the new Convalescent Home? She
urged us all to help it if we could. Suppose we could raise enough
money to found a cot, and call it the Rodenhurst Cot, wouldn't that be
a nice memorial?"

"After Miss Roscoe's own heart!" gasped Bessie.

"Ripping!" agreed most of the girls.

"But what would it cost? Is it possible?" enquired Olga Hunter.

"I believe it is. We have some papers at the Parsonage about the
Convalescent Home. I was looking at them only yesterday. Any donor of
£100 is to be allowed to name a cot, and nominate the special children
who occupy it. Now in this big school we ought to be able to raise
£100."

"A large order," said Natalie Preston.

"Not if it's undertaken systematically. As it's for a charitable
object we can ask subscriptions from outsiders."

"I see your point," said Bessie. "Yes, we could beg for the
Convalescent Home when we couldn't ask for contributions for a
personal testimonial to Miss Roscoe. But this would please her far
more. A Rodenhurst Cot! She'd love it!"

"If each girl in the school could collect five shillings," continued
Gwen, "that would be over seventy-five pounds. Then suppose on
anniversary day we had a grand gymkhana, and charged a shilling
admission. Surely every girl could persuade two people to come, which
would make at least six hundred guests. Six hundred shillings mean
thirty pounds, so there you are!"

"We could have tea extra and perhaps sell flowers," added Olga Hunter,
as an amendment "I'm willing to second the proposal."

"It certainly sounds feasible on these lines. We might even raise more
than the hundred pounds," said Bessie.

"In that case we could add a personal testimonial to Miss Roscoe."

"Hear! Hear!" shouted several.

"Put the motion in due form, Gwen."

"I beg to propose that in order to celebrate the tenth year of Miss
Roscoe's headmistress-ship, and the seventeenth anniversary of the
school, we should endeavour to collect £100 to found a Rodenhurst cot
in the Convalescent Home," proclaimed Gwen.

"And I beg to second that proposal," said Olga Hunter
enthusiastically.

"All in favour please signify!" murmured Chairman Bessie.

Such a chorus of "Aye!" came in response that the motion was carried
unanimously, and nothing remained but to discuss details.

"We shall have to let the Juniors know about it, and start them
collecting," said Natalie Preston.

"We'd better each collect as much as possible in our own district or
parish," suggested Gwen. "Lesbia and I, for instance, can undertake
Skelwick. I'm sure some of the people there would give towards a cot."

"Then we'll have cards or books to enter the amounts?"

"Of course."

"What about the gymkhana?"

"We must appoint a special committee to arrange a programme and
competitions, and ask people if they'll offer prizes."

"I vote we appoint the prefects, then, as a committee."

"Right-o!"

Gwen came away from the meeting with flying colours. She had certainly
made a proposition which nobody else had thought of, but which all
acknowledged was exactly the most fitting to meet the circumstances.
For the first time in her experience she found her remarks receiving
the attention not only of her own Form, but even of the Sixth. The
prefects, mindful of their dignity, generally held themselves aloof,
so it was indeed a triumph for Gwen to be seized upon, after the
meeting was over, by Bessie Manners, and consulted upon the general
working of the scheme. To walk down the corridor linked arm in arm
with the head girl was a distinction that fell to few, and Gwen,
though she accepted the honour with apparent unconsciousness, knew
perfectly well that it would make an enormous difference to her
position in the school. For the moment she was talked about. Her plan
for the cot was called "Gwen Gascoyne's scheme", and to her was given
the entire credit for originating it. The more the idea was discussed,
the more everybody liked it. The mistresses sympathized heartily, and
the Juniors promised earnest co-operation. Gwen, for once, was
appreciated to her heart's content. It was wonderful how gracious the
prefects were towards her, and how the members of her own Form
suddenly treated her with respect. After so long a period of
unpopularity it was very sweet to find general opinion had thus veered
round, and Gwen enjoyed her new character of organizer to the full.
She threw herself heart and soul into the working of her scheme, and
thanks partly to her parish experience at Skelwick, and partly to a
practical element in her composition, she was able to give really good
and helpful advice, both as to the collecting of the fund, and the
arranging of the gymkhana. There was very little time before the day
of the anniversary, so those in authority were obliged to push matters
as fast as they could. Each girl in the school begged in her own
circle most assiduously, and from the reports that began to be
circulated the result seemed most encouraging.

"I believe we're going to get the £100 just by collecting, and that
the gymkhana will be extra," said Bessie Manners exultingly. "By the
by, Miss Roscoe wishes it to be known that she would much prefer not
to be offered a private testimonial, but that everything should go
towards the cot."

"Oh, we wanted to give her some remembrance, though," cried several of
the girls, rather disappointed.

"I'd set my heart on her having a silver teapot at least," said Iris
Watson.

"It's just like Miss Roscoe not to want anything personal," said
Gwen. "I must say I admire her for it. She always reminds me of an
ancient Roman--the State first and foremost in her estimation, and
herself nowhere."

"Yes, she'd sacrifice a good deal for the sake of the school," agreed
Bessie Manners.

It was decided to turn the anniversary into a kind of floral fête, to
be held in the large cricket field. There were to be morris dances, a
maypole dance, a procession of decorated bicycles, and numerous
athletic competitions. Tea, coffee, and lemonade would be served at
tables on the ground, and flowers and sweets could be carried round in
baskets and sold during the afternoon. It was wonderful when once the
ball had been set rolling how quickly offers of help flowed in. The
girls' parents and friends approved of the idea of a "Rodenhurst" cot
for the Convalescent Home, and were most kind in their contributions.
Enough cakes were promised to provide amply for afternoon tea. Bessie
Manners's mother undertook to send a supply of ices, and a generous
store of sweets and flowers seemed forthcoming. To have such an
excellent mutual object to work for seemed to unite all the members of
the school, and especially to break down the barrier between Seniors
and Juniors which had hitherto existed. While before it had hardly
been considered etiquette for the Sixth and Fifth to talk to those in
the Lower Forms, they might now be seen conferring on quite pleasant
terms about the gymkhana, comparing notes on subscriptions, and making
arrangements for flower selling and sweet vending.

Considering the large amount of home preparation that was expected
from her in view of the forthcoming examinations, Gwen found she had
set herself a task in undertaking any more work, but by arranging her
time very carefully, she managed to perform one set of duties without
neglecting another. She and Lesbia collected fifteen and ninepence for
the cot among their friends in Skelwick, and wrote down the various
items with much satisfaction in a notebook supplied for the purpose.
The Gascoynes did not possess bicycles, so could not join the cycle
parade, but Lesbia was to sing in one of the glees, and Gwen meant to
enter for certain of the athletic sports. Her long arms and legs
would, she hoped, stand her in good stead in a contest of running or
jumping, and even if she did not win a prize, it was worth competing
for the mere fun of the thing. Giles and Basil were scarcely less
excited, for the Boys' Preparatory Department was to have its share in
the celebrations, and they looked forward to showing their prowess in
public. They spent much of their spare time in training for various
Olympic games, an occupation of which Beatrice heartily approved.

"It keeps them out of mischief for the whole evening," she declared.
"I bless the gymkhana."

"It's wonderful how it's drawn everyone together at school," observed
Gwen. "Even Miss Roscoe isn't nearly as starchy as usual, and Miss
Trent was quite jolly when we were talking over the programme. As for
Upper and Lower School, we just ignore any distinction between the two
when it's a question of the fête."

"I'm glad to hear it," said Beatrice, "I always thought the Seniors at
Rodenhurst were much too stand-off. It will do them a world of good to
forget their dignity for once, and mix freely with the rest of the
school."

"Yes, it's quite a comfort to be able to talk to Lesbia in the gym.
now," agreed Gwen.

"Do you mean to say you couldn't before?" exclaimed Beatrice. "Things
weren't so bad as that when I was there."

"Etiquette's been getting stricter and stricter since you left. The
prefects of about two years ago started the notion that Seniors must
keep to themselves, and not have anything to do with Juniors, and you
know when an idea like that gets broached how everybody takes it up
and sticks to it. It's impossible to defy a rule of that kind just 'on
one's own'."

"I know; rules the girls make for themselves are generally better kept
than those made at headquarters. I agree that you couldn't break
through the etiquette of your Form. Still, I'm glad the barrier is
down at last, and hope it will never be raised again."

"I shan't be the one to plant a stake in the fence of division!"
laughed Gwen.

Practising for the various items of the fête proceeded briskly at
Rodenhurst. The younger girls, during the winter course of dancing
lessons, had learned to plait the maypole, and to execute some lively
morris dances. Though Miss Robins, their teacher, was not in Stedburgh
during the summer, they remembered their steps quite well enough to
enable them to give a performance, with the aid of a little
supervision from some of their elders. Various members of the
Seniors, who understood morris dancing, undertook to superintend
rehearsals, and drill the small girls in any details they had
forgotten. It was thought that this portion of the entertainment would
form a great attraction of the fête, and give it somewhat the
character of a May Day celebration. The Juniors who were fortunate
enough to be taking part were immensely important, and keenly anxious
to make their contribution to the programme a complete success. They
turned up loyally for rehearsals, and were unwearied in practising any
difficult bits where there was a likelihood of a hitch occurring.

One afternoon, about two o'clock, Gwen, with her Virgil in her hand,
sauntered down the Rodenhurst garden into the playing field which lay
at the back of the school. She was anxious to seize the half-hour for
preparation, as she knew she would have scant time in the evening for
all she was obliged to finish, and she hoped to find a quiet corner in
the open air, where she might study in peace. As she walked along,
seeking a shady spot, she was attracted by the sound of angry voices,
and peeping over the hedge that divided the small playing field from
the larger hockey and cricket field, she saw a selection of Second
Form girls collected for a rehearsal. Netta Goodwin was the Senior in
command, and with Netta these Juniors were evidently having an excited
altercation.

"But Moira Thompson didn't do that!" shrieked an indignant voice.

"Do as I tell you!" ordered Netta tartly. "You lot go over there, and
begin your dance, and Ida Bridge and Peggie Weston stop here and hold
this rope."

"But I'm the leader!" wailed Ida. "They can't get on without me!"

"They'll have to, for once."

"But it's not fair! You've come to help us to practise--not for us to
help you!"

"That's as I like to arrange it!"

"Oh, you are a beast!"

"Apologize for that word, or I'll spiflicate you! Where are your
manners?"

"If you're not fair, we shan't mind manners, so there!"

"Ida Bridge, do you intend to hold this rope?"

"Shan't! I'd rather tell Miss Trent first."

"You miserable little sneak!"

"I'm not a sneak! It's your fault! Why can't you take our rehearsal
properly, like the others did? We're wasting time."

"So we are! Get to business, you kids over there. Why don't you begin
your precious dance?"

"We can't without Ida and Peggie--specially Ida!" fumed the
performers.

"Well, I've told you I want them myself, and you'll just have to
manage as best you can. Now then, off you go--one--two--three! Bother
the lot of you! What are you waiting for?"

"For Ida Bridge."

"You won't get her!"

"Then the rehearsal's off!"

"No, it's not off, you lazy little wretches! You can manage all right
if you like; I know perfectly well you can! It's just a piece of
obstinacy. Pig policy doesn't pay with me, I assure you! I've been put
in authority for this afternoon, and I mean to have my own way, so I
give you warning. Start that dance instantly, and Ida and Peggie hold
this rope."

Instead of obeying, the Juniors crowded round Netta uttering protests
and reproaches in a perfect chorus of mutiny. Gwen, who could not
quite grasp the cause of the quarrel, made her way through a gap in
the hedge and entered the large field.

"What's all the shindy about?" she enquired. "You're like a set of
wild Irishmen at a fair. I thought you were supposed to be
rehearsing?"

"How can we rehearse by ourselves?"

"And without our leader?"

"Netta won't conduct!"

"She told us to go and dance by ourselves, while she practised her own
jumping."

"And she wanted to make Ida and Peggie hold the rope for her."

"How can we do our morris dance without Ida and Peggie? It spoils the
figures."

"Netta!" gasped Gwen. "Did you actually mean to practise jumping
instead of taking this rehearsal?"

Netta shrugged her shoulders easily.

"The kids know their steps so well, they can do the thing perfectly,"
she replied. "What was the good of wasting my time drilling them? I
thought I'd make them of some use, and let them hold a rope for me.
They're an ungrateful little set of sneaks--won't do a thing for their
seniors!"

"Why, I should think not, in this case, when you'd been specially
told off by the Committee to superintend their dance. I sympathize
with the kids. They've right on their side. It's you who are the
sneak."

"Oh! Am I indeed, Miss Gwen Gascoyne? Thank you for nothing. It's a
pretty name to have called me, and I shan't forget it."

"But it's true!" returned Gwen with warmth. "It's simply abominable
behaviour to pretend to act dancing mistress and use the time for your
own purposes. Why should these kids hold a rope for you?"

"And why should you take me to task, I'd like to know? You're not a
prefect."

"I only wish I were."

"No doubt you do!" sneered Netta. "You've been so stuck up since your
Cot scheme was adopted, that you seem to imagine yourself as good as
the head of the school."

"Gwen, you take our rehearsal instead--we've wasted ten minutes or
more over wrangling!" pleaded one of the Juniors.

"I will, if Netta will let me."

"Oh, I yield my place with pleasure to the all-important,
all-necessary Gwen Gascoyne!" retorted Netta. "We humbler members of
the Fifth don't get a look-in nowadays. But just let me give you one
word of good advice, my lofty Pharaoh--pride occasionally comes before
a fall!"


CHAPTER XIX

A School Gymkhana


Thanks to the vigorous efforts of the Committee and of the various
organizers of the entertainment programme, everything was in good
training by the first of June, and anniversary day seemed likely to
prove a huge success. It was decided that the gymkhana should begin at
three o'clock, and be held in the large cricket field, admission being
either by ticket or gate money. There was a little discussion about
the arrangements in that respect, some members considering the
printing of the tickets an unnecessary expense, and others their sale
beforehand an essential feature.

"It's far better to sell them in advance," urged Bessie Manners,
"because people will often buy them, even if they're not certain of
going. If it were a showery afternoon many might stay away--then if
they hadn't taken tickets it would be so much loss to the funds."

"We'll accept money at the gate, though?" queried Olga Hunter.

"Yes, we must have a gatekeeper, and provide her with shilling and
sixpenny checks. I think children ought to be half-price. So many of
us have little brothers and sisters who would like to come, and a
shilling seems too much to pay for a child."

"Right you are! Who'll be gatekeeper?"

"Oh, some sturdy Fifth Form girl. I propose Gwen Gascoyne."

"Yes, Gwen would do splendidly. She deserves some post of honour for
evolving the scheme. Besides, she's got a head on her shoulders. She'd
keep the gate like Horatio kept the bridge."

"One could trust Gwen, I know. Now Rachel Hunter or Edith Arnold would
make mistakes in the change, and lose their presence of mind, and
perhaps let half a dozen people push in free while they were reckoning
up the sixpences."

"Gwen it shall be, then. I'll ask her to-day if she'll undertake it."

Gwen was only too proud to be invited to assume such a responsible
position. She felt much flattered that it should have been offered to
her instead of to Elspeth Frazer, Hilda Browne, Iris Watson, or other
of the older members of the Form.

"I'm the youngest of all, and yet I'm to be trusted the most!" she
said to herself with a sigh of gratification. "Gwen Gascoyne, I
congratulate you! You're coming on!"

There was great excitement at Skelwick Parsonage on the day of the
fête. Beatrice had made several boxes of sweets to be sold on the
ground, and Winnie picked the very choicest flowers in the garden for
the same object. Mr. Gascoyne, Beatrice, and Martin were to come to
the gymkhana, and had promised to clap their loudest at Giles' and
Basil's performances in the sports. Those two heroes kept examining
the muscular development of their young arms like a pair of practised
Roman gladiators, and ate quite a double allowance of breakfast on the
strength of the trials that were in store for them. They were so eager
to start for school, that for once Beatrice had no need to urge them
to hurry, and they departed in excellent spirits, vaulting, for
practice, over the orchard hurdles instead of going out through the
front gate.

Morning school was held as usual at Rodenhurst, but ceased at twelve,
so as to give time for preliminary arrangements to be completed. The
classrooms were to be used as dressing-rooms for some of the
performers, and the gymnasium was turned into a repository for the
parcels of sweets, cakes, and flowers which kept arriving from the
generous friends who had promised such gifts. To unpack these and
apportion them to different tea tables or vendors' baskets was a task
which needed all the energies of the members of the Committee, who
were kept so busy at the work that they had scarcely more than ten
minutes to spare for dinner. As a rule, unpunctuality at this meal was
visited with direst penalties, but to-day Miss Roscoe only smiled as
the prefects rushed in very late, hastily bolted their meat course,
and fled minus the pudding. Their zeal and virtuous example had the
desired effect. Everybody upon whom any responsibility devolved made
an extra effort, so that by half-past two everything was in perfect
order and readiness.

"Thank our lucky, lucky stars it's a decent day!" said Gwen, gazing up
at a sky which, if not blue all over, held only clouds of an
apparently harmless character. "I don't believe it intends to rain at
all, and I expect everybody will come, and the audience be 'large and
appreciative', as the newspapers say. If I don't clear a good sum of
gate money, I shall be amazed."

"Are you ready, Gwen, to act Horatio?" said Bessie Manners, bustling
up in a hurry. "You understand the business, don't you? Those with
tickets you of course let in free. Everybody else must pay a shilling,
or children under ten sixpence. Here are two rolls of checks, sixpenny
and shilling ones. You must hand checks to all comers for the amount
they have paid you, and they will present the checks at the entrance
to the big field. You will stand at the gate that leads from the
garden to the smaller field."

"I understand all right!" laughed Gwen. "I've brought a satchel to
hold the money, and I'll undertake not a soul gets in without paying.
It will have to be 'over my body' if they do!"

"Moira will be at the second gate, and she won't allow anyone through
without handing her a ticket or a check, so I think we shan't lose
anything there," replied Bessie, turning away satisfied.

Gwen took up her station at once, for visitors were already beginning
to arrive at the school, and she was soon fully occupied in receiving
coins and tearing off checks. She rather enjoyed being at the receipt
of custom, and was particularly gratified at the amount that went into
her satchel. The fine afternoon had tempted people to come to the
gymkhana, old Rodenhurst girls and their friends had turned up, as
well as parents and relations of present pupils, so the gathering was
quite considerable. The many pretty summer dresses and bright parasols
gave a most festive appearance to the ground, even before the
performers arrived on the scenes. Various girls, furnished with
tasteful baskets, had been chosen to sell sweets and floral
buttonholes, and soon began to find customers for their wares, while
the lemonade and ice-cream stalls were already doing a roaring trade.

Lesbia had been selected as a flower vendor, and looked absolutely
charming in a white China-silk dress and Tuscan hat trimmed with
daisies, which, by her usual good luck, she had received from Aunt
Violet only the week before. Pretty Lesbia, with her pink cheeks and
her lovely flaxen hair, really made quite a picture as she carried
round her basket, and many people bought flowers from her, just
because they could not resist the entreaty in her blue eyes, and the
soft little voice that pleaded the cause of the Rodenhurst Cot.

"She's just twice as good at selling as I should have been," thought
Gwen, watching her sister rather wistfully. "There's a fascination
about Lesbia which I don't possess in the very least. She must be
making a little fortune with those posies. Well, never mind. I'm
keeping the gate. That's more important still. To business. Here's
someone else coming. Hello! Why, Dick! This is awfully good of you!"

It was Dick Chambers who presented himself and paid his shilling. "I
hardly knew whether I dared come," he grinned, "after the row I got
you into that afternoon when you fished out of the window for sweets.
Will any of the teachers seize upon me and turn me out as a pernicious
character? I shall demand the return of my money if they do!"

"They're too busy," laughed Gwen, "and besides, I don't think anyone
would recognize you. Miss Trent didn't see you, you know; she only
caught me leaning out of the window."

"Then you think I may venture without fear of consequences? I feel
rather like Romeo going into the Capulet mansion. Can you give me a
watchword to use if I get into difficulties?"

"The Rodenhurst Cot and Coin of the Realm are our two watchwords this
afternoon. Stick to those and you can't go wrong, even if you beard
Miss Roscoe herself. She is over there if you'd like to shake hands
with her."

"No, thanks! I've no wish to risk such an ordeal. In fact I'll give
her as wide a berth as possible. Should you be allowed to negotiate an
ice if I brought you one?"

"Not while I'm on duty. Look here: 'You are requested not to speak to
the Woman at the wheel'. Here's a fresh batch of people arriving."

"Mayn't I tear off the checks?"

"Certainly not. Go along and buy some of Lesbia's flowers, if she has
any left by now. If you don't scoot quick, I'll report you for
impeding me in the performance of my work. Then they'd turn you out,
with a vengeance."

"I'll be good," chuckled Dick, as he moved on to find Lesbia, and
invest in her wares.

The cycle parade was about to begin, and those who meant to take part
in it were wheeling their machines through a private door which led from
the stable yard into the field. Not only had the competitors decorated
their bicycles, but they themselves had donned fancy costumes, many of
which were of quite an elaborate description. There was a Dutch maiden
with white sleeves, velvet bodice, starched cap and wooden sabots, a
sweet little Miss Jap-Jap-Jappy in gay kimono, a flower tucked into her
dark hair, an Indian squaw with bead-embroidered garments and fringed
leggings, several pierrettes, a Red Riding Hood, a Goody Two Shoes, and
other characters of nursery fame or fairy-tale lore. Both cannot be
correct:
neither is entitled to speak for woman. That being the case, would it
not be better to keep clear of this dangerous ground of prediction,
and keep to the argument based on rights and needs? If our theory of
government be worth anything, woman has the same right to the ballot
that man has: she certainly needs it as much for self-defence. How she
will use it, when she gets it, is her own affair. It may be that she
will use it more wisely than her brothers; but I am satisfied to believe
that she will use it as well.
Let us not attribute infallible wisdom and virtue, even to women; for,
as dear Mrs. Poyser says in "Adam Bede," "God Almighty made some of 'em
foolish, to match the men."
It is common to assume, for instance, that all women by nature favor
peace; and that, even if they do not always seem to promote it in their
social walk and conversation, they certainly will in their political.
When we consider how all the pleasing excitements, achievements,
and glories of war, such as they are, accrue to men only, and how
large a part of the miseries are brought home to women, it might seem
that their vote on this matter, at least, would be a sure thing.

Thus far the theory: the fact being that we have been through a
civil war which convulsed the nation, and cost half a million lives;
and which was, from the very beginning, fomented, stimulated, and
applauded, at least on one side, by the united voice of the women.
It will be generally admitted by those who know, that, but for
the women of the seceding States, the war of the Rebellion would
have been waged more feebly, been sooner ended, and far more easily
forgotten.

Nay, I was told a few days since by an able Southern lawyer, who was
long the mayor of one of the largest Southern cities, that in his opinion
the practice of duelling--which is an epitome of war--owes its
continued existence at the South to a sustaining public sentiment among
the fair sex.

Again, where the sympathy of women is wholly on the side of right,
it is by no means safe to assume that their mode of enforcing that
sentiment will be equally judicious. Take, for instance, the temperance
cause. It is quite common to assume that women are a unit on that
question. When we look at the two extremes of society,--the fine
lady pressing wine upon her visitors, and the Irishwoman laying in
a family supply of whiskey to last over Sunday,--the
assumption seems hasty. But grant it. Is it equally sure, that when
woman takes hold of that most difficult of all legislation, the
license and prohibitory laws, she will handle them more wisely than
men have done? Will her more ardent zeal solve the problem on which
so much zeal has already been lavished in vain? In large cities,
for instance, where there is already more law than is enforced,
will her additional ballots afford the means to enforce it? It
may be so; but it seems wiser not to predict nor to anticipate, but
to wait and hope.

It is no reproach on woman to say that she is not infallible on
particular questions. There is much reason to suppose that in politics,
as in every other sphere, the joint action of the sexes will be
better and wiser than that of either singly. It seems obvious that the
experiment of republican government will be more fairly tried when
one half the race is no longer disfranchised.

It is quite certain, at any rate, that no class can trust its rights
to the mercy and chivalry of any other, but that, the weaker it is,
the more it needs all political aids and securities for self-protection.
Thus far we are on safe ground; and here, as it seems to me, the
claim for suffrage may securely rest. To go farther in our assertions
seems to me unsafe, although many of our wisest and most eloquent may
differ from me; and the nearer we approach success, the more
important it is to look to our weapons.

It is a plausible and tempting argument, to claim suffrage for woman
on the ground that she is an angel; but I think it will prove wiser,
in the end, to claim it for her as being human.

FIRST-CLASS CARRIAGES

In a hotly contested municipal election, the other day, an active
political manager was telling me his tactics.

"We have to send carriages for some of the voters," he said. "First-class
carriages! If we undertake to wait on 'em, we must do it in good shape,
and not leave the best carriages to be hired by the other party."

I am not much given to predicting just what will happen when women
vote; but I confidently assert that they will be taken to the
polls, if they wish, in first-class carriages.

If the best horses are to be harnessed, and the best cushions selected,
and every panel of the coach rubbed till you can see your face in
it, merely to accommodate some elderly man who lives two blocks
away, and could walk to the polls very easily, then how much
more will these luxuries be placed at the service of every woman,
young or old, whose presence at the polls is made doubtful by mud,
or snow, or the prospect of a shower.

But the carriage is only the beginning of the polite attentions
that will soon appear.

When we see the transformation undergone by every ferryboat and every
railway station, so soon as it comes to be frequented by women,
who can doubt that voting-places will experience the same change?

They will soon have--at least in the "ladies' department"--elegance
instead of discomfort, beauty for ashes, plenty of rocking-chairs,
and no need of spittoons.

Very possibly they may have all the modern conveniences and
inconveniences,--furnace registers, teakettles, Washington pies,
and a young lady to give checks for bundles.

Who knows what elaborate comforts, what queenly luxuries, may be
offered to women at voting-places, when the time has finally arrived
to sue for their votes?

The common impression has always been quite different from
this. People look at the coarseness and dirt now visible at so
many voting-places, and say, "Would you expose women to all that?" But
these places are not dirtier than a railway smoking-car; and there
is no more coarseness than in any ferryboat which is, for whatever
reason, used by men only.

You do not look into those places, and say with indignation, "Never,
if I can help it, shall my wife or my beloved great-grandmother
travel by steamboat or by rail!"

You know that with these exemplary relatives will enter order and
quiet, carpets and curtains, brooms and dusters. Why should it be
otherwise with ward rooms and town halls?

There is not an atom more of intrinsic difficulty in providing a
decorous ladies' room for a voting-place, than for a post-office or a
railway station; and it is as simple a thing to vote a ticket as to buy
one. This being thus easily practicable, all men will desire to
provide it. And the example of the first-class carriages shows
that the parties will vie with each other in these pleasing
arrangements. They will be driven to it, whether they wish
it or not. The party which has most consistently and resolutely kept
woman away from the ballot-box will be the very party compelled,
for the sake of self-preservation, to make her "rights" agreeable
to her when once she gets them. A few stupid or noisy men may indeed
try to make the polls unattractive to her, the very first time;
but the result of this little experiment will be so disastrous that
the offenders will be sternly suppressed by their own party leaders,
before another election day comes. It will soon become clear, that of
all possible ways of losing votes the surest lies in treating women
rudely.

Lucy Stone tells a story of a good man in Kansas who, having done all
he could to prevent women from being allowed to vote on school
questions, was finally comforted, when that measure passed, by the
thought that he should at least secure his wife's vote for a pet
schoolhouse of his own.

Election day came, and the newly enfranchised matron showed the most
culpable indifference to her privileges.

She made breakfast as usual, went about her housework, and did on that
perilous day precisely the things that her anxious husband had
always predicted that women never would do under such circumstances.

His hints and advice found no response; and nothing short of the best
pair of horses and the best wagon finally sufficed to take the farmer's
wife to the polls. I am not the least afraid that women will find
voting a rude or disagreeable arrangement.

There is more danger of their being treated too well, and being too
much attacked and allured by these cheap cajoleries. But women are
pretty shrewd, and can probably be trusted to go to the polls, even
in first-class carriages.

EDUCATION _via_ SUFFRAGE

I know a rich bachelor of large property who fatigues his friends by
perpetual denunciations of everything American, and especially of
universal suffrage.

He rarely votes; and I was much amazed, when the popular vote was to
be taken on building an expensive schoolhouse, to see him go to the
polls, and vote in the affirmative. On being asked his reason, he
explained that, while we labored under the calamity of universal
(male) suffrage, he thought it best to mitigate its evils by educating
the voters.

In short, he wished, as Mr. Lowe said in England when the last Reform
Bill passed, "to prevail upon our future masters to learn their alphabets."

These motives may not be generous; but the schoolhouses, when they
are built, are just as useful. Even girls get the benefit of them,
though the long delay in many places before girls got their share
came in part from the want of this obvious stimulus. It is universal
male suffrage that guarantees schoolhouse and school.

The most selfish man understands that argument: "We must educate the
masses, if it is only to keep them from our throats."

But there is a wider way in which suffrage guarantees education. At
every election time political information is poured upon the whole
voting community till it is deluged. Presses run night and day to
print newspaper extras; clerks sit up all night to send out congressional
speeches; the most eloquent men in the community expound the most
difficult matters to the ignorant. Of course each party affords only
its own point of view; but every man has a neighbor who is put under
treatment by some other party, and who is constantly attacking all
who will listen to his provoking and pestilent counter-statements. All
the common school education of the United States does not equal the
education of election day; and as in some States elections are held
very often, this popular university seems to be kept in session almost
the whole year round.

The consequence is a remarkable average popular knowledge of political
affairs,--a training which American women now miss, but which will
come to them with the ballot.

And in still another way there will be an education coming to woman
from the right of suffrage. It will come from her own sex,
proceeding from highest to lowest.

We often hear it said that after enfranchisement the more educated
women will not vote, while the ignorant will. But Mrs. Howe admirably
pointed out, at a Philadelphia convention, that the moment women have
the ballot it will become the pressing duty of the more educated women,
even in self-protection, to train the rest The very fact of the
danger will be a stimulus to duty, with women, as it already is
with men.

It has always seemed to me rather childish, in a man of superior
education, or talent, or wealth, to complain that when election day
comes he has no more votes than the man who plants his potatoes or
puts in his coal The truth is that under the most thorough system
of universal suffrage the man of wealth or talent or
natural leadership has still a disproportionate influence, still
casts a hundred votes where the poor or ignorant or feeble man
throws but one.

Even the outrages of New York elections turned out to be caused by the
fact that the leading rogues had used their brains and energy, while
the men of character had not. When it came to the point, it was found
that a few caricatures by Nast and a few columns of figures in the
"Times" were more than a match for all the repeaters of the ring.
It is always so.

Andrew Johnson, with all the patronage of the nation, had not the
influence of "Nasby" with his one newspaper.

The whole Chinese question was perceptibly and instantly modified
when Harte wrote "The Heathen Chinee."

These things being so, it indicates feebleness or dyspepsia when
an educated man is heard whining, about election time, with his
fears of ignorant voting.

It is his business to enlighten and control that ignorance.

With a voice and a pen at his command, with a town hall in every town
for the one, and a newspaper in every village for the other, he
has such advantages over his ignorant neighbors that the only doubt
is whether his privileges are not greater than he deserves.

For one, in writing for the press, I am impressed by the undue greatness,
not by the littleness, of the power I wield.

And what is true of men will be true of women. If the educated women
of America have not brains or energy enough to control, in the
long run, the votes of the ignorant women around them, they will
deserve a severe lesson, and will be sure, like the men in New York,
to receive it.

And thenceforward they will educate and guide that ignorance, instead
of evading or cringing before it.

But I have no fear about the matter. It is a libel on American women
to say that they will not go anywhere or do anything which is for
the good of their children and their husbands. Travel West on any of
our great lines of railroad, and see what women undergo in
transporting their households to their new homes.

See the watching and the feeding, and the endless answers to the
endless questions, and the toil to keep little Sarah warm, and little
Johnny cool, and the baby comfortable. What a hungry, tired, jaded,
forlorn mass of humanity it is, as the sun rises on it each morning,
in the soiled and breathless railway-car! Yet that household
group is America in the making; those are the future kings and
queens, the little princes and princesses, of this land.

Now, is the mother who has undergone for the transportation of these
children all this enormous labor to shrink at her journey's end
from the slight additional labor of going to the polls to vote
whether those little ones shall have schools or rumshops?

The thought is an absurdity.

A few fine ladies in cities will fear to spoil their silk dresses, as
a few foppish gentlemen now fear for their broadcloth. But the mass of
intelligent American women will vote, as do the mass of men.

FOLLOW YOUR LEADERS

"There go thirty thousand men," shouted the Portuguese, as Wellington,
with a few staff-officers, rode along the mountain-side. The action
of the leaders' minds, in any direction, has a value out of all
proportion to their numbers. In a campaign there is a council of
officers,--Grant and Sherman and Sheridan perhaps. They are but a
trifling minority, yet what they plan the whole army will do; and
such is the faith in a real leader, that, were all the restraints
of discipline for the moment relaxed, the rank and file would still
follow his judgment.

What a few general officers see to be the best to-day, the sergeants and
corporals and private soldiers will usually see to be best to-morrow.

In peace, also, there is a silent leadership; only that in peace,
as there is more time to spare, the leaders are expected to persuade
the rank and file, instead of commanding them.

Yet it comes to the same thing in the end. The movement begins with
certain guides, and if you wish to know the future, keep your eye
on them. If you wish to know what is already decided, ask the
majority; but if you wish to find out what is likely to be done
next, ask the leaders.

It is constantly said that the majority of women do not yet desire
to vote, and it is true.

But to find out whether they are likely to wish for it, we must keep our
eyes on the women who lead their sex.

The representative women,--those who naturally stand for the rest,
those most eminent for knowledge and self-devotion,--how do they
view the thing?

The rank and file do not yet demand the ballot, you say; but how is it
with the general officers?

Now, it is a remarkable fact, about which those who have watched
this movement for twenty years can hardly be mistaken, that almost
any woman who reaches a certain point of intellectual or moral
development will presently be found desiring the ballot for her sex.

If this be so, it predicts the future.

It is the judgment of Grant and Sherman and Sheridan as against that
of the average private soldier of the Two Hundredth Infantry. Set
aside, if you please, the specialists of this particular agitation,--those
who were first known to the public through its advocacy. There is no
just reason why they should be set aside, yet concede that for a moment.
The fact remains that the ablest women in the land--those who were
recognized as ablest in other spheres, before they took this
particular duty upon them--are extremely apt to assume this cross
when they reach a certain stage of development.

When Margaret Fuller first came forward into literature, she supposed
that literature was all she wanted.

It was not till she came to write upon woman's position that she
discovered what woman needed.

Clara Barton, driving her ambulance or her supply wagon at the
battle's edge, did not foresee, perhaps, that she should make that
touching appeal, when the battle was over, imploring her own
enfranchisement from the soldiers she had befriended.

Lydia Maria Child, Julia Ward Howe, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Louisa
Alcott, came to the claim for the ballot earlier than a million
others, because they were the intellectual leaders of American
womanhood.

They saw farthest, because they were in the highest place. They were
the recognized representatives of their sex before they gave in their
adhesion to the new demand.

Their judgment is as the judgment of the council of officers, while
Flora McFlimsey's opinion is as the opinion of John Smith, unassigned
recruit.

But if the generals make arrangements for a battle, the chance is
that John Smith will have to take a hand in it, or else run away.

It is a rare thing for the petition for suffrage from any town to comprise
the majority of women in that town.

It makes no difference: if there are few women in the town who want
to vote, there is as much propriety in their voting as if there
were ten millions, so long as the majority are equally protected
in their right to stay at home.

But when the names of petitioners come to be weighed as well as counted,
the character, the purity, the intelligence, the social and domestic
value of the petitioners is seldom denied.

The women who wish to vote are not the idle, the ignorant, the
narrow-minded, or the vicious; they are not "the dangerous classes:"
they represent the best class in the community, when tried by the
highest standard. They are the natural leaders. What they now see to
be right will also be perceived even by the foolish and the
ignorant by and by.

In a poultry-yard in spring, when the first brood of duckling's
goes toddling to the waterside, no doubt all the younger or feebler
broods, just hatched out of similar eggs, think these innovators
dreadfully mistaken.

"You are out of place," they feebly pipe. "See how happy we are
in our safe nests.

Perhaps, by and by, when properly introduced into society, we may
run about a little on land, but to swim!

--never!" Meanwhile their elder kindred are splashing and diving in
ecstasy; and, so surely as they are born ducklings, all the rest
will swim in their turn.

The instinct of the first duck solves the problem for all the rest.
It is a mere question of time. Sooner or later, all the broods in the
most conservative yard will follow their leaders.

HOW TO MAKE WOMEN UNDERSTAND POLITICS

An English member of Parliament said in a speech, some years ago,
that the stupidest man had a clearer understanding of political
questions than the brightest woman.

He did not find it convenient to say what must be the condition of a
nation which for many years has had a woman for its sovereign; but
he certainly said bluntly what many men feel. It is not indeed
very hard to find the source of this feeling. It is not merely that
women are inexperienced in questions of finance or administrative
practice, for many men are equally ignorant of these.

But it is undoubtedly true of a large class of more fundamental
questions,--as, for instance, of some now pending at Washington,--which
even many clear-headed women find it hard to understand, while men
of far less general training comprehend them entirely.

Questions of the distribution of power, for instance, between the
executive, judicial, and legislative branches of government,--or
between the United States government and those of the separate
States,--belong to the class I mean. Many women of great intelligence
show a hazy indistinctness of views when the question arises whether
it is the business of the general government to preserve order at the
voting-places at a congressional election, for instance, as the
Republicans hold; or whether it should be left absolutely in the
hands of the state officials, as the Democrats maintain.

Most women would probably say that so long as order was preserved,
it made very little difference who did it. Yet, if one goes into
a shoe-shop or a blacksmith's shop, one may hear just these questions
discussed in all their bearings by uneducated men, and it will be
seen that they involve a principle. Why is this difference? Does it
show some constitutional inferiority in women, as to this particular
faculty?

The question is best solved by considering a case somewhat
parallel. The South Carolina negroes were considered very stupid,
even by many who knew than; and they certainly were densely ignorant
on many subjects. Put face to face with a difficult point of finance
legislation, I think they would have been found to know even less
about it than I do. Yet the abolition of slavery was held in those
days by many great statesmen to be a subject so difficult that they
shrank from discussing it; and nevertheless I used to find that
these ignorant men understood it quite clearly in all its bearings.

Offer a bit of sophistry to them, try to blind them with false logic
on this subject, and they would detect it as promptly, and answer
it as keenly, as Garrison or Phillips would have done; and, indeed,
they would give very much the same answers.

What was the reason? Not that they were half wise and half stupid;
but that they were dull where their own interests had not trained
them, and they were sharp and keen where their own interests were
concerned.

I have no doubt that it will be so with women when they vote.

About some things they will be slow to learn; but about all that
immediately concerns themselves they will know more at the very
beginning than many wise men have learned since the world began.

How long it took for English-speaking men to correct, even partially,
the iniquities of the old common law!

--but a parliament of women would have set aside at a single sitting
the alleged right of the husband to correct his wife with a stick no
bigger than his thumb. It took the men of a certain State of this Union
a good many years to see that it was an outrage to confiscate to the
State one half the property of a man who died childless, leaving
his widow only the other half; but a legislature of women would
have annihilated that enormity by a single day's work. I have never
seen reason to believe that women on general questions would act
more wisely or more conscientiously, as a rule, than men: but
self-preservation is a wonderful quickener of the brain; and in all
questions bearing on their own rights and opportunities as women,
it is they who will prove shrewd and keen, and men who will prove
obtuse, as indeed they have usually been.

Another point that adds force to this is the fact that wherever women,
by their special position, have more at stake than usual in public
affairs, even as now organized, they are apt to be equal to the occasion.

She did not dare to tell Miss Roscoe that her sister
had taken change from the satchel, yet by that circumstance only could
she account for the loss.

"Miss Douglas is as distressed as I am," continued the Principal. "I
was obliged to tell her, in order to explain your absence from your
classes. Here she comes now. Perhaps she will be able to persuade you
better than I."

"Oh, Miss Roscoe," exclaimed Miss Douglas, entering the study with a
hurried step and a heightened colour, "I have just made the most
astounding discovery! I happened to look in my purse, and to my
amazement and consternation I found half a sovereign which certainly
ought not to be there. I am sure I know how I came by it. Yesterday,
just before I went into the house to dress the girls who were to sing
the Elizabethan madrigal, I bought a box of sweets from Lesbia
Gascoyne. I gave her a two-shilling piece, and as she had no
sixpences, she ran to Gwen to ask change for my florin. She came
hurrying back, and handed me, as we both imagined, three sixpences. I
put them in my purse without looking at them. Now I am quite sure that
one of these supposed sixpences must in reality have been half a
sovereign, given by mistake. I undoubtedly had no ten-shilling piece
in my purse. The difference of giving half a sovereign in lieu of
sixpence would be exactly the nine-and-six that was missing from
Gwen's satchel. Let us exchange the two coins, and the deficit will be
made up."

It was such a natural, simple, and self-evident explanation of the
situation that its truth could not be doubted. Miss Roscoe heaved a
sigh of intense relief.

"I am grateful to you beyond words, Miss Douglas," she returned.
"Gwen, I am most delighted that your honour is cleared, and regret I
harboured so unjust a suspicion against you. I confess it was the
affair of the broken china that prejudiced me in your disfavour. It
supplied so strong a motive. Why didn't you come and tell me about
that right away when if happened instead of trying to settle it in
such a crooked fashion? It wasn't straight and square, was it? Have I
heard the whole story?"

Gwen, who had not shed a tear before, was crying bitterly now. Miss
Roscoe's present kindly tone hurt more than her former severity.
Almost in spite of herself the girl began to blurt put her version of
how she had accidentally broken the tea service, had intended to pay
for it at once, and how Emma had absconded with the money. The
housemaid's part in the drama was news to Miss Roscoe, and she
hastened to ask for particulars.

"This must be investigated immediately," she declared. "I shall send
for Emma Dalton this afternoon. I happen to know that she has a place
as parlour-maid at a house not far away. If I had heard of this I
could not have given her a character. Indeed she deserves to be
prosecuted for theft. I must write a note to her present mistress."

Miss Roscoe never let the grass grow under her feet. In this case she
acted with her usual promptitude, and by two o'clock Emma, in much
alarm, and weeping like a waterspout, was ushered into the study and
confronted with Gwen and Netta, who were both summoned for the
occasion.

"Now, Emma, this is a serious charge. Have you anything to say for
yourself?" enquired Miss Roscoe, seating herself at her desk with the
air of a magistrate about to try a case.

"I didn't pay the money at Parker's, and I don't deny it," sobbed
Emma. "I meant to, but I saw a coat and skirt I wanted, so I thought
I'd borrow it, and the bill might just wait for a bit. I've intended
to go and settle every month when I got my wages, but it's never
seemed the right time. I didn't know Parker's were pressing for it.
Oh, dear, I've been a bad girl!"

"You have indeed," said Miss Roscoe. "It was wrong of Miss Gascoyne
to ask you to help her to deceive me, but worse for you to defraud
her."

"It wasn't Miss Gascoyne that suggested sending back the broken china
to Parker's and saying nothing about it; it was Miss Goodwin,"
declared Emma, pointing at Netta. "She planned the whole thing! Yes, I
can tell you she did. She's a deeper one than the other. It was half
her fault, I'll be bound!"

Netta's face was a study, especially as Miss Roscoe looked at her
keenly, though she made no remark.

"I've brought the money with me," continued Emma, still sobbing, "if
Miss Gascoyne will please take it and forgive me."

"You don't deserve any consideration, Emma," said Miss Roscoe.

"For the sake of my mother!" pleaded Emma. "Oh, don't prosecute me! It
would brand me for life!"

"Don't send her to prison, please!" interposed Gwen.

"Well, we don't want to be too hard on you and ruin your life. Let it
be a warning to you to be honest in future. I am sure Miss Gascoyne
has no wish to prosecute you. I shall be obliged to let your mistress
know about this, however. I gave you so good a character to her, that
it is not fair she should remain in ignorance of so serious a slip.
She must be the judge whether she keeps you in her service or not."

"I'll go home to my mother and work at dressmaking," snivelled Emma as
she prepared to depart. "Here's the money, Miss Gascoyne; I'm sorry I
took it, and thank you kindly for not prosecuting."

Netta fled from the study the moment Miss Roscoe gave her leave to go.
She was anxious not to have to speak to Gwen, for she knew she had not
behaved well towards her. Emma's unexpected accusation had given
rather an awkward turn to the affair, and she had hardly come out of
it with the credit she expected. Gwen lingered behind. She felt she
could not leave without offering the apology which for seven long
months she had wished to make.

"Please, Miss Roscoe, I'm most dreadfully sorry about all this. I know
I ought to have come and told you at once when I knocked over the box
of china," she blurted out abruptly. "I've been miserable the whole
time about it."

"Well, Gwen, it's a lesson to keep square, isn't it? One little step
from the straight road often sends us farther out of our way than we
have any intention of going. I don't think you will descend to
anything so underhand again, will you?"

"Never in all my life!" protested Gwen with energy.

"Then we'll say no more about it."

The news that Gwen had been suspected of appropriating some of the
gate money had leaked out, as news always leaks out, and was received
with great indignation by the rest of the Fifth.

"Gwen Gascoyne simply isn't capable of doing such an abominable
thing!" declared Elspeth Frazer.

"No. Gwen's gauche and brusque, but she's unimpeachable," agreed Hilda
Browne.

"I'd rather suspect myself!" said Charlotte Perry.

Much satisfaction was expressed in the Form when the report of the
mistake in Miss Douglas's change was circulated, and Gwen's complete
acquittal secured. Everybody congratulated her heartily when she
returned to the classroom.

"You're the heroine of the hour," said Louise Mawson. "It was an
uncommonly disagreeable thing to happen. But in a bag full of change
it's very easy to confuse a half-sovereign and a sixpence. By the by,
has Miss Roscoe added up all the accounts yet? How much have we made?"

"One hundred and fifty-three pounds altogether," replied Gwen. "We got
a hundred and nine pounds by collecting, and the gymkhana has made
forty-four."

"Hooray! Then the cot is an accomplished fact."

"We shall all have to pay a visit to the Convalescent Home and see it,
as soon as the name is painted up over it," said Hilda Browne.

"Won't it look scrumptious to see 'Rodenhurst Cot' in black and
white?" chuckled Charlotte Perry.

"We shall have to publish reports of our special convalescents in
every number of the school magazine," suggested Iris Watson. "It will
be so interesting to read about them."

At four o'clock, by Winnie's express permission, Gwen went to Parker &
Sons and made a final settlement of their account. The relief of being
free from her load of debt was very great, and she came out of the
shop happier than she had been since the day she first entered it. As
Emma had refunded the one pound two and sixpence in full, Gwen had
twelve and sixpence in hand, and, in consequence, felt rich beyond the
dreams of avarice. The vision of a new tennis racket began to dawn on
her horizon. That evening she managed to cajole Father for a short
stroll on the moor. It was seldom she could secure such a
_tête-à-tête_ walk, but she was longing so much to unburden her mind
that she gave him no peace until she had got him all to herself. Once
they were seated on the heather, with the wold behind and the sea in
front, Gwen began to pour out the story in her usual abrupt, jerky
fashion, not omitting the matter of the prize essay which she had sold
to Netta.

"Why didn't you tell me all this before, Gwen?" asked Mr. Gascoyne
when she had finished.

"Because--oh, Dad, I thought it would worry you! Beatrice said you
were so dreadfully hard up."

"It would have worried me far more to feel that you owed money. How
much did Netta Goodwin lend you?"

"A sovereign."

"Then I will make up your twelve and six to twenty shillings, and you
shall pay her back. I don't like that transaction about the essay at
all."

"Netta doesn't deserve it!" exclaimed Gwen.

"I dare say not, but your conscience demands it. Honour forbids you to
expose Netta, but the affair was so discreditable that I want your
part at least to be set straight. That sovereign was ill-gotten gains,
Gwen!"

"Oh, Dad! Are you very angry with me?"

"No, not angry, but I wish you'd trusted me. The whole business,
childie, hasn't been on the square."

"I knew it wasn't, all the time," confessed Gwen, scrubbing her eyes.
"But--oh, Dad, it was so hard! Why do such hard places come into one's
life?"

"To give one the opportunity to get strong. If everything were always
pleasant and smooth and easy, we should be poor sort of creatures in
the end, with no character worth having. I feel that every day myself,
and give thanks for the hard things, and I've had my share of them."

Gwen looked at Father, and a sudden perception of his meaning swept
over her. Young as she was, she knew something of the struggles and
disappointments, the lack of appreciation, the mistrust, the
misconstructions, the slights which had met him in his parish work,
and the burden of poverty which he carried so bravely and
uncomplainingly--somewhat, too, perhaps, she divined of the hopes he
had left behind. Her own little struggles faded into nothingness in
the shadow of his.

"Yes, you've had a hard life, Dad," she repeated slowly.

"Sentry duty. That's all! A hard life is the soldier's post of
honour," said Father.

He looked far out over the sea as he spoke, and it almost seemed to
Gwen as if his face shone.

There was still one point which Gwen was anxious to elucidate, and
that was the reason of Lesbia's peculiar conduct in the orchard on the
evening of the gymkhana, and where she had obtained the ten and
sixpence of which she had spoken. Lesbia seemed very unwilling to
discuss the subject, but when the two girls were in their bedroom that
night, Gwen held her to the point.

"Oh, Gwen, you've got me in a corner!" protested Lesbia. "I didn't
mean to tell a soul about it, except Kitty Macpherson! Well, if you
must know, this is what happened. One day Kitty brought a copy of _The
Gentlewoman's World_ to school. It had a beauty competition in it, and
she urged me to try my luck, so I sent up my photo--that one which
Aunt Violet had taken of me when I was staying at Greylands. It
actually won a prize, and the magazine sent me a postal order for ten
and sixpence. I didn't dare to tell any of you at home, because I knew
you'd all think me so terribly vain and conceited. Beatrice is
fearfully down on me for that kind of thing, and I knew the boys would
tease, and call me 'Proudie' and 'Madam Conceit'."

Gwen laughed long and heartily. She did not tell her little sister of
the unjust suspicion she had for a short time harboured against her.
The whole affair was so exactly like Lesbia, from the competing for a
beauty prize to the careless taking of wrong change.

"How will you explain your new tennis racket?" she enquired. "Beatrice
will ask where you got the money to buy it."

"I never thought of that. I suppose I shall have to confess, then, and
be labelled 'Miss Vanity'," sighed Lesbia. "It's a ripping racket,
Gwen. It's exactly the same that Kitty Macpherson has. I'll lend it to
you whenever you want it. Are you cross with me for not telling you
before?"

"No, dear; it wasn't such a fearful crime after all," returned Gwen,
half sighing, for Lesbia's secret seemed so much more innocent a one
than her own had been.


CHAPTER XXI

Retribution


Gwen took back the sovereign next morning to Netta, who received it
with amazing coolness.

"An unexpected blessing," she remarked. "I'd put that sov. down as a
bad debt. Better late than never. We're quits now, Gwen Gascoyne."

"Not altogether," returned Gwen. "I've set my part straight, but
you've still got the credit for my essay. You haven't put that to
rights."

"Catch me telling!" laughed Netta. "No, my good Gwen, that's a little
too much to ask. Don't expect more than you're likely to get, and then
you won't be disappointed. I'm afraid I must still consider Mr. Thomas
Carlyle my special property. You really can't eat your cake and have
it."

"That's exactly what you're doing," retorted Gwen. "You took my essay,
and now you've got the sovereign as well."

"But I helped you out of a temporary difficulty. You forget that, and
don't show as much gratitude as you might."

"Not much cause for gratitude," grunted Gwen.

"This is what comes of being too philanthropic. I won't help anybody
out of scrapes again. One never gets thanked for it."

"Not when you give your help on such terms."

It was no use arguing with Netta, so Gwen turned away, glad to have
closed the transaction, even though she had been decidedly the loser.
There were plenty of other matters to occupy her mind, as this
afternoon the tennis trials were to take place as a preliminary to
playing for the Form trophy, and later for the County shield. Gwen had
given in her name to Moira Thompson, the head of the games committee,
and expected that she would be accepted at least for the trials. Nor
was she mistaken, for when, at two o'clock, Moira pinned her paper on
the notice board, the fourth couple down for singles were Gwen
Gascoyne against Geraldine French. All the school was assembled to
watch the play, since on this afternoon's victories would largely
depend the future choice of champions.

"Here's my new racket. Do use it--it's a perfect beauty," whispered
Lesbia, edging through the crowd, and pushing her treasured possession
into her sister's hand. "It will just make all the difference to your
play."

Gwen accepted the loan thankfully. Her old racket had been her
greatest impediment, and she had not liked to borrow often from her
classmates. As Lesbia had prophesied, it made all the difference to
her serves, and she played up in a way that astonished everybody.
Geraldine French, who was considered almost invincible by the Sixth,
had not taken Gwen seriously, and was therefore most electrified and
disgusted to find herself beaten by a Fifth Form girl of no particular
reputation in the world of tennis. The Fifth were in a state of
immense delight.

"Gwen's serves to-day were unique," declared Iris Watson. "If she can
keep this up our Form may have a chance for the trophy."

"I'd no idea Gwen could do so well," agreed Elspeth Frazer. "She's
suddenly developed into quite a crack player."

"And she's such long legs and arms, she seems all over the court, and
scarcely misses a ball."

"She's shown up in a new light this afternoon. We shall have to think
her over for a championship."

The match for the Form trophy was to be played in a week's time. At
present the beautiful silver cup was in the possession of the Sixth,
but the Fifth were not without hopes of winning it, and transferring
it to the chimney piece of their own classroom. It was an
old-established custom at Rodenhurst that after the trials had taken
place each Form competing for the trophy should vote its own
champions. The election was naturally a highly exciting event; all the
points of the various candidates' play were carefully discussed, and
the two who were considered the most likely to do credit to the Form
were returned. On this occasion five girls appeared of such equal
merit that the running between them would be very close. Hilda Browne
and Charlotte Perry were last year's champions, and were steady
players, though many thought that Charlotte had gone off a little in
her serves. Betty Brierley was brilliant but unreliable, sometimes
making more splendid scores than anybody in the school, and sometimes
playing love games. Netta Goodwin had a special reputation for back
work, in which she excelled, and this circumstance might very
possibly cause her to be chosen in conjunction with a good net
champion. Gwen's unexpected prowess had been a complete surprise to
the Form, and had made such a favourable impression that many were
inclined to vote for her. To none of the five girls did the vision of
a championship appear more attractive than to Netta. She loved to
shine, and it was a sore point with her that she was not more popular
in her Form. Here, at any rate, seemed a chance to gain the applause
of her schoolfellows. She was conscious of playing well, and though
she was not a general favourite, she knew the girls did not allow
individual preferences, as a rule, to bias their judgment when it was
a question of winning or losing the trophy. She canvassed diligently,
put any pressure she could bring to bear upon her particular friends,
and began carefully to reckon up how many votes she could reasonably
count upon. The result was not altogether reassuring. Both Hilda
Browne and Gwen seemed powerful rivals to her pretensions, and the
chances were that the election would return Hilda for first champion,
and either Gwen or Charlotte Perry for second. The prospect of being
beaten in an affair upon which she had set her heart filled Netta with
dismay.

The voting was by ballot, and took place in the classroom immediately
after morning school. When the bell rang the girls did not immediately
leave their desks as usual, but sat still while Miss Douglas
distributed to each a half sheet of notepaper and an envelope. All
that was required was to write down the names of two champions, fold
the paper and put it in the envelope. No signatures were allowed, so
that even Miss Roscoe should not know who had voted for which
candidate. The whole affair did not take more than a few minutes. The
girls hastily scribbled the names of their favourites, many of them in
feigned handwritings, fastened their envelopes, and then returning
them to Miss Douglas, left the classroom.

"I wonder how soon we shall know the result!" said Netta, as the Form
trooped downstairs.

"It depends upon how soon Miss Roscoe has time to count them," replied
Iris Watson. "She may be in her study now, or she may be too busy to
look at them until four o'clock."

"Too bad to leave us in suspense."

"I'm not going to think about it," said Charlotte Perry. "It will be
time enough to rejoice or moan when one knows."

"Oh, bother the election!" said Betty Brierley. "Come and see if we
can get a court and have a set before dinner."

Netta did not follow the others to the tennis grounds. She was much
more anxious about the result of the ballot than they, and had no
heart at present for playing. Instead, she walked into school again,
and finding the door of Miss Roscoe's study open, she peeped in. The
room was empty, and on the desk lay the nineteen envelopes, each
marked solely with a large V, that represented the voting of the Fifth
Form. Netta looked at them wistfully. How she longed to open them and
learn their contents! Such a proceeding was, of course, impossible,
and she turned away with a sigh. As her glance wandered round the
room, she noticed a large parcel of stationery which had just been
unpacked, and lay spread upon a side table. Miss Roscoe had evidently
opened it to get the paper and envelopes needed for the election, and
had not yet had time to put it away in the drawers of her secretaire.
Then suddenly an idea occurred to Netta--an idea so original and
daring that she almost laughed at her audacity in entertaining it. It
was a scheme which no other girl in the Form would have dreamt of for
a moment, but Netta was troubled with few scruples of conscience, and
was never deterred by a question of honour from attaining her wishes.
Very quickly she abstracted nineteen envelopes and ten sheets of
notepaper, and fled with her spoil to her own classroom. She bolted
along the passage and upstairs in such a tremendous hurry that she did
not notice the impish face of Ida Bridge peering from the Second Form
room as she passed.

"Oho, Miss Netta Goodwin! What's the matter with you?" thought Ida.
"You have an uncommonly guilty look about you, almost as if you were
committing a crime. What's up, I wonder? I think I'm just going to
track you and see."

Since the stormy episode on the day when the Second Form girls were
rehearsing for their morris dance, Ida Bridge had detested Netta. She
felt she owed her a grudge, which she was most anxious to pay if a
reasonable opportunity could only be found. She followed now post
haste, and adopting the tactics of a scout, waited till Netta was
safely inside the Fifth Form room, then peeped cautiously round the
door. What she saw did not particularly enlighten her. Netta was
busily tearing sheets of notepaper in half, was scribbling something
on them, blotting them and putting them into envelopes. No one else
was in the room, and there was nothing to suggest an explanation of
this rather mysterious employment.

"I'm sure she's up to something, though," murmured Ida to herself,
still keeping a watchful eye on the enemy's movements. Netta wrote
away, and kept folding her pieces of paper with record speed; there
was a complacent look on her face, and she chuckled occasionally, as
if with deep satisfaction. At the sound of the dinner bell she
started, and hurriedly swept her correspondence into her desk. Ida,
with admirable presence of mind, bolted into the empty Sixth Form room
opposite, and having seen Netta depart down the corridor, took the
liberty of going to make an inspection of what she had been doing.

"Um--indeed! What have we here?" said Ida, opening the desk.
"Envelopes marked with a V, and sheets of paper with names on. Let's
take a look at them. 'Hilda Browne--Netta Goodwin.' 'Netta
Goodwin--Gwen Gascoyne.' 'Betty Brierley--Netta Goodwin.' 'Charlotte
Perry--Netta Goodwin.' All in such different styles of writing, too! I
believe I begin to see daylight. Now, shall I go and call Miss Douglas
at once to look at this? No--it's incriminating, but not sufficient
evidence to convict. I must let things develop a little further first.
I think I'd better have a witness, too. Miss Netta Goodwin, I believe
you're going to be rather too clever for once, and that you'll find
yourself outwitted by one of the despised Juniors."

Ida Bridge was late for dinner that day, but she took Miss Roscoe's
reproof with a sangfroid at which her Form marvelled.

"I don't care if I have to write fifty lines as a punishment," she
murmured to her neighbour and chum, Peggy Weston. "What I've just
discovered is worth a thousand lines. I can't explain why now, but the
moment dinner is over you and I must stalk Netta Goodwin, and, without
letting her know it, never take our eyes off her till afternoon school
begins."

Quite unconscious that two small spies had resolved to keep her
movements under surveillance, Netta slipped away from her friends
after dinner, and returned to the classroom. It did not take her long
to finish her task; she had soon fastened her nineteen envelopes,
then, concealing them in an exercise-book cover, she hurried
downstairs. Miss Roscoe's study was still empty, and nobody seemed
about, for Netta never noticed the cautious pair who were dodging and
watching in her rear as cleverly as a couple of young detectives.
After a hasty glance round the room she advanced to the Principal's
desk, and deeming herself quite unobserved, rapidly exchanged the pile
of envelopes there for those which she had brought with her. She gave
one look of satisfaction at the substituted set--they were such an
excellent imitation--and bore off the genuine ballot to the Fifth Form
room. Ida and Peggie, with breathless interest, followed, and saw her
putting the stolen goods into her desk; then, having witnessed as
much as they considered necessary, they flew in hot haste to lodge the
information with their own Form mistress. Miss Broughton, amazed at
what they told her, sought Miss Roscoe, who summoned Ida and Peggie,
and listened attentively to their story.

"This must be enquired into promptly," she declared. "Come with me at
once to the Fifth Form."

The girls had just assembled for afternoon school when the Principal
entered, bearing the substituted pile of envelopes, and accompanied by
Ida and Peggie.

For Miss Roscoe to arrive at such a time was an absolutely
unprecedented occurrence. A dead silence at once reigned. Everybody
wondered what had happened, and why Miss Roscoe should have brought
the two children with her. The headmistress walked straight up to
Netta's seat.

"Netta Goodwin," she said, "such an extraordinary incident has just
been reported to me that I feel it is my duty to investigate it
immediately. I wish to see what you have here," and, throwing up the
lid, she began to investigate the contents of the desk.

Netta gave a gasp as if an earthquake had opened at her feet, and
turned deathly white. She did not venture to say a word. All in the
room waited in mute suspense, realizing that the matter must be of
vital importance. With a sad face Miss Roscoe drew out the nineteen
envelopes and compared them with those which she held in her hand.

"I have a very serious charge against you, Netta Goodwin," she said
sternly. "You were observed in the act of taking these letters from my
study, and substituting a similar set which you had yourself written.
Ida Bridge and Peggie Weston can testify that they themselves
witnessed your deed. I have a strong suspicion of your motive, and I
am going to open the envelopes to ascertain if I am correct."

Putting each pile separately, Miss Roscoe rapidly tore open the two
ballot sets, and glanced over them.

"It is a peculiar circumstance," she remarked icily, "that in the
original voting papers your name occurs only nine times, and in the
substituted papers eighteen times."

A wave of indignation passed round the Form. The girls at last
understood the point, and realized the full significance of Netta's
action. The excitement was intense, though awe for the headmistress
forbade anybody to speak.

"To make absolutely certain," continued Miss Roscoe, "we will take the
voting again. Miss Douglas, will you kindly deal a sheet of exercise
paper to each desk? Now I put everyone on her honour to repeat the
names of the two candidates that she wrote this morning."

For a moment the girls scribbled, then folded the papers and handed
them to Miss Douglas, who went round the room to collect them. Miss
Roscoe examined them attentively, and compared them with some figures
she had jotted down.

"They correspond absolutely with the papers which I have just found in
your desk, Netta Goodwin! Ida Bridge, come here! It is only fair that
Netta should hear your accusation. Tell me again, in her presence,
exactly what you witnessed."

"Please, Miss Roscoe," began Ida in her high-pitched voice, "I saw
Netta come out of your study before dinner, and come here. I peeped
round the door, and she was writing something on half-sheets of paper,
and putting them inside envelopes. Then I told Peggie, and afterwards
we watched her go into your study again and put her pile of envelopes
on your table, and take yours away and pop them into her desk."

"Do you endorse this statement, Peggie Weston?"

"Yes, Miss Roscoe, it's quite true," murmured Peggie nervously.

"Netta Goodwin, have you anything to answer in reply to this charge?"

But Netta kept her eyes on the ground, and did not reply. Miss Roscoe,
who was still standing beside the open desk, began to turn over some
of the loose pieces of exercise paper which it contained, and shook
her head as she noticed the names of various candidates scrawled in
different handwritings, evidently for practice. Determined to
investigate the affair thoroughly, she pulled out yet more papers, and
among them a small roll fastened by a brass clip. At this she glanced
with attention, then with marked surprise. "Netta Goodwin," she
continued, "this is an entirely different matter, but one which I
should like explained nevertheless. Last term you gained a prize for
an essay on Thomas Carlyle. How is it that there is a manuscript of
this essay in your desk, signed 'Gwen Gascoyne'? Yes, and in Gwen's
handwriting, too, which I know well."

Netta glanced hastily at Gwen, who had turned as red as fire. Perhaps
feeling that she had already been so entirely exposed that an added
circumstance would make little difference, and wishing to get Gwen
also into trouble, Netta suddenly resolved to make a full confession.

"I suppose I may as well tell everything," she volunteered sulkily.
"Yes--I did want to get the tennis championship, and I altered the
names because I didn't think I had a chance otherwise. About that
essay, it was Gwen Gascoyne's. She wrote it, but she sold it to me for
a sovereign."

"And you passed it off as your own?"

"I'd paid for it, so I just copied it. I couldn't see where the harm
came in!" said Netta doggedly.

"Netta Goodwin, have you absolutely no sense of right and wrong, or
any vestige of conscience?"

"I can't see that I'm worse than some other people," replied Netta,
with a spiteful glance at Gwen.

"Gwen Gascoyne, did you sell this essay to Netta?"

"Yes, Miss Roscoe," gulped Gwen, covered with shame, and too much
embarrassed to offer any explanation.

"I shall have a word with you later on. Netta, by your own confession
you admit appropriating a schoolfellow's work last term, and altering
the voting papers this afternoon. Forgery is a very ugly word and one
which I am sorry to use, but there is no other name for what you have
done. In all the years of my headmistress-ship here such a thing has
not occurred before. I have had unruly and disobedient girls
occasionally, but in the whole of my experience never a girl so
deliberately bad as you. It is well for the school that this has
occurred, and that I have discovered your true character; your
influence must have been most pernicious, and I can only hope that it
has not already done harm. It is, of course, impossible for me to
allow you to remain at Rodenhurst. It is the first time I have been
obliged to expel a pupil, and I much regret the necessity, but I feel
that to keep you would be to retain a source of moral infection. You
will go home at once. Your books and any other articles belonging to
you will be sent after you, and I shall write to your parents,
informing them of the circumstances under which you have been sent
away. I am grieved for the sorrow which I know it will cause them.
Go!"

Miss Roscoe pointed peremptorily to the door, and Netta, all her
jaunty, self-confident airs gone for once, with downcast eyes that did
not dare to meet the scorn of her schoolfellows, and white lips that
quivered with passion, slunk ignominiously from the room. The
Principal waited a few minutes to allow her time to go downstairs,
then she ordered Ida and Peggie back to their own classroom, and
turned with a sigh to Gwen.

"You will come with me to the study," she said briefly. Gwen followed
in a state of abject misery. Was she never to finish reaping that
harvest of tares, the sowing of which she had already so bitterly
repented. One initial slip had indeed plunged her into undreamt-of
trouble.

"Well, Gwen, you had better tell me all about this unhappy business,"
said Miss Roscoe as soon as they were alone. "Let us get to the bottom
of everything this time, and leave nothing concealed."

Hard though it was to make confession, Gwen was almost glad to have
the opportunity of doing so, and of at last setting straight the last
threads of the tangled web she had woven. She felt that she would have
told before about the essay if Netta had not been implicated, but her
father had agreed that she could not in honour expose her
schoolfellow. By skilful cross-questioning Miss Roscoe soon gathered
the facts of the case.

It is much riches, but not enough to make Sakalar mad. The mine is
guarded by evil beings. But speak, lad, why would you go there?"

"Let Kolina give me a pipe and I will tell my story," said Ivan; and
filling his glass, the young fur-trader told the story of his love,
and his bargain with the prudent widow.

"And this cold-hearted woman," exclaimed Kolina with emotion, "has
sent you to risk life on the horrible Frozen Sea.

A Yakouta girl would have been less selfish. She would have said,
'Stay at home--let me have Ivan: the mammoth teeth may lie forever
on the Frozen Sea!'"

"But the lad will go, and he will be drowned like a dog," said
Sakalar, more slowly, after this ebullition of feminine indignation.

"You must go with him, father," continued Kolina, with a compassionate
look at Ivan; "and as your child cannot remain alone, Kolina will
go too!"

"We will start when the horses have had five days' hay," said Sakalar
gravely--the animals alluded to being only fed when about to go a
journey--"and Kolina shall go too, for Ivan will be two years
on his way."
Ivan listened in amazement: in the first place, at the sudden decision
and warmth of his attached friends, with whom he had dwelt twelve
years; then at the time required.

He felt considerable doubts as to the widow remaining unmarried
such a time; but the explanation of Sakalar satisfied him that it
was impossible to perform the journey even in two years.

The hunter told him that they must first join the tribes dwelling
round Nijnei-Kolimsk (New-Kolimsk), where alone he could get dogs
and sledges for his journey across the Frozen Sea.
This, with the arrangements, would consume the winter. In the summer
nothing could be done. When the winter returned he must start toward
the north pole--a month's journey at least--and if he hit on the
place, must encamp there for the rest of the winter.

That summer would be spent in getting out the ivory, fattening up the
dogs, and packing.
The third winter would be occupied by the journey home. On hearing
this, Ivan hesitated; but in describing the journey the spirit of the
old hunter got roused, and before night he was warm in his desire
to see over again the scenes of his youthful perils.

Kolina solemnly declared she must be of the party; and thus these
experienced savages, used to sudden and daring resolves, decided in
one night on a journey which would perhaps have been talked of half
a century elsewhere before it was undertaken.

Kolina slept little that night. In a compartment near her was one who
had since childhood been the ideal of her future. She had loved Ivan
as a playmate--she loved him as a man; and here, he whom she had
longed for all the winter, and he whom she had hoped to see once
more the next summer, had suddenly come, starting on a perilous
journey of years, to win the hand of an avaricious, but young and
beautiful widow.

Kolina saw all her fairest dreams vanish, and the idol of her heart
crumble into dust.

And yet she felt no ill-will to Ivan, and never changed her resolve
to be the faithful companion and attendant of her father and his
friend in their wild journey to the supposed islands in the Frozen
Sea.

III.--NIJNEI-KOLIMSK.

The five days fixed by Sakalar for preparing for the journey were
wholly devoted to the necessary arrangements.

There was much to be done, and much to be talked of.

They had to travel a long way before they reached even the real
starting-point of their adventurous voyage.

Sakalar, duly to impress Ivan with the dangers and perils of the
search, narrated once more in minute detail all his former
sufferings.

But nothing daunted the young trader. He was one of those men, who,
under more favorable circumstances, would have been a Cook, a
Parry, or a Franklin, periling everything to make farther discovery
in the science of geography.

The five horses of Ivan were exchanged for others more inured to the
kind of journey they were about to undertake. There was one for each
of the adventurers and four to carry the luggage, consisting chiefly
of articles with which to pay for the hire of dogs and sledges.

All were well armed, while the dress of all was the same--Kolina
adopting for the time the habits and appearance of the man. Over
their usual clothes they put a jacket of foxes' skins and a fur-breast
cover; the legs being covered by hare-skin wrappers. Over these were
stockings of soft reindeer leather, and high strong boots of the same
material. The knees were protected by knee-caps of fur, and
then, above all, was a coat with loose sleeves and hood of double
deerskin. This was not all.
After the chin, nose, ears, and mouth had been guarded by appropriate
pieces, forming together a mask, they had received the additional
weight of a pointed fur cap. Our three travelers when they took their
departure looked precisely like three animated bundles of old
clothes.

All were well armed with gun, pistol, hatchet, and hunting-knife,
while the girdle further supported a pipe and tobacco-pouch.

They had not explained whither they were going, but the whole village
knew that they must be about to undertake some perilous journey, and
accordingly turned out to cheer them as they went, while several
ardent admirers of Kolina were loud in their murmurs at her
accompanying the expedition.

But the wanderers soon left the plain of Miouré behind them, and
entered on the delectable roads leading to the Frozen Sea.

Half-frozen marshes and quagmires met them at every step; but Sakalar
rode first, and the others followed one by one, and the experienced
old hunter, by advancing steadily without hurry, avoided these
dangers.

They soon reached a vast plain three hundred miles across, utterly
deserted by the human race; a desert composed half of barren rock
and half of swampy quagmire, soft above, but at a foot deep solid
and perpetual ice.

Fortunately, it was now frozen hard, and the surface was fit to bear the
horses. But for this the party must have halted and waited for a severe
frost. The rivers were not frozen when large in volume, and the Aldana
had to be crossed in the usual flat-bottomed boat kept for travelers.
At night they halted, and with a bush and some deer-skins made a
tent. Kolina cooked the supper, and the men searched for some fields
of stunted half-frozen grass to let the horses graze.

This was the last place where even this kind of food would be found,
and for some days their steeds would have to live on a stinted
portion of hay.

On they went over the arid plain, which, however, affords nourishment
for some trees, fording rivers, floundering through marshes, and
still meeting some wretched apology for grass, when, on the third
day, down came the snow in a pelting cloud, and the whole desert
changed in an instant from somber gray to white.

The real winter was come. Now all Sakalar's intelligence was required.
Almost every obvious sign by which to find his way had disappeared,
and he traversed the plain wholly guided by distant hills, and by
observing the stars at night.

This Sakalar did assiduously, and when he had once started under the
guidance of the twinkling lights of the heavens, rarely was he
many yards out at the next halt.

He always chose the side of a hillock to camp, where there was a tree
or two, and half-rotten trunks with bushes to make a huge fire.

It was nearly dawn on the fifth morning after entering the plain,
and Ivan and Kolina yet slept.

But Sakalar slept not. They had nearly reached the extremity of the
horrible desert, but a new danger occupied the thoughts of the hunter.
They were now in the track of the wild and savage Tchouktchas, and
their fire might have betrayed them.

Had Sakalar been alone, he would have slept in the snow without
fire; for he knew the peril of an encounter with the independent
Tchouktchas, who have only recently been nominally brought into
subjection to Russia.

The heavy fall of snow of the two previous days rendered the danger
greater.

Sakalar sat gravely upon a fallen tree--a pipe in his mouth, and
his eye fixed on the distant horizon.

For some time nothing remarkable caught his gaze; but at last he saw a
number of dark objects on the snow, galloping directly toward the
camp. Sakalar at once recognized a number of reindeer. It was the
Tchouktchas on their sledges, bounding with lightning speed along
the frozen surface!

"Up!" cried the hunter. And when his companions were on their feet,
"Quick with your guns!

The enemy are on us! But show a bold front, and let them feel the
weight of lead!"

Ivan and Kolina quietly took up their post, and awaited the orders
of Sakalar. No time was lost, and fortunately, for the savages were
already near, and were the next minute alighting from their
sledges:
hand in hand they advanced along the snow, with their long ice shoes,
to the number of a dozen. A simultaneous discharge of the heavy-metalled
guns of the camp--one of which, that of Sakalar, wounded the
foremost man--checked their career, and they fell back to hold a
conference.

It became evident at once that they had no firearms, which removed
almost all idea of danger.

Ivan and Kolina now proceeded to load the horses, and when all was
ready, the whole party mounted, and rode off, followed at a
respectful distance by the Siberian Arabs.

The travelers, however, received no further annoyance from them, and
camped the next night on the borders of the Toukyulane, at the foot
of the mountains of Verkho-Yansk.

After the usual repose, they began the severest part of the journey.
Rugged rocks, deep ravines, avalanches, snow, and ice, all were
in their way.

Now they rode along the edge of frightful precipices, on a path so
narrow, that one false step was death; now they forced their way
through gulleys full of snow, where their horses were buried to
their girths, and they had to drag them out by main force.

Fortunately the Siberian horse, though small, is sturdy and
indefatigable, living during a three months' journey on faded grass
and half-rotten herbage.

That evening they camped on the loftiest part of the road, where it
winds through still elevated rocks.

The middle of the next day brought them to another plain not much
superior to that they had passed through, but yet less miserable
looking, and with the additional advantage of having yourtes here and
there to shelter the traveler. The cold was now intense; and glad
indeed was Ivan of the comforts of his Siberian dress, which had at
first appeared so heavy. The odd figures which Kolina and Sakalar
presented under it made him smile at the notion which Maria
Vorotinska would have formed of her lover under a garb that doubled
his natural volume.

Several halts took place, and caused great delay, from the slippery
state of the ice on the rivers. The unshod horses could not stand.

A fire had to be lit; and when sufficient ashes were procured, it had
to be spread across in a narrow pathway, and the nags led carefully
along on this track--one of the many artifices required to combat
the rigorous character of the climate.

And thus, suffering cold and short commons, and making their way for
days through frosty plains over ice and snow, amid deep ravines
and over lofty hills, they at length reached Nijnei-Kolimsk, though
not without being almost wholly knocked up, especially Kolina, who
was totally unused to such fatigues.

They had now almost reached the borders of the great Frozen Sea.
The village is situated about eighteen degrees farther north than
London, and is nearly as far north as Boothia Felix, the scene
of Captain Ross's four years' sojourn in the ice.

It was founded two hundred years ago by a wandering Cossack; though
what could have induced people to settle in a place which the sun
lights, but never warms, is a mystery; where there is a day that
lasts fifty-two English days, and a night that lasts thirty-eight;
where there is no spring and no autumn, but a faint semblance of
summer for three months, and then winter; where a few dwarf willows
and stunted grass form all the vegetation; and where, at a certain
distance below the surface, there is frost as old as the "current
epoch" of the geologist.

But by way of compensation, reindeer and elks, brown and black
bears, foxes and squirrels, abound; there are also wolves, and the
isatis or polar fox; there are swans, and geese, and ducks, partridges
and snipes, and in the rivers abundance of fish.

And yet, though the population be now so scanty, and the date of the
peopling of Kolimsk is known, there was once a numerous race in
these regions, the ruins of whose forts and villages are yet found. The
population is about 5000, including the whole district, of whom about
300 are Russians, the descendants of Siberian exiles. They dwell
in houses made of wood thrown up on the shore, and collected by years
of patience, and of moss and clay.
The panes of the windows in winter are of ice, six inches thick; in
summer, of skins. The better class are neatly and even tastefully
dressed, and are clean, which is the very highest praise that can
be given to half-civilized as well as to civilized people.

They are a bold, energetic, and industrious race. Every hour of
weather fit for out-door work is spent in fishing and hunting, and
preparing food for the winter.

In the light sledge, or on skates, with nets and spears, they labored
at each of these employments in its season. Toward the end of the
long winter, just as famine and starvation threaten the whole population,
a perfect cloud of swans, and geese, and ducks, and snipes, pour
in; and man and woman, boy and girl, all rush forth to the hunt.

The fish come in next, as the ice breaks; and presently the time for
the reindeer hunt comes round.
Every minute of the summer season is consumed in laying in a stock of
all these aliments for a long and dreary season, when nothing can be
caught. The women collect herbs and roots. As the summer is just
about to end, the herrings appear in shoals, and a new source of
subsistence is opened up, Later still, they fish by opening holes in
the newly-formed ice. Nor is Kolimsk without its trade. The chief
traffic of the region is at the fair of Ostrovnoye, but Nijnei-Kolimsk
has its share.

The merchants who come to collect the furs which the adventurous
Tchouktchas have acquired, even on the opposite side of Behring's
Straits, from the North American Indians, halt here, and sell tea,
tobacco, brandy, and other articles.

The long night had set in when Ivan and his companions entered Kolimsk.
Well it was they had come, for the cold was becoming frightful in
its intensity, and the people of the village were much surprised
at the arrival of travelers.

But they found ready accommodation, a Cossack widower giving them half
his house.

* * * * *
[FROM DICKENS'S HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]
THE BELGIAN LACE-MAKERS.

The indefatigable, patient, invincible, inquisitive, sometimes tedious,
but almost always amusing German traveler, Herr Kohl, has recently
been pursuing his earnest investigations in Belgium.

His book on the Netherlands has just been issued, and we shall
translate, with abridgments, one of its most instructive and agreeable
chapters;--that relating to Lace-making.

The practical acquaintance of our female readers with that elegant
ornament, lace, is chiefly confined to wearing it, and their
researches into its quality and price. A few minutes' attention
to Mr.

Kohl will enlighten them on other subjects connected with what
is to them a most interesting topic, for lace is associated with
recollections of mediæval history, and with the palmy days of the
Flemish school of painting.

More than one of the celebrated masters of that school have selected,
from among his laborious countrywomen, the lace-makers (or, as
they are called in Flanders, _Speldewerksters_), pleasing subjects
for the exercise of his pencil.

The plump, fair-haired Flemish girl, bending earnestly over her lace-work,
whilst her fingers nimbly ply the intricately winding bobbins, figure
in many of those highly esteemed representations of homely life and
manners which have found their way from the Netherlands into all the
principal picture-galleries of Europe.

Our German friend makes it his practice, whether he is treating of
the geology of the earth, or of the manufacture of Swedish bodkins,
to begin at the very beginning.

He therefore commences the history of lace-making, which, he says, is,
like embroidery, an art of very ancient origin, lost, like a
multitude of other origins, "in the darkness of by-gone ages."

It may, with truth, be said that it is the national occupation of
the women of the Low Countries, and one to which they have steadily
adhered from very remote times. During the long civil and foreign
wars waged by the people of the Netherlands, while subject to Spanish
dominion, other branches of Belgic industry either dwindled to decay,
or were transplanted to foreign countries; but lace-making remained
faithful to the land which had fostered and brought it to perfection,
though it received tempting offers from abroad, and had to struggle
with many difficulties at home. This Mr.
Kohl explains by the fact that lace-making is a branch of industry chiefly
confined to female hands, and, as women are less disposed to travel
than men, all arts and handicrafts exclusively pursued by women,
have a local and enduring character.

Notwithstanding the overwhelming supply of imitations which modern
ingenuity has created, _real Brussels lace_ has maintained its
value, like the precious metals and the precious stones.

In the patterns of the best bone lace, the changeful influence of
fashion is less marked than in most other branches of industry; indeed,
she has adhered with wonderful pertinacity to the quaint old
patterns of former times.

These are copied and reproduced with that scrupulous uniformity
which characterizes the figures in the Persian and Indian shawls.

Frequent experiments have been tried to improve these old patterns,
by the introduction of slight and tasteful modifications, but these
innovations have not succeeded, and a very skillful and experienced
lace-worker assured Mr.

Kohl, that the antiquated designs, with all their formality, are preferred
to those in which the most elegant changes have been effected.

The
boys, overflowing with high spirits, chafed at confinement to the
house, and their noise was a serious impediment to Gwen, whose evening
preparation was a matter of vital importance at present. It was
impossible to get out of earshot in the little Parsonage, and though
she retired to her bedroom and stuffed her fingers in her ears, Latin
translation and mathematical problems were sadly disturbed by the din
below. Gwen was working tremendously hard just now. Miss Roscoe had
not yet announced the names of those who were to take the Senior
Oxford. It was rather a curious notion of hers to preserve silence on
the subject, for she was obliged to send in the entry forms for her
candidates early in May, and must therefore already have made her
decision. Her motive was to spur on the whole of the Fifth to equal
effort. Her past experience had shown her that when a few top girls
only were taking an examination, the rest of the Form was apt to slack
and lose interest, and she considered there were several who, though
not actually candidates, would benefit by the special preparation, and
would make efforts on the chance of having been selected. Gwen did
not, of course, know whether her name was on Miss Roscoe's private
list, but she secretly cherished the possibility. She knew her work
had improved; indeed that it was equal to that of anyone in the Fifth.
There was no age limit for the Senior Oxford, and though she was the
youngest in her Form, her fifteenth birthday would fall on the first
day of the examination. Gwen was very ambitious; to be chosen as a
candidate, and to pass with distinction, seemed a goal worth all the
hard work of the school year. It brought visions of other and higher
examinations in years to come; honours and scholarships which were
waiting for those who had the pluck and the ability to win them, a
rosy dream of college and university success on a distant horizon.

"I'm going to be Gwen Gascoyne, B.A., somehow before I've finished,"
she thought. "I've made up my mind to that!"

It was just at this crisis that Beatrice caught a severe chill.
She--the wisest at health precautions where others were concerned--did
a series of exceedingly rash and foolish things, with the result that
she was obliged most reluctantly to give in, and allow Dr. Chambers to
be sent for. Though Beatrice tried to make light of her own illness,
the doctor took a different view of the case, and greatly to her
consternation ordered her promptly to bed.

"I can't stop in bed! It's impossible!" she protested indignantly.
"What's to become of the household? Nellie can't do everything;
besides, she's no head, and she'd forget to feed the chickens, or
she'd burn the bread, and let Martin tumble down the well if nobody
was there to look after her."

"Then one of your sisters must stop at home, for you've got to stay in
bed!" commanded Dr. Chambers. "Yes, I insist, and if you won't obey
me, I shall send for a hospital nurse to make you!"

At this awful threat Beatrice subsided into unwilling obedience, only
stipulating that her enforced retirement should be as brief as
possible, and that she might be allowed to direct domestic affairs
from her bedroom.

"I suppose I can't stop you worrying over the household, but you're
not to stir out of bed till I give you permission, and I'll probably
keep you there for a fortnight. The rest will do you all the good in
the world," replied the doctor. "As for managing without you, they'll
just have to manage!"

Dr. Chambers's autocratic orders were, of course, to be followed to
the letter, everybody realized that; the only difficulty was how it
was going to be done. The family held an immediate conclave on the
subject in the invalid's room.

"I suppose I shall have to stay at home," said Winnie, "though I
hardly dare suggest it to Miss Roscoe. With Miss Roberts still away,
it makes things doubly difficult. I'm already taking four extra
classes, and who's to teach those, and my own as well? It's enough to
disorganize the school."

"Miss Roscoe would be furious if you stopped away!" said Gwen. "I
don't see how you can."

"I'll write to Cousin Edith, and ask if she can help us," suggested
Mr. Gascoyne.

"No, don't!" groaned Beatrice. "If Cousin Edith comes, I shall get
straight out of bed, in spite of Dr. Chambers. I warn you I will! She
and I don't get on."

Nobody was anxious for Cousin Edith's presence, so the suggestion
dropped.

"A charwoman wouldn't meet the want," sighed Winnie. "It must be
somebody who knows all the ropes of the household, or she'd be no use.
Lesbia's too young; but how about Gwen? She ought to be able to
manage."

Gwen did not wait to hear Beatrice's reply, but bolted straightway to
her own bedroom. The proposal was as unwelcome as it was unexpected.
To stop at home now, for a whole fortnight, just when every moment at
school was of such great importance! Why, such a proceeding might
wreck every chance she had for the exam.! Of course she was not sure
whether she was really a candidate, but she had a shrewd suspicion
that she was one of the selected number. She wished Miss Roscoe had
openly given out the names, then she would have known exactly what to
do in the circumstances. Could anything be more exasperating? It was
impracticable for Winnie to fill the breach; with one teacher short,
Miss Roscoe could not possibly spare her, especially at such a busy
time as the end of the term. Gwen realized that perfectly.
Lesbia--little, childish Lesbia--would be about as much use as Stumps
or Basil--why, she would be playing with Martin in the orchard while
the fowls went hungry and Nellie burnt the bread. As for Cousin Edith,
she was not a favourite with the Gascoynes, and the fact of her
presence would be hardly conducive to the invalid's recovery.

"I verily believe Bee would get up if she knew Cousin Edith were
poking about downstairs," thought Gwen. "I know I ought to stay--but I
can't, I can't! It means so much to pass that exam. It would be horrid
to stop at home, too, with Bee in bed directing everything. If she
were going away, and would leave me to it, I shouldn't mind. It's not
the work I'm dreading. But I know Bee only too well. She'll ring a
bell and have me up to her room every five minutes to ask how things
are getting on, and what I've done and what I haven't done, and she'll
worry, worry, worry, and scold, scold, scold the whole time. There'll
be no credit in my slaving, not the least. No, I don't think it can be
expected from me. It's too hard."

Gwen made the last remark aloud, and she repeated it again
emphatically, because she just happened to catch sight of the New Year
motto that hung over her dressing table.

     "Oh do not pray for easy lives. Pray to be stronger men. Do
     not pray for tasks equal to your powers. Pray for powers
     equal to your tasks. Then the doing of your work shall be no
     miracle. But you shall be a miracle. Every day you shall
     wonder at yourself, at the richness of life which has come
     to you by the grace of God."

"I thought it meant school work," she said to herself. "But after all
I suppose it means home work as well, or any kind of work that comes
uppermost. I wonder if I could. Look here, Gwen Gascoyne, it's rather
a big sacrifice, but you've got to make it for once. With four
daughters, Dad has a right to expect somebody to keep the house
comfortable, and just at this critical moment you're the only one
available. It's hard, but it'll have to be. Your little ambition, my
dear, must take a back seat for the present, while you go and 'wash
dishes and feed the swine'. You'd better make the plunge and get it
over!"

Father and Winnie had adjourned to the garden, so Gwen hurried
downstairs before she repented her resolution.

"Dad! I believe I can manage, if Bee will let me try," she blurted
out, for Gwen generally did things abruptly.

Winnie drew a sigh of relief.

"I believe you could, too," she said hastily, "and I've been telling
Beatrice so. Miss Roscoe will think I'm playing her a very nasty trick
if I stop away. She'd never forgive me. You're strong, Gwen, and you
know all about the hens and the pigs, and you can keep an eye on
Nellie."

"Yes, try, childie. It will be a good practice for you--and there's
nobody else," agreed Father.

Thus it came about that Gwen entered upon an entirely new experience.
She had, of course, helped in the house before, but only under
Beatrice's personal supervision; it was quite a different matter to
have to take the responsibility of the whole establishment.

"Bother your sister as little as you can, I want her to have a
complete rest," said Dr. Chambers. "You mustn't let her worry about
what's going on downstairs."

It was easy enough for the doctor to give orders, thought Gwen, but a
difficult matter to carry them out. She was determined, however, to do
her best, and she made a most heroic effort to be patient with the
invalid. The fact was that poor Beatrice, who never spared herself,
was overworked, and the hot, damp weather had affected her nerves. Dr.
Chambers knew his patient when he prescribed a fortnight in bed, and
was well aware that it was the only way of persuading her to take the
rest she needed. At first Gwen's anticipations of a trying time were
literally fulfilled. Beatrice's bell was ringing constantly, and she
had to keep running up and down stairs and listening to endless and
minute directions, and to answer a perfect catechism of questions as
to how affairs were progressing in the kitchen. Nellie also was in a
grumpy mood, and difficult to conciliate. She did not like having
instructions sent to her through Gwen, and showed her resentment by
clattering about the kitchen and banging doors. It required more tact
than Gwen had ever made use of in her life before to keep the peace.
Then Martin was no slight anxiety, for the little scamp thought he
could take advantage of Beatrice's absence to get into as much
mischief as a magpie, and Gwen hardly dared trust him five minutes out
of her sight. Between Martin, household tasks, and certain parish
duties which could not be omitted, there was plenty to be done, and
the days seemed full from morning till night.

Gwen had never before realized how very much lay in Beatrice's hands,
and she began slowly to appreciate how heavy a burden her sister
carried year in and year out, with scarcely ever a holiday to relieve
the tension.

"It's far worse than any amount of lessons," she thought. "Going back
to school will be quite a holiday after this."

One resolve Gwen had made, and stuck to with grim determination--to
spend a certain time every day over mathematics and one or two other
subjects in which she feared she was weak. She got Lesbia to bring her
books from school, and every night, long after the latter was asleep,
she would sit up in their joint bedroom studying. It was impossible to
snatch five minutes during the day, but when the house was still and
quiet it was easier to concentrate her thoughts, and she was surprised
sometimes what progress she was able to make. Night after night she
heard the clock strike twelve before she put out her lamp, and once
even the early midsummer dawn stole in and caught her unawares. None
of the family knew that she sat up working so late, or probably Father
would have forbidden it, for it was certainly burning the candle at
both ends. It was very difficult to rise at six o'clock and help to
prepare breakfast when she seemed only to have had a few hours' sleep,
and it was often a great temptation to ignore the alarum and turn
over on her pillow. But having accepted the household drudgery, Gwen
had enough grit to carry out her duties thoroughly, however unwelcome
some of them might be, and to secure breakfast in time was a cardinal
virtue at the Parsonage. To her credit she never once let the others
start late for school, or forgot to place their packets of lunch
ready, and Beatrice herself could not have been more solicitous about
drying wet boots and stockings.

"You're getting quite grandmotherly, Gwen," laughed Basil. "You never
used to care about damp feet before. You're nearly as big a fusser as
Bee. You made my cricket flannels look no end, though. I will say that
for you."

"I like Gwen's housekeeping, she puts so much jam in the tarts!"
remarked Giles approvingly.

"Gwen lets me feed the chickens my own self," said Martin with a
satisfied chuckle. "And she mended my kite, too."

"I wish you'd mend my blue print dress, Gwen," said Lesbia. "I tore it
again at school yesterday. That last darn of yours was uncommonly
neat."

"Are they really getting to appreciate me more now I do more for
them?" Gwen asked herself. "I never thought they cared an atom about
me before. I was always the odd one at home. It's hard work, and a
fearful trouble to do all those extra things, but oh!--it is nice to
feel one's wanted."

At the end of a fortnight Beatrice was decidedly better, but Dr.
Chambers was still unwilling to allow her to come downstairs.

"Best complete the cure while we're about it, and take another week in
your room," he decreed. "If you begin to bustle round the house too
soon, it may undo all the good of this enforced rest.

"I feel such a slacker," groaned the invalid.

After the doctor had gone the family held another conference in
Beatrice's room.

"I had a letter from Cousin Edith this morning," said Mr. Gascoyne.
"She offers to come and take full charge, both of you and the
household. What do you think, Bee? Had we better let her come for a
while, just until you're fit to be about again?"

"It isn't worth it for a week--and I mean to be down then, doctor or
no doctor!" announced Beatrice, with characteristic firmness. "In the
meantime I'd rather have Gwen than anybody, if she doesn't mind
staying at home a few days longer. She's a kind little nurse, and
she's kept things going wonderfully. I'd never have believed she'd
manage so well."

Gwen's eyes filled with tears. Beatrice, of all people in the world,
to yield her so high a tribute of praise! Beatrice, who had been so
captious and hard to please as she lay in bed giving elaborate
directions, and whose fidgety ways had needed so much patience!

"I'm glad if I've been of any use," she faltered.

"Use! You've been a jewel. I don't know whatever we should have done
without you," said Beatrice, catching Gwen's hand, and squeezing it
hard. "Can you spare another week as general slavey? Miss Roscoe would
quite understand."

"I'll do anything you like, Bee," said Gwen, returning the squeeze.


CHAPTER XXIV

The Senior Oxford


Gwen went back to school after three weeks' absence, fearing that
every chance of the Senior Oxford must have faded into thin air. She
had worked as well as she could at home, but it had not been the same
as studying with a mistress, and she felt her deficiencies painfully.

"There's no time to make things up now, either," she thought. "The
exam. begins on the sixteenth, and that's actually next Monday. Oh
dear! If only I were better up in maths! I know the chemistry'll stump
me too. That's to say if I'm even allowed to go in at all!"

On this last point her doubts were soon dispelled. At eleven o'clock
she received a summons to the headmistress's study.

"Well, Gwen," said Miss Roscoe. "It has been very unfortunate that you
were obliged to stay away so long, but you must do your best,
notwithstanding. I entered your name as a candidate for the Senior
Oxford, so you will, of course, take the examination. Miss Trent has
arranged to give you some extra coaching in the dinner hour every day
this week, and I think you ought to be able at least to secure a pass.
You're fairly certain all round."

"Except in maths.," said Gwen.

"Well, you must give all the time you can spare to that. But don't
overdo the cramming. It's sometimes a fatal mistake to work early and
late till your brain's utterly exhausted. I did that once myself and
missed a scholarship through it. Take an hour at tennis every evening
before you go to bed. Exercise is an absolute necessity if you're to
be in form for next week. You're looking pale, and you mustn't break
down before Monday. Tell your father to buy you a tonic."

Miss Roscoe spoke kindly, more sympathetically indeed than Gwen ever
remembered to have heard her before. She had a wide experience with
girls, and could estimate their capacities to a nicety. She had chosen
her candidates carefully, and would ensure that they were sent in well
prepared. So far she had had few failures in public examinations, and
every pass brought extra credit to the school.

Five members of the Form were to take the Senior Oxford; Elspeth
Frazer, Edith Arnold, Louise Mawson, and Betty Brierly, being the
other four, all of them considerably older than Gwen.

"We call you the five victims!" said Charlotte Perry. "I'm glad I'm
out of it. I sang a jubilee last week when Miss Roscoe read the list
and my name wasn't on it."

"There were eight girls sent in last year," said Hilda Browne.

"Yes, and two failed--Majorie Stevens and Daisy Wilson. I don't think
Miss Roscoe has forgiven them yet."

"Oh, dear! I'm afraid she'll be very down on me then," wailed Gwen.
"I'm a doubtful quantity!"

"You? Oh, you'll be all right! She'd never let you try if you
weren't--trust her!" said Charlotte Perry, and the rest agreed.

In spite of her schoolmates' assurances Gwen did not feel at all
certain of success, and it was in very blue spirits and a state of
woeful apprehension that she betook herself on the fateful sixteenth
of July to the Stedburgh Town Hall, which was the local centre for the
examination. It was her fifteenth birthday, and it seemed a funny way
of celebrating the day. She had been so agitated that morning that she
had scarcely been able to realize her presents, except the fountain
pen which Father and Beatrice and Winnie had clubbed together to give
her, and which she had brought with her to the exam. room.

At her first paper, however, she cheered up a little. It was easier
than she had expected, and though one or two questions were beyond
her, the rest were well within her capacity. Her new pen flew over the
sheets of foolscap, and if she was too nervous to do herself full
justice she at least acquitted herself with credit. The time-table
only allowed an hour between one and two o'clock for lunch, which was
provided for the candidates in a room at the Town Hall. Gwen anxiously
compared notes with Elspeth, Edith, Louise, and Betty, as they hastily
demolished plates of beef sandwiches and drank tumblers of lemonade.
On the whole she had done as well or even better than they, and she
began to cherish hopes.

As the week went on, Gwen, though not daring to be too sanguine,
could not help feeling that her papers had reached a fair standard
even in her weakest subjects. She had grown so accustomed to the
examination room that she was no longer nervous and was able to
express the facts she knew at their best advantage.

"There!" she said, when she had at last handed in her final sheets.
"It's a toss-up whether I'm through or not. I expect it depends on the
temper of the examiner who reads my papers. I'll hope he'll get his
dinner before he tackles them!"

"Your writing's clear at any rate," said Elspeth. "Mine's such a
scrawl I'm afraid that will be against me. Aren't you thankful the
thing's over?"

"Thankful hardly expresses my state of bliss."

"It's rather sickening to have school exams, next week, after all
this!" said Louise.

"They'll seem a mere trifle compared with the Oxford!" declared Gwen.

After the ordeal they had passed through in common the candidates were
on terms of good comradeship, and with Elspeth Frazer Gwen felt there
was a prospect of permanent friendship.

The last days of the term passed rapidly away. To Gwen the great event
of the school year was over. Though she did her best at them,
Rodenhurst examinations were a matter of quite minor importance. She
welcomed the breaking-up with intense relief. After the strain of the
past few weeks the holidays seemed an imperative necessity. It was
delightful to have a complete rest, to idle about in the garden or on
the shore, or take long invigorating walks on the moors. It would be
five or six weeks before she could hear the result of the Senior
Oxford, so she was obliged to endure the suspense as best she could.

In the meantime something happened--something so very unexpected and
extraordinary that for a time it almost put even her examinations in
the shade. It was Beatrice who told her the good news. Lately Beatrice
had begun to treat Gwen as one of the grown-up members of the
household, and to include her in their discussions of family affairs.

"It seems almost too wonderful to believe," said Beatrice. "Old Mr.
Sutton has resigned his incumbency of North Ditton, and do you know
the living is to be divided, and Skelwick, Basingwold, Hethersedge,
and Rigby are all to be one big new parish by themselves. And who's to
be Vicar, do you think?"

"Not Dad?" gasped Gwen incredulously.

"Yes. It has been formally offered to him, and he's going to accept
it. Oh! and, Gwen, the funny part is, do you know, that queer old
gentleman you met upon the wold turns out to be Sir Benjamin Hazlett,
the patron of the living."

"He didn't look like a Sir Anything!" exclaimed Gwen. "He was the
oddest, shabbiest, crankiest old fellow, and so inquisitive!"

"I hear he's very eccentric, and of course one sees now why he asked
so many questions. He'd actually never been at Skelwick before,
although he's the patron, and nobody here in the village knew him. He
told the bishop you'd suggested dividing the parish!"

"I!" shrieked Gwen, "I wouldn't have dared to suggest such a thing. I
only said it would be nice."

"Well, you put it into his head, anyway. He said the idea had never
occurred to him before, and he saw at once its extreme advisability.
He talked it over with the bishop, and they both agreed it ought to be
done. I suppose he came to church that evening to hear Dad preach, and
judge for himself what he was capable of."

"He evidently liked him. But who wouldn't?" returned Gwen. "Then Dad
has refused Rawtenbeck?"

"Yes; thank goodness we needn't go and live amongst chemical works and
factory chimneys! The Diocesan Society's going to build an extra
bedroom on to the Parsonage. Isn't that lovely?"

"It will be the Vicarage now, if you please!" declared Gwen, rubbing
her hands with satisfaction.

That her father's hard work should be recognized and rewarded at last
was indeed a triumph, and the thought that she had perhaps had an
unconscious share in bringing this about added a special element of
joy.

"It was like entertaining an angel unawares!" she chuckled. "Though
anybody less angelic-looking than poor old Sir Benjamin one couldn't
imagine! I'm glad I took that solitary walk on the wold, Bee!"

"So am I, as it happens, though it's the exception that proves my
rule."

The appointment to the new parish was indeed an important event for
Mr. Gascoyne in more ways than one. It not only gave him a better
position and larger opportunities of carrying on the work he had
begun, but it meant also pecuniary benefit. The living of Skelwick was
to be worth treble his curate's stipend, and though he was an
unworldly man, his children's future was a necessary consideration. He
would not be opulent, but he would now at any rate be free from money
troubles, and the family could carry out many precious schemes which
before had seemed mere dreams. The boys could be educated in course of
time at Stedburgh Grammar School, Lesbia could take music lessons, and
Gwen's visions of college might actually some day see fulfilment.
Winnie could give up the teaching she hated and become housekeeper at
home, that her elder sister might be free to take her training at a
great London hospital, for Beatrice's heart was still set on entering
the nursing profession.

"You'll see me a matron yet!" she announced. "I warn you that I'm
ambitious, and mean to get on!"

"I'll be a B.A. by then, and we'll shake hands over our mutual
success!" laughed Gwen.

"Don't forget you promised to be a lady doctor and study at college
with me!" put in Dick, who had become almost one of the family at the
Parsonage.

"You'll have to look out then, or I'll get ahead of you!"

"You won't do that, madam! I'm going back to school next term,
remember."

Dick was fortunately quite strong again. The specialist who had
examined him before declared he had outgrown his temporary delicacy,
and even gave him permission to play football when the season began,
as well as to recommence his work at Stedburgh.

"I shall be sorry to lose my pupil," said Mr. Gascoyne. "The children
will miss you here on Saturdays."

"I'll see them all every day in the bus," returned Dick cheerfully.

As the holidays wore on and it grew nearer and nearer to the time when
she might expect to hear the result of the Senior Oxford, Gwen waxed
impatient. The suspense was hard to bear, and seemed harder the longer
she waited.

"I want to be put out of my misery," she declared. --Hold your scurrilous
tongues sir! My good nature ruins everybody about me.

Make up your accounts. Pack your trunks--and never let me see your
face again.

JOHN.--Very good, sir.

MILLIKEN.--I suppose, Miss Prior, you will also be disposed to--to follow
Mr. Howell?

MISS P.--To quit you, now you know what has passed? I never supposed
it could be otherwise--I deceived you, Mr. Milliken--as I kept a secret
from you, and must pay the penalty. It is a relief to me, the sword has
been hanging over me. I wish I had told your poor wife, as I was often
minded to do.

MILLIKEN.--Oh, you were minded to do it in Italy, were you?

MISS P.

--Captain Touchit knew it, sir, all along: and that my motives and,
thank God, my life were honorable.

MILLIKEN.--Oh, Touchit knew it, did he? and thought it
honorable--honorable. Ha! ha!

to marry a footman--and keep a public-house? I--I beg your pardon, John
Howell--I mean nothing against you, you know. You're an honorable
man enough, except that you have been damned insolent to my
brother-in-law.

JOHN.--Oh, heaven! [JOHN strikes his forehead, and walks away.]
MISS P.--You mistake me, sir. What I wished to speak of was the fact
which this gentleman has no doubt communicated to you--that I danced
on the stage for three months.
MILLIKEN.--Oh, yes. Oh, damme, yes. I forgot. I wasn't thinking of
that.

KICKLEBURY.--You see she owns it.
MISS P.--We were in the depths of poverty.To come out first in
all England in geography seemed an honour almost above the flights of
ambition.

"Miss Roscoe will be so rejoiced!" said Winnie. "She always thought
you'd do well, Gwen. Why, you'll be a credit to the school. She'll
boast about this silver medal for evermore. I expect it will go down
in the prospectuses! You'll get coached up for a scholarship next,
you'll see."

"I still can't quite, quite believe it--it's too absolutely,
perfectly, deliriously scrumpshus!" bleated Gwen hysterically.

"Dad's big pocket handkerchief won't be wanted after all to dry your
tears," laughed Lesbia. "Oh, there's Dad coming up the road now--go
and meet him, Gwen, and tell him your own self!"

The next prize-giving at Rodenhurst was a more than usually special
occasion, for not only had four girls matriculated, but five had
passed the Senior Oxford, two of them in the Honours Division. Gwen's
medal was acknowledged the triumph of the school, and both pupils and
mistresses spoke of her as likely to win more laurels in the future.

"She's one of the best workers we have," said Miss Roscoe to the
Mayor, who was acting chairman; "a very clever girl. I believe she has
a career before her."

As Gwen went up to receive her prizes and certificate the girls
clapped and clapped till, not content even with the noise they were
making, they broke into ringing cheers. Half-dizzy with emotion, Gwen
returned to her place--these were the very same schoolfellows who,
only one short year ago, had allowed her to walk down the hall without
a sign of recognition or appreciation. From being the outcast of her
Form she had risen to the height of popularity.

"I always said, childie, that if you only bided your time and worked
your very hardest, the girls would be proud of you in the end!"
declared Father when the celebrations were over and the Gascoynes had
returned to the Parsonage.

"Oh, it was ripping to hear them all clapping and cheering, Gwen! And
after last year, too--it's like a miracle!" exclaimed Lesbia
rapturously.

Ewing; "Ten Boys Who Lived on the Road from Long Ago," by Jane
Andrews.

       

This list has been made for you by two very nice little girls named
Clare and Eleanor.

     They have read and liked all the books in the list.
     
     EDITOR.--Bookman.

A Patriotic Schoolgirl.

     "A capital story for girls--breezy, healthy, and full of
     interest."--Ladies' Field.

For the School Colours.

     "Angela Brazil knows what schoolgirls like to read and she
     gives it to them."--Scottish Educational Journal.

The Madcap of the School.

     "A capital school story, full of incident and fun, and
     ending with a mystery."--Spectator.

The Luckiest Girl in the School.

     "A thoroughly good girls' school story."--Truth.

The Jolliest Term on Record.

     "A capital story for girls."--Record.

The Girls of St. Cyprian's: A Tale of School Life.

     "St. Cyprian's is a remarkably real school, and Mildred
     Lancaster is a delightful girl."--Saturday Review.

The Youngest Girl in the Fifth: A School Story.

     "A very brightly-written story of schoolgirl
     character."It is a true contrast to the foreground.

It is as Placid and delightful as that is wild and tremendous.

     "For, the mountain being cloven asunder, she presents
     to the eye, through the cleft, a small catch of smooth blue horizon,
at an infinite distance in the plain country, inviting you, as it
were, from the riot and tumult roaring around, to pass through the
breach, and participate of the calm below."

--Jefferson's Notes on Virginia.

     Note 2.
     
     "Save the plaintive song of the whip-poor-will."

That the Indian mind and language are not devoid of poetry, the
names they have given to this bird (the whip-poor-will) sufficiently
evidence.

     Some call it the "Muckawis," others the "Wish-ton-wish,"
     signifying "the voice of a sigh," and "the plaint for the lost."

     
     "The story is so realistic that it should appeal to all
     girls."--Outlook.

A Fourth Form Friendship: A School Story.

     "No girl could fail to be interested in this
     book."--Educational News.

The Manor House School.

     "One of the best stories for girls we have seen for a long
     time."--Literary World.

The Nicest Girl in the School.

The Third Class at Miss Kaye's: A School Story.

The Fortunes of Philippa: A School Story.


LONDON: BLACKIE & SON, LTD., 50 OLD BAILEY, E.C.