
"I don't want the family lawyer to know anything about it," said
Lady Augustus. Then there was silence between them for a few
moments. "You don't know what we have to bear, Lord Rufford. My
husband has spent all my fortune,--which was considerable; and the
Duke does nothing for us." Then he took a bit of paper and, writing
on it the figures "6,000l." pushed it across the table. She gazed
at the scrap for a minute, and then, borrowing his pencil without a
word, scratched out his Lordship's figures and wrote "8,000l."
beneath them; and then added, "No one to know it." After that he
held the scrap for two or three minutes in his hands, and then
wrote beneath the figures, "Very well. To be settled on your
daughter. No one shall know it." She bowed her head, but kept the
scrap of paper in her possession. "Shall I ring for your carriage?"
he asked. The bell was rung, and Lady Augustus was taken back to
the lodgings in Orchard Street in the hired brougham. As she went
she told herself that if everything else failed, 400 pounds a year
would support her daughter, or that in the event of any further
matrimonial attempt such a fortune would be a great assistance. She
had been sure that there could be no marriage, and was disposed to
think that she had done a good morning's work on behalf of her
unnatural child.


CHAPTER VIII

"We shall kill each other"


Lady Augustus as she was driven back to Orchard Street and as she
remained alone during the rest of that day and the next in London,
became a little afraid of what she had done. She began to think how
she should communicate her tidings to her daughter, and thinking of
it grew to be nervous and ill at ease. How would it be with her
should Arabella still cling to the hope of marrying the lord? That
any such hope would be altogether illusory Lady Augustus was now
sure. She had been quite certain that there was no ground for such
hope when she had spoken to the man of her own poverty. She was
almost certain that there had never been an offer of marriage made.
In the first place Lord Rufford's word went further with her than
Arabella's,--and then his story had been consistent and probable,
whereas hers had been inconsistent and improbable. At any rate
ropes and horses would not bring Lord Rufford to the hymeneal
altar. That being so was it not natural that she should then have
considered what result would be next best to a marriage? She was
very poor, having saved only some few hundreds a year from the
wreck of her own fortune. Independently of her daughter had
nothing. And in spite of this poverty Arabella was very
extravagant, running up bills for finery without remorse wherever
credit could be found, and excusing herself by saying that on this
or that occasion such expenditure was justified by the matrimonial
prospects which it opened out to her. And now, of late, Arabella
had been talking of living separately from her mother. Lady
Augustus, who was thoroughly tired of her daughter's company, was
not at all averse to such a scheme; but any such scheme was
impracticable without money. By a happy accident the money would
now be forthcoming. There would be 400 pounds a year for ever and
nobody would know whence it came. She was confident that they might
trust to the lord's honour for secrecy. As far as her own opinion
went the result of the transaction would be most happy. But still
she feared Arabella. She felt that she would not know how to tell
her story when she got back to Marygold Place. "My dear, he won't
marry you; but he is to give you 8,000 pounds." That was what she
would have to say, but she doubted her own courage to put her story
into words so curt and explanatory. Even at thirty 400 pounds a
year has not the charms which accompany it to eyes which have seen
sixty years. She remained in town that night and the next day, and
went down by train to Basingstoke on the following morning with her
heart not altogether free from trepidation.

Lord Rufford, the very moment that the interview was over, started
off to his lawyer. Considering how very little had been given to
him the sum he was to pay was prodigious. In his desire to get rid
of the bore of these appeals, he had allowed himself to be
foolishly generous. He certainly never would kiss a young lady in a
carriage again,--nor even lend a horse to a young lady till he was
better acquainted with her ambition and character. But the word had
gone from him and he must be as good as his word. The girl must
have her 8,000 pounds and must have it instantly. He would put the
matter into such a position that if any more interviews were
suggested, he might with perfect safety refer the suggester back to
Miss Trefoil. There was to be secrecy, and he would be secret as
the grave. But in such matters one's lawyer is the grave. He had
proposed that two lawyers should arrange it. Objection had been
made to this, because Lady Augustus had no lawyer ready;--but on
his side some one must be employed. So he went to his own solicitor
and begged that the thing might be done quite at once. He was very
definite in his instructions, and would listen to no doubts. Would
the lawyer write to Miss Trefoil on that very day;---or rather not
on that very day but the next. As he suggested this he thought it
well that Lady Augustus should have an opportunity of explaining
the transaction to her daughter before the lawyer's letter should
be received. He had, he said, his own reason for such haste.
Consequently the lawyer did prepare the letter to Miss Trefoil at
once, drafting it in his noble client's presence. In what way
should the money be disposed so as best to suit her convenience?
The letter was very short with an intimation that Lady Augustus
would no doubt have explained the details of the arrangement.

When Lady Augustus reached Marygold the family were at lunch, and
as strangers were present nothing was said as to the great mission.
The mother had already bethought herself how she must tell this and
that lie to the Connop Greens, explaining that Lord Rufford had
confessed his iniquity but had disclosed that, for certain
mysterious reasons, he could not marry Arabella,--though he loved
her better than all the world. Arabella asked some questions about
her mother's shopping and general business in town, and did not
leave the room till she could do so without the slightest
appearance of anxiety. Mrs. Connop Green marvelled at her coolness
knowing how much must depend on the answer which her mother had
brought back from London, and knowing nothing of the contents of
the letter which Arabella had received that morning from the
lawyer. In a moment or two Lady Augustus followed her daughter
upstairs, and on going into her own room found the damsel standing
in the middle of it with an open paper in her hand. "Mamma," she
said, "shut the door." Then the door was closed. "What is the
meaning of this?" and she held out the lawyer's letter.

"The meaning of what?" said Lady Augustus, trembling.

"I have no doubt you know, but you had better read it"

Lady Augustus read the letter and attempted to smile. "He has been
very quick," she said. "I thought I should have been the first to
tell you."

"What is the meaning of it? Why is the man to give me all that
money?"

"Is it not a good escape from so great a trouble? Think what 8,000
pounds will do. It will enable you to live in comfort wherever you
may please to go."

"I am to understand then you have sold me,--sold all my hopes and
my very name and character, for 8,000 pounds!"

"Your name and character will not be touched, my dear. As for his
marrying you I soon found that that was absolutely out of the
question."

